 

                        When I was young I played for fun Made up the words Nobody heard But now I see All eyes on me And suddenly I'm in a dream I got a feeling now Everything's right somehow Here I am Being who I want Giving what I got Never a doubt now Here I go Burnin' like a spark Light up the dark again Isn't she great, Vanessa? Victoria! What are you doing out here? Aunt Amelia! Oh, please, can't I go down to the concert, just for a little bit? Absolutely not! We have guests. Now come. And please do something with your hair! Royal reception number nine. I wake up in the morning Like the duchess says When you're gonna live your life right I know she thinks That I'm the fortunate one But princesses wanna have fun Oh princesses wanna have That's all we really want Is some fun When the royal day is done Oh princesses wanna have fun I'm steppin' up Right to the top That's how I'm wired I take it higher I'm in control I broke the mold The girl you see Is up to me I'm lifting off the ground Finding the perfect sound Here I am Being who I want Giving what I got Never a doubt now Here I go Burnin' like a spark Light up the dark again Again Again Again and again and again Hey, Meribellal lam pumped to be here performing at your kingdom's 500th anniversary! Princesses wanna have fun Oh princesses wanna have fun There's a star that's right inside you So come on and let it out Find out what you're about andjust shout Here I am Being who I want Giving what I got Never a doubt now Here I go Burnin' like a spark Light up the dark again We just wanna We just wanna We just wanna We just wanna We just wanna We just wanna Princesses wanna have fun Here I am Being who I want Giving what I got Never a doubt now Here I go Burnin' like a spark Light up the dark Again We just wanna We just wanna We just wanna Again and again And again and again That was hilarious! That was the awesomest thing ever! Did you see her face? I hope we didn't hurt her feelings. Oh, she doesn't get hurt feelings, Meredith. The main thing is... Wasn't that great? Meredith. Trevi. Now, you'd both better scoot to your rooms. Auntie A will be stomping her way up Anger Avenue any minute. See you later! Bye, Tori! Keira! Keira! Keira! Nora! Tell Phil to kill the snow on the Fiery Ice intro. And the drums came in late again on Rock And Rule... Remind Kevin that naptime's after the show, okay? And what's up with the sets for the live broadcast? Here are the designs. You want the trees royal purple or Tokyo violet? Royal Purple. And move my Billboard interview to Saturday, right after the broadcast. Wonderful show tonight, Keira, dear! Your best ever! I had chills! Hey, Crider, have you lined up the cameras? Um... The record company was just a tad concerned about the budget. Budget? Crider, I've been working my tail off for the last two years to get this broadcast. It'll take my career to the next level, which makes it massively important that it be perfect! Perfect! Absolutely! You're so right! Keira, there's a tea tomorrow at the castle for everyone involved in the festival. The princess has requested your presence. I smell a photo op! The princess? At the castle? Let's do it. Daniel! I need some new choreography for Saturday's special. Make it something like this. You got it. Did you forget where you're going, or is there something else? Well... Yes. The record company called again. And while they loved, loved, loved your new album photos, they're, um. Still wondering when they can hear some of the, uh... Songs. Naturally, as your manager, I told them... As my manager, you told them that the songs aren't ready to be heard yet. And that I'll let them know when they are. That's exactly what I told them. You know, you work so hard. Perhaps, you should take a break, let me run things. Now, back when my name was up in lights... Gotta go, Seymour. Please don't call me Seymour. Guess, I better actually write those songs. I don't get it, Riff. Writing songs used to be easy. Fun, even. If only I didn't have all this other garbage. Lights, sound, scheduling, payroll, check, double-check, make it work! Don't get me wrong, Riff. I mean, I'm a star, I'm livin' the dream, right? It's just... I don't know, sometimes I wonder what it would be like to just let go. Princess Victoria. Now there's a sweet gig. Lives in a castle, everything done for her. She's probably never worked a day in her life. Tori? Tori, open the door this instant! Auntie A. Do come in. Enough is enough! I promised your dear mother I would raise you to be a proper princess. But now you and your gang of tiny thugs have turned a royal occasion into a laughing-stock! Oh? Has some misfortune befallen you? Don't play the innocent with me! This has your mark all over it. I was willing to overlook the exploding cupcakes at tea and the skunk at the embassy ball! I even made excuses when you hid the Prime Minister's teeth. Just his uppers! Princess Victoria Bethany Evangeline Renee, you are almost 18! It's time you started acting like a princess of the realm, not some silly schoolgirl! Forgive me, Aunt Amelia. I'm just having a bit of fun, that's all. Fun? You're a Royal. Duty and responsibility come before fun. Have you even begun your commemoration speech for next week? Um... Sort of. Except for the part after "Ladies and gentlemen. " As I thought! I'm returning to our guests. And since you refuse to take your duties seriously, you can just stay in your room all night and write that speech. But, Aunt Amelia... Not another word! I am sorry. Good night, Auntie. "Ladies and Gentlemen, distinguished guests, "500 years ago, our kingdom began its rule, and... " Insert speech here. "You're a Royal, "duty and responsibility come before fun. " Ugh. Look at her In the spotlight I love her purple hair She can do What she wants to As crazy as she dares She doesn't need to be polite I wish I had her life Then I would be so free I wish I had her life I'd be another me Look at her In the throne room Every hair just right She has tea In the morning And bon bons every night Wouldn't that be nice? I wish I had her life Then I would be so free I wish I had her life I'd be another me They'd do my nails I'd stroll the grounds I would wear Whatever And then I'd rock Have time for me It just might happen Never I wish I had her life Then I would be so free And everything would suddenly be Just the way that I dreamed it could be I wish I had her life I wish I had her life I wish I had her life I wish I had her life Oh Oh So beautiful and bright I wish I had her life Trust me, sir, Keira's new songs are fabulous, best she's ever written! Shejust, er, needs a little more time. I've been helping her as best I can, but you know how these stars are. As a former star myself, I can tell you... Crider, your job is to keep that little diva in line! You tell her if I don't hear some new hit tunes on the broadcast Saturday, she can start looking for another record company! But, but, Mr. Limburger... And you can go back to managing Uncle Herman and His Talking Pig! Thai vappy Pig still owes me 40 bucks. What in the... Argh! Rupert! Something you wanted, Mr. Crider? Oh, you found it! Still got a good few chews left, looks like. Get it off. Oh, right. Quick as a bunny. "Keep that little diva in line," he says. How am I supposed to make that whiny warbler do anything? She runs the show like a drill sergeant! "Crider, curl my wigs! "Crider, take my breath mint! "Crider, stop stealing my jewelry!" Things were different when I was a star... I mean, back then, people respected real talent. Ah! Ow! Oh. Rupert, do you know I was beloved? Yeah, yeah. A beloved idol of millions. I was the beloved idol of millions. The finest boy singer on the Chipper Chipmunk Show. Until... That tragic day. I'm a chipper chipmunk And that was that. My singing career was over. Kaput. Finished. A has been at 14. To this day I have nightmares of chipmunks, their toothy smiles taunting me. A tragic tale, Mr. Crider. I get a lump in me throat every time you tell it. Which is quite a bit. It's all so... So very unfair, Rupert. If only somehow I had the means to restart my career. All I need is one lucky break. Or a rich widow. Oh, Mr. Crider, how you go on! But surely you must have been a ballerina! That form, that grace! Oh, you are such a atterer! And you say you were a singer on this... "Squeaky Squirrel" show? Chipmunk. "Chipper Chipmunk. " But I don't like to talk about myself. And this drought has been hard on the entire region. Our reservoirs are only 30% of normal, and our vineyards are withering. Your Royal Highness, may I present Miss Keira. This is so cool! So you're a real live princess. Awesome. You're Keira! I am absolutely your very biggest fan ever! Thanks. Would you like a tour? Love to! But aren't you supposed to be hostessing or something? Oh. Right. Um... Look, everyone! An all you can eat caviar buffet! Hello! I'm Prince Li... Hmm. This way, we'll start with my room. Ta-da! Whoa. There's more me in here than in my house. Mmm-hmm. Your guitar, your albums, most of your fashion line. I wore this in my first music video. It's still my very favorite! Here I am Being who I want Giving what I got Never a doubt now Here I go Burnin' like a spark Light up the dark again Not too shabby for a princess. Hey, want to join me on stage for a number? The tabloids will go nuts. Thanks, but I'm no performer. I'd be freaked to face a real audience. But you... You must love it. Sure, it's all I ever wanted. But, I dunno, it used to be more about music. Now, it's different. But, Keira, you're a star! And you're a princess! When I was little, I always dreamed of being a princess! I'd be wearing a ball gown and a tiara. Want to try mine? Riff! Use your inside bark! Sorry. He's my baby. I bring him everywhere. Riff, Sit! He's cute. Look, Vanessa, Keira brought a friend for you! I read you've been performing since you were six. When I was six, my biggest job was keeping my tiara... Hi! Nice digs. I'm Riff! Who are you? I am Vanessa Victoria Fluffy-pie. Are you always like this? Like what? Got any squeaky toys? Soggy tennis balls? Mmm, you smell nice! There. Oh, yeah. And I've got just the outfit to go with it. Formal gown number nine! Oh. So that's how you make those quick changes! A magic microphone! I have something like that. Keira pop hair number five! A magic hairbrush! Very cool. New hairdo's for every royal occasion. And a few non-royal ones! Are you thinking what I'm thinking? You look just like me! Whoa! There you are! Huh? Huh? The guests are all asking about you! You need to return at once! Oh, no, no, I'm... Princess Tori, of Meribella! Your Highness! Whoa... This can't be good. Are you kidding? It's delicious! Now. Mingle. Yoo-hoo! Oh, Mister Crider! Ready for an awesome entrance... Princess? Oh, man, it's just like I dreamed. Her Royal Highness, Princess Victoria Bethany Evangeline Renee has returned! Whoa! Whoa! Are you all right, Your Highness? Did you break anything? I mean, besides my spleen. I'm good. Nobody saw that, right? Pff, you kidding? It's our secret. Tori! Tori! Who? Are you hurt? Oh, I'm fine. Really. I'm great, Mister, uh... Father. Mister Father. Thank goodness! You had me worried. Keira? Yes? I'm a huge fan! Me too! Not as big as Tori, mind you. Oh, thank you. What lovely stationery? Autograph. Oh! Of course! An autograph. Here you go. "Love Tori"? We never did finish our tour! Oh, but actually, you're the princess today, so you should give the tour. As you wish, Your Highness. And this priceless silver-handle fan was a gift from the King of Spain to my great grandmama. You know, they were quite the item. Hmm, delicate yet saucy. Not unlike you, my dear Duchess. Or, may I call you, Amelia? Oh, Mr. Crider, please do! And to our left is the future site of the Royal Taco Hut. Actually, it is something pretty cool. Can you keep a secret? A mondo big one? Uh, sure. If you can't trust a fake princess, who can you trust? Follow me. Wow. This is definitely no Taco Hut. It's a Diamond Gardenia. It's 500 years old and it grows real diamonds! Most of our people think it's just a legend. Except for the Royal Family and now you. And the tiny flying people? They're garden fairies. They take care of all the plants. Oh, they're adorable. Yes, but they get rather cranky if you mess with the gardenia. It blooms just once every five years. It's diamonds help pay for schools and you know, stuff. Now, over here is a rare, black pearl letter opener. Hmm. Curious. Mr. Crider, excuse me for just a moment. Now, don't move a muscle. Not a pinky, Amelia. Keira, look! Hey, thanks, tiny dancers! These rock. These will be our friendship necklaces. Tori? Are you mad, bringing an outsider in here? You know the rules. No one but the Royal Family is allowed in this garden! And you reveal it to a perfect stranger? CRIDERI Oh... Now hold on! You can't talk that way to Keira's friend, the princess, and if the princess could speak, which she can't because she's, er, speechless, she would say that you are being a royal party pooper! I rest my case. Oh. Sometimes I don't know who that girl is! Problem, my dear? You wouldn't believe it. Now, where were we with our tour? I believe I was telling you how radiant you look in every room of the castle. That was close! I thought she'd ground us both! That may be the scariest woman I've ever met. And today was a good day! Look, this was awesome, but I've got a tour to obsess over, so let's change back before your Aunt gets any more... Well, thank goodness that silliness is over! Silliness? Silliness? What silliness? Do you like bacon? Why does it have to end? Well, for one thing, I've got a concert to do tonight. Not to mention contracts to sign, an interview... But what about tomorrow? We could change places in the morning, and spend the whole day being each other! Oh, this is a bad idea on so many levels. I know just what you mean. Wait, no I don't. Ah! There's that tail. Look, I really don't think... Keira, wouldn't it be amazing just for one day to take a break from being you? Tori... It'd be magical! I'd get to be a pop star for a whole day! And you'd get to be a princess! Let's do it! This is gonna be great! But I don't know the first thing about being a princess. It's easy! All you have to do is follow a few simple rules. To be a princess Is to know which spoon to use To be a princess Is a thousand pairs of shoes! Have your breakfast served in bed Wear some diamonds on your head Get a foot massage And mani-pedi too To be a princess is to live a dream come true Curtsey when princes come to call Wear a new gown to every ball AH through the day there's just one way You must behave Pose with a feather in your hat Stretch on a golden yoga mat Bend from above and always wear your gloves And wave! Shoulders back And tummy in and Pinky out and Lift the chin and Slowly turn your head from side to side Breathing gently Stepping lightly Smile brightly Nod politely Do everything you do with pride Glide! To be a princess Is to wear your family crest To be a princess Is to always do your best. To be a popstar Is to know which mic to use To be a popstar Is to not fall off your shoes To rehearse until it's right Give a great show every night And have room service with anything you choose To be a popstar Is to love your great reviews Take in the latest fashion show Fly for a lunch to Mexico No time for friends except your dog And your guitar Tweet everyone your latest news Sit for a thousand interviews Love every fan No matter how bizarre they are Here's a camera There's a camera And a camera and a camera And another autograph to sign Love Keira Change your clothes and strike a pose and Work the crowd and take a bow and Don't forget to post it all online Shine! To be a popstar Is to never act your age To be a popstar Is to make the world your stage Shoulders back and Strike a pose and Pinky out and Change your clothes and Slowly turn your head from side to side {see now Here's a camera Stepping lightly There's a camera Nod politely Do everything you do with pride Glide! To be a princess Is to always do your best To be a popstar Is to leave them all Impressed Ready? Ready. You should have seen those diamonds, Rupert! Hundreds of them, just sitting there, glittering! Me, I don't hold with littering. Back in the day, Mick and Keith would always tell me "Litter free, that's for me. " Ow. Glittering, not littering, you baboon! Would you please listen? Ah... I can hear the ocean. It's like they were calling my name. "Crider! Handsome, talented superstar! "Take us away!" With those diamonds, I could afford to mount a stage show that would put me back in the spotlight, and finally chase that cheesy chipmunk out of my dreams. There must be a way. Sun's up A little after 12:00 Make breakfast for myself Leave the work for someone else People say They say that it's just a phase They tell me to act my age Well I am! On this perfect day Nothing's standing in my way On this perfect day When nothing can go wrong It's the perfect day Tomorrow's gonna come too soon I could stay Forever as I am On this perfect day Sun's down A little after 10:00 I pick up all my friends In my Mercedes Benz Wake up Don't tell me it's just a dream 'Cause when I've had enough You'll hear me say Now don't you try to rain on my Perfect day Nothing's standing in my way On this perfect day When nothing can go wrong It's the perfect day Tomorrow's gonna come too soon I could stay Forever as I am On this perfect day I'm in the race but I've already won And getting there can be half the fun So don't stop me till I'm good and done Don't you try to rain on my Perfect day Perfect day On this perfect day Yeah! On this perfect day Keira! Keira! You never said which headpiece for the Smoke And Mirrors number. Oh, I don't know. You choose. Surprise me! Uh... I choose? Come on, Riff. I can't remember the last time I just strolled through Meribella. You're "it"! Tori! Come play! Oh, no, no, that's okay. You guys are having fun. C'mon! You're "it"! You're "it"! Confession. I'm not 100% sure how to play this. You've played it a billion times! More than that! A zillion! Just try to find us! Okay, go! Huh. I don't remember ever being around here before, Riff. Excuse me! Can you tell me the way back to the marina? Hey, you're Keira! Look, Charlotte! Keira! Awesome! Hey, can you sign my T-shirt? I really, really wanted to go see your concert! Well, there's one more show tomorrow night, maybe you can still see her, er, me. I wish! But my dad says we can't afford it. Mine, too. Bummer, huh? Lots of folks can't afford stuff right now. You know, since the big drought. Drought? Is that still going on? Oh, yeah. It wiped out all the vineyards this year. Dad says everyone's struggling to get by. I... Didn't know. Well, I guess you'd have to live in Meribella to know about it. Yes. I guess you would. Gotcha! That was awesome! But we'd better all get ready for tonight. Okay. Are you gonna keep pretending to be Tori? What? On earth? Are you... You know? Of course. If you were Tori, you would have cheated by now. It's okay. We won't tell. Pillow fight! And then I sneezed every last petal off that lady's flower! Who knew I was allergic to dahlias? And I must have tried on every single one of your costumes! Poor Nora is convinced you've gone loco! Oh, speaking of loco, your aunt is all up in my face about practicing some speech. Oh, that. The dreaded commemoration speech. I don't suppose you'd like to give it? And by give it, I also mean write it. Only if I can sing it. You know, I've gotta tell you... This has been the coolest day I've had in... Forever. Oh, me, too! It's been amazing. I learned more about my kingdom today than I have in the last 17 years! Yeah. Too bad this day is over. Unless... You'd want to keep it going one more day? You're on. Perfect! The live broadcast is tomorrow, so we'll need to change back early. Of course. I only wish more people could afford to go to your show. Seems like they're a lot worse off than I knew. Well, how about we make the last concert a free one? I'll work out the details. For reals? Oh, thank you so much! Hey, it's the least a princess can do for you common folk. See you tomorrow, Tori! And that goes for Mrs. Limburger, too! What? Why, you... Crider, you're through! Through with you and on to stardom! I'm taking off, baby. Like a super nova on top of a shooting star! You can't handle this. But you can handle the broadcast all by yourself! I love show business! You mean you're not gonna stay for the show tonight? Ugh, I've had it with playing nursemaid to that prima donna. I've got a new career to launch! Once I get those diamonds tonight, it's gonna be "See ya later!" Picture it, Rupert. Up there in lights. "Crider! The Legend Returns!" With Rupert, his bestest buddy and life-long pal. Now, let's see... Expenses. I'll need new songs, backup singers, a swagger coach, gold fillings... No, no, no, diamond fillings! Tonight we go back and grab that plant! Everyone will be at the concert, so the castle will be practically empty. Look how high we can fly! "Look how high we can fly. " Look how high we can fly I lost myself today All work no time to play I'm holding on to what I know Then this discovery Blindfolded, I could see I'm catching on by letting go And now I'm rising up No coming down So hang on for the ride Look how high we can fly Look how high we can fly We can see everything From up here in the sky We've got the perfect view Together me and you Look how high we can fly Words come so easily Hard to believe it's me With every breath the feeling grows Take time to make time stop Unplug, turn off the clock The less you try the more it flows I don't need to live in a fancy castle That isn't where I should be Open up my heart and where it leads I'll follow Up high where I can be free Look how high we can fly Look how high we can fly We can see everything From up here in the sky Look how high we can fly Look how high we can fly We can surf on the wind So completely alive There's nothing we can't do Together me and you Look how high we can fly Look how high we can fly Look how high we can fly Look how high we can fly Look how high we can fly One hour! One hour to show time! Ugh. I presume you have finished writing your speech? Ah, my dog ate it? Ugh. You can just stay in your room all night and write that speech! Huh? Hey! Let me out! Not until you've learned some manners, young lady! No, no, you don't understand! I've got to get to the concert! Look, I'm not the princess! I'm Keira! It's too late for more of your pranks. Come on, Tori! Hey, it's Tori! I'm out princessing right now, so just leave a message! Tori, it's Keira. There's kind of a situation and we need to talk. Call me when you get this! Ten minutes to curtain! And Limburger is here to supervise the broadcast personally. You have been warned. Who? Hilarious. Nine minutes. Oh, uh, thanks! Where is she, Riff? Something's wrong. And where's my phone? I can't do this. Come on, Tori. Keira. Tough tacos. She's not my problem anymore. Let's sit right in front! Maybe Keira will see us! Hey, it's Tori! I'm out princessing right now, so just leave a message! My limo? Not now, Vanessa. What are they doing here? Crider! Crider! Crider! Oh! Quiet, Vanessa, please I'm trying to think. There's just gotta be a way out of here. Yeah, yeah, I know, that's me. And not even my best picture. We won't be a minute, Captain. The Duchess sent me back to fetch her spectacles. You know how she is. I thought we were here for the diam... Ow! Yes, Mr. Crider. Ooh! Keira! Keira, where are you? Keira, you're on in 30 seconds! Oh, no! That's funny. This always works in movies. We're getting close, Rupert. Look for a panel with a gardenia. Ha! Now that's a gardenia if ever I saw one. Now we just have to figure out how to open it. Go do it Rupert. Be snappy! Right-o, Mr. Crider. Put some muscle into it! Doh! Pity that. Go find something we can open it with! All right. Keira! You're on! No, no, you don't understand! I can't! Not today, maybe tomorrow. What? These people have been waiting hours to see you! It's your responsibility to give them a show! Where is she? Tell her to get her behind on stage. Now! Ah! Rupert! There's got to be a way to get this door open. Oh! Good job, Rupert! Keira, please stop being such a princess and get out there! Limburger's having a fit. That guy can destroy your career! Keira's career. Vanessa, shh! Keira! Keira! Okay. Come on! Whoa! Ka-ching! Ah... What are you doing? Sorry. Ahem. When I was young I played for fun Made up the words Nobody heard But now I see All eyes on me And suddenly I'm in a dream I've got a feeling now Everything's right somehow Here I am Being who I want Giving what I've got Never a doubt now Here I go Burning like a spark Light up the dark again I'm stepping up Right to the top That's how I'm wired I take it higher I'm in control I broke the mold The girl you see is up to me I'm lifting off the ground Finding the perfect sound Here I am Being who I want Giving what I've got Never a doubt now Here I go Burning like a spark Light up the dark again Again Again Again and again and again That's right. Do it your way. Vanessa! What has gotten into you? All right! Vanessa, why didn't you tell me? There's a star that's right inside you So come on and let it out Find out what you're about and just shout Here I am! Being who I want Giving what I've got Never a doubt now Here I go Burning like a spark Light up the dark again Here I am Being who I want Giving what I've got Never a doubt now Here I go Burning like a spark Light up the dark again What did I tell you? Now that's why she's a star! Never a doubt now Here I go Burning like a spark Light up the dark again Again Again Again and again and again and again and again Hello, Meribellal Woo-hoo! I never dreamed I'd be up here... Be up here in such a fantastic kingdom! You have the coolest princesses in the universe! In fact, Princess Tori in particular is really awesome. And often misunderstood. Mostly by her Aunt. But Tori still loves her. One, two, three, four! Sun's up a little after 12:00 Make breakfast for myself Leave the work for someone else Where is she? Come to Papa! Shoo! Rupert! Do something! Got it covered! Brought some bug spray just in case! That's not bug spray! It's hair spray! And strawberry-scented. I hate strawberries! Oh, anyway, it did the job. And I might add, your hair does look touchably soft. Never mind! Grab the plant! How deep does this thing go? Time to cut the roots. Oh, princesses wanna have fun The gardenia! And now, a brief intermission! Sing amongst yourselves! What? What's she doing? Go to commercial! Now, to the boat! That'll work. Sergeant! To the castle! Right away! I'm sorry, miss, but this carriage is for the Royal Family only. Oh. Of course. Hang on. There. Now, to the castle, double time! I'd better check with His Majesty. I'm His Majesty! Her Majesty! Your... Ugh! Never mind, I'll drive it myself! Wait! I was hoping to run into you. Yesterday was so much fun. Uh-huh, that's nice. Hyah! Whoa! Are... Are we rushing anywhere in particular? Or just trying to make me... lose my lunch? I've got to rescue a magical diamond plant! Okay, fine, forget I asked. Hyah! Excuse me, but I think that belongs to my kingdom! Going somewhere? Hey! Now she's over there! There's princesses everywhere! Hold me! Um, which one of you do I like? Uh... Her. Now why don't you hand over that plant, Seymour? Keira? Seymour? Don't call me that! Oh! Hyah! Smart thinkin', Mr. Crider! You'll be comin' back for me, right? Handsome Prince Liam saves the damsels in distress. Hey! Where'd the damsels go? So long, suckers! Gotta fly! You see, ladies, the trick is to always come prepared for anything! And it helps to have just the right outfit! The man's right. What always cheers me up is a new dress! Oh! How about a chic hairdo to complete the ensemble? What? No! Oh, no! I hate my life. It's dead. Can't you plant another one? How? Where do you get seeds for a magical plant? Unless... I wonder if its diamonds could be its seeds! Hey, yeah! The friendship necklaces! It's no use! The concert! Hey, look! Whoa! Oh! Excuse me! Pardon me! Coming through! Excuse me! Excuse me! Hey, Meribella! I'd like to dedicate this next song to my two new sisters, Princesses Trevi and Meredith. They taught me that the secret to writing new songs is a good pillow fight. And to my new best friend, Her Royal Highness, Princess Tori! Thank you. Hey, Meribella! I found myself today And now I'm glad to say I'm living life straight from the heart Oh, what a gift to see I'm lucky to be me And now I just can't wait to start I keep on rising up No coming down So hang on for the ride Look how high we can fly Look how high we can fly It's a beautiful view From up here in the sky There's nothing we can't do Together me and you Look how high we can fly Oh, oh Look how high we can fly On this perfect day Nothing standing in my way On this perfect day When nothing can go wrong It's the perfect day Tomorrow's gonna come too soon I could stay Forever as I am On this perfect day It's the perfect day And besides updating Meribella's irrigation systems against future droughts, we are also establishing a social services program for our kingdom's needy. From now on, I, Princess Victoria, intend to use my voice to help those who feel they don't have a voice, to make Meribella a better place to live. Thank you. Meribella! Put your hands up for me! Come on! Here we are Let's go! Here we are One, two, three, four! Here we are Being who we want Be who we want Giving what we got Give what we got Never a doubt now Never a doubt now Here we go Burning like a spark Burn like a spark Light up the dark Here we go Here we are Being who we want Be who we want Giving what we got Give what we got Never a doubt now Never a doubt now Here we go Burning like a spark Burn like a spark Light up the dark again Again Again Again and again and again Again and again Again Again Again and again and again and again Here we go!
