 

                        (THUNDER CRASHING) What a night. What a storm. You've got that right. I was nearly blown out of our tree. What do you make of that? Oh. Gorgeous. A pretty thing. I'm talking about me. Azul, Prince of Peacocks. Of course, Prince Azul. Oh, better and better! (GASPS) This is, without a doubt, the best day of my life! Azul. Hold your seahorses, Sagi. Azul, now! Okay, okay, I'm coming. What could be so important that I... Oh. SAGl: She's alive. AZUL: Good. When she wakes up she can swim back to wherever she came from. (GROANING) SAGl: We need to help her. (SIGHING) We're going to regret this. And when we do, remember, it was your idea. Come on, Tika! Wait up, Ro! (LAUGHING) Here on my island the sea says hello Dolphins are waving wherever I go There's a song on the breeze And a home in the trees Friends I can talk with whenever I please Here on my island the playgrounds are great Slide every slide And you don't have to wait There's so much to be seen From our new trampoline Finding adventure's our daily routine Birds and bananas And comfy cabanas And shell-covered vases to fill Coconut glasses And mint with molasses And pineapple patties to grill Here on my island, there's nothing but fun Vines you can swing from A nap in the sun There are mud pies to make There are branches to shake Treasures await any road that you take I'll take the high path And I'll take the low path And I'll take the path through the sky I'll jump a river And I'll climb the mountain And I'll stay here guarding the pie Here on our island the days are a dream Hanging together we work as a team And the magic extends Through our family of friends Here on our island the fun never ends AZUL: Last one in is a rotten papaya. TIKA: You're the rotten papaya! (SNORING) (SNORING) Oh, no! No! Wha... Huh? Hey! (AZUL SHOUTS) No! No! Somebody doesn't care about my beauty sleep. Tika, Tika. Did I wake you? It's okay. Easy for you to say. You don't have to rearrange hundreds of feathers. (SIGHS) I'll just stay up for a while. Like all night. RO: Me too. Really? We'll stay up together. TIKA: Do you see them? That's your star and Sagi's and mine and Azul's. TIKA: He has two. He is royalty. TIKA: We're all together. Can you sing me the good night song again? Of course. Sun goes down And we are here together Fireflies glow like a thousand charms Stay with me And you can dream forever Right here in my arms Where'd you learn that song, again? I don't know. I've always just known it. It's magic when you are here beside me Close your eyes and let me hold you tight Everything that I could ever need is Right here in my arms tonight Sing me the other part, too. Okay. But you know I don't remember all the words. La, la, la La, la, la Stars begin to climb La, la, la La, la, la La, la, la, la, la La, la, la, la, la (TIKA SNORING) Good night, Tika. Land ho! Three points off the starboard bow. I've never seen a floating island before. Nothing beats a brand new shore Streaming into view After weeks upon the waves The thrill of somewhere new All the riches of the world Can't compare to these Golden sand and silver clouds The fragrant island breeze What will I discover next, it's all a mystery Different every day There's so much to do and learn and touch and hear and see Just a step away It has no trunk It has no tail It's not a fish It's not a whale It has no feathers I can see I have to say, it looks like me! It must be bad It can't be good Let's run and hide! I think we should Just close your eyes, it goes away This doesn't happen every day Feeling the excitement grow Every single stride Sun above and Earth below Whoa! (BOTH SHOUTING) The fast way to see the island. FRAZER: Oh, deep shadows. Overhanging foliage... This is the ideal habitat for... Crocodiles! Oh, why, yes, how'd you know? I see. No sudden movements, Frazer. Wouldn't dream of it, Your Highness. (HISSING) (GROWLING) Point for you. RO: Riki! Taj! Kiki! That's enough. (GROANING) RO: Fang! Don't even think about it. Is she talking to the crocodiles? No. Not even a little piece. Now, swim along. Thank you. Ah, sorry about that. We're not used to visitors. Who are you? Who are you? ANTONIO: Ro. Is that your name? I think so. So, you don't remember anything? Your family? Where you're from? Sagi tells me I came from the sea a long time ago. Or maybe a shipwreck. I don't know. I don't remember. Who's Sagi? You can come out now. They won't bite. Sagi. Tika. And Azul. My goodness. A red panda, elephant and peacock, Your Highness. You saved us. Now let us save you. Come back to my kingdom. I still don't know your name. Oh, silly of me. May I introduce, Prince Antonio of the kingdom of Appolonia. Did he say Prince? Kingdom? Perhaps we're related. (MUTTERING) Okay, okay, Azul, we get it. He's a prince, you're a prince. You really understand him? Yes, don't you? No. All I hear is... (CACKLING) I don't sound anything like that. Now, Azul, don't get upset. Extraordinary. Talks to animals. This is Frazer, my friend and royal scientist. I have so much to ask you. Ro, come with us. To civilization. Civilization? What lies beyond the horizon. A world of people like you and me. TIKA: Are you really thinking of leaving? You can't mean it, Ro? I think it's a great idea. (SIGHS) Ro? Where is the land I come from? Who lives where I was born? Why do my memories start with a storm? What if I have a family? Somewhere beyond the sea Could there be someone there missing me? Tell me why I'm not sleeping and my heart is leaping Inside me Could this be one of those times when your feelings decide Why does he look through circles? Why does he hide his feet? Why do I feel so shy when we meet? Is this the tree he sleeps in? What can he see from there? Could there be new horizons to share? All these questions keep turning and churning and burning Inside me What are these feelings I feel when he's here by my side? I need to know these answers I need to find my way Seize my tomorrow Learn my yesterday I need to take these chances Let all my feelings show Can't tell what's waiting Still I need to go I need to know ANTONIO: Isn't she just amazing? Daring and bold and sure Different from girls that I've met before Do you think she might like me? How do I look tonight? I just want everything to be right All these questions keep turning and churning and burning Inside me What are these feelings I feel when she's here by my side? BO TH: I need to know these answers I need to find my way Seize my tomorrow Learn my yesterday I need to take these chances Let all my feelings show Can't tell what's waiting Still I need to go I need to know (GROANS) (SHOUTING) Are you okay? Good as new. Thank you. You're welcome. Can you believe your eyes? RO: Everybody's like me. But nobody's like me. Let's go home, Ro. Without exploring? That doesn't sound like you, Tika. What do you think? It's so different. Good to have you back, Your Highness. Good to see you too, Gerard. What kind of beasts have you brought home this time? Did he just call us beasts? Beasts? (AZUL GOBBLING) (PEOPLE REMARKING) Isn't it amazing? The royal carriage. (AZUL GOBBLING) Translation? Azul likes riding in style. And now for you. If you don't mind, I'll go with Tika. Oh, of course. Whoa! Antonio! Antonio! GINA: We missed you! Your hair grew so long. RITA: Who are they? ANTONIO: Let me introduce my friend Ro. She grew up far away, on an island. Hello. ANTONIO: My sisters, Rita... Hello. Sofia... Hello. And Gina. Hi. GINA: Are these your pets? RO: No, my family. Sagi, Azul... (AZUL GOBBLING) I'm sorry. Prince Azul Vasu Morantha, the fourth. (PRINCESSES GASPING) GINA: A rainbow. And little Tika. PRINCESSES: Little? Such soft ears. And the cutest nose ever. Do it again. (PRINCESSES LAUGHING) I can't wait for you to meet my parents. We should have waited. I know what's best for my own son. Our son. How could I have asked him? He was somewhere on the high seas. Again. I know someone else who loved adventure as a boy. Yes, and then I grew up. I take my responsibilities seriously. Something he needs to learn. Oh, Peter. Mother, Father! Oh, Antonio, dear. (TALLULAH GABBLING) How are you, Tallulah? (TALLULAH CHATTERING) Good to have you home. Good to be home, Father. I'd like you to meet someone special. Her name is Ro. Ro? Whoa! That's Azul. And this is Sagi. Where's Ro? Another pet for me? Oh, he's charming. Don't you think so, Tallulah? Mother, Father, may I introduce Ro. Frazer and I found her stranded on an island, probably shipwrecked years ago. Um, hello. Nice to meet you. DANIELLE: Welcome. What an ordeal. Alone for all those years. Oh, I wasn't alone. I had all the animals, and the dolphins, and the birds. Pets can be such a comfort. I can't imagine life without darling little Tallulah. Where'd you come from? Quite far, actually. The South Seas. We're from the South Seas, too. You understand? (CHATTERING) Nice to meet you. (TALLULAH CHATTERING) RO: Really? (CHATTERING) That long? Antonio, what exactly is she doing? Can you believe it? Ro actually talks to animals. Isn't that interesting. Now, Antonio, I have important news. A cause for celebration! Son, I am delighted to introduce to you Princess Luciana. Your bride-to-be. My what? Welcome, my dear. A pleasure to meet you, Prince Antonio. Likewise, Your Highness. Father, I'm... Very excited, I'm sure. And her mother, Queen Ariana. An honor to meet my future son-in-law. Your Highness. Father, I am... Overcome with joy, I'm sure. ARIANA: I can just see it. Everyone gathered here for the Engagement Ball tomorrow night! Tomorrow? What was I thinking? He belongs here, we don't. Couldn't you grow to like it? Ro. Ro, wait! I had no idea. Thank you for showing me civilization, but I want to go back. When can the next ship take me home? Please stay. Pick any room in the castle, and the animals will be comfortable in our Royal Stable. I like the sound of that. Thank you, but I'll stay with my family. I can't get it! RO: How's this? Ah! Yeah! Perfect! Thank you. Glad to help. (SQUEALING) Did she just answer me? How did she do that? Better watch what you say. Nice to meet you, I'm Ro. I'm Lorenzo, pig in charge. We like to humor him. SAGl: Could we trouble you for a place to stay? Plenty of room for you right here. (GRUNTING) We couldn't impose. Please just show us to a nice, sturdy tree. A tree? The pig in charge can take you to the Royal Greenhouse. I can't marry Princess Luciana. Why? She's beautiful, talented. From an impeccable royal family. I'm sure she is, but there's someone else. Antonio, you don't mean... (LORENZO GRUNTING) (RO LAUGHING) She's different from any girl I've met before. Clearly. She's daring, curious. At home in the outdoors. She also talks to animals. Be serious for once in your life, Antonio. I've let you travel to your heart's content, but the time has come for you to settle down. And as a prince, you must marry a princess. And only a princess. AZUL: Now this is more like it! A place for a royal bird. Oh, poor thing. (SIGHS) Here you are, Pearl. They could have found me a bigger room. LUCIANA: It's fine, Mother. Not for the mother of the future Queen of the kingdom. LUCIANA: Queen? I'm not even married yet. And, I'm not sure I should. Don't even joke about that! Did you see the way he looked at the island girl? With disdain? Contempt? Scorn? No, with love, Mother. I've always dreamed of marrying somebody I love, and who loves me. Love? I certainly didn't love your father when I married him. Love is for peasants, which we're obviously not Who needs a heart that is going to bleed? It's inconvenient and just makes you hot Let mama tell you what you need Not just any clown Someone with a crown And a happy life is guaranteed But, Mother, that can't be right. Did you say something? All the books I've read All the poems always said That a heart is made to share Joy's not found in things such as necklaces and rings But in love that's always there That's the jewel beyond compare You need to stop reading those books! Filling your head with thoughts. Now, go, Luciana. Do something to make yourself prettier. Yes, Mother. The king's forgotten how he wrecked my family's life When I was just a tiny tot Just 'cause we tried to kill him and his wife A little treason, not a lot He took away our land which wasn't what we planned He put us on a pig farm and forgot I ran away and I must say I cleaned up good My past was nothing I'd discuss I found the oldest king that I could His heart condition was a plus! Sunday we were wed Wednesday he was dead Happily that put an end to us But when I heard that good King Peter had a son I had a daughter right away Put her in training, so she'd be the one Oh, how I've waited for this day! Once they tie the knot, I'll implement my plot Then I'll use the king's head for croquet I'll take what should be mine And leave him with the swine And I'll have my way They're gonna pay Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! RO: Good morning, Tika. Did you sleep well? I can't wait till we go home. Not that simple, is it? Now that I'm here... I know there must be people I belong to. Somewhere. But how do I find them? I know that we're a long way from home, Tika, but, at least we're all together. (DOOR OPENS) Ro! I've been looking everywhere for you. What's he doing here? I'd like my parents to get to know you better. Please, join us for tea. Tea? I love this castle. Everything is just the way I... I would have done it myself. Consider our home your home. Oh, I already do. (LAUGHS) Did I mention that my darling Luciana is an accomplished harpist? I started her as soon as she could sit up. Mother. Stop slouching. Ow! (WHISPERING) Watch me. Thank you. Ro grew up on an island in the South Seas. Really, you could hardly tell. Look how charming your little monkey is. Such wonderful manners. And she's a monkey! Sweetheart, tell Prince Antonio about your watercolors. Perhaps another time, Mother. Don't be modest. Go on, you love to paint. I do. The colors seem to come to life on the page. MAN: Whoa! Oh my! So sorry, Miss. I... I should go. Ro, wait. Antonio. Let her go. She needs a moment to herself. You look the way I feel. Everything I do here is wrong. It's magic when you are here beside me Close your eyes and let me hold you tight Everything that I could ever need is Right here in my arms tonight Oh, pardon me. Tallulah! Hello. I didn't mean to intrude. Want one? Without a knife and fork? Don't be ridiculous. Just one bite? Well, if you insist. Just one. Oh, mmm! My brother and I used to climb trees to pick these. See the ripe one on the top branch? It's all yours. You mean climb up there? I'll hold your tiara so it won't fall off. Thank you but, well, it's just, I've forgotten how. Forgotten how to climb? We can fix that. What do you enjoy most on your travels, Your Highness? Everything. Following the wind. Discovering something new around the next bay. Don't you miss the comforts of home? No, not when I can sleep under the open sky. The Royal Stable. Oh! Pigs! Nasty little things. Get away! Get away! I'm so sorry. Don't worry about a thing. I'm fine. Where's that well? Oh! Look what they've done. The only good pig is one on a plate. Let me help, Mother. Odd, isn't it? Queen Ariana knew exactly where to find the well, even though she's never been here before. It is a bit odd. (TALLULAH CHATTERING) I forgot how fun this is! (LAUGHS) Looking good, Tallulah. You're a natural. Not another word against Queen Ariana. You're marrying Princess Luciana and that's final. RO: I told you it was fun. (RO LAUGHING) You look beautiful. What about your tiara? (RITA LAUGHS) Now you're ready for the Ball. I wish we could take you, Tika. We'll come visit you tomorrow. SOFIA: Bye. GINA: Bye, Tika. Look at you. The little princesses dressed me up for the Royal Engagement Ball. What's that? Everybody knows a Royal Ball is big and round like a coconut. Are you certain, Your Highness? AZUL: Absolutely. Then we know what it isn't. I resent that. It's a big dance to congratulate Prince Antonio and Princess Luciana. AZUL: Ro should never go to that. On the contrary... No, Sagi. No ball. Why not? I've been embarrassed enough. You know what the King and Queen think. The strange island girl. You just need to show them you're every bit as royal as they are. I can promise that the ball will be a lot of fun. I can teach you everything you need to know. And that includes what I should wear? BOTH: Leave that to me! Skirts that billow, sleeves that tie Are the only things to wear at the Ball Tease your hair up three feet high If you want to show your flair at the Ball Why wear what those stuffy girls are wearing? I think seaweed wraps are quite the height of style Pineapple is naturally daring Wear a fruit cup and a smile Hmm: That's it! Something satin, throw a hat in And a purple parasol That's how to make an entrance at the Ball In a panic think organic Look at this One size fits all! Now you can be the beauty at the Ball I think you should lose the silly nest thing No way I'm the one who's been to these before I know orange taffeta's the best thing Yes The best thing to ignore! Skirt! Dress! Loose! Tight! More! Less! Drab! Bright! No! Black! Yes! White! RO: Stop! There is something good in what you're saying I know if I go I want to look my best And you're right, my choices should reflect me But I can't be underdressed I look nice in Island blue I can find you some of that by the wall! Vine designs all curlicue I will sketch you all the shapes I recall! Something pink is fun to try You can use this as a wrap or a shawl Sparkle like the evening sky! And with this you're guaranteed to enthrall Perfect. Well, almost. There's something missing. Ro, please accept these Do you think they'll do? Azul, your gift makes this a dream come true Now you'll take their breath away We can see you'll be the jewel of them all Last of all a rose bouquet You're going to have a great time at I'm going to have a great time at You're going to have a great time at the ball Tell me... Do you... What else do you enjoy, besides the harp, Your Highness? Well, I love opera. Do you? Not exactly. How do you spend your spare time? When you're not sailing, of course. Outdoors if I can. Do you like to ride? Hike? Not exactly. Oh! Such a striking couple. No one can take their eyes off of you. Their eyes must be for your beautiful daughter. If you'll excuse me. (LAUGHING) Whoa, whoa. Don't I get my dance? (LAUGHING) Oh. Wow. (ALL GASPING) Is that Ro? That's the prettiest dress I've ever seen. I'm so glad you're here. May I have this dance? No. No. Look at all these people. They've seen dancing before. I have no idea what I'm doing. Any girl who faces down crocodiles can handle a dance with me. Just follow your instincts. It's going even better than I hoped! With those feathers, who could resist her? Ro sure looks happy. Where are you going, Sagi? To check on something. I'll only be a minute. Goodness me. Is that the island girl? Such a beautiful ball gown. I thought we had an arrangement, Your Highness. We do. My mother always told me never put off till tomorrow what can be done today. We should move up the wedding to prevent any distractions. I see your point. Ro. I want you to stay with me. I... I can't. Princess Luciana... She's very nice, but... You belong together. I shouldn't have come. Goodbye, Antonio. You don't understand. Please don't make this any harder. Why is everything so complicated? SAGl: Life is full of change. Most of it good. But not always easy. I need to know who I am. Where I belong. Why I can't remember anything before I came to the island. I found something tonight. See that flag, there. RO: With the rose? Yes. Azul and I found a similar flag washed ashore when you came from the sea. I never knew that. I didn't know it mattered until tonight. It could be from the ship I sailed on. Excuse me, this flag, where's it from? The proud kingdom of Paladia. And how far away is that? A two day's ride, including the river crossing and that rocky path to the north... You can actually understand me? Yes. Whom did you bring tonight? The Duke and Duchess. Do you know... Did they have a daughter once long ago? Uh, no. Just three sons. Oh. Thank you. You asked to see me, Father? There's been a change in your wedding plans. Yes? You're marrying Princess Luciana in two days. What? Two days? I can't! Can't what? Marry somebody I don't love. You have a responsibility to marry a princess. To align our kingdoms. I don't believe you can say a bad word about Princess Luciana. No. She's a wonderful girl. Then there's nothing more to discuss. You once told me great kings make hard decisions. Exactly. This is the hardest thing I've ever done, Father. But I can't spend the rest of my life with someone I don't love. My sisters will run the kingdom. Don't try my patience. Sorry, Father. I don't know any other way. Ro? Ro? Are you in here? Please meet me in the Rose Garden tonight. Let's sail away together. Forever yours, Antonio. He's not sailing anywhere with my Ro. ARIANA: I didn't plan to use this so soon. But I didn't plan on the Prince falling in love with that other girl either. Nat, Pat, Matt. I have a job for you. I want you to pay a little visit to every animal in the kingdom. Put this powder in their food They'll sleep like they should When the island girl gets blamed She'll be gone for good Hurry right back to your room You'll get something great All the cheese that you deserve Will be on this plate (LAUGHING) PAT: She said cheese. NAT: She said cheese. PAT: Watch my tail. NAT: Stop pushing. We are a trio of hungry fellas Who dream at night about mozzarellas What are we hoping will fill our cellars Parmesans and Bries! NAT: I want to start with a chewy Cheddar PAT: I find I like Havarti better NAT: Give me a fork and a mound of Feta PAT: How we love the cheese In a wedge In a hunk In a wheel In a chunk Does it stink? Like a skunk BO TH: Yum, yum, yum, yum, yum, yum NAT: In a slice PAT: In a brick Very nice Very thick Over rice On a stick Licking up every crumb For all our efforts, we don't want money Don't want a beach where it's warm and sunny NAT: Just give us something that's soft and runny BO TH: Yellow, Blue or White And when the rest of the town is resting Oh, the Ricotta will be digesting No-one can top us at fine and festing Nighty, nighty, night Some people think that we're vermin But we're just misunderstood The connoisseurs of the castle Oh, yeah, the living is good Oh, can you taste it, oh, can you taste it, oh, can you taste it, oh, can you taste it? Now that we finished our little errand PAT: Think of the Goudas that we will be comparing Think of the fondue that we'll be a sharing BO TH: Extra drippy, please! Here is the end of our bedtime story Bring on the edible inventory This is the moment of rodent glory Now we get the cheese! PAT: Now we get the cheese! BO TH: Cheese! Cheese! Cheese! Cheese! Cheese! Cheese! Cheese! Cheese! Cheese! Cheese! Cheese! Oh, she's wicked. Are they sick? Sick to their stomachs, maybe. I saw three rats put something in their food. Sunset herb. Strange. Why would rats do that? They must be crazy. Sunset herb is dangerous. Can you help them? Back home if somebody ate sunset herb by mistake we made a rose tonic to wake them up. But they don't have island roses here. They do. In the greenhouse. I'm sure Prince Antonio would let us use them. I'll go and ask him. Ro, about the Prince... Yes? Nothing. Peter, something's wrong. I can't wake up Tallulah. Good day, Frazer. And to you, Your Highness. You look like a busy man. On your way to see the King? Why, yes, I am. The animals are still fast asleep with no sign of waking. Oh, a terrible disease. Is it contagious? Seems likely. Oh, who could have given it to them? Apparently something new in their habitat. Something foreign? Like wild animals from the South Seas. Why, yes. Exactly. Oh, I must tell the King. Yes, you do that. I'm sorry, miss. The King insists the Prince not be disturbed. Please tell him I can help. I can make a medicine for the animals. No exceptions. Good day. Your Majesty, I'm afraid that Ro brought the disease with her. Her animals infected ours with a type of sleeping sickness. Poor Tallulah. I knew that island girl wasn't to be trusted. But I don't understand why her animals don't sleep like ours. Well, carriers of disease are often immune themselves. How do we cure Tallulah and the others? Oh, I'm afraid I'm still working on that. But if they don't wake up they'll starve to death. Guards. Guards! Look how low I've sunk. A royal bird languishing in this stink hole, where they keep prisoners and ruffians. Are we really prisoners? Food for the prisoners. I rest my case. Please, let me talk to Prince Antonio. If the animals don't wake up soon, they'll die. You should've thought of that before your animals got them sick. But they didn't! Now I know why people break out of prison. The food's terrible. You're not eating that! How could you be so foolish? Do you really think I'd be dumb enough to eat food with sunset herb? (SNORING) Azul. Azul! Is it true? You put Ro in the dungeon? I had no choice. It's not right. She'd never hurt anyone. So you think I should free her? Yes, let her return to her island. On one condition. Name it. You resume your duties as Prince and marry Princess Luciana. Father. Great kings must make hard decisions. As you wish. Your wedding dress will be the talk of the kingdom. Mother, the Prince is in love with Ro, not me. Enough! This marriage will happen. End of discussion! But you... You must want me to be happy. Oh, you will be. Now prepare for your fitting. Yes, Mother. (GOBBLING) Will he be okay? (DOOR OPENING) The King wants you and your beasts sent home. Psst. Come here. Your ship carries a girl. I need you to do something for me. For a reward, of course. TIKA: I don't understand. Who would do this to all of the animals? Somebody who wants me out of the Prince's life for good. Princess Luciana? No, she's much too kind to hurt anybody. Unlike her pushy, nasty, scheming mother. Exactly. We need to get back to the greenhouse and make that tonic. Don't do it! They'll throw you into the dungeon again, or worse! I can't let the animals die when I can save them. You may not be a princess to the king and queen, but you're a princess in my eyes. (SOBBING) Tika? I hid it. I didn't tell you and I hid it. Hid what? His note. The prince left you a note to meet him. Why wouldn't you tell me? I didn't want you to leave me. If you marry the prince, you'll forget about us. Please don't hate me. Oh, Tika, I could never hate you. I love you. But, you love the prince. Tika. Everybody is born to care It's something we were meant to share Not to keep to ourselves all alone If we make room for someone new Doesn't mean that there's less for you Only means that our circle has grown Love knows, love grows Bigger than before In your heart There's always more It's magic The more you give it away The more love Comes back to you every day You are my Tika and I am your Ro Always forever, wherever we go So love knows Love grows Bigger than before In your heart There's always more Always more We need to get back to the castle. RO: Help me untie the boat. (SHOUTING) (PANTING) (SAGI COUGHING) Oh, it's cold. Hang on, Tika. Ro! Ro! (PANTING) Hold on, hold on. MAN: Hold on, hold on! Hold on, Rosella! Rosella? Tika! I can't. I can't anymore. Tika, no! Dolphins! Dolphins, if you can hear me, please, help us! Dolphins. Dolphins, please, please, come! (DOLPHINS CLICKING) RO: I can't thank you enough. (DOLPHIN CLICKING) You really remember everything from before? Not everything, but I remember a lot. Maybe enough to find my family. Now let's go make that tonic. (BELL RINGS) (BIRD SHOUTS) Poor thing. (TWITTERING) There you are, dear. MAN: The wedding is in the Ballroom. Please go in... Welcome, Your Highness. Thank you. After all these years, the answer to your dreams. My dreams? Our dreams. Now, remember, no food on your wedding day. Not one bite! Why not? Well, it's bad luck. Terrible luck. Why take chances on your future together? Yes, Mother. That's my girl. An auspicious day, Your Highness. Frazer, did Ro... Yes, Your Highness, her ship left last night. Right. From me to you, Peter. You and your family will sleep for a very, very long time. Forever, really. And who will rule the kingdom? Luciana, the new queen. And who rules Luciana? Oh, so beautiful. Queen Luciana. Don't slouch! Oh, the wedding. Right, we need to get started. Here, we can use this for the tonic. Oh, hello again. Hello. I'm so glad you're back. I saw Ariana sprinkle something on the cake. She did? More sunset herb. We need to finish this tonic right away. Hold Azul steady. You, don't move. Please, I'm trying to help the animals. Enough! You're coming with us! Find Tallulah and see if this works. Hurry. (TIKA TRUMPETS) We are gathered here to join in matrimony Princess Luciana to His Highness, Prince Antonio. If someone objects to this union speak now or forever hold your peace. (TIKA TRUMPETS) (PEOPLE CHATTERING) Outrageous! GINA: Tika? What are you doing here? Guards! What is it, Tika? (TRUMPETS) Let me go! You'll waste away in the dungeon after this stunt. Release her at once. But, but, Your Highness, your father... I said at once! Are you all right? Yes, Your Highness. SAGl: Please let there be enough. Antonio. What do you think you're doing? We had a deal, Father. I'd marry Princess Luciana so Ro could go free. That's why... How dare she interrupt the wedding! This wild girl and her animals are spreading disease! They're dangerous! No, we aren't. Someone put an herb in the animals' food. And I can cure them if you'll just let me. I can make a healing tonic. Surely you don't believe her story. It's preposterous! (TALLULAH CHATTERING) RO: Tallulah! Thank you, Ro. Oh, Tallulah. Come here, darling. Maybe it's true. Maybe Ro does have a cure. PETER: If you didn't cause the sickness, then who put the herb in the animals' food? (BIRD TWITTERING) Ariana. Don't be ridiculous! (PEOPLE CHATTERING) A grave accusation. She put the sunset herb in the wedding cake too. Now everybody can see just how crazy you are! Where'd you hear that? A little birdie tell you? (LAUGHING) If I'm so crazy, you won't mind eating some cake. Don't be ridiculous. We haven't even had dinner. Please, have a bite. Well, how do I know you didn't put something in the cake yourself, to frame me! She didn't, Mother. Luciana? You told me not to eat anything. Why would you say that unless you poisoned it. (SNORING) (PEOPLE GASPING) (LAUGHS) ANTONIO: Take my hand. Oh, thank you. Try the trees. I can't catch up! We're close enough. Steady, Tika. (GRUNTS) (ARIANA SHOUTING) (GASPS) What? Don't touch me! No! (SHOUTS) Not the pigs. Anything but the pigs! PETER: Please forgive me, Ro. I assumed the worst without ever giving you a chance. You saved us from disaster. We owe you so much. I'm glad I could help. One day, I hope someone will look at me the way you look at Ro. When that happens, he'll be the lucky one. They make a beautiful couple. Then why's the Prince coming over here? Sail away with me. I can't do that. Princess Luciana... Wants us to be happy. Ro. Will you marry me? TIKA: This is where you say yes. Yes. Yes, yes, yes! Excuse me. Father, no more nonsense about me marrying a princess. Perhaps it is time for a change. Welcome, Ro. Call me Rosella. My real name is Rosella. ANTONIO: You remembered. Your name is Rosella? Yes. I... I had a daughter named Rosella. Sun goes down And we are here together Fireflies glow like a thousand charms Stay with me And you can dream forever Right here in my arms Tonight Ro found her mother. And her mother is a queen, which means Ro is... A princess. Sounds of day Fade away Stars begin to climb Melodies fill the breeze Sweeter all the time My love And we are here together Is always with you whether near or far Fireflies glow like a thousand charms Stay with me, and you can dream forever Right here in my arms Tonight (TRUMPET FANFARE SOUNDING) LUCIANA: Look at him, watching her Doesn't she look beautiful? Could they be more content? What a perfect day Never know when you'll find What your heart is yearning for All you seek could be there Just a breath away TALLULAH: I love the dress! AZUL: I love the hair The island roses everywhere I'm trying not to shed a tear I'm glad this all was my idea The honeymoon will start today I bet that we can stow away This has to be the wedding of the year Now that I've seen the world around me Now that the answers all are clear ANTONIO AND RO: Old concerns behind me New adventures near I know a chance can be worth taking And that a family can grow When we have love to guide us as we go There may be miracles awaiting They may be closer than we know When we have love to guide us as we go When we have love to guide us as we go THE END
