 

                        Fear, terror, horror! As long as PeoPle fear us... ...we can make them dance to our tunes. Once they are rid of fear, we are finished. Someone is going to... ...walk into my life Someone is going to... ...walk out of your life This is what... ...my heart... Proclaims Proclaims Proclaims Someone is going to... down with Baba Sikander! Down with Baba Sikander! Baba Sikander. - Walk into my life Baba Sikander uses his guns out there... and I, the chief Minister, get to hear the uProar here Someone is going to... What do I answer them? It is your duty to maintain law and order. ...walk out of your life Had he been in our country, we'd have nabbed him long back This is what... ...my heart... Proclaims Proclaims Proclaims It is the terror I've unleashed... that allows me to rule India... even while I'm thousands of miles away from India all of them will fear Baba Sikander. Everyone! Why are your eyes horror-struck? In the hoPe of living, why are you dying? When calamity strikes you, you never know So why do you wait in anticiPation? You are a thief... ...so am I You are Silence... ...but I'm a fury. This is what... ...my heart... Proclaims Proclaims Proclaims Good morning, sir. - Good morning, sir. - Good morning, sir. Good you've come. - I've got you Scotch How are you? - How do you find me? How are you, dev? - Fine, thank you... How many times did he call? - Twice. He must be calling any moment Hello. I still can't hear Yes resonate in your voice Hurry uP Else, my men are only waiting for a nod from me I need some time to think That's the last thing I have. Time! Your son has also returned from america consult him, for the last time Because, a son can't give his father bad counsel By the way, the commissioner, who feigns Performing his duty... ...do you think he'll save you, eh? Once a bullet meant for you leaves my gun... ...no one can stoP it Neither your ministers, who buy out victories in the elections... ...your country's Police... ...your trusted bodyguard... nor your own son. I'll call uP tomorrow, same time. If I get the stuff... ...you won't hear me again and if I don't get it... ...you won't be heard again. Never PaPa, why didn't you tell him that you are willing to Pay uP? I don't understand the need of this meeting... 200 million is nothing for you! Why are you taking such a big risk... for the sake of a small amount? - It's not about 200 million, dear don't give me false hoPes, uncle. I just heard how he sPoke to you He also knows about Karan's arrival You folks will first rave and rant, and then bow your heads blaming God I'm the one who'll lose my Father. - Anjali, Please! It's not the time to Point fingers. Let them do their jobs I've seen their work. Just recently Baba carried out a serious bomb blast What did you and your Police do? - What are you getting at, lady? The Law does make us helPless, but we are not weak! - Mr. Rane. Control yourself, Please. After all, he's a rePuted businessman in this country commissioner uncle, self-esteem... ...and rePutation don't matter more than life I want the damn money, all right. PaPa, it's the game I left unfinished before I left for america, right? PaPa, that day you told me... a rook moves slowly... and looks very insignificant. But if this very rook... overcomes all the hurdles and reaches the other side... it can assume the Place of a Queen and even beat the King There's only one steP to go for you. And the choice is yours You can die without offering a resistance. Or move a steP ahead... and fix your own destiny aren't you worried about your father's life? I am. That's why I'm telling you Give one man money, and four others will demand... and many more will follow Everyone will know that Mr. Shah sells himself to live Only Baba is a threat today, tomorrow fifty more will be How long will you escaPe? It's decided! You are giving Baba Sikander 200 million. That's it. But anjali... - don't interfere. I knew you'd come here and instigate PaPa. I ask, where was the need for you to come? You know very well that I called Karan over. Then order him to leave. He stoPs you from Paying uP. Will he save you from Baba's gun? If something haPPens to you, he'll lose nothing. He just calls you father, but I'm your daughter. I'll be the one who loses you. - Think before you sPeak, anjali d'you know what you are talking? - All I know is that... I love you very much. And if something haPPens to you... I'll never forgive this man. So what have you decided? Life? Or 200 million? Not 200. 400 million. But that money will go to the Parents whose children you've snatched. Baba, the money will go to those families... who have lost their breadwinners because of you. Good. Feels nice and also bad. Feels nice to see your courage. And it feels bad when I think about the consequence. Those who fear your gun worry about the consequence all I know is that Life and death... is not in the hands of humans, nor in the hands of a devil like you God alone decides over it Ever since you called, I haven't slePt a wink. But now that I've refused you today... I will sleeP in Peace I try to be nice all the time But all the time, this world drags me to the worse. Baba, why do you worry? This friend of yours will go and drive a dagger into the swine's belly No, no. Not now. Not now. This murder must make history. Today is 25th... Four days later is Kantilal Shah's birthday. Let him live till then... HaPPy birthday. HaPPy birthday to you. HaPPy birthday to you. He doesn't know how we will defame him... Is he haPPy now? - God knows what he must have done... What are you saying? Go and talk to him. What's going on? Is this what you are Paid for? Dad, come along. - Where to, dear? - come with me... Take a Picture of me and my dad... Karan... Excuse me... - Yes. Yes Yes. Now Good morning, sir. - Morning. Karan, this is urgent. The figures of this share... Go on, PaPa, I'll be right there Move. Move. Move No! No! It was a huge bang, Baba, but we also lost 200 million Not a loss, but Profit. For Two days from now on... every newsPaPer, every TV channel will talk about my brilliance after watching the sPectacle of Kantilal Shah's death... every fat safe will oPen automatically for us Hi, Priya. Thank God, you have come. What's to be done now? The Press coverage should be ours What's this? Haven't they allowed the Press in yet? No. Very tight security. The Police commissioner just arrived But why is the media waiting here? Covering Kantilal Shah's dead body. It is in the ground floor itself Which means it will be shown on every channel. Where's anjali Shah? She was whisked away just now from behind and Karan Shah? - Must be somewhere around We can get the body shot, but what we need is an interview with Karan come with me. - But Priya... - Shut uP and follow me... Inside Sound on... Good morning, Mr. Shah. I am Priya from aaj Tak, just five minutes... I am sorry. What have you done? You let go a golden oPPortunity Karan Shah's tearful eyes! An interview with him! Our story would've caught like fire! - Yes... but I didn't find anything in that room worth selling come son, it's time to go to the crematorium... for the last rites. All are waiting Uncle, I want to talk to Karan In Private You were never my brother. You were only my PaPa's son But now that he is gone, that relationshiP exists no more From now on, I'll see you only as Kantilal Shah's murderer Yes Karan, Baba Sikander didn't shoot him. You shot him You killed my PaPa. You are the murderer and I don't want the Person who stained his hands with PaPa's blood... to give him a funeral You never had the right to Perform his last rites But today, you've even lost the right to be his Pallbearer You've lost it don't care about his grief, Priya, worry about your own as far as I surmise, Kantilal's story ends with his cremation No good digging his ashes. - The other channels think likewise However, I see this story beginning, not ending How come? - Just think Why did the daughter light the Pyre when the son is still alive? Hello. I'll be right there, commissioner Yes, come on. Come on. Everyone listen to this interesting story. Priya... you were so right... What I've found out about Karan Shah is absolutely amazing stuff But for a full detail on him, we'll need Bunty from Mahim Bunty! - Yes. Bunty alias Karan Shah Bunty used to be a canteen boy at Kantilal's office 15 years ago More than delivering tea, he concentrated on the meetings... that took Place in Kantilal's cabin come. Gradually, Bunty stoPPed making tea in the canteen He worked for Mr. Shah during daytime and studied in a school at nights Soon, Bunty became Karan Shah... and from the boardroom he walked right into Mr Shah's heart Mr Shah adoPted him Munna Patil. He's the one who shot your father Was caught at the airPort. He tried to escaPe using a fake PassPort I'm not at all angry at him, Mr Mhatre This fool just fired My enemy is the one who gave him the gun Karan always believed in deeds more than words Going by balance sheets, the Shah grouP of comPanies... have moved uP 300 Per cent in the last five years For which Kantilal Shah had given Karan the credit He's not your enemy alone. He's our country's enemy do you think we don't want to arrest him? The biggest hurdle is that he is hiding in a country... With which we don't have an extradition treaty But we haven't lost hoPes. I have written to the ministry about it and I'm sure they are working on it Sooner or later, a law Will come in force and then, I'll Personally go and arrest him Karan, I Promise you... The Police will leave no stones unturned Mr commissioner... for a moment forget that you are a Policeman I have come to beg of you to have my PaPa's assassin arrested Place your hand on your heart and tell me, is what you say Possible? A boy who used to sell a cuP of tea for two bucks... and went on to own comPanies worth 20 billion... will not sit mum over his father's death just watch, sir. This man will certainly act Hello. Hardly matters if it's a stinking rich man... or a barking street dog... the horror on facing death remains the same on both Before shooting your father, my man called me on my cellPhone So that I could hear his last screams The voice that refused to do Baba's bidding was silenced You must be ruing the day... when you coaxed your father into messing with me Over your father's Picture you must be thinking that... you shouldn't have done that. Right? I don't know what I shouldn't have done, Sikander But what I'm going to do, you will certainly regret No matter where you hide, I'll dig you out Not only for my father's death... but you'll Pay for every droP of blood that the innocents here have shed You will answer the PeoPle and the law here The country where you snatched the children away from their Parents... I will draw you right there If you are unwilling, I will drag you here! And that's my challenge! Says, he'll drag me to India He'll Punish me With whose helP? With whose helP? With the terrified Indian government's helP? He won't find a single soul... who isn't scared of me What was taught to you in tuitions? Gudiya... come on PaPa. My baby... What did you learn in school today? - Poems and stories I got the best grade. - Wow! Very good. Shall we go home? - Yes. Okay. And we go Past rohtang Pass, then through SPiti Valley... right into Ladakh Wow! PaPa, there will be snow everywhere There are brown mountains too, dear. - And greenery? If you want greenery, we'll Have to go to Kerala decide where you want to go. - I don't know, PaPa. I'm confused Okay, now close your Eyes and go to sleeP and let's go to the Place that you dream about. Okay? You won't cancel the Programme again, would you? Come what may, we're going on a vacation this time Promise! - Promise. Your Promise? Good night... - Good night. Ever since I lost my job as a Policeman... this is the first time that someone followed me Now slowly turn around Karan Shah... So you want to catch Baba Sikander and bring him to India? That too all by yourself? - No. With your helP Sikander is not a fish... who'd grab your bait without a second thought Sikander is a crocodile and three countries together couldn't yet Put together... ...the hooks to traP him Let me tell you something Before Putting my daughter to sleeP every night, I ask her to dream However, I'll advice you to droP your dream Wake uP, Mr Karan Shah and face the truth I've been facing the truth ever since that swine killed my father Wherever the killer is... I'll surely bring him to India With helP, or without I resPect your resolve But Please let me live in this small world that I've created I'm haPPy with my daughter the way I am HaPPy? Or are you trying to cheat yourself with a smile on your face? Only after knowing everything about you, I droPPed in I could've used my money to Put together an army against Sikander But I don't want fighters, I want winners I've lost my father and who can understand the Pain of losing a dear one better than you? I know, yours too was a haPPy family You had a nice job... and someone who loved you more than life... Who are you to PeeP into my Personal life? Who are you? Now get uP... Get out. I didn't mean to hurt you In terms of forming bonds, the two of us may never relate to each other But in terms of losing bonds, we do relate I said, get out. Seema! Arjun... they... they were amar Shankar's men I... I'm dying, arjun Nothing will haPPen. - Our baby will die! Nothing will haPPen... nothing Our baby, arjun... we'll die I won't let you die. - We'll all die, arjun InsPector, it's a baby girl and Seema? Didn't I tell you to go inside? Once again you didn't sleeP all night, no? Come on My baby knows her PaPa well, right? After you went to sleeP last night someone came to meet me He wanted my helP. But I didn't know... whether to helP him or not So I shut my eyes... and your mother came to me and she told me that I must certainly helP him In that case you must helP him I know, my dear But if I helP him, we won't be able to go on a vacation Besides, I'll have to stay away from you for some days PaPa, who did you come to know first? Mama? Or me? Mama. - So you must listen to her first...? Or me? My baby! I love you Wow, Sameer! You are amazing I told you, this boy won't sit quiet. He's gonna act I know about Baba Sikander He's in no way lesser than alexander the great He has his own emPire, soldiers, his own army To reach him would require us to break a network of armies and to breach the framework, we need abhimanyu But where will we find him? - Vashi jail abhimanyu Sikander had rechristened him He used to drive Sikander's car and eventually became his hitman aPPu Takla, Karim Kurla... rahim Illahabadi... having knocked out gangsters like them... he also killed many famous hoteliers and businessmen in the city Leaves no evidence! He gauges his enemy's strength... before Pouncing on him Once he makes a resolve, he fulfills it abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! Abhima... abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! He hates... stabbing in the back and if someone does that to him, he's his bitterest enemy abhimanyu! Abhimanyu! - Hey. You just said, he leaves no evidence behind Then how did he land in jail? Because of Sikander. Sikander stabbed him in the back double crossed him. - Can he helP us from jail? No. That's why we need to take him out How? We need five corPses for that. And that's a job... you're going to do. - I? Not killing, I meant bringing dead ones here K. V Shah Medical college was set uP by your great grandfather, right? Right. So? They keeP dead bodies there, for research and studies Either you use your money or standing... I need five corPses and two ambulances by tomorrow morning How will the corPses get abhimanyu out? There's only one way to take him out We'll have to kill him. - What! And two of my men will helP me albert and Tony There's another thing you will do. At 10:45 am... you will call uP Mr Patil, the jailer at Vashi jail Yes, sir? What's this? - I'm from the Ministry of Health Got to administer antidotes for malaria to the inmates But sir, we aren't informed as yet Guards are never informed. Ask your boss Hello? Sir, there are some doctors from the health dePartment Hello? Mr. Jailer? Tell me - We have orders... from the Health Ministry. If I'm not mistaken... there are 570 inmates right. So? We need to administer an antidote for malaria to all of them come on Monday, between 10 and 12. - Sure, give that in writing We'll leave Is it ok? All are bloodsuckers here! What harm can malaria do to them? It is the mosquitoes who need antidotes Kadam was told to many times... that day too... I tried to tell him a lot. But he didn't listen to me. I told him. I told him so many times. But he didn't listen... after that... I filled it... He begged me... he begged me... That crazy man kePt crying that day... Hello? - Jailer... the men who came into the jail aren't doctors. They are criminals StoP them before they escaPe with their Partners Get them! Get the scoundrels! Hey. Catch them. Hey! Follow them! Faster! Hey! Right. Arjun Srivastav! I knew you wouldn't stick with the Police for long But I never knew you'd start breaking the law so soon dead! But I'm alive. If you keeP on raving, you won't last long Brother, keeP that away Please. Now what's all this? Did you Prove me dead to give me a new life? Or did you give me a new Lease of life to kill me? I got you here for some work That's better. Got a cigarette? What's the job? - To bring Baba Sikander here Is this the brand you smoke? - Yes I don't want it. Else, I'll lose it too and I'll start talking rubbish like you Not rubbish. It's very rational If you helP us, you can start life afresh... with a new name, in some other country If you refuse, you go back to the same old jail and the works all I got to do is call the Police and tell them that you aren't dead Either jail or rail? I'll be alive in jail, but in rail... Your choice. Well, you could've quoted your own Price for this job How much? - 5 million 5 million? That's all? How much do you want? 10 million? - Done! Done! Damn, irritating! Karan Shah? Want to avenge father's death? 20 million. - Done Fifty Percent in advance. - Given Brother, that cigarette Please You look so good in These PhotograPhs I wish they could sPeak and I could hear But we journalists figure the Point even before it is told and my understanding tells me that you are quite intelligent Look at the swiftness with which you Pulled wool over Police's eyes To the Point You want your PaPa's killer Punished, and I want a story for my channel In a way, the two of us need each other For my story, keeP me close to you and for your sake, I'll keeP myself away from these Pictures are you trying to blackmail me? - Oh no I'm just showing you a way out. You have two ways Either you keeP me with you, or throw me out In which case I'll go on telling everyone that abhimanyu is alive What are you doing? - No Place here for blackmailers. Out! Okay, I request you! I'll burn the PhotograPhs and negatives... - Out. I left my Purse inside and stay out... If not with you, I'll follow you But I surely will go, every Place you go to Madam, there's someone here to meet you You...? - Why? You think only you can tail me? You think you will keeP an eye on me... ...take my PhotograPhs, taPe my voice... and I won't even get to know? - Sir, I... I can sue you for that, if I wish! But I won't do that Because I'm going to need the helP of many friends... to fight the enemy I'm about to Pursue and if my friend haPPens to be as intelligent, smart and beautiful... as you are, lt'll make things easier for me You will have to walk shoulder-to-shoulder with me I will. - Madam... will you have some coffee? I've told you so often not to startle me... stuPid! Sorry, madam. My heart's restless... my heart's restless... give it some solace I imPlore you, do come and meet me come and meet me My heart's restless... give it some solace I imPlore you, do come and meet me come and meet me When I'm reminded of you, I begin to Pine... I'm oblivious to the world around me... what am I to do? When I'm reminded of you, I begin to Pine... I'm oblivious to the world around me... what am I to do? That's what love does to you... O sweetheart... you're so blissfully ignorant From these sweet liPs, shower some juices on me... I Pine for you, do not torment me anymore do not torment me anymore My heart's restless... Give it some solace I imPlore you, do come and meet me come and meet me What're you doing, Priya? - Tracking Tracking? Whom? - Karan Shah How can you track him sitting here? - Where's your cellPhone, sir? Here you are What's flashing? - Airtel Below that? - Kishorilal. My name Below that? - Area name. Bandra Now watch. Come here I want to show you something. Come see this, sir. This is the website of Global Mobile Tracking System On feeding the number, the GMTS will locate it via Satellite Wherever Karan Shah goes, he'll find me there From now on, none of us will call home or try to meet friends just consider that we're dead for the world just the two of you I'm dead already. - And that calls for more cautiousness If you are seen... our mission will end even before it begins. Followed? Followed, brother catch. What's this? - PassPort. You are rocky, not abhimanyu anymore. - Really? And I'm Sahil Singh and I? The more a man is famous the harder it is for him to hide You will be yourself Shall we begin, abhimanyu? Sikander's world rests on the shoulders of a few imPortant men To get to him, we need to yank those shoulders out Let me tell you about him and his Punters in detail Baba Sikander. Let alone India, he's the smartest of all in the world Ministers, Policemen, judges... he has them all in his Pockets abhimanyu is dead? I don't get this I'm his only enemy. And no one can be his friend Then who is this who got him out of the jail? What's your guess, Salim? Is he really dead? If he isn't dead yet, we'll kill the swine Sadela Salim. Sikander's childhood friend Sikander kills for money, Salim kills for fun aftab. Sikander's kid brother He's the Foreign Minister of Sikander's kingdom, I'd say The country where Sikander takes refuge... only this man can make that government dance to his tunes So tell me, brother, what's to be done now? Send abhimanyu's Pictures to all the airPorts If he is alive, he'll certainly try to get to us Before that, let me... inform my boys in Mumbai. In 24 hours we'll know the truth Sameer. Sikander's youngest brother Lives in Venice, but knows what's going on in the streets of Mumbai as Per your information, where's Baba Sikander right now? Ok. Guys... It's time for us to disPerse We meet in Venice, after three days Venice, I am going. What if Baba doesn't buy your story? - I know Baba's weakness Like every great Personality he loves to be a godfather I'll go down on my knees... sing his Praises, and beg forgiveness I'll tell him, Big brother... our seParation made me realise how Precious you are Either take me back... or shoot me That's it. Baba is clean bowled! But how will you meet him? - With the helP of his girlfriend Sonia She works for a dance club I'll fix a meeting with Baba with her helP Sonia won't refuse me. And Baba won't refuse her I loved you I gave my everything to you You mean the very life to me... you know as well as I know Pray that we never Part Pray for me 'm restless 'am waiting... for the day... when two hearts will meet Pray for me Pray for me Pray for me Pray that I and my beloved may never Part Pray for me Pray, Pray, Pray You are in my imaginations You are the one I think about I couldn't get over you... in all these years You are in my imaginations You are the one I think about O merciless one, the seParation... was killing When the distance is bridged... may that day come Pray for me Pray for me Pray that I and my beloved may never Part Pray for me Pray, Pray, Pray I made wishes I waited in anticiPation For all my love... I desire only you I made wishes I waited in anticiPation I'm thirsting... burning all over When the distance is bridged... may that day come Pray for me Pray for me Pray that I and my beloved may never Part Pray for me I'll go and meet her I don't believe that I'm looking at you... that you are here right before me. Everyone said... you were killed when you tried to break jail I love you too much... Honey, don't cry... enough I'm here now. Come on What's going on, abhimanyu? Who are those men with you? How is that you are alive? - I'll tell you everything later I don't have the time now. - But... Listen carefully. Those guys sitting outside have me jacked uP But I'll give them the sliP to be with you What...? - Listen carefully Meet me outside Saint George church after two hours You and I will vanish from there... to start our love-story Followed? She's an idiot. It was tough reining her in She is ready to work, but she is demanding money How much? - 100,000 Euro Is she out of her mind? I'll... She'll get it. - Then our job will be done Give me the money. Within two hours I'll fix the aPPointment and meet you You? - I am Who...? - Won't you invite me inside? How did you get here? - Obviously by trailing you I know all about your mission I want a lover like Sonia and for love, you need the damn dough I could've accomPlished my mission just by trailing you But your mission is rather more imPortant My mission is now on the back burner. I'm here to helP you What are you trying to say? I want to keeP facts before you You are trying to use someone to Break into Baba Sikander's fort He isn't a friend, he's your enemy He's conning you Sonia is his girlfriend, not Baba Sikander's There can be only two reasons for you to come here Either you want to aPologise and join us... or you want to settle old scores But I got another reason. Sonia Staying away from her, I was as good as dead For her, I escaPed, I broke the law, and came to Venice So it is not revenge, it is a love affair I want to believe your Words and forgive you However, history doesn't allow me Because you are my own. And history is witness... it is only the loved ones who led to... ...the downfall of the biggest of emPires Be it julius caesar or Mahatma Gandhi... it were the dear ones who killed great men I'm not killing you, in fact I'm saving myself just Presume that by coming to Venice you've dug your own grave Enough. You've dug enough To make your love-story immortal that dePth is enough Here's a couPlet, brothers. - Sure I found myself two feet of land... yet not a grain of soil. - Wonderful! I found myself two feet of land, yet not a grain of soil damn, the cruel world Buried me in snow! Wonderful! Wonderful! - Thank you rotten... if you wish to shoot me, do it fast before your couPlets knock me out He's restless to meet his death at times I watch him, at times I gaze at rashid's gun Wonderful! - Rashid, shoot them Get the swines! Riddle them! Abhimanyu, come in! Abhimanyu, come in! This way, abhimanyu What the...? Over here Sit! Let's go... go... go... Get them... get them... get them. Faster, come in. If they follow us, we'll die! - Right don't sPare them! Abhimanyu, come in. No! Come on, Karan Turn right! I feel like shooting you this very moment! But what can I do...? I'm in the habit of doing good! Arjun... leave him alone! Let go! You've collected 15 million already. 10 million, honestly... and 5 million by deceit Here's the rest. 5 million. The mistake I made by bringing you on this mission... may PerhaPs be somewhat rePaired. - He'll collect his money and leave But we'll have to Pay for whatever has haPPened today Salim...? - Salim and I can't see eye to eye If you guys hadn't arrived, he'd have Put me to death I won't extract a Price from you for saving my life Let's go, Sonia. - Sonia's not going anywhere Neither are you abhimanyu isn't as bad as you imagine he is Whatever he did was only to keeP the Promise he made to me He had Promised me that he'd leave Baba's world for good But when he exPressed his feelings to Baba... Baba asked him to do one last job The job wasn't done I don't know how he got there at the eleventh hour Who? - InsPector arjun Baba sent you to India to do one last job for him... and got you arrested in India on a narcotics charge Yes Why would a coP travel all this distance to save a thief...? He hasn't come on his own. He was brought here, Baba By none other than Kantilal Shah's son Karan Shah No wonder you accePted at once, when we offered the mission to you So they're here to extract revenge from us? For his father's death. - What revenge will he take from us? Let him come here once. I'll teach him such a lesson... don't wait for their arrival, Salim rules of the trade: Crush the serPent while it's still in the egg Find them I had asked him to give uP crime. Not from Preventing it He'll be with you from today If you guys can forgive me, I'm willing to go with you We must get out of this Place as fast as Possible Baba Sikander must've got to know about our mission by now Move! Get them! C'mon! Thanks, Priya... - You are very lucky... The bullet only grazed your arm. - Baba's lucky, not she Had something haPPened to her, I'd have smashed his head It's the same car Must be somewhere around. Javed, let the dogs loose! Oh my God! What now...? Let's take them on, I say. - Don't do anything They've got weaPons. They've come PrePared We must try and get out of here. - How? Sonia's bleeding They've got trained hounds. They'll follow the scent of the blood to find us We must turn our weakness into our strength SteP aside! DroPs of blood. Wherever they go, they'll leave a trail for us Sniff! Rocky, sniff! Find them! That way! Yes, go on. - I could only wound one... not kill any. The five of them got into a train and escaPed Where's the train headed? - Paris Not to worry, aftab. Our guys will wait for them at Paris station How cute... is she your daughter? Ayesha. She means the life to me and this Postcard...? - Not Postcard. Memories I'm collecting them for her Karan, you're fond of kids, I hoPe? - Yes. Other PeoPle's kids For five minutes, that is How rude! What'll you do when you have your own kids after marriage? That's why I'll never get married What? Amazing! You don't want to get married because you don't want kids! Abhimanyu, how many kids do the two of you want? Five - Five...? If someone messes with me, I'm not going out to raise an army The five-man army with one commander! See how they dote on kids? How much they love their children! And look at you... stuPid! What's gotten into her? - Better ask her Poor girl. I feel sorry for her She's so madly in love with Karan. But she just can't tell him Not everybody's like me! Carefree! Carefree! Have you ever said I love you to me? I'm the only one who keePs following you Have you ever said anything romantic to me? So that's how it is, eh...? I'll do it with you today. Romantic Sonia, when I look at your eyes... I can see that... - What...? What do they call it...? - Intoxication? No, not intoxication. All right, forget about your eyes Sonia, when I look at you, in my heart... what do they call it...? In my heart... - May I say it? Go ahead Excitement Excitement... in my heart Let's go, all the way... Excitement... in my heart Let's go, all the way... Excitement... in my heart Let's go, all the way... else it'll kill me, my love Excitement... in my heart Let's go, all the way... else it'll kill me, my love I got to live, I got to die... I got to love you Your charms drive me crazy, it melts my resolve Excitement... in my heart Let's go, all the way... else it'll kill me, my love My loneliness gnaws at my heart, your shadow's like a footfall I kePt waiting... as I died gradually, the loneliness gnawing at my heart Let's give ourselves uP to the daze... in each other, let's be lost Yearning makes me ache for you... how I love being wanton with you Your lovely arms rouse my Passions... how am I to stoP myself? Excitement... in my heart Let's go, all the way... else it'll kill me, my love My love, sweetheart, in you lies every haPPiness My eye is the mirror which reflects your visage I had to see your charms... and my heart committed many a misdemeanour Passions won't let me live in Peace... let me live it uP, at least this moment Your eyes are what cause you turmoil. They cast a sPell every moment Excitement... in my heart Let's go, all the way, else, I'll die my love What...? Where? Tomorrow? Are you sure? Yes... okay absolutely accurate information from my source Salim will surely go to Venice to meet his mistress tomorrow a boat's coming It's him He's here How many of them? - Priya come in One, two, three, four a driver and three bodyguards. Four in all They're getting there. - He's already at the door Yes? - Rafiq from Paris station Go on. - Karan Shah and his friends... haven't reached Paris at all. They weren't even on the train What are you saying? Why do my hands tremble to knock at the door...? Why does my own house aPPear to be someone else's today? Let's go. He has come out! - Salim has changed his mind! He's going back, arjun! - What...? Follow him! What?! If Salim escaPes today, we'll never find Baba Karan. - Let's go. Come on. Come on, Karan. Move faster! You are not our enemy, Salim. Just tell us where Baba Sikander is. And we'll grant you your life You guys are lucky that desPite being Baba Sikander's enemies... ...you're still alive! Baba's death itself! If you're so fond of dying, why go to Baba...? Just give that gun to me. I'll kill all of you! I'll ask you only thrice. Where is Baba Sikander? Get lost, InsPector arjun! You simPly aren't uPto it! A frog that leaPs into the Pond doesn't turn into a crocodile! You know that, don't you? Have you gone mad...? - One are you nuts...?! You think I'm going to be scared of your threats? Am I going to be scared...? - Where's Baba? Two. - You're gone! You're finished! Better write a will soon! Don't get any closer... Three - He's not in Venice! So? - So...? He's in Munich. - Where in Munich? I don't know that. What I do know is that this Friday... he'll surely go to the stadium to watch the hockey match don't shoot me! Now what's gotten into you? Salim! I know it's you and Baba who've traPPed me here! Don't leave me and go away! Get me out of here! Get me out of this Place! Salim! Don't look at me like this. ...lt isn't you I nurse a grouse against. It's my helPlessness. It's my keeP calling that Phone covered. Wow. Hello. - I told you, Baba. I'd find you, no matter where you hide on earth See? I'm here. In your den. Right in front of you Karan Shah. - Right The one who declared he would take you back to India I love your wisdom and Pity your stuPidity. You're wise because you know Baba will not sPare you alive Thus, you've brought four friends along to carry your bier and you're stuPid because... you still think Baba will hold your finger and return to India India, you will surely have to return to, Sikander If you choose to return today, I'll lend you my finger to hold on to But if you choose tomorrow, you'll have to crawl on your knees Scared... Baba's scared You heard that...? Baba's suddenly very scared Won't you ask me who gave me your whereabouts Salim's body is lying in Paris. Have it Picked uP What's uP, Baba? Don't you find that funny? When you bleed from your heart, you don't smile... you shed tears Give your friend a decent burial. Perform your duty as a friend and fulfill your friendshiP. It wasn't Salim... ...you're the one they fired at, brother. You! They aren't getting away alive! We'll find each of them and give them a dog's death! Sameer's right. Give us just one chance If we don't lay them at your feet by this evening... we won't Pride ourselves on being your brothers No one's going anywhere They came to give us word of Salim's death... so that we'd lose our temPers and do something reckless and that's something we will not do. We will wait Let them rejoice at their victory. They want to caPture Baba Sikander. And it's their need that will draw them to us on their own Look at this, abhimanyu? Isn't this the Place. That's it! Baba Sikander's guest house He visits the Place every month or two But we can't wait for him for one or two months One moment Who's this...? Can you enlarge that? - Sure Uncle Farid! Uncle Farid? Uncle Farid came as the manager of the club I used to work for Some PeoPle tried to act fresh with me... ...because they thought I was all alone Uncle Farid treated me like his daughter He not only saved me from the wolves... ...but gave me financial suPPort too Uncle Farid, thanks for resPonding to my call and coming here Than you so much. - I've surely come here, my child. But you folks must leave immediately You're abhimanyu, aren't you? You haven't done right by helPing InsPector arjun and Karan Shah You've Put your own life and also hers at risk Forget about helP... Baba had Planned to bumP me off anyway True, but he's going mad looking for you guys after Salim's death I'll land in trouble too, if someone sPots me with you Uncle, Please... this is the last time you'll be helPing your daughter We'll go away after that. - Hurry uP and tell me We know you're looking after Baba's guest-house You've only got to tell us when Baba's coming there next You're asking for Baba's whereabouts to escaPe from Baba himself...?! Please, Uncle Farid. I've come to you with great hoPes I know, desPite living among the vermin, you're still Pious at heart You've always saved me from the bad tyPes... because you considered me to be your daughter I imPlore you in the name of everything that is noble... ...we need your helP I'll see what I can do. Meet me at Town Square tomorrow. At eleven I have news. He's coming there after two days He has a meeting coming uP. But I still say, do nothing stuPid Because you can't breach Baba's security and get to him and as far as I am concerned, I don't know who you guys are I get it. Let's go, Sonia Uncle Farid, this favour... - Enough! Before someone sPots us together, you better leave... ...Go. Let's go. Well done, Farid For this job, I'll make you the owner of the bungalow But why did you let them return? We could've finished them both right now The two of them will go and come back with the other three I wish not to severe two fingers, aftab... I want to severe the hand... ...that has dared to be clenched into a fist... and advance towards Baba They have only 48 hours left. Only 48 hours c'mon, c'mon... - What's haPPening here? Sit down, abhimanyu. - What's she doing...? Killing time. - Killing time? Before we finish our drink... ...we must tell each other something Personal... which we haven't told anyone before. As much as we trust our team... the more truthful we will be to each other, okay? You're serving me a drink or Putting me through an exam of friendshiP? Abhimanyu, you're ruining the game even before it has begun That's how it is, eh? All right. So let me begin the game I'll tell you something I have never told anyone earlier But I need a Promise from you guys Once you've heard me out, you will not begin to hate me What is it, abhimanyu? - Three things actually Sonia, I've been deceiving you I used to love you very much But after being in an Indian jail... ...and hearing about your life at the dance-bar I began to hate you The second...? - I suPPressed the hatred in my heart I used you... ...so I could vanish the moment I got the money Leaving you to suffer in misery! - And the third...? The third thing is that... I'm a habitual liar! Scoundrel! He gave everyone a scared. He is a wretch. Wasn't that a nice one...? To begin with, this mission was just a job for me and from a job, it turned into a cause and... and from a cause, it became a need for me and now I'm beginning to fall in love with my need You could even say that love has come to be my need now Sounds like a riddle! Love, need...? You needn't Pick your brain to understand that at all abhimanyu, I want to tell you about HardeeP HardeeP...? Now who's HardeeP? I met HardeeP after you went to Prison Oh yes, I know all that! Just because I teased you... you're trying to Provoke me! No, abhimanyu. This is the truth To begin with... ...I didn't like HardeeP hovering around me... being close to me But I started liking it gradually. - What rubbish are you talking? We then started seeing each other. - During the day, or night? There was nothing like day or night between us HardeeP's sPell had worked on me... to the extent that we couldn't live without each other... ...even for a moment and one day... - One day? What? And one day, she got married and she went away to London, with her Sikh husband! I don't want to Play this game! - Oh, sit down! She's Pulling my leg! - So all right. You did it, too I have nothing to say about myself But I do want to say what I haven't been able to tell you till now I was a kid who carried tea cuPs around Then this man Picked me uP from the streets and took me to his office and from his office, he took me to his house He loved me more than he loved his own son I could never bring myself about to tell him... ...that I loved him... ...I loved him so very dearly Baba, if you can hear me now and if you are watching me... I want to tell you how I feel I love you dad. I love you so much. Why're you crying? Why? Life's for once... to tension say good-bye Hey bro... he's talking my lingo! Why're you crying? Why? Life's for once... to tension say good-bye Why're you crying? Why? Life's for once... to tension say good-bye Else, you'll droP dead. You'll achieve nothing You'll be left thirsting Why're you crying? Why? Life's for once... to tension say good-bye With you today, away from you tomorrow... not every desire is fulfilled When, sweetheart, will our love-story be comPleted? Love is not the only thing on my mind. I have other woes But nothing in the world is greater than love, my love Never mind, let him be... let go Why're you crying? Why? Life's for once... to tension say good-bye Why're you crying? Why? Life's for once... to tension say good-bye Else, you'll droP dead. You'll achieve nothing You'll be left thirsting Why're you crying? Why? Life's for once... to tension say good-bye Baba-saheb. We've waited 3 weeks for our money. How much more time will it take? Times are changing, my friend. Power is Passing into new hands The Police of almost every nation is on a red-alert If the anti-terrorism guys join the war... our business will become even more difficult But how will our Project get any further without the money? You will soon have the money. Today is the 15th My money is being transferred from India to Paris it'll then be transferred here. You'll have the money by the 20th of this month all right. You were suPPosed to tell me something about a hotel...? Oh yes, I've decided to have a casino at the hotel I know it was not Part of our Plans earlier But having a casino will increase our Profits manifold Go! - Look at the das Brother's hotel... ...they make a new hotel every year. But then, even one hotel... - It is a traP, get out! PeoPle want to earn so much money! UP stairs! Go! None of them must get away alive! He dares to clash with bro...? Come on. Priya. I've run out of ammunition! One droPs dead and two others take his Place! We're surrounded! I can't see any way of escaPe! If I die, I'm going to take 20 of them with me! An escaPe is imPossible, abhimanyu! Oh my god! They are everywhere. We need more guns! More ammo! Karan, oPen that door. - What? OPen that door! We're going to die... ...we're all going to die today We're going to die... we're going to die, arjun! We're going to die... we're going to die, arjun! We're going to die... we're going to die, arjun! Nobody's going to die. Not this time We're going to die, arjun! We're going to die, arjun! Arjun. Karan. Arjun. Abhimanyu. - Arjun. Arjun. Hey arjun... wake uP! Hey arjun... Look at me! Wake uP, I say! Arjun! Wake uP! Look at me, arjun! You said you'd take care of me, right? So take care of me now! Wake uP... wake uP! Look at me! Talk to me! Arjun... get uP! Wake uP! He laid down his own life to save your lives It's ages since I saw someone Put uP such a sPirited fight Very imPressive For the first time, it seemed as if I were Putting a live man to death Else, most of them are dead even before I kill them So take advantage of the sacrifice your friend has made... and return to India with your male and female monkeys You could say that Baba has forgiven you and yes, before I leave... ...l'll give you the oPPortunity to be a good friend Give your friend a decent funeral. Do your duty towards your mate. Abhimanyu, here you are. It's your balance Payment You can take Sonia to any Part of the world... ...and start a new life together and Baba...? What haPPens of him? In my attemPt to catch Baba, I have already lost arjun Making you Part of this mission was the biggest mistake I made To have my way, I have no right to endanger your lives You think this is a game? PaPa died and you Planned a mission to nab Baba and you're ending the mission because a friend is dead? The mission has not ended. Only you are being isolated from the mission I alone will nab Baba Sikander and I...? Am I exPected to turn effeminate and watch the fun? Arjun wasn't only your friend! He was a friend to all of us! Baba killed him by deceit! And we will avenge his death! I don't want any arguments! It was I who enlisted you for this mission and I can dismiss you anytime I want to... ...by Paying you the rest of the money I get it... I get it now You're throwing your weight around because of the money, aren't you? You think I'm a slave to this money, right? That's the end of my slavery! Let me see how you stoP me now! No one's going to be with me. And that is final, do you understand. Why're you holding yourself resPonsible for arjun's death? You were right the day you advised your father... against bowing to Baba Sikander. You were right even when... you chose us all for this mission But you're using your heart now. Not your brains I want to build a secure house for children like my daughter We've declared that we will catch Baba Sikander We've declared a war against him I'd like to go on a vacation with ayesha for a month arjun is not dead. He has only been martyred in this war arjun laid down his life so that... ...we could live and accomPlish this mission Get uP... wake uP! We're just an arm's distance away from Baba Sikander Give your friend a decent funeral. Do your duty towards your friend. This is no time to sPurn friends. It's time to strengthen the bonds Saarbrocken! Baba's here right now! Saarbrocken...? - Right. That's where Baba's hotel is But he won't stay there for more than a couPle of hours another reason why he's in Saarbrocken. To catch a flight at the airPort Once Baba leaves Germany... we'll have to start tracing him all over again Which means we must do something and hold Baba back in Germany Not in Germany. In France. - Which means...? We can't have a better oPPortunity to corner Baba Saarbrocken is on the border of France and Germany We have no extradition treaty with Germany. But we have one with France If he crosses over the border of France before he reaches the airPort... the French authorities can give us some helP Once he reaches France, it's as good as being in India The maP shows a small bridge near Saarbrocken which connects to France It's not the main road, it's a forest basically and it's Perfect for our PurPose. - But why would he go to France? He won't. We'll comPel him to There is an accident You cannot go from this road. What's uP? - An accident has taken Place We'll have to take another route. - All right, take the other route Thank you. This is for you. This Money for your costumes. And this is for you cars, and you guys better clear uP... ...and disaPPear, before the real coPs get you. Priya come in. - Yes Karan. Baba's headed towards you. Everything ready? Yes, everything's ready I'm waiting for Baba this side of the border, with the French Police StoP the car They've stoPPed before the border! - What? Why've you stoPPed here, bro? The highway is uP ahead This road leads not to the highway. It leads to India What're you saying, bro...? - The French border's right ahead This boy has turned out to be made of stronger stuff than I imagined He's not willing to concede defeat even after his friend's death Who are you talking about? - Karan Shah He hasn't returned. He's still dreaming of taking me back to India Turn the cars around They're turning the cars around. - Oh God! They're heading toward you, Karan! Plan B... Quick! Stay in there, bro! We'll handle them! We've somehow got to get brother out of here! Munna! Munna's been shot! Don't sPare the bastards! We're running out of slugs, Sameer! Subhash. - Aftab-bhai! Sameer... helP! Difficult to get out of here! All the cars have been blown uP! You've killed my brother Sameer! It's all over, bro! It's all over! Sameer... in front of my eyes! And I could do nothing about it! But don't let that haPPen to me! Save me, bro... Save me! I don't want to return to India! The coPs there... the jails... I'll die, brother! Save me, brother! Save me! Save me! Don't worry, kid I've given you the lifestyle of EmPerors I won't let you die a dog's death The Path that lies ahead... ...is meant only for Baba Only Baba can walk on it Baba. Hold it, abhimanyu! - No one's going to stoP me! StoP it, I say! - He has killed arjun! I'm not sParing him! - I said stoP it! I want revenge for arjun's death too. It isn't only you But it isn't by beheading him. It's by making him bow his head! Fear... dread... terror For 20 years, he has been terrorising us and ruling over us! DesPite living thousands of miles away from us... he struck Panic in our hearts I want to kill him with his own weaPons I want to kill the fear he struck in our hearts... so that he could lead a life of luxury! Once the fear is finished, Baba's finished aaj TaK. In view of the witnesses and testimony... the court has concluded that Baba Sikander has committed... several crimes against this country Under the Indian Penal code section 302. The court has just one verdict for the offender and that is a death-sentence Long live Karan Shah! Long live Karan Shah! Long live Karan Shah! Long live Karan Shah! Let's go home, brother just as Kantilal Shah had adoPted Karan several years ago... Karan and Priya have now adoPted arjun's daughter ayesha abhimanyu and Sonia live in Venice To fulfill the dream of the five-man army and the one commander On december 20, 2004, at 6 a.m. Baba Sikander was hanged till death The fear was finished. Baba was finished.
