 

                        Woman: it wasn't so long ago-- March 1939. Poland had always seemed a faraway country. Yet, as the train ran across her picturesque countryside, I thought of England-- My home. We were worried about war, But they told us there would be peace in our time. Little did we know how soon that peace would end And how important Poland was to become In our time. "In the 16th century, Poland was a vast empire "Extending from the baltic sea to the crimea. "In fact, one of the great forces in polish life "Is their memory of a glorious past. "For centuries, they successfully fought with the germans "And won a high reputation as fighters Among the peoples of middle Europe." Oh, ducky, I don't care whether the poles are good fighters or not. At my age, I don't care what they're good at. I simply want to know that I'm not being cheated when I'm buying their antiques. But we should know something of the history Of the country, don't you think? Oh, I suppose so. Go on. Yes, Mrs. Bromley. Oh, caramel. Bad for the bridgework. Here. Your teeth are good, ducky. No, thank you. Oh. "But its grandeur rapidly decayed. "Its undoing was its proud and extravagant aristocracy. "Their quarrels wiped Poland from the map in 1795, "At which time it was partitioned Among Germany, austria, and russia." Ah! Marshmallow. Hmm. I'm listening. Its undoing was its aristocracy. It was almost mine, too. First deal I ever made in the antique business Was when I married Noel Bromley. He fell for another woman and I turned him over at a profit. Heh heh heh! "Not till 1919, "At the treaty of Versailles, Was Poland's national independence restored." Oh, ducky, it's coming out of my ears. Read it yourself. You're good at figures. Means nothing to me unless they're in pound sterling. Well, time for a little shuteye. Ring for the porter, ducky. Yes, Mrs. Bromley. [Train whistle blows] [Steam hissing] [Brakes screeching] What's this? Why did you stop it? Bromley: conductor! Conductor! I thought this was an express. Why are we stopping? I am sorry, madame. Official orders. We are waiting for a very important party. Well, I have an appointment in Warsaw At 10:30 tomorrow morning, And that's important, too. How long are we going to be here? I don't know. I hope not for long. Well, I don't call it very diplomatic To hold up two british subjects. This train may not be limited, but my time is. [Vehicle approaching] [Brakes screech] They've been on a boar hunt. Nasty-Looking creatures. Aren't they terribly dangerous? It is not the boars Poland fears, madame. It is the hunters. [Men talking all at once] Well, gentlemen... I am sorry my train leaves before yours, But I don't think you have long to wait. Only a few minutes. The express for berlin is due at 10:15. Thank you, Count. You have been a very excellent host. Yes, indeed. I only regret marshal goering is not with us. So do I. Count: tell him we missed him. I hope he will be with us on the next hunt. Man: you will be welcome. And don't forget to tell his excellency That Poland is ready to cooperate at any plans... For peace. [Men talking all at once] Good-Bye. It has been a pleasure. Man: good-Bye, Count. Good-Bye. Good-Bye. Good-Bye... All aboard! All aboard! A rare piece for your aristocratic english customers-- A polish antique of the 16th century. It belonged to the...of poznan-- A governor, that is. Such golden horseshoes he purposely fixed loose So they should fall off, and the lucky finder Would know a distinguished visitor was in the vicinity. My dear friend, it's one thing to find it. You're asking me to buy it. You, too, you will be picking it up-- For only 5,000 zloty. How much is that, ducky? 200, Mrs. Bromley. Hmm. Well, it might make a paperweight. I'll pay 150. 150 pounds for the horseshoe Of the... of poznan, Who, in 1591-- I am not buying the history Of your country, colleague, just a horseshoe. Make it 175. It will bring you luck. 150-- Take it, take it. Anything else, ducky? A 15th-Century sword-- Golden at the guard. Ah! The duke of mazowieckI's sword! It has been handed down traditionally From father to son For over 500 years-- A treasure! The mazowieckis would never have parted with it If young mazowiecki-- That is, the old mazowiecki, now-- Just forget about those mazowieckis and subtract them from the price. Mrs. Bromley, I am a businessman only second. I am a pole first. The duke of mazowieckI's sword was not absent When we poles smashed the germans at grunwald in 1410! It will make a lamp. How much? For you, Mrs. Bromley, Only 1,200 zlotys! List price--1,000. My mistake. 1,000. 950? 900, I'll take it. Take it. Ducky, is there anything else? Don't forget the miniatures, Mrs. Bromley. Oh! Oh, yes! The miniatures. What about the miniatures? Those are not on display. Such treasures are only for a connoisseur like you, Mrs. Bromley. Now, if you'll please follow me upstairs. Man: during the reign of king stefan battori, There lived, in the old city of lublin, a famous-- Uh, please, Would you mind if your secretary stayed downstairs? The store needs watching. She has a very good eye. Uh, look around, ducky. You might find something else worthwhile. If I get too much history, you can bring that sword up. Heh heh heh! I can assure you, Mrs. Bromley... [Man's voice fades] [Knocking] [Inaudible] [Inaudible] My dear girl, I was trying to suggest that I want to see The musical watch in your window. Oh. Well, but you see, i-- It is for sale, isn't it? Well, yes. Yes, I think so. In that case, you think i might even listen to it? Well, but... Yes. Yes, of course. Thank you. No, no. Not this one. The large one-- The musical watch. Thank you. Is this the only one you have? Well, you see, i really don't know. You do sell antiques, don't you? Oh, yes. Uh, no. You see, I'm not working here. I know you think I do, but I don't. No, I'm just here with my employer-- Mrs. Bromley. We're from England. She's a well-Known decorator, And, well, we're buying antiques ourselves. Oh, I'm so sorry. Please forgive me. I should have known better. No, don't apologize. It's quite all right. It's very generous of you not to mind. No, no. Not at all. Thank you. [Watch playing music] Charming. Chopin. From his concerto-- Opus 21. Uh, Chopin, yes, But I think it's opus 11. My dear lady, The concerto in f minor is opus 21. Only I'm afraid it's the concerto in e minor. I really don't like to insist, But Chopin is our great polish composer and patriot. After all, I should know the music of my country. Yes, I'm very sorry. I'm sure you do. That's quite all right. Only I think you have them just a little mixed. You see, the one you're thinking of goes... [Off-Key] da da da Oh, I'm sorry. da da da dee Only I can't carry a tune. I never could. Oh, just a moment and I'll show you. [Playing concerto in f minor] There's your f minor. Now, here's the e minor. [Playing concerto in e minor] Now, there's the musical watch. You certainly prove your point eloquently. Won't you go on? Please. All right. [Resumes playing] You play beautifully. Thank you. [Music stops] The proprietor is upstairs with Mrs. Bromley. He'll be down to help you with the watch in just a moment. How do you know so much about Chopin? Well...my father was a piano teacher. Chopin was our favorite composer. I see. Uh, the watch... I thought of it as a present for my mother. It's her saint's day. Do you think she'd like it? Oh, yes. I'm sure she would. Well, that is, I would if I were she. Hmm. Have you been in Warsaw long? Uh, no. We just arrived. Of course, I don't know your mother's tastes. Oh, yes. Mama. Oh, mama is a romantic. She loves sunsets, the ballet. Of course, her favorite is les sylphides. Oh, les sylphides? Mmm. Yes, I like it very much, too. Oh, do you? Yes. There's a performance tonight. We are taking her. You should see it, too, while you are here. Well, I'm afraid we won't have very much time. Are you leaving that soon? Yes, in just a few days. Oh, too bad. You see, i thought, perhaps-- Bromley: I don't see why you call those miniatures. Oh, ducky, did you find anything interesting? Well, uh... Bromley: oh, of course. Good morning, Sir. A thousand apologies. I didn't know you were waiting. How can I serve you today, sir? I am taking this watch. Ah, a priceless piece! But for you, i shall make a price. Charge it to my account and send it to my mother. She's at my uncle's house. A privilege to serve you, Sir. Well... Hope you enjoy your visit. Thank you. Excuse me. Good day. Good day. Opus 11? Yes. [Door opens] Opus 11? Bromley: who is he? Well, I don't know, Mrs. Bromley. You see, he just came-- A most distinguished patron. Count Stephen Orvid-- Nephew of Count Pavel Orvid-- One of our wealthiest aristocrats. This young nobleman is heir To 20,000 acres in pomerania, Vast tracts of lumber land in the bialowieza forest-- Any antiques? Huh? The ballet. Oh, Mrs. Bromley, We can't leave the country of Chopin Without once going to the ballet. Whose country did you say this is? [Watch playing] [People talking] Good evening. Woman: good evening. And my favorite ballet. It reminds me of my first season in Warsaw. Oh. Pavel, how times have changed. But you haven't, Zofya, except you become lovelier. Zofya: oh... Man: oh, Count Orvid! Good evening. Good evening, Jarsky. I was hoping to see you here. Politics-- Even at the ballet? I am sorry, Count, but unfortunately, Affairs in Europe will not wait our pleasure. Quite right. Oh! Baron Jarsky, Count Stephen Orvid--My s- I almost said "my son," but that's a wish And not a fact. My nephew. It's a privilege to know you, Count. Baron. Your uncle and I are having difficulties Trying to keep Poland out of a war That would take away our fine young men. If we have to fight, we are ready. Hmm, a nephew to be proud of, Count. Yes, indeed. Stephen, your mother and sister are waiting. I'll join you later. Baron? Count. Excuse me. [Orchestra tuning instruments] Your program, mama. Oh, thank you, darling. You see we are not late, Thanks to my new watch. Oh, I love it, Stephen. It plays the same tune as my heart, only it keeps better time. I don't see why we had to rush through dinner. I have a heartburn. Oh, uh, perhaps if I ate a chocolate. Jenny, did you hear me? Oh, yes. I'm so sorry, Mrs. Bromley. Your chocolates. Uh, mama, may I borrow your glasses? Yes, darling. Thank you. Why, ducky, what are you doing? Oh, I was just nodding to someone, Mrs. Bromley. Bromley: oh. Heh heh heh. Opus 11. Man: your program, Sir. Pavel: thank you. Ah, those steps. Every year, there seem to be more of them. [Conductor tapping baton] Here, mama. Oh, thank you, darling. [Music begins] [Different musical piece playing] [Music ends] It was heavenly, wasn't it? Intermission, ducky-- That's the best part. Come on. Ah, les sylphides! Zofya: I could see it a hundred times! Shall we go to the bar? Oh, no, darling. You take your sister with you. Janina, go with your brother. Janika? Don't worry, Stephen. I won't intrude. Oh, please, Janika! Uncle? Stephen, when i was a young man, I came for the ballerinas. Later on, I came for the music. Now, i come to sit. Rush to your temptation, my boy. I couldn't even manage the steps. [Giggling] Well, excuse me. Thank you. Stephen: how do you do? How do you do? We saw you in the box. Enjoying the ballet? Delightful ballet! Simply delightful. Pure, sugar-Coated culture. Uh...the watch. Does your mother like it? She adores it. I saw her with you. She looks so young and lovely. Thank you. If I may return the compliment for her, I'm sure she'd say the same of you. Bromley: yes, you do look well tonight, ducky. Of course, you'd have looked better if you'd worn my foxes. Silver foxes, Count-- A token of appreciation from dear lady wormsey. Of course, you know the wormseys, Count-- Wormsey hall, wormsey-On-Hill? No, I haven't had the pleasure. I decorated their London house. It was a sensation. Got me more jobs than anything I've ever done. Sounds charming. Yes. Have you seen much of Warsaw? No, only the antique shops. [Buzzer sounding] I think we'd better start back, Mrs. Bromley. Uh, yes. It was so nice having this little chat with you, Count. Oh, by the way, If your family or friends have anything to sell-- Oh! Not that i mean you're broke-- But just stuff you're tired of looking at, I'll pay just as good a price as anyone. Oh, here. Here's my card. You can call me at the hotel europa. We'll be there until wednesday. Uh, come along, ducky. It's been so nice, Count Orvid. Pity you aren't staying longer. Yes, it is. I don't like to ask on such short acquaintance, But there's so little time. Will you have supper with me after the ballet? Well, I'd like to very much, but... I'm afraid I can't. You have another engagement? No, but I still have to make an inventory of today's purchases. I wanted to show you Warsaw. At night? Perfect time. Warsaw never sleeps. It's the paris of the north. Oh. It is? Do come. Uh, w-Well, i-- I'll wait in the lobby of your hotel. Well, yes, but... [Music begins] Ducky! Forgive me. I heard Mrs., uh--Uh, call you that. I don't know your name, and I should, you know. Oh. Uh, Whittredge. Jennifer. Which comes first? Jennifer. Jennifer. Heh. [Speaking polish] [Speaking polish] [Waltz playing] Woman: good evening, Count. Good evening, erika. Thank you. Man: ah! Good evening, Count Orvid. Good evening, roman. Good evening, my lady. Welcome to Warsaw. We are delighted to have you here. Such loveliness we poles greatly appreciate, Especially Count Orvid. He always brings-- That's all right, roman. Ahem. Yes, Sir. This way, please. Everything is arranged just as you ordered it. [Speaking polish] Stephen: very good, roman. My lady? I know I can rely on you. Always, sir, always. Thank you. And I make sure that the food is hot, Both: and the champagne cold. Of course. Well? Good evening, Stephen. Good evening, uh... Friend of the family. I like this place. What is it called? Polo strogon, But we call it "the stables." The stables? It's a favorite of the cavalry officers. We always come here. Oh. You're in the cavalry. Yes--A reserve officer. I've retired from active operations... That is, of a military nature. [Both chuckle] Will you smoke? Well... Yes, I think I will. Thank you. Do you prefer civilian life? Well, it has its advantages... Especially tonight. I see. You have strange eyes-- Very lovely. But the cavalry-- I thought that was something that went out With the invention of the automobile. Hardly. They're blue, aren't they? Gray. Would they be effective? Quite. N-No, i meant the cavalry. Would it be effective against, well, Modern tanks and guns? Hmm? Uh...what's that? The cavalry. Oh, the cavalry. Well, you see, my dear, when it rains in Poland, Our dirt roads become a sea of mud. Enemy tanks would bog down. Our cavalry would ride rings around them. Oh, I see. Yes. But...suppose it doesn't rain? Well, uh... Roses? Then there would be no flowers. Uh, marisha? Marisha: good evening, Count Orvid. Good evening, marisha. Roses? No, no. Let me see. Uh... Violets, I think. Oh. Thank you very much. Yes, violets. Definitely. Mmm. Thank you, marisha. They're so lovely. Now your eyes have gone the color of the violets. Well... What do you do now? You mean after giving you the flowers? No, I... now that you've retired from active service. Oh. Well, I live on a family estate. We have a few hundred acres-- Farmland, mostly. Oh. You're a farmer. Well, i--I don't know much about that part of it. I have my horses there. You have lovely hands. No nail polish. I like that. Thank you. [Song ends, applause] Well...now I know you're interested In horses and music. What else? [New waltz begins] Dancing with you. La lechka. I beg your pardon? La lechka. It means "little doll." Oh. Oh, I do love this place. It's so gay here. [Piano playing slow tune] [Slurred] you know something, Stephen, I have a confession to make. If someone had told me a week ago in England That I'd be sitting here in Poland, Having dinner with a real Count In the stables, [Giggles] I would've laughed. You know what I mean? Stephen: mmm. It's fate. That's what it is. I've always been a great believer in fate. Haven't you? Mmm. I suppose you must think that I go out a great deal. I really don't. No. People confuse me so. Don't you agree that people can be terribly confusing? Yes, very...sometimes. Eh, but go on, Tell me more about yourself. Have you any friends-- I mean, any one particular friend? I know what you mean. Yes. There was a young gentleman At cambridge that I rather liked. He took me out once. No, twice. But then suddenly he stopped calling, And I never heard from him again. Strange, wasn't it? Mmm. Oh, I love this tune-- Makes me feel all floaty. Can we dance again? It's getting rather late--3:30. Don't you have something to do for Mrs. Bromley? Oh, I'll make it up to her tomorrow. Ha ha! I mean, today... And next week and next year. Come along, Stephen. We're going to dance. I really ought to be taking you home, you know? Oh, no, Stephen. No, let's stay until they push us out, shall we? Oh, my dear! I'm so sorry. Ohh, it's been such a wonderful evening, Just as if i were in a dream... Only I'm not sleepy. [Giggles] no, I'm wide awake. Oh, Stephen, you dance divinely. [Agitated] uh, my dear, please, Uh, just a moment. Hmmm? It's time you did go home, you know? Oh, what's the matter, Stephen? Well, uh, it's getting rather late, And you are in no condition, really, come! Hold on here, will you, please? Jenny: i don't understand. It isn't closing time, yet, or is it? You've got to get up early. Here. Even if you have forgotten, I haven't. Ohh... I-I'm afraid I've been behaving rather badly. I didn't realize. I'm so sorry. No, no, you-- You don't understand! When I saw you at the ballet, you... Well, you looked very attractive. Well, I thought of spending a few hours with you-- Dancing, a few drinks. I didn't realize until you were here That you were more than.. Well, you know what I mean. I've changed my mind. You're very lovely. Can you forgive me? Oh, there's-- There's nothing to forgive. I can, I can quite see that you would Think what you did. Well... I suppose we won't be seeing each other again. No, i--I suppose not. No. Of course, I promised to show you the city. Oh, please don't bother. I've read quite a lot about it. It isn't quite the same as seeing it. No, it isn't. Exactly! You will have to see it! Oh, please, really I'd rather you wouldn't. No, no! I made a promise. I keep my word. Thank you. Now if you will take me home, please. This pond was created for the royal swans. Swans are so beautiful and stately, aren't they? As a matter of fact, king stanislav preferred them To his aristocratic courtiers. He said, "my swans are no less intelligent, "Have better deportment, And what's more, they can lay eggs." [Laughs] I like the way you laugh. That little brown one over there Reminds me of a pet duck i had once called gus. Come on, gus. Come on, little fellow. Oh, Stephen, It's so nice here. Well, uh, shall we go? There's much more to see. All right. Bye, gus. This part was especially created for such Royal amusements as escadrilles, art... Jenny, voice-Over: we saw the palaces of Poland's kings And the statues of her heroes-- Madame curie, paderewski, and many others. And we walked in the oldest section of the city That goes back to medieval times And is rich with the history Of the people's struggle for freedom. We saved the statue of Chopin for the last-- Chopin, whose music, Was the beating heart of his country. When Chopin left Poland, His friends gave him a silver cup Filled with polish soil. He kept it to the end of his life. When he died, The soil was scattered over his grave. It is as if his music were cast in bronze. Oh, Stephen, It's been such a wonderful evening. When shall i see you again? Well, we're leaving tomorrow. [Surprised] tomorrow? I thought you weren't going Until the end of the week. Mrs. Bromley decided to leave earlier. Tomorrow... Could I see you in the morning? I'm afraid I'll be busy packing, Stephen. Please, try. I must see you. Please. Where are we going, Stephen? You drive? No, I don't. Would you like to try? Come on! All right. That's right. Now be careful, My life is in your hands. I like the polish countryside. If you really want a good view, There's a hill over there, The only one for miles around. Shall we stop? Yes, please. Jenny: thank you. Oh!, it's beautiful! It reminds me a little of England. Stephen, you've given me The most wonderful week I've ever known. I'll never forget it. Neither will i, Jenny. I'm glad you saved this for our last day. They're breaking the soil now. Soon, they'll be planting. Fresh soil... Feel it, Jenny. It's cool. Jenny... I hate to think you won't be here for the harvest. Will you stay? Stay? I want you to marry me. Will you, Jenny? Stephen, I... Say you will. Ohhh... I thought I was never going to see you again. La lechka, my la lechka. Oh, Stephen, I do love you. [Thunder] It's going to rain. Yes! We better hurry. Mrs. Bromley will be wondering what's happening to me. We don't worry about Mrs. Bromley anymore. I'm going to take you to my home. What, Stephen? It's only a few minutes away. I want you to meet my family. Oh, but I can't! Look at the way I'm dressed. What will they think of me? They're expecting us. Oh, Stephen, couldn't we make it some other time? I do look so awful. Oh, you look wonderful! Oh, Stephen, wait! You won't tell them about us today, will you? Why not? Well, maybe if they got to know me A little bit better, they wouldn't mind. Oh, silly darling! They'll love you as much as I do. [Thunder] Of course, they're still in the dining room. Spend their lives there. I'll tell them we are here. Stephen! Yes? Nothing. You're nervous, aren't you? A little. Don't be. Stephen. Hello, Janika. Mother, it's Stephen. Stephen! Mama. Ohh! What a day you've chosen to come! I'm sure heaven is going to punish you for deserting me this past week. I'm sorry we are late, mama. Who is this? The young lady you told us about? Yes, mama. I want you to meet Miss Whittredge. You are welcome here. Thank you, Countess. We waited for lunch as long as possible, But I have kept it warm for you. Thank you, mama. We had a late breakfast. Well, we'll have coffee together. You and Janina and-- Stephen! You forgot to introduce your sister. Oh, Janika, I'm so sorry! Please forgive me. Uh, Jennifer, I want you to meet Janina. I'm so happy to know you. Thank you. Shall we sit down? Over here, Jenny. Thank you. Where's uncle Leopold? Oh, where would he be, but with the radio? He's upset again. Something about Germany and Czechoslovakia. Haven't we met before, Miss Whittredge? Well, we didn't exactly meet, But I saw you at the-- Ahh, here's the coffee. Ah! Now, careful, careful. Such cups are not even to be bought anymore! Well... Now tell me where you two met-- Where and at whose home? Jenny: well, it-- It wasn't a-- It was in an antique shop. Did you say shop? Yes, but, uh, We didn't really meet until later that evening. Oh, at a party! It would be. My son loves parties just as I do. It wasn't exactly a party-- It was a musical evening. Everybody was there. Great aunt jadwiga, mayor strazinsky, And, uh, Jennifer. And Jennifer? Yes. Janina: have you forgotten that I was there, too, Stephen? Mama: you, Janina? Where? The ballet. You were there, too, mother. Remember? Perhaps it was a musical evening, Stephen, But I should hardly say that it was music You carried away with you. [Door opening] If you drink, you die. If you don't drink, you die anyway. So, it's better to drink. Uncle Leopold... Oh, Stephen, you should drink, too. We all should get drunk. At least we will have an excuse For doing nothing. Herr hitler's troops are massed on the border Of what remains of Czechoslovakia, And the world digs its head deeper into the sand. Uncle Leopold, I want you to meet Miss Whittredge. How do you do? I tell you, it's Czechoslovakia today, Hungary tomorrow, and the day after, Herr hitler will finish what is left in this bottle. Ah! It is your charming friend from England. My mother's brother-- Baron baruta. How do you do? How do you do? Dear lady, forgive my informal attire. Before my family apologizes for me, I'll apologize for myself. I started out as a great oak, Now, I'm a mere stump. Life has chopped me down. My brother was a poet in his youth. And you were a poem, zosinka. My sister is lucky. A poem lives as long as it is cherished, But a poet lives Only as long as he cherishes life, And that's not easy now in time or country. [Radio playing in background] How it is possible for the world To go on day after day-- Mama: Leopold, please! You or the radio, not both. See, I'm a tree stump that everyone sits on. Janina: but uncle Leopold, We've been listening to it all morning. Very well, I'll turn it off, But that won't save you. You hate the radio for the same reason You don't like listening to me-- Because we both bring the world too close. Excuse me, my dear lady, I'll be right back. You mustn't take uncle Leopold too seriously. He doesn't mean half he says. Oh, i--I think he's very interesting. Well, Miss Whittredge, What good fortune brings you to Poland? She's here on a visit, mama. Oh. Well, it isn't exactly a visit. You see, we're here on business. Business? Yes. A kind of shopping tour, mama, Uh, buying antiques. Really? Your house must be full of treasures. Oh, I'm afraid you misunderstand. I'm not buying them for myself. In fact, I'm not even buying them. It's Mrs. Bromley. She's an antique dealer in London. I work for her. Oh, you work for her? Well, it isn't quite that, mama. Uh, she's kind of a companion. Mama: and your family... Where are they? Well, my parents aren't living. Her father was a well-Known composer. Mama: oh. Oh, I'm afraid Stephen exaggerates. He did compose one or two little things. He was really a piano teacher. You're very modest, Miss Whittredge. Yes, isn't she? Modest? And, of course, Jenny plays beautifully. Don't you want to play for us, Jenny? Mama loves Chopin. Well, Stephen, really, i-- Perhaps Miss Whittredge would rather talk? Well, anything you wish. Mama: uh, no. Chopin, please? I love Chopin. [Begins playing] Isn't she a wonderful person, mama? So real and honest. She plays well. Mama, I've asked her to marry me. Stephen: mama! Janina: are you all right? Mama: just for a moment i-- I felt faint. Oh, oh, my precious cup. Don't worry, mama, it can be repaired. Mama: it's been in the family so long. I remember my mother drinking out of it. You must forgive such sentimentality over a cup. But you are too young to understand. You come from too far. You are too different from us. But you see, one loses so many things in life. What remains becomes all the more precious. All mothers are like that, Jenny. They don't think their sons are ever grown up enough to marry. Marry? Yes, Jenny and I are going to be married. Have you told uncle Pavel about this? No, not yet. Janina: but you will? Of course. Mama: Stephen, Will you help me, please? I think I'll go and lie down. You'll excuse me, won't you? Countess Orvid... I'm sorry. I know why my son loves you. You are young and lovely. But I was brought up to live by a certain pattern. And when that pattern breaks, Like that cup, It frightens me. Leopold: excuse me. My dear, I think i know how you feel, But you mustn't judge us too harshly. Oh, I'm not. Really, I'm not. I-It's just that... Well, I feel a little lost. I understand. But it isn't you who is lost. You've only wandered into a lost world-- A world where dinosaurs still exist. But I'm curious about you and Stephen. It is strange that he should fall in love With a girl like you. You are alive, A breath of fresh air in this musty museum. How did he sense that he needed you? I thought it was I who needed Stephen. You'll find out differently. I'm sorry, Jenny. Everything is all right now. Shall we go? We'll stop at uncle Pavel's on our way back. Oh, Stephen, Do we have to see someone else? Darling, he's the head of the family. I'd like you to meet him. Leopold: my dear girl, you must not Miss him. The greatest dinosaur of them all-- My esteemed brother-In-Law. He's a man who's got his feet in this century And his head in the last. Uncle Leopold doesn't quite approve of uncle Pavel. Well, that's one way of putting it. But, Stephen, stick to your guns, And one day, Through this young lady's eyes, You may see the light about many things. I'll stick, uncle. Come on, Jenny. I look forward to your return. Thank you. You've been very kind. Oh, i--Uh... Stephen, I like your Miss Whittredge. So do I. Stephen, faintly: I'm trying to tell you that I'm in love with her. Man: that's a very common affliction, my boy. [Fading] for every ailment, there's a... You know how i was living. I had everything, and I had nothing-- Nothing that really mattered. You were the one who always wanted me to settle down. Settle down, yes, but with the right girl. This is the right girl! Stephen, did you come here to ask my consent, Or to announce your decision? I'd hoped you'd give your consent. And if I don't? Well... An embarrassing question, I see. Bring the girl in. [Telephone buzzes] Hello. Bring her in. I want to talk to her. [On telephone] yes, this is Count Orvid. No. If France and England wish to make a move, That's their business. We have a non-Aggression pact with Germany, And we intend to keep it. As for the Soviet Union, I think it inadvisable to carry on any conversation With the soviet ambassador at this time. It might be misconstrued by our governments. I'm not interested in the protests of the polish people. They do not know what is best for them. Well, if the students at the university continue to riot, Call out the police. They're hotheaded fools, and they must be stopped! Good-Bye. If anyone else calls, I'm not here. Tell them i am on a boar hunt. Come in. Uncle Pavel, this is Jennifer Whittredge. Miss Whittredge. How do you do? Stephen, get a chair for Miss Whittredge. Miss Whittredge, What I have to say to you may sound somewhat strange, Even a little harsh. But believe me, I mean it only for your good And for Stephen's. Yes. I love my nephew as if he were my son, But he's inclined to be, Shall I say... Impractical-- Impractical in the sense of allowing an emotion To obscure certain considerations That affect you, quite as much as himself. I don't think I quite understand what you mean. I shall try to be very explicit. Please, uncle, do we have to? Stephen, please, until I have finished. You are english, i believe? Yes. You also have a class, which we term aristocratic. You must be aware that its members Not only enjoy privileges, But also accept certain limitations Particularly in the matter of marriage. I think i understand that. But, uncle, it's something in the past. It's different today! Our tradition is the faith we live by. It's our duty to preserve, Not to destroy. I can see that you are much more realistic than my nephew. I'll have to rely upon you To decide what is best for both of you. Count Orvid, all I know is that I love Stephen. Naturally, I want what is best for him. I'm sure you do. That's why I'm taking the trouble To acquaint you with the consequences That your marriage would inevitably bring. Social ostracism? Well, perhaps you can adjust yourselves to that, But then there is the matter of Stephen's career. I had hoped, eventually, to find him a place In one of the ministries of our government. I don't care about the ministries! I can do something else. Yes? What, Stephen? Well, I... Don't know exactly. Perhaps I could manage the estate? The Orvid estate hasn't paid for 20 years. I know. I make up the deficits. However, Stephen, money isn't the real concern. I would not cut you off and add to your embarrassments. In fact, I would feel obligated to increase your allowance To take care of your wife. That's very generous of you, uncle. That is, perhaps, the one compensation I can offer, Miss Whittredge. If you and Stephen insist on going through with this, And, uh, if you succeed In adapting yourself to our way of life, You would marry into one of Poland's great fortunes, And your child would be its heir. You see? I am not unfair. I am giving you both sides. Well, Stephen, I really must be going now. If you don't mind, uncle... Excuse me. Stephen, will you stay, please? Would you mind waiting in the other room, my dear? Just for a moment. No, not at all. Miss Whittredge... Whatever you do, I wish you every happiness. Thank you. I'll be right out, darling. Well! Do you realize our train leaves in less than an hour? Oh, I'm so sorry, Mrs. Bromley, But I couldn't help it. How could you be so inconsiderate As to force me to pack-- A woman of my age! I mean, my experience. Oh, I don't know what I mean! Mrs. Bromley, I packed everything this morning. That is, all except the overnight bag. Well, I bought some more antiques. What was I supposed to do with you traipsing all over town? Oh! Well, don't stand there just doing nothing! Finish those bags. And hurry, hurry! Oh, here...here are some more things. Here. Do you think you can squeeze those in? Yes, I'll try. Well, if my corset can take it, these bags can. Chaos! Chaos, that's what it is! I was afraid you weren't going to show up at all. I thought you'd done something silly Like going off with that young antique you found. Well, thank goodness you've got too much sense for that. Let me tell you, ducky, if he had gone off On a tangent and wanted to marry you, You'd trip over his family. Why, they'd consider you a common little upstart. Oh, they wouldn't say so to your face. Oh, dear, no. They're too refined for that. But they'd know how to make you feel it, I know. Before you passed their inspection, You'd feel like tuppenny worth of cheese. Express for poznan, berlin, cologne, Liege, brussels, and paris... On track 3! Have you got everything? I think so. You think so? Well, what about the tickets? You took them, Mrs. Bromley. I took them? What would I do with them? Well, I think you put them in your purse. Oh, you make me so nervous, ducky! Be careful with that luggage. I'm not tipping you for your muscular development. Yes, ma'am. Ducky, did you get my candy? Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Bromley, I forgot. You forgot? How can I face A trip like this without candy? Hurry, ducky. Go upstairs and get it. And be sure they're caramels. Oh, ducky, ducky! No, not caramels, no. Marshmallows. Here, you, you... pick these things up. I will, ma'am. Yes, yes. Have you any chocolate marshmallows, please? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Train to paris-- Which track? Train to paris? Yes. Never mind. Jenny! Jenny! Jenny...i got your note. Why did you run away? Why didn't you wait for me? Because there wasn't any need. You know that, Stephen. It wouldn't work out. I just wanted to believe it would. Darling, I know what you've been through today, but try to understand... That's my train. I must go. Jenny, listen! Jenny, wait! Jenny, listen to me! This is crazy, Jenny. You can't go. We love each other, don't we? Oh, you know that. Then nothing else matters. But it does, Stephen. Don't you see? Our lives wouldn't be our own. You're obligated to your family, dependent upon your uncle, And...well, I just haven't the right to ask you to change that. Jenny... i promise you something. I promise that we'll make our own way, Depend on each other and no one else. That is what I want-- What I've always wanted. And you can help me. I, help you? Yes. I need you. I've been waiting for you a long time. When I got to the hotel and you weren't there, It was the first time in my life That something really mattered. Please stay, Jenny. Please! Oh, you don't think that I want to go. Then have faith in me. I know it's right for both of us. Let me prove it to you. Stephen, I...i... Don't say anything. Conductor: all aboard! Ducky! Ducky! What are you doing? Do you realize the train is moving at any moment? Ducky! Ducky... It's leaving! Ducky, hurry, hurry! It's moving! It's-- I'm not going, Mrs. Bromley. You're not going? Have you lost your mind-- Stranding yourself in a foreign country? We're going to be married. Married? But you can't do that! I thought we'd discussed all that in the hotel room. You're making a mistake, ducky. Get on this train at once. We're not leaving this country a moment too soon! I'm sorry, Mrs. Bromley, but I'm staying. At least you can give me the chocolates. Marshmallows? Yes. Thank you for everything! Good-Bye! You take care of her, you... You opus 11! Man, on radio: and now, with the acquisition Of Czechoslovakia and memel, The general consensus is that Europe can look forward To a period of comparative quiet and security. Aah! In fact, It is the opinion in well-Informed circles That hitler's immediate territorial ambitions are satisfied. We may even hope-- Nonsense. "Well-Informed circles"! Ha! Oh, you're here. Have you seen anything of Stephen and his wife? We've been waiting luncheon for half an hour. If you are hungry, eat. You haven't answered my question. No, I haven't seen them. They're probably out for a ride somewhere. They slip out of the house every morning before breakfast And come back late for luncheon With never a word of where they've been or what they've been doing. Why should they tell you every move they make? I realize I am not in their confidence and that you are. What's bothering you now, Janina? Uncle Leopold, if there is something going on in this house, Why shouldn't mother and I know about it? My dear girl, Stephen and Jenny have a right to some privacy. Heaven knows, you give them little enough when they're home. It's she who is always interfering. Did you know she'd taken down aunt jadwiga's portrait? Oh. My compliments to her. Have you ever taken a good look at jadwiga? It's not only that. She's changed the entire room. Well, it's her room, isn't it? You have no right to go there in the first place. And in the second place--Ah, the first place is enough. What's the matter now? I'm sorry, Zofya, but your daughter insists on making like a character in a greek tragedy. Someday you'll see that I have reasons. Now you two are quarreling. What's happened to my house? All I ask is a little peace, and now lately, you-- [Door closes] They're here. You can eat. Mama! Sorry we're late. Forgive us. We really couldn't help it. It's really very naughty of you. It's the third time we've waited for lunch. We used to have your confidence, Stephen. Now you whisper in corners as though you were plotting a revolution. Nonsense. It's nothing of the sort. No, it's just that Stephen didn't want to tell you until he was sure himself. You tell us all about it at lunch. Jenny? After you, philosopher. No, pure in heart first. That's you. [Chuckles] Well, I'm sure you two are planning a lovely surprise. Yes, mama, we've been planning, And I hope it will please you. Good news? Very good. We found a way to make the estate pay, Not only for itself, but also for our living. The idea is to farm scientifically. We're going to have a tractor, a reaper, a threshing machine... We're going to modernize the place completely. Your wife cannot be expected To understand our peasants. You should explain to her That they have always worked with their hands And are quite hardened to it. That isn't the question, Janina. If you want to make the farm pay, we have to modernize. Stephen is right. That's why Poland is in danger today-- Because we still work by hand when others have machines, Because we stick to the cavalry while others build tanks. Leopold, please. No speeches. And what makes you think The peasants are capable Of running these machines? Janina, why shouldn't they be? I'll learn how and teach them myself. First, you have something To learn about the peasants. Well, if it will keep them amused. [Laughs] But now I want to discuss something really important. Grandfather tadeusz, great-Aunt jadwiga, the whole family-- I want them to meet Stephen's bride. We'll give a dinner and ball, a really splendid affair-- Such as this house hasn't seen since your father's time. But, mama-- I know you are busy, darling, But you leave the details to me. I'll bring a string quartet from Warsaw, Wlesky to cater, lanterns on the lawn... Mama, please. We can't afford it. We've got to cut down expenses, live within our means. No more parties. Isn't that for uncle Pavel to decide? I don't intend to ask uncle Pavel for help any longer. Janina: is this another of your suggestions? It is what I want, Janina. Zofya: but why, Stephen? Uncle Pavel is so generous. He loves to do things for you. I want to do things for myself, mama. I'm tired of depending on anyone else. But, darling, don't you think You'd better discuss this with uncle Pavel? There's nothing to be discussed, mama. I know what I'm doing. Oh, mother, it isn't that Stephen Doesn't wish you to have a party, But he wants to become independent, and... We can all help him. Janina: of course, mother. Stephen is above taking anything from uncle Pavel, And that includes advice. Besides, it's obvious That someone else is advising him. Janina! Yes, Janina. I did advise Stephen. I thought you would feel about it as we do. Well, you are mistaken. If you and Stephen wish to become independent, That is your business, But I see no reason why mother and I Should change our mode of living! Zofya: children, please! Do as you wish. We won't give a party, only please... Please let us live in peace. You say "peace," Zofya, but at what a price? The price of honor and self-Respect-- The same price Pavel is paying to keep Poland at peace. I tell you-- Leopold, no speeches. What right have you to criticize uncle Pavel? You're living on his charity just as we are, Only you're not honest enough to admit it! Stephen: Janina! Have more respect for your uncle! Zofya: Stephen, please! Excuse me. Janina! I've had enough! I can't stand it! I'm sorry, mama. No, no, you stay with your wife. She comes first. Janina! Stephen: mama! Janina! Children, listen to me. What Janina just said about me is the truth. That's why I don't do anything but talk. Talk and drink-- It's the same thing. But you two have made an important decision, And you must not let anything stop you. Have courage. Darling... He's right. Nothing must stop us building the future. Nothing will... La lechka. I knew you'd say that. Come on, Stephen, let's finish lunch. Stephen: as I told you before, It is very simple to handle a tractor. When you plow deep, you use the first gear. That is for heavy pulling. If the load is lighter, you use the second. And if you want to go faster-- Let us say, back to the barn on a rainy day, and you must hurry-- You use the third. Now, who will be the first to learn? Bucyk? Stanislaw? Come. The tractor won't eat you. In fact, it will give you more to eat. Stephen, I think there should be Some sort of prize for the first to learn, don't you? Yes, that's right. How many children have you, wladek? [Counting softly] I'll give you 7 bottles of wine. My wife, she should get a bottle, too. She's expecting another one. Oh, really? Congratulations, wladek. And you deserve one, too. I'll make it 9. 9? Oh, come along, wladek. You're not afraid, are you? No! I'll go! Good for you, wladek. [Laughing] And good luck. You see, wladek? It's easy. Nothing to it. Yes! It's wonderful! [Horses neighing] You see, wanda? There was nothing to worry about. Push the clutch down. Put it in first gear--Number one. That's it. Go on. Good, wladek. Very good. Yes. Thank you! [Gears grinding] Stephen: put it back in first! In first, wladek! Wladek! My husband! Stephen: wladek, stop it! Turn the motor off! Look out! Pull the wheel straight! [All shouting] [Wanda crying] Don't get excited! Just a moment! It was a mistake. Wladek, i told you second. You put it into third. Excuse me, Count Orvid! I don't know how it happened! It won't happen again. Let's try once more. Oh, no, no, no, no! Please, Count Orvid! This thing is a monster! Don't be stupid, wladek. Please, no more, Count Orvid. Please! Who else will try? [Men murmuring] I don't think they will. What's the matter with you? This will make work easy! A horse is better! Why should we risk our lives over work? [Murmurs of agreement] You try, bujansky. I've had enough. Stephen... Stephen! Stephen, please don't be angry. This is the first time they've tried it. Oh, Jenny, they're stupid! They don't care to learn. They're not even interested. But, darling, we've only just started. Give them a chance. They've been the same way for centuries. How can we expect them to change now? Well, perhaps by changing ourselves. Changing ourselves? What do you mean? Darling, listen to me. What have we ever done for them? I've been in their homes, seen how they live. I just can't tell you how I felt. It was as if I'd-- Well, I'd gone back into some other age. They've scarcely enough to keep body and soul together, So how can we expect them to be interested in work That only gives them the barest existence? What can I do about it? I can't raise their wages. I haven't the money. Well, darling, if we can't afford it now, Why don't we give them an incentive By promising them something in the future? What, for instance? Well, a share in the harvest. Then they'll take more interest Because they'll be working partly for themselves. No, Jenny. Things like that aren't done. Stephen... You're beginning to have doubts about more than the peasants-- About all we're doing, aren't you? No, Jenny, i didn't say that. No, not in words, But I can imagine how often it must have occurred to you. "What am I changing my whole life for and everybody else's?" And, "it would be so easy to go back to things the way they were before." That was unfair of me. I'm sorry. But it just means so terribly much to us That you don't go back to uncle Pavel and all he stands for... At least, not until we've tried everything. What else do you want me to do? Well, i--I want you to gamble with me. You said the machines would till 3 times as much land - If the peasants took hold. - Right. Well, then let's give them a chance. And if I'm wrong and we lose... Well, you can still go back to your uncle. They won't even know what we are talking about. Well, then--Then we'll explain it to them. Oh, darling, this isn't so new. It's been done in America and England, and... Well, I think people are pretty much the same everywhere. They're always looking for a way to make a little better life for themselves, And when the peasants realize that, then-- Then...well... Well, I... My serious little girl. Oh, no, darling. Look, you're trying to change the subject. Please promise me you'll think it over. It means so terribly much to us. I promise for a kiss. Oh, you... I promise you a share in the harvest. The harder you work, the larger your share will be. We'll start work tomorrow, early. Let us say 8:00? Darling, let us say 5:00. Jenny, voice-Over: so the peasants learned how to operate the machines. They weren't stupid, after all. If you never teach people anything, they never learn. It's as simple as that. They plowed and cultivated, and reaped a bountiful harvest. The ripe grain ran like the sea across the land, Nodding and rippling, And the happiness of the people grew Until it was almost more than Stephen and I could bear To watch their faces. They were gathering the fruits of their labor. It was their fruit, too-- Grown, as the bible says, by the sweat of their brow, And by the strength of their muscles. And it was sweet to them...and to us. We are gathered today to give thanks For the rich fullness of our harvest. In receiving the fruits of our labor, Our hearts, even as our hands, Are filled to overflowing. But now, my friends, As we share a common blessing, We also face a common danger. A foreign country has cast her eyes on our polish harvest. We pray that we may avert the menacing threat of war, That god may see fit to darken the sun with storm clouds And let rain fall upon our polish earth. The invader might be discouraged If our roads were to turn into a sea of mud, Wherein the enemy tanks would be engulfed, As were pharaoh's chariots under the red sea. Now we will kneel and recite the our father. [Church bells ringing] Now that we've thanked heaven for permitting the harvest, We should do something to thank the people who helped make it possible. Yes, that's a good idea. What could we do? A speech from you, perhaps? Oh, no, not a speech. Not this time, Stephen. I mean a kind of celebration. I think that would be wonderful. A kind of celebration to give thanks. Thanksgiving! Yes, that's it, like the American holiday. Oh, darling, could we? Yes. We might have a party in the barn. A party--That's it. But why in the barn? Where else? Why not at home? In our home? Yes, of course. I don't know. What do you think, Jenny? Oh, darling, you know how I feel. But perhaps it would be nice if you discussed it with your mother. Yes, uh, I think i should. [Chopin mazurka playing] Jenny, may I have one more? Uncle Leopold, that is your seventh. Fifth. Fifth. I'll weaken it. The old stump won't sprout without being watered. But I thought you drank only when you were unhappy. Tonight I drink because I'm happy, Because I see in this room the promise of a new Poland, Far better than the old. Have a little one with me. All right. Na zdrowie. Na zdrowie. Countess? Yes, dear. I have a surprise for you. I can't imagine what it is. Oh, darling, you never forget. La lechka. That's enough, farmer. May I have a cup for father josef? Yes. Here you are. Thank you. Nice and strong. There you are, father. [Laughs] na zdrowie! Sigmund, let's have a polka. Take your partners. We'll have a dance. [All cheering] Uncle Leopold, could you forget another vodka For a dance with me? My lovely niece, that would be intoxicating enough To forget everything, including my age. Thank you. [Polka playing] May I have the pleasure, mama? Oh, my darling, i am too old. But much too gracious to refuse. Very well. [Hands clapping to music] Ah, no more! You shouldn't have danced. My spirit is willing. My body is not. It's time you were asleep. Yes. Yes. Come, darling. I'll help you upstairs. I'm a little worried about Janina. [Polka ends] Thank you, Countess. It was a pleasure, darling. Excuse me, Count Stephen. Yes, Pyotr? Your uncle is in the library. He wishes to speak to you. Thanks. The philosopher must be in trouble. I think you're right. Good evening, uncle. I didn't know you were here. When did you come? Only a few minutes ago. You will forgive me for not using your front door, Stephen, But perhaps you can understand my reluctance to appear at your party. May I sit down? Please. Thank you. I asked to see you alone. Oh, excuse me. But since your wife is here, she might as well stay. I'd intended to come to see you sooner, Stephen, but, as you know, we face a desperate situation, and every moment of my time has been spent in trying to avert war. I'd not even be here tonight, except that I've been assured that the german government will not resort to force until we have had more time to discuss the corridor question. That's good news. Yes. But it's most discouraging, Stephen. I am doing everything I can to preserve Poland, And you are doing just the opposite. I don't understand. Even the walls in this old house must feel strange tonight. If you're referring to the peasants being here, I can assure you that they are behaving most respectfully. Naturally. It's their first visit. May I ask why it was necessary to have them here at all? It seemed only right to celebrate the harvest With those who helped make it successful. As I understand, they are not only celebrating it, But sharing in it, as well. You are surprised that I know, But I am aware of everything that is going on here. However, I don't blame you completely for what has happened. Undoubtedly, your wife has been the inspiration for most of your activities. Whatever Jenny has done has been for my good, and I'm grateful to her. Are you sure it's always been for your good? What do you mean? Count Orvid, would you mind explaining that? My dear, it's the nature of a human being To destroy that which he cannot attain. Whether you admit it or not, You have probably found a great deal of satisfaction In tearing down the tradition of this household. That's ridiculous, uncle! I won't even discuss it! Stephen, may i, please? Count Orvid, The idea of tearing down The tradition of this household To satisfy myself Has been the furthest thing from my mind. My only desire has been to help my husband. You accuse me of being destructive. Well, if helping Stephen to become independent, If trying to prevent you from humiliating him as you once did, If treating the peasants as human beings is destroying, Then perhaps I am. But I know Stephen doesn't share your point of view, And today he's in a position to do and think as he pleases, Which he wasn't before. Not quite. You forget that he is my heir, And as such, he has a duty and responsibility, Not only to his class, but to his country, as well. What I have done is only decent and just, And how I run my farm is my business. There I have to disagree with you, Stephen. You don't realize the implications of what you have done. Democracy is a powerful but dangerous weapon, my boy. You must be sure that you give it to those Who can use it wisely and carefully. Unfortunately, the people are neither wise nor careful. Witness our present difficulties. If we had a strong government, They would ignore the people and negotiate A peaceful settlement with Germany. Instead, they have listened to the voice of the mob, And nothing but disaster can result Unless I can force them to change. I'm sorry, uncle, i don't agree. Someday you will. In the meantime, i must insist That you consult me about your actions. If you don't, You will cut yourself off from your family and friends, And you will leave me no choice As to my future consideration for you. I advise you to think it over. And if your wife has your interest at heart, I advise her to think it over also. I will, Count Orvid. [Boom] Sounds like thunder. [Boom] Stephen, I think I saw a flash of lightning. [Boom] Did you hear, Count Orvid? Thunder! It means rain! Our prayers have been answered! [All cheering] [Booming continues] Stephen... Stephen: they're bombing Warsaw. Stephen: Pyotr, turn the lights out. Leopold: Jenny! Zofya: what's happening? Jenny! Stephen! Where's Stephen? Stephen, what is it? Pavel! What is it? It's war. War! [Telephone ringing] Hello? Yes? Speaking. What's that? Hello! Hello! Hello! Yes. Yes, we were cut off. I see. How soon? I'll be ready. Thank you. What is it, Stephen? My regiment has been called. When? 2 hours. I'd better get ready. Well, I'll help you, darling. Do you think you'll need these? Not part of regulation equipment. Well, that seems to be all. I hope I haven't forgotten anything. I don't think so. Jenny, I'm worried about the wheat in the north field. It ought to be cut and stacked. Oh, I'll take care of that. But you may be shorthanded. Most of the men will be called. Well, we'll have to do it without them. [Distant explosion] I've never seen you in your uniform. You look nice. It's a little tight, isn't it? Well, darling... [Knock on door] Yes? Pyotr: the car is here, Count Stephen. I'll be right down. [Door closes] Please don't come to the car. All right. Good-Bye. Stephen... La lechka. I'll be with you every minute. Man, on radio: a reuter dispatch just received in Warsaw Says the french bombed berlin last night And left the city in flames. Meanwhile, a heavy french offensive has begun in saarbrucken. Aah! For a week and a half Since the war started, Every day, french offensive begins at saarbrucken! Still no rain and no word from Stephen. And now Pyotr goes on an errand, and no sign of him yet. Man, on radio: today, our polish cavalry Exceeded even yesterday's advances, Charging westward as far as the town of verushev. Impossible! Only 5 minutes ago, They were 800 kilometers east! My map is as full of holes as the news. Why don't they tell us the truth?! Leopold, please! My head! My dear Zofya, I'm trying to find out what is happening. But I'm losing my mind! And we are losing the war. These pins! I could sit on them, for all the comfort they give me. Janina, please, try to reach your uncle Pavel again. But, mother, I've tried. The lines are all busy. But where is Stephen? I must know where my son is! Uncle Leopold, what shall we do? I'll tell you what you can do. You can go out in the fields like Stephen's wife And harvest the wheat that will help keep him alive. [Distant explosions] Leopold: is that you, Jenny? Yes, uncle Leopold. Good. I was beginning to worry about you. You shouldn't have worked so late, Jenny. Well...there was a lot to do. Yes, I suppose. [Distant explosions continue] Where are mother and Janina? Oh, they have gone to Warsaw. Poor Zofya. She's sick with worry. Will you eat something, darling? I'll fix it for you. No, thanks. Any word of Stephen yet? No. Nothing, Jenny. One minute the news is good, The next it's bad. I can't figure it out. Oh, uncle Leopold, what's happening to him? What's happening to Poland? Jenny, we must have courage. All day long, I've been talking To the women in the fields, Trying to give them courage. One of them was killed this afternoon. It's not easy. I know. Jenny, this war's inevitable. The world couldn't go on as it was. Before this war is over, Every country will be involved. Other wives and husbands will be separated. But whatever the fate of Poland might be, We must consider it a great privilege To make the first stand against mankind's greatest enemy. There, I'm making another speech. I know that's no comfort. You need a drink. Thanks. Na zdrowie. Na zdrowie. Get some sleep. Good night. Good night. [Distant explosions continue] [Boom] [Glass shatters] Stephen. Stephen! [Crying] Oh, darling! Oh, thank god you're alive! [Sobbing] Oh, darling. Darling, you're hurt! Oh, come on, darling. La lechka... Come on, darling. Jenny... Stephen! Stephen! Uncle Leopold! Uncle Leopold! [Distant bombing continues] La lechka. You'll be all right, darling. Stephen. Philosopher. What's happened to your regiment? There is no more regiment. Every man was killed or wounded. No more army. Stephen, please, try not to think of it now. That's all I think about. 16 mechanized divisions... Against one. 5,000 planes against 500. Men against machines. Horses against tanks. They came in a column of fire and steel... 20 miles wide. We charged... But each time, men and horses Were ground up in the tracks of the tanks... Thousands of them... Wheels going around... Torn flesh between them... The horses screamed... But it closed in on us... Like a wall of steel. Stephen... We prayed for rain... But the roads were sunbaked, hard as concrete... The rivers dry. It was slaughter. Well, darling, how did you get home? I don't know. I jumped on a tank... Threw a hand grenade inside... That's the last i remember. Then I found myself on a wagon not far from here. The driver had been killed. The horse was gone. Man, on radio: attention. Attention. Attention. Citizens of Warsaw... Citizens of Poland... The order of the day of the commander of Warsaw Has just been released. It reads as follows: "The commander in chief has entrusted us "With the defense of the capital. "He has demanded that the attack of the enemy "Be stalled at the gates of Warsaw, "At that the devastation of polish territory "Come to an end. "The only report which we can submit must be, The order of the day has been carried out." And now, here is mayor starzynski, Our courageous leader, with a message for you. Starzynski, on radio: my fellow countrymen, On the morning of september 1, Without warning or a declaration of war, The german armies crossed our frontiers, Violating every rule of international law and common decency. We are the target of a barbarian aggression Which has seen no equal in the past 10 centuries. Our towns and villages have been recklessly bombarded, Our citizens mercilessly shot down. And yet, this does not weaken my faith In the final victory of Poland, In the final victory of justice and freedom. You have heard the order of the day. Warsaw will be held and defended until the last. And if it does fall into the hands of the enemy, It will mean that they have entered the city Over the body of its last defender. This is an historic opportunity, But we need help-- As much as we can get. We call for volunteers, wherever they are. We believe that our sacrifices will not be in vain, And with our blood, we shall swing the balance of victory. As soon as I have finished speaking, You will hear the immortal polonaise begin, And you will know... As long as you hear it being played, Warsaw still holds out! Death to the enemy! Death to fascism! Well...we haven't lost yet. There's still something we can do. We must get the peasants together. I want to talk to them. I'll get them. Stephen: and even though our army is scattered, We mustn't give up as long as there is a chance to fight. The first thing you must do is burn and destroy everything in sight. Leave nothing for the enemy. But the harvest belongs not only to me. You all have a share in it, And I won't burn it without your consent. Are you in favor of this? [Opening phrase from polonaise plays on the radio] All: yes! [All shouting agreement] I knew you'd say that. As long as there are men and women like you, They'll never destroy Poland. [Door opens] Zofya: Stephen! Stephen! Oh! You're safe! You're safe! That's all I can ask for! Stephen! We thought we would never see you again. Uncle Pavel has arranged for a special train To take us to romania, And from there, we go to monte carlo. I'm sorry, mama. I'm not leaving. Oh, please don't argue. You must get away from here as quickly as possible. I'm not leaving Poland, mama. But...but... Pavel! Pavel, Stephen isn't going with us! Do you realize it's only a matter of time Before the whole country is in german hands? The mayor of Warsaw has called for help. The city is going to stand siege. I am not running away. But it's madness-- Sheer madness-- To resist. The city will be destroyed. We'll be killed. And for what? What can be accomplished? I've heard you say it before, uncle-- "Let's not fight. Let's compromise." Yes, I know. I've made mistakes. But I did what i thought was best. You did what you thought was best for yourself. And now, when Poland is crying for help And the people are still defending her, You say, "give up. Run away!" But, Stephen-- No! [Polonaise continues playing on radio] At some point, a man must stop compromising. At some point, he must decide what he wishes to live for, And what he will die for. This is so futile. How long do you think Warsaw can hold out? That doesn't matter. As long as a nation preserves its honor, it will always survive. You are his wife. Can't you make him understand? You must realize how hopeless it is. But, Count Orvid, The people are ready to fight for something That means more than life to them. Not just the army, the people-- Those in whom you had such little faith. Well, Stephen is one of them, And nothing can persuade the people That what they are fighting for is hopeless. Now, I'm sure you will understand, But we haven't very much time. Very well. I wish I had your faith... But I haven't. I have nothing left to fight for, And now... Nothing to live for. My world is gone. I hope you will have better luck. Good-Bye. [Polonaise continues on radio] I'll wait for you in the car, Zofya. Leopold! Uncle, won't you go? Stephen, all my life, I have done nothing but talk. This is my first opportunity to do something. You cannot deny me that. All right, philosopher. Good-Bye, mama. Good-Bye, Jenny. Good-Bye, mother. Try to understand, Stephen. Jenny. [Polonaise playing on radio] You know what you have to do. Time is short. Go to work. [All talking at once] Stephen, you'll need this. I'll go with the peasants. Thanks, uncle. Jenny... Darling, I know what you're going to say... But it doesn't matter what happens. I'm with you. [Distant explosions] La lechka. Life has been good, Stephen, And it's going to be even better For those that come after us. Jenny, voice-Over: for 28 days and nights, The people defended the city of Warsaw. Finally, it was smashed to ruins--Burned to ashes. But the people fought as long as it was possible, Until at last, starvation and disease forced them to submit... Not the nazis. Today, we have what we needed so desperately then. For the first time in history, The massed forces of humanity are on the march, And, like London, Bataan, Stalingrad, Warsaw has become a symbol of the future world We are fighting to achieve-- That will be achieved-- In our time.
