 

                        (A military mystery that lasts for 2000 years) (12 years after Gaozu of Han's death) (The grand tutor Liu Xuan took his students to the site of Hongmen Banquet) (To look at the place where Gaozu outwitted Xiang Yu) Emperor Gaozu had great reputation and authority His civil officials were all of great talents His military officials were all heroes Look! Why are there are no characters on these tablets That's weird Let's not care about those tablets. A start to preparing for the memorial ceremony Let's go! Gaozu cornered Xiang Yu with a clever plan He mobilized his forces to Xianyang Which was unparalleled in the world By ambushing Xiang Yu on all sides in the end Gaozu totally beaten Xiang Yu And force him to commit suicide by the Wujiang River He... Tutor Whose memorial tablets are these for'? How dare you raise such a random question while I'm talking? Hurry up! Are the sacrificial offerings? for the ceremony ready yet? Yes! Tutor, where should Emperor Gaozu sit? Kid, this is the result of not paying attention to my class The monarch should face south Xiang Yu used to call himself the monarch back in the days So he surely faces south Then Gaozu could only face north Since it is impossible to sit next to Xiang Yu Come here now and prepare to bow down. Hurry up Your majesty Gaozu, we are here to salute you Ghost! I don't mean to meddle It's just that I saw you paying tribute To the wrong direction So I feel I have to... You are a human being Who are you'? You don't think Gaozu should face north? This is the memorial tablet for Gaozu Sir! Then whose memorial tablets are behind Gaozu's for'? They are the most important people in Gaozu's life! Then why are there no names on the tablets? Right If possible, Emperor Gaozu would love to write their names on Whose tablet is it on the opposite for'? No one other than Xiang Yu! Why did Gaozu make a tablet for his biggest enemy in his life'? That's nonsense! The story of Liu and Xiang Should begin with the first time they met First Qin Emperor was planned to conduct imperial that day Since he got independence with violence Since people were angry about his tyranny The guarding soldiers were extraordinarily vigilant Xiang Yu and his people pretended to be Qin officials And were prepared assassinate the Qin Emperor Action My Lord! Who are they? There's no time if we don't take action now Protect his majesty! Who is he? Take the assassins! Let's shoot arrows! Your Majesty! Retreat Even though the assassination failed Liu and Xiang appreciated each other And formed the insurgent army together If King Huai of Chu hadn't sown discord between them They might never become enemies King Huai of Chu was just a temporary king How could he manipulate Liu and Xiang? As the head of insurgent army King Huai of Chu knew that Liu and Xiang were quite ambitious Once Qin was defeated He would be useless and eliminated by them So he quickly sought help from three goddesses of war Your goddess, please give me some advices to save my country Even though Xiang and Liu are fighting against Qin together now Their powers have been fully developed They will both surely covet the Qin imperial seal I am now offering a stratagem where There's only benefits for us in both situations You could issue a decree: Who ever take the Qin capital Xianyang First would be the Lord of Qin They will compete for that position So you could benefit from their fight. (3 days after the issuance of decree, Xiang and Liu jointly chased Qin army.) Forward general Xiang Bo is here I find out that Jin Hu Have already taken 100,000 reinforcements to outflank us They have taken off and will be here within 3 hours If we are outflanked at both front and back We will definitely lose We have to take Chengyang Guan before they come. Otherwise... Left general Liu Bang will be here any minute Long Ju, Pass my order to him Xiang Yu has thousands of soldiers Why do we have to be the spearhead? Fan Kuai, we are allies And there's no difference between you and me here Xiao He, why do we have to obey Xiang Yu? Xiahou Ying, he is the leader of our army He must have his reason for us to be the spearhead You don't need to go if you are afraid My lord, I'm not afraid at all But I don't know about the one on my right... Fan Kuai, you nearly died many times anyway What is the oath of our insurgent army, brothers? Defeat the tyrannical Qin, save the people Where shall we go after the war'? Let go back to our hometown What are we going to do when we return home Drink the local alcohol! Shoot the arrows Xiang Zhuang do it for me Yes Surround them Liu Bang is seeking death by coming here Why hasn't Xiang Yu sent any reinforcement? Obviously, Xiang Yu wants us to die My lord, why don't you send out troops? I'm waiting for one person He may control the order, but we control the war Let's Retreat! Retreat Trying to escape General Jin Hu is here! That's the person I'm waiting for is finally here Let' check the backside Damn it! It's a trap! We got ambushed! General, look! Lord Xiang Go back! Have you heard of King of Huai Chu's decree? Whoever enters Xianyang first could be the Lord of Qin? I've heard about it Zhang Han leads the last troop of Qin's army He is preparing to travel fast and overnight to Xianyang to provide assistance Therefore I decided to send out my troops immediately to prevent this Once we beat them, Xianyang will surrender And it would be very easy to get the imperial seal How over the rescue forces are so big That this battle will be dangerous So I need someone to send Yu Ji home Who do you entrust to do this? You. (Peng City, 2 years 890) Madam Yu Ji, we are running late! Hurry up! Flowers blossom in the misty rain Spring breeze blows the small building My home is another world There's always an umbrella waiting for you These are all scenes of my hometown Wild wind comes... Stop! Sir! Foreman How dare you? Singing a Chu's song in front of Qin's officials! Sir! Yu Ji Sir Chu has been defeated by Qin And Chu's people have become people of Qin Why shouldn't a song of Chu become a song of Qin? Flowers blossom in the misty rain Spring breeze blows the small building My home is another world You sing this song very well I'm also from Chu Well if you say you are a civilian of Qin I demand you to take your clothes off So everyone could know whether you are a Qin or a Chu Or you only have Chu in your heart If you don't take off your clothes I will kill this guy! Strip Take off your clothes quickly! Carry on! Strip Why? I don't want you to get involved! Do you like me? Keep taking your clothes off now Or I will kill him! Do you want to be with me? Yes, I do You are playing with fire Hero! It's me! How about we become sworn brothers today? Take care of your sister-in-law for me! What's up? Why are you so quiet? Did someone piss you off'? My Lord Xiang Yu asking you to send Yu Ji home It's clear that Xiang Yu plans to stop you from contending for Xianyang Xiang Yu is the leader of our army He should be Lord Qin! This is a world affair! Why he has to be the lord'? My Lord, a true man living in a time of great changes Should make prompt decisions The first one reaching Xianyang will be the Lord Qin Besides, it is King Huai'of Chu's order It will be too late to regret when the opportunity passes Xiao He! How could you be on their side? I thought you knew me! My lord, I know you the best... What do you know about me? You... You have changed When I followed you and left home I have told you once that No matter what you said I will believe in you You promised to overthrow Qin And save the people out of their miserable lives Have you forgotten the promise? If you have truly forgotten the promise Please kill me now! My Lord, you are underestimating yourself The country expects your benevolence and clemency If people are suffering because of Xiang Yu Would you sit aside and do nothing about it? The generals and soldiers have been following you for many years All they want is to become people of power and influence and Leave their names and legacies in the history If they know you don't have the aspiration of winning the throne Generals and soldiers may lose their morale Our years of effort would also be wasted Brothers, it's my fault! I promise to win Xianyang I will give up the small benevolence And fight for the major justice Bring peace to the common people! Great, My lord! Yu Ji Do you know how to ride a horse? Riding a horse'? Why are we changing directions? This route is much safer Have you ever thought of the reason? Why lord Xiang asks me to send you home? He wants you to keep me safe I will never leave the woman that I love As I know I could take the best care of her It's a blessing to be able to trust others But sometimes things do change And you can't control it Yu Ji... Leave her alone! It's Liu Bang! You can take whatever you want! There are some horses I'll revenge for the dead Qin soldiers! My Lute Stop chasing! We'll soon be there. Hurry up! Brothers, we have arrived to Xianyang! We are here in Xianyang! Xianyang! My lord, our army could enter Xianyang soon! My lord Liu Bang and his followers, in the name of sending Yu Ji home Have taken the Xianyang city! He has only several thousand of soldiers How could he take over the city? Your Majesty I assume you do not understand My reason to persuade you to surrender That's because I respect you I admire Your Majesty's love for the people And will to reform at such a young age Unfortunately, your day has gone! Our army lead by Xiang Yu ls so huge and the soldiers are so fierce that there's nothing they cannot conquer We have conquered most of the country Xianyans is the only city left in your Qin Empire Now you're still protecting this city against us Do you want to further deepen the First Qin Emperor's sins? Traitor! How dare you to consider our Emperor as a coward! Our reinforcements will soon arrive! Come! Take down these traitors! General Yin, Stop! General Yin, if the reinforcements can arrive Will you be talking to us now? They've already been annihilated by Xiang Yu! You won't hide this significant information from his Majesty, will you? Your Majesty, I've completed my task Lord Xiang will be here any minute I'll return to report to him now! General, wait! Where's Yu Ji? She's... with Liu Bang Long Ju, inform Yafu immediately To meet me on the way to Xianyang And help me taking Xianyang back Yes, My lord Liu Bang Liu Bang, Do you want to be the Emperor? Who wouldn't want to! Do you think I can become the Emperor? Ladies and gentlemen, come and have a look We have placed the Weiqi Make yours bets now, my master alone will play against ten people And of course, if we lose The bets will also be one to ten, make yours bets now For those who have got guts. Come over and bet now Let me tell you The best Weiqi player is Fan Zeng, Xiang Yu's military counselor But surprisingly this person is also so brilliant He could control ten games at one time It's amazing! Don't miss chance, made your bet now Folks, it's rather easy to beat them all I'm just planning to make them lose at the same time Sorry! First five games to go eight and nine Yes Master Lose again Sorry! I won't play with you again! The other five games flat seven and eight Oh! My god! Master, we have won a lot Sir, I'm Xiao He. May I know your name? I've heard so much about you My name is Zhang Liang Mr. Zhang, you are the descendant of Han State's eminent family I am so lucky to have you to assist me. Thank you very much! Have I ever said that I'll assist you? Right! It is my fault to make such a rash arrangements I don't know how to treat intellectuals properly! I apologize on behalf of my lord! If you want my assistance I need to know your General Liu's ambition! The only wish of my life ls to save the country and help its people! Is General Liu treating me as a three years old kid? Your taking over of Xianyang city Would never save the country and help its people But the other way round! The decree of the first one entering in Xianyang is the Lord of Qin Was King Huai's of Chu's has plan to Take advantage of the fight between you and Xiang Yu You have already put the people of Xianyang in danger of massacre! But how dare Xiang Yu to violate King Huai's of Chu's order? King Huai of Chu is only the puppet king of Xiang's family! But aren't all the eight vassals serving King Huai of Chu None of them would offend Xiang Yu for General Liu! I can close the gates of Xianyang There's no way we will lose to Xiang Yu! General Liu's fight against his 400,000 soldiers ls just like throwing eggs against rocks! Liu Bang's only wish is to advocate justice And save common people from danger Please tell me the way to save them for the sake of common people! I do have a solution But don't know if you will take if or not I will do whatever you say to save the people! You must leave here immediately! If you return this city to Xiang Yu Xiang may be happy and spare the people's life! Xiang Yu's lobbyist Stop Yes, my Lord Brothers Don't you think Mr. Zhang is right? Who can prove he's wrong I'll kill him immediately! Do we have any other idea to save the Xiangyang? Xiao He and Fan Kuai, you return the seal to Xiang tomorrow and I will then leave Xianyang! My Lord, please reconsider Anyone violating this order will be executed! General Liu, you really deserve your reputation! You have the benevolence of sages And magnanimity of emperors What I said just now is to test you It's about people's life. I have no choice but to do this Aren't you one of the men sent by Xiang Yu? Xiang Yu is replacing Qin's tyranny with his own If he is the emperor The people will still suffer a lot! Xiang Yu is about to surround Xianyang with his soldiers and attack Do you have any solution? Put all the treasures away Post a royal list to let the world know that You are only taking Xianyang temporally And Xiang Yu will soon come to massacre the people of the city! Xiang Yu will come to massacre the people of the city! What does massacre mean? It means killing everyone in the city What shall we do'? Let's protect our city to death! Then we gather common people And military force together to protect Xianyang The common people? This is a tactics to buy time Xiang Yu's military counselor Fan Zeng masters the art of war If he sees the common people guarding the city He will stop Xiang Yu from attacking Xiang yang by force I have a trusted friend working for Xiang Yu Who could send information for me I also have six great warriors Let me introduce them to you Stop Yafu Yu, I have found out that Liu Bang has invited the common people to guard the Xianyang If we attack the city He will gain people's support by fighting against Chu for common people! On the other hand, if we do not attack Liu Bang will enjoy Xianyang's geographical advantage This is a very good move It's from Zhang Liang Liu also make a law that all Qin's All Qin's treasure will be given to the people There's only one reason for him to keep his hands off the treasure! He has a bigger ambition! He wants to be the emperor! You have grown up, son! Now that Liu Bang claims he is taking Xianyang temporarily We can set up a trap We can invite him to a banquet in Xianyang Ask him to hand over the seal of Qin And assassinate him on the spot! It'll be a good plan If we kill Liu Bang How are we going to explain this to King Huai of Chu? I haven't thought about this! In this case We could send somebody to assassinate King Huai of Chu first And claim it's Liu who kills him Because he wants to be the emperor Then we can justify our attack in the name of revenging for King Huai I thought you haven't thought about this? I still recalled the delicious braised fish in Xianyang I should eat more before losing all my teeth! This is the best plan! Assassin! Protect Majesty Xiahou Ying! Drink? Fan Kuai! Xiahou Ying! Both of you are quite good indeed! Stop! Who is Zhang Liang? Fan Zeng has deployed army. And three days later No one can escape from Xianyang Xiang Yu will set a meeting with General Liu The place of which is still a secret. So as general couldn't be prepared Clearly, he wants to kill his lord On the day of Xiang's arrival at Xianyang Your friend will meet you at Zhanshen Gang You should know the place when Xiang Yu meets with Liu Bang I've found out that King Huai of Chu will rehearse the throne ceremony And Fan Zeng has already sent someone to assassinate him And then blame general Liu for it Since they want to kill King Huai of Chu We could rescue him, and ask for a medallion To spare our lives Han Xin as you already know Xiang Yu's assassination plan I'll entrust you to accomplish this important task I used to serve Xiang Yu But he doesn't appreciate me This time I will help you But I must get something I deserve after this! It's a deal! How can you guarantee your promise? How dare you The destiny of all the people Will be decided by the meeting between me and Xiang Yu But the result lies in three person's hands The first person is my counselor Zhang Liang Second of all is Xiang Yu's Fan Zeng And the third one is you, General Han! My betrayal to you means betrayal to all my generals Soldiers, and even the whole world! General Han Do you still need my guarantee? We have strong military power! Why don't we attack the city right now? Yu! I've told you many times You should see the essence of everything What you need to take is not the city alone But the support of its people! The one you should defeat is not Liu Bang alone But also yourself! Yafu! You have been with me once I was young and You have always helped me in solving any difficulties and made decisions I'm not worried so long as you are here It seems that I have spoiled you Does it mean that I have to retire? so that you could really grow up! Does General Liu mention the reason he wants to see me'? No, my lad)' What a pity! Why? Although the lutes are valuable It makes me to miss my old lute more Yes My lute! How did you find it? Thank you! I heard that Lord Xiang is coming to Xianyang Xiang Yu and I have set up a meeting! Do you know the cost of going to the banquet? Thank you Xiang Bo for helping me! You don't need to thank your sworn friend! My only wish is that, after conquering the violent Qin Xiang Yu and Liu Bang can both survive! They can complement to each other So common people could have peace! Then have you found out the place of tomorrow's meeting yet? It's the Hongmen Palace at Hongmen Ban! My Lord They'll be in charge of the weapons hidden in Hongmen Palace Yes Time is running out Please go back and to help General Liu Counselor, the flag fell down for no reason! It's Kun Gua on the upper sixth section. It is an ill omen! Somebody will assassinate us tonight! Warriors reside in Qian while intellectuals reside in Kun The assassin is coming after me! Fan's wisdom is much better than mine If we can eliminate him We can defeat Xiang Yu without a fight We should focus on the key point And take the initiative to attack I really want to meet this Zhang Liang Send my order to soldiers that They do not need to guard tonight In order not to alert the assassin! I will stay here and meet the visitor by myself! I have just cooked some noodles My Lord, you haven't eaten anything for the whole night! You must eat something no matter what happens! The curly-beard man hasn't returned yet He must have encountered something bad! We've heard nothing about Han Xin's rescue of King Huai of Chu What should we do'? My Lord you must endure all the humiliation to secure the bigger picture! The more advantages Xiang Yu owns The more likely he will be eaten up by his pride We should take this opportunity To tempt him to make the key mistake! My lord! Lord Xiang's envoy asks Lord Liu to attend the banquet now All your military forces must stay in the city and wait for order! Xiao He My Lord Xiao He! The result of this meeting is uncertain You should get my seal if anything bad happens Make yourself the Lord, and start the undertaking again! My lord! All soldiers kneel down! My Lord, you're blessed by God And I will guard Xianyang till my last breath I would rather die than surrender! Never surrender... Never surrender! Xiao He, thank you so much Very good! Great! Protect Majesty The assassins are sent from Xiang Yu! Liu Bang sent me to rescue you! Who are you'? I'm Han Xin Be careful! Wait! All the guests to the Hongmen Banquet Are required to hand over their weapons Liu Bang is here to meet Lord Xiang Why do you betray me'? I dare not to betray you Whoever comes to Xianyang first will be the Lord Qin It is King Huai's of Chu's order We have been in wars for many years Who doesn't want to settle down and lead a peaceful life'? If your lord doesn't agree, we would love to return the city back to you! Where is the royal seal of Qin And where's Yu Ji? She is so important to Your Highness So I dare not to treat her carelessly Now she is being taken care by my men Liu Bang, who is the owner of today's world? Of course it's you, my Lord Do you know you have made a mistake? Yes, I do Since Liu Bang knows his mistake He should, according to the military protocol, drip blood as the alcohol And worship to the heaven, earth, and man to apologize Yes, my Lord! Cheers! Please be seated General Liu! We'll talk later! Thank you, your highness Which one of you is Zhang Liang? I am Zhang Liang. It's an honor to meet you Please have a seat Mr. Zhang has been assisting General Liu these several days The attack and defense are in a good order The advance and retreat are in the right way Since we are sharing the same vision I have some thoughts to share with you It has been 26 years since Qin beat Chu However, the nature has its own order, and everything is repetitive Now, Qin is beaten by Chu again We should also observe And implement the will of God Since Mr. Zhang is so diligent and clever Why do you have to go through this trouble? And act against the will of God? Thank you for your advice Yi said there are good and bad times Sometimes we act; sometimes we don't The winner could become loser And the good things may become bad things This is why we say God works in a mysterious way And life is like playing a game of chess In today's Hongmen banquet Both sides restore the good relations again I've heard that you are excellent in playing a Weiqi Would you mind to play a Weigi with me'? So we can find out whether the God's will is certain or uncertain? If Zhang Liang loses I will send Yu Ji back my self And apologize to your Lord! Zhang Liang I have to ask you again Do we seriously have to play against each other? I'd be honored to play with you! Great I lost my eyesight 4 years ago If you want to play, you need to play with your eyes blindfolded! There are 361 pieces in Wieqi How could one not see the pieces but memorize them all by heart? I have finally met my right opponent today Let's play for several rounds! It must be the bravest warriors to place the Weiqi pieces for you two Long Ju! Tell Mr. Zhang your achievements Let's see whether you are qualified to serve for Mr. Zhang I haven't made any great achievements yet But in the past 4 years, of all the 56 wars I won all of them in the war of Chengyang I buried and killed 200,000 Qin soldiers in just one night During the four years serving my Lord I won all the forty-two wars And persuaded 200,000 soldiers of Qin to surrender We conquered the capital of Qin without killing anyone Great Zhang Liang, you are a young hero While I am old and blind I should deserve the first move You are a master of Weiqi Of course I should take the first move It is you who suggested playing the game today and So you are the host As the guest, should take the first move Today the host of the Hongmen Banquet is Lord Xiang My Lord and us are all guests So we should take the first move In playing chess, the one who make the first move will take the advantage We can't miss this opportunity May I make a bold suggestion? Long Ju, we can make a wager first If you can guess how many fingers I have correctly Your side can take the first move Do you dare to bet? Ten! You lose, Fan Kuai Liu Bang! Now that our followers are competing As their leaders we should make some bets too Though I don't know who is instigates him This man actually dares to assassin Counselor Fan! As we are hosting the Hongmen Banquet in the territory of Qin today I will bet the five punishments of Qin with you According to the five punishments of Qin It includes cutting off face Cutting off ears Cutting off fingers Cutting off head And cutting people into mince If Zhang Liang loses one round I will execute a punishment Now the world is in great chaos And people's lives are miserable As you have said We should observe and implement the will of God For the first round, I will go four into four Making it a dangerous situation I will then go flat tour four in the second round For the third round, I will go three five for the third And up six five for the fourth round This is karma Hope peace will come to the world I'll go up eight four for the fifth round Wars and killing are inevitable And acceptable in the world of chaos I'll go up four three for the first round If we love the people, we should attack Then four four for the second round Wars are applicable to end wars Up four three for the third round and Flat four four for the fourth round No one likes wars We use war to win obedience I will keep beating you up until you are convinced The fifth round as same as the fourth flat four four Fan Zeng's skill is profound Zhang Liang's game is full of killing motive I used different ways of playing the game in the first four rounds He noticed them all at once I'm still thinking how he will play the fifth round Hopefully, Han Xin will arrive soon I could beat him once I know his plan This round I will go up five six Two into two Flat eight three Zhang Liang is buying time Flat eight six Go up four three Into eight four Go up seven two Flat six three Into five eight Flat two two for the second round Troops are valued for their qualities Not for how long they can last I'll use flat eight six to win your first round Commanding of troops should be fast as wind, strong as fire I'll go down eight ten to win the second round Into eight eight Xiang Zhuang Let me perform a sword dance to spice up the Hongmen Banquet It's not interesting enough to perform alone Let me perform with you Go up three four Xiang Zhuang, your sword skills have improved Get away Zhang Liang, I have beaten you in the third round by up nine four You've also been cornered in the fourth round Let's fight! My Lord! Yu, kill Liu Bang now! Watch out, Lord! I have said that earlier There is only one winner on battlefield Today god has put us together Which means there is only one of us can survive Don't blame me, Liu bang My Lord Stop! King Huai of Chu's decree! His majesty spares Liu Bang's life Liu Bang should leave Xianyang immediately and go back to Hanzhong King Huai of Chu has invited eight vassals to Xianyang To celebrate Lord Xiang becoming owner of Xianyang Yafu! Zhang Liang has sent people to kill my counselor You have to kill him So we could call it even then I'll let you go I can't do that Today, I win. You lose Xiang Zhuang Yes My Lord! Please, don't! Action My lord You are making the biggest mistake Liu Bang you do know how to survive! We have lost our counselor What should we do'? Counselor said that we have to tempt Xiang Yu To a big mistake in order to win I thought we've already lost to Xiang Yu The game is not over yet The real Hongmen Banquet has finally begin Do you know The reason why Liu Bang by keep you beside him? He is using you as a bargaining chip I always choose to believe in others Just like you said you liked me when we first met Even though Liu Bang overstepped his authority He brought me my lute back I was thinking I could sing Chu songs to you again If you still have trust me Sir Yu, Mr. Zhang's wound has just recovered Do you think it's appropriate for him to attend our meeting? I could leave if it's inconvenient Wait! Mr. Zhang has chosen the right Lord to serve I sincerely appreciate your help Now the war is over and your highness Becomes the owner of Qin Palace It is only you to blame if this opportunity is missed You should take the supremacy now What are you waiting for'? The world has just settled down And we don't yet have a good reason to claim the throne yet Besides, the eight vassals would refuse to obey We still need to wait for right timing If the vassals disobey Why can't I send troops to fight against them? Liu Bang has just became the lord of Hanzhong It is uncertain what his moves are If he strikes us by surprise while our army is away We can't fight both ends, and we'll lose Based on lord Xiang's military force We can totally divide the troops Since Mr. Zhang is so knowledgeable How could one conquer the world on his own'? Why do you give us such an incomplete plan? I do have a plan Since Liu Bang has conceded his allegiance to you You could order him to invade the vassals Then you could use the vassal's help to kill Liu Bang And be the Emperor Do you still think this is an incomplete plan? Please welcome the messenger from Chu Since Lord Xiang asks us to send the army How can we disobey him? Xiao He, it's a not easy for me to be here Please stay at Hanzhong days. We'll be a good host Bring up the best feast Yes He is the messenger sent by Lord Xiang Treat him nicely Yes! General Serve the dishes now Fan Kuai! Why are you serving the best feast? He's the envoy sent by Lord Xiang Of course we should serve the best If he is sent by counselor Fan Zeng Of course it's alright He has saved my lord in numerous situations My lord owes him a great debt of gratitude However the envoy visiting now is just sent by Lord Xiang There's no need to waste our best feast. Put them away We couldn't fully trust the envoy What does Mr. Zhang think? We should test Fan Zeng again So as not to blame the wrong guy Counselor! Our scout said Liu Bang is sorting out his army I think we should take a preemptive attack To spare future troubles After all, Liu Bang has special amnesty from King Huai of Chu We need to find an excuse to kill Liu Bang King Huai of Chu is always a trouble Why don't we kill him first? You mean killing King Huai of Chu? Didn't you ask me to kill King Huai of Chu during Hongmen Banquet? Yu, times has changed Counselor! Does it apply to your loyalty to our Xiang family too? You are making the biggest mistake! Lord Xiang wants to see you My lord You and your family Have always treated me with respect And listened to my opinions That's all our counselors' want! The fact that you want to see me today Means that you still cherish our relation That's enough for me! All good things must come to an end I want to give you a bag of tips before I go If you experience danger Or think of me in the future You could open it and have a look! Yafu! Sir Zhang Liang, you are here I know you'll come I can't wait too long My apology! I have pushed the limit too far this time! Zhang Liang You have made a brilliant move this time I knew you were special during the Hongmen Banguet I can tell you now You are just like the me when I was young! Don't feel bad for me I've been waiting for an opponent like you my whole life Enemies are like the two sides of a mirror Just like Xiang Yu and Liu Bang, or you and me Don't waste any more time Let's finish the fifth game Sir, sir Sir Zhang Liang. There is a kind of chess game... May I Zhang Liang, a survivor of Han Present to my Lord that the general Should be able to distinguish people's qualities before he learns the art of war Counselor Fan Zeng has served three generations of Xiang family But he was discarded like a homeless dog We all feel bitterly disappointed for this Good birds choose the best trees to rest I will go back to Liu Bang's camp Hope Lord Xiang will make careful decisions So as not to die alone Get the army and horses ready! Let's act now! Yes, my Lord! My lord! Liu Bang is at Hanzhong Based on his army force, even if he has Zhang Liang to assist him He won't be a threat to us as long as we don't act rashly Xiang Bo I know you are kind Even if I don't eliminate Liu today He will eventually eliminate me one day? I said it was all meant to be at the Hongmen Banquet There is only one could survive between Liu Bang and I What if King Huai of Chu stops us again? General Han My Lord Xiang Yu has killed King Huai of Chu People all hate him The eight vassals would like to help me to suppress him. General Han... How many soldiers can my Lord lead at most'? Less than 100,000 Then how can you control the eight vassals? How about you? For me, the more the merrier Having completed the mission I need to get what I should deserve It seems like I have underestimated Liu Bang I know I can't stop you from fighting But I'll go through the war with you Stop chasing! It'll be too late if you don't leave now! How dare you all try and stop me Please don't go My Lord What's that place in the front of us? It is Wu River. Here's Wu city My Lord! Your ladyship! This is Liu Bang's secret order He has ordered the allies to attack tomorrow He persuades me not to make this unnecessary sacrifice You've surrendered to Liu Bang? I just want peace in the world And good relations between the Xiang Yu and Liu Bang There's nothing I can do now It's meaningless to stay in this war Success or failure is all depending on an attitude There's only you, Yu Ji who can persuade Xiangyu to leave I really regret that I haven't held your hand like this more often We could start again Yu Ji We have come to the end Look at this land It will be full of Liu Bang's army very soon I have asked Xiang Bo to take you to a safe place Where no one can find you, including me But you have promised that I could stay with you I think... You should have a second Chance to choose Prepare to fight This song could beat the morale of Xiang Yu's army Hopefully we could win the battle without killing more lives What are you doing? I want to go home Do you think what you have done will fail Lord Xiang Don't Leave This is the moment when Lord Xiang need us most we can't Leave! I want to go home Go home, go home, go home Anyone who escapes now will be executed! Stop! You've all followed me for many years Even though I'm your lord You are all like brothers to me Today, we are surrounding by enemies All of you don't owe me But I do Please remember All of you will always be my brother Take care and Goodbye! Yafu. You have been with me once I was young and You have always helped me To solving any difficulties and make decisions no matter what Xiang Yu, does it mean. I have to retire So that you could really grow up No one can come in! I had a dream on the way I dreamt of a white haired couple sitting close to each other I envied them and so I walked closer to find out who they are Then I realized I knew them It's you and me I want you to spend the rest of your life with me I don't want to drag you into this... Just like when we first met I don't want you to get involved Liu Bang must send his envoy to persuade us to surrender Wait until they are eased out We shall start fighting Liu Bang! Xiang Yu, I've been waiting to tell you myself that Only one of us can survive between us You are right. But I'll survive NOT you! Both the world and people will be mine! Xiang Yu! We used to be sworn brothers So long as you admit your defeat today I shall let you go back to Jiangdong! Kill Xiang Zhuang Xiang Zhuang My Lord Please lend me your sword I am the only one who can kill him and let him rest in peace I lied to him Yu Ji We'll never be separated again Do you want to be with me? I do My lord! We found this bag of tips in the camp I've persuaded Han Xin to surrender It is hoped that my Lord could last for a while Wait until for the reinforcement of Han Xin to arrive And save us After winning the battle I have promised to shared Han Xin, Zhang Liang and others Share the world and wealth I shall wait for your order and hope that you will take my advice I could only play the game this way Congratulations to Lord Qi on taking the seal! Xiao He... Xiao He... There's a game called where both sides suffer losses Get away! General Fan cannot proceed How dare you trying to stop me'? Where were you all when I fought with your Majesty? Stop! My lord! I... I know what you want to ask They plan to kill me! If I don't kill them They'll kill me! I have to do this I... I still want to say it I haven't met you for a long time I know something is wrong and I'm worried about you Therefore I am here to see you When I left home with you and fight the war I said that I will believe in whatever you said But... I'm not well-educated What you've said and done today I have really confused me! I am the emperor now I can give you whatever you want You are Emperor? Could you take off you imperial robe? Can you do this for me'? Stop We have promised to help you in completing this achievement Now... Now I'm not useful to you any more? Now I'm not useful to you any more? You have promised us that we could have drinks at home after the war Do you still remember? My Lord, Fan Kuai has to... Fan Kuai has to leave Sir, could you tell us who exactly are you? I'm just a person who likes playing Weiqi Once I had a close friend He hired me to play with another Weiqi master Then, I realised my real opponent is my close friend I won't see the doctor again I thought you were dead! I'm alive because I need to see you I want to ask you Is that the result you are expecting? All these years I'm scared each and every day I feel everything they said is a plot All the food they gave me is poisoned Your Majesty! After your death Which one of prince would succeed your position? I remember Yu Ji has asked me a question once Do you know the cost of going to the banquet? I know going to the Hongmen Banquet Means I need to try my best to guess and trick the other side Who violate the order will be executed The cost is that you'll lose the capacity to trust anyone In Hongmen Palace I have already built monuments without characters to memorize Those who die because of me Zhang Liang I have no one to trust now Zhang Liang Could you do me one last favor? Now that everything is predestined It's unnecessary to be stubborn and persistent! Things are hard to predict But you can't mix up right or wrong Today I persist to do one last thing for Yu Ji Yu Ji My Lord Thank you for listening The Hongmen Banquet is finally over I should leave now Sir, where are you going? I'll need to find another master to play Weiqi with And see if a win-win situation is possible Zhang Liang I need to ask you again Do we seriously have to play against each other?
