 

                        Brothers, there's a long way to go Save your strength Xiaoye, what's wrong? Tieyun, a storm is coming Let's turn back Don't be afraid Tanglong, is there shelter nearby? There's a gorge ahead But it's the same direction as the storm Perhaps we should turn back No! We must reach the outpost by nightfall Xiaoye, tell the others Press on! Yes Brothers, press on! A storm is coming! Take cover at the gorge ahead! Hurry! Move! Don't stop! Charge ahead! Tieyun! The horses are nervous! Dismount. Stay close together Don't stray apart Hurry up, don't fall behind Tanglong Brothers, move along the cliff Go find a path Go This way. Follow me Long live Your Highness Your Highness, we just received word from Beijing A rebel group from the south is heading here They have gold to buy arms beyond the border Their leader is called Tieyun Tieyun... How dare these rebels intrude on my territory? What should we do, my lord? Capture him Xiaoye, look Bandits... I'll tell everyone Bandits are here! Arm yourselves! Catch Take it There you go Keep going. Fight your way out! Take it Protect the cargo! Charge forward! Laipi, get in Yes Sis, I got it Hurry, steal the wagon Alright Get off Tieyun, they stole the wagon Get it back That's Tieyun. Catch him Tieyun, hurry Watch out Chief, he's Tieyun He's wanted by the Prince. Take him Yes, ma'am Your Honor What happened? Run Run Man Tianhong, surrender the criminal I promise not to press charges You're just a fourth rank official Don't interfere in the Prince's affairs Don't try to intimidate me by invoking the Prince Even His Highness must treat me with respect How dare you defy me? Hand over the criminal Let's go You dare to raise weapons before a court official? You can be beheaded for such an of fence Enke, Enqi, let him go Captain Wang Your Honor Escort the criminal back Yes, sir Go Let's go Godfather, we're home Wake up Have we arrived? Godfather Did you have a sweet dream? What dream? You were drooling, don't deny it Really... I didn't... Master Mao is back We've returned You've had a hard journey Master Mao is back Godfather I've traveled many places, but there's no place like home Master Qi Your reading glasses have finally arrived Thank you. You'll see much better with these. You're so thoughtful We'll meet later Zhong-e This is for you Thanks, Master Mao Did you get everything I asked for? Yes Thank you So, is there any progress? Here Don't give up, and use this Give it to Xilian when you go drinking tonight Women are passive, Men need to make the first move If you don't act, you two won't get anywhere Understand? It's done Work on it some more. I'll see you tonight An-le is back I'm back Liu Xu isn't here Oh Who's there? That's mean I got you... Master Liu I thought you were You thought I was Liu Xu, am I right What is this Damn it! Who did this Father, what is it Wipe yourself This feels good Xilian, the wine has been warmed Don't drink too much, just one jar Drinking one or two jars makes no difference to me You're not in good health. Quit drinking Son, bring bowls and chopsticks Yes That pan... Have you asked Wu Zhong-e to fix it yet? He's been waiting forever for you Must you bring up that nonsense every time? You nag me about drinking, I nag you about remarrying Uncle Mao, here Sweet Gou-er The pan still works, Gou-er will send it over when it breaks Taste good? Very good You'll be busy at the banquet tonight Rest and enjoy your food. Gou-er, come You should drink less Little devil Cheers Sir, forgive me for asking Why antagonize the Prince over a bunch of rebels from the south? To the imperial court, they're rebels But to me, these men... hold the fate of the country in their hands Take Tieyun to Golden Valley. Find Master Mao I believe he can help him These are done. Take them - Thank you - Thank you Be careful God loves all the people in the world Everyone, come eat! He gave his only son to you Here is some more food Everyone has arrived early Congratulations Come. Let's drink Alright... it's time for... Baby Hu-er blessing ceremony Let's begin May your life be blessed... with heath, prosperity, peace and happiness Yes! Here's a red packet for the baby Thank you You blessed him. I shall baptize him Come this way Bless him Come, let's drink to the baby's health Congratulations, Shigen cheers The meat has gone cold. I'll grill more Come Drink up, everyone... It's a festive occasion Father, I'll help them tidy up Loser Mu-bai Mu-bai Don't hide in your room If you don't want to join us downstairs I can stay here with you to celebrate Hu-er's first birth month, alright? Pang-ge, is it done? Yes Thanks Liu Xu, Liu Xu I want... What is it? What did you say? I can't hear you! Speak up! What did you just grill? There's lamb kidneys and meat What did you say? I can't hear you! Stop teasing me, godfather! Run! - Wuchou - Qing soldiers are coming! Master Mao, Wuchou is acting funny again Run! Just give him another drink He'll be back to normal after a good nap Wuchou Run! Hurry! Look It's safe. The soldiers are gone Gone? Yes, all gone - Gone - it's all set Godfather Let's standby Yes Friends and relatives, and respected elders Thank you so much for coming here today to celebrate my firstborn's birth month I'd like to make a toast to all of you Cheers May your son live to a hundred I wish the three of you a happy life Cheers Cheers Drink up Today is a very special day It's been ages since Golden Valley had such a joyous day It's all due to Hu-er To commemorate the occasion, I prepared... a little something with our community fund I hope you'll forgive me and always remember today Jinfa, Xiaoliuzi, An-le are you ready? Yes Begin! That's beautiful! Wow! It's so pretty! That's beautiful! Look, they're having a great time together Dad All of you stop it! Father, help! Feng-er Father Father Get down My lord My lady Governor, you seem surprised I warned you not to cross me Surrender the rebel, or your wife and son die Don't hurt them! Chief He's gone? Yes Mother Release my wife and child Father, help me Father You're lower than the Prince's dogs You... Father Father Father Father Father Tieyun You know the way to Golden Valley Take care. I'm heading back to report to Governor Zhuo Understood. Take care Greetings Your Highness Are you here to reward us for recovering the gold... my lord? What happened to Tieyun? He died in a fire during the chaos at Zhuo's house Really? That's not what I heard Where's the governor hiding Tieyun? It's just one rebel You lost him the first time to Zhuo You watched him escape the second time You expect to be rewarded for your incompetence Your highness, I failed you But Your Highness is wise and powerful A thief or two is not worth your attention After all, we have the gold and we eliminated the troublesome Zhuo You've got everything, Your Highness Idiot! Without Tieyun, how can I report to the imperial court? The longer Tieyun stays alive, the longer I must suffer The longer Tieyun stays alive, the longer I must suffer My lord, please give me another chance I'll go to Golden Valley immediately... to capture Tieyun Bring him back, dead or alive It's your last chance If you fail again, we'll both suffer the consequences Thank you for your kindness I swear I'll teach this old thief a lesson one day Chief Have a drink, relax Ready the horses He's waking up Who are you? How did you get here? Is this Golden Valley? Who's Master Mao? You're injured, don't run about Master Mao, the people here... seem wary of outsiders You've been around, ever hear that... each moment caution is another life saved? Someone told me... Golden Valley is a safe place Are you looking for this? 86 Tablets for the Huanghuagang Martyrs... That's strange The uprising in Guangzhou... I didn't know Governor Zhuo at first He may serve the Qing court but I sense that he's a righteous man... a man of unwavering spirit He knew the gold I lost was earmarked for guns and cannons He also knew our mission... was to topple the corrupt Qing court and rebuild a stronger nation Wait Take with this Tablet You've made an honorable choice I believe my comrades didn't die in vain One day... The governor set me free The Prince will not let him off so easily I'm afraid he will be implicated The Prince's henchmen are vicious They're capable of anything We should... Enough. Since the governor sent you here I'm obliged to give you refuge But I can't help you recover your lost gold I have no interest in the affairs of the world... beyond Golden Valley In my eyes, Golden Valley is all that matters Master Mao, the gold can save the country If our motherland is lost we have no place to set down roots That's going too far. You may stay in Golden Valley As long as you observe our rules. Anyone who stays here must relinquish their past, and remember... Once one enters Golden Valley, one never leaves But the governor entrusted you with a task? You're injured. Rest first Hang on - Pang-ge - I am busy Are you okey? Call me if you need me Bandits are coming! Bandits are coming! I'll get Master Mao No need to fear I have no quarrel with anyone here I'm looking for an outsider a rebel outlaw named... Tieyun Surrender him now! Each village has its own rules Anyone who arrives here is considered one of us You can't just take who you want You have guts and courage Too bad you're not too bright How many villagers do you have here... a hundred? I'll take this one man in exchange for a hundred lives Shall I do the math for you? Man Tianhong, don't involve the innocent You can take me with you What's this? A weapon? You don't need a butcher's knife to kill a chicken We're all God's children! Are you all as stupid as him? Surrender the man! Do you want war? Gou-er, don't go there! Guo-er - Come here! - Guo-er! No! You asked for it Kill him Don't force my hand! Move! Mother! Run! Hurry! Mother! Guo-er, you'll get yourself killed! Run! Run! Don't hurt the children! Children, get inside now! Hurry! Careful... don't go out! Father Run for your lives! Don't die here too! Retreat Xiaoqin Xiaoqin How can I live without you? Stop! He brought this trouble to Golden Valley I'm sorry I'm sorry for putting you all in danger Why did you come here? Spit it out That's right Who exactly are you? The bandits came the moment you showed up Who told you about this place? It was Governor Zhuo our savior, he sent him here I know you all secretly blame me for offering Tieyun refuge Every one of you has a right to be worried But I must remind you of our rules When someone enters Golden Valley we don't question their situation or past Each person has experienced terrible suffering But why did we all end up here? Our master Liu? His true identity is Liu Shan, the Beijing sword legend When the Eight Nation Army invaded Beijing the Qing officials all ran But Liu and his brothers stayed behind Afterwards, to appease the invaders the Qing court threw him in prison That's where I met him This man here, once served in the naval forces as the youngest commander When the French fleet reached Mawei He was the first to open fire on the enemy He was later demoted and exiled to the North Coincidentally, I was there too As for Wuchou... Excuse me, my stomach hurts Wuchou is from a prominent family but hates to be reminded, so I'll tell you my story Wu Zhong-e and I met at the Yihetuan society After the Xinchou Treaty was signed we were persecuted for opposing the Qing court Later on, Governor Zhuo helped us escape Without him, we wouldn't be here today Therefore, I'm not your savior Your true savior is Governor Zhuo When each of you had nowhere to turn he asked me to help you Tieyun is just like... who you were 10 years ago We may not care about the resistance or politics but since the governor sent him to Golden Valley we're obliged to take him in In that case, there's nothing more to discuss Master Mao, we offer him our protection Agreed, protect him Today it's bandits, tomorrow it's Qing troops They won't leave us alone That's why we're here. Let's figure out what to do We already have nowhere else to turn That's right. We can't run So let's go on the of fence Fight them head on Mu-bai, you commanded troops before How long will it take for them to get here? Less than 2 days from Washicheng Let's use our time well Xilian, Liu Xu Escort all women and children to the mountain Take provisions with you And all the rest will stay here to fight Yes The bandits were taken by surprise this time They won't underestimate us again They'll send 100 cavalry units followed by 100 infantry units Mu-bai, One must know himself and his foe to win a battle We may be outnumbered, but this is Golden Valley We'll use our knowledge of the terrain to destroy them Let's strategize Master Mao - Master Mao - Mu-bai Peter Fang is missing Where did he go? I don't know, but this morning he mentioned... that the female bandit leader was wearing a cross He thinks that she's a believer Idiot God lives in people's hearts Different hearts have different gods Find him, bring him back Yes My Lord, thank you for standing by me Thank you for giving me strength Please continue to bless me... offer me peace and guidance and bring me light Amen You've gone astray, but you can still be saved Atone for your sins from this day forth Golden Valley is a quiet place We only hope to be left alone and to live in peace You and I are both God's children Listen to me I just want to let you know won't suffer the same tragedy again As long as you're willing, God will protect you He will be always be there for you Trust me The cross you're wearing will bring you light There will be light and fire in Golden Valley The Prince's troops are heading there You... You won't shoot me You get lost Run Come with me now Mu-bai, the Prince's troops are on their way We must warn the villagers Time is running out Let's go Go Over there Stop Hide somewhere Mount now Stop there Get on the roof Stop On the roof Pursue Stop there Watch out Watch out Peter Peter Mu-bai, get going! Pursue That's so cruel It is... I feel sorry for him Poor man Keep moving Yes Run Don't stop. You can't stop Uncle Mao You and I are both men, I'm staying Of course you are, but you have a more important task You must protect the women and... the children even younger than you, understand? Don't worry about us. Take care of yourself Don't be afraid. Just follow me Be careful Split up; you go through the pass Alright Wuchou, the troops are coming from the pass Hurry Ready... 1,2,3 Run! Hurry up - Be careful - Hurry Be careful, go that way Everyone, hurry up Hurry up This way, hurry Master Mao, the troops are coming from the pass Hurry Dafu Over there Hurry, the troops are here Keep running Get down Run Brothers, gather around We must head them off so the villagers can escape - GO - Yes Where those people? Just one of you? I'll take you all on I'll make sure none of you escape You're the ones who won't escape alive Attack Everyone, keep moving Fire! Find a way out. Don't panic! There's fire everywhere. We're trapped! Force your way out! Xilian Where are my wife and child? Where's Hu-er? No! Move over! See now? This is the price you pay for harboring rebels Why haven't they come to save you? You, monster! They really to burn him God! Give me strength Help me to endure the pain! Let me not betray you... please... Poor man It's so cruel Help him Who dare Don't let me burn alone I can't watch anymore How could they burn him alive? It's all my fault You lived in seclusion, to avoid strife and conflict But because of my arrival your peaceful existence is destroyed So many of you lost your lives But you won't die in vain, I promise to avenge your deaths so your surviving family members can live in peace You're avenging us? You're going to kill the Prince? Forgive me, Master Mao but I must break the rules of Golden Valley I'm leaving Not just yet Fighting the Prince on your own is... a suicide mission There are some things we need to do if we must die Enough I'm not interested in your principles I just know that you want your gold back and the Prince dead. As for us we want to avenge our brothers and sisters and Governor Zhuo That's why you're not going alone We're coming with you Master Mao I want revenge Stop staring and say something Otherwise, I'm leaving Liu Xu, I have so much to say to you... I don't know where to begin Let me say it for you Liu Xu, I'm going on mission tomorrow Will you marry me... Correct? Well then... will you? An-le You're just a country pumpkin What makes you think you're worthy? Can you promise her a good life? Master Liu, I may not be exceptional or talented But I'll spend the rest of my life taking care of Liu Xu I may not be able to offer her wealth or luxury live but I can promise to keep her happy each day and get her food and shelter If you ever bully my daughter Never! I'm the one who's always being bullied What did you just say? I said I'm willing to be bullied by her for eternity You may be ready and willing But have you asked how I feel? An-le, have you proposed to me yet? How did you get this telescope? Pastor Fang gave it to me He told me to give to you as a love token when I propose Master Liu, An-le wanted to propose to Liu Xu today But knowing we're fighting the Prince tomorrow and Fang is still in peril, I just can't bring myself to ask I don't want to make her a widow Nonsense! Just promise me this My father is getting old. Take care of him I will. Let's get married when I return I can't wait! Brat, did my daughter promise to marry you? Didn't you just say?... Idiot, I said I can't wait... Racing battle steeds The thundering of bows Uniting all under heavens Achieving immortal fame Pity that my hair has turned gray Good poem Don't you think this Xin Qiji poem... perfectly expresses what's in your heart? I don't know the right path to saving the country Then forge your own path, The world won't change by itself Mu-bai, let's forge a new path tomorrow and herald in a new dawn Are you really going to ask my father? Why not? Father, An-le and I... Say no more, go wait for me at home Listen to your father Alright An-le, as Xu means everything to me as long as she is happy I'm willing to sacrifice my life I'm going to Washicheng so that she'll have a good life and future Master Liu, I know, but... Do you really want to marry Xu? Do you promise to treat her well forever? If you do don't go to Washicheng tomorrow Stay and take care of my daughter Master Liu, I will marry Xu and take care of her for the rest of her life But I must also go to Washicheng, I don't want any regrets You don't have any combat experience Once we arrive at Washicheng stay close behind me I will, Master Liu Come out Father I... Go home Let me warm this up for you No need This wine is not for me; it's for you On the first day you came to Golden Valley I asked Ao-tian to save this wine for you It was buried under the tree at the village entrance We planned to drink it together on your wedding day But I must give it to you now Because I may not come back alive this time Promise me Open the jar on your wedding day Regardless of where I'll be if I smell the aroma I'll know that you found a man who loves you and I can rest in peace Brother, you saved my life You must attend my wedding Of course Gou-er, are you scared? Don't worry, it's normal to be scared You see, after I came to Golden Valley I drank, and caused trouble because I was afraid I never told anyone about my past but I'm telling you now I'm a survivor of Taiping Kingdom As far back as I can remember I was persecuted by the Qing court My dreams were haunted by blood and my persecutors But now, I'm not afraid anymore Because I know I'm going to do what needs to be done When a man finds his purpose in life his fear will end I hope you'll grow up to be a man who knows what needs to be done Brother Wu I know you like me Will you marry me? Big brother What're you doing? This is Xilian's... Yes, it's the wedding wine you saved for her She just asked me to marry her But I know she did it for you She wants you to drink this before you leave Xilian, answer me honestly... Is it true or not? Look, you brought all these back for me to give to Xilian Today I'll say it loud and clear Wu Zhong-e loves Xilian I love her but I can't marry her Because she loves someone else She loves you That's a load of crap! Xilian If I've spoken what's in your heart just nod your head Zhong-e It's alright, Xilian Don't be afraid I'll clear things up for you Zhong-e, Please don't Brother, back when you saved her life and her child's you also saved her heart Regardless of what you think Look at her now Since she arrived in Golden Valley she has never looked at another man Can't you just be honest with yourself? Do you like her? Do you love her? I'm sorry, I don't All I have is brotherly affection for her Xilian Your feelings for me are based on gratitude, not love You'll find yourself the right man I'm not that man You're lying to Xilian and to yourself Think you're helping her? Being honorable? There's a huge age difference between us Besides, we're leaving tomorrow We may not come back alive You think giving her one day of happiness is worth a lifetime of regret You're an idiot You... You just don't understand She waited for you all these years She just wants to know that you love her Even if it's only for an hour she'll be happy That's how women are Zhong-e If you love her don't just do what you think is right Do what she wants Tieyun Xiaoye where are the others? Laohu, did you meet with the men on your side? They should arrive by tomorrow night Good Children, come quickly The adults have things to discuss Hello, sister Master Mao, everyone has arrived Sorry for the trouble I'll watch the children. Just take your time Walk slowly Be careful I've reached out to all my outlaw friends They're also busy recruiting more men Some agreed to join us, others refused Some are undecided I understand Don't worry. Your friends are all men of honor Well Our brothers in Washicheng are living in oppression The Prince and the bandits are monstrous Everyone is barely surviving Why didn't you fight back? Watch your manners We were unprepared To go up against the Prince we need a leader and a good plan, otherwise we're sure to fail We understand what's at stake That's why we must talk this through to devise a failsafe plan Then we have to find out where they store the gold first The Prince's army base is enormous We still haven't pinpointed their headquarters The Prince is a wily man If the gold is at the base, he'll have to report to the court If it's outside the base, he can claim it as his own Once we secure the base he'll take his guards to retrieve the gold We must take their watch tower to monitor the gates for signs of activity Laohu tell your men to create a diversion in the city at night My men and I will attack the base and draw out the Prince My men and I will take care of the watch tower Master Mao, our mission is clear For our sake and our future let's fight them If we must die, we'll die in a blaze of glory Laohu, let's proceed once the explosives arrive Good What is it? Highness, Washicheng has quieted down after the missionary was burned to death But Ajitu didn't return from Golden Valley Something seemed suspicious I investigated and discovered that... someone was amassing explosives The city's rebels appear to be organizing an uprising with outside help The death of the missionary has drawn the rebels out Keep watch; kill anyone who looks suspicious Father Your business seems to be doing well You have many visitors Have you switched to dealing explosives? Keep my children out of this You should have thought about them earlier Sesame bread! Come get me What's your problem? I'm sorry Master Mao, someone's arrived I'm late How could you leave us... the Qingfeng Bodyguards out of the action? Let me introduce two brothers to you Ke and Tai Pleased to meet you The brothers outside are all set It's an honor They're Shigen and Jinfa It's an honor Master Liu Greeting It's been a long time Master Mao Master Mao... Master Mao Laohu and his family have been murdered The entire family died because of us We lost another brother But gained another There's me I will continue Laohu's work I've finished preparing the explosives I'm going with you Thanks,Laochen Good I'm in too Sister... You're alive! Master Mao, count me in I'm so glad to see all of you I know you've all been living in seclusion up north Just want to leave behind your past and days of swordplay And you all succeeded Yet you've come here tonight None of you is here for selfish reasons You've come to fight for your children's future As men of honor we toil away and fight for our families But in turbulent times no matter what we do, we can't protect our families You were hiding in Washicheng You were hiding in Washicheng On the surface, we lead a peaceful life But the truth is, we were blind and deaf... we ignored the suffering of those beyond the valley Fortunately Tieyun appeared before us He made us understand that we have another choice we can fight back Perhaps in a few hours death may part us from all our comrades here It doesn't matter. We all die eventually... of old age or disease Isn't it better to go out with a bang and die with meaning and purpose? Here is the choice tonight We were all young once We all had our days in the sun Is it enough? We must continue to do... what true men were born to do If we can do that Our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren can proudly tell the world about their fathers, their grandfathers... and boast about their days of glory Laohu Let's drink this bowl of wine together If we make it back alive after tonight we'll drink more Drink up! Yes! Drink up! Yes! Drink up Drink up Attack the army camp Let's go Your Highness, the rebels have created chaos all over the city Secure the base and kill them all The rebels are here. Close the gate! Load your weapons Kill Kill Master... Don't I'll bring you down! Kill An-le Go Fire Charge Master Mao, look Tieyun and his men just broke through the rear gate Split up and follow the plan. Go! Yes, sir Go Kill Xiaoye... the watch tower Kill Where is the gold? I don't know You're getting old, be careful You asked me to come Kill Where is the headquarters? Where's Boerge? Kill Hu-er, father will avenge your death We've looked everywhere. The gold is not in the base Definitely in the church? Take men there now. I'll deal with things here Good I'll kill you Step aside You dare to defy me? Our chief said no one sets foot on these steps... without her permission Kill them Do you think you can stomach the gold? Don't worry about me... think about what to tell your ancestors in hell Try to stop me, you die Give me back my daughter Give me back my son Give me back Laohu Laohu I'm coming An-le To your left Behind you An-le Master Liu Go Master Liu Your Highness, he's the rebel you're after You two, don't try to escape Boerge, you're right, don't try to escape You stop there Boerge is doomed. You still want to resist? Tell me now, where's the gold? I don't give a damn about you stinking bastards I'm the one who deserves the gold You go to hell Go to hell Take the gold over my dead body Go to the church Come on I must avenge Master Liu's death An-le... Come on Come on, if you want to die Mu-bai Boerge, there's no escape If I can't make it out alive, neither will you Go to hell Wuchou Get up Get out of my way An-le Go to Die All of you Kill him now Wuchou I'll take you down with me Wuchou Tieyun, your comrades are waiting for you My brothers and I must return to Golden Valley see you soon Master Mao Everything a man needs say... is here I will never forget these days of glory
