 

                        Yeah? You like to get one of them, right? Wait 'till we get to the mansion boy. 'Heff' makes Dionysus look like a fucking altar boy. Primo pussy. They got tits, vagina. Not like where you guys are from. Their teeth are white. Hello? Ah yeah, I've been waiting here for hours. Alright I'll be on call. Where are you from in Scotland? I'm not from Scotland. No? Oh shit, I know you're from Scotland, but you're not from Scotland. Where are you from? That doesn't matter. You want to go to a party? Where at? Downtown, you wanna share that? I don't bite, unless I have to, but you can find that out later if you like. I gotta get going. That's a shame. You'll see me later. Alright. You gonna be okay? Absolutely top tips. Alright you take care of yourself. You take yourself some.. care. Do you remember that one party at Ashley's, I sketched you, you remember that? It's stupid but it kind of really inspired me. I'm going to have a show I think. First show, but nobody's seen the kind of centerpiece one, cause I thought maybe you should see it first. Frankie? No, no! No, I don't want to! No! Enough! No, stop! Yeah the wallet with the driver's license and everything. Yeah DMV tomorrow morning. So, can you get somebody else to cover? Alright, to me, to me. To you. Cheers. Where is yours, what are you doing? To random hospitality! You can come in. I just have to grab your wallet. Just wait, wait a second. You wanna smoke some weed? How'd your night end up the other night? Fine. What about you? I got raped. You just made a funny face. Fuck you, what are you talking about? Is that a joke? That's a No, it's just, no I just.. Actually it's very true. What do you mean, you... No, after I saw you, I got raped. It's really, I'm really fine. I was just a little sore afterwards, but I'm usually a little sore after a big night you know, so not any different than many nights... Well who was it? I know him, it's really weird. I guess it's not weird, I guess it happens that way a lot, but really I didn't realize I was getting raped until like later when I thought about it, I was kind of disappointed I just kind of gave up halfway through. Have you ever raped anyone? Want some of that? Here you are, breakfast in bed. I didn't have any milk, I only have one serving of cereal, so I split it in two, and I didn't have coffee so you got water, so I poured it with heart so.. Thank you. Mmm. Mmm! That's good. I'm Frankie. Frankie. Frankie as in Franchesca. My mom apparently was going for a queenliness theme. I'm Lev. After Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy. You know the War and Peace guy. I know who Tolstoy is. Yeah? Yeah. My father, an avid reader he was one of his heroes. I guess our parents made their mark, eh? I guess so. Hey. Lev, sir. How are you? Thanks for grabbing me. Do you have your papers in tact? I got the hook up with the DMV guy. Everything is all taken care of. Cool. What is this shit we're listening to? This is fun, no don't touch that, turn it up. No, no, no, that's just.. This is stuff I've been playing with, and still a work in progress. Goddamn it, stop with that mantra already, bro. Fuck man, you got mad skills, and I'm sick of talking about it. I'm going to meet Charlie Nash's manager in New York. Fuckin' a, Charlie King Nash, man. He's got a new album, I'm trying to get him to produce it here in L.A. I love Charlie Nash, the guy is genuine. His last album was a piece of shit, he needs a fresh approach, so you know I'm thinking electronic fusion, maybe? Why don't you drop off a master of this and some of your other beats and let me see if I can get you on the album with Charlie. Don't be insane, man. Bro, I wanna help you, alright? And I think your shit and fucking Charlie's shit put together would probably be the fucking shit. Whoa, you really made the effort, huh? Oh that's my friend does A&R for a record label. Thank you. I drive this client on the... when they're in town. You're not a dream. You're real. You're real. My head hurts so bad. How bad was I last night? You were... epic. Epic, oh jeez. Did we have sex? What? I don't remember. I'm sorry. Come on. It must not have been very good. I'm just kidding. No, no, you heal me. Don't roll away from me. What's that from? Battle wounds? My upbringing wasn't all hugs and kisses. Ok we don't have to talk about it, I'm going to detour from that subject, alright? What do you want to do today? We can do anything you want. Let's get up and... let's change the world. First, I need aspirin, then we can change the world. I can be like a traveling store and I can sell things on the road, so if I wanna go to Oklahoma tomorrow, I can go to Oklahoma tomorrow and sell all these things that I collect from around the world. The more money I make the more expensive things I could buy and the more money I can make. You wanna be a gypsy? I wanna be a gypsy. I am kind of a gypsy. What are you doing? I'm just trying to get to know you better. You don't know me at all, we just fucked a couple of times and you just cleaned my kitchen? Yeah. Yeah what, I didn't ask you to do that. Come on... It was inhuman in there. I don't need you to come into my house and judge me, I actually don't need you to come here at all. I'm not judging you Frankie. Look, I don't normally do things like this, alright? But you gotta admit it's pretty curious that the rest of the whole house is a fucking mess and this room is like a shrine. So now I'm crazy and I'm a mess? You got a perfectly good bed here, you sleep in the living room. This is non of your business, by the way. Just get out! Get out of my fucking house! Oh, alright. You got some damage. Hi! That's a cool bike, huh? It doesn't work. Well I can fix it for you. Does your mom have 15 bucks? Come on, let's go Shane. I've been talking to his manager about you, I even played her some of your stuff. You played the old stuff? Or did you play the new... I wanted you to play... I know, I know, but the manager she loved it alright she gets where I'm coming from. She says Charlie is ready for a change. I mean the next step is we need to get you two together. Alright. Frankie! In Vino Veritas. Come to make my day, huh? A woman works up a mean thirst yard-selling don't you? Easy there Sparkie, have a heart. Nah... no. Oh don't freeze me out. I'm not freezing you out, I'm just not in the mood. I'm wearing my lucky astrology mood-tickler to diddle your skittle darling. Oh, those lines don't work on me. You're about as much fun as watching paint dry aren't you? It's like old times, huh? Hi! I missed you. We have a guest. Do you want a glass of wine or something? This is Lev. Spencer. Come sit down. Cat got your tongue? Come sit down. This guy is creeping me out. You creeping me out there chief. You alright with this guy? Yeah. What are you doing? Sit down. I think I'm a... third-wheeling on out of here. No don't go. Yeah... yeah. Alright darlin'. I'm gonna catch the next bar out of here. Good night to you man. Right, be careful of her heart. Don't blow it. Frankie. Frankie, I just want to talk to you. Frankie, I just came here to talk you. Come on and open the door, okay? What are you doing in there, Frankie? What are you doing in there, Frankie? Open the fucking door, open the door. No! Open this fucking door! Stop! Just wanna talk to you. Get out! Get the fuck out of my life! Calm down. You calm down. Hey Frankie I gotta get that van back. Is this going? What are we doing with this thing here? I'm sorry I'm just... We took vows and shit it's just... Suppose to be forever and ever and ever, and that's bullshit. You look happy. Why don't you keep it? Get a new frame for it. This going, this one? Can we try it over there? But don't block the window. I don't think it looks right anywhere. It would look right in my uncle's mechanic shop. Are you just going to sit here and tell me what to do? That's nice. Like this? Yeah the look just like that. Ok and then just lower a little bit. Kind of just like casual like that? Nice! Good smile! Let's bring the rifle in. You got one that's not came like that? Just kind of a ruger normal style? No. I don't know Billie, what do you think? I kind of prefer like this, this is an old Dobro work of art. Yeah let's nix the rifle just keep the guitar, ok? It's like what if there is a school shooting, you know, and picture me standing there with a goddamn gun in my hand, is that alright? Yeah that's fine. That went well. Sure did, and we're gonna make the airport in time. Hey Hey Sonnie! It's kind of painless. Alright, so the limo is waiting for you upfront. I booked that house that you like that you stayed in last time. Oh that's a good one yeah. Please Charlie... Stay sober, huh? I will, I will. Did you check out that music I sent you? I'll get around to it I promise. It's an important one, baby. So sorry I'm late, the traffic was crazy. I'm so ready to go out, the toilet overflowed today, I was up to my elbows in your shit and my shit. It was fucking disgusting! I can't wait to get out of here. What? Let's go. I just thought you would wear a dress. Are you serious? Yeah. Fuck off! Charlie, it's Ronnie, Ronnie Mullen, Pure records. Oh, the label guy. Good to see you again, hi. This is Lev, he's gonna spend a little time with you in the studio. So what's your instrument? I give them all equal love. So you're like a Marxist, huh? I like firearms myself, you know just line 'em up, take 'em out one by one. It's the American way. Yeah, that's it. What's this? You got a camera crew following you? Yeah, they're doing some you know diddly bob on me. Terry directing Charlie King Nash's come back. Oh, excellent nice to meet you, yeah. Is that Kitty? Hi how are you? Sorry, these are friends of Kitty too. Good to be back. Hey Frankie. Fuck off. Nice to meet you. You shouldn't have brought me here. What happened with that guy? That's the guy. Lev, Fuck! And also a Nazi yes, however he is the messiah at the same time. Do you want to fucking die?! Try to fuck me now, you piece of shit! I should slit your fucking balls off! Try to fuck me now! Get the fuck off me, fucking asshole! You fucking piece of shit! Get the fuck out of here man! Damn, man. Not ten minutes ago I would not have said that was gonna happen here, you know what I'm saying, shit. Whoa whoa, fuckin' a, you guys alright? What the hell just happened in there, what was that? Bitch, slut whore! I should fucking slit your fucking throat you piece of shit! Alright, alright, alright he's gone. I'm fine, get the fuck off. I hope it doesn't blow the deal off with Charlie. Fuck that. You alright? That was crazy. Man I've seen some bar brawls, but that was some Rambo-Tarzan shit. Make sure you're alright for the studio. Bring some of that fire, huh? Catch you later man. Cool. Here, you dropped that. Well that's good. I'm going from the top again Lev, ok? Alright, just try to hear that click track. Maybe just bring it down a bit, it's just so in my head. Do you know what I mean? Understood, understood. Just try to listen to it. Charlie, Charlie stop. Alright man, shit. Why don't we just slow it down a little bit Charlie It should, the tempo should be... Ok, ok I got it, yeah I got it. I'm a bit of a study in contradictions. I fought for peace, I was an atheist, I found God, if you can drink it, snort it, fuck it, whatever, I've been hooked on it. I have kids everywhere, three ex-wives, but you know, so on my ranch, I can breathe and I can think, but here is where my heart is. My spirit, you know, cause I'm doing my thing. Making magic. That you've certainly done today, my friend. Thank you, hey... Lev, so what did you think? Good, getting some ideas. Just need some time to experiment. You got the studio for months, you got a lot of time to work voodoo shit, huh? Make my lyrics shine, make 'em pop. Yeah, are you going to rewrite any of the lyrics? You're fucking with me man. Ha ha ha oh shit, son of a bitch. Man, you're dry baby I can't read you. I don't know you good enough yet. Good, you got me, you got me. Hello. Hi babe. I'm making Indian food for us. I'll be home soon I promise. Hurry up, alright? Hey champ. Hey. I love you, bye. Pretty glamorous, huh? Yeah, can't get enough of the paparazzi. Be careful what you wish for. Here you are, hi Lev, Stadler, Waldorf. Charlie wants to hang out, by the way. So we gotta get to The Standard because he's gonna get us free drinks. I gotta go home. Oh come on, dude, wrong approach. One drink. Alright one drink, one drink. One drink! I'm not even gonna feel sorry for you. Fair enough. There's food on the stove, I already had some. I'll make you a plate. You know this reminds me of my parents. My mother she always cooked. Yeah? She didn't know how to do it, but it was always made with love, you know? How come you don't talk to your parents anymore? You're looking at me like I'm a ghost. Charlie please, please just stop just start What?! You're coming in a little bit too fast, right at the top of the verse there, ok? So why don't you bring it back, we'll do it again. Alright, you ready? Alright give me a second. One, two... Alright here we go. Cut, Charlie... You're doing the same thing every time. You're just not getting it right, I mean the song is hard enough to listen to. Is that on your end or my end, man, 'cause it felt fine. You're coming in too fast. Right at the top of the verse there, ok? So why don't you just bring it back we'll do it again. So what's it like to be working with a living legend, man? Excuse me? Charlie. Can you do me a favor? Don't film me. What's your problem, motherfucker? You want the sound to stand out, right? You have to do it right. Listen dude, I've been playing music since before you were fucking born. Hell I was singing country western before I was even fucking born, when I was in my mama's belly my daddy was playing the guitar to sooth her country, rockabilly, rock n roll, folk, gospel, man I fuckin' played it all and I fuckin' played with everyone! So you sit there you little fucking snot nose California fucking hippie, and tell me Charlie King Nash how to play my fucking guitar and how to hit my notes right! You know what... I'm... I'm hungry, are you hungry? He's righteous. I'm gonna piss. I'm gonna join you. Oh man, you alright? God, whoo! Damn I have not been this drunk since 1994, man. Fucking Johnny Cash, right? The king, man. I've never played with him. I met the man once, backstage in 'Austin City Limits' before my show, right, and we're talking about this and that, right before I went on stage Johnny says to me, he says something that really stuck with me, he said, "Charlie, build on your failures, "you use them as stepping stones, "you shut the door on the past, "you don't forget your mistakes, "but you don't dwell on them, "you don't give 'em time, "you don't give 'em space, "you don't give 'em energy. " And you were motherfuckin' right, Lev. My lyrics are shit, there may have been some truth to them 10, fucking 25 years ago, but man I've been in that frame of mind way too long. I just let it consume me, you know, just feeling sorry for myself. I grew up loving your music man. Thanks brother. You did me a service taking me here tonight. Yeah. Woo! That was truth in there man thank you! I have not felt this alive in years! Holy shit it's Charlie King Nash. Hey Charlie! Charlie! Rock and roll Charlie! Are you alright? What the fuck, man? No, it's cool man. Take your friend go fucking down the street. It's alright man, it's alright. You're lucky we don't sue your fucking ass. Hey, sleep on this, bitch! Right there, fucking sit on it and sleep on it motherfucker. Hey. Wow! In all seriousness everybody has a drink? I want to propose a toast to this young prodigy who I like to call the California kid. Who has retaught this old dog that it's always important to just be real, be honest, be truthful. To Lev! To Lev! Real talent. I wanna hear some of the stuff already. Yeah well we gonna hold back on that for a second. She's got spunk, I really like her. I bet you do. What's with the cynicism? Your friend's really happy with her. He's a nervous wreck and she's a fucking train wreck waiting to happen, look at her. Just pull up till you see this car right here. Why are we gonna stop? 'Cause I want... it's just takes two minutes. Just pull in. Park right here, yeah right here. I think we should just go home. Look, you stay in the car, and you keep your eye out for cops, because they're always in this parking lot, and they always try and fuck with me. Oh babe look at this lamp, this is amazing. This will be great in your home studio that we build, right? Yeah, does it work? I don't know if it works, that's why we take it home and we plug it in, we put a light bulb in and if you don't like it then I would just sell it. Oh my god, who would give a chair like this away? Babe look at that chair. Babe look at this chair. Why do you need all this garbage in your life? It's not garbage, and I can fix it. This gives me something to do when I'm feeling lonely. Oh you're lonely. I'm right here. See that took two minutes. And it made me happy. I love you. Baby, I'm so mad at you right now. Let's get a drink. No, I, no, no. Bye everyone! Let's go somewhere today. Let's just get in the car and drive. Hi babe. Hi. How was your day? Good, really good. Where are the smokes? There was a whole pack of cigarettes. I threw them away. Frankie, I'm having a really hard day. Ok, I.. Ronnie and Charlie are just... I'm just not in the mood for pranks, alright? So where are the cigarettes. I'm not, it's not a prank. They're in the garbage can. Here? Why did you do that? Oh, what? What did you do with all this alcohol? I drained it. You drunk? No. You just been drinking all day? No, fuck you! No I put it down the kitchen sink. There was a whole bottle of sixty year old single malt in there. Yeah I know that. I'm pregnant. We're pregnant. You know what, it's weird for me too, ok? Hold on, hang on. Tell me that again, just say it, say it. Start over, start over. Start over? You heard me I said I was pregnant. Oh god. You know what you're being really insensitive. We're having a baby? Yeah. We're having a baby?! Yes. We're having a baby? Yeah. We're having a fucking baby! You see I told you that the husbands come. We should invite Ronnie and Sadie over and I'll cook us dinner one of these days. Maybe. He's your best friend, right? Yeah. You see, see, see? There's the shape of it right there. Still a little too tiny to actually make out all the organs. Ok, everything looks terrific. Make sure you don't forget to take your prenatals. See you in six weeks. But you like miss drinking like wine or anything? I mean you can't have wine right? No, I'm third trimester. You really can? Just one Really? Yeah, but it's probably not going to do anything so... Game was fucking close, I was just sweating bullets just staring at the fucking faggot in the corner. If the Lakers were gonna lose I was gonna fucking beat his ass. The hormones do do things to you. Well your couscous is amazing. It makes me look like a genius, it's really easy. Will you write it down for me, I'll make it. Wait a minute, you're gonna write it down? You've never cooked a goddamn thing in your life. You're done? Thanks babe. Yeah I'm done. You sure? I'm going to go and see if he needs some help. Thank you. You're from Pittsburgh too? No, I'm born and raised in the west coast. Oh, I thought you guys met in Pittsburgh. No I met Lev when we were 10, middle school. I didn't know that he had moved here, actually. You don't really know much about Lev do you? No it just, we don't really talk about it. I understand why Lev would talk about it he's just not a chatty guy but you seem pretty open. What's that supposed to mean? I don't know, you should know what's in your closet. You enjoying your wine? Yes I am, you enjoying your water? I am. Very good. Hey, I can put this out. No no no just blow in the other direction that's fine. I could totally use a cigarette and a stiff drink right now. Don't worry about it, you and Lev are gonna pull through this, and have an amazing looking baby. So, I ran into Bobby Levine yesterday morning at the coffee shop. Remember Bobby? Mandy's little brother. She's married now, did you know that? Life moves on, huh? Yeah. Everything keeps changing. That's pretty big news. Why are you bringing that up right now? Well you know Mandy scarred you. Mandy is a different story man, I mean... I'm just looking out for your interests. That's it. Oh my interest? Look man, me and Frankie are having a baby. I'm gonna be a father. Do you have any idea what that means? Alright let's get the fuck out of here, I gotta take a dump. Thank you Lev. Bye Ronnie. Yeah, right let's split. He was drunk, obviously. You never told me that you grew up here. That's because we agreed to keep it in the present. Yeah well, things are changing. Nice strong heartbeat. Is that the heart? Yeah, see? Everything looks terrific. Are you and what was his name, Lev, right? Are you doing Lamaze? No, he hasn't had time to. You know what a lot of couples have their problems but you could consider maybe doing it with a relative or a really good friend, people find it very helpful. I will see you in four weeks, alright? I kind of had a similar one here but it really made no sense at the end, "Let me taste the blood "of broken hearts and busted lips, "Let me sweep the floor, clean the glasses, count the tips. " Kind of like closing out at the end of the line. That's not bad, that's... More what you were talking about, right? It's pretty good. Well it's getting there. Hello? Hey Billie. Charlie is that you? It's me, yeah. What time is it, how you doing? Hey did you get that email I sent you? I stuck some song in there, I attached one of them mp3 files. So what did you think? I'm thinking that we have a release date next week, and I'm thinking that you're about to lose the ranch if you don't make your mortgage payments. It's great out here I'm writing real good, you know I feel really free. I feel real good, I feel I don't know maybe it's just like I'm not so lonely anymore you know? Are you drinking Charlie? Oh hey, Lev, I wanted you to meet Eugene. What's going on, Lev? That's the kid that's been tinkering with the music and screwing it up? Lev. Five months I have worked on that fucking shit to make it, to make it right. And now what? I fucked up? No, you didn't fuck up, I like what you did. Oh you liked it. You fucking set there like a cheerleader bobbing your head, man. Look, Charlie has creative control. It's out of my hands, there's nothing I can do about it, man. Fucking bullshit man, that's such fucking bullshit Look you're still getting paid the same and I think you guys can work together. Fuck you! No don't go there man... No fuck you man, you have no fucking morals! I don't have fucking morals, yeah ok, alright, so fucking push me, why don't you punch me cause that's how you deal with things, 'cause you have daddy issues! Go ahead! Man, I don't know how to fucking help you man. Lev. Talk to me. Fuck you Charlie. Are you sure you don't want to go to the record release? Sadie called and invited us, I'll go with you. No. Okay. So sad. I'm gonna sit the fat lady over here, to cheer you up. Don't worry babe, I'm gonna find something else. I know. Maybe I can get a part time job. We'll be okay. Kim Rose? Hi. This way. Excuse me ma'am. I have an appointment with my girlfriend, at 1 What's her name? It's Frankie. Oh she's already inside, you can go in through the door, 501. Thank you. Hey, what's going on? You're going to need to make an appointment as soon as possible for this procedure. You have to have it removed. Yeah, I need to make an appointment. Hi sweetie, I want you to count back starting from 5. No, no, don't. You want something? Want some green tea? Maybe a glass of wine? I wanna have a party. It's been a long day. Yeah, I want to sit here for just a little bit. Lev. Very good. Ok I see you have driver's license, I see you have experience, very good, that's very good. I need to know, do you have any issues, second job, family issues, kids, something? Just put me behind the wheel and I drive. Sorry, but I smell cigarettes. Can I have one, do you mind? Hey, babe. Hey these vamps got us pure m.d.m.a. You got to try this. Yo beat beat would you? Come on Annie. Fuck. Get out! Frances why the long face? You gotta try this, woman. Frances. The hairy eyeball doesn't become you woman. This is pure m.d.m.a. Well you just got evil to the core didn't you? You got evil vibes just oozing out of you, don't you woman? Hey, there's something sinister about you. Come on Frances, what is it? Just say one word that actually means something, try it. You're a man of words, try it. Oh, but you're a lover and a fighter, aren't you? You're a beautiful loser like me. You're a meliorist. Do you know what a meliorist is? It's a compliment. It's a... You're a glass half full. You know. You're an upstart you know? You got moxie kid. Unlike me who's just a... I'm just a cover act you know. I'm just a bottom feeder. Just a... Just a fucking phony. You know, I was never there for you. I'm not there for you now. Never been there for you. I don't give two shits about you. I do, but I don't you know? It's just the next piece of tail you know? You can't sleep here. Is that okay? Yeah. Oh, no, no. You definitely can't smoke in the house. I know that's funny. But do you wanna go again? Hmm? Daddy! Baby hi, hi, shh shhhh... I put sugar in it! I can't taste it! Please, calm down, the doctor said... I make the decisions in this house Anna. Put in more sugar and add more cream. I'll get you another cup. I'm Frankie and I'm an alcoholic. Hi Frankie. Hi. Yeah I... The past four weeks have been the hardest time in my life. And... I really had to face myself and realized I have a long way to go. I grew up in Seattle and my mom left. And my dad's hobby was getting married in between drinks. So... I tried for awhile to get his attention. At fifteen I just realized that it was probably better if I just drifted away. And I was partying a lot. The void requires an infinite amount of hard liquor. The whole time I was drifting, I kept thinking that... One day I would... Show up at the grocery store and buy a milk carton, and my picture would be right on there, or walk by a grocery store and my picture will be taped up on there you know like those missing kids. I kept thinking that somebody was maybe looking for me, but they weren't, and... I guess parents don't have it as figured out as we think they do, they're just people, and you can't blame them, but it's my choice to change so... This next song is about dealing with personal demons, and I always like putting it on the road because I always think kind of you know the road inside you and the road within and without. Well I'll let the song do the talking. And we certainly will Charlie. Here is 'Old Trucker' Charlie King Nash's first single from his new album here on KCRX radio. Why you don't have a suit? I quit. Eight g's man, eight g's. I thought we said eight and half? Oh man, you know, this gear's kind of old, I need to update it, audio software and all kinds of crazy stuff, you know what I'm saying? Man I love the place man. I tried to get an apartment here man. When I came here it was crazy, Some lady jumped out of this window, I'm pretty sure it's this apartment. Are you tight with the landlord man? Maybe he'll give me your spot? Just give me a call. Woah, wait hold this for a second. Woah man, what's up with that bike man? What's up with this bike? You wanna sell this bike? I can't, I can't sell the bike man, no. Come on man, 150, 150. I'll go to the atm right now. It's not for sale, here, here you go. Alright man. This is me. Just staying with some friends for a little bit. You should take the bike. No... no... I... I don't know if I can keep it with them so... I'm leaving for awhile. Where are you going? I don't know. Sounds like a good plan. I think you should come with me. I got to work tomorrow. I'll be around. Alright. I'll see you.
