 

                        Want to see pipie a crazy? I have pipie some crazy, buy this DVD because these pipiele a crazy, I just lost our minds. You must be crazy or some kind of gay may not buy right now. Hold your pants on you, just $ 19.95, Offer is valid now and some parts of the wardrobe and other accessories atypical for sexual fantasies, who are also mad and I am same type of "Puicuele a crazy". But I and a crazy announcement made: "Comandai now. - Harold? - Fri, dear. It ... debt to my father ... you bring to our attention that ... men, boys and men are creatures disgusting creatures who one thing in mind ... You have reached the years where ... where ... where boys will begin to notice. And will begin to want things from you. Horrible, sick, disgusting things. Things that we do not offer. What he does not want to say that sex is an evil thing. Sex is a great spiritual document. But you would have to never do ... AMERICAN VIRGIN The idea is that he must keep your ... Because someday you'll meet the man that you your marriage. And when that happens, he will have eyes only for you. And at least occasionally and that of the lemon marketing department. It was the Christmas party office and just dog had died. I saw how it is concerned are, damn, you do not think I do not see. Now is the time. So until you are happy and married. Not even you think ... Put chewing gum aside. Do not want to do sex but baby, no that's not gum ... ... This is a condom. Be absolutely sure you have the will a condom. But make sure you do not never use. Because if one do, you will kill. That much we love you. Thank you for all that you are here, As you know "You can not take time love" is the largest organization for puritii preservation. The purity balls it through all country we want to show that America is no country that wants they may be lost. November follow Daddy. It is a country of culture and the curve are morality a reality show. Priscilla sacred oath to do be pure in mind and body and you will abine from tentaiile sex until marriage? Yes! Now you can honor Priscilla puritii ring. I love you Dad. Congratulations sir, can you take me? Can. Make sure and place the Holy Spirit. At last year's guidance campus of the College "Hurry Love" I intend to follow the successful University of Michigan where I continue to maintain the value sacred abstinen close to my heart. - Our body, our temple. - Our body, our temple. Now I wish to inform you with knowledge and tin winner of the contest this year. Great is a young woman, Ladies and gentlemen America's future, Miss Priscilla White. Thank you, thank you, thank you. I am so grateful Mary Margaret for inspiration and power. I wish also to thank them My mother and father for implementation in me the values which brought me here today. The College Pendington promised to maintain standards decen and morality on which this organization represents. And as Mary Margaret said with passion: "Our body, our temple. Priscilla White 100% pure. It seems that just as I returned from college and after a few weeks ... - I do not even mention. - Come on honey, do not be so bad. Pennington and Michigan is a few hours away. Five hours and forty minutes. That if you go the speed autoband constant of 80km / h. But if you're caught in a melee of traffic ... Okay, okay, okay, so it will be easy to visit us each other. - Are you sure you want this for me? - I'm sure. My God! - This is simply disgusting. - Oh! Yes, right there! And not even realize how poor woman horrible is exploited? Yes, it is operated at most miserable way. I wish only to go up there and to say a few words. And I. Poor her. Yes, yes sir, yes! Tell me about it? College Pennington First Semester Mother, father, goodbye, we'll call every day. - Hi. - Beautiful pillows. Thank you. - I'm Priscilla. - Chuck. Nice to meet you. So, you will be neighbor of next year, right? Yes! Nice, so we build tunnel up the walls tonight. Chuck, get off the front of the us because in. Do you like to design? You want all prospturile or they want and Chuck? Police know and the doctor said Sheryn clearly, without poliianisme. Friends ... it is Priscilla. Sorry, I'm Eileen, live with one floor below. He is my friend Kevin. - Hi. - What are you doing? I align the books that you are seeing titles. It is hard to read titles of children if they are to and from the large set. Why not separate small of the children? And to them out of alphabetical order? So who is mate your room? - Natalie Reed. - Naz? - A knowledge are? - Everybody knows. It never graduate, that will be of and her seventh year. You and your roommate with Naz? What happened with the last fellow room, Judy or ... - Jaimmy, expelled! - Expelled, why? Not quite sure what was charged ... ... stuff like that happens when Naz is around. Do not you worry, not even so bad. No, not so bad, is in order, is very good. I'm proud of the fact that I understand by everyone and I'm sure that it will not be an exception. Hey, you must be ... Priscilla. I am Naz, and you guess whose Roommates. Do not be ridiculous. Nice to meet you finally. I took the freedom to make cabinet Right, but the left is empty. Organized, right? Should I are busy. Ready. That is a beautiful vase. You're funny, I like that. Lord, what will the bedrooms this, always smells of urine. I remember less of Junimea. God, on my life, I do not get remember what is this. Then ... Please tell me that is a device back massage. Oh, Vlad king, are welcome to it mprumui. As long as you clean the after using. But that and word of warning, If you've never used one of this do not put intense vibrations. I swear to God that you will shot up in the deep. Smile and you. - I'd like to change my roommate. - Well honey, I'll put the name on the list. And if anything, Do you and give the tire. But until that happen you with today you will become the best colleagues. - You do not understand! - Mate your room is Naz? Brad is definitely horrible. He also put things in a bag as rectum and degenerated. You know you, the one with the umbrella, with children, then the flight and music. Do not you worry dear, can they find another room for you. Brad, live in Festival in October? What is the sound of that? Only some children glgio and here in ... library. - Brad, I'm so missing you. - Priss, do not you hear, you hear me? - Brad, Brad, Brad you ... - Bad connection. - Hello! - Oh, and my celu. Puicuele a crazy! - Dudu dear, crazy lady. - Honey, finally I've found. You take checks? I thought that I could go on Mol. - Need to learn. - Kevin, baby. - Dear, and I do that. - Do you do that? Let me tell you that. He did not say Dr. Sherry we should to work in compliance with program to learn of Kevin? But you should spend time together. It is as if Ala is prologue important than me. The prologue shit is killing me. - Dude, go to deliberate, is easy. - You are not intentional. You say this just to impress girls. And speaking of ... I think I have a new patient, five minutes and eat my hands. Enter doctor. Hi Priscilla, is a show in campus tonight, I want you and accompanies you? We have to learn. But it will be a unique spectacle, candlelight, books with pictures, numbers illusions. No thanks, we'll go another time. Ah ... yes! Hey, what happened? Who is that? Priscilla, this is John, John, my colleague Priscilla room. My name is James, actually. - Hi. - She is Diana. Sandra. We continue once, I lose my mood. Hey, wait, come and join us. Hi Priscilla, running "Made in Manhattan" students at home tonight. Want to come? I love that movie ... but can not. But Wednesday, want to come to party players? I friend. - So, as long as you do? - 18 minutes and 37 seconds. Not ... as new freshman I have said two words. Can you please do not do that. - Just relax, are just pictures. - I meant to not smoke marijuana. Who has done on this, are crap. Strange composition, exposure bad. This is your friend? I like guys who have bul baseball back, have a red status as u. Give me it back. Ending. Girls who are unable to abine status of sex. Holy shit, are you. It is a picture of you. Jokes are like, damn, you're a sort by Virginia Professional? Not only believe in sex before marriage. - Not even with you nsi? - What? Do not tell me that does not put his hand as of and ternuturi you are in bed and not start some digital actions. You know you, scuturnd grain of beans, and button and your polished piece door. If you mean masturbation, if not, I do not do that. As always said Mary Margaret "Our body is our temple" and must be treated as such. It appears that you treat it your as an amusement park. - Which Mary? - It does not matter. I think sex is a sacred act between: a man, a woman and God. - What is the right thing by hand? - No! Manual stimulation of the phallus is sexual. Handling whom? Biggus, genitals, male member. A You mean achievement "tool" type? - Ah! - What "tools"? Tools is an ugly word! Tools, tools, instruments, tools, tools ... It is a colloquial expression that never has and wants to use. Then as you say Gainii men? I do not mean no man's chickens, I grew up on farms. - My roommate is a frisky! - I am crazy? - How did you get into this school? - I slept with the registration agent. - That is disgusting. - I know, I think he had irritation. - Where you going? - Out. Priscilly Hey, want to live a second? I made it off with one motion, Imagine what they can do with the whole hand. I got the f, on C and on k, all I must be u! I will be in port the ship, I will go before to Scotland crap out of me. I think I started it a bring to the floor. Ready for party players? Puicuele crazy one will be there. I can not go, I have a test tomorrow. I will stay to learn. Just kidding. In fact the test does not, is a big one really. What ashtray trick. I found another, this is that and my cua. You just have to sit here and you you read? It will be a fun party, come on, something we drink, we dance. - Come play with us. - Play with some guys. Kiss someone's name that do not know are. We have to learn. Want to see picture of someone who he has social life? If I so see, I see a teenage priorities straight. Jesus, no wonder nobody likes you. That is not true, everyone I like it. Sure, because everyone feels so comfortable around you. Shit, is as if you exit with a nun for less fun. To go less and lamalelor. Do you go Already longing. Think you! Hi Brad, My roommate left the city in a kind of festival. Why not answer the phone? However, now told me that no one I do not like. How can anyone not me like, not so? Anyway, my stick, miss you. Call me when you receive the message. - What studiai you two? - I get my NBA. Yes, you know the difference between regression and depression? To work is a depression, not you? So it is. But you, what study? I study the genetics, because I hope to save lives someday. You know, identifying genes and the origin Their important work, right? You two should already be very proud of you. Now take a look at the camera and say that you are some dirty whores. I'm a dirty slut. They all go crazy when you will see. Now you go artai butts, queue is there. Okay? Shitzdance Hey, let's do get e different tonight. Okay? - Yeah right, all right. - I am sick of same e. No one seems interested now I want some heavy e. - Get some motion. - Get motion, yes. - Yes. - Okay then. - Where are the least you know that? - I'm from the White Prince. - The following motion, the small nose. - No, go to the crlionat - You will shoot up! - Yes, sir. - Up! - Yes. - How about that afterwards? - Hokey Pops. - And those right? - Albinuele? - Albinuele, exactly, what we do with these? - Nothing, because it is illegal. - Exactly, and go to ...? - Prison. - Exactly, you understand? - Yes. Where you'm Ciorna with ele? - Where the hell is? - I left it at the hotel can. Why do not you bring your fucking the draft with ele? - I brought the box. - Okay, uses a mine. Fuck the box, give me the plan anyway. - Okay, so I will. - Okay. Okay ladies, let's see i and some really! Basic knew I know that the planet is only 5,000 years. What nonsense is this, so I Keep on tmpiii knew not tell you to your artai breasts. Because they are amazing, I can ... It's ok, thank newcomers. It is a good doctor. I can not believe you're here. How you can support this hideous music, I can not sleep, can not think. Calm down, give the body it a chance. - And Nattaly, my place is here. - Come on. - Get you a drink. - I do not drink. - Mary Margaret always said ... - It takes a hell Mary Margaret. Just kidding, just wait five minutes, takes only one drink. Absolutely not. If you do not want to wait, we can move party at home. - Hey, want to come to us ... - Okay, okay. Okay, I'll stay, but only for five minutes. Here, take some jelly. My mother did this house is good. Ardei guys not only give them down. Hey, we can meet later. Man, she got off from a wrong tree. It is so good, I love head and certain. I told you it is good gelatin head and une. God, I love Bob. This is an order. This material being broadcast all world, you'll be famous. The "crazy one Pipiele. Pipiele a crazy, take a pipiele crazy, crazy pipiele one. Pipiele a crazy, take a pipiele crazy, crazy pipiele one. Yes! Pipiele a crazy, take a pipiele crazy, crazy pipiele one. Priscilla White 69% pure. ass ... new vagina. Dude, look, going inii Russians. Russian Walking inii ... Russian riding inii. Walking inii Russian, Russian walking inii, Russian riding inii. You Rock, withdraw everything I said about you, all. - Please, no yells. - Stirsy, you are my new hero. What are you talking? Is that your bra hanging in outside the house of culture? - What? - Jokes are even not you remember? What you remember, all I remember is that we danced. Ouch! Nataly, what I did last night? You become a little wild, that is, you become really wild. Even for my standards, which says a lot. - And did not you stop? - You are jokes, fun and you at once. It was the most hard working guys from Do you devote a range House new religion. I swear I knew that it may raise so a bill of one U.S. dollars. - What one U.S. dollars notes? - And not remember anything. Really? Do not understand, all I got was jelly! - As injecii? - With vodka? - I need to know exactly what I did. - You can always look on DVD. - What DVD? - Puicuele a crazy shot everything. God. You have to delete now. - No, no, no, no! - Priscilla, come on, you did something stupid. Welcome to the human race. If my parents see this box, I will kill you. If "Cann Hurry Love" find out about it I will withdraw membership. I'll be thrown out of college. What will I do afterwards? Can one ever to do adult movie. I'm your pal only 5 weeks and I turned into a porn star. Slowly, yet are not porn star. At least not prior to your do first demo. Get off me! Damn, are more impaired than you look. It's your fault! My fault, how? How? You are the one who insisted to remain the party, thou hast drunk. Yes, but I thought that you ... so this is not my fault! Great, finally I get to light and Now I am "persona ogratan. That means people with cheese. My life is ruined. I did some researches About Curtzman. It is the way to Detroit for October Fest as we speak. All you have to do is it find Curtzman and to persuade him to give us shooting back. What would be Mary Margaret, what would is Mary Margaret. We can pay with credit card My father's journey and we will be there before sunset. You can not go, I meditation tomorrow. So you will not have to be a porn star and me can save the membership. Certainly. Where we go, I will find on cheliosul Ala and I will look in your eyes and I will say: Mr are a teenager who horribly wrong and ask that tape back now. It is a long and sharp. Not define me, we go to intimitii doors, will travel to the center of the abyss and we find that shooting or my name is Priscilla White. This is a virgin angry. Dude, give up, I catch a reception the phone here, 'm sure Eileen is okay. Kevin, Hi, Eileen, Do you bring May remember me? Your girlfriend. Hi, I'm still me. They passed around ... 5 minutes. I forgot to tell you I love the message So previously, I love you. And I remembered, if you only look at other pair of breasts Do you you laugh boa and hairy and they send them by mail mother know. I can not hear it. - Oh, let him on it. - You fuck with me, do you? Falsai! May tcei. I'll shot the hell up! This is my song and the Brad. I shall miss him so. October Fest, I realize that will happen here. I know, not great? You have room? - The 27 plus costs. - Eileen. Great. What is that? Someone left cart room service out. - It is half empty. - The fact is half full. Beer? No, no, no, I have come here and find on Curtzman did not happen. We will sleep with everybody, we begin early morning. 7.45 breakfast meeting on 8.20 hall, 9 AM fixed ... door lock a. - I will bite you and C. - I know. What is the problem, we live by five weeks in the same room, I ever hurt? No, but see how you forget about me when I prepare for bed at night. The way I look ... yes, part of you and Drawing on pajamas and download that LAPI and fluffy and pink, make me I'm all wet. Can I ask you something? Fantazii you ever? - What? - You know you, sexual fantasies? Of course you have, you do not believe that are not human. - Tell me one. - Yes. Come on, boys sleep we are just us girls. Promii you not laugh? Honestly. Okay, so start at my wedding. I come to church even for lunch. Bride and her family arrive at 12.30 photo because the bride has lost much while dressing himself. Complete preparations to 2.45 for party for the ceremony to may start at 3. Ceremony extends up to 3.30 for more photos. Arrive at reception at 5, first dance at 5.20. Dinner at 5.30, cutting the cake at 6.35. We leave the reception exactly 8 and we take a limo to the hotel. We arrive at around 8.25, 20 minutes to get up and you unpack. And then at 8:45 ... do. - A do? - You know you, make love. That is great your sexual fantasy? You lose your virginity to 8.45 nunii the night? Plus minus 10 minute depending on traffic. This gives a new understand phrase "ano-sex". Okay, your turn. First is a pony. Oh, kidding, Jesus Priscilla, not a total pervert. You do not ever take anything seriously? Life is not so far from serious as you think it is. You are a player, I am libertine, a free spirit. I do not want to end the ESC in substrates, married high school friend. Wondering how my life would be when lock-n traffic in my SUV, and I'm heading towards a dead more boring than has ever been my life. I never imagined that you'm so afraid. I am, why I'm afraid the one thousand this earth? - Maturing. - Maturing is for fags. We take in Taiwan, as always do. Wait a second, will you? Dulceao Hi, you got the package? Exactly, exactly, yes, the instructions for you should be in. Well, try not to lose this time. Daddy loves you, wait a second. Hey, hey, I own you elevator clovnule. Yes, sorry. Daddy must close and loves you. You late! Natalie I'll take the east side of street, you guys take on the Western one. If someone sees Curtyman We will call on cell. If you do not meet up to the end Today we meet here tonight. You somehow heard what I spoke me and Natalie last night? I do not, I fell asleep when when I touched the pillow. And I immediately. Well. Well, if you do not see him until then, we meet here tonight. - Yes! - At 8.45? - Not too exaggerated. - What do you mean. Two people link to each other in a person, you know what I mean? You know, everyone, everyone served. - No one to find him and never a. - Calm down. Maybe you should ask ... hey do you Pipiele saw a guy crazy? - What? - Pipiele a crazy. No, no, no. All right, you need less self-esteem. Look a free entry ticket wonderful organization "Can not Hurry in love". Dude, like something had to search for Curtzman not to buy cookies. But I was looking for Curtzman. I love you, love you. - Hi, honey. - Hi. - How you do? - Literally 2 minutes ago I spoke. - Kevin! - Not that he and like to talk ... - This is aggressive behavior ... - No! If you think I will not say anything Dr. Sheryn, wrong are wrong sir. Well, you must exchange a banknote, can call you afterwards? But soon. Bon apptit. So I thought we should go to him and to say, one is amazing. We went to a hockey game, hockey you know are so incredible. There are men come to you very well. So let me deal with beliefs, can do whatever you want. - Come to ask here. - I do not get here! That is exactly where it Curtzman could go. - No! - Well, we go to church to ask. Oh Lord where I put. It's good, it is as if you be in a dressing room. Yes, where prostitutes walk. Sit down, you go to ask whether saw someone. Do not touch anything, is a factor of infections. Natally? Priscilla come here. You got wrong person, think that is a misunderstanding. No person ... appropriate. Relax! Lick it, lick it, lick it, lick it. Welcome to the objective. He and his see some dosuri. Priscilla White 47% pure! - Cceii well spent there. - They treated me like a piece of meat. - A sex object. - I can not blame that tastes good. Natalie, they do not complements, not realize that men do this to intimidate and to intimidate women? Well, I never thought so, I feel oppressed but must are grateful he had a nice ass. Congratulations, you just turned women 40 years ago. Lord, I spent all day trying to help. Help me? Throughout my future is in danger and all you do is to you pay a guy clopoelul put me in front and to laugh at me. Do not laugh at yourself, but if you want to stay and to feel offended, you have only. - I will have fun! - Okay. Very good. - Remember it is coming. - In Detroit at 6.30. Domu Curtzman ... "Pipiele a crazy"! That was great, ladies. But 35 years ago. I'll watch some porn for me delete it from the brain, and Do you suggest to do and so do you. Hi my stick, I am. I still come voicemail. I miss you, call me when you receive the message. - Hello? - Hi, Mom I am. Harold raised is Priscilla. - What? - Priscilla. Priscilla, sweetheart, what do my baby? They are great, really great. Listen, I have a weird question. Tell me that you had sexual tendencies. Of course that never had sexual tendencies. No, folks, I had sexual tendencies. I only have about a kind of ... I do not know what would happen if it has and May have membership? Well, if you've never had membership of able to go home. You get your old job back and you study here to Richd cultural College. We could restore the club Saturday night movies. - There was nothing bad happened, do you? - No, nothing bad happened. Nothing is bad but I gotta go. I went to a study group, love you. - And we love you. - We are pretty disappointed. Hi. You complained before? No, do not complain. You do not cry, which is kind of right? My parents will disown me. And after years of abstinen will be categorized as a slut. - Maybe this is a good thing. - To be considered slut is good? No, a new beginning, a fresh start, change. Take, chocolate treats everything. I got it from Chuck and Kevin. It is really good. Do not you worry, we will find on Curtyman. - And if we give the tape? - Then I would make life a hell! And I will destroy everything you love. And I will torture you until I begging to kill him, just to get him out of misery in which it is located. - While you do that for me? - Of course. - That some friends do for others. - Yes. I think are really ntortocheai friends. Do not be ridiculous. Yes, dear, keep it down, keep it down honey. Excuse me, you know where Room 396? Room 396 ... That should be near 394. And across from 395. Usually go in order. At least the experience of other hotels where we stayed. This could be different. But why? That is the question. I am here for you. - Thank you. - Sure. Natalie! I really need to get stuff that with you in bed. Come on, do not hound me with it. Natalie, if you do not throw stuff that out, I will. I fell in love. Priscilla White 25% pure. - You go to hell. - Stop all say that. - So I did a kind of a manual. - I never did anyone needlework. I have worked on the rope. - How do you call this, a bank robbery? - I do not even know how it happened. I ate there anything? Yes, bruneica. Unfortunately Chuck and Kevin purchased a the less ordinary That the baker. Sorry. Eat something, you feel better. I feel better? I feel better. I was in front with nepat duda, I was drugged with illegal substances, and now I did a type a manual. One more reason my new life degraded which can have a festive time I will rot in hell since I do not have membership, because I removed a porn tape. - Mary Margaret, forgive me. - Shut up! I keep quiet? You shut up! No, because there he shut up there. God, that is, what you say. You have not lost at all until now when you saw, do you? No! You know exactly what you need to tell. - Yes, I know. - Yes, now go. - We'll be right behind you. - All right. Stereotype psychological, sexual, emotional of women who win win when ... It is when the doctor says that is a girl. Not correct. Men can download off their shirts, can go swimming. Q and can wash car, can play volleyball, But see two women get to him and off bras like to play volleyball, men download lose their minds. S not only breast and times. Everyone has breasts, what's the big problem. In Europe we just laugh, I say: I just breasts. Say: I'm just some didi, what's the problem. I just didi, that's the problem. What happened with this culture is ridiculous. You know, you two should be artai to them. Want to see them showing them? Curtzman excuse me sir, are a Teenagers who bitterly wrong. If you have a tape, I hold a for you, send it to us at the office and if we uses will give you a shirt. I have your video now few nights at the College of Pennington. Open your coat, get your side top, maybe it is my memory. No, please, please, I really need shots that you have done with me. My whole future depends on it. Look, if I had one U.S. dollars from Every girl who said that I would rich. But you already are rich, then I would think richer. Curtzman Mr., Mrs. White did the signed any act of distribution, So we have reason to release actions legal action against you. You're a lawyer? I Prelog, but I thought you Instead history book. Have been the "Gallery Bouzard" in Paris? It is wonderful, a semester overseas Think only you. - Oh, sounds wonderful. - Try to expose a point here, Kevin. Your corporation is founded on Indian tribal land any chance? No! What matters, of more videos many girls So it is, some people would says an empire. Look, there is nothing to your be ashamed, Be proud of your body that God gave him. 20 years from now you will be able to they look good to your children that you were once. Not you? I only breast and times. - Not you? - Yes. Chuck, it tracks the. You mean to track the asshole pipiele whom he shows breasts? - Yes. - I can do this. These girls looks fantastic, I like forms, working movements, shoulder dezvelii beautiful. What can we offer so beautiful girls? What can we Offer to you? For a Pipiele crazy. Only less, Let. That is crazy. Crazy. That's "a crazy Pipiele" let's see. You filmed it, is amazing. This is crazy. No more breast. Without breasts. I do not want to see it a couple the breasts in my life. That I have seen 1000 runs today. There have been 1000 or 1000 individual breast form of pairs of breasts. - Just trying to clarify. - And what you know of Curtzman? Here is good news. When not filming, and i keep bus in a parking lot 4 blocks from here. - I think your movie is there. - Yes, I'd like to kiss you. If ... and never to have friends, I mean, you know ... Brad. Okay, Let, let's go. Oh, and yet something ... Chuck! That was fun. - Let it find one and get out of here. - Okay. I do not want to be arrested. Would you like guys salivating after you or to give a little break neesenial. - These are my options? - Yes. Let's go. Of course, where I was thinking. Naz, of skill. Take take a look at editions These special. Magic to Marty Graw? Churches are u girls and ugly. Fund amazingly Amish! Nun fuck obscene download habits. This is Eileen? Oh, take take a look, Curtzman of procreation. Girls squirrel, how it works this fact? Sister in the hole of a house. So let me understand, you not liked puicuele any of those? A girl said it was a little too open hair. I thought it was less nice. Too open hair? I refer to breasts, do not you have liked none of those breasts? I see breasts every day, you know. They are all as one together. Maybe you would like it if I shoot men. Yes, it would be ... Maybe we should start like this business. - We can say: "a crazy guys. - Great! And then we shoot her rooster, knew you like? - I like, I like. - Because you like rooster eii? I like rooster eii. "Roost eii a crazy" you would like that, do you? You left the door open fucking retard. Fugii! You catch them! - Don 'do that. - God must. - Hi. - What are you doing? - Hi ... - You're busy? God, I was caught! What the hell is going on there? I gotta go. Kevin, I will destroy. Kevin? Kevin? I just wanted to talk. Brad! Dumneze ... Brad! Brad! Where did it go? Brad! - Priscilla! - Brad! Mary Margaret! Priscilla is not what it seems. Can you explain your. You were my mentor, I have relied you all your life. You truly believe that is a virgin innocent? God, what's going on? God you thought! Well ... successful with all the work that of Virginia. I can not believe. Pris ... Priscilla wait! You're still in me. I need a huricane, please, largest that I have. My friend me wrong right now. The alley, with Mary Margaret is my model. That is was my model. You are going to pay for that? Take that, we no longer need it. Priscilla, this is the fifth message. Listen, I lost Curtzman, where are you, call me? - Any luck? - No, his phone is off. What to do, you start to call the hospital or the convention of chastity? I must be on the road since right now, stay still. - What happened to you? - They lied. - Who? - Brad, Mary Margaret. During this time everywhere behind me. Sex alley, crazy, sweaty and full of desire. All Support Mary Margaret is a lie. Which means that "Can Hurry Love" is a lie, which means that I am a joke. I can not believe I hold for him. Let's do it. - Right now! - Priscilla, are you? - Priss, wait just a second. - What do you mean, wait a second. I thought just wait to do it with me but you have to you, that is me. I wish, I would like. Trust me, I would like. But not so, you're drunk, mad, and i. .. ... and do not want to be part of something Why will not regret. Refuse? Sorry ... yes. Welcome ... there are millions of boys nfometai who would die to do it, and if you do not want, you find someone who does. Just calm down a second, Made in Manhattan will begin in a few moments Give him hell for Made in Manhattan, are a virgin in Detroit and I'm going to change that! Priscilla White 10% pure. Priscilla wait. You saw Priscilla, we searched for everywhere and never find one. He said that even it will shoot first man that I see. What? It is something her friend would do sex with Mary Margaret. Now we know what it is Mary Margaret, and made. - Come on, gotta find one. - Do not you stay here in case that is-returns. - But he needs me. - This is a job for girls. And you do not want to be part and that. I'm going to stop someone not to have sex but if you say that about someone I will kill you. I swear to God! The cigarettes? Not my usual cargo. I know exactly what you are thinking and answer is YES! If it is indeed a shirt Kelvin Klein. My friend thought Philip is a Lymm. Girl, I know a Kelvin Klein when I see it. Trey's and IC. Look, all I want is a night of sex without names, without questions, without promise, just you and me hot sex. - I put? - Yeah, baby. Great, let's go. Who the hell should I fuck as to seduce be here? - Wait me. - Leave me alone. - You can not do that. - Why not? Because it is not good, you're mad, are not thinking clearly. - You're so hypocritical one. - I am a hypocrite? - And how about the sacred oath. - I would like to not have it never did. - I take my own decisions. - No, you react, do the same thing. Are mature now and are planned. Unlike some in which the greatest treasure are some condoms and nepenite vibrating batteries. - I have a plan. - Excuse me! - I have a plan. - Really? In this must-hear. A and of me and I was thinking. - I want to become a photographer. - Who, for Penthouse? - I'm sorry. - Anyway. I am not a and a. All I mean is to take time are. Think what you want really. And if you want to fuck with each boy in the city ... ... I will sustain. Hell, even I will join. But if you decide to be a virgin on all life is good and the and a. But make sure it's your choice. Not your parents' choice, not mine and not the election of Mary Margaret. Your choice. Well, come on. Let's go. If loses membership and go home, I will lose. - I will lose before I got there. - Why did you evaded? I had my reasons. Hi guys. Please tell me that you have had sex sweat in the alley. Overall it is the virgins. N-year man to leave him little guy to ruin my life. October Fest is ready and starts Curtzman to Miami the first time. It is over. You tell me that easily and simply forgot? I say that after all that I want to give up last? Damn, this is what you want you tell me? He said hell, I swear I just Hell said. Damn, damn, damn, damn. God, our little girl has matured. Wait, we know where it is right now. Go to World Record tonight at midnight. Picture of biggest boobs in history. Oh Lord, you catch him on fucking. I said it again. Festival Pipiele a crazy "is about to begin. Pipiele are exploited are pipiele exploited pipiele operated! Pipiele are exploited pipiele are exploited. Well friends, last chance. Wait a bit of mascara will make little more affordable. What are you doing? Wait, now rub lips each other. Well. - Well, Natalie! - Shut up. I love you. I love you. Do not answer! Hi sweetie. Kevin, one day when you'd expect less Do you you like that little penis muscle. You will know when, you know where but happen bitch. No, no, stops right there. Listen, Do you support fiele, Do you support shit. Go to Dr. Sharon with you. I am tired, you know what? There are co-dependent! S over, Eileen, was over. Oh, yes! - Chuck? - Becca, thank you very much for coming. - Becca? - Becca? It is Priscilla, compared to that I told you. - Let 's do. - V.I.P? Pipiele are exploited pipiele are exploited. We do not Pozam bottles. Until the main man in person, says: Everyone feels well doll icilor? You can do that, you beat long way. Well. - Give me one second, okay? - Okay. Disinfection of hands please. Come on, hand disinfectant, so, whenever I have to say. I do not want to touch on ciudaii The girl out. Mr Curtzman. I know believe in the freedom of women. You said it yourself. Need to own control our destinies. So allow me to control mine. Please, give me that disk, that you can keep my membership and to receive an education. Let me go in the future untainted and to track my dreams. Nice speech. Seriously, I could lend him sometimes. Spotless, I like that word. But you lose time, because do not you will get. We will break the world tonight in Detroit. - Ten seconds Curtzman sir. - Well, sit. Look, I know I gave a the bar, right? - But ... - Dad. Hey, baby ... Why Looking here? Father, Priscilla made a mistake. You do the right thing, do you? I should be here. This is not a place for you. You profii of these girls and This is not good. I do not bring those girls to do nothing will not do. There are some ratai, did not respect self. - Listen to me. - Excuse me. - Curtzman Sir, I ... - Shut cea! Do not speak so to her. - Becca, listen to me. - I have to listen. Hey, your father, you get back home right now. And this will be the end, we talk about and to not come to any show of that ever. Look, I know I gave a bar, but if i would have done it? It was more increased. She and breasts would look for a free shirt. Becca, Becca! Becca? In 31 seconds you Curtzman Ed be on the scene. You're a small cea. I'll take those records and tomorrow this time will be worldwide. Young teenagers are waking up the morning and Do you will see breasts. Oh, little ones boys in Taiwan. It will look at them and will be that in their view. I will use as protection screen. During this time I complained of miles, but you cry for your mercy. Ed Curtzman come in 5, 4, 3, 2 ... Applause for my man, Ed Curtzman. I'd like to talk about it with you, the tea can once. I have a room full of bitch and whores out there that just waiting to show-and boobs and butts. And I will love to do it, so I mbogeasc. For some ugly door and pro ratai are to buy these movies, because it can not be established, you'll be famous. You take care of that. Take a out of here Stavros. What are security officer, pay your fucking asshole. About this talk. Are you ready to throw the world into the air tonight or what? We are ready to show the world that we do best? Let, say all that we do a world record. "Pipiele a crazy". This is my daughter. "Pipiele a crazy". None of you wants to-and show breasts. Then you will receive shirts. Do not want to Be Famous? "Pipiele a crazy". - Crazy, pipie! - Loser! You are pipiele that would be I had a crazy. Well, without shirts, that is. Our breasts are probably vo and false anyway. I need you and I need of any breast of yours. I am tired of breasts! Pipiele a crazy, pipiele a crazy ... Thanks anyway. I take that back right, you heard what I said? You are not bitch. Only the name. Hey, come on let me! Hey, hey Rudy! Hey Rudy, what I said hey! Hey Rudy, security, Stavros! What's going on, what have I done? Hey wait, what I ... Whose hand is that? Finish ... knew are my pants! Whoa, whoa, and those were my boa and them! - Hey Rudy, do something! - That and I do. - What are you doing? - Big movie rooster him. "Presentation by Ed Curtzman. DVD That will be so rich! Not with your fingers, pull them out, they! That is my head. There, do not touch! College Pennington A week after If this job to union students is enough to pay maintenance and expense? Will be, so as to keep students. Acts to arrive today but if "Can t Hurry Love of received the DVD ... I resigned from Hury Can Love. Really? Even if I was fired because the film ... For to do something very soon that I will make you be fired! Do not flirt with him. Wish me luck. Bitch! - Hi. - Hi. See you later. - I stopped somehow? - No, I was on the end ite anyway. - Not only for ..! - Try to create a solid foundation Workers friendship. - God! - Really! So, you regrei that night in hotel room? Each and every seconds of it. Really? Yes and no, I mean, it might have been the greatest night of my life. But the truth is that if should be do it again, then ... ... and probably do exactly same thing. But ... College boys and reacts as you should have all the experience, but ... ... not all have ... ... you know, I mean ... You are a virgin? Yes! God, this is so great. You are a virgin, I am a virgin, both a virgin! Tell a little hard, make sure I heard the whole school. Hi. Catch. - What is that? - Do not know. It is a ticket here. Dear Cenu and areas, can Do you remember me in room 369. I hope that is not terrible for me to tell you that I will always retains. Do you think it belongs. Best wishes for good luck in all your future forever. Rudy, his cameraman Curtzman. - Well, what's the wait? - Yes. Here we go. - Are you ready? - Yes. - Those are not mine! - Those are not yours. Oh, God! I was me! During this time I was me. REVOKED I just want to remind you that sex is a wonderful thing. It is something that frankly should be to make it all the time. Exactly, except persons who you just have separated, or those who have enjoyed too much lately, so I appeal to traveling fields of their memories. What seemed to others will be a very bad idea. The idea is that prevention is a good thing. Now, this is a condom, That is the taste of grapefruit and This is "dark". In fact I'll keep that one for me. - Naz! - Sorry? Take it you on that! Okay, here we go. That is so beautiful. You know, I thought it was an opportunity So special ... Okay wait, wait, wait. I expected this time all your life. - And I. .. - And? That is. How about you? I expected the right girl. And they are pretty sure are you. Well, are absolutely sure you are you. Hey, you look great. Remind me why I have to wear This ridiculous clothes tomorrow? Because of the graduated honey. You think you're ready? I was born ready. And deserve even the "dark". Dumn ... my God! Oh, my God, O my God, Oh, my God! I wonder what it says Mary Margaret now. Priscilla White 0% pure 100% satisfied. Yes! "a crazy guys." Are you or a girl or a boy whose likes boys If you want to have "A crazy guys. Now, fun cut and Non censored. Showing it on so as Curtyman you have not seen before. Hundred percent true rooster them. If you go on the idea of "Crazy crazy" you will like "a crazy guys. Pay with credit cards, or phone ... And 1-555-AM-COCO EL And comandai now!
