 

                        Gods present here Gold very near Rain of childs chatter dear Rocky mountains austere Buddhist rosary red bead here Mind has wings unfurled Bonding all over the world Mind has wings out-stretched Kinship in worlds vast extent Roads may differ Feet may alter Moon as constant companion however" Riverbanks may stray Seashores may sway Loves arrival is here to stay Dreams, stop dissolving Blessing, dont go missing Dreams, dont defrost Godsend, dont get lost Godsend, dont get lost - Hiiiiii - Maaa! Hey Muna Give us a hand Give us a hand Push it now Give me some betel nut - You'll get it from me - Youre always playful - Hey bamboo - Get lost! Hey Munaruna! Measure this and tell me Boss, either call me by my full name Murugappa Or call me just Muruga If you say Munaruna sounds like some Indian 'anna' We are working for mercantile class, right? Naturally we get influenced by their language! mercantile class, right? Youll always be Munaruna Im Sunapena Hes Kenapana! Measure for me now Instead of making small talk --28.5 Tell me a properly Not an approximate figure You'll believe only this tape Not my word, huh? Is it right? Inchineer! Perfect, I say Why do you need a tape and an engineer for this?! Rowdy fellow! Oldie, move Let me take over Dumbass dodo! Bad breath bimbo!! Why are you messing with me? Jobless or what? To flirt like this Well be sharing a bed Why cant I share a cucumber? Me...in your bed? Catch hold of your bad-breathed betrothed That scrawny scarecrow, huh? As if Im a guardian deity tall and strong? Youve got your abs in place, real cool Take your hands off me Why are you bugging me like this? Ironical! Dhobi loves his wife But she loves his donkey! Who is the donkey? You only! Attend to your work Hey! Muruga What are you doing? Youll fall Careful Murugappa! (Burmese voices in uproar) Samudraaa! Watch out Dont be scared You are safe now Your hands and legs are shaking like jelly are shaking like jelly I feel like Im seeing Lord Muruga face to face If you hadnt been there imagine my daughters plight! Are you a Tamilian? My mother is a Tamilian My father is Burmese Classic love story! Keep quiet --2000 kyat That's your worth You just hailed me as God Now you think I can be bought? Sonny, dont get me wrong - Not like that? - For my satisfaction You shouldnt put a price on life Did you buy your daughter in a market? Money cant buy everything, you know Forgive me Whats your name? Munaruna - Shut up - You were too good! Murugappan You think yourself to be the bravest of braves Youre jumping around like Lord Anjaneya Do you know the price of teak? A whole days work is ruined because of you is ruined because of you Both of you clear out from here Lets go Tata - Hey Muna - What? Look whos here Girl, charming and fair with hibiscus in her hair She has blossomed with love, come Cherished princess Rangoon Highness Waiting for you Night and day, dear beau Night and day, dear beau This is a first time pleasure Down the spine joyful quiver Will you tell me in detail clearly? My gray cells cuddled up snug Butterflies in my stomach Will you give me a medicine as remedy? Goodness gracious me! Maiden, lovely and fair with hibiscus in her hair Only for you she has bloomed new Treasured princess Rangoon Highness Waiting for you --24x7, dear beau Youre a jewel in the crown Im rock salt in rain wind-blown My fingers to caress you how am I the suitable beau? I am 24 carat gold brick Youre a metal box, best pick To protect and preserve me No one else but you solely Though love is on a spree mind just wont agree Shadow wont get wet ever even if it falls into the river Dizzy desire inside wont cast you aside Lass, eye-catching and fair with hibiscus in her hair Has she blossomed for me wholesome? Revered princess Rangoon Highness Is she waiting for me night and day wistfully? Slow down Every second encircles me like a clocks 2nd hand, pointedly Chase me, dearest in right earnest Take this water lily waiting willingly Ive lifted sacks of tamarind Now Ill carry a floral godsend My chic chick, with a twist Ill chain you on my hip as amulet My mind seesaws, hesitating to be just your hip-string Id rather be a thread sacred for you and me to be duly wed With your eyes you enticed me this love is forever truly Lass, pretty and fair with hibiscus in her hair She has bloomed for you well groomed Desired princess Rangoon Highness Waiting for you come, beloved beau This is a 1st time pleasure Down the spine sensual quiver Will you explain to me crystal clear precisely? Down the spine sensual quiver crystal clear precisely? My gray cells cuddled up snug Butterflies in my stomach Will you tell me, darling a cure for this feeling? Butterflies in my stomach a cure for this feeling? 'This is All India Radio' 'The news read by Saroj Narayanaswamy' 'The Military laid seige today on the democratic country of Burma' 'The Prime minister was arrested on the orders of the Military General' 'Military rule was established in Burma' 'When the Military intruded and arrested the first President at his residence...' '...his son who tried to prevent this was shot dead' 'If the Tamilians intended to revolt...' '...the Military General has warned them of severe repercussions' 'He ordered the immediate dismissal of Indians from official Govt posts' 'Assets of the Tamilians were nationalised' 'Draining Tamilians of their economical status...' '...Kyat of denominations 'Also Tamil cinema and Indian dailies were banned from circulation' 'Shops owned by Tamilians were set ablaze' 'Deprived of basic amenities...' '...Tamilians resorted to violence' 'To curb their revolt...' '...brute force was unleashed on them' 'To transport Tamilians to their motherland...' '...Indian Govt has dispatched a fleet of special ships to Rangoon' 'They were forced to leave behind their assets, kith and kin in Burma' 'Tamilians were reduced to this pathetic plight of being refugees' Light this candle and pray Samudra Muna? Samudra, Im leaving Where? To my country It felt so good all these days spending time with you Knowing Im leaving you behind and wont be able to see you... ...hurts badly, Samudra It is the fate of this wretched love Im going Dont leave me behind Ill also come with you I cant be here without you Take me with you to your country, Munaruna Samudra, theyll kill him if you come along with us If I leave her behind Ill myself die Muruga...Muruga Malli...Mallika Dress her up as a Tamilian Go...get inside Take off your jewelry Come fast - Munaruna! - Our mason-boss Someone might see us Keep your head bent Come...come Stand in a line I didnt do this deliberately, sir Bloody thief! Trying to smuggle gold out of our country If I go back without even this I have to hang myself to death Just go, or else youll rot in our jail You white swine! You wont prosper May your clan rot in hell Come...come Thank God we reached Our child is missing - Hey Munaruna - Bro...? My little girl is missing She must be there somewhere - Please look for her - Ill do that, bro Security, close the gate She must be there Look for her please Hold her Yov! Let me in too I came along with them Im begging you Open the gate Open the gate, dammit Go...go Dont stop Samudra...! Come, Samudra Murugappaa! Come, Samudra Im going back to Murugan Im going Remove your wedding chain Put it around her neck, Mallika Dont hesitate Do it, Mallika No more room in this ship Send everyone away She is his wife, sir Use force if they dont obey Im begging you Youre like God to me Let go of my feet, you bloody mongrel! Bloody idiot! Why are you hitting him? Sir, Im begging you Palani, don't beg like that If he doesnt come with us this girl will die, sir Poor thing! His wife, sir They just got married, sir Please dont split them Please have mercy on us Hey soldier! Yov! He's calling you Open the gate Send only him Come...come in Thank you very much, sir Close the gate Lock it Dont let anyone in Stop the ship Follow me Search every nook and corner of the ship You go that side Quick...hurry up Please dont hold on to my ship anymore Im not smuggling any assets from Burma Im only taking Tamil patriots with me Before sunset I have to cross Pazundaung creek Soldiers, get out of this ship Lets look for them in the next ship What? Mallika, what are you doing? Bloody mongrel! Spare us, please Samudra...! Let go of her Dont do anything to her, sir Arrest him Let go of me, please Muruga! Are you even human? Go, get them Let go of her Ill shoot you Shoot them Muna...Munaruna...get up Open your eyes This isnt Burma Chennai You aren't Samudra You are Madhu Usually in regression therapy, only childhood memories are tapped But you are imagining a previous birth Of course your story was very interesting That wasnt fiction, doctor It was fact Madhu, even your dream- Sorry, even your story I meant it's very creative Even in this birth I'm meeting people whom I knew in Burma They even snatched your chain from your mat! But only Munaruna I havent met as yet Romance aside, Madhu, dont skip your medicine Ma, Im late for work Get my breakfast ready Shower and come soon Let me go, madam "Cherished princess Rangoon Highness" You make a mess of everything Come Are you calling me? Come Closer? Come closer Might bang! Munaruna...! Youre that breed, huh? What the hell is happening here? I dont know, madam She called me close to her and blabbered some name aloud Why do you make my nerves somersault? my nerves somersault? What happened to you? Another dream, huh? - God help me! - Nothing, ma Get dressed and come down to eat - Later...later - Get lost! Sit down and eat leisurely Im late for work, mom Hello, Radhakrishna I need money urgently Sign here, dear Only last week you cashed a check for a millon What did you spend that on? I gave your mother the accounts last week He had to give some bonus to our mill workers, Madhu Okay, fine Whats this amount for? To pay customs duty, dear Sis, enough Your husband willed all his wealth to a trust In case anything untoward happens to his daughter Shes suspicious Just like her dad I came only because you asked me to supervise I dont want to be humiliated further Let me go Radha, Madhu isnt normal She suddenly wakes up from a nightmare Im myself so scared She yells at us only because she can take that liberty You use these sentimental dialogs to zip my lips They pile her with work and then to de-stress her... ...they send her to a psychiatrist also That wont work You should give her the medicine our Guruji gav- Shes taking it Why drive a car when you are fit to drive only an auto? Why are you glaring? Which department? New recruit, huh? Hey! Wait Where are you off to? He has broken the ear of our shrews Cooper You broke the mirror of that Mini Cooper Shell pickle you alive Who? A real shrew works in our creative department All I have to do is replace the mirror Even if you offer to replace her car... ...she wont keep quiet Childs play Really? --1000 bucks bet Lets see Lets catch the lift If the lift was door-less they'll hang on to it like a bus Hi Madhu Hi Jagan Bet with me, huh? That shrew is behind you Is she here? Sir broke the side mirror of your dinky car - Dinky car! - Shut up Not me Sirs golden words! Peter, Ashwin needs a medical insurance policy Catch you later, dude your side view mirror Ill replace it Do you recognize me? Yes, shre- Jagan told me I hit it by mistake Why apologize? Who else will hit on me?! Do I seem familiar to you? Im new to this office I joined only 10 days ago Why are you looking at that switch and talking, Munaruna? Moron of a man, huh? Ashwin Why are you avoiding eye contact with me? Oh! Beautiful girls are always problematic Can't sleep a wink But dream a lot But dream a lot Must find silly forwards and keep texting Be a glib liar and a poet laureate Spend on gifts Life will become topsy-turvy Thats why I dont look twice at beautiful girls But I can keep looking at you nonstop Im in a soup only if the girl is beautiful!! Bye I knew youd come back How? It said so here When I opened my car roof I left my mobile behind As if we need any reason to meet again? Im not a roadside Romeo if that's what you think Cross my heart You, me, my car and your phone... ...cant tamper with our destiny with our destiny Jump! Kali...are you alright? Who is Kali? Ashwin, what happened? You left me alone and walked away! She looks at me weirdly And talks strangely And talks strangely She changes my name from floor to floor Some girls change even their guys! Good morning, my dear lamp post Hey Ashok! Why do you look like youve seen a ghost? What happened? Your 2nd girlfriend dumped you, huh? Well take the lift on the next block, sir A minor accident, sir Come on, tell me What happened? Cable snapped in the lift, sir How can the cable in a brand new lift snap? Whats happening, here? Gently Are you alright? Kiran, my friend He was so brave He saved her Have we met before? No, sir Im Ashwin I joined just 10 days ago in System Admin in System Admin How old are you? --22-23? --25, sir Your face looks young Thats why I asked Why are you hovering around? Only the lift isn't working Not your legs You can take the stairs Okay, dude Catch you later Ashok, must be very careful They are all youngsters Poor things, young breed We need to take care, man Hi Mallika! Sorry...sorry Meera Hi Madhu Was that a trial for some adventure game? Madhu, stop it Is this an adventure? Meera, shall we rehearse in Ooty for my hot video game? Looking good, but you are too fat and old for it Insult.com! What are you doing here? Just been half an hour since your accident in the lift Do you know what I feel every time I see you? I wish I was --20 years younger Compared to these boys here... ...you are more capable Coming to the point... ...why have we assembled here? Gang of Ganges game we released last week... ...has record breaking downloads within 7 days downloads within 7 days --40 million! Soooper doooper hit We rock, dude But friends let me tell you Games have jumped beyond the playground to TV and PC... ...into our palms with these mobile phones --100 adventures on our fingertips So we- Pah! Anyway the world market is waiting for our next release We are on a killing deadline here Within 3 months... ...we must release a new game Thats impossible Don't underestimate yourselves So to beat it well all work 24x7 Kiran, assign me in any shift of your choice But dont club me with this Genie Dont bang me Given a chance you'll get married to me! So just to get you all going as usual in our farmhouse... ...let us have what-a-wow Wild hog party! Enough of your 9 to 5 battle, guys Dried up plants need water to survive Shall I mix you a Bloody Mary? Or bathe in Long Island ice tea? Shall we live in a land of plenty flowing with milk and honey? Youll sing, dance, play, never tired Not a bit bored or disinterested If you dont seize this day tomorrow will bring zilch, nix, nay Yolo...yolo...yolo...yolo You Only Live Once! Yolo...yolo...yolo...yolo You Only Live Once, bro Shall we mix some spice to a pure and simple vanilla life? Shall we churn ambrosia sweet from the sea of love as treat? Date, pear or hourglass figure right Bottoms up with eyes shut tight No love or emotion in play Only pleasure matters today Touch and caress, ignite desire like flint stones spark a fire If a sea of troubles you are in theres no taboo word as sin Yolo...yolo...yolo...yolo You Only Live Once! Yolo...yolo...yolo...yolo You Only Live Once, bro 'Indian parotta minced with barbeque mixed' 'Set your ginger beer away Get sloshed with this cold beer, baby' 'Princess! Come forward a little bit Sway your hips, hit on me in a dizzy fit' 'Kiss me on my cheek Make my knees go weak' 'Will you come once more Bird so proud, encore?' Why be on guard, innocent or shy? When you hug, shyness says bye-bye Gone with the wind forever if you date, ditch or whatever Why be on alert, innocent or shy? When you hug, shyness says bye-bye Shut up and kick ass now Time is right for us...wow! As the breeze flows my eyes close I simply surrender leaning on your shoulder As I sweat in this cold Our fingers interlace to hold As our lips meet to fuse lets fly in the sky enthused Yolo...yolo...yolo...yolo You only live once, bro You only live once in a lifetime You only live once in a lifetime Hello? Munaruna, my system crashed Not booting, Murux Ill be there in 2 minutes Is this your new idea of finding an excuse to flirt? Graphics card has been removed Hey bandicoot, did you eat up your fritter-bait? No, this is a female rat She ate her sandwich dipping it in sauce And plugged it out with the same saucy hand! Might nip you in the wrong place! Female rats are dangerous My game is auto crashing I can't work Check my system too, please My shift is over Im leaving Muna, wait I have a gift for you Why now? When you gave me a jujube... ...did I refuse it? Jujube...? Oh my gawd! Whole department is crazy Last night in my dream you were wearing a similar hat Is this some cowboy film? Wear it just once and show me Uncle? Guests are waiting down - What are you doing here? - Nothing, uncle Hey! Middle class If you dont behave yourself your parents will be minus a son! Want me to be the son-in-law of this house, Mr Radhakrishnan? What is this whitener uncle saying? Nothing He shoves his hand always into his pocket Maybe he has --1 finger less or more Don't be silly! That's a quickie for sure! Keep still for 2 minutes Isnt it lovely? Hence the labor of love, huh? Shes piling gifts on me like a madcap and torturing me Cross your heart and tell me You arent the least bit interested in her? If I dont see her even for 1 day... ...I feel Im missing her Falling in love, huh? You can assume that Now and then love will raise its head at me Shell tell such a Mahabharath I'll get deflated! She should see this today And her mania for piling gifts on me should vanish Your 'Miss Santa Claus' is here Wonder whats her gift for the day What does this mean? You like me You gave me a belt I like Tommy I gifted it to him You...! What are you looking for, Madhu? Stone is your gift for today?! Get lost, you madcap! Jagan, look at him He's insulting my gifts Your gifts should be more personal Your gifts should always bond with him like second skin What do you mean? Slid...slipped...shifted If I had fallen, Id have been dead Suddenly, giant wheel titled drastically to one side Old chair Mother-in-laws Thats when Munaruna came sliding on a rod Like Tarzan he jumped and gave me his hand Munaruna hugged me tight You cant believe it, right? But I swear, aunty The bond Ashwin and I share... ...goes beyond this birth Hello Munaruna! Who asked you to come here? Aunty, shouldnt I see the house Ill be living in? Come up with an answer for this, my dear bro Shantha, give me a hot cup of coffee Specimen! Hello, dear Hope your dad is fine - Do you know her? - Of course I do Your brothers daughter-in-law Your daughter-in-law it seems! Oh sorry! I forgot Memento-memory! I forgot I forgot to give you this I dont want any gifts Clear off from here Aunty, is this fair? In Burma, when we were in love every time he came to see me... ...he'd bring wood apple, jamun, jujube, cranberry- Twisted tamarind? Elephants memory! If I give him a gift in return, hes so mean Leave Youre bent on packing me off Aunty. see you Uncle, tata Good Lord! Look at this Don't I know how her mind works? That too rainbow colors! How did she guess your size so accurately? She sees it everyday How can she go wrong? She'll even put it on me Whaat? Where does all this 'smarty-pantiness' happen? Shucks! I thought she got me a cap Disgusting! Shes a real whacko Ill take the mickey out of her Whats more to take?! You had your fun! Out you go Be your age Dont act over smart Gawd! Why do all these girls around me hound me like this? around me hound me like this? Let go of me Ashwin? Meera, what happened? What's wrong? They are pulling my clothes off me They are chasing me Who? - Save me - Show me They chase me in a group Group? Through the ventilator in the air-conditioner Whats going on here? She saw something and was terrified Terrified of what? I dont- You go Go, Ill take care Madhu, 3D assets of the concept art are ready Shall we take a look? How long has she been working here? About a year now Did she have any problem? Madhu, dont stay here Listen to me Inquiry is pending Please wait Not only this birth I wont let you unite with him in any birth Meera, what are you saying? Doctor...doctor Meera is alive See for yourself Check her pulse She is dead She died half an hour ago Dont take it lightly Check her once more Madhu, please Pull yourself together She spoke to me No...! Meera threatened me, Ashwin Please stop it I pushed you with deadlines and didnt give you enough rest Madhu, are you regularly consulting Dr Radhika or not? I thought Ill finish this project and then go Nothing is more important than your health Ashwin, your responsibility to take Madhu to Dr Radhika And ensure she's de-stressed she's de-stressed Lets go You're wrong to think she is blabbering Her memories of a previous birth are real Light a camphor and bring - Guruji? - Yes, Radhakrishna? When she gets those memories she becomes very tensed There is a medicine to make amends It will destroy evil and give her peace of mind too Along with the herbal mix I gave you earlier... ...take this also daily without fail Guruji Im in love with a chap But a dead girl threatened me What is the solution for this, Guruji? This has special powers If its around your wrist no evil power can touch us The seer told me My family swears by him Nutcase! Am I a bucket to be pulled out of a well? Believing some goddamn god man! Im leaving I have some urgent- Dont run Do you know your name some 100 years ago? Veerapandiya Kattabomman the Polygar chieftain? No, Ilamaran You were a prince I was a princess You fought a terrible war And galloping on a single horse... ...we were on our honeymoon our honeymoon I have urgent work, my dear angel Lets meet for dinner tonight What do you think of yourself? Uncle, hes my friend Wont you get it if I warn you once? Why are you flirting with my niece? Are you mad? Im pleading with her Im asking her to leave me alone I know your petty mentality Are you trying to hook her to grab all her wealth? I dont fancy falling for a girl whose affluence I cant match And toe the line as a docile son-in-law! If you are loaded lock her up at home Why make her work for whats peanuts to you? Go to Bombay or Dubai Get hold of an Ambani or some business tycoon Ask her to lure his son and get them happily married Instead, youre picking on m- If you ask me to break up and find someone else... ...Ill chop you to pieces Please understand However many births... ...Im for you and youre for me Thats how it will always be Do you know what love is? You wont realize its value when you are together Youll understand only when you are separated It is this wretched loves fate Will this thread bind us together? No need this birth or any previous birth I love you Sea of rose petals My precious princess My favored cherry Come aside with me Loves ally Apple of my eye My other half, solely Come close to me Daughter of a flower, branch of cheer Body bedecked in gold all over Even if as a flower Im wind-blown why is your heart speared with thorn? Come near me Drops of ocean tiny Girl, come close to me Small spark of a volcano fiery Come close to me Tiny drops of sea merrily Love, come close to me Spark of a volcano fierily To break light rays is impossible with a sword however incredible So is our love, undefeatable! Sea of rose petals My precious princess My favored cherry Come aside with me Loves ally Apple of my eye My other half, solely Come close to me Coral beaked koel dear Eyes, sharp golden spear My red tailed parakeet Come out to tweet My eye is witness to your cascading tresses Peacock in my heart resting step out, Im requesting Even if besieged by infantry sky doesnt bend to comply Blood thirsty army if intent on revenge burning passion within isnt quenched Lets both leave this earth And stay in the moons hearth Lets lead a life of harmony Soul to soul sole rhapsody Though continents part Galaxies glide apart Our hearts will connect in every single aspect Coral beaked koel dear Eyes, sharp golden spear My red tailed parakeet Come out to tweet My eye is witness to your cascading tresses Peacock in my heart resting Come out, without protesting Nectar sweet golden honey Come beside me, honey Doe, a deer, dearie You belong to me Teenage girl, fresh as morning spring Lend me your lips, Ill offer anything Liar, lie through your teeth glibly One battle will do for you to forget me Though bow and arrow unite they dont co-exist all the time We are tuned as word and meaning We wont break up, no weaning Come near me Drops of ocean tiny Girl, come close to me Small spark of a volcano fiery Come near me Drops of ocean tiny Love, come close to me Spark of a volcano fierily Though continents part Galaxies glide apart Our hearts will connect perfect in every aspect Nectar sweet golden honey Come with me, honey Doe, a deer, dearie You belong to me Nectar sweet golden honey Come beside me, honey Doe, a deer, dearie You belong to me - Wait...Madhu! - Maaraa? - Ilamaaraaaa! - What happened? Water They backstabbed us They were with us and betrayed us Madhu? Are you okay? Youre okay? Youngsters today are under terrific stress, especially IT field And your company tops my list for stress Feelings buried deep in the subconscious level... ...will come out like this for some as illusions Im trying regression therapy on Madhu In her case the boundary line between illusion and reality is very thin Reality seems like a dream and vice versa to her Then what about previous birth and all that? All that is crap Her fertile imagination! But only whats true is... ...shes madly in love with you I know, doctor She should attend sessions regularly Take the medicine I prescribe without fail Let's go Ashwin, when you were the prince Ilamaran... ...you used to swirl a sword much heavier than you I was zapped Even if youre scrawny... ...do you know how strong and sturdy a prince you were Madhu...in this traffic wont you see where youre going? I love him I left the car key in the clinic You be here Ill bring it What? Hey! Mad or what? Drive Sit on my lap and drive Why are you driving in this break neck speed? When I sat with you in your horse and galloped... ...how fast you rode while I was screaming in fright My head is spinning Madhu, slow down Slow down Kiss me Kiss me and Ill slow down Watch the road You wont kiss me? Watch me then Stop the car first Stop the car Madhu, stop before you hit someone Shell be fine Water in her lungs has been cleared Okay, doctor You wont end up without killing her? Sir, he was the one who saved her You should thank him Doctor, Ill take her to Apollo hospital Sir, you can take her home Shell be conscious soon Sister, give him an anti tetanus injection Come with me, sir I dont know why Kali killed him You think Kali is the culprit, sir? The knife has only Kalis fingerprints Thats why Im fairly certain I don't know what to say Poor jailor Joseph! Nowadays even girls cant be trusted Can you believe this, knowing Kali is a murderer... ...Kalyani has run away with him to Bombay Sir, you are wrong Kali didnt kill the jailor How do you know? I can show you where they are It is all a conspiracy, sir He was framed Kali did not kill Kali didnt kill Madhu...? Madhu dear Whats wrong? What's affecting you? Inspector Gopinath was right here Where is he? Madhu, lets go home If you take rest you will be fine You tell me I heard him talking Where is he? He even has a scar on his cheek Gopinath? Im the Inspector for this area I got the information just now and Im here I spoke to him a few minutes ago I even saw the dead man in a stretcher Sir, the accident car belonged to me Im her friend Ill explain in detail Okay, come with me Is that girl a drug addict? No, doctor We come from a respectable family But the report wont lie Patient is a regular druggie She is yet to be married Please change this report Sir, if I tamper with it the police will skin me alive It's in your hands Im not asking you to do it for free Im most willing to grease your palm Thanks, sonny Think you can get away mixing drugs in my nieces cool drink? Yov! Think youre very clever! You bring some damn seer and brew some concoction Then try to make her loony and loot all her wealth, huh? How dare you talk to me like that! Sir...sir Let go of him Are you pinning the blame on us? Madhu, you get in Last night I just couldnt sleep I came to work only to see you I want to be with you always Look here, Ashok Hey, boss! Only yesterday you dived with your car into the deep And youre back to work Ashwin, drop her at home --1 strawberry --1 coffee Do you know in how many births weve tried to unite? Dont start this again Its true we knew each other in Burma Its also true you were born... ...as Ilamaran and me as Shenbagavalli! But my uncle and Meera are trying to keep us apart in all our births We shouldnt let them win, Ashwin Not just this lifetime In all our future births too we must prove well be together Enough, Madhu Come with me Where? Mohammed, play Meeras footage which we checked the other day Rewind that and zoom it Look closely When the sheet flies you are the one crying Her lips dont move at all Did you see that? How will a corpse talk to you, Madhu? You were the one talking I didnt imagine it Something went wrong when this was recorded I swear Meera spoke to me Get this into your head The books you read, films you watched... ...what you heard someone speak ...are tumbling out as fertile imagination Now youve suddenly come up with Kali and Kalyani And some Inspector Gopinath with a scar on his face No one like that exists Just illusions Images in your mind You are foolis- No, Ashwin Believe me Madhu, please understand You are just mentally sick Madam, someone has come to see you Madam, the one reading a newspaper over there Im Commissioner Gopinath The head constable who came to the hospital yesterday called me It seems you asked for me identifying me with this scar Almost 25 years ago... ...when I was an Inspector I handled that case Kali and Kalyani killed a jailor and escaped to Bombay And we closed that file Im astonished Youre both carbon copies of Kali and Kalyani Your assumption is wrong, sir Kali and Kalyani didnt kill anyone They didnt escape to Mumbai either Ill show you where they are Stop...stop This is the place There must be a banyan tree here Is there any banyan tree here? There isnt any banyan tree here, sir Okay, you go Sir, there was a huge banyan tree It fell in the storm that hit us when MGR died The root of that tree can be found near the tea shop even now, sir Thats the tree stump Okay, you can go Here? How can they be here? Clear the crowd first Hey! Look here Sir, come here Dont use spades and crowbars Carefully remove the mud Okay, sir Enough...enough All of you come out Irudayaraj, come to Vyasarpadi railway station Send the forensic people to the spot immediately Inform the Press too Do you recognize them? This is you That is me Is it a film by Vittalacharya with special effects? Looks like youll now say theyll both dance?! You opened a case that was closed for 25 years Madhumita, you are unbelievable I never even imagined You have the key to this mystery We have lots to discuss I will come back to you You can go now Ill stay, sir Thats alright Well finish all formalities and Ill talk to you Velu, drop them in their office Please go Madhu, how do you know all this? Why didnt you tell me? Whatever I tell you... ...you make fun that Im spinning a yarn At least now will you believe me? - See you, sir - Okay, Ashwin Wait, I'll come down Whom are you waving at? What's this letter in your hand? Aren't you the newspaper boy? Just do your job and keep going I'm calling my girl friend Smart-Alec chopstick! Oh, girl friend, huh?! Come with me I'm terrified of dogs That dog is even more terrified of you Don't lie This dog is okay but there's a worse dog inside Her brother I'm that dog! Hey! What are you doing? Who's that? Your future son-in-law, ma What's wrong with this house? Look at the way you have raised your beloved daughter In that 1/2 hour Im away jogging... ...some random boy signals to my sister And she happily responds Given a chance, hed have eloped with her! hed have eloped with her! Is this how a 9th grader behaves? Bro, please call your sister You want me to call her? I'll slipper you If I hadnt come now what would've happened? I'll slipper you I would've given this to her and quietly gone He would've given this love letter it seems Get up You're signaling to her and that too in English Look what hes doing, Pushpa A whacko walked in saying she's your girlfriend that day We still welcomed her and made her feel at home When she reeled out the Rangoon princess story... ...didn't we listen patiently? But here you are insulting my boyfriend! You're still in school and want a boyfriend plus a love letter? How else will your cheap mind work? You're a creature who takes freebie-briefs from your girlfriend You're talking way too much Ill smash your teeth- Why are you looking there? You think this is a love letter? Yes, it is This is NCERT application form Bro, take a look Application form? Then why this secrecy- Thanks to your precious pet Because he was so scared, he called me from there! If I'm in love, I'll bring my boyfriend straight to mom And introduce him as my lover boldly Pushpoo, I too love you Get lost, you fatso It was just a figure of speech, you pumpkin! Pushpa...? Messing up my day Hold this I want coffee Only here you push your weight around You and your jockey party found skeletons you said But your names are missing in the paper We didn't even give any interviews Open your eyes wide and read It seems the commissioner himself found the tree and dug underneath Thats the news here By the way you spun a yarn there was a bullet on the forehead But in this photo I cant see anything Yarn, huh? Take a look See this bullet wound Oh gawd! I cant sleep if I see all this Commissioner sir, this is Ashwin here Madhumitas frien- Ashwin...tell me I want to meet you urgently Im in the midst of an enquiry now Ill be back in an hour Come to my office Well meet up Im commissioner Gopinath I want to meet Madhumita Regarding what, sir? Sir, she came back only this morning after the night shift Shes tired and sleeping She cant be disturbed now A closed file has been reopened only because of her I must interrogate her Her health is our priority I cant wake her up now Ill let her know you wanted to see her Someone by name Ashwin is here to see you Come in, Ashwin Take a seat Tell me Your name is headlines in all the papers Did you find it all by yourself or- Did Kali come in your dreams and tell you where to dig? Listen, Madhumita is from a very affluent family I didnt want your names dragged out in the open Thats why I didnt tell them In the place we dug, theres something like a finger Theres also a ring with the initial R engraved But none of the papers this morning shows it I want to clarify --1 more doubt The 2 skeletons are Kali and Kalyani Then whom can this ring belong to? When did you take this photo? I clicked it while they were digging Is it wrong, sir? Did you share this with anyone else? No, sir No one Shivaraj...? My phone, sir Shivaraj, in the place we dug yesterday... ...a finger and a ring seem to be missing! No, sir It is- What nonsense! Dont try to cover up Sir, you were the one who- You dont seem to understand, Shivaraj Because of the mud piled up it couldve rolled underneath Search that area thoroughly again Area is cordoned off, right? Yes, sir Search there at once - Shivaraj? - Yes, sir Since its a railway station... ...passengers will be walking up and down So assign 2 constables in that area for security Listen, you must definitely find that ring and the finger, okay? What does this mean? Why are you hiding it? I can even tell you whose finger it is You see, Ashwin, if I had given this photo to the press... ...then whoever murdered Kali and Kalyani will be tipped off We must nab that killer with proof I need your help Whats your name now? Kalyani - Year? - 1987 Okay, you are Kalyani Who is Kali? Kali...hes really weird He wont bow to anyone His idea of justice and fair play is so unique No one can understand his true nature immediately He himself wont know when hell do what! My father is coming back this Sunday, thats why, bro Look over there Hey you there! Train is heading your way Train...watch out Bro, check if hes still alive Hey useless hooligan! Look where he chose to die Who the hell are you? My dear precious pet! Youre fine, right? Dont be scared You escaped Will I let you die so easily? Get up You are busy petting that stray cat - My darling, sir - Darling? Poor baby! She landed in this track unknowingly If I hadnt seen her, she wouldve died prematurely But youd also be on the funeral pyre! Sir, but she also has life, no? Saving a bloody cat it seems Dont hit my precious! Why waste time with that lunatic? They have hearts of stone! Hey! Get off the track You are sooooper, bro You thought Id lose the bet?! Cough up the dough I told you not to bet with Kali bro about the cat Why are you scowling? Cough it up --2, 4, 6, 10 Dont...awwww! Dont hit me, ma Good for nothing lout! Dont hit me with a broomstick - Youll never reform - What happened now? Youll save a silly cat by sacrificing your own life - You dirty scumbag! - 'My fate to listen' Dont recite Bharathis poem in this feeble timid way Sing it with more zeal and zest Dad, thats the only Ganesha with a huuuge paunch Get that for me, please Ill get it for you - Uma dear - Wow, ice Why did you bunk yesterday? You didnt come to clean the car! There was a death anniversary ceremony in our Judges house Tomorrow full time Ill be in your place Hes a Customs officer Take good care of him I know, Chella Attend to your work Bro, this is Chella here Your drawings for writer Sujathas story were simply superb Thanks a lot, Swaminathan I must start my prayers before the inauspicious time Dont mistake me Ill take leave Is it ready? This wretched Vajram has come to ruin our business now Close the shop Who cares about headache or tablets! That bloody murderer is here Kalyani, lets not wait here...come Greetings, bro Who are you? If youre a Customs officer, will you raid wherever you want? Hey! First take the child away Daddy...! Why are you taking my daughter? It's mistaken identity I dont know anything about this Stop...stop...stop Bharathi, is an elephant chasing you or what? A rowdy is killing someone in that market Vajram is killing someone Spare him, bro Hes no patch on you! To squash an ant, do you need an elephant? On top of it, --6-7 swines for support? The equation isnt right! Did you cross his path with some misdeed? Do you know who he is? Do you know his power? Youve done something wrong I know that for sure Okay, apologize to him and do 3 sit ups Do it now, man Sorry...forgive me Thats the way! Bro has forgiven you Leave this place now Dont look back First beat him black and blue Hereafter there wont be any hassles in this market place Vajrams chapter is closed Swaminathan...? Please open the shutter Give me the First aid kit I was talking to him just now - What do we do now? - Wound is so deep All this ointment wont do Auto! Stop Hospital- Not a single chap is stopping You carry on Ill bring a vehicle Sir, stop the car Hey! Dont make a fus- This ointment and bandage wont work for me If I spit on it and leave it open itll become fine automatically (clears throat) Why dont you spit? You have a tender heart Gently...watch your step Let him lie down on the seat Push his feet inside You also get in The police will call you as witness Oh no! If its a court case I cant run around Gokul Santol powder? Scent is too good Kalyani, come fast Let's inform Swaminathans family Who was that girl who tied the bandage? Go, man Clear off Your shop is here, right? Do you know who did this? No Hey old man! Sir, I also arrived the same time you did I dont know what happened here, sir Sir, Ive got cataract So cant see a thing I myself fumble my way through Okay, go Is this Gavaskars last match? Greetings, sir - Whats your name? - Kali, sir How did you get hurt? My mother asked me to get a clay Ganesha for the festival I was on my way here when that Vajram- Sir, the same chap who put that mark on you I saw him coming with his gang and armed I got all jittery and started running As I was running I tripped on an umbrella and fell down I somersaulted twice or thrice and fell Tripped on an umbrella? Yes, sir Over there You tripped over this? I swear, sir You saw the wound, right? Okay...how did you hurt your head? Where I tripped there was a- What? Was there a wood apple? On the dot, sir Youre saying it as if you were in that spot All of you claim you didnt witness this murder Did you at least see him somersault? We did, sir You are all experts at making a mountain out of a mole hill! I dont know these couplets, sir This is an age old proverb! Send the body for postmortem Okay, sir Look how hes sleeping without a care in the world! Get up...you! What do you want, ma? Go and fetch water Hey hoodlum! Hooligan You died all of a sudden I marked a route, drew a line On the line, road I designed On the road I created a ruckus To kill a rowdy made a rumpus Stinko-bag Meenatchi Doesnt wash her face daily Her teeth stained and dirty eats like a glutton, this Kamatchi eats like a glutton, this Kamatchi Game of cards I gamble My ma came to strangle Roadside eatery serves breakfast Break pots and pans, real blast Break pots and pans, real blast My mother feeds me a pancake Gulp and gobble, take a break Dont raise your voice My finger wont have a choice Dont lift your damn weapon Ill bruise you purple, man I was jobless and useless Now I got VIP status Got my masters in crime killing a gangster mastermind No opponent for me Im a solo celebrity What I was now I am not Ive changed a lot Tiptop, top notch, bigwig Whats your excuse to sing? I'll donate 1 more bottle if you want Why is she writing A-B-C on it? Let her specify the caste! It might get mixed up Hooch brewed to the last drop He drank it raw, stinking slob Pledging household articles Drinking liquor full bottles Breaking your wifes jaw dont ruin your life, bro! If rich, go for branded beedi If not, puff a smoked one, buddy Smoke pot, coke, XTC Snort to get high and dizzy Get notorious easily Ruining health unnecessarily Getting married right royally Setting up another stepney Deserting wife on the sly Leaving kids high and dry Dont live so shamelessly Youll lose respect in society Rekha the bimbo, floozy Shell check you out snazzy Shell turn you into a crack Get rid of her with tact Dont deride girls or put them down Dont you have sisters of your own? Without any doubt a dream girl will seek you out Watch out for that beauty Dont switch your party Ignored Parvathi Didnt give a damn to Malathy Dumped Revathy Gave a hard time to Gomathy Glam dolls love riding piggyback I slipped out like an eel with knack One look from her intent I became a sick patient You sent me in a dizzy Made me a nitwit, missy With your squid eyes roving eye brows furrowing Fresh flowers and bindi Saree pleated neatly Laid a trap with eyes inviting, hottie Im the boy who wants to play naughty Your love to me express quickly If you dont express here Ill be a corpse, my dear Rowdy fellow! Hey scoundrel slippery Kicked the bucket in a hurry I marked a route, drew a line On the line, road I designed On the road I created a ruckus To kill a ruffian made a rumpus Meenatchi the smelly disgrace Ages since she washed her face Not brushing her teeth daily eats like a glutton, Kamatchi Caught by such a specimen youll stop breathing, man Game of cards I gamble My ma came to strangle Roadside eatery serves breakfast Break pots and pans, real blast My mother feeds me a pancake Gulp and gobble, take a break Dont raise your voice My finger wont have a choice Dont lift your damn weapon Ill bruise you purple, man I was happy-go-lucky and useless Now Im a big shot, oh yes! Got my masters in crime killing a gangster mastermind No opponent for me Im a solo celebrity What I was Im not Ive now changed a lot You're bleeding! If I spit on it and leave it open itll become fine automatically Spit Doesn't matter...spit Don't stamp the kolam My girls handiwork Welcome I come Sir, can I come in? - You go in - Good morning, sir Im also an artist, sir Except my faces will be lumpy and lopsided But this is...wow! A woman in front, a bald God man at the back and Buddha right behind --3D look! Super, sir What can I do for you? Till now Ive never even looked up at any female other than my mother Who is he? I just saw her Dont know why I was mesmerized I fell in love, so I thought we should get married Lord Shiva! Ill treat her as gentle as a flower Do you think youre fair in saying this? Im not planning to kidnap your daughter! Dont we ask God for things we dont have? Will God give it to us at once generously? Still, tomorrow I shouldnt feel bad I didnt ask you Thats why, I thought- Who are you? Who are we? Do you mean caste, sir? We belong to the same clan You draw and paint, so do I We are all human beings, right? Fine, Ill also become like you if you so wish Want me to sport a tuft? Ill oblige Or should I wear huge beads around my neck...? Tell me what I should do Ill do that Lord Shiva! A tiger will only eat meat How can a leopard change its spots? You hit the nail on the head, aunty! Youre thinking you are vegetarian and I am a non-vegetarian I swear Im also a vegetarian I gave up non-veg long- Hey! Youre here, huh? Your father has a doubt Im clarifying it Youll say my blood cant be changed, right? Ill get hold of 10 robust boys from your caste and go in for... ...blood transfusion Full blood change Ill become fure!! Have you come here to make trouble? Aiy- Kali, they are in a totally different league altogether Lets go Hey! Its not what you think, Chella I like his daughter She also has a soft corner for me Im here to ask for her hand formally If I am not favoured get out is all I need But the get out should come from your daughter, Murthy sir Because we are both above 18 Let her decide Im reminded of you day in and day out Whatever I do, you haunt me here Ill take care of you like a princess If you like me, you dont even have to express it, my dear Just lift your head Thats enough Otherwise just say no with your head bent Ill say bye and leave After that even if I walk down your street... ...you can use all the swear words you know and hit me Look at Tamil poet Bharathi Isnt he known for his famous song There isnt any caste or creed Only the turban is missing We share the same moustache Think and then lift your head slowly Finiss...Finnis! So Murthy sir, will you fix an auspicious date or shall I? If my mother gets to know shell flash her 32 teeth... ...and come rolling here! You didnt believe me when I told you, did you? Imagine if someone has fallen even for my face- What, my dear? Listen to me You dont have to sport a tuft or convert to vegetarianism Or have blood transfusion You just be yourself, enough But you have murdered a man Shes being really funny now! When he came to kill that poor officer... ...werent you right there? Why didnt you prevent me, like Gandhis ahimsa mode? I tried to prevent They tried to kill me too If everyones life is precious... ...my life isnt to me, huh? So I closed his chapter Who came forward as witness? Didnt the policemen burst crackers and rejoice? What I did was only with best of intentions Let the law say so Can you accept your crime? Can you surrender? Let the Court decide what to do You come out a clean man If I do, will you marry me? Huh? Ill wait for you Shes trying to bury you Dont get fooled There are so many holes up there What will they do when it rains? Why did you call me, Kali? Just a small matter, sir I wanted to- Arent you Murthy? Whats the problem? No problem, sir I just have to surrender For what? Didnt I kill Vajram? What is this, sir? I didnt say- Only after Kali showed up this area is crime-free I can also go home early and sleep in peace I didnt- Sir, he isnt involved Im surrendering voluntarily If I do something wrong I should be punished, right? Handcuff me, sir Don't be insane! Sir, cuff me It'll look stylish Visiting my in-laws has made me an out-law! Lets go Okay? Youll keep your word? Ill be back soon Sir...sir, stop Greetings, sir Did we arrive at a good time? Auspicious time, sir Come...welcome Greetings! We were flooded with so many offers He has seen your daughter somewhere it seems Hes so insistent he will marry only your daughter - Mom...! - Please take a seat Murthy sir Let us see the bride I repeatedly told you like teaching a parrot Didnt it enter your thick skull? Why the hell cant you get ready? You want me to deceive the boy who is sitting in jail trusting me? Dont do anything drastic I have to take care of your younger sister I shouldnt be humiliated by the people known to us You dont have to worry about all this Go ahead and marry him Father...! We can get married at the earliest auspicious date Dont worry about expenditure Ill make all the arrangements Glad to hear that Kali, something urgent it seems Our hopes are all dashed to the ground Why do you have a face fit for a funeral? Dont be upset with me We should choose a bride befitting our face She packed you off to jail And set herself up with a wealthy man? Tomorrow morning is the wedding it seems Kali...what happened? Move...move aside Kali? He is escaping Sound the alarm Kali...wait Dont do this I made you comfortable here Youll be released in 1 week Dont ruin it You wont understand I have to go Listen to me Don't show your rowdy side! You said youll wait for me You left me in the lurch If someone comes tip top and moneyed, thats it, huh? Youve got it all wrong Im not for this wedding and I dont like the groom My father threatened to swallow poison and die He forced me to agree Ill marry him like a zombie Is that true? Oh God! I heard what I shouldnt have Kalyani, what is wrong with you, huh? After coming this far and we are to be married tomorrow - Why were you silent, Kalyani? - My father didnt let me You could have at least told me Tell me now Do you really love this- Hey! Do you love him? Tell me Something unforeseen may happen if you are here, lets leave this place Dont think too much Please, Ill help you Kali...? Kiran, Madhu has come for her session now Whatever she says cant be made into a game She is rambling about a Kali, Kalyani and Ravi Radhi, what state is Madhu in now? In a hypnotic state Must wake her up only now They uploaded 3 new games from our Bangalore unit CPU overload When the chase gets too competitive... ...like a dog sticking her tail in between her legs ...the machine went for a toss Just check it please Nothing to worry IC got burnt in the overload Shall I check now? Deadline is zooming in! Be with me please till I finish testing Move All these are Madhus illusions She told me about this Did Madhu design this game? No...no Kiran's concept Designing was completed in our Bangalore office And only this morning he uploaded the trial version This one? Meera left this half done This was also fine tuned by our boss What twisted crap this is! Its a very cheap game Worldwide such games are only popular From ages 7 to 77 all our addicts They let out their bottled up frustrations by playing these games Our company designs such crappy games? You know how much profit international companies make? We have also kept this ready as an underground project All this is courtesy corporate hand out Didnt Meera jump down several floors just like this rape game? Why do you reopen closed chapters? I shouldn't have called you Theres something fishy about this Dont disturb me Meera used to take this? Your girl also takes All of us in our department take these capsules For what? It gives you such a high, the brain will break its control and enlarge New ideas will cascade like waterfall Otherwise how can we come up with all this? Dr Radhika prescribes them Bought by our company Simply super Madhu...? Madhumita Kalyani Im Kalyani Okay, fine You are Kalyani Ravi saw you and Kali in the wedding hall Then what happened? 'Ravi called us out pretending to help us' 'Kali was hesitant' Why are you hesitating? Ill help you Don't think too much 'So I decided and we both followed him' Your son-in-law is not an ordinary man Hes smarter than a smart cookie! Customs raid in your son-in-laws TV company The officers poked and probed dissecting us to bits and pieces Mr Ravi, you got license to import oranges And youve been busy smuggling picture tubes Youve cheated the Govt That officer couldnt be bribed He shut down and sealed the company Will your son-in-law spare him? He paid Vajram to kill the officer Kali came in between and threw a spanner in the works Hey Swaminathan How are you feeling now? Traitor...! This isnt dharma at all You can see if that dharma saves your head now! --1 twist of the head, sir He got his ticket to heaven in that single moment Your son-in-law will come up tops 'Go before anyone sees you' Your daughter is his lucky mascot You will also do well in life Ka- How can you both be so dumb? Kalyani? Stop...stop the car Where are you going? Stop Where is Kali? Tell me the truth He wouldnt have done anything wrong, sir Dont do anything to him Ask him to surrender Otherwise...no one can save him Okay, weve reached your destination Why has he brought us here? - Where to? - Follow me Bombay Mail waits here for a few minutes for the signal You can board it and live happily ever after You have such a golden heart Even Im not so good hearted Can you lend me some money? Ill return it through money order - Thanks a ton - For what? You saved us like God Dont put me on a pedestal I am an ordinary man Jealousy, anger, vengeance and all that crap come naturally to me Like any other human being But He...the idiot! Hell forgive wrong doers But Im not God I shoot to kill Thats me Is this why you brought us to this Godforsaken place Starting trouble for this 'tubelight' In a wedding hall, with 100s of guests as witnesses, I can only get married What has he got thats lacking in me? You are going overboard with your words and crossing limits How is sir? If he can get you to elope he must be a smooth operator! He must have given you immense pleasure?! Hey...I praised you just now with my words still in my throat You stink like garbage! Ill slice your tongue Thanks to your 'union', in 8 months your junior will be delivered Should I bear the father tag? - Hey! - Stop there Please stop What are you doing? Let go, you old man Is this the way to bring up your daughter? She has loved a scumbag and you tried to palm her off on to me Kali...dont Let him go Imagine our plight if you murder him? Youll be fine Dont worry Ill take you to the hospital Kali...! Dont shoot Sleazeball! Scumbag! If I spit on it and leave it open itll become fine automatically I spared him only because of you Your Ahimsa principle! Youll die only in my hands Come and save us I cant open my eyes Mud in my mouth I cant breathe Madhu...calm down I'm suffocated Madhu You remember even the year 1987 But you werent even born then Did someone tell you this story? - Father? - Sundaram...? You said your dad died when you were 10 I meant Kalyanis father Murthy He draws for magazines Ask her if Murthy is still alive? You said Ravi killed Murthy No, he didnt die He is alive 'I took an active part in NSS when I was in school' 'We used to do a lot of social work' 'We went to an Old age home' 'We helped the elders there' 'We used to write letters' 'Take them out for a walk in the garden' 'And play with them' What, grandpa? Kalyani? Let go of my hand After he buried you alive... ...how did you escape from that brute? Im not Kalyani Murthy, let go of her hand He was hurt and unconscious near a railway station They brought him here He was in coma for many years After he regained consciousness no one understood what he said Hell always be sketching on the walls He hardly talks to anyone Its a wonder he spoke to you Dont hit me Madhu, have you told this to anyone? 'I told the warden' You shouldnt take any of this seriously at all That grandpa claims he himself shot Gandhi Hell keep asking us to hang him They are here because they ramble like this Just listen, ignore and move on I forgot all this Sweetheart? Do you know where Murthy is now? Kiran, dont butt in Im interrogating her, right? Do you know where Murthy is? You shouldnt interrupt a session forcibly like this Goody-goody All of a sudden Wrong...I gave all these illegal tablets I medicated your office staff All for your sake Bloody...! Ravi...?! Murderer? You are the man she was talking about? Okay, dear Take all this off And show me where he is I wont tell you Erase all records and finish her Check Madhus biodata FInd out from her school all the Old age Homes she visited I need the list Doctor, where's Madhu? Kiran took her forcibly with him Ashwin? Where has Kiran taken Madhu? I dont know Kiran wont spare me He will kill me Why should he kill you? I know all that he did He was anxious to develop thrilling video games within a tight deadline I gave all these drugs listening to him By stimulating the minds of so many youngsters... ...I've ruined their lives I followed Kiran's orders Call the Police Send the cops to 'Let's talk' a psychiatric clinic near Tidel Park What happened? My boss Kiran has kidnapped Madhu And tried to kill the doctor here Car key He might have a motive to kill you But why kidnap Madhu? Listen to this Youll get all your answers Okay Youre Kalyani Who is Kali? When I try to touch the horizon I realize its a mere illusion It even slides into oblivion Like the horizons distance You seem close this instance But when I come near you vanish into thin air Steady heart set on fire Dreams seared on a pyre Before you melt, my life dear will I see you I wonder? Like dew drops on leaves tender here and there we meander When the wind blows, we scatter Honey, with golden honey flavor Most painful distress is loves suffering Even more heartless than lifes offering Away from you in darkness I melt into blankness I bury myself into the endless sky so blue Hearts core torched Dreams to cinders scorched Before you melt into oblivion, love, will I meet you again? Like dew drops on leaves tender here and there we meander When the wind blows, we scatter Honey, with golden honey flavor Love wrings, throttling me Tears as rivulets run untiringly To remember is a pain, forget is in vain Life is an elongated emotional strain Like a raindrop lost in a dense forest why have you also gone, my dearest Like the root gravitates to water Girl, Ill reach you wherever When eyes close tight I see a hundred hues bright Again when eyes open wide world becomes zero outside Though away for a little while you lamented big time volatile For many births do you know how a girls heart echoes in sorrow? Im sure they are Kirans me Madam, come out My leg is stuck inside Look there, Ashwin Welcome back to reality! Just you re-lax...relax You are heavily sedated! You arent fully conscious as yet - You are a killer - No...shh...sshhh! Why are you so tensed looking at me? You know you cant do anything to me with this bottle! Come here...oh my God You even smell and feel like my Kalyani Please leave me How am I to blame for all this? How many...? When you first walked into my office for an interview That was your first mistake! The same Kalyani I saw --25 years ago...same face Felt like you came out alive from the same place I buried you! I was shell shocked But I was so happy to see you everyday Then came the shocker! You also gave that Ashwin first aid...what? --3 guys to bring this bag of bones! Oh my God! Think of the devil and here he comes Thats when I saw him again Outside the lift Oh yes...I know...he isn't Kali Neither are you Kalyani But you could have been born elsewhere Could have gone anywhere But you didnt! This fellow also could have been born or lived elsewhere But even he didnt! What did you both do? Came back to me Back to my domain! Like pressing all over again the pause button of 1987 You both resumed your love cycle Every time I saw you a spear pierced my heart I tried to kill him in a car accident But his good fortune he escaped that day! Today your fate is playing a game in my form You cheated Kalyani and murdered her Hey! I was cheated I got cheated Not Kalyani! I didnt get married after that...no...! So many girls have crossed my life like passing clouds...thats it The next morning I wont remember their name, face, profile...nothing! But a wife is different With respect...sex aside Everything can be shared in ones life I was so happy I got a Kalyani to share it with But my dream was shattered! Kali tried to run away with Kalyani As a man I tried to stop it And did it I killed Then every bloody stranger on the road asked me... ...why the girl I was supposed to marry eloped with a rowdy! Slap on my face! I was humiliated Again and again and again How many times! Ashwin, please dont leave me again and go Classic love stories that stood the test of time ...have always ended in tragedy! Youre a monster...demon! No, I am the devil Please leave me Oh no! I cant You are the only 2 people alive who know my secrets inside out As you know, Im the only one in our company who decides... ...how every game should end! Now this game is also under my control This also, Ill only decide how this should end Wondering how a guy who fainted got up? Youre cheating the whole world So I thought I should lightly- Mr Ravi Kiran...? I thought she was a fool all these days But you seem to be a bigger fool than her! You couldve finished her in the clinic itself But you didnt and brought her here Mistake number 1 Your boys couldve shot me They brought me and dropped me here What a bunch of idiots! Thats mistake number 2 At least when we united here together, you couldve shot us But you didnt! Again and again and again, you were going in circles ...rattling away your dialogs and wasting time So tiring, man! Fate is playing in your game In my form He became loony because you hit him Nab him Hey Madhu...come out Your boyfriend is about to die And you are hiding...? What kind of love is this? Your Romeos life is dangling in mid-air! Oh yes...just 1 more twist And your Romeos chapter is closed I love it, my dear What are you looking at? Im practical If I kill him and go to jail, what will happen to Madhu? I want to live with her Spend my lifetime with her happily For 25 years he has covered up his murderous past Just shoot him and close the case, sir Law will take its course Now Ill arrest and take him Sir, hell use his power and come out in a flash We dont have any kind of strong evidence against him Shoot him, sir! First drop that knife, Ashwin If we spare his life he wont let us live...kill him! Dont listen to her Kill him Drop the knife Dont spoil your future Drop the knife Ashwin, dont...throw it away Kill him Kali..? Hey...! 'Your death is in my hands' Youll die because of him Hey, stop blabbering Will you shut up for a while? Using my own idea on me? Remember Death...is not the end I will come back for you For you to come back and play is this a video game? Ravi Kiran tried to kill all his witnesses... ...in order to cover-up his murders 25 years ago When we tried to track his cell phone to arrest him... ...he committed suicide! In the Old age Home also- If you spit and dry it in the air, itll automatically heal Madhu, please sign this check --150 million?! Music by Harris Jeyaraj Dance by Nayanthara Dinner for 3000 in a 5 star hotel The whole city should sit up for my dear niece's wedding, right? Okay, why is it your hands are forever in your pocket? Whats the secret? Our Guruji has said if you keep rotating a lemon... ...it drives away bad vibes and is good for the family At least now you shared this blessed secret! This place has changed so much Do you remember, Ashwin in 1962, before boarding the ship... ...we ran down this road? There were many check posts here Ashwin, are you mad to bring her to Burma for your honeymoon? How many times do I tell you? Previous life and rebirth are all bunkum and bull! I saw you for the 1st time in the lift, in our office In this birth, before that day Ive never set eyes on you Then how were you etched in my Burma memories? This I can explain Not only in your dreams, darling But in every young girls dream in the whole of Tamil Nadu... ...Ill make my guest appearance Ashwin exclusively comes even in Hindi girls dreams too! With your bamboo stick body dont get too greedy Oh yeah, youre teak wood! How many ever births we take, I wont love any other man And you wont live with any other woman! Listen, if you keep talking about past births... ...Ill settle down with these egg-headed seers! Yeah...youll be celibate, huh? Can you sleep without me? Thats the only reason... ...Ive been tolerating all the stories you reel out!
