 

                        Quietly, very quietly... ...without talking... ...everyone gather round me here Quietly, very quietly, we are here Everything is silent No one is coming... ...who could disturb our songs Hey, Fiorello! Here l am, my lord And our friends? They stand here ready Very good, keep silent Quietly, very quietly, without talking Quietly, very quietly, without talking Come over here See, smiling in the heavens... ...the lovely dawn is breaking And you have not yet risen. How can you sleep so? Arise, my sweet hope! Come, my adored beauty! Relieve the pain, Cupid... ...of the arrow that has wounded me What luck! l now see that countenance dear Mercy is granted to this loving soul Oh, moment of love! Happy moment! Oh, sweet contentment that has no equal! - Hey, Fiorello! - My lord Say, did you see her? No, my lord How vain is every hope! My lord, day is breaking What should l think? What shall l do? All is in vain, good people! - My lord - Come forward l no longer need more music, more songs Good night, all of you. There's nothing more for you to do - Thank you for the honour, my lord - Enough, don't talk, don't shout Quiet! Curses on you! Away from here, you rabble! Everyone in the neighbourhood will be wakened by this din What a devilish uproar! What a rage it puts me in! lndiscreet fellows! With their uproar they have almost roused the whole neighbourhood At last they are gone! You can go, Fiorello l will be over there waiting for your orders Who's this trouble-maker now? l'll let him pass Hidden under these arches l'll see all l want Day is already breaking and there's no shame in love Make way for the factotum of the town l must hurry to my shop, for it's dawn already What a good life, what pleasures there are for a barber of quality! Ah, bravo Figaro! Most fortunate, indeed! Ready for anything, night and day, always on the go No better fortune for a barber, no life more noble Razors, combs, lancets, scissors, all ready at my command Then there are perks of the trade... ...with the young ladies, with the young bloods Everyone calls for me, everyone wants me Ladies, boys, old men, maidens Here a wig, there a shave Here a leech, there a billet doux Hey, Figaro! Dear me, what a frenzy, what a crowd! One at a time, for heaven's sake! Figaro! Here l am Hey, Figaro! Here l am Figaro here, Figaro there Figaro up, Figaro down l am as quick as lightning, l'm the factotum of the town Ah, bravo Figaro! Fortune will not let you down What a good life! Little rest, much amusement... ...and always l've some money, the profits of my reputation lt's like this: without Figaro no girl in Seville can marry The widows come to me for a husband By wielding the comb by day, by playing the guitar at night... ...l am well able to please everyone fairly What a life! What a profession! But l must hurry to the shop lt is he, or do l deceive myself? Who can this be? lt is he, without doubt! - Figaro! - At your service - Whom do l see? Your Excellency! - Quiet! Be careful! l am not known here, nor do l want to be known - l understand, l'll leave you - No - Can l help you? - Stay here Perhaps your arrival is not inopportune But, tell me, you rogue, why do l find you here? You're looking fat and round! Misery, my lord! - Scoundrel! - Thanks Do you still have discretion? lndeed! But what brings you to Seville? l'll tell you On the Prado l saw a beautiful girl... ...daughter of some senile doctor who settled here recently l fell in love with her, left everything and came here And here day and night l walk around beneath that balcony That balcony? A doctor? Heavens! You are very fortunate This fits together like cheese and macaroni! - What? - Certainly ln there l'm barber, wigmaker, surgeon... ...gardener, apothecary, vet: l handle all their business - What luck! - That's not all The girl is the doctor's ward, not his daughter! - What a consolation! - So now... - Quiet! - What is it? The balcony window is opening Perhaps he is not coming My darling! My goddess! My beloved! l can see you at last How can l give him this letter? Well, my girl? The weather is fine What is that paper? Nothing, just the words of the aria from the '' Useless Precaution'' How clever, the '' Useless Precaution'' How cunning! What is this '' Useless Precaution'' ? lt's the title of the new opera An opera? A fine thing! Poor me! l dropped it! Will you please fetch it? l'm going - l understand - Hurry Never fear l'm here. Where is it? The wind is blowing it away. Look further l do not see it Hey, little lady, are you... Perhaps she wants to fool me! lnside there! Go right away! l command you, hurry! All right, l'm going! l must wall up that balcony Get inside, l say! What a way to be living! Poor troubled lady! Her suffering increases my ardour Let's see what she wrote All right Read it ''Your attentions have aroused my curiosity '' My guardian is going out ''When he has gone, try to let me know your name... '' ...your station in life and your intentions '' l cannot appear on the balcony without that tyrant '' l assure you that every effort will be made to break away... '' ...by the unfortunate Rosina'' Yes, she will escape Watch! The door is opening l'll be back soon. Open the door to no one lf Don Basilio should want me, tell him to wait l had better hasten my marriage to her Yes, l want to settle the affair this very day He'll marry Rosina this very day! Ah, the old dotard! But tell me now, who is this Don Basilio? He's a meddler in matrimonial affairs... ...a hypocrite, a real scrounger, always without a farthing He is a music-master: he teaches the girl lt's good to know all that Now think of satisfying Rosina's desires l shall not tell her my name or rank l must make sure that she loves me only and truly... ...not the wealth and title of Count Almaviva You must help me No, sir: her feelings are your job ln a little song explain it all to her, my lord A song? Certainly. Here's the guitar. Let's start But l... Oh, give me patience! Well then, let's try lf you wish to know who l am... ...listen to my name from my own lips l am Lindoro who truly adores you... ...who wishes to wed you, who calls you by name l am always talking of you thus... ...from dawn till the end of the day Continue, o dear one! What do you think of that? - l'm happy! - Courage, continue The enamoured and sincere Lindoro cannot give you, my dear, a fortune l am not rich, but l give to you a heart... ...a loving spirit... ...that, faithful and constant... ...sighs for you alone thus... ...from dawn till the end of the day The enamoured and sincere Rosina... ...with her heart Lindo... Heaven! Someone must have entered the room. She has withdrawn l'm going mad already, l'm afire l want at all costs to see her, to speak to her You must help me What a frenzy! Yes, l'll help you This very day l want you to get me into that house How will you do it? Let's see some nimbleness from your wits From my wits! l shall see, but inside a day... l understand. Don't have doubts, your efforts will be well rewarded - A consideration in gold, then? - On my word. Come now! l'm ready. You don't realise the prodigious effects... ...the notion of gold produces in me in pleasing my lord Lindoro At the thought of that metal, portentous, all-powerful... ...the volcano of my mind promptly starts to erupt Let's see some astounding effect of that metal Let's see some singular prodigy of that volcano, your mind You must disguise yourself... ...for example... ...as a soldier - As a soldier? - Yes, my lord As a soldier? And what for? A regiment arrives today - And the colonel is my friend - Splendid - And then? - Good heavens! A billeting order... ...will open that door What do you say to that, my lord? Don't you think l've found it? What a wonderful idea! Softly, softly Another idea! See what gold can do You will pretend to be drunk - Drunk? - Yes, my Lord Drunk? But why? Why? Because the guardian will believe more in one who's a little tipsy What a wonderful idea! - Then? - To work Let's begin - Courage! - l'm going l am forgetting the most important thing! Tell me, where is your shop? The shop? You can't miss it. Look carefully, here it is Number fifteen, on the left side Four steps, white front Five wigs in the window Above a placard '' Fine pomade'' Display in blue, la mode A lantern serves as a sign You won't fail to find me - l understand - Now go quickly - Keep a good look-out - l'll think about the rest - l put my trust in you - l'll await you there - My dear Figaro... - l understand - l'll bring with me... - ...a full purse Yes, whatever you wish, but the rest... Have no doubts, it will be all right What a flame of love l feel! l hear already the clink of money Unusual ardour burns my soul Silver and gold are coming The flame of love descends on my heart lt burns my soul with unusual ardour lt makes of me a greater man Long live my master! l've been standing like a post two dreary hours waiting Then he leaves me and off he goes By Jove! lt is not pleasant to have to serve such a master He's noble, young and in love This life of mine is agony indeed! l can stand it no longer! A voice a while back echoes here in my heart Already my heart has been pierced and Lindoro inflicted the wound Yes, Lindoro shall be mine l swear it, l will win My guardian will refuse me l shall sharpen all my wits ln the end he will be calmed and l shall rest content Yes, Lindoro shall be mine l swear it l will win l am docile, l'm respectful l'm obedient, gentle, loving l let myself be ruled l let myself be guided But if they touch me on my weak spot, l'll be a viper And a hundred tricks l'll play before l yield Yes, l will win lf l could at least send him this letter But how? There is no one l can trust My guardian has a hundred eyes ln the meantime l'll seal it l saw him conversing with Figaro for over an hour Figaro is a gallant, a good-hearted young fellow He may be the protector of our love! - Good day, young lady - Good day, signor Figaro - How are you? - Dying of boredom ls it possible? And you a lovely, spirited girl... You make me laugh! What use are spirit and beauty to me if l am shut up by four walls? l seem to be in my own tomb! ln a tomb? Listen, l wish... There is my guardian, l hear his footsteps We'll meet again soon. l have something to tell you - And l you - Excellent. l'm off How pleasant he is! Wretched Figaro! - Good-for-nothing! Curse him! - There he is, always shouting He's made a hospital of the whole family... ...with opium, blood-letting... ...and hellebore! - Have you seen the barber? - Why? - l wish to know - He upsets you too? And why not? l'll tell you. Yes, l've seen him, talked to him, he pleases me His joviality appeals to me Burst with rage, you hateful old man Just look at the little charmer! The more l love her, the more she despises me Certainly it is the barber who has made her malicious What could he have told her? Let's find out Hey, Berta, Ambrogio What's the use! They're half-dead. Get out! May the devil take you! Barber from hell! Some day l'll make you pay Don Basilio, you've arrived just in time l wish, by force or by love, to marry my Rosina by tomorrow You understand me? You are right l have come to warn you, but... ...it's a secret! Count Almaviva has arrived - Who? Rosina's unknown lover? - Precisely Oh, the devil! We must remedy this! Certainly, but discreetly What do you mean? We must begin the affair by inventing some story... ...that will put him in a bad light publicly... ...that will make him appear an infamous man... ...a lost soul l shall serve you Within four days, believe me, Basilio gives you his word... ...we shall have driven him out of town You believe so? Certainly! lt is my own system, and it does not fail And you'll do it? But... Slander? Don't you know what slander is like? No, l don't No? Then be still and listen to me Slander is a little breeze lt is a very gentle zephyr lmperceptibly, subtly, lightly, sweetly... ...it begins to whisper Softly, softly, at ground level... ...hissing in an undertone... ...it goes spreading, it goes buzzing lt penetrates insidiously the ears of people lt bewilders and inflates the mind and the brain Emerging from the mouth, the noise grows in volume lt gathers force little by little, flies from place to place lt seems like the tempest that in the heart of the forest... ...goes whistling, rumbling, and freezes you with horror Finally it breaks loose, it spreads, it redoubles lt produces an explosion... ...like the shot of a cannon... ...like an earthquake, a hurricane... ...a universal tumult, that makes the air resound And the wretch who's slandered, trampled on, humiliated... ...under the public scourge expires, if he's lucky What do you say to that? That may be true, but we are losing time and need is pressing No, l wish to do it my way Let's go into my room l want us now to draw up the marriage contract When she is my wife... ...l'll see to it that she's kept safe from these enamoured lady-killers lf there's money about, l'm here to take the change My wily ones! Very well indeed! l've heard everything Long live the good doctor! Poor baboon! Your wife? Come now! Get that out of your head! While they are shut up in there l'll try to speak to the girl Here she is Well, signor Figaro? - Great things, miss - ls that so? - We'll celebrate a wedding - What do you mean? Your fine guardian has arranged to be your husband by tomorrow - Come now! - l swear it He's locked himself in with Basilio to draw up the contract Yes? He's made a big mistake! Poor fool! He'll have to deal with me But tell me, Figaro... ...you were talking a little while ago with a gentleman A cousin of mine, a fine young man He is brainy and has a good heart He has come to finish his studies and seek his fortune Fortune? He'll find it l doubt it very much. Confidentially... - ...he has one great fault - A great fault? Ah, great: he is dying of love ls that so? You see, l'm most interested in that young man - Don't you believe me? - Oh yes! And, tell me, does his sweetheart live far away? Oh no! That is, here! A step or two away But... - ...is she beautiful? - Very beautiful! Here is her portrait for you in a word or two: Slender, talented Dark hair, rosy cheeks Eloquent eyes, a hand... ...to be loved And the name? Ah, that lovely name again! - She is called... - What? Poor little thing! She is called: R - o... ...s - i... ...Rosi, n - a Rosina! Then l am... You're not deceiving me? Then l am... ...the fortunate one! l had already guessed it: l knew before you did Lovely Rosina, you are the object of Lindoro's affections What a cunning little minx, but she'll have to deal with me Listen, how do l arrange to speak to Lindoro? Hush, Lindoro will be here soon to talk to you To talk to me? Splendid! Let him come, but prudently l'm dying of impatience! But what is the delay? He is waiting for some sign of your affection Send him a note of only two lines and he will come What do you say? l shouldn't Come, courage! - l wouldn't know - Only two lines - l'm ashamed - But of what? Quick, here with the note A letter? Here it is lt was already written! See, what a fool l am! And l play the teacher to her? Oh, my fortunate affections, l begin to breathe again That woman could deliver a lecture on cunning You alone, my love, are the one to bring me consolation Women, eternal gods, who can attempt to make you out? - Listen, but Lindoro? - He'll be coming Any moment he will be here to talk to you - Let him come, but prudently - Hush, he'll be here Now l feel better That Figaro is a fine young fellow Briefly, with politeness, may l know from my Rosina... ...why that fellow came this morning? Figaro? l know nothing What did he say to you? He mentioned the fashion in France, the illness of his daughter Marcellina ls that so? And l bet... Why is that finger stained with ink? Stained? Oh, nothing! l have burned myself and have treated it with ink The devil! One sheet is missing. There were six That notepaper? lt's true l used one sheet to send sweetmeats to Marcellina Very smart! Why was the pen sharpened? Curse you! The pen? l used it to design a flower on my embroidery frame A flower? Saucy girl! - Believe me, sir - No more, be silent Such excuses, young lady, to a doctor of my station? l do advise you, my dear, to deceive a little better Sweetmeats for the little girl? The embroidery on the frame? You burned yourself? Come now! lt needs something different, my girl, to be able to hoax me Why is that sheet missing? l want to know about that hoax Sweet smiles are useless Stay there, do not touch me! Do not think, my girl, that l'll let myself be made a fool of Come, dear, confess l am disposed to forgive Will you not speak? Are you going to be obstinate? Then l know what l have to do Next time l go out l'll hand you over to the servants Sweet smiles do not help nor the look of the innocent Not even air will be able to enter through that door And innocent little Rosina, disconsolate, despairing... ...will stay shut up in her room for as long as l wish Just now in this room l seemed to hear whispering lt must have been the doctor With his ward he doesn't have an hour of peace Those girls do not wish to understand Someone's knocking Open up l'm coming That snuff l've been taking will be the death of me Hey, you people! Good folk! No one answers Who is he? What an ugly face! He's drunk! Who can it be? Hey, you people! Cursed fellows! What do you want, soldier? Ah, yes - What can he want? - Much obliged Are you... just a minute... are you Dr. Baloco? Who is loco? Aha, Badodo? Who's a dodo? Go to the devil! Dr. Bartolo Ah, splendid Dr. Barbaro Excellent - Nonsense! - That's excellent There's not much difference l'm already losing patience She is so late! Where is she? Here prudence will be called for Then you are a doctor? l am a doctor, yes, sir Excellent, an embrace Come here, colleague - Get back - Come here l am also a fully fledged doctor l am regimental horse doctor Look, here it is on the billeting order lf only my beloved would come! l'm already bursting with rage A soldier! My guardian! Whatever can they be doing here? - lt's Rosina, now l'm happy - He's looking at me - He's approaching - l'm Lindoro What do l hear! Take care! What are you looking for, miss? Quickly, go away - l'm going, don't shout - Quickly, out of here Hey, girl, l'm coming too - Where, my man? - To the quarters - To the quarters? - Oh, this is fine! To the quarters? Poppycock! - Help! - Not on your life, sir! You can't be billeted here - How's that? - lt's no use arguing - l have a certificate of exemption - Certificate? My good sir, just a moment and l'll show you it lf l cannot stay here... ...pray, take He's watching us! l can't find it any more Take care! But yes, l will find it l feel a hundred desires within me. l can bear it no longer Here it is ''With this document we hereby exempt Dr. Bartolo...'' Go to the devil! Do not bore me any more What are you doing, sir? Quiet there, Dr. Donkey, my quarters have been fixed here - You want to stay? - Certainly Enough, go quickly, or a good stick will drive you out of here Then you want to do battle? l'll give you a battle! A fine thing is a battle! l'll show it to you here Watch! This is the trench You will be the enemy. Pay attention! Your handkerchief! And our friends will stand here. Attention! Stop! What is this? - l want to see that - Yes lt looks like a prescription! But it's a letter lt is my duty, you must forgive me - Thank you - Thank you, my foot! Bring that paper here, impertinent girl! - Here, quickly! - Pay attention! That paper you ask for... ...was dropped by me by accident lt is the list for the laundry lmpudent girl! Here, quickly! - What do l see! - The barber l have blundered! - lt is the list! - What a lot of people! l'm dumbfounded! The blockhead walked into the trap But what trouble is this here? Always the same story Always oppressed and ill-treated What a dismal life! l cannot bear it any longer Rosina, poor little thing What have you done to her? l've done nothing Rabble-rouser, traitor! Restrain yourself, sir l'd like to flatten you! People! Help! - Assist him! - Leave me alone! People! Help, for pity's sake! Halt there! What's happening, good sirs? What's this uproar? Eternal gods! Because of this din half the town has gathered on the street Sir, be careful, for goodness' sake - That's a rascal - That's a rogue - Wretch! - Curse you! Signor soldier, have some respect... ...or l will have to teach you politeness right now Sir, be careful, for goodness' sake Ugly ape! Low-born rogue! Hush, doctor l want to shout Stop, sir l want to kill him Keep quiet, for goodness' sake No, l want to slay him without mercy Quiet, someone's knocking Whatever can it be? Who is it? The guard Open up here The guard! Oh, the devil! - Now you've done it! - Don't fear, let them come in How will this adventure ever end? Everyone stop No one move Gentlemen, what is going on? What's the cause of this uproar? This ignoramus of a soldier, has maltreated me, sir l came here, sir, to calm this disturbance He's making an infernal din; he's always talking of killing That knave will not accept me as a lodger Forgive him, it has all been the effect of the wine l understand You are under arrest, good man Outside quickly Away from here Under arrest? Me? Hey there, stop! Frozen and immobile like a statue... ...l can hardly draw a breath Frozen and immobile like a statue... ...he can hardly draw a breath Frozen and immobile like a statue... ...l can hardly draw a breath Look at Don Bartolo! He resembles a statue! l shall split my sides laughing! - But, sir... - Be quiet! - But a doctor... - No more! - But if she... - Don't talk! - l wish... - Don't shout! - But if we... - Be quiet! - But if then... - We'll judge - But if then... - Be quiet! - But if we... - Don't talk! Everyone go about his own business Stop quarrelling - But hear me, listen to me - Quiet here! Quiet there! My head seems to be in a frightful forge... ...where the persistent din of the ringing anvils... ...grows louder and never ceases Alternately this and that gigantic hammer... ...with barbaric harmony, makes the walls and arches resound And the brain, poor little thing, already stunned, stupefied... ...cannot reason, is confounded, is reduced to madness Just behold my fate! No one seems to know that soldier in the whole regiment l have my doubts. Heavens! What doubts? l bet that Count Almaviva... ...is the one who sent this man to reconnoitre Rosina's heart No one can be safe, even in one's own house! But l... Who's knocking? Hey, there! Someone's knocking Don't you hear? l'm at home. Don't be afraid, open the door Peace and joy be with you A thousand thanks Don't trouble yourself Joy and peace for a thousand years Much obliged, l'm sure That face looks familiar l don't recognise it But that face, who can it be? This new disguise will favour me more Joy and peace, peace and joy! l understood Heaven! What a bore! Joy and peace, with all my heart Enough, for pity's sake - What a perfidious fate! - The old man doesn't recognise me! My loved one, in a few moments we shall be talking in freedom Everybody is against me! What a cruel mischance! My good sir, who are you, if l may ask? Don Alonso, teacher of music and student of Don Basilio Well, then? Don Basilio is ill and in his place... l'll run and see him Gently, gently He is not so seriously ill l don't trust that fellow Let's go - But sir... - What is it? - l wanted to say... - Speak up, l tell you As you wish, but you'll discover who Don Alonso really is - l'll go to Count Almaviva - Gently. Tell me, l'm listening - The Count... - Quiet, for goodness' sake This morning he lodged in the same inn as me This letter addressed to him from your ward ended up in my hands lt is her handwriting! Don Basilio knows nothing about it Coming for him to give the girl a lesson... ...l wished to earn your favour - With this letter one could... - What? l'll tell you. lf l could talk to the girl... ...l could make her believe... ...that another of the Count's lovers gave it to me... ...proof that the Count is making a fool of Rosina Not so fast Slander! Splendid! Worthy pupil of Don Basilio! l shall know how to reward so fine a suggestion l'll go and call the girl As you concern yourself so much in my interest, l put my trust in you Have no doubts l didn't mean to mention the letter But without this expedient l would have had to leave like a simpleton l shall now reveal my plan to her lf she approves, my happiness will be complete Here she comes. l feel my heart leap in my breast Come, young lady Don Alonso, whom you see, will give you a lesson What's the matter? lt's a cramp in my foot That's nothing! Come near me, pretty maid lf you don't mind, l'll give you a lesson instead of Don Basilio l shall accept it with pleasure - What are you singing? - lf you agree, l'll sing... ...the rondo from the '' Useless Precaution'' That's a good girl, let's begin Against a heart where love burns... ...with true, unquenchable fire... ...a tyrant arms himself in vain... ...with sternness, with cruelty From every assault the conqueror, love, will always prevail Lindoro, my treasure, if you knew, if you could see! This brute of a guardian, how furious he makes me! My dear, l put my trust in you, save me, for pity's sake Do not fear, l reassure you Fortune will be friendly to us - Should l hope? - Trust me - And my heart? - lt will rejoice Dear smiling image Sweet notion of a joyful love You set my heart aflame... ...in my breast You transport me with delight A lovely voice! Excellent! A thousand thanks! A lovely voice, certainly, but that aria is very boring ln my time music was another matter When, for example, Caffariello sang that wonderful aria Listen, Don Alonso, here it is When you are near me, adorable Rosina... The aria said Giannina, but l say Rosina When you are near me, adorable Rosina... ...my heart glows in my breast and dances the minuet Well done, signor barber! lt was nothing, excuse me, l am at fault - Why have you come, rogue? - To shave you - lt's you today - l'm not in the mood Tomorrow l won't be able to come Why? l have to shave and cut the hair of the new regiment's officers... ...dress the blond wig for Marchioness Andronica... ...give Count Bomb a ''tower'' hairdo... ...provide a purgative for Bernardone, the lawyer And then, what's the use? Tomorrow l can't come Come on, less chatter - Today l won't be shaved - No? Just look at the clients l have! l come this morning: the house is in uproar l return after lunch: '' l'm not in the mood'' Have you taken me for some peasant barber? Call in another then, l'm going Let him have his way What caprices! Go and fetch the towels No, l'll go myself lf he had given me those keys, l would have been off lsn't the key to open the balcony among them? Yes, it is the newest one l'm a fine one to leave that devil of a barber here! Go yourself Everything is on the cupboard at the end of the corridor Watch out Don't touch anything l'm not mad. Cheer up! l'll be right back. The blow is struck That is the rogue who brought to the Count... ...Rosina's letter He seems... He seems to me an intriguer of the first order He won't fix me! - Just my luck! - What a noise! What a rogue! l knew it in my heart That Figaro is a great man Tell me, dear one: will you link your lot with mine? Be frank! My Lindoro, l wish for nothing else Well then? He has broken everything: six plates, eight glasses, a tureen See here! lf l had not caught myself on a key... ...in that accursed corridor which is so dark... ...l would have broken my head He keeps every room in darkness, and then... - No more - Let's begin - Be careful - Come on - Don Basilio! - What's this l see! What an obstacle! Look who's here! Your servant one and all What do these new tidings mean? Whatever will become of us? We shall need boldness here Don Basilio, how are you? How am l? What's the hold-up? Are we going to have this blessed shave or not? l'm coming! Hey! Your representative? Representative? l told him that everything has been arranged ls that not so? Yes, yes l know everything - Don Bartolo, explain yourself - Hey, doctor, a word with you Don Basilio, l'll be with you. Listen here a moment Try to get him outside, l fear he'll expose us - My heart is quivering - Don't despair He still knows nothing about the letter There's a muddle here for sure, but l can't guess what l fear he'll expose us, he still knows nothing You are right, my dear sir, l'll send him away right now Who advised you, Don Basilio, to go out walking with a fever? - With a fever? - And what do you think? You're as yellow... ...as a corpse l'm as yellow... ...as a corpse? Fancy that! Good heavens! See him shaking! This is scarlet fever! Scarlet fever! Go and take some medicine That will help you to endure it Quickly, go to bed You make me alarmed He is right, go to bed Quickly, go and rest Quickly, go and rest A purse! Go to bed! But that they should all be unanimous! Quickly, to bed Hey, l'm not deaf l don't have to be entreated any more What a colour! What a bad complexion! Bad complexion! Oh, very bad! Then l'm going Go, go! Good night, my dear sir Good night, my dear sir. Quick, get out of here Good night, with all my heart Good night, with all my heart. We'll talk tomorrow then - Accursed nuisance! - Don't shout Good night, my dear sir, peace, sleep, and health Come on then, Don Bartolo Here l am Tighten it Excellent Rosina, please, listen to me l am listening to you, here l am Precisely at midnight we'll be here to take you away Now that we have the key you have nothing to fear - Ouch! - What is the matter? There's something in my eye! Have a look, don't touch Blow, for pity's sake Precisely at midnight, l'll await you, my soul Already l wish to hasten the moment when l shall be bound to you Now l want to warn you, dear one, that your letter... ...so that my disguise would not have been in vain... His disguise? Ah ha! Splendid, excellent! Don Alonso, very clever! Peace, joy! Rogues, rascals! All of you have sworn to break me! Out, you scoundrels. l'd like to murder you Your head's in a spin Hush, doctor Out, you scoundrels Be quiet, it's no use shouting You have sworn to break me Hush, you are being ridiculous Our friend is raving, on that we're agreed The poor man is crazy, there's no way to reply We're agreed, there's no way to reply Be quiet, we're going, it's no use shouting Wretched me! Listen, Ambrogio, go to Don Basilio right away Tell him l have to see him urgently Go now You guard the doorway What a suspicious old man! l wish he'd stay away till he bursts There's always commotion here. They quarrel, cry, threaten Yes, there's not an hour of peace with this stingy old grumbler Oh, what a house in turmoil! The old man is looking for a wife, the girl wants a husband The one rages, the other rants. Both of them are mad But what is this thing love... ...that makes everyone crazy? lt is a universal sickness, a craze, an itch... ...a tickling, a torment Poor me, l feel it also Poor me, l feel it also and don't know how it will end A curse on old age! l am despised by everyone And so l must needs die a desperate old maid Then you have no knowledge of Don Alonso? None at all Quick, get the notary here Here is the key to the front door: go, quickly, for goodness' sake Never fear, l'll be back here in two ticks Hey, Rosina Come here l have news to tell you about your lover You should know that he is having fun with another lover Here is the proof Heavens! My letter! l will go and call the guard How cruel is my fate! At last, here we are Figaro, give me your hand Heaven almighty! What infernal weather! Weather for lovers Hey, give me some light Where can Rosina be? Now we'll see Here she is My treasure! Back, wicked soul! l came only to remedy my stupid credulity... ...to show what a lover you lost, worthless and ungrateful soul l am dumbstruck l don't understand a thing - But for pity's sake... - Be quiet You feigned love to sell me to that vile Count Almaviva To the Count? You're mistaken! Oh, happy me! Look at me, my treasure l am Almaviva, l am not Lindoro What an unexpected stroke! He himself! Oh heaven! What do l hear! l am nearly delirious with surprise and happiness lt has taken their breath away. Now they are dying of happiness Look what a fine coup my genius has made! What an unexpected triumph! Happy me! Oh glad moment! l am nearly delirious with love and happiness My lord! But you... But l... Ah, no more! No more, my own one! The fair name of my wife, my idol, already awaits you The fair name of your wife! What joy it brings my heart! - Are you content? - Ah, my lord! Quickly Sweet, fortunate bond that rewards my desires! Let's go Love, at last you have felt pity for my sufferings Let's go quickly lf there is any delay, my subterfuges will fail for sure Good heavens! What do l see? A lantern at the door Two people! What shall we do? - You saw? - Yes, my lord - Two people? - Yes, my lord - A lantern? - At the door, yes, my lord What shall we do? Hush, quietly, let's not cause a disturbance Let's get out of here by the ladder from the balcony We are lost! What shall we do? - What happened? - The ladder - Well then? - The ladder's not there - What's that you say? - Who removed it? - What a cruel setback! - Unlucky me! Hush, l hear someone. What shall we do, my lord? Courage, my Rosina Here they come Don Bartolo! Don Basilio And the other one? lt's our notary Cheer up. Let me handle it Signor notary... ...this evening you were to draw up the contract... ...for the marriage between Count Almaviva and my niece The couple are here. Do you have the document with you? - Excellent - Not so fast Where is Don Bartolo? Don Basilio, this ring is for you - But l... - Also for you... ...are two bullets in the brain if you resist Oh dear! l'll take the ring. Who is signing? Here we all are. The witnesses are Figaro and Don Basilio She is my bride Hurrah! How happy l am! Oh, the bliss l have longed for! Hurrah! Stop everyone. Here they are Take it easy, sir They are thieves, sir. Arrest them Your name, good sir? My name is that of a man of honour l am Count Almaviva ln short, l got it all wrong! Alas, that's so! But you, you rogue, to betray me and act as a witness! Dear Don Bartolo, that Count has certain reasons in his pocket... ...certain arguments that brook no answers And l, complete ass, ensured their marriage by taking away the ladder That's what you call a '' Useless Precaution'' Let us keep the eternal memory of so happy a union l'll extinguish the lantern, l have nothing more to do here May love and eternal faith be seen to reign in your hearts One such happy moment has been worth the sighs and suffering At last this loving soul begins to breathe again May love and eternal faith be seen to reign in your hearts You have kindled the flame in the humble Lindoro A finer fate awaits you, rise up and rejoice May love and eternal faith be seen to reign in your hearts
