 

                        Presented & Produced by AURA PICTURES a CHUNG Jiyoung Film JANUARY 5th, 2007 Judge PARK Bongju. I want you to confess why you overrode the law? What the hell are you doing! Here's a news f1ash! former S Univ. professor KIM Kyungho, has allegedly shot the presiding judge with a crossbow after losing a professorship reinstatement case in Court. The disgruntled suspect, sought the judge out at his home and committed a life-threatening offense against him using a dangerous weapon The Supreme Court held an urgent judges' meeting and declared to take severe legal actions against him for challenging constitutionalism and attacking the Judiciary. UNBOWED Hey! Just pay my outstanding fees for helping you win this lawsuit! It took me 3 years to stop the company from firing you! You'll get paid when union members are reinstated. You might as well join in the fight. Lawyers like - you should take a stand! - It's your fight, not mine! Stop it! Just give me my money. - Mr. CHOI. - What! Miss LEE, thanks for the coffee. - See you later. - Union Chairman Mr. CHOI! What is it, what?! A fight's one thing and paying up is another. Our office is really in a rut you know. How can it be worse than our members being laid off?! Awe fuck! Give me my money What, fuck?! - What did you say? - What! - How old are you? - What! How old are you? Every goddamn sentence of yours ends with 'money'? What's your deal! Huh?! If you're a lawyer, act like one! Shit! Hey! You'll never see a penny until we're all reinstated? I'm quitting this shitty job anyway, you son-of-a-bitch! This case is so high profile. I'm sure other attorneys will be interested. That said, what brings you all the way down to Changwon? It's you whom my husband wants. I used to be the best in defending wrongly dismissed university professors. Especially, I earned my fame through the Prof. LEE Dongho trial. And participated in drafting the revised private school law He said you don't care much about what other people say And that you'd be a good match with him. I read about the case in the news But first give me details about his dismissal. My husband was on the university entrance exam evaluation team. January, 1995 A and B can only be parallel. But the question should prove how they are perpendicular. A and B cannot be parallel and perpendicular at the same time. So this question itself cannot be valid Mo wonder 1 cou1dn't so1ve it. Who presented this question? Prof. CHOI? Prof. CHOI, no need to take everything so seriously. We can either grade it as a no score or the highest score. You mean we should admit it was an error? Our Mathematics Dept. will all look like fools! But if we hid the truth, - it'll make things worse. - There he is. What have you decided to do? We've decided to create another official answer sheet and re-grade the exam papers by it. What? But that will change who passes or fails. Prof. KIM. You need to put the university's reputation above your principles. But shouldn't the school's reputation be based on 'trust'? If trust means so much to you, why raise such controversy?! Prof. KIM, you need to learn to embrace a colleague's mistake That's enough. We'll just close this issue before word gets out. - Let's do that. - Right. It's just like lying to the students. As their professor, I won't accept this. Are you clueless or just too self-righteous?! Enough. You think a good thesis will get you a full tenure? That's how he became the faculty outcast and the following year he failed to receive tenure. That really hit my husband hard. He eventually filed a lawsuit to reinstate his position. But Reissuing tenure status is the school's right. It's the reality of private schools. Sons-of-bitches I still have a hangover from yesterday. I need some water. Please excuse me. Hey! Why do my hands always shake when I'm starting to sober up? It's so humiliating! MARCH 2005, NEW JERSEY, U.S.A. Honey, we can now return to Korea? What's dad saying? They passed a new law permitting university faculty excluded mom a tenure-track to have another chance for re-evaluation. Look here, SNU's Prof. KIM Minsu has been reinstated. If I apply for a re-evaluation, I'll be able to return to my university. I'm not going back. What're you talking about? I don't want to go back. You were always right, but where did that get us? But can't you see they've changed the law. These letters of validation confirm that not just local mathematicians but also prestigious mathematicians from overseas also confirm the plaintiff's claims are justified, right? Yes, your Honor. So why did he lose? The judge graduated mom the same school that dismissed him. It's nothing new that private school foundations and the Judiciary are close. So you never appealed? We appealed immediately and that's where we met Judge PARK Bongju. They blamed my exclusion from a tenure-track on my lack of ability as a scholar. Yet they haven't presented one single piece of evidence. I would like you to treat this case strictly by the law. You're constantly telling me to stick strictly to the law, which I absolutely will. At first, we had high hopes for Judge PARK Bongju, but This is a petition filed and signed by the students. This clearly proves the plaintiff's lack of ability as an educator. I would like to submit this as court evidence. Submission permitted. I'd like these students to be summoned as witnesses. This is fa1se evidence fabricated by the school. I will make that conclusion. Therefore there is no reason to overrule the original ruling and accordingly the plaintiff's appeal is defeated. Wait just a moment. PARK Bongju Wait! Wait, wait! Would you like some water? No, it's okay I guess you like to drink? Uh, yes uh, no. Anyway, I'll take the case and try to do my best I'll call you when I return to Seoul. I I Good day. Why's she just leaving? It's not a profitable gig for us anyway. But it's a high profile case. Win and you'll earn success, but even losing will bring fame. We probably won't be earning a dime. During the investigation, we'll be constantly commuting to Seoul. You realize how much we'll spend on motel charges? Are you even interested in managing this office?! His wife's really beautiful. Shimwon, Shimju! Daddy! Are you gonna have a drink? Of course. It'll be my second round with my babies! Honey! Where's mommy? - Mommy? - Yeah. She's with uncle in the room. Uncle? Hey! Welcome! Good to see you. How about a drink, yeah? Drink? How can you even think of that when his house is about to be put up for foreclosure! Awe, that son-of-a-bitch CHO! COURTHOUSE Hey, LEE! Where are you? Lobby I'm in the lobby. And you? Which lobby? Your left, left. Over here! I could barely find you. - How have you been? - Where's my money? Follow me. What about my money? It's the case you'll be handling. Which is why I summoned you here today. What the It's a fraud case, a big one. And KANG Sukchul has been assigned as the presiding judge. But don't you know him better than I do? Yeah, but you've both been on the student council in school. Besides, the Chief Judge is a stubborn bastard. And unfortunately I've been blacklisted You think I'm any better when I'm just a third-rate lawyer who leeches off laborers? Here's an advance. It's 5 million Won. I'm having dinner with KANG Sukchul tomorrow. So make sure you postpone your return to Changwon, okay? I'll call you. So broker jobs are now that asshole's new gig? Shit THE 7th TRIAL THE CROSSBOW CASE, 2007 As you were waiting for the elevator someone called you. You turned around and saw the accused descending from the 2nd floor, right? Yes. The accused who came down the stairs approached you with a crossbow in his hands, correct? Yes. Prosecution? Continue the cross-examination. The accused raised his crossbow and aimed it at you, correct? At that time I was too surprised to think straight. Anyway, the accused had What are you Judge PARK! Judge PARK! - Who are you! - Are you okay? Take good care of that. Call the police and hold him so he doesn't get away. I have a question for the witness. How did the arrow extracted from your abdomen get a blunt tip? That I don't know. Anyway, at that time Witness, you're lying, right? Please remain from throwing slandering comments at me. Even during the course of the tenure-track reinstatement trial, the witness has constantly been lying. Stop. Can't you see the victim wants to settle? Order in the courtroom! During that trial, the witness neglected his duty to preside a court according to Article 103 of the Constitution and Artic1e 1 of the Civil Procedure Act requiring all trial procedures to adhere to the principle of truth and integrity. Mr. KIM, he is the Prosecution's witness. You can cross-examine him on matters only related to the case. Mr. PARK, do you acknowledge this? Mr. KIM, are you challenging me? Why won't you let me ask questions? They are related to the key factor of this case! The tenure-track reinstatement trial is irrelevant to this case and should not be treated here as a subject for examination. I am just pointing out my motive for taking a crossbow with me. If only the witness had given me a fair trial, this would never have happened. I object, your Honor. Sustained. Mr. KIM, please stop. I want you to object to this trial. I said, I want you to object to this trial! It's your decision to make. Your Honor I object to this trial. You're fired. Are you still working for that newspaper? Whew, you've become one hot cutie? Does that mean I was never hot before? You were always running around in short hair and sneakers. Let's get some tea somewhere. You must be joking! We're going for a drink! Love the sound of that? Let's go! Ms. JANG! Mrs. KIM! I just met an old friend. This is PARK Jun, an attorney Good afternoon. Ah Good afternoon. I also have a case here That was a ridiculous trial Was it? Good day You two seem close. We met while I was working on a story. And how do you two know each other? I met him once as my husband wanted to hire him. Anyway Why didn't you take the case? Who shoots a judge with a crossbow? It's like a fight between David and Goliath. David throws stones with all his might, but the armored Goliath never budges. Wait, wait. This is a $20,000 phone call. Yo, LEE, did you book the appointment? The appointment's been cancelled. - Cancelled? - Uh, well Yeah, okay. Judges and lawyers shouldn't meet anyway. - We'll just go ahead with things. - The case went to another attorney. So I need the money back. Are those sons-of-bitches kidding me?! Anyway, the money Money? Yeah, I'll return it! But it'll just take me a year! Those sons-of-bitches? Goddamn it Let's go. You're drunk. Don't feel like it. Leave if you want to. Can I sleep over? I'd love to sleep at a pretty divorcee's place. You just sexually harassed me. Then arrest me. Yeah, okay. Let's go! Not bad to be arrested for sexual harassment. We're here. We're here? Shit, nice place, let's go! On, no. As for you The 24-hour sauna over there. That's where you're going! I'm sick of motels and saunas? Jun! I hate them. Jun! I'm not kidding. From motel to sauna, sauna to motel I'm sick of it! Hey, Jun! It won't be easy finding a lawyer. Even the MINBYUN-Lawyers for a Democratic Society won't have anyone to represent you. Professor KIM does have an attitude issue. You shouldn't be saying that, Mrs. KIM. I agree. Personally, it was liberating when he fired his attorney. I know. But he's only making his 1ife more difficu1t. Professor KIM is a hero to all us judicial victims. If only there's an attorney who could be a good buffer between him and the bench There is a perfect person But Mrs. KIM doesn't seem to like him Hello, I'm PARK Jun. Hello. I'm surprised you're here when you've turned down my offer. Why did you come to me again? While turning down distinguished attorneys? They all wanted me to apologize and settle when I'm innocent. But you did commit a crime. You shot a man with a crossbow? But I didn't! I didn't shoot him. Sorry to ask, but are you an alcoholic? Don't write that down? But we're supposed to Don't tell them to break the rules, you're a lawyer. fuck the rules? Write it all down? All rules must be abided by. Good! Write what he just said! Write that down? Like, 'rules must be abided by.' It's a problem when they are broken. But the law itself is beautiful. The law is beautiful? Then can you say the same for the National Security Law? Didn't I tell you to stop writing down our conversation? I know nothing about the National Security Law. I'm just saying that we live in a constitutional state and that our Criminal Law was made well. And that includes our Criminal Procedure Act The law is nothing but crap, okay? Take a good look at our history. The law is nothing but involuntary submission following a series of aggression! Did you come to argue with me? Are you claiming that the law is useless? What I'm saying is, the law is full of contradictions? The law's just like mathematics. If the question is accurate, the answer will be as well. No contradiction can exist. You are one hell of a conservative man. Yes, I am conservative. Conservatism is about following socially agreed principles. Why should this be a problem? That's why I will show those law-breaking judges a lesson using the law itself. I'm sure you'll be fine without me. What a bunch of bullshit! Awe shit LEE will get on my case again. Shit I really worked hard to change KIM Kyungho's wife's mind. But you go fuck everything up? That KIM Kyungho doesn't fucking need a lawyer. How long have you been drinking to be so drunk like this? Eunsuh, what should I do if I were to quit this job? Tell me! What should I do? Shit - Answer the phone. - Huh? - Phone? - Uh, yeah, phone. I know, I know. Hello? LEE? What? We've got court tomorrow? You think I care?! Clear the office. Put it up for sale! CHANGWON DISTRICT COUR - Get out. - Uh, I'm not late. Shit. Hey, don't leave without lunch. Wait at the office with LEE. No thanks, I'm leaving. Treat her to a bowl of noodles. I'm not late, am l? Three years ago there was a huge strike in Changwon. Every labor rights lawyer participated in the protest. Only Mr. PARK, fearful of a bloodshed, refused to join. What? He didn't join the fight? from that point on he was scapegoated. As labor rights lawyer whom the laborers wouldn't hire. He was unable to get work and debt kept piling up. Subsequently he resorted to alcoholism. But why didn't he participate? It's not like him. He was traumatized by the Bupyong Daewoo Motors protest But he wasn't hurt then. That's what I'm talking about. I saw the tapes shot by the labor force media group. While everyone else was being miserably beaten and injured, he was unscathed just because he was a lawyer. He blamed himself for everything. He was the one who incited the protest in the first place. One day he drank himself silly and started balling like a baby. How could I leave after seeing him like that? And look where's it got me. Do you have those tapes? Tapes? This is the court's preliminary injunction declaring that all actions interfering with any labor union activities are against the law! Eunsuh, aren't you going home? Anyone preventing us mom entering the union office! Is that PARK Jun? Have no legal foundation What a fighter committing an illegal offense! Be still! Why are you arresting us? I'm back from the realtors. What do you mean, 'rea1tfirs'? I put our office up for sale. You said you're quitting. When did I say that? Are you kidding me? Then was that just drunk talk? Awe shit. Call the realtors and cancel! And order me a bow1 of noodles as you're at it. There's only one solution. It's the designation of Counsel request for the crossbow case. Shit  Says who?! In spite of our office situation, an employee shouldn't bully his boss Awe shit! fine Shit Then at least take this. RESIGNATION Shit Hello, I'm calling from Changwon. Ms. JANG I'm now unemployed. So I'm in your hands. I've resigned like you told me to. Give that to me? What brings you here? I've changed my mind. Have a seat. There's just one thing I need to confirm. Why did you take a crossbow with you that day? I had to release the stress from that bullshit trial. So I would shoot arrows at the shooting field. Did you take it with you that day to shoot PARK Bongju? You think I'm stupid? To shoot another man like that? Including PARK Bongju, I was determined to teach every foul-playing judge a lesson. I just wanted to scare him to confess his false judgment. Okay! Then shall we start? Aren't they getting hungry? It's been hours. Want me to ask when they'll be done? And get an earful mom that sick bastard? He'll be demanding visitation and inmate rights. It'll just give you a headache. Right Here is a statement of grounds for appeal. Okay, I'll type and polish it up. No, I want you to submit it as it is. You're truly a strange client! - Then what am I supposed to do? - Support me. Support. Support you What? Have I made you mad again? I'll submit my own statement of grounds for appeal. A lawyer's job is to serve the client. Hence, you just need to do as you're told. I should get going! Be well prepared, and stop drinking so much. I've quit drinking. I won't be drinking until the end of this trial. the entire trial will be recorded and dictated. Let's hear the accuser's statement of grounds for appeal. Your Honor as you may know, this is an extremely particular case. Right as it happened, a national judges' meeting was summoned. There the case was announced as a terrorist act against the Judiciary, which declared to take severe legal actions like we all know. Even before a trial. Don't you find this somewhat odd? Furthermore, the victim's been changing his statement mom the first police investigation to the original trial. The Defense wonders on what grounds the original trial court stands to undisputedly accept such unreliable statements. In conclusion, the Defense requests for sufficient examination and proper investigation based on evidence and reasonable judgment. Nothing further, your Honor. Now it's the Prosecution's turn to make your statement. Recently, during the politician PARK Keunhae's campaign trail, a man slashed her face with a paper knife. The man was sentenced to 8 years. Attacking the Judiciary as the last fortress of democracy with a lethal weapon due to a disapproving sentence is a serious crime no different from the attack on PARK Keunhae. Thus, the State disputes the lenient sentence of 4 years, and would like to appeal for a heavier sentence. Mr. PARK, you did well today! You're a good partner for Prof. KIM! - Really? - Yes, really. Okay! Lunch is on me! Wow, really? My shoulder's been bugging me ever since I stopped drinking! That shoulder's still hurting? Now what shall we order? Sit, sit Bro, he's passing by. Yo, crossbow man! My name is KIM Kyungho. I was just transferred here while you were in the hospital. I heard you went on a hunger strike for two weeks. Anyway Where did you get such good connections? I heard you missed court the first day of your appeal? My hand It has nothing to do with that. I just wasn't feeling well Who gets just 4 years after shooting a judge with a crossbow? He must have great connections! Shit, Yongchul's got 5 years or 7 for cursing the judge! Now look here Hey The correctiona1 officers tfi1d me you're a stubborn bastard, and that you're driving them crazy. Why don't you share a bit of those benefits you've got. Okay, why not? I'll share my connections. What kind of problems have you got? Wow. THE 2nd APPEAL-CROSSBOW CASE DECEMBER 10th, 2007 The Defense wants to call PARK Bongju to the stand. Explain why when he's already testified at the original trial. Because he is a key witness in this trial. As his statement conflicts with mine, a cross-examination is necessary. Then this request will be determined 1ater. Are you repeating the original case again? - Whenever PARK - Let's just get this over with first. The Defense motions for a bloodstain verification. We would like to verify whether the bloodstains match PARK's. Are you suggesting they aren't the victim's? You accept everything presented by Prosecution without a doubt while questioning all our requests Mr. KIM. Please don't cut me off when I'm speaking. According to Article 132 in the Rules of Criminal Procedures, when a prosecutor enters a request for evidence, the correlation between evidence and fact must be specified. But Then, are you saying the blood on the clothes evidence cannot be verified? Bloodstain verification is basic forensic procedure. Counsel, why are you bringing this up now and not during the original trial? I wasn't there at that time. This trial can proceed without a bloodstain verification. According to a written expert's opinion, That's why we should confirm if that man is PARK Bongju or not. What is the Prosecution's opinion? Since it's clear the victim was wounded by a crossbow, the State considers this procedure unnecessary. Mr. KIM. I would like to ask you a question. Wasn't the victim's injury inflicted by your crossbow? No, Your Honor. Then how did the victim get injured? The hospital clearly verifies the injury and treatment he received. Are you saying the paramedics, doctors and others are all lying? Yes, your Honor. PARK has originally stated the broken arrow as evidence. But Prosecution has presented an intact one instead. Can't you see someone is lying? Then we'll probably get some answers when witness LEE Jongguk is cross-examined in the next trial. Then, what about summoning PARK and the bloodstain verification? Those will be postponed. You're postponing both? further consideration wi11 be given to this matter. The first 119 paramedic to see the wound, KWON Changduk. The patrol officer who collected the arrow, LEE Jongguk. The police officer who filed the police report, HONG Sukjun. The doctor who treated the victim, PARK Jaeki. These four are confirmed as witnesses to take the stand. Requests for PARK Bongju and the bloodstain verification are postponed. This court is adjourned. I hate being cut off when I'm speaking! I know. The presiding judge keeps - cutting people off - No, I mean you Mr. PARK. Who me? But we had great teamwork back there? Speak for yourself. Prosecution summoned Dr. PARK Jaeki to cover up PARK's conflicting statement. They'll argue that PARK clearly had an injury Don't worry. I'm great at cross-examinations? Leave it to the expert! The only real experts in this country are conmen. Just remember, don't cut me off again when I'm speaking. What an asshole? There're no experts in this country because of guys like you. Perfect teamwork doesn't come all at once. - You'll have to work hard at it. - What an asshole? - Good job. - Thank you. The lawyers before had a hard time with my husband. But you seem to be doing well. Would you like to join me for lunch? I have to leave for Changwon right now. - Now? - Yeah. I've got something for you. Anything good? You're not even watching. I'm changing the channel to my favorite TV drama. Just leave it. Who the hell gave you this cumbersome gadget? - Who is it? - None of your business. Strange. It must be a woman. Awe come on, she's no woman to me? So who's 'she'? Didn't I tell you about this journalist, JANG I met? Auch! Hey! What do you think you're doing? Give them back to her. What for? She must think she's your wife! What kind of woman gives a gift like this to a married man! It's not normal unless something's going on! Are you out of your mind?? Who wouldn't go crazy in a situation like this?! Did or didn't you? - You did, right? - Awe shit! OK, fine! Okay, I'm not using this! I'm getting rid of them! Hey! Okay, I'm getting rid of them! Should've just slept with her before being accused like this! What was that? Who the fuck? - Someone must've been hit? - Light out, quick! Quick, clear everything! Destroy all evidence! I've submitted the preparatory pleadings you wrote me. My attorney was happy you made his life easier. Manager-type attorneys are all like that. I'm just showing my appreciation. So please accept. But I don't smoke. It's $20 per cigarette. Stop trafficking illegal goods like this. Refund this cause I just quit smoking. NO ONE CAN OPEN THIS LETTER IT IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED THE 3rd APPEAL - CROSSBOW CASE JANUARY 28th, 2008 Witness. On the day you were dispatched to the crime scene, how many paramedics were there in the ambulance? KO Seungmin and myself, just us two. Where's the patient? There he's coming out. He's coming out. What's going on? Are you okay? He's okay. Did you get to see the victim's injury with your own two eyes? - Yes I have. - According to this log, PARK Bongju's words have been written down. Did you hear them directly from PARK? Yes I have. I asked him in the ambulance, how he got his wound. He shot me from 1-2 meters away. The arrow struck me in the abdomen and bounced off. Bounce off? How could he get wounded when it bounced off? I'm not sure. I really don't know. In the Prosecution's report, he stated he pulled out the arrow lodged in his abdomen. But you've never heard this? I have not. Nothing further, your Honor. Prosecution, your witness for cross-examination. It will be unnecessary, your Honor. According to the medical diagnosis filed by the witness, the victim was hospitalized for which required 3 weeks of medical treatment. Is this correct, Dr. PARK? Yes, it is. Have you seen the wound for sure, Dr. PARK? Yes, I have. Nothing further, your Honor. The paramedics' log indicates the victim's wound was O.5 cm before he reached the hospital. But the diagnosis states 2 cm. Was the depth of the wound No, it was the width, the width of the wound. The width? But PARK stated you told him the wound was 2 cm in depth. So you never said that? I couldn't have said that. It is difficult to accurately determine the depth of a wound. Nothing further, your Honor. Are you the policeman who retrieved Yes. According to the deposition, security guard KIM Dukhwan stated he had placed the broken arrow at the garden threshold where the driver already placed the crossbow and two other arrows. When you bagged the crossbow and the three arrows, did you see the broken arrow, Officer LEE? No, I haven't. Wouldn't that make the arrows a total of4 and not 3? Then are PARK Bongju and KIM Dukhwan lying? That I'm not really sure The accused shot the victim in front of the elevator inside. So the arrow must've broke as the victim wrestled the accused after being shot. Since the witness retrieved three arrows from the garden outside, and there was an arrow broken inside, this broken arrow couldn't have been found at the garden. Isn't this why you never discovered a broken arrow? Your Honor. The Prosecution's question is way too odd. - I can't understand - Wait. - No, it is a good question. - I'm not finished. Just be quiet for a moment. Can't you see I'm speaking? What do you two think you're doing? Go on, go! Then where's the broken arrow that the witness never found? What? Could the Prosecution have put it away somewhere? What do you mean by 'put away'? I mean, could they have destroyed evidence? Mr. KIM! - Prosecution, answer the question! - Mr. KIM! Are you the detective who bagged the victim's clothes? Yes I am. Are these clothes exhibits in the exact same state as when found? They display the same state. Can you confirm whether this shirt exhibit also is the same? Yes. Then why does this undershirt have bloodstains on it, while this shirt has none despite an arrow penetration? Can you explain? I'm not sure. I guess It didn't seep that far out. Then can you explain this? This thick padded vest exhibit was worn over this shirt. Why does this vest have bloodstains on it? I cannot give you an exact explanation. Why's that? Because it requires a scientific opinion. Nothing further, your Honor. Your witness, Prosecution. Your Honor, the State will not pursue a cross-examination. Then I would like to ask a question to the Prosecution. I advise you to place that question to me. Every witness has revealed PARK's statement as entirely false. Yet the Prosecution is refusing to cross-examine witnesses. Have you just given up? Or are you admitting I'm innocent? If nothing is proven then that means you're innocent. You'll get your sentence at the end of this trial. I've been through numerous judges who repeatedly postponed judgment calls that led to quack sentences, and then told me to appeal if I was dissatisfied. Preposterous! So please request Prosecution to prove their point right here, right now. Prosecution, please respond. The State believes sufficient evidence have been presented. The witnesses' testimonies have been suggesting that all the Prosecution's evidence are fa1se. So what do you mean by 'sufficient'? If Prosecution can't prove their point, then you will definitely be acquitted. Therefore, it isn't a matter you should be concerned of. But I cannot help but be concerned. Whether PARK's wound was se1f-inf1ict or fabricated by the Prosecution, or if the witnesses are committing perjury, don't you want the truth? Okay. What do you mean, okay? All I'm asking the Prosecution is for a proper explanation. Next - The bloodstain verification - Don't change the subject. Mr. KIM, do not disrupt the order in this court. Prosecution has stated they have presented sufficient evidence and it is my job to decide if this is true or not. A bloodstain verification calls for a judicial officer on site who confirms evidence in person. But we cannot get the victim's blood sample at this point. It's just a simple request to confirm whether the bloodstain on the clothes exhibit matches with PARK's blood. There is no need for a judicial officer's scene inspection. All we need is a blood verification. Then how will we acquire the victim's blood sample? What do you mean? The court can request a blood sample. And if the victim refuses, a warrant can always be issued. - Because it is inappropriate - Inappropriate?! Are you saying you undoubtedly accept the bloodstained clothes as evidence without proper confirmation? The Defense strongly motions for a bloodstain verification. Motion dismissed. What do you mean, 'dismissed'?! Your motion is dismissed. Summons for PARK Bongju will be determined after the evaluation of all witnesses. Judge LEE Taewoo! It's hard for you to take this court seriously, right? Mr. KIM! You're way out of line! You hold no intent to follow the provisions in this book, right? I will abide by the provisions. Have you read the preparatory pleadings I sent you on the 12th? Which pleadings are you referring to? 'Judge LEE's court strategy and ulterior motive' titled one. Yes, I've read it. When did you? PARK testified during the original trial that the arrow which struck him in the abdomen had broken. But none of the three arrows presented here are broken. Mr. KIM. The evidence presented by Prosecutor BAEK fully conflicts with the victim's testimony Mr. KIM, I understand what you're trying to prove. Let me finish? Order in the courtroom! If Prosecutor BAEK Saemin has destroyed evidence, he should be held accountable by Article 155 of the Criminal Law or PARK Bongju for perjury according to Article 152. Either one has committed a crime in court. According to Article 234 of the Criminal Procedure Act, a public servant must press charges against those who have committed a crime. Therefore, you are required to act upon this responsibility while exercising your judicial duties. Mr. KIM! Only the judge has authority to preside the court! But isn't it your duty to abide by the law? Are you imposing your opinion? I'm just 'urging' you to listen! I will now decide the next public trial date. So you'll press charges on the next public trial? Please make sure you do at the next trial. Wait just a moment. A constitutional appeal The dismissal of a bloodstain verification request is unconstitutional as it violates the right to be tried by law. Submit this to the Constitutional Court. You should discuss these things with me in advance? How am I supposed to discuss it with you when the verification request was dismissed today? It sounds like you were waiting to be dismissed. I've been through this so many times, I had to come prepared. I'm not sure who's the attorney here anymore! Just make sure you discuss things with me in advance. Prof. KIM, how was the trial today? Exactly as you have witnessed yourself. You call this a trial? It's just a bunch of bullshit! - Professor, you did the right thing! - Be strong! How can you say that when he shot a person?! What the hell is your problem? Are you crazy? Jackass! One, two, three, four Professor? Thank you. I just told them to follow prison rules. Fucking bastards! Giving me disciplinary action for teaching inmates how to dance! At least they should have the balls to admit what they really want is bribe money. No unapproved business on state-owned territory from now. Dancing lessons are on me, professor. free of charge! Now here are the basic steps. One, two, three step four step. One, two, three step four step. Hey, you're pretty good. Now, next are you hands. Do like this. Four beats forward, four beats backwards. What's most important when you're released from prison is a means to make a living, okay? So when they let you out, go see the list of women I give you. Just do as I say and Are you telling me I should make a living out of adultery? Look at it like this. Their 1ives will be ruined by assholes anyway. Just think of it as doing them a favor. As long as you Keep moving. Right foot, left foot As long as you don't con them, the relationship will last. WAS JUDGE PARK BONGJU REALLY SHOT BY AN ARROW? Sir. Ms. JANG Okay. Hey, Eunsuh! Mo Journalist JANG Eunsuh! Thanks to you, it's all over the news? I love you so much! Sir, you've got to see this. 'Plea for KIM Kyungho's Clemency'? The number of hits are already over several thousand Netizens are crying out for KIM Kyungho's immediate release! The fire's been started? Release him? Release him? Release him? Release Prof. KIM Kyungho immediately! Release him? Release him? Release him? We want the Judiciary to apologize to the People! We've got fifty new supporters. Big news! Judge LEE Taewoo has resigned. Really?! Now, Mr. PARK, drink up. No, no! This is just water. My boss here hasn't touched a single drop of liquor since the trial's begun. I just don't want to be fired by the missus here. Why don't you stop for good? - That I can't do. - But you have to. Just for this trial. The trial is still in session, but we'll broadcast the case as well as raise points on all suspicions surrounding this trial. Okay! I can't believe a vice-minister status Judge has just resigned. It means he's got a conscience. Actually there are cases which judges did good. Ruling against prohibition of rallies for causing traffic problems, or anti-home demolition fights for obstructing business. In that sense, let's drink to a fair judgment! There was a high-ranking court officials' meeting just now. A decision was made for severe legal actions against this case, declaring it as a terrorist attack against the Judiciary. 'The Judiciary shouldn't back down because of this# Chief Judge SHIN Jaeyeol has been reassigned to this case. He's a well-known ultra-conservative bastard. Then he'll be a good match. Since I'm conservative and my nickname's 'bastard'. He'll be tough on you. So we'll be tough back at him. How? Leave it to me. Here we go again. Now, let's get back to work. All rise in the courtroom! THE 4th APPEAL - THE CROSSBOW CASE FEBRUARY 25th, 2008 Starting from this trial, all audio recordings or court stenography will be prohibited. Why are you prohibiting recordings authorized through proper legal procedures? When a new bench is assigned, a motion is required 7 days before. No motion has been received. The Defense motions to compel a bloodstain verification. Appeal must be judged within the parameters of the original trial. As it's outside these parameters, motion is dismissed. During this trial, it's been proven that PARK has been making false statements. Accordingly, we need to summon PARK again to confirm the truth. I hope this summons will be accepted. Summons dismissed. Are you approving PARK's statement despite its discrepancies?! Do not question the bench on the truth of this case. What do you mean by 'the truth' of this case? What are you saying? Just one moment. fine then. Then according to the properties seizure report, the accused voluntarily submitted the crossbow and arrows. Fact is, these items were 'seized' instead of 'submitted' by me. filing a false police report is a serious Criminal offense which I hope you are aware of, your Honor? I'm listening. I was asking if you were aware of this. Just proceed with your argument. I am not making an 'argument' but an 'inquiry'. Then I will take that as a 'yes'. According to Article 234 of the Criminal Procedure Act, a judge who acknowledges a crime is required to press charges against the offender. Therefore you must press charges against the police for filing a false police report. I will do nothing of such nature, Mr. KIM. You refuse? Yes. Prosecution. Yes? I will press charges against Judge SHIN Jaeyeol for dereliction of duty. Who're you pressing charges against? - Prosecutor SHIM Junbok! - Yes? According to Article 237 of the Criminal Procedure Act, I press charges against Judge SHIN Jaeyeol for refusing to abide by his duty to press charges when required. And it will be in a manner of verbal accusation. - Satisfied? - Wait. Your Honor, were the crossbow and arrow seized with a warrant? Please ask the Prosecution. According to Article 141 of the Rules of Criminal Procedures, I would like to enter a request for elucidation. Request permitted. What do you mean 'permitted'? I want you to do it. Are you refusing to preside this court? The crossbow and arrows as stated in Article 308 of the Criminal Procedure Act, were not acquired through proper legal procedure. And therefore cannot be accepted as evidence. I will accept them as evidence in this court. Then I'll file a constitutional complaint for judicial review. Secondly, I request elucidation of the victim's shirt. Why aren't there any bloodstains on PARK's shirt? Please demand an explanation from the Prosecution. Aren't you going to ask about the shirt? Are you refusing to preside this court? I am presiding this court! So continue your statement, Mr. KIM! I'm not making a statement here. Can't you see I am requesting an elucidation? Demand for an explanation from the Prosecution? At least nod if you can. Prosecutor SHIM Junbok! I placed a request for e1ucidation to Judge SHIN but was denied. Accordingly, I press additional charges against the judge for dereliction of duty. Order in the courtroom, order! Does anyone wish to be placed under detention?! You may request an elucidation at the next public trial. The Defense requests PARK Bongju back! I have already dismissed this summons? Next public trial will resume at 2 pm of March 10th! I'm Prof. KIM's attorney. Wait, wait! Prof. KIM, what is it you want to get out of this trial? Do you want to win this trial or pick a fight with the judge? Are you saying I was wrong today? No, you were great! You really drilled Judge SHIN hard. At times he couldn't even respond to your version of the law you occasionally threw at him. Thanks to you, we're further away from winning. We need to choose and focus in order to win! You should've help me summon PARK Bongju back to the stand! But you've seen how judges wriggle out of tight spots! They'll never give us PARK Bongju! That's what I'm talking about. Look outside. We've got a whole bunch of reporters. We should've shown them how hard we're fighting to summon PAR back to the stand. But what they've seen today is just your own victory, Prof. KIM. Don't rely too much on the Press. What do you mean by 'rely'? We need to use the Press fair and square. Please leave the prison bus. Don't ever forget that our adversaries are cunning! We're moving you to another cell. Get your things. What for? There are way too many applications for solitary cells. You've been in this one far too long. So now we're moving you to a shared one. But there're a lot of things I need to prepare alone. Get your things and go. Hey, no. 445T! Hey, asshole! Hey! Hey! Hey, asshole! Come here and massage me. Look here, young man! That's too much Shut up, asshole! Let's try to get along whi1e we're here. What happened to you? Guard! Help! We couldn't visit you. What happened during the past week?! Bastards were just trying to tame him! We should press charges against the prison warden! Honey! Sangjun's coming to Korea. It's the first time I've seen him so demora1ized. Want to emigrate to another country? What do you mean by that? You really want to raise our kids in this wretched country? What's wrong with this place? It's gotten much better than before. If we were living in the past, I'd be wasting my entire life bringing home cooked meals to your prison cell. Bullshit! Is something bothering you? What's your dream? Well, I guess it's surviving as your wife until the day I die. That sounds horrible. Media exposure as the crossbow case attorney has improved your looks. - Honey? - Huh? Is a crossbow really that dangerous? Cause it looks like it is. What are you talking about? 'Rambo' was on cable today, and the hero killed hundreds of people with a crossbow. Don't be so naive. It's just a movie. A movie! Wow, how powerful! What happens if this missed its mark? - Miss its mark? - Yes. The police asked the same question last time. The police? Grab it Struggle Move to this side - And shove - Move? THE 5th APPEAL - THE CROSSBOW CASE MARCH 10th, 2008 Is the accused absent today? Yes, your Honor. The accused is in serious physical condition. With the accused absent, we'll just cross-examine witnesses. Fine. Are you Sergeant KIM Inshik who ran the crossbow firing test? Yes I am. Your Honor Court officer, present the witness with a crossbow. Sergeant KIM, show us the difference between a perfect loading and an imperfect loading. Okay. This is a perfect loading. When I experimented with a thick piece of pork, the arrow penetrated it by a depth of 15 cm. Are you saying that perfectly loaded, the arrow can penetrate that deep even from a far distance? Yes. Then explain the 2nd test with an imperfectly loaded crossbow? Because the victim's wound couldn't have been by a crossbow. have been inflicted by an imperfectly loaded It's not working. So the arrow could not be properly shot with an imperfect loading and thus couldn't reach its target. Is that correct, Sergeant KIM? Yes, it didn't shoot out. - It didn't? - That is correct. Nothing further, your Honor. As revea1ed in the witness's statement, there are too many loose ends surrounding the victim's wound. In order to solve these issues, the Defense has visited the crime scene and re-enacted the alleged circumstances. I'd like to submit this video recording for examination. And what is it you want us to examine? It'll reveal why the broken arrow had mysteriously disappeared. That will be unnecessary. Submission unaccepted. Why won't you accept the material? Crime scene inspection was done, and we have sufficient material from the Prosecution. final public trial is scheduled for the 4th of next month. Final public trial, your Honor?! We still have many areas to debate on? enough of it. Why did PARK Bongju tell such a sloppy lie? I guess as he was changing, he began feeling angry and spiteful. Thus se1f-inf1iction a wound to teach Prof. KIM a lesson. He may have realized later, it would be nonsense to have been wounded by a blunt tipped arrow and may have told someone to get rid of the broken arrow! Can I have the tape the judge unaccepted? Of course! Here it is. Here. Take it. - Mr. PARK! - Yes? Then whose blood's on the clothes the police seized from the crime scene? He must have realized as he reached the hospital that he needed bloodstained clothes and may have told his family to make a hole in his shirt and then stain it with blood. Then why isn't there any blood on his shirt? I guess his family also made a mistake while rushing things. What about that special newscast you promised me? I'm still discussing the schedule with the Desk. It has to be on air before the final public trial. I know. Don't worry. Please report everything exactly as you've witnessed to the public! I beg you! No. 4457, your attorney's here. There are no legal grounds for prohibiting court recordings. And I doubt our charges against The jail warden will be passed. A guy nicknamed Smooth Talker is claiming he never saw or heard anything Still it must've scared the warden, so I'm sure you won't be bothered again By the Criminal Procedure Act, all recordings are permitted unless So he was required to accept Judge SHIN can't end this trial at his own discretion tomorrow. The crossbow test results will definitely work in our favor. And a feature story on your case will be aired today. Try to get your spirits up! It all looks okay. But if this story is broadcast on TV tonight, I'm worried it'll get us into trouble. Then we'll just go deeper into the truth. There's still a lot of mystery to cover. Dump it. What? Dump it. And switch your beat with KIM Yongkwan. You'll be covering the National Police Agency from next week. What the hell's going on?? This case is also giving me a big fat headache. So just do as I say. Wait! Sir! Hey, KIM! Shit Hey, I was watching that! You'll get to see something really interesting, okay? - Hello? - Yeah It's time for your coverage but I'm getting another program. - What's going on? - Don't get me wrong. I couldn't help it. What? The broadcast has been postponed. What're you talking about? Has anyone above been trying pressure you? Hello?! Hello?! Son-of-a The caller you have just reached cannot answer the phone Ma'am! Get me a drink over here? I'm thinking of handing in my resignation. Tomorrow, I'm quitting my job as a lawyer. I won't let these sons-of-bitches off the hook. I'm joining KIM Kyungho in prison. Shit Heavy What?! Where am I? My place. Did we sleep together? Yeah. Really? It's not what you think. You asked me to hold you but then immediately started to snore. Ah, shit, how embarrassing! If I quit this job, my wife's surely going to divorce me. Weren't you just saying that out of spite yesterday? If that happens, I'm counting on you to take care of me. Why me? Then who else is there? I already have too many men in my life. So cut the crap and let's go. Are you taking two? Patriotic martyr Y00N took a lunchbox bomb, but I'm taking a water bomb. Hello? - Honey, is that you? - Yeah. I've got something to tell you. What is it? I might get arrested during court today. Why? Cause I'll be raising a little commotion. Do you really have to? Yeah, I really have to. Hello? Okay. I'll take good care of the kids. Okay, I really appreciate it! What a relief. for a second I was worried I'd have to take care of PARK Jun. THE 6th APPEAL - CROSSBOW CASE APRIL 4th, 2008 Your Honor, why won't you permit recordings in this court? There are no grounds in the Criminal Procedure Act. It is stated in Article 30 of the Ru1es of Criminal Procedure. Rules of Procedures cannot have priority over Procedure Acts. According to Criminal Procedure Acts, all circumstances are ruled to be accepted unless there is a 'special circumstance'! But here we have a special circumstance! Why did you distribute the trial records on the internet? Court stenography is necessary for filing trial records and should not be publicized. But you prohibited all court recordings and left us to deal with a mere 3-page statement of the 4th trial. There's no way of knowing what was exchanged at the trial! If you look close, you'll know. Not really! Crucial information was omitted. Defense motions for a recording. Motion dismissed. What kind of quack trial is this?! Remove that woman from this court immediately! Let me go! Let go! All quiet! Your Honor! You call this a trial? This is tyranny! Other notorious judges of the original trial, Judges KIM Sunoh or LEE Taewoo weren't like this? Officer! I motion to challenge the bench? Great. Professor, be strong! Hang in there, professor! You're wonderfu1! Order in the courtroom! Honey, you did well. That's how you should be. You've grown son. Dad Be strong. Your Honor, I motion for permission to withdraw appearance. Motion denied. - Proceed with the trial. - The trial cannot proceed! This case cannot proceed without a Defense Counsel? This is a case that clearly requires proper Defense! The court is in recess. It will resume in 30 minutes. They won't be able to resume without a Defense Counsel. They hired a State-appointed one. In any case, they are trying to end this trial today. Court resumes. I will represent the accused. Then the State-appointed Defense Counsel shall be cancelled. The Defense cannot end things like this. As you never responded Then we'll just listen to the elucidation. As per the accuser's request, three matters were requested to the Prosecution for elucidation. Prosecution, please elucidate. We will start the elucidation. Firstly, the crossbow and arrows have not been voluntarily presented by the accused. Secondly, where this broken arrow is now no one knows. Thirdly, why there are no bloodstains on the victim's shirt, I truly have no idea. So that means there's no proof? What the hell's going on? Order in the court! I hereby close all examinations. But you can't end cross-examinations, your Honor. You should determine the validity of the Prosecution's elucidation? Why are there no bloodstains on the victim's shirt? Is this blood actually the victim's? And was the wound inflicted by a crossbow? These points should be clarified, don't you agree? But the Prosecution clearly stated they have no idea! Then dismiss all evidence presented by the Prosecution. The bench will determine the validity of circumstances. Then Defense will help determine the validity of circumstances. The Defense motions to summon PARK Bongju back to the stand as well as motion for a bloodstain verification. Dismissed on the grounds that they've already been dismissed. But you must accept, your Honor! Defense Counsel. Explain what accusation the accused is admitting to. Are you saying that he had no intention of harming the victim? No need to determine intentions as there was no injury. Then do you admit that the accused went to Judge PARK's place? The Defense admits that this is true. - Did he have a bow and arrow with him? - He did, your Honor. - And it was loaded, correct? - That is correct, your Honor. - Did the accused shoot the victim? - But it was accidental, your Honor. Did the arrow penetrate the victim's abdomen? No it didn't, your Honor! The accused admits it was wrong to threaten him with a crossbow. But the shooting was accidental! Then do you admit the arrow shot by the accused penetrated the victim's clothes? Not at all, your Honor! Are you claiming PARK's wound and the hole in his clothes are irrelevant to the arrow shot at him? They are absolutely irrelevant, your Honor! What about the bloodstains on the victim's underclothes? That is why we are motioning for bloodstain verification. Why are you asking when you already dismissed this motion? With this, I conclude all examinations. Your Honor! You shou1d\code(01f9)tend the trial like this! I seriously advise order in the court! Order in the court! Look, your Honor! How can you run a court like this! You call this a trial? Arrest him. Did you go through all that trouble to pass the bar just to run a fucked up court? Arrest that man as well. Do you all wish to be arrested for disorder in the courtroom? Disorder in the courtroom? The only one who's causing disorder in the courtroom is you! You assholes? I could've done a better job than you! Guard! from now on, anyone who throws objects will be arrested. Prosecution, how does the State sentence this trial? Prosecutor SHIM Junbok! Sir? What say you? The State maintains the sentence as ruled during the original trial. We call for a ten year sentence. Counsel, what's your final argument? Counsel, aren't you going to give your final argument? I have given you your chance, but if you wish to relinquish this right of yours, so be it. Your Honor, I would like to present my final argument. The Defense clearly states that all evidence presented for examination proves the accused innocent. I am sure the bench is aware of the 100 year old Dreyfuss case, which framed an innocent man as a spy at a French military trial. At that time, despite the fact the real offender was arrested, Dreyfuss was sentenced to life in prison. Just to maintain governmental authority. But now in 21st century more than 100 years later, a more absurd trial is being run by the Korean judicial system. Even before the trial was held, the Judiciary defined the accuser's actions as a serious challenge against constitutionalism, and publicly announced it as a fact. I would like to ask who is actually posing a serious threat to Korea's constitutionalism? It is the Judiciary itself! Judge SHIN Jaeyeol. You should be ashamed of yourself. This trial will end like this, but humiliation will last forever. Remember the Dreyfuss court eventually succumbed to great resistance from the French public! Accordingly, one day this judicial system's arrogance will have to stand judgment in the Korean public's court. All cross-examinations will be c1osed. The sentence date is scheduled for April 14th, at 10 am. SENTENCE DAY, APRIL 14th, 2008 The accuser's appeal holds no cause, therefore it is dismissed. I filed an appeal to the Supreme Court. Good job. This is a constitutional petition. If a judge is involved in a case, a fellow judge cannot preside its trial. Exactly! Such cases should be subject to surveillance by a public court! Anyway, you look much better. It must be tough on you to have a client like me, right? Yeah, tell me about it. What turned you into such a difficult man? It started when I was in elementary school. Our teacher gave us a really difficult math question and told us the first student to solve it had to raise their hand. After I was done, I looked around to see that no one had raised their hand. I just waited with my hand down. By the time the bell rang, three had raised their hands which gave me enough courage to raise mine as well. I was a really different child back then. And now there's no turning back. No need to turn back. Of course not! We're gonna see this to the end. ANSAN PENITENTIARY Shout your number as you get off! One, two, three, four five, six, six Shit! Do it right! Six, seven, eight! Hurry and walk straight. All be seated? Move fast. Sit? Stand! Sit! What's your problem? Are things still being run this way? What do you mean by, 'this way'? This is a breach of human rights. Breach of human rights? I can't believe I'm being reprimanded by a criminal. Who's that crazy dude? He's the crossbow professor who just got the Supreme Court's sentence. Wait. Can I borrow your pen for a moment? You must be kidding me! AHN Jang su LIM Youngrak What the I would call this an arrogation of a public servant. No rules are stated as such in correctional management rules. You're breaching human rights ensured in the Constitution. What's he yapping about? Tell the warden to stop this drill as it's against the law. I guess I'll convey this to the warden, but can you strike my name from your notes? KIM KYUNGHO, AFTER SERVING HIS 4-YEAR SENTENCE, CONTINUES HIS FIGHT AGAINS THE JUDICIARY. PARK JUN IS NOW A PROLIFIC LABOR ATTORNEY IN CHANGWON. THIS FILM IS BASED ON A TRUE STORY. HOWEVER, ALL CHARACTERS AND EPISODES HAVE BEEN CHANGED FOR CINEMATIC PURPOSES AS WELL AS THE COURT SCENES WHICH ARE BASED ON REAL TRIAL FILES AND RECORDINGS. Directed by CHUNG Jiyoung Written by HAN Hyunkeun, CHUNG Jiyoung Cinematography: KIM Hyungkoo Lighting: JUNG Youngmin Production Design: CHOI Yonsik Recording: KIM Hyunsang Makeup: LEE Jinyoung Costume: LEE Eunkyung Special Visual Effects: SEO Sanghwa Martial Arts: LEE Hongpyo Editing KIM Sangbum, KIM Jaebum Sound: KIM Sukwon Music: KIM Junseok Colorist: KIM Ilkwang First Assistant Director: SHIN Jonghun Line Producer: CHOI Philsun Casting CHOI Cheolwoong Co-producers JEONG Sangmin, HAN Hyunkeun Associate Producer KIM Jiyeon (P.G.K) Executive Producers CHUNG Jiyoung Producer CHUNG Jiyoung
