 

                        CAMP ROCK CONNIE: Mitchie! Up! Last day of school! MITCHIE'S TUNES MITCHIE: Whoa Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah How to choose who to be Well, let's see There's so many choices now Play guitar, be a movie star In my head a voice says Why not try everything? Why stop? Reach for any dream I can rock 'Cause it's my life And now's the time, who will I be? It's up to me All the never-ending possibilities That I can see There's nothing that I can't do Who will I be? Yes, I believe I get to make the future What I want to If I can become anyone And know the choice is up to me Who will I be? I wanna find the who I am inside Who will I be? Mitchie's Songs I wanna show the The way that I can shine Who will I be? Oh, cool. Hot Tunes is on. Turn it up, please. The pop star phenom Shane Gray may have gone too far this time SHANE GRAY SCANDAL when he stormed off the set of the new Connect 3 video. Word is the other members of Connect 3 are fed up. This final stunt cost his label thousands of dollars, but may cost them the rest of their record deal. What is wrong with that boy? He's got everything. Except a clue. The message is clear, he needs to clean up his act. And to give him time to do it, the Connect 3's summer tour has been canceled. Look what I found in the crisper. A Camp Rock brochure. Or should I say another Camp Rock brochure? Hmm. Look at that. Oh, and great cheese omelet, by the way. You should definitely add that to your catering menu. So you have no idea how this brochure got in there? Or the one taped to the vacuum cleaner? Sweetie, I know you wanna go to this camp. And I'm sorry, but we just can't swing it right now. With Dad expanding the store and my catering business just taking off... Oh, honey, I'm sorry. I know. Got to go. Last day of school. Don't want to be late. - Hey, Mitchie. - Hey, Sierra. Let me be the first to say Shing Sha Ji, Mitchie. It means, "Happy summer, Mitchie. " Guess who got an A-plus in AP Mandarin? Me. Again. So, how'd it go this morning? It didn't. Camp Rock is a no-go. But you have to go. Camp Rock is, like, the music camp. Anybody who wants to be somebody in music... All of which you already know. Sorry. Me, too. I was just so excited to have a summer that was all about music. And... I know. So, what are you going to do this summer? So, how was work? You know Barney's. We serve burgers with a Barney's smile. - So what's for dinner? - Burgers. Well, our world-famous Torres burger. Um... I'll pass. Okay. I can't stand it. Tell her. - Well, Steve, she just got home. - Tell me what? - Okay, honey. Drum roll. - Mom? Okay. You're going to Camp Rock! - What? - She said you're going to Camp Rock. Well, actually, we're going. Connie's Catering is going camping. Business is slow in the summer, this is a steady job, and you get to go to camp at a discounted rate! But you have to help out in the kitchen. Thank you! Thank you, like, a million times! Oh. CAMP ROCK CONNIE'S CATERING - We're here. - Yeah. Are you excited? A little. Okay, a lot! Yes! Major! Thank you, Mom. I'm gonna have so much fun. Whoa. Whoa. Okay. Sweetie, let's get settled in. Settled. That's great. Brown Cesario. Camp director/founding member and bass guitar of the White Crows. And you must be Connie Torres, our new cook. That's me. And this is my daughter. - Who's already gone. - No worries. She probably just wanted to get out there, get to it, you know what I mean? When the music calls, you got to answer. I can't wait for you to meet her though. She has got a great voice. - Look at me, I'm already bragging. - Oh, you got to brag, love. Learned that from the Mickster. Jagger. You knew Mick Jagger? Yeah. Backed him up for years. Great times, great times. But not as great as the time - when I toured with Aero-smith. - You knew Aero/smith? Sorry. I didn't... I didn't see you. Obviously. That's Tess Tyler, the diva of Camp Rock. MITCHIE: Is she really good? She's good at trying too hard to be good. Understandable, 'cause her mom's TJ Tyler. The TJ Tyler? She's got like a trillion Grammies. A trillion and one, I think. Hi, I'm Caitlyn. Camper today, top-selling music producer tomorrow. Check me out. - Cool. I'm Mitchie. - Hi. Hi, gang! I'm Dee La Duke, the musical director here at Camp Rock. ALL: Hi, Dee. Here at Camp Rock we sing. So let's hear that again. ALL: Hi, Dee Sounds good. A little pitchy in places, but we'll fix that by the Final Jam. Hey! We're here to rock it out At least I know I am We plan to be the winners onstage at Final Jam - Holler - Holler Put your hands up - Hey, hey - Come on, everybody Get your hands up Okay, okay. Settle down. You're having too much fun. Okay, this summer is not just about the Final Jam. We have a lot of work to do. You're gonna get new music skills, you're gonna find your sound, create your own style. Holler! And figure out who you want to be as artists, but most of all have fun! And drum roll, please. For the first time, we're gonna be joined at camp by a very special celebrity instructor. I don't want to waste my summer at some camp. I'm Shane Gray, for crying out loud. Hey, man, we used to love this place. Three years ago we were campers. Yeah, man, this is where Connect 3 connected. And you get to see your Uncle Brown. Not a selling point. Look, man, right now you're the bad boy to the press. And the label has a problem with that. Which means we have a problem with that. Actually, I don't really have a problem with that. We have a problem with that. This camp thing is supposed to fix it. It's good P.R., so do your time. Enjoy the fresh air. Get a tan. Oh, and can you make me a birdhouse or something? One word, payback. That's two words. By the way, we told the press you'd be recording a duet with the winner of Final Jam. What? - Shane! What's the haps, man? - Hey. What's up, Uncle Brown? Yeah. CONNIE: I hear there's an open mike tonight. Yeah. Are you gonna sing? In front of all those people? No way. Sweetie, I hear you in your room. You're really good. Mom's Honor. And if you're nervous, so what? Everyone is nervous. That's why I'm making so much food tonight, 'cause people eat when they're nervous. Not me. I don't think I can eat another burger ever. Okay. Why don't you go take the trash out to the Dumpster and then set up in the mess hall? I'll finish up here. GIRLS: You think you're hot But I'm sorry you're not exactly who you think you are Can't tell you what What you haven't got But when we walk into the room TESS: Once again from the top, girls. You think you're hot But I'm sorry you're not exactly Who you think you are Can't tell you what What you haven't got But when we walk into the room Work with me here, people! Hello? We're trying, but you... If we want to win, you guys have to listen to me. Let's go again. You think you're hot But I'm sorry you're not exactly Who you think you are Can't tell you what What you haven't got But when we walk into... Come on, guys. I learned my lesson. I showered in cold water, I have looked at a tree. It's been three hours. I need hair product. I guess it's time to embrace the natural look. Oh, have fun. Guys. GIRL: There he is! Where'd he go? Do you know what it's like To feel so in the dark To dream about a life Where you're the shining star Even though it seems Like it's too far away I have to believe in myself It's the only way This is real, this is me I'm exactly Where I'm supposed to be now Gonna let the light shine on me Now I've found who I am There's no way to hold it in No more hiding who I want to be I think he went that way. This is me Hello? Hello? Who's in here? There you are, sweetie. I've got all the food set up, so you, princess, are free. Got to find something to wear. Honey, it's camp. It's not a fashion show. Have you seen these kids? They have a lot. My usual is not going to cut it. Oh, I think you look cute, in a non-mom way. Totally. This, this is safe. It's also mine. Honey, wear your own clothes. You'll be fine. Be yourself. Oh, those are pretty. Hey, Caitlyn. Hey, Mitchie. This is Lola. Lola, Mitchie. So, is this your first year? - Yeah. Any advice? - You're gonna love it here. And this year, I hear the food is supposed to be better. Let's hope. DEE: Hey, Camp Rockers! Next up, let's have a big Camp Rock welcome OPENING NIGHT JAM for Lola Scott! Wish me luck. Who's got what it takes to be my guy What it takes to make me shine What it takes to get me fired up? Who's got what it takes to be my beau What it takes to make me glow What it takes to make this beat flow? Everyone talks about What they think they need They making up a list of things One, two, three Everyone is different but where we can agree Every girl wants her boy To treat her sweet Don't think that being mean Will get you anywhere Don't think that acting cool Will make me wanna care I need your respect If you're gonna be the one And if you must apply Then try to get the job done Who's got what it takes to be my guy What it takes to make me shine What it takes to get me fired up? Who's got what it takes to be my beau What it takes to make me glow What it takes to make this beat flow? I've been contemplating What it takes To make me give my heart Could you be the one? Standing in the crowd I'm waiting to find out I'm waiting, waiting, waiting, oh Who's got what it takes to be my guy What it takes to make me shine What it takes to get me fired up? Who's got what it takes to be my beau What it takes to make me glow What it takes to make this beat flow? Wow! She's amazing! Yeah, she should be. Her mom's on Broadway. Broadway? Wow. Yeah, but the kids around here don't care about that. It's all about the baling. That's why Tess over there runs this camp. Great. Something wicked this way comes. Hey, Caitlyn. Your folks still wowing them on the cruise ship? - Actually they work in... - Hi, I'm Mitchie. Oh, hi. I'm Tess Tyler. - I know. Wow, I love your mom. - Of course you do. I'm Mitchie Torres. Hey, is your dad Nicky Torres, the composer? My dad staged one of his shows. No. - So what does he do? - He owns a hardware store. But my mom... - Yeah? - What? The president of Hot Tunes TV. In China. Yeah, it's a huge market over there. - Wow. Cool. - So cool. Major cool! Okay, so have you met anybody? Yeah, like everybody. Last summer I was in, like, three music videos. Yeah, but, I mean, you could hardly see me. I was in the back. - Wow. - Wow. Are you guys thinking what I'm thinking? - Of course. - Absolutely. What are we thinking? There's an extra bed in our cabin. It's yours if you want it. - Really? - Totally. We're gonna be great friends. Come on, sit with us in the VIP section. I'm good. Thanks for asking. Can you believe not one of the cookbooks has a recipe for chili for 300? You don't need a recipe. Everyone loves your food. It's official. - Really? - Camper's honor. So, how was Opening Night Jam? Did you sing? No. But I met some girls, and they want me to move into their cabin. And I know I have to help in the kitchen, but I'll just get up earlier and meet you here. Sweetie, of course you can move into the cabin. It'll be fine. I got to get back to these cookbooks 'cause I got a rep to protect. Peggy! Could you please stop that? I can't hear. Guys. Which color? Ella, they're exactly the same. So you see my dilemma! Mom? Hey. Yeah. Yeah, I'm totally settled in. Guess what? Shane Gray is... Yeah. Yeah, you can totally call me back. Love you, too. Have a good concert. As usual. What, Tess? Hey, guys. - Hey, Mitchie. - Hey. So, which bed is mine? That one. - But... - Peggy doesn't mind. Do you? I guess not. One bag? You can't possibly have all your clothes in there. Right. Well, I threw a lot of my clothes away. Yeah, I just got tired of them. And you kept this? Yeah, well, it came from China. A little boutique called Shing Sha Ji. - Wow. - Totally wow. What does that mean? Happy summer. Yeah, that store is the bomb. Wow! Really cool bracelet. It's from my mom. Every time she wins a Grammy, she adds a charm. Love it. Totally blingalicious. So, is that your diary? No. My songs. You write songs? Yeah, but they're probably not that good. Come on. Well, I bet they are good. Let's hear one. - No. - Why not? We're friends now, right? Yeah. Okay. This is real, this is me I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be now Gonna let the light shine on... Yeah, it's not really that good. What? That was totally good. Right, Tess? Totally. What the... Mitchie? You're dreaming. You're a rock princess. Okay. I rock. Hey! Plenty of room over here, mi amore. - Yuck. You're going to chase her away. - As usual. - Good morning. - Hey, guys. - Hey. - What's up? Slumming, I see. - What? - Hey, Mitchie. Over here. You better go. The queen awaits. Your music. Are you any good? I don't know. Maybe. Kind of. Word of advice. You wanna be friends with Tess, don't be. Mitchie. See you around. What happened to you this morning? Um... Early riser. Yum. Toast. - What? - Rise and shine, superstar. - Don't make me do this, Shane. - Go away. - Hey! - Oh, sorry. Don't say I didn't warn you. Fine. I'm up, okay? I'm up. All right. We've both got classes to teach. Yours starts in five. And you might wanna put that mattress out in the sun. It's the only one you're gonna get. Can you put some water in that vase? Flowers look parched. Four minutes! Whoa! If the class is a-rocking, I'm-a glad I came knocking. So, let's hear what I'm working with this year. - Who wants to sing first? - Oh! Oh! My goodness. All right. Eeny, meeny, miny, you. Me? Can't argue with the finger. I'll do it. No. The finger picked her. Well... Okay. Right. Let her rip. Who will I be? It's up to me... All right. I know you're singing a solo, but it's so low, I can't hear you. All right? So, bit louder. Who will I be? It's up to me All the never-ending possibility That I can see There's nothing that I can't do Who will I be? Yes, I believe I get to make the future What I want to If I can become anyone and know the choice is up to me Who will I be? She's great. - That was great. - That was so amazing. That's not bad. Not bad at all. Is that an original? Yeah, but it's mine, but... No buts. It's good. Let me have a high five. - Oh, thanks. - All right. PEGG Y: I didn't know that you were that good. You totally rocked it. - ELLA: Totally. - Thanks. So, I've been thinking, and you have to sing with us in Final Jam. Your vocals in the background would be, like, amazing. And we never let people in our group. But you? A must. So you want in? Well, I was thinking about singing solo for Final Jam. Solo in your first Final Jam? That's brave. You'll be fine. Well, of course she'll be fine. It's just that, I know how nervous I get. Well, I'm sure I'll be nervous at first, but... In front of all those people, but, yeah, you'll be fine. - You've done it before. - Done what before? You've never sang in front of an audience? Well, yeah. I mean, choir. I mean, I was never lead or anything, and I was sort of in the back, but it's still an audience. Wow. You are brave. Come on, girls. Let's get started. Well, maybe a group would be better. If you think so. Yeah. No, it'll be fun. I want to. - If you're sure. - I'm totally sure. - I gotta run. - Where? No. I mean, I got to call my mom. China time. Okay, okay. So, here's what... - Sorry. I'm late. - Oh. That's okay, honey. The last batch of cookies is in the oven. You can start cleaning up. I'm gonna take these down to the storage room. Hello? Hello? Hello? I can hear you. Hi. Do you work here? Yes. Wow. You really get into your work. I'm Shane. But I'm sure even the kitchen help knows that. - Of course. It's nice to meet you. - Actually, it's not so nice. See, my manager said he sent over my food allergy list, but since I couldn't even go near my breakfast this morning... - Can I just talk to whoever's in charge? - Excuse me? What? Well, you're kind of being a jerk. - And you are? - A person! And there's a way to talk to a person and that's not it. Well, I'll have my manager send it over again. Fine. Thank you? Much better. BO Y: Yeah, I like that. I don't need a chaperone, Unc. Seeing how you blew off your class yesterday, you sort of do. I didn't sign up for this. - Get my agent on the phone. - "Get my agent"? What happened to you, man? That kid on that TV, that's not who you really are. In there, Shane. What happened to the kid who just loved music? - He grew up. - Big whoop! Stop acting like it's all about you. In my world, it is. Oh, look. We're in my world. And in my world, you're considered an instructor at this camp, which means you've got to instruct. Starting with hip-hop dance at 2:00. And five, six, seven, eight. GIRL: And five, six, seven, eight. Okay, you guys. Remember, when he gets here, act cool. Wait, when who gets here? Shane. Wait, he's teaching this class? Great. Wait, is that flour in your hair? No. No, it's Chinese body powder. Pretty cool, huh? Grab a mike and a hat. Follow me if you can. Hurry. Let's go. Hurry. Yeah First stop hit the groove Let the music play Next stop yeah everybody It's time to celebrate Here we go so let your flow show Make the dreams you got become real Across the floor. Let's do this, let me hear you now Show me how you feel Let's start, start, start the party Come on, come on, everyone Let's sta-sta-start the party What you waiting for now? Start, start, start the party Come on, come on live it up Let's sta-sta-start the party Everyone circle. Face the front. I know you're never gonna wanna stop Let the music take us to paradise Let's close our eyes Feel the groove wanna shake us Everywhere and everybody turn it up Let's start the party Party Gonna have a good night Party Let's start, start, start the party Come on, come on, everyone Let's sta-sta-start the party Crisscross. What you waiting for now? Start, start, start the party Come on, come on, live it up Let's sta-sta-start the party I know you're never gonna wanna Come on let me hear you holler Party's never ever gonna stop Talk about dancing to the beat of a different drum. You any good on the drums? Man, you're a drummer, dude. The drummer controls the beat. The rhythm's in your hands. Yeah, I guess. Now we just have to work on getting that beat from those sticks to those feet. Where were you this morning? - Oh, no. - Hi, girls. Hi. Hi. So, yummy breakfast. Oh. How would you know? There's hardly anything on your plate. Morning carbs, definite no-no. Yeah. Well, I just wanted to meet Mitchie's new friends. This is Ella, Peggy, and Tess. - Hi. - Hi. - Hi. - Hello. Well, I see you girls are really busy, so I'll talk to you later. Okay. Do you know her? Yeah, don't you? She's cooked for everybody from Jessica and Nick pre-breakup to Pharrell. Really? Yeah, I'm shocked the camp even got her. You mean, Jessica ate these eggs? Yeah. That's cool. - It's like your old stuff. - Yeah. I was thinking the group can change up our sound. Do some different stuff. So you coming up to the campfire? Yeah, right. All right. Well, you sit in here by yourself, superstar. 'Cause you're right. Way cooler. So, your friends, they seem nice. Tess is interesting. I know, but she's better once you get to know her. Yeah? And have you? Have you gotten to know her? Yeah. I guess. I don't know. She just doesn't seem like she's your type, you know. - You've always been so... - Invisible. I was going to say independent. Hurry up and finish those potatoes if you wanna get to the campfire. So we call this the Campfire Jam. It's about expression. The freedom to be who you really wanna be. Hit it! I'm too cool for my dress These shades don't leave my head Everything you say is so irrelevant You follow and I lead You wanna be like me But you're just a wannabe Love it or hate it Me, myself, and I agree You'll never catch up with me 'Cause I'm too cool Too cool Yeah, I'm too cool to know you Don't take it personal Don't get emotional You know it's the truth I'm too cool for you You think you're hot But I'm sorry you're not exactly who you think you are Can't tell you what What you haven't got But when we walk into the room I'm too cool for you You see some are born With beauty brains and talent And they got it all While others have to try all their lives Still they never get the call That's the difference between you and me Obviously I'm a natural, I'm the real deal I can't help the way I am Hope you don't misunderstand But I'm too cool Too cool Yeah, I'm too cool to know you Don't take it personal Don't get emotional You know it's the truth I'm too cool for you Did you enjoy singing backup? Can't a guy get some peace? Sorry. - Sorry. - You said that already. I'm sorry. I... Was that you playing? It sounded kind of different. Than my usual stupid cookie-cutter pop star stuff? - Sorry to disappoint. - You didn't. I liked it. I mean, it was good for stupid cookie-cutter pop star stuff. Wow, you really know how to make a guy feel better. I thought you loved your sound. You created it. - You're like a Camp Rock legend. - Some legend. I only played the music that the label thinks will sell. That's it. You don't think that song would sell? I don't know. Well, you'll never know if you don't try. And, by the way, I know of one girl that would buy that song. Oh, I'm so sorry! Actually, I'm so not. I would respond, but... But you are responding by saying that you're not responding. Shut up. Okay, that was on purpose. Doesn't matter. Anything makes that outfit look better. See? Okay. - Nice, Caitlyn. - Good shot. Stop. Hey, no, you guys, stop! - Stop. - My spaghetti slipped. I can't believe you did that! Neither can I. SANDER: Busted. I hate when I have to be uncool. Lay it on me. - She's always been jealous of me... - She's impossible. ...and she cannot stand the fact that I'm probably to win Final Jam, - so she spilled... - Whoa! Enough. Make it plain. Who was the first one to throw food? That's easy. Caitlyn. - That's technically true, but... - No buts. Since you wanna play with food, I can hook you up with a job this summer. From here on out, you're on kitchen duty. What? I mean... Ew. - But... - Again with the buts. Look, it's settled. Happy cooking. Thanks a lot. - Oh! - You hungry? Just a little bit. Do you have a second? Um... - Sure. - I wanna run something by you. - Sure. - I wanna run something by you. Every time I think I'm closer to the heart Of what it means to know Just who I am I think I finally found A better place to start But no one ever seems to understand I need to try to get to where you are Could it be you're not that far? You're the voice I hear inside my head The reason that I'm singing I need to find you I got to find you You're the missing piece I need the song inside of me I need to find you I got to find you I've been feeling lost Can't find the words to say Spending all my time Stuck in yesterday Where you are is where I wanna be Oh, next to you, and you next to me Oh, I need to find you You're the voice I hear inside my head The reason that I'm singing I need to find you I got to find you You're the missing piece I need the song inside of me I need to find you I got to find you Wow. I heard this girl singing, and it kind of reminded me of the music that I liked. So I started playing around with some chords, and... - I know it's not finished, but... - No. No, it's good. It's really good. And I don't lie. Why are you looking at me like that? I don't know. You seem different. Good different. Yeah. Definitely different. So, I better get going. Back to the kitchen? - What? - To get some dip for these chips? Oh! Yeah. Yeah. Right. Hey, Mom, how you doing? I'm all right. How are you? I am great. I'm wonderful, I'm fantastic, I'm... - Putting chips into bowls... - Right. Hey, Mrs. Torres. Hi, Caitlyn. Thanks for coming in early. Taco Night takes the entire kitchen staff and our six hands. Six? Yeah. My daughter. So can you please start in on the onions? Brown wants to talk to me about next week's campfire pig-out. Sure. Hey! You must be hands five and six. I didn't know Connie had a daughter. I'm Caitlyn. Do you need some help? Mitchie? Wait a minute. You're the cook's daughter. She's your mom. Oh, this is rich. But apparently you're not. So what are you waiting for, huh? Run. Go tell everybody. - Maybe I should. - Fine. Whatever. How long did you think you could keep your little secret? Longer than this. Why? - Why do you care? - Oh, I don't. But when I tell everybody, I want the whole back-story. I just wanted to fit in, okay? I think your whole charade is stupid and immature. You're hiding behind some crazy lie. What about you, huh? You hide, too! The whole "I don't care about anything" attitude? Well, if you don't care, why are you here? What happened to you? She got drowned in her lies. What, Caitlyn? Nothing. - Caitlyn, wait! - No, no, no, no. You can talk later. First you got to get out of these wet clothes. Come on. Says here in this magazine I'm Shane's type. It's just a matter of time. "Warm, funny, talented. " You? I don't get it. - Hey, guys, what are you doing? - The question is, what were you doing? - You're always AWOL. - What? Hey, Mitchie, I was thinking. After camp, maybe we could come to visit you and your mom in China and go to that Happy Summer store. Sure. My mom would like that. Okay, guys. Tonight is the Pajama Jam. So, outfit check. White shorts and green hoodies. What? Green is Shane's favorite color. It was in the magazine. - All right! - The other lemmings are over there. - Look, Caitlyn, about what... - Save it, Mitchie. If that's even your real name. - Hey. - Hi. Are we ready? Where are your T-shirt and shorts? Yeah, I thought that we were supposed to wear the same thing? The backup singers should wear the same thing. Not the lead singer, hello! Next, give it up for the awesome Caitlyn Geller! And this is in honor of you awesome Camp Rockers. She's really good. Hey. Shane likes her, too. Help! Help, there's a snake! Snake! It's just the power cord to the sound system, Tess. Oh. Right. My bad. - You are so full of it! - What? You can't stand that people might actually like what other people do. Okay. What is that? She said, "Whatever, major loser. " Oh, wow, Tess. "Whatever, major loser?" That is so last year. I mean, everyone knows that. Oh, well, I guess not everyone. Hey! Does this look like a record, girls? Huh? I mean, a CD. Does this cookie look like a CD? 'Cause I want it to look authentic next to my eighth note cupcakes. Everything looks great, Connie. These theme nights are so busy, huh? Oh, I gotta go get the ice cream for my Rolling Stone cones! See you later. So, did you sign up for Final Jam? Yeah. So, what are you thinking about doing? This is freaking me out. Why are we talking? I don't know. Maybe I'm slumming? Or maybe I wanted to set you up for that! My gosh. So, thank you for yesterday, but... Hey. I always stick up for my friends. It's fun being friends with Tess. How would you know? Because I was friends with Tess. I know, it's hard to believe. More like impossible. What happened? Tess doesn't like competition, and she felt I was. See, with her, there can only be one star. Herself. Look, I know it's fun being friends with her. She can make you feel so important and she's popular, but so what? Oh, come on. Being popular is so not a "so what. " No, there are perks. Like... Well, like... Like singing backup to Tess all the time? Like never getting to say what you really feel? Oh, and those exciting short outfits? Those were real high points. You're right. Sell your soul. Hey. I'm on your side. Oh, shoot. I was supposed to go meet up with... We're practicing for Final Jam. Of course. Her Highness awaits. Hand-clapping, hip-shaking... Hello? Hey, buddy, how's my birdhouse coming? - Jason! - Sorry. It's not my fault you didn't ask him to make you anything. - I didn't want anything. - Well, I wanted a birdhouse! So what? And what do you need a birdhouse for? Because I wanted to see more birds in... Guys. Guys. BOTH: Sorry. Listen. About me recording with a camper. - You gotta do it, man. No go-backs. - Yeah. No go-backs. It's, like, the Golden Rule. No, dude, the Golden Rule is "Tell the truth. " Dude, then it can be, like, the Silver Rule. - Why is it the Silver Rule? - Okay, fine, the Copper Rule. - The Copper Rule? - Well, give me tin at least. Guys. - Sorry. - Sorry. Listen. I've been thinking about the whole recording thing, and I think it's really cool. Are you getting too much sun? 'Cause we can bring you a hat when we come to visit. I'm fine. And remember, whoever wins, no go-backs. See you guys Saturday. Now I just have to find that girl with the voice. Hey, Andy! Buddy. You wanna do me a favor? Sure. Shane Gray is looking for the girl with the voice. Start, start, start the party Come on, come on, everyone Let's sta-sta-start the party What you waiting for now? Let's start, let's start Let's start the party - Hey - Come on, come on, live it up Let's start-start-start the party I know you're never gonna wanna stop Let's start, start, start the party Come on, come on, everyone Let's start, start, start the party What you waiting for now? Start, start, start the party Start, start, start the party Come on, come on, everyone Let's start, start What you waiting for? Here we go so let your flow show Make the dreams you have become real Let's do this, let me hear you Show me how you feel Start, start, start the party Come on, come on, everyone Let's start, start, start the party GIRLS: I know you're never gonna wanna stop Let the music take us to paradise Let's close our eyes Feel the groove Wanna shake us Aren't you gonna get in line? Oh, it's not me. Trust. Anyway, he's never heard me sing. Turn on that radio As loud as it can go Gotta dance until my feet can't feel the ground So, does your voice sound better over here? Why don't we get in one of these things and you can tell me. - MITCHIE: Really? - Yeah. It was awesome. MITCHIE: Yeah. I don't think we're doing this right. What? You don't like going in circles? So, have you found your special girl yet? - Why? Are you jealous? - Why? Are you jealous? - Jerk. - Hey. Being a jerk is a part of the rock star image. Keeping up an image can be tiring. But it keeps the posers away. I never know if people are hanging with me for the free stuff or for the parties. Oh. Definitely the free stuff. Funny. Come on. I know you're really not a jerk. I mean, you're helping Andy with his dancing, and those screaming girls seem to like you. Which brings me back to the whole jealous thing. I take that back. You are a jerk. - It must be the same for you, too, huh? - What? Because of your mom, and her job at Hot Tunes. People probably are always fake around you. Yeah. Right. Totally. You know, it's nice talking to someone who gets it. Yeah. Me, too. Seriously, Mom. Okay, we're done with the dishes. Okay, girls, have fun at the campfire. - Okay. Bye. - Thanks. - I love you, Mom. - Love you, too. Bye! CAMP ROCK BEACH JAM - Hey, gang. - BO Y: We love you, Brown! Whoa! All right, all right. Kids. Okay, score. I finally talked my nephew into singing us a song! Shane, rock the camp! Hey, guys. I got a surprise for you. Guys, come on out. So we're gonna play something new. Let us know what you think. Music I turn on that radio As loud as it can go Wanna dance until my feet can't feel the ground Can't feel the ground Say goodbye to all my fears One good song, they disappear And nothing in the world can bring me down Can bring me down Hand-clapping Hip-shaking Heartbreaking There's no faking What you feel when you ride it home, yeah Music's in my soul I can hear it Every day And every night It's the one thing on my mind Music's got control And I'm never letting go, no, no I just wanna play my music Music Got my six-string on my back Don't need anything but that Everything I want is here with me Here with me So forget that fancy car I don't need to go that far And what's driving me is following my dreams, yeah Hand-clapping Earth-shaking Heartbreaking There's no faking What you feel When you're on a roll Yeah, yeah Music's in my soul I can hear it Every day And every night It's the one thing on my mind Music's got control And I'm never letting go, no, no I just wanna play my music I just wanna play my music Can't imagine what it'd be like What it'd be like Without the sound of all my heroes singing all my favorite songs So I can sing along Music's in my soul I can hear it Every day Every night It's the one thing on my mind Music's got control And I'm never letting go, no, no I just wanna play my music Music's in my soul I can hear it Every day And every night It's the one thing on my mind Music's got control And I'm never letting go, no, no I just wanna play my music All night long Yeah! Man, they loved it. You were right. I know I was right. What did I do? Not you. Shane. The label has to let us do this. They won't. Look at what they made us call the band. Yeah! How can we do that? If we hit the studio tonight, we can get them a demo by tomorrow. I mean, they can't say no once they hear this. They can't? Guys, I can't just leave. I'm not finished here yet. All right, man. Do what you gotta do. We are talking about finishing my birdhouse, right? - Come on! See you at Final Jam. - Bye. BO Y: off the chain. That was so great. MITCHIE: That was the best song ever. It was so great. - That was so amazing. And... - I know, he was so... Did you see them? Hey, Mitchie. Tell us about your mom again. Her mom is a great person. What's your mom like? She's like a mom. I mean, I know she's the president of Hot Tunes TV China, but tell me again about how important she is. She... I'm sorry. What? She's pretty cool. And... And she's not the president of Hot Tunes TV China. What's that? She's not president? You mean, you lied to everybody? No. I was... So, she's what? A vice president? Treasurer? Tess. Shut up. Go on. Tell us. No. - She's a cook. - A cook? At Hot Tunes China. No. Here. So you lied. Your mom cooks our food, and you help her. That's the only way you could afford this camp, right? You're a real jerk. Maybe. But at least I'm not a big, fat liar. Come on, guys. Mitchie. Mitchie has dishes to do. Let's go. Shane. - You were lying all summer? - Yes, but I... You know, I'm so used to people pretending around me. - I was not pretending! - And I really thought you were different. But you're just like everyone else. You wanted to be friends with Shane Gray, not me. - Trick's on me, huh? - I was just trying... Save it for your interview with Pop Informer magazine. I know I gave you an earful. Not here, you don't. Come on. So what exactly happened last night? Nothing. Didn't look like nothing to me, mate. You look crushed. Pummeled. Absolutely destroyed. I got it, Uncle Brown. Look, whatever. I'm just gonna focus on my music. Change my sound. I don't wanna get sidetracked with liking someone anyway. You still looking for that girl? What? I'm plugged into the camp gossip, mate. It's crazy. I have her song stuck in my head. This is real This is me I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be now Gonna let the light Mitchie's Songs "This is real, this is me, "I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be. "Gonna let the light shine on me. " Mitchie, you are so never going to see Final Jam. What a joke. TESS: "I hope you don't misunderstand. I'm just too cool. " You know? I mean, "I'm like too over you. " You know what I mean? Hey, guys. Have a seat. So, Final Jam is coming up, and I know you're all very excited. ALL: Yeah! You know it! So here's some advice. It's not all about your image. None of it means anything unless people see who you really are. And your music has to be who you really are. It's gotta show how you feel. Or it doesn't mean anything. I didn't know you felt so ashamed of yourself. I'm not ashamed. It's just, for once, I just wanted to fit in and be popular. What do you mean? You have plenty of friends at home. I have one. And the last time I checked, no one was busting their butts to sit next to us at the lunch table. And when I got here I just... I just wanted it to be different. You know? Just once. My sweetie, you are so much more than you can see. You don't have to lie about who or what you are. I'm not just saying it 'cause I'm your mom! Mom. Okay, I admit I'm a little bit biased. But it is so true. You are talented. Your music speaks to people. People wanna listen to you. And it is not just me and your dad. GIRL 1: That's what I said. GIRL 2: That was funny. GIRL 3: I know, I want to do that. Hey, guys. Can I sit with you? I guess. But you have to give me your cake. Okay, deal. You know, sitting with the kitchen help is really hurting my rep. What rep? Believe me, it's probably not that funny. The chicken was kind of dry. Could you tell your mom to be just a little more careful? Tess! Stop talking to me like that. Stop talking to everyone like that. I may be the cook's daughter, and my father may not be rich, but I'm a much better person than someone who feels good about herself because she makes everyone else feel bad. And I'll take that any day. If it wasn't obvious, you're so out of the group. Then we'll make our own group. CAMP ROCK FINAL JAM - 5 DAYS FINAL JAM PREP - I don't know why this is so fascinating. - I don't think you're doing that right. - Wait. Look, I'm a pro. - Don't get it in my macaroni. I'm sure they have it! Okay, she has officially lost it. No, I didn't lose anything. You guys stole it. - What? - What's going on here? Tess thinks that Mitchie and Caitlyn stole her charm bracelet. BOTH: What? I'm sorry, Brown, but these girls would never do such a thing. Yeah. Look, let's just settle this, right? But... I know it was her. She was lying all summer about who she is. Who knows what else she'd lie about? - Now, wait a minute. - Mom, don't. If she wants to look, let her. This is stupid. Okay, look, let me just scope this out, and then I'll have a quick look in your cabin. Right? - Fine. - Whatever. You're not gonna find anything, 'cause I didn't... That's it. That is my charm bracelet. There's gotta be some mistake. Like what? I snuck into the kitchen and... Tess, I got this. All right? I am totally wigged-out. Yeah. So are we. I'm not. Well, rules are rules, and since it's the end of camp, I have no choice. I've gotta ban you guys from the rest of camp activities, until the end of Final Jam. We didn't do anything. She's lying. - Do you have any proof? - No, but... Well, then I'm sorry. My hands are tied. Until the end of Final Jam. Camper mates, and mattes, I am holding the lineup for Final Jam. I am gonna pin it up on the wall. Let me get out of the room before you all come and have a look at it. All right! Goodness me. This is so not fair. I know. Guess who? Dude, you're in the room. I can see you. I can see you, too, man. I've missed you. Group hug. Much better. It hasn't been the same just hugging Nate. Yeah, it hasn't been. So, good news. The press is here and they're gonna cover the whole night. - The label loves it. - That's awesome! Hey, man, where's this amazing singer you've been looking for? What? I know things. Hoping to find her tonight. This was supposed to be a fun summer that was all about music, and all I did was get caught up in Tess drama. It happens. I can't believe I agreed to be some background singer just because I got intimidated. That's what Tess can do to you. No. I did it to me. I've never seen Brown so harsh. I know. He just kept repeating "Until the end of Final Jam. " I know. I was there. What? What? Come on! Let's go! Let's go! CAMP ROCK Theater Okay. Who's stoked? Yeah! FINAL JAM All right! All right! BOY: Yeah! Okay, campers, friends, family, Camp Rock fans, this is it. Tonight music history will be made as Camp Rock finds a new Final Jam winner! Five, six, seven, eight. Come on, come on, come on Look at me This is not amateur night. This is serious. We did it right! No! You didn't. You never do! I'm trying to win here. You guys may be used to losing, but not me. I'm tired of picking up the slack. Stop telling us what to do! You're the one who's ruining everything. You're too intense all the time, and I am sick and tired of picking up your slack, too! Peggy, come back here! Who needs her? She was holding us back. Now you really better not mess up. You know what? Don't worry about me. Do it yourself. I'm done. BTW, your lip gloss is so not glossy anymore. All right. This year, the Final Jam winner will not only get a Camp Rock trophy and a big one, I might add, he or she is gonna get a sweet prize, a chance to record with my nephew, pop star Shane Gray! Yes! All right! Give it up! All right! To make sure the right camper is chosen, we've invited the other members of Connect 3 to be judges. Yes! Thank you so much. All right. Okay. Put your hands together for Barron James, Sander Lawyer, and the Hasta La Vista Crew. Yeah, it's your boy Barry And the place to be is crazy Come rock with me Couldn't wait to leave But now I hate to go Last day at camp Packing my bags slow Made so many friends Why does it have to end In the end it's a win 'Cause we grown so close together Remember when we first met, first day Thinking this would be no fun No way Way Now it's time to leave Leave But now we wanna stay Stay Stay, stay, stay, stay, stay, oh Hasta la vista I'm-a gonna say goodbye to you Whatever happens I'll be cool with you Wanna give me your number? I'm-a call you Promise I won't forget you Hasta la vista We'll all be going separate ways Say everything you didn't say This is your moment Before you go Come on now Get up and show them Keep doing your thing, thing, thing Keep doing your thing, thing, thing Keep doing your thing, thing, thing Keep doing your thing, thing, thing Yeah. So hot Get a clap to this H- A-S-T-A La vista H- A-S-T-A La vista Hasta la vista I'm-a gonna say goodbye to you Whatever happens I'll be cool with you Hey! Wanna give me your number? I'm-a call you Promise I won't forget you Hasta la vista We'll all be going separate ways Say everything you didn't say This is your moment Before you go Come on now Get up and show them H- A-S-T-A La vista H- A-S-T-A Hasta la vista Oh, my goodness! Okay! Now, let's give it up for a group that has the "it" factor, whatever "it" is. The It Girls! Mom? Wake up When will things be good enough for you to see All that we can be I'm sick of Playing games and acting like we never care That we're never there We pay attention We pay attention For only seconds Look at you, look at me There's never any us Can't you see all we can become We can shine like the sun If we believe that two stars are brighter than one Come on, come on, come on Look at you Come on, come on, come on Is it too much to ask That you put us first? Oh I feel like we're last in our universe And that's not where we ought to be Look at you, look at me There's never any us Can't you see all we can become We can shine like the sun If we believe that two stars are brighter than one Come on, come on, come on Look at you Come on, come on, come on Look at me Come on, come on, come on Look at you Come on, come on, come on Well, it looks like we are basically finished the... Put it on pause. We have a last-minute addition. Come on up, Margaret Dupree! Who's Margaret? I am. Go, Margaret! They tell you a good girl is quiet and That you should never ask why 'Cause it only makes it harder to fit in And you should be happy, excited Even if you're just invited 'Cause the winners need someone to clap for them It's so hard just waiting In a line that never moves It's time you started making Your own rules You gotta scream until there's nothing left With your last breath Say here I am Here I am Make them listen 'Cause there's no way you'll be ignored Not anymore Say here I am Here I am Here I am The world better make some room Yeah, move over, over 'Cause you're coming through 'Cause you're coming through You gotta scream until there's nothing left With your last breath Here I am Here I am Make them listen 'Cause there's no way you'll be ignored Not anymore Say here I am Here I am Here I am Here I am Here I am Peggy? What? You were really good. I didn't know you were that good, and when someone's that good, someone should tell them. Thanks. And I'm sorry. Wow! She was amazing. I know, I know. All right, all right, all right. Settle down. Settle down, sunshine! I guess that's it. It's officially the end of Final Jam, and time for our judges to go off in private, and, well, judge. So, we'll check you in a minute. Excuse me. Just a minute. It's the end of Final Jam. I was so hoping you'd catch on. Now get out there, steal their hearts, and rock it, poppet. - Okay. - Okay. I've always been the kind of girl That hid my face So afraid to tell the world What I've got to say But I have this dream Bright inside of me I'm gonna let it show It's time to let you know To let you know This is real, this is me I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be now Gonna let the light shine on me Now I've found who I am There's no way to hold it in No more hiding who I wanna be This is me That's the song! So that must be the girl. Do you know what it's like You think? To feel so in the dark To dream about a life Where you're the shining star Even though it seems Like it's too far away I have to believe in myself It's the only way This is real, this is me I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be now Gonna let the light shine on me Now I've found who I am There's no way to hold it in No more hiding who I wanna be This is me You're the voice I hear inside my head The reason that I'm singing I need to find you I gotta find you You're the missing piece I need The song inside of me - I need to find you - I need to find you - I gotta find you - I gotta find you This is real, this is me I'm exactly where I'm supposed to be now Gonna let the light shine on me Now I've found who I am There's no way to hold it in No more hiding who I wanna be Yeah - This is me - You're the missing piece I need The song inside of me This is me, yeah You're the voice I hear inside my head The reason that I'm singing Now I've found who I am There's no way to hold it in No more hiding who I wanna be - This is me - This is me Yeah! Okay, gang, this is it. The winner of Final Jam this year is... Drum roll, please. Margaret Dupree! Yes! You won! You won! You gotta go! You gotta go! Way to go, Margaret! You just got yourself a chance to record with Shane Gray! Yes! Congratulations, Peggy. You deserve it. You were amazing. You did it! I mean, I did it. We did... You guys were really great. Thanks. Yeah. So, I told Brown you guys didn't take my bracelet. Wow. Thank you. See you next summer. MITCHIE: Sure. Mitchie. You were fabulous. Honey, I'm sorry you didn't win. But I did. I won the best summer of my life. Thanks to you. I love you. - We'll see you in a few, okay? - Okay. So I guess my search is over. That depends on who you're looking for. Hi, I'm Mitchie. I'm Shane. You up for a canoe ride later? I wouldn't miss it. All right! Okay, Camp Rockers! Final Jam is over, and you know what that means? My favorite part of the summer, the Final Jam jam session! Let's kick it! 'Cause we rock We rock We rock on Oh, we rock, we rock on Come as you are You're a superstar World's in your pocket and you know it You can feel that beat Running through your feet Heart's racing fast You're rock and rolling All that you need is the music To take you to some other place Where you know you belong Raise your hands up in the air and scream We're finding our voice following our dreams 'Cause we rock, we rock We rock, we rock on Nobody in the world's gonna bring us down The louder we go Well, the better we sound 'Cause we rock, we rock We rock, we rock on - We got the music in our souls - The music in our souls - And it's the thing we want the most - What we want the most It picks us up when we fall down It turns our world around We rock, we rock, we rock Every day and every night 'Cause we rock, we rock We rock, we rock on It's all we wanna do in life Raise your hands up in the air and scream We're finding our voice Following our dreams 'Cause we rock, we rock We rock, we rock on Nobody in the world's gonna bring us down The louder we go Well, the better we sound 'Cause we rock, we rock We rock, we rock on Raise your hands up in the air and scream We're finding our voice Following our dreams 'Cause we rock, we rock We rock, we rock on Nobody in the world's gonna bring us down The louder we go Well, the better we sound 'Cause we rock, we rock We rock, we rock on We rock, we rock, we rock on We rock, we rock Camp Rock Three Months Later - Whoa. - Wow. Whoa. - It's incredible. - Awesome. - Wow. - So cool. Caitlyn, we know you said you built a little recording studio... But this is the coolest thing I've seen since my mom's tour bus. Oh. Phenomenal! Extraordinary. Totally! Way cool. Way, way cool. We still keep all our old stuff in here. We got the skis and the bikes. My dad's tools. Okay, guys. I can't wait to get started. - I know. Me, too. - Oh, my God. We're gonna... Okay, everybody, grab some mikes and set them up. I'm excited. Okay, let me just adjust some things. All right, get your headphones. - Got them? Are we ready? - Yeah. - Yeah. - All right. And go. We're done, but it's not over We'll start it again After the end of the day It keeps getting better Don't be afraid We'll do it together Come on, come on You know It's your time to move It's my time to move Come on, come on Let go Leave it all behind Your past and mine Gone are the days of summer We couldn't change it if we tried But why would we want to Let's go where we got to Our paths will cross again in time It's never the same tomorrow And tomorrow's never clear So come on, come on, you know Our time Our time is here We know, but we're not certain How can we be? How can we see what's ahead? The world keeps on turning And all we can do Is travel each day to the next Come on, come on, you know It's your time to move It's my time to move Come on, come on Let go Leave it all behind Your past and mine Gone are the days in the summer We couldn't change it if we tried But why would we want to Let's go where we got to Our paths will cross again in time It's never the same tomorrow And tomorrow's never clear So come on, come on, you know Our time Our time is here Yeah Come on, come on, come on Our time is here Gone are the days of summer We couldn't change it if we tried If we tried So come on, come on, come on Yeah, come on, come on, come on So come on, come on, you know Our time Our time is here Yeah, yeah... 'Cause we rock We rock, we rock on We rock, we rock on All that you need is the music To take you to some other place Where you know you belong Raise your hands up in the air and scream We're finding our voice Following our dreams 'Cause we rock, we rock We rock, we rock on Nobody in the world's gonna bring us down The louder we go Well, the better we sound 'Cause we rock, we rock We rock, we rock on 'Cause we rock, we rock We rock, we rock on We rock, we rock, we rock on We rock, we rock, Camp Rock
