 

                        Confessions of a Police Captain Captain, stay and talk to me... Tomorrow. Hello, hello, hello... Where is he? Over there. Is he still being sought by the police? Yes, he is. What's his mental state? Unstable. At times we've even had to... ...put him into isolation. The scum of the earth. I wonder how many went Insane while they were in here? - Captain, I don't see what I... - Don't bother - I'm not interested. I'm not here to discuss the problems of running a mental institution. Is that clear? I want his papers in order, and I want him out... Take it or leave it. Good morning, Captain. He'll be out In two days - How'd you do it? - Stay away from him - Think it over? I've been thinking about it for years; now I've stopped thinking. Just drive. Money! Do you think there are owers in the box? I wouldn't like to say. A suitcase... what, is he leaving? Don't be an idiot, Cammino! It's your last chance to stop him. No Let's go back to the office. Captain! All will go perfectly well till 6 o'clock, after which watch out for someone not telling you the truth! You picked the wrong day, fortune teller! Oh, Captain - I would have expected more respect from you. After all, who dreamt of the identity of the Pennisi criminal, eh? And who read In the cards where the stolen property from the "Monte dei Veghni" robbery was hidden? - You! - Yes! Let's break It up here. Break It up now, break it up! - So, Rascal, any news? - All quiet, Captain. And now we wait. Magistrate interrogates Ferdinando Lomunno The evening of the crime Lomunno is acquitted Lomunno trial - evidence is iinsufficient - He should be there by now. - There's a lot of traffic. There's a security guard here, wanting to speak to Mr. Lomunno. Alright. Down the corridor to the left. Mr. Lomunno's office is behind the large folding door. Mummy, mummy, they're shooting! Who are they shooting at? What was that? It came from the construction offices. He's armed! There he Isl It's a guard! Help! Ahhh... - Wow! It's a guard! - What's he doing? Running away? Call the police! He's dying, call an ambulance an ambulance! Yes, Via Plebiscito, yes. What? Captain, there's lust been a shooting over at Via Plebiscito. Who Is this? Ah, Officer Barbato, yes! Repeat... Via Plebiscito 112. Captain... four, I think. - Four what? - Dead. Patrol car "love ", wagon "Freedom", please proceed to Via Plebiscito... Get everyone clown there, and the ambulances! - Let's go! One ls on the lawn and someone else is in there. Schiro, cordon the area off! Good day, Captain. Can we get to work? Can we start? Hold on, hold on. He's not here. Why isn't he here...? Haven't you understood? Somebody warned him, that's all - But who? Hey! Take some beautiful photos of LiPuma! Rest assured, Captain, we'll do a good job. Who could it have been? I don't know, but they did, and he got away. Did you call the district attorney? A disguise... Yes - how did you figure that out? The hair: much too long. Has he been identified? Good morning. I'm Captain Giacomo Bonavia. Traini. District Attorney's office. That's Michele LiPuma, a well-known killer. What happened? Do you know Ferdinando Lomunno, the building magnate? Yes, I've heard of him. That's his secretary. LiPuma came in disguised, and asked her to announce him to Lomunno. When she heard shots, she ed. Anyway, the disguise was supposed to give LiPuma a few seconds advantage. But it didn't work out that way... ...because they were waiting for him on the other side of the door. On the other side of the door? You mean Lomunno's? Yes: Lomunno and LiPuma were cronies from way back... ...but they fell out after Lomunno mistreated LiPuma's sister. They tried to klll each other, more than once - LiPuma's autopsy will show more than a couple of bullet scars. Lomunno knew that one day, LiPuma would try to take his revenge, you understand? That's why he had his people waiting for him. But LiPuma came from here, instead of there, and took them by surprise. Vincenzo Arlotta, from Trapani. It seems he caught LiPuma from behind. After that, It seems that he was accidentally shot by his accomplices. From here... to the door. crossfire! Lomunno's chair. And this ls an old acquaintance, Dano Gaschetta from Salemi... ...wanted for a double murder two years ago. We haven't identified that one yet. His machine gun had jammed. All characters from out of town, all recently hired. I feel partly to blame for this. Lomunno had two professional bodyguards, who he trusted. I had them put in jail a couple of months ago. When a hotshot like Lomunno has no protection, he starts to have a problem breathing; he feels uneasy. He needed temporary help, so he hired some cheap people. Well... you can see the mess that they made. Two professional killers in prison, three amateur killers dead. Soto speak, the maximum result for a minimum of effort. Nice work, Bonavia! How ls It that you aren't more familiar with Lomunno? Why should I be? He moves In high circles, even if he is a murderer. Why not arrest him? - Something funny? - Sort of. I'll repeat my question: why not arrest him? Because I don't want to be made a fool of again, seeing as how I've already arrested him three times before. - Lack of evidence? - What? I said: due to lack of evidence? Due to lack of everything. Do you know how much this concrete jungle has cost so far? And 59 killings. Those are the ones in the cemetery. A great many of them are buried right here: in cement. But what are you gonna do, .tear down half the city? I Where do you live anyway? - Here in the vicinity. Well, watch out. One of these days you'll tum on the lap, and blood will run out. Or you'll see something in a crack in the wall, scrape It out and what will you see? A finger, or an eye. You live in a penthouse? I have three rooms on the second oor. Why? Sounds kind of small. You'll see: one of these days, a friend will approach you... and offer you the penthouse, at very good conditions. You inspire confidence. Are you sure Lomunno wasn't present when the shooting took place? And risk getting shot? They have people that get paid for that. Okay, you can 90- Okay, all is in order. Anyway, I'll take a chance on making an ass of myself again. You give me a warrant, and I'll arrest him. You're certain that this was Lomunno's work? If he was warned that LiPuma was out to get him... why didn't he just Inform the police of that? Thanks. Instead you suggest that he set a trap? For me it's still not clear. I'll Issue a summons for Lommuno to appear for questioning. Let's see what he has to say. If you want, I can tell you say what he will say... I'll proceed with questioning Lommuno. If you get orders from me to arrest him, there won't be any lack of evidence. Send me your interim report as soon as possible, and the file on Lomunno. Goodbye. Goodbye, Mr. Traini. Go fuck yourself, you... piece of shit! What are you looking so happy about? Me? Nothing, chief. It's cold, that's all. I'll repeat: you need to keep all this to yourself. We're up to our necks In this, and I want you to stay out of it. No, Captain, I'm like Ivy: where I stick, there I stay. The newspapers. Hello? Mr. Traini? It's me. I have Mr. Malta on the line for you. Hello, Traini. Good morning, Mr. Malta How are you? Good. So, this shooting In Via Plebiscito a real massacre! There were more than 100 shots fired. There were four bullet holes In LIPuma's body, two of which were fatal. When did he get out of the insane asylum? What? I said: When was he released from the mental hospital? Who? Well, LiPuma. You mean you haven't been informed of that yet? Who's in charge of the investigation? Captain Bonavia. Ah, the best man for It - introverted, mulish but efficient! Didn't he tell you about the asylum? Yes. It's In the report he sent me. Michele LiPuma, confined in 1964. The commitment paper was signed by his sister, Serena LiPuma. And when did he get out? Two days ago! So how would you explain why a man like that was released, when he was clearly st!!! abnormal, not right in the head? The Doctors declared him healthy. You see: you've barely been in the job any time, and you already have a very serious case on your shoulders. Tell me - how's your mother? Slightly better, but she still needs more time to fully recover. Is she still in Switzerland? Yes, in Lausanne. And you - how's the move to the new apartment going? Quite well, thanks. Remember me to your mother when you write. And here, In this case... How do you intend to proceed? I'll be interrogating Lomunno tomorrow. It may be that a certain person found Lomunno's recent acquittal disagreeable... Lomunno stood In his way Do you understand? You mean that an old rival wanted him dead? Such viciousness would indicate that. There's someone to see you. Ah, Lomunno? No, his lawyer. Show him in. Be careful: he's a fox! Advocate Canestraro. I wasn't expecting you. You were expecting Lomunno, I know. I'd like to see him myself. He was admitted to hospital. After the shooting, he suffered a shock. Ah, and which hospital is he in? I don't know. Well, you find out what clinic, and tell him I want to question him. Lomunno obviously has a murder trial ahead of him. It only needs to be established what his relationship with the three killers was - the ones armed with machine guns, who were waiting for LiPuma. We've not been able to learn who they were I'll make that clear: we do not know who they were. Therefore, Lomunno has no fear of being investigated. He respects the law. But he ls still worried that he will be killed. LiPuma was sent there to kill him. Fortunately, Lommuno was out of his office, otherwise... he would now be dead. What makes you think that someone sent LiPuma there? Given past events, I'd say that LIPuma had enough reasons of his own to hate Lomunno. Quite right. So, they opened the tiger's cage and the tiger came out. You mean to say that If you wanted to get rid of our successful builder, you'd have had LIPuma released from the asylum? - Me? - Yes, or whoever else. Allow me to express my surprise... that a paranoid murderer could have been set free so easily. Go on. I have nothin more to say, Mr. District Attorney. Find your client, and tell him he must come here for questioning. What guarantee can you give for his safety? A police escort. It would be better not to inform the police. Ah - you think that If word were to get out, then the word may get wings, and return in the form of a bullet? It's no mystery that my client ls In the cross hairs of certain police officers. You're referring to the times that Captain Bonavia arrested him? Three arrests, to be exact. The court's answer has been three acquittals. I'll let you judge. What could Captain Bonavia personally have against Lomunno? Yes... Er... There could be many reasons. A man can hate out of his love for justice. In that case, If you think Bonavia is so perfect... What do you think? Tell me something about him. I think that it ls necessary to judge a public official even by his private life. And that would be? Bonavia has a mistress, young enough to be his daughter. That's not a crime. Of course not. Of course not. Listen, Mr. District Attorney... I ask that you forget regulations just this once, and be so kind as to visit my client, because he has suffered a great shock. - Tomorrow morning? - Thank you. It's been a pleasure. It would be an honor for me to accompany you personally. Good day. Call Mr. Malta's office. A fox! Lomunno is willing to see me tomorrow morning, but he has asked that I visit him. He doesn't want the police to know where he's hiding out. Why? His lawyer says that Lomunno thinks Bonavia has it in for him. And assuming he does? Well, Lomunno is afraid that the police would intentionally let out information that would harm him. What's your opinion, Traini? I'll go along with him, even though his distrust of Bonavia annoys me. The most important thing is to hear what Lomunno has to say, and as quickly as possible. Of course, the investigation is paramount. Well, I authorise you to proceed. What about the lunatic asylum? I'm going there today, with Bonavia. Clinically speaking, there was no reason to keep him here. Is that so? In your opinion, he was cured? Did he often have visitors? - Never. - Not even his sister? No. She sent him a few packages. It says here that six months ago, LiPuma tried to strange his cellmate. It was a unique emotional crisis, but it was never repeated. I'd like to talk to that former cellmate. You promised me the other day! Why won't you talk with me? - I'm not dangerous. - Take it easy; you're sweating. No, I don't sweat - I weep from my skin. - Where Is he? - Next door. But I can tell you that now is not a good time... Should I open it? Ahh... Who is this in my cell? Why are you here? What do you want? Go away... go away! That one's OK. But the others? All assholes! You - what are you? I'm just an officer of the judiciary. My name ls Giuseppe Lascatelll. Is that not an important name? Why don't you answer me? Why are you quiet? You must answer me! Calm yourself, Pepe. Okay, General. Do you know Captain Bonavia? Ah, and howl I used to pass all the Information on to him while I was inside. They had tons of strychnine, so they put the strychnine in the coffee, and they got rid of a boss, a spy, lookout man and an asparagus'. Who? What do you mean 'who'? Don't you listen when I say something? Enough, Pepe. He's talking about those that have been poisoned in jail. Continue. There was a pipeline under the prison oor. We dug a hole in the ground and petrol came out. Like a geyser... psss! Mimi the fairy - he used to sell It for us How beautiful he was. And how did he get it out? With the "asparagus". With the what?I What language is this guy speaking? He comes In here and makes fun of my cosmic revelations! I'm going to smash him! Tell the official what you do to us, instead! You keep us locked up in this dump! And you beat us. You damn bastards! Bastards! Calm down, Pepe. Have a cigarette. It's miserable In here - why don't you send some women in? Only faggots have a good time in here. Were you a friend of LiPuma's? The world should belong to generous men like him. He gave my son a news stand, because he was my friend. They kept him here, the doctors kept him in here because.. Lomunno and his sister wanted him out of the way. Bastards! - We'd better stop. - Alright. I'd like to talk to him alone. You were a police Informer isn't that right? Come on Pepe, have courage. Scratch me behind my ear first I can't stand it. LIPuma knew you were an informer, right? One clay he said to me: "Bonavia's your friend... "so tell him I'm not crazy. " I said "no!" Then he tried to strangle me. Continue. Bonavia came to ask me some questions. I said... What did you say? Go on. What did you say? Hmm? "Let LiPuma out. " And what did he say? Impossible, " that's what he said. Thanks, Pepe. Shall we go? Who had LiPuma released, Bonavia? The doctors declared him cured Don't you believe in doctors? Anyway, tell me: who are Lomunno's enemies? Half the people In the telephone book... more or less. Who would you put at the top of the list? Even then it's hard to narrow it down. His rivals In the construction business Madonna, Norvese, Chiaracame... ...all those and their relatives that Lomunno destroyed economically, or killed. - Atop up? - No, thanks. To return to Lascatelli... I wanted to talk with him alone, because the presence of police officers often intimidate: people. He said that LiPuma could hardly wait to get out, so he could try to kill Lommuno. That could be, but It surely wasn't Lascatelll who informed Lomunno... that LIPuma wanted to klll him, and had disguised himself as a guard as he couldn't have known how or where LiPuma would try it. So: who did inform Lommuno? Perhaps I'm reading you wrong, but I think that you're thinking... this was an act of personal revenge Because of the sister! So you think that LIPuma was merely a tool of his sister? There's no evidence of that. - But she could be a suspect? - It's possible. It's quite possible that the massacre wasn't just an isolated incident, that the Intent was far greater than a simple personal vendetta, that ll Involves Important people In conicting interests, and billions of lire. - Shall we talk about politics? - Why not? See the man sitting over there at that table? With the light suit, the mustache, and the expression on his face that seems to say: "What have I got to do with It? I'm innocent!" You mean His Honour, Mayor Nicotra? - That's right. And to his left... ...the one with the thick glasses, that's the M. P., Grisi. And on his right Is the President of the regional bank, Santa Croce, with the Chairman of the Building Commission. Remember those words: Building Commission They're the key to everything. A coffee and the bill, please. There ls also a free seat at the table. Guess who is missing? Lomunno. Right. Shall we continue? So, about two years ago... Nicotra and Lomunno drew up an agreement, anticipating the big business that would come with the city's new development plan, hmm? Let's assume Lomunno bought up some unremarkable land for the price of farm land, shall we say - 300 lire per square metre? Now, this ls where the Mayor comes into the picture. Using the taxpayer's money, the city government, for no apparent reason, supplied the area with water, electricity, sewerage, roads, etc. , etc. So, the value went up from But you see, the taxpayer doesn't get anything out of it- you won't find any schools, or hospitals in that area. The pie was out up between the Mayor, our Member of Parliament, the head of the building commission, Lomunno, the bank that financed the deal, and a few others. There was no great risk Involved, because if anybody raised any objections, he was first warned, then threatened, and if that wasn't enough, he disappeared. What ls the police department doing about this? Making arrests, If they can. What are the courts doing? Handing down sentences, when they're given sufficient evidence. Since when has evidence been sufficient in our courts? If you want a wider picture of the situation, I can give it to you, but... you be careful of this investigation: it is a very slippery path. It's a trip we'll take together. Now, our starting point will be the killings in Via Plebiscito. We might not change the world, but our duty today, right now, is to find and punish all those responsible. We'll start by questioning the doctors at the medical institute, Lomunno's personal enemies, and his rivals in the construction business. And what did his lawyer, Canestraro, have to say? That Lomunno is in hiding, and that no one knows the three killers who killed LiPuma. He says there are those that want to kill him, but he does not say who. I told Canestraro that he should tell him... that If he doesn't show up for questioning, I'll issue a warrant for his arrest. You'll be arresting him for the forth time. And... who'll free him? Nobody, if we do our job well. A man over on that table has been trying to attract your attention for the past few minutes. Excuse me, I have to be going. Bonavia! I'd like to talk to Serena LiPuma. We tried to find her. No luck. - Keep trying. - Certainly. My respects, Mr. Mayor. - No news on Lomunno? - No. When Is he gonna surface? You really scared the hell out of him. Yes - he's terrified. Maybe even a little too much. - And how did your talk with Traini go? - We'll see. A man could klll me, the District Attorney could send me to jail, the man who killed me could be sent to ]all, but the District Attorney always goes free. We'll see what's better for him. I don't get it. What's better for what? Not only a killer can klll; a prosecutor can ensure that a troublemaker is eliminated. Traini? He's in with them? Calling all cars. Proceed immediately to Bucciaria. Okay. What's happening over there? Attempted robbery In progress. The suspect Is holed up in a church. He's reported to have a gun. He hasn't done anything, he's a good boy! Leave him alone! Calm down! Let me through! Calm down, calm down! - Where Is he? - Inside. - Has he shot anyone? - No, but he says he's going to. - Keep away, or I'll klll you. - Calm down. - Keep away. - You're nothing but a piece of shit! What are you doing? Have you fired It? - No. - Have you threatened anyone with It? - No. Captain, the crowd's getting restless. Should I call for reinforcements? Don't be stupid! Calm down! Calm down! There is nothing happening. Calm clown. He didn't even have a gun. He was just kidding. Stay back. Stay calm! Back! Stay calm! Out of the way! Out of the way! Get a move on. And you, what are you looking at? A fine professional, I am. It's over! Go home! - Have you got a match? - Yes. I'd like to have seen Traini here, with his expensive suit. - Nicola, when did you get out? - Last month, Captain. Now you know, don't you, that it's illegal... to tap any telephone wires without the court's authorization? Especially when the telephone belongs to the District Attorney! So, If I transfer you back to their department, do you think that you can handle it inconspicuously? You still refuse to let go of it, eh? You still want to know who warned Lomunno? Well, of course I can handle it. Yeah, who warned him, and where the orders came from. We'll find out. To your health. Traini's lying. He says Lomunno won't come out of hiding. What does he take me for, that son of a bitch?! This way, please. Go right in. Ah, It's very kind of you, Mr. District Attorney, to go out of your way like this for me. I feel so much safer here, because in a way, this is home to me. My client finances this institution for orphans.. He had a difficult childhood himself. Hey, come on. I don't want the District Attorney thinking that you're trying to make me out for a saint! I don't deserve It. Please. So, here I am. The predetermined victim. I thank God, because death is ugly. Now, I am at your disposal here, to answer your questions, Mr. District Attorney. Why was LIPuma after you? Was it because of his sister? I think so. Or maybe because of resentment over old business dealings? No. I never had any dealings with this guy, LiPuma. However, when he became dangerous, you had LiPuma put in a mental institute. It was his sister who had him committed. And she at that time was your mistress? Yeah, but whatever she did was under her own initiative. Who told you that LIPuma was out, that he was coming to kill you? Who told me? If I'd known, I would have asked the police for protection. Nobody ever goes to the police. Oh? That's a shame. Anyhow, no-one ever told me a thing. I didn't even know those three men who were killed with LiPuma. Your lawyer hinted that Bonavia apparently has a grudge against you. Is that true? Sure he does, sure. It's envy, because I make big money, while he only gets a small salary. So he spies on me, my property is watched, and once In a while he dreams up a charge and arrests me. I'm sorry for him; I understand him. You understand him, and you feel sorry for him. Why? Because he grew up alone, without satisfaction. Some people drown the past In wine He drowns his in justice. He is dangerous. Nonsense, Mr. Lawyer! So, contrary to your lawyer's opinion, you aren't afraid of him? I have bigger enemies. You contradict yourself. Your lawyer said you were in hiding because you fear the police. And now you say you have no fear of the police! So, who are you afraid of? There was an attempt to klll me. Now I'm afraid to go out on the street. But there's no need to be afraid. Even If you assure me that a Police Captain has acted badly. You're a citizen, and I'm your District Attorney. Don't forget that. You're my what? I'm your District Attorney. And I would defend you, as I would any other citizen. If necessary. Men like you give us faith in the law. Getting back to the discussion though: If you want to know who wants to see me dead, I'm telling you, there are a lot bigger fish than Bonavia. In the business world? I don't want to accuse anyone. But if you think for a minute, whoever got LIPuma sprung, it took money - a lot of money. I see. What else can you tell me? Only what I told you just now. Which ls what? - What I said. Which Is not very much We haven't concluded much, have we? Well, what do you expect? I'm the victim here. That's why I want to take care of you. Don't leave the city, and keep yourself at my disposal. Do not doubt it. At your service. And thanks again for going to all this trouble for me, Mr. District Attorney. Who Is this Traini? What's he looking for? He's just looking. Easy for you to say, but he's likely to stumble onto the zoning law deal. - Ahh... - And you're the one responsible, Ferdinando. The mess you've got us Into! Machine guns everywhere - are you trying to start some kind of civil war? And what should I have said? "Please, go ahead, kill me?" I've been reading the headlines, and I don'! want anything more to do with it. And neither do the others. Is that clear? Tell me something, senator. How did you get into your position? It was because of my men, village by village, that you got 200,000 votes. I got you In yesterday, and I can get you out tomorrow. Who do you think you are, senator? He goes to Montecitorio , makes speeches, gives interviews on television, but who are you? You tow the line and play the game my way. Calm down, Ferdinando. And If the game bothers you, step down. Take it easy. Go over to the opposition. For every one that leaves, I have ten more. But you don't want to leave your comfy chair, do you? Take it easy, Ferdinando! You too, and the president of the bank, and the Mayor! You calm down, you handsome boy, understand? And now, what are you thinking about me huh? Who told you that LIPuma, disguised as a guard, was coming to kill you? Guess. Did you have the insane asylum watch him? Or were you watching Bonavia? Or maybe one of your friends? Only two people know: God and me. Lomunno! Have you gone out of your mind, Lomunno? Here I am trying to cast suspicion onto Bonavia, and you clear him. What are you thinking of, accusing your competitors, when you know as well as I do that they're not involved? What's wrong with you? You really think the D. A. believes what I tell him? If I want him to think white it's better to say black. Traini's no fool. Let him have the satisfaction of thinking.. That whatever he figures out came from his own brain, with his university education. Let's let our new D. A. work out his own theory, let him make the connections, put the little pieces together... Ah, you're back already? Did you take her to my house? - She didn't want to come. - So, where is she? She's waiting at the comer of Via Ruggero 7. Come in, come in - we're leaving now. Good boys! Serena! Get In... Wait there. - Hello, Serena. - Good evening. I wanted to take you somewhere else, because It's not good for me to be seen on the street. For the moment. What have I done to displease you? Your brother wanted to klll me, so it's not like I would have had him released! Imagine: I'd forgotten he even existed. You can be sure that after me, he was going to go for you: the name on the court document that committed him, six years ago. You encouraged me. Have you forgotten that? That's all over with anyway. There's no point dragging the past back up again. Well, all right, we'll forget It What's on your mind? What did you want to meet me for? You have to go to Cleveland, to see your relatives. I will pay. Why? Because there are people who are out to get me, and they may come after you, thinking they can use you to get to me. But what help would I be to them? There are many ways for them to get what they want. Let's just say it's safer if you go. And when you return, I'll see that you get a new apartment, on Via Le Strasburg, or by the sea; whatever you want. A promise, dear Ferdinando, that I can add to the collection. Oh, don't be like that. We need to find a way to understand each other again, Serena. We need to rekindle that thin we used to have for each other. If you're willing to give It a try, we'll go to our old restaurant, in Mondello, and we'll talk the whole thing over. I swear, you have nothing to worry about. Sony I had to make you walk, but I couldn't park any closer. - Ferdinando, you want to klll me, don'! you? - Will you cut it out? Come on. Yes.. it's true! You want to kill me! Come here. What's the matter? Callisto, Callisto, hold it! You want us to go over to her place? No, she knows better than to go there. We must find her, no matter what. The Chairman of the Anti-Mafia Commission has stated... that the lengthy Investigations Into the connections between the mafia and the political world will shortly be concluded. The report will be sent to Parliament as soon as possible. An Important member of the Commission commented: "We will not be taking any action before the report is issued This is better than a comedy. They're saying the same things as they were when we met. "The people expect us to be as thorough as possible. " Oh, erm... this Is Michele Cammino. Miss Lina Paladino. - I'm very pleased to meet you. - Likewise. - Excuse me. - Sure. Nothing to smile about, Cammino. So... The life, death and miracles of District Attorney Mr. Traini! He must be a mummy's boy; he calls his mother in Switzerland constantly. She's in a hospital, but we don't know why. A kid called and asked him for an appointment. - A boy? - You think he could be a faggot? You're talking about an Important person - the least you can do is call him a homosexual! - Are you going? - Well, it's getting late. Well, until tomorrow - Bye. Let's get back to your weak allegations... A say. eh? No, I doubt it. Go on. He called Judge Malta, to tell him he'd met Lomunno. Lomunno accused his competitors of having had LiPuma released. And did he say anything about me? Bonavia is a neurotic... "He pursues Lomunno out of envy, but Lomunno doesn't consider him dangerous. Malta authorized Traini to Investigate Bonavia's private life. He urged him however, to be very discrete, because Bonavia is a public official, and thus a representative of the state. " What else? Malta authorized Traini to tap your phone. Unfortunately, their surveillance center Is even more effective than ours. Well, we had the idea first: they don't know that they must watch what they say on the phone. We do. Was there anything else? Schiro called Traini. Schiro? Why? He asked Traini to meet him where the shooting took place. - Good old Schiro! - He is a piece of shit! What's Schiro got against me anyway? He's never forgiven you for your report, which stopped him getting promoted. What report? When he roughed up that student, during the riot at the university. - Oh... I'd completely forgotten about that. - I'll make that bastard talk. You don't do anything, understand? "Please note: on March 7th, 1962, the sum of "Bonavia withdrew the money the following day. " - Thank you. - You're welcome, sir. Follow me, please. An ideal place for a crime, isn't it? Well, if you say so. Have you heard of Gianpaolo Rlzzo, the trade union activist? No. Well, he wasn't my brother, nor a relative - he wasn't even my friend. He was more than that to me. He was a young man that I admired. When I left the village to join the police force, he remained here to help the vulnerable people. Do you know what It means to be a union activist around here? There is a law that guarantees you a regular, set wage. All of you! Lomunno Is cheating you all. This can't continue. Why are you afraid? The sheep are afraid, but that does not save them from the wolves. The more fear you have, the more likely It ls that you'll be eaten by the wolf. $0 why do you hide In your houses, behind the windows? I know you all, even if you hide. And I know that you're all with me. Lomunno robs the workers, and gets rich from our sweat. He who gives us bread ls our father, we say. But he throws us crumbs! And what kind of a father ls It who brings us hunger, and uses his power to fire us, whenever he wants to? He can't do this according to the law. What law is this then? If he says we must work for 14 hours a day, then we must work for 14 hours. If he says children will get 1000 lire a week, then they get exactly 1000 lire. He says "I'm firing you", and that is that. You feed his power with your fear. If we don't demand our rights, who's going to give them to us? Him? Here he ls: Don Ferdinando Lomunno, here to try to make me shut up. He thinks he will chase me away. Listen well to what I say: we will make him be the one that shakes in his boots. Don't work on his construction sites Friends, go out on strike now! No one must go back to work until he comes to terms with us. The contracts must comply with the law. Who are you trying to convert? You're trying to fill these decent people's heads with your stupid ideas. You talk like a criminal! And I'm not finished yet! If one spits Into the air, the spit will fall back into one's face. You exploit the poor people, who have nothing to eat. You're the real criminals here! Stick a finger In his belly and see what comes out - shit! What are you waiting for'? Arrest the shooter! The first to leave the square would lose face. Rizzo knew that. So he stayed there, lying on the ground in the square for hours, even at the risk of bleeding to death. That episode made Rlzzo a hero, but being a hero isn't always an asset. If we hold together, we'll make 'em run, like scared rabbits. Ah, here's an old friend who has dropped by to congratulate me. But he is also a policeman, and since my call for a strike was not legally authorized, he's come to arrest me. Isn't that right, Giacomo? I have to take you to Palermo. The judge will let you off with a warning. A warning? A warning telling me to... mind my own business, and not disturb public order. You went to school - why did you join the police? You think It's the only way to get respect from 'important' people? I believe in the law. But you're going to arrest me anyway? And don't tell me that it's your duty. How much evidence do you need before you arrest Lommuno? It's just a matter of time. You two are on the same side: you the police, and him the gangster, both on the side of the wealthy! Over the years, I've thought a lot about what Rizzo said, and I can never forget it. And the more I think about It the more ashamed I feel. Have you ever felt anything like that? Have you never felt that you were just a 'tool', lust there to look after the Interests of whomever happens to be in power? A policeman who's also an anarchist? You are a living contradiction, Bonavia. Haven't you ever had any doubts about enforcing unjust laws? It's not for us to judge the law, but to... To enforce it. Yes, I knew you would say that. But let's say tomorrow the law changed and stated that we had to use torture. Don't be absurd. Sure, torture was abolished, but that doesn't affect the fundamental question. Would you use torture, if the law would allow it? But you're using an extreme example here! Alright then, what's your limit? How much Injustice would you stand for in the name of the law? If you go on, I'll arrest you! I was only referring to Rizzo's ideas. Let me talk to him. You're a few years too late. That's where they killed him. Lomunno! A young shepherd heard the shot. Lomunno used dynamite to seal Rizzo's grave, 30 meters deep. It took us two days and two nights to remove all the soil. And then we found the body. It wasn't the face of a dead man. It was the face of a man who had never known justice, and who never would. And then, on a Sunday afternoon, I arrested Lomunno. I had a witness. And? Did Lomunno know the boy had seen him? I suspected he did, so I asked to have the kid closely watched. But someone obviously regarded me as a psychic: word got out that I'd requested a guard, and somebody got suspicious. Nooo! Anyway, I imagine that that's how it happened. Naturally, they said the kid slipped, but there were scratches on his neck, obviously made by fingernails. And what did the autopsy show? - I didn't have access to the report. - That's absurd! I'll check the file. - You can't. - Why not? It disappeared. And, three years later, more bloodshed. I brought Lomunno into court in February of 1964. I had the necessary proof. It didn't hold up. I read the records. Did it say by chance that the jury was threatened? That's Impossible. There would have been a new trial. I know that they were threatened - Prove it! I can't prove It! Conclusion: Lomunno is innocent. Ah, Bonavia! I fear that instead of sleeping at night, you lie awake concocting elaborate fantasies. You think that because you're convinced, others are too. But I'm not! However, let's get to the hard facts. Rizzo, that is. You mention his name and you want instant justice. A criminal doesn't want justice to mete out justice. You want the opposite, and in that you're just as wrong. You can't question the law. It's not your job to question it. It must remain unmolested. As an officer of the law, you must enforce, and not criticise, the law. And that means? Obey the law and confess. Confess what? If you have any respect for justice, you'll freely confess you had LIPuma released, knowing he'd kill Lomunno. How do I go about accusing myself? Maybe you can advise me... I will tell you right now. Firstly: you recognised LiPuma's body from the street. He was disguised, his head was covered in blood, and he was hidden by the grass. No-one could ever have recognised him like that, and you were also some distance away. You even said "get photos of LiPuma" Those were your exact words And secondly? When we were at the mental Institute, a man reproached you for... not having listened to him "the other day". Why did you go there two days before LiPuma was released? Thirdly? Two days after your visit Li Puma was released. And fourth? After all, you were behind the planned assassination attempt. Only the motive remains to be determined. Could be that you're a fanatic, meting out his own kind of justice. A policeman who unleashes a killer, because he has no faith in the courts. But I doubt It. I have always been wary of moralists. - You don't convince me, Bonavia. - And so? You could be an accomplice, working for one of Lomunno's rivals. Sold out to the underworld for money! Were you daydreaming or nightdreaming when you came up with this fairy tale? What did you say? What did you say - that I could be a paid accomplice... 7 You say that I have fantasies? I could never dream up that one. Let's see now. You say that Lomunno's rivals figured it out this way: Lomunno has no respect for agreements. Let's get rid of him. How? Simple! There's a police chief, who can do the work for us. He doesn't cost too much, and he has the means to do it, right? You're with me up to now? But If there are people who paid me to have Lomunno killed, there are also people who paid you to save Lomunno from that person, namely: me! - Listen to me, or... - I know: or you'll have me arrested. But there's only one thing I want to know, Excellency: Which side are you on? And don't lie to me! And you? Whose side are you on? I'm on my own side, and I can prove it to you. You say they paid me to have LIPuma released, alright - arrest me. Go ahead: arrest me. That's what I want. And then we'll find out who warned Lomunno, and why he did it. That man will be my cellmate, and that man will have a nice, honest face like yours. I would like to see you trying to sleep amongst the bugs! OK. You won't get away with that, Bonavia! You fight me with your proof and I'll fight you with slander. The more unbelievable It ls, the more credible it will sound. Don't be ridiculous. What will you accuse me of? Ah, don't confuse the Issues. I said slander, not accusations. What slander? That which you hide from everyone: that your mother is in a Swiss asylum. She's mad! What? My mother's worn out, she's just resting. I know, I know, but I'll just say that you're lying, that's all. And by whom am I been accused? By a man who has an insane mother! Possibly hereditary insanity. Now we know a lot about that, don't we, Traini? And then I'll say that you're a fag! Take It easy now, don't lose your temper! That you corrupt minors, you've been seen in the company of a young boy, Pietro Delia. Right? He ls an orphan, a child that I - Oh, I know, I know that. He's the child of a deceased friend; you're helping him through school. Ah, you really seem to be deaf! I said: slander! And I am the first one to admit it. Now, I need slander. Do you know why? Because, when they Investigate me, they're also going to look into your past, and find out that you dirtied your hands working for Lomunno. Now what other vices do you have? Gambling? Drugs? That's enough! You'll go to prison for life... Just because I have spoken about "slander"? No, no - for the crime that you committed. And your crime won't be diminished because of the others who committed larger ones. Traini! What do you want? Don't be In any doubt: I will do what I said. OK. When I get the proof, I'll arrest you. I'll say I went to the mental Institute to check on the condition of the inmates. That's part of my job, isn't it? - We'll see. - All right. And about the 2,000,000 lire: I used the money to dig up Rizzo's body. I went to the District Attorney's office first, but they turned me clown. Look It up In your file it's number 241 . I sold my father's house... I stole from my family. Well, you'll have to prove every word of that. Goodbye! Via Mazzini, 2PM. A man approached a boy playing with friends... ...and dragged him Into a car, where several accomplices were waiting. The car drove off at speed. The kidnapping was witnessed by a local foreman, and an employee of the family. Help! No! No! Stop! Stop! Help! Help, call the police! Stop that car, and call the police! 6PM. The boy was released, unharmed, on the outskirts of the city, In the proximity of Bocca di Falco airport. The boy's been released, Captain. Released! So they just wanted to frighten someone... Until midnight, everything is good, everything is quiet, Captain. Why didn't the boy's father report this to the police himself? - I wouldn't know. - Does he have any enemies? - Well, not that I know about. - Is he rich? - He's got money. - What does he do? He's the medical supervisor, at the mental institute. Schiro! Go to the house of the head doctor at the mental institute, and have it guarded continually. Go! - When are we going? - Why? Who is it? Captain, it's me - Mimi the fairy. What is it, sweetie? I know where you can find Serena LiPuma. Are you sure? Sure! If you come down to bar "Del Bosco"... Shut up! Stay there, I'm on my way. Excuse me, Captain. Excuse me... I respect the captain because he's completely honest. I still think you're out of your mind. Yeah? Well, you don't understand men at all. Here he is. - Where Is he? - It's written down here... Get out of here fast - the Carabinieri are coming! - But why? - Get going, I said. Move! Oh God, but why? Serena. Serena? What's the matter with you? Serena! - Stop it! Help! Help! Serena! What are you so scared about? Don't you remember me? I'm Captain Bonavia. Yes. Yes. Come on. You can'! stay In this place. Come on... - Where Is this place? - Up there. So, what's it gonna be? The deaf, the dumb and the blind to live 100 years in peace! That ls nonsense, especially in your case. You have seen and heard! The mere thought of you testifying... ...is going to keep them awake at night. - I don't know nothing. - Nothing? So you were hiding for nothing? Were you scared for nothing? When you saw me just now, you were terrified. You thought I was going to klll you. So, why don't you go back home? - I can't. - Why not? - It's no longer a safe place. - Well, then go somewhere else. Like where? Where can I go, If all the money I have is in the apartment? Remember one thing: no matter where you go, if I can find you, they can too. Think about it. Goodbye. Captain Bonavia! Captain Bonavia! Can you explain how Captain Bonavia knew his phone was tapped? He probably has your phone tapped, sir. - Mine? It's happened before, many times. - You know, they do what they can. - I want evidence. Yes, sir. Excuse the disturbance, Mr. Traini. I am Palumbo, my company manages this building. Come in. We were wondering If you might be interested... in a little proposition of ours? The tenant who was to buy our penthouse is leaving us, ...because of sudden illness, I believe, in the family. It's free as a result, and I thought I would show it to you. The penthouse, you say? I don't think my economic conditions would ever allow me to finance an apartment like this. Do you? The rent you're paying for your apartment would allow you to buy it. You see, what matters to us ls who's buying: the person is the most important thing. And the furnishings? There are eight rooms here: a kitchen, a bathroom... it would cost a lot. On occasion, our company has arranged loans for the right buyers, with loan payments stretched out over 20 years. Do you know what the salary of a junior District Attorney is? Yes, but what counts for us, I repeat, is the person. A person like you offers all the guarantees, plus reliability and trustworthiness, and those qualities are worth a fortune these days. Thanks. Perhaps I will accept... I'll have to think about it. Who owns this building anyhow? - Oh, a Swiss company... Are you sure? I have often seen them together. Can you remember what they said? They always talked about land, and transactions worth billions of lire. Did they talk about getting rid of anyone? - Yes. - Who exactly? Melillo, the architect. Trancha, the land owner. And others. Let me look at him again. Who? Him? - Yes. Don't call anyone, especially me - my phone is tapped. And don't open the doors or windows, unless you hear the codeword first: I will say "Monte Pellegrino". You got that? Monte Pellegrino. Oh, and remember to keep the volume down. I don't like television. Well, keep the volume down anyway! When will I testify? I don't know - it could be a long time. I'll bring you some magazines, some clothes, some blankets, whatever you need, OK? Is there anyone... who you would like to call? A man? Yes. No, far too dangerous! Nobody must know that you are here. Now don't do anything foolish, like calling your boyfriend, okay? If you don't want me to, I won't. Good, Serena. Good night. Good night. In here, Bonavia! Did you know that Lieutenant Cammino had unlawfully put Traini's telephone under surveillance? Why ask him? What's he got to with it? Cammino claims he was working alone, on behalf of unknown persons. Let him speak for himself. A month ago, two men offered me a lot of money, If I would unlawfully record Mr. Traini's telephone conversations. It seemed like.. like easy money, so I agreed. Once a week, I left an envelope with the transcripts of the calls in the bar. The next day, an envelope with the money in it would be left for me. - That's the way It was. - And we should believe that? - It ls the truth, the pure truth. - Would you swear it on the Virgin Mary? I'd swear to all of It, Superintendent. Take him away! Captain, forgive me if l have betrayed your confidence in me. I needed money, you know? Debts, women, a whole load of bad habits... Out! You had the temerity to have my phone tapped, didn't you? You dared to believe that a District Attorney could be derelict in his duties. Do you deny having my phone lapped? No, If you'll admit that you also had my phone tapped. Where is Serena LiPuma? You picked her up yesterday. Mimi the fairy" gave us that information. I could tell you that I couldn't find her, and maybe your Information was wrong, couldn't I? Why are you being evasive? It ls up to you to prove whether I'm telling the truth or not. That's what we agreed to, right? You're no better than the criminals you say you hate so much. That plot you worked out to klll Lomunno was worthy of a criminal mind. Your friend Rlzzo certainly wouldn't have admired you for what you did. Brigadier Schiro - ask them to come in here. These two men admitted you'd found errors In the financial accounts of the institute, and that you had threatened to report them. That's how you arranged to have LiPuma released. We had not even the slightest Idea about what was behind it, nor what his intentions were! How can you believe what those two shits say? They steal from their patients food allowances, they're crooks, they admitted it. But they're not murderers! They volunteered Information, because they were afraid of being implicated. They volunteered because they had no other choice, after the attempt to kidnap the doctor's son. Didn't you know about that? Bring me this morning's report. You know, our maid ls nervous, she started screaming for help, because someone invited my little boy to see the circus. The poor man was so frightened, he ran off. Look how terrified he is. He's paralyzed, thinking about what they might do to him. Whatever he told you won't hold up in court, Traini. You can go. I'm going to start proceedings against you, Bonavia. As you wish... but you won't have enough evidence to arrest me. The Attorney General will decide that. Please, wait here for me. The Bedouin has been arrested again. What's he done now? He stole a pair of shoes, as usual. Good day. Let me see these... Ah, crepe soles! Beautiful! Put them on. Sit down and put them on. Go ahead. Call 221622, and tell them I'll be home late for dinner. Good, good - now, put the other one on. - How do they feel? - Good. Well, try them out then! Are they comfortable? How do you feel? Tired. Then disappear! Some kind of a trick, isn't it? Pietrucco, today I feel like the world has been turned upside down. Go on, get lost! Beat it but Bonavia Is a ranking police officer. Can't we avoid his incrimination somehow? I don't think so. He's obstructed the Investigation by hiding Serena LiPuma, the principal witness He's a fanatic! If there Is no alternative, then go ahead. But I find It unforgivable for an officer of the law... to do something like this for money. Well, I'm not surprised... they've also tried to bribe me! How do you mean? I was offered a penthouse apartment and a large loan... ...as a gift, so to speak. By whom? I don't know. And why? I don't know If they were trying to thank me for taking action against Bonavia... ...or if they were asking me not to continue investigating the others. What others? Serious facts have emerged concerning the city government. Look, Traini - you were assigned to look... ...into those three murders at Via Plebiscito. You see, Mr. Malta: the shooting, Lomunno, the speculation in the construction business, serious bribery of politicians and officials All this is interconnected. I'll have all the evidence soon. A dishonest clerk? Higher up. An official? The mayor! Prudence, Traini. It would be very easy to create a scandal that would involve the whole country, and undermine confidence in the Government. Justice, yes... but with a careful hand. I'll keep you informed. Go on digging: right to the bottom! You're formally suspended, Bonavia Here is the order. Here's my signed confession. I've pointed out that... Cammino tapped your phone under my specific orders. He acted in good faith. Schiro - salute! Hey, fortune teller! What's the horoscope say for today? - The omens are very satisfactory. - No bloodshed? No, everything looks peaceful, sir. Where Is Captain Bonavia? Where is Captain Bonavia? He just left! Get me Lommuno's office, right away. Is that Lomunno's office? This is police headquarters. Where is Mr. Lomunno? - Did he go out alone? - Yes, sir. They said Lomunno's not in his office. This ls District Attorney Traini Where's Lomunno? Mr. Lomunno is at lunch. What restaurant? 'Lungo Mare', I think. We need to get at least 10,000 votes for His Honour Grisi. And he will get them. The first man not doing his duty properly will be in big trouble, understand? And 5,000 in Campo Reale. How will we manage that? Is It a problem for you? Scare the women, that always does the trick. Ah, what a beautiful day! We're closed. Ferdinando. Ah, you again! - Look - It's the Captain. - Welcome the Captain. I'm having a party, Captain. I have news for you. Did you know they're going to arrest me? That mean you'll be keeping my two friends company - those two nice guys you've Just had thrown in prison. Ferdinando, do you remember the name of that trade union activist? What are you talking about? The one who spoke against you in the village. - Captain! Ah, Rizzo! What were you doing? I was standing over there. We had just eaten... ...and were relaxing... Captain Bonavia turned himself In at the city jail just now. Traini, Captain Bonavia just turned himself in at the city jail. Good evening, sir. Evening! No, no, wait a minute. If you'd trusted me, I would have got you out of this mess, with a light sentence. Many indictments in the political milieu of the city - What evidence do you have? - Forged documents, seized by the court. Arrest warrant issued for mayor I'm going to bring the Mayor, and the rest of them, to trial. Well, It won't work. There's a better way to do it. - And what's that? - Kill them all. You don't know what you're saying. I have never felt better in my life. I can breathe freely again. I feel liberated of 10 years of shame, and now I'm passing the ball to you. - I said all I need ls a trial. What witnesses do you have? - Serena LiPuma, for example. - Don't count on it. She'll testify for me, only because she knows that I didn't kill for money, like they're gonna try to prove that I did. - That's bullshit! What did you say? I said: that's bull shit! Enough nonsense, Bonavia. Your behaviour was shameful. Tell me where Serena LIPuma ls. I need her. When can I see Cammino? That's against the regulations, and you know it. Who is it? The District Attorney says he's returning your phone call. Hurry up! The District Attorney ls waiting to speak to you. No, lady - don't close the door. You see, we just wanted to, er... Why are you being like that, lady? No, I beg you! - Why are you frightened? - I'm expecting a baby. - I'm your friend! But I'm expecting a child. I beg you! Hang on... come here a second - No, no! What are you doing? Don't be afraid. Come, you have to cover up... My lawyer told me... he can get me out. But I said he should wait a little longer: I have something to do. We can keep you company in here. You killed a good man. You think you don't have to pay the price? Bonavia, the D.A. wants you. Come on, Bonavia. Serena LiPuma has disappeared. Oh, look, If that's a trick to try to find out her address... Her address is Contrata Sciulla Via Valeria. She herself called me, after she saw on TV that you'd been arrested. I talked to her myself. She gave me her address. But, when I got there the place was empty. We're searching everywhere for her. It's useless... she's already dead. You'll never find the body. Besides you, who else knew where she was hiding? Where were you when Serena telephoned? In Attorney General Malta's office. - Was he there? - Of course. Then what are you waiting for? Are you out of your mind? Why? The High Prosecutor! You're accusing the Attorney Genera!? I didn't say that. Then what do you mean? You were on the phone In Malta's presence. Shortly afterwards, the only witness disappears. - I won't allow you to insinuate... - I'm not insinuating! Malta could be completely innocent... ...but why not Investigate him, as you Investigated the Mayor and the others? Why them and not Malta? The people will lose confidence in the rule of law. If justice Is seen to be served, then they'll regain it. I understand, all right! Anyway, you won't do anything outside of the rules and regulations. I'll do it! No - you can't even accept the idea that... a highly-placed judicial figure could be involved in crime. I will do it- I have to do it. You'll need all the extenuating circumstances at your trial. - If I make It. - What do you mean by that? In prison, there are other laws, Mr. Traini. You must trust me: I will do my utmost. What is your cell like? - It's a single one. - How's the food? - Fantastic. You'll hear from me soon. Good day, sir. Good day, sir. Mr. Traini. - Well? - Good day. Did you speak to him? - Yes. We'll get him out... won't we? What are you doing? ls something wrong? No, nothin, it's just my stomach. - Excellency. Good day. - Good day. Good day. Good day. Now, Licuono: don't you worry about that problem. I'll take care of everything for you. Good day, Mr. Attorney General. Excuse me a moment. - Of course. - Of course. Is there something wrong?
