 

                        Church, let's bow our heads for a brief prayer for our recently departed Bishop Enoch. - He's in a better place now. - Pray for his lovely family. - Praise Jesus. - Amen! Amen! And Jesus spoke to them, saying, "He who eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood..." - Uh-huh. - "...shall have eternal life," and I shall raise you up in the last day. For my flesh is the drink indeed, - "and my blood is the drink indeed..." - Hallelujah! "...for whosoever eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood - "shall abide in me..." - Yes, yes, yes! - "...and I in him." - Yes! - Amen, church, amen! - Amen! Pick up your Bible. - Put down that .22. - Uh-huh! - Put down that .38. - Yes! Put down your .45. Oh, glory to God, lift up your Bible and put down that Uzi. - That's right. - Yes! - You don't need no AK-47. - No, you don't! You need Romans 8:21. Put down your nuclear arms! - Yes, thank you, yes. - Yes, God. Oh, glory to God, right now, right here. - Whoo! Oh, right here. - Uh-huh, uh-huh! - Hallelujah! - God loves you right now. He's giving you the power right now. - Say, "I accept it." - I accept it. But you got to say, "I accept You, Lord God." I accept You, Lord God. - Thank You. - Thank You. - For living in my life. - For living in my life. - Right here. - Right here. - Right now. - Right now. - I love You. - I love You. I love You. I love You. I would never turn my back on You. I would never turn my back on You. - Amen. - Amen. Bless the Lord Jesus. Dr. Greene, you know my associate, Mr. Hightower. - Such a pleasure to see you again. - Pleasure's mine. Would you like to see what we found? Magnificent. Absolutely magnificent. I think this may be one of the finest Ashanti relics to be discovered. X-rays reveal fragments of bone and skull. Notice the curious markings. A thousand years before the Egyptians performed surgeries, the Ashanti used anesthetics and developed mold cultures, diseases, and performed blood transfusions. Queen Helgda suffered from a blood disease. Ashanti's surgeons came up with the idea of transfusing blood from the strong and healthy to the queen. But she needed so much blood, her victims were bled to death. Soon, the entire population became addicted to blood. It was only a matter of years before an almost bloodless nation began to die of pernicious anemia. Queen Helgda raised armies and destroyed the nearby lands in a series of blood wars. Blood was desired. I suppose, if I believed in desire, it wouldn't frighten me so much. But the idea of desire is a part of our culture. I believe the Ashanti evolved a need for blood. Not a passion for it... it was a need. It's more of a perversion than that. Something one would feel guilty about needing. After all, blood has a dreadful connotation, like a passion for soiled underwear or urine. Desiring and drinking blood is a very antisocial act. Unless we happen to exist in a blood society. Ah, but we do exist in a blood society. The United States of America is the most violent country in the world. We're the best in the business. Dr. Greene, I've read all your books several times. You think I'm impressive? Yes. And you discover everything through your senses. You... love art. Art is God's ally. Science, God's natural foe, would you agree? Let me think about it. Dr. Greene? You have a wonderful home. How far does the property go? About 40 acres. - Do you mind if I get some air? - Not at all. I have some reading to do before I sleep. I'll see you in the morning, say 8:30? Good. Oh, have a good night's sleep, as I will. Hightower! Hightower! Hightower, is that you? - I've been drinking. - You haven't been drinking enough to jump from out of my tree. This isn't your tree. It is Almighty God's tree. God didn't buy this 40 acres, I did. Money don't mean shit to me. Especially since I never had any. Well, money doesn't matter that much to me, either. Don't look like it. Your mother ever tell you all that glitters ain't gold? No, but I do love that Spinners song. My favorite Spinners song is "Mighty Love." None of this has anything to do with you. Mr. Hightower, that's my tree and my rope. And I'm afraid that would give the authorities a right to invade my privacy with all sorts of embarrassing questions. I thought it'd be more considerate to use the Atlantic Ocean to end my life. I have a fear of water. Thank God your fear outweighs your manners. I tried to find a way not to involve you. The fact is I'm involved, Mr. Hightower. Now, there's no way for you to know this, but I'm the only colored on the block, so when a black man washes up ashore around here, you can bet they're gonna drag me in for questioning. Will you come down from my tree now? I'm begging you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Dr. Hess. I'm sorry, I hope you could forgive me. It's all right, just... please, come down. Be careful. - For the love of God, come down! - Okay! Aah! Oh... Fuck! I just spent six months in Bellevue. Working too hard, suffering with migraine headaches. I have wasted so many years in therapy. I'm totally dependent on the system. And when that fails me, I set out to find another system by which I can exist. I read blogs, self-help books, et cetera. Anything to find a way to cope with a society I despise. My ex-wife is a natural bitch. I don't even know why I married her. Are you more interested in the blood of Christ than in His body? I've lost all interest in the flesh. So much for what you've lost. What have you gained? Are you asking me what are my beliefs? Why did the Ashanti refer to it as "the beginning of death" rather than "the end of life"? I suppose they knew something we didn't. Is it terrible to drink blood? It's less of a sacrilege to drink blood than to spill it. I hope my mood swings do not affect my employment with you on this research project. I'm going to sleep now, Dr. Greene. Have a good night. Ugh! Grant, O Lord, that as we are baptized into the death of Thy blessed son, our Savior Jesus Christ, so by continually mortifying our corrupt affections, we may be buried with Him and that through the grave and gate of death, we may pass to our joyful resurrection, for His merits, who died and was buried and rose again for us the same, Thy Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. All right, Mr. Long. Don't move. I'll be right back. - Hey. - Hey! How was your date last night? It was really fine. - Fire! - Fire? - There's a fire in there! - Oh, my God! Afire! Hold on. - Don't panic. - All right, all right. Don't... That's more complicated, and that's more personal. I'm talking about using resources that we can evolve in. How are your drinks, ladies? - Just fine, Dr. Greene. - Oh, refreshing. - Where's yours? - Oh, I don't drink before 5:00. That's what they all say. Please help us to settle an argument. Ms. Blair here says that change is impossible because we're addicted to our society, especially the upper-middle class because they've taken the damn thing in such large doses, we're all junkies of one sort or another. What decides if one is a criminal or not is which side of the law your fix is on. Really? Ms. Blair, that makes us all guilty. On the contrary. That makes us all innocent. Well, if my social sins were to ever bring me before a judge, I would rather it were Ms. Blair. Where's the progress in discovering a crime and then excusing it? We might as well go back to swinging in trees. But Africa is the cradle of civilization. Touch. Dr. Greene, you have the most magnificent display of African art. When did you start collecting? Ms. Blair, Africa is my passion. Will you excuse me, ladies? - Of course. - Yes. - I like him. - I do, too. Bucky Dent! Bucky Dent! Bucky fucking Dent. Bucky fucking Dent. Bill Buckner! Bill Buckner! We have no response for that right now. Lord, oh, Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord I fell on my sword Thought more was in store Blinded by the loss Missed what was pure Sick can't be cured I just procured You're destined to forget Thoughts are material Couldn't forget Said I'm stronger... Would you like a drink, Dr. Greene? No, thank you. Sir, are you all right? Yes, I'm fine. Will you excuse me? Yes, sir. I can't help being honest Sometimes it gets me in trouble, but I believe That I'm in a better place When I let it out instead of harborin' I wear my heart on my sleeve, it's part of my garment Can't camouflage it, I keep a tea to try and calm it I'm down, I'm feeling hardened In spots, blood clots is alarming I'm broke, you know they want me to choke Come on, pull off, has gotta spit 'em, gotta get 'em out This what I been about I'm on that tiger blood, yeah, pure winning route I gotta war at times, not a Minnie Mouse I get it from my mama, outspoken and strong I'm fighting for rights, ain't afraid to be wrong I gotta keep on writin' my songs So get a mic and perform from the nights till the dawn That's how I do it, yeah... - Oh, Dr. Greene. - Is everything all right? Just fine, Dr. Greene. Ms. Blair is such a bore. She never stops talking poems. Oh, I see you're finally having a drink. - Have we all driven you mad? - Not at all. Not at all. Oh, good. What is that? Oh. I could've had a V8. No, no, no, no, it's not... V8. I don't like the texture. - What in heaven's name is it? - It's organic. Let me tell you something. Seneschal! Seneschal! Come take this terrible concoction and put some vodka and a little black pepper and a dash of lemon in it for the doctor. Right away, madam. There's no need for you to suffer for your health's sake today. Besides, I want to talk to you about your new book, which I liked. But I don't like what you're saying in it. If my educational background can't believe it, then you can imagine what the massive... - Thank you. - You're welcome. The vodka will help, you'll see. Right? Have we ruined it? It's just a little heavy on the vodka. Maybe it's the black pepper. Oh, God. Dr. Greene? Dr. Greene? Yankees! Yo! - Excuse me, sir? - Yes, Seneschal? - Will that be all, sir? - Yes. I'll be back on Monday morning. Is there anything you need in town, sir? You can pick up some candles. I think we've run out. Very good, sir. Excuse me for a minute, please. You know a sister named Delores Kincaid? You look just like this dude Tucson she went out with before she moved back to North Cackalacky. I saw him once at the Apollo with her. Hmm. You look just like Tucson. I had the strangest thing happen to me this morning. Nah, this afternoon. "Anyhoo," it really had me trippin'. Sit down. Please? May I have a "Kalula"? Black Russian, please. Yes, you may. Miss? What can I get for you? A Kahlua Black Russian for the lady. Do you have Absolut Citron? Yes, we do. - Neat, please. - Coming right up. Be right back. Here you go. - Thank you. - Thank you. Now, where were we? - I'm Lucky Mays. - Dick. You have a last name, Mr. Dick? - Yes. - And? Long. Mr. Dick Long. - At your service. - Are you serious? As cancer. Lucky, why don't you finish your Black Russian, and let's get out of here? How long is long? Champagne for my real friends, real pain for my sham friends. Cheers. Ah. And then? Looking at my coochie, it's about that time So much to do, so much on my mind... - So, are we gonna fuck? - Mr. Dick Long, ain't you one vulgar dude? Sorry if I offended you for being so blunt. I'm not offended, but I have never "likened" that word. Lucky Mays, you are one fine... - super sexy lady. - Boo, thanks for the compliment. But I still don't like that vulgar word, "fuck." Help me out with this dress, please. Lookin' at my coochie, it's about that time Lookin' at my coochie It's about that time... Why don't you go ahead and relax yourself? ...'Cause I will get mine Looking at my coochie, it's about that time So you best get yours 'cause I will get mine... You got any money? Now look who's being vulgar? Money ain't vulgar. Martha's Vineyard ain't cheap, and neither is this good pussy. No licky, no sticky, no ticky, no tacky. How much you need? I need 500 to start with. Now? Yep. You're so predictable, she says, "I miss you, too" Baby, come over, she says, "Not tonight" "Why's that?" "Last night, me and John had a fight" Looking at my coochie, it's about that time - Looking at my coochie... - Slow down. I'm not goin' anywhere. Ow! Stop, YOU play too rough! Ow! Stop! Ow! Ahh! Looking at my coochie, it's about that time Best to get yours 'cause I will get mine Now I'm an independent woman who ain't trying to wait Call up the one motherfucker... The only problem is that he has no soul And depending on the weather, it can be so cold But that don't bother me 'cause he's long and strong Moves like a cat and stays where he belongs I keep him in a box right beside my bed... Aah! ...he won't ask for head Shakes like I tell him Till it time to breathe In the box, when I'm finished I get dressed and leave Looking at my coochie, it's about that time Best to get yours 'cause I will get mine Looking at my coochie, it's about that time Best to get yours, 'cause I will get mine Like looking at my coochie, it's about that time So much to do, so much on my mind Baby, I'm stuck in 9:00 to 5:00 My girl wants a scrub, needs it all the time Just one of those days, and I'm so turned off Have to work in an hour, think I'll call John He's been talking shit for weeks, think I'll give him a chance My little girl's horny, and she's ready to dance Knock back some shots, now I'm feeling my peak ...he's ready to sleep Looking at my coochie... Best to get yours, 'cause I will get mine Like that, y'all, it's like that, y'all It's like that, that, that, that, y'all... I It's like that, y'all - It's like that, y'all... - Ugh! It's like that, that, that, that, y'all It's like that, y'all... It's like that, y'all It's like that, that, that, that, y'all It's like that, y'all It's like that, y'all It's like that, that, that, that, y'all It's like that, y'all. Motherfucker, you "killeded" me! Excuse me, Dr. Greene? May I offer you a beverage before we take off? No, thank you, Theresa. We'll be landing in Teterboro in just 45 minutes. Dr. Greene, if I may say so, you don't look that good. Summer colds are the worst. But it's not summer. Well, it's summer somewhere. Good afternoon, Dr. Greene. How are you today? Same to you, Mr. Clemente. Thank you, sir. Have a nice day. Good to have you back in the city, sir. Tea, sir? Thank you, Ellington. Will there be anything else, sir? That'll be all. Thank you. Release me From the catchin' of the vultures And let me breathe Right, right, right I'm disgusting, disgusting Addicted to a culture that merely bleeds Light, light, light Uncuff me, uncuff me Roll off this filthy gurney And let me feel, feel, feel If I'm barely breathing, no dunkin' Then how am I survivin' This dyin' dream of life, of life, of life - Sometimes, sometimes - I don't feel God I don't feel God, I don't feel God... - I hope everything's okay. - Sometimes, sometimes... Louie Jones? Louis? Louis Jones, Louie Jones? Are you Louie Jones, sir? - That's me. - Okay, are you sure? 'Cause you act like you don't even know your name. Ain't nobody got time for this, sir. Please, come on. Follow me. So who you hiding from? Okay, now open your mouth. Open wide. May I ask what your name is? Colquitt. Nurse Colquitt. Nurse Colquitt, how long will the results take? 20 minutes. Here's a pamphlet. I'll be back. Don't touch that test. You are... HIV/AIDS negative. Thank God. - Mmmmm. - Anything else? Practice safe sex. I will. Yeah, yeah. That's what they all say. Girl... Said the oceans would run dry... - Hello? - Hello. - Yes? - Is this Dr. Greene? - Who is this? - Is my husband there? I haven't the slightest idea who your husband is. Lafayette Hightower is my husband. Is he there? I need to speak to him now. Who is this? Where are you from? I'm from London, and this is Mrs. Hightower. Where's Lafayette? Lafayette can't come to the phone now. Don't be scared of the water... Hello? Tell Lafayette that I've had a very difficult six months. I want my money. And if he can't speak to me, he can speak to the police. I have a very serious lawyer, and he has advised me on what to do with Lafayette. Are you Dr. Greene? Your husband has disappeared. He's what? Is he staying with you? Yes. In the guesthouse. Listen, Dr. Greene, I'm gonna be honest with you. I've just arrived from Amsterdam, and I'm hungry, I'm tired, and I need a proper hot shower. I'm flying to the Dominican Republic next week, and I need to speak to Lafayette in person. Please, please, may I stay in the guest house and wait for him until I fly to the D.R.? Are you still there? Hello? - Where are you now? - I'm freezing my tits off in the bloody Martha's Vineyard Airport. Well, it's sunny on this side of the island. Oh, great. I'm sending a car for you now. The chauffeur's name is Seneschal. Thank you. ...but you tried to drown me Lord knows Lord knows that I can't swim No, no, no Girl, I feel you Try to drown me In water In flood I think you... did you try to drown me? Lord knows Lord knows that I can't swim... Madam. Girl, I feel you Try to drown me Lord knows That I can't swim I said, the ocean's all goin' dry... Hello, Mrs. Hightower. Can you tell Dr. Greene I've arrived? I'm Dr. Greene. Sh, apologies. Impeccable grounds. You must be doing all right. I get by- What's your first name? I beg your pardon? Now, don't tell me your mother named you Dr. Greene. It's very unfriendly. Hess. Ganja. Do you mind if I go straight to my room? I haven't changed since Amsterdam. It's the first room on the right at the top of the stairs. I can take you up. I can find it myself. Why don't you find me a glass of red wine? Please. And thanks for the hospitality. You are really too much. Red wine, sir? Thank you, Seneschal. Will that be all, sir? That'll be all. Nice home you have. You said that already. - Can I ask you a question? - Ask away. What would have happened if I wasn't here when you called? I don't believe in "ifs." if I had two balls and a dick, I'd be a bloke. Fuck "ifs." Sorry I asked. You asked me a question, I'm always gonna be honest, to a fault. I want the truth, good news or bad. I guess that makes you a better person than I. Between hurting someone with the truth and just being quiet, I tend to do the latter. Dr. Greene. The truth shall set you free. Minister Ganja, I only pray to God. So do I. Every night, on bended knee. I don't see you with Hightower. You should've been around before we met. How'd you meet? We were in a queue, boarding a plane to Saint-Tropez for a holiday, both alone. I was standing in front of him, and I could feel somebody burning a hole in the back of my head like a laser. It was intense. Finally, I turned around, and I said to Lafayette, - "May I help you?" - What did he say? He smiled. Lafayette has a great smile. He said, "I've been looking for you" for the last 2,000 years. "Where have you been all my unhappy life?" - And what did you say? - Please. His answer? "I've been looking for you for the last 2,000 years." What did you say? "Oh, fuck off." You're lying. Dr. Greene, I've already told you, I don't lie. We left Saint-Tropez engaged, and it's all been downhill since then. Fast-forward, I'm stuck in a funky hotel in Amsterdam, he was supposed to wire me money, which he didn't, so I had to call my parents, which I hate, to get my backside back to the States. When did you get divorced? Are you married? No. You have baby mamas with babies? Really? No baby mamas with babies. Gay? Why does everyone think a man my age who isn't married is homosexual? Don't answer that. Bisexual. - What's so funny? - You are. Care to partake? I have to confess. I've killed a human being. I hope one of them was Lafayette. As Christ died for our sins and was buried, so also is it to be believed that... He went down into hell. I, Dr. Hess Greene, confess to the destruction of the very souls before God Almighty. So help me, Jesus. You're just high. It's all right. Your husband committed suicide. What did you smoke and drink that I didn't? You said you wanted the truth. That's the truth. How come every rich man I meet is so fucked up? Why couldn't you be sane? Normal? Anything but bonkers? What was the sin whereby our first parents fell from the estate wherein they were created? You tell me. Was she eating the forbidden fruit? It doesn't matter the way that you take it It doesn't matter the way that you make it Love only matters, it's never the kind And if you think you can choose You won't find I Pity. A Pity. Oh, God, it's a pity They didn't know that their love was so pretty... They let me learn how to make my guitar sing... Hess? They made the music within, they kept going... Hess? Hess? Hess! Hess! Hess! Hess! Hess! - Hess, open the door! - Go away! - Are you all right? - I said, "Go away!" Come on, what's going on? What's wrong? What's happening to you? Come to bed. Children, more children, come on, help me sing it... Hess... Children, oh, children, come on, help me sing it... Oh, Hess... It doesn't matter the way that you take it It doesn't matter the way that you make it Love only matters, it's never unkind And if you think you can choose You won't find... Where did you get all your money? That's an impolite question. They're the only ones worth asking. My parents were the first African-Americans to own a firm on Wall Street. They sold it for a fortune, retired, passed on, and they left it to me. I'm sorry for your loss. Thank you. I'm the only child. So why do you live in this big house all on your lonesome? Your home is supposed to shield and shelter you. I fin it up. I love it. It's my sanctuary. A home like this, who wouldn't? No, I mean, I really love it. The way it might be possible to love you. Oh, come on, Dr. Greene. You're not the type who falls in love on the first date. You mean, like you and your husband did? Ex-husband. I keep forgetting. He's the only human being I've ever wished dead. That bad? I'm sorry. Don't be. Why did you get married? How do I know? You get married to get away from home, for love, because it's the thing to do... for money. Hightower never made any money. Ganja, what do you want now? Could be this. Hmm. My grandma used to tell me all the time, "You have not because you ask not." Hess! What do you want to eat? Whatever you cook best. I'll have to shop. Seneschal will take you to town. I have to go to New York for some business. - Dinner's at 9:00. - I won't be late. I'll miss you while I'm gone. Dr. Greene, did you say you're against marriage? That was not I. I love you. All right, I'm going, I'm going. That's what you think, stupid. I'm not stupid, you stupid. I'm gonna come down there, bust your stupid butt. I'll bust your stupid butt. - I'll do it Black Panther. - Yo, Mikey! Mikey! May I sit down? Even in the Fort Greene Projects, it's still a free country. Go ahead. Ready? Yes. Mmmmm. It's a cute baby. Thank you. I named her Najah. You think she looks like me? A little bit. A little bit. What's your name? Sahara. It's pretty... that much is sure. What are you doing around here? Looking for company. You chill here? Just getting some fresh air for Najah. Taking care of some business. What kind of business? Personal business. You ask mad questions, dang. Where's your apartment? Fourth floor. Third window from the left. Are you going to invite me up? Do you wanna party? Mom! All right, follow me. Seneschal! Seneschal! Be right there, madam. What is taking you so bloody long? They say, "You know you want to," but you really don't I know it seems like you're saying just what you need But I'm a King's kid, you see the best of me They say, "You're going to need it," but you really won't They say, "You know you want to"... Madam. I...but I'm a king's kid, you see the best of me They say, "You know you need it," but you really don't They say, "You know you want to" But you really don't I know it seems like they sayin' just what you need But I'm a king's kid, you see the best of me They say, "You know you need it," but you really don't I They say, "You know you want to" But you really don't I know it seems like they sayin'... It's a lovely day. It is, it is. ...people really think their life's the most important So they try to soak up all your time I step off my rocker, I don't want to stay this cold I'm on my way to heaven, I do hate the haters, though... Pardon me, madam. ...see, these are life lessons, we've already learned I'll teach you how to fish, but first you must hook the worm They always honkin' noise, they just too tired, yo I used to fight them with fire, but water's wetter, though People can follow them, or they can follow you 'Cause it ain't 'bout what they say, it's about what you do... Shit. I forgot red wine. Dr. Greene keeps a well-stocked wine cellar. Good. Where is it? Oh. I'm afraid, madam, you'll have to wait until the doctor returns from the city. He doesn't allow anybody into the wine cellar. - Only time I go... - Oh, for Christ's sakes. I need some red wine, Seneschal, so show me where it is, and I'll say I found it myself. Madam, I'm terribly sorry, but you'll have to wait until the doctor returns from the city. Okay, there are rules and procedures prescribed to... I do not care for rules and procedures. Clearly, madam. I... I don't like to raise my voice, but you must have red wine at this precise moment? They say you know you want to, but you really don't I know it seems like you're saying... - Yes. - Yes. The wine cellar is through the third door, down in the basement. It shouldn't be hard to find. ...but I'm a king's kid, you see the best in me They say, "You know you need it," but you really want it They say, "You know you want to," but you really don't I know it seem like they saying just what you need But I'm a king's kid, he see the best in me They say, "You know you need it," but you really want it They say, "You know you want to," but you really don't. Well, if you gonna dig a grave for me Might as well go on and dig two That's one for you, huh That one for you, yeah That one for you Well, if you gonna dig a grave for me Ya might as well go on and dig two That's one for you, huh, yeah That one for you Your plans of deceiving me won't never get through, huh Your plans of deceiving me won't never get through Your plans of deceiving me Won't never get through Never get through Never get through, uh-huh - Live it how you talk it... - Shit. ...really, I did had enough Never had time for no South suckers cutting 'em off Like unpaid power bills Slick this, and they never been grown Disappointed at their life, so you know Something they giving energy to - Honey child boo - Fuck! Hurdle the obstacles of life and truth Understand yourself, for that's something That they'll never do The average mind would think this a killing, too But if I ain't flipping this way, my message of elevation Would never get through Don't worry about the enemy and what he plottin' So you understand that you gonna have a judgment day And every knee gonna bow, and every tongue gonna confess Every thought that you think Leads you on a journey somewhere, so I pose the question Well, if you gonna dig a grave for me Might as well go on and dig two That's one for you, huh Your plans of deceiving me won't never get through Never get through Never get through, uh-uh. Najah? Hey. Bye-bye, Najah. That'll be all. More red wine, madam? Leave. You're not eating, my dear. I'm not very hungry. It's delicious. Seneschal cooked. - I couldn't get it together. - Are you all right? Just couldn't cook dinner. That's all. Fair enough. I know you killed my husband. Ex-husband. You have his dead body in a fucking freezer downstairs in the basement. Seneschal. Everything all right, sir? Leave the dishes. I'll call you in the morning when we'll be needing you. Very good, sir. Good evening, madam. Why did you kill him? Ever since the moment that I met you... I thank God you didn't love him. I wouldn't do anything to hurt you. You have to believe that. Why did you kill him? Ganja, he tried to kill me. I did not kill him. So, he killed himself and jumped in the freezer? Ganja, you're not listening. Your ex-husband committed suicide. That's the honest truth. I swear to God. I believe you. I'm surprised it didn't happen sooner. My three brothers used to gang up on me. Beat me up when I was little. I'm the youngest of four kids, so... I had a rough time growing up. One clay, I got into a huge fight with my youngest brother. We called him Baby Jesus. He'd been picking on me all day. And finally, I'd had enough. I was fed up. I started throwing hands. It was an all-out donnybrook. It was a proper brouhaha. And my brothers didn't stop it. They just kept cheering him on. And I was beating his skinny black backside. And then he punched me... straight in the stomach. My mother beat him to within an inch of his life. And she told him, "Don't you ever hit a woman again, especially in her stomach." Later that night, my dad came into my bedroom... to tuck me in. Check on me. He told me... "Baby Jesus was wrong." He loves you. We all love you. That this world is a cruel, harsh place, especially for a black woman. And you're going to have to learn to deal with the double whammy. You're gonna be a woman one day soon, and you were born black. "Ganja's got to learn to take care of Ganja." I said... "Daddy... it's not fair." And my father answered... "I know." Life's not fair. Life is as hard as steel. "Ganja has to take care of Ganja." I've been taking care of myself since I was seven years old. Why do you have his dead body in the freezer? Answer me, for fuck's sake! Do you know what your husband and I were working on? He never talked to me about his work. He was assisting me on my study of the ancient Ashanti culture. I've never heard of it. When I found his dead body, I took his blood. - Took it where? - I drank it. Where did you take it? I said... I drank it. - You're insane. - Ganja, no, I'm perfectly sane. - You're a freak! - I'm not a freak. Then what are you? I'm an addict. Addicted to blood. Yes, people have many addictions. Sex, drugs, alcohol, food, power, money, nicotine. And blood. - You're a vampire. - What I am is in love with you. One, two... Yeah. Wait, wait. On two. Ready? Come on. Stop. That's good. Dearly beloved, we are gathered here under the watchful eyes of our living God that we may join this man and this woman together in holy matrimony. Do you, Hess, take Ganja to be your lawfully wedded wife and in the eyes of God promise to love her, honor, and protect her in sickness and in health as long as you both shall live? I do. And do you, Ganja, take Hess to be your lawfully wedded husband and in the eyes of God, promise to love him, honor, and protect him in sickness and in health for as long as you both shall live? I do. The ring, get her ring. I now pronounce you man and wife. You may now kiss the bride. I want you to live forever. Contemplating Babylon I've been waiting far too long... Hess, I'm... I'm sick! Look, in time, it will go away. I had a terrible dream last night. What was it? I dreamt that you murdered me. It was just a nightmare. I'm hungry all the time. I'm thirsty all the time. Ganja, I'll tell you everything. And as insane as it sounds, you must believe me. There is something that you do From the first time I saw you It's the truth You're my desire Trying to stop Put out the fire I've come too far too late Come too far I've come too far too late I've come too far Too late I've come too far too late Too far too late Too far too late Oh, yeah... What have you done to me? ...too far too late I've come too far Too late... I We're both addicted to blood. We're both addicted to blood. It's not true. Do you believe me? No! Look at yourself. I've come too far too late... Come here. I've come too far too late I've come too far too late. I You have to eat. Can't eat. It only gets worse if you don't keep up your strength. I said, "I can't eat." Ganja, I'm doing this for the both of us. I want to sleep. You just sleep. We're gonna have a guest for drinks. Mrs. Greene? Mrs... Mrs. Greene? Everything all right, Mrs. Greene? Seneschal, I'm fine. Reality combustion When God leaves, niggas wanna burst in eruption I Thick thighs with a vibe of a Martian Walks in, ain't no Allah when you call him Blackness was the first thing Put a levee round my dick like a hurricane But the stains are lost in the soil of the earth Giving birth to pagan goddesses Nefertiti on that ol' e With east tar on some endo When my eyes closed, that's when the third flows Seizing the crown and ripping off the thorns We breaking bread, let me replace your cup Raise your spirits so you know what's up Putting blood on my tongue, make me savor it all What a cost for the love that you was giving up What we saw Enter the void of the black hole Yeah, all minds consumed When a man gets close to you for real Start engines, go Start engines, go. Ah, what lovely roses. Thank you. Shall I put my stuff here? Yes, you may. You haven't changed a thing. Still into all this African art. I know it's the motherland, but you overdo it. Love you some Africa. Yes, I do. Uh, this is my lovely bride Ganja. Ganja, Tangier. Tangier, Ganja. Hello. Tangier... like the city in Morocco? Yes, I was conceived there. A drink? Sure. Uh, allow me. Hess? No, thank you. How long have you known Hess? We grew up together during the summers here on the Vineyard. We used to date. Oh... is that so? True. What happened? The question is, what didn't happen? That was a long time ago. It was a long, long time ago. But over the years, we've maintained our friendship, so when I got the invitation for drinks, I knew I'd accept, especially since I wasn't invited to the wedding. It was a big oversight on my part. I apologize. Apology accepted. Do you approve of Mrs. Greene? She all right. No, she's very lovely. I'm happy for the both of you. So, Tangier... how do you feel about the possibility of eternal life? What, you found the magic elixir? If you were given the secret to eternal life, what would you do with it? I'd teach it to the children. - Why is that? - Because in today's world, our black children need to be indestructible. Sounds like something my husband would say. And on that note, if you ladies excuse me... Oh, no, Tangier, for God's sake. I just have some reading to do. I should go. Please. Stay. You're sure? - We're sure. - We're sure. No exchanging war stories about me. Thank you. Cheers. Are you going to sit down, or what? Why were you giving me so much attitude? You really want to know? That's why I asked, bitch. I'm a little bit jealous. Is that all? No. And? And I feel embarrassed. I make you feel embarrassed? Yes, but it's a good feeling. Would you like to dance? Where's the music? We don't need music. How long will you be on the island? About another two weeks, and then I'm gonna close my house up for the winter. Good. I'll have some womanly companionship. It's very quiet here. Why didn't it work out between you and Hess? We just moved in two different directions. - I know that feeling. - Mm. How did you guys meet? We met through a mutual friend. Just turned out I got along with Hess a lot better. Ah, it be's like that sometimes. What color are your eyes? Blue. - Lovely. - Thank you. My mom's black, and my dad's Irish. Black Irish, there you go. You have the most beautiful skin. Do people tell you that? No. Well, they should. Thank you. People just get stuck on the blue eyes like I am on your beautiful red lips. Thank you. May I take a shower? Baby I see you from across the room See you across the room You've got your eyes locked with mine Eyes locked with mine What you trying to do? Hey, what you trying to do when you see me like that? - I can't believe - I can't believe That you're dancing with her Tell me what's she's got on me Got on me a' Not a doggone thing It's no mystery, no Take this chance with me tonight Wanna feel that groove, yeah I wanna feel that groove, yeah Can't let you pass I just wanna dance with you all night All night Take this chance with me tonight Wanna feel that groove, yeah - Feel that groove - Can't let you pass - Wanna dance with you - Oh, no, no, no Just wanna dance with you all night - I Wanna dance with you - Such a lady Tell me when you run the world I know that you're on me You're on me What took you so long? - Just push it along - Just push it along Reach for my hand And you pull me real close Pull me real close We'll sway to the rhythm And feel the beat in our souls Our souls - Take this chance with me tonight - Chance with me - I wanna feel that groove, yeah - I wanna feel that groove, yeah - Can't let you pass - Oh, no, no, no - I just wanna dance with you - Just wanna dance with you - All night - I wanna dance with you Take this chance with me tonight Take a chance with me - I wanna feel that groove, yeah - I wanna feel that groove - Can't let you pass - Oh, no, no, no - Just wanna dance with you - Just wanna dance with you - J' All night J' - J' All night Can't let you pass - I wanna dance - Oh, no, no, no I wanna dance, wanna dance with you - All night - All night... Right there. Ugh! Right there. - Choke me. - ...show me how you do it Take this chance with me tonight Chance with me... Choke me. Choke me! ...I want to feel that groove, yeah Can't let you pass... Harder. Just wanna dance with you - J' All night J' - J' All night Take this chance with me tonight - Take a chance with me - Wanna feel that groove I want to feel that groove... ...take this chance with me tonight I want to feel that groove, yeah Feel that groove Can't let you pass - Wanna dance with you - Oh, no, no, no Just wanna dance with you All night - Wanna dance with you - Such a lady Tell me when you run the world... ...I know that you're on me - You're on me - What took you so long? - Just push it along - Just push it along Reach for my hand - Then you pull me real close - Pull me real close We'll sway to the rhythm And feel the beat in our souls Our souls Take this chance with me tonight. Ah! Stop! She's breathing! She's alive, don't! We're not alive. What? Hold her legs. Why am I always so cold? It's a symptom. Are you always cold? Yes. What have you done about it? I've gotten used to it. What are you reading? It's a guide to our destruction. Destruction? It pretends to be our salvation. Ganja, do you wish to die? Hess, do you still love me? I've tasted the blood of your wound. I'll sleep in your lap forever. The shadow of the cross against our hearts will destroy us. The cross is only an implement of torture. Each shadow is the darkness it casts. We're evil. I know, my dear. We've taken lives. We're giving life. What we've taken is God's eventual gift of death. Hess, you don't look well. I'm very tired. I'm tired of this existence. I killed Tangier. Najah, I didn't mean it. - May God have mercy on my soul. - One, two... - You gotta learn... - Amen! - To let it go... - Amen! You got to know when it's all over - Over, yeah... - Come on, now! - You gotta learn... - Amen! To let it go You got to know when it's all over - Over... I - One more time! - You gotta learn - You got to learn - To let it go - Let it go You got to know - When it's all over - When it's all over - Over - Hey, hey - You gotta learn - You've got to learn To let it go - Let it go - You got to know - When it's all over - It's all over - Over - Yeah - You got to learn - Well, well - To let it go - Well, well, well - You've got to know - When it's all over I - Over, yeah - Come on I - You got to learn - You got to learn - To let it go - To let it go You got to know when it's all over Over - You got to learn - Ooh, you got to learn - To let it go - You've got to know - Oh - When it's all over Yeah Ooh Ooh, yeah - When it's all over - All over - Yeah - Ooh Yeah, yeah When it's all over Over, yeah Yeah - Yeah, yeah I - Yeah, yeah, yeah When it's all over... Hey! - You got to learn - To learn To let it go You gotta know when it's all over Over - You got to learn - You've got to learn - To let it go - To let it go You've got to know when it's all over Over - You gotta learn - To let it go - To let it go, let it go - You've got to know I - When it's all over, over - Ooh, ooh - You've got to learn... - Praise the Lord! To let it go... - Praise the Lord! - Let it go You've got to know when it's all over Well, well, well, well, well, well, well - You've got to learn - You've got to learn - To let it go - Let it go You got to know when it's all over Over, yeah - You got to learn - You got to learn - To let it go - To let it go - You've got to learn - When it's all over I - It's all over - Sing it now - You've got to learn - Sing it now - To let it go - Got to let it go - You've got to know - Oh - When it's all over - When, when, when, when When it's all over - You've got to know - I Yeah, yeah, yeah - To let it go - Let it go - You've got to know - When it's all over I Over - Over, over, over, over - Over, over, over, over Over, yeah - You've got to learn - You've got to learn - Oh! - To let it go - You've got to know - Ooh I When it's all over, over You've got to learn - Ooh - To let it go You've got to know when it's all over Over You've got to learn To let it go You've got to know when it's all over Over - You gotta know - You've got to learn - 'Cause you gotta learn - You've got to know - When it's all over - You've got to know When it's all over, over - You gotta learn - You've got to learn - You gotta know - To let it go - When it's all over - You've got to know - When it's all over, over - Hey, hey, hey, hey You've got to learn - Oh - To let it go You gotta learn, yeah, yeah You got to know when it's all over Over Whoo You got to learn To let it go You've got to know when it's all over Over You got to learn To let it go... - He paid your debt! - You got to know When it's all over - Over I - Over, yeah... Whoo! Oh, thank you, Jesus. - To let it go... - Hey! - Whoo - You've got to know When it's all over, over You've got to learn Oh, you've got to know Hey... Yeah! - You've got to know - You've got to learn - To let it go - To let it go You've got to know when it's all over Over - You've got to learn - To let it go You've got to know when it's all over Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah You got to learn To let it go You got to know when it's all over Over, yeah You've got to learn To let it go - You've got to know - You've got to know You've got to know Yeah When it's all over. Whoo! Whoo! Hallelujah! Hallelujah, glory to God. A Lil' Piece of Heaven back in church. Give God some love right now! May I help you, madam? Sorry to wake you. I was just looking for the yogurt. Allow me. Thank you. Seneschal, I'm sorry for the way I've been treating you. Must be in here somewhere. Oh, here it is. Right here in the back. Oh! Oh! Oh! Hess? Hess? Drink. I killed Seneschal. We both did. I'm dying. I'm dying. Mm-mm. Ganja. Move into the shadow of the cross of Jesus with me. Does it hurt? No. I feel at peace. Move into the shadow of the cross and warm yourself. I'm frightened. Why? I'm here with you. I can't. Please stay with me. Please stay with me forever. Ganja. Hess, I'm afraid to die. I don't want to die alone. I love you. I love you forever and a day. I saw a light illuminating Lighting the road ahead of me I saw a light Shining for me But I did not know it as real As we may dream A dream we all share Together we'll find our way As we may dream Our dream is our prayer Forever He'll light our way I saw a light illuminating Lighting the road ahead of me I saw a light Shining from Thee And now I know it as me As we may dream A dream we all share Together we'll find our way As we may dream Our dream is our prayer Forever He'll light our way As we may dream A dream we all share Together we'll find our way As we may dream Our dream is our prayer Forever He'll light our way.
