 

                        This is not the beginning of this story Neither am l sitting here to enjoy the sea breeze This is actually the climax A FEW MONTHS BACK l am Sunny Jos Prakash A youngster sticking out as an RJ and VJ in this city of Kochi My love you are my sugar My love you are my sugar l met you first in a tea shop Having fried banana fritters My love My love you are my sweet darling My love you are my sweet darling l also saw you in a Bakery Having a milk sweet so tasty This number of yours is simply wonderful Hey! Keep this! Have this, its Kozhikode sweet Accept it my dear pearl Next time you come, l will give you chicken Biriyani Gligesh? Start the vehicle See you again Basheer, when he's playing that veena nothing else remains within sight Everything else melts into oblivion Only his face and that veena is clear This instrument is not the 'veena' lt's a guitar What does it matter? lt's the beauty of him playing it Sir, l am Glikesh l like your 'sugar' song very much My wife and kids too love it Honestly! - Buddy, can you stop a minute - Sure Yes da! - Da fatty! - Tell me da? l am in a mess! That Haji is in love with me - Are you playing games, useless? - What else? Look l'm serious dude Okay, l'll call you back - Shall we go? - Oh, sure! Don't laugh bro-in-law lt's a Muslim not Anushka who's after me Tell us the truth, did he do anything? Do you know who he is? He is a Don! lf l don't go every time he calls me He'll just kill me nicely Do you know what he calls me? Pearl! That's because you go around wearing a low waist Dude! Don't try to undress when getting a haircut!!! There's only one person who can help you Who is that? The Haji himself We'll go talk to him Shall we go? Where did you say was his place? Kundannur l stood scared at that prawn factory... ...waiting for Fatty to return after handling Haji But there was a twist in the story Did you think all Muslims of Kozhikode indulged in 'other' activities? No...no! Are you what they call new generation? Not me! Your thoughts are all in the wrong direction - Just a doubt - A big kick... My dear clever Sunny boy l liked your music not your 'instrument' After Thajudin of Badakara and Kollam Shafi... ...lt's you, Sunny Jos Prakash Let them go brother After all our kids That, l will do, but l don't intend letting you go Because l liked your Ney-chor (ghee rice) l just loved it lt's nature...nature Whatever you say l don't use it these days Okay now get going Like a big bundle of cotton, so comfy! - Thanks bro-in-law - What? - Thanks dude - What? My love...you are my sweet candy l have to be honest buddy Everyone must have at least one friend like him This is actually his story This fatty's This is not the 1st time he's rescuing me lt all started ages ago God named man Adam and woman Eve He created a garden in Eden for Adam and Eve The lovely flowers... This is me, quite stressed out in this flash back A time when the most important incident of my life was about to happen Ninu Thomas, roll #16, Looked like actress Amala, smelt of lilies A budding guitarist Compared to my Paradise - What was it? - Paradise And above all the only girl who comes for morning mass after a shower Sunny Joseph Prakash had fallen in love for the 1st time in history Ninu Thomas? l love you l'll show you! l will tell this to daddy Now l was in a real mess Because, her 'daddy' was my teacher Thomas sir And that devil grew a nail in his finger just to pinch the students l was trapped l was forced to call my cousin Lucas John Prakash Look, Lucas John l must tell daddy about this When friends stray from right path others like a good shepherd... ...must bring them back, right? l will tell this to my daddy Dingan? ls it the sticker kind? Okay, never repeat this Using 4 dingan sticker labels fatty bribed and rescued me Even though he was my uncle's son and 2 years older l have never addressed him older brother But that day l did! You! You are the perfect older brother! Hey stop pawing me, stop don't run Sunny wait da! We belonged to a political family Our grandfather Prakash Palakkal was the 1st Mayor of Kochi He began a political party Prakash Congress with the petromax lamp as symbol After grandpa's death, his sons took over the helm of affairs Let brightness spread Fatty's dad John Prakash and my dad Jos Prakash The members of Prakash congress had some special traits A mustache that looked like a thatched roof over the lip Starched and ironed khadi clothes A black diary in the pocket and a small pen Upper Primary School hair style And their most enticing weapon A perfume which smelt of currency notes Although they walk elegantly in slow motion Both never succeeded in becoming mayor of Kochi They married sisters from Kottayam Rosymol and Marymol ROSY/MARY MOL Quite naturally Fatty and l were born Lucas's growing obesity was a topic of discussion at home and town - He got his pet name in school - Hey Fatty! Get lost you...! Come Do you know what the latest trend is? - What is it brother? - Comedy Slip out of tricky situations being comic Did you note the item our chief minister uses? That's also true Lucas's obesity was a matter of shame for our dads Lucas, go wear a shirt Others found good use for it Please allow fatty to become Santa Claus... ...at our residents association Christmas celebrations This is a religious activity And its an art too, right? Like Kamal Hassan... After that every year Lucas became Santa Claus Watching Lucas grow bigger his uncle came to a decision Jos, he is getting to be too big for this place lf nothing is done, we'll turn paupers feeding him That's also true This is for all of you to follow Hereafter he shall be given only 2 meals a day And that too only half his usual quantity lf my little Lucas comes and asks me food l will simply give it, you can get lost! Go ahead Lucas, have your fill That's also true There were no more discussions about his eating habits after that Because at Prakash Bhavan grandma's word was final As soon as her daughters-in-law arrived... ...grandma slept during day and took up night job Embroiders and cooks fantastic dishes for fatty So we named her the knight rider The name gives you a shiver right!? She was a diehard fan of actor Rajinikanth lf ever l see you here again l will bury you right where l saw you She may look a bit rough and tough but inside she was a darling Knight rider understood Lucas like no one else So he shared with grandma almost all his sorrows and joys Thus Fatty grew big and fat in the shade knight rider provided ln school he had a girlfriend Only one Ann Mary Thadikkaran, a fat little girl Knight rider who never feared snakes and dogs was instilled... ...with fear of death and forced to take an LlC policy by Joshua and Rani The LlC agent Thadikkaran couple whose only daughter was Ann Pay only 600 for 3 months You will get a life time of peace And not to mention its advantages after death Here l saw him sharing his food for the first time that day l knew immediately he was in love One day he rolled her into the world of shot putt Only he could push her on the swing Lucas you won't tell anyone, will you? No l promise - Upon God? - God promise He saved the honor of boys By not telling anyone Sunny, Ann Mary wears a panty with mickey mouse prints Did you see? - When? - When she was on the swing You rogue fatty But Ann Lucas love story did not last long Rani's dad won a Bumper prize lottery of 50 lakhs Without any delay they went and settled there Ann Mary also Fatty was shattered and broken up into bits The first depression in his life That day the background score was given... ...by none other than the one and only A R Rahman Just one look and l lost myself How could l stay away from you? When one eye lights up with love Won't the other one will brighten up too? Like a river flows through the rocks l came to see my beloved's face Luka's depression ended in 1998 during the Sharjah cup Sachin's century The famous sandstorm innings With that fatty turned full on As we grew everyone both at home and among friends forgot his original name His name was no longer Lucas ls fatty at home? - No dear, fatty has gone out - Okay And thus we grew He grew a little more And a little more Let the brightness spread Do you know what the latest trend is? - What is it brother? - lts music We did not gain in last elections Because we lacked inspiring songs But in coming elections Music will be our weapon of attraction That's true Others have songs of revolution we don't have even a bit of light music Correct There's no point in religious songs The youth are not interested, they have to run and come to join the party One minute Let brightness spread Gone? That plot at Vallarpadam is also lost Goodness, that also? We were talking about music The youth have to be injected with music Their brains have to explode with brightness Let brightness spread! What's your program? Nothing! Just chill after food, and go out for a while Not that, your future plan Oh that! Radio and Video jockeying What about you, Lucas l am thinking of doing a new course Go ahead think, keep thinking You don't go beyond this...isn't it? - Don't you have your band? - Yes we do We want a song for our party Let it be your style We can, but we need cash, it's expensive We'll arrange for it Not possible, we need cash That's what it meant We'll give you cash So we made a song Hearing which, people would jump to join the Party Let brightness spread You have to become another Maveli, the king Prosperity to the land you have to bring Compete in the fray blow the victory trumpet Swallow your enemies keep them at bay Meanwhile Prakash brothers under took a hunger strike... ...demanding to install a statue of grand pa lf you don't respect your own dad what reforms can you bring here This protest is a demand, going on for a year and mustn't be ignored Don't think Prakash congress will be satisfied... ...unless a bronze statue is installed! Let brightness spread But current leader of BDF, Kodhad Dasan had contempt for our entire family KODHAD DASAN Come reign as king of this empire before thick skinned and shameless ruin it This land begs you to be their sovereign head Be quick and take over before corrupt ones do Stop it da! What's this? You call this song youthful? Where is the 'kick' in this song? Jos play ours, let them listen to that song The friend came searching with a dream in his eyes Fire in the mind! Fire in the mind! See?! This will reach them You splurged Rs 25000, this cost us only 500 We didn't live in that house a minute after partition lt's the Koch metro Must take a trip in the 1st train Ann got a job here too Here come the idiots ls that Lucas? Just a blown up version now Thadikkaran uncle and Thadikkaran aunt Yes, Ann Mary Thadikkaran returns She has become too thin No mother, she's reduced her weight Lucas, why so quiet? This Lucas once ate up a whole lot of mangoes from our fridge - What were they? - Yes, Banganpalli variety He ate that and shat all over his trousers l feel like laughing thinking of it No aunty, this will ruin my diet plan Just a little bit won't hurt l used to say the same But her will power is amazing Good my dear Will power shows character Thank you uncle When will Lucas become advocate Lucas? He has discontinued LLB half way We see Sunny often on TV PJ, famous PJ lts VJ aunty, video jockey Oh, dedication! Will you sing us that song? - What rate are you paid per episode? - lt depends uncle l asked how much cash you'll get He's hesitating to tell when it comes to money What about your corporation election this time? - Will you fall flat this time also? - Please pass me the water We will surely spread brightness this time lts okay - We have done enough spade work - Good if you will win Thank you enough Lucas, our secret is safe isn't it? Mickey mouse Yes My love you are my sugar My love you are my sugar Who is it? As usual next day he was startled into waking up with his own snores My dear buddy, this is no ordinary gift lt conveys a message What message? She's just given it out of affection, that's all Da fatty, you have to slim down like she did That is the situation And it's a little dangerous Sunny don't complicate matters Lucas, isn't she your childhood friend? She likes you and knows you like 'Superman' So she gave you this gift Fatty, why don't you call Ann Mary here, we'll ask her? Lucas was the only one who could push my swing those days He's my Superman l understood he was beginning to dream A life of dreams is never ending My dearest Fatty! Far over horizons of aspirations You appear, a necklace glittering in sunlight The sight of you and tender reeds Begin to hum a melody all on their own As you walk across graceful and shy A hundred flowers bloom within me Oh Lord, this angel is my blessed offering to you Never before on this earth Will you find a smile better than yours Like petals swathed in misty swirls Caressing the night in tender strokes With soft beautiful white feathers You caress me with love and adoration Oh Lord, this angel is my blessed offering to you Never before on this earth Will you find a smile better than yours Far over horizons of aspirations You appear, a necklace glittering in sunlight As the soft sunlight of morning shines over rivers flowing along in soft ripples Like a soft tender kiss filled with love caressingly over my soul you flowed Oh Lord, this angel is my blessed offering to you Never before on this earth Will you find a smile better than yours Far over horizons of aspirations You appear, a necklace glittering in sunlight The sight of you and tender reeds Begin to hum a melody all on their own As you walk across gracefully and shy A hundred flowers bloom within me Oh Lord, this angel is my blessed offering to you Never before on this earth Will you find a smile better than yours Oh my goodness l just calculated the calorie count of the food you ate Almost double You don't need this much - So what? - What 'so what'? You are eating double of what you need And that too this kind, no need to say about the cholesterol This is lovingly fried in pure coconut oil and ghee No question of cholesterol Each person must eat what they require This is more than necessary Luke how much do you weigh now?. Around 120 kilos Oh God! 120 kilos! lt is not as per your height, you are definitely eating more My dear if you calculate such things lt's meaningless, nobody is perfect That's not correct grand ma This flab is not healthy but more indicative of lack of health Kareena Kapoor She's so hot An inspiration She's good Do you know, she became size zero and her life changed completely And so did mine Didn't l say my life changed? l have more friends on face book, twitter People had a kind of sympathy A fake sympathy Which l used to hate the most Now its not that l was born again Do you know something? lf you reduce, it's a light feeling As if we were floating Don't you want to feel it relieving all this burden? Do you know something? Fat people are not sexy Yeah Hey fatty! lts okay, once l too was like you Now also we could be, you just make up your mind Come - Finally! - Thank you Lucas What do girls generally think about fat boys? What do you mean? What do you think of me? You are cute like a teddy bear Am l sexy? No, l am not You carry on Thanks Lucas What's this? This is Vaidyar clinic's quick slim program My flab is a problem l do go to the gym and swimming Just control of food intake won't help you reduce Why suffer like this? All unnecessary They have a rare concoction called Karshamrithavatakam Just stay there for 25 days and take it Some diet plans will also be there That's all, 100% natural Do l really need it? Listen there are plenty who have tried this Trust me on that You'll come back a new person lts expensive but worth it But Ann... That day he took a very vital decision He decided to join the Vaidyar clinic and get rid of his flab That's when Rahul Vaidyar came into his life Like this WlLL CONTlNUE...llNTERVAL Come Welcome sir ji Welcome madam ji - Welcome to Vaidyar's clinic - Thank you - Welcome - Thank you Myself, Shantanu Balamurali floor manager Welcoming you once again to Karshamrithavatakam quick slim program Please come sir Don't worry sirji That's only a formality l will tell you the important rules Next 600 hours, that is for 25 days you can't go out of clinic premises lf you stop the course your money will not be returned We charge only for treatment Food is absolutely free Congrats sir ji That's a life changing signature l will bring you the quick slim kit Shall l leave? l know you can do it Remember when you used to share your lunch? Do the same kind of sacrifice l'll wait for you come back soon See you You look very calm sir Perfect fit - ls it? - Definitely Rahul ji is addressing the new batch in the yoga hall After that you will have a yoga session too - ls he Sonia ji's...? - No Lucas ji Don't you know Rahul ji? Brahma Shri Padmanabha Vaidyar His youngest son People believe he is the incarnation of sage Agastya Now he's at Hrishikesh in meditation - This is...? - He...? Yes Lucas ji Adiyaman Swami ji, He's a big fan of our treatment - So Rahul ji is married eh? - No these are children of the orphanage Here's a mace Please don't touch it! From South Africa For whitening the skin of Olongo princess The royal family's gift The Olango mace Come Lucas ji Greetings My grandfather Brahmarishi Padmanabha Vaidyar... ...after a lifetime of medical penance formulated the Karshamrithavatakam A divine medicinal concoction To make people fat free without baldness, fair tall handsome... ...is the divine vision of this great soul l am only a humble servant to make it come true Come let us be born again through Ayurveda Please be seated Your dinner is ready Have Karshamrithavatakam along with your dinner Eat the 2 grapes on your plate one by one chew it and... ...for 4 minutes and savour it as you eat That is your dinner for today - Sachin - Lucas Time to sleep Lights will be switched off now What the heck?! - They switched off the lights - Oh l see - Where are you from? - Kochi l am from Thodupuzha - What was that noise? - l sat down Who sent you here? - l... - Understood! A girl, right? Me too, my wife sent me here - What was that? - l tried to sit Rahulji finally we have landed on a tagline Simple but effective 'The fat will be wiped off' Karshamrithavatakam, how's it? We must be able to hurt the self esteem of fat fellows Only then they will join the course Fattys to be obliterated How is that? Awesome Our printed campaign is ready Please have a look, Reethu? ls your husband obese? Not bad We must emphasize fat men have poor sex life Good work We have 2 more slides Fat makes you lonely Next Your fat daughter puts you to shame We have to make fellows around fat people also insecure Rahulji, what about our TV commercial? Oh yes, yes Raviji, we must not have a cosmetic look like they do in usual TV ads lt must look more like a public awareness program People should believe them like they trust their mothers words Raviji A Parle-G - Thank you ji - Welcome ji l got a call from home Good steamed pancake with egg roast Aren't we are here to reduce? Control! Don't waver My backbone is sticking together with hunger!!! Please shift your settings to 84 l don't like it here one little bit! Hey! What a sight l'll die laughing - What's new?. - Oh serious, eh? Bro, this is not for you Come out of this jokers dress Get your bag, come, let's go home We'll celebrate Christmas No, l'm not coming Are you going to spend Christmas here? Everyone is waiting for you Who will be the Christmas Santa? l took it up this month to avoid all the food and snacks of Christmas Let this be a Christmas without Santa Time for your yoga Time for my yoga What will l tell knight rider? What will l tell Ann Mary? Get up from your 'Shavasana' position Lucas ji? Lucas? Silence Yesterday 2 grapes Today a gooseberry lf l had to starve and reduce l can as well have done it at home l want to know how many will complete this course! lf everyone discontinues who benefits? What about will power? lf one doesn't eat we'll wither away Can you sleep on empty stomach? Look good steamed rice dish A good side dish with cowpeas Powder the fried papad like this...!!! Can you just imagine! Yesterday 2 people have, against rules gone out to eat food lt has come to the notice of the management We have identified them also Get up and apologize by yourselves There were a couple like this also, eh? This course is a combined effort A drop of curd will curdle a pot of milk The desire to jump the walls was not hunger but craving lt's a mental weakness Are you saying we are mad? Vaidyars clinic is not your enemy... ...but saviours to rescue you from the tag of obesity lf you can abide by rules, stay Or you can continue as a burden to the earth Sachin are you leaving? They take money from us and to top it torture us, eh? - From where did that laptop come? - Belongs to that receptionist Lifted it eh? Anyway l have lost my money Why don't you take that mace which you liked? l called and told my wife that l couldn't bear this anymore She said to just come away Get a girl who likes you as you are - lt is time for your herbal brew - Be quiet you useless woman!!! Lucas, why are you suffering like this? What about Rahul Vaidyar? He can go climb the wall!!! Hello? Hello, who is it? Lucas? l have arrived bro! - ls it okay? - Superb! Merry Christmas Ann! Lucas? - What are you doing here? - l came away Ann What about your course? l couldn't starve any more l just couldn't bear it there Merry Christmas Ann Have you decided to remain fat? Their methods are very unhealthy Lucas, are you talking about health? Have you seen yourself in the mirror? Didn't you say l was superman, super hero...? What do physical appearances matter? We love each other isn't it? That's what is important isn't it? Excuse me! What?! We love each other? Just because we go out together doesn't mean we love each other That's cheap middle class mentality Ann! Any problem? Lucas, please leave now We'll talk later Lucas, why are you here? Why is this guy here? Lucas discontinued the course Ann, why is he here? Come l'll explain Rahul You go inside l'll manage this l came here to have Christmas dinner Ann Mary Thadikkaran is Vaidyar's clinic marketing head My employee She's not in love with you You are just the 2nd or 3rd person she persuaded this month to join Ann! That's my Tibetan punch Don't show the same craving you have for food, towards Ann Ann Mary is my girl Stay away from her Hey fatty, do you know who you are? Just a machine that makes shit When you get your breath back Just get up and go That night he decided He'll never be Christmas Santa again Lucas thought the whole world had turned against him ls your main activity to act in movies or to reduce weight? The 7 sighs of a spring season that was lost Hello, is this Lucas John Prakash? Calling from the public library lt's time you returned the book titled 'Childhood sweetheart' The last day is due and after that you will have to pay a penalty fee okay? l tried to bring him back to normalcy, my own way Why are you sitting like this? Mooning over just because a girl ditched you? lsn't this your first love? You have to learn from this You can't go around behaving like a girl who has lost her virginity Frankly, l knew it the 1st time l saw her But l allowed you to go your way without meddling Bro-in-law, let her go ln this ocean there are many other fish...ah!!! l have told you 100 times not to paw me You are mad! Sure l am, that's why l went after a girl who was only canvassing her business l was only a number to reach her monthly target She made a fool of me! A loser! l am a big loser! Lucas? When your grandpa died He did not fit into the usual coffin A big box had to be specially made People of Kochi often said that within that huge body was a large heart You have the same large heartedness You are not a good for nothing idiot! The Lord made you large so that you could achieve great deeds Pray to grandpa Tickets? Brother tickets l have already bought one for you Grandpa! Both of us don't fit in here, right Being fat is a disadvantage grand pa lt is not my dear boy People identify me with being fat l formed my own party, became a mayor lf being fat was the issue will any of this happen? Take your super heroes for example - Superman...and who was that like a spider? - Spiderman Yes, whoever they were they had one thing in common To be happy when others were happy You have that nature So who are you...? A super hero Sometimes a lifetime is not enough to complete your mission in this world That is why generations are created lt's time now Lucas l am born again as you Grandpa, you've sprouted wings!!! That day, knight rider made a small announcement at dinner This time Lucas will contest the elections for post of mayor What about brother Johnny? He does not know the ABCD of politics Not having won that post till today... ...hereafter you must ask my permission to utter the word politics! That's also true This is our party perfume, smells of currency You spray, this you'll get special treatment We don't need this anymore dad lf you want, we can do without it We hear John's son is candidate for Prakash party John's son? That fat boy ls my stomach showing? Let the new generation come up Comrade? Chin up Chin up a little more Enough! Come here Beg borrow or steal, By evening 200 flags should go up Hey bottom! Come here Comrade What did you call me? Comrade eh? Call me sir...sir... We have some new candidates for election We have some new candidates for election l have made a list, l'll read it out Rajesh K R, Glikesh Mohammed Christy Daniel, Raghavan master Bineesh D K, Rakhi A, Clinton P J Let brightness spread Give it to him Ask 5 intelligent fellows to speak okay? Hey John! When they said your son was fat l didn't expect this... he's a big white pig! Hey fatty! Listen to this uncle's advice Buy a burger, go home, sit and play video games You don't know anything about politics You are just a baby...!!! - Hey Das! - No, don't What? What is it? What the heck!!! Like being trapped within clouds!! Are these 'Megharoopan'(a cloud figure) Das was bowled over by 'Megharoopan hugs'! Fatty rose to fame through Das, his enemy You have to become another Maveli( Mythological King) Prosperity you have to bring to this land He first created a sense of curiosity among people Wherever he went people crowded around him This land begs you to be their sovereign head But be quick and take over before corrupt ones do l ask you...who was this Prakash in this land? He was the one who sold petromax lamps to the frog hunters and thereby... ...he was the who was responsible ln promoting the population of mosquitoes But fatty did not deride anyone Neither did he show any vengefulness He had his own way of speaking On my way to school, l've seen mothers waiting with pots to get drinking water l too lost a good friend to dengue fever l don't know politics But l do know Kochi There were also people to support him... ...because he was grandpa Prakash's grandson - He is our Prakash's grandson - No wonder! That's why so familiar Did you see his shoulder width? lmpossible to shut the eyes tight be quiet and pretend everything was right! Will he hug me now?. Get lost you fatty! Jos, no! Let's go Let brightness spread! Long live Prakash Peoples decision 2012 Let brightness spread - Only that fatty will win - Das will win He comes here to fish That fatty only will win Don't mess around with fatty ok? That fatty is as good as gold Only Das will win Das will lose shamefully We'll make fatty win l don't care who wins Only fatty will win Fatty gets my boat...l mean vote l don't belong here at all Sachin Tendulkar hit his 100th century At the same time raising fatty's hopes Don't l know you well brother Das? Forget that, you have to allot a little more for the election fund That fatty is showing signs of winning Hey! Nothing like that Does BDF have the old power - Jump l say! - Long live BDF! Hey! Who was that? - A member - Who? BDF's member You scared the hell out of me l give it to you! - Cheque or cash? - What? You want cheque or cash? This is very good my boy lf new blood like you don't come... ...these sons of guns will rule to ruin this land We are all with you always Come on give me a 'megharoopan' hug, my boy Fat became a trend Fattys became in demand more and more l love you Come reign, as a king of your empire Before thick skinned and shameless ruin your kingdom The candidate for BDF Das With beedi stump as symbol Please bring him to victory This is a humble request and entreaty The crucial election-day dawned Mom did you see my voter lD anywhere? You have to become another Maveli( King) Prosperity you have to bring to this land Compete in the fray, blow the trumpet of victory Swallow up your adversaries, keep them at bay The competition was tight and polling rate high Hey fatty! What happened? You hug the whole town but not me That's because you paw me in all the wrong places What everyone says is true buddy There is something in his hug ln that affectionate hug l felt the safest place on earth was against his chest We won bro-in-law!!! Be successful always my boy Lucas, as soon as you get into power... ...you must first install grandpa's statue at the Kathrikadavu junction We have to show all these people! Do we have to place grandpa where crows shit on it everyday? Grandpa is in the heart of Kochi people lsn't that enough? We need a traffic signal at Kathreikadavu Shouldn't we do that first? That's also true! Let brightness spread! Jos Prakash, do you know what the current trend is? - What is it brother? - lt is fat That's also true Mayor buddy, l have some needs What are they, dude? The road to Peeku's house has to be tarred The night life in Kochi You know has to be...you know...? And police attitude to guys with low waist... Sir, someone has come to meet you Lucas, you know she is my only daughter l don't know what happened between you But now she is in very bad shape She wants to meet you l failed to see the goodness of your heart l am here today as the old Ann Mary l have no one else to turn to l saw that what l feared was happening He was melting at her story After gestures of asking forgiveness etc; she said this... ...l want to talk to you about Rahul Rahul Shantanu and l did our MBA together at Coimbatore We were friends, he was very brilliant, a class topper Like the rest of the students in our class, l too was his fan ln the final semester he told us an idea, a business plan This is a report of a survey l conducted in our class And facts are interesting People spend 3 times on cosmetics than our basic need food Shampoos, creams, perfumes...and the list goes on Take Ann's case Her food expenses is Rs 1700 but cosmetic bill is Rs 5700 Really? This has an underlying message lt is the off shoot of insecurity - A fear of being ourselves - l am not scared of anyone Don't take it personally Ann, this is business This insecurity must be the profit of our company Company? Yes, a full fledged Ayurveda clinic A medical shop? Ayurveda belongs to our past lt should be our future We can sell anything wrapped in Ayurveda lt's trustworthy Ayurveda does not have side effects We can try our hand experimenting right? lf we don't, some other MNC will try it But we don't have an important feature of this investment - What is that? - ls it money? No an apt lineage We will create one South drama company Here he is talk to him l'll wait outside Thus Sudhir Babu became our lineage That's how it started My Rs 25000 was my share invested in the company lt flourished in 2 years and launched many products Rahul and l became very close in that time But l was too late in realizing the truth The kind of person he was Rahul, who is this? l should have told you l am sorry We are engaged Sowmya is Padmashri Moosath sir's daughter We need to expand We can't hibernate in Kerala alone lf we get Moosath sir's backing, we'll go places! Rahul? Explain to her dude! l'm sorry Lucas God punished me for what l did to you l know l deserve it But he is a big cheat A cut throat business man He will ruin this town And everyone here No one can stop him Da! She got what she deserved Are you going to interfere? Da, we are not like her lf we behave like her then what's the difference us and her? Get lost dude! She is still fooling you You...!!! lt's not that, Rahul Vaidyar has to be taught a lesson So what will you do? Do you know who l am? l am the father of Kochi now...Father! Salutation to Dhanvanthri (God of lndian Medicine) l am going to say something which you may not like are sexually depraved This is the truth But, my grandfather the great sage Padmanabha Vaidyar rises... ...as a ray of hope for the frustrated masses Vaidyar's clinic introduces 'Asli power' Liberate your lives The penance of the great sage once again, to the rescue of masses in Kerala Asli power with its unique power to enhance with moringa, dates' flowers... Vaidyar's clinic, CEO Rahul Vaidyar who had abducted and detained... ...an actor Sudhir Babu was rescued by police today Sudhir had been under house arrest in an estate at Munnar l am a small time drama artist lts been 2 years l have been kidnapped saying it was for a small role l have not seen my family since then, l was kept under lock and key l haven't relieved myself out in the fields for ages Ann Mary a member Vaidyar's brought out this shocking information That idiot has put us into trouble dude The police shall make further enquiries about Rahul Vaidyar and the clinic To eradicate such cheats in the name of Ayurveda As well as to maintain genuine institutions there will be... ...special squads says the Minister of Health Lawyer, sir what shall we do now?. For the time being just disappear RAlD AT VAlDYAR'S CLlNlC ARE PEOPLE OF KERALA GUlNEA PlGS? The police raided stocks at Vaidyar clinic and seized many of its products They have been sent to the lab for investigation Ayurvedic treatments are ways to be of service to public Not a business Ayurveda is not only treatment it's a way of life Many people who have been victims of this cheating... ...are now charging into the premises of the clinic Send that Vaidyar out here! Police had to use force to disperse the mob Maanjiyam, aadu, himalayam hissu, sabarinath The people of Kerala have been cheated for years The last in this list is Rahul Vaidyar The police rescued children from the clinics orphanage... ...who were being used to work as labourers The maximum number of fairness creams are sold in lndia Why do we fear to be dark complexioned? There is no easy way to good health The right food at correct times, with regular exercises will be sufficient More people are surging with various complaints against Rahul Vaidyar The Kerala police are now in trouble Where is Rahul Vaidyar? This is Krishnakumar with Aneesh for KBC TV That fat mayor is behind all this ln my opinion Rahulji you have to meet and talk to him A compromise talk No! Lovely one who wafted in as a melody Rejila, with kohl lined eyes Complexion like the Champak And a body that was like sandal Beautiful girl, like a melodious song... lt's the mayor...one minute What is it my dear mayor boy? - l need a favour from you, brother - What? You also need my help? Afriend of mine has gone missing, Rahul Vaidyar That rascal? Brother, please find him for me You don't worry l will find him for you Although l am an artist l have a criminal mind My dear, that Rahul is hiding inside the nursery of his clinic premises Shantanu? Shantanu is standing on his head Will l be enough? Lucas? Don't worry l am alone Bad decision, Santa l've brought you a Christmas gift My mace! So you have come well prepared Remember my punch? Have you forgotten how you lay short of breath once? - Do you know who you are? - A machine that makes shit l am like this my brother l eat a little more than you But you are sheer poison lnjecting complexes into happy normal people What you are doing, that ruthless business, is real craving Everyone has a right to live happily You...! Come to me, you...!! For all my brother, fatties, balds, dark, short... ...and for my childhood friend Ann Mary This is my Kochi punch in the belly! This does not have a name but it will pain terribly Rahul, you have intelligence, education and a 6-pack Why don't you live without cheating public? Merry Christmas That mace remains at the Mayor's office even today... ...as a nightmare to cheats and thieves Remember l told you l was not here to just enjoy the sea breeze? Today, a decision will be made l am waiting for that Lucas, thanks for everything For being with me, trusting me and liking me l have with me only my life to give in return l want to be alongside you in joys and sorrows l want to grow old with you The Ann Mary l once liked awaits me to come dressed like Santa, even today You are someone else When you became slim your mind too shrank in size - Are you angry at me? - Not anger Only gratitude for making me realize... ...that it's better to live for many people than for just one person l'm not your Superman Shall l go? l realized that day, that proverbs are often true Behind every successful man there is a woman Look, there she stands! The End
