 

                        Executive Producer Jay GIL Investment Executive LEE Sang-moo Produced by JK YOUN, LEE Han-seung Co- produced by GIL Young-min Line Producer JU Seoung-hwan Seoul 1982 Howdy, my name is Hwang Jung-min I'm glad to meet ya Jung-hwa Howdy, my name is Hwang Jung-min I'm glad to meet ya Jung-hwa I came all the way from Busan and my dream is to become the president I came all the way from Busan and my dream is to become the president Stop laughing kids It's not nice! Let's see where should Jung-min sit? Yes, you can sit right there next to Jung-hwa I object to him being my partner I think it is undemocratic for him to sit next to me just because the seat happens to be empty Oh, really? Seok-hoon Yes? How about you sit next to Jung-hwa And Mi-jeong sits next to Jung-min? I object I don't think it is democratic to change mates without consent I second that motion State your opinions I think we should follow the teacher's instruction Spring of 1982 in Seoul I encountered democracy in a deeply meaningful way why are you following me? What? Stop follow me! Just because I'm behind you, that doesn't mean I'm following you Then go in front of me why are you following me? I wasn't following you This is my house what? This is my house! Hi, sweetie You're back from school? Mom! I heard the landlord has a daughter That must be her why are you forcing me against my will? This is not democratic Democracy my ass! You're 7, if anyone asks Got that? Mom! It's hot! My skin's gonna burn off Count to 100 before you get out That'll get you ready for scrubbing Get in there! I saw it very clearly A cute tiny pee pee A body part completely different from mine Oh, no! Written and Directed by LEE Seok- hoon DANCING QUEEN Seoul, 1992 Rebel of the sand, Kang beats Park 3 to 2, defending his title for the second time Although Kang took 2 points early in the match Park came back overpowering Kang with his strength Does that feel good? Yes, it's good Pinching and rubbing? Excuse me? You, pervert! Are you nuts? Hey! What are you touching? You bastard! You think my ass is there for you to pinch? Driver! Quickly to the police station! Do I look like a person who'd do such a thing? Yes, you have exactly the face of a criminal Can you shut up? You party girl! Sorry but I'm a straight-A student Yeah, right If you're a straight-A student, then I wipe my ass with sacred Buddhist Sutras You're disgusting! Korea University Law School? And lady, you're Yonsei social sports major It's Yonsei-KU rivalry You mean, KU-Yonsei rivalry You're bullshitting us This must be a fake student ID How could a college student look like that? How are they supposed to look? Not like you, at least what? Sing the school song! What? Sing the university song! You should know if you're a student - Go on - The university song? Well, it's uh... You see? You see? And you call yourself a student! Do you know it? Akarakacho! Akarakachi! Akarachichi! Chochocho! La la la! Sisboomba! Yonsei lapola! Hey! Yonsei! That's the cheer, you dimwit! You guys went to the same elementary school You've grown up well, Hwang Pee Pee! I'm proud of you Be quiet, you party animal! Hey, law student If you're studying the law you need to learn it right In the world, there are party animals and straight-A students Red kids, yellow kids, and blue kids Alright? We teach law to ignorant people like you so you learn not to discriminate! Still running your mouth You still haven't learned your lesson Get up! Why? Let's celebrate Hwang Pee Pee's release from prison Stop talking about my pee pee It's my pee pee, not yours! Who knows? It could become mine Dancing queen! Shinchon's Madonna is here Please come on the stage - My back! Slow down - You'll be coming everyday The Madonna of Shinchon? Yes? Are you interested in becoming a singer? Give me a ring This place is a waste of your talent Hello Hi, Yong-pil. Are you here? Where are you? Cho Yong-pil? Hwang Pee Pee, I'm finally gonna become a singer! Singer my ass He's a scam Just look at his slanted eyes Tear gas granades! Shit, it's a riot squad Let me go! We're not protesters Hwang Pee Pee! "Student Hwang Jung-min Leader of the Democratic Movement" "Patriotic Student Screams for Democracy" "Fianc Writhes in Anguish" "World Critizes Violence Against the Protesters" "Human Rights Watch dispatch investigators" "Police commissioner resigns" "Shot of Hwang Jung-min Wins Pulitzer Prize" "Democratic Movement Reawakens" "Jung-hwa is Watching" "How Can You Sleep?" "At age 35, Hwang Jung-min is the Oldest to Pass the Bar" Is she breathing? What stink! It's killing me How can she do it at the same time? Let's eat Can't you wake up early? Is this breakfast for rabbits? Daddy, are you sleepy? I couldn't sleep a wink last night why not? A stinky tank came into daddy's bedroom The landlord wants to raise the rent we can't borrow from my dad again where's the car? It's getting fixed Can't we buy a new car? That car's so old It'll last another 10 years I think I'll die before then Please! Let's have a pleasant breakfast Two! Three! Lock Start! Where's my kiss? Good morning! Morning! How's it going? Can they fire me for dating a co-worker? Of course not. But the company is saying you neglected your duties And I'm here to prove that is a lie Yes, but the situation is a bit murky Are you looking down at us? Of course not I wasn't like this until I joined the army - Honey, please calm down - I see I hate this situation You guys make a good couple You won a prize but you want to sue? What was the prize? Trip to Jeju? And what's the problem? You live in Jeju Please, no prank calls To the side! So you were reading a novel and the male character died suddenly You were so shocked that you want to sue the author where were you shocked exactly? Male character died of cervical cancer You're that punk from Jeju, aren't you? She's all hyped up again Looks like it Ma'am, you need to provide the evidence that you live in this address The building doesn't have a permit So we couldn't write up a lease agreement Yes of course I understand But we can't start a lawsuit without evidence what can we do? We're starting something new tomorrow So don't be late Alrighty! What are you staring at? Company dinner tonight we have two new trainers Look at that chest way bigger than yours I didn't grow taller because my boobs weigh me down Good for you They're really spoiling my eyes when I'm used to watching a rotten squid at home How's your squid? Limp and wilted Throw it out It stinks! For whose benefit? Hello there Two blackbean noodles Noodles everyday Did you bring a lot of radish? How can you eat so much of this? Doesn't it turn your shit yellow? Are you giving me attitude? Anyway, I need to collect the bill since your business might go belly up Belly up? Who talks of such nonsense? This guy said that - well, I didn't mean... - Shut up! - Don't you touch the radish - I'm home Hi, honey! What about mommy? Bring Bring Bring it to me I'll do anything Anything at all Bring Bring My fantasy I'll take you for mine why isn't she picking up? Wait! It's squid Your squid Honey? What are you doing? Not watching the kid again A co-worker's family passed away What? Again? How come your co-workers' relatives die so often? I know... It's heart attack I'm hanging out with my classmates I'll be a bit late Okay - Sorry, I'm late - Take a seat, man How have you been? - Why are you pretending to be so busy? - Be on time Sorry Fancy badge to show you're a member of the assembly I need this or I get kicked off They'll think I'm a peddler Is this real gold? Fancy stuff You think they'll give gold plating to the national assemblyman of Korea? It's gold plating Long time no see I envy you what the hell am I doing? There's no fun, no motivation I'll be 50 and then 60 in no time why envy him when you got a hot wife? Everyone know of the Shinchon Madonna what Madonna? Expiration date has long passed She's Shinchon Madonna I'm wangshibri Red Mesh stocking People went crazy just to get a glimpse of us You were great How about trying out at Superstar K? You're leading me on She almost got casted on the street - where was it? - It was nothing - Blockbuster Entertainment - Yes! By the director of Blockbuster Entertainment Blockbuster Entertainment? That company is famous That director tried to cast her But this idiot married squid instead and screwed up her life That's enough Cheers! - Cheers! - Cheers! Hello. Dad? It's me Can you hear me okay? Do you have some money by any chance? Some 'money,' not somebody. About 10 grand? You don't have it why don't you have any money? That's right Because I never gave you any That's correct Dad! I'll send you some money tomorrow Talk to you soon - Your dad doesn't have any money? - What the? If you have no money, you can't be a dad, huh? What? You fucking bastard what is he, your mom then? - Someone fell down the platform - There's a train coming - Do something! - Hey! Climb up here! There's a train coming Hurry up Stop! Stop! Mister! Who pushed me? That alley is scary You're free to enter but not free to leave what's going on? Hey! Punks! What are you doing there? Aren't you the delivery guy? Little brats! Get lost what? Get lost? Did your parents teach you to talk like that? We don't have any parents what? No parents? Who doesn't have parents? Then did a pig give birth to you? Watch your mouth, man No, you watch it Smoking at your age makes your bones will rot and you won't grow Put it out There are excpetions, of course But you have so much to dream about Dreaming is what you do when you're sleeping Don't come closer I can hear you fine Furthermore You bastards! Come here! Wait! Come here, you brats! Once an artist, forver an arist what? You should follow your dreams to live a meaningful life what the hell are you trying to say? Aw, my hair Here I was gonna try it on my own but couldn't muster up the courage what? Superstar K? Oh, please Are you nuts? How old are you? You'll be a laughing stock why not? Madonna's over 50 and she's still a sexy diva That's in America So? What have we got to lose? We owe it to ourselves Come on I love you Crazy bitch That's nice who is it? We're from Cho Dong Daily I don't need newspaper delivery who's doing a prank on Saturday morning? Aren't you Hwang Jung-min, the subway hero? It's you, isn't it? Well uh... Cheol! Cheol! Why? What's up? Open the door Mr. Hwang! Please! An interview! How do you feel? A comment please! Think about it You want to spend the rest of your life looking after the squid? What did Hiddink say? I'm still hungry! Dreams come true! Shut up and eat You think you're still the Red Mesh of wangshipri? We're old and washed-up Then I'm going to enter by myself I know you want it too Is it a "go" or not? Why did you jump down despite the danger? - I didn't realize it then - Isn't that your husband? - What? - But when I went down - Huh? - He was drunk and so heavy - It is him - Thought I was gonna die Why did you disappear so quickly? I had to pee He stands up for the helpless in need like us For free? Uh... I think so I was surrounded by 17 gangsters But he appeared out of nowhere and we fought them off One and so A civil rights lawyer shows the light of hope for the discriminated A real hero for our generation who can't stand the sight of injustice Mr. Hwang was sharing his love with the world without showing it off YTM News Park Jin-hyeon for KBN News And people clapping... Are you crazy? Why did you do that? Could've gotten yourself killed I told you Someone pushed me Should've thought of your family what if you got yourself killed? You know I just can't ignore a person in need You got yourself into this mess because you guaranteed your friend's loan why bring that up again? Because he is struggling with rent payment A lawyer can't come up with 10 thousand? I have it I can get another loan I'll get it for you By when? Early next week No, daddy Let's eat Yeon-woo This meat looks good Eat lots of meat Don't you have any pride? It's not like we're strangers They think I'm enjoying a life of luxury being a lawyer's wife There you go again You just wait and I'll give you the lifestyle you deserve with what? You save a person and do we get anything out of it? Civil rights laywer? Our family's right is in the shithole That's enough I had it up to my neck appearing on the news and all the racket I bravely save someone's life and get no compliment from you Don't save a stranger Save your family! Attorney Hwang! You nagging wife! Be quiet! Sorry sweetie Go back to sleep Current mayor Im of the Reform Party has 35% of the vote Candidate Park of Uniform Party has 20% And candidate Kang of our Democratic Party has 15% Our party is nothing but an also-ran we continue like this and it'll be the end of our party So we need a special something to draw the attention of the public what are you talking about? The current practice is for party members to elect the candidate If we get participation of the public where the winning candidate is elected by the public, we may get 50% of voter support because that public nomination will gather voters' interest But we have no potential candidate other than Assemblyman Kang Then why doesn't the chairman enter the race? That won't work why not? Raise your hands if you haven't falsified your residence Lower your hands if you have tax issues Assemblyman Son Yes? You got into a lot of shit because of the sexual harassment accusation The trouble I had to go through to shut up the press what's so funny? Didn't you avoid army duties due to tuberculosis? And you smoke like a chimney Pathetic Assemblyman Jang Do we have anyone fresh? Jung-min likes this And this, too Can I take this as well? And this? Butjust this much Take it all Thanks what's this, sweetie? Your future dream? Yes, it's homework Your dream is to become a civil servant? Yes, government worker is the best How about something more ambitious? Like a pilot or female president? Life's no stroll in the park what? Mom's dream was to be a singer but look at her now I don't want to live like her Mom's dream was to be a singer but look at her now I don't want to live like her Think about it You wanna waste your whole life looking after the squid? What's that? It's nothing! Application for Superstar K? - It's nothing - what stupid thing are you doing again? What? Lying about the weight is the most pathetic thing I'm going to lose it why don't you lose it first? Why don't you say you're single? I was gonna do that who'll think you're single when you're so old and wrinkled? Men still follow me when I go out - You don't know what you're talking about - Follow you? To say "Do you believe in the way?" Screw you! - Superstar K - Myeong-ae, it's me - It's a "go" all the way. Alright! - Who'll do the dishes? Superstar K? Who'll do the cleaning? Am I your maid? You wanna die? Straighten your back what? TV station? The Solomon's Judgment show? Throwing first pitch at the game? Sorry but can't fit it into the schedule For those that cheat on their spouse You need to file for a divorce and petition for distribution of property Hang them out to dry Move the legs Poverty and disability is nothing to be ashamed of Giving up is more embarrassing "Civil rights lawyer, the hero of subway" Giving up is more embarrassing Even when everyone says its over "Hwang Jung-min Fan blogs immensely popular" If you don't give up, then it's not over You can start again if you don't give up Give it all you've got! A tsunami of emotions hitting us "Most popular search: Hwang Jung-min" what's the update? Son is under suspicion of tax evasion? There's no one to run for mayor? I understand Hello - I'm UHM Jung-hwa - I'm LEE Myung-ae Thank you for having us here Your new dance Riding the tune of modern melody Takes my heart away Your mysterious eyes in the beautiful light And undying charm takes my heart away Graduated from Korea University Law School Passed the bar exam in 2005 He worked for legal team of the Unemployment Office and started his private practice in 2008 As for military service, after enlisting in 1993 He was relieved of active service after 26 months I like that part Married in 1999 and has one daughter He lives in a rented 800 sq ft house in Beon-dong, north of the river Renting a place in north of the river? I thought he was a lawyer - That's correct - Is he stupid or what? Okay, I'm getting the picture now But can a brave citizen get in the ring with black belt politicians? Do you remember? The guy who filled the whole country with passionate screams for democracy Leader of the democratic movement and courageous citizen, Hwang Jung-min Once we get him to enter our party election the attention of 10 million Seoul citizens will be on us It's gonna be a TV drama How about it? I'll put up a fair fight no matter who runs against me I think we'll get a good rating And what about his wife? Rhythm everybody Rhythm Your coolness overwhelms Please don't stop Feel the rhythm Thank you That was entertaining You're not the youngest contestants we think age is nothing but a number I'll say 'yes' wow! I think you have potential She'll be 60 by the time she realizes her potential Ms. UHM Jung-hwa? Yes You wrote 5 ft 5 and 100 Ibs? You don't look like it Ms. Lee, do you have to be a singer? I think you're more suited to be a comedian Excuse me? I'm saying this for your own good we were born to be singers And comedian with my looks? We really wanna be singers Yes I'm sorry but I'll say 'no. ' This is so delicious Cheers! It's burning Here, I'll do it Our days of hardship is over From now you can live a life of comfort with all the money he's going to earn Are you saying a woman's gottta stay home and do housework? Of course not I meant you've been through a lot Eat up This meat should be cooked lightly - Eat lots, sweetie - Okay Sweetie, what's eating your mom? She didn't pass the audition Said judges were full of it I see It's alright, honey! The mighty Ms. UHM won't let something like that bother her Don't cry baby Come here My baby That's enough what did I tell you? It's not that easy when you got no talent You were deceived because people said you're good So wake up and smell the coffee You can't change a person's fate... You'll meet your doom tonight Five, six, seven, eight Left, right, left, right Up, up Five, six, seven, eight Hey, hey! With debutjust around the corner Just pathetic! - Mi-ja! - Yeah How many times did I tell you to lose weight? What are you eating at night? Look at your fat belly Don't call me Mi-ja It's Dorothy now Get it right if you don't want to be Mi-ja again One more time This time with rhythm! Ok! Let's go Move, move - Dorothy! Dorothy! - Hey! Is she okay? It's anemia which is common during early pregnancy what? Early what stage? Early stage of pregnancy what? You didn't know I'll be on my way How can you get pregnant just before our debut? Do you know how much we invested on you? Who's the bastard? Director, I think uh... Please forgive me why are you apologizing? You! - I love her - You imbeciles! Love, my ass! We're going to show you a clip of Superstar K We think you'll enjoy Please run the clip Superstar K Season 3 is talk of the town There was group that didn't go through because of the wrong partner The splendid Ms. UHM Jung-hwa Please try your luck again next season as a solo act The Shinchon Madonna? Were you watching them? They went behind my back and secretly had an affair Quiet! What are you gonna do? Without our main vocal? There is someone I have in mind Beggars can't be choosers Bring her in! Yes boss! Madonna, how long has it been? You haven't changed a bit I saw Superstar K And you still got it I got dropped It was like a bunch of roses in bloom Or gladiolus? Glamor ripening into maturity Thank you I saw it 20 years ago at the Shinchon night club She's got something I thought it's now time for voluptuous girls like that I still remember the days You make me blush Intensity is different Entertainers' blood thickens with time So how about we burn thick blood together? Talentless groups in their teens reign in the music industry But we'll breakthrough with talented mature adult stars The Dancing Queens! Can't believe it what do you have I don't have? I said we have to stick together No doubt So I should decline, right? I didn't even tell him I was married I'll just say no It's not right You can't fool me It's written on your face You're dying to do it It's not true what do you do when you wake up in the morning? Get the kid ready for school Send your husband to work Then dishes, cleaning and laundry wrestle with other housewives all day The only happiness comes from weeping while watching trashy TV dramas Same shit everyday Think anything'll change in a year? Should I try it? What should I tell him later? Shit your load first Then what's he gonna say? Ask for a divorce? What should I do? Just pathetic Get away from me Come in Perm in the middle She's Lari as in Nalari, the party animal She's from Colorado Came to Korea about 3 years ago One on the left is Eve Because she went to a night school On the right is Linda She's always drawing her eyebrows Is she really single? She's got a belly That's because I just ate That's it? Is she connected? What do you mean? She's got skills Since we don't have a lot of time Do we have to include her? Do you think that old hag can catch up? Ketchup? Like Heinz? Can she keep up? Of course. If I can give birth I mean although I haven't given birth I'll give it all as if I'm giving birth That's the right attitude! Okay then Can we see that talent? Come om! Baby! Old hag! Chore for the newbie You need to exercise to get rid of that belly Exercise hard Squeaky clean Hey! What? See you tomorrow You too Have a nice day That's my replacement? They were just dying to kick me out She and Director Lee must be something I won't back off Then what are you gonna do? I'll find her secret I'll rip off her skin! Today's first kick will be done by someone who loves FC Seoul Our hero of subway, courageous citizen Hwang Jung-min will do the honor Get ready Shot! Goal! Our Hwang Jung-min's grown up a lot Jong-chan what's going on? Did you see that? Yeah, you suck at soccer No joke That was nerve wrecking The mayor of Seoul? Are you kidding? The mayor's office is no joke Do I look like I'm joking? You're pulling my legs I can't do politics because I'm not good with my fists what does that got to do with politics? Didn't you get into a brawl at the assembly when they tried to pass the budget? Please be selective with your choice of words Brawl? Do you think we're gangsters? Did I say something wrong? Along with K1 and UFC They call our politics the third ultimate fighting So why should I put my foot in that bucket of shit? Yes bucket of shit! That's why politics attracts shit flies But is that the way it should be? Then why don't you change it? Your father was a member of the assembly You passed the bar on your first attempt Youngest member of the assembly what credentials! I thought I could change the system But when I entered politics I found it was full of those people who were intelligent but have no heart But you're different How so? You got a warm heart You rose up from the bottom You give people hope Your life is inspirational Aren't you tired after doing aerobics all day? I gained a bit of weight You sure you don't want any? Nope Don't act immature and say "please just one bite" I quit ramen You quit ramen? More believable than a pile of bullshit Shut up Hot Should've put an egg in there why? Want a bite? Nope what an appetite Jung-hwa Do you feel hope when you see me? What? Nevermind what are you talking about? Just hurry up and eat Please eat a lot Thank you Jung-hwa's complexion improved because you're doing so well - Really? - Yes, dear Pullling your weight for a change Yes You know that Ohsung Group where my friend is the president Yes, I've heard of it They're looking for an in-house counsel I talked about you and he showed interest It's more prestigious work than dealing with bums on the street Daddy, he's not a street peddler You're being rude Though he passed the bar And he's a bit famous now But Koreans soon forget You still think he's that little kid living in the room we rented out what are you doing? That's right But a lot of people are asking for me where? Well, the democratic party proposed I run for a local election You're giving up yourjob to be a local district official? So many people get washed up after getting involved in politics A bit higher than local district Then city official? A bit higher County official? Just a tiny bit higher Then - City mayor? - Mayor - Daddy, meat - Okay Take a piece of meat from the mayor Just a bit higher City mayor Just a bit higher City mayor Just a bit higher why were you hiding something so important? I wasn't hiding I was gonna tell you But your father is always busting my ass So I overreacted So what are you gonna do? What do you mean? A man's supposed be ambitious It's not like I never had it when I was listening to Jong-chan My heart started racing I felt my heart flutter You felt your heart race and flutter and you didn't say anything? Why talk about things like that? You know I have something to say to you what? Are you against the idea when 21st century desperately wants me? Hey Did you fart? I didn't fart Yes, you did - No I didn't - Did too - I didn't - But I can smell it You gotta do what you love I told you to spill your guts I was going to But Jung-min made his shocking announcement what if he really gets elected? Oh please! He's a dragon from the gutter at best Dragons on the clouds will ignore him why didn't you talk him out of it? My husband He has a dream again Dream? Do you know what my husband's dream was? What was it? Marrying me and living happily ever after That's very down to earth He seemed lost confused after we got married For about 10 years His dream disappeared His eyes are sparkling again His spirit reawakening He's dreaming again I'll just leave him to be what if he fails! He's still young what about you? What about me? You seemed lost after you got married For about 10 years - who me? - Your dream disappeared suddenly and your eyes are sparkling again Your spirit reawakening You got your dream back I don't know who cares if there's a setback? It's not my problem within our party, currenly candidate Kang is leading with 45% of decided voters That's the percentage of alchohol in whiskey, isn't it? But we have 7.5% A bit stronger than beer Just about rice wine Much lower than candidate Cho who's in second place with 24% This situation must be changed we gotta get the ratings up and get to about soju level we can make this a two-candidate race with candidate Kang what differentiates candidate Hwang from other candidates? Or what's the image of Hwang Jung-min? - Country bumpkin? - You punk It's youth Yes, he's much younger than other candidates But look at him now Does he look young? No we need a makeover A makeover? Won't this burn my hair? It's okay It doesn't hurt I'll do my best Give me a chance! Looks neat With the passion of leading the democractic movement Courage that saved a fellow citizen Expertise acquired as a civil rights lawyer Hwang Jung-min is a candidate For the Democratic Party mayor nomination Mr. Hwang Awesome! Hooray! Don't do anything to stand out You don't want them to take a photo of you I think I'll stand out looking like this But this is the least you can do as the wife of mayoral candidate Yeah? Let's see a gentle smile Start Hi. I'm Hwang Jun-min Mayoral candidate for Seoul Meetrapolitan City I'm gonna go nuts Metropolitan not meetrapolitan Yes, meetrapolitan Let's take one step at a time Met Met Tra Tra Metra Meetra why can't you say that right? Pathetic Meetropolitan Meetropolitan... Can't do it? That's right Meetrapolitan! Meetrapolitan! Sounds good He can do it Here comes our lady - what's wrong? - You don't look like my wife This is the Beverly Hills look I paid special attention to details today But we're going to do charity work Do you think people dress like that for charity work? People are going to be paying attention to her Is she going to a bee farm? Or a funeral That's the dress code for an American funeral Stop talking nonsense She'll seem like someone who sits around all day playing princess what's wrong with everyone? Alright I understand Don't worry, Jung-hwa They just don't have class Especially you, bee farmer! Don't know a thing about fashion - who's that? - I'm Jung-hwa's friend! Bon appetite Looks delicious Let's take a picture Smile Thank you This kid is not normal These kids are heavy They met five ducks of the family How many? Five what is this! Play with the duck That feels good, doesn't it? Where's Jung-hwa? Over there Yes, Director Lee My friend's mother just passed away I understand These glasses are making me dizzy when did you start college? I'll speak comfortably Okay where do you live? Beon-dong Beon-dong? Where is that? Look here, Mrs. Hwang Your husband is not a member of the assembly. He's just a party member You gotta be mindful of trade ethics Your husband is a just tool to create momentum It's candidate Kang's turn this time Mind your place Is politics getting in line to ride the bus? What? One should do volunteering work whether or not you're a politician's wife Is it a crime to give it all I got? Are you lecturing us? What ignorance! Even people from other side of the river should have basic knowledge Beon-dong is located in Kangbuk-gu Population of 400,000 Half of which are over-20 and have the right to vote According to the polls, Your husband, Assemblyman Kang should give it all! Let her be She's that famously rude x generation A secret kept from you Is this look Once a shinning star Shines again effortlessly Okay That's enough Lari get ready for the chorus Go! Who only has eyes for me I call out for you again I call for you To say what I couldn't say Until the end I got some phlegm stuck in my throat I'm fine You're singing like an old lady Sorry but can you make it sound better with the machine? Are you kidding? You think this machine is a magic wand? Cut down on smoking Hey newbie! You wanna try? Who, me? Why should this old hag do my part? Be quiet Yeah, give it a shot Jung-hwa what the fuck! Girls from Colorado, I tell you Let's go with Jung-hwa taking the part Once a shinning star Shines again effortlessly Call upon you who only has eyes for me To say what I couldn't say Until the end I'm the queen tonight Look close This is me Yes, I'm the queen tonight Come next to me I never do this with one of my artists, you know? I see we need a pretty name for you How about Venus, the goddess of beauty? Venus Okay - Venus - Yes? What kind of a person do you think I am? A very nice person I want to be a nice man to Venus what do you mean? Don't get me wrong I don't want to abuse my position to get you in the sack In the sack? No, no what I mean is Venus, I like you I'm actually an innocent person I knew it I have to go I'm sorry Hey! Hey! Where are you going? Jung-hwa! Venus! How embarrassing! The other candidates are seasoned veterans So just do as we prepared - I understand - And relax I'm so nervous Be careful not to use the dialect I got it - Metropolitan - Metropolitan Hello everyone It's Select 2011 we'll start the 1st debate for democratic party's Seoul mayor candidate nomination Respected Seoul citizens I'm Kang Pil-jae, democratic party candidate for mayoral office of Seoul Metropolitan City Now is the global period for Korea A capital notjust for Korea but for northeast Asia Not expansion in quantity but expansion in quality Improvement of lives of Seoul citizens Seoul citizens deserve to live better I request for your support Lastly, a greeting from candidate Hwang then speech from all candidates Oh, hello Democratic party candidate for Seoul Meetrapolitan Seoul Meetra-politan Metro! Metro! After he practiced so much Mayoral candidate for Seoul City As far as I'm concerned being the mayor of Seoul means Even a mut on the street runs to be the mayor Respected candidate Kang, regarding your military service You didn't serve in the military Isn't that problematic? Oh, that If it won't be too rude I want to show you that I'm visibly flat-footed which means I can't walk for a long period of time But the reason for military exemption is recorded as severe shortsightedness Yes, I'm shortsighted and flat-footed Can't see and can't walk So I couldn't serve in the military Then how were you able to walk here Thanks to rapid progress in medical technology I receive LASIK surgery 10 years ago Oh, surgery! Since you got your sight back Do you wish to fulfil your military duty now? Look here You're trying to get media play It's not media play I want to inform the voters of verified facts Shouldn't talk like that Let's calm down Just pathetic why fight within the family? Let's get back to the issue what's your view on Seoul's unbalanced development? Candidate Hwang? I did my military service at 2nd Division of Nodo Corps we're done with that topic Oh, I see The topic is the inequality in development within the city Candidate Hwang? The unbalance problem? We should balance it out How will you achieve that? Uh... well, The south side is affluent North is a bit... um... - Are you disparaging north areas? - Look here Mr. Hwang If the price of apartments falls, are you gonna be responsible? No, no It was very sad Audience were laughing at him Sad but what can we do? Could be better this way May be he'll drop out of the race what's the matter, mama? I'll call you later I'll send you the money when I make it I want to be there for papa's 70th birthday But what are the neighbors gonna say when I go down? I'm going to debut very soon Yeah, debut! No, de-but Don't you know? Not TV. Debut! - I'm not a backup dancer anymore - The director is looking for you Goodbye mama So stupid what am I gonna do? - Yo! - Shit You were great today Did you see it? Yeah So embarrassing I did my military service at 2nd Division of Nodo Corps Nodo Corps is the hottest search word on the net Be quiet Go way Oh, bro! Do you know how many times I gotta go to collect the outstanding bill? I go back again and again until I get the money So? So, you can start again anytime as long as you don't give up You said that on the TV ad I was moved by that wait a minute was that written by some writer? Really? He is giving me a lot of pressure Not home yet? Yes! Seoul Meetro... Is it ready? You're home That dress Jesus It's not that but I was gonna tell you Thanks I really appreciate it I had a rough day was going to throw in the towel Don't have to do it if you don't want to You can quit right now No, no How can I quit when you prepared this event to cheer me up? For you, I won't give up - Dance again - Huh? Dance again Go on Yes Yes That's right This feels different Shake that ass Yeah, baby Turn around I'm gonna bite you Please bite me If people start having more babies motivated by patriotism we could solve the low birthrate problem we got to be patriotic I will provide substantial financial benefit I promise to give 500 dollars for the 2nd child for the forth child To motivate citizens to have more birth Please have lots of kids Candidate Hwang, what is your view? Yes, we have low birth rate problem because education is so expensive tuition is getting higher It's also hard to get a job and the price of housing going up It's painful to watch Look here This is the difference between a pro and amateur He has no solutions Dear citizens would you get in the cab with a driver with 30 years of accident-free experiencee or a driver who just got his license? Experienced or new driver I just don't know what? Policy to increase birthrate, child support... whether it's the assembly or the president I don't know about all the policy they put out although I'm sure very intelligent politicians come up with the policy Itjust doesn't make sense to me They said 'have lot of kids' but does that work? Parents are working their asses off when do they the time to have kids? Do you know how much a tin of baby formula costs? Of course, $3.50 Are you kidding? A bowl of noodles costs 4 bucks - Candidate Cho? - About 7 dollars? At the neighborhood store the cheapest one is 12 bucks! Situation's hopeless As they get bigger they take a tin a week Go to the mart They got rows of them, cheap to expensive Do you know what it feels like not be able to buy 20 dollar Excellent formula? Why can't you answer? Please tell us! Is that why the government is recommending breast feeding? Moms are not milk cows You can'tjust milk them away He's right! What do the men know? We talk about meals at school Whether or not meals are free is not important The parents are both at work So should we send them to an empty home to eat alone? That's not right Don't we have to let the kids know why the parents are working so hard? How? By taking care of them at school That is, feeding them This is hot meal is from hard work of your parents Do you know how hard your parents are working so you guys can eat? Salary stays the same while consumer price and housing price keeps going up and interest on mortgage is accumulating And they want us to have more kids? That's hypocritical, isn't it? I really don't know what should we do? Dear moms and dads who are working so hard to make the ends meet Do you have the silver bullet? Do you? Do you have the cure-all? Then let's put our heads together I'll get all the experts together Get rid of those people who have no idea what they're talking about And you folks participate directly so we can have a discussion Daddy is so cool Is he really gonna become the mayor? What? Probably not You don't want him to be mayor? That's not the problem Me being mayor's wife is the problem why is that a problem? You tell me It's Hwang Jung-min! Hello Best of luck to you Thank you Thank you Thank you "Rapid Increase of Hwang's Popularity" Table has been turned Hwang Jung-min! Hwang Jung-min! Are you doing any work? Why is Hwang's popularity going up? Candidate Hwang recorded 82% in the recent poll He has surpassed these two candidates by a wide margin what the? Wasn't Hwang just a pacemaker? You can't get elected just on awareness It's notjust awareness According to our research, he caught up within 10% pts behind current leader in the approval rating what nonsense is that? Let's do it this way Politics is a show This election will be some show Oh, and candidate Hwang is no longer a pacemaker Let's see who wins But... Mr. Chairman? Chairman! Attorney Hwang is not available He's not an attorney but will be the mayor Attorney Hwang Ma'am, what's the matter? I brought this we'll look at it later Thank you - Mr. Hwang - I promise I'll look at it later I'll take this One two three! Keep it up! Looking great! That should be good Do some photoshop and make her chest look bigger Her legs longer and thinner Possible, right? Oh, jesus It's really happening Finally! Is debut important? We gotta be a big hit If we pull off the event tomorrow we can become a big hit what event is it? Event for the Democratic Party Democratic Party? I got some connections in politics If our song gets picked as the party's campaign song we'll be a hit Are we really gonna be a big hit? That's what I'm telling you what? Your husband will be there what should I do? He'll get pissed if he finds out Your husband's not the only problem You've been deceiving the whole country Even though the world has changed, who'll accept the mayor's wife shaking her ass on the stage? You told me to give it a shot! Now you're turning your back? I told you to shit Not give it a shot You want a cup of coffee? Forget it wait! Husband? Trust me The wife version And dancing queen version who are you? Oh dear, Jung-hwa who is this? Let's hear it for candidate Hwang and his wife Great to meet you Honey I got a tummy ache I'll run to the restroom Hurry back Dance with the rhythm Overflowing with coolness I've no idea what I'm doing My hand is shaking You wanna die? Hurry up! Look up Hello? Good to see you... Next we have a new girl group The Dancing Queens Please welcome! Let's do this A secret kept from you Is this look Once a shining star Shines again effortlessly Call upon you who only has eyes for me To say what I couldn't say Until the end I'm the queen tonight Look close. This is me Yes, I'm the queen tonight Come next to me If I only have you then I got the chance tonight I'll get you Thank you Did you shit a bucket? What took you so long? Just when I thought I was done more came out Jesus... what's this crap on you? Hurry up and eat - Venus, where have you been? - Good job I got so nervous that I got the runs Sit down That was great Keep this up and we might get TV ain'time next week Are we gonna be a big hit? You wish Mi-ja Mi-ja, what are you doing here? It's Dorothy! Nevermind I was gonna walk away But there's a group member who's been hiding her real identity A scandalous secret The media will have a picnic The shameless bitch is It's a misunderstanding I'm sure no harm was intended She must have desperately wanted to be a singer You think that will shut me up? The shameless bitch is That's right I'm from the country Is that such a crime, you bitch? You should've kept you mouth shut Bitch! Mi-ja, you can't do this to us after all that we've been through Shut up If you show your face once again You'll really pay for it Shit There's only one option left Just trust me Any ideas? Who'll need this information the most? When I was in high school in Mokpo, I got into dancing and I ran away from home Got deceived and used by lying bastards in Seoul for 10 years So I was gonna end it all Then I met the director I thought this was my last chance So I lied and said I was from Colorado Because he said he was looking for someone from overseas But why Colorado? Because I come from Jeolado Potato, potaado what? Thank you for keeping my secret And protecting me from that bitch That was very moving, sis Sis? Yes, I'm calling you sis from now I'll call you sis as well Me too Yeah? Then the team leader is settled what? Cheers to Dancing Queens and leader, Venus Cheers! Cheers! Shameless what's this? Is she working at night to make her husband the mayor? It's their personal life Adultery is a private matter You wanna change the world when this is your first term? After this election, you wanna be screwed at the next party nomination? Assemblyman Jang, I hold your competence in high esteem If you don't want to be humiliated, have Hwang resign by tomorrow morning And I'll take care of you So this is how trashy drama ends Trashy dramas usually get high ratings That's right Kang Phil-jae will go public with it at tomorrow's party election why is this a problem? Tell me This is my private life It becomes a problem in politics If that gets publicized As a politician you can't govern his own wife You'll be a laughing stock The media will be all over this It will be hard for you and your family to handle So what should I do? Jung-min I didn't pull you in for you to get hurt Just for us all Is that really for us? Or for candidate Kang? Then you'll go to party election and get humiliated? Or turn my back on all those who supported me because I'm scared of that? Politics may be a shit bucket But this is too much! I started this for a reason! If I only have you then I got the chance tonight I'll get you we'll see you tomorrow Thank you we're on for a broadcast when? Tomorrow! I'm going nuts It's M Countdown Bring it on Girls Generation! Wonder Girls! We'll be on the same stage Oh, hello why didn't you tell me? Why didn't you tell me? Is this why you sent Yeon-woo to your mother's place? I'm sorry I didn't mean to deceive Shut up. I don't need excuses Just stop this nonsense right now Do you realize that I've become the laughing-stock because of you? How could I do politics when I can't control my wife? Don't you know that my dream was to be a singer? What kind of a bullshit dream is that? Don't talk like that It might mean nothing to you but it's a precious dream for me It's a dream I put aside in order to look after you and our daughter Must've been so difficult to take care of me against your will So I'll give you a comfortable life Just shut up live quietly No! I don't want to live like that while you live your dream, my dream means nothing? Why do I always have to give in and sacrifice? My parents didn't give birth to me so I can sacrifice my life for you You know what Yeon-woo said? She doesn't want to live like me Do you want our daughter to sacrifice her whole life for a man? Without any dreams or hope? I don't want her to live like that You're right In the end, I'm the bad guy I got the answer You go your way And I'll go mine I'm sorry I'll take full responsibility Hey It's a blockbluster what? Everyone's gonna dig into this scandal Dancing Queens whose husband is the mayoral candidate How about it? Isn't itjuicy? Then... Proceed with the broadcast as planned But that would be too cruel for Venus That's not for you to worry about Proceed no matter what Can't get a better publicity stunt Don't mess up I tried hard to find evidence but this is all we have It's not a contract But evidence that our family has been living in this neighborhood for many decades If you become the mayor Please think of the weak and helpless like us and help us I'm not a backup dancer anymore what happened to Hwang? Did he resign? I think he'll push ahead Idiot! He hasn't learned his lessons yet Proceed as planned Hold on tight we don't know what they're capable of Three, two, one. Go! We're here at Democratic Party candidate nomination for Seoul mayoral office we're counting on you The candidates are now making their entrance with candidate Kang who has a strong support base and candidate Hwang with overwhelming support we expect a close match There will be an announcement from candidate Cho Myeong-gu My beloved party members For unification of our party and upcoming election I give support to the respected candiate Kang and hereby resign from party nomination No kidding! What's gonna happen to Hwang? My respected fellow party members Before I make my speech I wish to disclose an important fact Please take a look at this photo This embarrassing character is no other than the wife of the respected candidate Hwang It was hard for me to believe as well - Camera 1 on Hwang! - It's undisputable truth Her group just released an album and will debut as sexy singer-dancers In a democratic country, being a singer may not be a problem But please take a look at this photo Number 2! Close-up on the photo! According to a source, candidate Hwang's wife is inappropriately involve d with the director of her agency This is what I'd call a trashy TV drama Hwang's wife is debuting as a dance singer and is having an affair with her company's representative May be she's coming here today Next rehearsal - Yes - Please get ready. Up next Next is Dancing Queen Yes They say "one must govern his home before he can rule the country" How can someone who can't govern his wife govern 10 million citizens? Kang Phil-jae! Kang Phil-jae! Candidate Kang has just concluded his speech It will be interesting to see how candidate Hwang who's personal life has been attacked will respond Candidate Hwang will make a speech Just read the script Don't mention your wife Hwang Jung-min! Hwang Jung-min! Hwang Jung-min! Hwang Jung-min! Hwang Jung-min! Step down! Resign! Resign! Get down from there! Where do you think you're going? Get down Dear respected Seoul citizen s and party members I'm Democratic Party mayoral candidate Hwang Jung-min Bring your wife to sing! As someone new to politics Thank you for your advice and warm support Yeah! Bring your wife! The reason I want to run for the mayor's office is to speak out for complaints of 10 million citizens of Seoul what's that? Grab him! Get him! Hurry and grab him! Are you okay? I'm sorry I'm so sorry for dragging you into this shit bucket Candidate Hwang's speech has been interrupted due to an attack We don't know whether he's been injured But will let you know as soon as we have confirmation Let me repeat that Candidate Hwang was just attacked by an unidentified assailant We don't know whether he's been injured But will let you know as soon as we have confirmation Hey! Start the engine I'm fine The reason I want to run for the mayor's office is to speak out for complaints of Yes, it's true My wife loves to dance and sing During college she was known as The Madonna of Shinchon She is not an unfaithful wife as candidate Kang has alleged Although she looks like a party girl when I was hospitalized after getting beat up by a club She took my urine and feces Cut the crap! Just step down Be quiet! Let's hear what he has to say And although I didn't make a cent during She didn't complain at all She worked her ass off at a gym to support her family My wife's dream was to be a singer A dance singer But she couldn't realize her dream Because she met an incompetent husband like me I now feel the pain of not getting the support or trust of a single soul But I did the same to my wife last night "Don't embarrass your husband Quit now!" "I'll let you live comfortably So just shut up and live quietly" That's what I said to my wife last night My wife is a human being before being the wife of a politician She is not my belonging How can I govern over Seoul citizens when I can't govern my own family? A family is... A family is not something to govern I believe the same goes for Seoul citizens They shouldn't be governed But family to find hope with while holding hands Careful I feel relieved now Thank you for supporting me until now To become the mayor I made my wife give up her dream As a husband who is ashamed of his wife who sacrificed her life for him I don't think I'm qualified as a candidate How can I be a mayor of 10 million when I can't earn the trust of my family? Therefore as of this moment, I declare my... No! She's his wife Close-up on her! What the? It's mom what? Are you nuts? What are you doing here? Why are you giving up? You gotta fight to the end what should I do? Continue shooting You told me to quit I didn't I said let's do what we like when did I tell you to give up? Will you give up on me? I'm doing this not to give up on you I won't give up on you either So don't give up! A guy weeping How shameful! I do whatever my wife tells me to do Like an idiot But if I am an idiot I want to be an idiot who tries till the end I'll fight till the end Please give me your support I'm Hwang Jung-min, candidate for the mayor's office of Seoul Metropolitan City She's my friend what about the broadcast? What happened to the show? We can make it if we leave now This is chaos rather than a party nomination what does he think he's doing? An election can't be this trashy Trashy dramas usually get high ratings Love you I love you Though the world may not be on your side I'll stand beside you Love you I love you Though the world may not be on your side I'll stand beside to you when nobody calls Song for nobody Don't think sad thoughts Everyone has scars when you think you're alone Remember that I'm here when having a hard time Call my name, oh Don't hesitate Call my name, oh At least I love you I love you Though the world may not be on your side I'll be beside you No one reaching out Nothing visible in this darkness Don't doubt yourself Trust me and step ahead when you want to throw in the towel Remember that you're the star when tired Call my name, oh Don't hesitate Call my name, oh At least I love you I love you Though the world may not be on your side I'll be beside you Through this darkness To give you light The only Always think of me I'll believe in you I love you so when tired Call my name, oh Don't hesitate Call my name, oh At least I love you I love you Though the world may not be on your side I'll be by your side when you're tired Call my name Thank you I'll work my ass off for you all Please step up candidate Cho You must give pleasure to our citizens Number 2 candidate Cho Myeong-gu Yeah, that's good what the hell? Cut this crap! Candidate Kang Please step in the middle
