 

                        Whether I shall turn out to be the hero of my own life, or whether that station will be held by anybody else, this story must show. (CHURCH BELL TOLLS) To begin my life at the very beginning, I was a posthumous child. My father left this world three months before I entered it. I was born in the small village of Blunderstone on Friday at 12 o'clock at night, though not before my mother received a somewhat less expected visitor. Peggotty! (KNOCKING) Can I help you, ma'am? - Mrs David Copperfield, I think. - Who wants her, I'd like to know? - Miss Betsey Trotwood, you've heard of her I dearsay. - My poor husband's aunt. Now you see her. You're nothing but a baby yourself. - My nephew spoiled you, I suppose. - Mr Copperfield was very good... Oh, no, don't do that, don't do that! Come, come! I opposed to my nephew's marriage. I told him you were too young. He ignored me. Fancied himself in love, I suppose. - My husband is dead. If you dare... - You may leave us. Now, when do you expect? Soon. I feel so frightened. I'm sure I shall die. Die? Certainly not! Have some tea. Where's that girl of yours? - What does she call herself? - Peggotty. Peggotty? Do you mean a human being has gone into a Christian church and had herself named Peggotty? It's her surname - her Christian name is Clara, the same as mine. Your mistress needs some tea. - She's feeling a little unwell. - She's having the baby! Shall I send for the doctor, ma'am? Now, from the moment of the birth of your girl... - Perhaps boy. - It'll be a girl! Don't contradict. I shall be her godmother. You shall call her Betsey Trotwood Copperfield. And this Betsy Trotwood must make no mistakes in life. No worthless man will trifle with HER affections! Oh, stop that, now. You'll make yourself ill. That will do neither you nor my goddaughter any good at all. (CLARA CRIES OUT) (CLARA CRIES OUT IN PAIN) (HER CRIES CONTINUE) Well. - We are progressing, ma'am. Slowly. - Bah! (CLARA CRIES OUT IN PAIN) My congratulations. All is now over and the baby is safely delivered. - Good. How is she? - Mrs Copperfield is comfortable. - Yes, but how is SHE? - Who? The baby, for heaven's sake! Oh, she is a he, Miss Trotwood. - What? - The baby is a boy. A boy? A boy! A boy! Ahhh! A boy! My great aunt's experience of men had not been a happy one. The arrival of one more was the final straw. She vanished like a discontented fairy, seemingly never to return. My early childhood was blissfully happy. The days and years slipped by in a warm glow of contentment. I grew up secure in the certainty that my beautiful mother loved only me, while Peggotty's loyalty and devotion were as constant as the tides. "My next work was to view the country and seek a proper place "for my habit... habita..." - Habitation, Davy. - Habitation. "Where I was I yet knew not..." - Davy should be in bed now, ma'am. - Oh, please, just a little longer! Oh, go on! Only five minutes, mind! Put a bulb in there. That's it. No, not upside down! That way! But a chill wind was rising. The golden summer of my innocence was about to be blown away. Davy, say good morning to Mr Murdstone. - Davy! - He doesn't wish to share you. I understand his devotion. Come, let us shake hands and be the best friends in the world. I like his spirit. Until tomorrow, Mrs Copperfield. Davy, I'm disappointed in you. Where are your manners? A stranger makes an agreeable change, I suppose, ma'am. A very agreeable change indeed. (PEGGOTTY) I was only thinking of Davy. Am I to be told that I am wanting in affection for my precious boy? - Nobody ever said such a thing! - Yes, you did! Am I a cruel, selfish, bad mama? I don't love you at all, do I, Davy? Of course your mama loves you, Master Davy. I only said... Master Davy, how should you like to go along with me and spend a fortnight at my brother's at Yarmouth? - Wouldn't that be a treat? - Won't Mama mind? She can't live by herself. Why, I'll bet a guinea she'll let us go! Oh, you'll love the seaside, Davy! There's the beach and the boats, all sorts of things! Let's ask her! It touches me deeply to think how eager I was to leave my happy home and to remember how little I suspected what I was leaving behind for ever. Another pie, Mr Barkis? Whoa! - Did she make them pastries? - She does all our cooking. Do she, though? No sweethearts, I believe. Oh, no, she never had a sweetheart. - Here's my Ham! - Ah-ha! Come on, then, six-foot! (HAM) Yon's our house, Master Davy. - You don't live in a boat, Ham? - In a manner of speaking. You're most welcome, Master Copperfield. You'll find us rough, sir, but you'll find us ready. There you go. Mr Peggotty, did you call your son Ham 'cause you live in a kind of ark like Noah and his son did? I couldn't rightly say how he came by it. His father gave him that name. I thought YOU were his father. - My brother Joe was his father. - Is your brother dead, Mr Peggotty? Drowndead. But Little Emily, she is your daughter, isn't she? My brother-in-law Tom was her father. - Dead, Mr Peggotty? - Drowndead. - Haven't you any children? - Not him. He ain't married. Why, isn't Mrs Gummidge your wife? (MRS GUMMIDGE WAILS) Mrs Gummidge lost her husband a few year back. Drowndead, Mr Peggotty? - She gets low when she thinks on it. - And she DO! Pretty often! I'm a lone, lorn creature! I'd better go into the workhouse and die and be a riddance! - Cheer up! - My troubles make me contrary. I wish I could be hardened to 'em, but I ain't. - I make the house uncomfortable! - I'm certain you don't. - I do! - She's thinkin' of the old 'un. Don't you worry, Davy. I never knowed anyone who so enjoyed being miserable. (DAVID) My father is dead, too. I know. Do you mind? I never met him. - Mr Peggotty must be a good man. - Better than good. If I was a lady, I'd give him a waistcoat with diamond buttons, a large gold watch and a bagful of money. Emily! Emily, take care! I am only frightened when the wind blows. Then I lie awake thinking I hear Uncle Dan and Ham out at sea crying for help. That's why I want to be a lady. I could keep them safe on land. Her words echo to me down the years. They haunt me still. The days sped by as if time had not grown up yet, but were a child, too, and always at play. I was delighted with my new friends. Dan Peggotty treated me as one of his family and I grew to love his open-hearted kindness. Ham was like the best and most heroic of older brothers. And of course, in my childish way, I was completely in love with Little Emily. When the day came to leave Yarmouth, I realised that for two weeks I had scarcely thought of my home at all. Let's always be friends, Emily. I'd like that, but you'll be a gentleman one day. - Come, Davy, Mr Barkis is waiting. - I'll write as often as I can. No sweethearts, you say? When you get home, tell her Barkis is willin'. She'll be awake in a moment. You could tell her yourself. Barkis is willin'. That's the message - Barkis is willin'. - Master Davy, wait! - What's the matter? I should've told you before... Mama - where is she? Not dead, too? - She's not dead, Peggotty?! - No, Master Davy! Davy! I have a surprise for you! Can you guess what it is? You have a new father. Well, Davy boy, how do you do? You've prejudiced him against me! What do you mean by it? Lord forgive you, Mrs Copperfield! Davy, you naughty boy! It's enough to distract me! Clara, my love, have you forgotten? Firmness, my dear. What name did you just call your mistress? Mrs Copperfield... same as always... sir. She has a new name now. Murdstone. Oblige me by remembering that in future. You may go. Go you below, my love. David and I will be down together presently. David... if I have an obstinate dog or horse to deal with, what do you think I do? I beat him. I make him wince and smart. I say to myself, "I'll conquer that fellow". And even if it costs him every drop of blood he has... I'll do it. Do we understand each other? Good. Now, wash your face... and come downstairs directly. Miss Jane Murdstone, sir. - My dear Jane. - Edward. Well... - How are you, sister-in-law? - Quite well, thank you. - Is this your boy? - It is. Generally speaking, I don't like boys. You're too pretty and thoughtless to have duties that can be undertaken by me. Be so good as to give me your keys. I will attend to the housekeeping. - I could have copies made... - No. Kindly give me the keys! My dear, I returned from my walk to find the parlour's been rearranged. My sister considered there to be too much clutter. I agreed. Perhaps, but I do think I might've been consulted before any change. It is very hard in my own house... - My own house, Clara? - OUR own house. It is hard that I may not have a word to say. - I'm sure I managed very well before. - Edward, I go tomorrow! Jane Murdstone, be silent. I'm sure I do not want anybody to go. I'm obliged to anyone who assists me. - Only... - Let there be an end to this! - I go tomorrow... - Will you be silent?! Clara, I took satisfaction when we married in the thought of infusing your character with firmness. Jane is good enough to help and yet she is met with base ingratitude. Don't accuse me of that. I have many faults, but no one has accused me of ingratitude. I warn you, Clara, this shabby response chills and alters my feeling for you. Don't be cold, Edward. I can't live with coldness. I have so many defects, I know. It's good of you with your strength of mind to correct them for me. Jane, I make no objection to anything. Let us hear no more of it. David... go to bed. I observe you have an attachment to low company. Do not associate with servants! Mistress Peggotty will not help you in the respects you need improvement. - Have you learned your lessons? - I think so, Mama. I fear the Greeks even when they bring gifts. Timeo... danaos... ...et... ...et... - Well. - Timeo... ...danaos... - Timeo danaos et dona ferentis - as everyone knows! - Oh, Davy... - Don't say "Oh, Davy"! Be firm! He either knows his lessons or not! - He does not know them! - Then send him away until he does! I tell you, Clara, I've often been flogged myself. - It did me no harm. - To be sure. Of course not. Now, David, you must be more careful today. Suppose I go into a cheesemonger's shop and buy 5,000 cheeses at fourpence-halfpenny each, how much do I spend? - You know arithmetic, don't you? - Yes, sir. See how your laziness grieves your mother? No! No! O-Only I think I'm not quite well, my dear Edward. Come, David... your answer, please. How much do I spend? You will defy me no more, sir! Please don't hurt me! I've tried to learn! - Please don't hurt me! - Keep still! Quiet! (KEY TURNS IN LOCK) If you please, Miss Murdstone, how long am I to be kept here? I was left alone for seven days and nights. I believe I might've gone mad but for the books my father had left me. In their pages, I was freed from the prison. In my solitude, I grew to love their characters as I loved those nearest and dearest to me. (Davy?) - (Davy?) - Peggotty? Oh, Peggotty! Hush, dear. Be as quiet as a mouse or the cats'll hear us. - What is to become of me, Peggotty? - School - Near London. - When? Tomorrow. Listen to me, my darlin' boy. Don't lose heart... and never forget how much your Peggotty loves you! Is Mama very angry with me, Peggotty? No... no, not very. - Shan't I see her? - Tomorrow. I'll take care of your mama, Davy dear, I promise. I won't leave her, not ever. As long as Clara Peggotty draws breath, you and your mama will always have a friend! Don't cry, Peggotty! I ain't cryin'! Your mama gave me these for you, Davy. Goodbye... my darling boy. Goodbye. - Please, ma'am, it's too cramped! - Nonsense! If you didn't fidget so much, there'd be plenty of room! - Fowl, madam? - Mmmm! Sir, where are the other boys? There ain't no others for a month. You're sent early as a punishment. This is the gentleman whose teeth are to be filed? THIS IS THE BOY! I have the 'appiness of knowing Mr Murdstone. He knows me and I know him. - Do you know me, sir?! - Not yet, sir. - Not yet, but you will soon! - YOU WILL SOON! I'll tell you what I am. I'm a Tartar. - What am I? - A Tartar. When I say I'll have a thing done, I will have it done! HE WILL HAVE IT DONE! What do you think of this, young snapper? - Is there a dog, sir? - A dog? - It's not a dog... it's a boy! - A BOY! Show this badge conspicuous or you'll catch it, all right! I don't take kindly to biters! Now you've begun to know me, my young friend, you may go! Leave him alone! - How did this come about? - I bit my stepfather. I think it's a damn shame. - Now, boys, this is a new term. - A NEW TERM! Come fresh up to your studying, I advise you, for I come fresh up to the punishment! This boy prefers biting to studying. What shall I do with him? No answer? Then I'll show you. Put your hands out, Copperfield. HANDS OUT! So you like biting, do you? How do you like THIS for a tooth? Is it a sharp tooth? Does it bite deep? Does it cut? Stings a bit, don't it? - A bit. - You'll survive. - I think so, sir. - You're fresh as a daisy! My name is Steerforth. There's no need to "sir" me. - What money have you got? - About seven shillings. Give it to me to take care of. At least, you can if you like. - Want to spend anything now? - No. What about a feast - currant wine, cakes? If you think a feast the best idea, Steerforth. I thought I had never met anyone so noble and generous. I was bound to him ever after for the kindness he showed me. (ALL) Copperfield! Nolumus, non vultis, nolunt. Nolo, non vis, not vult. Nolumus, non voltis, nolunt. - Future imperative. - FUTURE IMPERATIVE! Let them be about to be unwilling. - Noluntote... - VISITORS FOR COPPERFIELD! - Mr Peggotty! Ham! - Davy boy! As we were sailing up to Gravesend, Peggotty said to inquire for Davy. She said your mama sends you her deepest love. Those were the exact words. - Is Mama well. - Pretty well, I believe. If Mama is still angry, tell her I'm sorry I hurt her. She ain't angry - ain't nothing to forgive. Steerforth! Here's Mr Peggotty and Ham from Yarmouth! - I am glad to see you. How are you? - Tell them Steerforth is very kind. I'll tell 'em. It'll do 'em the world of good to hear it. Goodbye. The rest of that long tedious half-year is a jumble in my recollection of the daily strife and struggle of our lives. I had nightmares that the Murdstones would keep me here for the holidays, but finally I learned I was sent for and it was time, at last, to go home. Any boy still here in one minute will be thrashed! THRASHED! I gave your message to Peggotty, Mr Barkis. - Nothing came of it? No answer? - Was one expected? When a man says he's willin', he's waitin' for an answer. Have you told her so, Mr Barkis? W-Would you like me to do it? What's the name? Christian name, I mean. Clara. Her Christian name is Clara. You tell Clara Peggotty Barkis is waitin' for his answer. (CLARA SINGS SOFTLY TO HERSELF) # Angels keep their watch on you, my darling... # Davy... my own boy! He is your brother. Betsey Trotwood wouldn't be pleased to see another boy. What put that peculiar person in your head? - Do you want a second visit? - Lord forbid! Peggotty, Barkis asked me to tell you that he was waiting for your answer. - What is it? - Oh, drat the man! He wants to marry me. - It'd be a good match, wouldn't it? - Don't ask me! He's never said a word to me about it. There you go. Stay with me, Peggotty. It will not be for long perhaps. Me? Leave you? Not for all the world... though it would make SOMEONE happy. How unkind you are. Don't be so hard on Miss Murdstone. You know she only does things out of the best intentions. Don't let us fall out, Peggotty. I couldn't bear it. You're my true friend if I have any in this world. Do you see? He's got it! He's got the baby! Davy, go on. I beg your pardon, sir. I am sorry for what I did. I hope you will forgive me. I forgive you, David. Whether there is forgiveness in a higher place, I cannot say. The holidays lagged away. What a blank space I seemed. Sit up straight! Which everybody overlooked, yet was in everybody's way. Elbows. The manners of this boy! Davy.! Davy... wait! Davy! Let me look at you once more. Go on now. After all, we shall see each other before long, shan't we? So I lost her. I saw her afterwards in my sleep - a silent presence near my bed looking at me with the same intent face, holding up her baby in her arms. COPPERFIELD IS TO REPOR TO MR CREAKLE! Copperfield... ...I have something to tell you. You are too young to know how the world changes every day... ...and how the people in it pass away. But we all have to learn it eventually. When you left home to come here, was everyone well. Was your mother well. Was she? Was she well. Yes, sir. Because it grieves me to tell you that I hear that your mother is very ill She's very dangerously ill In fact, she's dead. She was never well... ...for a long time. She sank a little every day until she knew she was dying and her little boy, too. On the last night, she... she kissed me and said... "Let them lay my baby in my arms and bury us together." The sun was rising when... ...when she turned and said... "Peggotty... put me nearer to you for your face seems far off." And I put my arm under her head to hold her up... ...and she smiled then... ...closed her eyes... ...and never woke again. You must be measured for mourning clothes. - You brought your shirts home? - Yes, all my clothes. Your services are no longer required, Mistress Peggotty. You may take a month's warning. (CHURCH BELL TOLLS) Don't drag your feet, David. You will walk with me. Family only. You should be dead, not them! Why didn't He take you instead? With Peggotty's imminent departure, there would be no one in the house to love me any more, but for her sake, when the day came, I hid my loneliness and fear. What should you think if I were to get married? - To Mr Barkis? - Yes. You would have the horse and cart to bring you over to see me. - You could come for nothing. - The sense! - What name did I write in the cart? - Clara Peggotty. What name would it be if I should write it next time? Clara Peggotty again? Clara Peggotty Barkis! David. This is a world for action, not for moping in. - As YOU do. - Leave it to me. It is a world for action, especially for a young boy of your disposition which requires correcting. Stubbornness won't do! Stubbornness must be crushed! Education is costly and even if I could afford it, I feel it would not be advantageous to you to be kept in school Before you is a fight with the world. The sooner you begin it the better. You are going to London, David, to begin life on your own account. It's six shillings a week, rising to seven if you prove yourself useful - Mick will show you the ropes. - Quite the young gentleman! We'll have none of your airs or I'll throw you in the cellar with the rats! You'll have to be quicker than that, little gent! Copperfield? Am I addressing the bearer of the name Copperfield? Yes, sir. Wilkins Micawber... ...at your service. I hope I see you well Your esteemed stepfather, a man of business like myself, has charged me with providing you with suitable quarters. - You mean I am to say with you? - In short, yes. As your peregrinations in this city have not as yet been extensive and that you might have difficulty penetrating the mysteries of the modern Babylon in the direction of the City Road, I place myself at your disposal In short, in case you get lost, I've come to take you home. Would you care to join me? COME ON, OPEN UP, MICAWBER! PAY ME NOW! I'll keep coming back until you pay me, you swindling old... ...the law on yer! YOU POMPOUS OLD FOOL! I'LL BE BACK! Here's young Copperfield, my dear, to share our familial habitation. You are very welcome, though when I lived at home with my late mama and papa, I never thought I should have to take in a lodger. Such considerations must give way in times of pecuniary embarrassment at least until something turns up. My little princess! Mr Micawber's difficulties are almost overwhelming. Whether it is possible to bring him through them, I don't know, but I never shall desert him! (KNOCKING) Open up, Micawber! (MICAWBER)... let me do it! I can stand it no longer! My creditors will not relent! It is inhuman! Let me do the fatal deed and forget the wretch once known as Wilkins Micawber ever lived! He will do away with himself - the father of my children! - I think it is only a scratch. - Has he gone? - Not dead! - My love! (CREDITOR) I'll be back! He's gone! Copperfield, my brush with mortality makes me hungry. A bag of muffins, if you please, and, pray, join us for a modest repast. What shall I do with these, Mr Micawber? Negotiate, my dear Copperfield, negotiate. - Not much call for this. - I am to ask five shillings. Five shilling?! I'd be robbing my family if I offered two! (MICAWBER COUGHS) It ain't plate, is it? - The best silver. - Three-and-six. I can't go lower than four. We'll trade! Are you a sporting man? - Musical? - Stand firm, Copperfield. I'll put myself in the poorhouse if I go on like this! All right, four shilling, then. Ahh! My dear young Copperfield, until something turns up, which I am, I may say, hourly expecting, I have nothing to bestow on you but advice. My advice is never do tomorrow what you can do today. Procrastination is the thief of time! Collar him! I do not deny, at times, Micawber has kept me in the dark as to his liabilities, but I never will desert him - no use asking! ...I'm not, Mrs Micawber. He is the father of my children, the husband of my affections! - I NEVER will desert Mr Micawber! - What's the matter? - I never will desert you! - My life, I'm aware of it. Be calm, Emma, be calm. I propose a toast... to our new guest. You have shown a precocious grasp of commerce and I am convinced, under my tuition of course, that you will, in short, go far. To Copperfield - not just a lodger... a friend! As the long, tedious days in the factory passed, no words could express the agony of my soul My father's books had inspired me with the ambition to write, but now I felt that all my dreams had been crushed. The Micawbers'friendship was my only respite, but even that was brought to an end by their misfortunes. Something will turn up... ...I'm quite certain of it. - Where are you taking him? - King's Bench prison. How can he pay his debts when he's locked up and can't earn anything? The sun is setting. I shan't live to see another dawn. Think kindly of me. I never will desert you! We will not be overcome! - Don't worry, I'll look after them. - God bless you! I resolved to visit Mr Micawber as soon as I could. My heart raced as I approached the gate of the infamous King's Bench. I think I expected to find Mr Micawber clapped in irons in some dreadful dungeon. The reality of a debtor's prison was rather different, though no less terrible in its own way. Let the fate of the miserable wretch you see before you be a warning. Annual income - 20. Annual expenditure - 19.19.06. Result - happiness. Annual income - 20. Annual expenditure - 20.00.06. Result - misery! The blossom is blighted, the leaf is withered! You are, in short, flattened! Months passed with no sign of a release for Mr Micawber. I went to the prison every day and did what I could for him, but I had barely enough to feed myself. I thought you might be hungry. You have... no close family of your own, Copperfield? - Beyond Mr Murdstone, I mean. - He hates me. I have no one else. An aunt in Dover hasn't seen me since I was a baby and I don't think she'd want to meet me now. My advice is seek her out. She may be overjoyed to reacquaint herself with you. Wilkins! Our debts are settled! You are a free man again! The Lord Chancellor's acknowledged a miscarriage of justice! I wrote to him personally. My family's remembered their obligations. Not, in short, before time. They think Micawber should exert his talents in our home town of Plymouth. I shall never think of our period of difficulty without remembering you. God bless you. I never will forget you. Farewell, my young friend. Farewell Remember, Copperfield. Annual income - 20. Annual expenditure - 20.00.06. Result - misery! With my friends gone, I understood that my fate lay in my own hands. A great resolution began to form within me. I had decided to run away. I'd go into the country to find the only relation I had in the world - my aunt, Betsey Trotwood. - 15 shilling. - I need a sovereign for the coach. I'll throw in these valuable items out of the kindness of my heart. They must be worth another 10 shillings at least. Five. Done. Excuse me, sir. Will you take this to the coach station for sixpence? - Give me my money! - Let go! Or, by God, I'll rip your body open! - Stop, thief! - Get out of the way! STOP! STOP! With nothing left in the world, I now had no choice but to continue my journey to Dover on foot. Pardon me, sir, but do you know where Miss Betsey Trotwood lives? Go away! Go along! No boys here! Go on! If you please, ma'am. If you please, Aunt, I am your nephew David Copperfield. I have been very unhappy since Mama died, and my stepfather hates me! He made me work in a horrible place! Janet! Oh, mercy! Oh, mercy on us, Janet! Mr Dick, you've heard me mention David Copperfield. David Copperfield... Oh, yes, certainly. David! Well, this is his boy, his son. He'd be like his father if he were not so like his mother, too! - He's run away! - Run away? - His sister never would have! - I've no sister. You came in her place or this would not have happened! - You think not? - Of course not! She would have lived with me! We would have been devoted! Don't stand there wool-gathering! Nobody has the brains you have! Here you see young David. The question I put to you is what shall I do with him? - I want some very sound advice. - What shall you do with him? Why, um, if I were you, I should... I should... If I were you, I should wash him! - Mr Dick sets us right! - I'll heat the water. J-Janet! Donkeys! Donkeys! Get off this green at once! Turn round! No! Don't! I will have no donkeys trespassing on my green! Please, ma'am... Ugh! Burn them! Whatever possessed your poor mother to marry again, I cannot conceive. - Perhaps she fell in love. - Why did she do that?! - Look at what love did for me! - Are you married, Aunt? Was. My husband treated me falsely... ungratefully and cruelly. That's what men do - as far as I can see. Mine nearly broke my fortune and closed my heart for good. He died in India, you know. Trampled by an elephant! Mr Dick... ...would you please go and find this boy some clothes? Wash your face. Ughh! Where have you been, boy? Ughhh! Now, we must consider what is to be done with you, David Copperfield. - I'll have to write to your stepfather. - Will I be given up to him? I don't know anything about that. Perhaps. We shall see. You have committed a very reckless act. Running away is a serious business, you know. What did you mean by coming... here? Poor little fellow. Hah! Phoebus! How does the world go? Come, sit. Here. How did you sleep? Were you comfortable? Don't mention this to anyone, but... it's a mad world - as mad as Bedlam! What are you writing, Mr Dick? It's my life story, my memorial! The problem is King Charles I keeps on trying to make his way in there! It's very unreasonable! Do you recollect the date he had his head cut off? I believe it was 1649, sir. So the books say, but I don't see how it can. If it was so long ago, how could the people have put some of the trouble out of his head after it had been taken off and into... mine? How long has Mr Dick been writing his memorial? Ten years or more, but that don't signify. It keeps him employed. Well... what do you think of him? Your sister Betsey Trotwood wouldn't hesitate. Be as like her as you can. Is he... Is he at all out of his mind? Not a morsel If there's one thing Mr Dick is not, it is mad. He's been called mad by his family, who would've shut him in an asylum. 'Mr Dick is the most friendly, amenable creature in existence. 'I rely on his judgement in all important matters.' Well done! Before long, Mr Murdstone replied to my aunt's letter, saying that he was coming to speak to her himself the following day. (DONKEY BRAYS) Janet! Janet! Donkeys! Janet, donkeys! Donkeys! Go along with you! How dare you trespass, you bold-faced thing! - It is Miss Murdstone. - I will not be trespassed upon! Lead him off, Janet!! Go along with you! Lead him off, Janet! Go away! I don't allow anybody to ride over this turf. I make no exceptions. Your regulation is rather awkward to strangers. This boy, you should know, has a rebellious spirit - a violent temper and intractable disposition. Of all the boys in the world, this is the worst boy. - Strong, Miss Murdstone. - Not too strong for the situation. Indeed? Well, sir? I placed him in a respectable business. He ran away. The facts, I propose, speak for themselves. This business - a blacking factory. If he had been your own boy, you would've put him to it? I have my own opinions as to the best mode of raising this particular boy. - I say no more about them. - I see. - What else do you have to say? - I have come to take him back. I will dispose of him as I think proper. If you seek to impede me in any way, if you step between us now, you do so for ever. What does the boy say? Are you ready to go? Don't make me leave you! They made Mama unhappy! They never cared for me! I want to stay here! Mr Dick... what shall I do with this child? I'd have him measured for a suit of clothes directly! Mr Dick, give me your hand, for your common sense is invaluable! I'll take my chance with the boy. If he is all you say he is, I can do as much for him as you have done. But I don't believe a word of it! - If you were a gentleman... - Stuff and nonsense! How exquisitely polite(!) Overpowering(!) I know the life you led his mother! It was a woeful day when you came - making great eyes at her! - You wouldn't say boo to a goose! - Elegant(!) When you'd made sure of her, you began to train her like a caged bird, teaching her to sing YOUR notes! It's insanity or intoxication! You broke her heart, then punished the boy because of your own guilt! There's the truth! And you and your instrument may make the most of it! Who are you referring to?! Good day, sir, and goodbye! Good day to you, too, madam. If you ride a donkey over my green again, I'll knock your bonnet off and tread upon it! Oh, Mr Dick, you'll consider yourself joint guardian with me of this boy? - I'd be delighted! - He should take the name Trotwood. - Trotwood Copperfield, eh? - Trotwood Copperfield! Trotwood Copperfield! - Why not? - Trotwood Copperfield! Hurrah! (MR DICK) Hooray! Hooray! Flying high! High in the sky! Look at it go! My aunt proposed I should resume my education. I happily agreed. You'll be the smartest boy in the school He will My new school was in Canterbury and it was a somewhat more amiable, scholarly place than Mr Creakle's. I was to board in the house of my aunt's lawyer and agent, her old and trusted friend Mr Wickfield. Is Mr Wickfield at home, Uriah Heep? He is expecting you, Miss Trotwood, if you'll please to walk in. (BETSEY) Trot. I am most grateful to you, Wickfield. I'm sure my nephew will be very happy here. Now, Trot, I must go if I'm to be home before dark. Never be mean in anything. Never be false. Never be cruel Avoid those three vices and I can always be hopeful of you. It's just a little dust in my eye. It's nothing. Come and meet my little housekeeper, Trotwood. Trotwood... this is Agnes, my daughter. She looks after me in every way. She will show you to your room. (WICKFIELD) You see we lead a pretty quiet life here. Quiet and dull, I'm afraid. - Not more dull for me than Agnes. - Than Agnes? - Is it dull for you, Agnes? - Of course not, Papa. She must stay where I can keep her safe. I lost her mother. I lost her too young. - You are tired, Papa. - Yes... yes. I should go to bed now. You are company for us both, Trotwood. It is wholesome to have you here. See to the candles, Agnes. - I hope you are settling in well - Yes, thank you, Mr Heep. I should be honoured if you would call me Uriah. I suppose you are a great lawyer. Me, Master Copperfield? Oh, no. I'm merely a clerk at present. I'm well aware that I am the 'umblest person going. My mother is likewise a very 'umble person and my father's former calling was 'umble - he was a grave-digger. What is he now? He is partaking of glory at present. But still, I have much to be grateful for in Mr Wickfield's offer of articles otherwise not within my means. Perhaps you'll be a partner one day, Uriah. Oh, no, Master Copperfield. Ambition ain't for me. A person like myself had better not... aspire. If he is to get on in life... he must get on 'umbly. I must go home. Mother will be getting uneasy. For though we are so very 'umble... we are much attached to one another. I suppose you'll be stopping here some time? As long as I'm at school Indeed. Then I should think that YOU would come into the business at last. I should most like to write stories one day. A most worthy ambition. I bid you good evening, Master Copperfield. My new school was an excellent place, as different from Mr Creakle's as good from evil The blacking factory life became so strange to me that I began to believe it had never happened. Time steals on unobserved. The years glide by silently and I move from childhood to youth. The boy I was seems no part of me now. I remember him as something left behind upon the road of life. I must go and pack. I leave at first light. Trotwood... I have already done it for you. Thank you. Mr Wickfield, there is a matter that demands your attention. What? Oh... Uriah. Yes, of course. Do not concern yourself. I will look after him. As you have always done. Dear Agnes. As dear to me as my own sister. School days now over, the time had come to find my place in the world. But it was with a lingering sense of unease that I left my childhood home. Walk on! I had never lost my dream of being a writer, but I could hardly ask my aunt to support me in such an ambition, so when she asked me if I should like to be articled as a clerk, I agreed readily. - Something wrong, Aunt? - A cold feeling came over me, Trot. It was a donkey trespassing on my green! I know it! I shouldn't have left Mr Dick alone. His character is not suited to keeping donkeys off. The premium is 1,000? I wish it were a smaller amount. Few men are less mercenary. But I have partners and they have their opinions on the subject. They are immovable on the issue. - I can't let you spend so much. - Trot, you are my adopted son. My one aim is to see you provided for. Good. My position settled, it remained to find somewhere to live. - Lucky you called, Mrs Trotgood. - TrotWOOD. Shan't be able to hold onto these rooms. My last gentleman was delighted with 'em. If he'd had any choice, he'd never have left. It's rather a steep climb, Mrs Crupp. Perhaps so, Mrs Grotwood... ...but consider the benefits of the purity of the air so near the top of the house! Well, it's near the fire escape. That's something. You won't find a sweeter set of rooms for the young gentleman. Peppermint cordial, you understand, for my spasms. The furniture - is it the last occupant's? - It is, ma'am. - What became of him? - He was took ill and... - Yes? Well... he died. - Good God! What did he die of? - Drink and smoke. - Smoke? Not from the chimneys? - No, ma'am. Cigars and pipes. That's not catching at any rate. Young Mr Copperfull will be cared for as though he were my own son! Very well, Mrs Crupp, we'll take the rooms. Your sister Betsey would have been a hardworking and honest girl - Be worthy of her. - As long as I am worthy of you... ...that's enough for me. It was a fine thing to walk about the town with my house key, coming and going without a word to anyone. Yet I felt a part of me had been left behind in Canterbury. I missed Agnes and found only a blank where her smiling face used to be. Alone in the city, I settled down into a state of equable low spirits. Weeks and months slipped away and then, one day, I looked up and everything changed. Ah, Mr Copperfield! This is my daughter Dora and her friend Miss Julia Mills recently returned from Paris. Miss Spenlow. - Have YOU ever been in Paris? - Paris? In France. No, never. I hope you'll go soon. You would like it. My daughter's holding a picnic to celebrate her birthday. - Perhaps you'd care to join us. - L-I would be delighted. Excellent. All was over in a moment. I had fulfilled my destiny. I was a captive and a slave. I loved Dora Spenlow... to distraction.! (BETSEY) How is she.? (DR CHILLIP) She is a he. (BETSEY) What.? (DR CHILLIP) The baby is a boy. A boy? A boy! (DAN) You're most welcome, Master Copperfield. You'll find us rough, but you'll find us ready. (YOUNG DAVID) Let's always be friends, Emily. (YOUNG EMILY) I'd like that, but you'll be a gentleman one day. Argh! (CREAKLE) So you like biting, do you.? (STEERFORTH) Stings, don't it.? (YOUNG DAVID) A bit. You're as fresh as a daisy. My name is Steerforth, by the way. There's no need to "sir" me. (CREAKLE) It grieves me to tell you that your mother is very ill She is very dangerously ill In fact, she's dead. (PEGGOTTY) Listen to me, my darling boy. Don't lose heart, and never forget how much your Peggotty loves you. (MICAWBER) I am convinced that you will, in short, go far. To Copperfield. Not just a lodger - a friend. I never will forget you. (BETSEY) You broke her heart, then punished the boy, because of your own guilt! Oh, Mr Dick. You'll consider yourself joint guardian with me of this boy. I think perhaps he should take the name Trotwood. (MR DICK) Trotwood Copperfield.! (BETSEY) Trotwood Copperfield.! Perhaps you'll be a partner in Wickfield's business one day. Oh, no, Master Copperfield. Ambition ain't for me. A person like myself had better not aspire. Do not concern yourself. I will look after him. (DAVID) As you have always done. (SPENLOW) My daughter is holding a picnic next Saturday. Perhaps you'd care to join us.? Oh... Irresistible, Mr Copperfull My new life had begun. I was independent, a young man making his way in the world. But what did any of this mean without Dora.? I was determined to win her heart. I knew my happiness depended on it. Miss Spenlow. In honour of your birthday... What a dear bouquet! They're beautiful flowers, Mr Copperfield. I thought them beautiful until I saw you. Come. Join us. (DORA) # Des jeunes filles si belles # Des gar? Ons vifs et joyeux # Dansant tous ensemble tra-la-la-la-la-la # Prenez-moi la main, allons sous les arbres # Cherchons la musique, dansons avec joie # La douce nuit est tombee la lune vient de monter # Dansons dans la foret tra-la-la-la-la-la # Little had been said, but I was filled with the hope that some vital understanding had been reached between us. For the next few days, greatly to Mrs Crupp's discomfort, I lived on nothing but Dora and coffee. Skittles, Mr Copperfull When there's a young lady in the case, skittles is healthy. Diverts the mind, does you good. Oh... I satisfied my appetite by writing her numerous letters, hoping that she would detect the desperate passion that lay beneath their formal exterior. Thankfully, for my sanity, I was at last distracted by an invitation to join Agnes at a London party. Trotwood! Agnes! How wonderful to receive your invitation. We see you so rarely these days. My dear sister, I've so much to tell you about what I've been doing. Uriah. How are you? Much obliged for your condescension to an 'umble person, Master Copperfield. Take no notice of me. I am invisible. Things have changed since you left, Trotwood. Papa is to make Uriah his partner. - But he's not to be trusted! - Uriah has made himself indispensable. I have a good mind to... Promise me you'll do nothing to offend Uriah. You fell in love on the spot. More than that. I completely and utterly adore her. But what about you, Agnes? Have you no admirers to tell me about? Of course not. I have no time for anything like that. Have you seen the new play at Covent Garden? (STEERFORTH) A miserable business! (DAVID) Steerforth! You don't remember me. David Copperfield. My God! Little Copperfield! - I'm overjoyed to see you. - You haven't changed a bit, Daisy. This is Miss Wickfield, an old friend. Delighted. You have the prettiest girl in the place on your arm, Daisy. Why do you call him "Daisy"? Merely a nickname from school You don't mind, do you, Daisy? Not in the least. I'm staying at my mother's. You must call on me. I want to know what you've been doing. I feel as though you're my property. Of all people! What luck. Sometimes it is wiser to leave the past alone. Perhaps you shouldn't go to see him. Why not? He's the best friend I ever had in the world. Going home, Master Copperfield? Indeed, Uriah. Perhaps you would care to join me for some coffee? Oh, really, Master... I mean MisterCopperfield. I'm sure you wouldn't want a 'umble person like me in your house. I wouldn't ask you if I didn't. Do you remember saying to me once that perhaps I should become a partner in Mr Wickfield's business one day? What a prophet you have shown yourself, Mr Copperfield. I don't suppose I really thought it likely. Oh, who would have? But the 'umblest persons may be the instruments of good. Mr Wickfield is the worthiest of men, but, oh, how imprudent he has been. - Has he been imprudent? - If anyone else had been in my place, Mr Wickfield would have been under his thumb by now. Without me, there would have been loss and disgrace, and Mr Wickfield knows it. Did you think Miss Agnes looked very beautiful tonight? I thought her looking as she always does, superior to everyone around her. Thank you. Thank you very much for that. Why should you thank me? You will not think the worse of my 'umbleness if I make you a little confidence, Mr Copperfield? Of course not. The image of Miss Agnes has been in my breast for years. Oh, with what pure affection do I love the ground she walks on! Does she know of these feelings? Oh, no! Oh, dear, no! You see, I'm just emerging from my lowly station, but I rest my hope on my usefulness to her father. She's so much attached to him, she may come, on his account, to be kind to me. If you'll keep my secret and not go against me with my Agnes, I will take it as a particular favour. You wouldn't wish to make unpleasantness. Who knows what the consequences might be? (CLOCK STRIKES) Dear me. One o'clock. My boarding house will be locked by now. Dear Agnes. Too loving and good for anyone I could think of. Was it possible she was reserved to be the wife of such a wretch as this.? You walk at a somewhat lively pace, Mr Copperfield. I wouldn't want you to miss your coach. I'll be back with the law next time, Micawber! Mr Micawber! Open up, it's Copperfield! Mr Micawber! It's David Copperfield! (MICAWBER) Is it possible? Have I again the pleasure of beholding the infant scourge of the pawnbroking profession? Come in, come in. Mr Heep. Any friend of Copperfield's is a friend of Wilkins Micawber. (MICAWBER) My dear! There is a gentleman here who wishes to be presented to you! Copperfield, come to renew his acquaintance with you, my love. Lord, can it really be? Oh, what happy memories of my youth! Oh, here! Oh, I... You may perhaps have surmised that Mrs Micawber is in a state of health which renders it not improbable that there will be soon be an addition to the infantine group. In short, she is expecting. It is a happy event, though one that strains Mr Micawber's already depleted resources. But I know that he will, as always, rise to the challenge. We must celebrate. Will you come to dinner next week? Oh! A noble and generous proposition. If I had listened to Agnes's advice, if I had never taken up Steerforth's invitation, many honest lives would have continued untouched by tragedy. But I was blind to her wisdom then, as I was blind to so many things, and it was with nothing but joy in my heart that I went to visit my old friend at the house he shared with his mother and her companion, Rosa Dartle. James has told you he is an Oxford man now, Mr Copperfield? I am sure he will make you proud and take a high degree. My dear Daisy, I doubt whether I shall bother to take a degree at all Don't torment me, James. You know you will There is no better mind in the whole college. You must forgive Mother. She is quite horribly vain about me. But you give her every reason to be, do you not? We hardly see you, and surely that can only be because you work so hard? Ah, good, the claret. Daisy, this is Littimer, my manservant. I'm delighted to make your acquaintance, sir. I trust I find you well tonight. Very well, thank you. How will you spend your holiday, Mr Copperfield? I intend to visit my old nurse. I haven't seen her in years. Her brother lives in a boat on Yarmouth Sands. You remember him. He and his nephew visited me at Creakle's once. I think I have some recollection. Rustic types, weren't they? Their home is a magical place. You really ought to see it. Ought I? Well, why not? I have nothing else very pressing. I'll come with you. - Do you mean it? - Certainly! It might be amusing to mix with that sort of people. But do tell me. "That sort of people". Are they really animals and clods and beings of another order? - I would so like to know. - They're not as sensitive as we are. I dare say they are wonderfully virtuous, but their natures are very coarse. Their delicacy is not to be shocked or hurt very easily. Really? It's so consoling to find that when they suffer, they don't feel! Sometimes I have been quite uneasy for "that sort of people". But now I shalljust dismiss the idea of them altogether. (HARP BEING PLAYED) I was fascinated by Miss Dartle, and the strange hold she had over Steerforth. Don't stop, Rosa. You haven't played for me in years. Come, Rosa. From now on we shall love each other very much. - What happened? - You have to be careful with Rosa. She is always dangerous. Have you noticed that remarkable scar on her lip? Of course. I did that. I was a young boy and she exasperated me, so I threw a hammer at her. What a promising young angel I must have been! This is delightful, Daisy. Just the tonic for a weary soul (DAVID) I don't believe you are half as jaded as you say. I don't believe you can possibly be as honest and good as you pretend. Not compared to you, at any rate. I'll see you back at the inn when you've grown tired of being cried over. Does Mr Barkis still go over to Blunderstone, ma'am? He do, but he's bad abed with the rheumatics. I want to see an old house. The Rookery, I think it's called. My darling boy! Peggotty! It's better than a pint of liniment to see you again, Master Davy. What was the name I wrote up in the cart, sir? We had some grave talks on that matter, didn't we? I was willing a long time. A long time, Mr Barkis. I don't regret it. C.P. Barkis is the usefullest and the best of women. All the praise that anyone could give C.P. Barkis she deserves, and more. I'm a poor man, sir. And I am sorry to hear it. Very poor indeed. Old clothes. I wish it was full of money, but it ain't. It's old clothes. I understand. Barkis has grown a little nearer with time. I remembered Mr Peggoty's boat as a quiet, homely place, but as Steerforth and I approached, it soon became clear that this was no ordinary night. (SHOUTING AND LAUGHTER FROM INSIDE) (DAN) This is the happiest day of my life! Master Davy, it's Master Davy! (HAM) Master Davy! (DAN) Davy boy! Mr Peggotty, this is Steerforth, an old friend from school - You don't look a day older. - Good to see you after so long. Why that you two should come to this here roof tonight of all nights of my life. What do you think, then? What do you think? Only that this girl, who I brought up from a baby, and loved better than a daughter, only that she's going to be married! Emily! (DAN LAUGHS) My warmest congratulations. And who is the lucky fellow? - Ham! - Who else but Ham? Two years past, he asked her and she comes to me and says she couldn't have him. "Him that I've known so intimately all my life," she says. "And loved like a brother, I can never have him." And that was the end of it. Until tonight, when he comes crying out to me alljoyful, "She'll be my wife!" And she says, "Yes, uncle. I've changed me mind, if you please." If I please! I'd lay down my life for Emily. She's all to me that ever I can want. There ain't a gentlemen in all the land, nor yet sailing upon the sea, that can love his lady more than I love her. Ham. I give you joy. May you always be as happy as you are tonight. (STEERFORTH) He's a chuckle-headed type for the girl You're not with Miss Dartle now, Steerforth. I could see for myself how much you liked him. You see clean through me, Daisy. I am defenceless against you. Thank you. Emily! I'm not good enough for Ham. I'm cross and changeable with him when he is never so to me. Why am I so often harsh when all I should think of is making him happy? You do make him happy. Anyone can see that. It would have been better if he'd found someone else. Ham would rather die than be with anyone but you. Don't say that! I'm not worthy of him! I should be a hundred times more thankful for his goodness. I should feel what a blessed thing it is to be the wife of a good man and to lead a peaceful life. Once you are married, all these worries and fears will fall away. - What do you think of her, Daisy? - She's handsome enough. Why? I've just bought her. - But you might never come back. - I don't know about that. I find I've taken a fancy to the place. She must be newly-rigged, though. I'm leaving Littimer behind to see it done. I've decided to give her a new name - "The Little Em'ly". (DAVID) All she ever wanted was to love and be loved in return. Think on the happy times, Davy. Not what came after. I felt many emotions as I lingered by my mother's grave, but it was the thought of Dora that stirred me from my melancholy. Reflecting on the past, I knew with certainty that my future lay with her and that I could not rest until I had declared myself. If your poor mother could see you now, she'd be that vain her pretty head would be completely turned. Goodbye, Peggotty. When I come back, I'll have important news for you. - What news? - I'm going to be married. Only the lady in question doesn't know it yet. - Who is she? - Dora. Her name's Dora! My darling boy! (COACHMAN) Go on! Steerforth? I wish to God I had had a judicious father these last twenty years. I wish with all my soul I had been better guided. I wish I could guide myself better. - What do you mean? - Nothing, Daisy, nothing. I am bad company for myself sometimes, that is all If anything should ever separate us, you must promise me that you'll think of me at my best. - Will you do that? - Why should we ever be separated? Just promise me, can't you? Remember me at my best. Never more would I touch his hand in friendship, never more hear his laughter or feel the warmth of his companionship. May God forgive you, Steerforth. I cannot. My dear Copperfield! This is luxurious. A way of life which reminds me of a period when I was myself a bachelor. Happy days, now, alas, gone forever. - Micawber! Have I deserved this? - Deserved what? - You wish that we had never married. - My love! This is my reward, Mr Copperfield! - I who will never desert him! - Forgive me, Emma! I am a wife and mother, and I swear I never will desert him. My dear, no one is urging you to do anything of the sort, least of all me. - You don't regret our nuptial vows, then? - Impossible! Unthinkable! Oh... - Sit down, my dear. - Yes. Ah! Shall I do the honours, Copperfield? Are you aware, Mr Copperfield, that we are shortly to leave the metropolis to cast our lot among strangers? In short, Copperfield, something has at last turned up. Where? I have recently entered into arrangements by virtue of which I stand pledged and contracted as a confidential clerk to a mutual friend. Heep. A man of remarkable shrewdness and perspicacity. I am convinced Micawber will flourish in a situation so suited to his fertile resources. I am sure he will be a judge, or even a chancellor, one day. To Copperfield, the companion of my youth. And to Heep, my friend and protector. The time had come to know my fate. I called on Dora at the first opportunity. Happiness or misery was now the question, and only she could give the answer to it. Be quiet, you naughty boy! I came here today to tell you... Jip! Quiet, please! - I came here today to tell you... - Jip, come back here! Bad boy! Mr Copperfield! I came here today to tell you that I love you. I have loved you since the first moment I saw you and I will always love you. - We hardly know each other! - One minute was enough. I love you, Dora. With all my heart. Forgive me. I shall go now. Please don't. Dora... Aunt! Mr Dick! I'm ruined. Betsey Trotwood - I don't mean your sister, Trot, but myself - had a certain property and for years that property did pretty well and returned good interest. But her man of business, being no longer the man of business he once was, she took it into her head to remove it from his hands and invest it for herself. First, she lost it in the mining way. Then she lost it in the shipping and banking way. And finally, she lost the lot. And the least said about it, soonest mended. - Is Mr Wickfield to blame for this? - The blame is entirely my own. Well, the cottage is let at 70 pounds per annum, which is all which we have to live on. So here we are, my dear Trot. And you haven't a penny in the world! What do you have to say to that? You know I've often thought about writing. Mm? I could work in the mornings before I go to Doctor's Commons. - And I have 100 pounds a year. - Which you should keep for yourself. - We must meet our reverses boldly. - Boldly! Boldly. And not suffer them to frighten us. We shall act the play out and live misfortune down! - A beggar? Love a beggar? - I am now a beggar. How can you be such a silly thing and sit there telling stories? - I'll make Jip bite you. - This must be our secret for now. I cannot speak to Mr Spenlow about our engagement until I've begun to make my fortune. A secret engagement? How romantic, Doady! When we are married, if our income is to be small, we must try to be practical Please don't be practical because it frightens me so. If you will sometimes look at your papa's housekeeping and perhaps study cookery... You are determined to frighten me out of my wits! With perseverance and strength of character, we can bear anything. But I haven't got any strength. Have I, Jip? Oh, do kiss Jip and stop being so disagreeable. Jip will have to wait his turn. I will feel happier when I've spoken to Mr Wickfield about our situation. And no doubt you will be glad of an excuse to see Agnes. I can't feel comfortable until I know her opinion of my engagement to Dora. Oh. So you imagine yourself in love, do you? Imagine? Yes, I suppose you think you were made for each other, and are to go through a children's party kind of life like two pretty pieces of confectionary! Blind, Trot, blind! We are young and inexperienced, I know, but we love one another truly. And she's neither silly nor light-headed, I suppose? Dora is fascinating and sweet and beautiful Blind, Trot, blind. Returning to Canterbury, I felt Agnes's gentle influence reaching out to me. It seemed to pervade even the city in which she dwelt. Yet as I approached Mr Wickfield's house, my happiness gave way to a growing sense of dread about what I might find within. (DOOR BEING CLOSED) This is a bad business of your aunt. I came here to discover if anything might be done. Nothing, Mr Copperfield, nothing at all It's all gone and no one is to blame but herself. She has been very reckless. Isn't that right, Mr Wickfield? Quite right. You'll stay with us, Trotwood, while you remain in Canterbury? Uriah is a great relief to me. It's a load of my mind to have such a partner. My dear Copperfield! So how do you like the law, Mr Micawber? It is a great pursuit, sir. To a man of higher imaginative powers such as myself, it is perhaps over-reliant on detail A mind is not at liberty to soar to any exalted forms of expression. Still, it is a great pursuit. Do you see much of Mr Wickfield? Mr Wickfield is a man of very excellent qualities... ...but he is, in short, obsolete. I am afraid his partner seeks to make him so. My dear Copperfield. I am here in the capacity of confidence and trust. The discussion of some topics, even with Mrs Micawber herself, is incompatible with the functions now devolving upon me. Do not ask, 'umble as I am, to speak of the affairs of my friend Heep. (FOOTSTEPS) Wouldn't you say my Ury is quite the gentleman these days, sir? Indeed, Mrs Heep. (WHISPERING) How long has she been living here? - Months. - Does she never leave you alone? It is certainly difficult to avoid her company. My dear sister. I have missed you so much lately. I wanted to talk to you about Dora. We are to be married. She is the most wonderful girl in the world and I know that you will come to love her as well as I do. How could I not love anyone who thinks so much of you? Promise not to abandon me when I become an old, married man. You know how I rely on you. It is Dora you must rely on now. Of course. I will always be your devoted friend and sister, Trot. Wherever our separate paths may lead us, you may rely on that. (AGNES) Shall we retire, Mrs Heep? Father, go to bed soon. I'll give you a toast, gentlemen. To the divinest of her sex. I'm a 'umble individual to give you her health, but I do admire, no, adore her. Choose some other toast, Uriah. Agnes Wickfield, the divinest of her sex. Who else can propose it if not the man who would be her husband? Never! Never! Have you gone mad, Wickfield? I have as good a right to her as any other man. I have a better right than any other man. Look at my torturer. Always at my elbow, whispering his venom. In my house, in my business... Like a millstone around my neck, bringing me to my ruin! Take care, Wickfield! Without me you would have no house or business, nor reputation. (WICKFIELD WAILS) Your safety is in my hands, remember? Oh, what have I come to, Trotwood? My weak indulgence has ruined me. God knows what I have done in my misery of oblivion! Have you ever picked a pear before it was ripe, Mr Copperfield? What? I did that when I spoke of Miss Agnes. But the pear will ripen yet. I can wait. There must be two parties to a quarrel, Copperfield. And I won't be one. - Father is quite recovered. - Is there nothing that can be done? His first words when he woke were to send apologies to Uriah. - He is more in his power than ever. - Promise me one thing. Promise me you will never sacrifice yourself to a mistaken sense of duty. Agnes, you can't be considering marriage to that... ...reptile! Goodbye, Trotwood. My return to London was tormented by thoughts of the fate that lay in wait for Agnes. Little now stood between Heep and the final success of his scheming. It was with a heavy heart that I made my way to Mr Spenlow's office at the Doctor's Commons, only to find that a further catastrophe awaited. You have abused my confidence and committed a dishonourable action! - I love Dora to such an extent... - Miss Spenlow, if you please! And I beg that you won't speak to me of love or engagements. My daughter is not to be thrown away on a clerk! Now let there be an end to this nonsense. Take these letters away and throw them on the fire. You must forget her, Mr Copperfield! Soon after this disastrous encounter, a letter arrived from Peggotty informing me that Barkis was in a very poor way and she feared he would soon be making his final journey. I resolved to go to Yarmouth immediately, though not before attending to the matter closest to my heart. I'll never give Dora up and the sooner Mr Spenlow knows that, the better. I'll see him this morning on my way down. Mr Spenlow? Mr Spenlow? Mr Spenlow's death from a heart seizure threw everything into confusion. I was desperate to see Dora, but she blamed her attachment to me for her papa's untimely end. She cannot see you, Mr Copperfield. The floodgates of sorrow are open and her grief is not to be assuaged. If I could just send her a note or a token of my sympathy... Powerless to do anything for Dora, I finally made my way to Yarmouth. - How is he, Peggotty? - He is fading fast. This is kind of you, Master Davy. Uncommon kind. Barkis, my dear. Here's Master Davy, who brought us together! Old clothes! Old clothes... He's going out with the tide. People can't die along the coast, except when the tide's pretty nigh out. Barkis, my dear. C.P. Barkis. No better woman anywhere. Barkis is willing. I have looked over Mr Barkis's will and opened the box. - There was over 3,000 pounds inside. - 3,000?! He leaves the interest on 1,000 to Mr Peggotty and the rest goes to you. Not bad for old clothes! Mr Littimer! I ain't a person to live with them as has had money left. Things go too contrary with me. I had better be a riddance. How should I spend it without you? Don't I want you now more than ever? I know'd I was never wanted before, and now I'm told so! How could I expect to be wanted, being so lone and lorn? Lord! (MRS GUMMIDGE WEEPS) Master Davy? Will you step outside for a minute? I would have died for her. I'd die for her now! She's gone, Master Davy. Emily's gone. And not alone. How am I ever to break it to him? When? How did this happen? Read it, sir. Slow, please, so I can take it all in. "When you, who loved me so much better than I deserved, see this, "I shall be far away, never to return, unless he brings me back a lady. "Try to think as if I died when I was little, and was buried somewhere." She begs forgiveness and tells Ham to find another more worthy of him. Who's the man? I want to know his name! It ain't no fault of yours. You couldn't have known. The servant was seen with our poor girl last night. He's been hiding about here this week or more. He was out this afternoon on the Norwich road, only now his master was with him. Steerforth? No, no! He couldn't! (DAN WAILS) I knew in my heart she didn't love me like I loved her. If I hadn't pressed my affections on her, she might have come to me in the old friendly way and told me what was struggling in her mind. I might have saved her. You are not to blame, Ham. Never think that. I'll take care of Ham, my love. Don't you worry yourself about that. My duty here is done. I'm going to seek my niece. That's my duty now. Why do you come here. What do you want of me? I want to know if he will do as he promised and marry her. Impossible. A marriage to someone so far below him would destroy his career and ruin his prospects. It will never happen. If there is any other compensation... You offer me money as compensation for my niece's disgrace and ruin? What compensation can you make for opening a pit between me and my son? What is your love to mine? What is your separation to ours? My son has been the object of my life. My every thought has been devoted to him, his every wish indulged. And now he takes up with a miserable beggar girl and repays my devotion with deception. You speak of your injury? I come here with no hope, and I take none away. Good day, ma'am. You do well to bring him here! He's deeply injured, though you don't seem to know it. I would have his house torn down and see her branded on the face! If I could hunt her to the grave, I would do it. Chances are they're in foreign parts by now. The sooner I go, the quicker I'll find them. You know where I may be reached. Look out for yourself, old girl I've got my garden and a little money now, Dan. Don't worry about me. If any hurt should come to me, remember the last words I left for my child were "love" and "forgiveness". (DOOR BEING CLOSED) Aunt! You remember Peggotty? For the love of God, don't call her by that South Sea island name! She married, didn't she? What is your name now, Pegg...? Barkis, ma'am. You see, that's human. It sounds less as if you needed a missionary. We are older than we were, I see. How are you, Barkis? I am heartily sorry for your loss. Thank you, ma'am. I'm quite well Oh, yes! Yes, Mr Dick. It came from Doctor's Commons while you were away, Trot. The firm has collapsed with heavy debts. Mr Spenlow was bankrupt. There is nothing left. Does this mean Miss Spenlow is destitute? - I must go to her. - Oh, Trot! Oh, Mr Dick! Shh... That's all right. It's all right. I shall take care of you now. You are still mine, aren't you, Dora? Of course I am! It's just that I am so frightened! There's no need to be afraid. But we have nothing! We have everything. I took with fear and trembling to authorship. I wrote a little something and sent it to a magazine. It was published. I wrote more and quickly began to make a steady income, enough for Dora and I to contemplate the future with optimism. (COACHMAN) Whoa! I have forgotten what relation Agnes is to you, Doady. No blood relation, but we were brought up like brother and sister. Dora. Agnes is so warm and kind. I was quite frightened of her before, but now I feel so calm and peaceful in her company. I wonder that you ever fell in love with me. How could I see you and not love you? Don't you think that if I had been her friend a long time ago, I might perhaps have been more clever? You would prefer me if I was, wouldn't you? - What nonsense! - Is it, Doady? Are you sure? And so we were married. The bridesmaids were gone and the celebrations were over, and Dora and I were left alone at last. Are you happy now, you foolish boy? But Doady, what shall I do with this? Jump, Jip. My love, do you think Mary Anne has any idea of time? - Why, Doady? - Dinner should be at five. It is now six. I doubt whether two young birds could have known less about keeping house than I and my pretty wife did, for the same thing happened again and again. - Don't! - Why not? - She looks so tired, poor thing. - Tired? She's drunk! But she has so many children, who are a great trial to her. - Would you carve, Mr Micawber? - No, no, no. My pride at hosting our first dinner together knew no limits, but alas, the outcome was not the triumph I had anticipated. Mutton should always be rare. Perhaps we should start with the oysters. I'm afraid there's something the matter with them. They don't seem right. There's nothing wrong. Capital oysters, in fact. Only, they have never been opened. All that is required for a delightful repast is an oyster knife. (MICAWBER) No? No matter. How does Micawber seem to you, Mr Copperfield? A little subdued, perhaps. He is entirely reserved. He is secret. He has become severe to his children and even looks with an eye of coldness on the unoffending little stranger recently added to our familial circle. It's hard to bear. Mr Micawber is not the same since he fell in with Uriah Heep! (MICAWBER GROANS) Erm... Soup, perhaps? Soup? Oh, dear... (BETSEY) You must have patience with her, Trot. Just a few words here and there. Teach her a little firmness, you mean? Don't ask me such a thing, Trot. The outcome would only be failure, misery for Dora, and division between us. (BETSEY) Judge her by the qualities she has, not by those she lacks. I was content to heed my aunt's advice, but the happiness I had once anticipated for myself eluded me, and there was always something wanting. I had no equal partner in the toils and cares of our life. Yet my decision to adapt myself to Dora made our second year much happier than our first, and when I learnt that she was expecting a child, it seemed our joy might yet be complete. But already, dark clouds had begun to gather around us. You may go up now. She's resting. She might still have a child one day? Your wife is very weak, Mr Copperfield. When I can run about again, I shall make Jip race with me. You are getting quite slow and lazy. He has a worse disorder than laziness, my dear. Age. Oh, poor Jip! How strange that he should be old. Even little Jip. Let Jip have his rest. I'll give you another dog to race with. Oh, I couldn't have any other dog. You are not so old, Jip, are you, that you'll leave your mistress yet? We may still keep each other company a little longer. We shall both be running about again soon, as we used to do. Anxious as I was about Dora, I never forgot Dan Peggotty, who travelled restlessly across Europe, never wavering in the certainty that he would find his niece. - How long is it since your return? - A month. And still no news? If she were ever to leave him, London is where she'd come to lose herself. These are the places I must look for her now. Emily? Emily! If you need me, sir, send word here. Many a time in me sleep, I heard her cry out, "Uncle!" And fall like death before me. Many a time I raised her up and whispered to her, "Emily, my dear. I am come for to bring forgiveness, "and to take you home." I sent for you because there is news. She has run away. Tell him what you know. Mr Steerforth and myself have been abroad with the young woman ever since she left Yarmouth under his protection. She was much admired wherever we went. The whole thing lasted longer than anyone might have expected, but, at last, Mr Steerforth grew restless and charged me with breaking the news to the young woman that he was gone. Mr Steerforth proposed that the young woman should marry a very respectable person who was fully prepared to overlook the past. - You! - Her conduct was surprisingly bad. - She showed no gratitude at all - Get him out of here. This low girl he picked out of the tide mud may be dead. If not, it is in both our interests that she be found. She must not be allowed to prey on him again. You wrong her most grievously. Is he informed of everything, Rosa? Then there is nothing else to detain you here, Mr Copperfield. I am told you have some reputation as a writer now. I find my name connected with a little praise. It is a pity you have no mother. She would have been proud of you. Do you mind if I say something very, very silly? More than usual, I mean. I feel so foolish sitting here quite idle. I want to do something to help while you are so industrious. Please. Let me hold the pens for you. Thank you, sir. Stop here! Go to the inn in Buckingham Street and ask for a Mr Peggotty. Bring him here in ten minutes and I will double it. (EMILY)... it was before I turned my back on everyone I ever loved! (ROSA) Your home? Do you think I care about your home? You were bought and sold like any other commodity your people deal in. - Say anything you like... - (DAVID) Emily! (EMILY) I believed him, loved him! - (DAN) Master Davey, where are you.? - She dares to speak of her love! - Emily! Oh, my girl! - Uncle! Tell this piece of pollution to hide herself beyond reach or to seek some obscure death. If she is still here tomorrow, I will see her whipped. Nobody is going to say a cruel word about my darling again. We'll go where nobody knows us, to the ends of the earth if we have to. Mr Peggotty resolved that they must start a new life in Australia. Knowing that she would never again return to her home, Emily begged me to take a letter to Ham. I solemnly accepted her commission, but on my arrival in Yarmouth, I found the town deserted and a dreadful storm raging. (BELLS ARE RUNG) - What's going on? - A clipper from Spain has foundered! She's breaking up! - Davy! - Is there nothing can be done? - (PEGGOTTY) It's too dangerous! - God have mercy on his soul It's Steerforth! For God's sake, Ham, don't go in there. I can't stand by and watch a man drown. It's Steerforth! (PEGGOTTY) Ham! No! Please don't go! (PEGGOTTY) Ham! (PEGGOTTY) Ham! (PEGGOTTY) Ham! (PEGGOTTY) He's reached him! Pull them in! Pull! (DAVID) Pull! Pull! (DAVID) Pull harder! Haul them in! For God's sake, pull! Pull harder! (DAVID) Ham! Ham! HAM!! (BELLS TOLL) (WOMAN WAILING) The other's come ashore, sir. Dead? In Yarmouth? (DAVID) No one will ever know why he was there. I can only hope that he came to make amends to Emily and her family. (ROSA) Why did you not forgive him? (MRS STEERFORTH WEEPS) Look at your dead child's handiwork. Your pampering of his pride and passion did this! - Look and cry for what you made him. - Miss Dartle! I will speak! I could have loved him and asked for no return. I would have been his slave for one kind word a year. Your love was proud and selfish! At least show some feeling for a mother's grief. Who feels for me? There, there. Hush. Hush. It was an evil hour he ever brought you to this house. Is there something wrong, Doady? No, I'm fine. Nothing at all Mr Micawber. I put my hand in no man's hand, until I have blown to fragments that detestable serpent Heep! You must go to Canterbury, Doady. If you don't I shall be very cross and disagreeable and make Jip bark at you. Trot can go. I shall stay here. Why shouldn't you both go? I have Peggotty now. I'm not so very ill, am I? - No, of course not! - What a question! Well, then. You must go, or I shall begin to think I'm really ill and cry all day! - Is Miss Trotwood with you? - She is on her way. Everything is prepared, Copperfield. Well, I am sure, this is an unexpected pleasure! Don't wait, Micawber. Go along. I'll talk to you presently. If there is a scoundrel on this earth with whom I have already talked too much, that scoundrel's name is Heep! Oh, I see it now... This is a conspiracy. You have corrupted my clerk. Deal with him as he deserves, Mr Micawber. - Ury... - Hold your tongue, Mother. They'll gain nothing listening to this pompous fool Approach me again, you heap of infamy, and it will be your head. Chair! This scoundrel, Heep, employed me in the belief that I shared the baseness of his nature. I found my services constantly required for the falsification of business and the mystification of Mr Wickfield. Ask this wretch, Heep, if you will, who lives in his house after him. You do, you imbecile. Ask him if he kept a pocket book of his transactions in that house which he later tried to burn? Ury, be 'umble and make terms, my dear! This villain, Heep, tricked the honourable Mr W. Into believing that he had withdrawn a sum from Miss Trotwood's trust fund, namely 12,000 pounds. Which, in truth, Heep took out himself with a forged signature. Ever since, he has used this supposed criminal act to torture, constrain and bend him to his will Proof of all this lies within, madam. In short, Mr Wickfield has been for years deluded and plundered in every conceivable way to the financial advantage of the avaricious, false and grasping Heep! No, my son will be 'umble, Mr Copperfield, if you willjust give him time to think. Where is my property? Blame Mr Wickfield for mishandling it, would you? I should have guessed all along that you were responsible for my ruin! Your money is quite safe, Aunt. I only took her money to ruin you, Copperfield. I have always hated you. You've always been against me and my love for Agnes. Love? Your selfish, grasping desire would have forced me into a marriage I didn't want, and you talk about love. - Mr Dick? - Yes. Will you go around to the Guildhall and bring a couple of officers? I shall return post-haste with the forces of the law. - Shall I go now? - Post-haste, Mr Dick. Running is futile. You have nowhere to go. I shall send for my family immediately. The veil that has long been interposed between Mrs Micawber and myself is now withdrawn. And my children and the author of their being can once more meet on equal terms. Mr Micawber. It seems you are in need of a fresh start. Indeed, madam. I wonder if you have ever turned your mind to emigration? It was the dream of my youth. Why not go now? Capital, madam, or rather the lack of it, is the issue. You have done us a great service. What if we were to find you the capital in return? I could not take it as a gift. But if a sufficient sum could be advanced at five per cent per annum... It shall be done in any way you wish. One question arises. Are the circumstance of the country such that a man of Micawber's abilities would have a fair chance of rising in the social scale? I will not say, "Might he aspire to be Governor?" at present... - There is no better opening anywhere. - No better. No better. Then it is evident that Australia is the legitimate sphere of action for him! Passage was booked for the Micawbers and suddenly it was time to say farewell (DAVID) Mr Micawber? You look very well equipped, Mr Micawber. We have abandoned the luxuries of the old country, Copperfield. Forest dwellers such as ourselves cannot expect to participate in the refinements of the land of the free. I am sure there are towns of some description in Australia, but I feel it wise to be prepared. - Wilkins Micawber? - Yes. I have a warrant for your arrest on a matter of non-payment of certain outstanding bills. All hope is extinguished! Convey my family to the workhouse and forget that a being such as I ever lived. - We shall never leave without you! - What is the value of the bills? Nine pounds, nineteen shillings and sixpence. Ha! A mere trifle. (MICAWBER) A noble gesture, ma'am, that will be repaid, with interest. Thank you, ma'am. Copperfield. The time has come for us to take our leave. - There will be no speeches on my part. - I don't believe a word of it. I say, there will be no speeches from me. Only, in short... ...farewell, old friend. God go with you, Mr Micawber. God go with all of you. (MICAWBER) Come on, we must board. (MR DICK) Bye! - Bye. - Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye-bye! Thank you! Mr Micawber and his family were not alone on their journey that day. The time had also come to say goodbye to other old friends. Fearful for Emily's health, Peggotty insisted that the news of Ham's death should be kept from her until she was stronger. We'll start a new life together. It is so good to see you well again. When you gave Ham my letter, did he say anything? His love is with you always. And forgiveness? Did he send forgiveness? With all his heart. I did ask this one to come with us, but you see, she's that fond of you and your, Master Davy, that it wouldn't be hardly fair to let her go. I told him straight out, "My place is here now, Davy." (STEWARD) Passengers on board! (WAILING) Will I ever see my little boy again? Be 'umble, Ury, as you always was! I was dreaming a moment ago. I thought we were in the park again. Walking together arm in arm. It was so pleasant. I am quite sad to wake up. Don't be sad. We'll go there again soon. Doady, dear. I am afraid I was too young to be married. Don't say such things. I was such a silly little creature. I think it might have been better if we had only loved each other as boy and girl, and then forgotten it. I don't think I was fit to be a wife. - As fit as I to be a husband. - Perhaps. But you are clever... ...and I never was, and never could be. We have been happy, Dora. Very happy. But as the years went on, you would have wearied of your little wife. I would have tried, and disappointed you. And you might not have been able to love me half so well as now. Do not speak to me so. Every word seems a reproach. I love you too much for reproachful words. It's the only merit I have, except being pretty. Oh, how my poor boy cries. Will you ask Agnes to come up, Doady? I want to speak to her quite alone. Don't cry, Doady. It is better as it is. Not tonight, Jip. Not tonight. I went as far away as I could, not knowing, even then, how great the shock was that I had to bear. A long and gloomy night gathered about me, haunted by the ghosts of many hopes, many errors, many sorrows and regrets. Agnes wrote to me often. She gave me no advice, she urged no duty on me. She only told me what her trust in me was, how a nature such as mine would turn affliction to good. But I mourned for Dora, taken so young from the world she loved. For Steerforth, who might have won the love and admiration of thousands as all those years ago he had won mine. And for broken- hearted Ham, who found peace at last in the stormy sea. I worked early and late, patiently and hard, until my first book was finished. It was published and was successful I began another immediately. Three years passed in this way. I might have gone on the same forever, but one day I looked up from my work and suddenly I knew it was time to return. It was as though I could hear a voice calling me home. Agnes's voice. Thank you, Peggotty. What will you do now, Trot? I thought I might ride over to Canterbury tomorrow. - Is Mr Wickfield well. - A better man in all respects. A reclaimed man. - And Agnes? - As good and beautiful as always. Has she any admirers? Dozens. D-d-dozens. - But is anyone worthy of her? - I suspect she has an attachment. I think she is going to be married. (AGNES) Will you go away again.? (DAVID) Perhaps. There is little enough to hold me here. You have a secret. Let me share it. - A secret? - There is someone close to your heart. My aunt told me. Confide in me. Let me be your friend and brother in this as in so many other things. - What have I done? - I am not myself. Don't speak to me now. We'll talk later. If you have a burden, let me lighten it. I must go. If you have a lover, you can tell me. The attachment I have is not a new one. It is not what you suppose. I cannot reveal it! It has long been mine and must remain mine. Agnes... You love me? I have loved you all my life. - For God's sake, let me go. - What have I ever been without you? - You mean as a sister? - No. Much more than that. I went away loving you, I stayed away loving you, and I have returned home loving you. Do you remember how Dora sent for me the night that she died? She made me promise something to her. What was it? She told me that only I could occupy this empty space in your heart. (CHILDREN'S LAUGHTER) Trotwood! We have a visitor. (DAN LAUGHS) Maybe things were a little hard at first, but what with sheep farming and one thing and another, we are as well to do as well could be. And Emily? She might have married any number of times. "But Uncle," she says to me, "that's gone forever." That's my Emily. There's happy news of someone else you might recall, sir. "Mr Wilkins Micawber, magistrate, writer, famed public orator, "and manager of the Port Middlebay Bank, "was fted at a public dinner this Thursday last. "Far be it from us to follow our distinguished townsman "through the smoothly-flowing periods of his polished and highly ornate address!" ...and the Lord Chancellor turned to me and said, "By God, Micawber, you're right. The law must be changed." (LAUGHTER) "It was a masterpiece of eloquence, "and those passages in which he traced his own brilliantly successful career, "with particular emphasis on the importance "of avoiding pecuniary liabilities at all costs, "brought a tear to the manliest eye present." I would like to introduce you to the greatest person I have ever known. My lovely wife, Emma. (APPLAUSE) (CLOCK STRIKES) And so my story draws to its close. There was a night much like this many years ago, Trot. Except perhaps for one more item that demands to be recorded. Our first two children had been boys. It's a girl A beautiful little girl (BABY IS WHIMPERING) She shall be called Betsey Trotwood Copperfield in honour of her godmother.
