 

                        The dark side's calling now nothing is real She'll never know just how I feel From out of the shadows she walks like a dream Makes me feel crazy makes me feel so mean Ain't nothing gonna save you from a love that's blind When you slip to the dark side you cross that line On the dark side, oh, yeah On the dark side, oh, yeah (INDISTINCT CHATTERING) Hi, guys. Hi. The dark side's calling now nothing is real She'll never know just how I feel Hey, Joe, come on, drink up. We only got half an hour for lunch. From out of the shadows she walks like a dream What's the matter with you? WOMAN ON TV: That was Eddie and the Cruisers doing On The Dark Side. It was a long time ago, right, kids? But take it from me, Eddie Wilson was it, rock 'n' roll's fastest-rising star. Then on a cold March morning, Eddie Wilson died. Tonight at 10:00 p.m., for the first time anywhere in the world, an Eddie Wilson look-alike contest, sponsored by Satin Records. It'll be broadcast live, right here on Rock TV News. Do you believe this? Just like Elvis. Now it's this clown. Hey, Joe. Joe? Where's Joe? (NYC SONG PLAYING) Say, hey, little girl, take me by the hand Walk me down this boardwalk one last time again We see those pretty pier lights Hear those carnival sounds We stop right at the top tonight When the Ferris wheel goes round You say that I've been restless You don't understand Tomorrow I'll be leaving on that morning train Gonna leave this candy apple town behind Get out while I still can Going to New York City With this guitar in my hand Been wishing on these stars too long Been playing in these bars too long Holed up in your arms too long Been a prisoner of my heart too long Going to New York City To find out where I stand And I'll be walking down Broadway With this guitar in my hand MAN ON RADIO: The re-issue of the Eddie and the Cruisers' album has gone platinum in only four weeks, a major phenomenon. And with me here tonight is one of the original Cruisers, Sal Amato. Welcome to the show, Sal. SAL: Thanks. Nice to be here. MAN: Now tell me something. In a few minutes, you're gonna receive the Platinum Album Award for selling over a million albums. How does that feel? Well, it's hard. I feel good and bad. You know, I mean, for our album to become this popular after all these years of being out of release, never being heard on the radio. You gotta understand, with Eddie, music was everything. I mean, it wasn't just songs or records. With Eddie, music was your whole life. MAN: Now tell me something, Sal. What's this whispering we hear around about some surprise announcement? Does it have something to do with the old band? SAL: I'm sorry. I can't talk about it. All right, Sal. Well, the tension is building up right here at Club Metropolis. (CARS HONKING) MAN: She'll never know just how I feel From out of the shadows she walks like a dream Makes me feel crazy makes me feel so mean Ain't nothing gonna save you from a love that's blind When you slip to the dark side you cross that line On the dark side, oh, yeah On the dark side, oh, yeah Ain't nothing gonna save you from a love that's blind When you slip to the dark side you cross that line On the dark side, oh, yeah On the dark side, oh, yeah On the dark side, oh, yeah On the dark side, oh, yeah All right, everybody. You have now heard... Whoa, whoa, whoa for a second. You have now heard the last of the finalists in the Eddie Wilson Look-Alike Contest. We've given Sal Amato his Platinum Award. Come on, Sal. (CROWD CHEERING UPROARIOUSLY) (CHANTING) Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! (WHISTLING) HOST: All right, all right, hold on, here! At this time I'd like to introduce somebody from Satin Records. These are the people who re-issued Eddie and the Cruisers. I'd like to introduce a man by the name of Dave Pagent who has something you all want to hear. Before Eddie Wilson died, he was working on a new album, an album called Season In Hell. (CROWD CHEERING AND WHISTLING) Now you all know that Eddie Wilson is the greatest, right? Satin Records has just re-acquired the lost tapes of Eddie Wilson's never-released album, Season In Hell! And we at Satin Records are now gonna release it just for you! Now here it is, in its world premiere! (WHOOPING) (MUSIC PLAYING) (CHANTING) Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! EDDIE: You know, what I want is songs that echo. The stuff we're doing now is like somebody's bed sheets. Spread them out, soil them, ship them out to the laundry, you know? With our songs, I want to be able to fold ourselves up in them forever. You understand? (ROCK MUSIC PLAYING ON TAPE) Bad moon on the horizon Something in the air today Hear the sound of thunder That's a pretty good imitation of Eddie. Who is it? When we re-acquired the Season In Hell album, we found another totally unrelated tape in the box, a mystery tape. This tape. And you think this is Eddie? Don't you? It can't be. Eddie always played with me. I knew every song he knew. I knew everything that he... No, no, this is Eddie. What are you trying to pull here? There aren't any tricks, Sal. I've had the tape analyzed and experts agree that this is Eddie Wilson. Screw the experts. I was his best friend. I would know if he was doing something. No, no. His music was his best friend, Sal. Don't you understand? Eddie did not think you belonged in this session. He started playing with other musicians 'cause he was leaving you behind, pal. That's a lie. You're a goddamn liar! Eddie wouldn't... Somehow it's never good enough At times it's hard to tell the difference Between what you know as right and wrong (REDUCES VOLUME) ON MICROPHONE: Eddie Wilson was my best friend. That meant something back then. Maybe you don't understand that. (INCREASES VOLUME) Hey. No, Lew! Wait a minute. Wait, Lew. Lew! Sal's not thinking it's Eddie makes this even better. What are you talking about? Let me explain it to you. The Season In Hell album will for sure be a big hit, but now... So? Now we raise the question of "Who the hell played on the mystery tape? Where was it recorded?" And best of all, "Were these songs recorded after Eddie Wilson died?" What the hell you getting at, Dave? What I'm getting at is creating a rock 'n' roll mystery. We don't know how old this new tape is. It could've been recorded before or after Eddie Wilson's car went off that bridge. Because Eddie Wilson's body was never found. That's right. After Season In Hell goes gold, we announce that we have discovered this mystery tape. Release each cut of it as a single, and promote the hell out of it. Get people to start believing that Eddie could still be alive. You know, "Eddie lives" kind of stuff. We could arrange sightings of Eddie, newspaper articles, maybe even a TV special! People do not want their heroes to die. And that stuff sells records, Lew, lots of records. So? What do you think? I think Eddie Wilson lives. I got smokestack lightning running right through my veins Trouble hanging round my neck Just like a ball and chain (VOCALIZING) (SIGHS) Gotta be more than this to being alive Everyday spitting out nine to five Every night running all over this town just feeling no pain I got a hunger and a cold desire Someday, it's gonna take me higher (CROWD CHEERING) Hey, come on! Get off of him! Hey, he's on him, ref, come on! MAN: Come on, ref! God damn it! What's wrong with you? He's blind! See that? (INAUDIBLE) I don't know, man. You call this playoff hockey? You're right. We ain't skating. Come on, the second period's ready to start. We got time, man. Excuse me, I thought... No need to excuse yourself. Hey, tell me something, that's your brother over there, right? You have an amazing face, you know that? Yeah, so do you, but I'm here to watch a hockey game, okay? I'd like to paint your portrait. Seriously. This is my card. I'm an artist. No, thanks. Please? I mean it. Hey, lady, do you do this all the time? When I see a face that expresses something like yours, yeah. So what does my face express? Distance. Like someone looking for something they can't have. Do you know what I mean? Sounds like a sad painting. No, thanks. Well, I don't have to paint it sad. (TENDER YEARS PLAYING) When the moon hung soft and low Catching stardust in the light You held me closer and closer There was magic in the night Hey, when is your wife gonna come and visit me again, huh? Who taught her all those nasty little tricks you like? MAN ON RADIO: And that was Tender Years, by Eddie and the Cruisers. Hard to believe that Eddie Wilson's been dead all these years, but Satin Records' release of Season In Hell eases the pain. Now here's the lead cut from the great Eddie Wilson. I think you need a vacation, Joe. I need someone I can just be with Someone just like you I need someone that I can be with Someone just like you I need somebody that I can talk to I need somebody new Ain't it funny how I can talk to you? I can talk to I need somebody that I can talk to I need somebody Could you take an Irish Mist to the sax player, please? (CROWD CHEERING) That guy over there bought you a drink. Okay, thanks. Thanks. How'd you know I liked Irish Mist? I was in this club in Jersey a few years ago to see Ike and Tina Turner play. Man, that was a while ago. This young horn player comes in late, trips on the mike cord, falls into the first row and plays the whole first set sitting on his ass. (CHUCKLING) Man, you got a good memory. You got a good sound, man. It sounds like a bell skipping across a clear lake. Reminds me of Wendell Newton. Wendell Newton? I knew Wendell, long before he joined Eddie and the Cruisers. Then we just lost touch. Man, Wendell was as crazy as anybody I ever met. But a sweeter man you'd never find. He just couldn't shake the monkey, that's all. Yeah. How'd you know Wendell? I'd hear him playing in clubs. Do you play? Guitar. Hey, I thought I heard you say you play guitar. Yeah, I play guitar. Oh. Well, Hilton knows that I'm looking for a new guitarist. Why, you wanna try out? Before you add one, you ought to learn to play it yourself. Hey, man, excuse me. What did you say? I said your bass player can't sing, and you come in on the wrong beat. I come in on the wrong beat? Yeah, that's right. You should kick it, not step on it. (SCOFFS) Who are you, buddy? Segovia? Who the hell do you think you are, coming down here, telling me how to play with my band? Somebody should. Hey, Rick, let him play. A man's music speaks louder than his words. Let's see what you got. All right. Here, man, be my guest. Be my guest. (CHUCKLES) This should be funny. This should be completely hilarious. Hey, guys, let him play. All right. I'll do 12 bar blues in C. All right. Just follow me. I'll count you in. (PLAYING GUITAR) EDDIE: One, two, three, four! F! C! G! C! It was the Garden of Eden The beginning of time Adam said to Eve "Little girl, I wanna make you mine" "So wait a minute, big boy "Not so fast "I wanna think this over Wanna love that's gonna last" Eve said to Adam, "Catch me if you can" It's been the same old story ever since the world began Honey, I'd give you anything in this great, big world She said, "Forget those rotten apples "I'll take some diamonds and some pearls" He said, "I don't know exactly what it is you mean" Ever since she could remember she had this pretty dream Eve said to Adam, "Catch me if you can" It's been the same old story ever since the world began Hey, man, you were great! Get out of the way. Hey, look, man, I'm sorry, okay? I'm sorry about what I said. Excuse me. DIANE: Hey, wait. Hey, what are you doing here? Looking for you. I saw the name of this bar on the matches you used at the hockey game. Guess it was luck. Yeah, right, luck. You go there often? Yeah. Seems like once too often. So, you're a tough guy, huh? You're right, you know. I couldn't paint you. I couldn't capture how tough you are on canvas. I'd probably need a hammer and chisel, just because you're so tough. Wait a minute. Did you really come looking for me to... Yes, I want to paint you. You need a ride somewhere? After you see my work, maybe you'll change your mind. Maybe I won't. And maybe you will. If that's not your band, then where do you play? I don't. Why not? You're very good. Not good enough. EDDIE: You really like green and blue, huh? Mmm-hmm. But the red is what's important. I'm trying to exhaust myself with red. I don't get it. At least you're honest. No, I didn't mean that. I like your paintings. My first showing's next week. I hope the critics agree with you. (WORKERS LAUGHING) Then I say to him, "Didn't I see you earlier today?" Excuse me. Excuse me, sir. Yeah? Do you know where West is? Shit. Joe West. Think he's down there. There he is, great. Thanks a lot, man. Yeah, there he is. RICK: Hey! Hey, Joe! Joe, wait! I wanna talk to you! This sucks! This is for the birds, man! Whoa! Nice view, huh? Especially down. Yeah, right. Look, I was wondering if you wanted to be in my band. You don't need me, kid. Man, you are really good. The city's full of good players. Go find one of them. Look, at least come and jam with me. I'll think about it, okay? Thanks. (EXHALES) I got a question. I'm gonna take the elevator down with you. I don't wanna go down those stairs again. You got a union card? No. (ROCK MUSIC PLAYING) Not bad. Not bad? What the hell's that supposed to mean? Not bad means not bad. And I suppose thanks for nothing means thanks for nothing, right? Listen, if I was in a bar and I heard you playing, it'd be nice being in there. But then I'd go home and I'd forget all about it. That's what not bad means. Thanks a lot, man. Hey, you don't want the truth, don't ask. Make up your own, like everybody else. Look, man, I want to learn. Is that okay? You ain't gonna learn nothing by impressing yourself with some five-minute guitar riff. I mean, it was good, it would dazzle an audience, but that's the easy part. Okay, okay. Hold on a second, hotshot. Well, why don't you show me something I don't know? (PLAYING GUITAR) Music's gotta live, man. It's gotta breathe. Just let it breath. Well, how the hell am I supposed to do that? Practice. And hard work. Tough. (SIGHS) MAN 1: Here they come! MAN 2: All right, get them. Mr. Eisen! Mr. Eisen! Who played backup on the mystery tape if it wasn't the Cruisers? That we don't know. But we are offering a $25,000 reward for anyone who can tell us. And we need to know when these songs were recorded. What are you implying? Well, Eddie Wilson's body was never found, right? So you think Eddie Wilson's still alive? EISEN: Well, let's just say it's still a mystery, okay? WOMAN: Why do you think he hasn't turned up? When I talk to him, I'll let you know. So you do know where he is? We have had reports that he's been seen in 12 states and in Paris, France. We're checking that out. WOMAN: Could you tell me something... Mr. Eisen, how long are you gonna keep up this scam? What scam? Get out of here. Come on! (REPORTERS CLAMORING) (SIGHS) So how long do you think we can keep up this scam? As long as we got records to sell. (CHUCKLING) Do you paint? Buildings. Ah! What kind of buildings? Big ones. You know, this work doesn't do a thing for me. What do you think? Me, I like the way she exhausts her reds. Oh. I told you, your work needs a warmer feel. I paint what I see. You've only sold two paintings. Make that three. Excuse me? I said, make that three. I want to buy this one. You can't just rip the paintings out of the display. If there's any damage, you are going to pay for it. Hey, pal, the only damage I see is you don't understand her work. MAN: This is a private showing. Do you have an invitation? Diane invited me. That was a mistake. Oh, yeah, it was. And not my first. EDDIE: Hey, come on, take it easy. You'll have other shows. DIANE: Your first show is the most important. I was hoping... Forget it. Let me give you a ride home. I'd rather walk. Yeah, I'd like to walk with you, but I just bought this painting, and I like it a lot and I don't want it to get ruined. So help me put it in my car, huh? Do you really like it? Yeah. I can't believe you did it from memory. EDDIE: Come on, I want to show you something. What are you doing? I thought you were taking me home. Don't you want to go roller-skating? Why in the hell would I want to go roller-skating? Why not? Because I just screwed up, I'm very depressed and I don't know how to roller-skate. That's perfect. I don't, either. Come on. (POP MUSIC PLAYING) This is nuts. I know. Come on, huh? (GROANS) (CHILDREN LAUGHING) Are you all right? You want I should lay that girl out? Come on. Having fun yet? Joe, I'm never gonna be able to do this. Sure you can. Just follow the flow of my legs, dear. What, one foot? One foot at a time. You can try to move both of them, but you'll probably fall. You know how to roller-skate, don't you? Let's see. Whoa. All right, skaters, get ready for some exciting music. Tonight, right here at Bobby's Rink, we're gonna give you a preview of the mystery tape from the great Eddie Wilson! Satin Records' latest release! Yes! It's called Emotional Storm! (EMOTIONAL STORM PLAYING) What's wrong? My legs got tired. They didn't seem tired. Just take your skates off and let's get out here, okay? Fine. Hey, how you doing, man? Listen, I was thinking about what you were talking about... Forget about what I said, whatever it was. You were right, man. My music was missing something. Man, get off of my back. Remember when we were jamming the other day? Well, I made a tape cassette, man. You gotta hear this. Not now. Come on. I gotta talk to you about my band! Come here, kid. I don't want to talk to you about any goddamn band! So get off of my back, all right? Joe, take it easy. Let him go. Man, I just wanted to jam with you. If you don't want it, fine. Come on. I don't feel right keeping your painting without paying for it. So when I get the money together, I'll come back for it. So, you do remember how to talk, huh? I mean, you haven't said a word all the way here. Why did that guy make you so mad? He wants me to join his band. So? Why don't you? You wouldn't understand. Try me. Why do you care? I do care. Diane, I don't want to hurt you. Then I just won't let you. Good morning. Joe, last night you were scared of something. I could feel it. Does that guy have something on you? No. Then what's the matter? There's something happening in my life I just can't handle. Go on, please. Diane, a long time ago, I had a band. I wanted to create the perfect sound, perfect music. I spent a whole year working on this album. And when I was done, I was proud of it. And then I handed it in. And this guy at Satin Records, he told me it was garbage. He said I was finished. The album was un-releasable. I can't go through that again. Well, I'm sure people have forgotten your old band by now. You could start... No! That's the point! Nobody's forgotten! I hear it and see it every goddamn day on radio, television. It's driving me crazy. They like me better dead than alive! What do you mean, "dead"? What band are you talking about? The Cruisers. Eddie and the Cruisers. What are you saying, Joe? I'm Eddie Wilson. Oh, come on. You and 10 other guys, right? I've seen those look-alike contests. Eddie Wilson died when his car went over a bridge. Didn't he? Didn't he? I still don't remember what happened. I was driving. The car hit the guard rail of the bridge, and I lost control. I remember swimming. I was thinking about Wendell Newton, the sax player from the Cruisers. But he was dead. So I got out. I just split. I left everyone and everything behind. And I hurt a lot of people. For 20 years, it's been tearing me apart. And everybody thinks I'm dead. I don't know what I'm gonna do. Why not just tell everyone? I mean, people want Eddie to be alive, Joe. Yeah. People like Lew Eisen, so he can get rich off an Eddie Wilson freak show. Then don't say who you are. Just play. I won't measure up. You should do it. You should do it. That's great! That is great! But you know something, though? I knew you were gonna change your mind. Then you knew more than I did, kid. First thing we gotta do is put together a new band. What's the matter with my old band? Not much. What you need is drums, keyboard and a new bass player. That's it. He's just playing for some kids now, but I saw him last week at... Yeah, I know. He was good. (CROWD CHEERING) Hey, buddy. How you doing? Rick tells me you're looking for a serious dude. I should tell you, I'm never serious, except with these. Good. He'll do. DJ ON RADIO: Hitting the number two spot on the Radio and Records music charts this week is the first single off the Eddie Wilson mystery tapes. Now, here's the big news. Our friends at Satin Records have upped their offer to 100,000 big ones. That's $100,000 to anybody who has proof as to who's playing backup on this Eddie Wilson mystery tape series. Now, let's do some cruising, just you and me. (EMOTIONAL STORM PLAYING) Okay. Quinn, I'd like you to meet Joe West. How you doing, man? Okay. Rick's been scouting you for a couple weeks. He tells me you're thinking about joining another band. What sort of music are we talking about? The real kind, man. In. (PIANO PLAYING) You think he'll fit in our band? He'll fit in my band. He plays six instruments. I heard him. I couldn't care less if he played 60 instruments. (SHUSHING) Look at the guy, he's a goofball. Look at the vest he's wearing. I mean, a clown wouldn't be caught dead wearing a vest like that. He don't play with his vest, man. (SHUSHING) (ROCK MUSIC PLAYING) Yeah. Solid, man. Stewart! You're lagging, man. I know. I'm sorry. Charlie, you're all over the place, man. Bring it in. We ain't in the pocket, guys. It's coming. He'll get it. No, man. What is that? You said, "Play more intense!" Louder ain't more intense. Then what is? What is more intense? I was in the desert once, out in the middle of nowhere, absolutely nowhere. Just me, the sand and silence. But if you know what to listen for, it ain't silent out there. I heard a music out there I never heard before. In the silence. That's what I'm after, kid. That's intense. You dig down deep and touch something like that, people are gonna listen. They'll listen to you because you got something to say! Not just something to show. You understand? Yeah, I think I know what you're talking about. If you've just joined us, our guest tonight is Wendy Green. Miss Green claims to be married to the legendary rock star, Eddie Wilson. Now, let me get this straight. You've been married to Eddie Wilson for the last 10 years. That's right. But when he died, Eddie Wilson was single. Oh, my Eddie, he didn't die. And you have two kids by him. Eddie Jr. and Edwina. (PEOPLE LAUGHING) Let's go to phone calls from our viewers with questions or comments for our guest. WOMAN: Hi. I think that woman's crazy. I mean, Eddie and I, we've been together since I met him in Vegas. And we got three kids. Oh, no. Wherever Eddie Wilson is, I sure hope this album goes platinum so he can support all these children. Let's take another call. Man, we gotta go on the road and get some exposure. We gotta practice. Well, that's all part of it. No. That's all of it. We need, like, six months, man. Forget the road. We can't. I already made some bookings for us. What? We're supposed to leave tomorrow morning. Who the hell do you think you are, booking us? Well, I was doing it for the band. I'll decide what the band needs. You learn to play your damned guitar! Okay, fine. Well, what do you guys think? I don't know, man. Joe's right. We gotta practice. Our music's not bad. But, you know, you need an audience to make music work. Without nobody to listen, you might as well play for yourself. Hilton, the kid's in such a rush. RICK: What's the matter with that, man? Hey, a man in a rush starts taking shortcuts. And I won't shortcut the music. Okay, fine. I'll cancel all the dates. All right, wait a minute. We'll go on the road, to practice. Let's get on with the music. (TIRES SCREECHING) QUINN: Whoa, whoa. Fix those brakes sometime. You animals! Hey, pal. Rick, what's up? What took you so long? All right, brother. Let me give you a hand with that. Got it? Hey, man, what's going on? What do you mean? She's not coming with us, is she? She's coming with me. Man, I got no room! Make room. Hey, Hilton, how you doing, man? Not bad. Make room. Cajun band, play this tune (CHATTERING) Hey, Joe. For luck, man. Thanks, man. Ladies and gentlemen, Rock Solid! (CROWD CHEERING) I got smokestack lightning running through my veins Trouble hanging round my neck just like a ball and chain Gotta be more than this to being alive Everyday spitting out nine to five Every night running all over this town just feeling no pain I got a hunger and a cold desire Someday, it's gonna take me higher Just another small flame Just running through the fire Just another small flame Just running through the fire Running through the fire Baby, it's gonna get hot Running through the fire Honey, if you're ready or not Running through the fire Honey, any way you turn Running through the fire Baby, you're gonna get burned (CROWD CHEERING) Come on! I'm rolling down the alleyway heading for the neon lights I got a soul full of struggling need a little mercy tonight This world's asking just a little too much Honey, I need your loving tender touch Just move your body close to mine make everything all right I got a hunger and cold desire Someday, it's gonna take me higher Just another small flame Just running through the fire Just another small flame Just running through the fire Running through the fire Baby, it's gonna get hot Running through the fire Honey, if you're ready or not Running through the fire Baby, any way you turn Running through the fire Baby, you're gonna get burned (SAXOPHONE PLAYING) Running through the fire Honey, it's gonna get hot Running through the fire Baby, if you're ready or not Running through the fire Honey, any way you turn Running through the fire Baby, you're gonna get burned Running through the fire Baby, it's gonna get hot Running through the fire Honey, if you're ready or not Running through the fire Honey, any way you turn Running through the fire Baby, you're gonna get burned Yeah! All right! All right! All right! All right, now, it's time to introduce the band. On bass, Quinn Quinley. Keyboard, Stewart Fairbanks. Drums, "Sexy" Charlie Tanzie. Lead guitar, Rick Diesel. Saxophone, Hilton Overstreet. I'm Joe West. There was a time You had no need for rhythm or rhyme And the world seemed so wild and so free You just wrapped yourself up in a dream Tell Tony Eddie and the Cruisers are here. All you had to do was believe And nothing was out of your reach So sure how it all falls in line It's just a matter of time It's just a matter of time Then you wake up one day All your dreams somehow faded away The road that you followed, it turned You can't find where the fire once burned Can't look yourself straight in the eyes In your heart of hearts you've compromised Baby, one day, we all cross that line It's just a matter of time It's just a matter of time All alone in the still of the night You come face to face with your pride And how much you wanted it all You can't believe how you're taking the fall Then you reach out one day To the light of a new dawning day You take just one small grain of sand Right into the palm of your hand And maybe you find in the end You're able to dream once again And, baby, you fall back in line It's just a matter of time It's just a matter of time (CROWD CHEERING) Hey, you were right. Stewart was perfect on the keyboard. He's getting there. Oh, come on. We blew these guys away. We got a long way to go, kid. Especially if you want to play for me. Lyndsay Caputo. I'm putting together the Montreal Spring Music Festival this year. I'm looking for a band. You want us? Well, I thought it would be nice to open with a local act. Well, that's us. We're local. Yeah. You guys have got a good sound. Thanks. Just a little unpolished maybe... We haven't been together that long. We're still working out the kinks. Well, when you get them worked out, why don't you give me a call and I'll give you an audition. Oh, this is great! For sure I'll call you. Yeah. Your lead singer, he sounds a bit like Eddie Wilson. You might want to capitalize on that. You know, all this Eddie Wilson crap going on. Oh, this is great! Love you. Hey, did you hear her idea? I mean, you know, you do sound a little bit like Eddie Wilson. I think it would be a great... Forget it, kid. Eddie Wilson's dead. The only thing that's gonna make us is our music. (ROCK MUSIC PLAYING) And you're sure that is Eddie Wilson playing on that tape? Oh, absolutely. In fact, we are now offering $250,000 for bona fide proof that Eddie Wilson lives. Aren't you a little worried that this guaranteed reward is really a publicity stunt to sell more Eddie and the Cruiser albums? No, not at all. You see, this is not a marketing technique, Mr. King. We are after the truth. And I assure you, we will pay anyone $250,000 the moment they can prove to Satin Records that Eddie Wilson lives. QUINN: Give me a hand here. CHARLIE: Sorry, door. RICK: Hey, here they come! Quick, give me my case. Not that one, the other one. Quick. Hey, girls. Hey, wanna come backstage after the show? Come on. Knew I should've gone to college. I got a hot rod Ford I got a line that can't miss But you just pretend like I don't exist Oh, I get that fever for your sweet kiss Honey, let's be lovers on a night like this Don't you play too cool Don't get too smart Just give it what you got Some like it hot When I call you up on the telephone And I know you're sitting home all alone I get that fire burning in my soul Honey, let me in to that heart of stone Don't you play too cool Don't get too smart Just give it what you got Some like it hot I know that your pretending Don't you leave me in the cold Just put your hand in my hand On your mark, get ready, set, go Baby, come right here Don't you run away Just a little bit closer Don't you be afraid Honey, I'm your fool But I ain't no saint So don't be cruel You know I just can't wait Don't you play too cool Don't get too smart Just give it what you got Some like it hot Baby, won't you meet me on a midnight rendezvous? Won't you say you want me? You know, girl, I want you I want to take you out to a movie show Honey, we can sit in the very last row And when they turn those lights way down low I'll take you in my arms, baby And never let you go Don't you play too cool Don't get too smart Just give it what you got Some like it hot Just give it what you got Some like it hot Just give it what you got Some like it hot (ALL CHEERING) Take it for me, man. I think this is my dance. Shouldn't you be playing? You're right. Wait for me back in the room. What did you say? I said wait for me back in the room. You're kidding, right? Hey, what the hell's going on, Joe? Not now! What do you mean, not now? I'm talking to Diane. Go ahead. We'll talk later. Hey, don't tell me what to do. I was just returning the favor. RICK: Oh, God damn it, Joe. Where are you going? Away from you. Wait a minute. Diane, I'm sorry. You have the band to kick around. What do you need me for? I just said I'm sorry. It's okay. I kind of liked seeing you jealous back there. It surprised me. Yeah. It surprised me, too. Well, Satin Records has already released two songs from the so-called Eddie Wilson mystery tape. What makes you so sure it's not Eddie Wilson? It can't be. Why not? Eddie was a stand-up guy. If he were alive today, I would be right there next to him. He wouldn't have to hide from me. I was his friend. Well, despite your protests, there are a lot of people who disagree. In fact, we're gonna go right now to another Eddie Lives party, sponsored by Satin Records. They're celebrating the release of the third song from the Eddie Wilson mystery tape. (ROCK MUSIC PLAYING ON TV) What you watching, Diane? Nothing good. Joe, play that New York City song for me. Yeah, sure. I wrote this a long time ago, you know. (STRUMMING GUITAR) Say, hey, little girl take me by the hand Walk with me down this boardwalk one last time again We see those pretty pier lights Hear those carnival sounds We're gonna stop right at the top tonight When the Ferris wheel goes round Well, I sing for these tourists a dream life on the water When the dream, it gets broken this life gets harder and harder Gonna leave this candy apple town behind Get out while I still can Going to New York City With this guitar in my hand Wishing on these stars too long Been playing in these bars too long Holed up in your arms too long Prisoner of my heart too long Going to New York City Gonna find out where I stand And I'll be walking down Broadway With this guitar in my hand DIANE: You really enjoy this life, don't you? Always traveling. EDDIE: Still miss Jersey. Oh, and what's so special about Jersey? Baby, there's nowhere else in the world like the Garden State. You got miles of swamps and mountains of dumps. Different colored rivers, automobile graveyards, breweries, factories, ball parks, all mixed up together. It's the best place to live. Uh-huh. Then why does the Statue of Liberty face the other way? That was cruel. (SAXOPHONE PLAYING) Hey, hey, hey. Listen. Listen. What? There. Right there. (SAXOPHONE CONTINUES TO PLAY) Oh, that's great. Thanks. Okay, bye. Yeah! Hey, Joe, I just talked to Lyndsay Caputo about the festival. She's coming to meet us at the gig next week. I didn't tell you to do that. We ain't ready to audition. Well, I guess it's a difference of opinion. The festival is my call, Rick. Look, you may be happy playing these dives, man, but I want a record deal. I want the magazine covers, I want the videos. Hey. How many times I got to tell you? It's the music that counts, not the hype! Not the hype, I know! But we all want to play the festival. What, you're all in on this? Joe, you know, I've seen a lot of bands come and go. Most aren't very good. But, once in a while, a very long while, one comes along that's worth saving. Well, that's gonna be up to you. All right. This is how it's gonna go down. We find a place, some place with no distractions. And we rehearse until I say we got it right. Then we audition. EDDIE: You had a dream you once believed in That burned inside you like a fire The big wheel kept on turning Somehow the dream, it passed you by Hold it! Hold it! Hold it! Guys, let's just get back in the pocket, all right? Charlie, where are you racing to, huh? You stopped doing that two months ago. What happened? Get on your goddamn feet, Quinn. All right, let's take it from the top, okay? Okey-doke. One, two, three, four. As I ride this lonesome highway The desert wind across my face My mind slowly wanders To another time, another place When the world was so much younger With no reason to hold back And we weren't so afraid of losing All the things we'd never had Those days are gone forever MARTHA: For months now, people all across America have been buying up the Eddie Wilson mystery singles and have been trying to figure out just who is playing backup on these songs. Our rock 'n' roll musicologist, Merrill Shindler, has this report. Merrill? Thank you, Martha. I analyzed one guitar solo, and my computer gave me one name, the name was the legendary Bo Diddley. We've got Bo Diddley live via satellite. Bo, how you doing? Just fine, thank you. Bo, where were those sessions held? In Jersey, a little place outside of Newark called Lakehurst. Now, for the important question. When were those sessions held? (CHUCKLES) I wish I knew. The years kind of, you know, blend together. MERRILL: Who else was there? BO: Eddie was kind of running things alone with his sax player, Wendell Newton. Come in here and listen to this. MERRILL: That definitely clears up the mystery for me. Martha, the presence of Wendell Newton obviously dates these sessions as happening before Eddie Wilson's death. Which means that... Which means that we have no proof that Eddie Wilson lives. And, in my opinion, we can put to rest those grisly rumors that Eddie Wilson's still alive somewhere. I think this guy should drop dead. RICK: "Dear Mr. Eisen, "I got a band, and my lead singer "sings a lot like Eddie Wilson. "I hope you'll listen to this tape, "and if you like it, please contact me as soon as possible. "Yours truly, Rick Diesel." (EXHALES) RICK: Damn it, man! You say it's gonna take us another month, man? We're gonna miss the festival! We just ain't ready, man! Oh, according to you, we're never gonna be ready! Look, we need more time! Oh, more time? Man, what are you talking about? I think you're afraid to go on stage! You're afraid to put it on the line, man! You don't know what you're talking about. Oh, yeah? Then why are we hiding out in a cabin here, man, playing for the goddamn trees? Shut up! We're all ready to play this goddamn festival! You're ready? Yeah? Then do it! No. Let him go. (DOOR SLAMMING) HILTON: First, you destroy your guitar, now your songs. You gonna be next? They're lousy songs. They don't even burn good. Good thing you know them by heart. Be a shame to lose that many songs by Eddie Wilson. I knew the minute I heard you play. The way a man plays, he's born with it. Like fingerprints. He can hide under another name. But he can't disguise the way he plays. Then it's a good thing I'm quitting. You're not quitting now, Eddie. You owe it to this band. You brought them this far. They deserve another chance. Just like you had a chance. But they ain't gonna get it without you. You owe it to them, Eddie. And you owe it to me. EDDIE: Tell the boys now I'm trying to stay cool This little girl, she breaks all the rules Her pretty lies make me feel so sad But I still want her and I want her bad Tonight 'Cause when she holds me tight Maryia, won't you say you will? Maryia, you give me such a chill Maryia, girl, you're just like the wind You fill my sails and then you blow me away Hey, pretty Maryia She's a woman She can make my blood run cold She's a woman Give me shivers down to my soul Her heart of stone she can't control I just can't leave her Maryia, won't you say you will? Maryia, you give me such a chill Maryia, girl, you're just like the wind You fill my sails and then you blow me away Hey, pretty Maryia You guys are too good to be just an opening act. But I'm gonna do it anyway. Congratulations. (ALL CHEERING) We did it. Yeah! EDDIE: I want something great. I want something that nobody's ever done before. Why? We ain't great. We're just some guys from Jersey. If you can't be great, then there's no sense in ever playing music again, Sal. Dad? Yeah. Can I go play with Richie? Sure. Come here. What's this? What? Dad! Okay, Richie, I'm coming! I'm coming! (SIGHS) Son of a... Jesus Christ! You son of a bitch! You son of a... Son of a bitch! Jesus Christ! You've been dead for 20 years, God damn it! I've got to talk to you, Sal. Shut up! No, you're dead, God damn it! I've got to talk to you, Sal. Don't talk to me! Don't talk to me! Shut up! Get away from me! I'm sorry. Who the hell do you think you are, huh? Huh? What kind of person does that to a friend? Shit. I was your best friend, God damn it! Why did you do it? I couldn't handle it. You couldn't handle it? I hate you, man. I came back 'cause I need you, Sal. I really need you, man. Yeah? What about all the times I needed you? I'm scared. I don't know what I'm gonna do. Sal... I need you to forgive me. Please. I'm sorry, man. I'm really sorry. Come here, you. SAL: What's all this bullshit about the mystery tapes? You and Wendell coming here to play 20 years ago. It was just an experiment, Sal. Look, Wendell knew these guys that had a recording studio here. That's all. EDDIE: The funny thing is that, there I was, playing with the greatest, Bo Diddley, King Curtis, thinking, "This is great. This is what I want." EDDIE: It's an emotional storm Emotional storm Raining down over you Emotional storm Emotional storm Baby, what we're going through Emotional storm Emotional storm Raining down over you Emotional storm Emotional storm Baby, what we're going through It's an emotional storm EDDIE: And, you know, to them, it was just another night of jamming. That's what got me thinking, wondering. I started thinking I wasn't good enough. Then Wendell died. I couldn't take it anymore. 'Cause it was my fault. Wendell OD'd. Why do you blame yourself for Wendell's death, huh? Because I could've saved him. I was pushing the band to get a sound, and I didn't care about anybody. You didn't kill Wendell. The monkey was on his back long before he ever met you. Wendell was just a player, like all of them. Maybe that's why they treated that night like it was any other night. And that should tell you something. Don't worry about being good enough. Just go out there and play it, the best you can play it. That's all. Hey, Sal, you know, I got a new band up there in Canada. I could sure use you. No, I got my own life here. You were the best in the band, man. That's bullshit. I was just a guy from Jersey who played bass. Maybe the band... I don't know. Maybe the band would've held you back. Who knows? Maybe this time you can get it right. Well, kid, you finally got what you wanted. Thanks to you. No, I think you got that one backwards. You Rick Diesel? Yeah, that's right. Come with me. There's some guys backstage who want to meet you. STAGE MANAGER: 15 minutes, everybody. Let's get ready. You Joe West? Yeah. Telegram. Thanks. No problem. Fan mail? Yeah. From an old friend. Looking good. You're Rick Diesel? That's me. Lew Eisen. How you doing? Excellent. Come with me. So you liked the tape? Yeah, it's all right. It was only a fast demo tape, but, hey, man. This is great, your coming up here. Look, I want you to meet Joe. Come here. Yeah, sure. Joe, you ready? Yeah. Okay, good. Now I'm gonna introduce the band... RICK: Hey, Joe! Hey, Joe! No. I always introduce the band after the first song. Hey, Joe, I want you to meet somebody. Are you Joe West? Yeah, I'm Joe West. Yeah, Lew Eisen, Satin Records. Hey, come on, Joe. Mr. Eisen here wants to give us a record deal. He hasn't even heard us yet, kid. I sent him a tape. You what? Just a sample. You son of a bitch! Who do you think you are, man? Hey, what's wrong with that, man? There's nothing wrong with that, kid. Well, I'll be God damned. I don't believe it. Stay away from me, man. Eddie, we'll do it your way this time. I've changed. I even like what you're doing now. RICK: What is this Eddie stuff? Whatever Eddie Wilson wants! Dave! What the hell is going on here, man? Eddie! Eddie, come back! Look, we are on your side on this, Eddie. Eddie! Look, we really love the music. Joe, wait. So tomorrow everyone's gonna know, but you've still got tonight. To do what? To do what you want! To play what you want! Nobody cares what I want to play! You do! You care! Give me the keys. Where are you going? Give me the goddamn keys. Get out! Look, you've got one chance left to prove that the music is there for you, and that chance is tonight, because tomorrow, everybody is gonna know who Joe West really is. Diane, I don't want to hurt you, so get out of the car. Just get out. Okay, fine. Let's go for a ride, huh? And maybe we can find a bridge and do it right this time, huh? (SOBBING) (CROWD CHEERING) I don't give a damn. Get the band out on stage! Well, look, Joe's not even here. Eddie, whatever. Look, either you get out on stage and play or I send out the next act. Relax, lady, we are the next act. Let's get on with the music, kid. Let's go! Go! Let's go! (CROWD CHEERING) Yeah! Yeah! I got smokestack lightning running through my veins Trouble hanging round my neck just like a ball and chain Gotta be more than this to being alive Everyday spitting out nine to five Every night running all over this town just feeling no pain I got a hunger and a cold desire Someday, it's gonna take me higher Just another small flame Just running through the fire Just another small flame Just running through the fire Running through the fire Baby, it's gonna get hot Running through the fire Honey, if you're ready or not Running through the fire Honey, any way you turn Running through the fire Baby, you're gonna get burned Rolling down the alleyway heading for the neon lights Got a soul full of struggle and I need a little mercy tonight This world's asking just a little too much Honey, I need a loving tender touch Just move your body close to mine Make everything all right I got a hunger and a cold desire Someday, it's gonna take me higher Just another small flame Just running through the fire Just another small flame Just running through the fire Running through the fire Baby, it's gonna get hot Running through the fire Honey, if you're ready or not Running through the fire Baby, any way you turn Running through the fire Baby, you're gonna get burned (CROWD CHEERING) Running through the fire Honey, it's gonna get hot Running through the fire Baby, if you're ready or not Running through the fire Honey, any way you turn Running through the fire Baby, you're gonna get burned Running through the fire Honey, it's gonna get hot Running through the fire Baby, if you're ready or not Running through the fire Honey, any way you turn Running through the fire! Baby, you're gonna get burned (CHEERING) Thank you! Let me introduce the band now. On bass, we got Quinn Quinley. Keyboards, Stewart Fairbanks. Drums, "Sexy" Charlie Tanzie. Lead guitar, "The Killer" Rick Diesel. Saxophone, Hilton Overstreet. And me. I'm Eddie Wilson. ALL: (CHANTING) Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! EDDIE: Okay, let's rock 'n' roll! Everybody, come on! Yeah! Come on! I don't run for the money, honey It don't mean a thing And the power and the glory never ever made a man a king I don't need to ride in a long, black limousine I don't need to see my picture on the cover of a magazine I just need a little satisfaction Hit me like a chain reaction Talking about the pride and passion and the thrill of it all Talking about the pride and passion and the thrill of it all I don't need to read my name all over the front page news Better save your ink, mister 'cause I ain't got no use Maybe you could say that I'm just another prisoner of love It's the only thing I know for sure to help me rise above I just need a little satisfaction Hit me like a chain reaction Talking about the pride and passion and the thrill of it all Talking about the pride and passion and the thrill of it all And it burns me like a fire I feel it take me higher And it gets down under my skin Makes me wanna give that wheel a spin I just need a little satisfaction Hit me like a chain reaction Talking about the pride and passion and the thrill of it all Talking about the pride and passion and the thrill of it all I'm talking about the pride and passion and the thrill of it all Talking about the pride and passion and the thrill of it all (KEEP MY LOVE ALIVE PLAYING) Out beyond that blue horizon Lies the untold tales of our lives Where the river runs wild and deep And the mountains kiss the sky The highest mountain I will climb And I will survive 'Cause you keep my love alive Hey, yeah, yeah Hey, yeah, yeah You keep my love alive (SOME LIKE IT HOT PLAYING) I got a hot rod Ford I got a line that can't miss But you just pretend like I don't exist Oh, I get that fever for your sweet kiss Honey, let's be lovers on a night like this Don't you play too cool Don't get too smart Just give it what you got Some like it hot (JUST A MATTER OF TIME PLAYING) There was a time You had no need for rhythm or rhyme The world seemed so wild and so free You just wrapped yourself up in a dream All you had to do was believe And nothing was out of your reach So sure how it all falls in line It's just a matter of time It's just a matter of time (MARYIA PLAYING) Maryia, won't you say you will? Maryia, you give me such a chill Maryia, girl, you're just like the wind You fill my sails and then you blow me away Hey, pretty Maryia Won't you say you will? Maryia, you give me such a chill Maryia, girl, you're just like the wind You fill my sails and then you blow me away Hey, pretty Maryia
