 

                        So the Lord God banished him from the garden of Eden to serve the ground from which he had been taken. Genesis 3:23 Eden Log... Eden Log... Welcome. Whatever you origins may be it is here where your journey ends. Sacrificing what is most important to you - your consented efforts make you a natural candidate for citizenship in our society. Eden Log offers you it's passport. Capable of entering in the cycle Eden Log counts you amongst it's own. Contract is fair. It is thanks to your work below you'll be able to construct the paradise above. Look after the plant and it will look after you. After this exchange you'll be called to join us. Without any other authority than of your own will. Without any other form of award than the call of your new life. The call. Who are you? I... I don't know. I don't know who I am. Stay away! You awakened it. Where... Where are we? I don't know how you survived till now but please get away! No. Tell me how to get out of here. Where do you want to go? Up there? There's nothing up there. Nothing! It's over, do you hear me? It's over! I put and end to it. Me! I opened everybody's eyes. The whole world will know thanks to me how much we neeed to pay... There is no way out. Please go away. - Did you hear? - What? That! It's already too late. What was it? Your end. The end of the man you were. Kill yourself. Believe me. Kill yourself. Quickly. You cannot escape from it! I was the architect of this lab. There's no way out. Don't worry. You won't suffer anymore. Go! Go now! Go! Access to scientific data authorized. Memory re-energizing. Open your level. Out of the question. First tell me what all that means. Calm down. You're not qualified for security. Just open the REZO to our surveillance. The protocol is clear. Access to the REZO was reserved only to technicians. Eden Log protocol guarantees this. There's no way that I can open the passage to security. This is an emergency. Your irresponsible attitude is itself a breach of contract. Plantation is supposed to be self-managing. Surveillance stops at the collector at level zero. Not below. You should let us resolve the problem. Resolve the problem!? It's a war below. Have you seen the pictures?! You have no right to prevent workers from returning up there and answering the call. No way! You should give us access that is not in the area of your competence. That's what I've been telling you. It's out of the question that the REZO be used for repressive ends. And certainly not by your guards. Do you hear me? Do you hear me? You are in no position to lay conditions to the council. So long as we receive no information on the condition of workers already on the surface no one is using the lifts anymore. This discussion is over. - You are right, the discussion is over. Everything is filmed! If your screws try to come back in I'm warning you that I'll alert the world above about what is happening here. And the faith reserved by Eden Log for the immigrant population. There's still laws. On position. Everything's ready. Then go! Try to find a way to get that working again. Request contact with the surface. What's the situation? The elevators are still blocked in the levels. And the plantation? - It's completely choked up. The workers are in a terminal stage. Gone completely wild. That makes the intruder that much harder to localize. Get to the upper level, the rest of you. On the double! The images were being broadcast throughout the REZO. That explains the technician's obstructing the access. It's getting more and more complicated. Recover the data from the laboratories. The rest is left to your discretion. - I see. Secrecy... Secrecy alone counts. You're already on a mission. Control of the laboratories and the technicians. Control of the technicians? It's a cleanup. And I want images of all that. Check your recorders. The signals that are broadcast remain a danger for the whole system. It's impossible to locate the technician on level minus 3. His knowledge of the gallery is a serious handicap. Get around that. The exterior is not yet ready to accept the secret. You've remained it's guardians. They've got us. We read you now. We neutralize the lab and we go back down to the plantation. We have to locate the architect. We've got no choice. Nothing must leave the galleries anymore. No signals, no people. Memory disconnected. Access to scientific data not authorized. Check the tunnel. I'm starting to get sick and tired of walking around these tunnels. Would you rather get lost in the REZO? If that matter I'm sick of these corridors too. I'll be so glad when we get our hands on that asshole, so we can go back up. Great, one more dead-end. Let's hope the other crews are luckier that we've been. Access to security data authorized. Maps loaded. We all searched the whole zone. Further on it gets impossible. The others will take care of that gallery. We just have to finish this part here and the level will be done. He's got to be in the more humid zones anyway. Yes, got to be. He's got to be there, or there, or somewhere else. Maybe he's hiding there. - And what if maybe he changed levels? Enough already. There's no point arguing about it. How can he find his way? Dropping bread crumbs? I don't understand. It's the darkness causing that. The brain lacks oxigen. Shut the fuck up! At least they don't have anymore problems. Tell me how they expect us to find a runaway in a maze that he designed himself? That you have to ask... - Hey, up there! He's diverted the evacuation pipe. He is into the tunnel. It's useless what you are doing. I'm sorry about that music. It's the only thing that seems to calm them down. At least a little bit. I don't know how much longer all this can hold together. But I sure hope I'm not here to find out. Can you understand what I'm saying? Take it easy. Don't stay too close to the wall either. Do you understand or not? Up till now I've been able to manage pretty well. And before you showed up, I thought I was the only one in this situation. But if you can't even talk anymore it means your mutation has already begun. And I won't be able to keep you. Because this is the only place around here that's a little protected. Hey... are you hungry? Wait a second. Let me see what I've got left. And that... It's a guard's harness. What's a worker doing with that? Why don't you want to answer me. You'll calm down sooner or later. Don't worry. I've got all the time in the world here. But you'll be going back outside. But before that there's a little experiment I'd like to try on you. Don't worry it's just... Stop! Let me go. But if you can still talk that means you are not totally lost, you know? No. I don't know. I don't know anything. Where are we? The cages? You? What does it mean? We're between the plantation, the workers and the surface. The harvest of this down below and the collector up there. We are in the maintenance REZO. - What's that? The plant's maintenace is taken care of by the REZO technicians. Each floor handles a specific job. I don't get anything! I'm just the REZO's botanist. I don't understand everything either. What I need is to get out of here. The workers. They came of that way. Drawn by the plant I guess. The plant fed them. But there was no control. And the dose was too strong. That make them rot. I told myself my only chance was to wait till hunger drove them start killing each other and I hoped I'd still be alive to see it. In the end we grew accustomed to each other. I've got no illusions. If it weren't for these piece of plastic between us I wouldn't be able to hold on... They still manage to surprise me after all this time. But what I can't figure out is how you were able to excape form the plant's addict. Look. It's beautiful, isn't it? The sap's energetic properties are infinite and believe me, we're just at the beginning. Let me try a test on you. Don't worry, you've got nothing to fear. Except knowing more about yourself. If you're healthy the plant will try to contaminate you. That will set off the alarm and stop the transfusion. You mustn't bear a grudge. It's as if it were trying to make contact. Access to greenhouse authorized. Mixture released. I'll wind up knowing what it wants from us. What's happening? The process is reversing. It can't be. The plant has always been sterile. Who are you? Wait. They've sensed something. We'll take the lab from behind. They finally picked up the trail. It's me they're after. Don't move. It's simply a safety measure. Till you get your wits back. Hatch is opening. I'm sorry but I can't take the risk of bringing you with me. No! Get away! It's not me. It's not me. Come on. You are not like them. I don't understand anything anymore. The plant... You... The guards going down. The workers going up. An elevator! Data damaged. Insufficient data. Nothing works here anymore. Access to scientific data authorized. Memory re-energizing. I am the last technician before the exit level. I don't have much time left. We were naive. We believed that the cycle was perfect. The energy, generated for the outside is reaching everywhere. And to everyone. The men digging underground made insensitive to the pain of their efforts recovered on the surface thanks to their own hardwork earning their place in this new society. The structure is different here! It will never hold! We knew what we wanted from the plant, we believed in it's generosity. But it's conditioning was not without risk. It's protecting itself from us. The workers of the depths went throught what's happening to me now. But I will not end up like them. I have no other choice but to graft myself to it. Only the suction of the plant can block the mutation and nothing can reverse the phenomenon. Today I know what the society does with its sick. They never come back down. Eden Log probably estimated that was the price to pay. We, the technicians of the REZO refuse to maintain this line. No! It can't be. No! They've left everything open. Eden Log, forerunner of new energy. At first I remember that they said that with just one tree and it's roots exploitation they would be able to provide the energy to entire city. And I believe that. There! It's the collector of the sap. The tree is above it. The cubes. They're connected to the machines. Don't go back! Never! You don't understand anything! People in the cubes. It's not to cure them. The energy they take. It's not the plant's energy. It's people's energy. What's this? Did you hear that? It's... It's... Sorry. No... No. It's... It's not true. Not me. After all this time spent here? No! It's you. It's you. You contaminated me. It's you You contaminated me! I know... I know this place. I know this place. I know. Go to the surveillance station and contact the surface. Access to scientific data authorized. Memory loading. Laboratory minus 2. I have arrived at the plantation. Request contact. It's urgent. I'm not receiving you. Sending images. I hope that... Find the REZO botanists. The plant is becoming more toxic as it grows. Apparently the more sap we take out, the more the plant protects itself. Warnings sent to Eden Log have not been answered. The architect of level minus 3, the most capable of finding his way in the REZO decided to go down to report what's happening. Here's what he have been able to recover of his images. Now it's my turn. It's calling me and I know what's in store for me. Misha! End of recording. Memory loading. Laboratory minus 4. Everything is filmed. If your screws try to come back in I'm warning you that I'll alert the world above about what is happening here. And the faith reserved by Eden Log for it's immigrant population. There's still laws. On positions! Everything's ready. Let's go! Try to find a way to get that working again. Request contact with the surface. What's the situation? - And the plantation? - It's completely choked up. The workers are in a terminal stage. Gone completely wild. It's impossible to locate the technician on level minus 3. His knowledge of the gallery is a serious handicap. Recover the data from the laboratories. The rest is left to your discretion. I see. Secrecy... Secrecy alone counts. Loading surveillance data: 20%. Get around it. The exterior is not yet ready to accept the secret. - You've remained it's guardians. - You're already on a mission. Control of the laboratories and the technicians. Control of the technicians? - It's a clean-up. I want images of all that! Check your recorders. The signals that are broadcast... - Loading surveillance data: 40%. Loading surveillance data: 70% Loading surveillance data: 90% Surveillance data loaded. Reading surveillance data. Wil you be alright? I'll go see if the elevator is still stuck. Can you hold on? Requesting contact with the surface. The plantation is devastated. We're blocked below. Do you copy? Nothing works any more. What the... Access to security archives authorized. Welcome, Tolbiac. Memory loading. The situation is critical. We've intercepted images form the plantation. Attention all guards. By order of the council prepare to go down and silence the plantation. End of the plantation revolt. Task completed. Elimination of the architect. Task completed. Access to the REZO scientific observation laboratory. Task completed. Hey, you're back. Call the reenforcement. It's Tolbiac... Mission terminated. The council is satisfied with the manner in which you carried out this mission. The uprising of the plantation workers and the resistance of the REZO were just unfortunate setbacks, that we are eager to rectify. You are the most apt to secure the area of that is already the model for a new enterprise. We must reintegrate the plantation. We must retain control. Access to greenhouse authorized. Sir, we're ready to go down. Open it. You have enabled us to preserve what's essential. To retain the secret, long enough for us to make our citizens admit that their lives a part of a new social order. For them to understand they need courage to impose a solution on these faraway populations and frustrated lands. All these men, these women... We have no choice but to rely on hope for what we have never been able to offer them. We need men like you - conscious of the obligation, of the sacrifice which is essential to this new world. The time will come when the secret will be useless. Our fellow citizens will end up accepting that which our needs imposed on these populations. After a long period of hardship and suffering at last a way to integrate all these populations to our civilizations. - At last the return to Eden. - For everybody.
