 

                        In the spring of 2005, a young graduate film student from UCLA set forth to make a documentary reflecting an element of contemporary music culture that had yet to be fully examined. The notion was to capture something raw and original, something unpretentious and genuine. He yearned to make a film that would stand out from other rock 'n' roll documentaries and potentially redefine the genre. Who he found was Electric Apricot. What he achieved was Enlightenment. Well, I've been doing yoga all day, but I do that every day, so I guess that's not special, but, yes, I've prepared a couple pieces and I also wrapped a couple things of sage that I grew in my garden- some pineapple sage, some lavender sage together I think are going to really help cleanse the room before we start It's got a peazio pickup in here. Peazio. I don't know what that means, but it sounds cool, huh? Yeah, man. Whose car did you borrow? That's my sister's. To fully understand the band, we must first examine the music scene that spawned this colorful group of troubadours we call Electric Apricot. Known as Jam Band music, this scene has been expanding and evolving rapidly over the past several years. I think the jam scene is really, um, free-loving with a bit of, like, ass-shaking and, like, kind of just, you know, crazy, like, wow. It's about dancing, it's about shaking loose your normal everyday stresses and getting into a fun space. The band plays a two-minute song, goes into ten minutes of silliness, and creates new music that's never been played before. Ultimately, jamming is all about language. It's all about language. Wittgenstein says, is that language- all philosophy is meaningless because language is meaningless. It's great to see new blood in the improvisational rock 'n' roll music scene. I get a little squirmy when people try and categorize us one way or another, you know? We could be... We could be, like, a Jam Band thing one minute, and then we can get into some funkiness. For somebody to go out there with a bunch of sequencers and put on a show that's pretty much note-for-note every time flies in the face of what American musical culture is about, in my opinion. Playing music, you should just fucking jam it. You should jam it, and jam it hard, jam it true. People can see, they can interact with me, I can interact with them. I can give them some of my looks. Jimmy air freshener, man. You see that? It's always gonna smell like Jimmy. Jimmy! When I'm playing and I'm doing one of my fills I try and make eye contact with somebody just to kind of give them a little something to take home with them. There's a place. A wondrous place. A place out on the playa, where like-minded individuals can get together and share ideas. It's a place that knows no boundaries, except for those that are set by your own mind. Creativity blooms. That place... is a place called... Burning Man Burning Man Burning Man Burning Man Hey, are you going to Burning Man? To bury your toes in the desert sand Ain't no man born to tell you how to be I'll take you to Burning Man I've got a recipe for cosmic flan Strip off your clothes and set your aura free There's a place I've been called Black Rock City Where we're taught to get down Onto Juilliard at evening Waltz in with my saxophone Searching for answers and feasting on the world Ah I first saw them on Earth day in Modesto. Killer show. And then I saw them at the Santa Rosa Agricultural Festival at Windsor Waterworks, which was- it totally went off, and I was in the front and I'm doing the cube. You know, it's this dance I made up. What I do is I make a cube with my hands. Um... I just kinda started going like that and I just sort of made a square shape, more like a three-dimensional square. A tight-knit group of individuals, the Jam scene flourishes through communal interaction, be it via the internet, tape-trading, or multi-genred festivals, one of the premier events being the Northwest's own musical extravaganza, Festeroo. Festeroo. Festeroo. Festeroo. Festeroo, man. Do I know about Festeroo? With it's tree-lined rural setting just northwest of Portland, Oregon, Festeroo has been host to some of the top-named acts in the Jam scene since autumn of 2001. The Jam festivals are basically mud-fests like any festivals. Festeroo- there's fire, there's circus, there's Jam, there's beat. People walking around with no tops on, that's awesome. Bathing in the river, that's awesome. Yeah, it was the greatest thing l... pinnacle experience. l... l... I shat myself. It was awesome. Dude, total meltdown. I don't know what happened. I just lost my keys right before the gig. We got all this important stuff in there. I gotta get this stuff out. No keys. But... who knows? Weak. Super weak. The light on my laminate saved me, usually because I got a light on my key. Uh-oh. My goal, as manager, is to continually try to raise the profile of this band. We've got some upcoming local gigs, which is great. Then next week, we go into the studio to record the band's first album on my friend's record label. The real deal is I've been working some angles to try to get the band into Festeroo. Have you done Ford Windstars before? Oh man, we played so many... We played, like- we played basically coffeehouses. You know, we play all kinds of different coffeehouses around town. I mean, basically we'd set up in front of the coffeehouse, but we'd just put our hats down. And I think it was Don, Don Kleinfeld, our manager, who first introduced us, me and Steve, to Lapdog. He was like, Hey, man, why don't you guys get some percussion? I know this guy, Lapdog. You know, I had been in this band Illucifer, which was the illusive Lucifer, which was this metal band. And then I got into the funky stuff. So I was kind of trying to combine the two things, so it was kind of like this double bass metal funky stuff, you know? I think he had some funk band, Funky White Monkey or something like that. In doing the Funky White Monkey thing I learned that there was more to music with the whole soulful groove element. So we started playing live, we started doing our usual circuit of the coffeehouses. And then this guy shows up with this big double-kit, I don't know, Tama Superstar Kit- cymbals everywhere, and he sets up in front of Pete's Coffee. I mean, I could see their point. I mean, we did block- entirely block the sidewalk. Just playing on the sidewalk, it's just not that conducive to what I do. You couldn't really hear us sing or play because he would... Lap would just... he would just solo most of the time. Just take five deep breaths and open up that third eye. And I'll tell you, my brother, we're going to go on a magic carpet ride. Because if you never take the chance to look, then you'll never know. We'll go walkin' through the backroads Of my mind Rolling down that kaleidoscope Of inner space and time, yeah Walkin' down the backroads of my mind Take it away, Gordo. I couldn't dance because it was so intense. And I go in there and people are like, Dude, what are you doing? I'm like, Dude, what are you talking about? I've been to every show, and I come here to dance. I just want to feel the music. I always have two headbands. One, to get my sh- because I like the shape that it makes my hair... and one to cover my watch because when I'm in the Apricot zone... I'm living in a world without time. Yeah, we're going to be- we're going to be at the Sweetwater show, you know? I mean, whew, what can you say about Mill Valley, man, that hasn't been said already? I mean, it's where mountain-biking started, it's where cappuccino started. The Sweetwater's been here for 30-something years now and it gets good people through there all the time. It's sweet to be at the Sweetwater indeed, but unfortunately I'm a little bit off center right now just because- well, my cell phone got turned off today. Hey, what's up? My name is Jonah and I'm a taper. Hi, I'm Tom Lystrus and I'm a taper. I think it should be a good- a good crowd tonight. You might want to set that a bit higher. My favorite thing about Electric Apricot clearly is just the support of the community. I mean, we come to tape the shows, they give us plenty of time to set up ahead of time. We've been here, like, since 3:00. We're done, we're ready, we're set, you know? We're ready to... We're ready to capture the magic, really. Now we've just got five hours to fine-tune it before they get here. Gordo, he really wanted to go... go in a more electric... He wanted to go - He's a big Jerry fan, you know, Jerry Garcia. Which is completely opposite of what I wanted to do because I wanted to go into more of a British Morrissey trip. And if a ten-ton truck kills the both of us All of a sudden, Steve Trouzdale, as we once knew him, he sees this Phish show- You have to ask him, because it's a classic story. So we went to the casinos and we were partying hard and we hooked up with these two girls who turned out to be guys. It was just, you know- It was in- One of them dosed me. Dosed him with some LSD or something and he ends up at this Phish show and he just becomes mesmerized with the bass player Mike Gordon. And all of a sudden, there's this eruption of color. And I found out what it was. Because at first I thought it was like, you know, what's going on here? Is this some alien battle or something? They have, like, glowstick wars, where people are throwing all these glowsticks back and forth, And then one just tags me in the side of the head and I instantly thought of Aiwass, which... Aiwass is the entity, is the spirit that channeled the right of Thelema to Aleister Crowley. The next day at rehearsal I said to the guys, you know, I'm Aiwass. Call me Aiwass. I am a bass player. I was like, man, that's a gift from heaven. Here we are, he wants to play bass now, so now we've got a bass and this big drum set, and then I'm going to plug this thing in and there we go, trio, Jimmy Hendrix land. They tried to give us a little grief because it's a- because of the lightning bolt, but it's actually an 11-point lightning bolt and it's a little narrower and it's at a different angle and the Grateful Dead has a 13-point lightning bolt. Ours is quite a bit different, but... This is... This is the premier mic right now for this kind of taping. It's the most expansive dynamic range. Very fancy. It expanded on what the 4 was, the Schoeps 4, which is... It's what I use. What Jonah has. This is really what we're doing now. This is the new technology. You get more of a lateral sound with that. It's got a projection, the intake is not as pinpoint directional, but what I find is this mic yields an ambient sound which captures all the things that I like and find most important about it. You know, it's the younger kids, they're really... it's exciting watching you grow. But this mic is better. It's better. Do you like milk chocolate or do you like dark chocolate? You like chocolate, you understand what I'm saying? So it's the type of sound that it yields. It's great. It's great having friends. Yeah. Well, it's the 4V. All right now, 6/8. Ready? Damn. Oh, wait. One, two, three, four, five, six. I was getting my groove on. One, two, three, four, five, six. Five, six. One, two, three, four, five, six. Hang on. Wait. Are you- I'm trying to get my groove on. Shh, shh. On the corner, Miles Davis, 1972. You know, I don't really speak literally, because if you speak in a literal way, it's like, next thing you know, everyone understands you and that's just like, who wants that, man? It's like a fucking church, the fucking church, the fucking steeple, and there's the people. That's Apricot. I don't know about the steeple thing. That's the first I've heard of this steeple thing. She train blues Jerry Garcia. The man, the myth, the legend. Well, I wanted to make a guitar that looks a lot like Jerry's because he's my favorite. What we got here is this guitar is a total Jerry, the recipe is Jerry and stuff like that with just a pinch of Warren Haynes. Big jumbo frets. We were in Berkeley, and we went to one of them Greek Theatre shows, and then, in the morning I was still kinda coming down, we went to Smokey Joe's Caf, and I was getting the Holy Moley Frijole breakfast. I was digging into my beans and digging into my eggs, so I went to go grab a tortilla... Ah ah ah Okay, be careful. And then there it was, dude. Look at that. Can you see it? Hold on, check it out. See? Can you see it? It's like a sign, the most prized possession. How... How does he know it wasn't Jesus? Jesus shows up on a tortilla, it's on eBay for several thousand dollars. Unfortunately, it wasn't Jesus, because we could've... Jesus, we could have used the money for that one. Garcia. Tortilla. Yeah, at this point they started kicking around some ideas for band names. Gordo wanted to call it Electric Mountain. You know, my idea was Vaseline Groove. I wanted Knectar with a K, a silent K, like the Phish thing, with the P-H with it. He wanted to name the band Knectar with a silent K, like knight, like Knights of the Roundtable. It's clever, you know? He's an intellectual guy, and he can come up with stuff like that. If you think about it for a second, Vaseline Groove. It's like Pearl Jam. Well, what is Pearl Jam? Pearl Jam, that's semen, right? Pearl, like pearlescent jam. It's semen. Well, Vaseline Groove, think about it. It's like... It's like a lubricated vagina. You got the Electric from Electric Mountain, nectar, and then rine from the Vaseline, pssh. We said, let's just combine them all, so it was Electric Knectarine with a silent K. Unfortunately, people started pronouncing the band name Electric Connect-arine. You know, they obviously didn't get it, like the Connect-arine. And so that was tripping us out. So then, Gordo one day, he's looking at our logo and he's like... he's like, Well that's not a nectarine anyway. My uncle... I grew up around a fruit stand. That looks like an apricot to me. Yeah, Electric Apricot. Electric Apricot! Electric Apricot. So there it was: Electric Apricot. Queen has insects for eyes She lives In a kingdom of lies She shouts Your sorrows arise And laughs At the hideous cries The queen has been eaten alive Where did you go? Where did you go? Where'd you go, Rainbro? Where did you go? Oh, Rainbro, where did you go? Sailing across the skies with your mystic disguise Oh, Rainbro I live in this tree for... full time. This really is what I consider my home. Yeah, the tree fort is in my parents' backyard technically. I mean, my- Technically... Where you going, Rainbro? Everybody wants to know Did you catch some cosmic wind Ridin' high Hi... High High Wait, wait. My gardener, Don Carlos made this for me. Something he crafted from the wood from his country. I think it's Venezuela. Uh, might be France. It's just nature out here, you know? How many other people can say, oh, I woke up this morning and I saw a raccoon mating. That doesn't happen very often. Well, this is the- what I call the excra-meditation chamber or, you know, my bathroom. Maybe it's a little primitive for some people's standards, but it's got everything I need. It's got running water, and it's got a toilet. Well, it's got a bucket and a place for toilet paper. And I got art This is like- I like... Cars should be political. I think you have an opportunity of saying political things, and so more than voting, more than doing anything, if you really want to stick it to your government, more than anything, anything, you don't even have to vote. Just put on a few bumper stickers, man. Just put on a few bumper stickers, man. Shall we go to Pete's party Millie's Hacky Sacking with Cousin Arty Annie's got a henna tattoo Grandad's blowing on a didgeridoo Blowing glass, everybody has their thing. A friend of mine's dad, he really wanted an elaborate set of cocktail swizzlers, so what I'm doing... And usually, people like that, they have some good money, they want quality, quality merchandise. And I realize this looks easy, this looks like something that anybody can do, but it's really not. I was working on a bowl one time and I had this big gob going and I was leaning forward, and the whole thing just fell off and landed right in my lap. I burned my scrotum and it was fairly severe. You know, a fiery hot ball of molten glass on the scrotum is not good. The unfortunate thing is I got a lot of my friends come around here. And I blow stuff and I want to sell them, but usually these guys come along and they smoke out of everything I leave laying around, so you can't sell something to a store that somebody's been smoking out of. But this one's real nice. I probably could have gotten some good money for this one. Look at the detail here. I've blown a couple of dildos, because you're always looking for other markets for things, like the swizzle sticks. I think that's going to be great; that could be a big marketable item, because everybody makes pipes. This one's actually modeled after a friend of mine's penis. He took a picture of it and sent it to me because I didn't really want him to be in here with an erection. I'm pretty comfortable with my sexuality and whatnot, but when you're in a hot room and fire's blowing and this guy's got an erection in front of you, it's just not- that's just not my game. This one's a little smaller. This would be more for, like, sort of the rear entry, or at least, you know, sort of a- uh, you know, something to- to, um, you know... I don't know. We probably shouldn't go there too far. Well, the first person I met in the band was Lapdog, and we met at an Afro-Cuban drumming class, and... You want to talk about polyrhythmic. Herschel used to play in this cover band, this Huey Lewis cover band called New Drug. They would play and they had the skinny ties and the whole vibe. Herschel would be all... Hip to be square He'd be doing that whole thing. You know, I like Huey Lewis. I remember... His band was New Drug. I want a new drug One that don't make me sick One that makes me crash my car Just like it's a brick or something like that. For us, it was the ultimate tribute to one of our influences, Huey Lewis. It had that beat that... Om bum bum bum bum bum bum bum bum I liked it, you know? It kind of reminded me of that Ghostbusters song. Next thing we knew, Herschel was playing keyboards with us. Multi-instrumentalist, amazing player, and he hasn't requested we do any Huey Lewis. It opened up to a whole 'nother dimension. Like, we went from 3-D into 4-D. My father was a missionary, and he was a traveling missionary. He was actually an Iraqi American Indian Hawaiian Jew. Nam Myoho Renge Kyo. I basically work here four days a week. I make a little extra money on the side so I can pursue what I really love to do which is play music, obviously, with Electric Apricot. Nam Myoho Renge Kyo, it's a mantra, a Tibetan mantra. And what I like to do is that every beverage that I make, I like to recite this mantra ten times over the beverage before I serve it. Do you want a hot chocolate as well? Two hot chocolates. Something for you, ma'am? Can I get a decaf latte? A decaf latte coming right up. And for kids... I like to put a little extra chocolate on top here. I don't like to make it too hot for them, I don't like to burn their mouths. We're not here to cause discomfort, we're here to bring happiness to people. Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much. You have a good day. I made those extra special for you guys with lots of love. Did you feel it? It was kinda trippy because right around then Aiwass was going off on this whole Phish thing and wanting to get into more intricate arrangements. I took it upon myself to be that guy in the band who would make us progress and push us forward in our musicianship. We would rehearse and then it was like, Okay! And we'd go in and out of these time changes and then he'd turn off all the lights and we would go through all of this stuff. Okay, 9, 11, 7. Everyone would be jamming and they wouldn't know, but I'd be like- I'd still kinda be jamming, but I'd have my flashlight and I'd spot it on the guy's face. One of those big mag lights, like the cops use. Bam, right in your face, stop the song and say, Okay! Stop! And I'd say, Okay, sing... sing the parts that everyone else was just playing. Dush! Okay! Sing what the next guy was doing over there, just randomly. And you had to go... Bada doo da doo doo da or whatever the keyboards were doing, or somebody had to do my drum parts. My drum parts are very intricate, they're very difficult. To have a bright light flashed in your face in the middle of a dark room while you are meditating on our mistress music is a scary and psychologically scarring experience. I just started wearing sunglasses in rehearsal and it didn't make it as bad, but there you go. Seriously, I don't understand why anybody would come see that piece of shit band. I mean, I respect music. I love music, actually. I like to get down, but, dude, that shit doesn't make any sense to me. I just- I don't (bleep) get it. Probably one of the worst bands I've ever seen. I've seen them come, I've seen them go, and, honestly, they take the cake. They're seriously so (bleep) bad I got pissed off. I can't handle bad music. It's like you guys should change the name of your band to Day Job. I hate the Grateful Dead. I (bleep) hate that band. Honestly, my parents listen to that (bleep) music over and over and over again, and my mom did that dance thing where they do the dance. At about age eight, I started realizing that that guy, Jerry Garcia, (bleep) sucks, dude. And my parents are (bleep) stoned. Jerry Garcia is a (bleep) plague, dude. All those (bleep) burrito-making, hip-turning hippies that listen to him, and (bleep) tool around and don't get jobs and don't do anything, they can (bleep) go to hell. The band (bleep) sucks and they died when he died, and I'm glad it's over, dude. I'm glad it's (bleep) over. You know that bartender downstairs? Yeah, I didn't like his vibe. Dude, that guy was talking hella shit about us. Started talking about us, then he started talking about, um, Jerry, and h's like, I'm glad that guy died. What? I was like, What? He's all, I'm glad he died. Fuck him. I'm like, Whoa. Hold on. He said, I'm glad that guy died? He said, I'm glad Jerry died. All right. I'm gonna beat him. What the fuck, dude? Yeah, this is a good thing, man. Don brought this cat around, Drew Shackleford. Who am I? Who's Drew Shackelford? A lover of beauty, a singer of songs. That's what I'm about. I'm about spreading love, you know? I've got it, I've got the knowledge. I'm like a Renaissance Man. He loves the band, he's into it. He's got a big fat pad up in the- up in the hills, and, uh... So far he seems like a really cool guy, you know? He's got some money. I don't know where he gets his money, I'm not asking any questions. He's kinda going to finance our record. We're going to do a record, going to put out this record. I'm stoked, man. He's like our Owsley, you know? I was just there to say, you know what, brothers? You're going down the right road, you know? Let me help you. You've got the wheel, you're driving the vehicle, just let me be the gas. I want to help you succeed, I want to give back because I see you in me and you see me in you. He's not a stuck-up guy, you know? He doesn't hang out in the Polo Lounge, or drink cocktails with umbrellas sticking out of them or any of that stuff. The kind of stuff that I do I think really connects with people. It's the simple stuff, but man, the vibe that people get off it is pretty heavy. That's what people have told me, anyway. I'm confident that we are going to bring a beautiful child into the world: this new album. When undertaking a recording in a professional environment, a good deal of skillful and tenacious preparation is involved. The key to it all... People are always trying to get really good snare sounds, and I think the most important element to me is the kick drum. The kick drum... it's really the meat. I think the snare is more the potatoes. You got your meat and your potatoes with your snare. And maybe the high hat is more like the asparagus. Today I expect it's going to take a little bit longer because I really want to get it right because you only make your first record once, you know what I'm saying? You only make your first record once. Let me know if that bubble goes too far out to the left there. It's usually worth waiting for. I've never had anyone's set take this long to set up. I mean, he only has four drums. As far as studio stuff, I'm probably quite a bit more experienced than the other guys. You know the Geinserle Diamonds. I don't know if you remember that jingle. They called me in and I played on that. I played... It was like a glockenspiel, but it wasn't really a glockenspiel, but it was this little bell tree thing and I played on that. How're we doing? Uh, Lapdog's still setting up. He's still setting up, huh? I view golf as a spiritual journey and I am a warrior armed with a weapon. This club and these shoes were given to me by the High Priest of the Borborandon temple on the Maldive Islands. I envision that all the evil and all the suffering in the world is encapsulated in that ball, and it is my responsibility as a spiritual warrior to drive it as far away from this planet as possible. Dammit! That was wet. Ploink. I feel all sorts of anger bubbling up inside of me, but I'm not going to let it out here. That's not bad. Look at that! hoo hoo! Look at that! I'm on the dance floor! Noonan! Noonan! That's from like that movie. Whoa! Look at that! I need to burn some sage out here. Maybe I should go back to our car and get some. Yeah, I don't know about that. Heh hah hah. I know that Lapdog had a good day out there and I'm genuinely happy for him. I'm happy he had a good time. And deep down, somewhere, I had a good time, too. l... I know I got a bit upset. Well, yeah, Lapdog talking a lot while I was putting and saying things in the middle of my backswing, that didn't help. Noonan, Noonan, Noonan. Ah. Ugh. Sorry. That's from that Caddyshack movie again. Once this record goes platinum or gold or whatever it's going to do, then I might just redevelop my whole set because I'm sure there'll be some drum companies that will want to give me some equipment. Then I can just do what I want, and l... believe me, I have some ideas. The reason I use pictures is that there's been studies that have shown that what you see affects how you hear. This picture here is a picture of a classic Jungian archetype. An archetype is a particular pattern of energy that you find throughout the cosmos. This character here is a shamanic character named Mescalito, and what it symbolizes is him reaching out into the unknown and grabbing some fruit, fruit of knowledge, say, to nourish his lady love who is the archetype called the Great Mother. Lapdog's just setting up? Yeah. You guys remember Mei Pang. Mei Pang, what's happening? Cool. He's setting up, huh? Yep. Yep. Good thing I brought a book. Today, very important. I'm going to probably have to do this seven or eight times before we even start tracking. Because, you know, you only make your first album once. You know? She represents all women or the nurturing aspect of creation, and so he is going out and foraging for fruit to feed creation, basically, and that's what musicians are doing. They're sort of taking their craft, their instrument, and trying to go out into the visionary space and bring back something nourishing to feed their audience. Where are we at? What's going on? Lapdog is still setting up the drums. Still? All right. Where's the beer? They have this really good stuff right here. Uh, huh. But if your cuttings are a couple of weeks old, this is what you should use. That's really going to give them powerful plants. Oh, yeah, that's what I need. Yeah, we make a few ducats in the band and all, but sometimes it's hard to make ends meet. Been working with these hydroponics for some time now and I got myself a sweet cash crop in here going to help me pay these bills. All right, well, here we are. We've got some nice Roma tomatoes here. Don't know if you can see them or not, but these are really good for sauce. Ah, some nice sweet basil. That's going to be good in your pesto. I grow hydroponic herbs and vegetables for high-end restaurants like Chez Panisse, Danko's, and Boulevard and all that stuff. What we got here is the Peruvian purple pepper. See that thing? Comes from Peru. I don't Bolivia. Peru'v it. Hey, Skip, can you set that 421 mic on the second rack for me, please? 421? Well, basically my job is to work with Oz, who's, like, a master. Now, the bass drum mic is a little bit far away. This D112 down here can be right up against the head. Do you even think you want to use a 112? Because I wouldn't use a 112. What would you suggest? Something bigger. Let's just try it. And if it doesn't work, we'll change it. I'm Second Engineer and fresh out of music school. This is just a cool experience for me. I mean, I know all my stuff, I've taken good notes in class. I got, like... like a B-average and stuff. I am not going to mess with your good thing, man, so you just tell me what to do and I'll do it. Okay, that goes on the hi-hat. That's the hi-hat right over there. Yeah, I know what the hi-hat is, man. Let's go with the snare, please. Though often a repetitive process, recording requires a Zen-like focus and open state of being, where ideas and inspiration can flow unimpeded, raising the art to a higher level of musical transcendence. Yeah, Oz, yeah. I'm not really getting that in the cans. Hello. Hey! How you doin', man? Good to see you. Oz, hey. Oh, hey. How's it going? It's good. Good. You guys stoked to be here? Oh, it's incredible. Oh, yeah. It's incredible. We're stoked to have you. There's a vibe that I want to send out, and I wanted to bring people in. Like, this is a beehive and we're making honey. We're making musical honey. I've got one thing to say: do you guys like the color platinum? What do you mean? Platinum... album. You know, that's where the sound's going. Oh! Oh, I forgot. This is Abigail. She's a photographer. I just want you guys to know, I am just going to be a fly on the wall here. I don't want you to think that... I'm not going to get in your way. Hey, Oz, what have we got? I'm just finishing with the floor toms sound now, and then I'll check the cymbals. So we basically just have some tones on the bass drum. Is this on the track, the recorded track? No, we haven't actually recorded anything yet, Drew. We've just been working on sounds. Just drum sounds? Just drum sounds, yeah. So- So here it is guys, the first note of the first song of the first Electric Apricot record. What do you think about that? All right. Cut! Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. Sorry, l- I hit the wrong tom. All right, ready? Are we rolling. Okay, here we go. Share fishin'... Sorry, sorry, sorry. Share what? I meant to say vision, and I said, fishin'. Is everything cool? Yeah, I'm good, man. We're just- All right. It just seemed like we got off on a rough... rough rocky start there. Hey, Oz, what number is the bass in? Your amp is just incredibly loud. It's killing me. You guys okay? We need to turn the bass amp down a bit. Down? It's probably bleeding through all the drums, right, Oz? Pardon me? It's probably bleeding through all the drums, right? I mean, it just seems really loud. Yeah. My favorite book store, Copperfields. A lot of people don't know about poetry is, the thing about poetry that is so beautiful is really not the words on the page, but it's how you read it. It's how... You... You use your poetry voice. But through presumption, even the pleasure pleased. Unworthy, disliking here and there. Liking by the rules of mimic are transformed. You know, that's the poetry voice, and it takes you to the poetry space. Everything is poetry. Vegetarian Suppers. Take any part of any book. We like pancakes not only for breakfast, but for supper to occasion. Pillowy and light, these golden cakes are delicious. With dabs of sour cream and a favorite of our cuisine. Day three in the studio. We have yet to actually record an actual track. But I came back in here today, I burned some sage. I do want to try and move my set-up so that I feel more in tune with the band. I want to rotate this just a little bit clockwise, okay? Just this way? Yeah, just a little bit. Okay, on the count of three? You got a good... Yeah, can you get a hand? Yeah, I got it. One, two, three. Oh! Ow! Jesus Christ! Oh, oh. Oh, my God! Holy shit, dude! Oh... Dude. Hershel, he cut his hand on a loose screw on his organ. Just a freak accident. But, uh, the good news is he got his tetanus shot and he's in good spirits again. And, uh... onward and upward. It hurts. It definitely hurts. Hey, I'm goin' to Burning Man Hey, I'm goin' to Burning Man Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Well, we made it. Sweet. I don't know- Do you want a water or towel or something? Seemed like the bass was a little behind some of the stuff I was doing there. Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to... Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin'? Yeah. Well, we made it. Did you- Did you see what I mean by, like, the bass was, like, a little bit behind the drums? Did you see... Did you notice that? I think there's some problems with the drums, to be honest. The bass was a little behind it. It seems like the drums were dropping a little bit, you know? Some parts of those fills kinda sounded like you fell down the stairs a little bit. Well, that was sort of, you know, syncopation. You ever hear of syncopation? Right, right. You know, the main thing- tell me if I'm wrong Oz... but as long as the drums are correct, this is a good take? You don't think that you guys could just dub your parts over the top? I don't think it's us guys. This is our first record. This is the first song on the first record. We gotta make a statement. You know what, Gordo? We open up that door, we gotta make that statement. You know what? You only make your first record once. Yeah! Are you goin' to Burning man? You guys ready for playback? Hey, are you goin' to Burning man? It's like a salad, man. If we have all the pieces of the salad, and they go together, and it gives you one flavor? Yeah. If you take, like... If you take a cucumber out and just eat it alone, it doesn't taste like a salad. So when we're not playing together, and it's all perfect together, then, you know... But the drums are like the lettuce of the salad. Yeah, was the lettuce good? And if the lettuce isn't good- No. Hey, it's, uh, day four. And we've been recording Burning Man for about three days now, which- I know that seems like a long time, but if you think about it, the actual event Burning Man, it's... it's a week. It's seven days. So from that perspective, we are actually ahead of the game. It feels good! Hey, are you goin' to Burning man? That was rad. I think we got it. What was that? Did you hear that? No. What was that? That! What? What, that! Hey, are you goin' to Burning man? What the hell's that? What the hell's all that shit? Are you goin' to Burning Man? Aw, that was the take! Dude, that was the fucking Jam, dude! And that wasn't the bass. What are you talking about? The bass is fucking all fucked up, dude! Yeah, the bass has noise on it. I'm sorry, it's going to have to be redone. What the fuck, dude? There's nothing we can do? Wait a minute, we can't just dub it? Because I know the bass was a little behind. Yeah, it was behind. What? No, you'd have to do the whole thing again, unfortunately. What? The bass wasn't fucking behind, man. What are you fucking guys talking about? Just cause some fucking mic cable goes out, you fucking blame it on me? I got this chick over here taking pictures of me all the time. I don't even know who this person is invading our space of our studio. Wait, dude, wait! She's here as part of the team. She's documenting what we're doing here, man. She's here. I don't know what she's doing here. What are you doing here? Dude, you're pushing a little too hard. Well, who is this person? Dude, you're pushing a little too hard. She's in the room with us while we're trying to play. You're yelling at her, you're yelling at me. You fucked up the fucking take. You're fucking yelling at me right now because she's me. What the fuck, dude? She's me. What are you saying to me? What are you talking about? Did she fuck up that bass line, too? Yeah, she might've. Yeah. What the fuck, dude? How do you know? Why can't you bring a good bass, man? That's a fucking great bass! That's a horrible bass! It ruined the track! Dude, you're fucking sitting there like a fucking fat-ass walrus saying I have a bad bass. Fuck that, dude; I don't know why it's gotta be like that. It's a fucking Vox bass, dude. We're working here together, you guys. You know what, fuck you guys. I'm going to get fucked up. We're working here together. Fuck that shit. Dude, I'm trying, man. Come on, now. I'm trying. Gordo, don't walk out. The drums were awesome, the drums were ripping. The drums were killer in that one. I thought they sounded... I'm outta here. I'm taking a break. Yeah, take a break. Fuck. When you look at the math here, it's four days and we still haven't completed one track. it's four days and we still haven't completed one track. You gotta go and talk to your guys and my deal is, tomorrow, we don't work. It's over. Day off? Day off. We stop, collect it, get it together. No more bullshit. And come day after tomorrow, I'm going to bring in a guy, and these guys are going to talk to this man. What do you mean? A therapist. You're going to bring in a therapist? Yeah. A guy who will let these guys learn how to communicate. It's been suggested a time or two that we bring in a therapist to... or a mediator to various groups that I was working with to see if they can straighten out some of the horse shit. I do a lot of group therapy. I've work with many different groups on social harmonology, which is my field of expertise. Great art comes about because of tension. I mean, you look at bands like The Police, those guys were, from what I hear, those guys were fighting all the time, and they made great music. The Everly Brothers. I heard they didn't even hardly talk to each other and, you know, I couldn't name any of their songs, but that was great stuff. That's the difference, they fought each other, but they didn't attack each other. And have there been some attacks going on here? Well, yeah. I mean, yeah, there has been. Mei, yesterday, was absolutely... I felt like Hitler at Waterloo yesterday. Wow. I was... I was- It was actually the day before yesterday. I'd love to just go on that journey with them, from where they are right now out here to the studio, right up to who knows where. The Grammys or the MTV Music Awards, or whatever the kids are, uh... you know. I want to make a record. You want to use my pad here? - We agree on that. Yes, I want to make a record. - All right. I think that's a big breakthrough right there. Don't you think? No. If I had a girlfriend, I wouldn't be bringing her in, you know? You don't see me bringing in people. You don't see me bringing in my... bitches. What do you mean bitches? Well, whatever. I'm just telling you. Mei is not a girlfriend, dude. Well, l... Mei is like... you're saying to me, hey, you shouldn't bring your spleen into the recording studio, that's what your saying to me. Oh, leave your lower intestine at home; you don't need it. That's what you're saying to me. I think we are saying that. You guys are just talking silly stuff. I'm a tolerant man, but I've had enough of this. Well, we'll take a... You know what, maybe, um... Because I'm really... I'm sitting here, I'm ready to talk. He bent it. Okay. Steven? We're here to talk. This is going to sound crazy, but I've always wanted blonde hair. Why don't we take a few minutes' break, actually. I think that would be best. - Okay. I think it has some good long-term potential for me and for my practice. Well, I've been looking at a boat, to buy a boat. I'm not saying this is going to give me the- It's a good-looking boat. It's a house boat, but it's... I don't want to go into detail. I just think this is going to really help the room. It's going to help clear the space for us to express ourselves, to open up with each other. Herschel, I agree. I think it's a step in the right direction. I also think this position change with the two of you swapping spaces will help eliminate some of the tension. I mean, I really was feeling two camps sort of battling with each other here, and I think this is a better, more open, more honest way. Honest way to... Dude, that was my coffee. It felt really good for me to open up and to tell the band some of my secrets, and to, uh, become vulnerable. I'm trying to set the tone for everyone. I just want to say right off the bat, at group level, that I have an incredibly small penis. Okay. Can we make a record now? I think we're closer to being able to. We've got the sage in the cup, we've got Herschel's small penis. Well, I mean, Dr. Bucky, um... It's just Bucky. If you're going to call the Bucky part, you wouldn't say Doctor. It's just... it's either Doctor or Bucky. Okay, um, Bucky, it just seems, you know- Can I be perfectly honest? I just- You know what, I take that back, actually. Dr. Bucky is okay. Okay. This whole therapy thing is sort of a new thing for me. I'm not used to exposing myself. I don't have a small penis, but if I did, it'd be difficult for me to talk to you about it. And it would really be difficult for me to reveal that sort of information to somebody named Bucky. Maybe this is part of my revelation, is I just- When I think of Bucky, I think of a marionette or something. You know, howdy... it's Bucky Time. It's Bucky Doody Time I didn't choose the nickname, it was kind of given to me on the playground. And, um... You got called Bucky? Yeah, and it's something that l- Did you have buck teeth? Yeah, my teeth were maybe sticking out a little more than other people. What'd they say? Yeah, they were like that. I'd actually appreciate it- - Did you talk funny too? Maybe you shouldn't do that, actually, because that's- See, now you're kind of striking. There was a kid we used to call Bucky, had big buck teeth sticking out. He talked funny and he whistled, too. Hey, you guys, give me back my ball! Did that make you angry? Screw you, Bucky, you little bitch! It's Bucky Doody time It's Bucky Doody time Okay, that's enough. I don't think it's very... That's not- Whoa, what did you get upset for? Sorry, I blew up. Dude, I don't want to bum him out, but is he- So wait a minute, guys, we don't nec- I mean, are we going to do this thing or what? Come on, seriously, Aiwass, I love Mei- Mei Pang. She's a sweetheart, you know? And she's, you know... She's pretty cute, too. I say we do it! Huh! Let's just the four of us make the record. Listen, listen. Team Apricot! All I say- This is what I think. Team Apricot! This is what I think. Let's just do it. We just don't talk anymore, we just make music. Yes! All right. Can I get- I gotta get another cup of coffee. Dude, swear to God, though, did you see his sweater? Yeah, it was, like... That was, like, Cosby Show. I just got the news. I just told the guys. We have been confirmed for Festeroo- second day, third stage, opening slot. Thank you very much. We'll take it. We're on our way. You know, I think Apricot getting a slot in Festeroo is obviously a great bonus for Apricot, but conversely, I think you have to look at Festeroo and the diamond-studded rainbow that they're getting having Apricot at Festeroo. If you ever take a journey, travel far and wide Just sit down next to yourself And start looking on the inside And everything that you never knew Well, you can now know So grab your hat and your walkin' shoes Pick yourself up and go Walking down the backroads of my mind Strolling through the kaleidoscope... I've been scribbling some... just lyric ideas and a few thoughts I had. And I don't want to impose any of my ideas, but have you considered kind of looking to group therapy and therapists as a way in for some lyric ideas? Nah. See it's like a polyrhythmic thing. Right. I use these three fingers. It's like if you felt my fingers, they're like... it's like leather. It's like a baseball mitt right there. It's really tough. Well- Give us your moves, man. I don't really have any moves. I just... Oh, oh, oh, oh Check it out, out, out, out - Out, out, out Check it out, out, out Check it out Check it out Out, out, out Hey, man, what's up? What's up, dude? How's it going? Just a little fuel, you know, a little fuel. Ham Sandwich, got my Rockstar energy drink. Look at that. Those are good, man. You should be drinking that. You guys are going to be rock stars, huh? You got the whole Festeroo thing going. You know, it's feeling good. Yeah, Festeroo. Doesn't rock any harder than that. We always talk about that Festeroo thing. I think it's going to be great. You guys see me doing my savvy... savvy magic in here and it's like, you know, it doesn't have to just be in here, it can be on the road, too, so... Just, um- Cool, man. You want another Rockstar? I'm good. I'm good. Too much Rockstar for you? Yeah. Okay. Talk to you later, man. Lots of good times at Uncle Pete's party Millie's Hacky Sacking with Cousin Arty Annie's got a henna tattoo Grandad's blowing that didgeridoo Hey. Finger sandwiches, guys? Yeah! I made them. Hey, what's up, man? Whoa! Hey, what's happening? Pretty nice. You doing all right? Uh, yeah, I'm okay. Yeah. Doing all right. Heard you guys are doing Festeroo. Yeah, it's pretty heavy. Yeah, that is heavy, that's- You want a towel? Uh, yeah, thanks. That's awesome, man. You guys are going on the road. I want to go on the road. I'd love to be a part of it, help you guys out whatever you want, you know? I'm your roadie, dude. I'm the dude you go to when you're on the road. Take me. Well, we'll keep that in mind. Talk to Don and... I just want to put that out there, you know? I'm not trying to be... say, hey, you know... bear hug, take me! Right, right, right, right, right. I'm just trying to say I went to music school so I can help you out, you know? Cool. All right. Okay. Thanks, man. All right. You guys want to take a little meeting? Yeah. Yeah. I don't want to make a big deal out of this. Right. But that Skippy dude? Sure. He's kinda tripping me out a little bit. What do you mean? He wants to go on tour and everything, but don't make me feel... Oh, he wants to go to Festeroo? Yeah. He's a little too eager beaver. Yeah, that's understandable. He came walking in on me when I'm taking a piss in the bathroom and he's all like, Hey, man, I want to be your roadie. And it's like, hey... He came in on purpose? Yeah... yeah, I mean... On your bathroom break. You know, I'm using the can and he's like, you know... I know exactly what to say, it's cool. Skippy's cool. Yeah, he's a cool dude. Yeah, don't worry about it. We'll rope him in... Um, I just had a couple of the guys came up to me and there's just been a small complaint about Skip. We just need to rope him in a little bit. He's kind of hustling a little too hard and just getting into people's space. He followed Gordo into the bathroom, you know? He's taking a leak and... You know, just kind of invading space and - - That's weird. It's weird and he's been kinda schmoozing the guys about wanting to go on tour to Festeroo, and- Wait, wait, wait. He wants to go on tour, for Festeroo? He wants to be our roadie on... I got you. Nah, I g- okay. You know what, I'll work- - It's no big deal. No, no, no, no, no. No, I got it, I got it. Skip's my guy. I know how to handle him. Right. He wants to go on tour. We're not trying to make a big deal. It's okay. I know exactly- He's my guy. I know how to handle it. He's your guy, but- - Yeah. No, no. I know. We didn't want to... Skip! Oh. Dammit. Skip! You, me, talk now. I'll talk. You want to talk right here? No, the question is do you want to talk right here? You want to talk right here, because we'll talk right here, if you want. Yeah, I mean, I don't see why not. All right, here's what we're going to talk about. I was just talking to Don. Don says that you were talking to the guys about being their guitar tech or drum tech or some such shit on the road, that you want to be a roadie with Apricot. Well... True or not? True or not? Yeah. Yeah, dude. I do a lot of things! That's all I need to know! That's all I need to know. Okay, because you're an employee of mine, Skip, you're supposed to be working for me and you're bothering the guys in the band. I'm not bothering them. That's the fucking last straw. I'm getting a vibe! Look, I saw you every day. It's like, Can I get you this? Can I get you that? Are you kidding me? I'm grooving with these guys. You're not grooving! Don just talked to me. That's what I'm trying to fucking put in your head. Don said I'm not grooving! Dude, I'm grooving. The fuck? Are you kidding? I'm working magic with these guys, buddy. What are you talking about? The only person that works magic... Why are you mad? with the fucking band is me because I'm the fucking magic man. End of fucking story. You're trying to brown-nose your fucking way in. I'm the go-to guy... That's not brown-nosing, dude! Guess what, motherfucker. Go to your fucking home because you're fucking fired! Step! It's over! Go, go-to guy. Go! Let's go! Are you serious? Go! Done! Fucking done! Done! Go! That was heavy, man. What the hell was that all about? I don't know, dude. Jesus! Skip just got canned. You want some footage? You want some fucking footage, buddy? I'll give you some footage. You ever heard of Drew Shackleford? I have. And he hasn't heard the last of me. I worked my ass off for that guy. My ass! Fuck you, Drew! You hear that? That's a big fuck you, buddy! Ready? Here we go. What's going on with the party? What's going on with the party? There we go. Dude. That's it. That's it. Did you hear my drums? They were ripping. Dude, you were nailing it. You hear that? I think we found a rainbow. I think I listened today to one of the most beautiful- beautiful rainbows that I've heard in a long time. And I think part of that... part of the thanks should go to Dr. Lefkowitz, man, for just bringing us together and making us all feel right. Thanks for making us all right, dude. It was my pleasure. It's good to be part of the team, the team. Yeah. Appreciate it, man. Sorry about all that sweater stuff. We've come out on the other side, right? He was able to really get into the groove here, became part of our family. Drew, I wasn't sure about this whole thing. I just- you know, hey, you were right, so... Using physics... Well, reality is you make your first record once. Right? Seriously. It's like, you have your first baby once. I hear you what you're saying, dude. You eat your first ham sandwich once. I believe in you guys so much, and, uh... you guys gave back what I gave. Thank you for having us and for putting this all together because we really couldn't do it without you. We wouldn't be here without you, you know? We'd be somewhere else. In the end, we have really produced a beautiful, beautiful bouncing baby album. I'm happy, dude. It was a... It was a good finish. It was a wild ride. Next step: Festeroo. The camaraderie amongst musicians remains unchanged, as with minstrels of ages past following well-worn roads to musical fulfillment. People talk about Route 66. Well, I'll tell you something right now. I'm alive. Ain't no jive. We're cruisin' on up Highway 5. Highway 5, take a look at that. Hey, man. Hang on to your hats! I'm so excited about Festeroo I actually need to do more meditating every day than I usually do. This is my space. I need my world where I can meditate... Make love to myself in ways that aren't sexual, but is love. We got, what, six, seven guys on this thing? And slowly, the motorhome is becoming the odorhome, if you know what I'm saying. Look at all that tie-dye and hair, baby. Nothing but tie-dye and hair. Awesome bunch of chicks! You see that? Holy shit! That was a bunch of chicks! Whoa, dude! Slow down! Hey! I got a new song. Ready? Psychic officer Come on down You're the psychic officer You bust like an oven You're like... That sounds familiar. You're like a- Well, all songs kind of sound familiar. Officer Do it. Ready? Psychic officer O-Officer Yes. Psychic officer I've heard this song, man. The queen has insects for eyes She lives in a kingdom of lies I swear to God, if I had a nickel for every idiot that I see on the road, I'd be a rich man. Hey! That's what I'm talking about. Learn how to drive, asshole! Jesus Christ! You know, we weren't supposed to be on this RV. We were supposed to get, uh- We were supposed to get the bus from String Cheese Incident, their first that they took to the Festeroo for their first appearance. It's called Bussy. And I had it totally lined up, but it broke down in Ojai. So I had to just go to EL Monte RV and rent an RV for the band so we could take this RV to Festeroo. Big fucking assholes! Where do we go? It's up here. Yeah, we gotta just kind of cruise through town a little bit. But what's the road? What's the turn? What's the- Is there a name? Special event. That's us, special event. Is that it right there? Yeah, this one up here, this is the one. All right, so here we are at Festeroo. We're getting our credentials. Really exciting. We're checking in, we're gonna start camping, and we're going to get ready for the gig. This is a very symbolic thing because the gates of Festeroo here... We're here, guys. I know, dude. Fucking... We're here, man. Dude, how many times have we been fucking jamming and fucking doing a freedom jam and going, We're getting to Festeroo one day, dude. Oh, Lapdog. Yeah? We should get, uh... tattoos! Matching tattoos. Electric Apricot. You know, I've always wanted to get a tattoo of a battleship on my chest. Aw, Christ. Gordo. Gordo. Hakia. Remember they talked about free love in the '60s? Uh-huh. This festival's totally the same thing, like free love, except for now it's not free. Like a guy like me, I have no problem getting chicks, but it's cool guys like you can come to this festival and just score chicks, man. I just think that's just fucking- That's why I love these places, man. They're awesome. We ain't got no free love yet. You have gotten any yet? That's why you gotta hang with us, dude. I've never heard of Electric Ay-pricot. Actually, let me try again. I've never heard of Electric App-ricot. I say App-ri. Um... Well, let's see, first of all, they should lose the food name. That never works. The Electric part is okay. Well, this one, um- Okay, so let's see. The purple, the combo Thursday, which is the purple one, was the late night shows on Thursday. The reason that I'm- The one redeeming value is the corn, because it's better than any other festival's corn, and I love that. Brought me here. And the yellow one is the combo Friday for late night shows on Friday. That's quite an appealing, evocative gaze, if you ask me. Good to know. Not beer. There are all types at Festeroo. All types: tall, big, small. So, on that one side of your mouth? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, there you go. Like this? Yeah, that's... that was closer. The combo, like, I guess some kind of weird pink color was for Saturday. And then I have my combo Sunday, which is orange. So- I don't think that's going to help, dude. I can't eat stuff... If it's stuffed, I can't eat stuffed. Sweet Potato? I can't eat sweet. Grilled? Can't eat grilled. Why can't you eat grilled? Caeser? Can't eat Caeser. Why? Right now all I can eat at this festival is like, wheatgrass. So far I found one place that sells wheatgrass and there's one place that sells these rocks that you put in cinnamon and you can lick them. So I'm kinda hungry, dude. The timber's off... Wolf is running round Winter was so hot and cold, put him beneath the ground No, don't kill me No, don't kill me We are at Festeroo and I had to step up. I had to bust out the special leopard skin glasses, They aren't even leopard skin anymore because I've been to Burning Man so many times with these that it's faded out. See that guy right over there? The guy with the- That's Matt Abts, man. That's incredible. I can't believe he's even here. That's incredible. It's an honor to meet you, man. Oh, thank you, man. Incredible. I love the way you play that Slingerland kit. I like how you got the tunings really open. You're getting all that ring, that resonance. Oh, yeah. As much as I can. I mean, that's just- Warren fucking- Warren fucking Haynes. Warren fucking Haynes, dude. You kind of got the bottom thing going, but I also see - were you ever into Cozy Powell? I kind of get... Love Cozy Powell. I get, like, a Cozy Powell... The Jeff Beck stuff he did especially. I remember hearing him with Rainbow when Dio was singing with Rainbow. Yeah. You know, Long Live Rock 'n' Roll. That was back when I was kinda crazy, playing a lot of kind of more heavier music, you know? Excuse me, Warren? Yes, sir. Hey, how you doing? Hey, man, how you doing? Steve Gordo Gordon from Electric Apricot. Nice to meet you Steve. How do you do? I'm doing pretty good. I'm a big, big fan. Well, thank you. Hey, you gotta second? Could ask you a couple questions or something? Sure, I got a second. Phil Collins, I don't know what happened to that guy. I mean, he's such a great drummer. I don't know why he started doing all this cabaret, Las Vegas-y thing. Yeah, that's true. Brand X, man. Yeah. That was a good band. Yeah, I don't know what happened. He's got cool hair, though. Most people run their pre-amp really hot, and I don't run mine very hot. Uh-huh. So it gives it more bottom-end at low pre-amp. I-I see that, because you got all the tone right there. Thanks for taking some time to talk to me. Anytime. I know you got a lot of things to do, so... It's quite all right. Gordo? You said it's Gordo? Gordo. It's nice to meet you, Gordo. Hey- Pleasure, pleasure. My pleasure. Hey, do you like to go to the zoo? Do you go to the zoo? I don't go often, but- Do you like to feed the ducks in the park? Uh, you know, I'm not a big duck-feeder. I like ducks. Yeah? I can see that. Yeah, yeah. You can screw my girlfriend if you want to. She's totally down, dude. Yeah? I probably would feel too guilty. I'm married and she's your girlfriend, you know? Oh, oh, okay. All right. But I appreciate the offer. I mean, it's probably- it's coming from your heart He was okay. He was kinda weird, you know? He offered me to sleep with his girlfriend. Something about ducks and feeding ducks and- I don't know. Maybe he was a little high or something. Okay, I just was a fucking total dipshit. I think you'reoverreacting. Nah, dude. I think you're totally overreacting. I'm not. I was sitting there telling him, dude, he can sleep with my girlfriend? Well- What the fuck is that, dude? You don't even have a girlfriend. What the hell? I'm trying to tell you, dude. Where the fuck is that coming from? Oh, man. I don't think it's as bad as you think. No, it's the fucking nightmare. It's the worst thing in my whole entire fucking life. I got to meet Matt Abts. It's supposed to be the best day ever. Feed the ducks. What are you talking about, ducks? I asked him if he wanted to go feed the fucking ducks! What does that mean? I don't know. He was walking away, I wanted to talk to him. I didn't know what to fucking... So you talked to him about ducks? I just- I don't get it. I mean... I don't know what to say, dude. I didn't know what to say, I just... Fucking, I turned into a blithering idiot ass-fucking-hole. It just kind of tripped him out a little bit that he told me he felt like he made an ass of himself in front of Warren. I'm just a fucking asshole. Fucking fuck. Oh, fuck it. It was going so smooth today and then he's gotta trip out. Well, I mean, you know, who knows? Who knows what'll happen. Wow, wow, wow. It's the old Cincinnati dancing pig. He's the barnyard Mr. Pig. Is anybody up yet? I mean, you know, he always disappears, man. He's just... I'm not really tripping on it. He did get pretty hammered, I'll tell you that right now. He was definitely- Yeah, I haven't- I don't know. I haven't seen him that lit in a while. Well, he was all tripped out because he went up to- he went up to Warren Haynes and just said all this crazy shit. But the camera guys said that they stumbled across him and he was passed out and he was nude. Hah, that's such... That's Gordo. It's cool, dude. We got a lot of time. He'll show up. He always shows up. I, uh... I think that Festeroo is a festering... not a disease-ridden kangaroo, but an ocean of creativity and some of the Lord's own jelly. Check it, stop, rock Everybody gonna move Everybody, let's move Everybody gonna move Everybody, let's move Ah, yes. Ain't gonna stop Ain't gonna quit I've kind of evolved, revolved, and dissolved with the Grateful Dead. And so, uh, jam is my middle jelly. You know, fun is fun and we all know how he is, but this is- this is... this is kinda crazy, guys. We might have to do it without him, I hate to say it. We're going to have to do it without him. What's the word, here? You guys- What's the word with you? Nothing. I goose-egged. I haven't found a thing. We're going to have to play, man. We're just going to have to do it. What do you think? Should we, like- Well, I think, you know... Extended solos or should you do your drum solos? Hey, or I can do a drum solo. I can get bass solos, man. I can do some stuff. I can't believe this. I can't believe this. We're down to the wire. This is it, this is the wire. All right, guys, we gotta do it. Coming out for you, the seminal Jam band, bursting onto the Jam band scene, enlightening the world through music, give it up for Electric Apricot, everyone! Get on your feet! Get ready to dance! A quarter of the Apricot entity was not there. Here we were heading out on stage. And we started getting into some of the Burning Man, the textures, doing these textures, you know? The feeling you get, you know, just the energy that comes off of that mass of humanity, it's like, you know- it's why I do what I do. It's why I chose to be a percussionist singer/songwriter, whatever you want to call it. Next thing I know, I look over and there he is, kinda shambling out. I was a little late. I was working some stuff out. I knew, personally, that Gordo was going to show up. There's a place... a wondrous, magical place where like-minded individuals come together on the playa. This place, this wondrous place, is called... Burning Man Burning Man I think the fans and our band really connected today. It felt really magical to me. I don't know, it really felt like we clicked. I mean, it was like, here's me, here's the band. We kinda just came together. Hey, are you going to Burning Man? Bury your toes in the desert sand Ain't no man for to tell you how to be Come on down with me to Burning Man I got a recipe for cosmic flan Strip off your clothes and set your aura free Gordo, today, played his ass off, if I may say so. He was singing something electric with his guitar that I hadn't- actually have never ever seen before. Come down with me to Burning Man Dangle your toes in that desert sand Ain't no man for to tell you how to be And by the man, I mean the law. Free people taking Burning Man. Amazing Larry's got a masterplan. It's all about Just letting myself be free We went to a place that was absolutely unbelievable. People were staring at us, they were staring at me. Hey, touchdown, payday. I don't want to say payday because that's a little more of a capitalistic thing. Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to- Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? Hey, are you goin' to Burning Man? How you doing? How you feeling? It was good. Everyone played really, really well. I was really impressed. Gordo was just amazing, Lap was amazing, Herschel, I mean- I was proud to be in this band today. We came, we saw, we conquered. Why not have a little fun? I think from here onward and upward for the Apricot. I turned and looked and there was Gordo, man. You only rock Festeroo once, you know what I'm saying? Gordo, we were ready to go on with a three-piece, man. I want to propose a toast, a toast to us at Festeroo. Sweet! Yeah, yeah! Hip, hip, hooray! What a day, man. Festeroo. We came, we saw, we pulled it off somehow, and, uh... yeah, wow. My head's kinda spun from the whole- the whole thing, you know? So what happened to you, dude? I was... I was in the woods and I was sleeping and I was naked. I was woken up by this voice. I looked up, you guys, and Jerry was standing over me. Jerry. He came to me. He's been so fixated on Jerry Garcia for so many years, I guess it was bound to happen. Whether or not it's real or not... I mean, he didn't see Jerry Garcia. He was probably talking to a squirrel. I think he wanted to see Jerry Garcia. And he's talking to me, but his mouth isn't moving. Jerry was? With Jerry? What the hell are you talking about? But, dude... I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what. I've never seen you play like you played today. I've never seen that. That was incredible. Yeah, dude, you saved the show. I really think you did. We've been around the horn. He was talking to me through here and here. Just the most spiritual thing that ever happened to me in my whole entire life, man. There's a tray of special brownies, if you know what I mean, waiting for us in the rig, if anybody wants them. Oh, oh, oh! The Cube... you know, he's one of our biggest fans- and he brought us a tray of brownies. You know, those happy brownies. Hey, our work is done. Let's have a little fun! So ready, man. You guys better get in while you fit in because if I get that tray, it's gonna be gone, man. We have to get out of here tonight because we have to get this RV back. Otherwise we'll have to pay another day rental. Otherwise we'll have to pay another day rental. In the process of documenting Electric Apricot, our young filmmaker has caught a glimpse of Enlightenment. Oh, I got it. I got it. We're cool. Yeah, this is cool right here. So, what happened to those brownies? Gordo ate them. Dude, he ate all those brownies? The true revelation of Enlightenment is the discovery that life is a never-ending journey to a destination that is never actually reached. Are you sure, man? He's going to be totally gone. Yeah, he is gone. He's passed out. Unexpectedly, while reaching for Enlightenment, the duality of existence is unveiled. He's going to have a very special ride when he wakes up. How you doing tonight, sir? I'm doing all right, Officer. Doing all right. Where are you coming from? We just came from the Festeroo, a festival down the road. Sir, I am going to have to ask you to put that video camera down, please. Driver's license and registration, please. You know, they're making a- they're making a documen- We just played the Festeroo down the street. Sir, please turn that video camera off. They're making a documentary. They're making a documentary. That's what the cameras are for. They're doing a documentary on the band. Driver's license and registration, please. We're a band from California. What's going on? We play on... You mind if I come in there and check it out? Um... Check out inside. Turn that video camera off now. What? Man, I'm getting out of here! Get me outta here! Gordo, stop, dude. I said... God damn! Get your hands off me. Hey! Get over here! It's cool man! It's cool, man. It's cool. Hands behind your back. It's cool. It's cool, man. I can't... I can't breathe. Shut up and stay there. I can't breathe! l... Jerry! Jerry! Jerry! Gordo recently started a website dedicated to the notion that Jerry Garcia is still alive. I don't put much stock in this sort of thing, but I did find something pretty interesting. I thought I just... one of these pans I had backstage. I'll scroll back here. If you do a frame-by-frame... Look at that. I'll do a zoom-in. I mean, I don't know. You tell me. Hey, are you going to Burning Man? Bury your toes in the desert sand Ain't no man for to tell you how to be Come on down with me to Burning Man I got a recipe for cosmic flan Strip off your clothes and set your aura free There's a place I know called Black Rock City Where we're about to get down To the nitty gritty We're all children of the stars above Searching for answers and feasting on love Hey, are you going to Burning Man? I got a big old slab of veggie ham Come to Camp Tesori and to bring some soy Cheese Free-thinking people at Burning Man Amazing Larry's got the masterplan It's all about just letting myself be me Me There's a gal I know called Moonstone Annie She blows flames right out of her fanny Ya ought to see her walking on the tight wire Jugglin' bananas while her hair is on fire Come on down with me to Burnin' Man... It's a fabulous place. It's a fabulous land. ooh yeah. Art love, lovin' Art's love for Art, Art for love...
