 

                        IGNORANT FAIRIES May I have the honor of being your guide? No. Then you won't ever know the secret of each statue. I don't want to know their secret, just leave me alone. - Go away, I'm married. - Perfect! So am I. I'm waiting for my husband, we're going to a reception, something for his work, and we're meeting here. How can your husband leave a beautiful woman like you alone? I wonder the same thing, he does it often, too. - Pretty stupid, isn't he? - Imprudent, more than anything. I've been waiting for an hour, so he should be here soon. Meaning I should kiss you now or lose you forever? Quit it. I just picked you up, now let me have a kiss. - Where'd you park the car? - Where's yours? I took a cab. - My watch stopped, madame. - Nora, you should've returned at 11. - The others stayed at the party. - I don't care about the others. - I didn't do it on purpose. - But you did. This is the second time, a rule is a rule, and we made that rule together. I let you go out when you want if we don't need you, but you have to come back on time. Next time I'll be here early. I don't know if there will be a next time, your aunt doesn't know you went out. I gave her another chance, but this is the last. You make life so complicated, just let her be! You don't have to deal with her aunt. She left her in our hands, now she's our responsibility. Nora is an adult, she could care less about her aunt. Well, you're not the one who has to argue with her family. - What time do you leave tomorrow? - After work. You're leaving straight It's quicker that way. But you won't come home for dinner. That's all you can say to a handsome naked guy like me? It's bad news, isn't it? Why have you waited to give me my results, doctor? It's our procedure, your results indicate that you are HIV positive. You've contracted the virus, but you haven't developed the illness, and with the right treatment, there's a good possibility that you never will develop the illness. Medical research has made enormous steps in this regard. Simona... The situation has been taken care of, the fax has cleared it all. There weren't any problems with the other shipments, and there won't be any in the future, either. - Giulio, are you coming with us? - I'm waiting for a call from Poland. See you later. It's important that your wife be tested now, too. I don't think so. We haven't had sex in a long time. It was... with my wife's friend. In Milan. She's a respectable woman. How can I tell Elena? What will she think of me? You'll have to support one another, in a moment like this, you will both need help and comfort. We have to go to a luncheon at 1:30. And it's almost 1:00 now. I forgot my cell phone, I'll be right back. We've got to run, we'll talk later. I'm going to give you the name of a specialized clinic and the name of a doctor, too. Tell him I sent you there, he'll find you the right treatment. This will be a struggle, but I know you can make it. - You have a phone call. - I can't right now. It's urgent. Will you excuse me for a moment? Set them there. No, over there. We cleared out Massimo's office, now all his personal things are here. I'll help you put them away, maybe if we do it together... I couldn't cancel my trip to London next week, you can come if you want, it might do you some good. When I get back I'll sleep here for a few nights. I won't leave you alone. Nora, let's set the table! Mr. Massimo very good, I put things he like here, to give him company on his trip. - Weren't you Catholic? - Not all. "To Massimo, for the seven years we've spent together, for the part of you I miss, the part I'll never have, for every time you said: 'I can't,' and for every time you said: 'I'll come back.' Forever waiting, can I call my patience 'love'? Your Ignorant Fairy." Your Ignorant Fairy? "To Massimo, for the seven years we've spent together..." Who gave that painting to Massimo? Antonia, is that you? Giulio, I know you know, tell me who gave it to him. Are you okay? Just tell me about the painting! What painting? When you sent me Massimo's stuff, a painting came along with it. I think Simona handled that. I know you covered for him before, but now I have to know. I'll come over if you want. No, don't, give me Simona's home phone number. - Do you want me to come over? - Give it to me now! It's not here. Why should I have kept a delivery receipt? Because you're Miss Perfect. That's what Massimo always said. - What else did he say about me? - Why do you want to know? I don't work just for my paycheck. Get me that damned receipt and I'll tell you everything that Massimo thought of you. I can assure you that Massimo wasn't having an affair. I can assure you he was! I found it! There's just an address with an Apt. Number but no last name. You don't know who lives at this address? No. Fine, I'll find it out by myself. Antonia, wait. Well? Massimo always said: "I have total faith in Simona, she would never betray me." That's actually what I thought about my husband. Who told you that he wants to screw me over? What do you gotta say about my life? Let me give you some advice about men. What do you know about men? - Mara cares about you, you know? - She shouldn't be so nosy. I don't go tellin' her who to fuck. - Luisella, you're ridiculous. - He's waiting for me. Yeah right, with a horse and carriage. Mara, did I ask you anything? What the fuck do you all care? It's my money, I'll do whatever the fuck I want. There's no way he's gonna kiss love good-bye for 800,000 lire. That guy would sell you for just 10,000 lire. I gave him that money on the spur of the moment, he didn't ask me for it. - Wow, you even admit it! - Mara, get offa my back! - Don't go, don't lose face. - Mind your own business, fat cow. Outta the way, bitch! She acts like that every time a guy screws her over, which happens all the time. Do you feel sick? No... ...sort of. I have to deliver this painting to Apartment 10. - They're asleep at Mariani's now. - Mariani? Mrs. Mariani. - Mrs.? - Miss. Miss Mariani works at the Open Market at night, and sleeps during the day, so it wouldn't be right to wake her. - Are you the concierge? - I wish. I'm the building administrator. Thank you. - The Ignorant Fairy is beautiful. - You know her? - Who? - The Fairy. It's the name of the painting, it's by Joseph Lanti. I didn't know that. But this is just a copy. You can leave it with me, I'll give it to Miss Mariani. No, I have to deliver it personally. If that's what you want, then come back on a Sunday around lunchtime, or you can go to the Open Market. - All right, good-bye. - What about my glass? Sorry. MARIANI M. & CO. Offices located on: Via del Commercio Hurry up here, we need you guys. Excuse me, what floor... You've got the keys, why don't you use them? If you didn't bring dessert, I'll kill you. Sorry, I thought it was Riccardo with... - I'm looking for Miss Mariani. - Who? Miss Mariani... isn't this her house? For the painting. That depends... Come in. Have a seat. Serra, get over here. Figure out what she wants, she's speaking in code. Hello. - Don't you remember me? - I don't know. Michele? Do you want some orange juice? Whatever you want. - Maybe this isn't the right time. - There's never a right time here. I'm Mara, nice to meet you. Likewise, I'm Antonia. - Have a drink. - No, thanks. Drink up! Trust me. Sorry about my timing, it's always off, I just wanted to speak with Miss Mariani. You've made a mistake, this is my house and there's no Miss Mariani living here. But she told me that Miss Mariani lives here, and that I should stop by on Sunday. I messed up, I do that a lot. She used to live here, but not anymore. Right, Michele? Right, and she's not coming back, at least for now. She never says where she's going, it's tough to get a hold of her. - I wanted to return this painting. - I'll give it to her. No, I wanted to deliver it to her personally. That'll be difficult because she's always away, she travels a lot. - Here one day, gone the next. - Appears, then disappears again. She's like a gypsy. It's almost impossible that you'll find her. If you'll excuse us, people are coming over for lunch. We can't help you. Sorry. - She's your sister, isn't she? - Right, his twin. Good-bye. You're a real bitch! Did all that fat seep into your head? She's gone now. Get your fat ass outta here! You dragged all that stuff out there but the table isn't set. Aren't we going to set the table? Don't change the subject, you're a bitch. If you stay here you're gonna get stabbed. If that girl comes back you'll get the stabbing. No way! She figured it all out, she's in a hospital now recovering from shock. Jesus Christ! You have the keys to my house, give them back. That's Ernesto, these aren't his visiting hours. I'm sorry. Please leave now. I want to speak with Miss Mariani, she was my husband's lover. - I won't leave until I speak to her. - Why won't you give up? I don't understand you. I don't care if you understand, I just want to speak with her. That's impossible! Who are you, some relative? I don't have any relatives, just an aunt, but she's 70. - Is she your wife? - My wife! - Why's the door wide open? - Hello everybody! - Wasn't this the same painting... - Yes, you slow pokes. If your husband wanted you to know, he would have told you, or he would have let you find out. Guys, this isn't the time. Why are you all bitchy? Go out to the terrace. What's up with him? Just let it go, he isn't with us anymore. So you know everything? Please, just let me speak to that woman. That woman doesn't exist! You really don't get it? Have you looked around here? So why did my husband have the keys to this apartment? Exactly! Whose apartment is this? - Yours. - Well then? Doesn't two plus two equal four? You can just burst into my house whenever you want, but I could never get close to your perfect little house, so spare me the melodrama, because if anyone should be angry, it should be me, not you. I behaved for seven years, now it's your turn to be good, at least just once. What good does it do you to know I was your husband's lover? - No. - Yes I was, for seven years. - Well? - Give us a recap. Shit, she even made me feel guilty. It's not like I stole him. Massimo was having an affair. Really? Good. Good? He was a human being after all. Mom, it lasted seven years. - Poor thing! - Please, don't pity me. Not you, I feel sorry for her. - You're not on my side? - It's difficult being the lover. You're always in the shadows, picking up the crumbs. Quit the soap opera talk. No. This is real life. General Sperelli... Do you remember that tall handsome man that lived in the house... ...at the end of the square? Your father had already left, but his wife and children hadn't. It lasted 9 years. I didn't notice a thing. You were never very curious about life, you married your high-school classmate, pretty unadventurous! - You never liked Massimo. - No, it's not about him. I didn't like the fact that you got off at the first stop, that you gave up everything for him, even medical school, and your own friends. To make him happy you never even had a child. I didn't like the fact that what you had was enough. Do you think you'll meet her? - I already did. - How did it go? I slapped her. - Is she married? Or with anyone? - I don't think so. Well? You're both alone. Mom, did you know you're a big help? I lost my husband twice and all you can tell me is... ...that I messed up my life. Thanks. If I think of committing suicide I'll call you. If Curelli doesn't show up call him, please. He always delivers too late for us to make returns at 4:00. And the pineapples are all wet. What do you want? I just want to speak to you. About what? I want to know everything. He isn't here anymore, not for you or me. It's not that simple, I want to know how you met, when you decided to get together, when it was you saw each other, what lies you told me. Marilena, I'll be right back. I have to know what really went on between you two, I have to understand. What is there to understand? I loved him and he loved me. That's not true, I don't believe it. I put up with you when he was alive, you had him for all the holidays, for all the vacations, now he's gone and I still have to put up with you. No way! Listen, you knew he was married. Take a good look! I'm a man. If he was with me, too, there was a reason for it. I'm not your rival, I never tried to take him away. You have nothing to do with him, you have nothing to do with the Massimo that I knew. Then maybe you didn't know him well. I didn't know him well? Fifteen years of marriage and you say I didn't know him well? We ate off the same plate, we drank out of the same glass, I always know what he was thinking, and it was the same for him, he didn't even need to ask me. And you're telling me I didn't know him well? I couldn't even go to his funeral. You know what I have left? A stack of photographs. He lied to me. For years. Don't you get it? I don't know who he was anymore. Once, I came to your lab to have my blood tested, I wanted to see you... I can't take this. Know what I thought when I saw you? No. Open and close your fist. Stay still. Have you had an I.V. For long? You didn't feel a thing, right? You're Massimo's wife, aren't you? I'm sorry for what happened. What a slut! Where should I send this guy? To the metro stop at the Pyramid. - No, let's send him out to Eur. - Okay! Want to bet I can convince her to stay for lunch? I don't really care. Then why did you make me do that tear-jerker phone call? - For Ernesto. - For Ernesto! Why don't you keep your fat ass out of this? Because unlike some people, I use my fat ass just to sit on. How did it go? The Salvation Army is serving lunch. Will you stay with us for lunch? Thanks, but I can't. You have to take out the I.V. In an hour, anyway, right? - Come cut some onions. - You already know Luisella. She's been screwed over by a record number of men. At least I find men to screw me over, you can't even get that far. If they're not losers you don't want them. Can you dice the onion into tiny pieces? You're so chic. When are you having a sale? I want to be chic, too. - You need a miracle, honey. - Grace Kelly has spoken. Antonia, meet the guys. - That's Riccardo. - My condolences... hello. That's Luciano. These two are as inseparable as tweedledee and tweedledum. That's Sandro. Sandro is the only one who doesn't live in this building. But he'd like to, now that Massimo isn't here. Let's go sit at the table. Mara made a decision, she's going back to her home town. She always says she will, but she never does. - She doesn't have the nerve. - She will go, but she shouldn't. I think she should go just like she is. That way she'll be free from this nightmare once and for all. They will be the ones to free themselves from her. What do you think, Antonia? Should she go, or not? I actually don't understand. Let me explain, I grew up in Catanzaro. She has a real family, even though that's hard to believe. She was born from a genetic experiment that went terribly wrong. And who made you, a whale and a cactus? For Christ's sake! Mara hasn't been back to her hometown in ten years. Her darling little brother is getting married next week and Mara wants to go, but nobody there knows that "he" is now a "she." I really want to see my grandma, she's 99 years old. If she sees you like that she won't live to see 100. - I can go dressed like a man. - It's a wedding, not Halloween. A man with two tits like that? I'll strap them down. And you'll wrap your face like the invisible man? That's a good idea. I want to know why he always has to do that. She's just being Let's not give her the satisfaction. We won't say anything, otherwise she'll never stop. Here's the idiot who rang that way. That wasn't only I am pooped, but I did find a few things... Did you raid the flea market? Angelo Pezza: Patron saint of flea markets. Who's he, the lead in your new play? Don't start with me, this is Israele. - Hi everyone, I'm Israele. - You're from the outskirts of Naples? - No, from downtown. - Get out! It doesn't matter where he's from, but how he looks! - Come here. - At least he's not a queen. And he's cute. Nice smile. - Are you a dentist? - No, I work in a bakery. Interesting! So how do you make bread? You must've already learned. I've only known him for 20 minutes. Who are you? Is that really her? - Who else could she be? - You're very photogenic. - You've got your usual tact. - The Turkish refugee has spoken. You're just touchy 'cause everyone steals the guys you pick up. Don't mind them. I don't mind anything anymore. You still haven't answered us. What should Mara do? I don't know, I don't know what to say. If she tells the truth, she could be rejected. If the alternative is never seeing them again, maybe it's best if she goes. And if they refuse to see her again? I always lie to the people I love. It's dangerous to tell the truth. But, it isn't right... What isn't right? To lie to those you love? If you tell the truth, they might not love you anymore. How can you love a man who always lies to you? Let's have a toast to the truth. First, I want to thank you all, for all the effort you made not to mention him, but it's useless. You can avoid saying his name, thinking of him, you can even forget about him, but Massimo is still here, with us, just like every Sunday, when he pretended to see the soccer games at the stadium and out of town. How many times did he tell you that? When you asked him how the game went, what did he tell you? I'll tell you what: Everything that Mara told him. You're sitting in his place. So I want to toast him... ...because he was one of us. Aren't you going to toast with us? Sorry. What do you want? Why don't you get out of the car? Do you want to spend the day in your car? Yes. Milk or lemon? It's not a tough question. What do you want? A tissue. Did you go back to see her? Was it that bad? You don't understand what he saw in her. What she had that you didn't. Right? I fully understand. Massimo didn't just have an affair, he had an entire world, his true family was totally different. Shush, what are you saying? Come into the house. I don't want to go in there anymore. You want to spend the rest of your life in your car? Yes. Fine, whatever you want. What time should I bring you dinner? Nora! That's enough. I'm very sorry, you too good for that, ma'am, you not deserve this. Mr. Massimo shouldn't have. Mom! You told Nora that Massimo was having an affair? Nora is obsessed, whenever I mention Massimo she bursts into tears. She put candles everywhere in the house, it's like one big shrine. Did you tell the neighbors, too? The only way to keep a secret is to choose one person to tell. We're all here together at the lab. Sooner or later it happens to us all, you know what men are like. - You have nothing to be ashamed of. - You told them, too! You're the one who should be ashamed, I can't stand you anymore. Why don't you go back to your house? I just want to be alone. Do you understand the word "alone"? I came to cut some onions. I already cooked, but you can have some if you want. I'm not hungry. - I am thirsty, though. - Come in. Do you want some water, lemonade, iced tea? Yogurt? Iced coffee? Hot coffee? Gin tonic? Ham sandwich? A glass of wine. I'm sorry about Sunday, I was an asshole, the others were excited about your being there, too, and they kind of got out of hand. - We're sorry. - I'm sorry. My timing is always bad. You're about to eat? This is for Ernesto. In an hour I'm going to the Market, I'll eat there. I wanted to tell you that I can keep coming here. I left so abruptly, you might have thought that... I didn't think anything. I mean for the I.V. Thank you, I'd like that. Could you pass me the Parmesan? That's good, thanks. Massimo... I mean, you... Were you his first, or did he have others? I was his first, actually, the only one, he didn't have anyone else, men or women. Just the two of us. How do you know? How do you know? He told me so. And he never lied to you? We were both looking for the same book, a rare book... ...but I had gotten there first, the clerk told me there was only one copy left, which he went to get. While I was waiting, Massimo arrived, when he saw me near the computer he thought I was the clerk, he came right up to me and asked me for the same book, I wanted to laugh, because... It's funny, isn't it? When the clerk came back with the book everything was cleared up, but that was the last copy and no new editions were scheduled. Massimo was really disappointed. He really wanted it. He told me he'd pay me double for it, actually he said: "I'll give you whatever you want." It was an awkward situation... ...because I had looked everywhere for it that day, and that was the fifth bookstore, and I couldn't believe I had found it. It was red, it had a red cover, right? The complete works of Hikmet. I had other books of his, but that book had poems that I had never read before. I thought I could photocopy it and then give him the book. It was the first time I had met someone who liked my favorite poet so much. "From your mind, from your flesh, from your heart, your words reached me, your words, brimming full of you... Your words, dear mother, your words, my love, you words, my friend. They were sad, bitter, they were happy, full of hope, they were courageous, heroic. Your words were men." The book was for you, wasn't it? Massimo didn't even know who Hikmet was. "Just turn on the burner and I'll be ready. Have a good day!" - Good morning. - Hi. I was up all night translating, so I made meatballs this morning to unwind, but you have to tell me where I went wrong. - Not so early in the morning. - His didn't come out like this. There's grated apple, hot pepper, cooked in onion and orange juice. Maybe there shouldn't be any onion. I wouldn't know! I thought that you taught him how to make them. - Massimo always made them. - Massimo cooked? He's still asleep. - Do you want some coffee? - I have to hurry. We have to wash and change him. Hi. If you need anything, just ask us. An accountant, a masseuse... They have friends everywhere, ready to solve any problem. She's exaggerating, but we're here if you need us. Thanks. I don't get it... Massimo cooked? Those were the best times with him. He'd invent, create things! Too sweet, aren't they? I don't even know the original. Hi Simone. Thanks. - Have a taste. - I'm on a diet. Mamma will never know, it's just some apple and orange. - How is it? - Good. Michele said you can keep these. I'll give you the recipe if you want. August 22, two years ago, on the beach, behind a bush, then again that evening at his place, and a few more times all night long. You even remember the date! Yeah, I did it on purpose. I wanted everything from him, even his disease. Emanuele meant everything to me. He'd take me, then leave me whenever he wanted. If he felt suffocated, he'd do everything to push me away, but if I was the one to leave, he'd take me back. Then came the day when I got sick, they put me in a hospital, and he disappeared. You don't know where he is? You haven't heard from him since? No, but he knows exactly where I am. The only memento I have of him... ...is this. I know this place. It's nearby. That's where we always met. Maybe we're still there, but no one sees us, because no one ever understood our love. Or maybe I'm the only one who's still there. I know a lot of people who take the same medicine. Ever since they started this treatment they're a lot better. They must be doing their treatment the right way, then. Couldn't you do it the right way, too? I like you a lot. We like you a lot. We have to find the spitting image of Michele. This girlfriend's obsessed! Stop! - This one's identical to Michele. - At night, with the lights out. - What do you say? - Forget it! Try this one. What are they laughing about? Antonia puts him in a good mood. Let me see. I burned all the clothes I had in my previous life. You own a boutique and you don't own one suit. I sell women's clothes, silly! - This one isn't bad. - Too pumped up. How do they get like that? Too skinny! Bland. No, curly hair, not my type! Too feminine! What hicks! If these guys knocked on your door you wouldn't let them in? - No way, I swear. - You've screwed worse trash! Look who's talking! If I can have my dream guy, I might as well shoot for the best. If we tighten your chest and let out the jacket, it'll fit. You're hurting her! It's my prostate. I tighten around your chest and your prostate hurts? No, it's been hurting me for months. No, you can still see them. I can stick them under my armpits. No way, they'll hurt the whole time. I've always suffered in men's clothes. You didn't have breasts before. I always thought I had them. Try this one. Do you have this guy's e-mail? Yeah, but I wouldn't e-mail him. Darling, when you were desperate, you put your lips around anything. - What do you say? - Hideous. Guys? I've decided. I'm going like this. You look like the Miss Gay Alternative! What a babe! You chose well, simple, conservative, a bit jungle-like... You'll go unnoticed! Are we done modeling now? I finished mine. Political, isn't it? "Who's gonna get in my pants tonight?" Can I have your attention, please. You would never imagine it, but after traveling aimlessly and pathetically around the world, we have among us once again, the best of the worst... Mr. "I promise it to everyone but give it to no one"... Prince Emir! Would you all kindly get on the waiting list. Little sister! He's Serra's brother, I'd like to meet their parents. Guess what I brought you? I can't believe it! It's out now! I postponed my departure to wait for the new CD to come out. It's my favorite singer. I'm Emir. I know I've seen you somewhere. - In a picture? - You've never been to Istanbul? - No. - Too bad, you should go. Don't listen to him, Emir's a real slut. Slut? I don't know what that means. Today you're drinking half a glass, too. To Emir. That's weird, somebody I care about just arrived. They say that when you break a glass a person you love has just left. To Emir. Don't you look nice! Is it the guy from the park? Now Nora's spying on me! What's there to hide? I'm going to a party with ten people. Don't get upset! I'm happy that you're dressing up for someone. I'm not dressing up for anyone, I'm dressing up for myself. That's what I used to say... nonsense! You should wear a necklace. Sorry! Give me your necklace. It wouldn't look good with your dress. Hypocrite! Why don't you just say you don't want to give it to me? I've never taken it off! It's the symbol of my freedom, it may sound silly but it's true. I didn't know you used to be a slave. Is it a present from the general? It was from your aunt. How did you get into the group? You don't know? Serra hasn't told me anything. I'm Massimo's wife. Massimo? The guy who was with Michele. Right! I never met him. Why are you always travelling? It's in my blood. Must be a family thing. Serra left for more serious reasons, I just can't sit still. Soon I'm going to Amsterdam, then Istanbul. Will you spend the night with me? - You're very direct! - It's a defect of mine. It could be an asset, too. No! I'm a lot older than you. And it wouldn't be right. Drink this before it gets cold. It'll help your stomach. You'll feel better. - What are you doing? - You used to get in bed with me. Now it's time to return the favor. I don't know what to do. For once in your life just think about yourself. Take all the time you want. If it helps you, come back to work, but we can manage without you. Don't worry more than you have to. Considering what happened, it's normal that you don't feel good. I didn't know you had gone back to work. I haven't, I don't feel good. - Me neither. - I mean I'm physically sick. - What's wrong? - I don't know. - What's wrong? - I'm having some tests done! Are you mad at me? You're the one who called, tell me what you want. Are you mad because of what happened at the party? - Did something strange happen? - Strange for you, maybe. Just forget about it. I have a lot on my mind, just forget it! Yeah, forget it! I go back home with two guys and find that book waiting for me. How do you think that made me feel? What does that book mean? That everything is forgiven? That now we can go on pretending? I left that book for you before I went to the party. How did I know you were going to have an orgy? You could have imagined it. Right, because it's normal for you! How many can you do in a night? Was it like that with Massimo? Did you bring them or did he? You bitch, you don't even have respect for him! I don't have respect? What do you people respect? You're all arrogant, ignorant... You don't care, you barge in on people's lives and destroy them, you're not the ones who fall to pieces! You always talk about love, you don't even know what it means. You don't know how to love. I loved Massimo. - Yes, I loved your husband! - Oh yeah? - Only because he was with me. - No. If he had been alone you would have left him within a week. - That's not true! - Look at Sandro. He hangs on your every word, and he's nothing to you, he's too easy! You don't know how to love. And you? You spent your life hiding behind Massimo. Were you afraid of the world outside of his arms? Was he your guardian angel? You're just an uptight, frigid, middle-class bore! That's enough! Want to know what you are? Yeah! What am I? What? A faggot? Yes. Hi Serra. No! Okay, I'll be right there. Ernesto has disappeared. What does that mean? Wait! If you find out anything, call me. He was begging me with his eyes to leave him there. I told him to come with me, that the rain would kill him. I nearly had to drag him away. He went there as if he hoped to meet up with his old boyfriend. Emanuele? When it started to rain he realized he'd never come. But he still didn't want me to take him away. Maybe Emanuele made a date with him and then never showed up. That's impossible. Emanuele died a year ago, but we never told him. And you all kept it a secret? Why? I was afraid that he would want to die, too. Ernesto has always been abandoned by everyone, even his parents. That's why he didn't show up and stopped looking for you. He didn't abandon you. Forgive me! Forgive me! I won, ma'am! Why didn't I think of it before? The symptoms were right there. Are you seeing anyone? No. It's Massimo's. What are you going to do? This is wonderful news! I'm shocked, but... It's wonderful. If I don't win it isn't fun. I'll quit playing! - You're all wrong. - I don't get it. You'd feel relieved if Antonia got together with someone. That's what you would want. What the fuck are you saying? I'm not in charge of Antonia's life! I already have enough problems as it is. Then you would be the only official widow left. You're such a bitch! Does it bother you if he starts living again? When did he ever stop, Sandro? He takes two guys to bed at once! He fucks anybody, except for you. Well? If I fuck a little does that mean I'm not suffering? How do you know how much I miss Massimo? You haven't fallen in love with Antonia, have you? Serra, Lady Godiva isn't a lesbian. I'm talking about love! Maybe you don't know what that means. Stop thinking with your dick! You're obsessed with love! You still believe in fairy tales? Of course! Yes, we're witches! - Witches, I'm sick of this shit. - Michele, wait. It won't kill you to talk about it, it's obvious something's bugging you. You don't understand. I'm just a little... nostalgic. For what? Maybe for a life that's bland, stupid, normal. You already have one, don't kid yourself. Maybe you're right. I'm going to see Ernesto. You've wanted to tell me something since you got here. They're tearing down our old house to build an apartment building. Everything is changing. A month ago they arrested that policeman that hurt you so badly. Alyl? On what charges? Torture and abuse of prisoners. How long is his sentence? He won't be let out soon, he lost all his political backing. What's wrong? Nothing. Emir asked me if I wanted to go to Amsterdam with him. What did you say? I accepted. Does Michele know? No. You're the first person I've told. I left Istanbul for Rome so I could change my life, but the real journey came when I climbed the stairs to knock on Michele's door. I didn't know anyone in the building and I needed some salt. He was the only person who opened the door. When he saw that I was out of breath from climbing the stairs, he said: "If you don't sit down, you'll need smelling salts instead!" And he invited me in. You aren't in love with Emir. I know. I am thankful to life, it has given me so much, it allowed me to hear so loud and clear, I hear nights and days, crickets and canaries, bustling, hammering, the howling of dogs and the tender voice of my beloved. I am thankful to life, it has given me so much... Don't you want to go to sleep? No. It's cold. I want to stay here a while longer. Leave that, I'll do it later. But I don't mind. I know, but then I have to help you and I don't feel like it. It's not an obligation, plus you'll wash them later. Please, let it be. I'm leaving. The doctor says you're much better. If you keep up your treatment, you'll be able to cut onions in a month. You have to dice them teeny tiny! Where will you be a month from now? I don't know. Maybe I'll already be back. What? What is it? Everybody here wanted to go with Emir, but nobody succeeded. - Then you come along and... - Quit it. I'm just going on a trip. We're all so stupid! So many rejected invitations... ...so much that goes unsaid, so many glances unreturned. So many times life passes us by and we don't even realize it. You made the right decision, it'll be a great trip. I wanted to tell you that... I left Ernesto's magazines at Serra's place. If you want, I can go and get them. No, I'll get them. Can I be sure you won't tell anyone? Lt'll be our little secret? Are you sure you want to be alone? Sooner or later we'll meet up again.
