 

                        Andy-Andersen aka LilleBuh made this awesome sub. Please enjoy. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you were hungry Crazy me Goodbye Where is your sister? OK, ignore me If this window is staying open for the length of a coffee and then you're stuck outside for the rest of the day. I'm serious - Mr. Spiegelman - Madame Gauthier - In the flesh - Nice to meet you - The apartment is on the fourth floor. I did explain that, didn't I? - Yeah, you did. You did definitely. Well... I think I should be fine - If you say so - You're welcome My pleasure Love having a cold apartment Oh, I can't stay mad at you guys Spencer, you up? - Coming - Speak English? - Yeah - Hi - That's yesterday's. But there is nothing about the killer - Did you do the crossword? - Do I ever? - Hey - Hi - I'm moving in upstairs. Apartment number twelve - Thank God. I thought you were delivering pillows - That would be a weird job So cool you guys both are English Sorry, I'm rude. I'm Victor. Nice to meet you - Spencer Louise - Nice to meet you - OK, bye - And there she goes - Well, that's the luck with the move there, man. I'd offer to give you a hand but... I'm lazy - No, what? No, no, no... I have a brother coming in from Ottawa... - I was kidding, Vince - Yeah... OK - And he is tall. Which you know I love For me the perfect type is when you can slow-dance and you can rest your head right on his chest I mean how fucking hot is that, right? - Pretty hot And I never meet guys that tall and blond. Which is nuts I totally thought blond guys were like a myth. I mean, I never see blond guys anywhere, do you? Oh, and his body... I know his has an amazing body because at one point I leaned over and I touched his arm, and I swear to God he had like, armor on underneath his t-shirt or something. I know, right. And his name is Roland. Which I know you think is probably lame but I think it is kind of sexy. It's like those old British names, you know. Like he is like the Lord of something, something Anyway he is picking me up after work tonight - Don't you finish at midnight tonight? - So we are going for a late drink Whatever I am not gonna sleep with him - But you will - But he's hot - Have you read The Gazette? Is there anything about the serial killer? - God, seriously Louise. There is no serial killer. There is just one dead woman - Three dead and raped - Whatever - Are you sure you don't mind? - No, who cares. There's no one here anyway - OK. 'night - 'night Oh, if you hear from Natalie. Tell her I'm gonna murder her - And rape her - Yes - So sorry. I'm so sorry. It's pitch black outside. You're coming home by yourself and I just leap out and say hey I'm an idiot. I'm Victor we met this morning I know it is weird that I'm standing here. But I promise I'm just waiting for my brother to come and help me because I can't really carry this up to the fourth floor all by myself I'm so sorry - Stop apologizing it's fine I've just been reading too much about the serial killer - What? - You haven't seen it? - Oh, wow. This is awful - Yeah. it's fucked - I had no idea this was happening - Keep it - Really, are you sure? - Positive - OK. Thank you - Tough day? - Have you spoken to the new guy yet? - No, just this morning. You? - He is down in the lobby With a couch he can't move I feel like I should help him, but... - But what? - But I don't want to - That's my girl - OK, I gotta go feed the cats - OK Do you wanna eat something in a bit? - No, bye - I'm good Thank you, Louise. You know it's not really heavy for a pull-out. It just kind'a awkward and cumbersome It's actually my parent's old couch. Pretty nice of them to give it to me OK - OK - Thank you so much You are the best neighbor in the history of neighbors. Thank you so much. - Don't give it another thought - No, no. Listen. I gotta make it up to you. Let me cook you supper or take you out for supper. Something like that. - Sure, when you are settled - OK I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's just stupid people. Stupid things they want me to do Just tonight And just because you made me feel so bad for being late - You get stood up? - OK, bye Mr. Chou - You should date nicer boys - Hey - Hey. How's it going? - Good, good. I still owe you that supper - Oh, don't worry about it. - I am not worried about it. I just want to make sure I thank you properly - OK. Hey - Hello - Good morning - Good morning Got the newspaper? - Oh, I didn't work yesterday - Big night, anybody watching the results come in tonight? - 'cause I thought maybe we could like. I don't know Get together, eat food. See what happens. Bad idea. Never mind - No, sure - Yeah, let's do it here. I'll cook - Really? Amazing. How 'bout I'll bring dessert? - I'll come sevenish - Whenever - OK. Bye - Man, this is gonna be fun - It is gonna be a good time Alright I'll see you there - I'll see ya - I'm English Just give me one... What's going on? - Johanne - What about Johanne? - Where did she say that she met him? - She didn't I don't know where she goes out. She lives down town I think She described him to you, though? - Yeah, but I was barely listening She said he was blond, muscular. Tall I think or she thought It really wasn't very specific - And she said his name was? - Something stupid sounding Roland It was Roland So do you think this is the same guy. I mean - the serial killer? - What serial killer? - Was she raped? - She was treated poorly - But does this Roland guy, does it sound like the same guy you're looking for? - Louise, right? - Right - Louise. I wanna thank you for your help If you can think of anything else about Johanne. Anything at all. Call me My cellular number is on the back - Mr. Brandt Should I be worried? I mean should I be concerned for my safety? - A woman your age should always be concerned for her safety It's a nasty world - I'm terribly sorry. I didn't even see it This looks like it will be quite the feast Fennel. I love fennel I forgot to ask you this when we spoke this morning but there is no dessert. Should I run out and get something? - Company is bringing dessert - Company... So mysterious My most mysterious patient, that's what I call you. Now, I know you don't want me to mention this again but I have to because I think it is unconscionable If you wanna vote it'll take me ten minutes to get the van... - Thank you, Ms. Van Ilen - They could win by one vote. That's what everyone is saying Ms. Van Ilen. You make too many assumptions - Just amazing You could not ask anything more from your musculature, young man. Just amazing - I'm naturally athletic - You certainly are There is no doubt about that - Hello - Madame Gauthier, it's Louise - Oh, hello beautiful - Hi Listen, do you know the new guy in the building, Victor? - Of course I do - Could I get his number from you? - And she called you for his number? So bold - It's different for girls now They are much luckier than we were - I didn't even know there was a new tenant - He's young And he's Jewish I always thought her and Spencer... - So did I, so did I - But nothing yet. And now this. - So sad, for him. Such a handsome man - So handsome - Almost tragic - So who's he having dinner with? - He didn't say I tried but he wouldn't budge. He's like a vault, that one Is that, that Valrie woman? - Probably - She's terrible - She's sad - She's horrible - She drinks, so much - Clearly - Let you know what I see - See you soon - I know it's ridiculous but it's only a few blocks, so... Anyway, let me know if it's inconvenient or anything. OK, thanks. See you at dinner either way - Hi there - Hey - I'm eh... Hey - Hey - Am I late? - No, not at all You too, OK. Make sure someone picks you up - I will - Sorry about that message by the way - What, why? It's, my honor. My pleasure Actually I felt terrible that I hadn't thought of it myself. I mean there is a serial killer attacking pretty young girls in NDG and you having to walk home by yourself. That's just crazy - Well, thanks for that - Well, yeah Hey - Hi - So, Louise is just up stairs getting ready - Come on in So, you teach high school. Is that it? Well, elementary school actually - Gotcha Kind'a like baby-sitting, isn't it? - Well, yes there is an element of that to it. But one can make a case that it's the most important time in one's life learning wise, anyway 'Cause technically your brain will never be as open to sort of new ideas as it is when you are like a little - I was kidding - Right, of course - I'm sure it is really rewarding. Really - I love it I really do - No, I bet, I bet And what is it. You just came back from... - China. Northern China - Wow, that's crazy - Yeah, it's intense - Were you doing the same thing there? - Yeah, pretty much I guess there is a bit more - Chinese? - Yeah, exactly - But you are from here originally though, right? - Well, yeah. I was born in Ottawa. But I grew up here in NDG - Really... Welcome back to Canada then I mean for now - Yeah You know what. That's an idea, that's an idea To Canada - For now - I wonder what's taking Louise so long - She is probably just playing with her pussy The cat, man. She got two cats she's obsessed with. Victor, you can't make it that easy for me - No promises Allow me to tell you something and forgive me if I sound like I'm an asshole I mean condescending. I don't wanna sound condescending I'm just making it worse, aren't I? No, I would like to say It is inspiring to me to see how effortless you make everything look That was a terrible thing to say. Oh, my God. I should just never be allowed to speak and I don't drink very often. I'm drunk - Did Madame Gauthier tell you? - Tell me what? - My story? - No, I don't know. I mean no Well, she loves to gossip. So you've been warned. Car accident Last winter, my wife died - Wow, that's awful - Yeah. I know it is The doctor said I should be able to walk again one day but so far so nothing - That, that is an awful story - Yeah, it is - Spencer I can't tell you how sorry I am - Why the fuck are you sorry. You didn't do anything. Where is Louise. I am starving Look at that. I fished my wish - Are these guys new? - Which ones? - Mean looking sharky ones - Ehm, no I don't think so - Really? - Well, some are. I think OK, so since someone forgot to bring dessert - Oh, I completely forgot. Bad guest. - You know I could run out to the store right now and grab some - But he still managed to bring two very decent bottles of wine, so... - I like wine. I don't drink it very often but I like to research it. Read about it, compare the differences - Is he ever gonna stop talking? - Sorry - So wine plus wine minus dessert equals coffee and slightly less of a Choco than Louise gets to the power of... Can we please turn of the fucking television? - Now? I mean. We don't even know officially - Oh, yes we do. You won man. Canada. Can we mute it at least? But, you know. I didn't just win. We all win. - We all win? How'd we all win? Because we're English? - No. What... - Can I make a drink-drink? - Of course - You want something, Victor? - Would it be OK if I rolled a joint? - It would be very OK - Great Do you want a scotch? - I do - I'm so sorry about dessert. I fucked that up. - Oh, God. Please stop apologizing - But that Choco was so good. What was it? - I don't know, man - OK, it was delicious. Thank you. - We will have to do this again. Soon. My place next time. Oh, Jesus Christ. No, your place. I will cook then. - OK, thanks...from before - No problem at all. At all. So you're off at same time tomorrow? - Yeah - Great, I'll be there - No, you don't have to... - Are you kidding me. I can't have you walking home by yourself with that crazy running around out there - Yeah, OK, thanks Good night - This voice mailbox is full. Please try... - Hi there Ready to go home? So how was work today? - It was fine - 'anything interesting happen? - Nope - How would you feel about having some real Chinese food tonight? - Em, no - Oh, OK - I work at a Chinese restaurant - No, I know. I just thought that we... Never mind. Don't forget about my party at eight. It's on Friday night. - OK - And I got a surprise for you. I really think you are gonna like it - Thanks, Victor. I will see you soon, OK? Jesus Oh, sorry guys - Hello, maybe because you're English, and you won the referendum you did not understand my message I'll be clear. Keep your fucking cats away from... - Hello beautiful. It seems we may have another small problem with My Lady like you are... - How could anyone not love you? Scaring birds away from her bird bath It's fucking winter. God is scaring the birds away from her bird bath And isn't she not supposed to block the fire escape with her garbage? - I think she's losing her shit. - Oh, really? - You should have seen the fit she threw this morning Her creepy little husband went away on another "business trip" - I don't think he's creepy. I think he's pathetic. - You don't get a serial rapist vibe off of him? - No, I don't think he's that interesting Oh, there's an article about the actual serial rapist - Oh, national coverage. How exciting. Can I ask you something? - Sure - How come you didn't tell me you knew that last victim? What was her name...? - Johanne - Yes - I don't know. I didn't know her very well How do you even know that? Know what? - That I knew her - One of the papers said she worked at a Chinese restaurant in NDG. - Which paper? - I don't know, one of the ones Ms. Van Ilen brought over probably - What did the article say? Just that she worked at a Chinese restaurant in NDG. It was a little thing. I was just curious why you never mentioned it - I don't know It was referendum night Victor was around - Yes, Victor is always around these days. Isn't he? - Guess so - How are things going between you guys? - What's that supposed to mean? - Oh, give me a fucking break, Louise - I don't know what you're talking about - Fine - Can I have another? - Only if it's a road rock and I'm done What the fuck are you doing, Victor? - Oh, good morning Madame Gauthier said it was OK - I just thought it was a bit ridiculous not to have it in this day and age Regardless of whether you're living here or not. But, you are living here so it's even more ridiculous - What? -It's a ramp. For wheelchairs. Hey Spencer I'm sorry bud. I clearly should have asked you first. I guess I thought it might be a nice surprise... for Christmas. I shouldn't have done it. I didn't think it would piss you off - Oh, no. You didn't piss me off. No, I'm gonna make you some coffee - Hello, beautiful At one point, enough is enough, eh? She's been calling every day. - Yeah, me too. - What, guys? Are you hungry? - So, have you called her back? - No, not yet. I mean... Ok - I get it! I mean, I just don't have anything to say to her. - OK, happy holidays Miss Van Ilen. - Alright then, Spencer. You as well. You, young man are a candidate for sainthood - Oh, me? Hardly, hardly. I just like to do stuff with my hands - Merry Christmas - Merry Christmas to you too She's so nice - I hate her So, do you think you might come to my Christmas party? - I'm not so much for parties, man - Well, this is going to be super chill. It's just going to be my brother driving in from Ottawa. - Victor, I'm really really not interested in going to a party. Any party. No matter how chill - Oh, OK, I just thought... - I can imagine what you thought. But I'm gonna pass. Louise will be so disappointed - Hi - Here. Oh, wow - Thank you. Come on in. Louise, that's my brother Jonah. Jonah, this would be Louise. - Hey, the famous Louise. Nice to meet you. This is Jrme. - Who wants a drink? - Me Did you want to drink this stuff? Uh, no. I'll just have a vodka... - Oh, a drink-drink Alright, done. - Did you just... I'm sorry - No, no, no, I'm sorry. Go ahead please... - No, it's ok. Mine was stupid. You go. I have to pee anyway - So? - So what? - What do you think of her? - Louise? - Of course, Louise. - I haven't gotten a chance to talk to her. - She's so awesome - Yeah, she seems great, man. She seems good. - We're engaged - You... oh, shit. Congratulations. - Yeah, we're not telling anyone yet. She wants to wait till Spring. It's more romantic - Yeah, yeah, sure. - Victor... - Oh my God, I almost completely forgot... Louise I have a surprise for you - Oh, I'm sorry. - It's OK - One more second - OK, Victor... - Trust me, trust me Louise Meet Balthazar He was my cat over in China So, I had to wait for him to go through all the quarantine procedures. They do all that stuff in Ottawa. That's kind of weird, eh? So, my brother just brought him in. He's great, eh? - He's perfect - What are you doing? - Up the fire escape to the first floor...? - Yeah - Are you serious? What time? - I don't know, Victor. Like three or four in the morning - Cause, the first floor is Spencer's apartment Are you sure that's what you saw? - Yeah, I'm sure - It just doesn't make any sense - Why not? - Cause Spencer is in a wheelchair. Like... were you wearing your glasses? - Yeah, I'm lying. That's why. - I didn't say that - I'm always wearing my glasses! - Give it a rest guys. Come on guys, please? - Hey - Am I too early? - No, no, no. Everyone's up. Come in. - Good - Uhm, eggs are getting cold - Coming - Hello? - Hey man, it's Victor - Yeah? - Merry Christmas - Merry Christmas, man - You guys have twenty seconds - So, uh, Merry Christmas...or whatever - Bye - Spencer? - Yep? - Have you seen my cats? - Nope - I mean like, today... like, this morning. - No - OK, thanks. - Madame Gauthier - If I don't take them down now, they will be hanging all year. I just know it. - You haven't seen my cats, have you? - Uhm, no, not today - You guys... - What happened? - Don't look, don't look Are you joking? Of course it was her. She fucking hated those cats - Well, we don't that they were poisoned Yes we do Victor! They didn't have simultaneous heart attacks OK, well, we don't know that it was Valrie - Yes, we do - We have to do something. We can't just leave the cats lying in the snow and we can't just pick them up and dump them in the garbage - Well obviously not, Victor. Jesus Christ - Well what Jesus Christ? People do that - Louise isn't people - I know that Louise, what would you like to do? - I wanna bury them. Under Valrie's window - Hi there - I need to see him - Is this another murder? - Yeah, a few days ago. Didn't you read about it? - No - Salut, Nathalie - Hi Victor - Ready to go? - Yeah - Yeah, so, I told Madame Gauthier, I said: "how can we let Balthazar out when we know for a fact that there's a cat killer in our building?" We already lost Mozart and we lost Tia Maria. And that Valrie woman is so insane Boy, it's cold Are you sure? I mean, I bought lamb. I thought that was your favorite? - It is, I just need to take a bath and I need some quiet time... OK Are you sure, you don't just want to come up and see Balthazar? - Do you think it would be OK if he spent the night with me? - I know we haven't known each other very long But when I met you I felt a connection I couldn't explain, so... I know we haven't known each other very long. But like, I feel this connection to you that I can't explain. Well, fucking try to it explain it, asshole. I know we haven't known each other very long. But it's like, I feel this connection to you. And I can't really explain it. And I look at you and I, see that maybe you feel it too. - OK, so here's what's on the list I am making. Tell me if I'm forgetting something, OK? First, I need a straight razor Second, plastic gloves Third, well... I need something to rape her with And then I guess I need sperm... You know, to make it seem real - One second - OK - I will just take care of this - Yeah I just have to go down to my place for a second. Don't look at me like that Have you seen that? - Yeah, you're right. There's a lot more detail there - Do you think he kills them while he's raping them or after? or before even? - I don't know - I bet before - Why do you think you're so interested in all this stuff? - Why do I think? - Yeah - That's such a prick question You'd never ask a guy that question. Actually, you probably would. I don't know, Spencer. I'm a voyeur and it turns me on. I'm numb and it makes me feel alive. Who cares? "Why" is boring, and it's the wrong question - It is? - It is. And it's beneath you - So what's the right question? - What's next? Do you ever like dancing? - No. But I always like watching - Oh, so then you like this - I've seen better - Not recently though, huh? - You suck. No tip unless you feel me up again - Ah, you're really leaving? - Yeah, bye. - I'm gonna miss my fucking train, Louise. - I have the flu, Nathalie! Hey babe. I came home early - Louise? - Take it down a notch, Vic. - Hey, this is Louise, leave a message - Hey Louise, it's me, Victor. I stopped by the restaurant but I guess you took off early which is smart 'cause it's really really cold out there, so... OK. I hope you're keeping warm. Call me. Bye. - Please no! - God, that's so disgusting I don't know how people do this - Fuck it - Hi - Hi - Can you help me up? - What? - Give me a boost - Ah, sure. Yeah, yeah - Oh, shit - Thanks - Fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck - Son of a bitch Hey - Oh, hi - You, you good? I feel like I haven't seen you in forever - Two days - Good morning - Morning - Morning - Quite the bru-ha-ha down there - Yeah, what's going on there exactly? - You tell me - Madame Gauthier - Oh, it's terrible. It's just terrible. I've never seen anything more gruesome, in my whole life. Including on the TV. - What happened? Valrie. She was murdered - Where were you last Tuesday night? - I was here? - All night? - Oh, no. That's right. Tuesday night, it was my Knight's game night. It must have slipped my mind - Where you alone? - Uh, yes. I was alone - No one came by? - Nope. No one came by - You know, the land lady, uh... She tells us that you are friends with the lady upstairs and the gentleman above her? - Did she? - Yeah - Ah, well friendly I would say. I think friends would be a bit of an exaggeration - I see - So, I guess... They can't verify anything you've said - No, I guess not Was that the night, the night Valrie died. Last Tuesday? - How well did you know her? - Not well - Enough that you could recognize her face? - Enough to recognize her voice. She was very fond of screaming at her husband from the balcony - You ever been in her apartment? - Ah, never. No - Know any of her friends? Sorry fellas, I just, I don't know. I don't think I am going to be very helpful here - My card, Monsieur - Roland. That's a great name - My cellular number is on the back - There it is. OK. Best of luck, you guys - I guess we can cross him off, huh? - We cannot! - Really? - Never make assumptions. Let me see your notebook. - Man, you got terrible handwriting - This is that girl's apartment. The one from the Chinese restaurant. She's probably at work - Right, right - Sorry - Thank you Mr. Spiegelman - Sure thing, sure thing Where were you last Tuesday evening? - Here in my apartment - All night? - Yeah, there was a snow storm that night. No, no, no maybe there wasn't. It seems like it snows all the time - Were you alone? - Yeah - No, no, no. My fiance was here with me. Louise - Wait, is that the girl from downstairs? - Yeah, Louise Yeah, it was part of the night. No, well. Yeah, I would say it was most of it actually. And Balthazar, my cat. The three of us. Maybe I shouldn't say anything about the cats, but you probably already heard about that stuff. It's just that Madame Gauthier loves to gossip and, and, Valrie and Louise, and the cats... That whole thing has been a bit of a real, kind of, hot topic, as of late. But you probably already know about that stuff - Pretend I don't - So, Louise, right? - Yeah - Where were you last Tuesday night? - Home - Alone? - Yeah - All night? - Yeah - I came home from work, I fed the cat, took a bath, went to sleep. Like most nights - OK You didn't see anybody? I don't know, maybe somebody else in the building? - No - How well did you know Valrie? - Not well How would you characterize your relationship with her? - Vaguely - How would you characterize her relationship with your cats? - I'm awfully sorry for your loss. I understand that you had a very special bond with Mozart and Tia Maria? - I did - Louise, telephone - Excuse me - I think you should come by my place for a drink when you get off work today. We have things to discuss - OK Listen mom, I am right in the middle of something with the cops right now but that sounds fine - Don't say anything you don't need to - Bye, mom Sorry about that. So, what where you asking me again? Oh right, my cats. Yes. She hated them. She probably killed them. But I mean, who cares, right? They're just cats - So where to now, back to the lab, or? - No, I think we have to go back to that apartment. Something's going on with these people - Just let me feed Balthazar - I told them almost everything. I was just so nervous. Louise, I couldn't stop talking. I told them about you and Valrie and the cats and I told them about us - What do you mean? - I told them that... oh shit. I should of told you too. I'm such an idiot - What did you tell them, Victor? - I told them that you and I were engaged and that you spent the night of the murder here with me. But that's not the worst thing. The worst thing is I know who killed Valrie and nobody will believe me - So, what did you want to talk about, mom? - So, I think we have a common problem, Louise - We have? I know that you have a problem, Spencer. But I didn't realize that I did - Oh, you didn't? Was that big cop, the one that questioned you about Johanne? - Suddenly you remember her name? - And he questioned you again today, didn't he. About Valrie? - That's so odd that you remember Johanne Yes, it was the same cop. - Well, I think I have a solution - And here I am still unclear on the problem - Louise, I know we haven't had a chance to chat properly since last Tuesday, but I think you're a smart person. I really do. And I like to think that you think that I'm a smart person. Now do you wanna keep fucking around, or do you wanna hear my solution? - Sure - Victor - Victor? - Victor - Spencer I saw him, walking outside that night. And I would have thought that my eyes were playing tricks on me. But stupid Jean-Marc kept saying he thought he saw someone crawling into Spencer's window when they were here for that Christmas visit - OK, so he saw Spencer walking. That means he's getting better - No. It means so much more than that. - Oh, Louise. You always want to see the best in people, don't you? - I guess so - Spencer killed Valrie. And that's not all... - You think... - No, I know. It makes perfect sense. He's a killer. Spencer He's the NDG serial killer. - What does Victor have to do with any of this? - Nothing. That's why he's the perfect fall guy. - Just moved back to town. He's lonely, he's sad. We can pin Valrie's murder on him and probably a bunch of the others too - How? - By writing an effective suicide note for him. I think together, we could come up with something satisfying. For both parties involved - You think you've thought this through? - I've been thinking about it. All day long. Now look, when I saw Spencer, he saw me too. Or at least, I think he did. And if he's the man I'm pretty sure he is, then he's gotta be thinking of only one thing. I need to kill Victor. And we can use that to our advantage - We can? - Yes Yes. We can set a trap. Cause I know, he's just waiting for a chance, for any chance to get rid of me. So we're gonna fake his suicide? - Exactly - How? - Throw him off a bridge. Who cares? - Clearly, not you - Oh that's right, that's right. I'm talking about your boyfriend - Fiance, apparently - Oh, be sure to let me know where you register - So your saying we'll let a trap play out - Yes - But a trap in which you are the bait? - Exactly But what if he actually does manage to kill you, Victor? He won't. Because I'm not just me. I'm us, and we're a team. And together, we're stronger than him - Suicide note, bridge - Keep it simple, stupid and shit gets done - Right? - Right - Are you in? - I'm in - They haven't told you anything? - Nothing at all - That's almost irresponsible - I agree - Hi - Hello beautiful - Hello dear - Bye - What a strange girl - Apparently, she and Victor got engaged - Really? Huh, that didn't take very long - What's the music? - It's Dvorak - It's intense - Alright gang we are about ten minutes away from eating lamb Spencer has the best pots and pans - Louise, why don't you fix us some drinks? - And Louise, maybe just turn the music down... just a wee bit. You don't mind, do you Spencer? - Not at all - Dinner party? - Well, whatever. The three of us have dinner together - Why? - Because, then we are the last people to see Victor. And we can tell the cops how sad and weird he was acting. How close to the end in retrospect - OK - Spencer, I feel like I haven't seen you in forever And I haven't got the chance to ask you, have you tried the ramp yet? - You know what? I haven't - Really - You'll be the first call when I do, though - That's funny... What's funny, Victor? - It's just that the other day when I passed you in the hallway, I could've sworn that I smelled the cold on you. You know how it is when in the winter time, you go outside and the cold kinda... sticks to your clothing and hangs around you like a... - Like a smell? - Like a smell, exactly - You must've been mistaken - I must've been mistaken. Must have. Thank you, Spencer. - Thank you, Victor. You're a terrific cook. - We have to do this again very soon - Hope so Night guys! So you tuck him in. You leave him alone in his room. But the two most important things are: you go back to your apartment and... - I leave his window open. I got it. - And how will I know if you've done both of those things? - I'll run a bath - OK, so then we wait for Spencer? - Yeah But here's the thing; we won't be the only ones waiting for him - So did you say we're gonna be here like all night? - I didn't say one way or the other - OK - Oh, is that what we are looking for? You said we were waiting for a sign so I thought... It's cold in here, right? - What, Bilodeau? What do you wanna do? Maybe I could go get us a couple of coffees - Go then, go. - Thanks - The cops? No, I think that's a terrible idea Victor. Don't call the cops - I think its a good idea. I think... - You already did, didn't you? Yes, of course I remember you Mr. Spiegelman. We just met. Information about whom? Well what about his condition? - What do you think guys? Time for a miraculous recovery? I already know what you think - Ah, fuck! - I'm sorry about this, Spencer. I really am - Louise! - Police - You industrious little fucker! - Police - No, no, leave her alone - Fuck! God! You're fucking pathetic. You know that, man? - Do you know what kind of person you're trying to save here? You wanna know what kind of girl she really is? - I know everything I need to know - I know you're hungry, sweety - Call 911. I'm going down there. Mr. Spiegelman. Call 911 - OK You did the right thing, Mr. Spiegelman. Every step of the way - OK - OK, you can stop now Oh, silly me. I thought you were hungry +++++++ Special thanks for corrections to the Coker +++++++
