 

                        Fun and excitement... all the fun and excitement "Is it love, or a battle? A colour you cant see..." "I can figure out nothing, Lord!" "Everyones all tied up, what predicament is this?" "They walk together, and yetis there a tussle" To make them see reason... "is difficult to make them see reason" "The actors that perform in this play..." they do perform a drama Fun and excitement... all the fun and excitement Hurry! Its time for school Jungle! Rascal! Idiot! - Step on the brakes! "Youre a girl, and you abuse me? - You want me to applaud you?" Why did you push me? - When did I? You ran into me You deliberately rammed into me and now youre talking back! I know roadside loafers like you. You see a girl and get into the act! Watch your tongue! You broke the button on my shirt... and now youre calling me a loafer? Where will I get a button from? How about the dress which you spoilt? You know what the laundry bill comes to? Cant you wash your own clothes? - Had I the time... "Id show you what else I can wash. - Go, get lost" "Get going! - Go, go away" God! I didnt know youd have such daring You came away to Mumbai without telling anyone at home What would you have done if I wasnt here? It didnt occur to me at all. Had I stayed there another day... my mother wouldve got me married to the local landlords son "So whats wrong? You have to marry someone, dont you?" But that chaps a nut. Hes a real moron My father had borrowed a lot of money from his father... for my education and for my mothers treatment My father died under the burden of the debt... "and hes now pestering my mother. He says, if you cant repay the debt..." have your daughter married to my son He doesnt even want any dowry. - You mean your life is... the sum total of the debt and the interest So what do you want to do? - I must find a job at any cost Ive got to repay the debt and get rid of the landlord "Any job will do. - Easier said than done, Anjali" Im living here with a friend whos an air-hostess "Shell be here by 10:30 next Friday. Till then, you can stay here" "But once she arrives, itll be difficult for you to live here" "Im sorry, but you mustnt take that badly, Anjali" Ive got enough money to see me through a couple of months If only I could find a room till I find a job Lets see what we can do. Im getting late. I must leave When love is one-sided... its a punishment "When love is requited, its fun" Quiet! Were talking about life and death and youre hollering away! "Come around, darling. - No" So it has to do with love! Ill sing a romantic number... the lady will immediately agree. - Ive agreed. For a divorce Im not giving it to you! - Ive got great number for divorce... but its a bit romantic and... - Sing it for your wife! Now sing a song for losses! Youre more of a mosquito repellent! Youve been driving the customers away "Ill be a great singer some day, sir. That is my dream" "Pipe-dream. Go away - Todays the 4th., sir..." When did I say its the 34th? - My salary...? I have it all worked out. 300 bucks. Let me have it "But we settled at 4000 rupees. - Sure, we did" You do get a salary of 4000. But who pays for your stay here? Who pays for your food and your laundry? It works out to 4300. Your salarys 4000. So let me have 300 rupees "But this is a fraud, sir! - Really?" So go and find another job. Get lost! Hey Bholu! Your milks getting thinner and thinner every day Are you pouring water in it? "I swear, Ive never adulterated milk with water" "But yes, I do adulterate water with milk" "Buy it, if you can afford it. Or forget it" "Hello, Nandu! How are you? Why dont you sing a song as usual?" "Sing, my foot! Ive heard the mosquitoes singing all night" Dont you have a mosquito net in the room? "Forget a mosquito net, it doesnt even have a roof and walls" I slept on the railway platform. - You must think of me at such times I have a great place. Its going cheap But youll need to pay me a commission for that 500 rupees. - I will. But where is it? Ill show you... do you have a wife? - Wife?! "You know Popat, the moneylender? He lets out his room very cheap" But only to married couples. - Why? Because his wifes an amazing dish. Hes terribly suspicious about her Where will I find a wife? - Am I not here? Youre crazy! If I tell Popat that youre my wife... What rubbish! What Im saying is that Ill find you a wife Ill charge extra commission for that. - Are you a milkman... or a commission agent? - Im an all rounder You indeed are a fast guy Wheres the other lady? - Shes taking a bath Quickly take the milk. Ive got work to do "Youre the one I was waiting for, Bholu. - What is the matter?" "Thats my friend, Anjali. Shes looking for a room" Low rent. Will you find one? - There is a room. Very cheap But only for married couples Are you married? - No She doesnt know anyone in town. But Bholu knows everyone "Bholu, Bholu the good boy... - Thats enough" Will you give me a commission? - I will "All right, Ill find a fake-husband for her then" So youre thinking of leaving your house? Strange games God plays. Here I am... waiting to quit the dingy hole Im living in and settling in a palace And you! Youre quitting a readymade palace If you had a father like mine... youd have found my palace to be smaller than your dingy hole But what is the problem? - Ever since Ive finished college... Ive been begging for money to start a business "Whenever I talk about money, its as if Ive stepped on his tail!" "This is the limit! - You have just one way, my friend" Change your father. - What? "Woo a rich girl, get married and become the heir to her fathers riches" Youre poking fun at me? - Im not kidding "Ive even scored with a girl. Teja, the garbage kings daughter" "Youve heard of him, havent you? Its his only daughter. Madhuri" The garbage kings daughter and you? Dont forget your status Do you even have the money to buy her a box to collect the garbage? "I dont, but Radhesham Tiwari"s son can buy even the garbage king..." not just a garbage can. - Tiwari? Owner of Anjali Industries? "Right. Anjali Foods, Anjali Chemicals, Anjali Pharmaceuticals..." and several other Anjali"s under my fathers belt You told her that you are Radhesham Tiwari"s son? "Yes. Dont lose hope, my friend" "The more thick-skinned you are in money matters, the better it is for you" Harass your father so much with your demands... hell give you something some day or the other "Dad, one last time. Are you giving me the money or arent you?" Youve been asking me for years and I didnt give you anything Here you are. Start whatever business you want to with this 10 rupees! Youre poking fun at me? - Hear that? He thinks 10 rupees is too little! My grandfather ran the family with it My father arrived in this city with just 10 rupees And this is just what I got in my dowry "Ma, say something. Please. - What will I say, my son?" I asked him for a diamond necklace. He didnt give that to me either He sold the land in the village yesterday. He got eight million "Let alone taking a look, I didnt even get to smell the money" Hes put it all in the safe. - Shout! Yell as much as you want to Theres eight million lying in the house... "and you refuse to give me 750,000? - I spend a lot of money..." "in your education, boarding and maintenance" You arent getting a penny more "Who will give me the money, if not you, Papa?" What will I do? - Rob and steal But dont ask me for the money. - I cant take it anymore "If you dont give me the money, Im leaving this house" "Sure, go away. - Im leaving!" Ive made enquiries. Radhesham Tiwari"s bungalow in Pali Hill is lying vacant Theres no one there except a care-taker "When the garbage king gets to know, hell put you through a ringer!" Ill marry Madhuri before he does that "Once the marriage has taken place, itll all be over" Hes the brides father. The only daughter What will he do? Hell have to accept me as his son-in-law Are you out of your mind? "First tell me whats to be done with my father, the villain" Did you ask him for the money? - Have I been talking in Hebrew? Hes sitting on his money like a snake. He wont give me a penny! What did he have to say? - He asks me to rob and steal Hell fight my case for free. - Nice idea So rob and steal. Best business. No capital required What does he do for a living? - With a tanpura around his neck... he goes around singing. - You mean hes a beggar! "Ill have to live with a beggar? - No beggar, a large-hearted man" Here he comes "Sorry, Im late" You? - You! So you know each other? Thats good. There wont be any problem then Im not staying with this thug! You think Ill willingly move in with a witch? "You call me a witch? - No, you are a witchs mother..." "a grandmother, everything. Youre from a family of witches!" "Priya, lets go. - Anjali..." dont act like a child. My roommate is arriving tomorrow You must some how find a place! Adjust with him for now... "later, well find another place. - Hey boss... listen to me" "In Bombay, you got to pay even to sleep on the pavements" "And thats so dangerous. If someone drives over, youre dead and gone" "Bholu, she agrees. - So does he" "According to Popat"s condition, the two of you must look like a married couple" So heres the bridal necklace. That will cost another 50 rupees "Here, put it on her" Hey! Im not letting any Tom Dick or Harry put the necklace on me Let me put it on you then Shes waiting for a prince to come along. Give it to her One minute. Ill put it on her "Popat-Seth, save my life!" "Whats the matter, Waghmare? - I caught a thief with 50,000 rupees" "But Im diabetic, you see. I went to take a leak..." and the thief escaped with the money. - How? I have decided. Im not going to trust a thief ever again Thats right. - You know what Inspector Rane says? "He says I took 50,000 from the thief and I helped him escape!" Rane has gone an filed a First Information Report against me! Do you I think Im that sort of a man? - This is the first time... "Im hearing of something like this. - If I dont keep 50,000..." "on Rane"s table, Ill lose my job! - No, Ill give you the money" But Ill charge 10 per cent interest. - Why 10 per cent? Ill return all the money to you. I swear! Ill take all the money. But my interest will be 10 per cent 10 per cent? - Yes "And youll have to pawn something too. - Sure, Ive brought it" The papers of my room and the stamp papers How often have I told you? Go inside! You see a stranger around and you come running! "Look, theyve arrived" When did you get married? - Very recently "And you said... - Its quite some time, really" "You dont eat non-veg food, do you? - No" "You wont leave each other and run away, will you?" "Are you in a cattle market, sir? Why worry about such detail?" "Let me make it clear. Shes the wife, hes the husband" "Give them the keys, and the commission to me. You get that?" "Youve brought the advance? - Sure, here it is" All right. You can stay here from today itself "Dulari, show them to their room" "Murder of an elderly couple for money. Servant arrested" See this? When I asked you to do all the chores and not employ servants... what did you say to me? That Im a miser But look at what you get when you employ servants! Youll sleep at home and wake up in hell! "Oh yes, nice heaven Im living with you in" "Jeetu, my son! Youve come back!" "The way you left, I thought youd never look back at this house again" Well? You went broke and missed the free food? Have a couple of morsels if you wish. But youre not getting a penny! "Daddy, Im here to seek your blessings and sweeten your tongue" Ive started a new business. - Really? What business? "Electronics, Mother. DVD players, CD players... its a big showroom" "It mustve taken a lot of investment? - I invested 750,000..." and the bank financed me with the rest of the 6 million "750,000 rupees? Where did you get the money?" "You are the one who showed me the right path, daddy" What path did I show you? - You asked me to rob and steal So I did I got to know that there was a lot of money in a house I went there in the dead of the night. The husband and wife were fast asleep "I took the key from under the pillow, took the money from the safe..." and kept the keys back! - They mustve called the cops by now! They dont even know as yet. But now theyll discover "But which house did you rob, son? - This one, Papa" its the money you got from selling the land? Thats the one I stole So you robbed your father! Snake in the grass! "When I asked him for it, he didnt give it to me. He asked me to steal" Now how could a son disobey his father? It was unaccounted money anyway. Let the cops arrive Ill tell them everything and the two of us will go to jail together Tell me the truth. Is he really my son? Im convinced now! Hes truly your son! My darling son... my good boy arent you? "Return Papa"s money, my son! - Thats not possible" Are you sure? - Sure Get out of this house then! - Thats what I came for Lord! Protect my son! Im told that this house is to be sublet. Is it true? Not true. - Who are you? You walk into my house and ask me who I am? "There was this chap, Pandu... who used to dust and swab the floor" Isnt he there? - What work is it? Its in his own interests. Hed have made an extra buck "But if hes not here, I must leave" Sir! Sir! Im Pandu! Cant you believe me...? Here you are! So this is the real movie! That was only a trailer? "Pandu"s mysterious ways, sir. Come on in, sir... welcome" "This way, please..." As Lord Krishna says... how about a small drink? No. - Ill have one Without any soda or water? - No Nothing at all? - No The boss has kept the liquor for guests But the guests will come only when the boss is here I didnt want the booze to get spoilt. I kept taking small drinks... "and pouring in small amounts of water. And now, theres just water in it!" "Pandu, youre a very smart man. - Not at all, sir" "The moment I saw you, I knew I had met a thief in you" All I wanted to say to you was that I was as good as you are You mentioned something about money "You live here all alone, dont you? - Yes..." the boss hasnt even looked at this place for years "Despite being such a rich man, he lives like a villager" The lawyers and the managers carry the accounts to him in the village "To pay me a salary, he has maintained such a big house in the city!" If you could get some cream apart from this salary... what do you think about it? - Great idea "In that case, Radhesham Tiwari"s son is living here from tomorrow" Me Me! First class! "Sheru, is your information accurate?" "Absolutely certain, Garbage King... I mean, Teja-bhai" Whos he? - Its Radhesham Tiwari"s son Is it the Radhesham Tiwari of the multi-million Anjali Industries? "Yes. - He said, hell marry you?" "Tell me the truth. Else, Ill kill you!" Hes been wanting to meet you I swear it on the scales! Youre really my little girl! I knew youd find a gem even in the garbage! Hey! Get out! - This is my bed! Your bed? I pay half the rent of this house! Does the other half land from the skies? All right. Lets draw lots with your name and mine "Whichever name the chit comes up with, gets the bed. Okay?" All right. Go ahead One moment. Ill pick it. - All right. As you wish you Anjali! Now move... Go away What are you staring for? Go away Get up... what are you up to? - What? Cant you sleep quietly? - When I lie on the floor... the cold gets to my bones and I start snoring. Like this its more like an explosion! I need quiet when I sleep! So go and sleep on the roof! I cant sleep quietly on the floor "All right, go and rot in the bed" "I need peace, not a bed to sleep on! Go on!" Pandu... The garbage! Wash your eyes! - Its the garbage king! Remember what I told you? You wont get a penny if you mess up. Hurry up now! "Hello, sir, hello" Mr. Anil...? - Hes on the phone Dont keep calling me for 15 or 20 million Take it from the drawer in my office What happened about the car? The Ferrari? No way its become very common nowadays. Sachin has one too "I want a Rolls Royce. Three, in fact" "One for me, one for my daddy..." and I want to donate one to my future father-in-law Im Teja-bhai. - Who? The garbage... - Garbage! Sorry... theres no garbage here. Go away. - Im Madhuri"s father "Father-in-law! Im sorry, I did not recognize you" "its okay, youll get to know me. My daughter has told me everything" What a gem my daughter has found! Youll make a great couple! So when do we have the marriage? - As early as possible... But well have to tell your parents. Wont we? Thats the problem My parents want me to marry into a family of big industrialists Theyve even taken my birth chart. But Ive told them in plain terms "If theres anyone Ill marry, its Madhuri!" Thats for sure. - So what are we to do? "Get married, at the earliest. Thats it. - And how about your daddy?" "Once were married, what will he be able to do about it?" "Even if he does, my boss still has 500 million to his name" Till the marriage they all act funny. They accept everything later "In your shoes, this is just what Id have done, son" Thats why Ive taken the risk. Of getting married So lets have the engagement tomorrow. You can exchange rings Well find a nice day and have you married But dont say a word to your Papa before all this happens "Come, lets sweeten our tongues. - Yes, lets go" Only after everything is over will they get to know the truth Mr. Sahay from the city is here. - All right Tell Ramdin to keep the calf away from the cow "It drinks up all the milk. - Very well, madam" Listen... - Lovely voice You never said that to me earlier "Not you, my dear woman... Im talking about Ustad Aamir Khan." Will you shut him up now? There are guests waiting for you How can you say such things about a luminary like him? Ive started businesses in your name all over the world... and you wont use your brains at all? Do you have something in your brains? Or are you bankrupt already? Enough of your songs. Chandrakant and Renuka are waiting for you You ought to have told me! You just keep talking any nonsense "Anjali, you are simply taking the trouble" No trouble. Youre more a friend than an AIDS virus "Not AIDS virus, Anjali. Shes an advisor" Call her a legal advisor! - Its the same thing Is it really? You cant tell a bear from a potato! "In there, I was talking about Aamir Khan. You must know about him?" Aamir Khan? Who hasnt heard of him? Im a huge fan of his See? Now this is a well-informed man "As for her, the cattle, the fodder and the cow dung... thats her world" "It isnt her fault, actually. Its your mistake" You didnt expose her to the city at all How will she know about the world in the confines of the four walls? "Thats not the case, sister-in-law. - Thats how it is" Why did you send your son and daughter to London? I was born in the city and I will stay here till I die But its different with the children. Theyve got to keep up with the world... "move ahead in life, so... - I hope you dont have to..." go through what happened Anandilal Kitpitia did "What happened? - Like you, Anandilal Kitpitia..." sent his sons to London. To study. The old couple lived in the village "The children went on to become very modern, hi-fi..." and the old couple were still raw villagers When the children returned from abroad... they couldnt adjust themselves to the local conditions They were ashamed of their parents. Forget living together... they werent even willing to call them Mummy and Daddy And one day the children screamed You bloody Indians and went away The children never looked at their parents again They kept yearning till they died. - God! "If my children treat me like that, its going to kill me!" Ive told him so often to move to the city... "to learn the way of life there. Lets go to the city, please" "Even if its only for a month. - All right, dont be stubborn" Anandilal Katpitia... - Ill think about it Give me the papers. - Here are all the reports Ill bring the case papers of Anjali Chemicals next week We must leave now. - Very well Do call me if you meet Aamir Khan. I want a photograph taken with him But hes dead. - Hows that possible? "I saw "Lagaan" only recently. - "Lagaan"?" Ive been... its Ustad Aamir... have you ever heard him? Lets go. We might miss the bus! You are all alike! Lagaan! What Lagaan? Saved! The ceremony is over! - What are you saying? "I say, its nice" Ten days later is an auspicious date. Well have the wedding on that day Im the one whos eating this paratha. So you neednt laugh I dont need your permission to laugh! - Those who laugh belong in a loony bin! And broken parathas belong in the garbage bin! My parathas are neither burnt nor broken. Ill eat all I want Is someone there? "The man and wife have left the lights and fans on, to have a honeymoon!" How are you...? Is everything all right? Any problem? What aroma is that? Whats cooking? Potato-pancakes? Yes "When we were just married, Dulari made some for me too" Her mother died the moment she ate one "Ever since, potato-pancakes have been a no-no in my house" My wife makes nice ones. Will you have some? "Would you like one? - No, youll be left hungry" "Oh no, have some! - I hope your wife doesnt mind?" "Do you mind, lady? - Oh no, not at all" See? Bring it up. Quick! "Hurry up, darling! Were hungry" Whats one going to do...? One moment. Theres more "Not burnt, not broken..." steaming hot pancakes! Here you are! For you and your wife. - Some chutney...? "Sure, there is" Take it all away. Well take the bowl later Yogurt...? - We dont have any "Even if its in pieces and burnt, I can eat to my hearts content" Ill fix you! Here you are! And I went mad looking for you! "In the bank, in the bar... - Youll have your money" Let the marriage take place first. - No marriage! Only destruction! - Are you already drunk in the day? "Ive only drunk, but when he arrives tomorrow, Ill be buried!" What rubbish! Whos arriving? - Your father Radhesham Tiwari Hes arriving with his wife! - What am I going to do? "Go underground. Quit the city. If possible, quit the world!" "Right now, go away from here! - What are you telling me?" "That old man cant do without cows, buffaloes, fodder and the works" "Hell stay in the city for a week, at the most" So disappear for a week! - Thats an expensive proposition "Living in style, Im already deep in debt" Pawn the ring garbage gave you and check into a cheap lodge its only for a week! Isnt that right? Of course its right! What? Youre going away to London? For a week? Whats the hurry? "For business? To make money? Of course, you must go ahead" Take care of yourself in the aircraft "Dont thrust your arm outside the window. Yes, Ill tell Madhuri..." go ahead and make money. Bye Master is here! - So this is our Pandu? "How have you been, Pandu? - Your blessings, sir" "Greetings. - Welcome, sir" "Whats happening here? - This is our manager, Mr. KC Shukla" "This is your first visit to our city, so this is a small welcome" "You must be tired, sir. Well leave now" What for? I want to get to know all of you "Please come in, all of you" "Where are you going, Pandu? Go and fetch the luggage" For a week or two... how much luggage must he be carrying? Who told you? - So? Sirs going to live here now. Forever What happened? Fetch the luggage "God, nice way youve found of snatching my livelihood" The things he did so he could sleep on the bed! He now sits quietly! But at least I can sleep in peace Not a drop of water here "Let me tell you what I must today..." let your heart remain with me "Let me tell you what I must today..." let my heart remain with me "My eyes are glued to your face..." "to your face, Ive lost my heart" You are the one... who lives in my heart Pining torments me... I feel scared "Your sweet words might yet cast a spell on me" "Let me bear the sweet pain of love..." let your heart remain with me "Let me tell you what I must today..." let my heart remain with you Let my heart remain with you Lay off! Im being forced to live with you! I know youre not a decent man... but I thought you had some manners. You have proved me wrong! Dont even talk to me again! Dont ever talk to me! Stop it! Is that the beat? Or are you killing flies? Dont do something you cant! - So why are you doing it? Shut up! - I was following you with the beat Dont follow me. Accompany me with the beat "Get it? If tune is the mother, the rhythm is the father" One who doesnt get it is good for nothing The bell. - The doors over there Want me to send you packing? - I forgot! Whom do you wish to see? The mistress! "Who are you, sister? - Its me!" "Who are you, sister? - Radhesham Tiwari"s..." "Shut up! Who are you, sister? - Im Mrs. Anjali Tiwari" Im glad your name hasnt changed Ive made Anjali a member of the Wild Forest "The forest? - No, its a club. A social club" "Now that were here, we must learn the ways of this city" The women in this city arent lizards on the walls They do a lot of social work. - Whats surprising is that... everyone there knew Anjali beforehand. - Is it? "The moment we stepped in, everyone shook hands and said..." Thats when I realized what a huge business empire were running Whats more? He too recognized me and shook hands with me! Who was the unfortunate man? Shah Rukh. - Hungry who? Shah Rukh. The Khan. Film-star All the film stars come there. - We must live in style now No style for me. - Bring a bat into the house... itll still hang from a tree when it goes to sleep! "Pandu, you get no salary next month. - Its a saying, sir!" "The saying is, bathe as much as the crow wishes to, it cant become a swan!" Thats true! - Ill bathe and get ready Weve got to go to the dance class. - Dance class? At this age? Youll sprain your waist! Let it be its an English dance. Like this! A new way of sweeping the floor? - See? He starts a fight whenever I want to do something nice Thats the only difference between marriage and war "In a marriage, you get to sleep with the enemy" Anjali darling... mercy! Whats happening here? - The English dance "If you jump around at this age and something happens, Ill have to pay up" "Nothings happening to me. - Im talking about the tiles, not you" Quiet! High society women dance every day... "to keep their bodies fit. I suggest, you dance too" Me? - Yes. Dont we live in Mumbai? We must learn to live in style. Look at your managers and officers They live in such style. You are their employer... and yet you go around half naked! Dont you feel ashamed? I wear what clothes are necessary to cover my body And look at your body! Its sagging "Take a walk every morning. Buy a dog, to throw your weight around" You can take a walk with me then. - You just wont take me seriously Ive wasted a lot of years in the village with cattle and fodder I cant take all that now. Just watch what Anjali does now I can see it all! Your obsession with western culture has begun... I wonder where it will end! "Radhesham Tiwari"s from your village, isnt he?" Who? - The owner of Anjali Industries? "Oh yes, hes from my village. - Im told hes in the city nowadays" Go and meet him. Since you and he are from the same village... "out of sentiment, he might give you a job" Really? - Give it a try You and his company share the same name Maybe that will make him happy and hell give you a job The third time he has stopped singing! This thing has stalled for the third time! The old one was good enough. But you still bought a new system Youve changed too. So why not the CD-player? "If you find a new woman, will you throw me out?" "Ill do that, if the need arises. - Just you try" Ill show you. Im the mother of two children And people still say I look like your daughter Be thankful they dont think Im your grandfather Stop joking and bring a new woman! Itll become like your CD player! Itll break down! - Whats the number of this store? Radhe-Shyam. - Praise the Lord This is Radhesham Tiwari speaking Youve sold me a qawwali in the name of a Thumri? "In just a day, its broken down. Colds, dysentery..." "You must see a doctor, sir. This is the Videocon Gallery" Im talking about the CD-player... the nuisance you sent to me No sorry. Pick up this trash and get going immediately And send me a new one immediately "No, no, sir. Ill come and personally check it" Who you? - Anjali... "Anjali, yes... what work do you have?" I wish to meet Mr. Radhesham. - Well? Whats the good news? For a job. - We have a flourishing business He doesnt need a job. - No... Im the one who wants a job. Take a look at my certificates All right. The masters very busy right now. Come later Please... - I told you! Go! I think I must wait a while "If I get to meet Mr. Radhesham, my work will be done" Must be his daughter Know where the CD-player is? Im here to repair it "But Im not a mechanic. I own a store, Ive got to check it" Must be in there What airs! Spoilt brat! "Hey, roving eyes... over here. - Jeetendra from Videocon" Over there The bodys lying here. Take it away in a bier Take it away. - Ill take a look. Two minutes "No need to take a look. I told you, its dead" "Two minutes, Ill check. - No need to check. Dont touch that" "It must be minor problem, sir. Let me at least check it!" Pick up the box and get going. At once! "Not to worry, sir. Ill send a salesman and have it replaced" "No, I want my money back!" I dont want any replacement. I want my money back! He has left? One cant trust these city-guys at all! Greetings. - Greetings. You...? I wanted to meet you. But madam told me that youre very busy Shes a liar. Im always free. What is it? Ive come here looking for a job. Here are my certificates Wow! Youve done M.A. And B.A. Classical music too! Wow! "Havent you done your SSC? - Of course, I have" I was only kidding What sort of a job are you looking for? - Anything will do All we need is a security guard "And theres no need for an M.A. Or a B.A. For that, is there?" Lets clap "Girl, you havent left? - I..." You keep out of this! - Sir... He will talk any nonsense. You get going "Go away, I say! - What are you doing?" Is that the way you talk to guests? "Have you forgotten your manners? - I know my manners, mind you" The poor girl... - Poor girl? "So give her half your wealth! - Sure, I will!" I wont ask you! - I know whats on your mind! But Im the Pandey family too. I brought three cars full of gold Return it to me with interest and do what you want to! "In any case, I fed your guests and took the vows to become your wife!" God! This wife sure is a curse! She drove the poor girl away Why did you take the trouble? I told Mr. Radhesham to phone me... Id have the CD-player changed. - But Ive come here for a job "You issued an ad, didnt you? - Sorry... I dont understand" I want this job The job? What are you talking about? I need it very badly Wheres the need for Radhesham Tiwari"s daughter to take up a job? Looks like there is a misunderstanding... "I get it. I am an individual, I have an identity of my own". Right?" Thats a nice thing. Ive seen girls with that attitude of late "Even if their father is a millionaire, to prove your worth..." "youll work at pizza joints, cafes and other places" "Ill give you the job, if you wish. But what will I be able to pay you?" Whats 5000 rupees for you? - 5000? I know its little. But this business... Oh my God! I havent even offered you a seat "Come to my office, please" "If you speak the truth, youll blow this last opportunity youve got" I agree to work at 5000 rupees Your name...? - Anjali Anjali! So daddy has named his business after his daughter Jeetu. Call me Jeetu. - But... "Were going to be friends, okay?" "Stop playing with water and get on with the work, Pandu" "Look, our new puppy. - Wow!" "Where are you going with the hippo? - No hippo, its my doggie" And Im asking the dog where its going with the hippo? "Shut up! Because Im your wife, you cant talk any nonsense!" Youre always acting proud like a peacock "But dont forget. When the peacock loses its feathers, its naked!" "Lets go, puppy. - You can laugh all you want to" The things that happen in this house! You? Here? - Hasnt Anil returned? The lodge... hell return after a week from London You can come after a week. - Let me meet Mr. Tiwari then Were going to be relatives soon. And we have to meet some day Hes not in right now. - Where has he gone? To the market. - He? To the market? The temple! To offer namaz! - Namaz at the temple? No... to chant the Lords name. - All right. Ill wait here "Thats no good. After the prayer, hell take a bath" Wont be come home for a bath? - Yes... no! "Hell bathe at the temple. He has sworn it, you see" "Theres a well at the temple. - He wont drown in it, will he?" "He will come home, right? - Yes, tomorrow!" Ill come tomorrow then. - Sure? Why are you crying? - Tears of happiness Theres going to be love between the two of you Ill come tomorrow Didnt this garbage bin find another time to spring here? "Pandu, youd rather vamoose. Or youre going to be dead" Dead! - God Someone from my village was here to inform me "Master, can you give me 5000 rupees? Ill work and repay it" Of course. Ill give you the money Take a train and go to the village immediately Or youll land in trouble Trouble will break out even after Ive left for the village "Lord Ganesh, dont think Im flattering You, but You can very well do it" That girl Anjali... make her fall for me "Shes Tiwari"s only daughter. If she falls for me, itll be a huge lottery" An order from Hotel New Horizon. They want 50 sets of Videocon TV its 6 p.m. Let me drop you home No... Ill take a bus Ive got a car. Why must you take a bus? Cmon... dont think too much What happened? - Nothing "How can I go away, until you go inside?" Why not? - I can see you then "A coke, please" "Some chips, please" "Mister, watch the movie ahead. Not here" Im not an enemy... why have you driven me crazy? Im a friend... "so whyve you stolen my heart?" "I was out one day, straying from the path..." "when colorful roses of love blossomed" "All distances were finished. We began to get closer" "Such was our state, we began to breathe faster" "Im not among your assassins..." "so whyve you thrust me among those that live?" Im a friend... "so whyve you stolen my heart?" "Ive lost my heart, although it all began as a joke" "Ive forgotten the world to lose myself in your love" "I wonder how I will tell you about my love..." "how will I profess my love to you?" I live in your heart... "so why have you given my heart a sweet pain?" "Im the beautiful moonlight everyone covets..." "God alone knows who I was born for" "My desire is a writing on the wall" "So there will be victory and defeat in this game of love" I rock in your arms... "yet, why do you accuse me?" Im not an enemy... Im a friend... "so whyve you driven me crazy?" "Whyve you stolen my heart?" Cant you sit without clinging to the girl? Cant you sit without clinging to her? Is she your sister? - Shes my wife! So what are you going to do? What? "What wife, son? Your beard says it all. You werent married ever" You baldie! Who the hell are you? Who the hell are you to ask me? - Forget me. Who are you? Who are you? "Whoever you guys are, Ive bought a ticket to sleep in peace" Not to watch the movie! Go outside and fight! Where will I get a rampuri? - I dont know "Bhelpuri, paani-puri, you get there. - Im talking about a knife!" "Where will I get one? - Dont do anything rash, boss" "Ive decided. If I see him with Anjali again, Im going to kill him" "Either he lives, or I... - Master, master... hes her boss" She has only respect for him. Shes not in love with him How do you know? - I see them everyday in a restaurant Which restaurant? He escaped "But if he looks at you again, hes going to walk on his hands" He doesnt know what stuff Im made of "Forget it. There you go again. - No, Anjali" I cant tolerate anyone teasing you. Ill kill him! Now look... Jeetu... "Why? What happened? - Lets go, please" What is it? - What is it? Whats biting you? - Whats biting you? "Whats biting you, tell me? - You tell me whats biting you" How did you get here? - Walking. Whats it to you? Walking? Youll run away now! Whyve you standing between us? "Why? You own the place? - Yes, this is my fathers pad. So?" "Its my grandfathers pad, so? - You got the nerve, eh?" "You got it? Want me to show? - All right, you show it" Try and touch me. - You try and touch me Dont use my lines! - You dont use my lines Go away... - Want me to show you? Ill show it to you. - Go on... get lost Want me to show you? - Let me see! Coward! You dont have the spine! Paper-tigers. They wont even touch each other You dont know me. - Who are you? Ive seen so many like you! Go away! Come here and talk to me! Pipsqueak Here I am! What do you want to say? - What is it...? What? Im not scared of you! Im going to catch them today! God Almighty! Whyve you crying? Whyve you hollering away? Whats wrong? You ask me whats happened? What a thick-skinned man! Disgusting! "Despite what you did, you proudly stand before me!" Arent you ashamed? - Am I a virgin bride... to feel shy without reason? Tell me clearly what has happened So you want to hear it from my mouth? Is someone else around? - Not the values Ive imbibed... to utter disgusting things! Im from the Pandey family Keep crying! What were you doing with that girl in the shrubs? Girl? What girl? I was looking for my cane. Without your dhoti? You look so innocent! Butter wouldnt melt in your mouth! "Tell me, who is that girl? I dont wear glasses like you!" Tell me. For how long has this game of hide n seek been going on? You drive the girl away the moment you see me! How can you even think of something so filthy? You can very well do it! And I cant even think of it! I have done nothing! Even if I have... its a great thing Ive done! - You havent bought me... to expect me to watch the fun! - So go away! Right now! "All right, Ill go away. But first return to me..." "the 3 cars full of gold I brought in dowry, along with interest" Ill go away after that... Till then... I wont let you have a ball! - Shut up! "Whats up, master? Did the girl say something nasty to you?" "One thing is clear, Bholu. Shes in love with her boss" Not someone crazy like me Im glad my craziness has been of help How else could I have made the world see reason? Youre getting disheartened for no rhyme or reason "Shes in love with you, but she wont tell you" She wants to make you feel jealous. - What sort of love is that? "This game of love, you know" About swimming across oceans of fire and all that crap Take my advise. Fall in love with another girl Want me to knock your teeth out? - Dont jump the gun Pretend to love someone else. Like youre burning in envy... "she too will burn, if she really loves you" Shell come running to you. Take it from me in writing Ive had it! "Jeetu, my mothers here" "If she sees me here, all hell will break loose" I said I was going to a computer class. - Why? Because I havent told my parents Ive taken up a job here "If she sees me... - I get it, I get it" "Stay here, Ill handle her" Hello... welcome! Wow! You look beautiful! New sari! New pair of shoes! What can I do for you? - Give me some music cassettes "Music I can dance to. - Sure, what do you want?" "No, I want only Western music! A childhood habit, you see" Know what? Ill make a nice collection and send it to your house I hope you know my address? - Who doesnt? Remember to send it across. Please dont forget Has she left? - Has she? Phew! Saved! "Jeetu, I got to leave early today. - Why?" Tomorrows my birthday Arent you inviting your boss to the party? "No, theres no party. Actually, Ive got to out shopping" "Lets go. Ill accompany you. - No, Im expecting a friend" You dont want to invite me to your birthday party... but Im going to give you a surprise surely "Priya, Priya, Priya..." My dear! "I went crazy about you, the moment I saw you" "I know, there are obstacles in our path" "But rivers and streams do flow down the mountains" "Like we have to unite some day" "You mean the life to me. I love you more than my life" You are dearest to my heart "If shes jealous, shes in! If shes in, Ive scored!" "Did you write this? - Yes, but..." Devil! You? - Im here to wish the birthday girl Fat roses! Who told you todays the birthday? You are a very special customer. And we maintain records But theres a mistake in your records. - Really? The birthdays tomorrow. Not today But I was told its today. - Who told you? "Thats what I heard. - All right, all right" "Do come again tomorrow, like youve come today" "You must. The first flowers have been given by you, you see?" Thats all right He has brought roses? And a letter? "My dear Anjali. These roses are a token of my love" "Roses arrive today, to be followed by the bee" Im the one hes going to sting first How was it? - What? "My bouquet, of course. - Bouquet?" I gave it in your mummys hands. Didnt she give it to you? "I see, that one? It was very nice" Did you read the note I left in the bouquet? "The note...? Yes, I did" What did it say? - Well... "dont you know? - No, I mean..." "did you like it? - Yes, of course. Very much" "So you dont mind any word Ive written, do you?" Mind? Why would I mind? So why did you lie to me? - Lie? "That yesterday was your birthday? - Actually, Jeetu..." You didnt want to invite me to the party Thats not true. There was no party at all "I know, because the partys tomorrow and so is your birthday" Your mummy has invited me "So youre coming tomorrow? - I wont, if you dont want me to" You must! Why mustnt you? At what time did she say? "At 7, she said. - I see" Know what? Come at 9. - Why? The time has changed a bit Ill be there at 9. - All right "If Jeetu had arrived before the cake was cut, Id have been exposed" Whyve you standing outside? - Actually... Im waiting for some friends of mine. They dont have the proper address Know what? Go in there and enjoy the party Ill join you as soon as my friends arrive Of course! Ill join you in a few minutes Hes the same boy! Dad! Ive had it! Hes hiding from me! So I was right "This boys having an affair with Anjali, Im sure" Youve got your peace... "all Ive got is my craziness" Youve come to your senses... and Im still in a daze "But youre the one my heart still loves" Youve got your peace... "all Ive got is my craziness" Youve come to your senses... and Im still in a daze "But youre the one my heart still loves" How am I going to placate it? "My heart is crazy, it wont relent" How will I tell my heart...? "It does not know what love is all about" "Im obsessed with you... and you dont even realize it" "You got all the hospitality, I was treated with indifference" "Youve got back to your senses, Im still in a daze" "Youre the one my heart loves" "Heres someone who could die for her love..." "and theres someone whos unfaithful in love" "What pain these distances give... only in separation will we know" "Ever since I have seen you, Ive gone crazy" Youve got your sleep... I got only helplessness Youve come to your senses... and Im still in a daze "But youre the one my heart still loves" Youve got your peace... "all Ive got is my craziness" Youve come to your senses... and Im still in a daze You dare call that boy to the party? You invited that witch too. - Which one? The one your eyes were glued to at the party! Wow! Thats a wolf in sheeps clothing! I can understand it from the way your feet were moving and... the way your anklets were chiming. Now that youre exposed... you accuse me and find the excuse of having fun with that young boy? The pot calling the kettle black! "I caught you in the shrubs, so you cast mud at me..." and try to save yourself? Listen carefully! Im not letting your scheme work! Ive had enough of your farce! You take me for a fool? You think Im an idiot? Just let me tell you! I know how it is! Its not going to work for long! - All right Give me the gold I brought with interest. Ill go back! Go back! How about the expensive saris Ive given your horrible body? Whos paying for the goodies you helped yourself to over the years? I cooked for you all day and night! My work pays for it all! You paint the town red with strangers and talk back at me! "The scores are leveled! If you can do it, so can I!" "Will you do it...? Will you? - Yes, I will too!" So will I! - Go ahead and do it! Whos stopping you? Just stop interfering in my affairs! You mustnt interfere either! - I wont! Hello. - Hello Im Teja-bhai. - Please come in I havent recognized you. - Im your sons father-in-law I dont get it. - I wont beat around the bush... and confuse you. Ill come the point Dont let your B.P. Get out of hand when you listen to it Thats what I say. Come straight to the point My daughter has decided to marry your son What? Hello One moment. Your daughter has decided to marry my son Right? - Right So what can I do? Tell your daughter to change her mind "No, you dont understand" The two of them have got together and taken this decision Theyve got engaged. Theyve even exchanged rings What is he talking about? - It cant be our son Because our son is not here. - I know Your son is in London. - Right But your son was here. - When did he go back? "After the engagement, he went away. On business" Ive sent my son to London for further studies. Not business "Now look, mister. Whats happened is in the past" Lets peacefully and amicably sort it out "It cant be sorted out, Teja-bhai. My son will marry the girl I want him to" "You mean, whatever has happened... - What has happened?" "Theyve just exchanged rings, right? They havent got married yet" Hell throw the ring away. End of the story How will he take off the ring? My daughter isnt an empty bottle whose label he can change at will Dont talk too much! From the look of you... I can tell how your daughter must be. - Does she also sport a moustache? "Radhesham Tiwari! If youre a big man, I dont care!" You dont know Teja! I come from a family of killers There wasnt a day when my fathers knife did not taste blood! His father was a butcher? - You are insulting me! "Youre still here? Shameless man, go away" Ill go away! But I will surely come back! Listen... - What? "Im talking to her, not you" "I suggest we call our son down here. - Yes, call him here" And see whether he obeys to you or me. - Wont you go away? Im leaving. Dont yell as if youre fighting the elections! Could there be some truth in the rubbish he just spoke? Not at all. Hes just a fool Do you really think so? - No Know what? Well telephone him and call him over Ive got to know the truth. - What? That Anjali and you are not man and wife Meaning? - Ive heard the bickering... that goes on between the two of you. How would you know how happy I am... to learn the truth? - We do keep fighting... but we are really man and wife. - I know everything. Look at this "Miss Anjali Does anyone address a married woman as "Miss"?" "Ever since you wrote that letter to me, I understood..." you would really marry me. You will free me from Popat"s cage! Marry you? What if Popat gets to know? - To hell with the old fossil! Anjali"s coming Youre the one I was waiting for. Theres a letter for you "I thought Id give it to you. - Okay, I get it" So this is the extent he has gone to! But why must I care? Mother has written to me from the village The landlords son will arrive. Hell marry me and take me away Well live in marital bliss "My dear Anjali, Im sending Raja to you by tomorrows train" "Youll get to know each other better, if he stays with you for a few days" "Hes the one youre going to marry anyway" "Dont forget, were alive today because his family has helped us" "You will never disobey your mother. You will agree to the wedding" "Im sending you a photograph of Raja. Hes no longer like he was..." "he has changed a lot. He has shaved his beard, he now looks like a prince" Youll be stunned "My prince will come to marry me and Ill dance in joy" Another villain...? Who the hell is he? - Whoever Hell marry Anjali and even drive me out of the house I have an idea. - What? Lets scare him and force him to return How? Hes the one. - So go and scare him! "No, not here. Its a crowded place" "Once I scare him, he wont step in Mumbai again. Come on" Whats he up to...? Has he gone mad? "Hes cleaning something. The shoe or the pole, I cant say" Hes stuck to it! - He must be electrocuted! Go and save him! - Are you crazy? Youll die too "Find a stick. One blow, and hell be separated" Is that why they tried to kill me? "Yes. I brought you here, because I liked you" Anjali isnt as innocent as you think Shes having a terrific scene with someone Who? - The one who... Hes a very dangerous man. Have you heard of Chhota Chetan? I saw the movie. In 3-D. - Not that Hes from the underworld. Even the cops are terrified of him "He has committed 40 murders, but he still hasnt been caught" He uses a new knife for every killing. I saw him with a new one yesterday Maybe its meant for you. - So why did Anjali"s Ma send me here? They plan to bring you to the city to bump you off Even if Anjali marries Chhota Chetan after your death... "her family has nothing to lose. - No, that cant be true" "Whether you believe it or not, your body will believe me" Is Raja here? - Go to sleep Raja! Is there anyone here answering to the name Raja? Im going to finish him! Hes hiding somewhere around My men have just broken a few of his limbs Hes my 50th victim. Im having a grand party after killing him Ill finish him if he comes here. Tell him I was here Did you see...? - How would I? You covered my face! "Why did you lie? You say he has committed 40 murders, he says 50!" "Whatever! He has committed the murders, not me" Now get the hell out of here. - How far is the railway station? Ive got catch a train back home. - No point in venturing out Theres a strike in the railways. Cant say when itll end So what am I to do? - Hide somewhere here Chhota Chetan and his men will look for you all over Mumbai So hide under an assumed name. - But where will I hide? Find a cheap lodge near the railway station. Hole up in one of them Catch the first train out as soon as the strike is over "Else, Ill have to mail your body to your village" "Believe me, or go to hell" "Welcome! Welcome, Teja-bhai" Hey sonny... come here. Let me show you something This is my son. - This...? Recognize him? - No No? And he says hes your father-in-law! Ask him! Have I married your daughter? - No Have I promised to marry her? - No Tell me something... are you weak in the head? No. - So why did you kick up a fuss... that he had promised to marry her? Why did you create a scene? Is he your son? Any doubts? - No I have no doubt that hes my son Hes not the one I spoke about. Its your other son Whats all that about...? Which other son? Your elder son! - Look at him I have another son and I dont even know about it! You have a brother too! - You are a big man... who runs a big business empire. You must have forgotten But your other son lives right here. Everyone knows that My God! What am I hearing...? You have another son outside my knowledge? "This man is lying! - Hes your son, all right" Though hes a bit dark of skin "When I saw her, I was a bit doubtful" But anyone who looks at you will say hes your son "The same eyes, the same nose, The same lips..." This is rubbish! Dont scream! "Call your servant, Pandu. He knows everything" He was witness to everything. Where is Pandu? "Hes gone to the village, his father has died" "Died, or did you have him killed?" You send him away when youre about to be exposed? I understand it all! Its your ploy to stall the marriage! Enough! Make anymore noise and Ill sue you for defamation! "Shut up! You arent Tiwari, youre a disease!" Ive cured diseases like you! I visit the courts every day "Dont forget, I come from a family of killers" "Are you threatening me? Are you? - Yes, Im threatening you!" So go and do what you can! - Youll know it very soon! "In a weeks time, if you dont let the marriage take place..." youll know! My God! Im doomed! Mom! What are you doing? Am I supposed to stay here or go back to London? "My son, at what time is your flight? - At eleven tonight, Mom" Go away! If you stay here... youre going to get spoilt in your fathers shadow! "Dad, Im leaving. Ill confirm my ticket at the airport" All right. God bless you Lets get out of here. Theres no meaning in staying here Lets pack our bags and get going! - Only after coming here... Ive got to see your true colors! - What rubbish are you talking? You dont believe me and you believe a stranger? I wouldnt have believed it earlier But theres no way I cannot believe it now "You are a flirt! Before our marriage, you have been a womanizer!" Ill go back only when I have all the proof! Ill shave my moustache if you leave this city! Your heart wont relent unless you see him! "That bloody Videocon! - My virtuous husband, arent you?" You keep listening to classical music all day... and this is what you do by night? You are Satan himself! Wow! You accuse me...? Ive seen your programmes already! "A good thing, isnt it? Keep watching it... and kill me!" God! She wont die like that... go to her help! "Manager, do you have a room?" "Whatever it is, I shouldnt have to leave the room" And I want an attached toilet Name...? Raja... Tulsidas Khan "What name is Tulsidas Khan? - Shut up, scoundrel" Your fathers name? - Javed Chaurasia Your mothers name? - Mumtaz Bedi Are you the India-Pakistan border...? Were you born to cross parents? "Shut up, or Ill slap you! - Is your old man dead?" "Of course, Ill pay you" "And give me the keys, quick. I badly want to pee" And dont tell anyone that Im staying here Pay for the cups you broke. - Get lost Pay for the two cups you broke. - I wont! Get lost! Give that to me My umbrella! Ill carry it for you. - Not necessary The name is Babu Bisleri. - I dont want to bathe! "I cant trust anyone. Everyone appears to be Chhota Chetan"s man" "Theyre out to kill me! Anjali, why did you do this to me?" Why? "Priya, what am I going to do about Jeetu" "If I tell him the truth, Ill lose my job" Theres a vacancy in my office for a receptionist Your qualifications are the best among the lot. Im sure youll get it But youll have to wait for a month. - A month? What will I do with Jeetu in a month? Dont go to work at all. - What if he visits Radhesham"s house? "Hell get to know the truth. Which he has to, some day" Ring him up and ask him for leave of a month Tell him that your Papa"s suspicious That he sends the driver with you everywhere "When you finally land the job, you can tell him the truth" "Sir, Ive checked it thoroughly. Its first-class" Since you sent me the new system did I ever call you to tell you... that I wanted you to come here and solve a problem? "No, sir. You didnt. - No?" So did you dream it had a problem? "No? So why have you come here? - Service check, to see if its okay" I know theres no problem with it. - No problem What are you looking around for? "Sir, isnt Anjali there?" So this is how it is! He calls a woman of his mothers age by her name! "You do get along well, dont you? - We know each other very well, sir" "You mustve met at your shop, right? - No, sir..." weve met mostly outside. - Romeo and Juliet meeting outside! No wonder she goes out all dressed up! Anjali"s not in Have you checked everything? - Yes Is all the payment made? - Yes Nothing outstanding? - Not at all So what are you looking around for? - That painting... "its lovely. Must be very expensive? - I dont know, I stole it" Theres the door Can I have a glass of water? - No water supply for three days Ive been drinking only coffee. But theres just a cup left. Anything else? Ill come in a couple of days to check whether theres a problem "No, you have given us enough trouble. Dont give us anymore trouble..." well bear the trouble we already have "If I could meet her mother, maybe I could meet Anjali too" "Is the wife there, sir?" "My wife! Not "the wife!" Its not a joint-account! Shes all mine What I meant was... - I know what you meant Shes not in right now. Tell me what it is regarding "Will you tell her I was here, asking for her?" Must I? - Please dont forget Oh no! I cant forget this till I die! Sister! Shes regaining consciousness. Please call her husband Theres no need to worry. You got injuries in the feet and head... because of which youve been unconscious all day But the doctor has examined you. Everything is all right How will I thank you? - Why thank me? I just got here Thank your husband whos been here all night and day "He didnt budge from here. He cried so much, hes in a bad way" "Youll be discharged in a day or two. Look after yourself, okay?" I must leave now its all my mistake. Please forgive me Whos that boy who has tainted a virtuous woman like your wife? You! You fed her all the crap and compelled her to come to the city! I didnt want to set foot in this city! I know the water in this city is contaminated... and the people here are scoundrels! - Sir... Anandilal Kitpitia... - Im sick of you and your... coming! Stop ringing! This is Jeetu from Videocon. Is Anjali there? Anjali has drowned in the sea! - Please give her the phone... Are you trying to bully me? You wretched guitar! Im not giving the phone to Anjali! Im not! What will you do? Bulls offspring! Whom are you threatening? I know scum like you! Your father mustve been up to no good to sire you If you even utter the name of the Tiwari family... Im going to break the legs of everyone in your family! He appears to be a dangerous man Well... Looks like only a beating will... - What beating at this age? It was different earlier. I used to fell a couple of them in the ring "Im talking about thugs, sir. Not you" Ive fought a lot of such criminal cases! I know a few thugs too Youve only got to pay them and show them what this chap looks like Dont hit him too much. Just give him a push and let him go "If he acts smart, Im going to break his legs and..." "No, please, no! - One leg then?" No! He wont look appealing without his hands and feet Just give him a light slap There he is... Ill be hiding behind the tree Lets go Whats your problem? You dare toy with the womenfolk of the Tiwari family? Beat him up! Where are you going...? Whos going to pick him up? Hey mister... get up. Your friends have left You cant use this telephone. Its meant for the staff Everyone wants to use it "Anjali, where have you been? I want to meet you right now!" "No, I cant meet you right now. Im out shopping with my parents" Im calling you on the sly How long are we going to play hide and seek? Youve called me after five days! You know how worried Ive been? "Hadnt you phoned today, I was about to go to your house" "No, dont do that. If my Papa gets to know..." Hes got to know already! He sent goons to beat me up! But whats God going to do? Ill have to do something on my own Wont I call you at your house if I want to talk something official? Which I did. But the old man flared up and called me names There was another bastard there who was very rude "God! Jeetu, dont call my place ever again" Ill give you a friends number. Her name is Priya The number is 6334523. Call only in an emergency "There is an emergency! Now, this moment!" "I want to ask you something, Anjali. It has to do with my life and death" "What? - Do you love me, or dont you?" Say something. Im sure you love me... "but I want to hear you say it. Say yes, just once..." and Im willing to take on the whole world for you "Jeetu, how will I say it?" "Just once, say I love you" "If you say no, I will never call again" Why dont you say something? Is the old man around...? - Yes "If you agree, you dont need to say anything" "Just cut the line. - Know the truth, Jeetu?" How often will I tell you not to use this phone? Why did you get up from your bed? Go and lie down Theres this beautiful fairy... "she has descended from the skies..." she stands before me... "shes the one I have fallen in love with" I have fallen in love with her "Shes the light from the Moon and the stars..." shes the lamp in a temple "One glimpse of her has driven me crazy" "Shes the melody of my breath, she means the world to me" "Whats my heart, I could give my life to her, if she asked me for it" Theres this beautiful fairy... "she has descended from the skies..." she stands before me... "shes the one I have fallen in love with" I have fallen in love with her "When she looks at me with a smile..." my heart goes out to her "Her charms are as enticing as she is" "its her dreams Im lost in, all day and night..." "shes the one I see when I awaken every morning" Theres this beautiful fairy... "she has descended from the skies..." she stands before me... "shes the one I have fallen in love with" I have fallen in love with her Im glad shes taking a bath! Anjali! Im here to take you away! Come on out! What brings you here...? Who are you? Youve forgotten me so soon? - Oh yes "My CD-player, TV set, oven, refrigerator are all working very well. Go away" "I request you one last time, sir. Please dont stop me" "Give my Anjali to me with your blessings," Dont you feel any shame at all? A boy and a girl love each other... so whats there to be ashamed about? A girl? - You think shes an old hag? I get it! Youve fallen in love with Anjali"s riches! Tell me... how much money do you want to forget Anjali? "Dont weigh my love in the scale of wealth, Radhesham Tiwari!" "Shut up, you beggar! What have you got to lose?" Ive earned name and respect in this country and the world You spoke sweet words and led her astray... and she drove you crazy with her silly antics "But remember, shell never leave me to go away with a pauper like you!" "Really? If youre so confident, call her here, you old fossil!" And ask her in my presence. - Ive asked her several times... and she has answered me too! - Youre lying to me! If she says the same thing to me... Ill live all my life with half a moustache! "You need to have whiskers first. Go away, before I call the police!" "Not even the military can separate two lovers, do you understand?" I know youve locked Anjali upstairs. - How did you get to know? "What else can you do, Tiwari? Quietly hand over Anjali to me..." or Ill have to go upstairs and break the lock! "To do that, youll have to step over my dead body!" "Thats enough, Radhesham. If I dont take Anjali away in 24 hours..." I wont be Jeetu from Videocon! - Think of another name. Go on! "You have 24 hours, Tiwari" "Stop me, if youre truly your mothers son!" Right now! Im willing to pay 10 for each of them Send seven strong guys here right now. And listen... each one of them must wield a gun. And every gun must work "No, its not a bank. I have a priceless antique item" I cant see it being robbed in front of my eyes The hospital bill is so high I dont know how Ill ever repay you. - Your husband has paid the bill He borrowed the money from me at 10 per cent interest Not every girl has a husband like yours "Anjali, the taxis waiting" Listen! Lets run away! - Now? Yes. Im ready "No, not now. Maybe a few days later" Youve always been saying later "You havent fallen in love with your fake wife, have you?" "No, actually youve misunderstood me" That letter... - Its still with me "If you betray me, Ill have you thrown out of this house..." and Ill show that letter to everyone and give you a bad name "Dont do that. You are the one I love, but I feel scared..." "if Popat gets to know, he can send us to jail with his money power" All right. Come out Come out! You will do as I say. - What? The two of us will elope in a few days Where to? - There is a place... Popat can never get to! - But... Dont worry. Just go and hide in some cheap hotel Where? Theres a hotel opposite the station. Stay there and behave like a madman Ill come there later and say that youve escaped from the asylum Ill take you to the railway station... well take a train and run away! Is that necessary? - Yes "If we leave together, Popat will get suspicious" "If we leave separately, he wont even guess weve eloped together" Someones going to help me! - Who? The police. Sub-inspector Waghmare I know how to entice him. Okay? But make sure you carry enough money from here Dont worry. Ill take so much cash and jewellery... well have a honeymoon all our lives! Rob something once Ill tell the Marwari and send you away on a honeymoon forever I know youve hidden him somewhere! Have you got rubbish for brains? Ive told you... "I dont have another son, I dont! I dont!" So who was he? - How am I to know? "Radhesham, dont test Teja"s patience!" "So you dont believe what Im saying? - No, I dont!" "Are you sure? 100 per cent? - Sure, hundred per cent!" Okay. So listen The one youre talking about is my son That he promised to marry your daughter is also true But Im against the marriage. So Ive hidden him away somewhere "Where I have hidden him, Im not in the mood to reveal to you" Do what you will! Go away! You will now see what stuff Im made of "Not only will I find your son, if I dont take the two of you..." "beg in the local trains of Mumbai, I wont call myself Teja-bhai!" Give me in the name of God! - He speaks for the beggars too! Radhe! Radhe! Why did I leave my village and come to this hell? "Hey buddy, someone fishy staying here? Ive been sent by the Garbage King" Talk to me You... Ask me what you must to. - Who are you? Babu Bisleri. The mole Is there someone hiding here? "Yes, hes the one" Who is it? "You? - Yes, me" Why have you come here? - Where have you been hiding? I went mad looking for you! You even gave the hotelier an assumed name I went crazy banging on every door! Im the one who has gone mad You said your employer would go back in a week "Hes not willing to budge, so what do I do? Rot here?" Its got to be very dangerous. Had I stayed there another minute... Id have been crushed between garbage and my employer Never mind. Theres no point staying holed up here I need to decide something. - The Garbage King has already decided The marriage is not taking place. Hes out to kill you If the marriage does not take place before that... "Hell beat me to pulp, right? Never mind that" Heres what youll do. Ill give you a letter Quietly go and give it to Madhuri. No one must get to know Write the letter by all means. And also give me 200 rupees Ill immediately take the letter to Madhuri... and no one will get to know! Swine! What did you think? Youd promise marriage and toy with my daughters honour? You mustve betrayed a lot of girls. But you cant deceive me! Forgive me! - Open the door... "else, Ill break it down! Ill break every bone in your body..." string it in a garland and put it around your arrogant fathers neck! Open the door! Sonofagun! What do you think? Youll hide here and I wont be able to find you? I can look at a fly and tell you whether its male or female! Open the door! - Chhota Chetan"s thugs! I dont want to marry her. Leave me alone! "Im here for your funeral, not your wedding procession!" I dont want to marry her! Ill go far away from her! Shut up! You wont get the girl even in your dreams! "Im going to kill you! Come on out, you swine!" Break the door Make mincemeat out of him and lay him at my feet! Thrash him! You play a drama with me? Get up! Whos this? You said that scoundrel was hiding in there! That scoundrel told me. - Shut up! Leave this clown alone. And find that son of a bitch. Come on Hit me! Thrash me! Dont let me live anymore! Just about anyone comes along and gives me a thrashing! When is the railway strike ending? Im glad you came soon. Whom do you wish to see? "Ill do it for you, but the documents of my house and 50,000 rupees..." you must quietly bring and give it to me "Sure, Ill do that. - I havent seen... the party" Can I see him once? - Youll find him at Welcome Lodge "If I ask for Nandu at Welcome Lodge, will they tell me?" "No, hes going to stay there under an assumed name" Ive asked him to pretend madness. Thats how you will recognize him "Welcome Lodge? All right, Ill go to Welcome Lodge and meet your punter" Ill tell him that youve sent me "Ill get him out of there and have him at the train, the very next day" Ill be there! Nandu and I will run away from there! Is there someone here whos off his rocker? Is there a madman here? Ask the boss. - Dont you act funny with me Im warning you! I know it for a fact... that a madman has run away from the asylum and is hiding here! "A madman...? So say that clearly, sir!" That madman is surely hiding here! - Who? This ones sure a nut. - A policeman! Officer! Get me out of here! Im in a bad jam! Theyre coming to take you away. - Ill leave on my own How can you go away just like that? - What will you do about it? You cant go away. Everyone knows youre crazy... youre mad "Officer, theyre hand in glove. Ill tell you about them" Hands off me. - Ill explain "They want to prove that Im mad, take me away from here..." so Chhota Chetan can kill me! - See? I told you hes mad! He talks any nonsense Get out... move it! - He gets into fights! So hes one of them too! Why have you shut the door? Why? Come here! - What for? Ive got to tell you something. - No thanks. Let me go "You neednt worry, feller. Im Inspector Waghmare" The other party has sent me here. - The other party? The other party will arrive exactly at 10 to take you away We got together and made the plan to deliver you there Are you one with them? - Yes God! Now I know why the police are terrified of Chhota Chetan! Damn it! I cant figure out how such an atom bomb fell in love with you! "Not she, I was the one who "fell" "Ever since I was a child" Since you were a child? - I never imagined... this would happen to me! Im leaving! Im going! People will really think youre mad. - Im not mad! Get him! Hold tight! "Tomorrow morning, she and I will come to take him away" His expenses... you will bear. - Will I get some tips first? "Sure, if he runs away, youll get a tight slap" What are you telling me...? Anil has gone mad? He doesnt step out of the room. Hes the only man... whos living under an assumed name. - It must be Anil then "He wrote to me that hes hiding here. - "That girl has betrayed me", he says" "He misunderstands you and says, Kill me! Kill me!" "Maybe hes scared of your papa. Right now, hes been hidden somewhere" "Tomorrow morning, they are taking him to the asylum" "Madhuri, why are you crying?" Hes in this state only because of me! Ive been wanting to tell you something for a long time Go ahead "Im not a singer, like you think. I come from a rich family" There was no dearth of riches and comforts in my house But my parents were against my music "They wanted me to take over the family business, and I didnt want to" I began to feel suffocated there and I ran away from home Whyve you telling me all that? - The drama were both enacting... could we really...? Theyre here to take him away. Did he cause problems last night? "He did, I banged the hammer on his head and..." Is he dead? - No. Plastic cups dont break easily I got to hammer his head again and take him away Ill play the music for him. Its days since I beat up someone Im mad! Im a lunatic! Not so much over-acting... dont go overboard! Hes begun to speak! Hes not dumb! "Ill carve you to pieces! Either you live, or l" Ill kill you first and die afterwards! "Yes, carve me to pieces, kill me! Hack me!" "Calm down, Anjali" What will you get out of yelling? Itll only attract the neighbours "If you lose your respect, how will you live with honour?" What respect is left to be lost anyway? Look at this letter! Written by her lover! "My dear Anjali, our hearts met and united at my shop" "I know, that old man is a shackle in your feet" "I did what I could to reason with that scoundrel..." but he just wont agree! - Lies! This is a pack of lies! Ill hack you to pieces! He further writes... "Theres just one way left. Tonight, Ill quietly rescue you from that hell" Read it for yourself! Why do it on the sly? "Go away openly! Before that, end your relationship with me!" He got someone to write the letter! He wants to throw me out so he... can bring that young girl home. - Which young girl! No wonder hes putting all these false proofs together! But thats not happening! I will go away... I brought three cars full of gold... - You want that back with interest? Yes! - Thats what you want? Im not giving it! Im not parting with a penny. Do what you can! "Go away and file a case. Before that, leave the world!" Weep on Videocon"s shoulders! Dont shed tears here I know Anjali very well. She cant have an affair like the one you say "You mean, hes having an affair? I know Mr. Tiwari very well" Hes not that kind of a man! "The less said about your knowledge, the better!" "Sir, trusting womenfolk is like committing suicide" I suspect you too are having an affair behind my back! Lawyer! Are you here to sort out my problem or create one for yourself? "No, sir. We must solve this puzzle" We can decide it only after we get to know whos behind all this Whos that boy? Lets call him here Oh yes. Lets decide this once and for all "Ill call that boy right here. - No, sir..." I have a condition before you call that boy here Youre a very hot-tempered man. - Give that to me "You will reason with that boy, without getting excited..." or creating any scenes. It ought to remain in the family The two of us will go inside... he mustnt think youre humiliating him in front of the world "Speak up, Tiwari. Here I am" "Did you write this letter, Romeo? - What?" "Anjali, our hearts... - Yes, I wrote it" You wrote this letter despite knowing what the consequences would be? Yes. - Since you have so much courage... "tell me to my face, how much do you love Anjali?" Anjali means the life to me! You want to hear that again? - Lawyer! You? - Papa! So you were born of him...? It makes sense then "When the brand itself is faulty, this is how the showroom will be!" Boys are often naughty at this age "But the womenfolk must preserve their honour, mustnt they?" "Watch your tongue, lawyer! - I see! The bitter truth!" "Whatever my sons character, hes surely better than you are!" You dont even know how many sons of yours are roaming the city! What rubbish! - Listen boy. Speak the truth Did I ever tell you that Im in love with you? No. - So then? "Ive been talking about Anjali, his daughter" My daughter Anjali...? Which new daughter is that...? You also have another daughter! Hes lying! Absolutely! - O God! What am I hearing? Its lies! - Somethings happening to me... Tell me the truth. How many wives and children do you have? My darling wife! Hes lying! - Youre the one whos lying I used to drop her here every evening! One moment... wheres that girl right now? "Papa, this old man mustve hidden her somewhere" God! What a monster! - Hes lying "Do you have any contact number? - Yes, I have her friends number" "Ask her where she is. Call her here. - Yes, call her here!" This is our Nandu! "He has run away from home. The informer will be paid 200,000" "200,000! Popat! Youve hit the jackpot of 200,000!" "Let me see how you step out. It has to do with 200,000 rupees" "How did you get there? - Popatji, Im leaving" Leaving? How can you leave just like that? Your picture has been published in the newspapers! "The one who takes you home will get 200,000 rupees" "Dont mess with my reward, please. Stop there... stop!" Remember something...? Isnt she your daughter? "Sorry, I made a mistake" They met in the garden as father and daughter. God! "Take me away! - God isnt a weight lifter, fat lady!" Shut up! My child... am I your father? "You call her "My child" and ask her whether youre her father!" Shut up... my child... am I your father? Hurry up and speak. It has to do with my married life! No What nonsense! You told me that youre his daughter! That he hates the idea of you working in my store! And I even met you at this very place! Please forgive me All these misunderstandings are taking place because of me But please hear me out once "After that whatever punishment you give me, I will accept" I came to this city to look for a job "Despite the best of my efforts, I couldnt find one" And when I got the opportunity to work at his showroom... I didnt want to lose it. So I spoke one lie after another "To hide one lie, I had to lie many more times" Thats the truth "After a very long time, Ive spoken the truth today" "Dont cry, my child" What has happened is in the past. We hold nothing against you Where is your other son? - There she goes again! You want to see? You want to? I come here for the last time! "One problem ends, another one begins!" "Welcome, youre the one we were missing. - Its either this way or that today!" You folks dont know what a dirty rotten scoundrel I am! I knew that the moment I saw you. - Silence! Where is my daughter? - What? His daughter? He always asked where my son was! And now he asks where his daughter is! Do you suffer from an affliction? - When you got to know... that Id have my daughter married to your son... you had my daughter kidnapped! Where is my daughter? She has married me and is very happy to be with me What are you going to do...? - Ill take your life! Its not a toy. You might kill me! Put it away! Shut up! I could pump your body with lead anyway! I know all of you are conspiring against me! So everyones going with me. If anyone refuses... itll be his last refusal! Move it! "Im going to bite you back, you dog!" Stop there! - Get him! Get him! "This is no garden, its my den. The den of death" Wheres my daughter? - Its coming out of my ears! "From my house to here, you asked me a hundred times!" Which language you do understand? - Where is my daughter? "Tell me, else Ill kill you!" You hit me! Wait there... You kiss my wife! You dare kiss my Mom! Freeze! Ive got a pistol! Stay where you are! "One, two..." "Your father was dead, isnt it? His son dies now!" Hey loony! Quiet! Hands up! How will I? Tell me where my daughter is. - She has committed suicide She has ended her life in a dry well! You poke fun at me...? The slugs in this gun are real You want to see? You want to...? Take a look Nobody moves! Else youre dead-meat! "Stick your hands up, or Ill send you to hell!" Hey hero... you want me to send you through the mobile? Stick your hands up! Go on! Listen... How much more will you make me run? Got a match? "Anjali, where are you?" Dont let anyone escape! "Everythings suddenly so quiet, isnt it?" "Like the clouds clearing, after a storm" A lot of things are clear surely "I admit, I loved you because I thought you were Tiwari"s daughter" I have to give some girl the charge to my life some day "So I thought, why not..." Jeetu says he wants to marry me Nandu says that too Nandu and I have been pretending to be man and wife for many days So that consideration Nandu must surely get So youll marry both of us? - No "Actually, during the melee that took place..." I found a way out of this dilemma. - What? Ive written both names on these chits "Whichever name comes up, Ill marry him" "Nandu, you pick a chit. - I wont! I always lose!" "No, not me! I always lose! - We have no other way, Nandu" Im not picking lots. - Ive prayed to God... Hell help me choose the right boy "Jeetu, you pick a slip" I knew Id lose! Nandu in this one too?
