 

                        This Love and all is not my kind of thing Do you know, till today I have not understood.. ..how some people spend their whole lives with one girl I had already decided that I will not waste my life by falling in love So are you trying to say that.. ..every boy wants just one thing from every girl?. - Right Every love story, has the exact same story The hero first runs away from love.. And then.. I love you Simran I love you and only you I love you Riya God I hate love stories! But I love, love stories Infact, I love everything These flowers, this season, rains! These colours, Pink Romance, romantic films I make sets for these films, I am an art director I love my job, This filmy world, dramatic stories and.. ..The thing I love the most - love stories In which the heroine Turns around in slow motion, When the hero sings and calls out to her Cut! Emotions! I want emotions! Stupid! These love stories are stupid Even more stupid than that are those people who make these love stories Today, I top the list of these stupid people I am a stupid directors assistant Who is enacting something stupid so that he can.. Feel, I want to feel.. I want to get the feel?. How do they make such stupid films Do love stories really exist?. Of course, love stories exists We have a perfect love story That's Raj, My Mr. Right! When I saw, I realized my love Love means going crazy, Simran Raj was just perfect So perfect, that everyone loved him - Perfect! Perfect! My mom was a Gujrati And dad, Punjabi After her experience mom had decided.. ..That her son-in-law would be a Gujrati Enter Raj! Perfect Perfect Just Perfect My mom had just one dream That amongst these cards, One day, would be my wedding card She was obsessed with marriage My marriage! Marriage - none of this crap for me! I was just not that types of a guy Infact I haven't seen a happy couple till today Umm, may be my grandparents Actually no, I just loved one thing! Dating!.. I date every kind of girl.. Who loves me, Who doesn't love me Who does everything else besides loving me Or even makes me do things! I had just one dream To work with a director who made the best love stories And that day.. My life was perfect And I was so happy Stop yeah! Now leave her and listen to me Veer was a very big filmmaker Big hits, big stars, big budgets Whatever, whatever But these were not my kind of films.. Not my scene Infact for me it was like the Taliban I was here for just two reasons First, my resume and Second, Peter's bills There was another character in my life.. Kunal My senior in office and My best friend Kunal was like a villain for every girl The perfect villain! Phew! I hate it when girls don't listen to me Why you still sitting, you want to get me beaten up?. Lets go Oh Shit! Speaking of villains Veer, the villain of my life Sent me to watch this romantic film Wanted me to see some aunty's performance Casting issues Actually, he knew how l felt about these films Sadist! But I did not know that my life would change that day Just like an old film, She turned and looked at me And me.. Sirji, my family is a little small You are alone, can you please Adjust on that seat there What is happening?. Hi.. J What's your name?. Name?. Simran How can you be so beautiful?. Your name is Simran?. Seriously?. Shut up Jay, keep quiet don't say anything, keep quiet Quite a filmy name, don't you think?. No offence Listen you don't have a boyfriend by the name Raj right?. No right, Thank God, If you did I would have fallen down laughing My fiances name is Raj But seriously, have you ever thought what will happen to your children In school their teachers will ask them Child, what are your parents' names?. Raj and Simran Child, do they also sing songs in fields?. Will you please be quiet Change the mood, say something sweet Jay Come on, you can do it I bet your those filmy types You love these love stories right Look, your spoiling my film If you are not interested in this film Then just leave I cannot go Have you hear of Veer Kapoor?. Of course, he is my favorite director Of course, he is your Favorite director! I work for him He has sent me here He is mad He had fallen down somewhere in his childhood.. ..and hurt his head and since then he has been making love stories Which people love People are mad God! This! Childhood romance, childhood Sweethearts, does this even happen?. It happened with us Us?. - Raj and l Oh God, I thought she was really making fun of me That is why I decided that I will keep quiet Seriously you need help You are really really ill You believe in such love stories?. - Just shut up Oh, so you must be believing in ghosts too right?. A lot of films are made on ghosts Simran, come on ya, don't go like that Look, why you getting so angry I was just doing time pass Come on, Listen Simran please seriously.. ..I cannot watch such a boring film alone I need your company Best of luck! Ya right, I won't watch a film without you Anyways this was the world's smallest love story This time veer was making a very different film Sanjana was leaving forever She was walking towards the aircraft Cut to, In the frame we see Rahul's feet Rahul does not want Sanjana to leave Rahul runs behind Sanjana He fights with the security guard and screams "Sanjana" But Sanjana's father does not leave her hand And then, then, Rahul sings a song Hearing the song, Sanjana's fathers heart melts Sanjana leaves her fathers hand and runs and hugs Rahul Every love story has the same costumes, same sets, same dialogues Everything is the same.. ..just the themes have been changed a little and they say Our film is different! It will not be shot in New York or London, But will be shot in New Zealand Bollywood's king will shoot in Queenstown Wow! - This is not just a love story It's a saga! Wow! Veer Sir. - Jay, I'm sorry your name is J right, not Jay Ya - Why?. It's cool?. So tell me J, you did not like my film right?. No Veer, I thought it was.. - Shut up I'm sure you think I am dumb, mad And make the same old films over and over again But you know what?. I know that Just one thing, there's one thing that you don't know That my films have magic.. ..that magic which the audience connects.. ..with which you will understand one day Understand?. - It's really Shut up! Veer, Nidhi is incharge of costumes.. ..and we need another girl for properties, can I ask.. Jay, from today jay will be in charge of properties Veer.. I - You don't understand my world right Jay?. That is why from today, you will work with my art director Understand?. So remember I had told you not to listen to Simran You will have to listen to her now Because in front of me was fate again! What the F..?. Ah Simran! Hi Veer Simran meet.. This is - J! He was watching a film yesterday Oh that reminds me, did you actually watch that film?. Yes. - And he praised it a lot too Really?. You liked it so much?. I wasn't talking about the film, I was talking about you! It was Veer only who hurt himself in his childhood right?. No! That was me! Oh really?. Long story Veer! Dude, its' a graph! However insolent a girl is.. ..she is that hot as well, directly proportional Simran is only so hot, but she is jacking.. ..your case quite badly, its a total loss! But I think she is a little hotter than that! How does it matter my friend?. In any case you have to pack up soon Do one thing, on your way out throw an egg on her A Simran, this is Jay, Jay Dhingra.. ..Oh ya he doesn't like his last name.. ..its not cool, anyways ill see you in a bit - Ok So you complained about me right?. Fine, but this was a very cheap shot Jay Dhingra, you spoke a lot of rubbish yesterday.. ..and I did not say anything But don't forget l am your senior here In this office there will be only professional talks, no rubbish You will not argue with anyone and will do only whatever.. ..you are told to do I want the production plans now NOW!! And Jay Dhingra, Best of Luck again! What just happened?. This Simran chic is so.. Stupid! He is so stupid It's such a good job, such a good set up, but he doesn't care about it Jaan! Leave that Jay in office only Why are you spoiling your mood?. Hi I tried leaving him in office Here, Veer has sent this.. welcome gift How sweet! - Hey Hey Hey, I'm J Hi Jay, Raj Dholakia Uh Raj Dholakia it's J You should try the wine, it's really good, I packed it myself Sorry friend, but l don't drink on weekdays And today Simran has made lobsters, I'm saving place for that Simran, you try the wine Even I don't drink on weekdays Wow, a match made in heaven! Yeah.. So tell me, what do you do?. I'm an investment banker from London Wow! Stocks, number crunching, trading and all of that Your dam smart! Thanks - Yeah Uh, why don't you join us?. Dinner?. Uh no thanks By the way, I drink on weekdays! And even we want some privacy Oh, oh Sorry Uh no.. Hey dude listen, nice shirt, Red, Nice red Thanks What?. He's sweet, poor thing, he was ok.. Simran! Even Raj thought that jerk was sweet Was I over reacting?. Simran! Simran! Simran! Hi You know I was thinking Of you all night You look really pretty at night Oh.. I, I'm joking! Look, I know we didn't start off on the right note.. ..it was my fault, I'm sorry Let it go Hey, will you be my friend?. Ah Great, so now that we are friends, can I ask you something?. Sure Why do you roam around with this flower?. Does Raj give it to you?. Yes Everyday?. One white flower?. Is it in mourning?. What?. Listen, do you seriously love Raj?. I mean, come on, you look So good at night.. ..I would give you Easily But I wouldn't give him more than a 4 What are you trying to say?. Raj.. Dholakia Have you forgotten your name?. Jay "Dhingra"?. I am different and his shirt was ugly Infact it was fugly, you understand fugly right?. How dare you?. You said his shirt was nice! Listen I'm seriously telling you, he is very boring.. ..he doesn't have wine on weekdays, why?. Because he might have a hangover the next morning but.. ..that Gujju boy was eating lobster.. ..what if his stomach got upset then?. Just shut up, I had asked you to behave But that was in office! And now we are friends! Why you getting so angry?. I was just doing some time pass. You girls really overact, seriously! I thought I could give you another chance but I don't think so I want these properties, now Why do you want everything right that moment?. It's for a girls room, you won't have any problem All this girls stuff and me?. Come on yeah.. I.. What's happening guys?. I was just sending Jay to get some properties for Priya's room And we wanted to know if you had any special requirements Hmm, Scene number 18 right?. Sanjana's introduction shot, Sanjana is sleeping on her bed The first ray of light wakes her up Romantic music is playing I need everything, stuffed toys.. .. heart shaped pillows, balloons.. .. colourful bedspreads with flowers on them, colours, colours I want a lot of colours, but mostly pink Confused?. Don't think like a boy Jay, think like a girl Think like a girl, my boy! I hated it when she smiled like that We meet tomorrow at the office at 9:.00 am.. meeting with Veer Hell and.. heaven I was clear, a person works so that he can enjoy life If I cannot enjoy my life, what is the point in working?. Now step 2, looking for single girls The rules were simple Singles don't sit like boring couples Single girls don't talk to their boyfriends on the phone And couples never drink so much Hey.. - Hey I can solve your problem - Sorry?. You are drinking here alone, there has to be some problem There is no problem But I have a big problem I cannot party alone.. I'm J - Giselle What do you do?. Investment banker, Mery lynch Oh - Filmy kind of boys don't look cool Nice - That's why.. I hate the crowd on the dance floor There is not even one nice couple You think we should change that?. If you say no, then I will kill myself Really And like always, fate! J?. What are you doing in the ladies toilet?. I'm waiting for my cousin, she is inside J, have you met my friend?. She really helped me inside Really?. How nice! Do you know even Simran's boyfriend works at Mery Lynch.. .. just like my boyfriend! Boyfriend?. He's your boyfriend?. Oh Simran! You are Raj's girlfriend right?. Raj who wears really fugly shirts, how nice to meet you! Jaan, I don't want to meet Raj here, this is not a corporate party Don't feel bad.. You know.. - Uh you work in bollywood right?. Right yeah. I have hear your quite insolent, and abuse a lot You should speak nicely to people, they will feel nice Bye These love stories are so stupid, but since I have seen you Raj! - Jay! Raj Dholakia, my man What a shirt! Look, Look Blue, how nice right?. Thanks, what are you doing here?. What does a person do in the toilet Raj?. Yea but.. What is this?. It's our anniversary today, small gift When did you get married?. No no, not that one, the other one Oh, naughty boy, naughty boy! No no its not like that, we started dating on this date Awe, how sweet! Yeah You know, next year it will also be our anniversary, same day! We can celebrate together! I love bankers! Jaan, we should go Jaan, we should go, come on Uh Simran, you should talk to your staff nicely, even outside office! Shit! You practice yoga a lot right?. Yeah power yoga, how do you know?. What's for breakfast?. You promised me I would get whatever I want That line was not for breakfast And then she went on saying the same thing Just louder and louder What?. - Look, if my landlord gets to know that you are here.. ..he will throw me out and have you arrested What?. - Yeah, you will have to hide and go out What?. If I had known that, l would have never come here I know - What?. I can't find one shoe Go with one shoe then, you will look like Cinderella What?. Bye - What?. And this way I got rid of problem number one And now problem number two I want curtains flying Jay! Every morning I wake up and pray to God for just one thing.. .. that oh God please give me the honour of meeting Jay today! Voila! here you are! Veer, actually.. Get Out! A man who cannot come to office on time.. Veer last night my cousin died! What?. Yeah, Because of a drug overdose! These kids these days, no family values you know Uh, I'm sorry Jay, Jay, why don't you go wash your face and come, freshen up Even his eyes were red, poor guy Yes Sir, he must not have slept also, he was on set till late last night Uh Jay, do one thing, just take the day off Go home and rest Rest well and come tomorrow, its ok No, Veer actually she is not in lndia so.. Oh, Oh ok come come come join us, keep your bag Simran has made this new set It's beautiful! Look, look There is a staircase inside the house And the staircase has a moulding too Absolutely new! These people are not rich,.. ..but they shouldn't be too poor also, just right Beautiful, good job Simran! But Veer, J had not liked this model What?. No, I loved it To match Rajiv and Priya's scale.. ..we have to have a house like that only right?. These windows are so beautiful! French windows How real! Surreal! My uncles house is just the same! And the temple, we will have a aarti song here right?. How.. different! Amazing! how one tragedy has changed you so much Jay I am so proud of you Look at you, good idea, the aarti should be here under the staircase That smile again, something was going to happen for sure It's not a joke Jay! I had asked you to bring a simple vase right?. I don't know what your problem is - I'm sorry.. I No Jay, this is not about just one vase Everything you do is wrong Look Jay, this is my set and.. .. I will make it according to my sensibilities I do not need your expert opinion And if you cannot do things right, then just get out of here! Kunal! Come on, lets go Jay, Veer has given you a lot of chances Its time you pull up your socks, otherwise.. What kind of a graph is this?. She has just got after me You ok?. Coffee?. But I knew coffee wouldn't do anything Check her out! 7 on What the F.. What is she doing here?. Lets' get out of here And then something amazing happened.. Fate Ah Sorry man! J?. Shit! Sorry No, I'm sorry For that! And for this morning, I should not have spoken to you that way No, It's ok No, even Veer got to know Simran, I know you did not mean it I know why you were so off mood Mr. Perfect is troubling you right?. Listen, he is a nice guy Just explain to him simply that he should not do.. .. time pass during work hours He will understand Everything will be fine And listen if that does not work, run away from home like me shhh Ok opening shot The heroine is standing in the balcony right?. There is a strong breeze blowing Jay! Wow! You are late again today Come on boys! Give him a hand Give him a hand You know what in such a situation I would scream at you But you know what, l will not scream at you And you know why?. Because you don't get affect by being screamed at Today, you will stand in that corner.. ..Iike a school child with your hands up the entire day. Ok?. Looks silly right?. Jay! Go! I am serious! Go! Actually Veer I had sent Jay to get some properties Last warning Well then we start with an O.S shot Here is looking at the heroine ok?. Zoom in on the heroine, pan in and.. Simran! Uh Sorry - Ok, we can do this. Nidhi, dialogue! Thank you Thanks Veer cant be trusted, he'll make me a chicken next time Thank you for last night's speech I said a lot right?. It's the beer man, sorry It was the first time you said something that dint make me feel bad So, what are your problems other than me?. Huh?. - Love?. Raj?. Dholakia?. I love Raj I told you, you are ill, you need help He is very nice, if l fight with him even a little.. ..my entire day gets spoilt! But, fights happen, you know how it is! Yeah That is why l don't have a girlfriend Really?. Hmm, in my film there are just one or two meetings and then.. End titles Listen if you have any hot friends then.. - No I do not want to show any girl such a bad film Fine! Why did you leave home?. - Oh God! It's not that dramatic! My parents live in long island.. ..and my dad wanted me to join the family business I wanted to be a director There were fights at home, I left home That's it! And you?. you live with Raj?. Raj and me have known each other from childhood Family friends son! Perfect match! That's it! No, no, no, no So which film have you jumped out of?. Guys! It's a wrap, we finished long time back! So, you don't believe in love stories?. It's a practical world yeah There is nothing like love It's like.. it's like we have been conditioned.. ..from childhood to believe in something Like.. God Now what is your problem with God?. How can I have a problem with Something that does not exist! What nonsense! Have you seen God?. Is he your neighbours?. Look Jay, - I'm sorry, it's my fault, of course you believe in God You consider Raj your God You see you God in him! - Shut up! Love Guru, I see Meena everyday at a grocery store See?. I mean did you hear?. Perfect! Everyone's love is perfect at first And then you need to go to such cartoons I think this is a sexual problem, you should excite Meena Raj and me have known each other from childhood But our love has not changed Really?. We like the smallest of Things about each other Just like it happens in films Oh God! Come out of your Filmy world, Simran! Do you know there are a lot of things other.. ..than this love of yours! Sex! Sex! See! Hatred, Jealousy Ok if Raj sees me drop you home he will.. Nonsense, Raj is not like that Thank you - See, I'm a very innocent boy! Which film's set is this?. Shut up Simran! Gabbar Singh! Simran. -Raj! What are you doing here?. You hardly meet me so I came to tell your parents goodnight You are so sweet! See J, this is what I call love Hey Jay, what are you doing here?. I have come to say goodnight to you! Take care - Bye Guys See You - Raj! Nice shirt Thanks Why does he talk to you this way?. Wassup Gabbar?. Are You in a bad mood?. Did Basanti Bhabhi, your wife run away?. What was happening?. Was J right?. Was my perfect life actually not perfect?. Thank you - Anytime But something was happening.. J was changing J! Do you want to join us for dinner?. With your parents?. I promise, you will not get bored Why haven't you got married yet?. Mom!! No aunty, I haven't found anyone special that is why Can I help?. Mumma! What Mumma Mumma?. You don't get married yourself, why don't you let him get married?. Will a Gujrati girl do?. Mumma, you know what I'm leaving ok?. Hey, hey, hey calm down! Actually aunty, there was this girl Oh I really really loved her Ok But my mom did not like her Why dint she like her?. Because she was bisexual I mean, she batted for both teams But I like girls that like girls, I'm ok Mom, J is joking, he is not interested in marriage.. ..and he does not have any serious girlfriend Oh Wow! Your a Casanova type?. In my time, even I was like you, like a tiger Really?. But nowadays, I stay at home like a housecat I think I need another drink Cheers! Don't worry, it happens, it happens with everyone Son, I thought you were going to kill him No Uncle, when someone behaves badly with.. ..their staff I don't like it Now means?. Nikhil, he wants me to go back to the office. Problem?. Hope not Suddenly I felt like l was standing there alone Why?. Mozart, Beethoven.. right! Hi Veer You just disappeared?. Have you joined Simran's team?. Veer you only asked me to join Simran's team Don't argue Go get ready, the actors are coming to read their dialogues Rajiv and Priya?. - Yes Guys now this was an epic, we are making a saga.. Guys meet Jay, new AD Uh Jay, so Jay J Jay J - Jay Yeah Jay who takes the auditions here?. Nikhil - So where is my best friend Nikhil?. Taking auditions Of girls?. No kids Jay Jay Jay, are the kids' moms hot?. Rajiv come on lets do this now Yeah yeah.. - Positions now come.. Sanjana is getting married to someone else Everyone is celebrating karvachaut And at that time, Sanjana's house catches fire Sanjana's dupatta gets burnt And now Sanjana is in a coma She is fighting for her life And at that time Rahul comes and.. Get up Sanju, Get up I know you can hear everything.. ..your just acting to fight with me and trouble me Get up Sanju, say something please I love you Rahul What can I say Simran?. Look we do have problems But why, I don't know Nowadays l.. Anyway.. I'm going to Delhi tomorrow When I come back, please give me my Simran back Please This was not fate! I've got into the habit of going home together Raj and you have fought again right?. How do you know?. The glasses, you are the filmy type Whenever I am sad.. I don't know Jay, everything was normal up till now But now I feel like something is missing The magic?. Yeah J, the magic, the love.. I don't know where it has disappeared The magic has disappeared! How tragic! There is nothing like magic Simran, its in your head You need to keep the spice fresh in every relationship So all these people need your help Yeah and you too This must be a joke for you, but I know what this magic is You know even PC Sarkar must not believe so much in magic I don't want to argue with you All I am saying is that I was happy first And you are not now, obviously What does that mean?. Ok, to be happy you need to be a little carefree but you.. So many tantrums, so many boundaries, Like there is some big wall and you are stuck in it like Anarkali Break that wall Simran, Break free Sex, Every problem has just one solution - How?. - Have Sex Do you have this everyday?. No, No, Normally we have beer, But today for the first time - shots Why?. Guaranteed drunkenness!! Don't you think only one of us should rink?. See, this is exactly what I'm talking about Come on, Let go! Come on. - Ok Next one next one I love shots Peter! I love shots From today, I'll have shots everyday So tell me, what's the problem?. I forgot Shots! Ok look, I'm not saying that you.. everyday You will become Devdas But sometimes it's good to loose control Will you dance?. - No You should dance Excuse me, my friend has a huge crush on you No he is lying, he has a crush on you No no what was that Ok will you dance with me?. - No - Come on No way - Come on - No No No Guys, excuse me I just found out that my wife is pregnant Ask her to dance with me, come on I told you, I am an innocent boy That's it?. What else do you want to do?. Hey gabbar Gabbar Singh! Your mood is not good today also?. Basanti ran away right?. Why don't you make do with Dhanno?. Look, Look, Look my first girlfriend was from your village We were neighbours Is your mustache real?. For the first time I woke up in the morning and thought What has happened to my perfect life. I love the rains I'm shocked Shut up Hey that's a nice one yeah, can I keep that?. I will never give this to you Have a look at this sir, the Water is falling really well Looks ok, we will have to make someone stand in for reference Why don't you break your wall?. Wow, you look.. fugly! Raj will just not recognize you I thought about you everyday, Simran But you are going away from me.. why?. Am I doing something wrong?. Please give me one more chance Please, let's try and make this work But the problem was mine, Sometimes, colours also look good Red is my favourite colour Raj always gives me white flowers He loves white Do you know, I hated your smile And now?. Jay! What's happening?. Just concentrate on your work No, Veer this is for the scene Shh, Anyway the rainfall is too heavy I want just 4 drops of water.. ..to fall on Priya's face And concentrate God! The world's worst dialogues They are not that bad Everything was fine till yesterday, how did this love happen?. I Had never imagined that this would ever happen How did this happen?. Wow! Not bad Any one will launch you. So now do you believe in love stories?. I want to say something to you Please don't misunderstand me I have fallen in love with you I cannot live without you Even I am just yours Sanjana just yours I have to meet you, urgently Going to the Marriot, Coffee shop see you there And right there one more love story had been created I had fallen for Mr. Wrong I dint know anything What mom and dad would say What will I tell Raj?. What will our future be Nothing That wall had fallen down And I had fallen in love with J Hey wassup What was so urgent?. Is everything alright?. What is all this?. Who is that?. Who?. She's a friend What kind of friend?. What kind of friend?. She's a friend Simran And me?. You what?. What's going on?. Am I nothing of yours What are you saying?. I thought you loved me What?. When did I say that?. No, You dint but I thought Is everything alright?. Yup.. ahh 1 sec Simran, I don't know what to say You here like this I know J, its my fault Simran I just thought that you also love me, its not your fault I don't know why you thought that Even I don't know but I just though We spent so much time together that why What?. At work?. Yeah at work Jay. Simran, I was always your friend I have never looked at you that way I know that J Come on you know how it is Your not my type And for God's sake you are engaged I know J, But l had left everything.. ..forgotten everything for a new life You were right, all this just happens in films It's not your fault J, I'm sorry You know why all this confusion has taken place?. Because of those stupid films, that love in which you believe so much I know J Simran there is nothing like love There is It has happened with me and I feel like a fool. Simran's smile had disappeared She had fallen in love And unfortunately I had become a part of her love story Hey, Simran's girlfriend has come Dude, the schedules getting over, you should join.. ..a kitty party with her Shut up Jay, Simran has requested for 2 girls as her assistants Just hand everything over and come over for some real work Holy Shit Dude, what just happened?. I knew it, I knew there was some problem You did something with her sister right?. What?. No she does not have a sister. Then her best friend?. No Kunal Oh, then I have no interest J! I was just going to come to you I wanted to say thank you to you for all the hard work You were right I had gone mad I was living in some dream world I'm sorry Please forget whatever happened between us Let's just be friends Will you be my friend?. And don't worry I have really praised you in front of Veer It was the best way to say thank you to you Thanks Everything had changed in just one moment And all this because of the one thing I hated the most Love There was nothing left to say between us But I had to tell someone the truth I have thought a lot Raj I think we should go our separate ways Please don't say that, Jaan You don't know what has happened to me And I don't even want to know We are here again, together, that's all l.. Raj, you are not understanding So why are you trying to make me understand, Simran?. Simran, I want to give this relationship one more chance And I am willing to do anything for that I just need your support How could I say No to Raj, It was time to reopen this door I told you earlier that Simran's graph was wrong It's not about the graph, she is a nice girl, that's all Wow! For the first time you are defending a girl What's the deal?. - Don't be stupid Shots for you, sir Are you crazy?. Have we ever had shots till today?. What are you doing man?. Get us some beer, regular I want to gift you something today There, 9 on 10 How are you?. - I'm fine. Not interested Kunal What?. Keep it, I'm going to keep the 16 Not in the mood - Really?. Yeah - Sure?. - Sure So then wear this.. What?. - Just, just wear it Hi Girls This is my blind brother It's his day out today, so I have got him out Oh How Sweet Hi, I'm Tina Kunal. Jay Michelle He is so handsome, how did this happen?. Poor thing, he went to watch Black He came out of the theatre, and everything was blacked out Oh so sad Black is such an awesome movie Totally - Yeah Uh, Can I buy you girls a drink?. I'm sure you drink wine How did you know?. When I look at you, I feel like I know everything about you That's so cool All girls drink wine! Here you go.. Did u just see that?. Oh! No I am really blind You creep! What did you just do?. What's wrong with you?. I told you I was not in the mood Jay, whether or not you know anything.. ..this was your natural talent! How can you not see this?. You are screwed! You're dead! And the killer is Simran - What?. You're in love, you have fallen in love! Don't be stupid, you know I'm not like that Jay, she is playing on your mind It's a sign, everything is so clear Your garage now has a board for all the other girls that says No Parking And that's why Jay what are you doing?. - Calling Simran Leave it man, I was just joking Shut up and stay out of this Don't say anything and just listen to me, ok Have I ever told you that I love you?. No Have I ever given you any wrong signal?. No, So then why are you doing all this?. I was just your friend And, and, and let's get one thing straight You have not brought any change in me And I don't love you, Infact you love me! You understand?. Yes Son Good, enjoy She called me "son"! I don't know how this happened mom Raj is perfect And Jay is a Punjabi! So is the Punjabi right?. And perfect wrong?. Child, Relationships cannot be made and broken off so easily Many lives are attached I hope you know what you are doing But I did not know anything That is why I decided to face this problem for the last time She left! How can she just go away?. She has just pre-poned her trip, why are you overreacting so much?. Are you carrying her child by any chance?. I wanted to say sorry Then call her again May be this time her Dad will answer What is this?. Oh this! Cliches The love barometer Those foolish things that every hero in love does Like fights, drama, taking lover type photographs.. ..running behind the heroine to the airport He laughs, cries What's your point?. Today I can see a new hero Simran's hero What nonsense! You know that there is nothing like that Test it, close your eyes and if you can see her face.. ..then it means you love her Shut up I'm serious, it works! There is nothing like that I'm telling you at least try it once At least try - Stop it I will never give you this Try it What happened?. Did you see her?. Simran?. Preity Zinta What?. This scene is from Dil Chahta Hai.. you idiot! Yeah Guys! Nidhi forgot to take the production charts Kunal go to the airport and give it to her Me?. Can I go?. I'm just going to say sorry ok Yeah yeah How could Simran just leave?. I had to meet her I don't know why.. but I had to meet her Hey thanks Jay, l thought Kunal would come I'm sorry Simran I called you yesterday but.. - Don't worry J,l understand You are ill, you need help! I'm sorry for everything Jay I hope you can forgive me Simran why are you doing all this?. Because this is it J We have some really beautiful memories of our friendship And I don't want to loose them May be the end credits of our film should be here And the thinking in bed started again The only difference this time was.. They were very beautiful memories But now all I can remember is the moment she was leaving I will pray to God that Simran kisses you You know, I just love when two girls.. Has someone died?. And once again, we had nothing to say to each other Someone, somewhere is made for you Someone, somewhere is made for you But how will I know?. Will she be standing with a board with my name on it in her hand?. How will I recognize him?. In whom will I see God?. Thank you God, l found my God! thank you So many signs, what is happening?. What's happening?. Something happens Rahul, you wont understand If she loves me, then she will turn around and look Turn around, Turn around, Turn around I am going Bye Don't ever say goodbye, When you say goodbye, the desire to meet again dies Oh Jay, my friend! How are you doing?. You are coming for the party right?. - Yes Its been 2 weeks since we have been shooting So I forced Veer that he has to give a party I am looking cool?. You know, girls really love my butt That is why I have worn tight jeans, to enhance them Working?. Yeah - Cool right?. You should also try it Tight Jeans, works, man! I know what girls would say What an ass! Family films are made like this Boys! Alright guys! Tonight everyone's getting drunk, ok The bar is that side get your drinks No Veer I'm not drinking We are shooting tomorrow What?. - lsn't the call time late?. Jay the new serious attitude No No actually he is pregnant Don't be silly Kunal, for that Jay has to have some sex And he runs away from girls He doesn't run away from girls I have seen him constantly looking at one girl So then he is a lesbian Keep quiet, lesbian, keep quiet Stop making fun of him, Jay come with me Come on sit She is beautiful Who?. ME. So beautiful The same girl who you are sneaking and looking at No, there's nothing like that Jay, I am more experienced than you in this business And I am not talking about films Simran's that smile had returned I think she was over me Come on go for a shot I am not in the mood Devdas looks really funny without alcohol Come on, go for it And then, that night Yeah Girls are like buses One goes and then another comes But amongst all these buses There is just one bus that takes you home And you should not miss that bus All the other buses are pointless Only that one bus Why haven't you found your bus?. Because I don't travel in buses But you don't make this mistake She's just a friend whose gone far away from me So go, remind her about your friendship Don't let her go Forget everything, just listen to me I realized that what you see Does not always have to be true! May be Rajiv wasn't such an ass Guys, excuse me excuse me I just found out my wife's pregnant And she won't dance with me.. Can You help me out. I do not remember anything else I just had to talk to Simran Go How are you yeah?. Don't look so surprised I was missing Simran a lot That is why So how is my shirt?. Perfect, just like your timing! Thanks yeah Ill see you around right?. Where the hell did this white flower come from?. Simran's choice is quite bad, don't you think?. I am not talking about you What was I doing in this story?. The story is always suppose to be Raj and Simran's right?. May be that is why fate was also on their side Jay! Dude, we really have some connection You are sitting and eating alone?. Anyway now we are here to give you company No, I don't want to ruin your romance Oh come on, even I have barged into your outdoor Am I ruining something?. Coffee?. Have a seat ill get it for you Will you have something?. Sure?. You're looking very happy Your love is here J why are you saying that?. Baby your coffee Are you sure you don't want anything?. - yeah So Jay, what are you doing here alone?. I mean a guy like you, without a girl?. What does that mean?. Look fried, you are not going to fall in love right?. So you know your kind of girl Actually there was this one girl Really?. But she had to go home very suddenly - Why?. She fell down somewhere and broke her leg What?. I hope you at least took her to the hospital?. Yeah You know long back, even Simian has hurt her leg I used to go meet her 3 times everyday Remember baby?. But you don't love her right?. It's different You haven't tried your coffee yet And that's a wrap! Go and tell her No veer No Veer there is nothing like that, you are misunderstanding me We are just friends You were going to say just this right?. Dude, I have made a lot of films And have watched more films than that No matter how cool you are, Your story is as filmy as that Now you have done everything You have fought, run to the airport You have got drunk and fallen down Have a sung a song?. Look if you don't tell her what is in your heart today You will loose the little chance that you have also Go tell her. Forget everything, just listen to me Go Hey! huh Need to meet you urgently Sunset park 9 o clock Everything had changed, I had fallen in love, And this was the world's best feeling. Magic! That magic has happened Simian I have fallen in love The thing that I made fun of, laughed at, dint believe in That has happened I love you Simran And I realised that when you went away from me Everything is red, there is music, you are here, I am here I know that Raj is also here, but If you are with me then nothing else matters Say you love me Simran, say it! No J Today that you have said that you love me Should that make me forget everything?. J, even I had said these same things to you But you did not understand It took a lot of time for me to get back to normal And if you laugh at this love story again tomorrow I will not be able to come back to normal again But Simran My Raj, has forgiven me, how can I do this to him?. How can I do this with myself?. I don't have the strength to love you again I'm sorry J But I love you So does Raj! And in just one moment my life had changed I was alone even today Don't ask my friend, The thing that I was scared of actually happened - love! In every bad film they say.. The thing that I was scared of actually happened I had fallen in love And my heart was also broken.. And when the heart breaks, the pattern is fixed The person stays in bed all day He takes the help of drinks And when she smiles, it's beautiful And your own friends remind you of her. I ate my food first, then I brushed my teeth And then I ate my food again! So sweet! Tries to work but remembers her even then.. And sometimes she comes herself That is why Veer decided to help me out Strip club?. Veer how do you know about this place?. Someone had told me about it Though even I have come here for the first time Hi Veer, long time no see But the truth was that I was much more broken than this What could I do?. I couldn't understand anything Hello Mom?. Jay?. Jay, son how are you?. I am fine, how are you?. I'm good, I had called you but.. Yes, I was a little busy Son, are you ok?. Ya mom, why you asking me that?. You have called me today, that is why Very funny mom Kill you ego son, tell me what has happened?. I cant understand anything mom How did this happen?. How did everything change?. The thing I have always made fun of That thing has shown me my place And I don't know what to do, mom What is the girls name?. It a girl right?. Yeah, Simran! So why are you overacting so much son?. Jay, just because your dad and me could not be together Doesn't mean that every love story will have the same ending What is the problem son?. She is with someone else So she loves someone else?. No, she does not love him So she loves you?. Oh god! Such a clinched problem And you have already given up?. What has happened to you?. You are crying like a girl over the phone Come on get up, go Go and fight with her Make her realise what she is missing Fight for your love son Make it happen I love you mom I'm sorry, I should not have left home like this I have hurt you a lot right?. No son, you have not done anything like that I love you very much, Jay Miss you Mom had shown me the way I was going to fight for my love Kunal shut up man! This is serious! My friend, my hair have gone white listening to your story Forget her, she is history No, my mom has said that I have to fight If you have to fight then join some boxing club or a karate club Shut up Kunal, Jay you tell me I will tell you from the beginning Simran fell in love with you, and you rejected her Then you fell in love with her and she rejected you Now what should we do further?. Thanks! The point is That even I don't know what she should do further Hmm.. I don't know, l couldn't understand anything That is why, once again I decided to make the call Hello Love Guru?. Hello Love Guru?. My name is J, actually Jayant Pandey We met on a film set, she loves me but is upset with me now I cant understand how to convince her Should I play a song for her?. No, every problem has only one solution Just have sex! But that is too far fetched Uh ok then jealousy Jealousy?. Jealousy! Hmmm Jealousy You think that will work?. Forget everything son, just listen to me Hey! Giselle, please don't do this Listen to me Why should I listen to you Jay?. Why?. Just get out of here Giselle please, see what I got for you Giselle please, forgive me Now that I have understood what love is, I could only think of you You thought of me?. Yeah, what?. No, no no no I don't love you I love Simran but I just need some help from you Giselle?. You must be kidding You want me to help you fool some other girl?. Giselle please, open the door just once And you will know how serious I am That's Kunal, that's Nidhi They have a plan Plan?. How did you know I would agree Well, he told us that you are quite stupid! Hey Simran, recognize me?. Hi You know, I always thought that Jay was madly in love with me But that dog!! Now I have fallen madly in love with him And that mad guy has fallen for some other mad girl I want jay I'm ready to give him my wealth and body.. .. and you have to help me I cant do anything Oh come on Simran don't be mean I just want his phone number Please, please, please, please Ok Got it! But what will Giselle talk to them Anything, how does it matter?. Blah Blah blah blah Giselle?. Oh How sweet! Have you seen J?. J. I have just watched this romantic movie with J Romantic movie and J?. Yeah, I love him and his shirts And like Kunal said the other things did not matter Blah blah.. Blah blah Blah blah Blah blah Blah blah Hey baby, lets go Of course This plan will work right?. Of course, Giselle is acting so well Thank you After the movie theatre, dinner! Giselle! You are not following us, are you?. Uh Just kidding! I have come with J for a candle light dinner How romantic! And the rest of the things were not important.. Blah blah Blah blah Blah blah Blah blah Blah blah Hi baby! For you - Than you Bye! Are you ok?. And then a party! Super, but where?. Your house! What?. Take the screenplay a little forward It was time to get close to Giselle Blah blah Blah blah Jay, Jay, Jay Idiot over here! Look at what is in your hand She's way hotter than Simran Take her instead, - thanks. Blah blah Blah blah Blah blah Blah blah Hi! No No No its not like that What kind of a rubbish plan is this?. Shut up But Kunal was right Because I thought a lot That if J loves me, what was he doing with that girl?. Just one last meeting, Simran will break down Then you can go and propose to her Really?. So now?. But I was forgetting a main character of the story. What's up?. What are you hiding and looking at?. Um.. Um.. Uh Jay wanted to buy some clothes What?. Yeah Uh, Raksha Bandhan is around the corner What?. - Yeah Anyway, Guys! I have a surprise for you I am going to propose to Simran tomorrow, She has agreed to marry me! But, it's a surprise so please don't tell anyone So boys, come over tomorrow night we will celebrate I am going o see my wife happy after very long Ill see you guys later, take care! He doesn't know what out plan is! We don't have any plan What?. She wants to marry Raj, Kunal Don't be stupid, you know that she doesn't want that! So then why is she doing this?. How do I know?. He loves her and.. Exactly even Raj loves Simran And I may love Simran way more than Raj does But who are we to decide that?. We are not deciding, its Simran who is deciding this.. But we are influencing her decision right?. We are confusing her Is this the right thing to do?. Jay, what are you saying?. Simran has agreed to marry Raj, I just want her to be happy And if her decision is wrong, the nothing will happen She will not go anywhere. She will come back And if she does not come back then.. I don't know Whatever happens, please don't tell Simran about this plan Surprise! Only for you Simran I will send you white flowers everyday till the day I die Everyday! Raj you don't need to do this I know how much you.. How much I love you?. No Simran, this is only because l know how much you love white flowers Complimentary shots from the bar sir Thanks, but we don't drink on weekdays I do I cannot lie anymore and keep you in the dark I don't like white flowers I drink on weekdays! And my favourite colour is red What are you saying Simran?. I really tried to like white But white is perfect and I don't like perfect I love red So that's fine, from tomorrow I will send you red flowers No Raj, I need to tell you something But I was leaving everything and going home So like every hero l had reached the airport Go from there! What game was fate playing with me?. If fate was on my side then why wasn't J on my side?. Hello - Jay?. What's up?. I am so happy son, finally you are coming home Me too, why is there so much noise?. My friends have come over for lunch Even Mrs. Chopra is here. Her daughter is very beautiful, should I talk to her?. What?. Mom I don't want to get married Crying for Simrans loss?. Mom stop it! Oh Ok Ok, O tell me what are your plans after you get here?. I don't know, I think l will join a film school Hmm, keep your Saturdays free I have found a very good psychiatrists for you For what?. For you?. What?. Why?. Because your in depression, son! I'm not depressed mom You haven't noticed, whenever you call you are crying Where am I crying?. I am completely normal! Please Jay please, leaving everything and coming back, Crying on the phone, acting like Devdas Do you call this normal?. So what do you want?. What do you want me to do?. How does it matter what I want jay?. I had asked God for a son, but I got a daughter What?. Girls cry on airports, not boys! And if you have to do all this drama then go do it in front of Simran! Now tell me quickly, are you even coming home?. Jay, Jay are you coming home?. No So then where are you going?. To do some drama She loves drama I love you mom. In every climax the hero runs to the airport But I was different Taxi! Don't run away with my bag! I have noted down your number Stop stop stop - Where are you going?. Do you have a pass What pass my friend?. Its my film You cannot go inside Rajiv! Rajiv - Sorry Sir You have the best bum in the world! I do, I do No, No he did not mean that Hello?. Hello?. Simran! Sorry! Sorry! Magic! The thing that I made fun, dint believe in That has happened Simran Everything is red, there is music You are here, I am here The last time I gave this speech you ran away This is me Simran I have done everything a cartoon madly in love does But my feelings haven't changed I cannot think of any new dialogue Everything has been used You know I am not perfect My name is not perfect I am stupid But if you are with me then my first and last love story will be perfect I love you Simran, l love you very much I love you too!! Come on!
