 

                        imaginary heroes Matt Travis was a great swimmer Step up Take your masks But it wasn't just that he was a great swimmer it was simply that he was a greater swimmer than anyone i ever knew was good--whatever they were good at Go! Go! Go! Matt Travis was a legend:10,15,20 and he hated the attention Hey!Come on let's go But the only thing he hated more than the attention... was swimming Matt Travis hated to swim more than anyone i knew hated to do--whatever they hated to do. And when someone hates something that much... it doesn't matter how good they are at it. But you can't expect the other people to understand that Tim, can you go and wake up your brother ? Please. Matt,Matt Where are the bedroom keys? Under the bathroom sink. What? Behind you. What in the world have you tracked through my--? Oh, Christ! This is where we live, Mom. she thinks she can sit on her porch and smoke cigarettes on this day? she is blowing the smoking in my face you've been in dramatic it's a free country. And that's the problem, Timmy. She doesn't talk about me when you go over there, does she? Do you really think I'd let her? You wouldn't tell me anyway, would you? No. He would been have a She bought a new grill. She doesn't even has a husband and she buys a new grill. Are you expecting her to come over? Of course not He's 17, Hal. He's graduating this year. Lightning doesn't strike twice. Don't worry, honey He is just an old bitter ass hole. Which one? Take your pick. What was it like? "It"? I stepped into the blood and... "it" was like a crater. like a giant.... canyon. it open ringt in the middle and just... it will take you to pray praying? praying to God Now that the most important moments in their lives are lost and we can never retrieve them because they have been and once they're gone how much longer we're going to be able to remember them That's why Joe thinks we need a digital camara I know exactly what you mean I am so hungry Did you see the spread? -Yeah -Yeah I am doing the,so there is nothing,you know I brought the Excuse me. I'm here to pay my respects, Sandy. I'm so sorry. Tim,your mother said you used to play the piano like Beethoven We have piano you can come over any time as the day that even to talk Would you like that? Later. hey You got a new em...yeah Er..this is Jenny. Hi Jenny this is Tim. He is..er..was Matt Travis's brother Really? Oh, you don't want anything like him. I'm really sorry. That kind of thing can fuck you up for life. Yeah ,of course Forget about it. No. in the bathroom at school tomorrow. What? Really? You're very late for dinner. And you're too old to be up this late. Was he really that unhappy, Tim? em...he broke a lot of dishes stopped to wash his clothes about three weeks ago spent a lot of time at shower He was He was crying. he cut himself it Come on. when was your last time you went to a doctor? When they tied my tubes. I have been the only monther and son at the town who can say to each other and not laugh I don't want to have that conversation ever again. What?Don't worry. I did not read your diary. So are you gonna go to the jazzy band and practise tomorrow? No. Uh... I quit. Sorry. . Sorry, Tim Sorry, Tim. Sorry. Sorry, man. Sorry. I to ask but did anyone find three minutes to do their reading? now,of course you.... you gotta be kidding hey,hey you,you can't leave campus what's your name? Tell me your name! People are so stupid and I can't bear living around anymore and they only get worse and you just have to find the one quality that makes them,bearable like me I'm your mother,so... you have to like me ok What about Dad's? well you used to make me feel like I was the... only person I proud to grow Kyle said that fire your school with a No It is an M18 The truth is you won't understand how good for you I am until I am died I never really love my parents 'till they died I.... I certainly never told them. you love me I didn't say it back. Well Do you love her? I don't know. Then you don't, Timmy. Timmy,I...er...I've got a surprise for you. Exactly. I don't speak Spanish. . Somebody give me a back rub Do you wanna talk about it? Can we...can we talk about something else? Sure. What happened to your back? I trapped It's nothing. ddd Of course. What do you say we finally made a night to remember? I love you Do you love me? Of course. Is there any more chicken? That's all I made. That's why we should do this,Ben creeping me out I won't be making all these extra food for every meal It's wastful It doesn't bring him back We'll do it because I say so We'll do it because he will be alive at this table and because he is my son and because he was the onl y thing in this family. you'll made the food and you'll shut the fuck up. He's losing his mind Penny,things fall apart, and we put them back together. Don't feel you'll have to come home early for this party tonight Okay? One of us should have some fun. and you don't be such a stranger You don't have to wait for a holiday to come home, you know. All right. See you and come visit me, huh? Told the girls all about your magic fingers Abracadabra. OK Have fun tonight Don't do anything I will Your ride is here Do you need any money? No, thanks. I'll leave you a 20 on the table. What? You're not gonna do someting.. bad..to yourself are you? Are you? My life is really,really,really hard Probablly,I am17,doubt,presures... I have real problems to deal with Wouldn't you say so,Tim? No,not really,what are you talking about? Aren't you sad? Why would I be sad? Aren't you sad that your brother died? Well,I am I am sad Those are amazing,feel like...artists Some of them are like vivid amazing artists They plug his brother's head and you couldn't even see any hole at all Hi. How are you? I'm fine Jesus Christ, stop it. sorry you know I just.... one more again Oh! Fine,I'm perfectly fine Dame I left my camera in the kitchen Do you want me to do it again? 'Cos I can do it again Go to get your camera Still fine. Party hard! Everything is back to normal I need papers. Er....rolling papers to make a... ...joint. Cut one of these in half. Knock at the tobacco Fill it,close it with oneside little in the other Lick it, light i t, smoke it. Thank you. Uh-uh. It's on me. Thanks. Wow What?! Do you live in calm? Yeah Goes around and comes around What do you think about euthanasia? I don't know I supported,I guess Play something. you think it is ok to kill someone's to stop it You think it is OK to have that kind of control over someone's life? I'm gonna die anyway Play something,I have never even heard you play Yeah,but everyone dies anyway I mean, all children eventually die, Stephanie. All babies die. What're you talking about? Nothing I don't know Forget it Do you want to have sex? Well, just pull out, okay? Come up my face,I love that Oh god that's a walking on your parents I have never gonna seen my parents kiss You're lucky Come on Oh,it's three-year-girl's bedroom I swear Really first time for everything -Tim. -Don't. Tim. Jesus Christ,Tim,what... I don't want to talk about it. Don't do this Do what?What are you talking...? Who did that to you? Go away,we don't wait,ok?Just don't ask me to talk about it I don't care,I just want to know what happened Go away and everything will be normal What are you trying saying to me? I don't love you. Well I got a really waste I have a counterpart named Lo-- What's wrong with you? Are little Timmy doing this to you? Get out of here,Jack. would you like that? Make you happy? With you? No. No. Okay, kids, the party's over. Everybody disperse. You've got to drive. I can't. Hello Yes. Yes. Oh, no. Sandy!Sandy!Sandy,wake up Shit. Shit! Oh! Oh. Hello. Who's that? It's my mother She hates hospitals. Who did this to you? He did it to himself I didn't ask you He was drunk-driving. I'll be right back, ok? What's this? It's a miracle of modern medicine It will revamp all your painings and worries It will make everything feel normal again. Is he ok? Trauma team to ERB Is he ok? Who has been hitting my son? Jack Donson This bully at our school Is he here? We've already spoke to the police and I promise you Jack was not the only one bringing drugs to that party.We've already spoke... Send him out here Jack? Sandy Travis. Look,em... You can torcher, paunch,drive drunk with me, I can forgive you Hell,I can understand,I am a good question, you know,I can forgive and forget But,em,,,you mass with my kid May god himself to send from heaven to protect you 'Cos as long as I live And I will,I will live you all I will wake up and go to sleep at night Just dreaming up ways to make your petty,insignificant lives in to hell on earth You fuck with my kid agian You fuck with him and I will fuck with everything you hold dear. Nice trailer. Don't you go to school with me? You're Mandy Matthews, right? What happened to you? What happened to you? Well,I've been trying to relocate... to a higher plane of life. Unsuccessfully. You have to cut up and down... not a cross Yeah,if you don't mind bleeding slowly for five hours. Why? Em..'Cos there is nothing here that I even remotely care about I got nothing to fight for And if I...if I don't want to live here why should I have to? I don't care how much better of I am than everyone outside It's not the point. Think you're my new hero. You know one of two things happens when you meet your heroes. Either they're assholes... or they're just like you are. Either way you're always live Hey,guns always have their mark Yeah,only if you really want to die Com'on,Tim,it's time to go Before we begin our seremony,I have to report some terrible news Sophomore Mandy Mattews...took her own life last night I'd like moment to silence for Mandy's best friend Engela read an... original poem,found in Mandy's school notebook. Is there something wrong?she said Of course there is,you're still alive,she said Do I deserve to be? Is that the question? and if so... if so... Who answers? Who answers? It's noon. You have right to community service, so I am going to Do you want anything? One of those chocolate energy bars and a Fleet's enema. I'm not buying you chocolate. Look for the orange bottles. Touch?. All right, man. I'll come get you at 2. Come on.We're late. What did you take? I'll be fine,I...I feel great Give me some Dude...it's Viagra. Sorry. I mixed them up. Isn't he dead? Won't stop? Hell, no. You..must be the community service boys Kyle and Tim, right? This is the extra special day for the residence It's casino day. Oh,well you have to get sitting jobs,though well,what happened to your leg? It''s a war injury and I don't like to talk about it Oh,that's cute Yeah They'll love that here. What happened to your leg? War injury Which war? Vietnam. Does any one have a seven? This isn't Go Fish, Murp h. This is poker. As far as I know,the Vietnam confict was 30,40 years ago Which division were you in? I was in a secret a secret ? En-uh Come on, we're done. Let's go. Oh, you're doing some hiking. Er...yeah Yeah,got to keep the energy up,doing some hiking, staying fit,running around America,maybe,you know Er,21 miles Have you done that before? Yesterday I was the bag boy Ah You must be like what,thirty? You must be what,thirteen? God, you're a beautiful woman. You are. That's a beautiful shirt you're wearing. Can I give you my number? Are you serious? Yeah, I'm serious. Okay. WOMAN: I'm not even really hungry yet, you know? Hi,I was..em.. I'm looking for the good stuff. A good stuff? Yeah.You know The..er..real stuff Oh! The real stuff Yeah Like what? They're wanna... You wanna my men want...? Hey,I go up at thirties I can handle this,I'm not a snatch,I mean.. I may look like Rebecca or Sandy Brekform,but... well,I just got by How much do you want? I think we have ... I just...give me one second That one looks like it hurts Can you come through here? You're under arrest for the solicitation of want Please hold your hands in front of you? I'll read you your rights on the way to the car. I'm sorry,Mam Your parents should be ashemd of you Nothing I can do about it,there's a camera in saw of my store and...this is my job Oh,fuck of you,nark I can explain it to my husband I mean...this is embarrassing for the entire family. Just let me do my payments Bad judgment Bad judgment. That's what this was. I'm a grown woman,I'm a mother Don't you have mother? My mother respects the law. This is even more depressing than I thought it would be. Are you a posititude? I'm a whore. Oh,ok That,is a "healthy" habit Are you afraid of lung cancer? No. Not anymore. -Mrs. Travis? -Yes. New British office of Ben Travis,please leave a message He must be at lunch It's almost 5:00. Can you,can,can I just give a checkue and you drive me back to my, um, car? I'm sorry that he is not I've been meaning to get it fixed, but.. You're so nice to do this I wasn't...It wasn't really that trouble No, I'm... I'm really sorry Don't be sorry It's really... not a problem. Oh! Fuck! You're the perfect damage ,Ben You haven't changed since high school. What's the secret? Well... How is everything? you have strong you pull through You always have You boys was in this afternoon My boy? Timmy has this to cast off Oh,it is about time Leg healed up just in time for the holidays. Christmas is coming up soon,Ben You might wanna think about having some A little pick-me-up might do some good You're all dealing with this in such different ways. I got another one. Wait a minute. How are you doing? Oh! No,you have to do once,com'on As hard as you can. Aww. ddd Timmy,we're You should bring stuff We're not any more You're still friends, right? You like that band Nirvana? If you need some cash to go to a concert, you know,let me know What? Well... The lead singer killed himself years ago Where have you been? What do you think about cosmetic surgery? Like...er..face works For example,let me see,take away ten years or more Ten years! Don't be silly. No, honey. Um... Your birthday's coming up. We've been such a run,you know Matt,em? It's given us all 20 years. It would make you feel younger. I know how everything is hard on you. I know that. It's hard on me too. Everything you're going through... I'm going through too But you don't have to be such a bastard. Okay? I mean come on So nice to have you home again It's Christmas We do it every year Hi. Babka? You made it!Welcome to first annual gold seek Christmas hard day Com'on in Thank you.A babka. All right,everybody.This is the Travi Really Travis with,Travi All right,Travi From left hand,we have Jane Sussy All right every body,the Travi Hi. All right, let's get this party started! Merry Christmas and Happy College girls are the bomb. You're telling me? Oh?Are you? Tonight I am. Oh, you got your cast off. You haven't killed you self Things changed Who are you? a 1978 in mint condition? dd Merry Christmas dd Tim,Tim,play,play some on the piano Come on. Show me you good My hand is in the accident It's nothing wrong with your hand. You owe me $2000. What? Your piano cost me $2000. I didn''t intend to spend it on drugs,what are you doing? Bying bras? Ah? So? Ha. lessons I went every time I just never learned Excuse me for leaving For new years you're coming with me Baby! Your're Penny's Brother,right? May I? Tim How about something extra... Tim? Don't tell your sister. You draw your lines in some pretty strange places, Tim Try once. See that? Was that a joke? Come on, let's get out of here. How is it? I can't subrite my teeth I can't think straight Try to think about things never changed Like, look at the stars. Same stars,as last week,last year We were kids,we weren't even born In a hundred years, no one will ever know who we were. They'll know those same stars. Let's get out of here. Ohh! Ow! Hey,what time is it anyway? Come on. I would have left first, but I live here. I don't know what just happened. Don't say that, Kyle. What,man?What do you want me to say? It's the ecstasy The ecstasy? The ecstasy. Listen Tim,I'm,I'm not, not the same You might be It makes sense. But I'm not. New British Office,Ben Travis Please leave a message. Frankly Client, How can I transfer your call? yes,er,I'd like to speak to Ben Travis This is his wife I keep getting his voice mail One moment, please. Sandy,Bob Ben's not here. He's still on leave Leave? Sandy,it was...it was clear to us that Ben wasn't that happy being cooked up in the office,so... So the company gave him a three-month leave of absence. But if he's not here, he must be-- I'm sorry,I didn't apply anything,I just... what I mean,What if... he's not here, where does he go all day? I don't know what to say. I love you. You gotta be kidding me. You don't look so good. Do you think it's my fault that he killed himself? No. Do you think it was Dad's? Maybe I think he does too. Have you ever considered it? doesn't everyone? Sometimes I think you're the only one stopping me You shouldn't be saying this to me. I never had this or thousands other conversations like this with your brother. We never told each other the truth. Sometimes I feel like I don't fit into this family. You're too much like me People like us, we don't fit in everywhere. If there's anything you want from your brother's room, take it out tonight. Why? Because it'll be gone tomorrow. Sandy, I'm coming over. Shit. Our sons have taken their brothers to war Did you know that? Oh,Jesus fucking Christ,I'm not the one should be apologizing,Sandy You fucked my husband,and now you're the one that won't speak to me,what kind of black words logic tells you that's valid? It's not about that OK,I'm sorry I told Ben,I thought he has the right to know You don't know,what kind of problem it cost Sandy, it didn't even phase him. Your problem went a lot deeper with my big mouth Marge,show me my life,the way it should work Show me the life I would have had Without your big mouth Show me the life I deserved. I can't. You know I have never touched you Fuck off. That one's for your mom. Teach him a lesson, huh? I will fucking cut your face off! Whoa. Whoa . Come on. I can't go to community service today. Don't mention that Oh,it's your last day I'm sure I'm gonna miss you what happened to your nose? It's war injury I told you I don't like to talk about it No I will never get tired of that one I get very tired of that one. Sandy! Sandy! Mom! What am I doing here? Did you do this to me? No. Sweety,leave it,leave it Sandy. When was the last time you check that Something is wrong with your body. I know. Tim. Tim! What? Did you see this note? No Com'on,we got to go,we've got to go,Timmy What happened to your face? It's nothing,what's happening? Come sit over here You guys are speaking again? Your mom is a strong woman You mean "bitch" ,right? Don't say "bitch" in the hospital, dear What am I gonna do? Start by passing me the joint In life What am I gonna do for the rest of my life? All of a sudden,it matters. Well,Tim, the secret of a successfull life is finding something you love Is there somethi ng that you love? Yes Good Then you have to do that for the rest of your life. And you'd better hope you're good at it because if you feel,then you'll probably fail How do you know if you are good at it? I am not good at it Yes. People tell you. Is there such a thing as a human heart? Now,that is a better quesiton Well if you listen closely You can hear him breaking Are you all right? It's ok You okay? It's all right. It's all right. How did we let it happen, Sandy? Em...I'm not sure exactly which it we're talking about. Everything's going to be okay. We should save what every little money we have left We both know what the test gonna say -No,we don't -Yes,we do No,we don't Please,don't make me play this game This is not a fucking game I am not gonna stand around while another member step away and kill himself Okay? So...until those tests come back... Okay, Ben. Okay. It's time to go home you guys. Your dad is waiting outside Say good night Could you please hand me the notebook? Sandy has streptoccal in the in affection of lung but the tumers we found there are benign However, that doesn't mean she's in the clear. Ben. If you don't start taking better care of your wife, then you are goning to lose her too. For the first time in your life,stop telling yourself that everything is okay Why is that...good? It's expensive I think I've had enough Why don't you guys give mom a minute? Wait in the car. Penny's gonna be graduating from high school this month, do you know? Just gonna be you and me No buffer. When you get out of here, Sandy, I wanna start it again. Do you want that? I'd be lying if I said I knew for sure, Ben. Don't you know we can't do this without you? I don't know who they are,Sandy I don't know his friends' names,her major,I...the birthdays We sit at the dinner table,I've got nothing to say to them. To...Tim. Well, he doesn't know who you are, Ben. And I think it's time...we told him who he is. You remember when you told me you felt like you didn't fit into this family? Yeah. When I was a girl I was in love with Randle Duwhire Remember him? Yeah,he is Kyle's Dad And the truth is that er...Randle was in love with Marge and...they got married. That's why you fight No. when I was married to Ben... I had an affair with Randall. Oh! You understand what I'm trying to tell you? No. There's a reason why your brother and dad never treated you like you were one of them In a hundred years no one's ever gonna know who we were, but... they'll know those stars They're the same stars I wished on when I was a-- What are you doing? -What the fuck are you doing? -Tim please,what is this? What is wrong with you? Don't fuck yourself Please. I don't understand it. Are you out of your mind? Get away from me. I'm asking you,your mom read it too she isn't sure. What's it? It is music Music? Uh-huh. You know, Mom told me. She told me everything and to tell you the truth I don't mind saying it You're a pretty horrible father Oh,well,I guess we're telling the truth now. OK,good I don't want you in my life I don't wanna see your face when you're around I don't even want to know if you're alive or not I hate you all,always hate you I always will hate you You and me,we're different people. No,no we're not You and me are not... You and me are not,you and me are not different people you and me... You and me are father and son. I..I don't care who you came here and I don't care you are not look like me I am your father and you are my son and I am here,okey? But you got talk to me Because I...I can't do it by myself I-- I don't know how to do this by myself. And freedom for all with responsibility To our family to our friends, and above all, to ourselves. we remember the special moments that we took for granteed those wonderful,beautiful,magical moments these were the best years of our lives at least that's what they told us Personally, I hated high school I hated all of you and I hope you all roll in hell Thank you Thank you,Scully. For those honestly,inspiration words Congratulation for graduates To their families,to their friends And now to work as whole our senior class member Tim Travis to play a music seletion of his own compositon. Tim What do you think? Did I do that? How would you gonna tell me how much I have left to look forward to? He's always so angry He just took out on me and one day he asked me for help I mean,me,for the first time ever he asked mefor help. And I said, no. Not everyone can be a hero. It's true, isn't it? You boys want to get some lunch? ,,QQ:407481959
