 

                        One peed in the pop corn that you eat. Film to 23 h With Argon, we know that a country that depends on oil Has not the means of some to lack. But classical drilling always is not possible. It is necessary to find again procedures to produce crude oil In this refinery of Fairbanks who tosses billion dollars one extracts more than 2, 5 billions of barrels of crude every day, From the skin of adolescent ones. The crude oil is transported in supertankers in order more better to use the resources again exploited nos In our country. At Milan, in Italy, an argon affiliate found a procedure to recover the oil on the well-worn combs City-dwellers. Of what to fill a tanker of 300 m And save 220000 energy. To the United States, we know how to extract now the oil of the take-out dishes. Sufficiently to provide to the needs of the city of Oakland in California. To deal with the future needs, the farmers collect more of as here in Beaumont, to Texas, where this unique process is used. At Argon, we work to make you make savings. Welcome in A.M. Today." I am Barbara Duncan. Frank Bowman. We are going to see why the pupils of Louisiana learn more quickly. Why the trains are slower in Vermont. We will see an adorable animal to hair of Australia. And we will examine a new system of security: The detectors of smoke. But first of all, in New York, the teachers vote the pursuit or no of the strike. Ron Butler is with local delegates at the scene of the meeting, to cover the event. Ron, that he happens? Did the teachers finish to vote? We have a technical problem, we will try a little later. While waiting, here is A.M. Today." He/it is the hour passed of 18 min., here is our daily debate: "Not - Counterpoint" with J. Fitzsimmons and S. Hamilton. Sheila, one would say that even you and your liberal buddies see light to the tip of the tunnel that brings closer you of our dear President. The intellectuals unleashed themselves, and now that they have the power after having made use of problems that they have themselves created, the President makes all to revive their concerns about his/her/its case. Sheila, you and your strip of liberals to the big heart, won't know yourselves therefore ever that the social help only makes aggravate the inflation who especially affects those that you want to help? My poor John! Species of old chnoque. I listen to your stupidities since months. You can keep them and to put them to you to the ass. And to crown the all, sit yourselves on that, John. The professors finished to vote and the result is imminent. Ron Butler, have yourselves a prognosis as for the exit of the vote? II is the hour passed of 19 min., here is our daily category: "The astrological news." We don't try to reinforce your belief in the astrology, but to help the incapable people to take only decisions. If you are Balance and hesitate to make this important purchase, wait for even some days. Don't forget that your Moon is in Sagittarius. It is not the moment to make some madness. The Virgin must expect to a premature death or to the tragic cartlement of a near being. Let's pitch, it is the moment ideal to disconnect the device who maintains your daughter in life since 6 months. If you are Taurus, go to the zoo. And if you are Gemini as me, wait for yourselves to the unexpected. Joyce Wilson, your astro... Thank you, Joyce. Judy Morton is with us since the reserve natural of San Diego. We often received Judy, with always as much pleasure. Welcome, Judy. What of nine? I brought you an Australian gerbille, one of the rare to have been raised in captivity. She/it is raised, doesn't she/it bite? No, she/it is very cute. They are very endearing. His/her/its name is Oscar. I am going to take one of it for my youngsters. They would make adorable animals of company but they have indeed need to live in liberty. Hey well... Oscar? II is absolutely irresistible. You have another surprise for us. Quite. This one is not small, but he/it is very cute. In any case, it is my opinion. I am going to look for it. Go there. It is the moment that I prefer in this broadcast, because I never know what they are going to bring me. Look at what one brings to me! I present you Dino. He/it is enormous! But you don't deceive there, he/it is soft like a lamb because he/it has been raised in captivity. It is for that that one could bring it here. Is it a rare animal? Yes, and besides we have of the pain to mate it. You don't manage to find a female for Dino? Not indeed, we have him presented several candidates, but all attempts of mating failed. It is surprising. Dino is not the most attractive party that I saw, but a big gorilla as him... We don't know very well what is his/her/its problem. He/it is maybe shy, carried naturally little on the thing or impotent. Impotent? II is the hour passed of 24 min., here is the main information of the morning with Tom Leclair. Thank you, Barbara. We are going to speak of the meeting of the ministers of the OPEC in Tehran. As foreseen, the rise of We could finally communicate with Ron Butler, and one tells to me that the link audio function. To you, Ron. The vote lasts since 3 hours. The result now depends of the number of abstentions. Already have yourselves an idea of what is going to happen? I thought that the teachers wanted to take work, but as Gemini, I am incapable to foresee anything. WE ARE PROUD TO PRESENT YOU OF THE TRAILERS OF OUR NEIGHBORS PROGRAMS caustic iPlus that "Mandingo", shocking iplus that / i "Behind the door verte" erotic iplus que "Stuffs Profonde" vous is going to be juicy dans your frock while seeing "The pupils cathos explodes themselves". L. iSamuel present Bronkowitz Chambers iLinda, dans a remake of his/her/its famous role. Et for the 1 era time to the screen, / i Joyce iSusan and Nancy Reems. Susan, here is Nancy. Nancy, here is Susan. Jamais of the stages as daring n'avaient been shown to the movies. Show me your puppet. Mrs. Burke! I took you for Dale. People often confound me with my teenage daughter, Dale. Jamais the beauty of the sexual act n'avait been shown / i aussi crudely. Cette strange history tells ce that arrives when of the pupils sont authorized to leave aprs the cover-feu. Un movie for adults finally has le courage to say la truth on the masturbation. Sauvage! Pervers to souhait! Ne doesn't miss "The pupils cathos explodes themselves". Does the ticket cost how much? Thank you. You know that the movie is projected in "sensorama?" Do you want? Of the popcorn, please. A dollar. Thank you. Entrez. I am in my office. Devine that this est. Zsa Zsa Gabor. Donald, you always joke. Tu restarted to smoke. Je makes a new rgime. Tu doesn't even have remarqu my perfume. Je prepares you a verre? Je proposes a toast to you, me and to the avenir. Chri, I am distressed. Je is going to look you for a napkin. Carol, attention your cigarette. Je is going to put you a bandaging. Mon poor baby. J'adore to pass you the hand dans hair. Tes shoulders are so powerful, large isi... Et this white hair on your chest... Toi only account. C'est what, a? Tu ace of the lipstick sur your col? Fais me to see. C'est a lot of lipstick. Espce of dirty... Je goes you tuer! Arracher hair de your indifferent skull. Carol, put this couteau! D'accord, Donald. Dis me that you like me ou I decide you the throat. Je would not tell you that pour all the gold of the world. Tu wants to see your blood flowing, c'est a? Tu doesn't frighten me. Je doesn't fear to see my blood. Je is not able to. Je knew that you would not make it. C'est for that que I would like that you me pouses. Mesdames and gentlemen le Rialto "Sensorama" invites you to look at our next film: "Deep Throat", qui is going to begin in one instant. Comment to believe that you had / i la migraine stays up it, alors that you wake up full ien forms the following day. Remerciez Nytex P.M. L'antalgique that acts / i pendant your sleep. Nytex loosens you. Soulage the due pains aux tensions and small uneasiness. Vous you wake up en excellent shape, repos, et ready to face the day. Comment to believe that you had / i la migraine stays up it, alors that you wake up en full forme? P.M iNytex., it is incredible. Hello and welcome to "The big adventure." I am Paul Burmaster. With us today, the big adventurer and explorer, Claude Lamont. Claude, we are delighted to receive you. I am delighted to be here. It is great to meet a man who lives such adventures. I live the unknown, I like the unknown, I am the unknown. Claude... Where do you live, currently? That is a matter for the unknown. I don't know. Speak to us the movie that we are going to see today. He/it appears that you have faced a lot of dangers. Yes, I faced full of dangers. The most dangerous thing, it was the venomous fish. The venomous fish? Pursue, it is your broadcast. No, you are my guest. The venomous fish kill more quickly than a bullet. In what ocean one finds it? The Atlantic and the Pacific. Are they big how? Some are very big, of very small others. It is fascinating. Tell us, Claude, how many men take yourselves with you? Sometimes, we take until 45 or 50 men during only one journey. - So much as that? - Quite. You imagine the problems of food that that puts. Often, we must carry away enough food for 3 or 4 months in a row. The important, it is to eat well and in a regular way. Because if you don't make of balanced meals in sea, of numerous things can occur. To the fact, you don't know it maybe not, but Claude Lamont made a lot of humanitarian actions. He/it is monitor of diving and dedicates itself to numerous reasons. You studied a lot the big white shark. Have noted you that he/it exists of the definite territories? Not only this idea has very often been corroborated, but we have the proof that practically no shark don't change a territory. I received the famous tonight explorer Claude Lamont. I am Paul Burmaster and I thank you for having followed "The Big Adventure." Moscow in fire. Of the missiles head on New York. Movie at 23 o'clock. L'acteur and director, Bixby iBill. To make to best, it is necessary to be to best of his/her/its shape. When I am on a plateau and that I have the migraine, I take the Sanhedrin. Here, to the biggest clinic, of the migraine, some tests proved that the new Sanhedrin relieve the pains quickly due to the migraines, to the colds, or to the small crises of osteoarthritis. It is sure... and efficient. To take care of your cold, make like Bill Bixby, take the Sanhedrin. The powerful terrific analgesic. Je remembers when the girlfriends / i sont arrivals to play bridge. very constrained iJ'tais to reason des bad obstinate odors. Of fish to the menu, last night? Does Harvey always smoke these cigars? Name of God! Did a cow crap here or what? It was a delicious to dine. I made to best. Bienvenue in the world merveilleux of the sex, o we go vous to make reach une new intensity dans the sexual pleasure. Tamisez lights et with a reassuring smile, embrassez tenderly / i votre partner. Puis goes to the other tip de shares a room it to undress you. L'exposition of the erogenous zones est an inviting prelude pour the preliminaries. Prenez conscience of your body tandis that he/it gets ready pour the ultimate sensual irvlation. Il is now time d'aller toward your partner et to embrace his/her/its size. N'oubliez not... smoothly iRemontez long ile of the bust, en massaging finely, les erogenous zones et while exploring mildly les curves de his/her/its bust. Comme that... pleasant iC'tait, non? Vous now can vous to direct toward the conjugal bed, et to relax you while que your senses impregnate themselves de this new reality. A this instant, the male peut to whisper to the femelle: A: "I like you. " B: "I need you". C: "I want you". B female iLa can rpondre: "I now" want you. "I now" want you. Recuerdos has todos. C'est now the moment de to put the contraceptive. Et us revoil. Le moment came to pass exploratory ides to the caresses. male iLe will be able to caress / i son back and his/her/its arms. female iLa, if she/it wishes it, peut to seize his/her/its horn. Il can kiss it mildly sur the face and the neck searches for it of the erogenous zones. Les kissings must become de more in more passionate, tandis that the partners are au dawns maximal excitation. Un of the most current problems / i au course of the sexual act, est the one of the precocious ejaculation. En case of precocious ejaculation, le delivers "The joys of the sexe" sold iest with "Big Jim Slade". Jim iBig, former footballer, est endowed with whips and chains, et of a sexual appetite / i qui you dcoiffera. Jim iBig satisfied some women dans the whole world, et the capital of Nebraska Lincoln!/i iest WE ARE PROUD TO PRESENT YOU OUR MOVIE LUC'S ISLAND OF IT, APRIL 9 11 HS 42 II has three days there, les Russian secret services / i ont sent this clich reprsentant an explosion nuclaire of 30 megatons. The CIA first of all made a closeness with China, but Radio Peking denied the allegation. Here are the Hartz mounts, in Asia. A so rough and so traitorous region, that no country claims it. Worse than Detroit? I am afraid of it. It is there, that doctor Klahn constructed his/her/its fortress. Klahn? Klahn exercised of numerous infamous activities: Opium, gunrunning, murders, distribution of movies... And generalized racket. Precisely. Klahn kidnapped the famous nuclear physicist complicate, Pr. Ada Gronick. And he/it has the intention to use his/her/its knowledge of the nuclear contraptions to create a manageable detonator, with which he/it will threaten the world. Here is Butkus. The bodyguard of Klahn. He/it is strong and useless. Here is Kwong, the driver of Klahn. He/it is strong and toothless. We need someone who finds an uncharted mountain, beats an army of killers and comes back with Ada Gronick. I have the man that we need. A HANDFUL OF YEN I hope that you observe well. Hit me. What is that that? It is not a game. It is necessary to be concentrated completely. One restarts. This time, with the feeling. It is better. My government is ready to give you 50000 books so that you infiltrated the army of Klahn. I fear than you me underestimated, Mr. Pennington. Your people and mine, have different values. Mr. Loo, know that the survival some free world is in game. Know, Mr. Pennington, that the geographical borders don't mean anything for me. I obey a superior process. But you will be able to kill 50 or 60 people. Hello, I am called Miong Chow. You join a noble chief. Gentlemen, be the welcome. We are honored very to have you among us. We construct a strength of fight of an extraordinary power. We draw our courage in the tradition of our forebears. You have our gratitude. ADA, I CAME TO SAVE YOU Bring me the prisoners! Take it and torture it. As for my American friend, the CIA thinks that she/it can infiltrate the mountains of doctor Klahn? You don't frighten me, species of dirty constricted. Take it in Detroit. No! Not Detroit! Mercy! All safe that! That way, gentlemen. I drive you to your rooms. All, here doctor Klahn. Je is at present absent, laissez me a message / i aprs the beep. Vous has all my gratitude. Enter. I am here to save you. From where do you come? Pennington... How spent your journey in the mountains, Mr. Loo? It was a very pleasant journey. You have luck. The sea can be unleashed in this season. I hope that you are satisfied of your room. Doctor Klahn has a big sense of the hospitality. You already joined an army practicing the martial arts? Not since a very long time. I am sure that our men will appear you the best of the world. We construct a strength of an extraordinary power. You honor our mountains. We draw our courage in the tradition of our forebears. It is necessary to bribe the guards. One needs money. One will find money without problem. But it would be badly! What is that that? It is not a game. It is necessary to concentrate in depth. Restart. I brought you a gift. Make your choice. If you don't find your happiness... If you want to follow me, we enter in the Havard wing, where the treatment of the opium end before being wrapped and distributed all over the world. We manufacture sufficiently of heroine to satisfy one quarter of the consumers in the world. These vats contain the products for the bacterial wars. Their capacity is of 4000 liters cube. To my right, the atomic detonator, with which the Dr Kahn counts to threaten the whole world. Do you have some questions? No? Very well. Follow me. Don't want yourselves Ioigner of the white line, and not to use a flash. A robot! A robot? Zigouillez this salopard! ATOMIC DETONATOR RESPONSIBLE, ADA GRONIK I follow you very thankful. You are a man of an extraordinary power. Enter. Your technique is not surpassed that by your courage, Mr. Loo. A magnificent demonstration of agility. Your curiosity flatters me. You are surely impatient how we operate to see. Who are they? Of the useless. Collected in bars. Done kidnap? Of the drunkards who don't know where they are and make fun of all. Where are we? Me me in madmen. And them? Of the drunkards who ignore where they are but don't do themselves of it. They know where they are, himself some don't do but are temperate. I don't know where I follow. I don't drink. Guard! - You you foutez of all? - No. Put it in the cell n - What do you drink? - Me me in madmen. Gentlemen. We discovered alas among us a hostile visitor. Mr. Loo is going to be punished for his/her/its treason. But it is not important at present. The important, it is that my guards accepted some bribes and missed to their duty. They must now prove that they deserve to remain among us. Present us our guards. The guard n 1 is a veteran of the region and a future chemist. Please applaud Gone up Well! The guard n 2 is a bitten of skating. An applause cordial for Big Zizi! The guard n 3 often travels because he/it is pilot of plane. Please applaud Gigantic Parts. Guard n 1, it is your he/it is too late to go to the movies. What do you make? Hey well... we walk on the beach to the moonlight. Then I play of the songs of love to the guitar. And the following day morning... Butkus! Guard n 2, if I slept, and that you were my wakening, how would you wake me up? I would not wake you up. I am not a bell. And you, n 3? What would you make? We construct an armed strength of an extraordinary power. We draw our courage in the tradition of our forebears. The Dr Klahn is an admirable chief. We testify him our gratitude. A helping hand in the Dr Klahn! Are you ready for your early exercises? No water! I melt! What world! II had a power of matchless fight. Congratulations, Mr. Loo. Your mission is a big success. Since you provoked the death of the Dr Klahn, you have the enjoyment of his/her/its fortress and of his/her/its wealths. Thank you, Mr. Pennington. But I only want a thing, to go back at home. To the Kansas. But my dear, you have the power to bring all alone in. Indeed? You only have to slap your heels three times, while saying: "One is never as well as at home. One is never as well that at home. Loo... Wake you up. Aunt Em! Toto! I finally went back. You should have made a nightmare. I was of it. Where that? On this awful mountain governed by the abominable Dr Klahn. There were some prisoners, Jake was there and... Slim, and Ben. It was maybe a dream. And nasty, with that! A dream of an extraordinary power. - It was real. - I know, my small. But that you did learn of all that? Hey well, one can look everywhere for happiness, but it is not the pain to look for farther than his/her/its door. One can make full of things within his/her/its community. To go in a dairy to see how milk is prepared and put in bottles. To make an expo on the domestic accidents. Or to finance a library. To ask your dentist how to embellish your teeth. Vous sold tout your incense and harassed plus of about sixty pedestrians. Aprs an exhausting day, you draining iavez all prospectuses. Maintenant, c'est the hour of a Willer. Dchaussez your sandals et clears a Willer. La better beer depuis 1892. C'est the moment to relax / i aprs a rough day. Vous deserves la better beer that either. Elle descends easily. Elle is pleasant, rafrachissante, and light. On is not reincarnated / i que 6 or 7 times, alors it is necessary to search for le better of the taste. Aries asphyxiated in an earthquake in L.A. Movie at 23 o'clock. Une novelty of Barker Brothers, / i un game for the whole family. "Scot Free." Your team comes / i d'assassiner Presides it. Vous is going to succeed un "Scot Free"? Lancez the dice to see. Super! You found "Patsy" iune. Continue. Un bonus. Ruby iJack is going to can tuer your "Patsy". C'est well, parce that the deaths don't speak. Sabruter iAbraham / i filme the assassinat! hard iCoup! But you leave. Quelle luck, 22 witnesses violent death imeurent. Vous fell again on your feet. "Life Magazine" achte the movie of Sabruter mais you buy "Life Magazine" et shows the pictures / i dans the mess. Vous is there nearly, plus that to convince Public il'Opinion. Vous has russi! public iLe believes you. Vous is "Scot Free"! En blows at Barker Brothers. Si "The Tower Infernale" vous was enthusiastic, si "Tremor of terre" vous terrorized, alors you go chier in your frock en seeing the movie de Samuel L. Bronkowitz, "Strongly the apocalypse"! Une realistic representation de the death and of his/her/its devastations comme you never saw it au movies. With George Lazenby dans "The architect's role. This building is not sure. Radnitz iBarbara in the role de the infirmire. Roberts iJack dans the Governor's role. Governor, the city is in fire, the national care is overflowed by the situation. The dam threat to give up! Of the terrorists control the airport and the nuclear plant go explode incessantly. Governor, that one goes to make? Sutherland iDonald in the role du clumsy server. Larry, don't go there! You are going to die! I must go there. For Helen! Let it. Come in Montana with me. I cannot escape him. I don't ask you to escape you, but to face the reality. What reality? Her yours or mine? Mine and her yours. What do you say? Let it, come in Montana with me. I cannot escape him, as much to escape myself! II is not about escaping, but to face the reality. My reality or her yours? My reality and her yours, here is! What do you say? One leaves, Larry! What do you play? You know it very well. Larry, one is going to start the machines. Vous will never forget "Strongly the apocalypse! " You understood me very well! To the course of the last years, more than 800000 Americans died. In spite of the sums enclosed in research, the death always makes the biggest number of victims. Hello, I am Henry Gibson. I speak you to the name of the Fund United for the Deaths. There is not a treatment again against the paralyzing effect of the death, but each can get ready to the 3 signs annonciateurs: It is important to know what to do when one dies. Your grants for this reason already made some miracles. Of numerous families have can be rescued. I would like to present you the Hefsteders. One believed that it was without hope, then one discovered the Fund United for the Deaths. They showed us that in spite of his/her/its handicap, Johnny could be even useful to his/her/its family and to the society. Notre interlocutor du "Fund Uni" nous showed que the body without life of Johnny n'tait not necessarily absent of our daily life. Nous achieved to what point nous was happy de power to make participate it / i aux domestic activities. Le United Fund for the Deaths a transformed the grief in happiness. Nous their soaps will to have united new ide the family. Henry Gibson asks you to be generous when the death knocks at your door. No photos, please. I nor said photos nor commentaries. COUR No photos. September 22, 1957, took place a collision between several vehicles causing more 55000 $ of damages. We attend the suit here instituted following the accident. The plaintiffs that you are going to see have been implied in the accident. While we join the court, judge Coarse DeSmizer, go ask M. Hornung to make his/her/its exploratory remarks. Mr. Hornung, make your exploratory remarks. If the court allows it to me, ladies and gentlemen the jurors, I would like to prove today that to the evening of February 22, 1957, Sheldon Grunwald drove his/her/its car on the freeway 30, in direction of the north, when the rear of his/her/its vehicle has been embossed by the conducted car by the defendant, Mile Rita Filagree. In conclusion, your Honor, I would like that the jurors listen to a strip. Hey, Wally, it is terrific to be at the court. The farm! One is going to make itself to bawl by the judge. Mr., is the defense it lends? Quite, your Honor. Call your first witness then. The number of Sheldon Gunwald. It is I! It is not anymore the pain, I found it. You swear to say the truth, the whole truth, nothing that the truth? I swear it. You made me so happy! We will say rightly that M. Gunwald is used in a service. We are going to begin the questions with M. Hornung. I have more reasons to call on your services that... my wife, for example? You lose 5 points. You have 45 of them. I yield my tower to Arlene. Sorry, the time is urgent, I jump the cards. I inform you that M. Gunwald practise the profession of spoon. Mr. Gunwald, in addition to your activity of picker, he/it is not true... No, spoon! Ah yes, spoon. Evidently. Picker doesn't want anything to say. Therefore Mr. Grunwald, in more of your spoon activities, he/it is not exact that you are monitor of conduct? No. - Is it then exact? - Yes. You are not monitor of conduct? No. I contest these questions. Objection rejected. Then I would like to examine the undersides of the business... Please. All is in place. Your witness, master. Please tell us your first name. Sheldon. Hey well, Mr. Grunwald, that wants to say... this gesture? anniversary iJoyeux... anniversary iJoyeux, Sheldon. Mr. Grunwald, please tell us in what cloth is made your shirt? Objection! This shirt goes from silk. Retained objection. Very well. Mr. Grunwald, please follow me at the end of the room. Objection! The lawyer operates the witness. Retained objection. Mr. Hornung, Mr. Taylor, please approach the bench. While the judge converses with the lawyers, let's mark one pause with this message. That makes our small skeptic, today? She/it has the cat in the Nesson oil. The judge is going to ask in M. Hornung to prove the applicability of the law. Mr. Hornung, you must prove the applicability of the law. I not only go to prove it, but to show how these facts relate to the business. I call to the rod Mile Rita Filagree. As everybody waited for itself of it, a witness surprised! Filagree mile was in the vehicle of Grunwald, but had been declared dead after the accident. I swear it. Filagree mile, as passenger, of the vehicle of M. Grunwald, can identify the driver of the blue Buick? Yes. Is he/it in this court? Yes! Can you show it to me? I am not able to. I am not able to really. Know yourselves the code pnal in this State? You would not cry, if one shouted to you over, hey? Ben no! But the girls, it is not similar. When a type cries, one takes it for a feeble. That then, Wally. Is necessary to believe that have you reason. Dear Madam, to hide relative proofs to a crime as hateful... "Hneux?" "Aineux?" II is necessary to say "Hneux." One doesn't say "your Hneur." No! Ladies and gentlemen, it is written here. "Hyenas": Carnivorous animals and nervous of Africa and Asia. Watch, Wally. Stop! Do you see? I knew that one would make itself bawl. We don't want any pain to your planet. The accusation mocks of this court! Very well. He/it is over there seated. Oh, no. Him! The bailiff tried to identify the driver of the blue Buick. Everybody waits with impatience to know the mysterious driver. He/it could have a truth there sudden turn of events. The next person... It is he! Le broadcaster Steven McCrosky a been declared guilty et condemned to 20 years of reclusion dans a federal jail. Le stnotypiste Cord Simley a changed of sex et plays veil and steam-powered / i avec the Atlanta Braves. Wallace and Theodore Cleaver ont been deprived of spending money et messengers in bed without dining. WE ARE PROUD TO PRESENT YOU THE TRAILERS OF OUR FUTURE PROGRAMS Elle, a stick of black dynamite m80./i id'1 Lui, a small Jew hassidim. Elle leads a fierce fight pour to survive dans the ghetto. Il studies the Talmud overnight it. Tandis that she/it fires le ghetto, il lights the candles of the Sabbath. C'est a love passionnel! Une torrid ardor entretenue by those that say non! Seuls, they dared to triumph de the infernal fureur of the desire. Jamais such a violence n'avait been shown to the cran. Jamais more, a man et a woman won't face / i de such challenges. Ensemble, rien won't be able to stop them. THE EDUCATIONAL MOVIES PRESEN LESSON OF SCIENCE N5 On often ignores, que the chemicals jouent a growing role dans our daily life. Un of the most current products est oxidizes it of zinc. police iCe, ce farmer et this housewife ne doesn't know it, mais oxidizes it of zinc / i leur is indispensable. I use the oxide of zinc for what to make? Sans oxidizes it of zinc, vous would not have this soap. Les cloths that you use. grill-pain./i iVotre Le bra that you wear. L'vier of the kitchen. Ces rods to curtains. Les shelves of your refrigerator. Les hooks made of metal. Le burner of the stove. Le safety catch / i des carbines. Le handbrake de your car. Tous the brakes. Cette cover. Et the sable? Tout to fact. My God! Le pacemaker of your husband. Votre prosthesis. Oui, the oxide of zinc / i gre our daily life. Ne doesn't miss "Lesson of science n7": to "Rebuild his/her/its house". THE MAD OF THE DANGER One says that courage of a man tackles to the way of which he/it faces the danger. You are going to discover soon an unique phenomenon. Man's kind that ignores what the word "fear" means to say. Rex Kramer, mechanic to half-time, kamikaze full-time. Un man ready to risk his/her/its life pour the love of the aventure. Il searches for it, it faces it et dominates it. Kramer iRex. The mad of the danger. Negroes! Light the television, there are the infos. Do you joke? Go, light it. Le governor Billingsley est judged today for extortion. C'est the 4th governor United States ides to be judged pendant his/her/its mandate. L'avocat of the accusation, au to say Billingsley, essaierait to annihilate it, pour to "choose the neighbor gouverneur". Le senator Hammond du New Mexico says que the report that is going to leave / i mettra the CIA in the embarrassment ainsi that the FBI. Le report won't harm / i aux two agencies mais will suggest the resignation des senators qui transmits des information secret bip. Detroit iA, the Union Hard-working ides of Rubber concentre the negotiations contractuelles sur the 3 main manufacturers / i de tires and of rubber. En reason of the frost of the wages / i il is three years old there, le union didn't get / i leur indexing et this time, he/it asks une clause for une indexing without conditions. Les business are disrupted et the blocked circulation, tandis that more of 500000 / i Japanese icheminots ont announced a strike of 3 days to leave from aujourd'hui. La strike would have disrupted la life of... 17 millions of Japanese city-dwellers qui takes the train pour to go to the office ou to the cole. Les commuters look for / i des solutions spare pour to surrender to their work / i malgr the plugs in Tokyo. Des score of thousand d'employs... ont been forced de to remain in their office... Ils camps in their office and... parce that... the stores / i de clothes closed. La strike... ... there is what happens Japan iau with these Japanese. Les course of the Stock market weakened iont d'aprs the announcements de the day while les exchanges slowed down. practiced iLes assigns / i cette stabilization the recent deregulation sur the imports of the tranger. Une tragedy hit le yard of promoter Hitchcock. Une explosion of gas destroyed le centers recreational. L'explosion cost life au owner des places, Mr. James Hitchcock... et to his/her/its family's five members. Trois other people / i ont been wounded et two is carried extinct. Nous has the proof that... mercredi evening, the Libyan colonel Escalante iHernando essaie to bargain some fruits, des arm... and of the legs... avec Uganda to help le Presides Amin ldi. Bonsoir and thank you consistent id'avoir les information de "Witness Direct". I don't wear a trousers. The movie at 23 o'clock.
