 

                        1 Morning, Lee. What's in the package? Curtain rods. Good morning. Hello? And here is the President of the United States. And what a crowd and what a tremendous welcome he's getting now. We can... And there's Jackie. She's getting just as big a welcome. And the crowd is absolutely going wild. This is a friendly crowd in downtown Dallas as the President and the first lady pass by. There is Lyndon Johnson and Lady Bird passing by. Thank you, sir. Thank you for seeing me, Mr. Snyder. My name is Lee Oswald, and I've come to renounce my American citizenship. Why would you do that? I'm a Marxist. You're a Marine, for God's sakes. Marines don't defect. I've seen enough of democratic society, of capitalistic society. My mother worked her whole life making profits for capitalists. They push you down and they never appreciate who you are. Have a seat. How old are you? Twenty. 20 years and 13 days. You're young, you're confused, you're hurt, you're angry. This is not an emotional decision. I have studied Marx. You don't even know what life is like here. In six months you're gonna regret what... I've told the Soviets that I know things. I had a very high-security clearance. I was a radar technician for the United States government. I am valuable. You'd be a traitor. I believe that what I'm doing is right. And now the Soviets will see that I'm serious. This will show them. Mr. Oswald, when something like this is done, it can't be undone. No one ever listens to me. Nobody believes me. Now, I've made my decision, and I'm through. Well, if you're serious, you take a few days and you come back. A reporter, a young woman, very attractive, asked me, "Senator Kennedy, how did you get to become a war hero?" And I told her that it was completely involuntary. They sunk my boat. They're ready for you, Jack. This was supposed to be Joe. He was the oldest. Father always thought it would be Joe. And he was shot down, and we were all, stunned. Cut into the way things were supposed to go. Never supposed to be me, but it is. It was always supposed to be you. Are you ready? I am today announcing my candidacy for the presidency of the United States. The very first returns are now beginning to pour in substantially, and those in just a moment. So first of all, let us go to our summary board. Bobby's got Lyndon on the phone for you. How's it going in there, Kenny? It's close. We knew it would be. It's gonna come down to Illinois, Texas and California. Well, we're gonna need Texas. How is he? Is he jolly? It's Lyndon. Hello, Lyndon. I see we're winning in Pennsylvania, but what the hell happened to you in Ohio? Well, how's it going down there? Well, I'm happy to tell you, Texas is gonna be close, but safe. Well, all right. Thank you. Thank you very much. Swear to God, Jack. Swear to God. If that's all it takes to make you president is to make that son of a bitch Lyndon Johnson vice president, then so be it. It's the best deal we ever made. Gradually throughout the night, he's widened that lead. He's about a half million ahead right now. In Connecticut, Kennedy took that state by 9:00. He rode up a very, very big... Jack, look at that! You've won Connecticut. You're president now. No, no, no. But look at the lead you've got! Well, yeah, sure, in the Northeast, but we need to wait till the Midwest and then the West. It's gonna be a long night. Well, tell me in the morning who wins, Mr. President. Don't say that! So, my fellow Americans, ask not what your country can do for you. Ask what you can do for your country. Dance. Would you dance? Marina. Lee. No, I'm not Chinese. I'm American. And my coworkers at the radio factory call me Alik. Marina. A beautiful Russian girl. I wanted to study in Moscow, but they sent me to this horrible place. I like it better now. May I... May I kiss you? Mr. President. I'm sorry, but we got a major problem in Cuba. The invasion of Cuba has created a highly delicate and difficult situation for the United States. Cuba has said that the invasion was mounted from Florida and from Guatemala. The United States has denied this, so has Guatemala. Castro knew the battle plan beforehand, prepared an ambush and assigned himself a prominent role in the battle. Right now, the rebels are pinned down here, on the beach. Castro himself is there. Castro? On the beach? In a T-34 tank. I speak for the joint chiefs, and I think CIA agrees as well, it is imperative that the United States provide air support. Well, I don't want the United States involved in this. We are involved in this. We trained these rebels. You approved the mission. And you told me the plan would work. You told me those men will be met by anti-Castro forces. And where are they? Are they there? Mr. President, are you aware there will be significant casualties sustained? We need to act, and we need to act now. Beaches were not prepared by air or artillery bombardment. Those able to move beyond the beaches were trapped in swamp or high growth which was burned off, and the fire forced them out one by one into the hands of Castro's forces, prisoners of war, dupes of the United States government. Jack? Jack, what is it? Jack, it's me. You can talk to me. It's a catastrophe. The one hour of air support that I ordered got screwed up. The two units didn't connect because of a one-hour time difference. These incompetent son of a bitches, they can't even tell time! I don't know why I ever listened to them. You couldn't have known. The President should know. How could I be so stupid? Jack, you're being too hard on yourself. But they said it. They said I was too young, too soft... About communism. And I told them I was ready. And they trusted me. They still do. There are men dying on those beaches, right now. I'm supposed to be the most powerful man in the world, and I... I'm impotent. Well, I'll tell you what. This is the last time anyone's gonna make a decision like that for me. And here on the beaches around the Bay of Pigs, the invasion floundered and the search for scapegoats began. The issue has been sharpened further by disclosure of the President's behind-the-scenes role. The record will reflect that we at State opposed the plan as a grave mistake. That's the most meaningless bullshit I ever heard. You people are so anxious to cover your own asses, all you want to do is dump this on the President. Well, you bright fellows got my brother into this. Only three months into office and now, thanks to you, the President of the United States is regarded as a paper tiger by the Russians. Well, there's an old saying that victory has a thousand fathers, but defeat is an orphan. The responsibility's mine. I am the president. I didn't do nothing to you. Spy! American spy! Spy! You're back, like a bad penny. Told you you'd regret it. It's not what I thought it would be. And it's so damn cold. I don't think I can take another winter here. Can you guarantee me there'll be no legal proceedings against me? I don't see why there would be. Ironically, because you failed to return, you never officially renounced your citizenship. Can I bring my wife Marina? Your wife's a Russian. She'll require an exit visa from the Soviet authorities. I want to bring my wife back to the United States. You're gonna love America, Mama. I promise you. English no good, have no clothes. You're gonna be fine. And they'll love you there. And we'll be happier there, I promise. Alik, you like little bird. Where you happy? A wife belongs with her husband, and a baby with her father. Junka needs her papa. But, I would say that being president is a fine job. It's a fine job. I get to walk to work and the pay is nice. You look so beautiful. Would you tell Mrs. Baldridge that we are on our way down? Yes, Mr. President. Mr. Oswald. Please! Mr. Oswald, are you a communist? Yes, basically. Although I hate the USSR, I do believe that Marxism can exist under different circumstances. Why did you go to the USSR, Mr. Oswald? I went as a mark of protest against American political policies in foreign countries. I'm working. Go finish packing. Go mind the baby then. Go. Mr. Oswald, are you a communist? No, of course not. Mr. Oswald, why have you chosen to come back to America? I have lived under both systems. I have sought the answers. Thank you, Mr. Oswald. You are a true patriot. His name is Oswald? Lee Harvey Oswald. I have to wonder what he was really doing in Russia and why the hell the State Department let him come back. How'd he end up in Dallas? He's from here, his mother's here. I interviewed her two years ago after he left. "My poor misunderstood boy" and all that. What'd he do, change his name to Oswaldovitch? Mr. Oswald? I'm John Fain. I'm an agent with the FBI. I was told there'd be no charges brought against me. There are no charges. I'm just asking a few questions. I expected questions from reporters. There weren't any reporters. Why did you go to Russia in the first place? Mr. Oswald? It's just something I did. Did you go to Russia because you're a communist? I don't really want to talk about the past. I mean, I'm here now. Are you now or have you ever been a communist? I've never had a card. When you went to Russia, your mother told the State Department you were some sort of secret agent. Are you? A secret agent? Are you involved with an intelligence agency? You're FBI. Yes. And you don't know. Lee? Oh, my God. It's as hot in here as it is outside. You live in this? Oh! This is horrible. How can you raise my granddaughter in a horrible place like this? Nyet, nyet. Why don't you speak English yet? You moved here, you should speak English. Mama, Mama, what are you doing here? Oh, I brought groceries, I brought diapers. How did you find us? Why is it so hot in here? I didn't want you coming here. Oh, you can't live here. You're moving back in with me. No, Mama, I told you we're not moving in with you. And what are you wearing? Married women don't wear shorts that short. Ooh, she is a sour girl, that one. I brought a bassinette. It's in the trunk. Why don't you go out and get it? No, Mama, I don't want you here. I don't want you meddling in our lives. Well, I can drive you around to look for a job. I found a job! Oh, well, I can help with the baby. I don't want your help. You understand? That's why we moved. To get away from you. That's why I joined the Marines. Now you stop that. You don't talk to me like that. Where are you going? I'm going to check on my wife and daughter, and when I come back, I want you gone. Lee, you finally came back home to me, don't let that woman take you away from me again. You're it! Oh, Mrs. Kennedy. I'm sorry. The pool is closed. Closed? Yes, closed, Mrs. Kennedy. Oh, no! I see. You have a woman problem. Judith Campbell? Edgar tells me in my capacity as Attorney General and as much as my capacity as your brother, I imagine, that you're having an affair with Judith Campbell. Who is also having an affair with Sam Giancana. Sam Giancana is a mobster. I'm aware of who Sam is. Jesus Christ, Jack. I'm investigating Sam Giancana for racketeering! The press has been very good about looking the other way when it comes to... But this is dangerous. All right. Is there anything else? No Judith Campbell. No Giancana. No mob. Mr. Oswald. I've already answered all your questions. Would you mind talking with us again? Just a few minutes. Well, my wife and daughter are inside, so. We don't need to disturb them. We'll just talk here. We learned that you contacted the Russian Embassy in Washington. You mind telling us why? My wife is a Russian citizen. She's supposed to let the embassy know where she is. Is that all? What do you mean, is that all? Did you talk to any Soviet intelligence officers? About what? About American imperialism? About inequality for Negroes? What? What I want to know, Lee, is are they asking you to spy for them? Is that why they let you come back? Is that why they let you bring Marina and your daughter, June? Are you a Russian spy? Why would anyone discuss spying with me? I mean, you're the big, bad FBI. Shouldn't you know? Ain't you got bigger fish to fry? Think of the state that our country is in at the moment. You come here to harass me in front of my home? Look where I live. Get out. Come on. Let's go. Your verdict? I don't know. He's a jerk. Insolent, arrogant. You tell me. Would you choose this guy as a spy? I don't see how he's a security risk. I say we close it. This could be your last case, John. Lee Oswald. Then I'm done. Twenty and out. FBI. In Russia it's KGB. Here it's FBI. What is that? Where did you get the money for that? I told you not to let her in this house. How can I say no? Marina, you just do what I say. You understand? That's it. You just do as I say. I'm the man in this house. You're not a man. You're a little boy. They're afraid of me. They're the FBI, and they're afraid of me. Everyone afraid of Alik. They've been following me and persecuting me. It's good. I take Junka, we go see people. It's good for baby. Ah! You don't need to go out there. Don't open that door. Don't let them in. You understand? I'm the man of this house. Not gonna be no peace. You're watching me? Then I'm watching you, too. Good morning, Mac. It's not so good, Mr. President. Our U-2 spy planes have confirmed that the Russians have placed offensive nuclear missiles in Cuba. Hello, Jack. Isn't this a nice surprise? Just wanted to hear your voice. Jack, is something the matter? Jackie, why don't you come back to the White House. Yes, of course. At a Pentagon briefing here this evening, we were shown pictures taken by a high-flying U-2 plane of two types of missiles, some of them already installed in Cuba and pointed at the US heartland. One group of missiles with a range of 1,200 miles, the other group with ranges up to 2,500 miles. And there was a broad hint, they do have nuclear warheads. We have increased the number of planes in our air defense along the East Coast, and we have placed all US forces around the world on an alert status. I say we launch a full-scale attack and invasion. B-52s out of Barksdale. What, and start a war with Russia? You really want to risk an all-out nuclear war? In a matter of days, those missiles will be operational. We have to act. I will not be pushed. Not by Khrushchev, not by you or anyone else. One thing's for certain, I'm not gonna allow nuclear missiles in our backyard. I want to see a limited military option. I want to hear something out of State. You haven't said a word the whole meeting. I want options in 40 minutes. What's happening? We're in a fix. I have 40 minutes before I have to start again. I keep thinking about Khrushchev in The Kremlin. He's in the same position I am. Anti-spasmodic. He doesn't want to back down. I don't want to back down. Hydrocortisone. I have to find a way for him to back down. And testosterone. And not lose face. You'll find a way. You'll find a way. What if I don't? Men and women the world over hang on the news as it is uncertain what the future holds. All of the Western Hemisphere, from Hudson Bay to Lima, Peru, are within the range of the missiles in Cuba. In these troubled times, America braces for disaster. Please don't send me away to Camp David. I just want to be with you. Even if there isn't room in the bomb shelter, I just want to be on the lawn when it happens. I just want to die with you. Everybody's gonna like it. Everybody's Russian. All your nosy Russian friends. George tried to get you a job. He's nice to invite us. You're the one they invited, not me. All right. I'll be good. There they are! Marinitchka! Lee! George. Hurry. The President is about to start his speech. Quiet, please. Ready in... Five, four, three, two... Good evening, my fellow citizens. This government, as promised, has maintained the closest surveillance of the Soviet military buildup on the island of Cuba. Within the past week, unmistakable evidence has established the fact that a series of offensive missile sites is now in preparation on that imprisoned island. The purpose of these bases can be none other than to provide nuclear strike capabilities against the Western Hemisphere. To halt this offensive buildup, a strict quarantine on all offensive military equipment under shipment to Cuba is being initiated. A quarantine? That's illegal. All ships of any kind bound for Cuba, from whatever nation or port will, if found to contain cargoes of offensive weapons, be turned back. The Soviets have every right to be there, and Cuba has every right to defend itself against the United States. But why would Russia be so foolish as to provoke? No, no. Kennedy is the one who's provoking this. I think Kennedy is doing a good job. On civil rights, yes. But he is wrong on Cuba. Your Cubans are just as greedy and hypocritical as your Russians. You fled one failed cause for another. Cuba is the last great hope for Marxism, unless Kennedy destroys it. Well, I grant you this much. Your hero Fidel is the underdog, and I like underdogs. This is why I like you, Lee. Kennedy needs to keep out of Cuba. Or what? What will you and your underdogs do to him? Lee! I'm playing with you, huh? I am serious! Something has to be done to protect Cuba. Cuba has to be the point of the crisis. There might be shooting among the ships at sea. If invasion is undertaken, the Russians have said that they would retaliate. We have said if there's rocket fire from Cuba, we will retaliate. The shooting war could start tomorrow over Cuba. How could Khrushchev do that? Last night, he sent you a cable saying he'd pull those missiles out. And now this public announcement demanding we pull our missiles out of Turkey. He's already given in. Now he wants to make deals? What if you just ignore this? He's under pressure. The Kremlin won't let him back down. And I'll be goddamned if I'm gonna engage in a quid pro quo. You. Just you. You go to the Soviet Ambassador and you tell him that I have accepted Khrushchev's original offer. It just might work, Jack. I hope to God it does. Just yesterday, we were on the brink of nuclear war with the Soviet Union. Today, we can all breathe easier. Nikita Khrushchev today did precisely what President Kennedy has been asking him to do ever since this crisis began. He ordered the dismantling of Soviet missile bases in Cuba and the return of the rockets to the Soviet Union. Maybe tonight's the night I should go to the theater. Marina! Marina! I want you to take my picture. Where do you find pistoleti? I got it in the mail. Here. Come here. Come here. Take it. Come, come, come. Take my picture. I want you to take this for Junie to remember her papa by sometime. All right. Then send it to the papers. To show them I'm ready for anything. Take it. Wind that little thing, and you're gonna push that little lever down. Okay? This? Yeah. Hold on. George, you've heard of this General Edwin Walker? Of course. He's the crazy racist John Bircher who caused all that trouble at Ole Miss. And now he wants the United States to invade Cuba. He's going all over the country attacking communism. And Castro. You know, Walker lives right here in Dallas. No, he doesn't. Yes, he does. Really? What if someone killed Hitler before he came to power? I ask you, how many lives could have been saved? Anybody who bumps that bastard off will be doing the world a favor. Who's hungry? I would betray the confidence reposed in me by the American people if I had not warned you of the menace of communism and the peril facing this nation today. Mr. Oswald, why did you shoot General Walker? General Walker wanted to invade Cuba and overthrow Castro. He was a racist who was a threat to civil rights. Mr. Oswald, what do you say to those who will call you a murderer? In time, they will see that I stopped a dangerous man on his rise to power. They will see me as a hero, as a hunter of fascists. And long after I'm gone, they will remember this day as the day that changed the world forever. Thank you, Mr. Oswald. You are a true... Alik? This is my office. I know it's late. You can't come in here. Leave me alone. Who's got you, June bug? June bug! Cutie, cutie! Cutie, cutie! Who's got you? That's right. Come here. Papa's got you. There you are. Papa's gonna be president someday. President? Well, I could be in 20 years or so. How you be famous, huh? How you be president if you don't do anything? How do you think Kennedy became president? His daddy bought it for him. 'Cause money buys everything here. You know that. Very handsome. Hey! You know you're not supposed to say that about other men. Well, if not me, then your brother will be president. I left you as much money as I could. $60 on the second of the month. You and the baby can live for another two months using $10 a week. If I'm alive and taken prisoner, the city jail is located at the end of the bridge, through which we always passed on going to the city. This is the key to the mailbox which is located in the main post office in the city on Ervay Street. You will find the mailbox in the post office which is located four blocks from the drugstore on that street. I paid for the box last month, so don't worry about it. Send the information as to what has happened to me to the embassy and include newspaper clippings, should there be anything about me in the newspapers. I believe that the embassy will come quickly to your assistance on learning everything. I paid the house rent on the 2-D, so don't worry about it. Recently I also paid the water and gas. The money from work will possibly be coming. Certain of my documents are in the small blue valise. The address book can be found on the table in the study, should you need the same. The Red Cross will also help you. Red Cross in English. You can either throw out or give my clothing, etcetera, away. However, I prefer that you hold on to my personal papers. I did it. I shot General Edwin Walker. I just killed a very dangerous man. Police here? Why? Why you shoot a man? To show that I'm ready. To show everyone. And now, people will think I'm a hero. And now we bring you a special report. We have just learned that there has been an assassination attempt on the life of General Edwin A. Walker of Dallas. Walker was sitting at a desk in his home when a bullet came through his window. The bullet narrowly missed Walker. According to federal authorities, a neighbor witnessed two men in an alley behind Walker's house get into their cars and drive away. Walker... You're kidding me. You're kidding me! Two men? Two men. The FBI is stupid! God damn it. Alik? I had him. He must have moved his head at the last minute. My aim was perfect. I know it. God damn it. Damn it, damn it, damn it, damn it, damn it, damn it. I was happy to see that in the end it worked out for you down there. What happened? Well, the party's been going to hell over the last six years. I don't mean to throw any stones at the man, but Daniel. Price Daniel. Well, we have no leadership. But we've made inroads with that since the election. No, you've done all right. Except that they've got a lot of organization on that side of the party. This is true. Well, the way I see it, it looks like it could very well come down to Texas again, and we're gonna need the money and the votes and we do something for it. What's the plan? Well, I defer to the governor. Maybe I can host a dinner in Austin. The three of us on a tour. We do Austin, San Antonio and Dallas. No, not Dallas. You lost the hell out of Dallas by 60,000 votes. I lost by 20,000. They just murdered all of us. That's why we're gonna change that. What looks good, Kenny? Dallas isn't safe. Housewives came out of their houses to spit on me during the '60 campaign. November. Say a week before Thanksgiving. All right. Let's book it. Marina. Marina, goddamn it, where are my guns? Nixon's in town. I want to have a look. Why need gun for look? Promise me you'll never shoot no more people. Okay, I promise. Promise me you'll get job. Every time I get a job, the damn FBI tells them I'm a communist. No! It's not good here. Why? Why you bring us here? Dallas no good. Well, maybe I'll go to New Orleans. Maybe they won't follow me there. I'll get a job down there. Okay. Is better. Alik. I promise. I promise, Mama. Yes. Thank you. Fair play for Cuba? Tell the President to keep his hands off Cuba. Fair play for Cuba. Fair play for Cuba? I ask you, what do you know about Cuba? I'm recruiting for the Fair Play for Cuba Committee. I'm from Cuba. I know Cuba. Our homeland was taken from us by a communist dictator. The Cuban people want Castro as their leader. No, he's a killer. He sent our children to execution. Give me those! This man is a communist! I have rights! He's an agent of Castro! Go back to Cuba! You FBI? I asked specifically to speak to an FBI agent. Yes. I'm Agent John Quigley. This is supposed to be a free country. I was arrested for exercising my right to free speech and I've been here all night long. I understand that you and the other three men were charged with disturbing the peace. I did not disturb the peace. I was attacked for my beliefs. You're pro-Cuba? Pro-Castro? I belong to Fair Play for Cuba, yes. And who is AJ Hidell? Hidell. He issued that membership card to me. Mr. Hidell is the president of the committee. Hidell is name you make up. You tell FBI Hidell rhyme with Fidel? Tell FBI you want name our baby Fidel? All you do all day, pass out Cuba paper. Still no job. Only Cuba, Cuba, Cuba. You know, Cuba not care about you. Marina! Look at you. Great man, genius, and no one knows it. You're going back to Texas. You call that friend of yours, the one you gave the Russian lessons to. Tell her to come get you and Junie. Ruth? You no like Ruth. She'll take care of you till the baby comes. Marina, as soon as you get back to Dallas... When you get back to... I need to go to Cuba immediately. I have to. I am sorry, but as I explained, you will need a Soviet visa. You're not listening to me. I need you to make an exception. I've proven my support of President Castro. Mr. Oswald, I am telling you, it will take four months. No, I don't have enough money to stay in Mexico for four months. Then go back to the United States, and you wait. I'm being harassed in the United States. I am sorry, Mr. Oswald. I'm being persecuted and followed by the FBI because of my support of President Castro, your leader who they have sought to overthrow. Don't you care about your own country? Go home, Mr. Oswald. I don't have a home. That's not my home. The dramatic miracle of birth and a fight for life takes place at the Otis Air Force Base Hospital on Cape Cod as Mrs. Jacqueline Kennedy bears a premature son. The baby, the first to be born to a White House family in 68 years, was the object of worldwide attention during his dramatic fight for life. You all right? Yes, of course. I'm all set. My car will take me to the airport. Oh, Jackie. I was so stupid. Jack. I already lost two. I wasn't ready to lose another one. It's not your fault. God called him back, our baby Patrick. We had him for two days. He was a beautiful baby. And he fought so hard. Like a Kennedy. Well, you'll go away for two weeks, get out on the water, enjoy the Greek Islands. I want you to rest. And... Look at me. I want you to be very careful around that Onassis character. And then I want you to come back to me. Of course I will. The one thing I could never bear would be to lose you. You say you just found a job here in Dallas? Yes, ma'am, that's right. Are you married? No. I mean, yes, I was, ma'am. Well, this will be your room, Mr... Mr. Lee you said? That's right. Lee. OH Lee. Well, make yourself comfortable. I contacted the CIA. Said he visited the Cuban Embassy and maybe the Soviet Embassy as well. What is he, some kind of spy? They don't know what he is. They think he may have gone back to Dallas. They're not sure. All right, well, I'll try to find this Oswald fellow. Ruth Paine? Yes. Can I help you? Hi. I'm Special Agent James Hosty, Federal Bureau of Investigation. I'm looking for Lee Oswald. Do you mind if I come in? Yes, please come in. Thank you. Their friend George introduced us, and Marina and I became friends. So when she and Lee had their problems, I went down to New Orleans and brought her back here to have her baby. And Mr. Oswald is still in New Orleans? No. He lost his job there, so he came back. He's living here? No, I won't allow that. And Marina won't either. He keeps some of his things out in my garage, and he comes weekends to see his girls. But Marina doesn't want him here. Do you know where he is? I should think he's at work. Where does he work? At the Texas School Book Depository. Marina, this is FBI Agent Hosty. FBI? No, he's not here to harm you. No. No, our job is to protect people. You find Oswald? Sort of. I know where he's working, but I don't know where he's living. He'll show up sooner or later. I missed you, kid. I missed you, too. Maybe you'll come on the road with me? Come to Texas, help me with the campaign? Of course I will, Jack. I'll campaign with you anywhere you want. Good. We'll be back on the 25th, in time for John Junior's birthday. Excuse me. Mister? Is that a 6.5 Italian carbie? Yeah. And is that a four-power scope? Yes, it is. You'll get that good. Just a little more practice is all. Now, what did I tell you about the chamber? You always got to empty it when you lay the gun down. Alik? What? Junka wants to know why her papa hasn't played with her today. All right, okay. I'll be there in just a minute. We wouldn't have this problem if Ruth would let me live here. Just mind your business, Marina. Go. What do you say, Jack? Hey, Harry, how are you? Mike. I volunteered to work the parade so I can get a good look at President Kennedy. Who wants to see that traitor? He should be shot. Hey, I like Kennedy. How can you say something like that? I mean, in my own place, about our beloved president. And the both of them, the President and Mrs. Kennedy. I love them. I love them both. Hey. Hey, TORY! What the hell's wrong with you, huh? Can't you see my friends need some drinks here? What are you, blind? I'm sorry, Mr. Ruby. Don't apologize. Just take care of my pals here, okay? Come on, let's go. Chop chop. Air Force One arrives at Love Field at 11:40 a.m. The President and First Lady will be met by Johnson and Lady Bird, Governor Connally and his wife. We allow a few minutes for the receiving line. So around noon, the motorcade leaves the airport. We stay about 30 miles an hour out by the airport. So, it's downtown around 20 minutes later. Now, the parade will travel down Main Street here. We slow to 15 miles an hour so the crowds can get a good look at Lancer. These tail buildings on either side, this is like a canyon. There's more than 20,000 windows along this parade route. We'll be sitting ducks. We have to assume the President's car will be open, unless it's raining. Here at Dealey Plaza, we make a right on Houston. Can't we avoid this? There's a 120-degree turn onto Elm. It's gonna slow the motorcade down to a crawl. No. The only way under the Stemmons Freeway is from Elm. This town makes me nervous. You know Dallas is the murder capital of the country. We did a thorough check of active threats to the President. There are none in Texas. We checked with the FBI. Nothing came up. Yeah. Let's pray for rain. The city of Dallas is busy preparing for the President and First Lady's visit. We don't have all the details yet, but we do know that the President and First Lady will drive through downtown on the way to the Dallas Trade Mart, where the President will give a speech. We'll keep you updated as we learn more. Frazier, can I get a ride home with you after work? Yeah, of course, like I told you. You can get a ride any time you want. Hey, Lee, you don't see your girls till Friday. It's Thursday. I just gotta pick up some curtain rods. Hi. Alik. I'm lonesome for my girls. You only come weekends, not now. Mama, please don't be that way. Please, Mama. I miss you. I miss our girls. I'm lonely. You're always lonely, Alik. We can start over, you know? We can. I promise you, I'll be so different this time. You never different. Please. I can be. For you, I can be. I'll buy you that washing machine that you always wanted. Nyet. Mama, I'm begging you. If you say no to me again, I'm gonna... This is the last time that I will ever ask you. Please. If Ruth says yes, you can stay tonight. But I won't return to you. It's raining, Mr. President. It's too bad. Thank you, George. Have you seen this? Yeah. We're headed into nut country today. Ah! My favorite. I know. Those rich Texas society women, they're gonna eat you up. If it's so important I look good, why do I have to be blown around in a motorcade with you and Governor Connally first? I am so glad that you are here. It's so much better when you're here. 'Cause the one thing I couldn't bear would be to lose you. Morning, Lee. What's in the package? Curtain rods. I wish it would just rain or quit altogether. If it's raining in Dallas, we'll want a bubble top on the limo. They say it's going to clear up. Okay. If it does, no bubble. Well, be sure to get that in. Good morning, Lyndon. Mr. President. The Presidential party will leave Fort Worth on a quick flight to Dallas, where the motorcade will travel through downtown on their way to the Trade Mart. Good morning! This crowd started gathering out here quite early this morning to ensure a good vantage point. Air Force Number One, ladies and gentlemen, carrying the President of the United States. You gonna watch the parade? Yeah. I want to see the President. There's Mrs. Kennedy, and the crowd yells. And the President of the United States. The President, now partially obscured behind his wife... Yes, she is. She's beautiful. Mrs. Kennedy coming along behind him, grinning ah the while. Boy, ain't you coming downstairs? It's lunchtime. No, sir. The President now in with the First Lady, and the motorcade begins to move out. It cleared up. Should be here pretty soon now. Here comes the first car with Police Chief Jess Curry and Sheriff Bill Decker. And here is the President of the United States. And what a crowd and what a tremendous welcome he's getting now. Here they come! We can... And there's Jackie. She's getting just as big a welcome. And the crowd is absolutely going wild. This is a friendly crowd in downtown Dallas as the President and the First Lady pass by. There are people absolutely looking from every window here in downtown Dallas. It was a wonderful welcome as the President and Jacqueline Kennedy passed our point. Here they come! The President of the United States. And what a crowd and what a tremendous welcome he's getting now. We can... And there's Jackie. She's getting just as big a welcome. And the crowd is absolutely going wild. This is a friendly crowd in downtown Dallas as the President and the First Lady pass by. The shots came from the roof. Clear the way! Hold it! Hold it right there! You know this man? Yeah, he works here. I saw him right up there, one window from the top. - He had a rifle in the window. - Slow down. Can you describe him? White. 5'10", I guess. 160, 170 pounds. How old? Thirty, I'd say. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. You'll excuse the fact that I'm out of breath, but about 10 or 15 minutes ago, a tragic thing, from all indications at this point, has happened in the city of Dallas. Mrs. Kennedy. Mrs. Kennedy, please let us help the President. You know he's dead. Leave me alone. Mrs. Kennedy. Here. I heard three loud shots, seemingly from right over my head. Reports are in. We now have heard from two witnesses who saw a man in the window of the building above the route holding a gun. Yeah, this is Bobby. Bobby, this is Director Hoover. The President has been shot. Here is a bulletin from CBS News. In Dallas, Texas, three shots were fired at President Kennedy's motorcade in downtown Dallas. The first reports say that President Kennedy has been seriously wounded by this shooting. Repeating, President Kennedy has been shot by a would-be assassin in Dallas, Texas. Governor Connally has been taken upstairs for surgery. Well, how's the President? It looks bad. He's still... Somehow he's still breathing. The doctors are with him. I'm in your hands, Kenny. What should I do? I... I'll let you know as soon as I hear about the President. Taxi! 500 North Beckley. What the hell? I wonder what all the uproar is. I want to be with my husband. I'm sorry, Mrs. Kennedy. I want to be with my husband. You can't. The doctors are doing everything they can. I'm going to get into that room. No... The suspect in the shooting at Elm and Houston is reported to be an unknown white male, approximately 30, slender build, height, 5'10", weight 165 pounds. The First Lady is in the emergency room with the President. The crowd outside is quiet and waiting for some word of the condition of the President. You sure are in a hurry. Eternal rest grant unto him and let perpetual light shine upon him. May he rest in peace. Amen. Captain Fritz, I've taken a head count. We have one employee missing. His name is Lee Harvey Oswald. They want to perform an autopsy. I'm not leaving without him, Kenny. We have to take him home. I know. They can't have him. I'm taking my husband home with me. Okay, we'll call a mortuary. We'll get a casket. We can get someone to bring you a change of clothes from the plane. No. No. I want them to see what they've done to Jack. He's gone. Dear God. We need to get you out of here. What about Mrs. Kennedy? She won't leave the President. I won't leave without Mrs. Kennedy. I'll take her back with me on the plane. Mr. President, can we release the news to the press? No, Id better get back to the plane before you announce it. From Dallas, Texas, the flash apparently official, President Kennedy died at 1:00 p.m. Central Standard Time some 38 minutes ago. Vice President Johnson has left the hospital. Presumably, he will be taking the oath of office shortly and become the 36th President of the United States. The suspect in the shooting at Elm and Houston is supposed to be an unknown white male, approximately 30, 165 pounds... Excuse me. Come up to the car please. I'm sorry? Step over to the car please, sir. Look, I'm just walking. Sir, right now! I need you to step to the car. Thank you, sir. Where you headed? I'm just walking through the neighborhood. That's all. What's your name? Alik Adell. Can I see your hands, please? All right, sir. I'm gonna need you to step to the front of the car. Right here. Sir, I need to see your hands. I need to see your hands, sir, right now. Sir, I need... - Hello. Police operator? - Who is this? There's been a shooting. There's been a shooting. An officer's been shot. What's your location? Where's the officer? 10th Street between Marsalis and Beckley. It's a police officer. Somebody shot him. Excuse me, sir. Sir! Hosty. Jim, they think the shooter is Lee Oswald. Did you hear that? Hey, hey! Quiet down, will you? No, I didn't hear that. What's the name? Lee Oswald. This is it. It's all over now. He's got a gun! Hold him down. Hold him down. Secure him! I'm not resisting. Got him? I am not resisting arrest. All right, everyone. Listen up. Listen up. I need somebody to get a search warrant, go out to this address and pick up a man named Oswald. Lee Oswald? That's the bastard that shot Officer Tippit. What? Captain, I'll save you the trip. We've got him right next door. There he sits. They're saying I shot a police officer. What's your name? I didn't shoot anyone. Where do you work? All I did was bring a gun into a theater. That's all. I asked you where you work. And this... This is what your police force did to me. Sir? This is Special Agent James Hosty of the FBI. I know who you are. You're the man that's been accosting my wife. You leave her alone, you son of a bitch. Hey, hey. Hold on. I asked her some questions is all. You have any questions, you can ask me. Understand? Leave her alone. Ask me. Matter of fact, I have a lot of questions for you. Let's begin with Mexico City. I don't know what you're talking about. I'm done talking to him. FBI's the reason I've lost every job I've ever had. Goddamn FBI was following me. Hey, hey. That's enough, boy. Your boss says you left the building without permission. There was just so much excitement that I didn't think there was gonna be any more work today, so I left. I went to the movies. Miss Paine, we're with the Dallas County Sheriff's Department. Mind if we have a look around? Last time you saw your husband was yesterday? Da. What time was that? He came in the evening, and he stayed last night. Can... Does he have to touch that? The kids are sleeping in there. Did you see him this morning? Nyet. Does she speak English? What? Does your husband own a rifle? No, he doesn't. Excuse me. That is personal property. Okay? Can you please put the... Da. Yes. In the garage? The garage! Here? Hey, Jack, I was just headed over to the Carousel. It's closed. Closed for the whole weekend in honor of... I keep thinking about Mrs. Kennedy. The poor woman's going to have to come back here for a trial. She's gonna have to go through all... You okay, Jack? Yeah. No... Yeah, yeah. Get a look at that creep yet? No, but I think they're bringing him out for the press pretty soon. Thanks, Harry. That's him! Did you kill the President, Mr. Oswald? I'd like some legal representation. These police officers have not allowed me to have any. I... I don't know what this is all about. Did you kill the President? No, sir, and people keep asking me that. Did you shoot the President? I work in that building. Were you in the building at that time? Naturally, if I work in the building, yes, sir. Did you shoot the President? No, they're taking me in because of the fact I lived in the Soviet Union. Sir! I'm just a patsy. No, no, they treatin' me fine. Alik... Why? Why would you do this? This is a mistake. This is all a mistake. I'll have a trial. I'm gonna show 'em all. You mustn't worry about me, Mama. Come on. Get up. I'm gonna be fine. You kiss Junie and Rachel for me? Hmm? Oswald is being transported this morning to the county jail. Here he comes now. Captain Fritz, is this the man you believe killed President Kennedy? I think we have the right man. Okay, you wait right here, Sheba. Here we go! There he is! There he is! The man who shot Lee Oswald has been identified as Jack Ruby. R-U-B-Y. He runs a place in Dallas called the Carousel Club, which is a kind of a strip joint and nightclub. Here comes Oswald. He is ashen and unconscious at this time. Now being moved in. He's not moving. The accused assassin of the President and slayer of Officer Tippit, 24-year old Lee Harvey Oswald, also went to his grave today in a secret, almost unattended funeral at Fort Worth. The shooting, which forever sealed his lips and may have prevented police from ever getting the full story of what was behind the assassination of the President of the United States. We don't have any pallbearers. Come on, boys. So now he is a legend, when he would've preferred to be a man. Jack used to love to listen to the album from the Broadway musical Camelot. King Arthur and Lady Guinevere. He'd listen to it at night before falling asleep. He loved the final line. "Don't let it be forgot "that once there was a spot, "for one brief shining moment, "that was known as Camelot."
