 

                        Welcome to the first annual Kitten Bowl. I'm Beth Stern. Get ready for an event unlike anything you've ever seen. It's three hours of fur-filled entertainment with hundreds of adorable kittens. And it all starts right now. The stage has been set for the most adorable sporting event of the year. Tonight, the North Shore Bengals the Last Hope Lions the Cedar Cove Cougars and the Home and Family Felines square off in a grid iron battle of epic proportions. Four teams will enter, only one will be crowned champion. Touchdown! On a night filled with stars. Ferrell Owens. Feline Manning. Tomcat Brady. And Mr. Whiskers. And some animal-loving humans too. Mr. Whiskers meet Hoda. And I'm just gonna pile on another. Hi buddy. Touchdown! Can we get in the bowl? Let's go Rach! Kittens, kittens, kittens. I love kittens. We're gonna have a good game. The fur is gonna fly. And the cuteness will be almost unbearable. Unnecessary cuteness. Ten yards. This is the Kitten Bowl. Joining me in the booth are two incredible commentators. The legendary New York Yankee announcer John Sterling himself. And the uber talented, beautiful Renee Herlocker. Hey guys, what's in store for us today? Now don't let these cuddly kittens fool you. This is no powder puff game. I predict the fur is gonna fly. Get ready for a total cat fight. And there's plenty more action. A laser chase daring stunts of agility, even some of the stars of your favorite online cat videos will be here. It's an entire evening of cats being cute. Of course no game is complete without a tailgate party. We have plenty of fans getting wild here with us today. So let's check in with them In our purr-king lot. That's right, Beth. The anticipation is building in our Kitten Bowl purr-king lot. These fans have come prepared for a day of furr-filled excitement. Taking in the local cuisine, catnip burgers and barbeque pigskin. Every big game is won on the field, but they all start with the fans in the tailgate area. We're only minutes away from the kickoff and our fans look like they're ready for this game to get underway. The anticipation is building as they head to their seats. Alright let's get to the action. I'm gonna get outta here so we can bring in our starting lineup. Let's meet today's athletes. Taking the field first are the North Shore Bengals. With their orange coats and blue collars. Coming into this match up in first place in their division, known around the league for their rambunctious style of play. Starting for the Bengals Meowshawn Lynch Manti Meow Snowball Tim Teepaw Dandy Dalton and their all-star Ferrell Owens. The thirty, the twenty, the ten, he's done it again. Ferrell Owens, the orange kitten with the one black paw leads the league in both scoring and cuddles. Keep an eye on this kitten. He's on top of his game. And their opponent, the Last Hope Lions. The tabby cats with the purple collars who are entering this showdown with the best defense in the league and only allowing five unnecessary cuteness penalties all season. Starting for the Lions, Tabby Romo Socks Maverick Brett Furve Marbles and their top cat Mr. Whiskers. Mr. Whiskers wins hearts as well as games with his trademark white socks and extra long whiskers. He may not be the most fierce competitor, but he's surely the friendliest. They don't look like they're kitten around. Let's talk about how today's going to work. Today our kittens will compete in three games, two qualifying games and the winner of each of those will go nose to cute little nose in a final championship game for all the glory. Now let's break down the scoring. Just like football the object for our kittens is to, run climb, jump, or claw their way to the goal line. If they can get a toy over the line, touchdown. And here's something you'll also get a kick out of. They can also score extra points, like football players, by jumping on or jumping through the goal post. Well let's get to it. It's time for the first ever We're coming to you from beautiful Hallmark Channel Stadium on this cozy February day with the match up between the Last Hope Lions and the North Shore Bengals. And we're underway. The Bengals set to receive and Ferrell Owens takes the opening kickoff near the forty. The Bengals making an early push here. Oh they'd love to score first against this Lions defense. Owens is acting very playful here, John. We can only wonder if this will affect the Bengals' team chemistry when they need it most. You can see the Lions won't take this lying down. Or will they? Tabby Romo has the ball at the ten and breaks for the goal line. Touchdown. The Lions take advantage of a distracted Bengal defense and get in the end zone for the first points of the game. And the Lions celebrate. Tabby Romo is showing off his best touchdown dance here. They line up for the extra point. And it's good. Marbles makes a clean jump onto the goal post. Let's see that again in our kitten-view replay. Tabby Romo pounces into the end zone with authority, putting the Lions on top seven, zero. The crowd really going wild here, John. Nobody expected the Lions to strike first. It looks like the Bengals are trying to get a cat's eyeview of the field here, John. And Meowshawn Lynch takes the kickoff out of the end zone. Oh and he fumbles the ball. Leaving the Bengals confused and very cute. Keep an eye on Ferrell Owens here stalking the Lions reciever. And he strips the ball loose. Owens, he could go all the way. Touchdown, Bengals. And it looks like Owens is gonna jump into the stands for his famous Hallmark Channel hurdle. Owens is no stranger to excessive celebration. The Bengals make the extra point. And the score is tied at seven. Oh look out. Mr. Whiskers losing his cool. Penalty. Illegal use of the paws. Illegal use of he paws, John. You have to wonder if that's in response to Owens' excessive celebration. Well you maybe right, Renee. Whiskers trying anything here to shake the red hot Owens off his game. Tabby Romo trying to stretch the offense. The Lions really need to keep their focus here and Socks takes the snap. He's toying with the idea of a mouse flicker. But with nobody open downfield he's forced to take the scratch. Now the Bengals take over at midfield. But seem to be a little confused with the play call. Aww. Adorable. Meowshawn Lynch tries to sneak in from out of bounds, but the referee wasn't fooled. I guess that's gonna be a penalty. Penalty. Unnecessary cuteness. Ten yards. Wow. Unnecessary cuteness already, John. Lynch needs to keep his cuteness under wraps or it can get him into trouble today. John the Lions would love to get another score here before the end of the quarter. And that will do it as time expires in the first quarter with the score, the North Shore Bengals seven, the Last Hope Lions, seven. In case you're just joining us, let's go back and review how these two teams scored in the first quarter. Two scores in the first quarter. The first by Tabby Romo pouncing into the end zone and the second, Ferrell Owens who caused a fumble and easily swatted the mouse across the goal line. No clear-cut winner yet, but plenty more game to be played. Of course none of today's events would be possible without the enormous help of our friends at the North Shore Animal League. North Shore is the world's largest No Kill animal rescue and adoption organization. Leader in the No Kill movement, rescuing and rehabilitating animals instead of euthanizing them. They'll be stopping by later to share some incredible stories. And also thanks to Last Hope Animal Rescue and Rehabilitation and their work rehabilitating feral cats and finding them a safe home. Last Hope shelters are run by a volunteer staff who donate their time to rescue and rehabilitate animals in need. Their Fix-A-Feral program helps offset the cost of spaying and neutering your pet to make it affordable for everyone. So a big Cheer for them. Of course all of our animals here today are winners. But each and every one of them is in need of a good home. So our goal is to get them all adopted today. We'll tell you more about it later on. Well personally I'm looking forward to the celebrities we've lined up for tonight. We have some amazing stars in store for you. Rachel Ray. Nicky Hilton. The Reg. Kelly Rutherford. Hoda Kotb. Maksim Chmerkovskiy. Bob Harper. Rocco DiSpirito. Mark Steines and Cristina Ferrare from Hallmark Channel's Home & Family show. Hey Kitten Bowl fans, get off your couch and make some noise! Yeah! And more. Well I'm looking forward to the second quarter. Let's get to it. And we're back underway for the second quarter of game number one. The tempo of this game seems to be picking up. Ferrell Owens back with the ball trying to make sense of this wildcat offense. Pawing towards the goal line, but stopped at the twenty. The Bengals will be forced to attempt a field goal. Manti Meow going for the field goal. And it's good. Giving the Bengals a ten, seven lead. Let's take another look at that field goal. Meow soars up through the goal post, agile as a kitten, John. Right Renee. John, don't you just want to adopt them all? Ugh can't I just take 'em all home? Well it'd be a great idea if they all were adopted, but I don't know if I want to become a cat lady. John the Bengals know how important this game is and they do not want to let in another Lion touchdown. Crouching into a four-point stance they ready themselves for the play. What a tackle by Owens. Oh wait. There seems to be a flag on the play. Penalty. Fluffing the passer. First down. Fluffing the passer. I don't know if I agree with that call. Tabby Romo has possession of the ball when Owens shellacs him from behind. The Lions, trying to capitalize on that Bengal penalty. Tabby Romo with the ball at the fifteen. Prances into the end zone. Touchdown! Owens, clearly unhappy with the call here, has some words for the ref. Romo celebrating his score. But don't dance too soon. They're gonna take a look at this replay up in the booth. It's hard to tell from this angle, Renee. If you look from this angle, all he has to do is get the ball over the yellow line. And this looks like a clear-cut touchdown for Romo. Touchdown. And the crowd likes what they see. A touchdown. And the Last Hope Lions celebrate. Lineup for the extra point. And it's good. Putting the Last Hope Lions on top fourteen to ten. Here's the kick and the Bengals take control in their own end zone. Frantically looking for some open field. Now this Lions D is living up to their reputation. Owens trying to elude a tackler in the end zone. Even though all of our kittens are winners today you at home can go online and vote for your favorite kitten for the 2014 Kitten Bowl MVK: Most Valuable Kitten. To vote, go to Facebook.com/HallmarkChannel You can adopt great cat athletes like these at your local animal shelter right now. That's right, John. If you wanna bring more fun and love into your home adopt a kitten today from your local shelter. The Bengals are doing anything they can to get open but this Lions' defense is focused. Great effort by the Lions, getting the stop they were looking for, forcing the Bengals into another field goal attempt. Looks like Owens will take the kick. He's up soaring over the field. The kick is ... is... is good! Owens reaching the goal post to make the score fourteen, thirteen. Haha. Well Owens seems pretty happy with himself, as the Bengals celebrate. Aww. Adorable. The clock is running down as the final seconds tick away. And that will do it for the first half. What an exciting first half of play. With each team really showing its true colors. After one half of play the score is North Shore Bengals, thirteen. The Last Hope Lions, fourteen. Now lets throw it down to Beth. Alright. Regis Philbin will be here right after this. Joining me now is my friend, my neighbor and fellow animal lover, Regis Philbin. Hey Reg. How ya doing? How great is this? It's great. It really is. Kitten bowl. I'm very impressed. I really am. I think it's a terrific idea. The first Kitten Bowl of its kind and um, it's incredible. Yeah. Kittens all around. Just something I've never seen before. Total cuteness. And, and a great way to demonstrate how much fun they can be. You have had a wonderful cat for years and years and years, Ashley. What kind of a cat was she? Well Ashley uh, was uh, twenty years old when she, when she finally passed. But you know I bought it for uh, my, my little girls and uh, as they grew up and went to college or went to a job uh, Regis inherited the cat. And, but I got so attached to the cat. Now you know I had dogs when I was a kid. And the dogs were right there at the door when you came home. Not Ashley. Stayed on the couch and he watched me and for spite I would stay, I would get on the other couch and I would stare him back. Stare him back. Sooner or later he would get up. Walk across his couch. Go from one uh, end of the couch to my end of the couch and come right up to me. And whine you over. Yeah. I mean it was so, I loved it. It was... Yeah. ...very moving to me. Yea. Well for twenty years for a pet to live that long it's a part of the family, you know? Especially a cat. They don't go that long, do they? Yeah. Show a picture of Ashley. Yeah he was white with like orange ears. Yeah. I knew you had a picture. You always carry this picture. Yeah. Oh what a beauty. So are you partial to, you like the white ones? Well... not... there's one in here that really caught my... Which one? This little guy who keeps running, look he's climbing up. Look how strong he is. I think there're extra points for that. I know you're heading to the booth with John and Renee. Yes we're gonna call a uh, a uh, game here. Regis! A Kitty Bowl game! Regis energy at the Kitten Bowl! We're all set baby. Yeah and you and me. We're gonna have a good game. Here we are. Alright. So Regis will be joining Renee and John in the booth later on for the championship game. But right now let's get back to the field. Well thanks, Beth. Now we're off to an exciting start here at the first annual Kitten Bowl and both the North Shore Bengals and the Last Hope Lions have had their fair share of great moments in the first half. Let's check out what's going on in the locker room. The Hallmark Channel Locker Room Cam is brought to you by Bounty. Welcome back to Hallmark Channel Stadium for the first game of the semi finals here at the Kitten Bowl where the favored North Shore Bengals trail the Last Hope Lions by a score of fourteen to thirteen. Our teams are returning to the field and getting warmed up. Stretching out their legs and running some light sprints to prepare For the second half. It looks like the grounds crew has brought something in. Beth, what's going on down there? What you're seeing is the world famous Kitten Bowl Super Track. It's a piece of equipment designed to test our athletes' speed, agility, and reflexes. This game is about to go to a whole new level. Let's see it in action. And the third quarter is underway. With our kittens quickly taking to their new challenge: the Kitten Bowl's Super Track. Now the team strategy will need to change here as each team must roll the ball through the track and across the goal line to score a touchdown. Well I can't wait to see how these fierce competitors adapt to their new challenge. The defensive schemes will surely change here and I anticipate a high scoring affair. Lions take the ball first and look to push it over the hump. But the Bengals defense swoops in. Tim Tepaw makes the stop. Penalty biting. A biting penalty. Woof. Not a great start for the Lions and Tabby Romo unhappy with the call. I'm not sure what Romo's complaining about. Appears to be a clear-cut penalty. Now let's take another look. As you can see, Maverick clearly bites Tepaw from behind. After playing with the ref, the Lions have decided to place Tabby on the bench to cool his jets. These are passionate teams here, John. No doubt. Manti Meow gains possession fiercely trying to get downfield, but stopped by the Lions' stingy D. And Manti Meow acts quickly pouncing on the ball. He makes a move downfield really showing a sense of urgency, John. Touchdown. And into the end zone he prances. Manti Meow with a Bengal touchdown. As you can see, the Lions Defense was caught out of position here. They were really on the wrong place. But for the Bengals, it was the right time. Meow left all alone has a clear path to the end zone. And Owens will take the extra point. He's up... Ohhhh. A rare miss for Ferrell Owens. And the score, Bengals nineteen, Lions fourteen. The ball is back in play with the Lions looking to get their offense moving. John, the intensity has really picked up here in the third quarter. Everyone knows what's at stake here. Ferrell Owens is all paws here, John. And Dandy Dalton looks to take a bite out of the Lions offense. Penalty. Biting. Right, Renee. It appears the Dandy Man can and that's gonna cost him. Biting. Go figure. Now let's see that again. Dandy clearly retaliating here unabashedly chomping on Maverick's tail. John the Bengals really have the Lions on the run here. Owens wants to make up for that missed field goal. Solid defense here by the Lions, John. Touchdown! Owens with a nifty little move gets the ball into the end zone. Owens makes this extra point count. Extending the Bengal lead to twenty-six, fourteen. And that will do it for the third quarter in game one. Here at the first annual Kitten Bowl. Everybody, I'm Maks, this is Venus, and you're watching the Kitten Bowl on Hallmark Channel. You like kittens, no? Aren't kittens cute? Kittens cute, kittens... We'll get back to the game right after this. Right buddy? Welcome back to Hallmark Channel's Kitten Bowl. We'll get back to the big game in just a minute. But first I'm sitting here with a wonderful friend of mine from North Shore Animal League America. Joanne Yohannan. Hi Joanne. Hi Beth. I am so excited to be here at Hallmark Channel's very first annual Kitten Bowl. I know. This is amazing. Kitten cuteness all around. Alright let's start by talking about North Shore Animal League America. I mean how many adoptions did we do last year? We did over one million adoptions. Over one million lives have been saved. Yes the adoption's incredible. It's a No Kill organization. Which once an animal comes to us they're safe until they're adopted. Absolutely. And one of the reasons I'm very proud to work for North Shore Animal League, all the programs the have been developed over the last decade. Yeah. Programs that were developed to save the lives of animals. Our adoptathon. World wide pet adoptathon is a fabulous example. Let's bring us to the Kitten Bowl. Kitten cuteness everywhere. It's so exciting to know that all of the kittens in the Bowl will be adopted. How many cats come into shelters every year? Sadly it's millions. Every year six to eight million cats, kittens, dogs and puppies enter U.S. shelters and half of those are, are cats and kittens. So millions of them. There's Kitten Bowl parties in shelters and with rescue groups all across the country. They're going on right now, these Kitten Bowl parties. Right now. So if some body would like to adopt a cat or a kitten they could just go to their local shelter and attend the Kitten Bowl Party. It's pretty awesome. It is. John, Renee, back to you. Thanks Beth. This game is heating up and here's how we got to this point. Let's take a look at the highlights. Let's get back to the field as we begin the fourth quarter. The score, the North Shore Bengals twenty-six, the Last Hope Lions, fourteen. The favored Bengals are in the lead, but don't count the Lions out just yet. Ferrell owens and Maverick wrestling for the ball on our Kitten Bowl Super Track. Owens looks to be getting the better of this matchup thus far. Right, John, but watch out for Maverick to make a big play. He knows his team needs some points to stay in this game. The Bengal defenders are nowhere in sight, this is an opportunity for the Lions. And the play fizzles out as Maverick can't seem to get the ball further down the track. Tabby Romo moving the ball downfield. Great stop by the North Shore Bengals. Maverick takes the pass from Romo. Touchdown. Maverick slides into the end zone for a Last Hope Lion touchdown. Marbles lines up for the extra point. He's up and he's good. Great teamwork here by the Lions as Tabby Romo assists Maverick in getting through the defense and Maverick easily takes the ball into the end zone for the score. With that Lion touchdown the score, the North Shore Bengals, twenty-six. The Last Hope Lions, twenty-one. Ferrell Owens skillfully sliding the ball through the track, but stopped by Maverick who causes the fumble and the Lions take over. Great defense by Maverick, the Lions still have some more left in them, John. Tim Tepaw gets in on the action. And it looks like the Bengals are building some momentum here. Tepaw spins around and makes a break for the goal line. Great stop by Socks. Thwarting the efforts of Tepaw and holding off the Bengals' offense for now. And after the stop the Last Hope Lions take over. Maverick is on a tear downfield. Maverick's storming towards the end zone, gets hung up at the bridge. Up and over the bridge he goes and I don't think he's going to Grandma's house. And Marbles lines up for the extra point. It's good. Putting the Last Hope Lions on top of the North Shore Bengals. A score of twenty-eight to twenty-six. Maverick goes coast to coast for the score. That's the first time I've seen a cat-lete accomplish such a feat. And what a treat it was to watch. The Lions put the pressure on the favored Bengals here in the fourth. The Bengals have a brief meeting near the side line. They need to figure out how to get back on top, John. Meowshawn Lynch and the Bengals trying frantically to get back in the game. Meow goes for the windmill here, John. Looking like a young Pete Townsend, he winds up and windmills Tabby Romo right on the kisser. He won't be fooled again, Renee. And let's see that again. I think it's safe to say emotions are soaring right now. These teams mean business. And Owens with a nifty little pass to Tepaw and lickety-split. Touchdown. The Bengals score with great teamwork. This Bengal team is talented. They can score quickly with all of their offensive players. Owens will take the kick. Up and through the uprights for the score. Giving the North Shore Bengals thirty-three and for now the lead over the Last Hope Lions who have twenty-eight. The Lions are scrambling here. Trying to come up with some answers to this high octane Bengals squad. We're nearing the two-minute warning. The Lions need to act fast here, John. And the whistle blows for the two-minute warning. When we return, the Lions will have one last hope to win the game. The cat fight continues right after this. And with two minutes left in game the North Shore Bengals are on top of the Last Hope Lions thirty-three, twenty-eight. The Lions need to feel a sense of urgency here. There's a lot on the line. Maverick here mouthing and clawing the ball nearer to the goal line. He appears to be juking with himself or perhaps an invisible defender. This Super Track is no joke, John. Testing our cat-letes' skills to their fullest potential. Touchdown. Maverick gets into the end zone for the touchdown. The Bengals' defense was caught sleeping again. Mr. Whiskers lines up for the extra point. He's up and he's in there. Brett Furve celebrates in the stands. He likes what he's seeing from his teammates. Now let's take a look at the replay. Maverick really giving his all for this score here. Although there are no defenders in sight. We appreciate the enthusiasm. Maverick, he's one special kitten. And with that touchdown the Lions pull ahead of the Bengals, thirty-five, thirty-three. No strangers to high intensity moments. The North Shore Bengals are relying on their super stars Ferrell Owens and Meowshawn Lynch to take this game home. Owens all alone on a break downfield. Touchdown! And he's in to the end zone easily. The Lions' defense had a breakdown in coverage there. The Bengals ready for the extra point. Up and good sails the kick over a frisky Lions defense. With that touchdown the Bengals pull ahead making the score forty to thirty-five. And we're in the final minute of play here. The Last Hope Lions will get one last crack at winning this all-important first game. The Lions furiously and curiously trying to move the ball downfield here. Curiousity won't hurt these kittens. They're a-poised to win this game. Socks with a legal block here on Snowball. John, that looked like illegal biting to me. Well there was no contact with a tail making that a clean bite for Socks. Maverick is making a big move here from the thirty, the twenty, the ten... but he can't quite get in. And time expires here in game one of the Kitten Bowl. What a let down for the Lions. Maverick thought he played his cards right on that one. But in the end he'll have to fold. Last Hope Lions falling just short of the North Shore Bengals by the score of forty to thirty-five. The Bengals celebrate. They're going to the championship. The Lions just can't believe it. The game came down to the very last play. However Maverick, Romo, and the Lions just couldn't find a way to get it done. Our next teams are about to take the field. But just like all athletes, Our kittens have to limber up before the game. Let's take a look at their warm up. An essential part of any cat-lete's preperation for a big game is warm up. For these lords of the grid iron, stretching is paramount. Flexiblity is crutial in keeping their cat-like reflexes sharp. At the Kitten Bowl, nap time is paws-itively encouraged. Balance and footwork are two key components to victory. But above all else, cuteness always wins. We're cleaning up the field for game two of the Kitten Bowl. We'll be right back. Welcome back. We are moments away from game two of the Kitten Bowl. First let's take a look at some of the incredible highlights from game one. John, Renee. Let's take a look at how the North Shore Bengals were able to defeat the Last Hope Lions in game one. We knew this game was gonna be an adorable battle. The Lions struck with Tabby Romo pouncing into the end zone, but it didn't take long for Ferrell Owens as he responded with a North Shore touchdown. No shortage of great defense in this game. As the Bengals caused a fumble early, taking the Lions off their stride. Meowshawn Lynch soared into the uprights for a Bengal field goal. The Last Hope Lions were quick to respond and after a controversial call the booth ruled a touchdown for Last Hope. The Lions' D stood strong and forced the Bengals into a sixty yard field goal and Ferrell Owens soared above the crowd to close out the first half fourteen, thirteen, Lions. The second half saw our Kitten Bowl Super Track, which lead to a scoring frenzy. Both teams scoring and answering each other in what was one of the most exciting halves of kitten football I've seen In a while. In the end the top ranked North Shore Bengals proved to be too much for the Last Hope Lions and sealed their fate in the Kitten Bowl championship game. Let's see who the Bengals will face after our next game. Let's check out what's going on in the locker room. Locker Room Cam is brought to you by Bounty. Alright, let's go back to the purr-king lot. Alright it's time to meet our next kittens. Taking the field first are the Home and Family Felines. The team with black and white fur, wearing the orange collars. The Felines have earned their spot in this game with cuddly defense and an adorable knack for cuteness. The Feline starters are Jay Catler Midnight Crawlin' Cat-PurrNip Lucky Troy Paw-Lamalau and the famous Feline Manning. The clear team leader for the Felines has led his team here with speed. This agile kitten is known for his electric personality and excellence in the no cuddle offense. He'll surely be looking to lead his team to victory today. Up next are the Cedar Cove Cougars. A team that may look extremely adorable and innocent, but make no mistake these cuddly kittens have come to play. With their trademark red collars, these kittens will be trying to corral a victory today. Defense is the name of the Cougars' game. And barring any unnecessary cuteness penalties. I look for them to have a great game today. Starting for the Cougars Dan Furrino Calico Purress Hairy Rice Crazy Legs Terry Bradclaw and their all-star, Tomcat Brady. This tomcat always finds a way to get his paws on the pigskin. Leading the league with the most offensive passing yards and a great receiver in his own right. Brady will surely bring his trademark good looks and game face to the matchup. Welcome back to Hallmark Channel Stadium for game two of the Kitten Bowl. This game's matchup is between the Home and Family Felines and the Cedar Cove Cougars. You can adopt great cat-letes like these at your local animal shelter right now. If you wanna bring more fun and love into your home, adopt a kitten today from your local shelter. And we're underway in game two of the Kitten Bowl between the Cedar Cove Cougars and the Home and Family Felines. Each team trying to get a feel for the game here. The pressure of this matchup must be intense, John. The Cougars look to strike first and Hairy Rice gallops into the end zone. Touchdown. They line up for climbs up the goal post. The Cougars strike first here in game two. And the score is seven, nothing. The Felines look to get back in this game in a hurry. Sprinting down the field looking to get some offense moving. The Cougars' defense looking to get an appeal from the ref. They better pay attention, look to the Feline end zone. Looks like that's Troy Paw-Lamalau at the five. And touchdown, Felines. The Cougars can only look on in disbelief. The felines line up for the extra point. And it's good. Knotting the score at seven a piece. The Cougars' Crazy Legs, the all-pro out of Neuter Dame takes the ball at the twenty-five yard line looking to pass. Ooh. And the receiver outruns the defender, but the pass was over thrown out of the end zone. Well Renee, it looks like he just threw that one away. The Felines take the ball at the twenty looking to gather some momentum. Crazy Legs has the ball at the fifteen. Keeping a close watch on the defense. And Crazy Legs springs into the end zone for another Cougar touchdown. And the extra point is up and onto the upright. It's good. Putting the Cedar Cove Cougars up fourteen, seven. The Cougars are off to another great start here. This has the potential to be a blowout. Oh don't speak too soon, Renee. The Home and Family Feline defender Midnight is into action. Swatting the potential touchdown out of the end zone. Great defensive effort there by the Felines. A Tomcat Brady takes the ball at the twenty to the fifteen. And leaves it there for something more interesting. That looks like a mouse to me, John. Well Tomcat just got a mouse full. Things look to be getting hairy on the Cougar sideline, John. But wait. They're distracted by a lovely young cheerleader dancing on the sideline. And the fascination wears off. And Tomcat Brady fumbles a snap, but had no open receivers. The Cougars get stopped at the thirty. They're gonna have to go for the kick. The kick is up and it's good. And with that field goal the Cougars increase their lead seventeen to seven. The Feline D seems to be caught up in their own world here, John. Bouncing all over the sidelines. Troy Paw-Lamalau is really falling apart. This could be a cat-tastrophe for the Felines. Great goal line defense by the Felines. The Felines gain control of the ball at midfield. Ooh. And the Felines make a run down the far sideline past a sleeping Cougars defense. And it's a Feline touchdown. Feline Manning rolls into the end zone light as feather. And the extra point is up, but Jay Catler seems to be distracted by the billboard for his favorite TV show, Home and Family on Hallmark Channel. We all love Home and Family, but Catler has to get his head back in the game. The Home and Family Felines strike at the end of the first quarter. Clawing closer to the Cedar Cove Cougars, with the score seventeen, thirteen. We'll have more cat on cat action when we return. Welcome back to the Kitten Bowl. I'm so excited I'm here with my friend Hoda Kotb. I'm so excited to be at the Kitten Bowl. I heard some thing. What did you hear? You adopted recently your first pet ever. Yeah. I, you know what's funny? I never had a pet because both my parents were like, look we already have three animals. That was me, my brother and sister. And they were against a pet. And I, I always wanted a pet and it took this long. I can't believe it. I mean I'm forty-nine years old living in New York. I got my very first dog and I have to tell you, I, I honestly wasn't sure how I would be. I di... , you don't know what you don't know. It's true. So what happened was I get this dog and... You adopted this dog. I adopted this dog from PAWS Chicago. Which is a great adoption agency and I wanted to name him. So I go Mom I think I'm gonna name him Blake after Blake Shelton. She goes oh no don't do that. It's not Good. It's not. It, it sounds very weird. He's married. I go Mom it's fun. And she goes no don't do it. And so I said okay, you know what, I'm not gonna do it. I get to work that day and I go we're ready to announce a name and everyone goes are you going to name the dog today? And I go yeah. What are you going to name it? Blake? I said no, no. I'm gonna name him um, Charlie. And they go but you said Blake. You said Blake. They kept repeating it over and over again and I go. Why does everyone care what I'm naming my dog? Like who cares? People care. I got on the set and I go I wanted to name my dog Blake, but everyone thought it was weird and I was becoming stalkerish and crazy. So I'm gonna name my dog Charlie. And then all of a sudden on the overheads on the loud speaker I hear, Hoda is that you? I thought you were naming that dog after me? Do I don't want to hear you namin' that dog Charlie. His name is Blake Shelton. Of course he wanted you to name your baby after him. I got to tell you when I say Blake and I cuddle up with Blake. He's your man forever. Thanks Hoda for being here with me today. My pleasure. So much fun. Okay back to you John and Renee. And we're back for the second quarter of the second semi final game in the Kitten Bowl. With the Cedar Cove Cougars on top of the Home and Family Felines seventeen, thirteen. There's plenty more game to be played and it surely won't disappoint. Uh oh, John. It appears Crawlin' Cat-PurrNip is rollin' around in catnip near the end zone. Yeah Renee, that's a clear violation of the league's substance abuse policy. Now at the other end of the field Crazy Legs is moving the ball toward the goal line. But he's stopped by Midnight. Great play by the Feline defense. Ooh. And Jay Catler has some words for his teammate. Knocking the ball back into Cougar territory. These teammates really need to get together. This is the biggest game of the season. Dan Furrino is in good position near midfield and he makes a move downfield. Great defense by the Felines. Stopping him at the thirty and Paw-Lamalau likes what he sees from his teammates. Crazy Legs toying on the far sideline looks to pass. And Tomcat Brady breaks into open field at the ten, five, touchdown, Cougars. The Feline defense is stunned. Let's see that again in our Kitten Bowl replay. What a score by Brady. Putting the Cedar Cove Cougars on top of the Home and Family Felines twenty-three, thirteen. They line up for the extra point. And it's good. The Felines may be behind in points, but they definitely aren't short on charm. Look at them go. Crazy Legs has great ball control at midfield. Well Renee, the Cougars seem to be on cruise control here. They just need to keep playing a team game. And some wrestling is breaking out on the far sideline. It seems to be between two Cougar players, John. Ooh and that will surely draw a flag. Illegal use of the claws. Fourth down. Hairy Rice can't believe the call on his teammates. And the playfulness seems to be contagious, Renee. The Feline defenders are really upset with each other. Paw-Lamalau taking out his frustrations on anyone he can reach. And Tomcat Brady takes a pass from Crazy Legs for a touchdown. Look at that teamwork, John. Crazy Legs drops a dime for Brady, and he knows just what to do with that. And the extra point is up. Ohhh. A miss for the Cedar Cove Cougars. Things are looking dismal for the Felines. With the score thirty, to thirteen. Wow Renee, the Felines have given up and are back to the old ways looking like some rough alley cats. Chasing the Cougars around the field. Woah. Paw-Lamalau has lost his shirt here, John. That tackle will surely draw a penalty. Penalty. Biting. First down. Biting? Uh oh. Well the Felines have bitten off more than they can chew today. The Felines may not be trying to win the game here, but they certainly are trying to win the hearts of the fans with their adorable playfulness. And the posturing continues, Renee. The Felines have given up on this half of play. All pretense of sportsmanship has gone out the window. The Felines just want to get outta here John, trying to scale the wall of Hallmark Channel Stadium. The kittens seem to have taken a break from the game to well, just be loveable kittens. And that will do it for the second quarter. A real let down for the Felines and the Cougars off to a large lead with a score of thirty to thirteen. Hi. I'm fitness trainer Bob Harper and I'm here to tell you that your pet could be your best personal trainer. Play with your pets. Take them for a walk, whatever the case may be. You'll be getting exercise and so will they. The cat fight continues right after this. And welcome back to the Kitten Bowl. And right now joining us in the booth is comedian and cat lover Chuck Nice. Well Chuck, what do you think of the game so far? Well I got to tell you, John. I think these cats have really come to play. It's been a long season of them scratching and clawing their way to the big game and I for one am overwhelmed with all of the adorableness that I'm seeing right now. I like to call this Cutie Palooza. I know it's the I like it. We're sticking with it. Uh, let's talk a little bit about the North Shore Animal League and all the work that they're doing. Yeah absolutely. You know the North Shore Animal League. The great thing that people don't understand when they uh, adopt is that they're not just bringing love to an animal. They're actually bringing love into the home. So it's a two way street, you know? And it's a wonderful thing because not only are you saving the life of a precious animal. But you're enriching your own life. And I know that that's not funny, but I don't care. That was on my heart and I had to say it. Oh well thanks Chuck. The kittens certainly do warm the heart. And they're heating up the turf as we enter the third quarter of game number two. With the Home and Family Felines trailing the Cedar Cove Cougars, thirty to thirteen. Again for the second half of the qualifying games we have brought in our Kitten Bowl's Super Track. It's sure to be an exciting half of play, John. Both teams off to a fairly conservative start here. Considering the savage play of the first half. John, you have to wonder if these teams have any gas left in the tank after that combustible first half. Well I got to tell you guys when it comes to Cougars versus Felines, I'm not supposed to take sides. But I can say that I'm pretty partial to Cougars. That's just a personal aside. Crazy Legs working the ball into Feline territory. The Cougars are looking to add to their lead, John. They want to take this game out of the hands of a very capable Feline Manning offense. Touchdown! Hello kitty we got ourselves a touchdown. And the Felines get in the end zone for a touchdown. Jay Catler trying to rally his team back from a seventeen point deficit. Makes quick work here to start the third quarter. The Felines line up for the extra point. And it's good. Climbing closer to the Cougars. Making the score thirty to twenty. I'm really liking what I'm seeing by the Felines here, John. You can tell they are fired up after half time. Tomcat Brady working the ball through the Super Track trying to get some more points on the board here. The Felines are a very fiery team. Capable of coming back in this game if the Cougars give them a chance. Feline Manning moves up the field. Ooh. Stopped by Crazy Legs. It's a real cat on cat stand off at midfield. Midnight making a move toward the Feline end zone. Touchdown! Great work by Midnight here, John. Stealthily finding the end zone while a distracted Cougar defense gets caught sleeping. They line up for the kick. And it's good. Jay Catler is on the up rights for the extra point. And the Felines are really making a comeback here, John. Clawing closer to the Cougars, making the score thirty, twenty-seven. Well Renee, the game ain't over till the last whisker has fallen here at the Kitten Bowl. The Cougars are desperate to find a touchdown here, Renee. Right John. The Cougars just can't seem to get a handle on this Super Track. Well the Felines are certainly off to a great start here. Touchdown! And Crawlin' Cat-PurrNip finds the end zone for another touchdown. Wow John. The Felines are really out purr-forming the Cougars here scoring twenty-one unanswered points and taking the lead thirty- four, thirty over the rival Cougars. Keep voting for your Most Valuable Kitten at Facebook.com/HallmarkChannel And the Cougars really need to get a score here. They appear to be gathering balls, John. Perhaps they didn't hear the rules. They need to get any ball over the goal line. It's not how many balls they can collect. It's how many they can get across the threshold of the end zone. Aww look at that. I mean seriously, this is a, that's just a little too adorable for me. I don't know if I can take the darling things that are happening right now. Well that's old Crazy Legs. The all-pro out of Neuter Dame. After the calamity from the first half. The ref is keeping a keen eye on this matchup. Tomcat Brady trying to take the game into his own paws. Making a beak downfield. At the ten, to the five, touchdown, Cougars. Touchdown! Yes. Brady really scurries down the track finding the end zone for the first time this half. And they line up for the extra point. And its good. And the score thirty-seven, thirty four Cougars. Oh no Renee, Calico Purress seems to have some words for the ref. Unkitten-like conduct. Ten yards. Loss of down. Unkitten-like conduct, John that penalty really seems to have put a damper on the Cougars just as they were heating up. And that will do it for the third quarter of play where the Felines making a tremendous comeback. But the Cougars remain on top. The score, the Cougars thirty-seven, the Felines thirty-four. We'll get back to the game right after this. Welcome back. The clock is ticking down as our kittens claw their way into the championship. Let's get to the field and see that action. Now here's the ball game between the Cedar Cove Cougars and the Home and Family Felines. The Cedar Cove Cougars are on top of this game thirty-seven, thirty-four. And of course the famous Kitten Bowl Super Track is back out for the final quarter of the game. Let the cuteness continue. Tomcat Brady makes a sensational move toward the end zone. Touchdown! Look at that paw over paw form. He's up and the extra point gets the Cougars to forty-four. The Home and Family Felines are left stunned and now trailing by two scores. The Cougars look to be gaining momentum as Crazy Legs makes a block so Dan Furrino can get over the hump. Yes but the question is can he make it? Pass complete to Tomcat Brady who takes it into the end zone. Touchdown! Naww they're hanging from the rafters now. Tomcat Brady once again the constant professional looking awesome today. More polish execution by Tomcat Brady. He's been all over the field today. The score is now Cedar Cove Cougars fifty-one, Home and Family Felines thirty-four. The Cougars are just toying with them now. The referee is watching close for taunting. Midnight, the team's star felinebacker can't even get a look at the Cougars' offense. I got to tell ya the cat really knows how to cradle the ball. It's like a cat burglar. Mhmm. He swipes the ball. They are just laying around out there and the ref has certainly taken notice. Delay of game. Five yards. And they're not happy about that one, Renee. The Felines' attempt to take back the ball is ineffective. But luckily the Cougars are running in circles. And the fans do not like that, John. Coach Catca making some serious changes for this game. Giving a different look to this offense. Pretty doggone impressive. Doggone? It's a cat fight. As his teammates look on Tomcat Brady's one cat show continues. Touchdown! Oh! There's one of Brady's textbook moves. Look at that ball protection. This kitty can do it all. Even the Cedar Cove Cougars have to check the scoreboard. That's right. Fifty-eight, thirty-four. Tomcat Brady simply can't be stopped. The Felines have possession, but the Cougars steal the ball and try to make a move for the end zone. Again Brady has an open field, but will he find his way? He does. Touchdown! Check the spin move after the steal. Tomcat Brady. This kitten's chasing his tail around the opposition. The Felines have to hide their eyes as the score is now sixty-six to thirty-four. It looks like both teams are racking up the cuteness points. But that won't help the Felines. Oh! That is a serious collision. I think he might need a cat scan after that collision. We'll keep you updated. No, there's another steal by supreme defender Crazy Legs. He passes to Tomcat Brady. The Cougars are certainly making each other look good today. Teamwork is dreamwork, John. While this is the Felines' last chance to mount a comeback, but I'm afraid the Cougars are gonna be too much for them. Touchdown Cougars! Yes! Do my eyes deceive me? Is it really seventy-two to thirty-four? Wow, John. The clock is running down as the referee watches the final seconds tick away. An unheard of amount of scoring. The Cedar Cove Cougars route the Home and Family Felines seventy-three to thirty-four. Well that's it. The Cougars beat the Felines and next up the Kitten Bowl championship. I'm here with some serious cat fans today. Joining us right now is someone who you know loves to be in the kitchen, but she's also a big sucker for a kitten. Welcome Rachel Ray. I'm so psyched to be here. I know. This is crazy. This is so much fun. Alright Rach, I always have known you're an animal lover and we've worked together with North Shore Animal League for years. Yup. But I just found out recently you're a big cat lover. You know everybody associates me with pitbulls because of my sweet girl Isabel. Izzy. And you know that four years ago we started a pet food company. Made to human standards, made here in America, no fillers, called Nutrish for dogs. Because I care about what I give my animals as much as I care about what I feed my husband, or my mom, or myself. And I feel like there's so many pet owners that want that presence of mind. That security. So we wanted to have a, a quality that was unmatched in, in the industry. Since day one I've given one hundred percent of my proceeds to animal rescue. Can we talk about how much that is? Over five million dollars. Over five million dollars to rescue. I have goosbumps, look at it. Yeah. It's great. It's really wonderful. And it's about time the cats are benefiting from your Nutrish. And my mom has been asking for this forever, but again we wanted to make sure it was the best quality product, period on the market. We have wet and dry, it just came out. What is this called? It's in the stores now. Paw lickin' chicken and liver recipe. Isn't that adorable. Alright should we, oh I have a sleeping kitten on my lap. It'll wake him up. Let's see if it does it. What is that? What is that? How great to wake up for a snack, with a snack right under your mouth. Breakfast in bed, right? Crazy. Its like a kitty brunch. This is the cutest. Alright turn around and look what's happening behind you. Can we get in and play with them? Can we go? Let's do it. Can we get in the bowl? Let's go Rach. Okay. Hi guys! Are you playin'? All of these guys are gonna get adopted, right Beth? Oh my gosh. Everybody's up for adoption at North Shore Animal League. But I just like to tell people they can get any kittens that look just like this at their local shelter. So maybe they inspire people to adopt. Right? These are precious babies. Well Rach, thank you for all of your wonderful work with animal rescue and... Thank you for having me. This was a blast. I mean Rachel Ray and Kitten Bowl. It's, it's a perfect combination. Alright more Kitten Bowl right after the break. The Hallmark Channel Locker Room Cam is brought to you by Bounty. Welcome back to the Kitten Bowl. We just saw our kittens in the locker room ready to take the field one last time. We're moments away from our championship game. But first let's take a look back at some of the highlights from game two. Game two of Kitten Bowl was a high spirited and high scoring affair full of cuddles and huddles. The first quarter saw both teams scoring touchdowns and field goals alike. With the Cedar Cove Cougars besting the Home and Family Felines by three. The second quarter saw some hair-raising defense and was low on scores. But Cedar Cove managed to stay on top. In the third quarter the Home and Family Felines mounted a solid comeback. And it seemed there was a chance that Manning and his mates could upset the opposition. However the Cedar Cove Cougars sealed the game's fate with a litter of touchdowns in the fourth. Let's go to our pop culture correspondent Kristen Aldridge to hear what people are talking about today. Kristen? Thanks Beth. I am here in gorgeous sunny Los Angeles. It is absolutely the purr-fect day to enjoy the Kitten Bowl. You know what's trending big time right now online? Cat videos. That's right and Beth of course you're there enjoying all the action. It's one of the most exciting events of the year. I'm jealous. Take me with you next time. Back to You. Great. Thanks Kristen. Now let's shake things up with some awesomely silly cat videos. Alright let's get to our starting lineup. Starting for the Bengals Meowshawn Lynch Manti Meow Snowball Tim Teepaw Dandy Dalton and their all-star Ferrell Owens. Starting for the Cougars Dan Furrino Crazy Legs Terry Bradclaw Hairy Rice Calico Purress and their all-star Tomcat Brady. John, Renee here I am midfield before the big game between the Cedar Cove Cougars and the North Shore Bengals and it is sure to be a good one. But I'm here to give these guys some encouragement. Okay. Now what I want you guys to know is this, remember who you are. I want to see all the adorableness that I can see out of you. You are what the Kitten Bowl is all about. Remember your rich tradition of cuteness, riding around on robotic floor cleaners on the internet. Playing the piano. Jumping in and out of anything. People love you. And you got to give it to them. Okay, Johnson? Okay I know your real name's not Johnson, but I'm a coach so there's got to be a Johnson. I need you to give them that take me home now look, okay? Fluffy, okay I know your name's not Fluffy, but Johnson's already taken. I'm gonna need some frolicking out of you. Some serious frolicking. Alright I know you're saving your energy for the game. That's a good strategy. Good strategy. And Snowball. I've always wanted a cat named Snowball. Or should I say another cat named Snowball. I can't take it anymore. Alright guys back to you. They're so cute. Chuck, these two teams have scratched and clawed their way to the championship game. And deservedly so. They each earned their spot in this game. With the Bengals nipping their way past the Lions by a whisker and the Cougars pouncing all over a confused Felines squad. And we're underway in the much anticipated Kitten Bowl championship game. And the Bengals take the opening kick off. Manti Meow at the fifty. Snowball misses the handoff. The ball's up for grabs and the Cougars recover. Snowball takes control at the forty. Looking to pass downfield, and the pass is complete to Ferrell Owens. From his fifty to the Cougar thirty. Oh and he pauses. Looking for some backup. Works his way to the twenty and the Cougars stop him In his tracks. Tomcat Brady takes control at forty. He seems to be calling an audible, John. He may be calling. But his teammates aren't answering. Brady taking his time, Renee. I think he may be getting a little too cute here. Penalty. Unnecessary cuteness. Ten yards. As you can see here, John. Brady is just too cute. I can't believe he thought he could get away with that. The Bengals looking to capitalize off the Cougar penalty. Snowball listening to the play call from coach Jim Harpaw jumps into action, but his efforts are thwarted due to a lack of focus. Right, John. Snowball appears to have other things on his mind. An inside source told me these cat-letes had a little too much fun in the city last night. Catnip? Yes, John. Sad but true. Dandy Dalton, showing no signs of a catnip hangover, pounces on the ball at the ten, but can't seem to get a grip on it. Crazy Legs brings the ball to midfield. It looks like we have an old fashioned Catonian stand off here, John. Manti meow wins the standoff, taking possession back for the Bengals. The energy in this game is palpable. There are kittens littered all over the field. And the Cougars act fast here. What a pass. But he goes out of bounds at the forty. The Cougars will be forced to take the field goal. The lineup for the kick. It's up. And it's good. Crazy Legs soars into the uprights for a Cougar field goal. The first point of the game, making the score Cougars, three and Bengals, nothing. And the North Shore Bengals receive the kick at midfield. Great work by the Cougars. Utilizing the paw cycle defense. It's just like riding a bike, Renee. Instinctual. Great play by Hairy Rice. The Cedar Cove Cougars know how important this game is. They're hungry for a victory. With time running out in the first, Manti Meow gallops his way to the twenty, the ten, and into the end zone for a Bengals touchdown. Touchdown! Meow shows some fancy footwork here as he quick steps into the end zone for the score. And Owens will take the extra point. He's up. Ohhh. Owens misses another extra point. Very out character for him, John. Meow's dance moves put the North Shore Bengals on top, six, three. The claws are coming out. We'll have more Kitten Bowl plus Nicky Hilton will be joining us. Stay right here. Welcome back. The excitement is building here at the Kitten Bowl Stadium. Let's go to our tailgaters to see what they think so far. Alright let's get back to the field. And we're back at Hallmark Channel Stadium for the second quarter of the Kitten Bowl championship with the North Shore Bengals out for an early three point lead over the Cedar Cove Cougars. The Dandy Man pounces on the Cougars' secondary. He's trying to set the tone for this quarter early, John. The Bengals want to take this game into their own paws. And again, Dandy Man playing rough. These Bengals may be out of the jungle, but they came to rumble. Dandy shakes his tail in the face of his teammate and gestures for the audible. The Cougars better wake up here, John. The Bengals' momentum is really picking up. Illegal use of the claws. Fourth down. Illegal use of the claws on Cedar Cove. Wow I think the Dandy Man got away with one there. I agree, John. But when we look at the replay you can see that Crazy Legs has his claws out. Good call. Here's Crazy Legs looking for a little help from his friends. And it appears Calico Purress has taken some time out for a light snack. Penalty. Unnecessary cuteness. Ten yards. An inopportune time for a meal break. And the Cougars receive the penalty. Mmm. An unfortunate, but delicious call. Snowball makes moves with a yarn ball near midfield. Passes long downfield looking for Ferrell Owens. What a slam. Oooo. Owens takes a hard fall after that missed pass. Owens is known for his reckless style of play and this is no exception. Jumping way above the defense but unable to reel in the pass. Now let's check in with Beth who's with a special guest. We're right in the heart of all the action. Joining me on the field is a huge kitten fan, Nicky Hilton. Hey Nicky. Hi. How are you? Is this crazy or what? This is so fun. When you heard there was a Kitten Bowl, were you like wow, it's about time? I was like, I am so there. Right, and I have to say I've been here um, cheering them on and it has been cat craziness. So... look at the cat up in the... Ah! In the stadium. Could you just melt? How cute is that? It's hard to say no. You know, if you were to pick one of these guys to take home, who would you pick? This guy looks exactly like my cat. He's just staring at you. I swear he keeps staring at you. Look at the one on the um, thirty yard line. Chilling. He got a flag. So that's why he's sitting there. Thirty yard line. Thanks, Nicky. Let's get out of here so we can get back to the game. Now back to Renee and John in the booth. Thanks Beth and thanks Nicky. Before our break, Ferrell Owens took a hard slam, but it appears he's been cleared to play and is showing no signs of a cat-cussion. Ferrell is handling the ball on the far sideline. He looks to have his agility back and seems ready to play. Meanwhile in the Cedar Cove end zone, Crazy Legs is on the precipice of a score. He's unraveled the defense and trying to sew this game up. But he just can't seem to get all the way into the end zone, John. Right, Renee. So close, but yet so furr away. And as you can see here, Crazy Legs needs to get the entire yarn ball over the line. Try as he might, just came up a thread shy. And Coach Harpaw calls Crazy Legs to the sideline after the near miss. The Cedar Cove Cougars are huddling near midfield. Strategizing their next move. And Calico Purress is eating again. Let's just hope this feast doesn't lead to a hairball, John. I've seen that before. Terry Bradclaw has possession at the thirty. What a tackle by the Dandy Man. That Dandy Man can and did. Great tackle stopping the Cougar momentum. No penalty called, but Dalton's nerves are getting to him. Prancing around like a cat on a hot tin roof. The North Shore Bengals having some communication issues here. Not able to get the defense over to a wide open Hairy Rice, who's looking to make a play here and no open receivers. Time is ticking away here in the first half. If the Cougars are going to make something happen they need to act fast. And Rice does just that. Touchdown, Cougars. Great play by Hairy Rice. It appears the ball goes out of bounds, But Rice kicks it back into the end zone with his back paw. Brilliant. The extra point is up. And it's good. And time expires in the first half. Making the score Cedar Cove Cougars, ten, North Shore Bengals, six. Hang in there. We'll be back with more Kitten Bowl after this. Plus, Chef Rocco DiSpirito will be here. Welcome back to the Kitten Bowl. Before we get to it, joining us right now is one of the coolest cats I know. Celebrity chef and author of the Pound a Day diet, Mr. Rocco DiSpirito. Thank you. What a great compliment. I think cats are pretty cool. I know you had cats before. I know you're on the market for a kitty. I am in the market for a cat. Yes. I know - there's so many. - Alright since you do know cats. I'm gonna give you a little kitty quiz. Okay. Alright. Okay, starting with what kind of kitten is this? Hi buddy... Cute, other than cute. What kind of kitten are you? Tell me. And purring. I think he is an American tabby. You did it. Alright. Or domestic tabby right? Is that...? Tabby. We just call him tabby. Oh is he super cute. Oh he's a good kisser too. Okay. Okay an adult cat can run up to twenty miles an hour or thirty miles an hour? Wow. I'm gonna guess, I'm gonna guess thirty. You're right again. Am I right? You're two for two. They can run fast. You're two for two. Alright let's just give you a member from each team. Another one. Okay. Just to say hello. Okay. His climb... he's just uber cute. Aww. Let's going on buddy. Okay. What percentage of the day does a cat groom sixty percent. The answer is thirty percent. Okay wow. I was shocked. I would have thought fifty, fifty. It's really no... Yeah. Every time you look at a cat he's either sleeping or grooming. Yeah. I better up my grooming. Cause I think I groom about one percent. You don't need to groom because you're kind of perfect. And then I'm just gonna pile on another. Hi Buddy! Hi. I'm gonna smell him. These kittens are the greatest. Okay, so most people know that male cats are called tomcats. What are female cats called? That's a good question. Um... They're all good to me. What are they called? You plead the fifth? They're called mollys. Mollys? What a great name. Who knew? Right. Okay so right now we have a member of each of our four competing teams. Who is going to win the Kitten Bowl championship? We have the tabbies, orange and white, we have greys and we have... Russian blues and the black and white. Um, let's see I don't know, I think the orange and white looks very fierce. Looking strong. Looking like a strong athlete today. You're going for the orange? Yes. Guess what? You are winning an orange collar, which is blue. All the orange kitties have the blue collars and that's your prize for the day. This is my prize for the day? Does it fit? Fits perfectly. How'd you know my size? It does look kind of cute. Um, thank you Rocco for being here. You're awesome. Thank you. Good luck with everything. Alright, so now let's get back to that game. Well thanks, Beth. And we're back underway here to start the second half of the first annual Kitten Bowl championship game with the score the Cedar Cove Cougars, ten and the North Shore Bengals, six. Crazy Legs takes the ball out of the end zone for the Cougars. Stopped by Meowshawn Lynch. Ferrell Owens making aggresive moves here. John, he knows how important this game is and Owens takes the yarn near the forty. Reverses the field and has the Cougar defense in stitches. Owens is looking to sew this one up quickly, John. Dan Furrino pounces on the ball all alone near the Cougar end zone. John, that was a missed opportunity by Bradclaw. You got to wonder if That's gonna come back to haunt him. Ferrell Owens charging downfield. Past the Cougar defense. And into the end zone for a Bengal touchdown. The Bengals line up for the extra point. The kick is up and Owens soars into the uprights. Making the score North Shore Bengals, thirteen, Cedar Cove Cougars, ten. Owens and Meow celebrating on the goal post and the Cougars are not happy. Things are getting catty here, John. And the Cougars receive the kickoff. Crazy Legs fumbles near his own end zone. What a run by Dandy Dalton. He's almost in the end zone, but what a stop by the Cougars. Let's take another look at Dalton's daring dash. His tail is in, but without the ball. You can't win. Snowball jocking for position at midfield makes a move. Great ball handling. Snowball is really being cute here, John. Holy cannoli, Renee. Well there's another flag on the field. It's got to be illegal use of the paws. Penalty. Illegall use of the paws. First down. Clear-cut case of illegal use of the paws, John. And Snowball is left catatonic. And Snowball retreats to the sidelines for a breather. This cat can really cradle the yarn ball. Adorable. Penalty. Unnecessary cuteness. Ten yards. Uh, not adorable, Renee. Unnecessarily cute. Woah. Well clearly there's a problem. John what do you think is happening here? I think the lights have gone out. Lucky for these cats, the game can go on. That's right. Cats have six times better night vision than humans, John. A luminating cat fact. Well let's take a break while our crew can see if they can throw some light on the subject. Regis Philbin will be here right after this. Welcome back to the Kitten Bowl. Just before the break the lights went out. But got them switched back on. Joining us for some play by play right now is a serious cat lover who happens to be a big dog in the TV business. Regis Philbin. Well Regis, what do you think so far in this championship game? I think it looks pretty good. The jets could use a few of these to go out and catch a few passes. Very frisky. Well for all the fantasy fans out there. Lets check out our cat stats. Ferrell Owens, five touchdowns. One fluffing the passer penalty. And three naps. Tabby Romo, two touchdowns, three sacks, and two cute. Tomcat Brady. Three touchdowns, two fumbles, but four cuddles. Feline Manning. Two touchdowns, three field goals and three naps. This of course is the championship game between the Cedar Cove Cougars and the North Shore Bengals. We're midway through the third quarter with the score the North Shore Bengals, thirteen, the Cedar Cove Cougars, ten. And that's Crazy Legs. The all-pro out of Neuter Dame. He's fumbled the ball! It's getting away from him. Adorable. That is too cute. The North Shore Animal League did a great job preparing these kittens for the big game. There's a legitiment fight gonna happen here between these two. Look at this. Look at him look at the other one. Yeah. It's a very hairy situation. Ooohhh... And the whistle blows. Flag thrown. Unsportsman-like conduct. Shame on you. This aggression will not stand. Ferrell Owens is not pleased with that call by the ref and he's letting him know it. I hope the ref is feeling okay. I think he just caught cat scratch fever. And the referee puts Ferrell in his place. Sending a direct message. The Cougar defense is not amused by Owens' antics. And he's climbing on the referee again. Ferrell's been up to some adorable antics all day long, but this may be too much. Owens' teammate Meowshawn Lynch looks concerned. The Bengals can't afford Owens to be suspended again. Penalty. Unnecessary cuteness. You need a time out gentlemen. It appears our cat-letes are taking advantage of this timeout to catch up on a little sleep. Is that Snowball in the stands? And the referee blows the whistle waking up our catatonic cat-letes. The Bengals take control of the ball at midfield. Meowshawn Lynch fumbles the ball. Cedar Cove recovers and marches downfield. What a pass to Tomcat Brady. Touchdown, Cougars. Nicely done. Wow. Tomcat Brady simply can't be stopped. They line up for the extra point. Crazy Legs gets a running start. He's up and It's good! And that will do it for the third quarter of play. With the North Shore Bengals trailing the Cedar Cove Cougars, seventeen to thirteen. Beth. Right now let's take a moment to check in with a special guest. She owns some of the most amazing restuarants in the world. She stars in the Real Housewives of Beverly Hills and she's a real animal lover too. Of course I'm talking about Lisa Vanderpump. Hey Lisa. Hey Beth. Thanks for having me. As you know Ken and I are passionate about helping those in need. And there are millions of cats that need our help. Up to eight million cats a year ago into shelter and nearly half of those are euthanized. That's just way too many. So if you're inspired by any of these kittens to get a cat, please visit a shelter or donate what you can. You'll be saving a life and you'll be bringing more cuteness to the world and that's something we all need. Thank you. Thanks for sharing Lisa and thank you so much for joining us. Alright back to you John and Renee. Thanks, Beth. We're back for the fourth quarter of what is proving to be an epic match between the North Shore Bengals and the Cedar Cove Cougars. John, the Bengals need to get some offense going here in the fourth. This Cougar team is ready to unleash. Crazy Legs has the ball on the far sideline and he knows what to do. John, I think his nose, knows something smells fishy. Dandy Dalton with the ball. Stoic. Ferrell Owens seems distracted by a teammate. And Manti Meow flies in from the goal post Hairy Rice really scratching for every inch. You know John, cats are great climbers, but they can't climb down a pole head first. They have to back down. Well the Cougars are not gonna back down here. They know how much is at stake. What I like is the no-cuddle offense. You know what I mean? They certainly aren't cuddling. These kittens are well rested and ready to play. Dandy Dalton taking a time out of his own. Has really been cleaning up in this game. That's a penalty. Excessive cuteness right there. Too cute. Sure. We need to take a break from all this cuteness. More to come when we return. Beth. Who will be our first ever Kitten Bowl champion? Will it be the Cedar Cove Cougars? Or the North Shore Bengals? Find out when we return. Alright I am here with my friend Kelly Rutherford who is a big animal lover. Okay, Kitten Bowl, what do you think? Oh my. This is the cutest thing I've ever seen. I just found out that tabbies, I knew that black cats have a hard time in shelters getting adopted, but the second least likely type to get adopted are tabbies. Oh, they're so cute. Why? I have a little tabby myself. I guess because they're considered ordinary. But I find them to be spectacular. Black cats and tabbies are some of my personal favorites. Absolutely. Of these kittens here who would you um, take home for the kids? I wouldn't be able to decide. They're all so cute. I've been looking at each one. They're beautiful. I think I'm falling in love. Look what I learned how to do. Look at this. They love it. Between the shoulder blades Oh my goodness. They just like that. Down. I wish somebody could do that to me. I know, isn't that the cutest? And then you could kiss the bellies. Aw. Mosh shmooka looka. And they start purring. Awe. So cute. Kelly I want to thank you for being here. Thank you for having me. So much fun. Alright, let's um, send us back to John and Renee. And joining us in the booth is the world famous Reg. Regis Philbin. Well Reg you know how close this game is. Who do, who do you like? The Cougars or the Bengals? Right now I like the Bengals. Boy they are frisky aren't they. Good runners. Good runners they are, Reg. And these two teams are purring to go here. Each really clawing for victory. Dan Furrino looks to make a play here. Wow. Pouncing on Snowball. He's really showing his teeth here, John. Penalty. Biting. First down. The energy has reached an all time high here. We're at a fever pitch as Meowshawn Lynch makes a move downfield. What a stop by Crazy Legs. And the Dandy Man recovers the ball quickly after that ferocious hit. He's at the ten marching downfield. What a pass to Snowball and he gets in for the score. Touchdown, Bengals. Now they'll try the extra point. Ferrell Owens reaching his stride and up on the goal post It's good! Putting the Bengals up twenty to seventeen. It looks like Ferrel Owens has settled down for a midfield nap. Ferrell better wake up this game so no snoozer. With time ticking down it looks like the Bengals are employing the no-cuddle offense. The Cougars utilizing the wildcat offense great play call by coach Mike Catca. And it pays off. Touchdown, Cougars. I like the Cougars right now. They look like they're alive. Like they want to win. They're gonna win. Cougars all the way. Now they'll try the extra point. And it's good. And the score the Cedar Cover Cougars, twenty-four. The North Shore Bengals, twenty. And here's the kickoff. Nobody seems too interested in the ball, John. I wonder if catnip is to blame here. Oh boy, John. This is downright cutie-rific. Penalty. Illegal cuddling. First down. Illegal cuddling. Albeit one of the more favorable penalties to get, Snowball makes the Cougars pay for treating him like the little spoon. That cat cradles the ball. Like a cat burglar. He swipes the ball. Yes. And swats it away. Oh. Gosh. Snowball cradling the ball looking to pass or to fall asleep. It's hard to tell. The Bengals almost got into the end zone but stopped just short. Alright, this is it. After hours of tough play, one of these teams is about to become our very first ever Kitten Bowl champion. Who's it gonna be? Find out when we return. Even though all of our kittens are winners today, you at home can go online and vote for your favorite kitten for the Most Valuable Kitten. To vote go to Facebook.com/HallmarkChannel Welcome back to the final seconds of the first ever Kitten Bowl. Let's find out which team can scratch out a victory today. Tensions are reaching their peak here guys. Its a cat-lamity here at Hallmark Channel Stadium. And the kitten is in the audience. He's up in the stands. Look at him. These two teams are locked in a stand off and emotions are running very high. Ouch, a nasty play by Ferrell Owens. Penalty. Illegal use of the paws. First down. Didn't Ferrell ever learn to keep his paws to himself? And here we are in the final seconds of the game. With the Bengals down by four they really need a score. The action on the field is intense. The Bengals are striving for some offense, but the Cougars' defense is really playing them tough. Don't speak too soon, Renee. Snowball making a charge. John, Snowball has come back from his early game injury to be a real force in this game. Look at him go past the fifty, down to the twenty, and the ten it is a... Touchdown! Look at that! Beautiful. And the winners of the first annual Kitten Bowl championship are the North Shore Bengals. Beating the Cedar Cove Cougars twenty-six, twenty-four. Alright, congratulations to the North Shore Bengals. The winners of the first annual Kitten Bowl. Thank you very much Beth. You know everyday here in Home and Family, we talk about how you can take your house and turn it into a home, and what a better way to do that than by adopting a pet. That's right. You can bring new life to your home and family and support pet adoption today. The North Shore Animal League did a great job preparing these kittens for the big game. And the Last Hope Shelter groomed some very fine cat-letes. And if you want to bring more fun and love into your home, adopt a kitten today from your local shelter. The Kitten Bowl might be over but it doesn't mean the cuteness has to stop. You can adopt great cat-letes like these at your local animal shelter right now. That way the fun never ends and every day can be Kitten Bowl Sunday. Of course they weren't the only cute competitors today. Let's check out some of today's top highlights. Let's take a look at how the North Shore Bengals were able to defeat the Last Hope Lions in game one. We knew this game was going to be an adorable battle. The Lions struck with Tabby Romo pouncing into the end zone. But it didn't take long for Ferrell Owens as he responded with a North Shore touchdown. No shortage of great defense in this game as the Bengals caused a fumble early taking the Lions off their stride. Meowshawn Lynch soared into the uprights for a Bengal field goal. The Last Hope Lions were quick to respond and after a controversial call the booth ruled a touchdown for Last Hope. The Lions' D stood strong and forced the Bengals into a sixty yard field goal and Ferrell Owens soared above the crowd to close out the first half, fourteen, thirteen, Lions. The second half saw our Kitten Bowl Super Track. Which led to a scoring frenzy. Both teams scoring and answering each other in what was one of the most exciting halves of kitten football I've seen In a while. In the end the top ranked North Shore Bengals proved to be too much for the Last Hope Lions and sealed their fate in the Kitten Bowl championship game. Game two of the Kitten Bowl was a high spirited and high scoring affair full of cuddles and huddles. The first quarter saw both teams scoring touchdowns and field goals alike. With the Cedar Cove Cougars besting the Home and Family Felines by three. The second quarter saw some hair-raising defense and was low on scores. But Cedar Cove managed to stay on top. In the third quarter the Home and Family Felines mounted a solid comeback. And it seemed there was a chance that Manning and his mates could upset the opposition. However the Cedar Cove Cougars sealed the game's fate with a litter of touchdowns in the fourth. And this Kitten Bowl wouldn't be complete without a vote for our Most Valuable Kitten. Want to know which kitten was voted the Most Valuable Kitten? Go to Facebook.com/HallmarkChannel We hope the Kitten Bowl encourages you to consider adopting a beautiful kitten pet of your own. Pet homelessness is an epidemic in our country. Please consider adopting and giving a beautiful kitten a loving home. Hallmark Channel's pet project shines a light on the epidemic of pet homelessness. Please consider pet adoption. Well that's it everyone. Congratulations to the North Shore Bengals, our first Kitten Bowl champions. Of course we're all winners today. Thank you to our celebrity guests, the fans, our commentators, and of course all of you. It's been a purr-fect day. Thank you so much for being with us. We'll see you next year.
