 

                        Watch up, or you'll be inhabited by Jium Oh really? I would like to try as well. Oh no! A filthy mouth cannot utter decent language! Will it really show up?! You're only playing around. Are you ready, in fact? We've lots of time. Take your time. After that... All of them were gathering there. They died without knowing what was going on. The cadavers all showed in frightening facial expressions. According to the police's report... Besides this video tape, no other evidence was found... There's a rumor that They are killed by the evil power But no one can approve of that. - Was it true or fake? Our destination is that place Who wants to learn more about this? Whoever that is still interested in this game, you can ask Sing. Or you may ask the champion for last season, Aker too. Now Contestants from Thailand have set off. Case 1 The 11 contestants will be competing each other here To determine who's the most daring person. The most daring winner will be awarded with 5 million baths. Whoever is the last leaver is then entitled to obtain this award. Do you want some chewing gum? To keep your breath fresh. Thank you. - Heey! - Waaa! Ann You're a psycho. Get lost. Hey, what are you looking at? Idiot! He asked us to sit back there nicely Don't put your legs over there. That's dangerous You can understand his speaking dialect? Just a little bit. It's for you to see... Did you see it? I did. Don't worry. There we go. This is Case 17. Later we'll start with a ritual of homage Please drop your things down And take off your caps Working crew! Bro, is that funny? - Bullshit! What did he say? He said we should leave. It's dangerous here. Is he crazy or what? Alright... There's nothing serious. Don't be afraid. Later we still have to draw cuts to determine our groups We already prepared all the equipment Including a map and the regulations That everyone must follow Besides, in order for you all to get familiar with the location as soon as possible. We have prepared some amulets for you all Together with some electronic devices. - Oh no! No way. - The most important is... You all must put on the clothes that we prepared beforehand The prisoner's costume. And your personal code. Ahh... So you're not going inside there with us? Welcome everybody Every contestant of Case 17's mission and every audience here This place used to be the inner cage of prisoners Severe excruciation Whipping The place where the execution was carried out Please don't simply touch anything here And also don't carry away anything that's not your belonging The room with red tag is prohibited for any trespasses What's wrong, Sing? I... What? Is it Ann? What's that? Nothing. Everyone please wait in the resting room Please enter according to the sequence The resting room was the place for encaging specific prisoners. In fact, this was where they were executed. Beds and blankets provided were used by those executed prisoners before. Ann! I hope everyone can pay respect to their spirits After entering there, we can't be in touch anymore. Until tomorrow. Take care and good luck. Good night. Hey! - Hey! Hey! What the hell! What's are you doing? Do you want it? It's alright. I'm not afraid. You looked down on my good intention. Now I'm at the investigation room. The atmosphere is very frightening I believe... These are all created by the working crew They're some kinda deceits. Oh, I go to sleep first. How about you? Oh... You go to sleep first. I will sleep later. Hey, find me something to eat Alright. Please wait for a while. Hey, turn around and look at this. What's that? Sing... What happened? Nothing. If nothing, please don't scream like this anymore Coffee How's that? Did you sleep well yesterday night? Very well. I slept so well with the spirits. So... Today you sleep with me, huh How's that? All of them woke up? Yeah, they all woke up already. Hey... Are you alright? Hey... Jean... Jean I was only joking with you Hey, what's wrong? Breakfast is here. Sing, what was wrong with you yesterday night? You cried so loud. Nothing. There was a mouse in my room Alright, everybody The activity for this afternoon is to tell us what had happened yesterday night We heard somebody screamed loudly in the middle of the night Can anyone tell us what had happened Ah... Did anyone see something? Jean? I saw it. After all of us went inside their room, We heard Sing cried loudly. You know what did I see? I saw Jean, standing in front of the doorway of Sing's room After that? However... I saw another woman standing right behind of Jean Who was that? I don't know. Enlarge and see. It isn't the one amongst us She... with short hair Wore in dark color clothes The most obvious part was her neck Which was wrapped in cloth Jean... Is that so? What? They were the previous champions Don't you think too much? Perhaps. Yesterday night, we also observed that Sing's behavior was a bit weird Just now Aker said it too And Jean... This may be related to the prize. So what are we gonna do? Be more careful. The most important is... Don't believe in what you see. Hey. Do you believe in what Aker told. We better believe it first. I think Sing doesn't think that so. But Aker wasn't sure too. Now is 10 in the night, game's on! All of us, according to the groups divided The first group Katie, Gong and Gang Please follow the left side. Group two Koon and Sing And Aker Please stay at the right side The rest of people is group three Hold on What's going on? Why all the last champion in the same group? It's that alright? Aker and Sing in the same group No problem Alright? OK, fine And the match of the first night You all carry through separate Go Find the sign of red skull Group one Go to excruciation hall Group two Go to forest of death Group three Got to skull lake Jen, what's it writing on? Excruciation hall Four of you divide to 2 group Arthur and Ann in one group And Michael and Aker in one group Hurry Hurry up Ah, This is the place which did the cremation All participate divided one by one along the cemetery Waiting for next instruction Hold, Sing You go for there We go there Jen, what will they ask us to do? What's Agu doing? He not allow to say Where should go? Agu Agu Arthur is decompensation Arthur Hey, what's wrong with Arthur? Hey, Arthur Haha He's buggy - Ahh Something wrong Hey, it's pain You angry? I'm sorry Open it What... all is skull - It's terrible What so terrible? Crazy This What? Don't you feel lonely with your own? Don't talk anymore Let's sleep Let's sleep Three of you have saw the box, right? There tools, balm and candles Your might see something that you don't wish to see What's the name? Still didn't answer? I think so Pattering That's God's thing, angry is useless Even wear also Be patience Amitabha Evocation of spirit Just show yourself Don't move until you get the instruction Who? Agu? Agu there? Agu! Agu! Hey! Anybody here? Hey! This idiot! Hey, who's that? Idiot Crazy! Get off of me... let me go This Can stop now You can stop now You wanna sleep with spirit, right? Alright Take it I don't need it anymore No No Need no anymore Hey! No! I'm scared Get off Let me go They cheat me The back side use as background Well! Ready? - Right Now, let's review the alsoran Let me go They cheat me Let me go I wanna home Let me go Agu! What's going on? It's OK But Agu wanna home Because the crew know Agu feel not well And how about you? We will go back when it over Sing, said to Jen for me No Jen wanna home with Agu But we feel that you should continue the match No I don't like the way they use to join match Jen feel that spirit here We might do something wrong but can't say no So we all become like this I don't think so It's just hallucination cause too scary But didn't say no also Might someone play tricks on us We don't have But I feel... There are no soul in this world Even if exist That's none of our business too With this condition You say it's none of our business? Of course no We just participate this game only Who wanna win the game Must be trick on by the spirit In spite of true Or not Koon is right You are too week in this kind of game You will be lose But Jen not lose yet Must be persistent If Jen win, I will win too That what I said, must added some love After ten, 3579ITV Audience rating will not low Wake up You will fall asleep later Mean tonight Agu, Arthur and Ann The other get some rest See your next afternoon Bye What's going on? I wanna go home We all too Go back, I don't care anymore No matter how No matter how Ann Keep it well Trust us We go back together after this Don't leave me alone What's waiting for? Are you seen Michael before? No What's wrong? No, Michael gone I thought he be with your I didn't see him Have you looking around? No Where he's gone? We got one friend not yet reach So, we can't arrange any match All of you go for rest first What's going on? Nothing Tell me It's... now... They thought you're behind all that happened Because you wanna let them go Ben Ben, Ben Have you decided yet? Same old, nothing's changed Where is Nakemi? How is that, I'm gonna look for Mika later Why don't you go finish your job 1st Got crazy Kate? Huh Will you believe of what I'm saying? What's the matter I think there's something odd is over here This lady I saw her before What are you talking about... Sing Since the day moved in here I didn't know who she was And didn't know what she wanted She held my arm Her name is Lin She was the only survived female convict over here But she was arrested after that Because the army knows She was a spy here Her death was terrible She was strangled Her word was graved here What did she write? It's almost 9th now Just like the others, today might be my last day Jium will kill all of us Sing Sing Look Mika was here I'm sure Impossible But I think she might be Do you think she ever entered here? Impossible The door is still locked Locked Maybe it was just your imagination, Sing Mika might never be here You're right, Kate But I saw Mika's gum It might be someone else's You can't even sure if it's Mika's Don't worry You can get in there and have a look, tonight... We're gonna compete down there I say, why don't you go to have some rest now? Then we'll see by 10 o'clock They say a storm is coming Do we've enough bags? Enough The competition starts after 5 minutes Now let's don't bother where Mika's Someone's gone down Or has been hiding somewhere else The games gotta keep going We can't keep waiting for Mika Would everyone come down here With all of your equipments This's the key for the main gate of the prison Place on the edge of the door on the left side Jit, go grab the key Welcome to the basement of K17 This is the basement We found it after convicts executed According to data Those special convicts were locked in here Based on it's complicated structure This's a safety exit for Jiumu Now you're in the lobby of the basement Here's for rituals Special convicts were put on trial here The image below is Jiumu Chief of K17 Everyone on your kneels Grab your lot pot Let's pick our spots What's that What's that What's that After you've got your room number Do what you're told in the instruction Be in the room you're assigned to By the midnight, hope to see you again here What's happening, Sing Lin... My room is rite opposite That gal is looking for me That means... - Why sticking together Why are you 3 stick together? A few more minutes to midnight We can be back to the lobby now Sing Let's go Have you seen anything, Sing? Have you seen anything, Sing? Sing Have you seen anything, Sing? Nothing Let's go, hurry Have you see anything? What have you seen? Run! It isn't safe over here Jiumu will kill all of us What do you mean - Here Convicts'll be executed What? His dairy It was written: Today is 9th My birthday Today I'm gonna kill someone Nobody gets in here Everything is mine Including your lives The last day He killed all the convicts and armies And buried the bodies in the basement And he killed himself finally Today is another day of 9th It's almost there Jit! Today is 9th Let's go Ben What's the matter We'd like to cancel this competition Are you crazy It's live broadcasting, how are you gonna stop it But we're in danger now Calm down They're lies But we're gonna get killed Why don't you guys have a seat out there? What are you planning? Jit Where are you going? I'm looking for Jen Wait... Wait here, we'll be going together Help Stop! You can stop now We gotta get outta here Or we're gonna die here Really? We've seen warning for the 9th What happened to you guys? Midnight... We all are gonna get killed Alright, Sing What are you talking about? Do you mean it You're just wasting our time Light the candles and joss sticks, let's begin our game I quit Quit means lose I don't care I give up Me too Terrible Make a call to Bangkok Ask them ready for the performances, what should we broadcast now? I'm here for the contest too. Don't you complain again. If there has any ghost, that's your own imagination. You can't cheap us. Who knows? Maybe it's true. Maybe it's their plan. Aker. You knew it, right? What we have been seen? Jen Wait a minute. You all want to go back there? Let's go. Ann. What? I forgot the key. I'll go for the key. You crazy? You go back alone? Something is no good! Let's go! Come on! Come on! Here it is. In this contest... Aker, Jack, Koon Out the line. I run and run and out. Luckily or we'll lose. Sing and Kate, Eliminated from contest All the alsorans please back to your room And clean up your things. Please gather in front door and our stuff will come to get you. Hurry up? Or we'll late again. We have been late from the beginning. Or we have been misunderstanding from the beginning? What? Come on, go to clean up our things. We discuss after we out of here. Wait for us Kate Kate? Ben? What should I do now? Ben? Ben? Ben? I go check around. Aker. Aker. Aker. Aker. Aker. Ahoy. Ahoy Ahoy? You're Ahoy? Ahoy. Anybody there? Somebody? Help! Anybody? Can you hear me? Help! Adam. What? Let's go. You scared me. Agu! What happened? They all die. Who? Ahoy. Koon Michael also die. They all die! Jen Jen Jen! What're doing? Jen! Jen! Calm down. Stop! I said stop! Stop! Jen! Koon, help me! Jen! That's Koon, right? Stop! No! Stop! No! Here. Koon. Koon. Koon. Koon. Ben. Ben. Ann. Ann. Let's run together. Come on. It's die! Sure Nothing left. Die! Die! All die. What can we do? Kate, come on. We have the key. Kate, what are you doing? Kate! Let go! Let go! Kate, let go! Let go! Kate, let go! Let go! Let go! Let go! Kate, let go! Sing Sing Sing Wait for me Sing Wait. Wait for me. Sing Sing Sing Wait for me. Sing Sing Sing Sing, it's me! Sing, it's me, Kate. I don't believe... I'm Kate. It's true come back! I don't want die here. I don't believe I don't believe The end. If I get 5 million, My life will get better. You need to be brave Don't worry. It's easy. The purpose I join this contest is to get a experience. And I would like to prove my ability. I don't know if I could outrun myself. I will work hard. If I can success this time I'll be satisfied. Although many people hate me, But some people give me encouragement too. Let me join again. This time. I must win. The prize it's for me. Maybe I can't win this contest But I'll be the last person to left. And me. I've been saw it often. This kind of things. All are fake. A boy the real thing. What is real? Why cannot stay here? Ghost is nothing. Human is dreadful than ghost. One thing else. We don't know what he's thinking. Me? I grow up with ghost. I'm familiar with them, I know how to get along with them. If saw them. Just know how to deal it. This event will let more people know about me. You must encourage me. It's because of this game so we can be together. I can go back after the contest.
