 

                        [distorted guitar ringing] [feedback whining] [gentle orchestral music] [metal jingling] - [muttering indistinctly] Everything I have in here you see is one of a kind This stuff's all chiffon stuff This stuff's my fancy stuff I bought these in 1 967 and they're still brand-new They got great big== they're low hip-huggers right? They come down here And they got great big bells on 'em man These are nice leather ones They're real soft Feel the leather on those They're soft They feel good don't they? I like a lot of paisley shit you know I still got a lot of paisley shit and it's all in perfect condition These are all my stage clothes and I only wore these like once in a while because when I used to play I was saving them for when I got big And that never happened so I saved 'em forever - So what are his prospects? Because he keeps giving me these rosy scenarios and I don't know what to believe you know? - What does he tell you specifically? - Well like one thing I know is a delusion is that he's going in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame this year or next [laughs] I like him to have a dream though you know? If he didn't have a dream he's liable to kill himself - Are you really gonna do this as a documentary? I could go out and play - I get nervous You know what I mean? - Hmm? - I get nervous that - Everybody does He does They're afraid I'm gonna die That's okay I won't If you guys want me around I'll stick around - Please - If you really do I mean that in my heart I mean if you want me around I'll stick around For just guys like you guys  [birds chirping] - I was at a record show with my girlfriend and um I found like this== all this rare stuff that I totally wanted And then I was just looking through one last bin and I saw the original Pentagram record It was just a purple logo against black It kind of looks like garbage on the front You turn it around and there's this like scary-ass picture of the band I was with my girlfriend at the time and we were just like crazy record collectors and just go blow all our money on records and beer and then just have like Friday and Saturday night listening to records [hard rock music]  Man as soon as we put that on the turntable that's like nothing I'd heard before Really I mean it was just so fucking heavy This was the only Pentagram that was released and the only one I knew of I thought this was the beginning of Pentagram I was working at an indie record label and I was telling everybody about it that I knew and someone said "Oh yeah man "I get stuff no one's even heard about before from the '70s heavy hard rock" [music slows to a stop] I was like "Come on how can this be?" I was obsessed with this band So he brings in this CD-R Here it is man a record that literally changed my life I couldn't wait you know just to get out of work and go home and listen to it At that point I was riding a bike to work and I remember just riding home as fast as I could you know? Just like a little kid from school I rolled a joint== it was a special occasion I rolled a big joint [lively drumbeat]  And that first song Forever My Queen, I mean just fucking phenomenal [heavy metal music] - I'm running away with myself  I think I ran a little too far  Your love is more than a tease  - I couldn't believe it Some of the best hard rock I've ever heard I mean lyrically his vocal delivery Just the guitar in it was out of control I mean for the early '70s I couldn't believe it And mostly not only was it brilliant but aside from that why doesn't everyone talk about it?  What's the equivalent of hearing something like this for someone who's just obsessed by music? It's a profession and their passion and their private life It'sit's hard to explain It's literally like being a devout Christian and walking down the street one day and bumping into Jesus and he knows your name and shakes your hand and asks you over for dinner and drinks [laughs] You know? And he calls you on the weekends to go out I mean l==I can't explain it My whole life I've just been obsessed by music It's all I wanted to do with my life And the only things that made me truly happy were finding an awesome record I was just completely driven and obsessed I mean I was completely in love and I just couldn't wait to make other people fall in love with this - Willing and we both know how  Baby you're gonna be my queen  A king always knows what he means  - It was the perfect time for Bobby Liebling and Pentagram to kind of== to be rediscovered I wouldn't even say they were a cult band They were kind of a secret at that point But then there was all this interest in early '70s hard rock There was a big stoner-rock thing There were a lot of bands that just wanted to get that early '70s sound and then get back to the basics in metal All of a sudden there's this band Oh you know they have unlimited number of unreleased recordings from the 1 970s and there hasn't been like years and years of over-merchandising or marketing or anything like that It was just like this caveman found you know frozen in the Swiss Alps somewhere that you cut out the block of ice and bring it out and there's a specimen there that still has active DNA Bobby Liebling is still that frozen guy [song ends] [birds chirping] - If you see anything that says Pentagram like Liebling Pentagram blah-blah-blah project or any of that on the CDs we will find find for you guys 'cause you must hear this This is more important to me than any other shit That's why you must hear the stuff [heavy metal music] # You are the highway star # Hey world premiere! VH1 in the trash heap [scoffs]  # Oh, take me away # # I want to do it, baby # Oh man I know I'll play again I can't help it Look I'm addicted You know it's like heroin I can get up there and rock with the best of 'em  Cool E right here # Wrapping your soul out on evil # [guitar solo soars]  [music continues in background]  - I thought he was very good when he was younger I don't==you know I didn't go to many of his shows I didn't want to make him uncomfortable but he did have a== Would you please get [speaks indistinctly] Thank you Excuse me No not just as a mother I was very critical of him But I thought he had a== just a natural instinct to perform And you couldn't stop him even if we wanted to you know? It was sort of inborn - Far superior than some of these real big bands that I've seen Big guys that are making millions [heavy metal music] - Have you ever done anything else besides rock and roll? - Nothin' Yeah this== drugs Sex drugs rock and roll Well I mean look at me You know I'm an old soldier right? I've been doing drugs I've been addicted to heroin for 39 I've been addicted to crack for about 22 I've been in off-houses detoxes You know that's why I smile and tell people "I'm alive man" I'm not supposed to be alive Uh did you see where the piece of crack went? The big piece of crack? Oh my God look there's== oh no that's a Band-Aid - No, I know It fell down into - You saw it? I mean the place is a hellhole It's a shit-hole It's a sloth house and I hate it That's why I want to get out man I don't like dirt see? - You want to get out? - Believe it or not yeah Fucking A I'm gonna get out Are you kidding? That looks like rat poop It's not== [heavy metal music]  # And these are gonna be some of my last days here # # I'm wasting away, and time to # - He's been close to death ever since I've known him I can't tell you how many times I get a message that he leaves in the middle of the night saying good-bye - He didn't live a hard life and then come back and try and write love songs He wrote songs from the perspective of somebody that was metaphysically in the sub-basement He's used that to make very harrowing bone-chilling music - Man I remember sitting at the side of a train track This was like where I lived side of a train tracks I found a boom box in a dumpster and the only tape I had was Be Forewarned He speaks truths that not many people can see or know It's pain and it's empowerment and it's just all these things in one purely from the heart It's almost like on a smaller scale like my bible you know? - The first time I ever saw footage of Bobby I never seen nothing like it He definitely understood the seductive powers of rock and roll man and he could just go from this textbook rock-and-roll guy and then all of a sudden just crouch down like the devil You know when you're a kid man that's about the fucking coolest thing you can see [laughs] So - There's something about I guess the mystique of Bobby He just has that persona you know and that charisma that people just like latch on to And then his drug addictions and things like that it's added to all that but it's also a hell for a lot of people who've played in bands with him over the years I mean if you look on the Pentagram Myspace site on the left column it's got all the prior members of Pentagram and it's you know== it's like a list that long - The potential's there but you know there's certain personal things in his life that are keeping him from going all the way [heavy metal music] - Even though I talked to him and seemed like it was a dead end the guy's got some kind of fight in him He's got a flame that won't go out man I wanted to start a fire with it you know? So today we're headed down to uh see Bobby Um I have a toll coming up Do you want to do this after the toll? [cars whooshing] - Thank you - Thanks So today I'm gonna go down I have notes and an outline of what I think the plan should be And even if we get a contract signed and it takes us forever to start recording shit can fall apart man So we really got to fucking move on it and move on it fast and make it happen You know what we're gonna get a fucking record made God damn it [laughs] I hope Practically speaking the one thing I can do for Pentagram and Bobby is give 'em good direction And something I mentioned to him like "Bobby you know what? You're fucking almost dead man Unfortunately it sucks" He tells me this all the time "So you got one more shot to really make another big mark" And that's what I really want to help Bobby do It just has to happen There's got to be a final finale chapter in the story of Bobby Liebling [birds chirping] I really think that you guys can do it and come back together and do a great record I haven't even started negotiating the contract yet at all It's just figuring out if they're interested figuring out what they're willing to give for an advance We also have to figure out Geof and Greg or whatever== are willing to be on the record So part of the reason I want to go with Housecore dude is Philip is the contemporary hard rock hero right? You are the dude from the past He's gonna bring you huge visibility So what we need to do is we're gonna lay out a budget that we're all gonna have to agree to and we're all gonna have to stick to and I want to see this shit happen I have too much time invested in it to not even follow through at this point So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna record him Backlash, Suffering, and Everything's Turning To Night and hand it to him backstage at the Down show But the other thing is== too is it's my word I'm giving to them you know? Before all this happens make sure that you're and we're gonna go with it So this what I'm handing you is my final== my final effort to fucking help you and try to fucking put a great record on the history books - You know what I want to do? I want to live I want to live a little man - Well here's the thing - I want to live I don't want to die anymore - We do this record bro right? Hopefully it'll help you get out of here We're gonna figure out what we're gonna get for percentages what your royalties are gonna be all that stuff - I have to eat I have to make a living I can't==I can't do this irresponsible little crying child trick forever I can't I've been Peter Pan my whole life man There's times you do something I want me back I'm tired of giving me out and giving up and running away I run away with you know the old piece of glass you know? If I smoke any crack after today you can have my records How about that? I'll put it on the camera - "If Robert Liebling smokes crack after today 1 0/1 2/07 "Demian Fenton and Sean Pelletier will own Robert Liebling's entire record collection" - Before you do it it should say "1 B" Possession should take place only if and after 9 days== you know== It's up to you I don't care - We're not gonna take your records We just want you to stop smoking crack - Yeah yeah - Sign this - No but you should put - Do you want me to hold the crack when you sign that? - You know what I mean? [heavy metal music] - Throughout Pentagram's career they've really come so close to really making it - Our manager at the time Gordon Fletcher one of the two managers knew a lot of people in the business and he knew Gene and Paul in KISS So we had this set up for them to come see one of our rehearsals - It was in a basement of a house that I was living in Wasn't really a heavy metal studio let's say - The day that KISS was going to be arriving Greg and Vincent had to work and they were working as janitors - So unfortunately Vincent a brilliant guitar player and Greg heavier-than-hell bass player were off cleaning toilets I don't know If KISS was coming to my house to watch my band I would quit my fucking job I wouldn't even go to== never mind going to work that day - # All right #  - So Gene and Paul show up Toilet boys are still at work Not only were they off cleaning toilets that day but they hitchhiked to work - They didn't have a car They had to hitchhike home wearing some type of janitor-type outfit [car horn honks] - I guess we got off work Vince and I did and we got to the house We're all grubby from being janitors [laughs]  - The landlord who I guess lived in the house started bitching and complaining that it was too loud and had to shut down - Came running "Man you guys got to turn it down!" And I'm like "God damn it man KISS is here" you know? - Fucking KISS is in the house watching them play You think they'd give the landlord something Some peanut butter sandwiches and 25 bucks to fucking go away for the day But you know so it was just== I guess it was just horrible From what I hear KISS some of the things they said are "Well your name's Pentagram There's only four of you "The singer and the bass player have bad skin The drummer's too fat" And they blew it I mean should have taken the day off from work fucking did a month of aerobics fucking got some Oxy pads you know?  [birds chirping] - Should I pull 'em out? Some Enchanted Evening My son has the platinum Some Enchanted Evening I'm told that the Johnny Winter is platinum I'm told that Blue Oyster Cult's first three records have gone gold but Sony is too cheap to send me gold records Uh this is I had done at least a couple of Blue Oyster Cult records I was looking for the real thing to follow Blue Oyster Cult  Pentagram really seemed like sort of a street Black Sabbath That was just what I was looking for you know? I wanted the male-dominant thrust of heavy metal But it sort of had a "Fuck you and the horse you rode in on" kind of thing Post-Page pre-Sex Pistols It was almost as though I'm sitting at a computer== if there were such things then== kind of generating this band that was perfect for 1 97 4 I was ready to seriously seriously commit to them [heavy metal music] - Here was our big break Columbia records is paying for us to go do a demo in New York - And you know we're on the train to New York Man I'm seeing stars in my eyes - We went into the studio and did three tracks with Murray Krugman producing it - We get through all the rhythm tracks and Bobby's laying down the vocals - Bobby completed a vocal track and Murray said "Okay that's fine Come in and listen to it" And Bobby says "I'd like to== I'd like to redo that There was a couple parts I wasn't really happy with" Murray says "Don't worry about it We'll fix it in postproduction Just==it was fine" - We could have corrected that vocal but there would have been some other thing where he's hearing a finished $200000 record in his head and can't understand why an eight-hour demo isn't gonna give that to him - And Bobby got real upset about it and called Gordon who was our manager out into the singing booth - "Gordon can I see you a minute?" Pain in the ass I was Called him out in the main room Made sure I was by a live mic I said "What's this guy being such a fucking asshole for?" - Murray just got up and as I recall he didn't say a word Vincent thought he said we were the most difficult band to work with and walked out I don't recall him saying anything I just recall him getting up and walking out of the studio without saying a word And we never talked to him again - I felt like killing Bobby - I've fantasized many many times if Bobby had just said "No problem" you know and walked in and we'd listened back to the session What would have happened the rest of that day? What would have happened the rest of that week? And what would have happened with the rest of our career? - We would have gotten a deal through them No question Record deal national tour fame and fortune It would have happened There but for the grace of God [announcer speaking indistinctly over television] - I used to say to him "When I see you on Saturday Night Live, I'll know you made it" And you know I've seen some lousy acts That shocks me Bobby Pellet's here - Hehe's here? - Yeah - Good lord - Everybody in unison== I mean total== "Move him out of your house" - Everybody everybody I mean to this day There's always tons of laundry around here I don't know He can change three times a day He's already changed twice today He keeps spilling his coffee - Even now everything that he has comes from us - How much have you given for Bobby? - Financially? - I have - Financially over $1 million - Thanks appreciate it - All right good Brush your hair? - There's Fig Newtons aren't there? Mom? There's Fig Newtons aren't there? Yeah - I've always been afraid that he'd either go out and steal or knock somebody You don't know Addicts are crazy - It's a very tough thing They call us enablers I said "Really? "Did you ever see my son? Do you know him?" "No" "And you're in social services? Where is your sensitivity to people?" His brilliance in the music field has never been to fruition because of the problem He has all this talent now - Yes he still has talent - He has it - Do you guys think that Bobby could stop doing drugs? - [sighs] - At this stage of the game of anybody you know it's a prognosis question - Yes if he were out of pain He's in a lot of pain that people don't realize that And he also has truthfully a delusion that he has a parasitic infection Bobby's not insane but he can act insane with the coke - My fingers turn black every night There it's starting now That's not from the coke That's all parasites See those dots that look like dots embedded? - Mm-hmm - All of them Did you see my lips? They're not chapped Come here See the line along the bottom? - Mm-hmm - That's all parasites See all that black? Those are all parasites - Holy fuck man - Yeah - Never saw it huh? with that - See when he starts pulling his skin he does what he thinks== he calls "debriding" He'll pull at it and put it on a piece of paper towel and pull out his magnifying glass and he'll come== "You never want to look You never want to look" I said "I've spent 1 0000 hours looking Bobby It's not bugs It's dead skin" If he didn't pick his arms I know they'd heal and I know everything would be fine - It's a fact I have something unknown that is parasitic - Truth is that she said you've been to the hospital about 50 times since you lived here - Mm-hmm - We're gonna be there for eight hours in the waiting room and they're gonna let you out Unless you go there and say you want to go to detox and then they'll admit you - They're not gonna treat me for this in detox - I've watched you smoke a fuckload of crack right now - Mm-hmm - It's in your blood - Mm-hmm - They're gonna get you in Then once you're in there you're away from this maybe you can heal more - I want to go to the hospital not that I want to go in rehab I want to go to the hospital because if I'm not treated for this I'm gonna die [somber piano music]  It makes me nasty It makes me confused Probably 'cause it's eating my organs away Probably 'cause it is eating my brain All I do is cry all night and pray to God to die  - I've taken Bobby here a few times I know he's intent on getting his hands and arms addressed and that rehab is a secondary solution And as far as what he was saying suicide being the third solution I don't==I wish he wasn't going through any of this but there's nothing that I can do except just support him you know? You know Bobby would be the first to tell you years back he kind of made that deal with the devil right? He kind of sold his soul and he's fighting like hell to steal it back one piece at a time - So what are they gonna do? 'Cause I feel comfortable in these places more than I do in my own home I like hospitals That's sick but I love hospitals Pellet has been== has been like a god to me He's basically a godsend I love him I love all you guys You know for coming here Thank you very very much [somber music] - On Sundays we'd take him to this little deli and they had a jukebox There he was only a year and a half there So he'd go over there and bounce to it and he'd turn around You load 1 6 tons what do you get?  He sang Tennessee Ernie Ford And everybody "Look at that little boy" you know? He had quite a good childhood - He had an excellent childhood - Later teens he used to walk in the door He'd step in that door right away Before he even saw him he'd yell out "Did you cut your hair?" That was I mean every night That's when they kind of had a little parting because of his hair and lifestyle and so forth A lot of Bobby's problems I believe subconsciously is an innate competitive thing with his father - I think she's right She's right in that She's right in that I worked for eight secretaries of defense Originally appointed by President Johnson kept on by Nixon and by President Ford Where the hell did you find that? I always looked up to people who were in our society Very very responsible And I want my son to have been like that - Joe but he's not - I can't do anything about it now - What I want for Bobby just for him to be happy - Just for him to be== - To find a good woman - Two different categories - Why? He needs that Joe - I just want him to be well Within the range of normalcy With that of course goes then to societal things that she's talking about  [windshield wipers swishing] - To play the next message, press one [electronic beep] - Hey, Dem It's Pellet Listen, I'm just giving you a quick call I finally heard from Bobby after weeks of him being missing in action He's been in Philadelphia, of all places Dude, he met some young hot girl named Hallie, and he's been up here spending time with her She supposedly is not a drug addict I'm not sure what the whole deal is, but I just thought I'd tell you It looks like there's gonna be some forward motion, 'cause he's psyched and really positive Give me a call when you get this, okay? See ya - This message will be saved - The way he met her from what I understand is she was a fan They were speaking on the phone quite a bit so she came one time with her cousin Then a couple of weeks later she invited him to visit And that's how it started He's been going to Philly nearly every weekend Do you have an elevator at 201 South 1 3th? He got an apartment==we got him an apartment I should say== in Philadelphia just a few blocks from her So he'll have to come in through the front? Is it wide? Because he has a very wide sofa Apparently they're in love Or whatever you know? [laughs] I don't know if it's== I shouldn't say this== in love or in lust but [laughs] [heavy metal music]  - Yeah I was very very Ionely down here for a long time but uh I'm not Ionely anymore because I have a== very much a purpose you know? Perfect time to meet Hallie About time somebody loved Bob for Bob again There's been nobody a long time who's loved Bob for Bob Nobody loves me like Hallie Nobody I've never loved a woman like Hallie in my life Never in my life and never will again - He's got to take winter boots I don't care what he says Are they that bad? They're dorky he says Just for the snow Are they that dorky? Huh?  Tell him he needs some lamps - I got everything like that - You got the coconut oil - Don't worry about that - All right where is it? [clattering] [hissing] [all coughing] - You know that fire that just started? Right as the flames hit the stove this fell off Bob's neck Now how fucking weird is that? That's weird 'Cause you were here== Them flames came out of nowhere right? Out of fucking nowhere This popped right off his neck right as the fire started Do the math One bad omen after another dude I don't know I think Bobby might just be back I hope this girl is everything he thinks man I don't know her Yeah I hope it works out But between the cross breaking and the fire the snow fucking I'm starting to wonder man [door clattering] - All right I'll see you later - Good luck - Wish me luck - Make it - Yeah I'm gonna make it There ain't no question about that - Are you boxed in? - We'll see you again all right? - Drive careful - Love you! [somber piano music]  - Oh boy I just hope he's happy that's all Hope he's happy [sniffles]  - So today is Bobby's birthday He loves carrot cake He gets an annual carrot cake every year There's no room to write "Happy birthday Bobby" without interfering with the carrot symmetry so we're just gonna go with a Pentagram with maybe a 54 in the middle I guess uh I get a little leeway since I'm not a decorator - I think 54's not that old - Huh? - 54's not that old - No I don't know is it? - I mean it's old - Get out of here! [laughs] - But it's not that old At first glance when people see me and Bobby walking down the street together they either think A he's my father or B he's my sugar daddy or you know a pimp or something like that But he's an endearing person and I'm certainly not in it for the money because he has none And I just== I enjoy his company I feel very kindred to him regardless of the age gap My cousin and I had a theory that he and his mother were the same person like an Anthony Perkins like Psycho sort of thing You're gonna have us like locked in a closet with your mother's corpse I don't find that I have anything in common with guys my age I've always liked since I was young in terms of looks guys that have you know goofy features like caricature features and I just have an odd taste in men That's just the way it is - All right Bobby! - Who bought the candles? It has a freaking pentagram on it No wait hold on== The change is pretty massive To my understanding he was smoking toxic amounts of crack - Make a wish - He went from that to this and has smoked no crack since he moved to Philly - Whoo! - He's been through so much more life than me But it's the kind of like life where you don't really grow as a person He's kind of remained frozen in time a little bit and I kind of like that about him I mean in his heart too he'll always be young I think You look good in those pants He looks pretty - Long as she can say that that's okay by me baby I'm doing all right then Now I'm still here If I can have someone as beautiful as this say I'm pretty something's happening here - # Loving you #  # Well, it takes away the blues # - And now it's so crazy watching you know him in this short amount of time grow up and make up for the time where his growth was like really stunted Stuff where he would have no clue what to do before like his debit card checking account the social security card he doesn't have a problem with that stuff anymore He's gotten the hang of it - I don't miss him I really don't There's a nice sense of peace now - I do a great deal - He misses him terribly - A great deal The fact that he is using whatever strength he has left to preserve whatever self-confidence he has is something that I am proud of He commented on the phone for the first time today actually "I love you Dad" - It's amazing the transformation in this guy He looks good He sounds good It's the person I thought or hoped I'd be dealing with from the get-go He's been jamming with other musicians He just seems kind of more focused and definitely more in touch with music lately - The Hallie situation I hate to talk so much about it but it is really that integral in my life Hallie Liebling I got mad love for Hallie Liebling Yep She's gonna be my Liebling She's my little Liebling  - We're about three hours and Finally going to meet the infamous Geof O'Keefe after talking to him for== gosh I don't know When you're in a record store and you pick up that record man you just almost don't know what you're in for Not only is it a journey of the mind but sometimes it's a real exodus man I fell in love with this band and now I feel like I'm kind of becoming part of the story It's a friggin' honor I wouldn't trade it for anything in the world Bobby makes my fucking hair fall out I'm telling you dude But at the end of the day it's gonna be worth it you know? It really is Fucking psyched People are gonna be able to dig a new record man That's kick-ass enough for me Geof is such an important part of the formation of this awesome band I'm hoping we really get Geof excited about it as well and he's willing to you know deal with Bobby and forget about the past or deal with some of the bullshit for the greater good which is gonna be an awesome new Pentagram record from the==with the original members you know? And new members too [heavy metal music]   - "Pentagram has not only developed "a small but faithful following in the Washington area but major record companies have also taken an interest" Well [laughs] Think it was a bar of soap from Ramada Inn New York City when we did that Columbia Records session So I'm guessing - Yeah it smells like failure - [laughs] Oh man Bobby and my special project The Douche Bags by The Douche Bags - "A friend told me he heard from a connection "that Bobby left and Pentagram now has a female singer "If this is true I'm doomed "It seems unlikely but anything's possible Christ I got to know" - "These two talented musicians make up "one of the most successful and popular bands today "Between the two of them "they play a wide range of instruments: bass lead guitar drums female organ and leslies" - [laughs] "We'd like to wreak metal havoc in Britain "The only problem so far is we can't get out of Washington" - "Pentagram closed the show with a nightcap "Any finesse got crushed and pushed aside by a boring tidal wave of sound" [laughter] Well this just shows where things had ended December '7 6 "Singer wanted "Former members of Pentagram "require a singer of professional caliber "in the David Coverdale/ Paul Rodgers mold We do not want a singer with an ego problem" I met Bobby Liebling in probably 1 967 '68 I noticed that he was carrying record albums with him a lot of times on the school bus and I was just starting to get into cool music He was playing in a band at the time called Shades of Darkness He was doing stuff that I was only dreaming about== playing in bands and going out with girls and all this stuff So I really kind of idolized this guy Coming out of the psychedelic hippie '60s and going into the '70s it was really a sense of artistic freedom like there were no boundaries We could do what we wanted wanting to make music and make movies We weren't conscious of being in any type of situation or artistic environment We just knew we wanted to do what we wanted to do  I have really good memories of Bobby from a certain period of time to a certain period of time And then bad things started to happen and there was a few years of that and eventually I just decided "I don't want any part of this" There was just too much negativity to== outweighing the positive you know? Things got so bad with the relationship between our managers Skip and Tom And the band wanted to know what was going on because they were still our managers so Skip said "Well you can interview me "but just you know write down the questions "and come out with your tape recorder and I'll record the answers onto a tape recorder" - One, two, three, four - Skip basically didn't want to be around Bobby So we had to conduct our band interview with our own manager by tape - How do you expect to promote the single wholeheartedly when you won't even meet with the band you're producing? Skip? - First of all, I don't expect to promote - Bobby's very driven with what== and very passionate about his music and that's good But I have a feeling that over the years that's been you know== one of Bobby's main problems is the freedom of Bobby doing nothing except sex drugs rock and roll I mean that is it to a tee And I realize some people say from an artistic standpoint "Bravo" you know? "You've got your vision You're sticking to it" On the other hand you know everyone that's been with you has walked away over the years or fled in terror because they realize you're not ever gonna compromise or you know cooperate I haven't talked to Bobby in over 20 years It would be really cool to go into the studio with Bobby and do a real album for the first time rerecord some old stuff write some new stuff 'Cause I'm proud of that stuff And if 30 years later people are finally discovering that music and you know posting things online about "Oh this band is so amazing This drummer kicks ass" and stuff like that When I read stuff like that it's like "Wow really? Thank you" On the other hand everyone who tries to do this with Bobby winds up getting crapped on It winds up being a disaster of mega proportions because Bobby will do something to screw it up I don't want to go do something that's a high publicity thing and have it fall apart and be a laughingstock I don't want to do it - She hasn't called me You know got 1 7 minutes left I can't== my phone's gonna run out I got - Your call cannot be completed - My call can't be completed as dialed Come on please answer honey The thing that people don't realize is that Mr Evil== whoo! Pentagram dih-dih-dih-dih yadda yadda yadda Man under this shell and this put-on all I want to do is eat take care of my loving other half in a bed that's comfortable next to a warm soul that I can give my soul to because I'm not a bad guy I'm really not a bad guy underneath I don't mean to do the things I do wrong You know I pray every night to God to forgive me for the things I've done wrong Hallie why are you calling me an asshole and saying that I hurt you? - Because you did - All I called to== Listen all I said== Can I say anything? Can I say anything ever? - It was just overkill Hallie Hallie Hallie Hallie And you know it's great to be in a relationship but you just need a fucking break He was talking about marriage I mean from the get-go the first thing Bobby told me was "I have a new girlfriend and I'm gonna marry her" And it's just all these things like compounded on this poor girl and she's just bound to break - Yeah well not dealing== You said it I didn't She hung up on me again [somber music] It's over There's nothing to live for [phone line trilling] - I can come over and can listen to music dude Music's a powerful drug - What do you say? - What Hallie said? - Yeah - No candy-coating This isn't easy for me dude And I don't==but I'll tell ya I mean Last night he didn't want to see me Today he didn't want to see me He doesn't want to see anybody He's just really affected He's fucking crushed - Now that this Hallie thing's coming down man I could just sense Bobby just trying to find any excuse to fucking relapse and go back and start smoking crack I can start feeling it happen Bobby listen to me It seemed like last time we hung out I just got a feeling that you might have smoked crack Did you smoke crack since you've been here? - No - Philip's playing here in a couple weeks with his band Down He's got to be clean for that Their hesitation the business side of it is giving money to a drug addict man you know? And he's got to be fucking clean to back up me telling them that he's clean and is gonna be able to do it you know? If he shows up fucked up it's gonna fuck it up [bluesy rock music]   - Being a person that has dealt with his own demons and won - That's the truth - I just hope that one day maybe he can do the same thing you know? It would be a beautiful thing man - Appreciate that From the heart - Wow Can I eat anything I want? Can I taste a piece of pineapple? - You sure? - Get some - Mmm Well they got it all The way it's supposed to be - Man I got like so many Pentagram t-shirts It's an honor having you here man There's just so much respect Personally I'm sick of hearing people say it's too late - Nah - It's never too late - Never never never - You know there's a lot of people you know "Dude there's no way he can come back" - How many times have we been written off? - No I know man - If we're gonna get straight to the bone and shit There is this wave that I'm sure you're aware of== young musicians that are discovering Pentagram That's a gift my brother - Sure it is - It's a fucking gift - Sure it is - And it's enough of a gift for you to give yourself a fucking break man You've got your fucking health - I'm giving myself a break I kicked $300 of rock six Xanax bars and a 1 0-pack of dope== cold turkey - How's that throat feel? - Fine - You can sing - Oh I can sing my ass off - Really? Are you ready? - Yeah well you're the man with the money - Well you're the man with the fucking record that needs to kick fucking ass too - Believe me if you've heard all my records I ain't done no record in my opinion that hadn't kicked ass - You know what? Robert I'd be proud to fucking do this I really would man - We're coming now Phil - Stand up - They're on stage - All right man - I love you baby - Me too buddy - It's great great to meet you man - Yep I hope we can do something brother - Philip! We got to go! - Let's go brother - Come on! We're on the way Have a good show bro [cheers and applause] [somber music] - You know I take him up to meet Phil Anselmo and everything's pretty much all set up On the fucking way home instead of focusing on the positive he's still focusing on Hallie So as soon as we drop him off he literally got out of the car thanked me all of a sudden his eyes start to tear up and he says he doesn't want to go home to an empty apartment He's just he's at the end Again - I'm in the shower! Five minutes! - Can we come in? - Uh yeah you can come in You can step over this shit Just stay out of here I'm on record at Jefferson Hospital of being epidemically covered in scabies so is everything in the whole goddamn place You think I'm lying? I can prove every bit of it - Well let's talk You don't have to prove it to me Just please get ready== - No I have to prove it to everybody 'cause it's cocaine cocaine cocaine cocaine! Buh-buh-buh-buh-buh! - [sighs] The only thing I see here is a fucking syringe - Yeah there is a syringe There's a syringe crack pipes all kinds of shit around here I quit A mega dose of methadone Mega heroin piggybacking it Cocaine 75% or more dropped in the course of less than a month okay? - I give you huge credit for that but there's still a 25% that's keeping you from making music - No it's not - And keeping you from making real friends that care - Look I gave up 99 out of 1 00 I'm not Superman What do you want me to do? Conquer the world overnight? You're asking too much of me now I'm on the verge of a nervous breakdown over all this drug shit - You have so much talent and you're smoking crack on your couch It's heartbreaking - How much life do you think I have left? I think the damage is done Far and above [scoffs]  - New message [phone beeps] - Hi, Demian It's Diane I haven't heard from Bobby since Friday Truthfully, I don't think he's gonna last much longer I just have a feeling Either he's gonna overdose or do something stupid And he's hung up on that Hallie thing like crazy, so I can't kill myself anymore over it, and what will be, will be - New message [phone beeps] - Hi, Demian It's Diane We still haven't heard from Bobby, and now we're really extremely concerned Please call me [clears throat] Thank you Bye-bye  - New message [phone beeps] - I found out where Bobby is It's called CFCF, under the prison system They took him there I don't know where it is I don't know how he is I'm sure he's suffering, and we don't know what to do So when you get a chance, you call Bye-bye  [music ends] - Philadelphia Prison Systems "Curran-Fromhold Correctional Facility Philadelphia Pennsylvania" Bobby's got a restraining order on him which clearly says you cannot fucking call Hallie He had fucking called Hallie Hallie picked up the phone and said "That's it Now you're going to jail" Click I mean this is a huge reality check What's harder than jail? What's the next step? Death? Who the fuck else is gonna fucking do this for him? I hate to sound like a dick== I feel like I've just been== I'm getting grizzled and pricky through this whole fucking process He's completely surrounded by chaos that he creates but it sucks everybody up in it that's around him And maybe I said this already but this past two weeks I was almost glad that he was in jail== just the fact that I know he wasn't somewhere hurting himself and I could concentrate on my life and what I really needed to get done 'Cause if I didn't get this shit done I can't do anything for him So we'll see See fucking work calls right now $260 of bail $1 5 parking later we're finally on our way They told== after bail went through they told us we have four to six hours before he's released so it's a total guessing game No one can give us any kind of straight answers So we kind of cut the wait in half We're headed there now It's dark I'm sure Bobby is freaking to get out You know the one thing he talks about that he wants I'm sure more than anything is a bacon pizza which is all he eats by the way Anything bad for his heart Bobby Liebling will do it [laughs] Love drugs bacon His life [laughing] What's going on now is every time I fucking come to get him out there's some other thing going on They told me an hour and a half We just went and waited somewhere for over an hour We come back "Oh we've got no one downstairs" I'm like "Here's his name He's been processed We paid at 3:00 today" "Well there's no one downstairs "I tell you what if he's not out within 1 5 minutes "he's gonna get out on the next shift which is uh So that probably means the next shift starts at 1 2:00 so who knows when he's gonna get out So we got to park across the street which is like Mister== at Mister Chubby's which is fitting 'cause they're treating us like fucking boners So now we got to wait and just watch We got to watch across the street which you can hardly see and we're gonna wait for him to walk out of the gate We can't wait here all fucking night in the goddamn car I skipped a whole day of work today to bail him out He's still not out and now it's fucking up my next day So I don't know what to do You know if we decide to leave and come back in the morning that's when he's gonna be out here stranded probably Know what I mean? People keep asking me you know "Dude why are you even hanging in there?" I've grown to love him as a friend and I really believe in him as a musician I don't know I'm really on the verge of saying "Fuck it" And just saying I tried I really don't know I keep going back and forth But I keep feeling like "Man don't fucking throw it all away yet Pellet because we're on the verge of fucking something happening" [somber music] Cold in there? - Huh buddy? That's my buddy [laughs] There's my buddy see? [all talking at once] Had to hook you up right away [all talking at once] - How you doing, man? - Uh doing like you know - Is it all right? - Here you go "Help me" I'm in prison again  - Hey you want some waters? It's good to see you out dude - Jesus - I'm nervous that you're out I'll admit it I didn't have to worry about you in jail I knew you weren't doing something dumb - I knew that I Do you even know how many hours - Bobby obviously goes through the same patterns It's always he does good for a couple weeks and then shit falls apart Bobby is just Robert Liebling He's a human and he's got incredible demons that he has to battle every fucking day That sounds cheesy but I think Bobby really is just doing all this stuff 'cause he just needs love  - There's nothing here I have nobody I can call that can try to help I ain't got no relatives I ain't got no brother or sister right? You know Fuck it I ain't got no kids I can't deal with myself I'm too immature I can't handle it the pressure you know what I mean? I have nothing here I thought I had a life here I don't got nothing anymore - I just got the new issue of Rolling Stone I found the perfect girl for Bobby She's fucking== has no grip on== they're in the same reality space but she's got money and she's young and blonde Fucking Britney dude I'm making some fucking calls right now [laughs] Bobby'd like her right? [sighs] You want some tea? I started to realize that Bobby and I might not have had the same goals My goal was for him to focus on the music All I could get him to focus to when he was up here was Hallie Damn man it smells like an old man's dirty pants [coughs] He got out of jail Stuff just wasn't rolling Phil Anselmo you know caught wind of it Bobby was kind of a mess and in jail And that's you know totally put on hold Bobby moved back home with his mom He did you know typical Bobby kind of stuff - Basement? - Living in the sub-basement You know? But one good thing that came out of it is being back around all that Maryland scene there was people down there who were just you know willing to help him out and got together and got him psyched again about playing music [bass guitar melody] I really think in a way this is kind of what he needed to do He got a complete wake-up call by going to jail He got some love As heartbroken as he is I think he's got a little bit of confidence from it - Hey is this on? Yes it is! [echoes] Okay - Since he's had a full band Bobby is just psyched to play shows We could definitely play DC and probably do pretty well But to make the biggest punch to get the most out of press and just to have the biggest you know appearance or profile is gonna be New York City [bluesy rock music]  So we chose New York They're at a top-notch venue We demanded a lot of money We're getting it There's also again a lot on the line because in the contract that I have to sign it says if the band does not show up for whatever reason if stuff doesn't happen it's my name on there that I'm responsible for So what I really need Bobby to do is just focus again on the music - [muffled singing]  I'm just very confused right now There's this angel I just wanted to talk to while I was still hanging around mortal - Is that keeping you from focusing on stuff or are you - Ain't easy Show must go on But it ain't easy you know Got to keep rocking or I start crying Sort of like that you know?  Come on! [music stops]  - Every single thing you do with Bobby Liebling has a risk Whether it's a record coming out whether it's a show or whatever it's a risk I mean it definitely makes shit exciting But it's putting gray in my beard you know? - It surprises me people who go out and buy advance tickets for Pentagram shows sometimes You know it's like man I would just wait until the night of the show and go to the door because why sink your money into something that you don't know is even going to happen? - It's kind of an uphill battle right now because the last couple shows that Bobby played are legendary== a legendary mess - Yeah there was this doom metal festival or something and this promoter guy goes "Man I need you to play this gig and headline this gig" You know "You got to do it" And I asked Bobby I said "You think we can do it?" [cheers and applause] I went to play the gig and it was packed with people It's getting later and later and Bobby doesn't show Then Bobby doesn't show And the club owner comes up and goes "Man you got to play They're gonna tear my club up" I said "There's==I don't have a singer here" Unfortunately our singer won't show up tonight 'cause he's just too fucking cool for all of us so let's give it a big "Fuck you you asshole!" Right? - Fuck youl - We're gonna play anyway And I gave the microphone to the audience I say "It's Pentagram karaoke night Here you go" [heavy metal music]  Then Bobby showed up at the last two measures of the last song I kicked him in the leg and then and I think I had a cordless guitar that night or something but I was playing from behind the speakers where he couldn't rock out with me you know? That's how it happened and that kind of broke us up really I said "Forget it man I can't do that again Not at my age" You know==shit I'm almost 20 now so - Come on, you fucking junkiel - Playl - Play a song you fucking junkie! You fucking dope-shooter! You fucking rip-off! Bullshit! - He's got this Jim Morrison thing going on now or something where you just never know what's gonna happen [heavy metal music] The last [laughs] the last time he played was The Black Cat show in DC - Oh okay The Black Cat incident? That's like the incident at Roswell crammed in this place and I'm going "He's finally made it Damn I'm glad I came tonight You know this is great" - People are fucking charged You see the band take the stage Literally the guy next to me is biting his lip But there's something missing Where's Bobby? - Apparently he'd overdosed And he fell asleep in my arms like a baby in the dressing room Somebody knew the rescue squad guy They came and got him and then they shot him up with something I don't know what He goes "I'm ready to play" - I see Bobby on the side of the stage being propped up Iooking like he's being carried over to the stage - Grabs a mic and that was it Stumbles backwards falls on the drum riser Crawls off the fucking stage [audience catcalling] - When he left it was in the big freight elevator== in a straitjacket And there's orange lights and instead of the doors coming together like this they shut like a mouth a giant metallic mouth and he was gone I thought "That's it That's the last time I'll see him" Man I'll remember that the rest of my life [somber music]  - You know I monitor Bobby's Myspace page Soon as you announce these shows dude this thing lit up It was just amazing Every time I come on there's all these friend requests I had 1 2 pages of friend requests This might be fake but Bobby would like it [laughs] One of the best things for me dude== this is a total triumph This one kid says to me "I only heard Pentagram two months ago "but I can't believe the influence it's had on my life already" You know this is from like this 1 9-year-old kid so in the middle of nowhere USA who must have picked up a First Daze Here record or whatever and it's just changed his life and it's the same thing it did to me and it's exactly what I want to do with Bobby Oh right here "Love love love your music "Saw the opening band at a Witchcraft gig "cover a tune of yours The place went crazy" "Pentagram forever "Many many thanks for this great music I love it and I need it every day" And again just people just rooting for Bobby Look at this It's great It goes on and on and on Again I just get choked up 'cause I'm a freaking sissy-hippie butt I'm not a sissy but [laughs] At first I got involved with Bobby I wanted to have Bobby's music heard That was the main goal right? It was just pretty much all about Bobby Now at this point it's become about me too My whole life has been in music My greatest accomplishment to me personally is Pentagram If I can't make it happen then I've got to fucking wake up and grow up like my parents keep telling me to do Cut my hair and get a goddamn job It's gonna suck [laughs] [crickets chirping] Bobby Hallie and I texted each other and she sent me a couple of lengthy messages that I can read if you want She's not gonna be at either show There's no way in hell I do know what this means to you==trust me I do - One of the nights You know what? - Let me put it this way I've got so much invested in this I've gone beyond the deposit I've spent my own money on this I need these shows to happen I'll do whatever it takes to make these shows happen If it means fucking lying to Hallie and telling her she'll get a $1 million if she shows up I'll do it But I just don't have high hopes and you got to get it out of your head that she's gonna show up or not And I know that - So what else am I supposed to do? She basically said Bobby is== you know in not so many words== off his rocker doing cocaine again You have to go down to Germantown get him out of the sub-basement and bring him to Philly or he's not gonna play these shows So she knows - Listen you got to leave in ten hours I don't know if she's wrong yet or not Your hair's not dyed You should== It's 1 0:30 at night Your fucking clothes aren't dry-cleaned I should have went down and got you - [sighs] I hope so - If you're doing what you said you were gonna do let's just do it We're gonna get in an argument we're gonna raise our voices and your voice is gonna be even - I will promise you I will send that text Honestly Bobby I'm super stressed out right now and I'm just== I'll send her that text but I got to finish this merch stuff I got to do a bunch of shit for the shows - Please relax tonight and take your bath and chill and I'm gonna do - Did you think this was gonna go any other way? - Yeah I did because Bobby's been really fucking focused lately I mean he's been really heartbroken over Hallie and that you know and any time I need a ten-minute conversation out of him I figure it's gonna be an hour 'cause I got to== which is fine He's my friend It's cool I know what it's like to suffer that way and it's cool But through it all he's really getting kind of focused and it's like he's focused to prove this to her I mean you know I think he thinks if he pulls these two shows off and shows that he can really do it he'll be able to take care of her and make money and all that [sighs] He's doing these shows just for her And now that she's not there he doesn't want to do 'em but he can't back out I mean it's not just me who's got money and time involved in this It's a lot of people [somber music]  - # My final hour's getting near # # The time is getting close, I fear # # Footsteps at my door, I hear # # Time to pay for life so dear # # I want to flee, but it's too late # # My soul is in the grip of fate # # Close my eyes and one last breath # # Feel the cold, cold hands of death # - "Pentagarm" "Pentagarm" it says It does It says g-a-r-m That's all right I live in hell anyway What's the fucking difference? - Check, uh Uh-uh Hey-hey-hey, check-check-check - Yeah there's my pants That's all I'm wearing for pants It's just black tight pants This I'm thinking is what people like 'cause it's paisley You know what I mean? And it's very very old look A '70 you know '60s whatever It's hippie all right? But you can't out-flamboyant that That's a motherfucker isn't it? I mean this is a true== feel this thing Feel how bizarre it feels The first time that I started using these clothes did I think I'd be breaking them out again? I thought I'd be throwing them out but I don't know about breaking them out [laughs] It's weird isn't it? They're all my mom's I just thank God above for everything that has transpired and the people have phenomenally astonished me astounded me with their devotion and their mega support And it's finally caught on to the fact that what goes will always come back - We came all the way from LA for this and it's a really important night obviously It's almost like Bobby's return you know? [poignant orchestral music]  - Hey everybody in the whole place man God bless all of you and I mean it from the bottom of my heart thank you I mean it - Thank you - Thank you Bobby - I truly mean it God bless all of you - Bobby! [cheers and applause] The legend!  [cheers and applause] [crowd chanting] Pentagram! Pentagram! Pentagram! Pentagram! [cheers and applause] - I love you God bless all of you [cheering and whistling] I can't believe this is real I mean I do I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart and I mean this deep down inside [cheers and applause] You came through Without you I ain't You get my message? [heavy metal music]  [muffled singing]   [heavy metal fades] [poignant orchestral music]   [cheering fades in] [strings fade out] [heavy metal fades in]  [cheers and applause] Thank God for all of you! [cheers and applause] [indistinct chatter] - Thank you Thank you - Made my fucking lifetime man - Thanks Bobby Thank you so much I know you're tired Thank you so much - Bobby that was fucking awesome - That was great - Thank you Bobby That was awesome man It was right on - It was overpowering I'm still feeling== I'm getting choked up I mean I went from laughing like hysterically to like crying I just==I can't explain it and for me I just felt like a kid To be on the side of the stage and watching my favorite band at their biggest show ever and knowing I had something to do with it I just== it's like==it's a fucking Christmas gift dude You know? It's fucking Hanukkah Christmas and Kwanzaa all in one and Bobby Liebling delivering the presents It's fucking great If it all falls apart now I'm fucking happy as shit If an arrow fucking comes hits me in the head right now I don't care; I feel great I'm just psyched dude This is the best night of my life really - I'm alive I'm alive and that's something that I would have never expected and three or four hospital record books say the same damn thing But you know who knows what you got in the cards right? You got to spin that wheel [Southern accent] "Life is like a box of chocolates You never know what you're gonna get" [somber music] [sizzling] Okay Come out and get your breakfast baby It's sausage and toast Hallie? Hal? - Coming - You want to come out and eat? All right? Here I'm gonna show them half of the eggs I had to scramble them but they're== Daddy makes a good breakfast - After he played the Webster Hall show he started getting the ball rolling again with his work and had started like at least trying to get out of his parents' and having something to do rather than just sitting around and destroying himself I had always thought about him He'd never left my mind and I just called to check on him It progressed from there From him coming back here to visit and him being sober we're just both really happy and it's pretty harmonious Like I like his intensity because it's different from what I am and we meet like somewhere in the middle But it's not so outrageous like how it was It's a kind natural intensity rather than craziness It's really been incredible to watch his metamorphosis Bobby's like a miracle to me I just have to kind of trust my heart and my instincts in this situation I have had to a lot like um and just trust him because he's more likely to pan out the way that I want him to if I trust him sincerely instead of you know just half-ass like "Okay we'll see how it goes" But like just having one foot in the water - [barks] Here==I'm not supposed to do this but you can have one more piece of toast Here one more bite for you is all After the American tour we had a very deep unified period that I recall pretty well of bonding with intent of this is for eternity  - We got married the end of November - Day before Thanksgiving - Yeah it was the day before Thanksgiving - You know right there That's it It's for life You know love is forever and love is for two - I got to put it on his joke-shop finger too the one with the knuckle cut out As his wedding finger We were getting married and I was like "Aw I get to put it on his little fucked-up finger" [laughs] - [laughs] - The cute little finger - Yeah my joke-shop finger - Yeah it's like - It's like it doesn't have any knuckle - Yeah there's no knuckle - We've been through an awful lot in the two-plus years that we've you know known each other and now we're on paper and this is Mrs Robert Liebling - I looked at all of your labs Everything looks great - I am very ecstatically happily married and uh expecting There's a bun in the oven I don't know another way to put it you know? It's gonna be corny anyway but it's not corny to me It's my whole life We're gonna have a baby - Hold this? - Do you have names picked out for girls or boys? - Yeah we agree on nothing - You can lie down - We agree on next to nothing - [laughs] Sounds about right [gentle orchestral music] [static crackling] It's like coming in and out of my little machine - Mm-hmm - What a troublemaker [static and rumbling] Come on Come back There we go [heartbeat thumping] Sounds perfect Perfect Right where it should be [thumping continues] That's great - That's something I never dreamt would ever come about And um look out world There's gonna be another me [laughs]  My peace of mind depends on you  My space in time is here with you too  Drop all your dreams in the palm of my hands  Step in the blue light fulfill my plans   Come with me now the midnight calls  All are asleep as the kingdom falls  Seeking our goals as a life had planned  Walk in the blue light you'll understand  
