 

                        That's no problem, sir We've foisted a case on him claiming he sold drugs seized by the cops We won't be suspected We have used local thugs to do the job I'll take care, sir Basheer, shoot this dog! That's not fair! Thick as thieves together, but he gets the blame What do you get? The Game Plan Today is a black day for our police department Anti corruption head Mr Kamal Ekambaram ...killed himself at 9:45 A. M in his office room Asst. Commissioner Kamal Ekambaram committed ...suicide due to heavy loss in cricket- betting His involvement for the past few years in cricket betting has come to light now In the recent Indian Premier League (IPL) If an assistant commissioner can be pressurized by bookies ...imagine the plight of ordinary people We have to wait and see what measures Central Government will take A Special squad has been formed to eradicate betting in cricket by our government We shall wait and watch who this head will be and his method of operating Shall I dance? Sing my debut song? With a huge fanatic fan shall I explore headlong? Friend with an unusual name Disciple who spreads my fame Come, my knave so brave Play 'mankatha' The card game 'in and out' Our Goddess won't forsake you No doubt If you don't pretend victory you can't befriend?! Play 'mankatha' The card game 'in and out' Our Goddess won't forsake you No doubt If you don't pretend victory you can't befriend?! Change your mind Happiness you'll find Torpedo your trouble Break all barriers to rubble Sparks of fire within that toil Reflexes that rise to boil Re-define destiny Shall I defy history? Provoke me to tease Touch me to please Skip over sorrow, here after Lord, You became my partner Bump to incite Be a messenger to ignite Face with a halo-glow Word-less shall I show? Knowledge is power, a God-send Realize that, my friend Work with devotion, my dear Success will be your volunteer This offshoot of Valluvar's verse if understood, hurdles are no remorse Onus is on you Face this challenge new Progress without digress! Hold on to this flying kite Seek within you, this find so right Take my hand in yours so strong Listen to your inner voice, to you I belong! Play 'mankatha' The card game 'in and out' Our Goddess won't forsake you No doubt If you don't pretend victory you can't befriend?! Play 'mankatha' The card game 'in and out' Our Goddess won't forsake you No doubt If you don't pretend victory you can't befriend?! Awaken spirits that sleep Refresh memories to leap Make your dreams happen At work, let your focus sharpen Let your bonds strengthen Let humility not slacken Endorse truth as a commander Be rated as 1st of the world's wonder Play 'mankatha' The card game 'in and out' Our Goddess won't forsake you No doubt If you don't pretend victory you can't befriend?! Play 'mankatha' The card game 'in and out' Our Goddess won't forsake you No doubt If you don't pretend victory you can't befriend?! Why didn't you pick up the phone? What were you doing? - Tell me - Haven't you got up? Worked late last night Did you drink? Of course not I've sworn on you that I won't A small assignment You've been suspended for 6 months What is the assignment, then? Old case Are you at home? I'll be there soon I should never ever drink again! Was that your girl friend? Who is she? From where did you get her? Who are you? Don't be funny Let me sleep for half an hour more I swear I don't know you Who are you? What? Did I do anything hanky-panky last night? Not last night Only now... Don't ever drink again! My girl friend will be here You have to leave now You promised to marry me - When? - Last night You went into raptures about every single feature of mine?! You forgot all that? I was too tanked and tipsy Quick Lady, here's your shoe Leave now Is she more beautiful than me? Will you drink again? I didn't mean you You just leave Sanjay Ramaswamy, amnesia guy! He lives upstairs When did you come? My bag's inside Who is she? She came here by mistake instead of going up to the next floor - Didn't seem that way - Then what? Looked like she was 'hitting' on you - Who? - That girl She and her dress sense, it didn't look like she was visiting your neighbor Are you implying I pushed her out of here before your arrival?! Are you suspecting me? Not you I don't trust girls Even if guys are saints, can't trust these girls! Where the hell did you keep it? What are you hunting for? Me? Nothing What happened to you? You are acting so weird My head is... Shall I make coffee for you? Thank you, honey Dad wants to meet you this Friday He thinks we are just friends - What's this? - You are dead meat! You promised not to smoke My friends who came last night ...must have left it here Cut off your tobacco friends! - You look irresistible? - What? Your hair Ear Danglers These cheeks Your eyes I feel like looking at you all day long Looks like your lips are asking for something?! What are they asking? - What? - Shall I brush my teeth? On ourway From Mumbai? Does it tally? Give 5 from the big bag Chettiyar is on the line Will you talk to him? How are you? Your boys are here Come this way Greetings! I am the officer who has been assigned to prevent cricket betting If there is chance of huge cash- flow into India We learnt that bookies escaped when being arrested One escaped, but we nabbed Rs 50 million You didn't get that information?! Good news never travels!! What's next? Pichumani, stop talking rubbish Listen to what I'm saying I am almost there Why are you hassling me? Which coach? I didn't see anything - What are you doing here? - I came to drop my friend This is my friend Prem from Chennai This is Sona Long time since we met, Mahat I'll call you Sendhil, park the car Now, tell me Why did you ask me to come here? Let's go in and talk What an awesome bar! Drinks 'on the house' for me If so many people drink during the day how will our country prosper? Don't antagonize them They are the reason for your friend's career-graph sky rocketing Is that so? Why did you want me here? To make me a drunkard like them?! No, to make you a millionaire Wait a minute, buddy! I'm joining a new job from Monday Are you playing the fool with me? Sub-inspector sir One month flew so fast?! What to do, Mahat? You know how ourjob is Who is that noodle-head? That's Prem - Where next? - Theater, dude Why are you taking so much time? Sumanth, are you busy? I'd like to see Chettiyar He is upstairs Someone's with him, I think I need to collect cash from him Will you get it for me? Get that ready soon Sub-inspector Ganesh has come Come in This is Sumanth He's been with me from childhood Trust-worthy chap He is Sanjana's friend How is Suchi? Ask her to call me - What? - Nothing, dad - What? - Nothing, sir This generation is beyond me!!! Ask Faizal to come up Bribe, sir? As if you don't know Only if we give your due you will let us work in peace Can't take like before How old are you, Vinayak? Daaad? Only girls' age shouldn't be asked Even if a girl is present you shouldn't ask! I will be 40 this May Did you call me, sir? Go see Nasser What are you doing here? - How are you, bro? - I am fine I'm working with 'sir' How do you know Faizal? He was the reason for my suspension! Knowingly or unknowingly you have helped me immensely How considerate and helpful you are This is how I can reciprocate your goodness You lost yourjob because of us! Suspended, not sent home for good! How will I ever repay you? I am confused Illegal cricket betting confirmed as reason behind Kamal Ekambaram's demise Our Government orchestrated it Tell them why you died! All because of this betting, sir Some become overnight millionaires Some end up taking their lives unable to cope with the pressure To bring the black money out and create public awareness, I pretended to commit suicide I don't understand If a V.I. P kills himself due to betting it is camouflaged and case is closed If a cop does the same a huge hype is created Bookies are like ghosts We should trap their network first Prithviraj appointed to stop cricket betting has taken drastic measures Bookies have been taken for interrogation by the Special Squad Most bookies will be influential We'll definitely be pressurized Don't worry about that Please let me go Forgive me He is our latest team member Isn't he already dead? Common knowledge, then how? Police department has established to the whole world that Kamal is dead Same department has created a Praveen in our team This is that Praveen Understood? You have tightened security Seized betting money Arrested bookies What are you doing? It is in Central Government's hands We don't have any control I am not bothered You have to attend to this Prithviraj has given an assurance that illegal cricket betting will be completely eradicated We have arrested many bookies from metropolitan cities through out India We have seized money in millions They have fallen in love We should unite them Please don't interfere in both my daughters' lives Do you like him? I love him Do you believe he'll take care of you till the very end? Will you take good care of him? I will Then why hesitate? Bring her home I'll take leave You are my looking glass I am your eye-contact, lass You are my interior I'm your view to the exterior You are my search I am your requisite You are my song I'm your word to express it You are my equal half I am your 50-50 You are my heart beat I am your anatomy You are my vision I'm your perfect hue You are my soul I'm your 'point of view' Come with me, my dear Let's rhythmize to our desire Sky and clouds not in sync, today They diverge, each a separate way You are my body I am your dress You are my speech I am your dais You are my path I am your feet You are my breeze I'm your scented sweet I realized you as me I perceived you in me continuously With unexpressed sentiment I stood still... reticent ...only to spread my wings to fly exceed the endless sky Your eyes ceaselessly capsize setting my heart ablaze to rise You are my looking glass I am your eye-contact You are my home I am your vision intact You are my search I am your requisite You are my song I am your word to express it What happened? I dreamt some rowdies shot you It was so real My heart stopped beating for a minute Only after I woke up my heart resumed its beat! Being the heroine why do you dream like the villain's wife? Shouldn't your dream have... Why are you scared of losing your life? Whose ever life it may be, it is precious! This city is making me dream this way Don't know what will happen Distance! No barrier, bridge the gap Passion! Roll on us to love- wrap Love conquers, fulfilling mutual desire Droplets fall down to re- kindle the fire You wage a war within me Endlessly... triumphantly! You are my body I am your dress You are my speech I am your dais You are my path I am your feet You are my fresh breeze I am your scented sweet - Where is the rest room? - Over there Tell me You are? Got a call about an impending raid I'll leave - Who called you? - Unknown number I'll come with you You go I'll take care Clear all the stuff from the theatre I'll be there now Start the car soon Just a minute, sir - What a run-down car this is - Will start right now Are you leaving, sir? I have a small job to do Some problem with my car Can you take me? Let's go What are you still doing over there? Do I have to tell you also? Go Clear it up fast - It's okay - Let me help Don't stop the car anywhere midway at night... keep driving What am I paying you for? Shouldn't you warn me before hand? I didn't get any such information Even I enquired in my department No such news Special squad is probing into illegal betting and gambling... we have to watch our back Our boys will take care Don't worry - Ganesh, take care - Definitely Let us close all activities for 2-3 days Let the danger ease Thanks a gallon, Vinayak You went out of the way to help me I am indebted to you more and more Plenty of foreign investors Indian players are also involved They too gamble for foreign funds Maximum transaction happens through phone If a player bets with a bookie, he transfers it to a bigger bookie It goes up in hierarchy like that This is how the network travels If I bet Rs 500,000 and I win within 2 days I will get double the amount If I lose, someone else will get that cash Huge amount of money will be hauled out due to the pressure we have given We'll amass close to 4 or 5 billion! Oh my gosh!! Awwwwww!!! Total amount will get distributed to the bookies, from Mumbai Indian Premier League match is on Sunday Previous Saturday will be 'cash inflow' in our Golden theatre If we raid Golden theatre the entire loot can be seized We can control a huge network If we plan this well, smash-hit! We can live life like royalty If we mess it up and get caught sure-shot death Just hearing this, his tummy starts somersaulting! He is such a wimp Are you kidding? He will be useful to us He is brilliant and a brave-heart Don't worry I want to go back to my city I was happy with my '65000 per month' job Why are you so formal? and we are still doing good Especially no cigarettes, no alcohol That's why I thanked you You insist only for my good Ages since I left all those vices - I'm glad my dad likes you very much - Very soon we can... Don't be in a hurry He who is patient, will be Lord of all He surveys! I've got my car I'll go I was being so good Why did you have to remind me? Bro? You? We met at Sumanth's wedding - How are you? - I'm good - Are you here for a drink? - Do I look a drunkard to you? I didn't mean it that way Chennai Super Kings won No one is celebrating in Mumbai So I thought maybe you wanted to rejoice all alone in solitude, like me You think so? How long can I pretend to be good? Poor you! This is why I don't have a girl friend Even if you want to, you can't! Why? Were you born this way? I didn't mean to offend you You are a handsome guy You tease me Even those 3 morons mock at me One more, please I want to drink... dot! Close the shop Go... go... go Police? He means me! Police... go I am caught red-handed What will I do? Open No one is in, sir - You think you are 'Vasanth & co'! - Liquor sold out Will you open or shall I seal you along with your shop? I've seen you somewhere - Boss - Not me There's only brandy Long may you live! We drank whisky We can't mix the 2 We'll get a hangover We should mix and drink Do you have water? After 10:00 P. M if we sell liquor you catch us If we don't, you threaten to seal our shop Are you DrJekyll or Mr Hyde?!! Let me pull the shutter down before he comes back Man has created 2 good things One is liquor The other is twisted crispy That's chips, dude Shopkeeper swindled us! - I'll tell you a 'haiku' poem - Tell With pair of lights on, be a driver If couple of pegs down sit back as passenger Wow wooowwwow That's why I never drive What about you? I didn't drive light but tight Continue your creative flow You got a job here? Or going back to your city? Why should I go back? If I want, I can have 100 people working under me Won't it be expensive? What are you looking at? Secret You will zip your lips? We are planning to rake in a sweepstake - From where? - Golden theatre Arumugam Chettiyar Me too, same pinch! Why are we whispering? Are you also planning the same? When? Day of the final match of Indian Premier League We are also planning on that very same day Why don't you do it 2 days later? 'We' means? Me, wine- shop owner Mahat, Chettiyar's employee Sumanth and sub-inspector Ganesh All 4 are morons!!!! I should never drink again I swear Whom did I bring today? I swear I won't drink ever! What are you doing here? I remember clearly I drove the car I drove the car Do you know where we went afterthat? In between we got the Liquor I bought the Liquor I opened the shutter Do you know that? Then we came home What happened, bro? Do you still not remember? After we got the liquor I blanked out Let me take leave We should maintain same brand if we ever drink again Not mix the two A secret to share! Do you know how brilliant we are? Traffic signal is what we need to pay attention in Mumbai All signals have to favor us after we grab the loot for us to escape You have to accompany me My bro has come from the village He wanted to become a cop from childhood His name is Alex Pandian Alias Shikari Shambu Take care It may break Careful Match box can be struck only on 2 sides But if you strike anywhere on Alex Pandian it will be a total blast!! This area's entire traffic control is here If you mess with it there will be a major problem This uncle's wife has deserted him He has enough hassles to cope with Don't you worry This Alex Pandian will find her for you whichever nook and corner she is in I found a vehicle similar to the one used by Sanjana charitable trust We can fix it tomorrow Is it same size? Make sure We have printed the stickers already I'll take care You tell us the plan I'll create the traffic jam At that time vehicle with money will go in You should ensure your car is next to it This is the go-down we have identified We will share our loot here - It is safe, I hope - Don't worry Not even a fly can fly in!! If we share the loot in comfort in a 5 star hotel won't it be?! You scared the hell out of me How did you come in? You should not ask how I came in But why! Now why did you come in? - Are you drunk? - Yessssss! Do they know at home? Why should my home know? Only my mom and dad should know Irrespective of the gender how are all drunken dialogs so moronic?! You told me not to drink and you booze from head to toe?! Friend's birthday party Why are you here? I drank just half a quarter lmages of you flowed in 'full'! What are you going to do now? What am I going to do? What are we going to do!! Hey! Don't hide Mr Baddie, I'm your twin tower, 'hit' on me! Russia's vodka or Japan's haikai Find inside me which I can supply! Of its own accord my dress wants to slide Only you can stroke a fire inside Without a touch you arouse me I move to collide voluntarily! Hey! Don't hide Mr Baddie, I'm your twin tower, 'hit' on me! Russia's vodka or Japan's haikai Find inside me which I can supply! You take me, like a churner to yoghurt Oh! How you ravage me, 'lovexpert'! Like swine flu pandemic, it's adolescence-sway! Lips apply fomentation, full body asks a replay Shared intimacy in bed, koel moved to ecstacy Silver moon's artery kindled desires easily Bull stood aside, while dairy cow wanted encore Mind got corrupted, as I fell hook, line & sinker Oh! Sexy lady! You invade me totally Cricket is match- fixing, love is 2 hearts mixing On this bed, let's bet to our heart's content Catch the ball for winning sake Shall I bat to keep you awake? Proud of my pitch, I want to kiss you Spring-time fever, will 20 overs do? Like cricketer Dhoni, play on my passion Desire is hellish, this lass wants action One, just 1, only one Lavish this girl with all the fun Satisfy my every whim, your bottom line Ravish me lady, wine and dine Just like that, simply, take me Loot me, get wild my booty Of its own accord my dress wants to slide Only you can stroke a fire inside Without a touch you arouse me I move to collide voluntarily! We are at your place I am getting better More sober How much ever anyone has drunk when they reach home, they'll feel this way Go brush yourteeth No one will know you got drunk I am not going in alone You come with me Come in Please be seated - How are you? - I am fine Shall I get you something to eat? No, thank you Any drink? Just now You are always very formal I'll call my husband Vinayak is here to see you Hello Vinayak - How are you? - I am good A small meeting What's news? I came to drop Sanjana I assumed he had come to see you Don't go away I'll finish the meeting We can have dinner together - How was it? - What? My acting skill No one found out?! You are such a talented actress Should you be taught how to act!? - Did dad bug you? - He asked me to stay for dinner I'll go help mom I don't reek of alcohol, do I? Where's the restroom? Don't use the gun unless we are caught Whoever gets caught shouldn't squeal If we go according to plan we are safe Otherwise we are all dead Why be so morbid? Let's talk of money Ganesh is right If we get caught by 'old man', we won't have descendants for our family! What you say scares even me What will he do... poor soul? Start the car Our plan should work without hassles Even I am apprehensive of that Lighter? Where are you all off to? To loot? Swear we don't know what you are implying Where are you going? - Theatre? - Yes Why do you need Sub-inspectorfor the theatre? To help you escape from the case You are trying to entertain us? Am I Santhanam? (popular comedian) I was on the way to work Hey bro! Are you also with us? Wondered if you are drinking with us I know you are going to loot I swear I don't know... Good act, Ganesh! I know everything Your plan, your share, where you are off to now We have to download liquor from the vehicle, bro I know it has no liquor We don't know what you are saying I know everything Prem told me everything I swear I didn't I didn't We don't have time to discuss That money hasn't gone to the theatre like the way you are assuming Money didn't go to the theatre? Are you wondering how I know? That's why I befriended Sanjana and her dad Police problem is way too much Even I am aware Don't bring the money to the theatre This is what I told you before Where is it going instead? I'll give you 'guarantee' You don't worry Theatre being the venue was a drama to divert the cops Sanjana's dad doesn't know that the theatre is surrounded by cops If you still don't believe me... Look at the tea shop Theatre Must be special squad What are you thinking? I should be the one to think! What do you prefer? Tell me What do we do now? Money truck will come tomorrow afternoon It will be followed by an escort car Prem, this is what you have to do Dear Goddess, be with me I have gone in Everything is under my control Mankatha! All aces are ours, dude Ready forthe next signal? We can split them No worries, I'll take care It's moving Go fast Can't you see? There's a car in front Move... move aside Mahat, I am opening signal, be ready I am ready from the day I was born Security is missing? Both vehicles have been separated Unable to reach him Let's keep going, not stop in between - Try again - I did, still not reachable Mahat, are you ready? Keep our papers ready Stop Go over there Show your papers It's all in order What's the problem? I'll handle it We have reached Open Fast Have we reached? Hand it over to me Hold You pulled it off Brilliant planning Wrong How well he rides a bike, dude He's too good! My intestines were trembling - What are you doing? - Counting to make sure it's okay Where did you get hold of him? He can't be got, has to be ordered, still there's a manufacture defect Next? Let the money be here Let's not split it now - Why? - It is safe that way There's big trouble outside If we change dollars we'll get caught Let 2-3 days pass Let things come to normalcy I don't agree Give me my share, I'm leaving He is right Too much pressure on my side 'Old man' is bugging me with calls I don't know how to handle him You are saying a couple of days Before that... one of us... ...can escape easily with the entire loot That's why I have a super idea How's my technology? We'll all be alerted through text message if even 1 of us tries to back-stab You are a brain-box to reckon with! Money for your brain Otherwise why would you be part of our team? We are all multi-millionaires whatever you may say This is the place forthe haul This is the money Oh wow! We all go in to share the loot Mahat Prem Sumanth Ganesh Now my entry that is... the hero As soon as they see the money... ...everyone will rejoice without realizing head or tail At that time I will take my gun Over confidence is not good for health, King maker! Ganesh is a cop He'll be armed with a gun for sure So first I should shoot Ganesh Remaining will be these 2 morons They'll run and fall at my feet Spare us, bro We don't want money Only our life They will plead Poor fellows! I'll let them off Prem and Mahat will run away happily What if they go out and tell tales? Mahat, let's double-cross him Yeah, let's inform the cops I'll take my gun What, bro? DIE!! Doesn't matter, bro Prem is street-smart Must check if he is really dead All credits goes to Him! Thank God I'm not dead! Bro, I am innocent He brought me here He won't say this dialog What will you tell? What the hell, sir? You have achieved so much Spare me Bingo What to do then? We should pile up all the corpses in one place Then? Must scatter some notes over them Tomorrow's headlines Cricket betting money looted Division of spoils led to internal feud and death Since the looters died, Rs 100 million seized by the cops Where's the remaining amount? No, we didn't notice the guy Security vehicle was also taken We knew only after we went to 'Quality hotel' - What? - Container was changed - Who are these guys? - Drivers - Your men? - Yes This is 'black money' Can't go to the cops You know best I am already pressurized with too many calls I don't think professionals have done this Only small time gangsters We can find out We have to Chettiyar, people shouldn't think you helped yourself to this money And that you enacted a drama What? I know you, but others should share my faith in you I don't know what you will do You have to arrange the funds Otherwise you'll be in a soup - Start the car - Yes, sir I am myself feeling bad, don't know what you will do, but do something - Save our friendship - Okay Check Andheri See if Chetan Bai's boys know anything about this Money has reached Dharavi But not the theatre What about the news we got that money will reach the theatre? That was true Someone planned and looted it midway Looted? When we were watching the theatre, traffic signal at Dharavi was hacked It was under their control for an hour They diverted the money truck Hit the security guards They've transported the money to another venue Local cops were aware - Can it be a drama staged by Chettiyar? - Even I thought that, but it isn't so Chettiyar, are you playing a game? We trusted you and sent you I swear, I didn't get the money Someone has looted it in between I don't know I need the money by tomorrow Give me some time Do you have any idea who'll be caught? I'll somehow find it Don't give us excuses What is our plan, sir? Why do you keep asking me for more when I have already given you? Problem with Airport customs But you are my regular customer, right? - Get me some cold water - Yes, sir We can't split the loot Why? We will get caught Cops are checking all around Dharavi Mumbai is on full alert Is the 'Old man' suspecting you? Then why would he ask me to search? Do the cops have a... They are unsure if the money was sent or not Local cops didn't get any news They just want huge vehicles to be checked - Anything else, sir? - Nothing Looks like pressure is from a higher level So we can't split now What's the option? Let's wait We are stuck like a diabetic who can't gorge on sweets! Can't live it up despite being a millionaire What else to do? Let's just remove a few notes and host a party Why? After we split up we won't see each other Each to his own... way Let's have a small party I thought you are a popular comedian But you are a Sam Anderson!!! You want to Let's do it Dude... open the bottle This is the Ambani clan of 5-6 generation Like the moon that waxes we radiate happiness If we ordered, won't money shower not once but rain many times over? To run ahead, our step-up ticket in our life is the game cricket All 9 planets are swell aligned Our horoscope is well defined Without playing... clean sweep story Without wilting... grand slam victory With ease we scored runs easily We won 'hand over fist' effortlessly This is the Ambani pedigree ...that expresses delight like the earth's satellite! If we ordered, won't money shower not once but rain many times over? My 'heart cooler' from Madurai! If you agree to roll in the hay, quickly like a bee I'll feast on the flower, quicky! Even to Lord Balaji we'll lend money Even Heaven's banker Kubera compared to us, will be Kusela 'Peanuts'is Kubera's entire treasure Compared to us, he can't measure Within us rises a blazing temperature You caused love-sickness to rupture Spread me your delicious feast Don't protest if I start to eat! Whether Rama or Ravana is the king I am least bothered about anything I am the sole king of my mind and soul Go on a spree, buy gold without control Whatever you need I'll bestow Ask... whatever your wish or vow Why did you sing these lines so unconnected? Don't know why? What magic this is?! Listen to me! If we are drunk and seeing double only our Maestro's songs come to my mind Our 'head' is on a high Friend, fish to survive needs water Buddy, all I need is a pitcher! Wind seems to favor our way Endorsing us forever and today I'll sieve the grain while the wind blows I'll fine-tune to the wind-vane's pose! If I'm drunk as a skunk, I stagger From my chosen path my feet won't wander My songs are exclusively unique My route is always a winning streak Who I am, what I do, you'll know I'll be 'talk of the town' tomorrow This is the Ambani clan of 5-6 generation Like the moon that waxes we radiate happiness If we ordered, won't money shower not once but rain many times over? To run ahead, our step-up ticket in our life is the game cricket All 9 planets are swell aligned Our horoscope is well defined Without playing... clean sweep story Without wilting... grand slam victory With ease we scored runs easily We won 'hand over fist' effortlessly Are you home? Why haven't you slept as yet? - Do you want to eat? - I ate... you sleep Are you mad I came home late? I won't, here after This has become a habit You don't talk to me properly these days Suchi, few more days Then we'll go abroad I swear We will live in a style better than your wildest dreams Do you really mean what you say? Don't tell anyone From tomorrow we start a new life Don't lie just to pacify me Why should I? Money, new house, business Everything's ready Alagesh my friend in London has sponsored our visa Just a few days You are my whole life You should never cry again Suchi, don't cry like a baby Yes, Ganesh Where are you? Where's the money? I don't know I swear Why are you torturing him this way? That too, our boy I know everything You rejoiced that we have lost money? You danced all night? Leisure bar Mahat insisted I should join their birthday party I refused, they forced me to join his birthday party I am hunting high and low for the cash I have given guarantee, that's missing You are painting the town red No Who else danced with him? Didn't notice, sir I saw Sub-inspector Ganesh I think he is guilty I also went in search of money I really don't know When Faizal was bringing you here why did you try to escape? Kill him Whom do you work for? Chetan bai? Nasser? Did they agree to give you a cut-in? I treated you like my son, worthless wastrel! Believe me I don't know about the money I went in search of the money Don't let him go Tell me Your job is done You will get your money in 2 hours time Don't worry Tell us Who has the money? I swear I don't know Tell me - Untie me - Run... run Don't let him go Grab him Start the car - I'm glad my dad likes you very much - Very soon we can... Why did you betray me, my friend? You became my sins I can't defend In any city, far or near, in my view there's no actor better than you Who is Hyde the evil? Who is Dr Jekyll? Love happens, without influence of its own accord Whether sacred river or a mere mirage what use is a delayed halo-record?! My love, please realize love is a royal dream My quest for true love did not fall into my color scheme With a bangled-hand clasp I fell for your trap Led by your right hand to take our vows I'd planned I penned a poetry of intimacy with accuracy Why was it a total catastrophe my love from A to Zee? Because of you, my endless tears cascade from my eyes as souvenirs Is this fair to treat me this way? Why wound my heart to just decay? You tore our love's masterpiece in your frame of mind Has only 6 faces Muruga the deity Is each of a different color or kind? Why did you forsake me, my friend? Call Prem Ask him to come with Mahat to the hide-out where the money is Prem, come with Mahat to our hide-out Do what I say My friend, no one can be 100% sure if love can forfeit to defeat or conquer As our love is torn beyond repair 'this too will pass'so why despair? Ganesh, boys aren't here? Call them - Not reachable - Keep trying Can't get through Break the lock Alarm will alert them Alarmed they will be here in a jiffy Not a bloody sound! Gone It's all over - Where's the goddamn money? - How will I know? To our dear Chennai city To our captain Dhoni Why did you go out of the way to save these idiots?! Don't put on an act Where's the money? Let him go You want to shoot me? Shoot Why are you hesitating? You thought of doing away with me while sharing the spoils? Drop your gun My foot I will! Whom are you trying to cheat? I won't Me? I swear we don't know He also came in between like you It's a lie! Your plan Yourtransport Your place Morons!! Call those scum-bags in I don't know Call them You are terrified? What does it matterto you if you use the money or lose it? But I need that money Call right now Pick up your phone On the dot! Your friends have a long life line! Answer that call Not them Call them Don't look at me innocently Tell me where the money is Now we can't go beyond Mumbai Everyone is aware we took the money Chettiyar's men will be hounding us Don't know where the money is and where they are We are stuck this way without money Money is gone Life is gone We might as well die Don't include me We can still breathe, right? We are not dead as yet Think, you dunk head Slipper you, head Are you pulling a fast one? Don't you want to see your wife alive? She doesn't know anything Don't do anything to her Where is the money? It was in the place I told you But Mahat and Prem took it away before we reached Money hasn't gone anywhere Loot is all in $ notes They have to convert $ to rupees Ask your department to enquire if bulk $ notes are being exchanged You lived on what I doled out to you! Reprobate bums! Are you trying to pull the rug off my feet?! I'll give you 2 hours time I want my money back Otherwise your wife will be headless You'll have to hunt for her head in every nook and corner possible I'll give the money in a while Don't do anything to her Put the phone down Where are they? Where is the money? I swear I don't know Where have you asked Prem and Mahat to hide the money? I swear I don't know You don't know? I don't know anything How did you say then you'll return the money? On the phone I had no other way My wife is in Chettiyar's custody If I don't say that they'll kill her You have to save me Ganesh, tell him I can't live without her Save me You betrayed us because of your wife I didn't betray For your wife, you'll even kill me Guttersnipe! Will it come back? My precious! My moppet!! My puppet!!! If you had that money, you'll get not one but 1000 wives!!! Are you a human being? What do you know about my wife? I'll kill him today You should die I won't let you live Are you mad? He may know where the guys are Let us run Did you eat? No I don't want food I am not angry with you Only with your husband Can't stand him stabbing me behind my back after being hand in glove with us Your husband wants to earn it in 1 day Who suffers because of that? Notjust him My 55 years of toil Paise, rupee, prestige, respect et al Stop You go that way What about my daughter's happiness? You are notjust my daughter's friend You were like my own daughter! Sumanth, stop A checked-shirt guy is running near Kamaraj school, block him right there You won't harm him, will you? How long can you escape from me? Save me I won't run anywhere Save my wife My wife is in their custody Wife? He is the new special task force officer to stop bookies from betting That's it, we are done He will blabber everything Go find the 2 b I will take care of the rest What a heavenly life this is!! Our lifestyle of the future That is life Isn't this wrong? What's wrong? Those 3 trust us They don't trust you but your caliber If there's any trouble tomorrow, they'll kill you without hesitating for even a nano-second Because it's 5000 million We should be clever What do you say? We should keep changing the loot into different cars Not keep it in the same vehicle Don't be scared Your husband Sumanth is with us He is fine, don't worry Come with me Zoom the camera All data is displayed in this monitor My wife? She is fine - Can I see her once? - Sure, you Can Before that, I need some information Will you turn approver? Yes, sir How long have you known Arumugam Chettiyar? I've been working with him from when I was 10 I know all the ins and outs of his trade Match-stick maker to smuggler He's thick as thieves with them He got drawn towards gambling So he changed his theatre into a gambling den He is a member in top clubs all over India He has contacts with smugglers, business men, politicians, actors He owned Dharavi through them He got information that betting money was being routed here He used it to his advantage Due to heavy policing he decided to share the betting money in his theatre Using his influence he persuaded kingpins to agree to his venue I got that news We decided to loot this to settle once for all in life We means who? Me, Dharavi sub-inspector Ganesh Leisure bar owner Mahat and his friend Prem - Vinayak joined us in the end - Who is that? Cop who got suspended He knew that money was getting diverted And that it won't reach the theatre According to his plan, we looted How much? Where is it now? Mahat and Prem tricked us and grabbed it You really don't know where the loot is? I swear, I don't know Vinayak and Ganesh are in search of them Who is it? Buddy, have you blurted all the truth? They'd have asked you to put the phone on speaker mode No, I didn't Have they started tracing my call? Is he there? Who? Asst. Commissioner of police, are you fine? I don't have to elaborate about me to you You said something now Tell me a new dialog All Mumbai police stations have your mug shot You can't escape I have all details about you The game you started, I will complete Where to start when to start when to complete I'll tell you Sumanth's love for his wife has made him turn approver Did I get too tensed? What will you do for your wife? How will you prove you are a good husband? What are you saying? What should I do? Bombay cops are so brilliant One minute Your wife wants to say something, listen Save me Do something I am scared - I don't know where I am - He can't do anything to you I'll tell you the Game plan now If you want your wife alive... Are you trying to scare me? Kill Sumanth Sir, don't sir Do as he says He will kill me I can't do that 'Encounter' is not new to you or to me Kill him I can't do all that you ask You think I'm mad? He's holding a gun to me No time for drama Kill him Kill him, it doesn't matter You being a cop, say this Aren't you ashamed? We don't have time to think Shoot him How can I kill? For a good person, if his life is sacrificed it really doesn't matter You said you'll let me go if I turned approver I'll fall at your feet Let me go Don't think Shoot him Stop blabbering I can't do it Don't shoot me Lift him What did you do? What did you do to my wife? The same act that you played there! Kill him He is a rogue He'll die for someone else Why can't he die for us Don't think Tracked the call They are in Dharavi - Did you find out? - Yes, Vinayak Goa highway tracked the boys They exchanged $100,000 with a Muslim guy What do we do now? Hear our song, with a balalaika Dude or dumb ass It's our new way of celebration Kick-ass! We are floating on cloud # 09 Even God seems envious of us! Let's paint the town a deep red Help yourself to a bonus Where's sanctity to a gamble? Try your luck world-wide with no preamble Even wrong seems right to my ear Yell a hurray for all to hear Toe our line, amigo Amass till your hands over flow - Are those 2 guys mad? - They'll make us mad! Will happiness nestle in our palms? Help yourself with no qualms If you keep lamenting, dawn won't appear Light the lamp for darkness to disappear Nothing is impossible Dude, that's the rule What doesn't dawn is darkness No more no less Follow a game plan to the dot you will hit the jackpot Be the radius to your circle All yours, lock stock and barrel Hear our song, with a balalaika Dude or dumb ass It's our new way of celebration Kick-ass! We are floating on cloud # 09 Even God seems envious of us! Let's paint the town a deep red Help yourself to a bonus Where's sanctity to a gamble? Try your luck world-wide with no preamble Even wrong seems right to my ear Yell a hurray for all to hear Toe our line, amigo Amass till your hands over flow Mahat, our bro... he's a good guy It's wrong to betray him Poor guy Forgive me Booze... I want to booze Which place did you say? Have you told Prem? He'll be so thrilled Why tell a non-traveler who is not accompanying us? We fooled 3 We'll kill him You always prefer to play it safe He is your friend Yeah? Then why don't you kill him? to be shared by just 2 Are you not ready? We have to go a long way Why is she pointing a gun at me? That's why we decided to split it into 2 Why do we need her? You and I can do that? What do I get sharing it with you? If she and I share... imagine the bonus! I came only for this leaving a lucrative job and my parents I must send them money every month You and your 'senty' dialogs You are not good at that I'll take care of your parents I'm not that bad a villain I don't want money I'll go back home Sona, why are you listening to him blabber? Shoot him, honey When you planned to kill your best friend I knew you would kill me one day There is that noodle head They are behind us Speed up Stop He has a gun Keep driving Keep quiet Just go They are here Let's run They will kill us Hurry up! Money? Money is not important to me My life is! We'll do it in the next IPL!! Are you fit to call yourself a man? I am a female and I am brave I should have killed you instead of Mahat Don't let him escape He'll 'blow the whistle' if he gets out How are you here? All for you Me? Then why did you try to escape? All because of Prem I knew you would come They planned to trick you That's why I tricked them and got the loot You don't believe me? Van-load of cash All for us I swear I don't know I'm innocent It's me, Ganesh lmbecile! Why did you do this? Do you know what a mess this is because of you I don't know anything Mahat and Sona's game plan Trust me Sona? It's not too late Only I know where the money is We can share What do you say? Where did he come from? Why are you shooting me? I have nothing to do with the money You selfish s! He isn't taking the money Not letting me help myself to it What a 'dog-in-the manger' life this is!!! Villains all over the place Come, my dear Bill Gates Bro, 50 - 50 I don't want You can have it all! I know where the money is What do you say? Who are you? Let's not haggle What a bargain of a life this is!! You gave me a run for the money Usually you come when everything's over I mean we come... How is your wife? Over confidence isn't good for health Even now I should say it Cricket betting money worth Rs 5000 million was ...handled by Arumugam Chettiyar in the recent IPL Chettiyarwas arrested in Chennai The entire loot in the fire accident got burnt Vinayak Mahadevan was shot and killed by Prithviraj The other 'accused'Ganesh was reportedly seen in South East Asia Praveen Kumar has gone in search of Ganesh We can look forward to good news very soon Vinayak, I know it is you Come with me without protest You are trapped?! What will you say now? Cigarette is not good for health Mocking me? You do your villainous act and then want forgiveness! You thought you could get away with the loot? You thought all cops are like you? Vinayak Mahadev is still alive - What are you saying? - Yes, sir He is right before my eyes I shot him in front of your eyes - Believe me - How can I believe this? Tell him that you are not dead Tell His name is Faizal Chettiyar's hench man Caught in narcotics case If we save him it will be useful to our plan We shall do so I'll hook Chettiyar's daughter If you save Faizal you will be suspended I will take the blame and get suspended Then... I am IN I am OU Money didn't come to the theatre What shall we do now? Those chaps are also planning something criminal My dear 'head' I wanted to call you But this half baked colleague of mine called me! Height of diligence! Our money is safe in London Swiss accounts are dicey these days Are you okay? What is that James Bond doing? Posing like a confused monkey that has swallowed a cart-load of organic ginger! Don't make him wait too long He might get too senty! It's getting late GAME OVER
