 

                        1 [CROWD CHATTERlNG] [BOXlNG BELL RlNGlNG] ANNOUNCER: Let's get ready to rumble! [CROWD CHEERlNG] And fighting out of the red corner, from Sarangani province, Philippines, Manny Pacquiao. COMMENTATOR 1 : Is it round one or round 37? Pacquiao starts off with a straight left hand, fires two jabs. Neither fighter has landed yet. [CROWD CHANTlNG] COMMENTATOR 2: Good left hand by Pacquiao backs Marquez up. Another good left hand sock by Pacquiao. He's finding Marquez's chin, hurling with his left hand. And Marquez hasn't countered back. [CROWD GROANS] ...by Marquez, and for the first time, in four fights, Manny Pacquiao has been knocked out. That's the first time in 39 rounds that Juan Marquez has been able to put Manny Pacquiao down, and he did it with his signature right hand, over to Dutch. COMMENTATOR 1 : We got to be careful though because once again, Pacquiao is sitting down on his punches, and Pacquiao's giving him some face. COMMENTATOR 2: And there goes the knockdown. Manny Pacquiao evens up the knockdown count as he puts Marquez on the canvas. COMMENTATOR 1 : Pacquiao's feeling good now after knocking Marquez down. And, his job is to get out of the round. COMMENTATOR 2: Marquez can't retaliate. COMMENTATOR 1 : Marquez is hurt bad. Marquez is hurt bad. [CROWD CHEERlNG] Marquez won't hold. Looks as though Marquez's nose is broken. These are big shots Pacquiao's been landing on him. There's another right there. And, another right there. COMMENTATOR 2: Marquez is off balance again. COMMENTATOR 1 : Marquezjust keeps back and tries to lure back to nail Pacquiao with the right hand. [BOXlNG BELL RlNGlNG] COMMENTATOR 2: And, that seems like a knockdown. He's not getting up, Jimmy. COMMENTATOR 1 : Get up, get up, get up. He's not getting up! COMMENTATOR 2: No, he's been knocked out! A sensational fight! MANNY: Why do I box? Why do I fight? NARRATOR: Boxing takes so much from a man. No other sport asks a man to sacrifice himself so deeply. Manny Pacquiao has been in the sport for twenty long years. He knows the ruthlessness of boxing, better than anyone. But, if you're a fighter, truly a fighter, then you get back up. You fight again. [CAMERAS CLlCKlNG] [lNDlSTlNCT CHATTERlNG] -Manny. -How are you? How you doing, boss? Good to see you. Knock 'em dead, all right? As soon as you're ready, we'll bring in about 1 0-1 5 guys here, to talk to you for ten minutes, All the way to the side here. -Hello, hi. -Hello, nice to see you. MAN 1 : Manny, how do you fight overconfidence? You've got all these people here, you've got so many people in your ear, telling you how great you are. MAN 2: Do you think you'll go down as an all time great in boxing? Mmm, l don't know. [ALL LAUGHlNG] MAN 2: Don't you care though what people think about you? People say Muhammad Ali is one of the greatest evers. Don't you want people to talk about you like that? [MANNY SPEAKlNG FlLlPlNO] People tell me about my greatness. They want to know how l got here. Manny, right here. With the one and only, Manny Pacquiao. Who else do you want to fight after... Everyone around the world knows you. You're a great humanitarian. Do you need to win this fight by knockout... [MANNY SPEAKlNG FlLlPlNO] As l look back on my life, there have been so many twists and turns, The people who celebrate me now can't really understand where l come from. [CAMERAS CLlCKlNG] NARRATOR: Manny was born on December 17, 1978 in General Santos City. The Philippines was in the midst of civil war. The dictator, Ferdinand Marcos, had imposed martial law. [LOUD EXPLOSlON] The country was in bloody chaos. In the 1970s and early 1980s, rebellion raged in the southern provinces. Manny was raised in the shadows of war. [MANNY SPEAKlNG FlLlPlNO] All l can remember is that we were very poor. Our home was a small nipa hut. The roof and walls were made of leaves from a coconut tree. [SPEAKlNG lN FlLlPlNO] Our house stood there - where the small coconut tree now stands. That was where our house was. That was before, now it's gone. [LAUGHlNG] So that's it... it brings back memories. My mom took care of us because my father wasn't around. All of my siblings worked and looked for jobs so we could survive and eat. Sometimes we would go days without eating. There! They started to pull in the fishnets. At the crack of dawn, our mother would wake us up to pray the rosary. We would pray to the Lord... "What kind of life will we have when we grow up?" We had nothing. Then we would look for work. l would go fishing. l spoke to the owner of a fishing net and asked if l could help so l can have a share of the fish. At first, they were hesitant, because l was too young, and what do l know? They gave me a chance because l was desperate and really needed the job. And we needed to eat. Then l had a catch. l had a share of the fish, and then l sold half. Then l brought the other half home for us to eat. One time, this happened between the rebel and the army. The rebel, first they ask for water. Because our house is on the top of the mountain and it's hard to get there. And then, after twenty minutes, the group of the army passed by our house. They asked of my mother, the group of people with arms. And, my mother is like, "No, we didn't see the group." The army left and after maybe, twenty to thirty minutes, 500 meters from our house... [GUNFlRE] l saw the army cut the head of the rebel. l was five years old. We decided to go down and live in the town, which is Sarangani. ln the town, the first time, l saw a car and l'm so scared of the car. l said, "Oh, what is that?" Then, the jeepney, and the tricycle, everytime that they pass, and l'm hiding because l don't know what is that. [BLOWS WHlSTLE] The television, you know, l was so amazed because, you know, l saw people in the, what is it, in the screen and l go, you know, at the back of the television and looking for, you know, there's a lot of people there. [CHUCKLES] l go, like, this is the TV, here... This is the TV, and l go like this. Looking for people. NARRATOR:: Manny dropped out of school in the sixth grade. Going hungry week in and week out, he sold warm donuts on the street to survive. He would go without eating so his mother or siblings could eat. By age 1 2, Manny had become the man of the family. No longer able to afford to live on their own, his family was forced to move in with Manny's uncle. [CROWlNG] [SARDO SPEAKlNG FlLlPlNO] Manny was the first person l trained. Even without shoes, he jogged. And l saw in him, his passion. l also saw they didn't have money to send him to school. That's why l trained him. These were the first gloves Manny used when l started to teach him boxing. When he used them... ...he was only 1 2 years old. These are the memories... ...that he will never forget. MANNY: One Sunday, he registered me for the boxing match at the park. Thank God I won the fight. I made 100 pesos which is about $2. I keep on fighting and I was always winning. There was a tournament, the Mindanao Open. For one week, I fought every day. I won on Monday, then came Tuesday, I won again. Then on Wednesday, I fought for the bronze medal. Thursday, I won for the silver, then on Saturday, I won the gold medal. NARRATOR: Manny couldn't fight for $2 purses the rest of his life. He had to leave his family to help them. At age 1 3, he stowed away on a three day long boat ride to Manila. He had no money and no food. [DlONESlA SPEAKlNG FlLlPlNO] lt was Manny and l... The two of us looked for ways to get out of poverty. l was really surprised l received a letter saying, "l'm already in Manila mom." l cried. But Manny said, "lf l asked for permission to go to Manila you will never permit it." "l'm sorry mom but l'm earning a living here... ...so we can get out of our poverty." "My perseverance isn't just for me... ...this is for all of us." l asked, are you boxing there in Manila? "Oh, we're here in Malabon mom... ...we live here at the gym." MANNY: I didn't have any relatives to live with in Manila. So I slept in the ring at night. I wanted to become a professional boxer. So, I went to sign up for a boxing license. They told me that the required age is 1 8 but I was only 1 6. So, I lied and told them I was 1 8 years old. At that time, I weighed 98 pounds which was 10 pounds under the minimum weight. So, in order to make weight, I put heavy objects in my pockets to make me heavier. COMMENTATOR: Pacquiao, very impressive young fighter. RONNlE: At the beginning, he had no finesse. He threw punches from way out, from the left and from the right. He'd just go... He'd just go forward, attacking without any rhyme or reason, or style, or finesse. COMMENTATOR 1 : Pacquiao with a good combination. A little bit of trouble there. And look at Manny Pacquiao trying to psych out Armando Rocil. RONNIE: But in any case, Manny had a passion for boxing. He saw it as a way of improving the quality of life for his family. NARRATOR 1: Pacquiao nails him with a long looping right. And another left. They're really slamming it out but Rocil is getting a bad beating from Pacquiao here. The crowd is roaring on its feet. COMMENTATOR 2: Rocil is slowly getting up, no... He has been counted out. RONNlE: His opponents were, very often, much bigger. They looked much bigger than him. Every time he entered the ring, then I get scared. "Can he do this? Can he handle this guy?" And, he did. Amazingly, he did. ANNOUNCER: Manny Pacquiao. Threw his body with a right and hurt him. COMMENTATOR: And that's why Pacquiao is leaning against the ropes. Pacquiao on the defensive. [EXCLAlMlNG EXClTEDLY] Beautiful... ANNOUNCER: Manny Pacquiao... COMMENTATOR 1 : All out aggression coming here from the 19-year-old boy... COMMENTATOR 2: Good move by Manny Pacquiao... He's looking for a coup de grce. [COMMENTATORS CHATTERlNG lNDlSTlNCTLY] [CROWD CHEERlNG] Holy cow, that's it! That's it! [COMMENTATORS SHOUTlNG] COMMENTATOR: Pacquiao is the World Champion! The jubilant cheers of the Filipino crowd. ANNOUNCER: The new OPBF Champion! [MANNY SPEAKlNG FlLlPlNO] I want to greet my fellow men in General Santos City. I wish you all well. I know that you miss me. I already won here. l thank you for your support and your prayers. Because of you, l won by knockout. Thanks to all of you who supported me. Especially, my mom and my girlfriend, Jinkee Jamora. My mom, my dad, my siblings, all my loved ones. To all my fans, please don't lose hope. [JlNKEE SPEAKlNG FlLlPlNO] I was pregnant during his fight in Antipolo. That was my first experience to see him fight. [COMMENTATORS CHATTERlNG] [JlNKEE SPEAKlNG FlLlPlNO] They wanted me to leave because... ...I was 6 months pregnant. At first, my uncle asked, "How can a boxer be capable of supporting you?" But l thought it through carefully and prayed to God that he's really the one for me. After we got married, l went to practice with him every day. COMMENTATOR: Good combination there by Manny Pacquiao and a left... He's down! ...by Manny Pacquiao! [CROWD CHEERlNG] NARRATOR: Manny had run out of opponents. He and his team headed to the United States seeking new opposition and opportunity. Manny's manager Rod Nazario looked for a trainer. Their last stop was in Los Angeles, at the Wildcard Boxing Club, where they met trainer, Freddie Roach. FREDDlE: I always said, "You never know when the next Muhammad Ali is going to walk through your door." You never know. And then, one day, this little Filipino kid at 1 22 pounds and he comes up and he can barely speak English, his manager, Mr. Nazario says, "We hear you're pretty good with the mitts." l said, "l'm okay." And he says, "This is Manny Pacquiao. Will you work with him?" I said, "Sure." After one round, we clicked like we knew each other our whole lives. We didn't miss a punch. I went over to my corner and I said, "Wow, can this kid fight." He went to Mr. Nazario and said, "We have a new trainer." [EXCLAlMlNG LOUDLY] GARETH: Freddie Roach follows the line of the great trainers. There's almost like the great art has passed down from master to pupil. GARY: They are a dynamic duo, the team. You look at great fighters of the past, they often had trainers that they trusted. And you see it here with Manny and Freddie. [GRUNTlNG] MARK: I always felt like he was one of the smartest boxing guys ever. And when you're a fan of the sport you pay attention to who the guys are behind the scenes, who have... You know, taken fighters with a lot of potential to that ultimate level. He's the best at bringing it out of fighters. LARRY: Freddie Roach given the arc of his career as a fighter turned trainer and Manny Pacquiao as a fighter who wanted to be as good as he could be, giving himself over to a top trainer, who had learned under, a kind of Zen master trainer, Eddie Futch. FREDDlE: Eddie managed me up till the point when he wanted me to retire. I was 26 years old. I thought I could still obtain the chance to win a world title. So, l fought those last six fights without management. I should've listened to Eddie but I didn't. And then, you know, maybe my life would be completely different now. Maybe l wouldn't have Parkinson's. Maybe l wouldn't have trauma problems from being hit. And, but, the thing is, it was my choice, and other than that, I just live life to its fullest. And a full life for me is 1 2 hours a day at the Wildcard. JOAQUlN: When Manny started to train seriously he had no fight lined up. The lBF Super Bantamweight Champion Lehlo Ledwaba of South Africa, didn't have a challenger for a fight at the MGM Grand. It was two weeks before the fight. They went up and down the rankings, and they couldn't find anybody in the top five who wanted to take on Ledwaba on short notice. Then they went to number six. The name was Manny Pacquiao. COMMENTATOR: Tale ofthe Tape, Lehlohonolo Ledwaba against Manny Packai... Pacquiao, I'll get it right, Pacquiao. FREDDlE: We're such big underdogs. It's like a 44-1 shot. And people said, "Ledwaba is the most feared 22 pounder in the world from South Africa, he's a killer." But, I knew I had something special. l didn't know how special but, the thing is, l knew he could really fight. COMMENTATOR 1 : Boom! I think this guy just hit so hard, that Ledwaba is totally on the defensive. He took this fight on only two weeks notice, only came here to America, ten days ago, and he is banging Ledwaba right now. And another, big right hand upstairs. And now he's got Ledwaba bleeding badly. COMMENTATOR 2: There's a weariness and almost a resignation in his eyes of Ledwaba COMMENTATOR 1 : That's a TKO victory for a very impressive, Manny Pacquiao. COMMENTATOR 2: I have never seen him and frankly, I've never heard of him. But, I've seen and heard of him now. COMMENTATOR 1 : You want to see him again. COMMENTATOR 2: I want to see him again. COMMENTATOR 1 : I do, too. FREDDIE: When I tell all these sports guys about how good Manny is, and I say, "Watch him, he's going to beat Ledwaba", then people started believing in Manny Pacquiao. So, we're in Texas. And we had a really good training camp over there. At the weigh in, there's a pool table. So, Manny set up this shot, it was six balls, he's going to sink six balls in one shot. First try, they all went in. l called up my friend and l say, "Make the bet." Bet Pacquiao by knockout. COMMENTATOR 1 : I wouldn't send him out for the 1 2th round, Manny. I don't care how proud he is. There's no way a great fighter should have to go through 3 more minutes of this. COMMENTATOR 2: Well, Pacquiao is not backing off. COMMENTATOR 1 : He's getting hurt. Here comes Barrera's corner. Barrera's corner man is up on the apron. He's going to step into the ring. That's a good decision. Finally, they could've done that two rounds ago. COMMENTATOR 2: A great finish by Pacquiao. A valiant effort by Barrera. COMMENTATOR 1 : It sets Pacquiao up for some huge fights and big money in the future. Good, it's reported that of the $700,000 purse that was directed toward Pacquiao tonight, he himself is only going to get 300 grand out of it. So he deserves the chance to make big money in the future. COMMENTATOR 2: He's going to make a lot of big money as a result of this performance tonight. COMMENTATOR 1 : A superstar emerges in San Antonio. Filipino star Manny Pacquiao. FREDDlE: Manny really changed my life also, because l was content with him knocking people out with the big left hand. But then we fought Morales. COMMENTATOR 1 : Pacquiao's trainer Freddie Roach says, "He's been too left hand dominant. "To beat Morales, he'll have to use his lead hand, his right hand, more and better." Morales very weary about Pacquiao's left hand power. And I think it's clear right now Manny Pacquiao isn't going to deck rik Morales with one big shot. -Great right hand lead. -COMMENTATOR 2: Oh! COMMENTATOR 1 : Wow, does Pacquiao hit! FREDDlE: When we lost to Morales, I said, "You know what, "l can't be satisfied with what l have here. l got to do a better job, l got to make him a more complete fighter." l said, "l'm not going to stop working on the right hand until it's as good as the left." He had no idea what I was up to. Finally I said, "Manny, I'm just working on getting you confidence, in both hands." And he just smiled at me and, you know, he just continued working, and he knocked a guy out with a hook for the first time, I said, "We're here." [GRUNTS] COMMENTATOR: Right hand by Pacquiao drives Morales back. Another right. He's been so good with the right hand tonight. Great victory for Pacquiao. [SCREAMlNG] [ALL SlNGlNG] Happy Birthday to you [ALL CHEERlNG] COMMENTATOR: Extremely effective against Jorge Solis. [CROWD CHEERlNG] COMMENTATOR: Knocked out ofthe fight by Pacquiao. ANNOUNCER: The winner by knockout victory, the fighting pride of the Philippines, Manny... Pacman... Pacquiao! JOSHUA: There were large chunks of money, that HBO is paying us a licensing fee for a fight. ln some instances, less than half went to Manny Pacquiao. Murad Muhammad and his promotional company M & M had entered into this secret agreement with Pacquiao's managers. At the time, the Nazarios. He was funneling money to a company. Money that rightfully should've gone to Manny Pacquiao, to the manager, so you stop right there, and you say, "Why is the promoter ever sharing money with the manager?" Especially without the fighter knowing about it. This is the Ali Act. "Firewall between promoters and managers. "lt is unlawful for a promoter to have a direct or indirect financial interest in the management of a boxer." So, he tried to claim that the Nazarios weren't really Manny Pacquiao's manager. That they were somehow his co-promoter, which would've made it okay for him to share money with them. There's no central agency regulating this. What other sport do you have where a guy every second of every round is risking his life, literally. Putting it all on the line and why shouldn't he get every cent that he's owed? THOMAS: A promoter's job is to make as much money as the promoter can for himself. A promoter wants to make money. That's why they're in business. But it's the fighter's job, to have the proper business representatives to negotiate with the promoter. Certainly Bob Arum has done a wonderful job of building Manny Pacquiao as a commercial attraction. But, no promoter is Mother Teresa. Golden Boy certainly isn't Mother Teresa. Don King isn't, Lou DiBella isn't, Bob Arum isn't. That comes with the territory. l was spoiled when l started promoting. Because I started with Muhammad Ali. As I spent more time in the business, I had attractions who weren't Muhammad Ali. And, therefore, I had to take a larger role to bring attention to the product that I was selling. BERT: No matter what you say about promoters, good, bad or indifferent, I'm sure Bob himself has heard bad. But they have an eye for talent. Bob Arum has become and has remained one of the major forces in the sport. Longer than almost any promoter or anybody. Because he has an eye for talent. That's what gives us great fights. Freddie! How you doing? You drive up? No, we flew. You know, Bob Arum, he's... He's a character, of course, first of all. l fought for Bob for nine years, so l know him well. Everything good here? Great. Best press we've ever had. Good, let's hope it continues. FREDDlE: He's been around boxing for a long long time. And for him to say Manny's the best fighter he's ever had of all time is a very, very, very strong statement. Call you when l get out of the elevator. Michael is very valuable and without Michael it would be hell promoting Manny. l'd like to send you on an errand. You haven't bought the ticket yet. 725 text messages. l can't find yours. As always, been a pleasure Well, that's what l need. Could you get somebody to get me ten copies of 24/7? l said, "lt's been a pleasure", and that led you to say, "l need ten copies of 24/7"? Because Manny asked me. Regardless of what Manny said, there's no room. There's no room. l don't sign autographs, l'll take a picture. Oh, for Manny? No, Manny's not signing. Well, you guys can't air any of this anyway till l sign a release. [LAUGHS] FRANKLlN: Michael Koncz came out on the scene in the mid 2000s. Freddie introduced Michael to Manny. Freddie has often said that it was the biggest mistake of his life. He would like to impose himself and show everybody that "l am next to Manny Pacquiao." Of course, maybe it's just ego trip, I don't know. Look, you need to, if you don't want to get paid, then don't sign it but if you want to get paid, you got to sign the document. -Sign away. -Can we... Very simple, not exclusive. lf they want to sign more cards, they have to come renegotiate. When l first started approximately eight years ago, l was really not doing anything except if he wanted to ask me something, he would ask me for my advice. And as time progressed, l started handling the boxing. We got rid of his prior manager and then got more involved in the boxing. Now, I handle all the financing, disbursement of money, receiving of the money. MlCHAEL: Just make sure l get the money... You will get your money, you have Bob's backing. MlCHAEL: That's right... MICHAEL: Handled millions of dollars. Everything is very well documented. I can account for every single penny, if I have to. There really wasn't any documentation on accounting. Nothing was done. No receipts were kept. Nothing was recorded. Everything was kind of handwritten down. You know, handwritten. "l spent this on this, l spent on this." That's enough box or you need more? MlCHAEL: But we can't do it that way. [SlNGlNG] I can stand on mountains... Then this one with a smaller pen, this is because they're making one special card with your picture on it. So, that's the signature line, l need you to sign in the box so they can scan it and put it on the card. lt makes sense? l'm hoping that's going to make dollars, not cents, dollars. Michael Koncz is probably the most miserable person on earth. Anything that feels good would kill him. Sex has to be an impossible act for him because that requires enjoyment. [LOUD BEEPlNG] ALEX:: When I first came aboard, Manny had a lot of chronic problems. He had shin splints, he had plantar fasciitis, he had shoulder problems. He just did the same thing every day. There was nothing really challenging about it. Concentrate, focus. Time. RONNlE: Alex Ariza has done a lot for Manny, in terms of strength and conditioning. And, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze... Time. l like it, l like it. RONNlE: The moment he came in, Pacquiao put on power, speed and explosiveness. Just a little bit. Squeeze as hard as you can. Hold it. -[GRUNTS] -Last one. [GRUNTS] l think Alex is the best strength and conditioning coach in the world. He's learned to be the best in the world and he's learned with Manny Pacquiao. ALEX: Even Freddie says sometimes, "Don't get too close to these guys." But, when you wake up with them and you eat with them and you're with them all day, I think that the relationship then becomes no longer coach and athlete, it becomes friends to almost being brothers... Because you're together for so long. [lMlTATlNG CRYlNG] [LAUGHlNG] ALEX: Anytime he's hurt, he comes to you, when he's hungry, he comes to you, He doesn't feel right, he comes to you, when some thing's not right, he comes to you, So, the relationship just evolves that way, l think it is inevitable. One moment of silence, please. ALEX: The news broke that De La Hoya and Pacquiao was going to go off. He said, "Dude, l can't believe l'm fighting my idol. l used to watch Oscar when l was a little kid." [GRUNTlNG] Good shot. ALEX: I had just barely got him to 1 35. Now, I have to make him jump two more weight classes to 1 47? And it's Oscar De La Hoya. It's one thing if you're jumping weight classes to fight some cheeseburger. We're fighting one of the best fighters in boxing. He was not only the face of boxing, but a dangerous fighter. Not to mention, Freddie said it's going to destroy both of our careers, if Manny gets beat. [LAUGHlNG] Looking good, bro. Do your thing, man, just wanted to say hello. MARK: He's fast, he's fearless, and he's got a lot of power. and De La Hoya is a lot bigger. But, he's got too much power, too much heart. Oscar fighting that little guy? Don, get over here. What is he trying to do, man? Why would he want to fight him? [EXCLAlMlNG LOUDLY] MANNY: We're focused on speed. We're trying to develop the power. l think it depends on what's De La Hoya's style in the ring. My motivation has been his skills. My motivation has been his youth, his speed. His power. My motivation has been his relentlessness inside that ring. That's what really drove me to go to the gym every single day to feel no pain. Manny Pacquiao is a fighter. That's why l'm looking forward to this fight. lt's going to be fun. Everybody said that De La Hoya was too big and was going to massacre him. And, there was a bill in the Philippines, to ban the fight because he would get killed. [TV COMMENTATOR 1 ] The objective is to protect the pride of our nation. Protect him from a possible debacle that may be detrimental to his health. [TV COMMENTATOR 2] Some say this will be a circus. Because we see a big man fighting a small man. De La Hoya was like Goliath to our David, Manny Pacquiao. People thought he was crazy, I thought he was crazy. But not to the point of going to Congress to stop the fight, no. Why would you stop a guy from his march towards greatness? [BOXlNG REFEREE] Okay, Oscar, Manny, you both received your instructions in the dressing room I want a good, clean fight. Obey my commands at all times. Above all, protect yourselves at all times. Let's go. [BOXlNG BELL RlNGlNG] COMMENTATOR 1 : The height differential did not show up so graphically at the weigh in yesterday. Today, they do look four inches apart in height. COMMENTATOR 2: He's bending his head so that is almost no height difference. COMMENTATOR 1 : That's right... COMMENTATOR 2: Pacquiao lands a brilliant upper cut. And, if there was doubt coming in as to whether Pacquiao could affect De La Hoya with his punching power, there shouldn't be any doubt any more. It's Pacquiao's quickness dominating the slower De La Hoya Now, you make it hard to find you. And he's taking chances, he's starting to make mistakes. He can't handle your speed, son. COMMENTATOR 1 : What is the feeling of a fighter when he's in there with somebody who's always beating him to the punch. This is getting embarrassing. COMMENTATOR 2: Manny Pacquiao looks largely untouched. And, he's gradually reconfiguring De La Hoya's beautiful face. COMMENTATOR 1 : This fight's going to probably end up being stopped. COMMENTATOR 2: Manny Pacquiao is annihilating Oscar De La Hoya. Pacquiao is making De La Hoya look old slow and ineffectual. Brody has a tough decision in front of him. Listen, if you keep taking punches, l'm stopping the fight, okay? COMMENTATOR 1 : This could be the end of the fight. That's it. lt's all over. [BOXlNG BELL RlNGlNG] COMMENTATOR 2: Manny Pacquiao has beaten Oscar De La Hoya. LARRY: Certainly, the furthest thing from anybody's mind, was that he was going to dominate and stop Oscar De La Hoya and end his career. And, in effect, it was the beginning of a whole new career, for Pacquiao. ANNOUNCER: Pacquiao! CHINO: The millions of people from Metro Manila, from all walks of life, coming up, wanting a piece of him. Maybe catching him on TV, just to see his motorcade pass by. That was one great proud moment for this country. [FACE YOUR DESTINY PLAYlNG] You have to understand Manny Pacquiao's mentality. Manny Pacquiao believes that he is where he is because of God. That what he's done is God's will. MAN: Show time. Show time. FREDDlE: "Manny, who's going to win the fight?" He says, "I think I will." "You'll knock him out?" "Well, that's up to God." ANNOUNCER: The best fighter in the world. FREDDlE: He says God will decide. I say the guy who's best prepared will win. So, l know l have both. [CROWD CHEERlNG] COMMENTATOR: And down he goes. He's down for the second time. Oh, my gosh. What an amazing knock out. That is the most spectacular "one punch" of Manny Pacquiao's incredible career. My favorite part, for me about Manny, is when he's coming into the ring. He doesn't look focused and he just comes out with this big smile. And he's just waving at everybody and it's like... He doesn't look like a man who fears he's going to lose. It's almost as if you feel the light of God behind him. And he knows that God is following him into the ring. You'd never know, ever, that he's going to fight. And that's his energy, that's not a made up persona. And then he can flip the switch. COMMENTATOR: Round one begins. Pacquiao hits with a hard left hand. And another. Manny landed another right hook. And it's Cotto with his back against the rope. And he punches Cotto, and he goes down. ...totally hurt by that knockdown. You can sense the right punch at the right time. Cotto backs into the corner. He's in big trouble now. The fight could end in a matter of seconds. We thought Manny Pacquiao is great. He's better than we thought. MANNY: For now, we're going to enjoy our very good victory tonight. And, you know, I always thank God for the fans who always support us. And to all the people who come here tonight. To all the boxing fans around the globe, Thank you very much for all your support. Are we going to see a Wapakman 2 coming out? Wapakman, don't miss it. lt's going to be a good movie. [GRUNTlNG] He played a superhero, I believe it was horrible. We gotta talk to him. Maybe do some stuff that is worthy of him. We hope we get to do a movie together. A nice action movie that takes place, probably in the Phillipines and the United States, kind of a big action adventure. ldel! [SPEAKlNG FlLlPlNO] ldel! Surrender now! ldel! [SCREAMlNG] ldel! [SPEAKlNG FlLlPlNO] Millions of hits. His name is Manny Pacquiao, and he is generating excitment not seen in the ring since Mike Tyson, Sugar Ray Leonard, or Muhammad Ali. BERT: Manny Pacquiao has that glow, that superstar charm. And he's as close to, as l can see, a worldwide figure like a Muhammad Ali was. Both of them were superstars who knew how to handle it, and represented something. Of course, when you're famous, many want a picture or autograph but that's how it is. Because when you have fans it's also important that you are nice to them. Of course we also know that they are also instrumental. Of course it's hard but... l'm able to manage. Manny! Manny! [ALL CHEERlNG] ANNOUNCER: Team Pacquiao! MARK: I follow Manny Pacquiao around the Philippines and it's like following Elvis Presley and JFK combined into one person. [UPBEAT SONG PLAYlNG] JlMMY: As l started hearing about his singing and seeing little videos on the internet, we thought it'd be fun to have him on the show. We thought it would be fun to have him sing, while he was on the show, and we were very right. Here now, with their rendition of the John Lennon classic, Will Farrell and Manny Pacquiao. Imagine there's no country [CROWD CHEERlNG] It isn't hard to do No, it isn't, Manny Pacquiao. Imagine all the people JIMMY: Even though he doesn't have what you would call a "classical voice," he likes to sing. And either he thinks he's a great singer, or everyone's too scared tell him that he's not the world's greatest singer. But, he loves to sing and it's fun to hear him sing, so in a way, he is a great singer. And the world will be as one [CROWD CHEERlNG] Thanks, guys! Will Farrell and Manny Pacquiao. We'll be right back. JlMMY: Yeah, Manny loves these songs from the 70's and 80's, these love ballads. lt just seems so odd coming out of a guy who could punch you in the face forty times while he was blinking. And l think in a way, that makes him scarier. You might wanna try: [SlNGlNG] Sometimes when we touch The honesty's too much -Just hold the "much", instead of... -Too much... JlMMY: The fact that this is what he listens to, and he has got this tender side, to me, if I was getting in the ring with him, that would make me doubly terrified. Too much All right, you can do that, that's fine, but you can also go, The honesty's too much Beautiful. I wanna hold you till I die Till we both break down and cry And cry Till we both break down and cry So "cry" is the same as "much". Till we both break down and cry I wanna hold you Till the fear in me subsides Beautiful. That's fantastic. I wanna hold you till I die Till we both break down and cry Okay, l'd like to just, yeah, Just one another thing too, l'd like to have, just as a choice... I wanna hold you till I die Till we both break down and cry I wanna hold you Till the fear in me Subsides Beautiful. Beautiful singing. What a pleasure! -Thank you. -You're amazing! NARRATOR:: Manny had already won seven world titles in seven weight classes. But the people behind Manny needed another way to sell him. They hoped to take him from a popular boxer to a legendary one. The greatest credit to boxing, Manny Pacquiao. NARRATOR: To reach an unprecedented eighth weight class title, a feat never achieved in the sport, he would have to defeat Antonio Margarito, a champion who weighed almost 20 pounds more than Manny. BERT: One, what you've got, Sandy, is a man who's got everything to lose, and very little to gain. He's already won seven championships, seven divisional titles, more than any man in history. If he wins, he wins an eighth. On the other hand, Antonio Margarito, he's got everything to gain, and very little to lose. He has already lost, if you will, credibility, having have been found to have wrapped hands that were basically loaded. Suspended for a year. Although l spent most of my life as a boxing promoter, l'm a lawyer, and this hurt me more than anything. Because, fair is fair, and justice is justice. And we don't convict the man because of innuendo and suspicion. As far as the record is concerned, this man did nothing wrong. Do you, in your heart, believe that he knew that those wraps were loaded? Of course. l know he knows. Would you know if someone were putting extra things in your hand-wraps? -You would know that? -Of course. BERT: He's got a tough opponent. Margarito almost dwarfs him in size. Has a seven-and-a-half inch reach. [CROWD CHEERlNG] And everyone asks, every fight, how far is that bridge that Manny Pacquiao has to cross? And he does it again and again. The question is always, what is the bridge too far for him? FRANKLlN: Every time he fights, the entire country is in a standstill. You can't see anybody on the street. Everybody is in their homes, watching and waiting for the fight of Manny Pacquiao. [CROWD CHEERlNG] Zero crime in the entire country. The rebels, the secessionists... Ceasefire. Everybody's in a ceasefire. That's how it is when Manny fights. lt's bigger than boxing. It's bigger than being a prize fighter. His journey now is about fighting and winning for a people. Every time he goes out there, he's winning for them. Huge burden, but he accepts it. MAN: Most of these people here, they were so ashamed of who we were as a race. Manny Pacquiao helped us to reclaim our true identity. COMMENTATOR: The issue is not Margarito's eye at this moment, it's his brain. How many clean head shots can one man take? Pacquiao looking towards the ref asking him to stop the fight. How much punishment do you want him to take? [CHEERlNG] ALEX: If you're Filipino, your head is definitely held high right now. Knowing that the best fighter in the world is a Filipino. Let's go, guys. NARRATOR:: Manny had just won World Titles, in eight weight classes. He had taken more punishment than he had ever endured. He was cloaked in glory. But the fight had changed him. Really... this was the hardest fight of my life. lt can't always be like this. You know... l've had many boxing fights, but... l didn't think it would be this hard... NARRATOR:: The life in boxing was fulfilling, but uniting people through twelve rounds of fighting felt short-lived. Manny's journey would soon take another direction. My dream is to focus as a politician. Lot of politicians is corrupt so, I don't want to be like them. I want to serve people honestly. [CHEERlNG] MANNY: Mr. Speaker, my dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! The victory over Margarito the eighth championship belt in the different weight division is not mine alone. It belongs to every Filipino. The Filipino people have shown once more to the world that the Filipinos can excel in a world-class arena. Because of hard-work, dedication and faith in God Almighty. As your colleague, let me thank our President, His Excellency, Benigno Aquino because of his promise that he will help the province of Sarangani build its first public hospital. FRANKLlN: One ofthe promises of Manny as a Congressman is the promise to people to give them a hospital. The promise has been there for some time, and we don't have a public hospital. So this is a promise that was made to the people, and a promise that it will be done by Manny Pacquiao. [APPLAUSE] MANNY: l have a responsibility, to serve people, to give back what God gave to me. FRANKLlN: A lot ofpeople are saying that Manny Pacquiao will become a resident of Malacanang. lt's the White House of the Philippines. I think it will happen. WINNIE: Manny has done Filipinos proud because he is a tremendous boxer. But l cannot say that he is going to be as good a politician as he is a boxer. Doesn't work that way. He will have to make a choice as to what his priorities are. You've got these loves in your life. You've got boxing. You've got politics. You've got gambling. You've got mistresses, all right? And then, you've got your people of Sarangani. What priority are you gonna give them? That's the question he has to decide first. Unless of course you think that he can do everything at the same time. We welcome him to SportsCenter, the former No. 1 pound-for-pound fighter in the world, Floyd Mayweather. Floyd, welcome back. -We've missed you, Floyd. -Hey, how are you doing? l'm not the former No. 1 pound-for-pound fighter. l'm just saying l'm the best fighter in the sport of boxing. No one has dethroned me. So how am l not pound-for-pound the best fighter in the world? -Because you retired? -But have l been beaten? Floyd has the right to talk shit because he has never been beaten. And he's that good. l don't think it's a no-brainer that Manny goes there and beats him. But it's the fight. l would love to see that as Manny's last fight, and then retire. Because, you know what? There's nowhere else to go. Why go any further than that? He avoided no one. He's a throwback. He's like the old days, when people fought the very best. Every time he stepped up, he fought the best available. And he continues to do what boxing fans have always wanted Floyd to do. Make fights against the biggest, most threatening opponents, and once the bell rings, go to war. The whole boxing world, Floyd, has been clamoring for this Mayweather - Pacquiao fight, lt's Pacquiao and Mayweather. l mean, that's the fight. lt's one of those fights where it's very competitive, that's why it's compelling to people all over the world. What is it going to take to get these two boxers best pound-for-pound in the ring? No, l'm not going to dodge anybody. You know what it is. No, what is this? Bob Arum? You gotta talk to Bob Arum, not me. l would love to do that fight. Love it. Manny would love it. But it takes two to tango. The first time, we had a little issue about the blood test. Second negotiations. We agreed to everything. There was no... Floyd said no. Who's this guy? He just pops up and becomes good? And just punches hard out the blue? Just out of the blue? Now how in the hell you beat a guy at 1 50 pounds, that can fight way better than the guy you was fighting at 1 05 pounds? lt ain't no way possible. You can't use rational thinking with a Mayweather. MANNY: The allegation is... They're trying to ruin my, my, my name in boxing. -Who might be next? -lt doesn't matter. -All right. How about Manny Pacquiao? -lf he wants, he can get it. l want the fight because the people want to see a good fight. But it is up to him, if he is going to fight with me. He is saying that he has capitulated to any and all drug testing mandates that you have incorporated. He has called you out. Did Floyd duck Manny Pacquiao? Yes. l have to believe that Floyd is ducking. l have never ducked nor dodged no opponent, so stop, so stop. lf Floyd wants to fight him, the fight will happen. lf Floyd doesn't want to fight him, the fight won't. He'd rather turn down forty million dollars, than take a chance to get that one lost. -Who hits harder, him or Mayweather? -Him. Do you think Mayweather is afraid of you? Do you think he doesn't want to fight you and that's why he's trying to... l think he's not really for the fight. When they mentioned Pacquiao, l said who's that? They say that's the guy we're trying to get fight Mayweather. When l say Floyd Mayweather, they say "all-time great." Everyone's gonna always question him, why didn't you fight Pacquiao? Are you ever going to fight Manny Pacquiao? Once again, Bob Arum is Manny Pacquiao's boss, Floyd Mayweather is his own boss. So once he's free from Bob Arum, will the fight happen? Absolutely. Mayweather's promoter wants it, Manny wants it. The only person that is holding it up is Bob Arum. Boxing doesn't need this fight. And in my opinion, that fight will never, ever happen. Ever, ever happen. No matter how much those two guys want to fight each other, the politics won't let it happen. MAN: To lead you through today's press conference, the Hall of Fame promoter, and CEO of Top Rank, Bob Arum. When they first fought, I was Juan Manuel's promoter. [CROWD CHEERlNG] ANNOUNCER: The bout is a draw! Second fight, I was Manny's promoter. ANNOUNCER: A new champion, Manny Pacquiao! Now this fight, I promote both of them. [CHUCKLlNG] Hi, I'm Manny Pacquiao. I beat him once, I beat him twice. And this time will be the third and final. FREDDlE: There's no set schedule. Not too many fighters l would wait for, in my life, but he's won eight world titles, so l will wait for him. But that's how it goes. l can describe the schedule of Manny Pacquiao as hectic and erratic. You'll never know when we will be there... [JlNKEE SPEAKlNG FlLlPlNO] Of course there are a lot of things you are obliged to do. But sometimes l wonder can l do this? Can l really take this? lt's frustrating at times, but you have to understand the time schedule that Manny creates for himself is unbelievable. There's times where the only sleep we get is while driving from one city to the next in the car. We wish you all the best of luck against Juan Manuel Marquez for the third time. All right then, thank you. MlCHAEL: I tell Manny, your body is like a car. I don't care if you buy a $200,000 Ferrari, you drive it every day, and don't take it for maintenance, it's gonna break. [CHEERlNG] ALEX: He was always an expert at dividing his time. Knowing how much to give to this, how much to give to that. FEMALE REPORTER: Did you read the bill? Did you study the Bill? How come you say it's abortion when the Bill's not? MANNY: I'm saying that the Bill is not abortion. l'm saying that this Bill is totally abortion. ALEX: When being a Congressman didn't come as easy as maybe he thought it was gonna be, he found himself having to apply more of his attention in studying, and researching and reading and staying up nights learning. l think that's why it affected us in the ring. And that took away from boxing, and I think we paid for it. We did. l think he did. [GRUNTlNG] ALEX: You can have so many things going on in your life. But when your relationship is affected... We can't go without Jinkee. ALEX: You're not there. Manny who is used to having such the same routine... Jinkee gets down on the week before the fight. Her not being there in the hotel room with him, not being in the same bed with him... That's Manny's Kryptonite. NARRATOR:: Most people look at boxing as a physical competition. But it's mostly a mental battle. When a fighter steps between the ropes, he carries everything into the ring with him. And if his mind doesn't follow, neither does his heart. [BOXlNG BELL RlNGlNG] COMMENTATOR: Marquez's corner thinks he's winning. Freddie Roach wants to see Pacquiao put this guy on his ass. And the crowd seems to think Marquez is winning. ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen, from the MGM Grand, we go to the scorecards after twelve World Championship rounds, the winner, by majority decision, and still WBO World Welterweight Champion of the World Manny "Pacman" Pacquiao! BOB ARUM: Be calm, because l promise you l'll bring the fight back in May... BOB ARUM: And we'll do it again. We'll do it again! My question is very simple. Are you more convinced that you won this fight more clearly than the other two? I think, I won this fight more clearly. I don't know what happened. What do I need to do for the judges to give me the fight? I don't know what happened. Good evening. Thank you for this another opportunity. I know, I did my best, but the expectation of the people is... The fight is not that happened, but thank you. MANNY: After the fight, I had a dream. I was in a jungle. I saw the light brighter than the sun. It penetrates my bones and my body. I heard God's voice. He said to me, "Son, why you leave me? Why you away from me?" l woke up, and when l touched my hair and my pillow, it was wet, with tears, l'm crying. l told him, you have to leave all the... The worldly things, so the gambling... Having a... Being unfaithful, all of that, so, you have to change that. I told him that you are now a new creation of God. A new man, a changed man, so... You better leave those things. MANNY: Yeah, I have a casino and I sold it. And I have a bar, sold it also, and I stopped drinking, stopped good times with friends, like that and I stopped gambling, everything. l want to perfectly follow God's Commandment. JINKEE: I hope, or I believe that you have to gonna push through to become a good creation of God, a good person to the people. A good husband, a good father to his children, and that's it. That's... For the family, yeah. For the family. lt's true. lt's real. So that's why l was... That's why l am blessed. You know, I grew up in boxing, I love boxing. But, maybe one more fight, and that's it. After the fight with Mayweather, win or lose, last fight. Of course, we're gonna win. But after Mayweather, yeah. FREDDlE: There's one thing about my fighter. When it's time, it's time. You know, the thing is, l went overboard and l pay for that now. So the thing is, when it's time, l will tell Manny, and he will... l'm almost 99% sure he will listen to me, because we have great rapport with each other, and he knows l'm an honest person, and l would never tell him something that wasn't true. So, if l see him slowing down or slipping, the first time l see that, l'll say it's over. Well, in his talks with me, he's given me a date in 201 3, where he's gonna hang it up. And so l expect that after this Bradley fight, that he'll probably have about three more fights, and that'll be the end. ALEX: Manny is just a dog, that keeps running or a horse that keeps racing, or anything else like those guys. That's just business that they're in. Use you up, throw you away, and get the next guy in there. Make him, promote him, make him the next biggest thing in boxing, and... MICHAEL: Even if Manny retires from boxing, I'll still be with Manny. As long as he wants me to be around, I'll be there. That's why I spend so much time in the Philippines, even when he's not boxing. What I want and what I am striving for is I want to be in a position to supplement Manny's income so he can sustain the same lifestyle, after we're not making 60, 70 million dollars from boxing a year. For him and his family. ALEX: I'd be happy for him, you know what I mean? I'd be happy for him that he is not being used, and that he gets to go off, and do his own thing. And do what he feels that he wants to do. lf he feels like changing his life, and focusing on his political career and his religion is what he wants to do, l'd be happy for him. But he is not my meal ticket, like he is for these guys. BOB: People have asked me, why did I match Timothy with Manny Pacquiao. Timothy Bradley has the hand speed, he has the foot speed, he has the game plan to be very, very competitive with Manny Pacquiao. ALEX: It's important to Bob as a gentleman... That's the only thing that's important to Bob. If you're my fighter, and he's my fighter, I walk in, and you lose, I'm still winning. And I get 30% of you, and I get 30% of him. I get the whole pie. I get it all. Because you're coming with a champion, you're leaving with a champion. You don't lose. [AUDlENCE CHEERlNG] COMMENTATOR 1 : One night, this incredible ride that Pacquiao has taken us all on, this devastating unbeaten streak, in the heavier weight classes, will come to an end. Can Tim Bradley make tonight that night? COMMENTATOR 2: Hard left-hand by Pacquiao down. Best punch of the round so far. Yet another slick left hand on Tim Bradley's jaw. Two big pops for Pacquiao. COMMENTATOR 1 : And the best punches of the fight. Another straight left hand. COMMENTATOR 2: The difference so far has been, Pacquiao can hurt Bradley, Bradley doesn't seem to be able to return the favor. COMMENTATOR 1 : This is a Pacquiao fury. The right hook lands. COMMENTATOR 2: He's moving his head down to survive. Another mark of the power differential in favor of Manny Pacquiao. COMMENTATOR 1 : What must it be like for a Champion of the World like Tim Bradley undefeated in his prime, catch a guy just at the right time, fight as hard as he can, and it's just not good enough. COMMENTATOR 2: And lose every round. [BOXlNG BELL RlNGlNG] ANNOUNCER: Scores about 1-15, 1-13, for Pacquiao. 1-1 5, 1-1 3 for Bradley. And 1-1 5, 1-1 3 to the winner by split decision, a new WBO Welterweight Champion of the World, The Desert Storm, Timothy Bradley! COMMENTATOR 1 : I don't think we are blind. And I think that is a terrible, bogus decision. COMMENTATOR 2: I have no comment. I'm totally confused. COMMENTATOR 1 : Timothy Bradley has scored an upset split decision victory over Manny Pacquiao, God only knows how. BOB: Respected people scored it 11 to 1 , 10-2, and then to hear scores like we heard tonight, and it's just unfathomable. What we saw tonight was ridiculous. That's the only word to describe it. It was ridiculous. This wasn't really a close fight. But I'm happy for Tim, because he's a lovely young man. and he can make a lot of money now. [AUDlENCE CHEERlNG] Don't be sad, don't be sad. Keep thanking God, praise God... You know, God has good a plan. God has a good plan for this. The plan of God is better than what we think. -ALL: Amen. -Amen. The plan of God is better, better than what our plan is. Okay? Don't be sad, rejoice! And be glad and happy, okay? [APPLAUSE] That's how we love this boxing. But, you know, I respect the decision. But, 100% I believe that I won the fight, it's okay. [PEOPLE CHEERlNG] But anyway, in your heart, you know who win the fight. It's okay. That's part of the game. We accept that. So... I'm still here, I can fight. I can fight. And, until next time, thank you, thank you. NARRATOR:: Boxing is a cruel sport. You leave your blood, heart and soul on the canvas. But you can't always control your fate. In the eyes of the world, Manny Pacquiao defeated his opponent. But once victory is stolen from you, what are you left with? Loss is always a reminder of what matters in life. Your people, your family, your faith. WOMAN: We are here to praise, to worship God, not only for Mr. Pacquiao, but his use as an instrument for these people... To spread the gospel of God. He inspires the young people because he came from nothing. He didn't have a name before. Then he became one of the biggest men here in our country, in the world. [MAN SPEAKlNG] As long as he wants to fight again, he can do both, because he still has his potential. But he can also be used in the ministry, because of his influence. Like what happened to me in my last fight. l prayed. l believed 1 00%... ...that l would win, l prayed. But what happened to me? You saw the result. But l was not sad. Because what is important to me is my relationship with God. [AUDlENCE CHEERlNG] Before l could not resist the devil... When sexy ladies would pass... My eyes would follow them... But now that l have a strong spirit. l feed my spirit, l am blind to other women. But the only and most beautiful woman that l keep my eyes on is my wife. JlNKEE: I'm happy people look up to him. Being a Bible Ambassador is something that I can be proud of him forever. But the most important thing is that he can encourage people to read the Bible, to be a good leader for the country... A good public servant, yeah. MANNY: What difference can I make? What gives life meaning? I came from nowhere, and now I am everywhere. But we are all just men. We are imperfect. I'm still learning what God's plan is for me. MANNY: Boxing gives people power and hope. Boxing has given me my voice. But why do I box? Why do I fight? Is it my true purpose? I know what I am. I'm a fighter. Whatever life brings me, whatever arena I enter, I will always be, a fighter. [FACE YOUR DESTINY PLAYlNG]
