 

                        MEGHE DHAKA TARA (Cloud-Capped Star) Supriya Choudhury, Anil Chatterjee, Bijon Bhattacharya Gita De, Gita Ghatak Dwiju Bhawal, Niranjan Roy, Gyanesh Mukherjee, Ranen Roy Choudhury Story by Shaktipada Rajguru Photographed by Dinen Gupta Film editing by Ramesh Joshi. Music by Jyotirindra Moitra Production, scenario and direction by Ritwik Ghatak Tell your father you owe us for two months. It's getting difficult Yes, I will I can't do without a shave, so please shave me Any idea what you owe? A dark girl A dark complexion Get off to school now Her tuitions should be over; she'll be hurt if she overhears Such a responsible girl Studying and giving two tuitions, bringing home forty rupees a month I heard at the meeting that there are more and more evictions They might even stop school grants Would you like a mat, to sit and gossip on? Your sandal is torn, Khuki I'll have it mended Teacher, about your tax... What a good thing I bumped into you. Now, about your dramatic society... The bumblebee flew humming into the room Bathe, you're late for college A love letter!. "l didn't appreciate your worth, I thought you were like the others "But now I see you in the clouds... "...perhaps a cloud-capped star, veiled by circumstances... "...your aura dimmed" Sanat. That idiot! I haven't seen him for ages Poking your nose into personal affairs If you're a "person", then I'll be a genius one day You know that's true, hence your pride If only the barber would understand what a genius I am Can you spare some money? The beard's itching Two annas, or maybe four... ...or maybe eight - I'd like some tobacco Or why not a whole rupee. You've got your tuition money, haven't you?. Why not get a job, Brother? It's beneath an artist's dignity In a couple of years, cash will rain down on me Do you know how much Amir Khan Sahib gets for a concert? Remember what I said about the rupee Ma, Manashi in our college has a sari with a beautiful motif... ...a cow-girl Ma, don't listen to her It's the college's football final tomorrow I can't wear these awful saris any more The "heiress" has spent three years in the same class I must have studded boots by tomorrow He can't afford food, but he makes demands like a prince Half the month we can't afford a second course It's the first of the month - sister will have been paid You didn't buy sandals, did you? I'll buy them later. I bought material for brother's shirt After all these years... isn't that Father's pupil Sanat? Don't you recognize me? It's Montu, isn't it?. What are you gawping at?. You've changed so much. You were only a girl, and now... - Who? - Neeta You write letters, but you don't come to see us I know that handwriting; I give those letters to Neeta She's hardly at home, what with college and tuitions Let's go home. Ma will be cross Geeta has grown into quite a beauty A beauty... but she can't afford decent clothes Neeta, I need some cash to have the diagrams printed It's all gone this month, Sanat I can't even buy my brother and sister what they ask I know, but I still bring my woes to you. One feels powerless It's your struggle. Can't we share it? I'll find a way next month Please visit us. Father often speaks of you Yes, but only when I've some money Your spoilt darling will spend it by the fistful After all, it's her money The hussy must have spent it all, my entire month's budget I ought to give, but I don't. How can I say no? No sympathy in the whole world, and no one who'll understand Khuki, won't you eat? I'm not feeling well Don't be angry with Ma Deprivation... it's destroyed her mind I'm not angry Remember that poem by Yeats, Khuki? A bad headache Here's another precious prodigy A god in a devil's clan. Shear it off You've bought nice material Going to bed already?. Won't you eat? Mother must have said something Ignore what people say. Your motto should be: Do what you think best Eyes full of tears?. They'll fall at the slightest provocation I'll utter a spell. All right? - I'm not feeling well - So I'm uttering it Mother, your girl's such a Khuki. She wants to catch the moon She can't make out anything She's such a Khuki, mother - A rupee tomorrow, please - There's nothing left All right, next month, then Next month it all goes straight to Ma Whoever gives up money is a full-scale idiot Where are you going, all dressed up? I couldn't wait till morning to wear it Slightly bovine There's pleasure in practice New month, very busy right now Please send last month's bill You'll settle it? What did you want? Just the bill Not going to college? Flunking exams for novels and films Everything's scarce in this house, you don't have anything you need So create a paradise Dress like fairies, all of you I'll rest, wriggling my big toe, in perfumed splendour This year you and Shankar just have to sing for us I've given up singing, and Shankar's maestro won't give him permission But we'll invite lots of guests. We must talk this over All right, I'll call in at the library and see you Well, how are the rehearsals? Not making much progress Progress indeed! The tuition money All of it? I asked Banshi to send his bill. He's so rude every day Keep five rupees for pocket-money Have you no shame, living off your old father? The girl works to foot your bills I'll be earning, too Since the radio audition I get lots of calls, my maestro's furious He won't let me perform until I've studied for another two years Hasn't your maestro a hennaed beard? Why not just grab it and hang on like a midget? Why come here? Does any young man sit at home? My bread doesn't come cheap How can I look people in the eye? No food for you, unless you pay up - Going off without eating? - You told Ma I'm a glutton He can't make out anything. He's such a Khuka, mother Why destroy the future because of such simple bickering? Grit your teeth and hang on for two years Khuki, only you know my worth Going off like that... don't you know what's on tomorrow? It's Jagatdhatri Puja It's your birthday Father's taking me out, like he used to Where to? Anywhere, it's not decided All right. I'll come, too. Don't tell him Brother, you're such a child Father would refuse if I told him Sunrise Didn't Keats have a poem? This flourishing field... it costs nothing to perceive its beauty There is no money, but this is here Appreciating life is an art Don't overdo it, you'll get indigestion Will you always be this greedy? You shouldn't say such things Anything for us?. Sir, your tax is three months overdue Come tomorrow morning, I'll see what I can do Aren't you in that group of... I left. I wasn't getting any parts An actor, is it? Who are you? I'm Sanat, sir You got a good second in pure physics Someone told me... Khuki told me Yes, we meet sometimes What's happened?. You're so pale and drawn What are your plans?. I'm looking for a scholarship to do doctoral research Monkey! - For a D. Sc? - D. Phils are all too common Swine! What's the subject of your thesis? The Reynolds number of the Supersonic vibration of the Lower Gangetic Plain Ape! Not you, I mean Shankar. I was comparing you two He's done nothing Son, have a bite to eat So you're immersed in studies? No other way out in life What a lovely place I haven't time Give Sanat some tea Is Sanat here? What are you staring at? Take this, I'm late How do you manage to sit indoors all evening? Drink the tea. I'll go late for tuition, as you're here Let's go for a walk A walk, I said. Miles away, weren't you? Where is everyone? What's this? Get out at once! Dear me, what's going on? Come inside You know the guru I told you about When was that? Bring home all the vagabonds! Can't feed yourself... Beginning's a bit troublesome Such a lovely voice. You'd be spellbound If you bring such a nuisance again... Quick, bring some money Don't tell your mother. We're busy. Lessons to be taught We're going out. I'll do the tuition on the way back It won't work. I can't manage without a job No, you mustn't But I can't get a scholarship After so much work Just a few more months And then? Then I'll get a job And with your earnings... It makes no difference You're so gifted - That picture in my room... - The two kids? Me and Brother Once we went up to the hills We got up before dawn to see the sunrise from a peak. How hard it was But when the sun came... I can't explain the thrill Brother used to tease me: "She wants to catch the moon" He still teases me Neeta, you're just not cut out to endure all this Then keep me in a glass case, like a wax doll I'll be late for tuition That's why I come to you, you make my worries vanish No cause for alarm, just a broken bone Neeta, a word with you Such an injury in old age... it'll take long to mend You'll have to run the household from now on I'll give a sedative, it'll last until morning What brings you here? Weren't you finishing your studies this year? I couldn't. I've had to take a job You'd better spin a new yarn about your rent - I said yesterday... - "You'll get it as soon as I do" Do you take us for your benefactor, to rest on our shoulder? Why not get a job. Settle down in life You'll never understand suffering for an ideal I asked your friend Saroj what could be done about it What did he say? National Chemical, Joy Engineering, Jagat Hosiery Three jobs just waiting for you... ...and you're researching hot air in the atmosphere Sir, the lady's here Your ideal is here What a time I've had. Luckily, I got a job The way things are after Father's accident... I can't say I like it. Why abandon your studies? What can I do? So many at home, all counting on me Walk me to the station Praise to the Goddess of Learning, bestower of perseverance And four annas for me, for a shave Goddess of Learning, Mother of the Universe It will be unbearable if I do research while you work I'll work and you study. I can easily get a job Then our wedding... Can't happen now How can it? If I leave the household... My father, brothers and sister... Shankar's a rascal, why support him? You don't understand him at all One day he will be big, and you will, too I pin my hopes on both of you Then my time will come That means, until then... We must wait Why should we wait? Don't be silly I'll drop by in a day or two I have a question Come along A singer can certainly afford a shave Have you shorn off your sense of shame, too? What shame? The lot of you living off one sister, destroying her future Everyone's talking about it. Aren't you the elder brother? Banshi, just because you give credit it doesn't mean you can criticize I call Neeta "Sinbad the Sailor" They're all on her shoulders, like the old man of the sea That'll be her fate until she drops dead Wasting all my days I've come to the river at a bad time. I don't know your name, boatman Who shall I call out to? Who will row me across? The boat is here, but no boatman Not a soul to be seen Sir, I've finished the lesson It's late. You'd better go home, son Montu has skipped college for a month. I heard today that he's failed He's been struck off the roll because he couldn't pay the fees What good would college do him, anyway? It's just as well that girl has a job Father, do you know about Montu? No need to tell me. Bad news travels fast Everyone knows you're the happiest to see us harmed You and your young man Wife! Because he's known as a sportsman, Montu's been given a factory job He was frightened to tell you. He's brought home his first pay Everything's kept secret from me, as if I were an enemy Like father, like children I won't touch this money. You can run the household and face the music A job in a factory? Labour! So what?. These jobs have better prospects nowadays See what the middle classes have sunk to?. Help me into the next room You all think I just pick fault Time has taken a heavy toll of my mind and spirit Something's come over me You needn't explain, Ma I can't take the burden of this household any more. Set me free If Shankar had been a man, you wouldn't have to shoulder the burden Brother is very nice Don't count on your father any more. Maybe he will stand and walk again But I think his mind is becoming confused He won't be able to earn again. I've known him since I was seven Don't worry, Ma... I'm here You, too, have your hopes... lots of things, I expect Anyway, you're all I have Yes, but I can't help thinking You're my sole support... that's the truth But even you scare me My own daughter, yet I don't know you What if you go away, too? I still don't know you - Oh, it's you - Just listening - What is it? - Come and eat, it's late - Why haven't you eaten? - Because you haven't eaten I bother you all the time, don't I? - How sentimental - Not really Your whole future... your marriage... People are turning nasty It hurts your manhood? - Haven't you an ego? - Something much bigger: my music Right now I'm exploiting you But deep down it really disturbs me Are you serious? I love you all to distraction We all love each other, but we shy from saying so If anyone else loves me, he'll surely wait for me It doesn't worry me I won't marry right now I'll marry when you become really famous Won't I survive until then? All my suffering will vanish then Don't you vanish, too Will you take me to the hills then? "She's such a Khuki, mother" I will. You're such a child Banish sadness and poverty, bring happiness to all Sadarang makes a plea O Being! I shall worship You, Supreme Being What have you done to yourself? Don't fall. I spoke like Father Why haven't you come for so long? I can't seem to make it - The question you were going to ask? - I don't feel the need I'll be back after tuition He's sitting all alone. Should I talk to him? Or perhaps go out?. I don't know, whatever you like Why are you gawping? Shall we go for a stroll? Sister won't be coming, you know Firefly, man has no pity for you! I've kept them waiting. A friend of mine works there If it's a good job, take it Leave the hostel, find a nice flat and marry a nice girl Let's see The way you are, your life will pass in gawping My sandals. Take them off Mine are unwearable. I went to a concert with my maestro... Work, and wear what you like Dear Montu, give me some money Eight annas, four... How much can you scrounge off Neeta? My hair's so long... Shouldn't a beggar look like a beggar? Brother, go to your room You're upset, aren't you? "I've raised you since you were kids" Let him talk Get some clothes made Get a haircut and look decent. Buy a pair of sandals No, you'll suffer. Those who suffer for others, suffer for ever You're a complete idiot. In the words of Banshi Dutt: "Sinbad the Sailor" - or how could a fool like me make a fool of you?. What sort of boy is Sanat? Why? That boy has no principles Where does all the money go? Your salary, the tuition money, Montu's salary... It's difficult You'll end up with no home, no money Sister, here's the money - Only fifty? - I had to pay a month's hostel fee He's decided to live in the factory hostel from now on Leaving home? Yes, it's hard to get there from here, and a sportsman needs good food We could arrange it here No, I'll come and give you whatever I can spare Young chap, he has his needs And his old folks just sit and eat Go and get the shopping I saw Sanat at our head office today He's in the Stores Department. Imagine that, a science student - What salary? - Three hundred at least The boss is his pal, you see Sanat isn't here, he left last month You'd like to have his address, I suppose I took a job Are you leaving? Have you thought of getting Geeta married? No, Neeta first. One should think serially You've educated her, that's why she can run the household It's less difficult to find a groom for a working girl Get her married. You'll have time enough to twiddle your thumbs What will happen here if she leaves? You can't exploit the poor girl all her life So what will you eat? - Where have you been? - Out for a stroll - Your exams are soon - Exams are beyond me - What, then? - Marriage - To whom? Does Ma know? - Sanat Rushing into the noon sun won't help Not everyone has patience; something you ought to know - Any news of Montu? - He's playing a match in Delhi Geeta was talking about your ear-rings and bangles - you know her She needs them more than I do Listen, I didn't really want it like this - How much yoghurt? - Whatever you think In the past they married daughters off to the dying. They were barbarians Now we are educated, civilized We educate our girl, wring her dry and destroy her future That's the difference It's time for tea. I'll get it for you Childhood seems so far away And those hills... they don't seem to be of this earth No one climbs hills any more; they plumb the depths instead I've got a job in a music school. Don't tell Ma Continue your studies, too. I'll organize the funds Will you teach me one of Tagore's songs? Soft-hearted idiots like you get hurt most! Then keep me in a glass case, like a wax doll I'm leaving home Even though I'm a nobody I can't take it any more I'm leaving in protest You'll go on suffering in silence and get smothered Want to learn a song? I'll have to sing at the wedding The night the storm blew open my doors Little did I know that you would come in Everything went dark the lamp dimmed I reached up to the heavens, not knowing why Little did I know that you would come in In darkness I lay dreaming Could I know that the storm was the pennant of your triumph? In the morning did I see You standing there Standing in what was an empty room Haven't you gone to work? I'm not well. I'm feverish You've stopped going to the library - A letter from Montu's factory - What about? Last night's shift... he's badly hurt The machine caught him. This was expected I'm going to the hospital This was expected. How else could it end? The surgeon said he'll need a blood transfusion Will it cost a lot? Yes. The crisis isn't over yet Your skin's very warm. You're running about with such a fever? - I'm often like this - Every evening? Get an X-ray She's terribly withdrawn, doctor She won't say what's on her mind. I sense trouble She's feverish All because of Montu's accident All this running about these last two days If you can spare the time, please take a look at her I've come to see Geeta I haven't eaten. Can I have some water? - Where has she gone? - To bed Not at the office? I don't go quite often. I don't like it And your office? Montu is in hospital after an accident I've been in a terrible state He needs a blood transfusion. I hadn't even time to inform you Neeta's here So I see. How long have you been here? It's getting late. I must go - You let her go? - She didn't come to see me You're jumping to conclusions No need Montu's in hospital after an accident Neeta came with something on her mind What's your name, dear girl? It would be wise to have an X-ray. I can easily arrange it What if I'm really ill? I'm the family breadwinner Anyway, please pay for the transfusion - How's Montu? - All right What about some tea? Can you help me to get some money for blood and medicines? I can't raise any. That's why I came to see Geeta - How much? - About 150 rupees I feel dizzy Rest a little, for your own sake My own sake... Iooking like a corpse. It's hard, earning one's bread I'll give you the money here tomorrow - There were 150 rupees here - I gave them to Ma You mean Neeta - I did. It's my money - An old flame Getting nasty won't help. I'm warning you Come to me, my daughter Uma Let me garland you with flowers You are the soul of my sad self, mother deliverer Let me bid you farewell, my daughter You leave my home desolate. How can I endure your departure? Heard about Shankar? They say he's made a name for himself in Bombay What's happened? Making your bed so late, in the outer room? Inner or outer, what does it matter in this forlorn house? You won't tell me anything, will you? Time was, mother, but you didn't hear There's such a void between us My life seems unsupportable Hence this barrier Must you wail now? I must work tomorrow Going to work? Something I wanted to say - What can you do about it? - I can't put on an act Not an act Penance maybe Penance? What have you done? I've never protested against any injustice That's my sin I shouldn't have accepted it, surely Go home Have you nothing to say? What can I say? I'm removed from it all There's only work now Neeta, you're whole again. I want to be whole, too I'll leave my job... ...go back to a life of struggle I'm not completely lost to a sense of... I can't bang my head on the wall for ever Give her this medicine in the evening. Keep an eye on her She fainted Are you feeling ill? I can ask for you to have leave No, it's useless A poor Brahman in Mathura Who had never known happiness Once begged for a whole day And returned without a grain He sat beneath a tree, downcast He sat beneath a tree and wept then the sage Satyanarayana Approached in the guise of a fakir Let's have a look Go away God doesn't overwhelm you all at once. In time you learn to bear up The boss himself brought him home My Montu still has a job They'll pay good compensation, too. More than 1,000 rupees, isn't it?. On this auspicious day, you're happy with your friends It's Shankar, isn't it? Your picture's in the papers. Made it big in Bombay, have you? You're the pride of Bengal, lad Let 'em know that Bengal has tigers, too You get 500 per concert? No, I don't accept less than 1,200 Your perfumed body, your forehead marked with sandel-paste Doe-eyed, with sweeping lashes May your wisdom be for your people And be happy with your lord and friends Lots of people talk about you You must give me a necklace, if it's a boy Will you never live at home? If this house is so bad, change it Will we ever lose the fear of eviction? Yet here people strike roots, build a nest, forget their troubles Tell him. I've always wanted a two-storey house Demolish this and build two storeys The clay-walled room can stay and be restored My mind... can you restore that, too? So that I can read Wordsworth again and be fulfilled Where's Khuki? In that room. Goes to work, then stays in there. Eats there, too Talks to no one. Keeps everything hidden Feverish, ill... she doesn't tell Even washes her own dishes Hiding love letters even now? I was just thinking... ...how each of you has found a niche Now as in childhood... ...I have no responsibilities What's the matter? Khuki has TB. It's serious My poor sister I accuse! Whom? No one I'll arrange treatment for her. I'll stay here tonight I've packed your things You go away They dream of two storeys You've been successful You've put them on their feet, dear What would they be without you? They pity you today You weren't up to carrying the burden, but you had to You're the burden yourself now There's poison in your breath This room is for the newborn Go away, dear Come to me, my daughter Uma Let me garland you with flowers You are the soul of my sad self, mother deliverer Let me bid you farewell now, my daughter You leave my home desolate, going to your husband's house How can I endure your departure, my daughter? Where are you going? I've made the arrangements. A sanatorium in Shillong And then... You'll see the hills at last Does she like the hills? "Cloud-capped star" Sanat's letter I wonder why I kept it so long Our house has a second storey now. Geeta's son is toddling about Is he naughty? Does he jump about a lot? He's made life hell for father He climbs the stairs all by himself The kid's so full of life He loves climbing the stairs I wanted to live! Tell me just once that I'll live I want to go home, Brother. I want to live! Did you visit your sister? How is she now? Why don't you say something? No one remembers her here any more She went by every day, sandals flapping Such a quiet girl. Why did she suffer so much? Come to me, my daughter Uma Let me garland you with flowers You are the soul of my sad self, mother deliverer Let me bid you farewell now, my daughter You leave my home desolate, going to your husband's house How can I endure your departure, my daughter?
