 

                        1 We've really never met? I swear I've seen you before Oh, you're a celebrity? No, I'm not Really? I feel there must be something Okay, your change is 80 yen Are you available? Yeah, go ahead Door's closing Okay Where to? Um.. Hachi..man..hama Inn Oh, Yahatahama Inn. Got it [another way to read the same kanji] What?! What? Eh? Huh? Fr- In front! Front front front front front! Owowowowow Kacchan? Are you alright? Owowowow Imo-san? Give me a break Sorry, it's all a joke! This isn't a joke at all Hey, are you alright? Ahh.. My nose is.. It's just running I think I'm fine I'm really sorry You look just like someone I knew a long time ago Hey, Kacchan Do you remember Saiko-chan? Eh? Who's that? Oh, right, you were still pretty little back then Your nose is bleeding Ah Imo-san.. you made my nose bleed Well.. I'm going to go Imo-san I think it was about 30 years ago What I was saying before She looked just like you This girl named Akaike Saiko-chan Hey, Saiko-chan Hello She was cute just like you She put everyone in a daze So, what if that Saiko was.. this person What? FRONT! Sorry Use your brain, dammit Sorry, sorry Sorry sorry What did you mean? Saiko.. she might be my mother What? Again, FRONT! Sorry I see Saiko-chan's dead.. Wait, so you're her daughter? Really? No wonder you look like her What was your name? Mugiko What did you say? Mugiko. Mu - gi - ko My Little Sweet Pea Mugiko-san to I'm telling you to go home You don't have to tell me like that Mugi-chan? Yeah Mugi, go in Please don't come again Goodbye Who was that? The old lady The old lady? Our mother, of course Eh? What? You don't remember? You were little, so it makes sense But she's our old lady Eh? EH? What? Is it bothering you? Not really What's up with her.. She hasn't contacted us for years Now she wants to live with us She's ignored us too much She's not someone to be concerned about I'm not Is that so Well, it's been 3 years since dad died I've been trying to get us by in this place I'm thankful Well See I'm basically your dad at the moment That's like a mother So, it's fine, isn't it? We don't need her Yeah You're doing fine I'm really thankful Right? Really, though It's pretty difficult Out of my small salary.. Our rent is 90,000 yen Then there's heating and electricity And I'm paying for the food I get it I'm truly thankful Truth is, I want to drink at nicer places But since you're here I'm going to pretty cheap places I already said I'm thankful Ohhh, I got it Megu-chan You like Shun-kun, right? What? Why would I? There's no way I'd fall for a guy like him Plus we're siblings There's no room for love S-siblings? N-nothing Forget it! Delete it from your memory! Got it! Put it in the recycle bin Aaand click! Deleted! Close, real close "Ohhh, I got it Megu-chan" "You like Shun-kun, right?" "What? Why would I?" "There's no way I'd fall for a guy like him" "Plus we're siblings" "S-siblings?" "N-nothing" "Forget it!" "Delete it from your memory!" "Got it!" "Put it in the recycle bin" "Aaand click!" "Deleted!" "That was close" Welcome! Welcome~~ Welcome! Welcome~~~ You've gotten big, Mugi-chan You really look like the old- What was this 'business'? I think you've heard from your brother Yeah I also don't want to live with you Really? But your dad isn't around Isn't life hard for you? We can get by without your aid I see.. The truth is.. I've lost work, and can't live the life I'd been leading anymore I think it'd be better for us all if we lived together What are you talking about? Why do we have to care for your lifestyle? I don't get it Yeah, I guess How about you do something about it yourself? My brother is working his hardest We're doing fine with what we have I'm sorry But But what? If you want to save money by living with us Give it up No, not that It'll be hard for me to make payments if this goes on Payments? Your brother hasn't told you? What? I've been paying 150,000 yen every month Ever since your dad died To help with your expenses Why didn't you tell me about the money? What? Always acting like I'm this huge bother We've basically been living thanks to her! Well I thought it was a bit strange With your small pay Still playing Pachinko and buying expensive leather coats But I've been paying my own way, too Huh? 150,000 yen every month, right? We're not living like we have that much at all Paying your own way? You've just been playing Okay, lets talk about this later We have to do something about her for now I've been been enduring it for a long time Your dad never got over his drinking habits or his constant cheating A couple is normally just a man and a woman, right? That has nothing to do with us It doesn't change that you tossed us aside How long are you going to be like that? Start being honest with yourself! I didn't intend to toss you aside You didn't want to see us fighting all the time, did you? You could have come to see us after breaking up, then I'm sorry I did want to see you I didn't really want to see you Onii-chan Stop it Open your heart to me! I'm going to be honest I haven't thought about you even once since you left Onii-chan, you're an idiot! Idiot idiot idiot! Just die! Mugi, that's too loud Mugi-chan.. You're not talking about Mugi You're talking about yourself You really don't need to talk like that Just go home There's no reason to be here But Hey What? We're going to be living together Well Without her payments, it'll be pretty rough But Mugi-chan Please take care of me Sorry, there's nowhere to put this So I'll put it in here Sorry, excuse me Sorry, excuse me Didn't you say you didn't have much? Even I was surprised When you move, you have more than you expect Whoa What is all this? Really, you don't need that exercise equipment Throw it away It's good for my diet, I can't throw it away You're not even on a diet Then, you don't need that do you? Are you an idiot? Who would throw these away? Just how many dreams do you think it's granted? Hey, Mugi Throw this away What are you talking about? Do you know how much it's worth? Don't compare it to that garbage It's not garbage Mine's not, either! That's 23,456 yen How long are you going to be reading? We're going Ah, the new BetsuMaga [short name for Bessatsu Shounen Magazine] Seriously? Oh, hey I was thinking about leaving home soon What are you talking about? She's annoying And my girlfriend is saying she wants to live with me What about me? You can just live with the old lady What is that? No way It can't be helped, can it? What was that? Barely felt it I'm joking, it hurt Stop Stop Contact me if something happens "Something" Please take care of Norio Yes We're going to go Mugi-chan, you like anime? Yeah Do you watch this every day? It's a DVD Is she a magical girl? Not exactly She's doing some kind of magic She's not a magical girl? I said it's not magic, it's the power of science Also, I'm trying to watch. Could you not talk to me please? Sorry When I was a kid, I used to watch The Secret of Akko-chan I said, I'm trying to watch Right at the climax, too Sorry Close, real close Hey HEY Your alarm clock is way too loud Turn it off when it rings Was it? I didn't realize I can't believe it It's so loud it woke me up Oh, I'm sorry I need to get up Need to get up Need to get up, need to get up Mugiko-san, today there's going to be a drinking party with the guys Will you participate? Sorry, I'll pass Oh Do you have plans? I want to save money for now For my tuition The voice acting school? Yeah I looked at a bunch of schools But they're all expensive How much? 720,000 yen Expensive.. your parents won't help? 100% impossible Welcome back Food's almost ready I bought food What? Convenience store food is bad for you, eat here There's lots of veggies Where's the manga I had in my room? You said I could toss it, it's gone I said you could toss the weekly mangas Why did you toss the compiled ones? They weren't the same as the ones on the floor? How could they be the same? They're totally different Why don't you know the difference? I really don't get it I even had signed ones Sorry Can't you just buy more? How could I buy more signed ones? Don't get so mad, people make mistakes Come on, come eat. Okay? I don't need any [Mugi-chan, Microwave it and eat] I'm home You worked late It's been a while since I had to help at the snack bar Pretty worn out Hey, did you like Tonkatsu? [Pork cutlet] I can't really handle oily food anymore Why? Just asking Mugi-chan, want some cake? A customer gave it to me I don't need any Okay Did you make this Tonkatsu? Yeah Did you make it for me? Not exactly I was just in the mood Then.. maybe I'll have some You don't have to You don't like it, right? I want to eat it! Oh Then go ahead Mugi-chan, it's good! Good I'm sorry I wasn't feeling well Hey Yeah? Is something wrong with you? No I'll be fine if I sleep a bit Mugi-chan There's something I'd like to ask you to do What is it? My legs are sore I'm sorry, but could you massage them? I'm tired, too Oh Sorry It's fine, no problem Just a little Thank you It feels great Mugi-chan Thank you Welcome, welcome, welcome, welcome~ [inaudible], lucky start! 10 Extensions, 10 Extensions, aim for a new Extension [onomatopoeia for Pachinko machines] GO! Voice actress, huh 400,000 yen No, even just 300,000 yen is fine I'll repay you What did you want to be before this? A nail artist? Before that, a dog groomer? You even went to a beauty school Yeah, I did So what do you actually want to be? If you go to this school, you'll change your mind again No, I've been like that before This time I really want to do this I really feel like I can do this Voice acting isn't work that just anyone can do I know that I still want to do it Sorry, I don't have any money I can't Ask the old lady That's obviously not going to work That's why I'm asking you It's impossible for me, too That aside, you really need to stop going after pipe dreams You should put yourself to work like me What's with that arrogance? Forget it Hey, we need to talk Oh, Mugi-chan What time is it? Perfect, I needed to wake up Why did you open this? Sorry, I wondered what it was You wondered what it was? That's the worst You don't need to get so mad Also, what's with the kitchen? Everything's just scattered around All you do is sleep Sorry, I've been worn out Ah, Mugi-chan, you've been thinking of going to that kind of school? It's not quite like that You've got nothing to do with it Let me see it No, don't touch it I read a bit and Don't touch it! Owowowow I fell What are you laughing about? Are you dumb? I said this thing is too loud! What? Mugi-chan, let me know if theres anything I can do for you There's isn't really anything I might be a bit unreliable but I am your mother If Mugi-chan.. Um What is it? I don't think of you as my mother Excuse me The old lady was in the final stages of liver cancer Did you know? I really don't get it Suddenly dropping by our house Then suddenly dying Serves her right The question now is how do we pay our rent We will commence the cremation We will begin a worship Worship Please pray Please light the incense I'm hungry What should we eat? Sushi? Anything is fine [This is the only situation in Japanese culture where two people may hold the same object with chopsticks] It's pretty amazing That she can become so small Yeah We should not have sushi How about Unagi? [Eel] I said anything is fine Thank you for everything You have done well Please be safe on your way home Okay Onii-chan? It's finished I might not be able to get the 49th day off work, you can do it alone right? [The 49th day after a person's death entails Buddhist ceremonies] Alooone? You can handle placing the ashes alone I'll pay the travel costs Did our family really get along this poorly? Why? Possibly because our personalites were far too different Our dad drank a lot And the old lady nagged a lot They were always fighting- Hey! Why did you open that? No reason Don't go doing things that don't need to be done That piece of paper Don't forget it I know Hey Was she possibly wanting to live with us because she knew she was dying? That can't be it It's probably coincidental Coincidental, huh [Yahatahama Inn] Hello, Asou-chan? Yes! Oh, Imo-chan Ah, the person who made a reservation Hello, welc- Oh, Imo-chan Look at her Hello Mugi-chan, beer Thank you Drink, drink~ Here it is I've only got the one What is this? She really looks like me You've never seen old pictures of her? Never Feels like seeing myself Really similar Hey hey Lend me 5,000 yen This is our son Hi Hi Why? I'm going to go play Mahjong with Yasuo You need to stop that Shut up and lend me the money You don't lose face if I'm not around Hurry up Give it to him Yeah, yeah He's a bit of a fool Can't help the kid She looks so similar it's a bit creepy She was so focused on being a famous singer she felt different from everyone else What do you mean? You didn't know? Saiko-chan always wanted to be a singer like Seiko-chan [Matsuda Seiko] You must be kidding It's true! She was really something special Back in the days this photo was taken Finally, the person you've all been waiting for The idol of our town Akaike Saiko! Come on up! Please sing "Red Sweet Pea" for us! She was so cute back then Like a real idol, right? Truly adorable Don't cry, don't cry~ It's true! It's Saiko-chan! It is! Saiko-san and I were in the same class in high school So what? We were so close! She and I took the same route home before! If you're going to bring that up She and I have shared an umbrella! Oh yeah?! Well I- Guys, calm down You're all being silly Saiko-chan was really popular with the boys Oh myyyy, it's Saiko-chan! We can't fit any more people in here! Hellooo~ Good morning Morning Sorry, this is Mugi-chan's You look good in a mourning dress So indecent, it's creepy Real nice Also, write your name here Okay It's hard to believe it's Saiko-chan She was still young Is this fine? Yes Thank you That aside You really look like her Excuse me, we've had a look at the urn But we can't find the burial permit What is that? It should have come with the urn A form like this Oh, yes, it did Huh? No way It's not here? Why? It might be at home What? That's really bad With no permit, we can't bury the ashes Is that so? She's come from pretty far Could you just let it slide? No, no, we can't do that Can you not have someone send it? That's why I told you to bring it You're pretty airheaded So airheaded Well, I'll have a look for it tonight You're really are dumb What? Don't get mad at me for your mistake My brother will look for it tonight That's good news But through the mail it will take about 2 days to get here Will your work be okay? Well, my job will be fine The costs to stay longer hurt a bit If you'd like, you can stay with me For free Ah, no Of course that's not okay She's a young woman Instead, you can come to my place It's an old apartment but I live alone No, I can't impose Oh, please You're welcome to come Is it really okay? Yes Thank you so much You've really saved me Are you okay with whatever? Yes Let me help you It's okay, just sit and watch TV I can't do that It's really okay Okay.. sorry for the trouble Saiko-chan was good at cooking, wasn't she? I guess She often taught me She did? Were you friends? Yeah She played around a lot until she went to Tokyo to be a singer That person moved to Tokyo to be a singer? Yeah That wouldn't happen Well, in reality she probably had many troubles But she did her absolute best I said, I got it Stop calling me an idiot Okay Bye, then Okay Okay He says he couldn't find it at home We might have to have one re-issued That will take some time to get here, then Yeah Since you can't do anything about it maybe try sightseeing? I say that like there's actually things to see around here If you'd like, I can show you around tomorrow It's my day off I'd appreciate that What's wrong? Is there something you dislike? No, it's not that The weather report was right Yeah, it's nice Bye! Who's that? I'm not sure But everyone knows you Do you like tonkatsu? I do Really? If we get a kilogram, we'll end up like this I'll turn into a pig! Hello~~ Isn't that cool? That one, with the eggs It's so good, right? Manju-- Maybe I'll get some Manju I can hold those Thanks These, please You two are pretty close for mother-daughter Mom, this is Michiru-san Did you forget? What? Sorry She's forgetting things lately Mugiko-chan, eat these if you'd like Really? Yeah Thank you There's some for you too Thank you Being a voice actress seems like it would be pretty rough You'd have to be able to make a lot of different voices Yeah, I suppose But I'm just hoping to get there The journey starts after this Try saying something No, no way Just little bit is fine Okay, then Sasakura Megu from "Ima Doki: Classmates" [the fictional anime she likes] I'm going to start "Your finish is always so poor! I never should have used the Pastel Stick!" "Thanks to you, we're going back to Area Q's starting line!" Normally, I can do it better than that But my throat's a bit off today No, you were good Quite good Are you feeling tired? I'm okay [inaudible] What will you make today? Today, I am- Michiru-san, I'll help It's okay, please sit Okay, then can you do this? Yes Voice acting school, huh Sounds fun I haven't saved enough money yet I'm too ordinary for that I admire that sort of work You're not boring at all You're wonderful I'm not wonderful at all I don't make interesting conversation Being with me can be tedious I think you're pretty wonderful Except for being a bit self-defeating Oh, right, I shouldn't talk like that No, it's okay But, hey I think our hobbies are close What hobby? Actually I like manga quite a bit Oh really? Let me show you Show me what? Wow!! It's all homoerotic You don't read it? Not really My type is more.. But, Michiru-san Your unpredictability is interesting Is it? It'd be nice if someone like you were my mother No way, Saiko-chan was probably a fine mother That person's not a mother Didn't you go home? Some stuff happened What are you up to now? I don't really have anything to do so I'm just passing time Oh, well Then, would you like to go to a festival? A festival? There's one nearby Oh, I see Let's go I lost my money at pachinko though Sure Mugi-chan! Mugiko-chan~ You're really popular It's not me, they're just comparing me to my mother I see Hey, that taxi driver Imo-san It's just something I heard It seems he stalked your mom in the past What? Stalker? No way No, really, doesn't he seem like the type? Yeah, he kind of does You need to be careful or he could fall madly for you That wouldn't happen I'm half his age That has nothing to do with it Just be careful Alright But I'm pretty sure he's interested in Michiru-san He couldn't date Michiru-san Why? Well, she's divorced I doubt she'd remarry She is? Yeah She was married in Osaka but divorced and came back here Really? What about kids? She has kids, but she seems to have not seen them in many years I'm pretty hungry I want some Yakisoba Let's go watch Who is it? I have no idea ~If I could be with you tonight~ ~I could be a star in the night sky~ So bad ~I'd want to stay in that moment~ ~I wanna see you hold me, babe~ ~I wanna see you kiss me, babe~ ~Love you!~ Yes! I'm the best! Alright, thank you very much Yamanouchi Akinari and his band.. uh..peni.. penix? Phoenix That was Phoenix! Thank you! Alright, thank you very much That's the end of our performances And with that, we've reached the milestone of 40 years doing this event-oh! We have an unusual guest today! Everyone, look at the young lady over there! Everyone, do you remember? With us today is the daughter of an old resident of our town, Akaike Saiko-san Since you're here, could we have you come up on stage? Come on up! On to the stage! This way, this way~ No way, no way! I really can't! Nononono~ If you don't go up it'll be pretty bad Come on, come on! Come along! Please, up this way! This is a happy occasion I never thought we'd get a nice surprise like this at the very end Come along, up here Please use this microphone Can we start with an introduction? Um, I'm Koiwa Mugiko She's Mugiko-chan! Applause, everyone! Mugiko-chan~~ Mugiko-chan~~~ Your mother sang on this stage long ago She sang "Red Sweet Pea", right? Yes, that's the one It was pretty amazing I was a fan of hers as well Having you up on the stage now it makes me feel like I've gone back in time Since we've time traveled Do you think we could have you sing us "Red Sweet Pea"? Could we? No way, I can't I can't! I really can't! Everyone's excited to hear you! I really can't Will it be alright? It looks like they can play the song Alright, everyone Let's all go back in time together! Do your best! It's true.. What should I do.. Mugi-chan, do your best! I really can't do this What should I.. I don't know it, what should I.. I really hated that I want to die It's fine, everyone was happy They were just laughing Nah, they were really pleased It was really the worst It seemed fine to me I hated it.. It's alright Hello What's going on, you two? We met by chance Lucky you, Senzo, a date with a cute girl Shut it Don't be shy about Shut up, old lady The festival seems pretty energetic Yeah, but it was even moreso in the past There was about twice as many stands All the young people have been leaving so the festival is mostly just old people now Oh, is that so? I think it was at its busiest when Saiko-chan was singing for us Oh, old lady Lend me some money Why? I just gave you some this morning You lost it at pachinko, didn't you? I didn't Anyway, lend me some Why? You won't pay it back even if I do We're at a festival and I can't even buy anything Then, would you like this? I don't need that What are you doing? What a waste So dirty Forget it Lets go Excuse me See you again What are you doing? Let's go Okay Thank you Thank you So good Want some? Aren't parents super annoying? I think I'll go home Why? Sorry Coming! You were out quite late so I already ate Sorry, I went to the festival Oh The burial permit should get here in a couple of days That's great Yeah I'll get some food ready Here you go Michiru-san Do you.. not want to see your children? You heard about it? I'm sorry Of course I do But you won't go? I think it's better that I don't see them for now I think you'd understand We both have our circumstances I don't really understand Mugiko-chan! Yes? Can I help with something? Mugiko-chan, are you free? Yaaaayyyyy~ Imoto-san, you are surprisingly skilled I come here a lot when I'm free Do you? About five times a week That's basically every day Yeah, I guess so Do you not go bowling and such with your boyfriend? No, I don't Really now What kind of person is your boyfriend? I don't really.. Oh, so you're available right now? Are you married? Me? I'm available, too But being here with you right now reminds me of being here with Saiko-chan You came here together? With everyone, as a group I'm pretty shy Shy, huh Did you like her? Uh, I did like her But I wasn't the only one You didn't confess to her, did you? There's no way I ever could But.. I did think that I should one time I, uh.. I ran into her at the train station the day she was leaving for Tokyo Saiko-chan's parents, they.. they were always against her becoming a singer She really tried to persuade them But they would never allow it She worked up the courage to leave home Pretty strange luggage, isn't it? When I was about to leave I expected my parents to be very angry But they said to do my best and gave me money You know we're pretty poor, right? I told them I didn't need it They told me to take this and take that Until my luggage turned into this I said I didn't need pots and things But they really made me take them "You're really bad at waking up," "and you won't have anyone to wake you up", they said And made me take this alarm clock as well It's truly strange I just have to do my best I thought I'd at least let her know how I felt, at the end But I couldn't do it I really am shy Ah, it's your turn Okay Mugiko-chan, don't worry about it! I'll be back again! Mugiko-chan, don't get so down You'll get better with practice You did fine, Mugiko-chan Michiru-chan can't get over 50 points Oh, really? Yeah, it's hilarious Her form is still like this About Michiru-san What? Nothing, nevermind What is it? She has kids, right? Yeah, she does I feel bad for her for a lot of reasons Why is that? What is there to pity her for? Uh, well.. Thank you for coming Welcome Go ahead Sorry for calling so suddenly Mugiko-chan really wanted me to invite you Did you do something strange to her? There's no reason to think I would! You've both drank a lot, haven't you? She drinks so quickly We were drunk before we sat down What's wrong? You don't seem well Yeah, she's been so tense for a little while Excuse me, menu please Coming Hey, Michiru-san What is it? Why don't you see your kids? You can get to Osaka in a few hours You could see them any time, so why don't you? There are.. you know.. There are circumstances There are, there are Exactly what kind of circumstances? Yeah, what kind? Well.. you know, my ex is still young He's most likely remarried If he has.. That would mean the kids have accepted a new mom So why should I impose? You've decided that yourself The kids have nothing to do with it Did you want your mom to visit you no matter what the circumstances were? I don't really care about my parents I see I'd kind of like you to stop making such a sad face Why are you acting like the tragic heroine? I didn't mean to The reason you can't see them.. You're just inflating the problem You make sad faces that scream "I want to see them", "It's so hard for me" You're just shifting the blame and running from the responsibility You're a capable adult, but acting ridiculous I guess so I must be It's just as you say Could you stop acting like a decent person? Did you.. Really never want her to come see you? You never wanted to see her? I've never thought it even once I wasn't even sad when that person died Do you think your kids want to see you? It's possible that when you die They won't shed a single tear for you Mugiko-chan You should stop being a child, saying things like that A child? I don't think I've said anything wrong That's what makes you a child It's fine, Imo-chan You probably actually wanted to see her Shouldn't you be a bit more honest? I really didn't want to see her Then why treat Michiru-chan like this? She isn't your mother Saying to her what you want to say to your mom won't do anything It's not like that Mugiko-chan She's not around anymore I'm sure things have been hard for you and you've got a lot of bad memories You should forgive her There's only one of her, you know? She's the only Saiko-chan Ah Sorry I think I'm too drunk What happened? Weren't you staying with Michiru-chan? Some shtuff happened Some.. stuff? Some shtuff Like what? I said, some.. Do you have any rooms available? Well, they're all available Are you drunk? Not at all You are I said I'm shober You're totally drunk You really do look good in that Really, you're creepy Umm Thank you for taking care of me You being here was fun for us Feel free to come again Okay Hey! Imo-chan is waiting outside We didn't even call him and he's here He really likes you HEYYY! Hey! HEY! Lend me 10,000 yen Why? It doesn't matter You're just going to play pachinko again I'm not Then what will you do? It doesn't matter, you're so annoying Plus Uhh, uhhhh Um.. A violation of privacy A violation of privacy? A privacy violation, he says I'll kill you, lady Why are you putting on an act in front of the girl? So annoying Owowowow You..! You found somewhere to stay last night, right? Yeah At Yahatahama That's good Last night I was.. pretty drunk I'm sorry for all of that It's not something to apologize for I'm.. a child, aren't I? I was thinking what Imo-san said last night was right I actually did want to see her But I had no idea what I'd do if I actually did So, I'm a child Not at all Michiru-san Michiru-san, please go see your kids They most certainly want to see you Hello My mom was probably disappointed I never opened myself up to her, even at the end She wasn't disappointed Oh, right You know After Saiko-chan left for Tokyo, I did see her once It was around 5 years after she left, I think She came to visit her mom's grave At that point She had you in her belly "I wasn't able realize my dream to be a singer," "but I'm the happiest I've ever been", she said She was especially pretty at that moment She was always so pretty, so cute She was pretty during the festival, too But she was at her prettiest that day Saiko-chan I'm sure she was happy to see you But I'm relieved About what? You always called her "that person" But you actually called her "mom" today I have.. I have said terrible things to my mom "I don't think of you as my mother" Then.. "If not your mother, then what?" "Your father?", she joked She said something so trivial with a smile But at that moment My mom seemed So heartbroken That Painful expression she had I remember it every day Every day I remember it every day [incomprehensible] Is it over? Yeah I see, glad it's over with Then, shall I take you to the station? There's still time until the train I'll walk there You don't have to hold back I'm somehow in the mood to walk Oh Thank you for everything Oh Oh, hi Ah, right You gave this to me before Inside of it.. This was inside Isn't this important? Well, it's yours again Bye Thank you! [Burial Permit] [ / Red Sweet Pea by / Matsuda Seiko] Hi, Onii-chan? Is it finished? Yeah, I'm coming home Good, thanks Seems it was problematic Yeah, it's fine I'm glad I came So glad I'd like to stay longer I see I see. Then, why don't you stay a bit longer? I can't do that I need to get home, work, and save up money for tuition Oh, hey When I was looking for the permit I looked through a lot of things I found the old lady's bank book There wasn't much in the account But there was a letter A letter? Yeah. In the letter There was a little money Along with a note that said, "Use it to grant Mugiko's dream" Very good of her Yeah Then, take care on your way home I will I've seen you somewhere before.. Are you a celebrity? [Translated and subtitled by Stythe at euphorictranslations.com]
