 

                        BRAZILIAN SOUTHWEST REGION, "THE LITTLE COWBOY" I walk slowly Because I've been in a hurry before And I carry this smile Because I've cried too much Now I feel stronger Maybe even happier And the only thing I know for sure Is how little I know Or maybe nothing I've known what it takes And I've known daybreaks I've seen people And I've tasted apples You need love in order to fight You need peace in order to smile You need rain in order to bloom I think that fulfilling life Is, quite simply To understand its march And move forward I'm an old cowboy driving my herd I play this tune on my long way I go I am the road I've known what it takes And I've known daybreaks I've seen people And I've tasted apples You need love in order to fight You need peace in order to smile You need rain in order to bloom Everyone loves one day Everyone cries One day you come The next you go I walk slowly Because I've been in a hurry before And I carry this smile Because I've cried too much Everyone of us Writes their own story And every being Carries a gift, yes they can They can be happy Hey, cows! Come, cows! Come, cows! Blow your horn, mister! Thanks, cowboy! Right now, that's only the small fry whining. Better keep yer eyes peeled, though. As for that little rebellion... let it be, that's like fire on dried leaves. - No need to fan the flames. - But, Major... Milito, it's the ol' cat-and-mouse game. Let them think they're the cats. That'll help them settle down. What they don't know is, they're just birds. Cesarina! You gonna bring that lemonade, or yer legs can't hold you up no more? That darn sow! She's getting fatter and slower every day. Around a hole there's only the edge. For every cow here at Ouro Fino, there's a rancher. A rancher, mind you. Because there's only one farmer here. They know full well who they need to get their blessings from. You may go now, Milito, but I'm gonna send for ya soon. By your leave, Major. Miss Juliana. - Hey, Z Coqueiro! - Howdy, Otaclio. - Howdy. Good afternoon, folks. - Good afternoon. - Who's in charge here, Z? - Mr. Diogo is the boss. - Nice to meet you. Diogo Mendona. - Same here. Otaclio Mendes. Mr. Diogo, Mr. Otaclio owns this place. Well, Mr. Diogo, as I told Z Coqueiro, who's an old friend... feel right at home for today... but tomorrow, the sooner Ouro Fino's herd's gone, the better. - Z, will you tell me what's wrong? - Nothing, Mr. Diogo. Nothing wrong. Z Coqueiro and any friends of his are welcome here. Remanso's gate will always be open for ya. My beef's with the Ouro Fino people. You guys are just passing through. It's like I said: feel right at home. Take care, folks! Spill it, Z. Come on! Talk. I'm waitin'. Nothing's wrong, Mr. Diogo. Like Otaclio said, we're old friends. But he and Major Batista, Ouro Fino's owner, don't exactly see eye to eye. - Then why did you wanna stop here? - Why, cuz... get thee behind me... Cuz this is the best spot, that's why! Also, I wanna roast that pig and pay that bet so y'all stop hounding me. Now excuse me, the pig's waitin'. Y'all gonna lick yer fingers tonight! That ain't right. One of these days I'm gonna fry that Z Coqueiro! What about that Diogo Mendona guy? - He stopped at Remanso, like I said. - Darn! Is that cowboy looking for trouble already? You need to take something for your nerves, man. Don't worry, Jo S. We're gonna take care of things in due time. - At long last! - Wait, Dito. - Z, I thought you were lying. - Finally you did something right, Z. You folks thought I was full of hot air? Rascals! - Z Coqueiro! - Howdy, Otaclio. - Howdy. Come in. - I came to bring you some roast. Thanks, Z. Did Mr. Diogo like the place? If he liked it? Well, he ain't very talkative. More the brainy type. - But you can feel it. - Right. Thanks for the roast, Z. It looks delicious. It is. You're gonna lick your fingers, just like them. - Come say hi to Carolina. - Thanks, gotta go. Pot's on the fire. - Another time. - Okay. Then I looked at him and I said, "Blow your horn, mister!" He looked at me, put the horn to his mouth and blew. It was beautiful! Mom... when I grow up, I wanna be a cowboy... and I wanna have a horn just like his! Okay, Rodrigo. You'll be a cowboy and your horn'll be more beautiful. - But I want one just like his! - All right, all right. Now you gotta go to bed. Go, or you'll be late for school again. - On the double, boy! - Bless me, Dad! Bless me, Mom! - God bless you. - God bless you, darling. No clothes are strong enough for that boy. They're all ripped up. Never seen anything like it. What about you, why the long face? You look like an ox. - What's eatin' you? - Nothing, woman. - I'm just cookin' some ideas. - Otaclio... if you do that too much, it's your brains you're gonna cook. Do you regret having that herd here? No, that's like icing on the cake. So? Everything's gonna be fine, dear. When homesickness Came to live inside my chest It came coasting a wayward passion I floated and drifted on the road And sadness' horn sang its tune I stopped under uncertainty's Shadow and I lied down Over the dry leaves That were strewn on the ground There I fell asleep And then I dreamt of her And I woke up With my heart sobbing Homesickness is like a herd It comes and goes O my love Homesickness comes back But you're not here You couldn't sleep? Amidst the brush I seek those shining eyes I open trails and walk Without direction All of a sudden I see that every path Always takes me towards your heart Now I'm a cowboy without a herd Riding on my desire to find you I endure this homesickness And go on living Looking for your love My life is walking Homesickness is like a herd It comes and goes O my love Homesickness comes back But you're not here Homesickness is like a herd It comes and goes O my love Homesickness come back But you're not here Homesickness come back But you're not here Juliana... What is it, Major? Garoto tamed a spotted horse today, a first-rate mount. If you want it, I'll give it to you. I don't want it, Major. You know I won't trade Ruby for anything. "Major, Major"! You never call me Father. Because you're not my father. After all this time, isn't it like I was? I don't know. A father is something different. A real father... that you aren't. Come, cows. Come. Come on, let's turn 'em around. What's gotten into you, kid? - Wait, Rodrigo! - Come help Daddy, lad. Rodrigo. Rodrigo! Take them there. - See you later, Rodrigo! - See you! Blow your horn, mister! I did it! I don't know, I haven't decided yet. Ceclia, inside! Gandu! Rodrigo. You're late, as usual. Get in there! Come on, girls. Come on, everybody inside! Gandu, I'm waiting for you. Excuse me, Major. - The herd is here. - Bring me that cowboy sonuvagun. Okay. The Major wants to talk to you. He's got a good wide rump, nice, strong bones... good hooves. And he's got a temper, Major. - All right. You're late, cowboy. - Now you may go. My herd should've arrived yesterday. I don't want my cattle in enemy land. How are you, Major? The cattle is here, everything's proper. If you reckon, I'm early. We agreed I'd deliver the herd tomorrow. I'm one day early. And I, for one, don't make enemies. Well, they're easy to come by in these parts. Cesarina, bring that coffee already! Sit down, man. Come! Come! Come here, ruffian! Come, evil one! You beast! Come, son of the devil! Come on! Come! Come, ruffian! Come! I like you, you demon! Did you see? Did you see the fury in his eyes? That's because of my training, my orientation. Look, Diogo, some people come to this world to be wild bulls. Others are nothing but tame oxen. - What about you, cowboy? - What about me, Major? Are you a wild bull or a tame ox? I'm neither, Major. I drive cattle. See, Jo S? The lad here just drives cattle. Come, you beast! The toad jumped in the pond The pond dried up On the muddy pebbles The toad got all bruised What's a clown? A woman thief Don't worry, the Gandus are big, but they ain't four. We can beat 'em. - I want my bird back. - Is the train late today? Dad says the train's never late. We're early. - I wanna be a train engineer. - No, I'll be the engineer. - You may be the stoker. - Know what I'll be when I grow up? I'm gonna be a cowboy and blow a horn to call the cattle. - See? The train is never late. - Let's go swim in the waterfall! - Mr. Belmiro, how do you do? - I'm fine, you? - I've been by your ranch to chat. - My boy needs that medicine... you prepared for his foot. It's like that again. I saw it, but I'll have to make some more. Can you wait? I'm gonna drop by at Alipio's for some hardware. See you later. If you don't mind my askin', what did you wanna chat about? We're gonna have that meeting tomorrow at Arlindo's. Be there. - I'll think about it. - Thanks. It's an important meeting. - We'll see, we'll see. - Okay. What's wrong, Filoca? Mornin', Miss Juliana. Aninha, give me a hand here. Ask Clarinha if she can come to the store to help me choose some cloth. - Bless me, Godfather! - Compadre. Comadre. I got me a stray calf here. I wanted to keep him whole... ...but I'll have to castrate him! - Come inside, Comadre. - We can't. Otaclio has an errand. - Just for a coffee. - Another time. - Andrelino... the meeting's tomorrow. If we pool cattle from eight or ten ranchers... we can try and sell it directly to the abattoir. Okay, then. I'll be there tomorrow. Hey, pardner! Come on, son! Any news, Chico Fu? Spill it. Mr. Milito... you really are pals with the devil, aintcha? You were right, Dr. Almeida is roundin' up the rebels for a meetin'. If you don't have a good nose, you can smell only shit, Chico Fu. Ain't that right? You police guys can smell things from afar... ...even before they happen. - Where's that meeting gonna be? At Arlindo's store. Tomorrow, late afternoon. I want you to pay attention to them, Chico Fu. Any suspicious movement from that riffraff... ...you report to me at once. - Don't worry, Mr. Milito. I'm gonna keep my eyes and my ears peeled. Nothing's gonna get past me. - Let me see. - I never forget my measurements. And you never get fat either. You dropped an inch. What's going on? Are you in love, Julita? Yeah, right! Everybody in this town is afraid of the Major. Look who's here! Z Coqueiro! How's things, you devil? Wanna pay another visit to the slammer? Get off my case, Chico Fu! Get thee behind me! Diogo? Diogo? Mr. Diogo! Come in. Noca's is like home to us. Z Coqueiro, what was that about a visit to the slammer? Get thee behind me three times! Forget about it! - He didn't forget it, so tell us. - Mind your own business! - Good afternoon. - Howdy, Mr. Noca. Give us a fine vermouth to wash the dirt from our gullets. - You got room and board for us all? - Here at Noca's... there are always three doors and one heart open for friends. Put your horses in the stable, I'm gonna prepare your rooms. Saint Gertrude! If it ain't Z Coqueiro, walkin' on his legs! - I'm so happy to see you! - Don't you start with me! - Is that any way to treat a lady? - Leave me alone, you snake! That's Filoca. She eats peanut butter and cheese. Get thee behind me. Don't worry, that's just a front. Inside, when he sees me... his heart leaps more than a wild horse. I really missed you. - You here for good? - Filoca, don't yank my chain. - I'm a serious man! - Yeah, seriously wanted by the cops! And seriously reeking of booze from a mile away! Go with your dad. I'm gonna be at Aunt Adlia's. See you soon. - Bye, Mom! - Bye, dear. - That kid's a rascal. - He is. - I'm gonna take him for a ride. - He wants to ride the bike himself. - Mornin'. - Mornin'. - Hey, girl. - Rodrigo, you're all grown up! - Is Noca in? - Noca's in. Smart kid, ain't he? Get away! Go! Scram! I'm gonna whup ya! You buncha mad goats! Give that ball back! Give it back! Mr. Diogo! - You callin' me? - Some people wanna talk to you. I'm coming. - Here's your lemonade. - Otaclio. Doc. - And you, boy? Blowin' that horn? - You said you'd teach me. Then let's go outside. - Mr. Diogo, hi. - Hi, Otaclio. This is Dr. Almeida. - Sit down. We gotta talk about a job. - Okay. NOCA'S INN Can you blow that horn like Mr. Diogo? All modesty aside, I'm a pretty good hornblower. - Where's your horn, then? - To each their own, kid! I'm a cook. I look after the food. Only the cowboy blows the horn. - Do you work for the Major? - The Major? Get thee behind me! We ain't got no boss. We're free cowboys, roaming all over the wide ol' world. What about you, pardner? Do you work for the Major? Get thee behind me! I'm a free cowboy too! Everytime Z Coqueiro blows that horn, my heart leaps in my chest. Yeah, it leaps into the fires of hell! Get thee behind me! Try and get that behind you! It depends on what they'll decide at the meeting... but I think we can round up that many. Right, Otaclio? I dunno. 700 animals is a lot. - Many ranchers fear the Major. - The Major! He runs the show here. Your beef with him ain't no business of mine. But if you round up the herd, I'm gonna drive it. All right. That's what we need. Sorry, Mr. Diogo, but it's impossible not to mention the Major. He's got ears everywhere. But cutting him out of the cattle loop... is a way to start. We'll see what happens then. Aren't you afraid of going against him? Mr. Otaclio, I've heard about what you discussed. I don't like it. The ranchers, that buncha miserable hillbillies... have to sell their cattle here, to me, who always looked after you. If I were you, Mr. Otaclio, I'd try and stay outta trouble... minding my own business. You got a beautiful wife, a healthy kid... a family! And a man's family is the most important thing in the world. But some people only realize that when it's too late. Think about your family, Otaclio... and look after what your old man Giovanni has left you. Go, go, go! Dad, was the Major mad at you? - That's how he does business. - Like the Gandus? No, it's different. The Gandus don't know what they're doing. I barely slept last night. I was mullin' about what to do with a bird who sings outta tune. Don't you know that some birds sing outta tune? Well, they do! They can't carry a tune! There are also rebel birds. Those have to be taught a lesson. Now you got it, right, Jo S? See? Some jackasses have brains. Call Deolindo and Garoto. I got an errand for ya tonight. Okay, Major. See? The girl wanted to do my nails! She wanted to turn me into a faggot! I almost boxed that blonde's ears! We left for the big city Homesickness left by my side - No one'll be left alive. - Nice voice. The land became a colony And my enchanted realm was over Call it. In order to get ahead, we're gonna have to take some risks. You know the Major. Not even women and children are safe with him. - But he can't live without us! - Of course he can, Otaclio! The man's got more than 2,000 cows, and even more have just arrived! That doesn't mean anything. If we join forces, we're gonna be big too. If we sell directly to the abattoir, they'll pay us three times more... even after we pay the cowboy! Three times! Prepare your heart For the things I'm going to tell I come from the serto I come from the serto I come from the serto And maybe you won't like me I've learned how to say no How to see death without crying And death, fate, everything And death, fate, everything Was out of place I live to fix it all I've been an ox amidst the herd But one day I mounted a horse Not for any reason of mine Or because of whom, with me Driving the herd by ourselves and getting a fair price is good... but I don't wanna risk it. I'm afraid of the Major. - You don't know him! - Andrelino... everyone's afraid of something. Even a bossy type like the Major. Whose cowboy had died The chick fears the hawk, but it's gotta eat. Ain't that right? The deer fears the jaguar, but it has to go and drink. The Major can peel off the jaguar's spots... and the hawk's feathers with one hand tied behind his back! And in the dreams I had The visions got clearer and clearer The visions got clearer and clearer Until one day I woke up Then I couldn't go on Valiant lieutenant I was Owner of cattle and people Because cattle can be branded Rounded up, shod, fattened, killed But with people it's different We have the right to bring up our children right, to get on in life! I don't sing to fool anyone I'm gonna grab my guitar I'm gonna leave you behind I'm gonna sing elsewhere I've been an ox amidst the herd As a cowboy, I was king Not for any reason of mine Or because of whom, with me If we can tame horses and till the land... put seeds in it and face wild oxen, we can tame the Major too! But the world kept turning Under my horse's hooves And since I've mounted one day Now I've become a knight Of strong, steady arms In a kingdom without a king I've been an ox amidst the herd As a cowboy, I was king Not for any reason of mine Or because of whom, with me Wanted or could do anything Wanted or could do anything Anything more than I could But the world kept turning Under my horse's hooves And since I've mounted one day Now I've become a knight Of strong, steady arms In a kingdom without a king We can drive our cattle by ourselves, and no Major can stop us! Mr. Diogo, I've got a message for you from the Major. He wants you to go to the Ouro Fino tomorrow morning. Looking for someone? Major Batista is waiting for me. He's at the corral. Come on, Garoto! Hold that horse! Look, Jo S. What a beast! Darn! If Garoto couldn't stay on top of him, no one'll mount him. - Gotta win the horse's respect. - We win respect using the spurs. - I saw the respect your man got. - This one doesn't count. He's wilder than a cross between a rattlesnake and a naja. But since yer yappin' so much, let's see if you can mount him. That one I'd like to see. Think you can handle that horse, Mr. Diogo? - That doubt is only yours, Major. - Teodoro! Prepare the buck, Mr. Diogo's gonna mount him. With all due respect. Prepare also a brine bath, the fall's gonna hurt! Cesarina! Cesarina! - Is the Major home? - He's at the corral. - I caught this boy at Ouro Fino. - Do you have to treat him like that? - Major said to shoot 'em with salt. - I'm gonna shoot you. Let him go. Teach him some respect, cowboy! Can I let him go? Ready? Gee, it's Mr. Diogo! - Do you know that cowboy, Rodrigo? - Do I know him? He even blew the horn for me. I think he's gonna drive Dad's cattle. - Doesn't he work for the Major? - No way! He's a free cowboy. Gotta hand it to you. You really have a way with the beasts. - Not like these morons around here! - They don't treat kids right either. What's this? What in blazes? I told you this is no place for women! I just came to tell you to take this boy back to his home. If you don't mind, I'm gonna take my pardner back. Go back inside and wait with the brat. I wanna talk to Mr. Diogo. Mr. Diogo, you sure showed that horse who's boss. I didn't call you here to tame my horses, cowboy... but to tell you that I don't want you driving cattle for that riffraff. Local cattle has to be sold here, like always. To me or my people. I don't wanna see either the deer die or the jaguar hunger. I drive cattle. - Just doin' my job. - That's what I said. You're a respected cowboy, you work for big farmers. Don't start driving ranchers' cows now. If those folks don't stop rockin' the boat, they'll pay through the nose. - It's their loss. - A job is a job, Major. Long as it's honest work, I'll work for farmers, ranchers, peasants... ...it's all the same for me. - Look here, Mr. Diogo... you dunno who you're messin' with. You're either with me or against me. You should think again before going to work for my enemies. You've been paid, you got no reason to linger. Better head back home. You hired me to bring your herd. I brought it. I can take another job. Well, I got another job for ya. And I can pay more. I don't go back on my word. I can't take your offer this time. Mr. Diogo, I advise you as a friend. And I thank you, Major. Rodrigo, let's go. Take care, Major. Take care, Miss Juliana. Take care, Diogo. The world's really a snakepit. One day, all that's mine shall be yours... and you'll have to rule with an iron hand, or they'll take it all away. You're gonna have to understand that. Darnit! That's so you learn how to use this whip. - You sure she said that, Rodrigo? - Yeah, exactly like that. - Today? - Yeah. - Don't you go tellin' that around. - Not even to Z Coqueiro? Z Coqueiro, of all people? He can't hold his tongue. You kiddin' me? Then don't tell my mom and dad that you found me at the Ouro Fino. - What were you up to over there? - I was setting up a bird trap. - That all? You hidin' something? - No, that's all. Are you gonna work for the Major again? - I wanna forget he exists. - You're gonna drive Dad's herd? It depends on the people here. My life is the road. - Like a free cowboy in the world? - Like a free cowboy in the world. - Howdy, Otaclio. - Howdy. Bumped into my friend here on the way. He sure got the gift of the gab. He'd rather be flappin' his mouth or his legs than doin' his homework. - What about the cattle business? - Some of them agreed at the meeting. The others are afraid, after what happened last night. They burned Andrelino's house down. To the ground. - Got the Major's stench all over it. - The Major sure is ruthless. My dear St. Anthony Find me some love My nice St. Tony Gimme a break here My heart feels so little It can't suffer anymore My dear St. Anthony Come here to help me Open my eyes wide And quell my pride Show me what's beautiful And don't bring me trouble Let me feel the wind Blowing towards me Gimme that grace Gimme your protection I'm leaving now, making no fuss So I won't bother you But don't forget, St. Tony That you gotta help me I know I've been a dreamer I know I've been a taffeta Now I want someone gentle Someone to walk by my side Open my eyes wide And quell my pride Show me what's beautiful And don't bring me trouble Let me feel the wind Blowing towards me Gimme that grace Gimme your protection Easy, pardner. Folks. Folks! I wanna have a word with you. Today I've learned a very important lesson: there are only wild bulls here among us... and the wildest of them all is my Gislene, who never made me regret... having walked down the aisle with her. - Hail St. Anthony! - Hail! Deolindo, make a small cut so it'll heal nicely. I don't want him to suffer. A small cut, I said! Stubborn people! It didn't work. His house is back up again. They're all there, like it was a celebration. - Major, I think... - Look here, Jo S... keep an eye on them! Don't let anything slip by! Especially Juliana. That girl's actin' kinda weird. But now, let's eat the testicles Leobino cooked. What's up, pup? See you in a while, crocodile. See you later, alligator! We did it! - So what did I do? - You lost the rod. I had another rod. I fished the rod which had caught the fish... and I pulled it all in: rod, line, sinker, and a fish this big! Mr. Diogo's here. Don't you believe me? Ask him! - I'll vouch for anything he says. - See? Better get ready. We're gonna round up the cattle early in the morning. Don't rush it, cowboy. The Major told me you guys are about to leave. I've heard your boss sayin' that already. And I told him I don't go back on my word. - And that's what I'm gonna do. - Then you'll drive the herd to jail. Easy, Mr. Diogo! - What's going on here? - Nothin'. I think Mr. Milito is suffering from acute beeritis. Chico Fu, take him home to sleep it off. He'll be fine in the morning. You better be prepared, Mr. Diogo. Milito is vengeful as a rattlesnake, but he doesn't rattle when he bites. In my opinion, Mr. Diogo, we should hit the road, pronto! We got a herd to drive, Z. I gave them my word. A herd here, a herd there Herds all over the serto There are troops on the road You can see the dust from afar Mr. Diogo, blow the horn! Horns blowing, cattle hands working Trotting mules and fast horses Loose, wandering riders That's the life of a cowboy Blow the horn, mister! Run, round 'em, cut 'em Otherwise they'll scatter And scattered cattle Means double the work Run, round 'em, cut 'em Otherwise they'll scatter And scattered cattle Means double the work There, folks. It's done. Now we just have to drive 'em to the abattoir. - Thanks, people! - Yay! What's that? Why are you doing that? Go away! You brute! You coward! Come here if you're a man! - Z! - Filoca... - Z! - Easy. Easy! - No, come here, Z! - Wait! No, enough waiting, Z! For God's sake, I need some lovin', Z! You're gonna be Flame, son of Spark. I'm gonna teach you how to rear. When we bump into the Gandus... we're gonna get them! Come on, Flame! There's a time to squeeze... and a time to cut some slack and wait. It's no use huntin' for them birds now. First we have to nail the hawk... and his time's a-comin'. Then I'm gonna flay those folks into shape! They'll know who's boss! We're gonna kill two birds with one bullet. See, Milito? It's no use to get ahead of ourselves. They have to think everything's fine. In life, there's the right time for everything. For instance... the time's comin' for you to exact your vengeance. Find a really nice place to ambush that bastard. - I'm gonna find it, Major. - That busybody cowboy! His days are numbered. Listen! Can you hear the whistle? Mark my words: soon the railway'll get here and start carrying my herd. If it ain't the train, it'll be some other thing. And then, it'll be the cowboy riffraff's turn at the abattoir! They're gonna have to drive cattle smack in the middle of the jungle! Jo S, keep an eye on Juliana. All the time! So, cowboy? How's it gonna be? Love I want your tenderness Because I live so alone So? Don't you wanna marry me? Indian girl of auburn skin Your small mouth I want to kiss Indian girl Of Tupi blood You smell Like a flower Mom, I don't wanna go to school anymore. We already got a donkey. We don't need another one. Did you wash properly? Come here. Mom, when Cornmeal died, did he go to heaven? Yes, to dog heaven. What about Spark? When he dies, he'll go to horse heaven? No. Actually, there's one heaven for all the animals. But Spark's gonna live a long time. Diogo Mendona! I've been followin' you ever since you arrived. - And what's your interest? - Easy, I come in peace. You take good care of Miss Juliana. She's the only good thing in that place. - Mom, Mom! - What? Take care of Flame. Give him some corncobs. I'm gonna ride Spark and drive the herd with Mr. Diogo. Son, I don't like you ridin' alone. Not even on Spark. - Just go to the gate with your dad. - Okay. You're a good kid, Rodrigo! - You taggin' along, pardner? - Yeah. - Can I go, Dad? - Go where? - Help drive the cattle. - Let's go, cowboy. - Let's go. - Later, Mr. Otaclio. Bye, Z. - Don't go too far, Rodrigo! - Okay! Don't worry, Otaclio! Jo S, do everything I said. I want everything workin' out fine. Don't worry, Major. I'm gonna make it all work out. We're gonna bash that riffraff! Drivin' cattle, pardner? - Mr. Diogo. - What, Rodrigo? I know you're a very brave man. My dad is, too. I know, Rodrigo. Your dad is very brave. I think I like you as much as I like my dad. Is that wrong? That's right. It's from the heart, so it's good. We have to listen to it. - You know what mine's tellin' me? - No. It's tellin' me that this is far enough. Time for you to head back... or you may never go back. Time to go back, pardner. Come on, pardner! Rodrigo! Hold the herd, here comes trouble! Spark, wait! Rodrigo! Rodrigo! Rodrigo! Run, Rodrigo! Rodrigo! Rodrigo. Rodrigo. Can you hear me? So? How did it go? - Where's Jo S? - That Diogo got him. Darn! Well, things that happen. - Just one thing didn't work out. - Hey! Tell me already! Otaclio's boy was caught in the stampede. You are a buncha morons! Did it have to be a child?! If you want something done right, do it yourself! It wasn't our fault, Major. We didn't know he was gonna stand in the way. My God, how could he? Murderer. Murderer! You're insane, he was just a child! Crazy old man, you'll burn in hell! See? It's already begun! Don't just stand there, fools! - Lock up that bigmouth! - You scum! Maggot! Demon! God's will be done. Time moves only forward. What's done is done. But one thing is certain: sooner or later, blood will flow here at Ouro Fino. Leggo! Leggo of me! Let me go! Murderers! Major! Major! They're coming! - Milito, organize the men. - Yes, sir. Come on, men! Let's hold those cows back with gunfire! Fire on them! Hold them back! Move the wagons! Look here, cowboy, that Otaclio and that pharmacist... put a lotta quirky ideas into people's heads! This is the result. And you! You came here to work for me! Did you have to turn your coat? What did you folks accomplish? About the boy... Cowboy, you're a grown man. You know this kinda thing can happen. If you let life run its course, like it was meant to be... none of that would've happened. Are you afraid you'll hit me? Well, hit me. I know your story. You're a murderer. You kill hardworking farmers. Hit me. I'm not afraid to die. I'm gonna meet my father, who was a real man, like me... not a coward like you! Tame ox! Soft peasant! What are you gonna do, lock me up and take the key with you? Come, son of the devil! Come, evil one! Come, fulfill your fate! That's what I raised you for! Whenever I traveled Down Ouro Fino road From afar I saw The figure of a small boy He'd run to open the gate Then he'd always ask me "Blow your horn, mister I really wanna hear it" When all the cattle had passed And the dust cloud began to clear I'd throw him a coin And he'd go away leaping "Thank you very much, cowboy May God always be with you" And all over the serto I'd always blow my horn On this life's paths I've found my share of thorns But none of them cut deeper Than this thing that happened When I was coming back I had a kind of bad feeling When I saw the closed gate And the boy wasn't around I got down from my horse At a small ranch by the road I saw a woman crying And I wanted to know why "You're too late, cowboy Look at the cross on the road My little baby was killed By an ox with a heart of stone" Around Ouro Fino's lands I still drive wild herds And when I get to the gate I can even see his image The gate's mournful squeak Sounds just like a message From that auburn little face ishing me a safe journey That small cross by the road Never leaves my thoughts And there I've made a vow Which I shall never forget Even if the beasts scatter And I have to round them up On that one patch of land I won't ever blow my horn again Living with my feet on the road I've roamed all over the world And I've left a piece of myself On every place I've been Following my path Over this vastness I trace my fate on the land Without harness or boss Go, my friend A new day has already dawned Go, don't be afraid This whole world is all yours Go, my friend A new day has already dawned Go, don't be afraid This whole world is all yours Living with my feet on the road I didn't get neither poor nor rich Old passions and good comrades I've kept deep inside my chest And when I leave this world I'll travel light, without illusion I'll only carry with me The eyes of the brunette Who stole my heart away Go, my friend A new day has already dawned Go, don't be afraid This whole world is all yours SUBTITLES VIDEOLAR
