 

                        presented by UniKorea in association with Dream Venture Capital an East Film production Sol Kyung-gu Moon So-ri director of photography Choi Young-taek sound recordist Lee Seung-cheol editor Kim Hyun production designer Shin Jum-hui music Lee Jae-jin sound mixing Live Tone executive producers Choi Seong-min and Lee Joon-dong co-producers Cho Min-cheol & Jay Jeon producer Myung Kaynam written & directed by Lee Chang-dong Sir, can I borrow a cigarette? Sir, a light, too? The bus for Hagye goes from here? I don't know You don't know? Take a look... I'll give you a discount How much is this? Who is it? Laundry!. Who? Laundry!. Doesn't Hong Jong-Il live here? No one of that name here!. Pardon? No one of that name here!. Did they move? When, uh, did you move in? Ma'am, do you have tofu? Tofu? I'm afraid not It's freezing! What's so fun on TV? What about raw tofu? No, I don't No? How much? It's on the house Pardon? You can have it for free, enjoy yourself Take your time... have some milk Don't you have Haitai milk? What's so special about Haitai? They're all the same "When it comes to milk, choose Haitai!" Whatever... - Hello? It's me, Ji-Hyun - And Min-Hee Don't mind her I'm with Min-Hee by the school gate Of course I'm playing hookey! She's going to the Click-B concert Come on, we can ditch Min-Hee... Hey, I have to make a call... But, I don't have any coins Can you lend me some coins? I'll call you back later Please wait a bit longer As soon as I get through... Leave the table as it is! Trust me, I won't run away! I'll leave my shoes here I can't run away barefoot, right? My younger brother will come over as soon as I get him on the phone And when will that be? You've made over ten calls already! Explain it to the cops! Sir, I'd really prefer not to do that, for personal reasons... Here, take my shoes I promise I won't run away Scared of the cops? And you order food when you're broke? I thought I could get him on the phone... Officers, thanks for your trouble Grab him! That hurts! - Stay still! - That really hurts! This is his record He's only just been released. Bastard's in the shit already! Hong Jong-Du! Yes, sir! Three convictions, right? Right One for assault One for attempted rape And the last for involuntary manslaughter? You killed someone? Oh, that... I was driving at dawn It was dark and I didn't see one of those sanitation workers - You didn't see him? - Right How long did you serve? Two and a half years Then it must've been a hit-and-run case Yep No one ever come to visit you in jail? What's with your stupid summer shirt? You got out today You should've gone home to see your family Instead you wandered around broke, and try to eat without paying The thing is, my family moved Changed the phone number, too If I could've reached them, of course I would've paid My brother's office used to be right by that restaurant When I let you use the phone, you didn't even know the number You shouldn't have set foot in the restaurant in the first place Don't you know it's a crime to eat without paying? Of course, I do Hong Jong-Sae! Over here! Come on! Hurry, it's okay Say hello He's my younger brother Good evening, officers Come on, grab a chair - Are you his younger brother? - Yes, I am Hey, did you dye your hair? It doesn't suit you at all - A friend of his? - No, his brother Feels fucking great! Stop it! I'm closing the window, it's too cold Stop it! Are you angry? I'm not angry I said stop it You're angry, huh? You're angry with me, right? Jong-Du, as a favor, please don't disrupt my life, okay? Please Darling! I'm home! What the hell are you wearing? They sent you out like this in the middle of winter? It's because it was summer when I went in Ma, why is the place so shabby? Since your brother was laid off... He had to sell the apartment to run a new business Don't say anything! Which is his room? This one? Everybody, I'm back! Jong-Du! When did you get out? Where's Jung-Min? Asleep? Yes, don't wake him But he hasn't seen me in ages! My god, what is this? Jong-Du! Hurry! Hurry! Go wash your feet! You see this mess on the floor? Have you been in a rice-paddy or something? - Have you eaten? - Yes. Please lift the toilet seat! Stop standing around and sit It's late, I should be going How did you find him to bring him here? Don't ask! Where are we going to put him? Ma, I got you a present You think you've been abroad or something? Here, try it on I'll try it on later No, do it now I told the guy I'd change it if it doesn't fit Sister-in-law, I'll buy you an even better one later Forget it! Wow, Mrs Hong, you're a knockout! How's business? You quit? Let's have a drink tonight! It's been a while You're busy? You said you quit Okay, Okay... I'm hanging up, you bastard! "The number you dialed is no longer in service" Sit down for a moment It's about time you grew up Do you know what that means? Being an adult means you can't just do whatever you like You have to be responsible for your actions You have to fit in with society, be aware of how others see you That's what being an adult is all about Stop shaking your leg! How old is he? Just turned 28 He'll be 29 after the new year That's when I turn 30 sn't 29 a bit old to deliver food? His age doesn't matter, he has to start somewhere He has no special skills... Well, it'll be useful experience Good preparation for other kinds of work If you want to learn, there's a lot to learn Even by delivering food on a motorcycle, you meet all sorts of people... When do I start? He hasn't finished yet You're always do that Let people finish first, and then talk What's your rush? Try to listen and understand till the end Then you speak next If you want, you can start today How about tomorrow? I got somewhere to go today I know... Miss... Excuse me, is that the Euijungbu Citizens' Apartment Building? Careful, that's fragile! Okay. Hello! Does Han Sang-Shik live here? Are you moving out today? You must be the daughter Can you talk? What's your name? What are you doing? How do you do? You must be moving out today? What can I do for you? You don't remember me? We've met before... You must have bad memory t was two-and-a-half years ago, at the police station After your father died in a traffic accident... Why are you here? I just came to say hello I wondered how you were all doing You know, I got out of prison the other day I wanted to come yesterday, but I wasn't sure about the address Get out of here! Now! We don't need your greetings, so leave What's going on? Who is this? No need to get mad I just came by to say hello What makes you think anyone wants your greetings? Get out now! Get the hell out! Alright, I'm leaving! But... And take this with you! Good luck on your move! Must be going to a nice place You're off now? You're still here? Didn't I tell you to go? Yeah, I should go But your sister... Aren't you taking her with you? She'll live here alone? I mean, being disabled and all... What business is that of yours? I was just asking... I was worrying... Why should you worry? What the hell do you know about it? Clear off! Okay, I'm leaving Let's go I'm here to pick up the dishes The bill's paid, right? Yes, sir Why are you singing my song? I'm sorry... It's bad luck to have someone sing after me Pick up the dishes and go! We're almost closed, so I'm in no hurry I'm getting lousy cards tonight I guess it's not your lucky day! "HONG KONG RESTAURANT" Get out of the shot! Mister, what's going on here? Get out of the shot! What a nice car! Hey, you're not really driving! I could do that, too What movie is it? Who's in it? Speak up a bit I told you to get out of the shot, man! Get the boom mike closer You think you're still a teenager? A member of a bike gang? You took the food delivery motorcycle for a midnight spin? Let him be Could you go outside to smoke? I'm sorry to tell you this But, I really don't like you I know this sounds harsh... But with you out of the way I felt good about life Without you, we had no worries It's not only me, but your brother and your Ma feel the same way I didn't want to tell you, but I suppose it had to come out Can I help you? Pardon? What do you want? I'm here to deliver flowers Flowers? Someone's sending flowers to Gong-Ju? Wait a moment Who sent them? I'm not allowed to tell just anyone I'll take them Give me the flowers She's asking who sent them Hong Jong-Du They're from someone called Hong Jong-Du Alright, you can go now Anyone in? Hi! Do you like the flowers? Don't be scared, I'm not here to hurt you Why am I here? Don't you want to know? Should I tell you or not? I'm here because you interest me I want to get to know you better I'm not lying Looking like that at least, you're not bad for a girl You're pretty I thought so the first time I saw you Don't be scared! Can't you trust me? I'll give you my phone number This is the number at my brother's shop That's where I sleep So you can call me there anytime You have pretty feet, you know The prettiest I've ever seen To be honest, I've never seen another woman's feet before You don't wear socks? Me neither, I get all sweaty What's wrong? It's alright... Be a good girl... Oh boy, they're beautiful... Come on, don't struggle Come on, just stay still, for a second, okay? Just for a second Be a good girl, there you go... Stay still, bitch! Please... Please don't struggle, okay? Hey! Oh shit, this is trouble! Oh shit Fuck! Fucking asshole... What...? What? What? Rock, scissors, paper! Scissors! I win! Rock, scissors, paper! Paper! I win! Why aren't you at work? Is something wrong? You weren't in another accident, were you? Why are the kids at home? They're on break I thought Ma was going out Where can she go? She's always complaining that her legs hurt... Hey, why are you like this? Come on, come on I have to get back Your mother's waiting for me... She'll suspect! Where are you going? Your breath smells! What did you have for lunch? You had dog soup, didn't you? Is that why you're so fired up? What's wrong? She's watching It doesn't matter The floor is cold! Oh my god, who's that? I knew we shouldn't do this! Who is it? It's me Who? Me, Sang-Shik! Oh! Just a moment! How are you? You're both here? I was making Gong-Ju's lunch and he was lending a hand too We worry about her... I'm much indebted Not at all! Gong-Ju, your brother's here! Gong-Ju, are you ready? Coming! Good afternoon We're from the district office and we're conducting a survey of tenants Yes, I heard about it... Do come in Sorry to be a bother The tenancy is in the name of Han Gong-Ju Yes, she's my sister-in-law Is she here? She's in there She loves listening to music How do you do? She tends to get shy and clam up in front of strangers Gong-Ju, do you want a drink? Oh, I haven't offered you anything Can I get you a drink? Never mind, we should be going This building is for disabled tenants But, we've heard people moved in using other names So we have to check in person Of course, it's only right Sorry to trouble you Thank you for your good work What have you been eating? You weigh a ton! Darn light still doesn't work! Your sister-in-law is waiting in the car, I should go now Give me a call if anything's wrong Call me if the neighbors don't feed you properly or anything else After all, we're paying them 200,000 won a month 200,000 won is not a small amount, you know Alright, you go now I'll stop by when I can Hello? Pardon? Pardon? What are you saying? What the hell? I'm calling... to... ...ask you something Relax Only if you say you'll forgive me You said you wanted to ask me something What was it? Why... "Why..." Why... did you... "Why did you?" Why did you bring me flowers? Why did I bring you flowers? I don't really know Is your name really Gong-Ju? Yes Why? Well, because Gong-Ju means "princess"... I'm descended from a general Ever heard of General Hong Kyung-Rae? I'm his 18th generation descendant! Hong Kyung-Rae... wasn't... a general Pardon? Hong Kyung-Rae... was a... traitor... not a general... Hong Kyung-Rae was a traitor, not a general? Was he? From now on... ...I'm going to call you Your Highness Your Highness, the princess! Then I will call you... General General? Your Highness! Yes, General! General, what do you do? Me? What do you do? I fix cars I work with my brother at his small auto shop I envy you. What's there to envy? I envy... people with jobs Are you stuffy in here? You want to go out for a while? Ma! Jong-Du How do you do? How do you do The pastor came to see us, and he was just leaving I've heard a lot about you - You've been through a lot - Thanks for your concern He sang in the choir when he was little Is that so? Excuse me, I want to ask a favor Could you pray for me now? Come on now, Jong-Du... Right now? Yes, sir Why not? Let's pray together Gather around You too, Ma'am Let's all pray together, holding hands Our Father in heaven, please watch over a poor soul... ...who waits upon Your salvation Please forgive his sins We beseech You to bestow Your blessings upon him And to protect his soul from evil This young soul seeks to be reborn in Your everlasting love Brother! Brother, teach me how to work here You want to learn how to fix cars? Here? From me? Yes, I want to learn! I know I can do it I promise to work hard What's behind this? What are you up to? That's not what I showed you! That way, it won't turn Fuck, this is hard! Hey, how do you work this thing? Did you call me "Hey"? I mean "Sir" That's better Sir, how the hell does this work? Take this What's your favorite color? My favorite color? Let's see... My favorite is white Mine too... It's clean And your favorite season? Uh... summer I like winter! I don't like summer, I get all sweaty Mosquitoes, flies... I really hate them Your favorite food? Jajang noodles! Best thing in the world! I really craved for it during my military service And you, Your Highness? I like everything... I'm no princess about food ...except beans Beans? I hate beans the most Why do you hate beans? Makes me feel like throwing up There's something wrong with them Gong-Ju! Is someone in here? No! No one! I thought I heard talking Just... radio Don't you get tired of listening to it all day? You've hardly touched your food! I'm going out this evening Can you make do with these leftovers? That's alright... I'm not very hungry Why are you smiling? Something nice happen to you? I'll be going "If I were a poet, I would sing for you..." "Like a child resting in its mother's bosom..." "I want to..." "A little calf was sitting on the stove and crying..." "Ma! Pa! My bottom is burning!" I'm... scared Scared of what? Over there... the shadow It's an Oasis! What so scary? It's only the shadow of a tree outside But... it's still scary Don't worry, I'll get rid of it for you How? By magic! I'll make it all disappear by magic Close your eyes Abracadabra! Going... Going... Gone! Gong-Ju! We're here! My voice? You like my voice? Yep, there's something about my voice Pardon? You're saying my voice is good... But my face makes you sick? Your Highness You're upsetting me! What's wrong with my face? The shadow? The shadow is scaring you again? And you need my magic? Okay, let me concentrate... Abracadabra! Abracadabra! It's going... It's going... It's going... I'm going out on a date! You're going to have no fun! It's Sunday but you're stuck here! No date for you! You're out of luck! Quiet! What's so funny? Blue crab soup, broiled eels, fried octopus, fried rice... Marinated beef, shabu-shabu, shark's fin soup... Welcome! Sorry, we're closing Excuse me? Lunch is over You're closing? Please try somewhere else What about these people? We just finished serving lunch, we can't take any more orders Let's just go It's an NBA game... Michael Jordan! Please try somewhere else, I'm sorry Hey, I'm watching that! What? Enjoy your meal! Come on Let's go Come in What're you doing there in the cold? What do you want to eat? Anything Anything? I'll have... Jajang noodles Jajang noodles? Sounds great! Want to watch TV? Hi, this is Mangwon auto shop Two orders of Jajang noodles, one of fried dumplings... One mixed seafood, a bottle of Gaoliang, and make it fast! Hello, Mangwon auto shop... Oh hi, sister-in-law No, he isn't here, it's Sunday Who knows where he went? You should keep a better eye on him Something's fishy about him lately The money? Oh, that... That's what I was trying to tell you That hurt! Yeah, but I didn't want to wake you Of course I know what I did! That's so upsetting "That's so upsetting" If you say that, I feel bad "If you say that, I feel bad" What? That's not what I meant... Fuck! Now it's cut off! Why are you angry with me? What did I do? You got angry with me! How dare you? What's upset you all of a sudden? Why are you like this? The Jajang noodles are here I'll tell you about the dream I had last night I was in your room, dancing with Your Highness But we weren't alone An Indian woman, a kid and an elephant ...the ones from the oasis You know, that Oasis picture on your wall I know it was only a dream... But it seemed so real What the fuck is all this traffic? Shit, this feels great! Step out, Your Highness! It's alright, you can get out Isn't this great? We're on the expressway, Your Highness When would we get to stand in the middle of an expressway? You have a go too, Your Highness Isn't this great? Aw, fuck... Out of the car! Now, you bastard! How could you take out a customer's car? I'm very sorry Everything has been repaired The car's running fine I took it out for a test drive, and there's no problem That's not the issue Do you know how long I've been waiting here? I'm terribly sorry How should I know he was picking it up on a Sunday? Come inside Do you have a driver's license? Well, do you or not? You know that it was revoked after the accident So you went driving without a license in a customer's car? Haven't I told you to grow up, and behave like an adult? How many times have I told you to be responsible for your actions? Bend over I said, bend over Start counting Why... won't you tell me? You'll see when we get there Anyway, it's a nice place so you should look pretty I'm already pretty now Welcome! Which party are you with? Mrs. Hong's Just a moment, please Right at the end there Have a nice time Thank you I think I'm the last to arrive Long time no see, Jong-Du! You're late! Hi, uncle! Happy birthday, Ma! Don't call me your Ma! I don't know you! Who's this you've brought? Let me introduce her... This is Miss Han Gong-Ju She's my friend What kind of friend is she? Sorry? What kind of friend have you brought here? Just a friend... Since it's Ma's birthday and everything... I thought it'd be nice to bring her along That's nice! Please enjoy the dinner, while you are here This is for members of the family only You can't just bring someone without asking! Why not? Anyhow, you should know her too Who is she? Remember the sanitation worker? The man who died in the accident? The car accident? Uncle, I went to prison because of that accident And? She's his daughter Let's step outside Why? I want to talk to you Let's eat first and talk later Now! You're driving me crazy, you know that? How did you meet that girl? I went to her house Why did you go there? Because I felt guilty Why did you feel guilty? If anyone should feel guilty, it should be me! Jong-Il, let me talk to him Jong-Du, look at me, will you? You've got it in for me, right? You blame me, don't you? Why would I blame you? Why else would you go to her house and bring her here? Let me talk to him You go back inside, Jong-Il Listen to me carefully No one forced you to go to prison You volunteered, didn't you? After Jong-Il ran over that guy, you were to first to say it That he had a family to feed and a future, so you'd go in for him You also said you had prior convictions, had no job and knew the way to jail Isn't that what you said? You have a good memory, don't you, you bastard! So you shouldn't act this way What have I done wrong? Tell me the truth, Jong-Du What exactly is in your mind? What do you mean? Why did you bring her here? Please take her back home Why? Isn't it obvious? You shouldn't be doing this! But I'm hungry! Is that important now? Gong-Ju has to eat, too She's our guest! We can't just tell her to go! Fuck, why did you pull a stunt like this? Think before you do something! I don't know what you mean Jong-Du, come back here! We haven't finished talking! Jong-Du! Remember, there were loads of greenfinches behind our house I used to think they were sparrows But Dad told me they were greenfinches And that they had little bells under their necks So I used to stand under the big tree forever... ...to look for the bells on their necks I thought it was true they had bells Why are you telling this story now? Tell me! Why this story? It just came into my mind... Why would that story come into your mind right now? I don't know, it just did I wish I could understand what goes on in your head Tell me, what made you think of those sparrows? He said they were greenfinches, not sparrows Hey, this photo is family only! We should all be in it for the family album You should look your best Not with her, you idiot! Pardon? Fuck, then I won't be in it either! Jong-Du, where are you going? Jong-Du! Let him go So are we taking a picture or not? Just go ahead Here we go Everybody look this way... Fine! One, two, three! Fuck, it's cold as hell, isn't it? Want to go to karaoke? How about that? Your Highness, my princess, please don't be angry What's wrong? I'm sorry, it was my fault Your Highness, I beg for your forgiveness My princess, let's just go home What do you want? You don't want to go home? Fuck! Do you want to stay here all night? Do whatever you like, I'm going "As I stumbled through the dark labyrinth of my past..." "...I didn't know the meaning of existence" "Now I know, the reason I exist is you" "I'd do anything for you..." "I'd even reach up and touch the sky" Thank you very much! Now, Princess Han will do the next song Sing it Go ahead and try "If I were the sky..." "I'd want to be colored into your face" "Like the sky tinged red by the setting sun..." "I'd want to be colored on your cheeks" "If I were a poet..." "I would sing for you" "Like a child resting in its mother's bosom" "I want to sing happily" "I want to become whatever there is..." "Just for you" "Do you have any idea, my love..." "How great a joy this is?" "Just to be together like today" "Do you know what's in my heart?" Fuck, where's the light switch? Here, I'll help with your coat Better go before the bus stops running... Want to see a magic trick? See ya'! Goodnight! What's wrong? Don't go You want me to stay? I want to sleep with you Sleep with me? What are you talking about? Don't you know... "Don't you know..." ...what a woman means... when she says... "...what a woman means... when she says" I want to sleep with you? "I want to sleep with you" You said I was quite pretty... It's not there? Is that okay? Is that okay? Stop! Maybe she's asleep? The lights aren't on It's rather late Oh, the cake! What's wrong? Does it hurt? Want me to stop? Maybe she's asleep Yes, the radio isn't on either And she always has the radio on... Look at this mess! Gong-Ju, are you asleep? Gong-Ju? Oh, My god! Come here! Quick! Who the hell are you? What are you doing to her? Get the neighbors! Quick! Get out! Get the hell away from her! Come out! Quick! There's a fire! There's a fire! We need help! What's going on? Hurry and go inside! What's going on? Poor Gong-Ju, save her! Shut up for a moment! Get a move on! Come out of that room! Get away from her! Get away from her! Get the hell away from her! Get a move on! Get the hell out of there! Should we come too? Of course, and the victim too She's very disturbed right now As you can see, she's disabled, and it's hard for her to speak, too Still, we need her to be there She'll have to be examined Then we'll follow you in my car That'll be fine You have previous convictions, right? Yes How many? Three What for? A hit-and-run while driving drunk... A physical assault... And? Attempted rape I bet you're a pervert, too Spit it out, are you a pervert? Who are you here to see? We're Hong Jong-Du's relatives I see... please wait over there Jong-Il! You're here! Why are you here? You didn't have to come... What's your relationship with this man? He's my elder brother, and he's my younger brother This man is under arrest for an attempted rape We spoke on the phone, right? That's right The victim is over there Her family wants to talk to you, that's why I called you The case is open-and-shut, he was caught in the act But how could he assault a poor girl like her? I simply don't get it Looking at her turns you on? How come we always meet in a police station? You bastard! Can you even call yourself human? You're an animal! A beast! Hey, calm down Let me see Let's meet some place better next time, okay? Can I have a word with you? To be frank... He's my brother, but I've never really understood him As my youngest brother knows We've done everything to turn him into a real person But this time he's gone beyond forgiveness How do you think I feel? I understand, of course We must have very bad karma from a past life First our father, and now my sisters I've been thinking a lot, and... What's on your mind? The police said that... Prosecuting him in court won't comfort or compensate her So... So you're saying you're open to a deal? How much are you expecting? I can't say it just straight out This isn't a business transaction, you know You must have a figure in mind Please say it. One officer told me... It's at least 20 million won in a case like this As I just said, he's gone beyond forgiveness this time It's true that he's my brother, but I'll have to disown him It may sound harsh, but I think society needs to be protected from him But have you listened to what your sister said? About what? About what happened tonight What do you mean, what happened? What the hell do you think happened? Isn't it obvious? Can't you see with your own eyes? Motherfuckers! How did the assailant gain entry to the apartment? Miss, take your time and speak slowly She gets worse when she's stressed and nervous We leave a key in the flowerpot on the balcony He must've seen the neighbor leave it there Did he threaten you with a knife or any other weapon? There were no weapons Who'd need a weapon to overpower her? Is this the clothing the victim was wearing? It is And this is the bedsheet? It is And is that man the assailant? Hey, you! Stand up! Now! Is that him? Yes I think we're through! Take him away to the cells Miss, you're safe now Nothing more to be afraid of Are the statements true? Yes, they are Have you been offered any guarantee for hospital bills? Honey, they're asking if we've had any guarantees No No guarantees What's wrong, dear? There's nothing to be scared of now Everything's alright now What are you staring at, bastard? Why are you hitting him like that? I didn't, I just shoved him I saw you hit him just now! What the fuck are you saying? Who the fuck do you think you are, talking to me like that? Do something Calm down... Calm down... It's almost over... Gong-Ju... Hold on, just a little longer, okay? Try to forget everything and sleep You'll feel better after a good night's sleep We'll stay here tonight So there's nothing to be afraid of Hands behind your back You wretched boy! Remember our pastor, right? He wants to see you He wants to pray for you, so that's why I brought him Jong-Du, the best thing at a time like this is prayer Let's all be seated Sit down Excuse me, but could you take off his handcuffs while we pray? Let us pray Dear Father almighty... Please forgive this poor lost sheep as he struggles to find salvation Help him to find his way back, resisting all temptation Hey, catch him! Pastor! Dear Father almighty! Dear Father almighty! Please forgive this poor lost sheep Shut up, you fucking bitch! I'll kill you! Where's your phone? Give me your phone, now! Stay still or I'll kill you Hello? Is that Han Gong-Ju's apartment? May I speak to Gong-Ju? Me? My name is Hong Jong-Du Sorry, but let me speak to Gong-Ju Fuck! Piss off, bitch! Careful, it's hot Thanks What's going on? Come down from there! You fucking bastard! Hong Jong-Du, come down! What the hell do you think you're doing up there? Get down, you fucker! Hey, watch out! That guy is completely crazy! Be quiet out there! What're you doing? Pardon? What are you doing there? Cutting off the branches You're waking up the whole neighborhood What's going on? That guy isn't normal What are you doing up there? Climb down! There's only one branch left! You're doing great! Saw that off and come down, okay? Your Highness! Your Highness! Is he hurt? Cuff him, quick! Take him away! What the hell is it now? Can't you keep the noise down? What are you all doing out there at this time of night? There are young people trying to study! This has gone on long enough! Your Highness, this is your general I hope you're doing well, staying healthy and everything I'm doing alright here, taking care of myself Getting used to the "bean meals" here again... But, dont't worry, they dont't actually serve beans But when the odd bean gets mixed in, I always think of you Now I dont't like beans, either I'm dreaming of the day I can eat tofu when I get out of here You must be so bored, all alone in your apartment I play soccer and table tennis and other things to keep fit So dont't worry about me When I get out, I'll buy you lots of delicious food Make a list of all the things you want to eat Until I write you again, take care of your precious person Goodbye for now Sol Kyung-Gu as Jong-Du Moon So-Ri as Gong-Ju
