 

                        What? I said I just wanted to speak What the hell? What's with the way you fucking talk? Who the fuck are you? My... name is... Oh Daesu Why are you picking on someone else's girlfriend? Hold on Am I picking on you? Mr. Oh Daesu! Am I picking on you? Fuck! Okay! Okay, I got it Just a minute Okay! Okay! Fuck! Oh Daesu please sit down Oh boy Must have drunk a lot Who the hell did I pick on? Hold on, let me piss first Hey, this is a police station I didn't do anything! Hey! You son of a bitch! We really have to do something about him Asshole! Mr. Oh Daesu Oh man It is, so sit down I'm very sorry Fuck, I gotta piss bad Ah, great Cute, huh? Yeah I saw it Now go sit down Today's my daughter's birthday I got her a present for her birthday Snatches of clouds floatin the sky Ah, great A pleasure boat floats in the river My name Oh Daesu, means... "Getting along with people" That's why I'm Oh Daesu But, shit... Why can't I get along today? Set me free! Huh! Shut the hell up! Shush! Set me free! Let go of me, damn it! That son of a bitch really needs some prison time Get away from me! Hey, get him! Ow, fuck, ouch! I'll make sure he doesn't get drunk and cause trouble again Have a nice day Officer He's usually a nice guy but... Let's go I'll come visit you soon We don't want you to come back That's up to me you assholes Hey! My Sweet Pea It's daddy Daddy got my Sweet Pea a present I'll be home soon with your gift, so wait a bit longer Let me talk to her Good girl, good Good girl, good Give me the phone Yeun hee, Joo hwan wants to talk to you You know Joo hwan, right? Hold on Hi, Yeun hee It's me, Joo hwan So today's your birthday? Happy birthday I'll treat you to something nice tomorrow Hello? Oh hello, Ja hyun I'm sorry I know it's very late Daesu is on his way now I'm sorry Yes? Hold on Daesu, it's your wife Daesu! Daesu! Daesu! Hey, Daesu! Daesu! Hey, Daesu! Couldn't you hurry up a bit Hey, stop fooling around and let's go Ah, great Daesu! Daesu! Hey, Daesu! Sir, sir Wait come here Come talk to me I won't tell you to let me go Just tell me why I'm here, okay? I should know the reason at least Shit, I've been locked up here for two months already Sir, wait, come here Sir, wait What is this place? Sir, just tell me how long I have to stay in here Just tell me that, huh? Sir! Fuck you! Come here, you asshole! Son of a bitch I saw your face, asshole You're dead if I get out Come here, asshole I'm sorry I won't curse Just tell me One month, two or three? Hey! Hey, where are you going? Just tell me how long you son of a bitch! I said tell me how long you asshole! You son of a bitch! You fucking assholes! If they had told me it was going to be 15 years could it have been easier to endure? Or could it have not? When the melody turns on gas comes out When the gas comes I fall asleep I found out later that it's the same Valium gas Russian soldiers used on the Chechen terrorists When I wake up my hair has been cut I don't like the style really But they change my clothes and clean the place up Grateful bastards One two three It's too spicy I don't want spinach You eat it I won't eat spinach I don't want to eat spinach Kim Jahyun's body was found deeply stabbed in the neck Seeing that it was a cold blooded murder with nothing valuable stolen police suspect that the motive was out of hatred Her husband who disappeared a year ago is a prime suspect According to witnesses her husband, Oh Daesu drank often causing trouble with his wife and neighbors said they fought frequently Blood samples found at the scene matched Oh Daesu's Fingerprints found on a cup also matched Oh Daesu's It was confirmed by sources that Oh Daesu visited his wife recently The stolen family album also backs their theories After three years many wrinkles have formed on his face Ah, that is around 8 million wons 8 million wons? For a knife 8 million wons... Of course for a sushi master you need the best tools If you stand aimlessly at a phone booth on a rainy day and meet a man whose face is covered by a violet umbrella, I'd suggest that you get close to the TV The television is both a clock and calendar It's your school, home church, friend and lover But... But, my lover's song is too short This morning around 7:30 the top 50m of the Sungsoo Bridge in Seoul suddenly collapsed in the middle... I wrote down all the people whom I fought with, bothered, and hurt This was both my prison journal and autobiography of my evil deeds I thought I had lived an average life but I've sinned too much All I thought about at that moment was that the guy next door probably ate with one chopstick But... But who would've imprisoned me? Was it Yoo Heung sam? Lee So young or Kang Changsuk? Whoever it was, just wait Wait a bit more I'll rip your whole body apart and no one will be able to find your body anywhere Because I'm going to chew it all down One line for one year I have to sew six lines at first I guess next year will be easier The more the tattoos the shorter the chopstick The shorter the chopstick the bigger the wall's hole gets Anyway, time passes well Enforcement of an arrest warrant Handover of Hong Kong Yesterday's convention center Death of Princess Diana Funeral for Princess Diana Westminister Monastery IMF, Financial support officially approved Artillery Salute Arrival of President Kim Dae Jung in Pyungyang Underdog Korea! Miraculous Quarterfinals! Elected Elected Noh Moo Hyun 49% 11, 502, 958 I'll be out in a month I'll be out in a month I'll be out I'll be out after a month I'll be out of here I'll be out in a month In exactly one month I'll be out I'll need money when I get out So what should I do? Should I steal or rob? What shall I eat first? Anything will be fine except for fried dumplings Where am I anyway? With all the cars honking it must be the city The most important thing is what floor I'm on What if I pierce through the wall and it's the 52nd floor? Even if I fall to my death I'm still getting out I'm getting out I'm getting out In one month, I'm getting out Right now you're lying on a plain When you hear the bell you will turn your head and look down You will see an endless field of green grass The sun is shining bright and there's a cool breeze It's a human being Don't stop me! Mister Even though I'm no worst than a beast don't I have the right to live? Mister Even though I'm no worst than a beast don't I have the right to live? Yes That phone booth alley was just here Now there's an apartment building So he throws me on the roof What a numskull I want to tell you my story Delay your death What? I see Of course Now I'll tell you my story You see the reason why I want to die... Hey! It's a woman being That lunatic... Hurry, go! Hey, Mr.! Come over here! Laugh and the world laughs with you Weep and you weep alone My home is gone I can't call either my friend or relatives Since I'm the one who murdered my wife Since I'm a fugitive Really Come on, you will lose Yeah, I agree You little piece of shit You dickshit! Dickshit... Never heard of it Since the TV doesn't teach you curse words Can imaginary training for 15 years be put to use? It can Oplegnathus fasciatus Lives in the warm waters of coastal reefs A fish with weak reflexes but can resist unyieldingly once it's caught in a hook In Kyungsang Province its offspring... What's this smell? Don't even think about asking me any questions I don't know a thing Yes? I said I want something alive Oh, right Long time no see This is my first time Maybe not? But she looks familiar You look very familiar Have I seen you somewhere? "Searching for the Best Chefs" "On Ch 11 every Thursday at 6:30" "The youngest female chef of Japanese food" Oh that? They said the ratings are low but I guess it's popular Women's hands are usually warm so they can't make sushi Wow, you sure do know a lot Who are you? Do you like your clothes? Why... Why did you imprison me? Who do you think I am? Yoo Heungsam? Wrong Did Lee Soyoung hire you? No, wrong again Lee Jongyong? Kang Changsuk? Hwang Jooyeun? Kim Nasung? Park Ji woo? Im Dukyoon? Lee Jaepyung? Kuk Suran? Who the hell are you? Me? I'm sort of a scholar And my major is you A scholar studying Oh Daesu An expert on Oh Daesu Who I am isn't important Why is important Think it over Review your whole lifetime Since school is over it's time for your homework Right? Keep this in mind "Be it a grain of sand or rock, in water they sink as the same" Let me ask you one thing You hypnotized me in there didn't you? What did you do to me? I miss you... Hurry and come to me Here you are It's alive, right? I'll slice it up now I must be a different breed of women My hands are very cold, you see What's with her? Sir Sir Keep this in mind "Be it a grain of sand or rock, in water they sink as the same" Awake now? Is this true? That fever remedy really works Why'd you faint if you trained so much? A lack of needed sunlight depletes you of vitamins A and E So I'm not immune to influenza Do you usually talk that way? The bathroom door is broken and doesn't lock Don't get any bright ideas Or else I'll slice you like sushi What's this? Suppositories How else could I feed you medicine if you fainted? Can imaginary training for 15 years be put to use? It can't That was very bad of me After bringing you here and rejecting you, I understand why you're mad I do I brought you here because I like you, too But... You even don't know my name I'm Mido You see Later When I'm really ready later, I swear on my life that I will That song, "The Face I Miss" in your diary, That's the sign When I sing it then get yourself ready When it actually happens... I could resist again at the heat of the moment But no matter what don't ever back out Just give it to me! Give it to me? The ants... Do you still see them? Do you still feel that way? Yeah, if you're alone you see the ants Very lonely people that I met they all hallucinated ants at one time After I thought about it ants move around in groups you know So I guess very lonely people keep thinking about ants Even though I never did She called from overseas five or six years ago asking if her dad showed up She doesn't even know that he killed her mother Since she has few relatives she calls us Her Korean has gotten bad I think her foster parents are both doctors Anyhow, Miss Reporter Daesu really hasn't been caught yet? Your daughter's address is on the front and on the back is a map to your wife's grave Eva... Stockholm... Eva... Do you want to call her? Want me to call her? Wanna go to the grave together? No, after I kill that bastard first Blue Dragon Is it right? I haven't chewed it yet Blue Dragon So? Is that the taste? Be it 10 or 100 restaurants it doesn't matter I can never forget that taste for 15 years, Blue Dragon Want me to make you an ID to log in? Do you have a favorite movie or song? I talked to him The Count of Monte Cristo? There's no one by that name here How's life in a bigger prison Oh Daesu? Who are you? Who are you? The lonely prince in the high tower, Don't forget me Who's this bastard? I don't know him I just chat with him sometimes And talk about sushi, too Where are you going? Where are you going? I can't trust you Magic Blue Dragon Magic Blue Dragon! What could that mean? Why the hell did they order from a restaurant this far away? I've gone by five Chinese restaurants already My lungs feel like exploding Tell your cooks to put less scallions in the dumplings Sure Set it down and go Okay We don't work on anyone being protected by bodyguards There are other people who specialize in that You can hire them We just work on the small fries If it's over six months transportation fee is free Yes, of course Why'd you lock me up, you... Dickshit In our 7.5 floor business, our clients' info is top secret I'm going to pay you back for all 15 years Each one I yank out will make you age one year Ready to talk? I don't know I didn't see his face I recorded it AB blood types raise your hand Go, he lost a lot of blood Damn, look at him Is he dead? You little piece of shit... Damn Hey, you piece of shit! Go, motherfucker! Get the fuck out! Hey, fuckface! What, you fucked up son of a bitch! Just kill him damn asshole Fucking goddamn asshole! I'm almost done Stay still As expected I can't get along today either I've now become a monster When my vengeance is over, can I return as the old Daesu? Mister, are you alright? Look at all this blood Mister, what happened to you? Saewoon Apartments in Eung am, building 8 Please take care of him Thank you Not at all Well, then... Farewell Oh Daesu Farewell Oh Daesu Oh Daesu Farewell Farewell Any bastard you hate, but can't dare to kill Any bitch you detest, but want more than kill We are at your service Wouldn't he go crazy if he's locked up for a long time? Well, if you prefer he doesn't we can mix drugs into his drink Ristedal Solution It's a well trusted drug used to treat schizophrenia Well, the duration is important so how long will he... 15 years Too long? What did he do? Oh Daesu, you see talks too much Go to sleep Time to visit Joo hwan at the Internet cafe tomorrow Sit wherever you'd like Joo hwan Oh Daesu, you see talks too much Have you heard this voice before? Is there anyone who hates me this much? I don't know all the 260 names of your women's husbands Who's Mido? This girl who cries over nothing Joo hwan Did I really talk too much? My friend, I'd like for you to find that criminal among people you're close to Congratulations Your case was automatically dismissed yesterday But remember this by all means Open quote Like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter... Like a bird from the snare of the fowler... Free yourself Close quote Who are you? What about you you rotten bastard? I made up my mind when I was imprisoned That I won't trust anyone if I get out If there's anyone who I find suspicious then I'll create a secret that person and I will only know That ID, Monster, is a trap that I made to catch you You lead a stranger to your place Who the hell are you? Who's Evergreen? I tracked down that Evergreen ID and found the owner's name Ready to jot it down? It's Su Daeoh, That's a strange rare surname Address? In Eungam Saewoon Apartments Building 7, room 407 I'm not doing fine Within life in a bigger prison... "Evergreen" "Who are you?" You meant to ask this, right? You must find out on your own Come on, it's a game First, who? Then, why? If you figure it out come see me anytime I'll raise your score You have until July 5th Oh no, only five days left Too short? Hang in there If you succeed I'll kill myself and not Mido That's right, Mido I'm going to kill every woman you love until you die Well, you're notorious for not protecting your women Wow, you're strong Mr. Monster Yes, you are the very monster I created But you won't find out the "why?" if you do this would go to waste So is that okay with you? Sit down there Oh, the famous teeth torture You won't have enough time to torture me Since I have a weak heart I have a pacemaker in my chest When it was put in know what I asked the doctor? Doctor Hopkins give me a remote control to turn that motor off Pardon? Why? So that I can kill myself easily at anytime I'll give you $100,000 more Oh, what will you do? You want to kill me right away but you won't know why you were imprisoned You want to torture me but I say I'll kill myself first Do you seek revenge or do you find the truth? Oh, you're in a tough spot I've been watching over you for 15 years I faired well thanks to you I wasn't bored or lonely Seeking revenge is the best cure for someone who got hurt Try it The loss of 15 years the pain of losing your wife and child you can forget all this Once again revenge is good for your health But... What happens after you've revenged yourself? I bet that hidden pain will probably come back again Are you there, Daesu? Daesu, long time no see Hasn't she been tied up for too long? I think you also left the door open Please save me But I could die first Rudolph the red nosed reindeer had a very shiny nose This dentist is really good Don't move Don't move What's with you? Now... Here we go You see they say that people shrivel up because they have an imagination So do not imagine You'll become brave as hell Now, here comes the real thing Yes? You know I'm glad you told me about this place but I haven't even started What? Let's go Let's really go Let's fight Let's fight What a roughneck Your hand I'm going to chop off your hand You touched Mido's breasts Then what about my tongue? You still don't trust me you rotten bastard? It looks hard to accomplish I looked into it, and the reason why the bank refused to pay $270 m; Il; on isn't because our building has any irregularities, They have an internal problem at their bank So I think there won't be any problems Although Chairman Choi's equity share is at 25 percent... Daesu Yeah Did he really say that he'll kill me? Yeah Because you love me? Daesu What? I wonder where my love is The night is getting lonelier The words we spoke through our eyes can be felt through the hands So many nights have passed Yet my feelings are constant towards you Tears flood out from my eyes But there is a face that I miss They packed their stuff and left in a rental car Mido called the restaurant and quit Let's go after this is done You should get some rest today I can't even sleep Since I am forlorn Mr. Han Do you really think Mido has fallen in love with Daesu? Already? Daesu, it really hurts But I'm enduring it You must know this How'd you hold out? For 15 years? There's always a way Do you like it? You really like it, right? I want to be good to you Do not worry about future Don't imagine anything I feel like thanking all those years in that prison If I wasn't in there, could Mido have liked me still? He could only know that I wanted to chop off Mr. Park's hand by putting a bug on us and he knew our whereabouts by tailing us I've been bugged Please find it You know maybe he freed you because he has fun watching you run wild seeking revenge And never tell you why so he can toy with you forever You think that's why? Evergreen Press an online printing system Evergreen Pasta and Pizza Evergreen Services specializing in security, parking, cleaning Evergreen Tree Garden Evergreen Old Boy Sangnok High School alumni homepage Evergreen Secret Diary Jung Sang rok's personal site Norwegian Wood, Evergreen... Welcome to Evergreen Old Boys The Sangnok High School Alumni Homepage But it's time to close up Can't I look at the records of Class '79? It's dark so turn on the lights Take your time Joo hwan? Let me ask you something Do you know Lee Woojin of Class '79? I think he went to America to study Lee Woojin? Don't know him So is that the bastard's name? How'd you find out? I looked through all the school's albums and found his face I don't know who someone is just with a name Got anything else? Why don't you look for the school records or something? Do you know Lee Soo ah? She was in the same grade Lee Soo ah? She died What class was she in? Homeroom two of our senior year She was in my room Next to yours So what about her? Why is there no photo? Ah, she died so that's why How did Soo ah die? That's right, you wouldn't know She died after you transferred She went alone to the Habchun and fell into the river She croaked like a dead fish A week later they found her bloated body in the water What was she like? Her? She was a total slut On the outside she acted like a prude but she was a filthy whore on the inside Rumors had it that that slut fucked everyone at school I should've gotten in there I also heard that her family was really rich Her grades were good, too But the bad thing was that she was a slut Man Wow, this is such an old story Daesu! Daesu, I don't remember since it was so long ago but that Soo ah, you see... Wait, Daesu, you also... Hey what's going on? Hey! Joo hwan! Joo hwan, what's with you? Joo hwan! Joo hwan! Daesu Daesu? My sister wasn't a slut You must accept this Since you got rid of your bug I had to come all the way here To eavesdrop So that's why Joo hwan died because of you Okay? I'm going to kill you! You son of a bitch! I am going to rip you into little pieces You motherfucking cocksucker! We're not open yet Please come back in an hour Someone who got six gold teeth recommended this place Mr. Park? I had to move because of you As a commemoration I installed a new TV Do you like it? There are so many channels Great, huh? There are even some who prefer to stay here You lived in a place like this for 15 years? It felt like home after 11 years though Come on I don't need money An enemy's enemy is a friend We threw away the hand 'cause it rotted Damn sons of bitches I'll kick their asses So why'd you bring me here? Huh? Let me go! If I don't return after July 5th then let her go While I was locked up here I remember someone visiting me What did that person do? Was it three times? I put a hypnosis inducing drug in your water Sodium Barbiturate? TV Man knows it all Hey Mr.! That's nonsense Even though it was a Catholic school she wouldn't die because of rumors that she was a slut There's probably another reason Could she have been pregnant? Yeah, I really don't think Soo ah was like that She was such a pure girl I know she didn't put out for anyone But she did go out with someone back then So who was that guy? I have no idea Choon shim You knew Lee Soo ah, right? Who was her boyfriend? Don't know? Shut the hell up What would you know about friendship? Shut your crap Then who'd know? Who? Joo hwan? What? Yeah, I know him But how'd he know? Yeah? Really? Okay, hang up I'll call you in a bit Choon shim said she heard it from Joo hwan And that you'd know the best Ring, ring, move aside You'll get hurt if you hesitate Oh Daesu Look at you Put it out! I'm transferring today To Seoul So butt out, Miss Kim You good for nothing! You're Oh Daesu, right? And you're Miss... among the girls You know how rumors are I heard you're really funny Say something Me being so popular is such a big hassle There's this father and son They went to the public bath, and... See you later See you later! Third Grade, Third Class pals Come on Wait Come here I won't Hurry and come here Okay, okay Satisfied? Raise this up Come on Raise it I won't What? It tickles Give it here What are you doing? Let me see What are you doing? Let me see Stop Go away Was it really Soo ah? Are you sure? I don't know her name All I know is that she's in your room, and she rides a red bike Have a good trip See you in Seoul if I go Where are you going? Going on a date with Choon shim I'll kill you if you shoot your mouth No way You get locked up for 15 years just for saying that? Was that such a big crime? Be it a grain of sand or rock in water they sink as the same That's what Lee Woojin believes Then what does July 5th stand for? That's the day Lee Soo ah died Now it's over Instead of seeking revenge you wanted to find out why you were imprisoned, right? Now we'll run away where he can never find us, right? I can't end it like this Seeking revenge has become a part of me But you don't even know where he lives Like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter... Like a bird from the snare of the fowler... Free yourself It's a phrase from "Jamon" 6, verse 4 Jamon in English means Maxim And Evergreen said he lives in a high tower So six and four must just be floors Fourth floor Sixth floor Or the sixty forth floor? P? Penthouse! Please insert the code What would you like me to pray? Wrong entry Please insert again Wrong entry Please insert again Dear Lord please let me meet a younger man next time Please let Woojin bow next to Daesu and make him beg for forgiveness You slept with your sister Let's go up and talk Sic him! Don't be so violent Feels great You slept with your sister I feel so refreshing And I started the rumors That's why your sister died Looking through the mirror reminds me of that day Doesn't it? Erasing my memory and telling me to find the truth was unfair I won, so die like you promised You think you forgot that day because you were hypnotized? Are you sure? Do you know the real reason why you can't remember? Let me tell you You just, forgot Is that bland? But it's true that you just forgot Why? Since it's not your business Your rumor grew so out of proportion that Soo ah being pregnant became a rumor My sister got sucked into that rumor and began believing it So her period stopped and her belly began to swell Funny, isn't it? Ever thought how'd a girl feel bearing both her child and nephew? Understand now? Your tongue got my sister pregnant It wasn't Lee Woojin's dick It was Oh Daesu's tongue Is that why you killed your sister? What? Ever thought how'd the boy feel impregnating a child and nephew? You were probably afraid Afraid that everyone will know once the baby's born When you realized that she imagined it after you killed her you hating me is understandable They said Soo ah died alone at the dam but who took this photo? And what about the date July 5th? This is no fun I'll just finish what I was saying Listen carefully My story is really fun Ever heard of posthypnotic suggestion? You suggest something during hypnosis and then it's acted out in your wakened state Still haven't figured it out? You lead a stranger to your place Who the hell are you? What about you you rotten bastard? We hypnotized both of you One very fortunate thing was that both of you were highly receptive to hypnosis compared to others Isn't this fun? One word gets you pregnant one word gets you in love But no matter how much you two are receptive to hypnosis or no matter how good of a hypnotist Mrs. Yoo is getting people to fall in love isn't easy So do you know how we did it? Oh that? They said the ratings are low Your first suggestion was to go to that restaurant after your release Next, to react to the cell phone's melody When you heard this you were to say something Who are you? Do you like your clothes? And Mido was to react to the man who were to say this When she grabs your hand, your reaction would be... Of course... Your gravest mistake wasn't failing to find the answer You can't find the right answer if you ask the wrong questions It's not "Why did Woojin imprison me?" It's "Why did he release me?" Once again why did Woojin release Daesu after... Laugh, and the world laughs with you Weep, and you will weep alone Mr. Han Mister Han! Mido... Mido doesn't know right? Why'd you hide her there? You thought he'd hate me because I cut off his hand, right? Couldn't you figure it out that it was a trap? How can you protect your woman with that brain of yours? I've been secretly raising Mido since she was three What's wrong with you? And Mr. Park's hand? You moron Know that new prison of his? He said he had to move so I bought him that building for his hand! Daesu! A box is here It's that same violet box He's telling me to open it No! No, Mido, don't Don't open it no matter what If you open it something terrible will happen What's in it? You know, don't you? Mido My Sweet Pea wait a little longer I'll be there very soon Can't you come right now? I'm scared My Sweet Pea you can wait for me, right? Yes Good Good girl I'll call you very soon, okay? I beg you Please don't tell Mido What has she done wrong? You know it was all my fault I have... I have committed a terrible sin to your sister And I was very wrong to you I'm really sorry So what I'm saying is... So please leave Mido alone, okay? If Mido finds out the truth, you asshole, I'll rip your whole body apart, and no one will be able to find your body anywhere Why? Because I'm going to chew it all down Woojin! Woojin, I made a mistake Please forget what I said Sir! Boss! Woojin! We're Evergreen Old Boys remember? With the energy from a green pine tree the Great Sangnok High... I'll do whatever you want I'll do anything I beg you Woojin, if you want me to be a dog, I will! I'm Woojin's dog from now on! I'm your puppy! Woof Woof Woof Wooof Look, I'm wagging my tail I'm a dog I'll guard the house I'll be your slave dog The box... Just leave it closed Now, what joy will I live for? Daesu It really hurts But I'm enduring it You must know this How'd you hold out? For 15 years? My sister and I loved each other even though we knew everything Could it be the same with you two? Do you like it? You really like it, right? I want to be good to you Soo ah Woojin I know you've been scared So let go of me, okay? Alright? Remember me, okay? I have no regrets What about you? This is the whole adventure I went through until now Thank you for listening to a terrible story till the end I hope that you understand the reason for sending a letter instead of talking to you in person The reason for that is that I have no tongue To be honest I have no reason to help you But you see? I was touched by this last sentence Even though I'm worse than even a beast Don't I have the right to live? The hypnosis could go wrong and distort your memories Will that be okay? If you're ready stare at that tree The tree is slowly changing into a concrete column You're now in Woojin's penthouse It's a dreary night The sound of your footsteps to the window permeates the room When I ring my bell you'll be split into two persons The one who doesn't know the secret is Oh Daesu The one who keeps the secret is the Monster When I ring the bell again the Monster will turn around and begin walking With each step you age one year When the Monster reaches seventy he will die There's no need to worry It will be a very peaceful death Now, good luck to you What's wrong? Look at you Were you with somebody? I love you Daesu
