 

                        Hey, buds below Up is where to grow Up, with which below Can't compare with Hurry It's lovely up here Life down a hole Takes an awful toll What with not a soul there To share with Hurry, it's lovely up here Wake up Bestir yourself It's time that you disinter yourself You've got a spot to fill A pot to fill And what a gift package Of shower, sun and love You'll be met above everywhere With fondled and sniffed By millions who drift by Life here is rosy If you're a posy Hurry, it's lovely here Climb up, geranium It can't be fun subterranean On the exterior It's cheerier R.S. V.P., peonies Pollinate the breeze Make the queen of bees Hot as brandy Come give at least A preview of Easter Come up And see the hoot we're giving Come up And see the grounds for living Come poke your head out Open up and spread out Hurry, it's lovely here On a clear day You can see forever Forever and ever and ever and ever And you'll see who you are On a clear day How it will astound you That the glow of your being Outshines every star You'll feel part of Every mountain, sea and shore You can hear from far and near A world you never Never heard before And on a clear day On a clear day You can see forever and ever And ever And evermore And now the window opens. It gently, gently opens, and the night steals softly in. Your eyelids now are heavy. Your arms are numb and heavy. Your legs are dull and heavy and you give yourself to sleep. A deep sleep. He's under. Lights, please. I'll begin with posthypnotic suggestion, and after, if Preston here is a good subject, regression. - When does this class meet again? - On Wednesday, sir. On Wednesday. Mr Preston, after I waken you, the first time I say the word "Wednesday," you will take off your left shoe and sock and put them on again. Remember, the first time I say the word "Wednesday." Now for regression. I will try and take Preston back through his life to the age of 5. Stand up and turn around, please. I want you to go back in time to your 20th birthday. - Dr Chabot. - No questions now. Now, five years more to your 15th birthday. Now, five years more to your 10th. Now, another five years, and when I count to three and snap my fingers, you will be 5 years old. Five years old, at your first day of school. One, two... Give me back my chalk, Henry. Come on, Henry Tillsbury. You give me back my chalk, or I'll throw the glue at you and you'll get all gooey. - Sit down, Preston. - Oh, Henry, I am not sitting - on your turtle. Honest. - What's her name? - Miss Hildebrand, you gotta make... - Doesn't anybody know who she is? Sleep. To be hypnotized indirectly is very common, but to be regressed indirectly is not only unusual but a little nerve-wracking. Listen to me. You are no longer 5 years old. You are as you are today. And when I count to three and snap my fingers, you will awaken feeling fine. One, two, three. How do you feel? Fine. What happened? I mean, how did I get over here? You were hypnotized by mistake. - Your mistake or mine? - I suppose it was a bit of both. I opened the window, but you fell out. - What's your name? - Daisy Gamble. You're not a medical student, are you? No. Did everybody, I mean, you know, fall out? No. No, just you. Just me? I'm awfully sorry, doctor. I didn't mean to butt in, I... Oh, I'm awfully sorry, everybody. I mean, I didn't mean to butt in. Please, go on with your act. It won't happen to me again. Boy, you can swing open that window all you want, and when the night starts crawling in, my eyelids won't get heavy and my arms get numb and heavy and my legs get dull and heavy and... When I count to three and press your forehead, you will awaken and stay awake. - One, two, three. - Oh, God. Why don't you step outside and get a little air. Sure. I mean, sure. Have you got a cigarette, please? I'm awfully sorry, doctor. Really. Do you have a match? Oh, thank you very... Doctor, I'm awfully sorry, kids, really. Push. Sorry. Preston, you are no longer You are as you are now. And when I count to three and snap my fingers, you will awaken. One, two, three. Do you feel all right? - Yes, sir. - What is it? Sir, nothing happened to me. I didn't go under. Most people don't believe they do the first time. - Well, I know that, sir... - But that is not your case. Oh, no, sir. No. Is that all? On Wednesday, when we meet again, I want to discuss... - What are you doing there? - Taking off my shoe and... ...sock. - Any particular reason, or just bored? See you all Wednesday. Out like a light. If you don't remember, he was telling you to take off your shoes and socks. Oh, Marc, did you receive one of these? Oh, just routine meeting, nothing important. Doctor, could I see you for just one minute, please? - Don't you feel well? - Yeah, sure, sure. But I gotta talk to you about something important. If you call my secretary... I'll see you this afternoon. - She'll make an appointment. - But it's just one question, that's all. Couldn't you ask me at a Wednesday lecture? If you come a little early, I'm sure it's possible... Oh, my God. Come in. Come here, hey. Come, come. This way, please. This way. Come in. Here. Yes. Come in, come in. This way, this way, please. Here, come in. You're doing that on posthypnotic suggestion. Oh, no. Turn around. I'm terribly sorry. Is anything else coming off? - Of course not. Here, your shoe. - You're sure? That's quite a weapon you have got there. Boy, you fellas must have one glorious night after another. I mean... What's the matter? - This just isn't my day. - Come. Come sit down. You'll feel better in a moment. Sit down. - Oh, God. - Now, what did...? Oh, rats. Thank you. Oh, God. Don't you hate cigarettes? Now, what did you want to ask me? What I wanted to ask you was this: Doctor, do you think...? I mean, can people really be hypnotized out of something? I mean, of something like smoking. It's stuck in the dictionary. I mean, can you see how yellow my fingers are? I beg your pardon? Aren't you looking for a piece of paper with an address on it? - Yes. - Don't you have a dictionary? Well, yes. Well, just see if it's in there. You see, the other night I heard this discussion going on in the bathtub, on the radio, and this man said... It's under X. He said you could be hypnotized out of it without getting something else instead, you know, like fat or nervous or acne. - Miss... - Gamble. What about this address? - Isn't that the one you're looking for? - Yes, but how did you do it? I don't know. I just saw you looking around for something and wondered what it was and... You know, I knew. Very well, I won't pry into trade secrets. Yeah. About this yellow-finger problem... Can you do any other tricks? No. You see, I only have until tomorrow night, and I was desperate. And that's why I busted on your lecture, so I could meet you... What else do you do? Come on, you can trust me. Well... ...sometimes... ...I do get the feeling when the phone's gonna ring. Or when someone' s gonna drop in. So I wait. And sometimes I can tell when people are thinking about me, so I'll go to see them. I mean, you know, if I like them. And that's about all. No. That's all. That's all. I make flowers grow. - You make flowers grow? - Fast. I mean, fast. And how do you do that? I don't know. Doctor, about these cigarettes... Well, why don't you just make them disappear. I don't blame you. I know it sounds... It sounds so silly. Well, never mind, doctor. I'm really sorry I bothered you. Thanks anyway. Oh, answer your phone. Yes? Yes, Dr Chabot speaking. Yes, Conrad. I'm coming. Order me a... Double whiskey. And you thought she saw it sticking out of the dictionary on the other side of the room. Remarkable, isn't it? - And you think it was a trick? - She couldn't have guessed it. Marc, I know as a psychiatrist I could have my couch taken away from me for this, but you don't think by any chance this could be a case of extrasensory perception, ESP? All right. Find the girl, hypnotize her and prove to yourself whether or not it was a trick. You're against scientific research? How can ESP be called a science when there is no scientific proof - that ESP exists? - What do you mean, exists? Two people have the same thought at the same time. It's happened millions of times. It exists, but psychiatry calls it coincidence. - That's what it is. - Many people are not so certain, - and for a very good scientific reason. - Rubbish. Pure, unadulterated rubbish. Violet. Lily. Rose. Mrs Hatch? This is my address for that lunch tomorrow. - You can type it now. - Oh, doctor, there's a... When you've finished, telephone every student in my 11:00 class until you find someone who remembers the name of the girl I hypnotized by mistake this morning and... Oh, you mean Daisy Gamble? Will you please tell me how you knew that? Well, she told me. She's in the waiting room. - Miss Gamble? - Oh, hello, doctor. Hello. This way, please. - No calls, Mrs Hatch. - I'll go to work on your address. Did you lose another one? No. Follow me. - Now, Miss Gamble... - I'll make it quick. Do you know the name of a good hypnotist I can go and talk to and see if he could help me lay off these cigarettes before tomorrow night, or else Warren won't get that job, see? Then I won't bother you any more. Do you understand? Understand. You don't even know who Warren is. Oh, he's my fianc. Go on. - Go on? - Yes. Well, you see, over here, you know, in the United States, they have these big companies that send out these personnel directors to these colleges to sign up the bright students and their wives. Well, Warren... Remember? He's my fianc. He's graduating in the top 2 percent of the business school and Chemical Foods, Inc., wanna give him a lifetime contract, see, and I can ruin it. I mean, you know, if they don't like me. I mean, that's that. And they're not gonna like me. Because Warren told me, you know, that they don't like addicts, and I'm an addict. And I'm an addicted addict. I can't stop unless somebody like you can make me. Is that possible? It's possible, provided it's not a symptom of neurosis, or... No, no, I'm normal. I swear. I'm just an addict, that's all. Last year I took some of these vocational-guidance tests, you know, not for a job, but for Warren to get to know me better, and you know the results? What? Healthy, adjusted and no character. I mean, no character of any kind. I mean, not even any characteristics. You see, tomorrow night, I've gotta have dinner with Warren and one of these personnel directors. So, what do I do about these rotten, miserable...? Do you want one? No, no, thank you. How old are you, Miss Gamble? Twenty-two. And how old were you when you started smoking? Twelve. See, I had this cousin, Harvey, who came to visit us, and he was smoking. You know, he dared me to try. Well, he was only 9, what could I do? Of course. Miss Gamble, I will try to help you today. But from tomorrow on, you'll have to go to someone else. And if you call me tomorrow, I'll give you the name of another doctor. Sit here, please. - You mean now? - Yes, now. Oh, doctor. I don't know how I can ever thank you. I mean, really, that is... - I didn't expect, you know... - Never mind that, just sit down. Good. Please. That's it. Just relax now. Relax. Now, Miss Gamble, I want you to try, if you can, to imagine that you see... I see it. - What? - A window. That's right, a window. Now, keep staring at that window until slowly, very slowly, the window begins... It's open. That's right. And now the dark of night is... Oh, well, you know the rest, go on. - Can you hear me, Miss Gamble? - Yes. Miss Gamble, if you truly wish to stop smoking, I would like you to raise your left hand. Drop your hand. When I awaken you, you will find that your desire for cigarettes will grow less and less, and when you want a cigarette, your ability to resist it will grow stronger and stronger. - Do you understand, Miss Gamble? - Yes. Good. Now, open your eyes. Miss Gamble, this morning you were kind enough to help me find an address I'd lost. - Do you remember? - Yes. It was quite a trick. Do you know how you did it? Yes. I thought so. How? Well, I saw you looking around for something and I wondered what it was. And all of a sudden I knew. - You knew what? - Where it was. - That's all? - That's all. I see. - Do you really? - Of course, a child can understand it. Who taught it to you? I don't know. I suppose I got it from Winnie Wainwhisle. Who is she? - Nobody. - Nobody? I mean, nobody anymore. She's dead. But before she died she taught it to you. - No. - No? No. - But you said you got it from her. - Yeah. Can you remember an incident when you saw Winnie Wainwhisle perform the same trick? Oh, sure, lots of them. - Just one. - Okay. Where did it happen? In London. - You know, in England? - London? - What were you doing in London? - I was with Winnie Wainwhisle. Was it lately? Well, was it before you were 15? Before you were 10? - Yeah. - Before you were 5? - What was it she found? - A gold locket. I see. - It was the one my husband gave me. - Oh, really. And how old was your little husband? Three and a half? Four? No. He was... Let's see, 59. Yeah, that's right. Because he was exactly - What? - Than me? Thirty-five years older? Well, I know it's a lot, but he was rich and he had a title, so, what the hell. That would make you 24. How did you get to be 24? Well, after 23. But that makes you two years older than when you sat down. Miss Gamble, how can you go back to a time before you were 5 and say you are 24? Explain that to me further. Miss Gamble. Yes? What year are you remembering? Now, listen carefully. You're saying that you were alive in 1814. Very well. I want you to tell me everything you can about yourself, beginning with your name. You do remember your name? My name? Gee, I don't know if I can do that. I mean, boy, that's tough. - I'm Daisy Gamble. - Take your time. Maybe I was called something else once... ...but the only name I... I mean, my name has always... My name is... My name is Melinda. Melinda Winifred Waine Tentrees. And I am appalled and stunned at this outrageous inquisition. - Inquisition, Lady Tentrees? - From the day this trial began, you have been coiled like a cobra ready to strike. Trying to make me crawl and cower and cringe and admit to your monstrous lies. But you shall not succeed. I shall speak only the truth. I hope so. Now you say your name is Melinda Tentrees? Would you tell the court what knowledge you have of the tragic voyage of the frigate Westerly. I know nothing about that unfortunate vessel except that it sailed. Yet you advised your husband not to insure the Westerly. How did you know it would never return? You have asked me that question again and again. I have answered it again and again. The Caroline sailed two days after the Westerly, also never to return, insurance also rejected by Pelham of London, upon your advice. How did you know it would never return? I do not know. I do not know. You don't know if your name is Melinda Tentrees? Of course I know my name is Melinda Tentrees, dunce. And I also know my husband's name and how old we are and where we live, the street, the number and the city. - I have a breathtaking grasp of things. - How long have you been married? Robert and I have been married for three tumultuous, passionate, Scheherazadian years. Your husband must be remarkable for his age. He's remarkable for any age. - But still, at 59. - Fifty-nine? Ass! That was my first husband. Robert is 31. What was your first husband's name? Lord Percy Moorepark. Poor, fumbling, old, rich thing. But you heard a witness testify to having seen you on the London docks on the night of November 14th, consorting in secret with a known enemy of the crown. - He lies! - Wait, wait, wait. I'm so glad you interrupted. I cannot bear this trial another minute. - What are you on trial for? - Oh, please. Very well, never mind. You were going to tell me about an incident when Winnie Wainwhisle finds something for you. Yes. It was the day I first met Robert. What a glorious day it was. - Where are you? - Where we met. At the Royal Pavilion at Brighton three years ago. Percy. Percy, put on your spectacles at once. Hurry. Now look directly across the lawn. Do you see Diana Smallwood? - Unmistakably Diana Smallwood. - Who is that with her? Robert Tentrees. - What does he do? - As little as possible. Joseph Pelham was complaining about him the other day. He knows Tentrees' father and gave the boy a position. Maritime insurance. You know, old ships at sea. - Is he married? - No. But he should have been, many times. And he will be soon. I can't wait to hear how you arrange that. My dearest love Who existed in a dream Till this evening When a wave came And swept me out to sea None of the loves That you have known Could prepare you for the love Raging everywhere in me For all the arms That have covered you The hands that have touched you And the lips you have lingered on Before Added together would be less Than an olive In the banquet of love I have in store Love seasoned to entice Love with all the trimmings Filled with spice Love flavoured to your whim Served piping hot With all the trimmings For I'll decode every breath And every sigh Till your every lover's wish Is fulfilled before it's made Toss in some jealousy and doubt Should it be required Not rest till there's Nothing more desired Thus loving as I do Never, never will you ever be untrue Having love with all the trimmings Waiting home For you Gentlemen. His Highness. Chef, my good fellow. Your Royal Highness. Never in history have taste buds been so delectably treated as they were tonight with your extraordinary salmon mousse. Served with cream and vin rouge sauce. Garnished with truffles and exotic herbs. You seem to know this woman. Who is she? Winnie Wainwhisle. Do you have a name for this, if I may be allowed a Gallic pun, this chef-d'oeuvre? Yes, with pleasure. Come this way. I humbly christen it Salmon Beurre Brigette. - To my chef. - To the chef. - Melinda. - Mum. - Is that your mother? - Yes. How are you, Melinda? Mum, did you ever hear of Robert Tentrees? Robert Tentrees? He's not your kind, Melinda. Hasn't got a halfpenny to his name. - Here, I got something for you. - What? - Your locket. - Where'd you find it? Under the ambassador's night table. - Well, that's a bit of luck. - What about this Robert Tentrees? - Is he here tonight? - Mum. Mum, he's here, and I met him. And I love him and I'm gonna marry him. - Marry him? - But you've got a husband. I'll divorce him. And don't you worry about us not having any money. In two years' time, I'll make Robert Tentrees one of the richest men in England. That good-for-nothing. How in the world do you expect to make the likes of...? No. No, Melinda. Don't misuse your talents. Please. Or God knows in how many lifetimes you'll be paying for it. What talents? What is she talking about? Well. - There you are, milady. - Thank you. Thank you. For I'll decode every breath And every sigh Till your every lover's wish Is fulfilled before it's made Toss in some jealousy and doubt Should it be required Not rest till there's Nothing more desired Thus loving as I do Never, never will you ever be untrue Having love with all the trimmings Waiting home For you And just how do you expect to get a divorce? I'm going to be caught red-handed, dearie. That's how. Caught red-handed. - There. - Where? Here. Oh, Percy. Percy, I knew you'd leave your spectacles at home. Here. Here is your other pair. Oh, thank you very much. And is it not true, Lady Moorepark, that in the pursuit of illicit passion, you and Robert Tentrees met regularly? Yes. We met frequently, in secret. Lady Tentrees, I suggest that you have committed perjury to this court and that you have consorted with those involved in the treasonous plot against king and country to destroy 38 British ships at sea. No! You are trying to make a criminal out of me. What? One moment, now. You admit to these indiscretions? I am under oath. I cannot lie. Yes. Not one written message. I am under oath. I cannot lie. - No! - Wait a moment, now. I beg you to consider that she has cheated her... - Confess a lie! - Treason... - Never... - Stop. Oh, thank you. I'm exhausted. - So am I. - I can't go on with this. I can't. I just can't. Neither can I. No more questions. You may sleep until I count to three. Then you will awaken completely refreshed and you'll remember nothing. Except to smoke less. Now, sleep. - Mrs Hatch. - Yes, doctor? I've recorded this session. After I leave, would you make three copies of it, please. And send one to Dr Conrad Fuller. One, two, three. How do you feel? Fine. How'd I do? Beyond my wildest expectations. Do you think I'll smoke less tomorrow night? I mean, you know, more normal? Yes, I think so. Oh, Dr Chabot, if there's anything I can ever do for you, I mean, really, just, you know, anything. Pronounce my name "Chabot." Isn't it C-H-A-B-O-T? Yes, Chabot. Oh, well, anything you say. Thank you. Well. - Goodbye. - Goodbye. The... Thank you. Tad. Tad. - Hi. - Well, well. How are you? - What are you doing here? - Well, you know. Same old thing. - Looking for myself. - Yeah, but what are you doing here? Well, I thought I might take a course in anatomy. Maybe I'll find out how you do all those wonderful things. No. Oh, for Pete's sake, don't say anything about that around here. I mean, will you? I mean, for Pete's sake. Why? It's... It's not un-American. I mean, you've got some kind of psychic power, that's all. - I think it's beautiful. - Yeah, to you, maybe. That's because you're a nut. Daisy, a lot of people are psychic. Fine. I'm sure they're all very nice, but that is not the group I'd like to be known as in. I mean, if Warren ever found out, he'd never forgive me. He thinks I'm, you know, normal. Normal? Nobody even knows what normal is. Warren does. I did write to you about Warren and me, didn't I? What are you looking at? I think you're sexier. You think sexier? I thought you were noticing that I'm not smoking. - Oh, here, excuse me... - No, no, no! I'm trying to quit. Where are they? No, no, thanks. Darn. Two hours and seven minutes without a weed. I gotta tell the doctor. Doctor? What doctor? I went to this doctor, you know, to help me stop smoking. You went to a doctor for that? Why? Because five packs a day is just un-normal. - Oh, Warren. - Yeah. That's him. The one in the chair. Isn't he dynamic? Hey, you wanna see the job I'm really interested in? I mean, this is terrific. They've got the finest retirement plan I've ever seen, and the pension starts - Fifteen years? - Can you imagine? You see, compensation when you're sick doubles. They pay for any operation, including surgery, and in the event of mental breakdown, they pick up the tab for the sanitarium for you or your wife, in the event that she passes. Boy, when I stop to think I almost settled for that job in Paris, I could... What the hell is she growing here, Yosemite National Park? I don't know how she does it. - I planted mine the very same day. - Where are yours? There. Oh, boy, this is embarrassing. She's gotta cut that out. I'm so worried about my nicotine stains. - Daisy, Daisy, I've gotta talk to you. - Warren, this is Tad Pringle. - Hi, fella. Daisy, I've gotta talk to you... - He used to be my brother. Really? Your what? Well, not actually. I mean, his father was married to my mother once. Eight years ago. Daisy and I were very happy. Our parents weren't. The judge stopped the fight in the third year. That's very interesting. Daisy... You'll... Daisy. Daisy, I've gotta talk to you about tomorrow night. Now, how do you feel? You nervous? - Well, l... - Swell. Just a couple of points to integrate into the image. Now, tomorrow night, before dinner, no whiskey and no martinis. - Sherry. It's more feminine. Got it? - Sherry? But I throw up when l... Swell. Remember about the dress? Not too low and not too high. You see, Unkstadder's wife is coming. And if she catches him looking up anything or down anything, that's it. So tomorrow night, you're a boy. Oh, and, Daisy, for God's sake, no opinions. I mean, talk all you want if you need anything, but no opinions. See, they don't like women to have opinions. In fact, they don't really like women. They like wives and mothers. Let me see your fingers. Come on, Daisy. Let me see... Can't you get that nicotine off? From the knuckles down, you look like Ho Chi Minh. Warren, don't worry. You'll never guess what l... Come here, Daisy, I want you to see this. This is our whole future. Security unlimited. Just a few years' work and we can relax for the rest of our lives. Yes? Oh, hello, Conrad. Did you read the transcript? What you think? It's amazing, isn't it? The names? Well, like all these cases, she must have gotten them from friends or books or movies. Look them up? In what? Books about England. Conrad, if you're implying that this could be a case of reincarnation, you are sicker than she is. No, no, I can't see her anymore. I have no time for all that nonsense. See you tomorrow. And from now on, you will find the third puff of every cigarette will have a bitter, bitter taste. Remember, the third puff. Open your eyes. Now, Miss Gamble, yesterday you claimed to recall a previous life when your name was Melinda Waine Moorepark Tentrees. There's a Winifred in there. Yes, I know. Now, where did you get the name Melinda? From my aunt. She was the fattest woman in London. - In London? - Yeah. They used to say that the duke of Westminster owned everything in London except one acre, my aunt. That's very funny. Then you definitely have been to London? Oh, yeah. How many times? - Once. - For how long? Twenty-eight years. Twenty-eight years? How old were you when you left? Twenty-eight years. Are you saying that you left because you... ...died? Yeah. What's the matter? I just hated to die at 28. I just hope I don't have to do it again. It's better than 22. But tell me, how did you ever climb from the kitchen maid's daughter to Lady Moorepark? How? Because of a lesson I learned at the orphanage where my impoverished mother placed me as a child. Where was your father? Don't be rude. Our postman, Mr Pimpleton. And this is Mrs Brickstone himself. I scrubbed, oh. And scrubbed, oh. And scrubbed, oh. And I ate. For recreation, I plotted my escape. I knew the exact location of the hitching post on the other side of the wall. And I had practiced with this rope for almost two years. Up and up I went toward freedom. My new quarters. I looked around and thought, "Oh, dear." Thirty days in this dungeon with nothing to do. I found something to do. Every night, I heard voices on the other side of the wall, which aroused my curiosity. Cor blimey, a secret room. Just the sort of place you expect to find a buried treasure. And what did I find? A buried treasure. Next to the name of every child in the school was the name of the real, unknown father. Except mine, of course. It was lord this and the duke of that and the earl of whatnot. And as I turned the pages, suddenly, through the dank mustiness of the room, I realized that I had in my hands the sort of stuff that sent the flower of English manhood out into the world to create an empire and might very well create a little empire for me. My letters were simple and honest: "Dear lord so-and-so, if you do not wish your child to know who you are, please send 1 pound a month. Sincerely..." He sent 1, and he sent 1. And so did lots of others. In fact, business was marvellous. Until one day, a nasty, dishonest child stole my letters. To my joy and happiness, I was expelled. When I saw the glow those pound notes brought to my dear mother's eyes, I made a firm resolution. "Melinda," I said, "let this be a lesson to you. Never, never do anything except for money." But what about Robert Tentrees? He had no money and you married him, didn't you? True, he had not a penny to his name. But love is the exception to every rule, is it not? You're crying. Why? I should have known that one day he would desert me. Desert you? He was too weak to be faithful. Why didn't I see that? Is love so blind? No. But mistrust is so exhausting. It's not easy to be a strong woman, Melinda. A man must be strong for you to respect him, but weak for you to love him. And love makes the choice. That's very clever of you. Very clever. Who are you, exactly? I could ask the same of you. But you seem to know me better than I know myself. That's because I may have invented you. Now, what does that mean? Or don't you know either? Oh, dear. I'm suddenly a little... A little... Oh, boy, am I beat. You must be. What's the matter with me? There was never Melinda. Robert never existed. How could someone who never existed desert someone who never lived? And when I heard it, why did it make me so sad? No. None of this is true. None of it happened. It's nothing but shadows and echoes of things that never were. This is a dream, Melinda Just a mirage, so they say This whole affair They all declare Was dreamed each step of the way You're a mere dream, Melinda Out for a gay little spin Dealing me lies before my eyes Of days that never have been There's no Melinda They say for sure But don't go, Melinda I know and you know That you're no mere dream, Melinda Gone when the dawn Glimmers through You and I know that long ago Before the dream there was you There Once Was you Damn you, Melinda. If I'm not on guard every moment, you steal across the border into reality. There have been thousands of cases like yours. And every one, without exception, has been traced to something in the person's life. This life. Daisy Gamble, somewhere in some closet of your mind is the key to all this. And I intend to find it. If I have to squeeze out of you every moment of your whole boring little life. So en garde. One, two, three. Hi. How do you feel? Fine. Did I do all right? I think so. How was the smoking last night and today? Oh, much better. If the phone hadn't rung this morning, I wouldn't have smoked until breakfast. Do you always smoke on the telephone? Well, you've got to. I mean, you just got to. I mean, you got this hand left over doing nothing. Of course, I usually hear it before it rings and light up ahead of time. Of course. Where are you meeting Warren? At the Americana. Can I give you a lift? - Oh, thanks. - Good. You know? Thank you. You're welcome. You sure I'm not gonna take you out of your way? No, you're not. Not at all. I'm going to the Metropolitan Museum. It's open tonight and there's an exhibition of English painters that I want to see. Oh, that's nice. England's had some very good painters. I don't know much about it, really. I mean, anything. Don't you like painting? I don't know. I've gotten so used to wallpaper. But it's still much easier driving over here than in England. In England, they drive on the left. Boy, those English sure have a lot of guts. No, it's the law. - Haven't you ever been to England? - Oh, no. The sea makes me seasick and I'm afraid of flying. I mean, not really flying, I'm afraid of the "no smoking" sign. - But maybe I can do it now, huh? - I'm sure. Wouldn't you like a quick drink? You have time. Oh, no, no. Thank you. I don't think so. I'm supposed to be at the Americana at... - A short one. - Fine. And what are you studying? Well, let's see. Oh, I'm taking domestic science at Laura Bates Greeley and budget-making at Mary Hope Curtis and child care at the Sarah Plaut Gromberg Clinic, you know, here at the medical school. And 20 lectures on planned parenthood, ten on how to and ten on how not to. What size family do you come from? Well, my father's pretty fat, but the rest of us is... Oh, you mean how many brothers and sisters. None. I had this great stepbrother for a while, but it didn't last very long. I mean, there was, you know, trouble in the front office. You lived with your mother? Yeah. In Mahwah, New Jersey. - Where? - Mahwah. M-A-H-W-A-H. That's where... That's where she lives. - Fascinating. - It is? - Another drink? - Oh, no, no, no. Thank you, really. - I've gotta run. - A short one. Oh, fine. - Muriel, have you seen Daisy? - I thought she was with you. Oh, I goofed. Chemical Foods called this afternoon and postponed and I forgot to call and tell her. - Warren. - Daisy, Daisy, I'm sorry. It was called off and I forgot to tell you. - Did you wait too long? - Oh, no. - But you got something to eat? - Yeah. - Will you forgive me? - Sure. - Thattagirl. - I forgot too. - What? - I didn't go, you know, to the Americana. I forgot too. - You didn't go? - No. Isn't that a funny coincidence? Yes, it certainly is. It's amazing. You didn't go either. You... Didn't you really? No, I didn't. And I'm not just saying that to make you feel good. Oh, I believe you. I believe you. It's just that, well, Daisy, this was an important night, and what the hell were you doing? What's the matter, Warren? Everything worked out fine. - Aren't you happy? - Yeah, I'm very happy. - Why don't you smile? - I am. I like your smile, Warren. Super. See you tomorrow. Look... - Daisy... - Good night, Warren. Now, that's what I call a man. What are you gonna do about Warren? That's the first time in my life I felt like the opposite sex. What are you gonna do about Warren? I wonder if he'll ask me out tomorrow night. What are you gonna do about Warren? What am I gonna do about Warren? Oh, Warren doesn't care. - Warren cares. - Warren cares. But I don't care. You have to care because you're engaged to him. You don't have to care about him because how do you know he cares about you? Then what are you gonna do? What'd you say? When you know there's someone Loving you And you know there's someone You love too And they're not the same What do you do? Go to sleep, girl Go to sleep Go to sleep Close your eyes And hide from every care When you wake up They may not be there But tell me, how can I sleep? Tell me who could When you see your whole life Tangled up good? I could drink I could weep Oh, but how can I sleep? Go to sleep Go to sleep And when you and someone Have a date Which you made When you were thinking straight And when you and someone Stay out late It was bad to But I had to When they're not the same Who gets the gate? This is not the way to find a mate Go to sleep, girl Go to sleep Go to sleep Go to sleep, girl Go to sleep Go to sleep Comes the dawn I may not feel the same Comes the dawn He may not know your name In the sunlight Who can see a flame? But tell me, how can I sleep? Look what I've done Mess around with two men Soon you have none As you sow, so you reap Which is why I can't sleep Go to sleep Go to sleep Go to sleep Go to... How do you happen to be in command of all this useless knowledge? Because I'm interested in extrasensory perception, ESP. What does it have to do with ESP? Because if a case such as this is not the memory of a past life, then somehow... ...knowledge is being acquired by a sense other than the five that we know about. Ergo, extrasensory. And, my boy, that's the solution we'd better root for. Because if reincarnation is ever proven, do you know who will be the hardest hit? The sweethearts of Sigmund Freud. Did you ever look up Pelham and Company or any of those ships? This is a fantasy, Conrad. To 600 million Muhammadans, so is Christmas. - Yes? - Daisy Gamble is here, doctor. May I meet her? Ask her to come in. Did you ever try to hypnotize her by telepathy? Oh, for God's sake, Conrad. Telepathy. - Hello, doctor. - Hello. I brought you these. Miss Gamble, may I present Dr Fuller. Oh, hello. How do you do, Miss Gamble? I was just leaving. They're geraniums. Any minute now. Miss Gamble says that she can make flowers grow faster. Faster than what, Miss Gamble? Well, you know, faster. What I mean, my friend Muriel and I, we plant our seeds on the same day, and, I don't know, my flowers come charging out of the pot as if the police were after them, and poor Muriel... Do you ever talk to your flowers, Miss Gamble? Talk to them? What do you think I am, crazy? Do you? - You don't think I should? - Yes, I do, and don't let anyone stop you, either. Well, goodbye, Miss Gamble. Oh, Marc, I advise you to check those names. I brought these for your window. - You know, sill? - Thank you. Let's put them over here. Doctor, were you thinking about me around 4:00 this morning? I was asleep then, Miss Gamble. Why? So was I, but something woke me up. I could've sworn it was you. Really? Those look just great there. Gotta bring you some more. Miss Gamble. I wonder if I could hypnotize you by... ...telepathy. What would I have to do? Just sit here... ...perfectly still, and empty your mind of all thought. And I'll stand over here, and at a certain moment, I'll begin hypnotizing you in my mind. Do you understand? Sure, I understand. It's such a ridiculous... Very good, Miss Gamble. And very irritating. About Melinda Tentrees, you told me that your husband Robert deserted you. Please. Not when I'm about to make an entrance. Number four. Black. Melinda, my dear. What a questionable surprise. Do sit down, if you insist. Thank you. It's quite fascinating. I cannot lose. If I win, I win. If I lose, you'll be in agony, and I win. Number ten. Black. Well, you have lost. And I am hardly writhing on the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, place your bets. And unlike you, I know what it is to be poor. All you have ever been is without funds. You're so smug about your humble beginnings, aren't you? You bore me. Rien ne va plus. That is not true. You may resent me, Robert. But you are not bored. Number 19. Red. Play 24. I've lost everything, what? - Everything. - Splendid. I don't wish to be rich, I don't wish to be knighted and I don't wish to be married. You lie. Number 24. Black. Yes. I lie. Do you enjoy lying? To you and with you. Ladies and gentlemen, place your bets. Play 36. Rien ne va plus. Must you have everything? Man cannot live by bed alone. Number 36. Red. Good Lord, what does she see in him? That gigolo. What a strange creature woman is. Does kindness, generosity and devotion fill her with kindness, generosity and devotion? But give her a good-for-nothing rat who pinches her money and every girl in town, and she'll turn into an angel of love. Oh, God, why didn't you make woman first, when you were fresh? "Robert: Must you have everything? Melinda: Man cannot live by bed alone." "Doctor: Now may we go on? Patient: I am quite tired. Doctor: I can see you are. You may sleep until..." Et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. This is the case to date. Now I want to see by a show of hands how many of you think it's a psychological fantasy? Everybody. There's no question about it. No argument. And no evidence. Only prejudice. In my opinion, this case merits further investigation. And I intend to go on searching the patient's life and mind for a clue. In addition, the information about England must also be checked. If any of you have the time or interest, I would welcome your help. And the expected high for today will be 72 degrees. The time is now 16 minutes past 8. On the local front, a nasty case of mysticism has struck the Stuyvesant Medical School. Yesterday Dr Marc Chabot, professor of psychiatry, let it be known that he was investigating a possible case of reincarnation. And by dawn, the school was surrounded. Countless students, seeking a fresh cause for rebellion, congregated in front of the medical school demanding academic freedom. An emergency meeting of the Stuyvesant board of directors was called for this morning. I want those junkies out of the yard. We'll get them out, Brad. Marc, we were told that yesterday in your lecture hall, you read aloud a case history of one of your current patients, and in the discussions that followed, you indicated that one possible explanation... You'll have to forgive me, Marc, but this is what we heard. One possible explanation could be reincarnation. Now, what actually happened, Marc? That's what happened. What the hell did you say that for? - Because it could be. - It could be. But the point is it isn't. The stink's coming right through the walls. We know, Brad. Get them out of here before they start setting themselves on fire. We will, Brad! This medical school is a damn sick little guy. The only way you're gonna be able to get rid of the poison is surgery. We've gotta go deep with that scalpel. I'm presiding here, Crock. You might try to remember how difficult it is to get good college presidents these days. Gentlemen, I think we can cut through all of this. Marc, in a privately sponsored school, such as Stuyvesant, academic freedom means that if you disagree with the administration, you're free to go to another academy. That's a choice that you're going to have to make. At 10:00 tomorrow morning, I want you to bring into my office either a letter denying emphatically that your remarks had any mystic implications or a letter of resignation. Is that clear? Mason, I don't see how you could ask me to do anything else. We have got to stop this kind of publicity. Good day, gentlemen. And it was never my intention to suggest reincarnation as a possible solution to this case. I only wanted my students to learn that all possibilities must always... Are you all right, doctor? Yes, come in, come in. All those things they said about you in the paper, I was so worried. - Come in. - I mean, how is - your mental health, doctor? - It's fine, thank you. Oh, you're welcome. Boy, what a layout. Gee, this is really something. Who's that? The woman who lives here. - Oh, I thought you lived here. - I do. Where is she now? Away with her husband. - Are they French too? - No. No. They gave me their apartment for the summer. You sure you're all right? Yes. Doctor, how long has this stuff been going on? Quite a while. Does anybody besides you know who the thing is happening to? - I mean, you know, who the nut is? - No. And no one ever will. Do most people think it was a man or a woman? Yes, most people think it was a man or a woman. Daisy, would you mind if we skipped your session tonight? That's all right. But we can still have dinner if you like. Oh, great! And will you let me pick out where? Of course. Nobody ever asks me where I wanna go except you. I mean, everybody usually, you know, always tells me. I'm kind of a... You know, a go-alonger. I mean, people say "Come along," and I go along. Downstairs where I live, they've got this restaurant called Enrico and Bernardi's. But, well, I mean, does anybody ever say: "Daisy, do you wanna go to Enrico and Bernardi's?" No. No, they say: "Daisy, we are going to Enrico and Bernardi's. You want to come along?" So I go along. I don't even like Enrico and Bernardi's. They've got absolutely rotten food. And the pizza, well, I have lost more temporary fillings... Hello. Oh, it's you. How are you tonight? I am accused of treason. And tomorrow I shall be ordered to stand trial. Does Robert know? I sent him a message two hours ago. Where is he? He should be home soon. Could this be the moment he deserted you? Deserted me? Robert has not deserted me, and he never will. You ought to know. Why? Do you think I can see into the future? Yes. I can about certain things. But never, never about myself. Oh, I am pleased you came tonight. An hour ago I was ready to leap from the bridge. What's the matter? Melinda, I came to say goodbye. Goodbye? We shan't be together ever again? No. That's dreadful. I shall miss you. I shall miss you too. You have brought something into my life I never knew existed. What's that? Mystery. How odd. You have brought clarity into mine. What will I ever do without you? - You have Robert. - I know. Whom you love. I know. But he isn't you. How could I be This at ease with him? Pour out my heart As I please with him? He isn't you He isn't you When will I feel So in bloom again? When will a voice Warm the room again? He isn't you He isn't you Memories may fade In the shadows behind me But there'll be the dream That will always remind me A dream That I'll be forever Comparing him to So love me, he may Even die for me Sweep every cloud From the sky for me He may be king But he'll never Be you But why must you turn back into a caterpillar, Melinda? How did you ever become this little nothing of a creature? Oh, sometimes I think if I hear another "I mean," I will tighten my tie until I strangle. Marc, sit down. Mason, you asked me yesterday to prepare a statement. Forgive me, Marc. Could we table that for a moment? - Why? - Just bear with me. Marc, you know this building is called Stratton Hall. Do you know who Cleo Stratton is? The man who owns that enormous yacht in the river? He lives on it. He's now 80. During the past 25 years he's had diabetes, tuberculosis, cataracts, half dozen assorted tumours, ulcers, gallstones and water on the knee, all of which the doctors here at Stuyvesant have cured. Coincidentally, during this same period, he has given the school over $20 million, including his Social Security and Medicare checks. Mr Stratton heard about our conversation yesterday and called me early this morning to inform me he was definitely in favour of your being allowed to continue with your case. With the four of us against it, it made the final vote ten for you and none opposed. He not only wants you to continue with your case, but he wants me to organize a permanent department for research into reincarnation. Good Lord. Yes, I believe he is. But Mr Stratton wants proof. It occurred to him that if it's possible to identify one's previous incarnations, it might also be possible to determine one's future ones, in which case Mr Stratton could leave his money to himself. You mean, if he can't take it with him, he'll come back and get it? Yes. Well, what do you think, Marc? Well, what do you expect? It's the chance of a lifetime, of all my lifetimes. Thank you. I will so inform him. You're... You're not happy about it, are you, Mason? No, I'm not happy. I think reincarnation is appalling. It kills ambition, perpetuates human misery and propagates false hopes. And is obviously a pack of lies. Then how can you accept his proposition? I may be wrong. Dr Chabot's office. Oh, yes. Yes, doctor, she's here. One moment, please. The doctor will be a little late. Can you wait? Yes, she can. Oh, then I can go home now? Thank you, doctor. Good night. You don't mind being alone, do you? He won't be long. Oh, no, don't worry about me. I wanna listen to the news, you know, about him, if there is any. - Good night. - Good night. I'm Daisy Gamble. Maybe I was called something else once, but the only name I... Take your time. I mean, my name has always... My name is... My name is Melinda. Melinda Winifred Waine Tentrees. And I am appalled and stunned at this outrageous inquisition. You may sleep until I count to three and snap my fingers, and then you will awake and remember nothing about Melinda. Now, sleep. But why must you turn back into a caterpillar, Melinda? How did you ever become this little nothing of a creature? Oh, sometimes I think if I hear another "I mean," I will tighten my tie until I strangle. Daisy Gamble, somewhere in your mind is the key to all this, and I intend to find it, if I have to squeeze out of you every moment of your whole boring little... I don't know why They redesigned me He likes the way He used to find me He likes the girl I left behind me I mean, he... I mean, me... What did I have That I don't have? What did he like That I lost track of? What did I do That I don't do The way I did before? What isn't there That once was there? What have I got A great big lack of? Something in me then He could see then Beckons to him no more I'm just a victim of time Obsolete in my prime Out-of-date and outclassed By my past What did he love That there's none of? What did I lose The sweet, warm knack of? Wouldn't I be The late, great me If I knew how? What did I have I don't Have now? I thought he kind of liked me. And all the time he was thinking of someone else. Me. Those questions. He wasn't interested in me. He was interested in me. Oh, God. Why did I have to come along? I mean, what is so special about an English accent? Cheerio. Tallyho, doctor. Yes, she gave me the jolly message. Oh, nothing. Nothing is wrong. After all, what is time? If you miss me in this life, you can catch me in the next, can't one? Eh, what? Well, kippered herring! What did I have that I don't have? What do I need a big supply of? What was the trick I did Particularly well before? What did he see that's gone in me? What did I use that now I'm shy of? Why is the sequel never the equal? Why is there no encore? Where can I go to repair All the wear and the tear Till I'm once again the previous me? What did he like that I am not like? What was the charm That I've run dry of? What would I give If my old know-how Still knew how? Oh, what did I know? Tell me, where did it go? What, oh, what did I have I don't Have Now? Daisy! What did you mean, "the next life"? What were you talking about? I've been trying to find you since 6:00. - Where did you go? - To Max's Hardware Store. - Where? - Max's Hardware Store! My watering can fell off the roof. But...? But where have you been since then? You knew we were supposed to work. I had... Oh, you wanted to do some researching tonight? - You know, with me? - Of course. Casually glance at some old English stuff together? - We might. It's possible. - And maybe top off the evening with a little hypnotism? Sort of one little trance before nighty-night? - It's for your good, Daisy. - Get off my roof! - What? - I said, get off my roof! - What's the matter? - Get this straight, Chabot. Your courting days are over. I am through being a go-between for you and your dream girl. You're not gonna go on using my head for a motel! Oh, my God. This is disastrous. Oh, no. Now that you know who you are, you can influence every memory. You're no longer reliable. How did you find out? Who told you? - I played a tape, and all I can say... - Which tape? - How do I know?! All I can say is... - What was it about? It was in a foreign language! All I can say is... - Did you tell anyone? - And get put in a circus? No. All I can say is... Oh, rats, I don't even remember anymore. Oh, yeah, yeah. All I can say is, if you tell anybody it's me, I'll sue. Do you hear me? I'll sue! There may still be a chance. Daisy... The first finger that touches me, I cut off. Daisy, I insist you stop this neurotic behaviour at once. Neurotic?! You get the hots over somebody you're not even sure was anybody, you call me neurotic?! Physician, heal thyself! Daisy. Daisy, Daisy, because I didn't tell you what I was doing, you may feel betrayed and hurt. But a case like yours happens once in a million years. And, Daisy, we have a breathtaking adventure in front of us. By the time we finish, you may find yourself not only not an abnormal girl, but one of the few genuinely normal people on Earth. Get off my roof! I will not get off your roof until I bring you to your senses. Any other girl would be proud to be part of this adventure. Great. If you want to experiment, go pick on someone else. I can't, Daisy. I can't. Daisy, I need you. You bet your Aunt Susie you need me. And not for the noble cause of science, either. - You wanna see Melinda. - Melinda's beside the point. - You got the hots for Melinda! - I am not your business! That's right, doctor. You're not. And I'm not yours either. Now, if you'll excuse me, I got a lot of things to do. I gotta... I gotta spend more time with Warren. I gotta plan my life with Chemical Foods. And I need my roof! So if you don't mind, one, two, three, beat it! Your roof? Very well, keep your roof. It's as close to heaven as you'll ever get. Melinda's soul inside of you? God, what a housing shortage. Damn you, Daisy, I can't let you free. I can't. Not with all the buried treasure inside you. - Help! - You'll see me again. You can count on that. Again and again. You have an appointment tomorrow at 6. Be there! Clip, clip! Rats. Oh, no, you don't, Dr Marc Chabot. You are not going to hypnotize me into coming back. Fourscore and seven years ago, our forefathers brought forth upon this continent a new nation conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition... Mary had a little lamb, its fleece was white as snow. Everywhere that Mary went, her lamb was sure to... Hey, what in the name of...? What the hell do you mean, "shh"? Jerk. Fourscore and seven years ago, our forefathers brought forth upon... - Daisy! - A new nation... - Daisy, what are you doing? - Liberty and dedicated to... Daisy, what's happened to you?! I left you a while ago, you were quiet. Daisy, pay attention! What are you doing?! Daisy, what in heaven...? That's rude. That is very rude, and I'm shocked. That, Daisy, is not necessary. I like you the way you are. Daisy! Listen to me! Oh, Warren! This is not behaving in a company way. Daisy, will you... For Pete's sake, look out! Marc! Yes, Conrad. Marc, get out the champagne. Shake out the confetti. - What's the matter with you? - I solved your case, that's all. Will you ever forgive me? The place to look for spooks, my dear doctor, is not in a medical library or in Burke's Peerage, but in a spook book. This is an encyclopaedia of 19th-century psychics. - May I read aloud? - Yes, go on. "Tentrees, Melinda. Clairvoyant. Dates, 1787-1815. Married to Sir Robert Tentrees. In celebrated case, Melinda Tentrees found guilty of conspiring with enemies of the crown and was executed one year after sentencing." How does that grab you? What about her husband? Oh, yeah, well, that's here. That's here. "Melinda Tentrees claimed all her information resulted from psychic powers, but her husband failed to appear at her trial. His evidence might have saved her." Well, there it is. And may I add that I find your gratitude absolutely underwhelming. Then she is not an illusion. She lived. Conrad, I have the feeling I've known that girl before. I've got to find out if it's true. Hi, fella. - Hi. - You seen Daisy? - No. - That's good. Is something the matter? No, no, no, it's just that we have a date tonight with the personnel director of Chemical Foods at 6:00 at the Americana and his wife. I just wanna make sure she doesn't forget it again. I wouldn't worry about that now. Yeah, well, you wouldn't worry about it now because it's me. - Wait till you have to get a job. - I'm not going to. Oh, really? Oh, how you gonna arrange that? I'm rich. Oh, boy. Oh, that's depressing. You know, it's funny you never know where Daisy is. Why? Well, you're engaged to her. Don't you ever ask her what she does? No. - You're incredible. - Top 2 percent. Listen, how come I never see you with any medical books? I mean, are you really going to school, or did you buy the teacher? I haven't started yet. Then why are you hanging around here? - Actually, I came to see Daisy. - Why? She wrote me that she was gonna be married and I wanted to see if she was happy. Too bad. Why, you got a better idea? Yes. Me. You? That's incest! - We're only related by marriage. - Well, what other way is there? - Morning. - Morning. Honey, you look kind of tired. You ought to go back to bed. I mean, you gotta be in top form tonight. Daisy, do you remember everything we talked about? - Yeah. - All right, now, listen, Daisy, for God's sake, don't let on that you know that screwball hypnotist. Sweet mother India, if they ever found out about that... Oh, hey, Daisy, I got a great piece of news for you. You ready? You don't have to worry about the cigarettes. I found out Mrs Unkstadder is a chain-smoker. Isn't that a hot one, huh? Oh, that is... That... That is really a hot one. Oh, Warren, that... That is really a riot. Isn't that a hot riot, Tad? Well... ...l've really got a hot one for you too, Warren. I'm that patient of Dr Chabot's. I'm Melinda. I'm not hearing this. And do you know why my flowers get so tall? Because I talk to them. Every morning I come up here and I read them Walter Lippmann. You talk to them? And do you know what else? I can tell when the phone's gonna ring. Walter Lippmann? Watch. Tell him I'm out! Hello? She's out. Now, Warren, what time do we meet tonight, huh? Six o'clock? Oh, great. I just can't wait for you to see my new dress. Oh, it is not too low, it is not too short. It is transparent! - But, Daisy, what...? - I can't, Warren! - I just can't! - But, Daisy... Oh, Warren! Get off my roof. I've been calling for eight days, and for eight days I've been told Miss Gamble is out. When has she been in? If she's not been in, then she's not out. She's away. Now, which is it? Is she out or is she away? And if she's away, when did...? Hello. Hello! If you don't mind my saying so, doctor, why are you so interested in coming back? You don't seem to be having that good a time. Thank you, Mrs Hatch. You've done the impossible. You've given my depression a depression. You're out there somewhere, Daisy Gamble. And you can hear me. So listen! Hear my voice Where you are Take the train Steal a car Hop a freight Grab a star Come back to me Catch a plane Catch a breeze On your hands On your knees Swim or fly Only, please Come back to me On a mule In a jet With your hair in a net In a towel, wringing wet I don't care This is where You should be From the hills From the shore Ride the wind to my door Turn the highway to dust Break the law if you must Move the world, only just Come back to me Making a souffl requires alertness and cunning and patience. And above all, stamina. Beat, beat, beat. Blast your hide Hear me call Must I fight city hall? Here and now Damn it all Come back to me What on earth must I do? Scream and yell till I'm blue? Curse your soul When will you come back to me? Have you gone to the moon? Or the corner saloon And to rack and to ruin Mademoiselle, where in hell Can you be? Leave a sign on your door Out to lunch Evermore In a Rolls or a van Wrapped in mink or saran Any way that you can Come back to me Damn you, Daisy Gamble, where are you? Why can't you pick up a phone? Hear my voice Through the din Feel the waves On your skin Like a call from within Come back to me Leave behind all you own Tell your flowers you will phone Let your dog walk alone Come back to me Let your tub overflow If a date waits below Let him wait for Godot Ride a rail Come by mail COD Par avion Par bateau Dans une vieille Deux chevaux Come by steam Come by gas Come for free On a pass Under drugs Under glass Come back to me Leave your bills all unpaid Let your bed go unmade Your souffl unsouffld Come back to me Come by sail Come by freight In a box or a crate With your head on a plate I don't care This is where you should be Come in pain or in joy As a girl, as a boy In a bag or a trunk Shut up! On a horse or a drunk In a Ford or a funk Come back to me Come back to me Come back... Daisy! Will you stop bothering me! - Daisy, l... - Day after day, night after night, in the bathtub, on the roof, awake or asleep. What is this, extrasensory torture? I'd go to the police, but with a story like this, they'd have locked me up! What do you want out of me? Never mind, I know what you want, and you can't have it because I haven't got it. Even if I did, you wouldn't get it. - What are you talking about? - What you're thinking about, Melinda. My name never was Melinda Tentrees. Now, is that clear? - How do you know? - Because I know. - How? - Well, well, how could it be? - I'm not like Melinda Tentrees. - How do you know what she's like? I don't, but you do, and you like what she's like. You don't like what I'm like, so I know we're not alike. I know what I'm like, and I don't like it either. Because I'm like nothing and like nobody, and nothing or nobody can change me. I'm stuck as I am. Weak, a go-alonger, no character! - You have character to stop smoking. - That's a dirty lie! I didn't stop smoking, you made my subconscious stop wanting to. And I went along, just like I always do. Now, will you please leave me alone! Will you please sit down! Now, you listen to me! As little as you know about Melinda, it's gigantic compared to what you know about Daisy Gamble. You think you're nothing and you walk around looking out over the world like Jupiter on Mount Olympus. Imagine having eyes that can see the lost article of a friend or someone about to phone you or to be filled with a kind of love that pulls flowers from the ground. And if that were not enough, you either have a heart so deep it spans the ages or a mind that's filled with the total memory of life. Why, Daisy... ...you're a bloody miracle. Could anyone among us have an inkling or a clue what magic feats of wizardry and voodoo you can do? And who would ever guess What powers you possess? And who would not be stunned To see you prove There's more to us Than surgeons can remove? So much more than we ever knew So much more were we born to do Should you draw back the curtain? This, I am certain You'll be impressed With you On a clear day Rise and look around you And you'll see Who you are On a clear day How it will astound you That the glow of your being Outshines every star You feel a part of Every mountain, sea and shore You can hear from far and near A world you've never heard before And on a clear day On that clear day You can see forever And ever And ever And evermore Gee. Gee. Daisy, I must hypnotize you - one more time. - No! Not to see Melinda, I swear it. Now that you know, it would probably be distorted. It's for another reason. I ask you as a favour. One last time. Just hope I haven't forgotten how... - Daisy, can you hear me? - Yes. Open your eyes. I want you to concentrate very, very hard. You have told me about your life as Melinda. Do you remember any other previous lifetimes? Oh, sure. How many? Let's see. One, two, three, four. Five. Six. Seven, eight, nine, ten, 11, 12. Thirteen. - Fourteen... - That's enough, Daisy. In all those lifetimes, do you ever remember... ...meeting me? Yes. Did we know each other well? We were married. Happily married? It was... ...beyond anything. What were our names? Laura and John Caswell. Laura and John Caswell. Where did we live? It's funny. We lived in Virginia. I can... I can see us, but l... I can't see all around us. What year was it? - I think I see... - You don't have to go further. No more questions. Sleep until I count to three and snap my fingers. Then you will awaken and you won't remember what you told me. One, two, three. Fine. Thank you, Daisy. When are you getting married? Warren and I have severed our relationship. What are you going to do? I don't know. I thought I'd go up on the roof for a while and sit around with Tad. You know, my ex-stepbrother. I think that's a good idea. - What about you? - Well, you know, I'm married. Oh, really? Yes, but we're separated. Oh, really? I spoke to her and somehow I think it will be all right now. Oh, really. She says I've changed. Have you? Yes. Thanks to you. I used to be in love with answers, but since I have known you, I'm just as fond of the questions. I think the answers make you wise, but the questions make you human. You got that from me? Yes, I did. Well, I'm glad you got something. It's only fair. I don't smoke anymore. Well... Goodbye, doctor. Goodbye, Daisy. Bye. Daisy, have you...? Have you ever been to Virginia? No. Have you? No. Daisy. You won't forget what I told you? On... ...a clear day... Rise and look around you And you'll see Who you are Well... So long, doctor. See you later. On a clear day Rise and look around you And you'll see who you are On a clear day How it will astound you That the glow of your being Outshines every star You'll feel part of Every mountain, sea and shore You can hear from far and near A world you never Never heard before And on a clear day On that clear day You can see forever And ever and ever And evermore
