 

                        N.D.W. DIAPHANA YUN Junghee LEE David KIM Hira Director of Photography/ KIM Hyunseok Production Designer/ SIHN Jeomhui Editor/ KIM Hyun Sound Supervisor/ LEE Seungchul (WaveLab) Co-producer/ LEE Dongha Executive producers/ YOUM TaesoonCHOI Seongmin Co-executive producers/ Michel Saint-Jean JUNG MyungsooLEE Seungho Producer/ LEE Joondong Poetry Written and directed by/ LEE Changdong IT STILL SEEMS LIKE MY SON IS ALIVE -Ms. YANG Mija -Here This way What's wrong? My arm My right arm feels prickly Does it hurt here? No, it doesn't hurt, it just feels prickly Like... That thing is passing through What's it called? It's been like this lately It's... like energy -Electricity? -Right, electricity! It's like electricity's passing through I'm forgetting words lately Yesterday, I couldn't remember,'bleach' I could only remember, 'Clorox.' We used to call bleach, 'Clorox' back in the old days How long have you been like this? For the past couple of days No, your forgetfulness When did it start? When did it start? Maybe this summer or spring? How old are you, ma'am? Sixty five, no, sixty six Your arm's prickly because the muscles are in knots Start some light exercising I'm more concerned that you can't remember words It could be a bad sign I recommend you get an overhaul at a big hospital A big hospital? Yes, like a big general hospital in Seoul I'll write a reference for you I'm at the hospital My arm feels prickly It's continues feeling prickly I kept telling myself to see a doctor and I finally did Who else would come with me, you idiot? Your mom's okay Others my age usually suffer from neuralgia or arthritis I'm okay Don't cry, mom... How could you be so cruel! How could you... You can't go way like this! Where are you! Where did she go! Oh god! You cruel wench! Where is she? Where! Mom... -Hello -You're here You're a little late I went to the hospital He called twiceI received two calls, asking why you weren't coming Dad, the maid's on her way up This one, this one Sit still! I told you to sit still! Stop it! How will I undress you if you resist like this? Right, that's it Pull this leg out That's how you do it Is it hot? It's okay, isn't it? Sit still! Sit still, I say! Stop it! -Why are you shouting? -What? What's that? My hearing... so why...? Your hearing is fine so why I am shouting? I'm sorry I won't shout again Sir, I'll be leaving Goodbye -Done? -Pardon? -I said, are you done? -Yes, I'm done -Already? -What do you mean? It's already been 3 hours I did the laundry, the cleaning and all my chores Good Thank you, sir Don't... tell anyone... I gave it to you Okay How generous! Thank you Did he yell at you today? Of course he did I doesn't matter cause I yelled back at him Here -He gave me 10,000Won -He did? But he told me not to tell anyone When it's only 10,000Won My father-in-law is notorious for being stingy He must really like you. To give you an amount like that Anyway, do you always look so chic like that? Do I look chic? I'm not chic at all Where is it? Not again What are you looking for? What's that thing? I can't remember the word What you put money in It's this big A wallet? That's it, a wallet! Where's my wallet? What's this? I'm so out of it these days At the hospital I saw something... A local middle school girl's body was found in the river And brought to the hospital They said it was suicide by jumping off the bridge The poor girl's mom was totally out of her mind... -I'll be on my way. -See you the day after tomorrow The deadline's over What're you drying? Did your daughter call? LITERARY CLASS FORTHE PUBLIC YOU CAN ALSO BE A POET! Are you home, Wook? Why's the music on so loud? You'll bring down the house What's wrong? Are you feeling sick? Don't bother I called you during the day but you weren't answering I never got your call How can you say that when I called twice I'm not lying It's cause my mobile's junk Buy me a new one I'm annoyed with my mobile You just bought it, so why do you need a new one? -But I had it for 1 and 1/2 yr -No you didn't I got it during the 1 st semester of my 2nd year Which only shows how carelessly you've used it You're sprouting a moustache, but acting like a child Why'd you call anyway? I heard a girl in your school killed herself... by jumping into the river I wanted to ask you about it Ask me what? Who she was, why'd she kill herself that young I don't know her that well What's her name? Why do you need her name? Aren't you in the same grade? I don't know everyone in the same grade Grandma can't afford a new mobile. Ask your mom for one What? That's not fair! Hey! Play with a bit more spirit This is no fun Just try The doctor told me to exercise What are you doing? Where are you going? Gotta go see my buddies You shouldn't go out at this hour! The electricity bill's quite high this month Wook's always on the computer... playing music all the time He even sleeps with the music on How am I supposed to scold him? Well what can I say? He's the master of the house What? The Cultural Center To learn poetry What? Right I do have a poet's vein Right. I do like flowers and say odd things I'm here for the literary class Literary class? But it's all closed I know... But can't you accept one more person? I don't know... I really want to take this class How should we deal with this? To write poetry, you must see WELL The most important thing in life is seeing SEE See. It's to see -We live seeing things -Right It's important to see everything surrounding us well Now, I've brought something with me What is it? -An apple -Yes, it's an apple I went out of my way to bring it I'm a well-prepared teacher Others are not as well-prepared as I am Now, about this apple How many times have you seen an apple? A thousand? Ten thousand? A million? Wrong You've never seen an apple before Not even once Up till now, you haven't seen an apple for real To really know what an apple is... to be interested in it, to understand it, to converse with it is really seeing it Gazing at it for a while and observing its shadow... feeling its every curve, turning it around, taking a bite out of it, imagining the sunlight absorbed in it... That is really seeing it If you really see something, you can feel... something naturally, like water gathering in a spring You should prepare paper and a pencil, and wait for the moment to come Empty white paper... A world of pure potential, a world before creation... This is the perfect moment for a poet Hold your pencil over that pure paper... I love pencils When I place a well-sharpened pencil over a piece of paper, I feel full My heart flutters with the hope of writing a good poem I love sharpening pencils The very fun of a pencil is hand-sharpening it I used to be good at sharpening pencils Pardon? I was told to be a good pencil-sharpener I sharpened all my brothers' and sisters' pencils Is that so? Then, ma'am Why don't you sharpen my pencil some day By the time this 1 month class ends, I want you all to have written a poem, okay? Everyone has to write one poem You need to write to really know You'll never know if you don't write So you have to write yourself Who has written a poem at least once before? And who hasn't? Okay Now you will be writing your own poem... for the first time in your life -Okay? -Okay Who is it? My friends Why are your friends here? It's late We need to talk About what? Haven't you seen enough of each other? Hello, ma'am Good evening Why's the door locked? What? Why did you lock the door? Aren't you boys hungry? Want some apples? No, stop bothering us It's annoying Apples are better for eating than looking at What are you looking at? The tree Why are you looking up the tree? To see it well To feel it, to understand its thoughts and... listen to what it says to me Hello? Who? Kibum's dad? Yes, of course I know Kibum... who always hangs out with Wook Of course He was at our place last night What's the matter? Is something wrong? Not now. I... have to go to my poetry class Poetry! Poetry! I'll be done by The Cultural Center Yes Okay, I'll see you then Writing poetry is... all about finding beauty Understand? It is about discovering true beauty... in everything we see in front of us... in our everyday life True beauty... Not things just looking beautiful Every single one of you... carries poetry in your heart But you've imprisoned them It's time to free your poetry Your poetry trapped inside should get their wings... and fly away Sir When does a 'poetic Inspiration' come? When does a 'poetic inspiration' come? Yes, as much as I try, it won't come I'd like to know, when does it come? It doesn't. You must go and beg for it You must pray but even this guarantees nothing It's too precious to give itself out That's why you must go and beg for it Where must I go? It's not in some special place, but somewhere you must wander around for It isn't waiting for you with a name plate... saying, 'poetic inspiration' The clear thing is, it is somewhere nearby, not far away It's there, right where you stand I told you poetry can be found even in the dishwashing basin Where are you? The car with blinking lights? -Hello -Hello You're Wook's grandma, aren't you? -Are you Kibum's dad? -Yes Let's get in the car Where are we going? You know our boys' group of six? The boys' parents are getting together for lunch You can come with me I'll take you there What kind of class are you taking? I'm learning poetry Twice a week Poetry? You mean singing traditional poetry? No, actually writing poetry Why are you learning poetry? I wonder myself Why am I learning poetry? Long ago, I must've been in the third grade... when we used to have poetry contests in the fall After one contest, my teacher told me, ''Mija, you'll become a poet one day'' Then, recently I saw the literary class poster And it reminded me of the comment... my teacher made 50 years ago So you want to be a poet? For now, my goal is to write one poem Our teacher told us to write one poem until the class ends When I told my daughter about this, she said I always had a poet's vein I always loved flowers... and would say odd things Your daughter's Wook's mom, right? Where's she now? We talk about everything on the phone. We're good friends Friends forever Anyway, what's this all about? Let's just go there first You'll see after you hear what they have to say It's not good news, right? I can feel it Right It is bad news A large spicy fish stew and steamed spicy angler fish... - -And 3 bottles of beer -Okay I don't see your boss today He's away on business in Seoul -So, he's not coming today? -No -We'll have the beer first -Yes, sir Soonchang's dad, why don't you start explaining Let's start when the beers come We need to lift the mood... Do we need alcohol now? Let's start since we don't have much time Then I'll start I'll give you a short recap as some of you have no idea Recently, a girl at our boys' school, killed herself Her name's PARK Heejin Her folks run a farm nearby She kept a diary stating six male students... raping her for months until her death Reading her diary, her folks reported this to the school... who called the boys in to talk The six all admitted... to the crime, so I guess it must be true At first, it started with two boys, KWON Soonchang That's my son -And KIM Jongchul -Yes, that's my son It's those two who started it And as time passed, all six of them joined in They say they didn't coerce her at first -That she liked doing it -Who would believe that? It would only incite more anger Yes, you're right Ladies first They said, the girl was short and plain-looking So I can't understand why they did it And if she was tall and pretty? Where in school did they do it? And for six months? They said they did it in the science lab KOO Taeyeol being leader of the Science Club, had the lab keys That's my son The lab's located in a secluded area And rarely had classes or was tended to So, nobody knew Although I feel sorry for... the dead girl, now's the time for us to worry about our own boys That's why I called everyone here Joint action is crucial now Right, we should act as a group Cheers, ma'am The girl's parents... -run a farm? -Yes, but her dad died... a few years ago from a motorcycle accident The mom has been raising the girl and her brother alone We need to calm the mom Fortunately, it seems she hasn't told anyone else But we can't tell what she's thinking Nevertheless, in order to console the victim's family... So the point is, the compensation money That's right Regarding the money, we should reach an agreement I discussed this with the school... and 30 million Won would be the proper amount So that makes it Who else knows about this? The principal and a few other teachers... and one or two in the police Our talks with the school and the police are going well so far The school doesn't want this to get leaked outside And the police doesn't want to investigate... unless the victim's family press charges The problem is that a local newspaper sniffed something... and are calling the school, asking questions The local press is insidious, so watch your mouth What's she doing over there? What a clueless old lady What's she doing at a moment like this? Did you say she's Wook's grandma? Is she raising him by herself? Her daughter left Wook... with her mom after her divorce and is in Busan now Unlike her looks, she's barely getting by She lives off government subsidy and her part-time maid job I think her daughter's not sending her money Then how's she gonna pay the 5 million Won she owes? She has no choice. Her grandson's future depends on it Ma'am Are you writing a poem? Just taking notes We always have to take notes like this What have you written there? Blood... A flower as red as blood They really are blood red Do you know the floral meaning of cockscomb? It's 'shield' Actually, it looks like a shield A shield that protect us Let's go inside and get something to eat Awe, not curry again! What's wrong? You like curry -I had it for lunch at school -Really? I didn't know Did you pack your gym suit? It's physical education day, right? I packed it Hello? Yes, hello What? With the vice principal? Yes What time? Not many at school know about this The discipline instructor here and I know And only the dead girl's homeroom teacher knows But not the boys' homeroom teachers I told the girl's teacher not to disclose this to anyone... as it will destroy the boys' future and the school So you should watch what you say You don't have to worry about us, sir Since the boys' future are at stake, we are being careful You cannot even sleep-talk Above all, hurry and settle with the girl's family How did you decide on the compensation? Everything considered, we've decided to pay 30 million Won We believe that amount will be adequate So, have you all agreed on the 30 million Won? Yes, of course Someone can't pay yet, but everyone has agreed Just hurry and settle things with the girl's family Okay. All ye be awake and pray to stand before of the Son of Man INFORMATION: REQUIEM MASS FOR AGNES, PARK HEEJIN And I will raise them up on the last day These are the Lord's words Praise Christ our Lord Today, we are gathered here to offer this Requiem Mass to... Agnes PARKHeejin who left us a few days ago We lament this precious life taken at the youthful age of 16 But we believe in God's words, 'He who believes in me... will live, even though he dies' We believe God will comfort Agnes' soul... and grant her the happiness in Heaven... she never found on earth So we pray for Agnes... that God will embrace... the pain she had endured So she will have eternal life in Heaven As one heart, we offer our... most devoted prayer All rise For our Father who has raised Christ from the dead, let us pray for Agnes' salvation Lord, let Agnes who has received eternal life through... the sacrament of Baptism, join the line of saviors Lord, please hear our prayer... For Agnes who has accepted the Blessed Sacrament, but has left us This is our utmost appeal... that you raise her again to be back in your embrace Lord, please hear our prayer We also pray for her mourning family and relatives Please grant them peace in their hearts Lord, please hear our prayer We pray in the name of Christ our Lord Amen -Something wrong? -What? Is something wrong? Nothing's wrong Why do you ask? You're very quiet You're always chirping away like a skylark When was I chirping away like a skylark? Chirp, chirp, chirp, chirp Chirp, chirp, chirp, chirp What's with the face? You look mad Smile I shouldn't smile Why not? Men used to tell me not to smile cause it made them fall for me They all went gaga over me when I smiled You'll do the same if I smiled Come out! Now! Look at the mess you've sloughed off! Snack wrappings, socks, tissue, the remote control! How many times has grandma told you? That even animals clean up after themselves! Your socks, too! Tomorrow the discomfort index will be quite high due to... the heat and humidity Especially, it will rate the highest between 3-4pm Let's take a look at the clouds on the surface map A few cloud masses are passing through the south... and thin mist is scattered along the central region Tomorrow, high pressure is moving towards the Yellow Sea Jeju Isle and South Jeolla region... Get up, get up! Get up! Grandma has something to say to you! Get up! I said, get up! Why did you do it? Why did you do it? Why are you stopping? I don't feel like eating What does grandma like the most in the world? Do you know or not? I know What is it? 'Food going into Wook's mouth' Very good THE MOST BEAUTIFUL MOMEN OF MY LIFE I was raised by my grandma So to me, my grandma was my mom My grandma really loved songs But she didn't know how to sing, because she was always working so hard When I was really young, we had this large white paper, the kind you use for rituals I wrote lyrics on the paper And I taught my grandma to sing... by pointing at each verse with a chopstick I think this the most beautiful moment of my life What was the song? 'The Young Boat Woman' My grandma passed away last year I remember I sang this song for my grandma... whenever I visited her place Because she always asked me to sing it for her So, I always sang it for her I married very late And my first child was born when I was almost forty Because it was my first delivery at a late age, the doctors kept me on my toes... I held it out for 10 months and finally labor pains began I never experienced such pain before in my life Anyway, finally amidst the pain, my baby was born... and I felt...something slipping out... this fiery hot mass like the sun The moment the baby burst into its first cry, was the most beautiful, most amazing... and emotional moment for me I don't have any beautiful memories I'm sorry For 20 years, I lived in a basement room Six years ago, I finally leased an apartment in this town... which had a low deposit and monthly rent So I moved here I guess that was my most beautiful moment I spread-eagle on the floor... feeling that I owned the world THE SOUND OF BIRDS SINGING WHAT ARE THEY SINGING? To write poetry is... to remember mother's hands, joint swollen, washing the white rice at cold dawn... during winter solstice Are you here alone? Yes, I heard there's a poetry reading Yes, please take a seat To write poetry is to wake alone deep in the night weeping It is to build a solid cornerstone... to raise a pillar... in your broken heart It is to calm the bare corner of the window, shaking all night, with all your might It is to empty out without hesitation... the rancid water that keeps rising It is to create a forest of empty void PEOPLE WHO LOVE POETRY FRID AY POETRY RECITAL They say people who love poetry... are those who always have flowers in their heart Our Ms. CHO Mihye not only has flowers in her heart, but has a pretty one covering her heart Thank you Next will be Mr. LEE Dongkyu in a red T-shirt... who will be reciting, Ms. CHO's 'A Green-colored Cicada' I always hear the sound of... a cicada emanating from your back It cries, chirr, chirr, rubbing its eyes As the stain of last summer's forget-me-nots fade from... my fingertips, the cicada keeps crying from your back I, too am crying... rubbing my wings This poem talks about a green-colored cicada, but I thought of an ordinary cicada In search of its mate, the cicada... for a short few days, cries to its fullest as if it's smashing summer to pieces I wonder if I could do the same Living as passionately as the cicada This thought continues to linger Thank you That was quite a commentary from the heart He must have worn a red T-shirt to show his burning passion Next will be Mr. PARK Sangtae who's come after a long time Although his leg is not well from an accident, he has kindly brought us a large watermelon Greetings -I was actually here before -Oh, I see... -You weren't here last week -Right So, saying 'after a long time' would be inappropriate My mistake -Have you learned your lesson? -Yes 'The Rose Thorn's Reason' Don't try to steal me The day thorns within me rise like goosebumps all over my body I dream of self-obliteration with a crimson smile Don't try to break me for being beautiful The kiss on red lips is... the desperate passion for virginity Do not love me anymore As the seasons' wheels keep rolling on I'm no expert, but what a mighty good picture of the rose It is simply saying, 'do not eat me up' Here is the word, 'kiss' I thought about its Chinese saying A kiss means... tongues coming and going between two attached lips, so it would be 'Sulwang Sulreh'. (tongue comes, tongue goes) A kiss means lips crashing into each other Then what do you call two cars crashing together.... in a Chinese saying? Guhwang Guhreh (car comes, car goes) So a car instead of tongue, right? You're thinking too hard Two cars crashing together is... It's a 'Gyotong Sagoh' Car accident I hurt my leg in a car accident I'm staying at the hospital now, but I slipped out today You know what I thought when I hurt my leg? That it would be nice if this here... my third leg popped out, to help me balance myself I still have to stay at the hospital, but next time, I'll be back in great shape. -Can I sit here? -Yes, of course I have something to ask you About what? Your poems are wonderful I still have a long way to go You said you started poetry recently How could you write such amazing poems? Well, in this case, it came easily As I wrote a line, words I was never aware of... unraveled like a thread of silk Like I was swimming and floating in poems I wrote as if I was a flying butterfly If only I could do the same! I've been trying to write poetry myself, but I couldn't When I started to write poetry, I also fiercely sought... poetic inspiration But it made things more difficult The point is the feeling If you have the feeling, you can write poetry But I do feel things... Then write them down honestly, like you're taking notes That's the most honest thing Hello It's not so stinky today I guess you didn't shit yourself What's this? -Get this out for me -What kind of pill is it? Why are you taking this pill? Are you sick? I'm not sick. It's just a nutrient Why take a nutrient all the sudden? Why are you being such a nag? Just get it out for me Please Let go! Stop it! Before I die, I wanna do it just for once I don't need anything else Just for once... I wanna be a man It's my wish Let go of me! Who do you think I am? What was that pill you took? What kind of pill is this? It's that thing you call Viagra, right? You go dry and dress yourself! No one else will from now on! Ms. YANG Mija! Here! Go to Room 1, please Okay Hello Please have a seat Oh, those are camellias! I just love camellias Flowers of winter, flowers of pain... Are camellias flowers of pain? Yes, red flowers represent pain White is virginity, yellow is glory I've been studying lately to write poetry Poetry? Are you a poet? No, I'm just trying to write a poem Did you come alone? Nobody's with you? I came by myself. Why do you ask? I'd prefer talking to someone else Why? Is there something wrong? The test results say... you've got Alzheimer's Often called, 'dementia' No, I'm fine You're fine for now Since it's at a very early stage But the disease has already progressed You're occasionally forgetting words for now, but gradually your memory loss will worsen At first, you won't recall nouns... and then verbs You know verbs, right? Of course I know verbs But nouns are the most important Right, nouns are most important Those are fake I'm at the hospital To get my test results Huh? What? The doctor says I'm okay She told me to exercise Exercise more The doctor also told me to write poetry a lot Okay Could you go to that place... Ah... Dongseoul, what was it? It was a Dongseoul something... Where there are a lot of cross-country buses -The bus terminal? -Right, the bus terminal I get like this TIME PASSES AND FLOWERS FADE Wet lipstick on the wine glass With my yearning for you -Which room is she in? -Room No. 5 Room No. 5? I've been grabbing onto the rope I had to release, but now's the time to let go You may have forgotten... my name by now But I crudely raise... a wineglass again because of you Now I wanna take off my dress of attachment... and drink a glass of oblivion Ma'am! You're really good! Oh my, don't embarrass me I got bored waiting for you, so I was killing time You must have broken many hearts back in the days You've got great appeal In fact, I have too many stories to tell about my past Anyway, what brings you here? It's just that... Regarding the 5 million I have to pay Can you lend me the money? I've got no one else to ask Oh my... Ma'am Don't do this I know I do, but... there's no way I can get the money So I'm asking you I will pay you back I'll even work here I'll do anything I'm sorry, but... I don't have the money to lend you And there's no job for you at a karaoke Then what shall I do? I'll have to rob a bank, then Talk to Wook's mom Why won't you tell her? You said you talked about everything with her... and that you were friends forever I go to a Catholic church And our church is quite old and beautiful In the front yard at springtime, buds... that spring from the branches... are a grass green color... which looks so sad It's so pretty that it looks sad So I would brush my hand over the buds... saying, ''how pretty you are'' They say it's a sign that I'm getting older I might get sick or be in agony, but... I'm happy I am happy Now I am in love But it's so beautiful... and painful It's painful because it's love that cannot be He's married like me I always thought I despised him He really has a bad temper But one day, we were leaving from a night shift... and ended up sleeping together It just happened once, but... I couldn't erase that memory The more I tried, the more it reminded me of him If only he hadn't been in my sight They say, 'out of sight, out of mind' But he wasn't intended to be out of my sight I cried and laughed like crazy But the suffering is driving me to death But even the suffering is beautiful I recall a moment when I was very young It might be the very first memory of mine I was too young to remember how old I was Three? Maybe four? I guess mom was sick So my older sister was taking care of me We're seven years apart In the living room, the red curtains are drawn closed But through a slight opening, the sunlight is seeping in Now I can see half of my sister's face The other half is hidden in the shadows I think she dressed me in pretty clothes ''Mija, come here. Come here'' She is saying, clapping her hands I am tottering to her Although I was so little, I knew my sister loved me... as she told me to come to her I felt so good And so happy 'I am really pretty'... was how I felt ''Mija, come here'' ''Hurry over here, Mija'' Thank you What brings you here? You're all wet from the rain Give me the keys to the 3rd floor Are you coming back to work? What changed your mind? I thought you'd never come back What are you looking for? Take this Now Ah, here she comes -Thank you -You're welcome Well hello, ma'am! Yes, hello You're Wook's grandma, right? Yes. And who are you? I write for the 'Kyungkang Times' It must be hard for you these days, right? Well, it's okay Let's see Why don't we sit over here You look amazing, ma'am How nice of you How are the settlements going? Not that great, I guess How come? Is the victim's side refusing your amount? I don't know for sure, but... the girl's mom doesn't want to settle, I guess I see, the girl's mom... With a case like that, it's usually money problems But are there reasons other than money? -I don't know, but... -Yes? What's wrong? No, I can't... You can't, what? What's the matter? Please sit for a moment, ma'am No! I just have a few more questions. Wait! 'We're trying to settle with the girl's mom, but she's refusing' Is that what you said? I don't fucking believe this Didn't we tell you to watch your mouth? That guy from finally got his tip... after sniffing out the school and police station almost every day She didn't say anything specific yet But it's never late to move now If only the girl's mom keeps quiet, we'll be okay There's not much time Come later, okay? I'm in an important meeting How about meeting the girl's mom yourself? -Who me? -Yes You go meet and persuade the girl's mom What could I say to her? I can't do it Just plead with her heart-to-heart Woman-to-woman You can be better than us Right, sounds like a plan A poor old lady, raising her grandson alone pleads... woman-to-woman Shedding a little tears Yes, let's do that Ma'am Meet her immediately I'll drive you there, tomorrow Call me when you're done I'll come to pick you up I'll take the bus. There I see a bus stop I can get home by myself Anyway, call me if you need a ride. Do a good job Everything depends on you now You do understand? Yes Your outfit stands out too much It really doesn't fit in with the neighborhood Then what should I do? Should I go back? I can come again in different clothes You can't just leave now Your words hold the key Don't say anything to upset her, okay? You grasp the situation, right? I'll try Excuse me Is anyone there? Where did everyone go? Are you here for someone? I guess everyone's out? The gate was open so I invited myself in, but no one's here The mom's out in the fields What brings you here? I have to talk to her She'll be back around sunset Why don't you go to the fields to find her Where's that? Over there you'll find a plastic greenhouse Go past it and there's a field near a brook. She'll be there How fussy you are THE APRICOT THROWS ITSELF TO THE GROUND IT IS CRUSHED AND TRAMPLED FOR ITS NEXT LIFE Hello Yes, hello Isn't the weather nice? Yes, the weather's being helpful This place is quite nice The scenery is so beautiful It makes me want to live here It's not an easy place to live though I found an apricot on my way here Many have fallen to the ground I took a bite and it tasted quite good Fallen apricots have a better taste The one still on trees are too puckery to eat Yes, you're right It tasted good When I saw the apricots on the ground, I thought they were full of yearning Throwing themselves to the ground... be crushed and trampled on, they prepare for their next life For the first time, I realized this about apricots There were also garden zinnias growing near the apricot trees And how pretty they fall to the ground I felt so blessed to walk in such beauty I love flowers so much, I get happy just to see them Gazing at flowers makes me feel full... that I don't even need to eat You must like flowers cause you're pretty You think I'm pretty? Why thank you I do like to dress up a bit How's the crop coming along this year? It's so so I hope it's a good harvest, so you'll earn a lot Prices will drop on a good year, while it's as tough on a bad year Nothing's easy, you know? Yes, but... I hope everything goes well Then... have a good day -Yes, goodbye -Bye Well... I... couldn't meet her No one was home So I left after waiting for a while I'm sorry Excuse me? I'm sorry because... I just returned without meeting her Die... as you love To the point that the Vairocana Buddha... hangs suspended... by a finger Die as you wait To the point that the Amitabha Buddha... severs its head to use as a pillow Until dawn passes... the iron bell for offerings to Buddha... does not ring I sit by the columns of Buseok Temple... throughout my life Unable to offer you even one bowl of rice But within a tear, I build a temple and then tear it down Above a rock hanging in the sky, I build a temple 'Die as you Love' Yes, I'd like to die as I love It's a poem that hits you strong... like when you take a cold shower Next is... Mr. PARK Sangtae who will read AHN Dohyun's poem I ask you This is the title of the poem Do not even dare kick at the ashes of burnt coal Have you ever been... a burning person to another? That's the end It's a good poem cause it's short The emcee mentioned shower The recent heat wave makes you shower everyday, right? Well I did some research on showers Do you know the No You don't? The five stages are... Stage 1 Take shower! Stage 2 Spread-eagle! Stage 3 Get boner! Next is... Plug into! And last but not least... Oh, thank, yer! Thank you very much Good health requires occasional physical stimulation I'm out of the hospital and back at work If you every visit the police station, please stop by to see me So he works at the police station? Yes he does Pretty funny, isn't he? We're here to love poetry To love poetry is to seek beauty, right? But he's always talking dirty like that It's like he's insulting poetry He actually has a good heart He used to work at the Seoul Police Station, but after reporting internal corruption, he was demoted to this country police station Really? It doesn't look like that Mr. PARK! -Mr. PARK! -Yes, yes, yes -This lady... -Yes? She says you're insulting poetry How come our chic big sister thinks that? To recite poetry is to love it, right? So? To love poetry is... seeking true beauty True beauty...That's a tough one for me I'm not that intelligent, you know Anyway, go on At a place you're supposed to seek beauty, she says you're always... talking dirty Sorry, big sister! I apologize for insulting poetry I promise to repent And to show you I will, let me pour you a glass I can't drink Just one glass They say you should drink or fall in love to write poetry Attention everyone! You all know... the poet, KIM Yongtak, right? -Yes -Good evening I saw him drinking in the other room and dragged him over Greetings! Actually I wasn't dragged here I heard our 'Love Poetry' members were here, so I volunteered to drop by and say hello I was here with my young poet friends for a drink This man next to me... is the poet, HWANG Myungseung -Please join us for a drink -Okay -Join us as well -Okay Good evening, sir Uh? Are you also a member of this group? No, I'm not But I came to the reading and ended up here Anyway, in an era when poetry is dying away, I am so thankful and happy that there are people like you... who love poetry -Sir -Yes? Why are you saying poetry is dying away? But it is. Unfortunately, the day will come when people no longer read... or write poetry anymore Poetry deserves to die! He's still young, but he's a poet with superb sensibility This year, he was nominated for the Sowol Literature Awards And his poems are quite provocative 'The color of the sky, like a cat dead for a month' Verses like this Sir How can I write poetry? It's difficult, isn't it? To write poetry It is so difficult As hard as I try, I can't seem to write poetry How can I write poetry? You said in your class... that we all carry poetry in our heart... And that the poetry trapped inside... should get their wings and fly away Did you really say that? Wow, bravo! To welcome the two poets here, I'd like to dedicate a song What are you doing here alone, big sister? Are you okay? Are you drunk? Why are you crying, big sister? Is something wrong? Is it because of poetry? Because you can't write any? What's got into you? On a Sunday? I thought you'd be sleeping all day Gimme something to eat I'm hungry. Swirl it, swirl I swirl pretty well, don't I? Hello there Wook's grandma's here I see you have guests I can come back later No, please come in They're people you know, so please come in Hello Please say hello, this is Heejin's mom Hello She is PARKJongwook's grandma She visited your house the other day She felt so bad and sorry... that she went alone to apologize, but she couldn't meet you Isn't that right? Is Heejin's brother entering mid. school next year? Yes Is he getting good grades? I hope he is -He's so so -I see He should study hard Because his mom's managing so hard on her own Where are you going, ma'am? Ma'am! Why did you just leave? Do you have the money ready? Actually, no I came here to tell you that Just in case you'd be waiting Then what shall we do? It's urgent The talks are going well with the girl's mom It was really hard to make her come all this way That reporter helped us arrange this meeting, okay? How can you say you don't have the money now? Didn't you talk to your daughter? Not yet Why not? You should have Don't you understand the situation? Say, ''grandpa, I love you,'' okay? She's getting prettier by the day Let's see how she can kiss Say, ''I love you'' On the lips Now, it's your turn Who is it? Good Grandpa stinks Oh, ma'am! This is so sudden Yes, it is so sudden, right? Uh, right. What brings you here? I have to talk to Mr. KANG Don't! Okay, don't! PLEASE GIVE ME 5 MILLION WON I BEG YOU, DON'T ASKWHY I wanna say I'm borrowing the money, but I can't because it's useless Why should I? WHY SHOULD I GIVE YOU MONEY WITHOUT A REASON So you're here to talk to my father-in-law? I guess it's something serious? It's nothing serious I just came for the money he owes me He owes you money? What money? Dad Do you owe her money? IS THIS BLACKMAIL? It doesn't matter whatever you think I won't make any excuses Yes, yes. Taeyeol's dad said he'll be here soon And Byungjin's dad has an appointment, but he'll join us an hour later Yes, yes. Come in. Yes Enjoy your meal So you finally got the money? Then I'll be on my way Sit. What's the rush? It's all cash Did you really rob a bank? -So the mom settled? -Yes, she settled Once the 30 million Won is paid, it'll all be over Since you paid your share, NO PROBLEM! Now everything's okay That's why we're here for a small celebratory drink Since everyone has suffered So is it all over now? Totally? It's hard to say it's totally over If the victim's an adult, a settlement is enough But in the case of a minor, if someone informs the police, an investigation's required But we cleaned up everything with the school and the press... and reached a settlement with the girl's mom So there's nothing to worry about anymore I'm sure you haven't eaten yet, why don't you join us? -I have to go -Really? What? Let's go! Why? Good bye, ma'am Enjoy your meal Is it good? Is it? Take a bath when you get home Why? Just because Take a bath and cut your nails Since you recently got a haircut, you won't need one You should look decent And your mom's coming tomorrow Why's she coming? I told her to come It's been a while since you've seen her Look here This part's still dirty Was it too precious to clean? You need to scrub the back of your heels when you take a bath Why do you even need a scrubbing towel? Is it just for fun or to use as a pocketchief? You're always like this You even bathe half-heartedly! Even when you wash your face, you just pat water on... like a cat Why won't you scrub your ears and neck thoroughly? You should always... keep your body clean A clean body makes a clean mind Nice shot! Great! Perfect! -Hey, boy -Yes? Come here. It's okay. Big sister Want me to teach you a trick? Your form ain't right, Detective PARK! What's wrong with my form? I look cool enough Big sister, your serve Nice shot! Great! Our big sister's great! ...trying to look cute with your eyes like this Then how should my eyes be like? They should look like this Since it's the last day, you've brought me flowers Thank you I'm touched Actually We didn't bring it Ms. YANG Mija placed it there and left Ms. YANG Mija? She's even written a poem But where has she gone? Did anyone else bring a poem? You were supposed to write one poem by today Anyone with a poem? No one? So the only one who has written a poem is Ms. YANG It's too difficult No it's not It's not difficult to write a poem, but to have the heart to write one The heart to write a poem Anyway, Ms. YANG is not here, but let's see what kind of poem she has written I'll read it on her behalf The title is, 'Agnes' Song' 'Agnes' Song' by YANG Mija Mom... How is it over there? How lonely is it? Is it still glowing red at sunset? Are the birds still singing on the way to the forest? Can you receive the letter I dared not send? Can I convey... the confession I dared not make? Will time pass and roses fade? Now it's time to say goodbye Like the wind that lingers and then goes, just like shadows To promises that never came, to the love sealed till the end To the grass kissing my weary ankles And to the tiny footsteps following me It's time to say goodbye Now as darkness falls Will a candle be lit again? Here I pray... nobody shall cry... and for you to know... how deeply I loved you The long wait in the middle of a hot summer day An old path resembling my father's face Even the lonesome wild flower shyly turning away How deeply I loved How my heart fluttered at hearing your faint song I bless you Before crossing the black river With my soul's last breath I am beginning to dream... a bright sunny morning... again I awake, blinded by the light... and meet you... standing by me
