 

                        The whole world is dying of panicky fright. Police! Open up! Police ma'am! Hello? Open up! Come on, open up! Hello? Mrs. Olsen, are you there? We'll have to force the door if she refuses or is unable to open up. Nancy Olsen! Come on, open up. Oh, my God! How awful! Look! It's him. Catch him. On 3 June 1985, at approximately at 5:58 am, Richard Beacon, a 7 year old, Long Island boy, shot and killed his father in a heated family argument. Felicia Beacon, the boy's mother, astonishingly claims she then saw her son take off in flight from the patio balcony. What really happened the night of June 3? Who was Richie Beacon and where is he now? POISON In 44 I was sent Fontenal to prison on several counts of theft. - Name? - Broom. - First? - John. - Age? - 31. Date of birth? October 29, 1913. - Orphan? - Yes Where? First in ... Prison was not new to me. I'd lived in them all my life. In submitting to prison life, embracing it, I could reject the world that had rejected me. ... their sexual behavior, which includes relationships with men, Is that correctt? What? The State obliges us to enquire whether or not you engaged in ... the practice of err... Have you practiced ...? Yes Whatever. That word there ... Is it written as two words? HOMOSEXUAL We are gathered here today in the shadow cast by the penal preserve of Baton For the trusty and loyal inmates, Harold von Roven and John Broom who hereby pledge one and other in the eyes of their comrades and fellows in misery... their loyalty and faith to one and other's body and soul. The ring on each man's finger will prove to them and to those in their company that each is betrothed to the other for life, and love until death separate them. Place the rings on each finger, pledge to truth and faith above and beyond God, the oppressor. Ever since he was a child, Thomas Graves had been hungry for knowledge, hungry to discover all of the secrets of the universe. Science, man's sacred quest for truth, was his first and only love. Years of hard work and research led him to the mysteries of the sex drive. And its potential for the betterment of mankind. At the age of 32 Dr. Thomas Graves was called upon to present his theories to experts in his field. And thus, as I have demonstrated, I have determined that once extracted, the application of the hormonal equivalent of the sexual instinct to practical neurology, will not only provoke a dramatic reassessment of geriatric research but will end paralysis as we know it today. Thank you. This is ridiculous! I ask you, are we to take this charade seriously? I demand that this man be re-examined on grounds of medical incompetence. I agree! That's it! That's it! Putrefactic condensation is sustained, allowing molecular coagulation by producing biomagnetic gas. I did it. I did it! Dr. Graves! Yes, I'm Dr. Graves. And I've just captured the sex drive. Why, that's marvellous! It means that the molecular coagulation theory holds true. "Molecular Coagulation? How do you know that? Who are you? - I'm Dr. Olsen. - Who? Dr. Olsen. Nancy Olsen. From Boston. Dr. Strick recommended me to you I, I didn't expect a woman. I didn't expect you to. I've been following your work for years, doctor. Ever since evaluations of molecular sustenstions of hormonal conductivity appeared in the Science Journal at M.I.T. Your discovery of white cellular clotting predominance in neurasthenia completely changed my understanding of conditional bioflavonoid neuropathology. I wrote my doctoral thesis on your molecular coagulation theory and now I am hormonal specialist. I've come with hopes of assisting you. - Well .. How do you do? - Very well, doctor, thank you. And now I really should leave you to report your success. Feel free to contact me call me when you need me. And congratulations, doctor. You're making medical history. The quiet residential community of Glenville was stunned to learn of the strange death Fred Beacon. It gave everybody the creeps. All the neighbors were afraid to come out of their door. It was absolutely the most dreadful thing ... I have experienced in my entire lifetime. It was terrible. Do you know? I heard every shot. I heard every single shot. You think you know people but you really don't, know them... and you live next door to them. Until something like this happens. Richie Beacon's disappearance provoked one of the toughest Missing Persons' investigations in Long Island's history. ... It lasted at least a year. His face is still on milk cartons. What did they find? Nothing. Felicia Beacon became the center Glenville controversy following her extraordinary account of her son's disappearance. I guess I just didn't ... I definitely didn't know what he was. I mean ... I punished him, and his father hit him, just like any kid. But I definitely didn't realize. Realize what? That he was a gift from God. By the time I was 16 years old, I was notorious as a kid with a terrific knack for theft. Foster homes would no longer take me and I was sent to the boys reformatory at Baton. There, in the counterfeit world of men among men, I foundmy true family. At Baton I was astounded by the discovery that each man had a man for his own. And that the world of force and manly beauty loved in that way, within itself from link to link. It was from then on, when they merged in shadow that each group offered me a puzzle. The stiff, silent males possessed the violence of love and my life's study, would be to find it. 16 years had passed when the maximum security prison at Fontenal brought me face to face with my deliverance: Jack Bolton Age 28 175 pounds, 75 inches formerly, a captive at Baton. Come on, pussy. You know what? You make me wanna puke. Want to suck it, bitch? You want to suck it, you want to crawl for it ... Yes you do ... Is it Jack Bolton? Cannon! Here? Since today. John, a friend of mine, man. Jack Bolton Johnny Broom. - Baton? - Yes I knew. You swallow it by the mouthful, Don't you, birdy? Jissom by the jug, right?? You want it real bad, don't you, punk? Don't you, slug? Who's a pretty boy? Hey you! Shine. Annoying Mr. Ass? Not me, chief. That's a good boy, that's a smart little fag. Think fast, faggot. You want it real bad, doncha? Doncha? You want me to shoot it up your hole? Is that it, huh? Go on, marry him. You know you love him. What? Me, marry him? Richie was a complicated boy. On the one hand, very intelligent. But at the same time ... withdrawn. It was really strange though the amount of animosity that he would induce in the other children out of nowhere. Like, there was this kid called Brad. He started hitting him because of what he believed Said was really a prince and his dad was a king. The weird thing was that Richie didn't fight back. He'd just sit there until the teacher came. And he was all bloody. He was a perfect child. A perfect baby. Very independent. Very smart. Never fussed. He always kept himself busy reading stories and coloring. He was always doing these ... private things. Private games. - Thanks a lot. - Forget it. I got it from Baton. It's loyalty. - To the shithole? - Maybe. Better than this. No way. They're straight with you here. You know what's what. Don't be too sure. Hey, you got any rolls? That's alright, man. Forget it, okay? Baton. Ok. I'll see you later. Bolton's re-emergencence in my life contradicted any memory I had of him as a child. At Baton he was solemn and small. Even I picked on him. Stay out of my way, Bolton. You hear me? Something about my memory of Bolton disturbed me but I could not put my finger on just what it was. All night long I built an imaginary life of which he was the center, and I always gave that life, which was begun over and over and transformed a dozen times, a violent end. - Hello? - Dr Graves? This is Dr. Olsen, Nancy Olsen. I've been trying to reach you for quite some time now. Are you ...? Is everything okay? Yes, I'm fine. Good, I'm relieved to hear that. I did not know what happened. I thought that maybe you'd decided to turn down the internship. That perhaps I had interrupted you at a critical moment ... It's just that after your terrific success I wanted to be the first to congratulate you. Hello? Hello, Dr. Graves? Hello? Dr. Graves? This is Dr. Olsen. Dr Graves, I know you're in there. Dr. Graves! What happened to your face? Do I ... look lascivious? Like the pitiful, decrepit result some hideous indulgence? Huh? Well, ... take a good look, Miss, Dr. Olsen. Because that's exactly what I am. Dr. Graves. Please, call me Tom. Tom, What happened? I ... accidentally ... ingested ... The serum? - Yes - Oh God. All of it? What are you going to do? There is nothing I can do. You know as well as I that the hormonal system is self-perpetuating. The biomagnetic field is irreversible. I'm a monster. You're not. Then look at me. Now, kiss me. Sorry. I'm a little worse for wear. No. I have the greatest respect for you, doctor . And of all people this could happen to, Why did it have to be you? I just don't know. The fact is ... It doesn't disgust me in the slightest. On the contrary. It breaks my heart. Don't. He was a meek soul. People pick on meek souls. It's something in human nature, Something very sad about human nature. We have to pick on those who are weaker than us. And that is exactly what happened on Park Street. In the two and half years Richie attended Park Street elementary school he allegedly made 47 visits to the nurse's office His mother was called as many as 25 times, and Richie met with the principal at least 10. 12 classmates were suspended and 3 expelled. I remember that he was involved in fights in the cafeteria and even in the playground. For a little kid ... he was noticeable. Some people felt sorry for him, but most of them wanted to hit him. It was weird, because he was just the kind of person that you want to see get creamed. Once, I was right in the middle of giving him an injection and he called me fatso. I mean, ... I could have hurt him or something. I just think he was evil. Often it was a bloody nose, it was a sprained ankle... if it was not skinned knees, then it was somebody put something in his milk ... Once, and unfortunately, I discovered him and a slightly older boy, Gregory Lazar, in the equipment room. And Gregory had the poor kid over his knees and was apparently, really giving it to him. Everything the principal said about it was completely a lie. I didn't attack Richie Beacon at all. He just kept bugging me, kept bothering me, every second. He made me. I got this when I was a kid. This guard was always calling me pretty boy, right?. Pretty Boy. So I caught him. This is a tough one, look. And that was tough, huh?. You're a kid and you get something like that. You think you're gonna die. This one here ... I was crashing in church... Now, you should never crash in the churches. This is bad luck. I told Nick. This one here is... almost invisible, but it's right there. It's pink, do you see? Yes I got it in La Salle. Latvian needle, I think. Anyway... There's nothing wrong with being out in the world, Tom. I don't know why you so nervous about it. People come down with all kinds of conditionss. This is just one of them. Hello! Just ignore them. Don't! Why? I can't. Well, I can't do this. Not now. But Tom, I'm in love with you. Look at me, Nancy. Think about what you're saying and look at me. Tom! Tom! Richie was extremely gifted. Imaginative. Always telling elaborate stories. He was a chronic liar. And often involve other classmates in these stories of his. And they'd get very angry. He liked controlling people. And watching them boil over. One day I was in the garden I think it was Sunday. And suddenly I saw something come running from the Beacon's house. I thought it was a deer, a little deer. But when it came towards me, I saw it was a little boy, five or six years, He was naked. And he came running, closer... and he was exhibiting himself right in front of me. As he got closer to me, he squatted down and ... he had a crap right in front of me. He got up, turned around and he ran away, like a wild animal. I didn't know what to do... So I went home and closed the door. I just was so shocked. Every time I do a job, I get stiff. Every single time. Because you were doing with ... What's his name? Nick, that goof of yours. What? I do my jobs solo, man, I can't do them with someone else. That's not what I heard. What have you heard? - Nothing. - What? Nothing. What? Just that you and Nick... you were partners. Who said that? Don't remember. Who? Look, I don't remember. What do you think you're looking at? You fucking queer! Fucking Scum! Do you think Nick gives a shit what people think? You know what Nick would do? Well, he's busted into a tribe, He'd fucking piss all over it. But first he'd do it up, he'd drink or eat, he'd take a bath ... screw me ... I tell you, that guy ... Once we were in a bank in New Orleans ... We? What? Listen, don't be fucking smart with me, man Broom, don't start, I'm serious. I mean, don't start with me. - Bolton. - So what? So, we did shit together, we got busted. Big fucking deal! And who the fuck are you, anyway? You know, you walk around trying to act like a big shot, Who are you kidding? You are this fucking fruit in this joint. Hey! It was only a matter of time before Bolton would be accepted by the big shots. Go ahead. And nothing could threaten our friendship more. I could tell Rass, the group's kingpin, had an eye for him from day one. I still could not take lightly the idea that people made love without me. Yes Darling. Yes Tom! Tom! How did you find me? Never mind. Come home. - We belong together. - How can you say that? - I know what I'm saying. - I don't belong with anyone. You're wrong. The search is still on for the leper murderer of Priscilla Monroe and possibly four other victims yet to be identified. Already the venomous cancer has spread to hundreds of men, Women and Children and cases of sexual violence are also on the rise. Be on the lookout for a dark haired man, with intense eyes and a badly infected mouth. You don't know anyhing about that, do you, Tom? Tom. It's you, isn't it? You're the leper they've all been talking about... Shh! Why didn't you tell me that you were contagious? When were you going to tell me? I was scared that I would frighten you away. You are all I have left, Nancy. How can you be so sure that I am safe with you? Nancy, I love you. Tom, I have to think. Tom, I need to be alone time to think. Nancy. I'm sorry. I'll call you. Please. Nancy Nancy. In mid-November of 1984 Richie Beacon was treated at Cloyfield Medical Center for injuries to the thighs and lower back. His parents claimed he'd been hurt by the other kids at school, but, frankly, I doubted it. Why? I felt they were being purposely vague with me. There were other strange circumstances surrounding the case. I found an infectious discharge, it was genitally secreted. Sharp yellow color. Just stupid junk. Like what? Like, "You're the dad, and you're all mad." "And you know, the son." I just did this thing, or something. It was just some stupid game. What did he do? He just totally forced me do it. It was like he got into trouble or something ... If I didn't do it, he just sat there and laughed. And I'd get so mad I'd finally do what he said. Totally spank him. Just to make him shut up. It is very hard, but ... Mrs. Beacon's account of Richie's disappearance, you know. him killing his father and then flying away, came directly from one of his stories. Nancy. Nancy? Nancy. Nancy! Nancy. Oh God. No. Tom. Atmospheric toxins changed the magnetic field. That's caused it to spread. Don't blame yourself. Nancy. I love you, Nancy. Now it begins. Miss Olsen! You'd better open up in there. Come on! Shit, I gotta go. Go ahead. Want a drag, pal? You're a slut, You know that? Your little man can eat my fucking prick. What the fuck are you talking about? Look, John, get lost, will you? If they see us together they're gonna start bullshitting. Why? - I do not know, but get lost. - Why? They think you are ... Look, I tried to tell 'em you're OK, but ... Come on! You're my man. Bolton's friendship with Rass and the others filled me with jealousy, but instigated a transformation. I felt myself growing mean, icy, stiff,glowing like a sword blade. Hey, you! Hold it right there! Come on let's go around. I'll take. Well I don't know what kind of shouting they heard, but yes, we were fighting. Fred was very stressed, and I was busy. Richie kept getting hurt. It was a bad time in general. Did your arguments have mostly to do with Richie? No, not at all. Fred was angry with me. He thought I wasn't spending enough time with Richie and he wanted to know where I was. Every second. A neighbor claims she saw him ripping up your flower beds. He was just angry. Had fired our gardener, a Spanish kid called Joseph. He was just very angry with me so he tore up my flowers. I know that I was wrong, but my child was watching over me. My son was an angel of judgement and I had sinned against the Lord. We are at 69 Gold Street, residence of Dr. Thomas Graves, the notorious leper, murderer cause of countless deaths in the Centerville area alone. Local authorities have the building surrounded We are presently escorting all other tenants out of the building, since the area is heavily contaminated. A surveillance operation ... I have no doubt that we will be able to cease this menace to the community, and stop the spread of this despicable contagion. About week before the third Richie had sprained his wrist at school. He twisted it. And a teacher who lives near here drove him home. It was about 1:15 or something and I had no idea he would be coming home when he did so he walked in on me with this kid, Joseph, the gardener. Hey Broom, what's up? What's wrong with you? Alright, Dr. Thomas Graves, It's Deputy Hansen of Centerville County I am required by law to tell you that youare under arrest. At this time we have you completely surrounded, and there is no chance of escape. I repeat, the apartment is surrounded, and you are ordered to make yourself visible. Dr. Thomas Graves, you are under arrest. Come to the window, we have the house surrounded. Why? Open the window and show yourself. All I could remember thinking was: "Oh my God, it's Richie." But when I saw his face, It reminded me of this time, years before when Fred was spanking Richie, and I was watching, and I swear he looked at me with the exact same expression. It was like some... an oath in some other language. His face was so weird. It made me feel ashamed. Still, Thank you ... You needn't stop. It's the same. I've shot. And I will whenever I like. Open your mouth. Open it. I told you to open your fucking mouth. Open it. Keep that mouth open. Science tells us there always a reason why a star falls or a body is ill. And religion does the same. This is the story of a man whose quest into the darkness. True or false? Both. There it is! I'll tell you something: Don't jump! Wait. Do you think I'm scum? You think I'm dirt, Don't you? Well, I'll tell you something. Every one of you down there is exactly the same! But you'll never know it. You'll never know it. Because you never will know what pride is. Because pride is the only thing that lets you stand up to misery. And this kind of misery! But the kind of misery of which is made this stinking world. Nothing, Doctor. He's gone. Doctor. I can hear the angels farting on the ceiling. Bolton! Three days later, Rass took Bolton with him on an escape attempt from Fontenal. Rass made it as far as Orleans. Bolton shot by a prison guard. After Fred heard about everything he bought this gun. He just came home one day and he went totally crazy with it. - Tell me who else knows! - Richie, go away! Get out of here! Shut the fuck up! He carried around the house, showing it to Richie. So when he fell asleep on the couch later I put the gun away in the drawer. But at some point, in the middle of the night he got up and started again. He was smacking me around and screaming his head off. And of course, it woke up Richie. But Fred was like some crazy man, and coming at me, and he threw the lamp at me, which knocked me down. I just remember him coming at me. around the throat and me trying to hold his arms down they were like steel. Then I just thought: This's it. And then, all of a sudden I heard an explosion, like a bomb. And then another. And then Fred collapses on the top of me. I look up and I saw Richie standing there with the gun. I think he looked at me and then somehow took off towards the window. I was pulling Fred off of me when I saw him there, standing on the ledge. I screamed, I thought he was going to jump. And all of a sudden, he did. He just jumped off the ledge and went up. As if the wind had taken him, 'cos he was so light, but it wasn't the wind, he just took off. It was so weird. When I ran and watched him go up ... He just flew up. And I called to him and he sort of tilted my way. Before he... kind of rolled out of sight. My little boy.
