 

                        Since the beginning, Man has looked into the awesome reaches of infinity and asked the eternal questions : "What is time ? What is space ? "What is life ? What is death ?" Through a hundred civilisations, philosophers and scientists have come with answers. But will doubt remains, for each human soul must find the secret of its own faith. The tender and haunting legend of a portrait of Jennie is based on the two ingredient of faith : truth and hope. There is such a portrait hung in the Metropolitan Museum in New York. And there was such a girl named Jennie who sat for it. So much is true. For the rest, science tells us that nothing ever dies, but only changes. But time itself does not pass, but curves along us. And the past and the future are together on our side forever. Out of the shadows of knowledge and out of a painting hung on a museum wall comes our story. The truth of which lies not on our screen, but in your heart. And now, Portrait of Jennie. New York is a cold place. It was no warmer in the winter of 1934. Yet there is a type of suffering for the artist, which is worse than any winter or part of it can do. It is more like a winter of the mind. Dreadful feeling of the worlds indifference. My courage had all run out. Yes Sir, What can I do for you? Well you can buy one of my pictures perhaps Yes, but we buy very very little, almost nothing. Times being what they are. However, let me see what you have. - Hmm, Hmm, landscapes. Most like here, too bad. These are the things I did in Cape Cod. These are the fisheries in North Truro. Land's End. Hmm, landscapes. Theres some sketches of the city. Thats the bridge. There is a good bridge, but I just don't happen to like bridges They come everyday by a dozen Miss Spinney, you stuffled me. This is my partmer, Miss Spinney. I don't think I caught your name. I didn't say it. My name is Eben Adams. - What are you so dfensive about ? - I'm not. "I am Eben Adams." Has to be better if you weren't. You eat more. Don't be in such a hurry. Lets see what you got here. Nothing that can interest you and your partner. You are probably right. I like to see what interests you. Sit down, Adams. Maybe you do not sell anything, but be sure rest. I would advise you to sit. - You paint nice flowers. - Thank you. - Have you read Robert Browning ? - Long time ago. Do you remember his poem about Andrea del Sarto, the perfect painter ? Proportion, anatomy, colour, it had everything and nothing. He painted a perfect hand A Raphal drew a famous claw. Raphal loved his work. Poor Andy del Sarto. I think I get your point. There isn't a proper love in any of these. - Come on Miss Spinney. - Don't be soft, Matthews. I am an old maid, nobody knows more about love than an old maid. Whats the matter with you, Adams ? You have to learn to care deeply to do something. Now take the flower. I have a weakness for flowers. He doesn't do them too badly. If its done 12,50 $ for. Any arguement, there is no sales. No arguements. You pay him, Mr. Matthews. Do you have a change for 1 $ ? I haven't got a dime. You lose 50 cents. If you want more flowers, I can't cower than a home. I was afraid of that. Good Day. Thank you very much. Good Day, Miss Spinney. I don't think you really wanted the picture. If I hadn't wanted it, I wouldn't have taken it. You have beautiful eyes. Good Bye. Dear, I am afraid that the picture isn't worth more than a couple of dollars. I know, but Adams is. Yes, but we are supposed to do business for profit, Miss Spinney. I thought. I bought this for myself. Its wonderful what a little compliment can do. My first in 20 years, Mr. Matthews. At last I had a little money in my pocket. But I think I was a little light headed, for not having enough to eat. Suddenly, I had the awareness of something extraordinary. The city sounds were mutated far away. They seem to come from another time, like the sound of summer in a meadow long age. Its mine. Isn't anybody there with you ? No, why should there be ? Getting pretty dark, won't you go home? I don't have to go home yet, nobody is ready for me. Anyway, you are with me. I am Jennie. - Jennie, Jennie what ? - Jennie Appleton. Father and mother actor and actresses. They are working on a Hammerstein tutorial. - They do juggling on a rope. - What did you say, Hammerstein ? Hmm, why? Because it was stolen dry years ago when I was a boy You must be thinking of some other place because I was there yesterday - Oh now really... - Now let me see your pictures Mister. Adams. -How do you know that they are pictures ? - I just know. There are often little windows in such a big church. There have to be little, there is so much wind in Cape Cod. I don't like it, it scares me. - The wind ? - No, the black water. There should be a lighthouse at the end of the ocean. Yes there should be. How did you know ? I don't exactly remember. Someday I'll show it to you. How are they on the rock The Land's End light. You said you didn't remember I don't, I just know. Wish I like your pictures, but I don't. Thats what everybody says. Thats why I can't sell them. Maybe you shouldn't paint places. Why don't you paint people instead ? Cecily Browns too much full of pictures of people. - Who's Cecily Brown ? - She is my best friend. I go to school everyday now, but only in the mornings. What do you learn ? Well, yesterday we learnt about Kaiser. He is the king of Germany. He was a long time ago. You are wrong. Cecily Brown's father is in Germany now, he sees him all the time. He says the Kaiser rides around in a white horse and he likes to fight. I can fight too. I can fight Cecily. She is bigger but I'm stronger. I can fight a girl. But you said Cecily Brown is your best friend. She is. Its funny to have someone to play with. Don't you know anybody to play with ? No. Well, I'm afraid I have to go now. Well its little lot I told you about myself. So I will walk away with you, if you don't mind. I know a song. Would you like to hear it ? I love to. Where I come from nobody knows And where I am going everything nows When wind blows when it snows Nobody knows And where I am going nobody knows - Who taught you that ? - Nobody, Its just a song. - Do you know the game I like to play best ? - Whatta? Its a wishing game. - I'll tell you what I wish most. - What do you wish ? You first have to close your eyes and turn around three times. I wish that you will wait for me to grow up so that we can always be together. Did you know what I guessed. Well...I can't talk anymore. Good bye. - I'll get your parcel. - Oh! Thank you. Funny kind of a kid. Jennie! - Is that you, Mr. Adams ? - Yes Mrs. Jekes. You are always coming so extremely quiet, I can hardly hear you Mr. Adams. - So thoughtful of my other tenants. - I didn't want to disturb anyone. Of course not, by a fine gentleman like you. - Will 5$ do for a while ? - It won't do , but I'll take. - I will get some more for you soon. - I will better see that you do. I also thought you will be interested in another of my sketches. Oh! No. My bathroom is full of now. Where will I put in another one ? In my parlour ? No, I wasn't expecting anything like that. You certainly have a way, Mrs Jekes. Play with him like a cat and a mouse, and then you pounce. But he is attractive, isn't he ? And a gentleman besides. That makes it so hard to throw him out. But he is an honourable to your house, Mrs. Jekes. Just can't understand a man fiddling away his time just painting things naked. Of course, he did shovel snow to pay for last months rent. Painting things, women ? Women without... Mrs. Bounce, we agreed he is a gentleman, gentlemen just don't paint women without..." No, of course not. Somehow they tuned the little girl sang straight in my mind. And I thought of the last thing she said to me, about waiting for her to grow up. But people can't wait for other people to grow up. There is something different about that child. I wondered if my pencil can catch it. - Hi Ya Mac. - Good Morning, Gus. Morning is it ? You slept it all away. Gone forever, What a grand morning it was too. I worked pretty late last night. I didn't get to sleep at dawn. Had your breakfast yet ? Well, No. How about having some lunch with me ? No, No, not going to eat on you, Gus, you have to work too hard for your money. Wait a minute. I got some money of my own. - No kidding. - I sold a picture yesterday. 12,50 $. - Well, pretty a new ! - Today, you're having lunch on me. Its a great pleasure, Mac. Just come along a minute while I picked up the hack, we will soon be on our road. You know Gus, I can't get you at all. Why should you care if I eat ? Well, may be I don't want to see people go hungry. Let me put it this way, Mac : I got a lot of respect for a guy thats doing what he's got to do, even if may be its killing. You want to paint pictures... you go on right ahead doing it. No matter. I like that, Mac ! You know most of the times, fellows get the ideas that there is nothing much to life except, getting through what is easy and comfortable as he can. Making a quarter here a dollar there. Eating, sleeping and dying. then a fellow like you comes along, who's not thing too much about them things. That makes you wonders. Wonder that may be you are not missing something. Up in. I like to recommend my friend Moore and his corn beef and cabbage. It's almost like home. You couldn't pay me these anywhere else. - Sorry Mac. - No it's all right. Ah! Well. You taking to wear scarves ? That isn't mine. I found it. belongs to a little girl I met at the park. - pretty big scarf for a little girle. - Funny kid. She said her parents were acrobats at Hammerstein in Victoria. - Hammerstein was turned down years ago. - Of course it was. - But she said she was there yesterday. - Yeah! lest kids straight. All ways dreaming up something. What would you know about. Sarah Bernhardt came to America for a farewell tour. - Sarah Bernhardt ? - Are you gone crazy. "Sarah Bernhardt, distinguished French tragedienne, "arrive next month." Let me see. Oh! That is what it says. Say this paper is dated 1910. up an old paper like that ? The girl in the park had it. Her scarf was wrapped in it. Gus, read that ad. "Hammersteins Victoria ." EVA TANGUAY - The American comedienne WILL ROGERS - Expert lariat thrower LES APPLETON Novelty high wire act - What about it ? - Just what she said . - I didn't get you. - She said her name is Jennie Appleton. So ? Now that I think of it, she wasn't dressed the kids are now. Now Mac, you are not trying to believe this kid, Are you? - Of course not . - Ok, Ok, eat your lunch . As my mother used to say : "If you got too little in your stomach, you got too much in your head." I see. You think I'm imaging things. No, no, Gus, she was real enough all right. I saw her. Whats more, I'll draw her for you. - Hi, Gus. - Hi, Mac ? Meet my friend Mac, back here as the owner of the joint. - Hello, M. Moore. - Can you think I'm richer ? - Can't be bad. - Glad to hear you say. - You, Gus, everything all right ? - Sure, sure I guess so. What do you mean I guess so ? Anything wrong ? No, no, it is not. - Is the food all right ? - Sure, sure. And whats great in it ? I don't like to say this, Mac. You are not the sort of man I like to hurt. But if you don't see me around for a while, don't be surprised. I thought I may start eating down with Nicks for a change. - Nick ? - Yeah. Nicks ? - Whats wrong with Nicks ! no, nothings the matter with Nicks. I suppose you'd like their paper plates ? - So you are going to start eating down at Nicks. - Should I say what happened. - Beautiful day. It is more. So you are going to start eating down at Nick ? Yeah, I thought I might. It takes all kind of people to make a world. All change. And some of them hasn't the face of friendship or loyalty. Fellow likes a change once in a while. A change from what ? Lets say this room that joy that its dark in here. Dark? Dark ... Your'e not breaking it up. Breaking up the joint, Mac. - What would you want me to do ? - Well I don't know Mac, I hadn't got that far. Suppose I could hang these three pitcher in there. You know its a crying shame you couldn't have a whole scene painted right on the wall. Of course I know that can't be done. Why can't it be done ? Didn't you ever tell a murals ? Pictures painted onto a wall. Is that right Mac, is it possible to paint a picture right on the wall? Yes its possible. Its done all the time. See, you do mocks ? As a matter of fact this wall will blend itself to a mural very nicely. On look what are we seeking now ! Here we get one of the grandest artist with the whole world sitting right at the table, why don't we ask him to do something ? You could sqeeze it in, Mac. You could squeeze it in between you other commissions. Well, I don't know. You could drop in here say around noon time sometime. It won't cost you a cent. Excuse me Mister. I am going to post this. Lost him, had him in our roast. Let it go, Gus, don't say anymore about it. ST-PATRICK'S DAY - DINNER & DANCE Up the rebels ! - Three Cheers, Mac ! Have you ever seen Mick Collins ? I never did, and often regretted it. Here's what you should do Mac. Right over the bar here, a painted up Michael Collins. Mick Collins himself and he leading his men in the battle against the might of England. Just a minute, Gus. Why man over here will be the greatest thing that hit this stall. Who's here would be the valiant piece for every Irish patriot who come. Why man you wouldn't have stand alone here at the bar. And it wouldn't cost you a cent. - It sounds kind of interesting. - Here's how I see it. Or should I say how my friend Mac here sees it. Its an early dawn in a small hill in Ireland. There on a carpet of shavlock under an old elm stands Mick Collins. Leaning on his skull wig for zero hour. All the Murphys, Flannegan and O'Shea awaiting with them. In a brief moment Mick himself will lead them in a battle and lead them to victory. Up the rebels ! You better paint it, Mr. Adams ! Up the rebels ! - What's this ? - Sketch of a little girl I saw in the park. Very good. Isn't it, Miss Spinney ? Yes, I think you have something there, Adam. - Do you know why I like it ? - Why ? Its the quality of the girl which reminds me of long ago. And there's ought to be something timeless about a woman. Something eternal. You can see it all the great portraits of the past. They make you feel you could meet those women anywhere and be inspired by them. Well then, Mr. Adams, I will tell you what I do, I'll take the sketch. I give you 25 $ for it, and I don't care what Miss Spinny says. I'm not going to say anything. Now Adams, you can stop feeling sorry for yourself. Now things are looking up. Getting three meals a day for painting a mural, and now, 25 $,thank you, for a sketch. A sketch, well, thank you. - Where're you going now ? - Nowhere, anywhere . Where I come from nobody nows. Where I'm going, anything goes. - What's that ? - That's a song the girl sang in the park. Well, we don't know where you are coming or going but would you like to have a tea ? I'll be happy to do. Come along. - Thank you. - See you later, Mr. Matthews. Oh ! Yes, as you say, Miss Spinney. No, I've not skated since I was a kid in Maine. - You where brought up in Maine? - South Paris, Maine. thats where they are? Nice little town. Rivers , lakes , mountains. My father had a general store till he died. My mother died a few years later, and I work for two three years of college. - Facinating, no ? - I think its interesting. I wannt to ask you right about something. I don't feel sorry for myself, the way you said. I'm facing a very practical problem. That is something. An artist facing practical problem. Not the kind you think. I don't mind being hungry. I don't even care to entice the land lady. But I do know this way artists have to endure more than I have. But they knew they had something. You can take a lot if you know that. Do you know I think I am why ? should I believe it all the thousands of struggling artists, I am one who has something worth saying ? Relax, Adams. Come and sit down, it irritates me if you go on walking. You know, something about you appears to me. I can't imagine what. I think you are like the beau I wanted when I was young. When I was doubting myself. - Not you too? - Even me. Look where its brought me. Just a frustrated old maid lettering a frustrated young artist. Miss Spinny What shall I do ? I think the sketch shows what you can do. All it needs is a little inspiration. That little girl in the park. Its there, does it. I'll bet you're needing a tour on the ice? So long with you. Thanks , Miss Spinney. Hello, Mr. Adams. Hello, Jennie. Its fun ? - I can't believe its you . - Why not ? You have grown so much taller. You are making me feel small as before. No, I'm serious you have grown. Of course. I have. - Don't you remember our wish? - Sure I do. Lets skate. Lets go a little faster. You so funny. That seems so funny too. Oh, by the way, I have something here of yours. Oh what a pretty scarf. I crossed on the bench itself. You said it was yours. Did I ? Well if I said so, it must be true. I will tell you what ? Why don't you keep it for me till I grow up Then I will have one more reason to grow up fast. All right , I owe you a favour anyway. You do ? Why ? I sketched you the other day and sold it. Oh I am glad. And the party told me how to paint portraits. What do you think of that ? Well , who would you paint, Mr. Adams ? I don't knows. I haven't decided yet. Maybe, would it have to be me? Well ? I'm going to have a picture painted. Won't Emily be mad ? Emily is my best friend. She had her picture painted by Mr. Fromkes. And I said you are going to do mine. How did you know that ? When I wished it , then I closed my eyes and turned around three times. But Emily still said you wouldn't do it, so I slapped her. Emily ? I thought it was Cecily who always fought with you. Oh you don't mean Cecily Brown, do you? But she moved to Boston three years ago. I thought I told you. No, you didn't. - Thats funny. - Well, it doesn't matter. Come on. Lets skate. Weel I have to be going pretty soon. No, don't go. How would you like some hot chocolate? - Oh! I love hot chocolate. - Get it right over there. - Oh how wonderful, Thank you . - Welcome. Jennie, where do you live? I'd like to come and see you. Well I don't think there is any place where you can come and see me. - Why ? - Its just the way it is. When will you start my portrait? Whenever your parents will let you. Where are they now? At Hammerstein. They are still in Hammerstein ? And they got wonderful new tricks, way up on high wire. Sometimes, it scares me to watch them. Of course its silly. Thats why they are so famous. They scare everybody. I would like to see them. Then I can ask their permission for you to come and sit for me. Why don't you take me to Hammerstein to see them. Oh yes, do lets go. We could get ourselves in free. - Could you come at matinee on Saturday ? - I think so. Where do we meet ? Well lets meet, here in the park. At the bench we met before I'll be there at 2 o'clock , at least I'll try. That was wonderful chocolate. - Thank you. - Well I really must go now. - Must you? I hate it to stop, when will we ever have it again ? - Well, goodbye . - Goodbye. Looking for someone , Adams? Just watching the little girl I was talking to you about. I know now that Spinny can't see Jennie . But all I knew then was, she kept a watchful eye on me as though i were a patient that needed watching. I was happy when I realised it was Saturday, and i could scaresly wait to find what Jennie was going to present to me as Hammerstein. Alas, there was no sign of Jennie. Apparently, she had forgotten. On impulse, I decided to find out for myself what I could about Jennie's parents. well, I had a bet with a friend of mine. I wonder if you can help me. - You remember the old Hammerstein theatre ? - Do I remember ? Pardon, You came to the right party to ask about Hammersteins. I think it used to be right about here somewhere ... My friend thinks he knows it. Hammersteins used to stand right there, where the Realto is now. Yes Sir. Just I will ask you one more question. - Do you remember the Appleton ? - The Appleton ? - They used to have an act . The trapze. - Trapze. Seems to be... Look, you go at the Rialto, and ask old Pete. He is a doorman or something. He used to play Hammerstein. But he could saw a dance man in his day. - He might know. - Thanks a lot. Appleton, Appleton, Yeah, they were the four Appleton. That was in 1902. They were clowns. They were very good too. Right from Vienna. This was a high wire act, Husband and wife. 1910. Then there was Mike and Pat Appleton, Irish. They did some songs and petre. That was 1904, or 1905 maybe. Please, let me do it my way. I have to go backwards and then start from the beginning. You see, I will not remember and I don't like not to remember. And, I think I am getting old, you see. I am sorry to put you all this trouble. No trouble at all. I have a very good memory. Sometimes that I don't remember things very well. - Clara will know. - Clara who ? Clara Morgan. She was with wardrobe in Hammerstein. Everybody went to her with his troubles. Those colour people, very wise people. They know what trouble is. - You know how I can find her ? - Sure I know where you can find her. - Oh where she lives ? - Oh we ? - Thank you very much. - Good memory, No ? - Just one. Goodbye. - Thank you so much. They were all wonderful acts. To me they had more glamour than anything you see today. You sort of felt as though you knew all the artists personally. Her it is . These are the Appleton. Mary and Frank Appleton. - This one girl... - Thats their daughter, Jennie. - Their daughter ? - Yes. Isn't it possible that this child is their granddaughter Oh no. I knew Jennie when this picture was taken. She was a darling little girl with big sad eyes. She used to come backstage and sit on my lap. I used to give her rock candy. - Do you know where she is now ? - No. I lost track of her that night her parents were killed on the trapeze. That was many years ago. The wire broke. Jennie was in the theatre looking when it happened. Are you sure you don't remember what happened to her ? Well, it seens that I remember some talk about her aunt wanting to put her in a convent. Jennie wasn't a catholic, but her aunt said a convent was a best place for a girl to be. Thank you very much, Mrs. Morgan. - I appreciate you giving me your time. - Thank you, Mr. Adams. It isn't often I have a chance to share my memories. I do hope you find Jennie. She was a dear little girl. I hope so too . Thank you again. That night everything seemed like a dream to me. The towers of the city. The myriad lights But now I knew that Jennie was not just an imaginative child. Not just a child who defies time and reason. Instinctively, I followed myself approaching the bench in the park. Jennie's bench. And as I did, I was concious at the unaccustomed atmosphere. As though time was melting with the snow. Was the sob that I heard was a part of the illusion ? Jennie, whats the matter with you? - Why are you crying of now? - Father and mother. What... somethings happened. They had an accident. - I knew it will happen. - Why what happened. I knew it will happen, I was all scared it will happen. - And tonight... - Tonight ? Jennie, I know how you feel. I dont know much of the tragic bit. It isn't hurting now. Please try to look at it that way. - They are dead. - We will all die sometime. I loved them . They loved me. You mustn't be too unhappy. They wouldn't want you to be, would they? - Would they ? - No. They told me one day, they said if anything happen to them I mustn't be unhappy because they were doing what they wanted to do... If anything happened, would happen to them both, at the same time, the way they wanted. Well you see? Yes. - So I shouldn't cry, why should I ? - No. They wouldn't like it. - They died the way they wanted. - All right. Guess on me, I'm crying to myself because they are gone - because I have nobody. - No, Jennie. Maybe I'll always be lonely. I don't know why, but i don't think I wiil be lonely very long, because i am hurrying, I'm hurrying fast now. - My aunt is sending me to a convent, and... - A convent ? - You want to go ? - Of course I do . After that I'll be grown up, don't you understand? No, Jennie, I don't understand. And I wish I did, but I don't understand any of it. Each time I see you, you've changed. You're older. You talk about things that happened, but it happened long ago. Did they? Sometimes, I kind of think that too. Maybe thats because I have to find something. Finding what? I'm not sure. But I think, I'll know someday. I think I'll know it and find it. Do you know why? I think, you will know too. I hope so. You wait for me won't you? You give me a little more time? All right, Jennie. Listen. Its a star. Can't you hear them? Listen to the star coming up. Cold cold months followed each other, at the end. From the mystery which surrounded Jennie, my thoughts turned themselves away. It was not in my hands, nothing was in my hands, Any more than I could bring the spring weather before its time or keep the winter from clinging to the earth. Skipper ! Skipper ! - You bad boy. Hello, Adams. - Hello, Mr. Matthews. He always runs away when we get near the park. Thank you very much for catching him. I didn't catch me. Just ran away to me. Thats a great compliment, from Skipper. He doesn't usually take to strangers, unless he thinks they are in trouble. Trouble? What kind of trouble could you sense about me? I suppose most artists goes to something of the sort. Sooner or later its not enough for them just to live and paint and have enough, or maybe enough to eat. No. Sooner or later, they want recognition. They want to sell their work. Good men, great men appear to do that. But I don't thing thats all is bothering you. Mr. Matthews was right. There was something else. My memory was beginning to play tricks on me. I was seized by memory so urgent that they were more real to me than what was before me. Everything reminded me of Jennie. "Where I come from nobody knows and where I'm going everyone goes" Finally spring come through. Im tried to work. But mostly, I was contented doing nothing. I knew in my heart that I will never be until, until and unless, Jennie returns. I needed to tell someone, and who was there to tell but Spinney ? Maybe I will paint one important painting in my life, That much I know, I can do. - A portrait of Jennie ? - Yes. Its the first thing and only thing I've ever been sure of my life. - You couldn't do without her. - Of course not. Suppose she doesn't make another appearance? - How can you think about it. - I didn't realise how much you needed her. To be your long time define something to bring your talent to life. You couldn't find it, so... So you think I created her, because I needed her for... Inspiration ? Perhaps. Maybe you never saw her, maybe you did. Whats the diffrence ? As you grow older, you'll learn to believe in lots of things you can't see. How do you get that canvas ready for her. Come in. - Hi Mac. - Gus. Thats a grand day outside, for New York. Whats doing here ? - Preparing a canvas for a portrait. - Don't tell me. - So thats way you do it ? - The way you do it. Speaking of paintings, - I dropped in at Moores yesterday. - I know. He's upset because I haven't finished the job. - After all he made a deal, Mac. - I let him down ? Mick Collins is a little upset to Mac. Going to lead his men in the battle, and how is he going to stand up. You tell Moore I'll be in soon. - I'll finish it somehow. - Sure, sure. Don't think I'm ungrateful. Its all right. As my mother used to say : "If there is stardust in your head, there is jumble in your soul." You were right, Gus. - Look there isn't standing room at the bar! - I think I saw it. It was a grand idea. Quiet everbody, quiet. The unveiling is about to take place. Hurray Eben Adams ! Hurray Eben Adams, hurray. The cheers were following, but I knew the murals were worthless. I knew in my heart, I was worthless. Suddenly, I felt fear. The world seemed curiously empty and silent. One note to bring it all to life. One note would make an instrument of it. Apparently, that note was not that we played. The world of my art was to remain in empty parks. Jennie! Eben! No, it isn't true. - It can't be. - Oh yes. Yes it is. I tried to get here soon, but I couldn't. - You're beautiful ! Grown so much. - Of course I have. I'm hurried. I'm in my first year college at convent. Wonderful. Dress... - Do you like it ? Its a Sunday dress. - Lovely. Oh look, we can see the bridge from here. Eben, I thought of you so much, it can fill an eternity. What did you think? How wonderful it all is, how I've searched, searched, and now, I will be together always. I'm almost sure... - Do you know what Emily wants to know ? - What ? When you're going to marry me. Don't you like me, Eben ? I know I'm old enough yet, I would be soon. Whats that ? Thats a sketch of Radio City. Radio City ? I never heard of it. It wasn't built very long. You like it ? - Very strange. - Its not a genuine ? Thats Land's End light. - Thats right. Land's end light. How do you know? Have you ever been there? I don't know. I think... Its an old abandoned lighthouse upon Cape Cod. I did that sketch some years ago. Makes me unhappy. In that case, you just put it aside. Look, study the canvas. - Canvas ? - Canvas for your portrait. Your portrait. One we planned. Oh Eben, if you wanted to do it. I was so sure you will be here one day. I haven't been able to do anything else. Sit over here. - Here ? - Oh yes. Right there, where I've dreamed you'll sit. - Les will be so jealous. - When I tell him. Turn here the other way. Some of my friends taking a veil next Sunday. It will be lovely to watch. Will you come and see? I love to Jennie. Please hold still. Turn your head. Few of my classmates will be leaving. I hate to have them go. Jennie, your hand. Turn your head. Well there, hold that. Eben, promise you won't forget me. Hello, Eben ! - Hello Eben. - Hello Jennie, I was afraid. afraid you might not be here. I told you I'll be here. We can hurry if you want to see the ceremony. See those with the candle are the ones who's taking veil. Our teachers sit back. First one is, old sister Marie Margaret. She teaches history. And next to her is sister Marie Euphemia. Teaches science. And over there near the entrance, is my favourite, sister Marie of Misricorde. I am so glad you have been waiting for me. Give us our daily bread. Forgive our sins, as we forgive those who trespass against us. Lead us not into temptation, deliver us from evil. Isn't it beautiful ? I always feel its closer to truth things in here. As if, pretty soon, I would understand. How beautiful the world is, Eben. The sun goes down in the same lovely sky, just as it did yesterday, and will tomorrow. When is tomorrow, Jennie ? Does it matter ? Its always. This was tomorrow once. "Where I come from, nobody knows And where I am going, everything goes" I heard that song where. Of course. You sang it to me on the first day at the park. Did I ? I've forgotten. "The wind blows, the sea flows "God knows" I think he knows, Eben. So this is where the master works. Well, this much of a place. Over here, Spinney. Of course, it isn't finished yet. Don't be coy. Lets see it. What do you think? Well Adams, you found what you were looking for. You like it ? Eben, I've been selling pictures for many years. And in my business, its always a dream that someday you'll come across, shall we says, a great picture. This is I feel, now a sort of unit of mine. - He means he likes it. - Looks I'm happy. You remember my saying there ought to be something eternal about a woman? Something not of the present nor of the past. Well Eben, you got it. Its the face that makes him so girl. Its what you see in your faces without age or time. It isn't finished. Really isn't. Take it easy. Its a great picture. Carried forward, on a wave of exhaultation, I worked eagerly to complete the portrait. The face framed in its dark hair, the brown eyes tenderly dreaming. I began to realise that I was cought by an enchantment to yarn time and change. I knew atlast that love is endless and today's little happiness only part of it. Somehow I knew I'll find you here. I looked for you so often. I had fear in mine. You know I just graduated from college... Its wonderful. Now, we will be together always. Well ... I'm afraid we'll have to wait a little longer. My aunt is here once, she wants me to go away with her for the summer. - When do you have to go ? - Tomorrow. - I couldn't without saying goodbye. - Goodbye? I will only be for few months. Anyway, we have enjoyed more again. I think a little more. I'll be lost without you. No, say that again. Can't both of us be lost. Look at the moon right on the border. Makes a pathway across the river. The jersey hills are over there, aren't they? Fantastc. You said sadly, have you. Aren't you happy ? I couldn't thank him. No matter how far away, that kind of distance is, can be reached. Over there we are on the hills, one can drive to. In the North, through the pines, eastward to the seas. So we got a distance you and I haven't gone before. Now I happen, to feel us another kind of distance. A crueller distance. Distance of yesterday and a morrow. And it frightens me. Frightens me, that there's no one to bridge it. Yes. At this moment, I know there isn't. I want to be forever. You will be. Have faith. How still it is. Listen. The whole city is asleep. - No one left in the world but us. - No one but us. Lifes beginning again. Look, the little boat with its lights on. The nights over. Its tomorrow. Jennie, I am not going to think of this summer in future. I'll be right to you. Far and above how I came about it don't know. I know we were meant for each other. The strings of our lives were woven together, and neither the world nor time can tear us apart. Oh Eben, I wish you finish my portrait. Do you think people can know what lies ahead? I mean, whats going to happen to them? You know how you feel sad about things sometimes? About things that had never happened? Perhaps there are things that are going to happen to us. Perhaps we know it and are just afraid to admit to ourselves. I guess its silly. I guess its just my funny mind. - Where are we? -Together. My poor darling, you must be worn out. I'm sorry. - I fell asleep. - Yes, come here. Look there. Its finished. - Is it really me? - Its you. Portrait of Jennie. - I think its a fine painting. - Really? I think it will make you famous. One day, it will hang in a museum, people will come from all over the world to see it. If they do it, you will be my worthy promissory. - It will be you. - Thank you, Eben. And now, you may sign. I want to always sit and watch you paint. Now that I've found the perfect model, I'll paint her again and again. I didn't mean that. I mean I want you to paint all the beautiful things in the world. You must be everything in the world. But Eben, these pictures of yours, of the sea, and the Land's End light, each time I see them, my heart seems to stop. Curious. Tell us suppose there is a sort of forlorn sort of place. Tell that thought about any more. - Tell me about Paris. Did you study there ? - Yes, indeed. Oh Eben, I wish we would be there. I would be such fun. Good you are chatting. I'll take you to the Luxembourg, to the fair of Fontainebleau. Oh! Yes. Well to the forest of Saint Cloud in the spring and drink new wine under the trees. I feel as if I'm over there already, as if we can spend our whole like together. What is it that makes a man and woman know it or the men and women in the world they belong to each other? Is it just chance, That they live in the world the same time? You think its possible we might have been others, in other time zones we might have loved might have loved us ? No, no no others. Among all the people who lived from worlds end to worlds end, there's just one you must love, one you must seek till you find him. You, Eben. You, my love. - I must go. Eben. - Please don't go, Jennie. I don't want to, but we will meet again when summer ends. - Are you sure, Jennie? - I don't know quite well. The wind blows, the sea flows. I want to be sure. Tell me you're sure. I'm sure, Jennie. I'll get my things. - Oh Eben, what a lovely scarf. - It's yours, Jennie. The present for me? I thought you'd like it. I've been saving it for a long time. Ever since we first met in the park. In the afternoons the sun slanted lower over the city. Sometimes in the evening, a wedge of wild ducks waded south, against the Manhattan sky. summer turned away, to fall, but Jennie did not return. I felt a dreadful loneliness. Where was she ? Yonder, Yonder Was the home of my sweetheart Yonder, yonder was so long ago I remember my lover And the kiss of no other No other love Yonder, yonder was so long ago. I suppose I reminded me for minding my own business, but you can't quit alone, or be yourself. Gus, you don't understand. Like supposing, I mean if one is supposing... Supposing what, Gus ? Supposing she did never come back. She's got to. - Can't be other... - But if something happen to her? Don't you have to go on living pal, don't you? You never believed the whole thing, have you, Gus? - Don't pick up words in your mouth. - Doesn't matter. Doesn't matter if you believe it, doesn't matter whether anybody believes - because I know. - Sure you do, sure. Weren't you telling me she goes to a convent ? She's not there anymore. She graduated. Yeah, but the sisters are great ones for keeping in touch. She liked the sisters. There was one who was her favourite. Why don't you ask her? Jennie said she felt closer to the truth there. I'll drive you up first thing in the morning, if you promise to get a good night sleep. - If I slept, I 'll owe you for the ride. - Your money don't signify. As my mother used to say : "If you got friendship in your heart, sure you don't..." What was it your mother used to say? I don't know what I expected to find in the convent. I knew only that it was there that Jennie had found some inner truth. It was there that she had said to me : "I think he knows, Eben." For the first time since I had last seen Jennie, I had a feeling of not being alone. A feeling that the world and Jennie and I were one. But if for a while , we had lost our way? Yesterday rose again ahead of us. We had found beauty together, and we could never lose it. What was it you wished to see me about? Well, I wanted to ask you about a girl who graduated from here. Quite possibly you might have some information as to where she is. I nuns. We often keep in touch with the girls after they leave. - What is her name? - Jennie Appleton. Jennie Appleton ? Yes. You remember it, don't you ? Yes, I remember Jennie very well. Even though she was not of our faith, Jennie was one of my favourite pupils. An lovely girl, with a strange spiritual beauty, and a gentle kind of sadness that always troubled her. I think that describes her perfectly. Any idea where she is? Why Jennie died. - When? - Years ago. Oh I'm afraid, I shocked you. Well, no. We obviously aren't speaking of the same person. Did you know her family? No, I just know they were killed in an accident. A wire broke? They were trapeze performers? I'm afraid it must be the same Jennie Appleton. Her aunt brought her to us, shortly after her parents death. She stayed with us untill she graduated. Then her aunt came and took up to New England for the summer. We corresponded a great deal. Would you care if I read you one of her letters? Yes please. Won't you sit down. I was so touched by her letters that I saved them. The last one she ever wrote to me. "My dear Sister Marie of Mercy, we are returning very soon. "The summer has been a very long and a lonely one. "How I want to see you again and sit and talk to you about all that is been worrying me. "I know you tried to teach me how beautiful the world is, "and how it keeps on being beautiful everyday, "no matter what happens to us. "But sometimes , I have the dreadful feeling "that this beauty will never be complete for me, "that I will never find someone to love, who'll love me. "Its the thought that terrifies me, dear sister. "And I need your comfort and your wisdom to help me. "Your loving Jennie." That was the year the terrible tidal wave hit the New England coast. October 5th. I remember well. I always offer my communion for Jennie on that day. I afterwards learnt that Jennie was in the habit of sailing out everyday alone to a little cove near an abandoned lighthouse. Land's End light. During one of those trips the waves struck her. That was the last anyone ever saw of her. Land's End light, thats where I'll find her. But Jennie is dead, Mr. Adams. You must accept that. - However its hard... - I won't accept. Don't tell me she's dead. I held her in my arm three months ago not ten years ago. I love her. I want her back. What vision Gods sent you I can't say, but don't doubt the ways of providence. You must have faith. We know so little, so very little. I don't need to be abrupt, and I'm grateful for your kindness. When did you say that waves struck the coast? October 5th. - And today is ? - October 1st. That leaves me four days. But, Mr. Adams, that October Are you so sure? You said we know so little. You said Jennie's parents were killed. I found her sobbing on the bench the night it happened. You said she was a student here. I visited her here. You said she went to New England with her aunt. I was with her just before she left. Then how can you say it all happened many years ago? Yes, we know so little. Yet now, I know a little more. I know, now the pattern of Jennie's life. But I also know that I am part of it. She herself said the strand of our lives were woven together, and that neither time nor the world can breaks up. This I have faith in. Thank you mother, I must hurry. Thanks for your kindness. Where have you been keeping yourself? Well, whats wrong Mr. Adam? I am going away. Ms. Shinney I don't know for how long. Heres my portrait of Jennie. Will you store it for me till I come back? Of course. - Where you going ? - I think I know where she's going to be. I'm going to be there waiting for her. A place on Cape Cod, called Land's End. Well here, Adams. Where've you been? I've got lot of commissions for you. In that case, perhaps you'll will advance me a 100 $. Give him a 100 $, Mr. Matthews. Whats the matter? Is there something wrong? - Never mind. Just pay him. Mr. Mattrew - As you say, Miss Spinney. Thank you, Thanks Spinney. Thanks for everything - Goodbye, Mr. Matthews. - Goodbye my boy. Have a good rest. We do big things together later. Paint me a little church while you're there. Little white church with a big steeple. Don't get yourself drowned in the sea. What makes you say that? Men do such foolish things. I'm afraid of the ocean. You are tough. Sea won't get you. Tough ones drown too, you know. Bye. Any warning for the storm? - What storm is that ? - Hurricane is coming up. No hurricane is coming here, you young pal. Fair weather. Thats what it says. Right there. How far in advance will the barometer show up the work coming up? Far enough. Didn't show far enough when I heard that hurricane back in 20 years. I heard about that hurricane. Happened this time of the year, did it? Yeah? My Goddy. Come to think of it, it was October 5th. I remember. Because October 4ths her birthday. Today. I'd like to get upto Land's End light. You know where to charter a boat? Land's End light ? Can't think of any reason why anybody would go up there. Never mind my reasons. You know someone with a boat? My father gave me a boat. Thats fine. Would you mind taking me to your car? No. Come to think about, I don't think Ma would like him do it the boat. You better get down to see Eke. I'd tell her he wants his boat sometime. Where do I find Eke ? Its not hard to find Eke. He's always sitting in the same place. - Where ? - I'll tell you now. You go down to the jetty, and ask for the guy named Eke... Mind if I ask you to rent me a boat. You can go and buy a new one for what you're paying me. What I don't see is how you figure it getting out tomorrow in al this smug. Not a blade of wind stirring There'll be wind all right. Running up. May be. Never been too sure about them things. Not since the hurricane we had in the 20s. What about the wave? I heard something about a great wave. Great wave ? Yeah. There was a wave all right. Sometimes I think, I had never seen it. I just read about it. Like something in the scriptures. She comes out of the sea, like a mountain. Coming towars the land, like the day of Judgement. You didn't happen to know a girl, a visitor, who was caught by the wave? Her name was Jennie Appleton. You know its queer for asking me about that. I used to rent her my boat. I shall never forget till the day I die. Did you know her ? Yes, I know her. Pretty as a dame, wasn't she? Such big sad eyes she had. Big sad eyes... Something about her that seemed to come from far away. What happened exactly? Where was she when the waves struck? She was in Land's End point, that much is certain, well I found the bow of my boat tied to the warf there. Anyway, what left on it. May I ask you something. If she had reached the lighthouse, she might have been savede. - Isn't that so ? - Yes. But she didn't make it. No, I know. Pretty tough climb up them rocks, with all that wind. - Especially for a female. - I suppose what. Alone. "Way to strong wind ripped the mountains "and break in pieces the rocks before the Lord, "but the Lord was not in the wind." I was afraid I wouldn't find you. I'll never let you go again. Its been so long. Let me look at you. The waves coming. Its all right, whatever happens... Whatever happens? You I want, not just touch in dreams. Please believe me. The waves will strike again in soon. - We can have a whole lifetime... - We are all eternity, Eben. Can't you see ? We were lonely, unloved. Time made an error. But you waited for me, and so we found our love. - And now if we lose it? - No, no we are just beginning. There is no life my darling, until you have loved and been loved. Then, there is no death. - Reach the lighthouse fast. - You are fighting nothing. Please Eben, go without me. No, theres nothing in life, nothing at all without you. You must live on, but with faith. - Here it comes. - Goodbye, my darling. Hey, young fellow. A shave will make you feel better. - Morning, Capitain Cobb. - Morning. - Miss Spinney. - Hello Adams. What are you doing here? Well frankly, I was worried about you. I wanted to come here and see how you were doing. Capitaine Cobb kindly let me visit you. So you see we both his guests. - Its nice of you, Thanks. - OK nothing. Let me tell you young fellow. You are mighty lucky saying to Eke what you were here for. People like him will never have able to find you at all. No, sure you bug. Did you find anyone else? There were nobody else damn fool enough to keep a boat out in that bow. But wheres her boat? What is he saying? She had a boat. I don't reckon on what you talking on young fellow. But there weren't no other boat at all without so many persons taking off that day. You've been picked by boats from there. Can't figure out why Eke ever rented you the boat. You saw Jennie again, didn't you Adam? Its aweful. I tried to hold on to her. But the wave... Take it easy. At least, you saw her again. Yes, she... I'm glad you at least believe, about Jennie. Yes. You do, don't you? You believe it. Thats all that matters. What ? Where did you get that scarf? This ? Was near, when I found you on the beach. Yes Spinney. I saw Jennie again. You mean this is Jennie's ? Its all right. I haven't lost her. Everythings all right now. "Portrait of Jennie." Isn't she beautiful ? - I wonder if she's real. - She must be. What is it matter ? She was real to him, or she couldn't look so alive. How very wise you are. Oh! Eben is it really me? I think, someday, it will hang in a museum and people would come from all over the world to see it.
