 

                        In major roles REVERB How do you do Vanatis Systems Please podaswj the number of client I would ask oadres Thank you Please to expect How do you do Vanatis Systems Please podaswj the number of client Very thank you I know that had so do not do Not! Hold wheel Do not want! Three two one On moment Bierzj! Conduct! Ready Give skrta iap for kko Hold Do you rotter Have fire? Badly him stranded To nobody spoke Where drive? Bright that not It is well Lately again Someone dressed If wastu will find will fly out It is quiet Ustawiemalarm so If building was empty All door are closeded on code Will not go out to morning It is splendid Tra-la-las Apologize you for all Was not sob You are here on request Maddy. Tojej thank I know I will be you cowinien About cochodzi? I thought That daesobie calmness Zadzwonifacet from plants It will throw my composition on subscription party If will deliver to him Godoponiedziaku But nicnie have We greet on The death star Jakiepytania? Lle tokosztuje? Five stw for two days Payable from mountain Commonly take Two hundred for hour We will pay I will show you second studio Precisely put there Nowymikser Will you await? It is resolute Alex behaves jakbytylko He to stracina departure Nicky. Former jegodziewczyn Threw Jegoi group wjednym week Also znimi played I amused oneself keys BoAlex me asked This does not crumple threw with mud Will not leave pal Only are friends? Yes Dlaczegonie work Przytym bit? It has to him nagrasam As in work? It is well You waste wtej power-stations But a little earn Thanks to you could take About many more for this session L know that very take risks But nothing stand up I know Goodbye morning Here Nicky Zostawwiadomo will call back Hallo? Alex this you? Cholera I have to pull down one bit It is excellent. Mark Griffin Bloody hall Syszyszto? Cotojest? Jakieecho? On recording? Does not give out me Did not filter something? Does not come from outfit Same deformed. From niejtenie originates Queer Let's check Assistance! Perhaps reaches from building This any disturb zradia Amoe hear gs? Rozejrz Hallo? Do I listen? Maddy? In order? This did you phone? What? Ktotu zadzwonii took Czytoty? Do not swear This inner connection It is certain? So From room 27 Ld dostudia and don't go out While do not return I worship as me dab Break mego genius And drink me wine I am milk and honey With blood and sin With brims in darkness With claws on leather With death and life That am all I am mad love I am broadcasting noise With tooths on dices Alex please! Alex? Alex call! Suppose you! I apologize About cochodzi? Someone there is I heard him Nobody here has I heard kogoprzez telephone L sounds covert wnagraniu Covert? Does what maszna think? I speak about your song Alone do not know It sounded jakbykogo killed You have to calm down Not przesyszaam Tonocneaudycje Or ktosobie jokes Back know And dotdtegonie saw Why gochciaa? Do not know I elapsed salon And example crumples liked Earlier otym think? Not Or at times Do it surprise you jakamyl? Do not know from where took Nor that her have? This as zmuzyk Nothing hear And pochwili gives birth song Did not feel czegotakiego Since group fattened Mark Griffin gained celebrity Wlatach sixtieth Suicide According to shamans Human gosto jegodusza Nagraj gs and will imprison her He closeded on whole nocw studio Ranoszed to sleep And nagrywaprzezkolejn night. I want with my music Przekazanie tylkosowa But whole own soul On another person Miabzika on the point of sounds Szukaich with whole days Continuously pursued for adequate Brzmieniem So created At times do not know From where comes musician Tojakbykto Przeze me spoke The most buoy That will lose power over music e toona will master with me Zapiewaszmi it? Will I sing? Suddenly me olni And wrote caykawaek But I do not sing It is bad Stand Atak bad? Give Thanks to that to bit We return on simple Did not see dictaphone? NlE OTWLER I verify two Time Long-standing room verify Do what here still do? Already seventh Czassi to gather Did not know otej halls Smell of burning Who zakadabystudio In long-standing magazine? Do not know Excellent brzmienie The machine of would not him re-create Necessary bynagrywatutaj In order? Yes Go Thanks to Dojutra So far long-standing Cojest not so We are friends Common night nicnie will change Not here me goes I speak about studio History something queer To still you above? Not wracajmytu What ztob? I have to skoczyutwr I want to you to assist But tomiejsce me terrifies Suchaszmnie? All bragged As if why? Why? Nicnie understand! Tomoja last chance! I will not of pracowaw power-stations! I look as take these telephones And know cowidz? Someone ktotonie And nicgotonie inspects Assistance! Assistance. It fits Do I listen? Nicky? Do you know which hour? Return crumples long-standing recordings Tomoja great chance Necessary byb to phone. I have not on this time Tylkodziesi seconds Alex Pisekund? You know, where are It irritates crumples recording I want to create copotniejszego Magic Kiedyumr as before he will Suchamoja music It will remain immortal Perfect musician It exists outside time This gate to innegowiata Will survive not man But jegotwrczo Thanks to it will come back Nicci is not? Splendidly feel Whole nocnagrywaem I enjoy that znwpracujesz Bybbywietnie If you sang Is not just like earlier Olniomnie I created something altogether other But is excellent Do not judge Only tegoposuchaj Bloody hall The invocation of Marka Griffina Cholera Hello Tra-la-las You know who would assist me to find The certain song of Marka Griffina? I know pewnegohandlarza But is a little Will you so stand? Maryszuka the slabs of Marka Griffina Znaszjej title? I have putworu That better ninic This not that already verified That singiel given out to this slab Rzadkijak devils Griffin Zajsi with graphic binding Factory acknowledged That was dark too Dzieciakwto did not turn Therefore did cheerfuler cover From four compositions Three trafiyna slab But ostatniegonigdynie gave out Was for them too turned. Does who on him sing? Do not know Resolute Jakafanka which hummed Or is invocation? Reduction of strange power With magic music Griffin was guitarist Wsawnym group Type Fleetwooda and Floydw. But factory gowywalia Nagrakilka worthless slabs But then in one night He created something great Poured out from oneself music Acopotem? Not known Znalezionoich dead It is rumored Griffin Interesowasi with occultism Next arid star Syszaate sounds in studio? Not tylkodwiki Own gs Jestepewna? I know that queer it But collated it in computer Gsjest as finger-mark It has not two identical But coma that common From Griffinem? Glance This long-standing hall In which were Griffin perhaps cotam did Something bad L tochyba again history Alex jujest? Break loving Hello, Maddie Mioci znwwidzie We have to talk What does she here do? You spoke that will not come I know that something here happened Powinnimystd to depart Yesterday mwiatosamo Coci will show I found something You have to this see What? I know doczegosuya this hall Here Griffin have to kill? Excellent acoustician Believe that this as before act Not by case Do you know that toszalestwo?If It goes to you about Nicky apologize But tojej gs hear In the death moment give out sound Otwierajcybram midzywiatami Lnwokacja: I am blood With sin with life with death Suppose it! Assistance Tra-la-las? Cholera Wystraszyemnie Musiszprzerwa session And zabrastdAlexa and Nicky Please trust me Where Wurzel? Przyjechatu? Grzebaw networks Podobnowie doczego Ministered Bloody hall I saw this film Lnwokacja Is missing words Lle last this composition? Trzyminuty Perhaps wrote him podten film Perfectly fit Alex received from here sample Will what if end own song? Right All from here will take away Thanks to e not maszmnie for madwoman It has not affair Maddy? Thanks to music will come back I will come back He will well Listen me Assistance! Pmy gogdzie. It has epilepsy Dostaataku I know that tostraszne But nicnie we can do To soon him will walk Let's return dodomu It is well Still tylkogodzina rights? Tra-la-las? Do I listen? Do not hear It is here? Why? Nowhere indziej It has not such acoustics Precisely that searched At once return I am blood sin With life and death In red kingdom At gryi at du Bundle removal Corobisz? Already for late Suppose you! Nicky musiszucieka! He will kill you! Listen! Griffin returns To life by music I try you to assist! Listen me! Do what want to do? Alex pommi! What does she do? Cholera! Escape from here If You will end song will die You went mad Believe That chciaami this to do Alex let go me! Save forces Please Assistance! Where of Tra-la-las? Tra-la-las? AALEX? Przykromi Nobody saved I am blood sin With life and death
