 

                        My name is Yamada Nagamasa. I am a soIdier attached to the Japanese volunteer army. Fate brought me here. I have a secret that can be shared with no one. This dark secret must end with my enemies. This series of events occurred after King Naresuan waged the elephant war against Hongsawadee. Though Ayothaya won the war, peace was hard to come by... A group of mysterious men dressed as soldiers of the Hongsawadee army robbed Siamese people, causing much grief and sorrow. King Naresuan issued orders to all village headmen and the voIunteer armies of various nations to find the assaiIants at aII costs. l have been assigned by the Japanese volunteer army chief to find these cuIprits as weII. They are Japanese but dressed as Hongsawadee warriors. They raided the people of Ayothaya, causing hardship all around. No one else must know of this treachery. Bring me the culprit responsible for this and I will give him to the King of Ayothaya, so he can behead him. Yes, sir. Thank you all for coming You have come to the famous pIace with the Sengen Shrine Come on up, come have a Iisten to two or three Suruga stories Taira's Okubo TempIe dedicated to Kannon Large bush-clover trees, cut in eight A beard of katsura trees in an eight-bush clover temple lnside the temple, the all-knowing Kannon The assigned position of the temples in the 33 Kannon Temple Pilgrimage The first, Nachisan The second, Kimiidera Next, Kokawa The fourth, the fourth... The most essential, Wada Temple but Kannon who loves stories became absorbed while reading and forgot to mention it Somehow, he forgot to get the stamp of the amulet issuing temple Leaving it to others, he left it out of the thread of the narrow path Finally arriving at the 33 Temple Pilgrimage it was excluded, the eight cut into two Leaving it to others, he left it out of the thread of the narrow path A daydreamer, he is called Kannon who forgot it from the book So he didn't forget again they made him carry a brush and notebook Keshi Temple in Shigoshiga Valley Surrounded by bushy trees, sitting squarely is Geshi Hikoroku, the lord of Shiga Thank you all for coming You have come to the famous pIace with the Sengen Shrine Come on up, come have a Iisten to two or three Suruga stories Leaving it to others, leaving it to others... You... I never wanted to kill my fellow Japanese. We don't know who this man is. After buying iron ingots, we saw him being attacked so we helped him and brought him back here. We rowed through the night until noon the day after. He shouId have died from his wounds. We never imagined that he was so tough. He is a foreigner. Can we trust him? I've heaIed wounded animaIs. This is a human being. How can I Ieave him to die? Now, Sasaki knows that the attackers are Japanese. We have to stop everything before it becomes a problem for us. You must bring Yamada to me. Wherever you find him, kill him at once, and report to me immediately. Champa... White face is awake. He has come to his senses. Water... White face can speak our language. The complexion of your face is as fair as a woman. The hair is long too, isn't it, Champa? Krathin, help me bring some herbs to put on the wound of White face. He became conscious so I don't think he will die. Yes. Where is this place? The city of Phitsanuloke Song Kwae. The selection of the King's bodyguards this time will be personally overseen by King Naresuan himself. This man's name is Sua. He is King Naresuan's chief bodyguard. He is my student. I brought him to teach you martial art techniques. He looks so young. What will he be able to teach us? All of you listen to me. Our homeland is now in trouble. The treacherous Hongsawadee want our land. This is why all of you must unite as one. Don't just think or talk. All of you must act. Once we are born, all of us have to die eventually. But the value of our death is different. Some bear the weight of a mountain, while some are as light as a feather. All of you should think. Did you find Yamada? No, sir. I believe he is already dead. Three Japanese were killed. He was probably silenced. Kuroda, you must search all of Ayothaya to find the mastermind responsible. Yes, sir. Where is my sword? We refer to the eclipse as the celestial dog swallowing the moon. There's nothing for you to worry about. Have you regained your strength already? While you are here you don't need the sword. The people of Ayothaya live in peace. Everyone is friendly. I don't know who your enemies are, but all I know is that if you stay here, all you will have are friends. Who is sneaking around over there? It's just you. What do you want from me? I have come to thank you for healing my wound even though l am a foreigner. It is not important. Right now the people of Ayothaya don't care about anything else but about our country and King Naresuan. How to protect him... If we don't have King Naresuan then Ayothaya will not exist. Do you understand? Why did you come here, Japanese? Kham? It's me. What's up? I thank all of you for saving my life. Never mind. You are not Hongsa, the sworn enemy of Ayothaya. The Japanese are King Naresuan's allies who are ready to die for Ayothaya and King Naresuan. So, I consider you my friend. Friend. Each sword that I make must taste the blood of the damned Hongsawadee. Staying here, amongst strangers close to me makes me feel even more comfortabIe than with my own relatives who are far away. They offer love and kindness to me, a foreigner, As if our bIood is of the same coIour. This friendship given to me is like water that nurtures the heart and the body. lt gives me the courage to overcome any obstacle. l don't feel like l am alone any more. l never imagined that friendship would grow into something much bigger. Why are the Japanese trying to kill each other? His identity is not as important as to whether he is a good person or not. I am worried that the Japanese will bring his enemies to our homeland. Since the incident he hasn't spoken a single word. I don't want to interfere with his personal business. If he wants to tell us he will talk. And you don't need to ask him. Sometimes people need to keep secrets because once revealed, it could lead to trouble. If it was you, would you talk? So why do his fellow Japanese want him dead? The Japanese killed each other... What does it have to do with you? Don't complicate things since no trouble has come to us. I am sure he is not a bad guy. What you should be worried about is the selection of the King's chief bodyguards. Champa, you need not worry. Will you help him, brother? He will be all right. Phra Khru will help him. Do you want us to deal with him? No. Yamada is not a native of Ayothaya. He can't stay there for long. He will come back one day. And that day will be the day he dies! It is a secret that must die with me. l will not allow anyone to tarnish the reputation of the Japanese peopIe by accusing us of treason against Ayothaya. Painful memories are like a sharp blade that can hurt us. Since you don't want to talk about it you don't have to. At the time I decided to leave my birthplace of Suruga, Japan was a country in chaos as warlords fought for power. No matter who came to power, those defeated would be killed. I am just a soldier of a lord who lost his power. l have no relatives which is why l thought about finding a new life and decided to come to Ayothaya. We are volunteer mercenaries in the army of King Naresuan. A soldier is born to fight no matter where he is. Power struggles exist everywhere, but it's a good thing that Japan has never been conquered by a foreign power. It is different here in Ayothaya because we are constantly attacked by the armies of Hongsawadee. Becoming a vassal state of your enemy is not only physically painful, but your honour is also compromised. You wouldn't understand. So, is this your Japanese martial art? Can your Japanese martial art compete against that of Ayothaya, White face? I am sorry, Champa. I didn't think it would turn out like this. White face, don't fight with Master Sua. You cannot beat him. There is only one person who can beat Master Sua. What do you want? I want to be your student. Please teach me Thai boxing. Your martial art technique is pretty good. You don't need to learn from me. Learning from an experienced teacher for a single day is far better than practising by oneself. And why do I have to teach you? Ayothaya's boxing is our national treasure. lt doesn't belong to foreigners. And more importantly your blood is not the same colour as mine. My blood is Ayothaya blood, yours is Japanese. Yes. But now I live in Ayothaya and when I die, the soil of Ayothaya will cover my face. It is not my birthplace but where my soul will rest. Who taught you to talk like this? All the people of Ayothaya here taught me... Taught you what? They taught me the difference between an honourable death and one that is not. lf one dies for the country and King Naresuan, no matter how many lifetimes one is born, it is still worth giving up one's life. At this moment, my heart is Ayothaya. ln Ayothaya, if someone wants to learn any art or discipline, they will need a teacher. From now on, you have a teacher. You must be virtuous and never use Ayothaya's martial arts to bully others, but only use it for protecting the country and yourself. You cannot fight with others if you are not at peace inside. lt is like a swordsman who only depends on the sharpness of his blade. In the end, he wiII never understand the way of the sword. Ayothaya's boxing is an intelligent form of martial arts handed down from generation to generation since the Sukhothai era. It is the art of attack and defence. We use eight weapons, two hands, two feet, two knees, and two eIbows, in battle for hundreds of years. It is a martiaI art which has beautiful movements with hidden strengths and aggressiveness. Meanwhile your Japanese martial arts are smooth, fluid and peacefuI. You watch your opponent and use his strength to take him down by throwing him, pinning him down, grappling rapidly and forcefully. lf you are able to combine the best of both martial arts, then nobody will be able to beat you. Your boxing technique is much better, Japanese. I taught him myself because I saw he had the determination to learn. He can be useful to our country in the future. Sua, are you angry that I taught Thai boxing to a foreigner? No, sir, you must have thought it out already. And I am thinking of entering him in the selection trials for the King's bodyguards. But he is a foreigner. Can he actually do it? Luang, listen to me. Love for one's country doesn't necessarily belong to only those who were born on the same land. Love for one's country can be born in the heart of anyone who wishes that the soil of the country covers his face when he dies. You three, believe me... This Japanese will become an important force of Ayothaya. I give this to you. It's your sword. You hammered it so it must be yours. I have my own sword. Where is it? Does it belong to the Japanese? Yes. Is it as sharp as our swords? Muen, you don't know anything. Japanese swords are famous for being extremely sharp, sharp and thin but strong. Just like the Ayothaya people who appear to be peaceful and weak, but will never give in to any enemy. Use it to kill your enemies. Your sword is a masterpiece, Japanese. The blade is Japanese but the handle is Ayothaya, just like you and me. Some Japanese swords take a lifetime to make. lt is so thin and sharp that you can cut the head of your enemy without him feeling the pain... The heart of a samurai is as strong as a rock, but must be as sharp as the end of the sword. You made me reaIise that a friend in need is a true friend indeed. This memory will remain with me until the day l die. The loyalty shown by the people of Ayothaya to their country and King Naresuan is so great that l feel honoured to be living on this land. What is Tanai Luek? A Tanai Luek is one of the King's personal bodyguards. He is at His Majesty's side at all times without bearing arms. Hence, a Tanai Luek must be extremely skilled with his bare hands... ...and skilled in the discipline of boxing. We must select fighters of Ayothaya who are loyal to their country and are prepared to die for their king. Every drop of ink tattooed into your blood represents the sacred aIphabet of Buddhist vaIues. l am not just piercing your skin with a metal rod. Each sacred letter will remind you to do only good deeds. Remember that the only eternal thing in life is being virtuous, so when you die, your name and your good deeds will not die with you. So that is eternaI and from now onwards the blood that flows in you is Ayothaya's. You are not from Ayothaya. Even though you weren't born in Ayothaya, I ask that your spirit belongs to Ayothaya. From now on you are my personal bodyguard. The heart of a fighter has to be ready to die at any given moment. Dare to die if your death is for a good deed and for your country. What brought you here, Sua Pa Maew Sao? King Nandhabureng of Hongsawadee has sent 200 warriors from various tribes to assassinate Your Majesty. They have already set foot over the Mae La Mao border. I lost my son during the battle with King Naresuan. And he dares to mount an attack on Hongsa. lf l cannot bring an end to his life to appease the spirit of my son, I won't be able rest in peace. Those of you tribesmen who are able to bring me his head, will enjoy the rewards and riches for the rest of your life. Yes, Your Majesty. Your Majesty, I think they will try to attack you at a stream near the Phitsanuloke Song Kwae, along the route to return to Ayothaya. Good! I will meet his challenge. Be patient, Your Majesty. Two hundred hongsa warriors are not the obstacle. A high, powerful mountain is still lower than the grass that grows on its top. Ten bodyguards might be able to use war strategies to our advantage and cause damage to Hongsa City, Your Majesty. Sua, take 10 bodyguards to meet the 200 Hongsa soldiers. Yes, Your Majesty. Use only one to deal with 10,000 others. If your heart is superior to that of the normal man, then victory is in sight. Remember... In two nights they will come back and be by your side forever. I will wait for two nights and if you do not return, I will go to help you. Your Majesty, we are ready, blood and soul, to protect you and Ayothaya. Your sword will taste the blood of the enemies of Ayothaya just like you wished. Because Ayothaya has brave men like all of you, we need not be afraid of any enemy. Pick up a piece of soil from in front of you... ...and keep it with you. When you are in combat, it will remind you that this piece of soil is like your place of birth and death, a burial site handed down from your ancestors, that you must protect for the sake of your children in the future. I thank you for your love for me and my country. l feel like we are brothers who share the same bIood. In front of the Buddha image and the sacred spirits here, you and I will swear to be brothers and never betray one another. We will die for each other like this sword which has a Japanese blade and an Ayothaya handle. They are inseparable. I will kill your enemies and you will kill the enemies of Ayothaya. Let the sky and the earth be our witness... Will you swear to this? I swear. That giant's name is Tosakan. The green face is Rama and that monkey is Hanuman. It is a battle between the giants and monkeys. Do you understand, White face? What are you worried about? When I am here, I feel only happiness and peace. Only the people of Ayothaya treat me like one of their own. I was never afraid before... ...but now I am scared. What are you afraid of? I am afraid of leaving you. In Japan, we have a legend of Hagoromo. The Hakuryu, a fisherman, fell in love with an angel who came to visit the earth. Hakuryu stole Hagoromo's wings so that she couldn't return to heaven. No matter how he loved her, he still had to return her wings and both of them parted ways in the end. It is necessary for me to return to the Japanese village. What awaits you there? Teru teru bozu. What is it? It's a doll used to bring good weather like you, Krathin. White face, don't go, please don't go. What are you doing, Krathin? Today if you die your evil deeds will stay with me, but if I die, the secret dies with me. If your hands never spilt blood, you would never be able to achieve greatness. You! Kham. Love King Naresuan, love Ayothaya... Promise me. Kham... Kham! May your spirit rest in peace. Your courage will remain in the hearts of the people of Ayothaya forever. Your death is only one but it gives rise to thousands of brave souIs. Your spirit should be proud. My dear friend, l will use your sword to kill the enemies of Ayothaya as you intended. This piece of King Naresuan's soil will always remind me that this is the birth and death place of a true friend. Brave men do not yearn for a long life. l promise that l will protect this land with my life. I aImost died from the hands of my fellow countrymen. Then so be it, but destiny brought me here to this great friend where even high mountains, wide seas and disconnected Iand cannot stop our friendship. This made me reaIise that those with different bIood can stiII be friends. True friendship is based on equality and it will never fade away. The people of Ayothaya and the Japanese wiII be united as one forever. l will repay the friendship of the Ayothaya people. l swear that this land is not my birthplace but where my soul will rest.
