 

                        Mom? Hey! What in God's name are you doing up at this hour?! And what is that? It was on the porch Didn't you hear the bell? God damn it Derek How many times do I have to tell you not to open the front door by yourself especially at night Now go to bed What the...? Tom?! God! Here you go Sweetie I made everything just the way you like it And look, nothing's touching 'cause I know you hate that. Come on Derek, Say something, talk to me! What are you doing?! I'm sorry. I've got to go to the office later, would you like to come with me? Hey How you doing? - How you doing? - Ah, I'm alright, how are you? Aw, I'm good How's he? Oh he's still the same, he hasn't said a word since the accident. What did the doctor say? The doctor told me not to worry He told me that is was perfectly natural for a child to stop speaking after a traumatic experience and he said that it's probably temporary. On top of everything else he wont go into his room now Maybe if I take him out and get him a little something or a toy it will make him feel better I guess I'll take him over to Petto's later Nah don't go there he ain't got shit in that store Hey! Watch you mouth. What did I say? You know I can't remember the last time I even bought anything at Petto's I know it's so sad, nobody goes in there anymore I like the place though, Joe's always real nice to Derek Derek? What's the matter? Derek?! Derek, I know you're angry, and I know you're scared. And you have every right to be But you also have to remember that you're not alone Mommy's here with you, and I'm going to protect you and I'm going to take care of you and everything's going to be alright What's the matter Derek? What is it? Come on you love to come in this place Mister Petto? Joe? Joe? Peno! Take that mask off What you wanna do? Scare this little man half to death? I'm sorry I didn't mean to scare you, I wouldn't... You'll have to excuse Peno he's a... a teenager. Exactly.. Exactly! Go back into the office, find something to do I'll take care of our friends Go on Peno, go.. I don't know what I'm gonna do with that boy Spends most of his time making those god awful masks How are you Sarah? I'm OK Joe. I know. I heard about your husband Fate plays some cruel tricks on, on us all How's the, how's the little boy? He's not so good. Not so good? What's the matter? Huh? What's in your nose there? Watch, Money! Is that where you keep your money? What can I do for you Sarah? I would like to buy a present for Derek A present for Derek? Come back over here I think we can find something - Alright, what's this? - Let's see what we have here Now watch, watch his tongue You push his tail Maybe this was a mistake Wait a minute Sarah, you're giving up too fast Here I want you to have this What are you doing with that? It's for the boy, father I want you to have this my father made it That's a very nice gesture Peno but maybe some other time. I think we should go, Joe Now Sarah, you just hollar if you need any of my help Thanks Joe that's really sweet. I ought to break you in half What kind of a son are you? A real son would help his father but not you, you keep undermining me I'd rather have a son like that! Stay away from me You know why people don't want to come in the store no more? Do you? Because of you! No! Yes, because of you. Whoa whoa whoa.. Easy.. Hello there I didn't see you come in. Is there anything I can do for you sir? I'd like to pay for this Yes of course, just, come with me. You've been buying a lot of toys from us lately, are you playing Santa Clause? Something like that. Were you in the service? Look, I'm kind of in a hurry do you think you can speed things up here? Sorry, I was in 2nd World War Cash or charge? Charge. That's alright '91.. that's good.. $14.05 12... $6.95 Come on speed it up a bit OK, that's $23.95 If you'd just sign right there.. This' a nice item Thanks for coming in, Merry Christmas!! You're out of here brother What are you talking about? Payment's no good I run a respectable place Don't have time for this kind of nonsense You wanna calm down for a second Look I just got out of the service there's plenty of money left in this account Not according to that Well there's been a mistake and I'll take care of it in the morning Uh uh.. You're packing up and leaving right now Alright look, how about I give you some cash Cash? Cash is good. I like cash. Great. I get paid tomorrow. Uh uh. Then you out of here, tonight. Look, what is it with you man? You think I'm gonna skip out on you? I paid you for the last 2 weeks, didn't I? That was then, this is now. You got a kid? Yeah what the hell does that have to do with it? You give me till tomorrow and I'm gonna give you a nice little toy for your kid for Christmas You don't look like a deadbeat I guess so. Great. Mother.... What you doing in there? There you go. This better be good. Oh yeah, it's to die for. Hey remember, Don't open it until Christmas Let's go, let's go, let's go... What the..? What the hell is this? Well I'll be a son of a bitch Look at that thing.. How do you shut this thing off? Damn thing's not working Damn thing's broken Let go! Derek? Derek where are you? Derek? Derek, where are you? Derek Derek! Didn't you hear me calling you? No, it's 'cause you play that thing too loud Come on now, you don't wanna keep Sam waiting do you? Did you make a list for Santa? No, it doesn't matter What's this? It says it's to you but doesn't say who it's from I bet it's from Kim It's just like her to do something like that Now don't get any ideas, we don't open it until Christmas Come on Derek Come on, he'll be back soon Hey, how are the little germ carriers today, huh? Oh not bad.. Only got pissed on twice. Man is it hot out there Nothing like a Californian Christmas huh? Nothing like that Californian cutie we have for an elf? Ho ho ho! Hey Ricky you seen the boss? I gotta ask him about my cheque. Um... yeah yeah, I think he's out front somewhere. Oh great Let me go on for you What are you a masochist or something? Listen god damn it just let me take your shift! OK, settle down, sure, no problem Santa this is Brandy Hello Brandy I don't really believe in Santa, but just in case, I want clothes, clothes and more clothes but if you don't have that many clothes I want a ten speed bike, Meeka the fairy, a watch, a pair of sun glasses a V.C.R. a yellow photo album, and a tape of Brian Bannae Smile Bye Santa Merry Christmas What's your boy's name? Derek Santa this is Derek Derek do you want to tell Santa what you want for Christmas? Well if you dont tell him he wont know what to bring you. Maybe you'd rather whisper in my ear? OK baby I'll take you home, come on. No! Let go Don't go What are you doing let go of him?! - No! No don't go No Smile Are you still upset about Santa? Well I guess even Santa has a bad day We wont do anymore shopping we'll go right home, OK Come on Derek I'll be in in a minute. Sarah - Hi - Hi Did you just get home? Yeah a few minutes ago. Derek's with you right? Yes why is there something wrong? Well I'm not sure but, um... I was walking by a few minutes ago and I thought I saw someone moving around inside. What?! I could be wrong though Oh my god, Derek! Derek! Derek Oh Derek.. Peno! Sarah What in God's name was Peno doing in my house?! What? He was in my bedroom he scared me and Derek half to death There must be some mistake Peno was with me all day Don't lie to me Joe I saw him Peno wouldn't do anything like that I don't want to hear it I want an explanation and I want it now or I'm going to call the police. Don't call the police Listen to me, you don't have to do that. Maybe I can clear this whole thing up? You see I, I used to own your home What? I used to live in your house. Peno and I, we lived there for many years. Well what happened? Why did you move? It wasn't by our choice. Well my business began to go downhill and the bank foreclosed on me well we had to move here and things haven't been the same since we moved here Peno's been crying about wanting to go back to the house "I want to go back to the house" he kept saying Maybe thats.. That had something to do with what happened today? Look Joe, I'm sorry about your bad luck I really am But just because you used to live in the house it doesn't give Peno licence to break in whenever he feels like it I have a little boy at home. I can't have him doing that. Of course I understand Sarah Understand this, If it happens again I will call the police. Sarah, it's not gonna happen again. You hear me? It's not gonna happen again. OK? OK. No! Go away! Leave me alone! You have to come up some time Peno. And when you do, I'll be waiting for you. Derek I know I said we weren't going to open presents until Christmas but, I don't think one would hurt. Go ahead, open it. Don't you want to? Alright, You don't have to if you don't want to. That must be Kim - Hi - Hi Thanks for coming over and thanks for that Christmas present that was so sweet of you. What Christmas present? What are you talking about? Oh, didn't you leave a Christmas present for Derek on the front steps? Uh-uh. Oh? I was sure it was you. Look, Sarah, It's human nature to want nice neat answers to everything but unfortunately life doens't work that way and a lot of things can't be explained. I mean you would not believe the things that I've been through I hardly believe them myself Well all I know is that I can't go on this way anymore I have to get our lives back in order Back into a normal routine I really think that's best for Derek and for me. You know what I always say just trust your instincts That's exactly what I'm going to do. Derek Are you alright? What was that all about? She was gonna call the police Do you know what happen if she had've done that? You stupid.... stupid fool! Shut up I've heard enough You're drunk! You're always drunk Don't you turn your back on me when I'm talking to you. Where do you think you're going? I don't have to listen to you anymore! You bastard! Son of a bitch! I'm sorry father I'm so sorry You son of a bitch Peno? Peno I'm sorry Peno I'm sorry Peno? Oh god, what have I done? Hey ya Lani Hey what you doing squirt? Are you blind? Or just dumber that you look? Don't be a wise ass I eat kids like you for breakfast That's why my shit smells so bad What an asshole Hey what did you call me? You little shit! Eat it butt head! Cheer up Tomorrow's Christmas Eve and things are only going to get better Derek honey I've been doing a lot of thinking and I want you sleep in your own room tonight now there's nothing to be afraid of just try it for one night and I promise if it doesn't work out you can come back in here and sleep with me Will you do it for me? Please? I want you to go right to sleep Come on I'll be right here if you need me honey Look out! Son of a bitch you're dead! I couldn't stop His pulse is strong Dont worry he's going to be fine. - I love you honey Hello Hi how are you Hi Thanks for coming Sorry I can't stay very long I've got to get back to the office How is he? The doctor said he'll be fine but look at him What a terrible accident Sarah you think this is an accident? Look! What's this? You tell me. Hi Derek, hi.. You don't know me, but I'm... Let's just say I want to be your friend, OK? Hey look what I brought for you You'll find a very special toy in there Very special toy for a very special boy Come on Derek, it's OK I want you to have it, take it. - What do you want? - Who are you? I'm the baby sitter, who are you? I'm a friend of the family, I'm looking for Mrs. Quinn is she home? She's working late, you'll have to contact her at the office Hey... Wait! Open the door Hey what are you doing, open the door Go away! Look I'm not going to hurt you, I told you I'm a friend. Come on let me in, I just want to use the phone I'm not supposed to let anyone in Come on just tell me where Mrs. Quinn works I'll go see her there, OK? 1200 Market Street, 5th floor Thank you Sarah As he yawned and stretched and scratched his head he felt two furry ears growing from his head How amazing Straight away he searched the room for a mirror, without success So he filled a basin with water and peered down at his reflection Yes there they were, a pair of donkey's ears Carlos felt shame, and grief, and anger in turn And cried in rage and beat his head against the wall Yet the more he roared, the longer his ears grew.... What took you so long? He wouldn't go to sleep Mrs. Quinn going to home soon What are we waiting for? What's your story? Come on.. Buck come on... Jeez, what are you doing? I don't have the right tool to get into your car, so.. I guess you have two choices.. You could um, break your window, or you could let me give you a ride home I'll take the ride OK What? Why did you run from me? I don't know I guess I panicked I couldn't believe it was you You scared the hell out of me Sorry I'm sorry Things have been pretty crazy around here lately But I'm glad you're here I really am. But it's been 6 years since you left and I guess I never thought I'd see you again Is that true? or did you see me every time you looked at Derek? He's my son, isn't he? Yes Damn it Sarah, why didn't you tell me you were pregnant? Would it have made any difference? It was my child I had a right to know I wanted to tell you Noah I really did, I... I wanted to tell you I did. I loved you so much But you weren't ready to settle down Noah, you know that All I know is that you could have trusted me to do the right thing I did what I had to do I wanted to finish College I wanted a career and I needed security for that and you couldn't give it to me and Tom could. Listen to me, I did a lot of growing up when I was in the army I know it's important now I want to be a good father to my son I want to spend the rest of my life with you It's in front Don't rip it Come on let me get it off Bingo! Buck Oh baby Buck Where did all these toys come from? - What? Toys I don't know they were here when we got here I don't.. I don't remember seeing them We weren't really paying much attention now were we? Ooh yeah That feels good Ooh you never touched me there before What? No no no.. Put it back up Put.. Put it back on - What? Oh never mind Stop - Stop what? Stop! Use some lotion honey Sarah what do you know about the old guy from the toy store? You mean Joe Petto? - Yeah Nothing really just that he's a nice man, why? Well what if I told you he was arrested for maiming some kids several years ago What? He owned a toy store in Grove City when I was a kid They arrested him on Christmas for booby trapping toys He'd rig them with lethal devices then he sent them to kids all around town Couple of kids got hurt pretty bad I think one of them even died I don't believe it Sarah believe it I was there What reason could he have to hurt innocent children? From what I remember he went off the deep end when his wife was killed in a car accident. She was pregnant at the time Oh my god I guess he felt if he couldnt have a happy family nobody else would The moment I saw that toy store it all came back to me I got worried about you and Derek So I did some snooping around bought a bunch of toys from Petto took them apart, checked them out, see what I could find.. -and? Nothing Oh god Noah I want to go home Sarah wait, what do I tell Derek? You can tell him the truth He's a smart little boy, he understands a lot more than you think Just don't expect any miracles from him that's all he's been through a lot OK Help me... Please... Help me... Somebody help me... Take it easy, what happened? The toys! Buck's dead... Buck's dead! Where's Derek? He took him. - Who took him? Where? Who? The man from the toy store. - Joe Petto? Oh god! What the hell is that? Alright look, we're gonna get inside, we'll call the police Come on, come on.. It's OK, it's OK.. Where are you going? I'm going to get my baby Sarah no, let the police handle this Sarah? Sarah come on! God damn it... Oh my god what happened? I don't have time to explain just call 911, stay with her and send the police Send them where? Petto! Petto! Petto where are you you bastard I want my boy You hurt any inch of him I'll kill you, you hear me? Sarah? Sarah where are you? Ah shit Sarah? Derek? Oh my god Noah? I knew you'd come Pretty... Mommy.. Let go of me! Who are you? Peno? How? How... God's name? Oh this is very simple really, it's very simple all you need is a little of that and a little of that and, a little of that My father taught me how My father taught me a lot of things Not smart You killed him didn't you? You killed Joe. I had to, he broke me He always broke me and even though he always fixed me I had to be sure this time that he didn't hurt me any more. Oh my god I tried to be a good boy father, all I wanted to be was a good son to you. But I could never be a real son to him, I could never be that. That's all he ever wanted was a real son, a real son, like Derek Where's my boy? His real son died before he was even born that's why he made me My father could make anything Well, almost anything. But, I wasn't good enough He never thought I could love him like a real son can When he found out I rigged those toys and sent them to your house he was so angry with me but don't you see? I had to Derek has to die then, you can be my mommy Damn you bastard You don't need Derek! I can be your son now I can! Don't you see? That's why I took him I knew you'd come I knew you'd come! Get away from me I can love you like a real son, I can I can! I love you mommy I love you I want you I love you Damn you where's my boy? I want my boy! I wasn't good enough I want my boy what have you done with him? I'm your son now not him Not.. Him.. No! Don't hurt my baby Not him Don't! Don't kill him You can be my son You can come home with me Don't kill him Sarah We're in here help us No Peno Sarah Hang on, I'm coming No, Peno don't You can be my boy, you can be my son. Anything you want we'll go home together Anything you want, Peno. Don't hurt Derek No Derek has to die It's the only way No don't Mommy help.. Help me mommy! Derek let go Mommy help me Grab him! Father.. Father.. Help me.. Oh baby Father All he wanted was a son Father Don't leave me It's OK You're safe now Derek I'm going to take care of you Mom, who is he? I'll tell you when we get home honey Mommy! Die you son of a bitch Don't be afraid it's only a toy mommy That's right it's only a toy Let's get the hell out of here Just a toy?
