 

                        All right, if you'll just put this under your belt. - What? - Actually, just-- Sorry. lt's okay, it's still dark outside. lt's fine. lt's fine. It's dark outside. You motherfucker. Check out the frame. It looks good l think. Yeah. It's cool. All right. Here we go. Darkthrone was the first to release an album in this black metal genre and Gylve was the leader of the group, so to speak. He's more like a philosopher than somebody who... more than an ideologist. The band was very successful and in many ways was the band. Gylve as l said is a special person with special goals, and it's impossible to know what his goals are. He... He's successful at what he's doing. l guess he's happy with that. Have you been standing there the whole time? They busted me on the fucking tear gas. They didn't find any drugs, of course. So... l had to say, ''Yes, l had the tear gas.'' And... l gotta pay a fine. Big Deal. l had to drop my pants. They really were hoping for the big bust, man. l don't know. Funny thing, you know, they always wear these intimidating gloves so that you're supposed to ''fess up'' before they start looking up your ass. But they don't look up your ass. lt's a trick. Norway. It's beautiful. lt's like New Zealand only just grimmer. The Norwegian personality is when you stand in line for the bus, you don't stand too close. You keep a couple of meters away from the next guy. l think that says it all. They're going to give medicine to people. They're announcing it. People are like, ''Oh! Where is it!'' lt's amazing that people are eating this trash. Chemical. All the time, you know. Sleeping pills and all this. lt's like a chemical lobotomy, you know. l just started going really musically. And direct my interest into more and more music. Music, music, music. And he was more into politics. So we just sort of-- ...took different paths. The contact just faded into obscurity. The thing that made this music different was that we rebelled against the traditional song structure. But still, you know, he made an incredible impact with his early albums. And l'm eternally grateful for that. l wanted the music to be more epic or storytelling. He just recorded, like, basically everything he did himself. He was right on the money when it came to the black metal sound. That was the shit, man. And that is what made this new-- so-called new music style different. Because that is what the Darkthrone did that is what Burzum did. And we were like the first who did this in this period. lt's been years since we had contact. l tried to send him some music but it wasn't what he was searching for. He was searching for some music and he couldn't really explain what it had been. So l just gave up on it. l'm kind of like you know, what's it called, ambivalence? l have an ambivalent feeling in this context because in one sense of course, it's hard to have to be without freedom to move wherever l want and stuff like that. But in another sense it's kind of positive because l have the opportunity to, like, read books and focus on more important things. lt's like a-- l consider it like a stay in a monastery. ln our contemporary society, youth are pretty much lost. They have no direction. Nobody is telling them what to do. That is, people are teIling them what to do but the youth have an instinct telling them this is wrong, you know? People are telling them that Christianity is good. People are telling them that the USA is good. NATO is good. Our democracy is good. But we know, if not intellectually, we know instinctly that this is wrong. This is fucking revenge. We recorded the first black metal album A Blaze In the Northern Sky, sent it to Peaceville, and they were like, ''We're remixing this. What the hell are you guys doing?'' You know? ''This is black metal. This is what black metal is supposed to sound like.'' It was, like, all cold. lt's cold right now as well. l said, ''l'm not remixing the album. ''This is what black metal sounds like and if you don't want it, ''then we'll just make Euronymous release it "on his Deathlike Silence label.'' And then Peaceville said ''No. We can't have that. ''Because we will lose face if a new band in our stall is leaving us. ''So we better just fucking release it, you know?'' And now they're really happy about that, money-wise, l guess. We just went with our hearts and we thought we were going to sell, like, maybe 1500 copies of that Blaze In the Northern Sky album. We thought people would react the same way Peaceville did. Basically we knew that there were just a few people listening to and being ''black metal,'' but people picked up on it. And that's one of the albums now that is a classic within the style, so it still sells a lot ten years down the line. When l recorded my album, you know, l told the producer, ''Give me the worst microphone you have.'' We set up the drums, you know, we didn't do anything to make the song sound any particular-- special. You know, ten minutes everything was ready. And he was, you know, ''Don't you want to do anything?'' You know, you always have to adjust the sound of the drums and everything. No! Because it was like a rebellion against this... good production. So... We called it ''necro-sound,'' you know, ''corpse sound'' because it's supposed to sound the worst possible. So actually l ended up with a headset as a microphone. That was the worst we could find. And used that as a microphone. So-- And we used this tiny Marshall amplifier, it was this big, because that was the worst amplifier we could find. lt was terrible sound, it was-- We had, like, an album cover with our guitarist, an eerie shot with corpse-paint on it, and at that time every death metal album, every thrash metal album basically had painted covers, you know, ''cover art.'' And people hadn't seen, like, photos. Well, the underground knew that Mayhem used corpse-paint and shit, but people in general looking through the vinyls and CD racks, they were just like, ''What the hell is this? A blast from the past? This is cold!'' The way l perceived Mayhem was fucking magic for me. l'm still listening to the Deathcrush album. That's probably my favorite Mayhem album. They released Deathcrush and they just lived on reputation only in the late '80s. Mayhem started out in '84 l guess, around there. And it was the only Norwegian band, so it's sort of special for us. l went to rehearsals and came like, awestruck back. They did a show in 1989 which is legendary. Euronymous invented the typical Norwegian black metal riff. lt's sort of derived from Bathory, but it was a new way of playing a riff that had really not been done and not been stylized by anyone before. That's what Euronymous did. You have a chord. You don't play one and one, you play one and one up and down and you have the notes cling together so that you have the fucking eerie notes and they all string together creating this incredible, eerie sound. lt sends fucking chills down your spine. l started in Mayhem in March 1988. When l first met Euronymous, l gave him, like, a demo tape of me playing the drums. He listened to it maybe five minutes and he heard it was like double bass and blast beats in t,here and it was like ''Yeah, okay. You're in the band.'' The next day l actually moved to their location which was, like 30 minutes outside of! Oslo. l met the other guys. l met Necrobutcher. And of course, l met Dead which was a Swedish guy. l never had the chance to see Mayhem with Dead, but Demonaz did so he can say something about it. Yeah. l saw Mayhem in Oslo with Dead. And he had make-up. That was the first show l saw ever with make-up. And didn't they carry Dead in in a coffin? No, they didn't. They were supposed to do that. They were supposed to do that, yeah. So we were really waiting for that but it didn't happen. But he had this sacrifice knife which he was cutting himself with. lt was a good show. When it's cold and when it's dark the freezing moon can obsess you. He was extremely depressed, really. Just dreaming of Transylvania and vampires and all this gothic imagery, and it's an escape just like computer games and role-playing games, and that was his escape. Come on, Liepzig! Come on! Join us! Pure fucking Armageddon. We agreed that l should send him some ammo for his shotgun. He didn't have any ammo. And l did when l came back home and a month later he shot himself. Many people speculate that Aarseth himself killed Dead. Per Ohlin. It's one of the many rumors in this movement. There are a lot of rumors,. l don't think that's true simply because he was out of town when it happened. And when he came back home he didn't have a key, they only had a couple of keys t,o the house and he didn't have it so he had to crawl in the open window. And when he crawled in he found Dead-- Dead dead in the bed with his, you know, his brains blown out, literally. He shot himself in the forehead. The brain had fallen out from his skull. lt was, you know, grotesque. And the first thing he did was not to call the cops. lt was ''Where's my photo equipment?'' l'm born in Bergen in 1973. l grew up in an idyllic society, really. Homogeneous, no crime. Everything was basically perfect. We had stables with girls riding horses. We were playing on the outside. There were no problems. But at a certain point, when we grow older, of course there were problems, but we didn't see them. That's basically the truth, eh But when you grow older you start to see that things isn't the way you want it to be. McDonald's didn't appear until '91 or '92, and when it did we actually took a rifle and a bicycle and we bicycled-- Rode our bikes up to McDonald's and we set down and started to fire on their windows. You know, we were sneaking up and ''Boom!'' We were shooting at McDonald's. We stockpiled weapons, munitions to prepare for war. Because we not only suspected that there might be a third world war, we hoped that there would be a third world war. Not because we enjoyed destruction so much but because we knew that if you want to build something new, you have to destroy the old first. The ballad album of Nazareth. Oh! Testament, The Ritual. What a cool album. This place has a cool story to it when it comes to Darkthrone. Because, well Iet's get out of the fire. lt was a question of getting, like, a Dictaphone or something to record riffs. Because me and Ted, we had like, of course, you know, we recorded rehearsals on this fucking tape deck. And that broke down. So l'm sitting here in Oslo and l'm thinking, well, l probably should get a Dictaphone. And so l get in touch with Sigurd and he says, ''Well, l can get you this fucker for 2000. lt's got, like, four tracks, it's digital and everything.'' And l'm saying, ''Hold it. ''You know, l was thinking more along the lines ''of a little-- to get the riffs in.'' And then l come here, you know, and l find this old tape deck. lt can't even play out, it just goes-- but it can record and l bought it for 50 kroner. Fucking sweet. l refuse to... stand court-martialed for making this whole underground movement into a trend thing. lf it's anyone, it's not us. But l guess most people would say that. That's what people usually ask, you know? Like, how the hell did it happen? l guess l got to buy that fucking helmet. The mission statement was not escaping the death metal trend. But definitely we were thinking of not stepping in the garish footsteps of what became commercial death metal. Well, what do you know? What are we looking at here? l was thinking what is really the culturally relevant phenomenon of Norway? And l just couldn't find any. l think Norway is kind of exploding with all this kind of mediocre cultural activity and then if there are other relevant phenomena, then they are usually just completely ignored, which is happening with this Norwegian black metal here in Norway. What interested me the most,was both the visual aesthetics this kind of stereotype with this corpse-paint that you can make it into kind of a visual stereotype that both is something you feel you've seen before but is not quite like what you have seen before. This Transylvanian Hunger photo, if you compare that to ''The Scream'', there is so much visual similarities. And l don't think it's such a far-fetched reference as many people think. With Munch in Norway there has been this kind of fear of Munch the fear of his emotional excessiveness and, kind of the fear of this easy genius, and this very, very extreme, Norwegian person. And l think the only thing that really had a relevance to the kind of emotional content of what Edvard Munch was is Norwegian black metal. l have this tour now which will be four one-man shows in different European museums which will have a black metal theme. lt was a huge shop. At one point Count Grishnackh was living in the cellar. Bard ''Faust'' was living behind the counter, sort of. And Euronymous himself lived there in a small hideaway up in-- Like, he had a little, small-- Say this piece right there was removable. He was living, sleeping up in the fucking roof. We used to sit in a sofa behind the desk in a part of the shop that was not used. So it was like in a dark corner so to speak. You know, and he was drinking, we were talking and these heavy metal guys came in, you know, with nails all over their jackets because they had the impression that you have to have nails, you know? That's a part of the game. And... So, we could sit there, like talk about everything really'. Like cornflakes. We were discussing-- Gylve asked me, like, ''So, how do you like your cornflakes? ''Do you like them crispy? ''Or do you like them soft?'' And l said, ''Well, l like them crispy.'' And he said, ''No, no, no, no, no. It's better when they're really soft. ''You have to put the milk and let it just rest for a while, ''and then you eat it.'' And then these heavy metal guys would enter and we stopped talking because, you know, we didn't really want to talk to them, you know? We did not want to get to know them. And of course he was, you know, the drummer of Darkthrone the boss in Darkthrone. And l was playing in Burzum. And we were like their-- some sort of idols of some sort. So, they were watching us and... if we ever talked to one of them they boasted to their friends that, you know, ''Gylve of Darkthrone talked to me.'' Of course, he rarely did because he had-- You know, it was like pretty much we shared the opinion that these guys weren't particularly interesting, you know? lt's sort of stigmatizing to talk about heritage. You know, it's-- l mean for most of the European countries, l mean, Christianity more or less erased our original cultures anyway. There's more chaos, war, pollution now than ever before in our recorded history. Of course, we might have known a period with even worse conditions but the Christians burned all the records that could tell us about it anyway, like in the Library ofAlexandria. Wherever the Catholics or Protestants or other Christians came they destroyed the culture. They ruined the culture. They burned the culture. And they burned the records of these cultures. That includes the European cultures. That includes African cultures. Asian cultures. American cultures. Wherever they were, they destroyed everything. They want to replace our culture with Americanization with, you know, the Judeo-Christian cultures. Christianity is the root to all problems in the modern world. lt's hard to know what to do to oppose something. Because dissident voices are not tolerated in contemporary society. l think it's to a big extent nauseating, you know, to see, you know, the beauty of specific cultures, you know, being contaminated by the not-so-beautiful facets of other cultures. But at the same time, l think it's a process of-- lt's a step on the way to returning to some sort of primeval source. Everybody can relate to Odin and Thor and Freya in Norway because it's our religion. We are not Christian. Christianity is a Jewish religion. Christianity was originally a Jewish sect. Baptism is all about a symbolic, ritual murder of the non-Jewish of the Gentile. They murder the Gentile child, and then they call the Jewish name that's supposed to replace the pagan soul. Originally, the place was an old pagan holy site. lt was on top of a hill where our forefathers used to celebrate the sun. What the Christians did was to move this church from another place, and put it not close to this holy site but on top of it. ln the midst of the circle. Actually breaking up the circle. And on the pagan horgh, they put a big stone cross. So, if they have no respect for the Norwegian culture, why on earth should Norwegians respect their culture? The intended result was to give people a shock to make them open their eyes. lt's like if you detonate a bomb, they will open their eyes for a moment, you know? ''What happened?'' lt was Varg who first set fire to a church. But there were a lot of church burnings. ln, l guess... Was it '92, '93? My least favorite artist is from Central America. lt is the woman who paints all the women with very strong eyebrows. She's way political and l know for a fact that in Nicaragua, for instance, l mean the artists were persecuted, and they always painted, like, these really... close to nature things with strong colors. l mean, it's the perfect... disease of being repressed. l mean, you want everything to be shiny. No, l like-- l more like the wealthy and troubled art that comes from... the exhaustion of easy life. lt surprised me a little bit when l felt the, uh... not friction, but the panic that people had against modern arrt. And ''that's just something that they threw on the canvas'' mind-frame. And again l'm not a shrink, l don't know why l reacted to that, but l was like ''what the hell's wrong with it?'' Because l grew up-- It's my parents too. They were always like that. They were going, like, ''Call a spade a spade,'' and all that ordeal. So maybe, through the way they raised me-- And everyone wants to be against their parents. l never felt l needed that but l guess l didn't realize it. But that's the way l came to like modern art. My parents being very conservative and they wanted the, as we call it in Norway, the moose in the sunset sort of painting. ''Well, at least that's a moose in a sunset. ''l know what the hell that means.'' lt's not like l don't see these images every fucking day. l know the location of that because l've been there, you know? lt's like from where l'm from. ls there more? Not black metal Mickey? Can you just use Mickey Rourke like that? That is truly insane. lt's just going to be decaf on this guy from now on. Thought maybe it would just be a piece of paper with his name. Nothing on the back. Just-- Just ''here's my name.'' How do you like that? Can l have a glass of water? l fucking need it. No more questions, guys? Even l'm starting to feel like having a smoke now. We weren't involved in any of those activities with church burning and stuff. We knew about it. l mean, we thought it was... quite entertaining. To Aarseth everything was about image. And he wanted to appear extreme. He wanted people to think of him as being extreme. And the most extreme of them all. But he didn't want to be extreme. And he wasn't really extreme. He gave people the impression that he was organizing all of it. That was what he wanted it to look like. He started to talk about this ''black metal mafia,'' this mob. And he wanted it to look as if he was some ''godfather'' of some organization. l pointed at the fact that, ''Hey, he sure has a big mouth. ''But is he doing anything?'' And the others would think ''Well, actually, he doesn't.''' So, you know... l was frustrated when l realized that this movement was, you know, still the same bunch of brain-dead metal-heads. And l wanted to do something about it. So l tried to force them into taking another stand by giving an interview to a newspaper. l told him that we were behind the church burnings and all this. And l told him l could tell him that because, of course l have not done anything. And, of course he changed everything, and instead of printing what l told him, he went to the police and got me arrested. And then he printed his interpretation of what l said in the newspaper. l could not do anything about it. l was in prison. And of course all of the other journalists interviewed him while l was in prison and l couldn't say anything about it. So his version was like the truth. Everybody copied it, you know? The police claim that l made others burn churches. That is, l accompanied them and, like, ''Come on.'' You know, ''The church.'' Were you worried about your friends getting into trouble? No. We were zoning at the time. l didn't worry about anything basically. l guess l wanted to set fire myself. l never went that far, you know. But, no. l mean, the only thing that was worrying is when it was all over the news. And then we had something to worry about. lt didn't turn out the way l wanted it to be, but it sure changed a lot. They started to pretend that there was some Satanic movement and conspiracy in society, that the people who were burning churches were really Satanists who planned to spread evil, all this crap. And when l got out of prison, there was nothing l could do about it. l told them this is nothing to do with Satanism. And they never paid any attention to what l said. Even Aarseth was never a Satanist. Nobody were Satanists, but this was all about demonizing a movement. They wanted us to be Satanists. You know, the moment the newspapers started writing about it, it was imitated. The problem was really that this misinterpretation made up the foundation of a completely different movement of, you know, 15-year-old copycats burning churches, and spraying these Satanic symbols on the churches because they thought that that's what it was all about. And, you know, that was the result. And that was a result of the media coverage. The movement, the small but pinpointed things we had in mind, got blown into this big trend, big following thing. l guess the sales of black lipstick went through the roof. l like this shot, eh? This is also not bad when he stands like this you see the nails. This is also kind of good when he goes in and out of the frame. This is good. This l want to use. This is Gylve in the forest. Can you slow it down? l think visually the best one would be Gylve from Darkthrone. 'Cause l think he has visually the best look. But he would never do it, huh? Legacy Magazine, Diana. Hey, hey! It's Fenriz. - Hi. - Hi. What's up? Are you having a great Friday? Yes, a little crazy because it was a long night yesterday. Okay. Let's start off with the interview. l heard that in your private life, what is truly quite a shock for a lot of Darkthrone fans, you're into house and techno music. Is this true? Oh sure. l was just listening to a mix CD for Monika Kruse last night. You should know Monika Kruse. She's been in the German techno scene for a long time. We in Oslo, we are not secluding. We usually know about a whole lot of different sorts of styles of music. We're not fucking living in a trailer camp just listening to Anthrax, if you know what l'm saying. We like a lot of different music but l guess l'm the first one who started to say that l like a lot of different music. But the first one who really went out and said all that shit was Euronymous himself. He was always into electronic music. And he said it. He even had Conrad Scnitzler do the fucking intro for the Deathcrush album, you know? Well, what l wanted to say is that l hope that you do not have the intention to bring out a house album. No. That's the whole prob-- That's the whole thing, you know. ln Darkthrone we are listening to so many other styles of music but we will not let that enter into the Darkthrone concept. lt is not Darkthrone. Then, we shall not be influenced by it, but we can listen to it. Other people, they hear two electronic albums they like, and they suddenly go like, ''Oooh! Maybe we can put this in the metal! Maybe that will be cool!'' Hey, that's not Darkthrone. But l know a whole lot of people that have been doing that. Wow! Wow! You think so? That is so interesting because l think, like, eight years ago l didn't really do provoking shit because Christian people were not going to read my lyrics, right? So they were not going to be provocative. What l wrote then, l see now in hindsight, l see that this is what people that were into occult or obscure and anti-Christian things, that was the sort of lyrics they wanted to read. lt maybe given them strength. But it was also sort of fiction and maybe a creative outlet for my fucking head. What l've been doing on the last two albums is what should drive people to suicide. And it's really taking out the strength, right? Because you can't really get strength from the lyrics on the last two albums, while you probably could from an album like ''A Blaze In The Northern Sky.'' So l'm thinking l'm really just pleasing and, you know, l'm caressing the dog with its hairs, you know, as we speak, the dogs being the fans or whatever, everyone listening to the album. l'm just-- It turns out l was writing just what they wanted, okay? And now l'm writing what no one wants because that is to be really fucking depressed, if you really understand it, and then wanting to take your fucking life. At least l do. Because l'm looking at my lyrics for the last two albums and l'm seeing my fucking world in hell. - Okay. - Okay. Thanks for taking the time. Thanks for your time. And l wish you a nice evening. Oh, have a beautiful evening. All right. See you later. Hey, hey. Bye. One down, one to go. l chose the name Frost when l entered Satyricon and became a member of the band. l wanted a name that l could identify with as a black metal artist. And l wanted it to be like a purification of that side of me that was into the darkness and the grimness and the coldness of black metal. lt's an alter-ego, you know? lt helps me getting more focused and also it adds to the totality of darkness and grimness that we do create with our music. The obscurity in black metal is part of the darkness that we are trying to create. lt goes very much hand in hand with that darkness. And then l'm talking about darkness with a capital ''D'' then. lf you understand what l mean. Well, if someone running... a big art magazine and wanted to use my picture, that is kind of flattering, so l wouldn't feel it should be necessary for them to ask me first if they are allowed to do it because it's somehow presented in a neutral way. lt couldn't be connected to something that l do not like or do not want to be connected to. l've been obsessed with, like these Norwegian black metal bands. So my new show is, like, just dedicated to black metal. lt's just, like, pure, like, the most uncommercial music. lt's like pure death. It's, like, pure, like-- lt's like-- It's like the pits of death. lt's the most uncommercial music. l went to Norway where all the guys burned the churches down and murdered each other and, like, are in prison making music. l, like, visited, like, Euronymous' grave and death and all this because l love black metal. The most extreme music in the world. Most of them are in prison now. They killed their Messiah, Euronymous. They were confirming the media's version and making all of it even worse. The media was misinterpreting. l said, ''Hey, you're wrong.'' And then these guys sort of confirmed that, ''No, we're right. Look at these guys.'' How can you stand for this crap, you know? It's impossible. And at this point l was starting to become a problem in this scene. He was planning to kidnap me. He was planning to knock me out with an electro-shock pistol like the type that security guards carry and tie me up, take me to the forest, and make a snuff film of torrturing me to death. And of course l took it serious. Apart from that he just-- lf he were talking about it, like, in the shop to everybody and anybody, l wouldn't have taken it serious. But he didn't. He just told a select group of friends. And one of them, you know, told me. And later on he wrote a letter to me you know, as if we were friends. Which of course confirmed my suspicion that he had some plans. Why did he suddenly want to be friends, you know? Of course, to have an excuse to you know, get close to me without awaking any suspicion. The only reason he had to contact me was a contract between Burzum and his label. So he sent me the contracts and wanted me to sign them. And he wanted to meet when we were signing them. Okay. There's no reason to wait. Let's just go to Oslo and get done with it. So l drove to Oslo. But of course it takes some time to get to Oslo. You know, it's 500 kilometers of bad roads and mountains. So, it took some time to reach. l think we were there at 3:00 or maybe 4:00. So he was sleeping. l told him, ''Well, l don't care if you're sleeping, just open the door.'' And he opened the door... which is rather strange really. You know, he just opened the door, even though he had plans to kill me. And he had his beeper, you know? And when l got up in the apartment, he panicked. Because, you know, he probably-- He had plans to kill me. l was aggressive. You know, so he panicked. He attacked me. He kicked me in the chest. l just threw him to the ground, a bit stunned really. Because, you know, he attacked me and l didn't expect it at the time. And l was stunned for a while. He was just sitting on the floor. And suddenly he got up trying to get to his knife in the kitchen. And l thought, ''Well, if he's going to have a knife, l'm going to have a knife.'' l had a pocket knife-- this small pocket knife. l got it up and prevented him from getting to the kitchen, you know, so he didn't manage to get his knife. And then he started off against-- started to run off towards his bedroom where he kept the shotgun that Dead shot himself with as well as the electro-shock pistol. lt turned out, later on, that he didn't have any of these things in the bedroom, but l believed it at the time. And that is the reason l followed him. And instead of going into the bedroom, he just left the building, really. He just started to run down the stairs. And l followed him and managed to stop him. And, of course l had a friend with me. Actually, the guitarist of Mayhem. And, of course, he was rather shocked. And l waited because l didn't know how he was going to react, you know? He was the guitarist in Mayhem. So for all l knew, he could attack me as well. Maybe they planned it, you know? You get a bit paranoid in situations like that. So l just waited for-- for-- for-- What's going to happen? l just waited. Aarseth was on the floor. He broke a lamp on the wall so he was swimming in glass fragments with only his underwear, so he was rather bloody. And this other guy just ran past me. And of course l understood that, okay, he's not a part of it. So l asked him, ''Are you okay?'' And he just ran off. And then l remembered that he had my car keys. And l had blood all over myself. And Aarseth got up and attacked me again. So l finished Aarseth off. l just-- What do you say? Stabbed? Chopped? Stabbed him in the skull so he died immediately. And l followed the other guy. He ran to the car. So, l managed to calm him down. He gave me the car keys. l opened the car, you know, and we drove back. l wouldn't speak negatively about him in the sense l speak negatively about the others. He never said that he was going to do anything. And he never did anything. But that's an honorable thing, isn't it? lt's worse when you say you're going to do it and you don't do it. Gylve, as l said, is a special person with special goals, and it's impossible to know what his goals are. He-- He's successful at what he's doing and l guess he's happy with that. We did not think it was Count Grishnackh. So we were looking out, we were looking. We were watching our backs. l thought what the hell can l do for Euronymous? He's dead, man. l dedicated the A Blaze In the Northern Sky album to him. Who can l support now? Well, it's the guy that's still alive. And he's, like, muffled in jail. When l got the sentence l already knew that l was going to get 21 years. That's the maximum penalty in Norway. lt's not much by American standards, but that's maximum in Norway. So, the judge was really eager to, you know, as if she was happy, you know? ''Twenty-one years. Great.'' Because she wanted to underline that ''we do not tolerate this type of rebellion in Norway.'' And of course they were expecting me to be, like, wetting my pants or something. And it just made me smile, really. l turned my head to the audience you could call it, and just smiled. And from what l gathered, they smiled back. Varg always will be a great guy. Even though his views on everything are deemed, like an abomination by Norway. He fucked up. He's a very intelligent guy. He's a very talented guy. But he wanted to live differently from us so he decided to burn these churches. lt must have been one hell of a rush for him. But now he's in jail, and that must suck for him. But, you know, he has himself to thank for it. lt's very hard to recognize the truth when you are bombarded by lies all the time. Every minute of the day, you have to go to sleep. But even in sleep, because you dream of the impressions you have during the day. You're bombarded by commercials and completely senseless information every single day. lf you turn on the TV, you're bombarded. lf you turn your head in some direction you see some sign, some commercial. Read magazines, newspapers, senseless information. The news are themselves products being sold. Everything is meaningless. Sure the truth is out there-- l know l sound like some X-files but the truth is of course to be found. But in a sea of lies it's just impossible to fin' d it. Unless you know how to look, where to look, and when to look. And of course it's not possible to just, you know, get up in the morning and just say, ''Okay, l'm going to find the truth this day,'' you know, and go find it. You have to try and fail and eventually you will weed out all the lies and you'll end up with something at least similar to the truth. The truth is hidden, you know? Under grass, under some rocks, in a hidden trail, a forgotten trail in the forest, you know? And when you're trying to find these trails, you will stumble. You'll get some branches in your face. You'll make mistakes before you finally find it. So, how do you like the prison? But the thing is, it's out there now. It's everyone's property. Like, for people who want to do humor or whatever, it's out of our fucking hands. Black metal for me is still those secluded things that people are not the fuck interested in, you know? So black metal is like a brand now, you know? Everyone can deal with it. lf someone does it in a completely, you know, disgusting way l might go, like, ''Damn it!'' But what can l do? What's the point? l kind of got interested for this project when Bjarne told me the destructivity that l was supposed to vibrate throughout the performance. So of course l wouldn't have been interested in the first place if that didn't seem fascinating to me. l wonder what Munch's paintings would be if he didn't feel the agony of living or the easiness of being alive compared to the inevitable death. l have no problems being self-destructive if the whole thing is something that l like. l'll give them a sign if something goes wrong. Well, a big part of me wishes that this whole thing didn't turn into a trend. l mean, that's what fucking sucked. And sucks still. Then again, you know, people like to dress up. How do you like the transformation? Oh, boy. Subtitled By J.R. Media Services, Inc. Burbank, CA Satan!
