 

                        1 (MUSIC) CHEERLEADERS: Ready. Okay. Warriors, stand up, and yell for the black and orange. HERMAN: Go warriors. CHEERLEADERS: Black and orange, black and orange. DIANE: All right, ladies. That's it for tonight. Go warriors. (LAUGHING) Stop. JEFF: Hey, Hannah. Hey, Jeff, thanks. So, uh, you got a costume for tomorrow? I got to take my little sister trick or treating Before the game. Oh, so you're going to stay after for the dance? No. I mean maybe. Why? Are you? No. Probably not. I mean, you know how these guys are. Not really into school functions Unless it involves chasing a pig skin. Hogeye high, where high school victory is everything. Ain't it grand? Uh, ew, Blaine, you're all sweaty. TINA: We're going over to mike's to get hammered. Are you guys coming? - Uh... - I don't know. Ask her. No, Blaine, um, he promised to take me home early. I have homework. Uh, yeah, look, I realize you haven't been around long enough To understand what an honor it is to be invited Somewhere by someone like me, but next time I say, "Hannah, come play." You say, I'm on my way. Okay? What about you, Diane? You coming? Maybe in a bit. I was going to get some candy first to throw at the students At the pep rally tomorrow first. Uh, whatever. STUDENT: Hey, how's the view down there, Herman? HERMAN: Stop. Let me go. HANNAH: Guys, get him down. MIKE: How's the view, Herman? Guys, stop! JEFF: Let him go. Have you idiots learned nothing this past year? MIKE: We're just messing around. Calm down. PETER: Just giving old Herman a squirming. HERMAN: Will you stop it? Are you all right, Herman? HERMAN: I'm fine! (LAUGHING) VICKIE: Hi there. HEATHER: Hey. Hey, your dad's working late so mom sent me to pick you up. Oh, okay. LINDA: Uh, heather? Are we supposed to be getting that biggie's barbecue? Hey, I'm game. I'm starving. You hungry, Vic? Seriously? Fine. I guess I can find us something to snack on. LINDA: Well, now. That's the spirit. I guess pinto beans and collared greens for you, girl? Whoa. Hold on a second, babe. Did you, uh, did you ask your mom about tomorrow night? Oh, um, not yet, but... Blaine, you know what she's going to say About me staying out past curfew. Baby. Fine, I'll ask, but I can't make any promises, okay? It's whatever. I knew this was going to happen. Fine. I'm coming. How many times? How many times what? Are you going to come? Oh my god. Blaine. But seriously, okay? I know, I know your rules. No drinking and driving, okay? Yeah. All right. Come here. Good night. (SHOWER RUNNING) Blaine, is that you? You better get in here. (HEAVY BREATHING SOUND) Blaine? Blaine? Coach Randall? (CELL PHONE RINGING) This isn't funny, Blaine. Now stop screwing with me And get in here and screw me already. So, you're not in the gym right now? You said you would meet me here after you dropped Hannah off. No. I'm not going to mike's. Hello? Hello? Ugh! (HEAVY BREATHING) Uhh! Dammit, Herman. What are you still doing here in that stupid get up? (BREATHING) Stop staring at me like some pervo. You're not even supposed to be in here right now. (BREATHING) That's it. I'm calling your mother. (SCREAM) (DOOR BANGING) Oh! (GURGLING OF BLOOD) (SCREAM) (GURGLING OF BLOOD) (SCHOOL BELL) COACH RANDALL: Okay girls, where's Diane? I tried calling her a gazillion times, coach. She won't answer. Were you girls out partying last night? I'm here, aren't I? All right. Well, you're co-Captain. So, you're in charge. Want to cue the music? I want you to fly your little fly away asses in the gym, Understood? Guess I'm the bossy bitch today. And every other day. HANNAH: You guys, shouldn't we be worried about Diane? It's not like her to miss a rally. Loosen your chastity belt, heather. She's probably just shacked up with that varsity linebacker From Mattington, taking our "ride on the mustang" cheer To a new level. If you know what I mean. Yeah, but are we sure? Maybe we should call her folks And make sure she's not in trouble or anything. The front is in trouble. We can't do our basket toss about her. Now, Hannah and heather, you frame me, And Herman you do whatever losers do while we dance, okay? (MUSIC) work, step, watch it, fake it stop, stretch, drop it shake it move left, right then face me catch your breath, it feels amazing oh, oh, in the club like oh, oh, for the last night oh, oh, in the past life I'm on fire all my girls on the floor let me see you stop and show me how you move 'cause tonight we didn't hide we did just like we wanted to we're on fire burning hot on fire o-n-f-i-r double e let's go, to from the front to the back let's go, from the front to the back let's go, to from the front to the back let's go, from the front to the back on fire breathe deep, show it, move it front, back with something to it don't stop, feel the music let go, just don't lose it oh, oh, in the club like oh, oh, for the last night oh, oh, in the past life I'm on fire all my girls on the floor let me see you stop and show me how you move 'cause tonight we didn't hide we did just like we wanted to we're on fire burning hot on fire o-n-f-i-r double e let's go, to from the front to the back let's go, from the front to the back (CONFETTI SHOT) (CHEERING) (CHEERING) Tonight, we're playing our number one rival, The Mattington mustangs. So what are we going to do? FOOTBALL PLAYERS: Ride those mustangs! What are we going to do? (CROWD) Ride those mustangs! (CHEERING) ROBIN: Hey, give me a sec. Okay. Hey. Jeff, wait. Where's Herman? Uh, comic convention apparently. He texted me and told me he couldn't make it. Asked me to fill in for him. Huh. Hey, kids, where the heck is Diane? Nobody knows. Looks like she bailed. Wow! God forbid hogeye high's greatest gold plated whore Miss an opportunity to strut her shit For the entire defensive line. She must be dead. Yo, red. - It's robin. - I know. Did you get any wide book photos because Skewed ones simply won't do. Well, you really needed a bigger one for your head, But unfortunately they just don't make them that big. What the hell are you laughing at sweaty ass reject? Shouldn't you be passing around Gatorade or something? PRINCIPAL GRAVES: Thank you, And best of luck for our four 4-0 varsity team. (CHEERS) But as much as I know we all would love a victory tonight From mighty warriors, I'd like us also to take a moment To think about the tragedy That took place in our town last Halloween. In memory of my... in memory of my loving daughter, Ginny, gifted athlete, Straight a student, and a child of exemplary character, This would've been her final year at hogeye, And today's the year for our loss. May we have a moment of silence? (SCHOOL BELL) PETE: Yo. So, who's Ginny? She's nobody. Just forget you ever heard that name, okay? - Why? What's the big... - I said forget it. Hey, chill, Tina. Graves is the one who brought her up, remember? Yeah, Tina. Hannah didn't know. Well, I wish we didn't either, so she's the lucky one, And principal graves can go screw a heard of heifers For all I care, so let's just drop it. Don't forget, girls. 6:30 sharp on the field. I'm such a skank. HANNAH: I don't know how you guys put up with her. BLAINE: Hey. You guys up for a pre-Game shake at the shack? LINDA: Wow. Sounds like a plan. HEATHER: You guys coming? No. Y'all go ahead. I'm on a diet. All right. I'll see you at the game. HANNAH: What is with her? What did I say? Uh, I don't know. She's probably on her period or something. Don't even sweat it. What do you say, uh, you and I be all like, hey And go back to my place before the game? Um, I actually told Linda and heather We'd go get a shake. Do you want to come? No. I'll probably just go to mike's and play video games Or something, all right? Later, babe. Bye. Can we say choad? Would one of you please tell me who the hell Ginny is And what happened back there? Uh, I need a shake. Diet's off. Let's go. (DUCKS QUACKING) Huh, okay, so you know how sometimes like serious shit Goes down in these little Podunk towns And nobody ever wants to talk about it again? Yeah. Kind of like my mom is with my dad. Exactly. Okay, so last year before you moved here, The principal's daughter, Ginny, was killed Halloween night. She was murdered? No. She died in an accident. It was alcohol related, wasn't it? That's why you didn't want to tell me. I mean, when we met back in august, You were still so upset over your dad. It just never felt right. So why did Tina get so upset earlier? I mean, were they friends? We were all her friends, And I guess it's still just hard for us to think about. I mean, Ginny was one of the sweetest, softest, Most genuine people you'd ever meet. I don't think there was a single person at school Who didn't just adore her. Hell, even Tina liked her. She was on the cheerleading squad, wasn't she? That, that's why graves looked at us so weird earlier. I mean, Ginny was captain of the JV squad Since we were freshmen, and the apple of her daddy's eye. Yeah! That man used to be one easy-Going chap, But he's been grim as all get out ever since. Yeah. It kind of reminds me of my mom. I mean, he seemed to be holding it together pretty well today. Yeah. Well, someone had to. Our buddy, Ben, Damn near fell apart right before our very eyes. Who's Ben? Ben Youngblood. You know, as in rick Youngblood, The honky tonky farmer dating your hot mom? Wait. I didn't know rick had another son other than mark. Well, mark was actually a year younger than Ben was. Ben was in our class. Was? What happened to him? After Ginny died, Ben's wagon snapped right off it's hitch. What he means is that Ben went to rehab And not the kind where celebs go. Janitor Fred found a bunch of downer meds in his locker. Supposedly, it was what was left of his mom's Prescription pills that she od'd on when she committed suicide A few years back. Diarrhea mouth. God. No wonder Rick's been so sympathetic to my mom, But I can't believe he never mentioned he had another son. He just didn't want to put that on her after everything Y'all went through with your dad anymore than we did you. Or maybe he told her, and she just didn't tell you. Parents have a way of hiding shit. I'm just saying. Okay? So, where's Ben now? He never responded to the rehab. He just sits in this dark quiet room painting portraits Of old Ginny graves. So he just left him there in the nut house? It's not a nut house. More like extended stay if he was suicidal. Geez, that's heavy. Do you guys think I should say something to my mom? Dude, your mom barely let you out of the house as it is. How do you think she's going to respond to something like, Hey mom, guess what? I took some dead chick's spot on the cheer squad today. Runs of the mouth, remember. Although he does have a point. Hey, did you guys see that? I thought I just saw something behind those trees over there. I don't see nothing. Okay. Now, I'm officially freaked. Can we get out of here, please? (HEAVY BREATHING) So, you think peter will likey? After all those slices of sausage at Biggie's, What I think is peter is sausaging your stepsister. What? No way. LINDA: Why not? Vickie's free loving fearless screams, "screw me." Because peter would never be into a tree hugger like Vickie, And likewise, Vickie would never be into a jock like peter. All I'm saying is I have impeccable eyes and ears. You wouldn't understand because you've never been in love. And neither have you. Just because you been saving yourself for Peter Paxton Since kindergarten doesn't make you some damn fool in love. It just makes you a damn fool. There's nothing wrong with waiting Until you've found the right person. Unless it means you're the only virgin left in hogeye high. So you think that peter wants to screw Vickie Because he thinks she's easy? Not because she's easy But because sex with her is different then sex with you. Sex with you is like shooting a bunny, Guaranteed to be greeted with guilt. Well, we'll see about that tonight When I hook up with him, won't we? Huh, I'll believe that when I see it. You and I both know the only guy you're hooking up with This weekend is Jesus come church Sunday morning. And you're one to talk. You haven't dated in over a year. That's because there's a lack of brothers In this hick ass town. I dated a few, but they're only good for one thing, the booty. (KNOCKING AT DOOR) Enter. Hey, you guys mind if I catch a ride with you to the game later? But you never come to the games. Well, maybe I want to see my stepsister in action for once. Or jump in your stepsister's action. Of course you can. The only thing is we kind of had plans afterward. That's fine. I can find my own ride home. So you're not going to the costume ball after all, then? Not this year. Apparently, Tina planned a private party for us. And why haven't I heard about this? Maybe because Tina doesn't want the whole school to know. Rude. Oh, spill. Where is it? I don't know. She wouldn't tell me. LINDA: Thank you, thank you, thank you. KRISSEY: You mean to tell me You had your hands on our school mascot uniform, And you didn't bring it to come trick or treating? JEFF: Sorry. I had to leave it at the school. Someone got fake blood all over the poncho, But hey, if you like, I can go get my cool trainer T out of the car. It's just down there. Thanks, but I need candy collateral, Not a trainer with sweaty tackles. Yo, smarty pants. We almost finished? I got to get to the school soon, And I might need your help picking out An outfit right after the game. Ooh, for a girl? Maybe, but you cannot tell mom. Words will never hurt Provided we hit at least one more block of big houses. Hmm, fine, you got a deal. Sucka! This is going to be a long night. Mike, where's the booze? Didn't get it yet. What? Dammit, mike you said... babe, I got my brother's id. We're going to take care of it later. You're acting like it's not a big deal. What do you think you're going to look old enough because you Were held back for two years? What about you, Blaine? Did you do what I asked you? Only through the masterminding and manipulation. It's ours for the night. (DOORBELL) CHILDREN: Trick or treat. GIRL: Where's your costume? Costumes are for pre-Adolescence and perverts, princess. Happy Halloween, kiddies. Keys... and happy Halloween, Tina. NANCY: Hannah, come on in here. You're going to be late. Coming. Hannah, I don't want you going out After the game tonight. Big storm's coming through. But mom, you said as long as Blaine had me home by midnight That I could, I could go. How do you expect to get a cheerleading scholarship When you're hanging out with a boy all the time? Mom, Blaine's the running back for the football team. I couldn't get much more support unless I dated the mascot. Blaine is very supportive. Supportive of one thing... getting into your cheer bloomers, dear. Mom, we're just going to go to Biggie's barbecue For a while, okay? No cow tipping. No house wrapping, No mailbox bashing, I promise. No. Made up my mind. Mom, it's Halloween night. I mean, didn't you and dad go out after games? I could've cheered for the cowboys, But instead I married your father, And now he's gone. I just don't want you throwing your life away On some boy like I did. You are a great cheerleader. You are the best. You can go and become a competitive judge or something. Travel the world, do something with your life. Do you regret marrying dad? I mean, do you regret having me, too? No, you know that I loved your father. I don't regret marrying your dad, And of course, I don't regret having you. Everything that I have done is for you. I moved us here for you So that you can have a better shot at getting a scholarship. But I've heard nothing but bad things About these new friends of yours, and I'm afraid... I'm afraid that they're going to have A bad influence on you, okay? So, no. You're not going out tonight, and that's it. I made up my mind. I got to go. I'm going to be late. Fine. Take the car. The keys are on the end table. I'll go with rick. Hannah? This is for your own good. (WHISTLE) (CHEERING) (QUARTERBACK CHANT) (WHISTLE) Yeah, get up, Clap your hands, let's go baby. (QUARTERBACK CHANT) (CHEERING) - Boo. - (SCREAMS) Blaine. Oh, we won, baby, And who brought down the house? You know my boy brought down the house, baby. Oh, what's up. Come on, man. LINDA: You big asshat. You almost game me a damn heart attack, idiot. You better watch your mouth, Young lady, or your dad is going to have you In cuffs. Hi, Ms. Wallace. Good evening, Ms. Wallace. My, what a looker you are, all dressed up for our game. Oh boy. Thank you so much, Blaine. I tell you what, why don't you go take A cold shower and maybe put on a shirt. Hannah, let's go. Can I at least go get a burger with everyone? Blaine will bring me home. Please. We already discussed this. Just a burger, and I'll be right home. I promise. I'll bring her home myself. I promise. Scout's honor. Man, that was a great catch you made during the second quarter. It was even better than last weeks. Oh yeah, you come to the games, huh? You kidding? This here is a true warrior. Would've tried out for the team, too, Only he couldn't on account of he would've missed too much Practice with it being deer season and all. Well, looky there, he hunts, too. MARK: I shot a 12 pointer Point blank between the eyes last week. LINDA: And on that note, I do think we need to go catch up With mike and Tina, right, we got to... yeah, I think we, we ought to get out of here. Goodnight, Ms. Wallace. Goodnight. You go, you eat, You get back home. You have 30 minutes. Bubba and I will make sure she gets home, okay Ms. Wallace? Thirty minutes. (PHONE VIBRATES) hey. Where are you guys? Is that Tina? Did she get the booze? What's... fine. Well, wow, mister. Don't you look good enough to eat? So you all dressed up for our little fiesta or what? Yeah. Sorry. Can't. Made other plans. You guys have fun though. Okay. LINDA: Um-Hmm. Knew it. (NOISE) God, Tina. Hey, where did everyone go? Um, robin went to go get bubba's truck from the school So the guys could chat real quick. Don't tell me it was all a hoax? Apparently, Blaine's mom is the realtor for the old Williamson farm, And he confiscated the keys. So we done died and went to heaven? That barn's an awful idea. The spiders, snakes, No electricity. Exactly, which means it's Ab, fab for Halloween. So, where is everyone? Loading up beer and boxed wine... JEFF: Boxed wine? ...over at mike's. JEFF: Sounds like a post game pasture party. And pray tell, where have you been? I just sweat like a camel's nut sack for four hours In Herman's get up, and I needed to take a shower, nosy. Besides, not all of us can enjoy the game scantily clad. Forgive me, good sir, And allow me to officially invite you To the senior send off party At the old Williamson farmhouse. Whoa. Your mom's letting you go? Well not technically. In other words, have fun with Hannah tonight Because starting tomorrow, she's grounded for life. Oh yeah. We can't worry about that now. We have bigger issues. So, we missing damn good drinking time. Let's get out of here. (LAUGHING) Come on, come on. Hurry up. TINA: Did you get everything? Of course, I got everything. Hi, sheriff Jones. Evening. Either of y' all seen my daughter since the game? Oh, I haven't seen Linda. Perhaps she went back to the gym for the annual costume ball? Don't bullshit me, Ms. Blair. I ain't the one. Now, if you plan on drinking with my daughter, You make damn sure all the drivers stay sober Or else you call me, got it? We'll be totally safe, sir. I swear. You hear me brophy? Yes, sheriff. I don't give a damn who your daddy is Or how much dough he wipes his ass with. Designate, castrate. You follow me, son? We'll be safer than safe. And tell Linda she best have her ass home Before I get off my shift at two. Okay? Yes, sir. Well, if I just shot myself. Calm down, you big vagina. I knew he'd be totally cool with it. Now, can we go? Geez, that car nearly hit us. BLAINE: Calm down. It's just mike and Tina joining the caravan kiddies. Probably just ready to get up there and screw is all. HEATHER: How romantic. What? With the cobwebs? The rat feces. Oh my god, heather. It's supposed to be scary. Stop being such a freaking princess all the time. HANNAH: I mean, Blaine, maybe she's right. Maybe this isn't such a good idea. I mean, you don't know how crazy my mom gets, Especially after my dad. All right, look. I've got it all figured out. We're just going to tell her we had car trouble, And I'll have you home by midnight. She'll never know the difference. It's going to be fine, okay? Just chill. Okay. Lovely. Um-Hmm. Hey there, girl. All right. DISPATCHER SAXON: Jones, Saxon on dispatch. Do you copy? Sheriff Jones here. Uh, copy that. Sheriff, I just got a call from Hughes rehab center in honeybrook. Appears one of their residents, Ben Youngblood, Says he's from hogeye, went missing last night. Yeah, uh, that's rick Youngblood's eldest, Uh, yeah, I know him. He was in Linda's class. Did they notify rick his boy left yet? Maybe he's headed back home. Well, the facility hasn't been able to reach him, And I tried the landline listed, but got nothing. I have an idea where I can find him. Did they say anything else? DISPATCHER SAXON: The psychiatrist said that Ben never informed anyone about his departure, And he also voiced concerns about Ben possibly trying To head this way on foot. Concerns? Why concerns? Said Ben's typically catatonic state Had recently developed into sudden outbursts of anger, And that the nurses were even in discussions with his father About moving Ben to a more secure facility. A more secure facility? He says they were starting to worry. Ben had become potentially harmful, Not only to himself, but to others, too. All right. Well, we'll find him, and uh, we'll talk to him. There's one more thing. I'm not sure they're related, but I got a phone call From Ms. Sanchez earlier. She said her daughter never returned home last night. Apparently, she missed school today And then cheering at the game tonight, too. Wouldn't that be the Diane that your daughter's friends with? (MUSIC) TINA: Holy shit. Check it. It's old myrtle Christy's dive bar pub. I can't believe that dive is still open. Supposedly, it has the best chicken fried steak in ten counties. Some say she's a witch, That she kills stray cats and casts spells on them, And then fries them and serves them to the customers, And that's why the food's so good. Whatever, babe. You're full of shit. Grab me another beer. Please, grab me another beer tinker tits. I love it when you talk dirty to me. Just a hopeless romantic. Now, usually on Halloween people like to bob for apples, But I'd like to shake things up a bit this year, baby. Have you ever been bobbing for bananas? BUBBA: Geez, is mike wasted already? Heather's going to go ape on his ass if he's driving blitz. I still can't believe Hannah even let Blaine talk her into all this. Yeah, well Blaine's going to be real heated whenever He realizes he brought her all the way up to BFE Just to have her blue ball his ass again. You mean they haven't done it yet? No. Not at all. Hannah doesn't drink or screw, Which is exactly why she and Blaine make such a terrible match. Wait. Why doesn't she drink? Her dad was killed on July 4th by a drunk driver. - You didn't know? - Holy shit. No. I had no idea. Yeah, well, she doesn't really like to talk about it. Makes her crazy mother even crazier apparently. I mean, you guys should see this woman's bathroom. It's like a freaking CVS pharmacy up in there. Poor Hannah, it's got to be rough. (MUSIC) Oh, hey, sheriff. Evening, ladies. Have either of y' all seen Linda or heather? No. I haven't seen any of the girls, not since the game. - Is everything okay? - Yeah. I'm just wondering What kind of toiling trouble Linda's into. Well, we haven't seen 'em. They might be avoiding a school dance after the way Graves treated them at the pep rally today. Yeah? And how's that? He's drowning with his melodramatic bout of guilt is all. Not that it would have mattered if they would've showed up Considering principal graves isn't here. He's probably at the cemetery wailing over his daughter's grave. Typical. ROBIN: Besides, you shouldn't be intimidated By a barf bag like Blaine, Jeff. You should just ask her out anyway. And what makes you think I'm so interested in Hannah to begin with? Uh, because Linda told me that you bought a homecoming corsage For a certain someone back when you thought Hannah Had been dumped by Blaine for Dana steel. Okay. I never told Linda who the corsage was for, so... well, so, who's it for then? (LAUGHS) Yeah. That's what I thought. Look, I say that you ought to make your own pass play on Hannah tonight. Yes. It's happening. We're making this happen. Oh, shit. Petey's truck's down the old park 'n puss. What? BLAINE: I wonder who that old dog's banging tonight. He's with Vickie, duh. BLAINE: Oh, man! God, no wonder he kept that new ass a secret. You guys, we don't know for sure peter's having sex with anyone, okay? Well you sure as hell down don't go down there to talk. I know that. (LAUGHS) God damn, heather. Freaking dude you been in heat for since kindergarten Is banging your sister? (LAUGHS) That's some Springer shit right there. - She's my stepsister. - Don't take it personal. Petey doesn't like them church going chicks, Even if you are the tightest piece of ass in school. Get him in about 10 or 20 when he's ready to settle down. I'm sure he'll hit you up, all right? Blaine. Would you please stop referring to our gender As piece and ass. Oh, baby, come on. Calm down. It's just bullshit locker room talk anyway. Blaine, shut up and watch the road. Oh, shit, and we have arrived. Bitches, welcome to the party of the year. (MUSIC) BLAINE: What's up, baby? Welcome to hell, shit heads. Happy fucking Halloween, bitches. Going to our graves remembering tonight. Holla. Holy hicks town, this place is awesome. If you enjoy the bowels of Lucifer's layer. Mike, you realize you were driving like an idiot, right? Sorry about it. Another rob Donaldson freak out. Chill out, big red. You're all red. Hannah, you told your mom we'd be an hour. She's going to kill us. It's fine, robin, really. Well, I'm not explaining this one to her. Come on, babe. Let's just... we're here, right? Let's have some fun. Come on. Uh, Blaine. Can I get my duffel? JEFF: So do you guys think I should like... I don't know approach her? What should I say? You need to offer to take her home Because her mother is going to freak out. Blaine, did you see my cell phone? It was in my bag earlier. No. I don't know. Maybe you left it In the girls locker room or something. Hey, take my truck, okay? Take my truck. I'll stay here. I don't... I don't have service. Oh no. The woods must be blocking our reception. Whoopsie. Great. What am I going to do now? No. Don't look at me. I called this an hour ago. What do you want to do, babe? We just got here, and I'm not leaving. Um, if you really need to go, Hannah? Maybe bubba and robin can stay here and drink and ride back with the rest, And I can take you now if bubba doesn't mind me borrowing his truck? Yeah. Just, uh, leave it in the parking lot And put the keys in the tire. Um, thanks, Jeff. It... it's fine. I'll... I'll stay. I mean, my mom's already really mad at me, And she needs to learn that I'm almost an adult. That's my girl. Sorry, dude. So let's go check out this hell house. Don't call it that. Spook house. Still not funny. Help me out, man. Oh hey, babe, you coming? I'll be there in a minute. All right. (EERIE MUSIC) Hey brad, hey brother. You girls are going to make me so rich some day. Sheriff? This has nothing to do with Hannah, does it? No, Nancy. Sorry. I, um, actually came to have a word with you, rick. It's about your son, Ben. Yeah. What about him? Ben? Who the hell is Ben? His rehab has been trying to reach you all day. It would appear that your son, uh, Left yesterday evening. The shrink say he might've, uh, returned here on foot. I guess it's safe to assume That he hasn't tried to contact you? Rick, you never told me you had another son. He's sick, Nancy, and I don't like to talk about it. He lives in a care facility. Do you have any clue where you son might've gone? I got a couple of my deputies out looking for him now. Why? What did he do? His shrink is just concerned That he might be harmful to others. Now, I've never known your son to be dangerous. Perhaps you can enlighten me. You just tell your bloodhounds to keep their damn paws off him. He'll listen to me. I just got to find him before he does anything. You wouldn't mean anything having to do with my Linda now, would you? Now, look here, sheriff. I know you covered For their asses because Linda is your kid and all, But Ben don't see it your way. That don't mean he's dangerous now neither. Your son was just as responsible as the rest of 'em, And for the record, my daughter, Heather Zann, Robin Donaldson, they're good girls. They didn't mean for it to happen. I get that, sheriff, But you got to let me make sense of that to my boy. That's fine, but I intend to keep my family and my jurisdiction safe. Good, 'cause you're wasting my time. Where are you going? To call mark and tell him to be on the lookout. You get your jacket. We're going to find him. Sorry about this, Nancy. Just keep him from doing anything stupid. Thank you. What's the problem? What's going on? We should not be doing this. Doing what? We're teenagers. This is what teenagers do. And what about heather? Why me and not her? I mean, she's way prettier than I am, And you know she's in love with you. I don't know. Heather's great. She's the type of girl you take home to your mother, Not just the park 'n puss. (LAUGHS) You piece of shit! And what? I am? You're a bigger slut than I am. (LAUGHS) No. We ain't sluts. We just rock stars. (LAUGHS) This shit is the tits. (LAUGHS) No. (MUSIC) you and me we make sense I guess I just don't know why you complete my dark side, my wild dreams I can't conceive of a way to break us down everybody wants you under control they strip away the sins that make up your soul they try and bring you down clean you up and drown No. These are the tits. You and me we're terrified how the signs of our lives coincide climb aboard my life we'll fly away - Hannah, have a beer. - No thanks. BLAINE: Yeah, baby. Come on. Have a beer. You guys know I don't drink. But Hannah, it's Halloween. You have to. JEFF: If she doesn't want one, she doesn't want one. Okay? Shut up. Who the fuck invited you, water boy? Hey, is there somewhere I can go to change? Yeah. Come on upstairs. I'll show you. Not so fast, bro. Come on Hannah. I'll take you. MIKE: Sucks for you. TINA: Hey, babe. Why don't you get the lighter fluid, And you and bubba go light the campfire? Babe, there's supposed to be a chance for rain tonight. Babe, it's a 60% chance of rain, But there's 100% chance my little cheergina Is going to be all closed up if you just don't do it already. Oh, come on, bubba. HANNAH: Oh, it's dark. Can we get some light in here? TINA: Yeah. I brought two kerosene lamps in that bag. So, what brings you here? Here to see someone special? You really want to know? None of your business. Heather, check that other bag. I got you a little Halloween surprise. Tina, you know I don't like knives. Not that. Check the other. So I can make a jack-O-Lantern. Tina, thanks. So easy. I kneuw you'd love it. Fine. Try and hide your business, But it's written all over your face. You love somebody. Maybe if somebody had a relationship of their own, She wouldn't be so brown nosing everybody's shit all the damn time. I'm sorry, was that a racial slur? Take it as you like, dear. Okay, girl. I've had just about enough. Hey, let's go explore the house. I thought you hated the house. I changed my mind. Girl, you best be glad I just washed my uniform. Bye. Dude, it's fucking go time. Don't you mean blow time? Yeah. All right. That was so sweet of Jeff to offer to drive me home earlier. ROBIN: I know. Jeff's a sweet guy. Yeah, but I always thought he didn't like me. He always acts so weird around me. Hannah, my sweet, sweet friend, So close yet so very far away. Jeff has all but professed his undying love for you, And you think he doesn't like you? What? No way. Yes way. But, I mean, he would've told me, right? I mean, Blaine says I love you all the time. It's easy to say I love you when what you actually love Is so very orifice specific. Ew, robin, gross. It's true, but Jeff isn't like that. He's deeper than that, And it's not easy trying to wear Those kind of emotions on your sleeve. But he doesn't even talk to me. Like how heather doesn't talk to peter? Oh, wow. You're right. How can I be so... oblivious? Yeah. We're teenagers. It happens. Okay, captain obvious, are you ready? Yeah. Let's go roast some mallows, shall we? (MOANING) Oh, heather. My god, Vickie. Oh shit! Okay, okay, okay. So, who has a good ghost story. LINDA: Oh, I got one. Once upon a time, two brainless boobs Screwed what little brains they had Right out of each other, And then their love child was unleashed into the universe. (LAUGHING) ROBIN: Oh my god. - Mike's condom breaking! - Oh god. That's as scary as it gets on Halloween. Brophy, shakes on the defense. Shut up, you know I hate it when you talk that shit. Now focus on my rocking body with every move. So hard sometimes with this rocking physique, babe. God, you're perfect for me. Baby, won't you come inside with me? I think we need some more marshmallows. No, we don't. We have plenty. There's never enough with you around, red. Hey, watch it, Bochner. Why don't you chill out, cake boy? Come on, baby, please? I need a hand. With what? LINDA: His passing hand got tired. You know what? Fuck you, Linda. Come on, baby, please. I think she made her decision, Blaine. JEFF: Besides, don't you have a date With a bag of snow flurries anyway? Your snow boogers are almost gone. Why don't you shut the hell up? Hey. Don't even think about it, Blaine. You know what? Fuck all y'all then. HANNAH: Blaine. That prick really chaps my ass. Oh, Hannah, are you okay? Yeah. I'm fine. ROBIN: Where are you going? Inside. I think it's time to tell Blaine goodnight. Jeff, will you still drive me home? TINA: Watch it there, greedy. Save some for the rest of us, will ya? What are you doing, bro? Dude, I'm trying to call that slut, Diane, And see if she's fucking behind my back. You do realize you're calling Diane From Hannah's phone, don't you? Man, it's whatever. I'm done with that tease. TINA: Oh, poor Blaine. His big plans to bang Hannah backfired and now he's pissed Because his little Latina backup booty Isn't waiting on top of the Cerveza. HANNAH: Oh, great! Oh, baby. You came. I can't believe I was so stupid. What are you talking about. You're not stupid. Look, I found your phone. You are so full of shit, Blaine. You had it this whole time. So what? I couldn't call my mom And now you're screwing Diane, snorting coke And doing god knows what else behind my back. You know what? You're the one with all these rules Because of your stupid daddy issues. What else am I supposed to do to have fun around here? You know, Blaine? Don't ever call me again. Ever! TINA: Oh, Jesus. Come down off Broadway. Why don't you mind your business, bitch? It was just one line, okay, and look, Don't even worry about Diane. That was just sex. Don't take it personally. You know you're my girl. Stop! Look, let's just go upstairs and talk about this. All right? I'd rather carve my face like a jack-O-Lantern Then be anywhere near you. We're done. You know what? Fine. It's whatever. It's your loss though. Yeah, well locker room talk on my end says It's not much of a loss. (LAUGHING) I didn't say it. It wasn't me. I didn't either. Y'all accepted the dare. Y'all got to do it now. LINDA: All right, Jeff. Now, it's your turn. Truth or dare, and you better say dare. What the hell just happened? ROBIN: Hey, what did he do to you? HANNAH: How can I be such an idiot? Can we get out of here now? ROBIN: Yeah. Let's go. Hey, get your god damn hands off her. JEFF: Chill out, man. I'm about to whoop your bitch ass. Hey. You're going to have to go through me first. What are you going to do, Barton? Back the fuck down, Barton. You got nothing to do with this. ROBIN: He does now. Why don't you shut the hell up? This doesn't concern you either. Talk about it. Just let it go, okay? He's high. They're all high. Strap a muzzle on it, shit starter. You know what, bitch? That's it. You're going to get it. HEATHER: Stop guys. We're all friends here. Just because we played recess with these losers in primary school Does not mean we're friends, And ever since Hannah moved here, She's been nothing but trouble for all of us. Trouble for me is more like it. Hannah's done nothing wrong. You need a real good ass whooping. You know that boy? Are you going to do it, bitch? - Well, come on then. - Hey. Linda, where are you going? To grab the biggest branch I can find. No, this bitch did not just tell me to put a muzzle on it. Yeah, I fucking did. BUBBA: What the hell? HEATHER: What the hell? TINA: Trick or treat, Herman. You sleazy boy-R-Squeeze. Geez, Herm, showing up a bit late, don't ya think? Guys, I don't think that's Herman. What's he doing? BLAINE: Holy shit! (SCREAMS) BUBBA: Come on. Come after me. Come on. (SCREAMS) ROBIN: Oh, my god, she's breathing! BLAINE: Hurry up. Come on. HANNAH: Heather, come on. We have to go. BLAINE: Come on. Someone call for help. Is everyone okay? Is anyone hurt? Piece of shit. Stupid smartphone. What are you doing? HANNAH: Looking for a weapon. TINA: Nobody's lived here in years, dumb ass. HEATHER: Over there. The carving knife. TINA: Oh, peachy now a fucking storm, too? Could anyone tell who it was? Where do you think he went? No idea. I don't see him. We all know who it is, heather. HEATHER: No, it can't be. TINA: Shut it, Blaine. There's no way. He's the fucking crazy one. It's the only thing that makes sense. Wait, you guys think it was Herman? I mean, just because y' all were picking on him the other day? It's not Herman. It's Ben Youngblood. HANNAH: Wait, what? I thought he was in a home. Well, he obviously got out, duh. HANNAH: Why would Ben be doing this. Does this have something to do with the principal's daughter? I thought you said she died in a drunk driving accident? TINA: Drunk driving? We killed her. HANNAH: You what? ROBIN: When you asked if it was alcohol, we just let you assume That it was a drunk driving accident. HANNAH: So what the hell happened? HEATHER: It was after Thursday night JV game. We were having a Halloween party. HANNAH: With who? JEFF: All of us, out on the field. BLAINE: We were wasted. The girls were fooling around, doing stunts and pyramids. We were throwing the football behind 'em. This is before Herman was a sophomore. Ben was the mascot then. HEATHER: And we fell. HANNAH: You guys were drunk. That's like manslaughter or something, isn't it? ROBIN: And you're all still minors. And certainly not when Linda's dad is... was the sheriff. BLAINE: If Ben wouldn't have been following Ginny around All the time like some stupid ass puppy, Then none of this shit would've happened. HEATHER: Ben didn't want to be the mascot. He only tried out because he wanted to be closer to Ginny. He never liked us no matter how hard we tried, Always called us Ginny's friends. TINA: It's because Ben Youngblood was a fucking freak, And the only reason Ginny dated him Is because she was a mother fucking saint, And she pitied his poor pathetic obsession over her. Okay. It doesn't matter who's under that mask. What matters right now is the rest of us get out of here alive, okay, Robin, you should've told me. ROBIN: You just lost your dad to some other idiot's negligence. How could I tell you that without you thinking I was awful. What do you care? You scored her coveted spot on the squad. I don't give a shit about that. MIKE: Guys, look, he's out front. What the hell is he doing? JEFF: I think he's cutting your cables. Damn it, Blaine. You and I can take this Mother fucker out right now. Let's go. No way, man. He's fucking with us. He's got a fucking bow and arrow. He wants us to come out there, man. You do what you want, but I'm not going anywhere. You're such a bitch. So what do you propose we do, Blaine, Sit around and snort snow and pray to god He doesn't come in to kill us first. That's exactly what I propose. I mean, shit, somebody's going to come looking for us, right? Nobody knows we're out here, remember? You are unbelievable, you know that Blaine? Linda is dead. Bubba's hurt, and you're still over there Trying to ride a fucking white horse. - Fuck you, Hannah. - Fuck you. HEATHER: Guys, stop. Now, can we all please just focus And try to figure a way out of this? MIKE: Guys, he just skipped bubba's truck And went straight for Blaine's car. ROBIN: You can only pop the hood from the inside. He can't cut the cables without the keys. Thank god. That's our escape. You have bubba's keys? No. We thought he was going to take you home. Fucking Brill. Maybe he left them on the tire. JEFF: All right, then. Maybe one of us can... I don't know, run around the farmhouse And create a diversion long enough to confuse him And the rest can go get the keys off the tire And when the bait comes around the farmhouse, They'll jump in, and we'll take off. But bubba can't drive like this. Yeah, guys. I don't think it's a good idea. Bubba can have a serious concussion. MIKE: She's right. I mean, there's no way to get the keys And bubba into the truck in the amount of time It'll take that crazy fuck to get around the house. JEFF: So then head out to the water. That's the only way we can distract him long enough To escape and get some help. MIKE: Dude, running through that open field When he has a bow and arrow, it's a suicide mission. JEFF: It wouldn't be for the fastest running back In the entire 3a district. Hell no. Fine. I'll go. MIKE: Okay, but where are you going to go? JEFF: I'll go out to the old cabin across the lake. If I can make it across the water, maybe I can lose him. I'm going with you. What? Hannah, no. You should get the truck and go get help. I'm not letting you go out there alone. I'm coming with you. I can keep up. Hannah, I don't want you risking your life, okay? I'm sick of everyone always making my decisions for me. I'm going. It's my decision. It's final. Fine. Who's going to get help? I will. Robin, you come with me. What? Why me? TINA: Don't you want to help bubba? No, that's not why she wants you to go with her. It's because you're a fat ass. Odds are better on Tina If old Ben turns around after he takes Jeff out first. Blaine, shut the hell up. ROBIN: Oh my god. He's right, you bitch. Fine. Forget it. I'm not going by myself. Babe, you know I got your back. You know what? Fuck it! You can all just leave then! Maybe you guys can go down to that pub and get some help. - It's not very far. - Good idea. And I'll stay here and help robin Since there's an obvious shortage of balls around here Without bubba awake to protect us. Self-Righteous cunt. That's it. One more fucking word out of you Barton, And I'll nail you to the wall myself. Hey, mike. Looks like the rain's letting up. Okay. We'll wait for you guys to leave around the side of the house And then we'll bolt for it. Okay. Um, this is probably not the best utensil To be carrying when you're running for your life, So keep everyone safe. You guys bring help fast, all right? You sure about this? Yeah. You guys ready? Yeah. On three. One, two, three. Hey, asshole. Over here. Go, go, go, go! Mike, let's just get heather and Blaine. The four of us can just make a run for it. Come on. No. It'll take forever to get back to town on foot. - No, we can... - Bubba needs our help now. I'm not going to leave him and robin. We can't bring them all. They're too big. They're going to slow us... I said I'm not going to leave them behind, okay? Mike, behind you! MIKE: Think you can catch me? Come on. Fuck. Come on, please don't. Shit man. Come on. Please! (SCREAM) Do you think he's still following us? I don't know. He was headed this way when we left the house, But I didn't look back. What should we do now? I guess we cross. Get on the other side so it's easier to push off. Okay. Ugh. Here. You got it? (EERIE MUSIC) Seriously? Hello? Hello? Somebody help. My friends are gonna die! Hello? Help me. Oh, thank god. You got to help me. Let me in. Let me in. Seriously? You bat shit. Fucking hooker! (EERIE MUSIC) (SCREAMS) Fucker, didn't think I could man handle a big stick, too? Bring it. Fuck you! Don't guess they started the renovations? What a shit hole. Ugh. You check in there, and I'll look around outside? Maybe there's something here we can use. - Yeah. - Hey, Hannah. I'm sorry... about your dad and all. I didn't even know until tonight. Um, it's okay. Thanks. Saxon on dispatch. Do you copy? Jones here. Copy. You find Linda yet? No, not yet. I keep hoping they'll come back over here, But uh, the Booker residence is dark, And I looked everywhere. Dispatch just got a disturbance call at Christy's pub Down on county road 696. What kind of disturbance? Myrtle said some teenagers were harassing her, Said she saw a few cars turning down ranch road 3000. Reckons they might've been heading out To the old Williamson farmhouse. HEATHER: They're still not back. Why aren't they back yet? Ben chased them out of the woods like 20 minutes ago. They ought to be long dead by now. Blaine, would you please stop? We don't know for sure anyone's dead. Jesus, you are so delusional. Wake the fuck up. Look, I hate to rain on your little let's stay positive parade, But I don't think you realize the seriousness of the shit storm You're in right now little miss princess hogeye teacher's pet. I realize exactly what is happening here, But your negativity is not helping anything. Keep your fucking mouth shut. I'm going to have to take bubba's truck to get help. I think he's losing too much blood. I hope you can drive a stick. I don't know how. Well, I do. I sure as hell am not risking my life to save yours. Fine. I'll go. If they didn't find the keys, Maybe bubba dropped them out back. Hannah, out here. Oh, does it have any shells? Dammit. Obviously the fucker doesn't have a gun Or he'd have used it, right? So, maybe we can use this to scare him? We really don't have another choice. All right. Let's do this. ROBIN: Be back soon, okay? Take care of him for me, will you? I'll guard him with my life. (EERIE MUSIC) Robin, behind you, behind you. (SCREAMS) She made it. Oh, shit. Where'd he go? (STARTS CAR) (SCREAMS) (SCREAMS) (SCREAMS) No! I'll come back for you. I promise. Robin's dead. I can't let you go out there. I have to see if that truck will still run, Or we're all dead. Now move. You people are freaking crazy. If you go out there, I'm not letting you back in. I'll take my chances. I don't know if I can go back. What if they're... I'm not going to let anything happen to you. I promise. Heather? (WATER SPLASH) Oh, fuck me. Fuck. Glad you're here. (SCREAMS) (GURGLING) (COUGHING) (STARTING CAR) I need higher ground. (EERIE MUSIC) (BEEPING SOUND) Shit. (DOOR OPENS) (SCREAMS) Burn in hell. (GURGLING) (SPITS) It's so quiet now. If mike or Tina made it, the police would've been here already. They wouldn't have come and left? All the cars are still here. Wait, is that? Bubba's truck is up against the tree over there. - Oh my, god. - Shh. We're going to be okay. Let's go up on the front porch. (EERIE MUSIC) Robin, are you in there? Heather? Blaine? Bubba's still here. Bubba, can you hear me? Stay with him. I'm going to take a quick look around. Yeah. (HARD BREATHING) (GAGS) We need to get bubba and go right now. What is it? Bubba, please. Jeff. Blaine, upstairs. Here. Hannah, we need to get the girls and get out of here, okay? Jeff, wait. There's somebody else in here. - Jeff, behind you! - Ugh. Jeff. Ugh. Jeff. (SCREAMS) Jeff. Jeff. Ooh. (GURGLE) (STARTS CAR) (COUGHING) Ooh. Bubba. (POLICE SIREN) No, bubba. Hannah. Bubba? No. Hannah, what happened here? I killed him. You did what? I thought he was Ben. Hannah, I know this hard for you, But I need to know, where is Linda at? Under my feet, asshole. (SCREAMS) Hello, Hannah. Rick, where's my mother? Oh, she's around here somewhere. If you hurt her... I swear to god. Don't need to be worried about her. If I was you, I'd start worry about not having any friends Come Monday morning first period. How could you do this? Do I really need to give you a list of reasons? I suppose that's fair. For starters, it's hunting season, And hunting's just plain fun. Second, there's this whole mess that these heathens caused That made my poor boy go all looney farm. Damn meddling kids. Made my first born boy go to the retard house, Tarnishing my family name. Family name? Please. Look at yourself. I'm pretty sure you botched that on your own, You backwards white trash piece of shit. Ooh. Where did that come from? I didn't think you had that in ya. You won't get away with this. Why? My boy, Ben, did it. You'd frame your own son? He don't speak now. It's not likely he's going to be able to say anything. You, stand back. Aw, dammit, Nancy. Things were just starting to get good around here. You promised me. Mom, you knew about this. Hannah was not part of our deal. Well, seeing me without my mask wasn't either. I told ya to put a leash on this bratty little Shovel slayer over there. I told you to make sure she stayed at home. I did, but she didn't listen, did she? Mom, what deal? Hannah, butt out. Just tell her, Nance. The stiff cat's hanging out of the bag. You talk too much. Just shut up. Your mom was freaked out as all Get out right around the time I started making Carne Asada out of senorita Sanchez, But a handful of them happy pills, And then she started realizing that you was Just one step close to that cheer scholarship. That's enough, rick. We've finished everything we came here to do, right? Now, Hannah and I aren't going to say anything, So we're going to stick to the original plan. Ben did it all. Understood? - All right, Nance. - Understood, Hannah? Ugh. Mom? Mom? I made a mistake. Mom, don't talk. Please. Just keep your eyes open. Keep looking at me. I just, ugh, oh. I wanted a better life for you. (CRYING) Mom. Mom, wake up. Wake up. What? You don't think I'm smart enough To wear a bullet proof vest under this here poncho? You run on home, Hannah. I'm going to stay here and build a big old bonfire Starting with your mother. (CRYING) If your mom had half the spitfire as you do, We would've had ourselves a real good time. Little Indians all in a row, Ten is enough just wanting to go. They're only ten little Indians, you son of a bitch. I thought I'd already taken care of you. Behind you, asshole. Jeff, are you all right? (AMBULANCE RADIO) All right, miss Wallace, I think that'll be it. If you want to head over to the ambulance there, You can ride with your friend to the hospital, And we'll meet you there. All right. Wait. Detective Ironside, did they ever find Rick's son? Yes, ma'am. We found mark safe and sound. He's down at the station right now. No, not mark, Ben, The one from the insane asylum. The one that rick was trying to frame this on? Oh, um, I'm not sure. I...I don't think so. We'll have to check. Then, he's still out there. (MUSIC)
