 

                        If all the Vihtoris in this world would understand - how to raise their Klaaras - then none of them would as a poor Vihtori stand - if only they'd listen to us If you can't make your Klaara happy during the day - try again at night At noon, she sounds like a trombone being played - but at night she's quiet and light Miss! Bull's eye For the last time, coming to the opera? Dear Klaara, I'm a music lover - who prefers Georg Malmsten on the radio Malmsten, you say? Not that one, it's an original Aalto Don't care if it's a Sibelius How far are you trying to get? To 899, 753 And then? Well, you see, then I'll be World Champion My picture in the paper and a statue in the back yard The holder of the present world record was a Czech inmate A tragic case He could've gotten really far - but just as he was at eight hundred - ninetynine thousand - seven hundred - and fifty-two, the thread broke The thread of life, I mean A cellmate accidentally dropped a crowbar - on his head Ten points, yeah. Love is blind, - but marriage is the best eye medicine Mom and Dad are discussing going to the opera again Yeah, yeah. That was the Japanese vase - that Uncle Rupert stole in Paris - I was supposed to inherit it. - Stupid Neither of us is going to inherit china Huh? - Huh And the blind chicken found the kernel again To the opera That's a good place for little Vihtori The girls are dancing and the boys are singing cuckoo God almighty, it's nine o'clock - and the last act is on at the opera Yippee, the Missus in gone I see I ought to spank you, you weasel Since I'm in a good mood, I'll spare you As punishment, you'll take Pipi out for a walk Pipi, the beast? Vappu - Vappu, coming to the opera? - No, I'd rather sleep at home Nisse, put that cigar away Damn, I lost count again You've been losing things for 30 years now Like father, like son Thank God, I'm not like Mother Pipi Daddy's little Pipi Come to Daddy, I'll give you sugar Pipi, Pipi, Pipi Won't you goddamn mangy dog obey me? Oh heck, Pipi! The old man's got an aerodynamic mutt! Is your wolf angry, Sir? It's afraid of cats Our cat wouldn't even want to bite that thing Quick, take this beast to the first lamppost Two portions of mutton and cabbage for Vihtori Vuorenkaiku Two portions of veal bones for Pipi Vuorenkaiku Well, are the Vuorenkaiku men here again? That family's going to speak with their hads again tonight I gather you had a chat - - with your wife again? - How so? Looks like she drew - her opinions on your face Oopsy-daisy, dear Tomi I'm almost a professor of marriage This is part of my newest invention A hundred ways to survive a marriage That was a heck of a strike I don't think my Klaara could strike better Is she a real good striker? Yeah, but she's even better at throwing things I was just thinking - that she'd be a sparring partner for my son Klasu That poor kid can't get a decent partner Klaara would be too expensive for your Klasu Hospitals are so damn expensive nowadays He won't be hospitalized that easily He is fighting - for the heavy middleweight title Damn, I was supposed to listen to it on the radio I'm afraid I must part with this pleasant company No, we're like the Agrarian Party Cabinet We never disband Let's go to my place to listen to the radio Louhinen goes at Klasu Tullari like a whirlwind But he dodges Louhinen's punches - and counters with snappy lefts Tullari's left straight goes in Louhinen grabs him, Tullari beaks loose The whirlwind attacks ferociously, but misses Klasu Tullari lays one more on Louhinen's chin Followed by a right hook in the gut Louhinen is reeling The crowd is cheering Now we're in trouble False alarm, your wife's at the opera - and they talk so long there that we're safe I just thought that what if the show's cancelled - because the tenor didn't show up Tullari has knocked out Louhinen The referee is counting five, six, seven A knock-out! The heavyweight champion is once again Klasu Tullari - from Helsinki's Boxing Cub Great, great! Hey, hey! Vihtori! Where's Vihtori? Next Like the Agrarian Party Cabinet, we never disband Didn't break You miserable excuse of a man Please don't, my dove, my love Darling? Ouch, ouch! Klaara, my dove, my love Please don't, ouch! Vuorenkaiku Yes, this is Vihtori The Vihtori of all poor Vihtoris, the super-Vihtori Oh, is it you, sweetheart? God morning, dear, my own darling Good morning, funnyface Do you have other sweethearts - - since you didn't recognize my voice? - No, not even at home Well, that I do know Otherwise, you wouldn't like me so much Well, you know, my sweet little darling tax-free into the harbor - will make. Let me see Just a minute, Sir, I'll check You goddamn boy Run instantly to the pharmacy and bring me a pound of... A pint of chlorine water and two pounds of cotton. Got that? - Yes, Sir. - Hey, also, bring me. - Hey, you! - The usual load of beer Damn kid, get out! Ouch, ouch Hello? Hello? Still there, little darling? Did little Daddy have fun last night - - the way he's huffing and puffing? - No, love Daddy's feeling fine Remember, darling, that we were going to - - Kaivohuone to celebrate. - Oh, darling - I can't possibly tonight Even less than before If you knew what a circus we've had here Worse than ever during my marriage - Oh, Auntie Klaara again? - Yes She had something to do with it Vuorenkaiku. - You're going to sleep though dinner, too Oh no, darling You scurried around like a weasel before we got married Goodbye, my love What did you say, you double-oaf? Are you conscious enough - - to talk business with? - Yes - How much do you need? - I'm buying a beauty salon Too late, darling. Rather buy a hospital - so that I'd have some use of it, too Come here and repeat that Or shall I come there? - No, my love. - Then it's done I'll buy the salon for me and Vappu Yes, love. - It'll be a rendez- vouz point for the nobility Mrs Mielonen will be green with envy Yes, love In the evenings, ladies will have coffee there Yes, love And I can have three baths a day Yes, love - And pedicures for my hands and everything. - Yes, love So, I'll go and buy the shop Send me some money, so that I can pay cash No, goddamnit and hell no! You're not buying that salon, no way! Sir? Damn Don't swear, Dad, it doesn't become a great man - But everything's going straight to. - Hush! Quiet, Dad, no wonder, it's Friday the 13 th In my marriage, it's always Friday the 13 th Speaking of marriage - I came to tell you that I'm getting married - What? Married? - Yes I'll be damned Matrimony seems to be running in the family My grandfather was married, good old Pops got married Not to mention me. And now my daughter - tells me that she's getting married Won't human kind ever get wiser? But Dad, we're very old friends I've known him for almost a month Even if he were your brother, I'd say no - Besides, he doesn't drink. - Doesn't drink - Nor smoke or swear? - No Should I give my daughter to such a wimp? But I love him, and he's a car mechanic A widower emperor for all I care A car mechanic who smells of gasoline And I'd get to pay for the gas Once you get to know him, you'll pay gladly But I won't get to know him But I'm marrying him Like mother, like daughter, damn it Mrs Vuorenkaiku's daughter marrying a mechanic - No, never. - But he's an engineer He's an apprentice at the shop He has studied nine years at the University - and knows lots of things Brains were never the key factor for me You won't need any. You'll marry into high society He is high society Besides, his name is Peter von Saslik Bless me, a real live von! Well, why didn't you say so? Bring him over for coffee tomorrow, so we can take a look Dad still won't allow it Nonsense, I'll turn Vihtori around Yeah, yeah If not during the day, at least during the night So, whose turn is it? Mine I guess it slipped - Cut to the middle. - Never - Banking twice to the middle. - Never No - It's going in! - Good, Vihtori Mr Vuorenkaiku, your wife is on the phone Tell her I'm not here I'd be dead I'd leave a wife and two children No Yeah, yeah We're all alike, just poor Vihtoris Oh, Vihtoris, you say? Now, that's a damn lie Where is the Missus? I'll let her know what's what If the head is stupid, the whole body will suffer There goes the only man - - who paid back what he owed. - There are man like that? Not anymore, he was the last one - Really. - Yes Ha, I did find you And again like a cuckoo clock This is so typical of men - Greetings from Viborg. - Thanks - Who knocked him out? - Klaara Vuorenkaiku Is she here? Easy, Klasu, the knock-out came by phone A woman's tender hand can make miracles Congratulations on the middle heavyweight champ That's peanuts compared to those ladies - I'm just an apprentice. - Come on in Your Dad's with Vihtori in the pool room He won't go home until the missus is asleep You woke up, my dove I couldn't sleep I need sleeping pills Think of a new line, blockhead I'll give you sleeping pills - for as long as you need Still opposing me, huh? I've never opposed you for 30 years Why didn't you let Vappu get married? Don't you think my daughter's happiness is important to me? Are you saying - that marriage isn't the greatest joy? What would you be without me? Oh, my dove - clouds will be clouds, even if color'd by gold. Oh, now everything's fine again Dad's sailed back to the blissful harbor of marriage Don't hit me! Vihtori? Vihtori? - What are you screaming? Who's hitting you? - What? I'll be damned! What a dream! Why were you screaming: "Don't hit me!"? There was this big burglar He was going to stab you with a knife That's when I tried to say: "Don't hit her!" - Go to sleep. - Yes - You see, dreams are only dreams. - Yes Thank God, dreams are only dreams Stop it, your mechanics might see It won't harm them No smoking, but everything else is OK That's enough for a name day kiss Funny boys, those mechanics of yours Yeah, but they're all bachelors, you see Don't get philosophical You might sprain your athlete's brain Klasu? Let's go to the country - and have a wonderful breakfast I know a quaint little restaurant I can't go, we're busy I'm waiting for a big order An order is more important than my name day That depends The latter is fun, the former is bread All right, have your bread I'll have fun with someone else Oh, my goodness But the frost will drive the piggy home Look out when your driving I was looking out The accident happened in there See if her appendix was badly hurt It's only a bruise in the side Let's get to work, so she'll be done - before they stop kissing - They already stopped. - I wouldn't have You are complimenting me I hope you paid attention to my car - Is it washed already? - It is so spick & span - that the rear got a few bruises - The car's, I mean. - What? The thing is, I dented it a little You're not mad at me, are you? It runs in the family Everything always turns out wrong, including me I'm glad you respect family traditions - but maybe you should find another career - where fondness of walls isn't this dangerous I've decided to run for Parliament - When can I pick her up? - In an hour It'll be smooth as a baby's cheek I'll pick her up then - Goodbye. - Goodbye Damn kid, you'll get us all fired Social security will take care of us Damn, that was a nice lady You're hopelessly stuck on her You were supposed to buy an engagement ring today Better save the money for something more decent I'll buy the ring I've known her for quite some time now Look at those legs! Yes, darling, yes The worst circus is over. Yes, I can come What? A necklace? Yes, yes, we did mention it You'll get your present, sweetheart I could come right away Wait for me outside the jewelry store Hey! Make sure no one sees us You understand? Yes Farewell, my love How the hell did Klaara find out about this, too? That necklace looks perfect on you Actually, it's kind of modest It's pretty inexpensive, only 4000 - Only 4000? - Yes, isn't it? Nothing that cheap can be any good Right, can't be But it looks good on you It's simple, but delicate We have a real beauty here by the window How do you like this one? It's only 5000 - 5000! - It is beautiful! No, no, it's not you at all Thick in the front, narrow in the back, the sides are, oh well I think it looks fabulous on you - I don't! - Excuse me - If I may say. - No! Here's a gem that's worthy of your pretty neck Oh, darling The prettiest necklace I've ever seen You like it? Then we'll take it - Let's wrap it up. - Thank you Wait outside - You are the sweetest in the world. - Not here! Tonight, wait for me, wait for me Sure, I'll wait for you at eight o'clock You'll bring the necklace then, right? I'd better sneak out of here - because we shouldn't be seen together - Isn't my money good enough? - Yes But you're What do you mean? - There's only 600 here - and the necklace costs 8500 You're 7900 short It said 600 on it Sorry, that's a warehouse code Here's the price, 8500 Hey, Ritva! Police! Police, help! Police! Police, help! I could drive to the end of the world with you This car won't take us that far An old car is better than a new one I'll see if your car's ready - but I doubt it Hurrying to get married? Yes. Someone's waiting for me Is the boss' sweetheart's car done? No, it won't be until tomorrow. You really dented it Peter always brags about his thorough work You're worried about the boss' car She's an interesting chick, she ain't stupid at all - Oh, you're back. - Right What's with you and the mechanic? - Klasu, come on! - Answer me What's that in your pocket? - I'll show you right away. - Klasu! That chick ain't after our boss any more Smart kid How could you scare me like that? Little capricious girls must be taught - - just like wives. - Excuse me Your car isn't done yet - - but I'll bring it tomorrow. - Thank you Bring it in the afternoon, I'm busy in the morning As you wish I'll come to you tonight No, that's quite impossible, because I have to. - In that case I won't. - Now I'm in a hurry - Farewell, my love. - Farewell He'll be here soon Beaus usually run ten minutes early And husbands, especially in the first year - are more or less prompt Then they start running late, a half an hour more each year Such profound thoughts - Doesn't it bother him? - Yes - Really. - At least in this family There. What did I say? Well - Here we are. - Yes Here we are So, you are. - Von Saslik Precisely. - A tasty name, I must admit So, do you play cards, partner? Not much When I was young and free, I was a card hustler. - Oh Sorry, I think I forgot Oops, look at these guys I'll be. We're gonna be good friends Excellent Mommy, this son-in-law's going to be part of the family We could start a family band Mrs Vuorenkaiku? May I introduce myself? We don't need any introductions We know you already We've been looking forward to a cup of coffee with you Vappu, come and see who's here - Is that you, Vihtori? - Yes, darling - Come here, my love. - Did she mean me? Vihtori? Here, my love, cuckoo! This is my husband And Mr von Saslik Saslik? Saslik? The name sounds familiar From a menu, I gather - but that's not him, it's his cousin We met earlier in the jewelry store I apologize, I must've been rude No, no, young man, you're mistaken - and apologizing to the wrong man It's none of my business It was beautiful, I haven't seen - - such a beautiful necklace for ages. - A necklace! Vihtori, how did you remember to buy me a name day present? Name. Name day present! Goodness me, how modest you are! He's pretending not to remember - middle name Ritva - Ritva! - Yes, darling, my little bunny - Give me the necklace. - What damn necklace? Well, I did go to the jewelry store I didn't find anything good for you Dad, stop pulling her leg It's a bad habbit that's hard to kick - You too, Brutus. - Oh my, how beautiful! - It must've cost a fortune. - Cost! Come, Vappu, I want to see it in the mirror Miss Miss Listen, mister. - Von Saslik Wienerschnitzel for all I care What are you doing here? - Excuse me. - I never excuse anyone Does the son-in-law have life insurance? The son-in-law? - You the gas man? - Yes Out, out! Out! Yeah, yeah There he went, just like the neighborhood Where did Mr von Saslik go? He's long gone and he ain't coming back What? Why? Where? Dad threw him out What? Vihtori? Threw him out? Say something! Don't strangle me, dead men don't talk Petteri! Petteri! Petteri, Petteri! Vihtori! Vihtori! Come on out of there All right, then I'll come over there Please, door, don't budge A minute or two Bye, bye, my dove Yeah, yeah Dad seems to have a full house again Don't you worry about me These are new, strong sheets They'll carry my weight, too We're worried about a stolen necklace You could help us find it No one else could May I join you gentlemen at the station? It'll be sorted out there Strange. I think he's a little nuts Sir, caught these two speeding Wait there - Do you love me at least a little? - A lot Hush now - Oh, darling. - I'll be damned Dad? What the he. - Yeah, father and daughter What a family Don't put me in the same locker - with that man, or all hell will break loose My Missus was coming in - and I had to run because the necklace - - was a name day surprise. - We're also - very sorry for yesterday's incident We do hope, Sir, that you'll see us - next time you're buying your wife jewelry Thank you, but I don't think - I'll have much business in that shop for a while Yes. Hello? Good morning, sweetheart Forgive me, but I couldn't make it last night I was tied up I had a meeting with the board of correctional facilities It was important, I couldn't stay away Not that often, but sometimes When can I have the necklace you bought me? Well, you see - on second thought - I felt that. I felt that - that a ridiculous little necklace - is much too insignificant a gift for my little darling A ridiculous gift - I bought something else. - Tell me! - Tell me what you bought me. - Come now, sweetheart You mustn't be impatient Try to guess You didn't get it. No, you didn't No, no, no. Specialty store, tinsmith - a vacant lot, a bus, a tool mechanic - two civilized men. - What are you talking about? Two civilized men? Tools? Vihtori, have you gone crazy? Can't you take a joke? Well, you see. - A beauty salon for sale. - What? A beauty salon? A brilliant idea You won't have to give me money - when I can make money on the salon How sweet you are, my little gorilla Hallo? Hallo? The lines are tangled up again Can you hear me, Vihtori? Hallo? Vihtori? My dear little Vihtori, you are so sweet Of course I'll fix it for my little girl Fix and fix I've suspected it all the time Pity him that forgets the 6th Commandment I'll remind you of it Let's make the deal right away I'll inspect it now, and that's that Bye, sweetheart. Bye, bye Well, I'll be I'll buy this place if it takes my last forfeited tax returns The curtains are new, they're brand new Yes, they're new, if you're interested Of course I am I'm Mr Vuorenkaiku - and I will buy this whole thing from you - Please, sit down. - Thanks, can't I sit here? Please Unfortunately, I must relinquish this place I must travel abroad for family reasons I see, you're married I'd travel as far as the ticket would take me So, well. You'll want more information about this establishment Yes of course Considering the mortgages - I'd be prepared to sell it for 30000 marks What would you say to 40000? Excuse me? - I said the price is 50000 I would need to have a closer I mean a closer look at the place Please, be my guest You're obviously an expert An amateur Maybe we'll see better on the other side. - Maybe Ouch Mr Vuorenkaiku, this is our spa A great place, took Am I not prettier? A great place If all the Vihtoris in this world would understand - how to raise their Klaaras - then none of them would as a poor Vihtori stand - if only they'd listen to us If you can't make your Klaara happy during the day - try again at night At noon, she sounds like a trombone playing - but at night she's quiet and light Yes, the car is outside I'd like to give her the key personally One moment, pleas A car mechanic wants to see you Let him in. - Yes, Miss Hello, my car's done, then? There you are. I brought it over myself So, this time you did not hit any walls? I did, figuratively speaking Can I help you? That's what I came here for You're the only person in Northern Europe - that can help me. - You got my attention Pray tell, please All is fair in love and war That sounds exciting You know Mr Vuorenkaiku well Quite well, right? - I see Miss Ritva Vuorenkaiku! I'll find out about this relative The lady got the necklace that was meant for me How silly. - Not for me I'm the scapegoat And I got hurt That old man really loved it - because, for once, he dared to be angry at home Don't mock little Vihtori Excuse me, I forgot Doesn't matter if you did But it is an embarrassing situation Vappu told me that he was as soft as wax Apparently in the wife's hands Well, who knows Maybe someone else can get something done Mr Vuorenkaiku's coming No, don't let him in - He doesn't know you're home. - Impossible He's got The key? Please excuse me, I must go My presence might be awkward And it wouldn't help your wedding plans - Hide in there. - In the bedroom? - Worst case scenario. - No - Best case scenario. - Sleep well I hope I don't snore Hush! Hello, sweetheart I finally made it Come, I'll show you something really exciting Close your eyes, and you'll see something really nice I can't see much with my eyes closed Open them and you'll see Ouch! - What? - I think I dropped my bracelet - Let's see. - No, it's in my hand Well, good Close your eyes Now A beauty salon How charming Is all this really mine? Yes, sure. This is serious business I'm a generous guy when it comes to that A charming little salon, just a little wet - Wet? - You see, when you bathe, you get wet What'll I do if Klaara comes there? Tell her it's fully booked Oh dear, your wife. Hide! - We're doomed. - I'll try to get rid of her Mr Vuorenkaiku, in here - Who are you? - A friend in need, come Make yourself at home You're laughing now, but there will be tears, too Ouch! Hello, Mrs Vuorenkaiku Can I ask you to step on the floor? My first close encounter with my mother-in-law You sultan, you mormon! Mrs Vuorenkaiku, wait! I can explain! I believe you if you say so But hiding under the bed with him - That bothers me. - He's not that bad But now he's explaining it all to Klaara Mrs Vuorenkaiku, wait! - I can explain. - No explanations Hey, look here, mister What was your name again? Yes, you shouldn't stick around When Mom says no, she means no We'll announce our engagement next Sunday No, young man. How can you prove to my wife - that I was under the bed, too? She only saw you What champagne is Pops going to serve at our engangement? Otherwise, here's a deed - with which you're taking over - a nice little salon and giving it to Damn, I'm done for You have hours to arrange the party Otherwise, we'll let Klaara arrange it No way! Try to survive this Thank God that rascal wasn't the only man in the world Yes, but he was awful pretty And I really did like him Greetings from the office Yuck, what a hot and sweaty afternoon it was Can't you at least stop? Don't talk about worldly things - - when our hearts are breaking. - Right Speaking of which Speaking of hearts, I've changed my mind - considering that car mechanic I really do think - that you should take the mechanic, girl May he fix you - the best he can He's never getting our girl A man like that asks for our daughter's hand - and is found in that woman's bed Who's been in bed in the middle of the day? Vihtori, I have to tell you Nisse, go away, this is nothing for you I don't want to hear it again It's really boring, not at all exciting Think, Vihtori - - a half an hour ago I saw that man. - So what? The Vuorenkaiku residence, Mr Vuorenkaiku speaking No, my brother-in-law, I think it's of no use Alright, I'll try. Wait a minute That rascal was naked - and drunk as a monkey in her bed Now he's sobered up - and wants to talk to Vappu on the phone - Never. - Said Kenonen Listen, that didn't work at all You've blown it Don't worry, there are enough women in the world Listen, you'll teach me that card trick, won't you? Even if we're not family Huh? That's what love does to you Yeah, yeah I can't eat a thing because I didn't sleep a wink Mother there snored like hell. Didn't you hear? In the war, men slept through the rattling of machine guns And that war only lasted five years That thing yesterday got on my nerves I haven't slept at all, terrible - Lost your appetite, have you? - Yes I can't even think about food, my nerves are a mess About yesterday's incident - the poor man was actually under the woman's bed Have you ever been under a woman's bed? - What? - Not under, but... One more word, and I'm a widow This day started well This is exactly what we've been looking for so long Beauty salon for sale. Must travel abroad Salon Shanghai, from 10 to 12 Excellent. - Yes Lovely, exactly what we've been looking for. - Yes Salon Shanghai? Travel abroad? That's not possible. Where would she go and why? Just what the doctor ordered You'll forget your mechanic If Mrs Nieminen has a salon - I must have one, too. - Right Don't go, it's already sold Are you getting stingy again? How would you know? I know a thing or two, too Damn, damn. Why is Ritva - selling a salon she only got yesterday? Something's rotten in the state of Denmark again Can't you hear the doorbell? Yes I can, but our clients - do have time to wait We're here for this ad Who can discuss the sale? - No one. - Excuse me? We're not selling But there's an ad in today's paper That's a lie, look a little closer - It's yesterday's paper. - So it is Why didn't you notice that? You didn't notice it, either - What did the ladies want? - Buy this I'm not selling to them Did you say I own this? Why would they need to know? - Fine, thanks I'm sorry about yesterday. What a pity. How nice that it's a pity, but it won't help I'm the groom - with two unpaid rings, I recommend this I only need one man from this shop, but don't worry - every cloud has a silver lining. I've got an idea - I hope this one's better. - Me, too You have nothing to lose Not much of a comfort If the bride and the sun should ascend - to your marital heaven - do not melt too quickly Your bride obviously needs a lesson I'll be an ice-cream stick Excuse me, I'm here to see Mrs Vuorenkaiku Whom may I announce? May I add this to my book of memories? - You seem to know my name. - Aye If they'd talked as much about me as of you - I'd be a Cabinet minister by now I gather they weren't pretty tales I have to say you are much prettier But do come in. If you're afraid - of Mother as little as of the draft - - I wouldn't be surprised if. - Hush, that's good Between you and me - nothing should surprise you in this house You see, we're all a little strange here You're quite charming Yes, but I'm the hope of the family So, your Mother is home? Unfortunately. - Nisse, with whom are you speaking? Courage If you need help, don't call me Why, Mother May I introduce a dear, old friend You, you! - Yes, me You still remember me, then? If you're here for your mechanic - Exactly. - Out, I don't want to hear it You must May I smoke? - No Thank you I gather - you know von Saslik pretty well Don't mention that name in this house All right In that case, we'll call him Mr X Mr X came to me yesterday to talk about some business You insolent, how dare you? He wanted to buy his bride a gift Beauty Salon Shanghai that I own We had decided to sign the papers today Now he called me and said the deal was off - because his bride called the wedding off I've heard that you would be willing - to buy the salon and now I'm offering it to you I'm traveling abroad and I have to sell my business - that's going well enough - to keep working even after the Olympics I hope you understood me correctly I don't understand what he was doing under your bed That was amusing, indeed "Amusing" is putting it mildly Still, my little dog is to blame When we were studying some blueprints - we forgot to play with little Popo - who felt insulted - and dragged the blueprints under the bed Being a polite man he couldn't bear - to see a woman under the bed - and crawled down there to get them That's when you walked in And the rest you know But in that case... In that case Petteri is innocent Was he supposed to be guilty of something? - No! I just... We women are like that Always thinking of the worst of men Blaming them without knowing what's going on Good. The first intelligent words from a woman's mouth - - inside these walls. - Oh, Petteri! Petteri, Petteri! Petteri? But I'm Vihtori Mister Petteri at his mirror in the bedroom - was combing his hair - and telling his lady Hi there, Daddy Daddy, come and shake hands We have a real nice guest Yes, Vihtori. May I present to you my husband Mr Vuorenkaiku And Miss. Excuse me, what was the name again? Miss Vuorenrinne How funny, your names are almost the same Pleasant, very pleasant to meet you, Miss Vuorenrinne You're much too kind, Mr Vuorenkaiku Imagine, Vihtori - how nice Miss Vuorenrinne is I know, I know. I mean - I can see how nice she looks She came to offer to sell her beauty salon Beau-be-be Petteri, can't you forgive me? It wasn't my fault, Mom made me believe all that Can't you even answer? You see - I never believed it But I don't understand what got into me Please forgive me, I'll never do that again Charming, fantastic But how much do I have to pay for all that? I think it cost 100000 - No. 50000 - How would you know? I know a thing or two, too Under the circumstances - I must sell it cheaper Because my Dad's stingy at times, too Like all Dads In that case, I'll sell it for 50000 - In cash. - Damn girl - That's cheap. - Expensive girl Yes, it's cheap. Very cheap - Cheap, cheap. - It's settled then You can raise the money tomorrow Yes, tomorrow. Tomorrow. Yes, money tomorrow Thank you, Mrs Vuorenkaiku And you too, Mr Vuorenkaiku. I'm thankful beyond words You won't believe how happy I was when you said yes Sometimes he's so sweet Mommy's little girl It would be lovely to have a husband like him Now I really must go - Goodbye, Ma'am. - Goodbye Goodbye, Mr Vuorenkaiku It was a great pleasure to meet your family And most of all you. Goodbye. - Goodbye, Miss You must visit us often, we'll introduce you to high society Thanks, but my life will change completely Unfortunately, we won't be seeing each other often - I'm about to get married. - Married? - Damn. - What's so strange about that? - You're married, too. - Yes I am married Everything will change if you say one word Out Don't you understand me? So, the ice-cream didn't melt? It was hard, but it's still frozen. - Good The wheel of fate is spinning and I think - a lot will happen at the Vuorenkaiku's See you at my place in 30 minutes It's a bit scary to return there Bite the bullet, even if it makes you cry Goodbye. - Goodbye - He said, he said. - What did he say? Nothing. - Great, a deaf and dumb son-in-law A suitable addition to our family I'll take care of this Too late, I can't live without him I've taken poison Poison! Poor child Quickly, call a doctor! Poor child Still alive? What poison did you take? Nisse, call a doctor Klaara, the thermometer I haven't taken the poison yet I was just thinking I should What a genius for a sister, she thinks I'll get you some castor oil The best medicine in these cases And now I'm taking care of this You'll go find Petteri - and bring him back dead or alive Preferably alive A dead son-in-law only means costs And we've had enough of them Here, my little sister The best castor oil in town - and once you've swallowed it - you'll forget both Petteri and Saslik for a long time Hi, are you free? Hi! Free as a bird Let's find my girl a husband Get going! Hey! Vihtori! - Is Mr Saslik around? - Not now Will he be back? He hasn't disappeared yet Unless he's been fired I'll wait here, you find out his address Mkikatu 17, 3rd floor, no elevator, bath/ wc Mkikatu 17, go If you see him, bring him here Preferably alive Did the monkey couple leave? Why did they want Petteri? The bitch could've been his new doll He's got one for each finger Like that girl Vuorenrinne running here every day Petteri snatched the boss' doll right in front of his nose Soon she'll be the whole town's doll Yesterday I saw her - hand in hand with Vihtori Vuorenkaiku And now, Missie, we're going to settle our scores There's nothing to settle You have the salon, I have the check But where are my husband and son-in-law? Answer me. - Sorry, I'm not a collector If you can't handle them - get a baby-sitter - But don't ask me. - But Miss Vuorenrinne Yes, Miss Vuorenkaiku You, you I'll squash you, you temptress Yeah, I should've known Mom's at her favorite pastime. - Oh, you, too? You can't help accidents, they never knock twice But broken glass brings good fortune Hush Yeah, yeah I guess this is what they call a situation - Father and son. - And mother And daughter Well, here we are Like in a beehive Dear, dear children. Finally, I see you together I'm so happy Welcome - to sail into the blissful harbor of marriage You, you matrimonial skipper - finally hit a rock - How did you come in? - Through the door - With your own key. - I gave him the key Finally, you're done in Yes, both deals are done All this belongs to you What? - Didn't Mr Vuorenkaiku explain it to you? Oh, it's a secret between me and you? Now, the truth When Mr Vuorenkaiku - gave me the check for the salon - he bought this place furnished - because I can't take anything with me - Who did you buy it for? - But darling. Why do you ask? For our dear child, of course My dear little gorilla You are so sweet after all And I had my doubts Yes, Mrs Vuorenkaiku, you are a real wife Always in doubt But you were always mistaken about me and still are Maybe some day it'll all be clear Never Someone's waiting, I have to go Thank you for the pleasant company - Goodbye, Mrs Vuorenkaiku. - Where are you going? To get married Damn This seems to surprise you, too We'll be wed tomorrow - and the day after that, we'll travel far, far away Goodbye - Goodbye. - Goodbye Finally, my love, everything's clear Now I belong only to you Lovely, the priest will bless us tomorrow And the world gets another poor Vihtori Hey! Vihtori, you really are quite a man Quite a man Where is Vihtori? Vihtori? Vihtori! Where is he? He's over there Goodbye Spades are trumps Clubs aren't Can I please ask you gentlemen to stop cheating? Your mail, Sir Damn girl So, we're family after all - Cheers. - Cheers Klaara is coming Is there no end to his mutton and cabbage? - So, how are you today? - Better, darling But I have to stay here for a long time Let go! My Dear Daddy Since your health kept you from attending my wedding - I'm enclosing a picture of your daughter Ritva - as the happiest woman in the world. We had to keep this secret because of Klaara - but you've grown accustomed to the fact that - everything pertaining to your daughter Ritva is a little secret Goodbye, my dear Daddy PS. The 50000, I tricked you out of - you would've given as a wed- ding present, so we're even Your happy daughter Ritva Ritva Vuorenrinne, your daughter! Your own daughter And I thought. Dear Vihtori - will you ever be able to forgive me? Why didn't you tell me right away? I would've lived ten years longer Ten years more I'm sorry, I didn't mean to This I do mean!
