 

                        A mark of the music just for the hand You speak movements New designs, Ekabell You show arms and don't be afraid to fall You show energy and I want to see space And the gorbe arm back, more back Foot and over your foot, try more... That's good, good, Bunny That's better try the second step first yeah, more good, that's better Well, do I look? Yeah, It's over And use you body trying once yeah, more, and look out over your hands Good Doesrt work... Ok, stop... The dance is dedicated to freedom To every kind of freedom Fill me upon the flarehead before... Here we go again Amsterdam especially has kept strong ties with the liberators How strong was shown on Liberation Day 1980... when the population of the capital honored them again It was like the 1945 "May Days" again Only the soldiers were now Amsterdam was thanking with its cheers for the Canadians all the allies who ended five years of war and occupation These were my heroes the liberators of 1945 When they came back in 1980 it was scary It didn't look like my memory anymore Could you be a bit more explicit? Mark, shut up What I see takes me back to 1980 which also takes me back to 1945 It is a memory of memories It's the essence of what I mean in this choreography and I don't see it, I... Am I make myself clear? Ok, we start from second times The girls on the floor You on the middle Just before around the same And that's try the lift you practiced this morning come on You wrong this different from before yeah, I'm afraid of it Could you search original idea for ones, please I resisted the motion It's your dancers the same my being so clear you never... explain yourself probably You can't doing that's your dancers, period it thank you very much Maybe so... Yes, no... there is something else Lifesavers Yes, Lifesavers you know those candies The Americans, the Canadians had them in 1945 I want to know the color of the wrapper Sweet, baby Bye Yes. That's him yes He changes your whole life? Yes He was my stepfather he was on the war My hero Is this you? No, this is you Little prince Do you still remember me? I have to pee Not over there Have you gone crazy? Where else? You were there that time stay I have to go back inside Yes, I know but I wanted to ask you something else Are you alright? You'll get enough to eat over there Promise me you'll behave Here, look after this Here, write your name on it properly Young man, come here Here is your sign write your name here So, and one for you Write your name here You are too late Here, this is give you Jan So, they're going to fatten you up too Nerve gas Keep quiet and you'll be alright You, Heinrich, come here Ok, go over there You are much too late (foreign language) Thanks, bye Holly shit Did you pee your pants? Go away, disgusting What is your name? Gertie You know what? From now on you're called Dirty Gertie Shove off. Move over Right, that's much better We'll stick together, Ok? I mean when we get there Just like fucking? We won't let them separate us, no way We thank you, Lord for bringing these poor children who need your protection Amen Well, I'm sure you want a cup of warm milk And you as well? Nice Nice, isn't it? Nice and warm Take off your cap Go and sit over there We'll get the lice out Children, now you will go to your new homes Sjoerd Dotinga can you take two children? Kees Brinkman and Tom Ophuis So, Arjen Boersma Arjen Boersma and Alie Van Der Does And Alie Van Der Does (foreign language) Gertie Baowie Gertie Baowie Dirty Gertie And Jungluca (foreign language) Come in A mistake? Yes, it can happen We asked for a girl You know, for Elly... Right, come with me They mixed up two, Ma He was left, this is Jeroen Alright, we'll have to make do with him, won't we lad? Jeroen that's a beautiful name You're not scared of me are you? Can I have a look? Lovely... Henk This is Jeroen He'll have to wear your clothes Fine You must be hunger after such a long journey No, Mrs. But you wouldn't say no to a "bolle"? Bolle? Slice of bread It's gone What's gone? My ration card What's a ration card, Ma? Almighty God, Our Lord we beg you protect Your weak children and lead us all to Your safe harbor Lord, bless this meal, Amen I hope you'll enjoy it blast. Ma What's the matter? He's pissed the bed Be quiet, watch your mouth Amsterdam is that way And the pump is next to the house Ma? Do you all pee the bed in Amsterdam? What? Do you all pee the bed in Amsterdam? You mean, that was an accident Can I go first? Look here This is how you do it Pull harder Havert you done this before? I've done a lot of rowing Eels won't bite you, Sissy The Wrath of God will smite the Godless they will be exiled to the outermost darkness there shall be a walling and a gnashing of teeth So dear Congregation it is written Lord God, let your light shine over this world the light of Liberation Breathe deeply It must reach your lungs It's really healthy And Abraham made haste to the tent of Sara, and sayeth Make haste. Take the three bushels of grain I'm going home Take the little boat Henk will help you Hold it firm Come down, Jeroen We need your help Still some way to go There it is Here it comes Come and clean it up here, take it And he sayeth, Jonathan And bring David, in order that the King could kill David And then? Jan Jeroen Haidie Perhaps they read another Bible in Amsterdam You do it, go ahead It tickles In the bucket, put it in There you are Jan Mister. I'm Jan A friend of Jeroers from Amsterdam I have to keep an eye on him Your ration card I found it You can't use it here anyhow Yes, I know Found it? Old Pronk says your Dad is the best eel-fisher in the whole area Have you ever seen her naked or in her knickers? Bondien, I mean If there were no Jerries I'd still be in Amsterdam They should hang them all You mustrt hate the Germans Your mustrt harbour hatred that's what Dad says Hatred is a sin or something like that I want to go home Amsterdam is that way Take the little boat You think you're funny? Shall we escape? One night? Jeroen back home? Keep still Come on young man You out and Elly in Nice and warm Look Stop it, Elly That's enough Elly, that's enough That's enough Dear Mum and Dad I'm fine. Enough food at last I miss you both Hurry up Jeroen... Jeroen, come Jeroen, come it's dangerous there Quicksand Come back Idiot, you could be hurt Come back Go over there I don't allowed you come here next time Idiot Come on, show me your plane Not this boat, it's Dad's Come on, stop moaning Not so hard We should have waited for Henk Mama's boy You should have brought your little sisters Catch when I pull twice on the rope pull me up Understood? Jan. Jan, come on. Jan Dammit, eels everywhere as thick as my wrist I do nothing all day but clean up shit sheep shit, goat turds cows hit All sorts of shit and they shit harder than I can clean and that's what keeps nature growing and blooming? The things we eat, yuk know what you're thinking of The big escape... True? True? Row back home just along the coast. Easy Well forget it, I'm not in Come on, boy Watch out. Mercy Mercy. Fight boy. Say it Do you get a hard-on sometimes? A hard-on? Oh yes, of course Liar Have you gone nuts or what? How did you know we are here Turn it on and go home What did you see? Why ask him? So, what was it? Wouldrt you like to know? Secret, Jeroen? I'll tell you later I will tell you later Those bloody Jerries they should be smoked cut The Americans have already crossed the river Meuse Stop, These bikes are complete Come on Elly go home, we'll keep going Bloody Jerries If I catch them... They must be running into the field There's Dad's boat Are we going the right way Jan? Be quiet Are you sure? Course, You see it's getting better already Let's get out of here We're liberated The war is over Call that an army? The Yanks have women soldiers, too I saw in pictures They wear skirts very tight But how can they fight? Women aren't there to fight Are you coming, Jan? Here, take it It doesn't work I don't know what's wrong with it Did you check this fuse? I don't know You have old enough to know right? And you are real wise guy, too anyway, listen to all nice people you say good night good night ok, that's quiet for me Anyway, without further introduction Ladies and gentlemen all the way from Canada and sing for you tonight our own... inevitable... Harmonizes Thank you the way, boys You call them soldiers? Don't doubt Just look Master, "sh'boom" what does that mean? Cigratte? Cigratte yeah Sure, here Pastor, "Sh'boom" doesn't mean anything Guess, he doesn't smoke What are you thinking of? Get on Are you making fun with me? I'm Walt, Walt What's your name? Jeroen Jeoroen Jeroen Jeroen Yes, sir Taste good? Really small? Just like little foot You know Galileo Travels? What is the name of place the Giant live? It was... Bradingo? Bradinlan... Couldrt you assholes wait? That was probably fuck up for good Jeroen... Jeroen There you are No car I'll walk you home Walt Come and sit down Jeroen You all sit down to show us about t Idiots All they understanding Would have everybody know (Warning) Jeroen No mind here, come You... a soldier Yes, I'm a soldier Hold on And you know what? I hated the army But I just doing that just like... My mother was proud of me She cried My father, he just call me an idiot And he start crying, too War and me I'm very happy so far And I saw you I sure you was different I sure you may a kind guy So what guy are you? You special, Jeroen You are really fuck special Look there. Walt The only ship I knew my home by father in the bottle Have you look telescope before? You know sometime you can see the face the enemy with it Look the same face as us But around in other side That's not a good idea Look there, a plane That's our plane Two seats, too slow Poor guys You and me... Sunday... after Church? Go to look at the plane What did he say? Forget it They took the key away Shit I giving something inside room you wait here Shut up Want to play? Ok That's fifty-fifty Wait a minute You try this finest Virginia leaves you'll never taste better hello How's my buddy? Walt? What is "buddy"? "Buddy", that's you That's best friend My baby... You know "Baby"? No I just... you are my baby He drove the fucking jeep What does he say? Maybe we have to walk home Jeroen Are you so cold? You know how cold it is? I've got a secret Me too. Mine first ok Push and pull... your dick I can join the Yanks Then I'll see something Coca Cola, fucking, so on And go to Jerryland? Not me The water hurts my soar. Damn Has it already healed? Show me first pay like with a tart So what's your secret? No, not now Tell it, boy Speaking Too late, Winne too said but the Sperm already went ahead Tell it, tell it or beg for mercy No, never Jeroen, come on we've to go to Church Push and pull, push and pull We must believe the Bible Those are ours Thank you bring the freedom thank you, Amen thank you Before we close this Thanksgiving service I want to give you a word of warning concerning the new guests here our brave liberators These healthy young lads We have the side of the weak The body has attractive with us Dear believers, be watchful Protect your family and daughter Let us look to Him our shepherd He'll lead us from traps drive the plage away as He saved His Egyptian sons so will there be salvation for us The old scripture tells of this in the Revelations And so let us serve the Lord... The Lord is my shepherd... Do you remember what we make yesterday? Do you remember? At beach Yes You still want to go see that Yes I'll meet you later at the beach see you I have to... You better come here I've seen it Jeroen and I noticed it earlier We're not used to that kind of thing here Come on It's wrong to keep the candy you're given for yourself The Lord says Give unto your neighbor and you shall receive the Kingdom of God You're right It's hard to get in there There are bodies down there you know that? They are holding the seat belts Still in parachute side Do you understand, Jeroen? Do you understand me? Look, fish... I should stay there You see the plane was there And when the current goes it moves And it sinks again just like submarine you know Don't be scary I'd take care of you I'll right here Don't rushing You gonna like go smoothly That's right Now, smile You got treat it gently like a horse Watch the breaks Here they are Crazy Right, baby, kick I love you Check of the couple bodies sign up the wreck I want you ready for a could pick them up, ok? Aye, sir Ran over my toes You making fun with me Cut it out my button, my button No Where is it? Don't worry, I fixed I promise I love you My prince You are mine Come on What did you favorite? We do like this one, two, three, four And than say ok one, two three, four chocolate I wish I were a boy my Dad and Mum here asked for a boy from Amsterdam one, two, three, four Please, don't forget your name on the top And we'll title it "The Liberation" when you're ready make a nice drawing with it Try to write neatly You've got all afternoon children Write what the Liberation means for you The re-gaining of Freedom the victory over evil Not everyone in history can be witness to such an important event For me, Liberation means Have you heard news from home yet, Jeroen? How are your parents? There is enough food in Amsterdam now, son Don't worry The whole Netherlands are liberated This is a historical moment Maybe the most important in your life You won't ever forget that young man? No, sir You can go now, son Yes, sir Bye, Jeroen Bye, sir At last Get your clogs and come along We waited specially for you Walt said to Moving, the young Dad, what's a photo? A picture Moving a bit, little more Henk Here Ma, your high heels You ok? You stand there Smile, Jeroen You are not here That's me, there You see, me yeah, that's him Catch Put it at his neck you will be remember Really? Walt, this is very special yeah, come on, Walt Come on, everyone smile You have beautiful hands Jeroen You could be an artist You could be painter or sculptor You know? When I was your age I was in American We just have neighbor Tell you and said My hands make with my mind creative You are like them Shut up, I busying You know? Life's worse then you dead I left You make me happy, Jeroen just past these days Do't do that, Jeroen Shit Throw away don't worry, you and me always on, yes? Yeah, we make ones, sometime It's late Yes, then? You tell Jeroen, tomorrow... You... soldier, Canada Friend Thanks Yes God bless Yes Beautiful, isn't it? Gorgeous yes You know what he said then? I love you I love you And then he came very close but I told him, No What are you laughing at? What's that? Gertie's going out with a soldier This is a farewell present Mind your own business, Elly Little girls have big ears Farewell present? Get out of the way Are you ok? Are you hurt? Walt... My photo What have you done with it? Bloody boy you're a bike-thief And now it's broken too then Moses stretched his hand over the sea the waves parted And Israelites were able to cross but when Pharaoh's army followed the waves came together again and drowned them Wake up, Jeroen A letter from your mother Maybe she'll come and visit you There you are Read it out, boy we're so curious to know Jeroen darling how big you are You look so well I missed you so I'll never let you go again You should know I'm off to America Can I open it, Mrs.? It's for you It's almost 300 years old folks, look here Nice, isn't it? What a nice watch Your tea, madam He has grown a lot, hasn't he? We're very grateful to you It's nothing It was just our duty This beautiful present It reconciles us to the farewell Jeroen has become like our own child And now we have to hurry otherwise you'll miss the boat Yes, it's a long journey ahead I'll pack his things He won't fit into this anymore I know that's why I put these in He lived in these pants Military thread He learnt them at school A souvenir Isn't that nice? I found these things here They belonged to one of the Canadian soldiers Maybe you could take them for Jeroen For later, we don't use this kind of thing Amsterdam. Here we go I love you Come on, Jeroen We have to hurry up Bye Jeroen will you send us a photo? You were going to ask me something That photo I didn't hear Dad ask for that Yes, I did I heard but I wanted to forget it It was the only photo on the whole roll that came out Forget the step... Use your basis of energy Use your personal energy Think of... let I told you Think the freedom, It's all up Ok, you mark this Make me happy Alright? Let I see who's the new generation Done it And you both... ok, here we go you spire great Just rehearsal Alright, you concentrate Here we go The end
