 

                        during the early 21 century a virus destroy nearly all life on earth it is called the VXII a 50 foot walls built to protect the non infected survivors there is no life beyond the wall internment camps are built to accomodate the increasing number of orphans only 5 children survived the brutal conditions Sentanza, kane, vitor shawn and jude they are known as the drifters most of them have disappeared and vanished from the public eye except for one jude black now leads a terrorist gang of disillusioned youths called the vespers they have taken control of 3 cities within the wall and are now trained on the last standing city: hawthorne It is about our brother You know, brothers! jude since two brothers. both evil , both friends. Jude,,? You hear me?! - how much they pay to you? - Not you just hear?! so one day the older brother dies And the younger brother .. price for a pastor. and said : I have a condition In the funeral of my brother, should call him saint. And the pastor ... who make you doing this? will you listen?! It is about brothers. It's all Sentanza. Two brothers, one is dead the yonger price for a pastor! What are you afraid? have always been close. My brother would never have come here today Two brothers, one is dead the yonger price for a pastor! The pastor gives his word and accept the money. to say say at the funeral. This man was evil. cheating on his wife cheating on his children! But compared with his brother, Who is the saint? The White Wall. hawthorn city The first time I saw the white wall was the first time I heard about the VX2. i grow up in an orphanage camp behind the wall. that was built to protect us from the infection. The only memories i have from my child are from this camp. only the strong survived Sentanza, Jude, Vitor, Cane and I were those who remained. Are the unique family I know. they call us the drifters Eventually, we grew up on a separate ways. some of us never escape the violence. As Jude. The last I heard is gain of vespers and responsible for half of corpses in the city. I fear that when the time comes only one who can stop him is one of us. i have not heard for many of us from years maybe they found some peace and quit, maybe not i think everything happens for a reason, But still I'm waiting hawthorne , medic station Never learn, eh? three weeks and do not take the job seriously. - need more - you joking You can hold a job for a few months. ya i know, people talk. everybody wants to give their 2 sense about you what is yours? I have no one. But see this. if you ever find some wonder on what you doing or where you going, if some wonder why you are here just stay quit and follow my lead i will keep this in mind If you're not taking this seriously, Why you here? why even bother coming forget it is the Dr granddaughter Why she will like a fool like you? Work comes the captain is coming over what he gonna do send me behind the wall? wall ? what wall? yes that was there - he is right, you know? - sir witch one of you clean the West Wing last night? I was sir. We received many complaints this morning. you Forgot to put up the wet floor sign you did not bother with the bathrooms on the second floor and you forgot to unload the boxes of the medics you think that is a acceptable behavior for the head of the janitors? Mr. Sorry I forgot. One of the doctors slip little settles back a whole day Excuse me Mr. I suppose to do that this morning. come here - what is your name? - Shawn. - Where are you from? - From Skins. - you overseen a vespers up close - no killers i have seen myself, Jude Black. he looks a bit like you I believe not. i can use a man like you Posi Commatatus, you Know what that mean? i conscript you to catch Jude Black. I can count on you? let hope you dont you do not have to do this yes. ? Have no idea. eh? none of this neither happening if the wall did not exist what did he say He said none of this neither happening if the wall did not exist yes you here meant to be sir ? And who are you? Shawn, I work here they say that you are expert on vx2 That you've been here since the beginning what do you want I've been looking into this virus lately but its been hard killing my hands on anything useful they say you the meant to talk to you Is it true? can we turn down the wall if we found the cure Sorry, its just far too speculative but the risk is paramount there is no cure.. - And if ... - I said that is it any To find the cure we need a carrier. We have none, because nobody survives I'm a reasonable man. If you want to research tell me your plans. Le his book and I thought .... Yes? Do you have any experience? "Some. -? EDUCATION? Self-taught. Self-taught. I have seen many boys like you. do you know the best advice I can give you? what? Go home. Wherever it is that might be And if you have nothing value to say I have more important things to do. Thank you. spot did you hear that i am not spiling you You do not know what we are doing. Elsa come back here you are here this all time? What? i am sorry Did not know you were here from where you get this Do not touch it without gloves will paralyse you. You do not have to do this - they laugh at you - yes all i get is laughing There is no cure. believe me Dr. and I have gone over this already - Sorry - I know what you say. its all been done before i not gonna be the one to do Go home, get some rest. all I want in help for me is . . . . in an empty fridge at least here I have something good doing - The equation is wrong. - What? the copy is wrong can not be I think I can write it see is that I get wrong the first time too gentlemen I feel in my duty and obligation to inform you that among us sits an impostor. A man who has no recognise papers from any institution in fact that man is a fraud and is wanted by the law in ckades, Hawthorne and two other cities in the quarantine! go get him how did you come across that information or you are from ckades ckades? I've never been there where did you meet the guy never seen him before never been heard of him you got great reputation shawn I like that what you want? I've been watching you My name is Dreiden Did you see the cad see? - did you see the corps? - which one? and you might recognize him friend of yours I think they say jude black did it - you know him? - no I've seen you together before Long ago, of course. I dont know what are you talking about That is no way to talk about your brother. he is not my brother - I guess they did not bother you - What? That is a bounty on his head. Not at all. see you around -Jude. "It's me. I need to talk to you. You can find me also in street in ckades you remember right? you have do already ckades - vesper territory Been a long time I know. You have not stop by I've been busy. I know you would say that sit What? you too a good friend now? with never had problem before From where did you get it? relax, was a gift. so what you wanna do tonight? I do not know. I am very busy. I have an idea. how about you and I go rapes some bitches and throw them in the desert? I do not think that's a good idea. We will use condoms. It was a joke. Glad to see you. so where are you staying? hawthorne doing what? work in the medic station picking up all the people trash You've been doing the same Shawn shit for six years. When are you going to grow? It's just a job. did you hear from drifters? no, did you? I have really wanted to see them. I wish I had earlier Sentanza dead. Really? may Rest in peace. Two brothers you raped and killed I am going to say I like sentanza You remember, right? jude Tell me you remember. Tell me what you remember Jude! Jude! Tell me you did not kill Sentanza! Out of my sight! It is common things in nature? you Know? things like Bribery brothers stay helping each other Sometimes till death. I remember when I was young i did not have a brother i had a sister where is jude? well he left before I got her you know I wish he get out of here right now what you want from me? what you want for yourself? - or you want to talk to my brother? - but you do not know where he is I can help with that. Where is he? No, i will not make the same mistake twice. - I will take you there - then what details. we will figure this out on the way What makes you think I'll go with you? well the one the vespers are coming You can thank your brother for that. you would not do that he killed Sentanza you do not know that. and you do? Come on, we're wasting time lets go - can you fight? - Of course. - You work for the militia? - why I will work with for the militia? how you know where jude is? I am a businessman. I follow the money. Who pays the bounty then? Nobody important. The deal is that Jude stay alive I need to find out why he in this mess before it is too late you got that? Just trying to help you you know what will happen if someone finds jude first? - Stop the car - what? - Stop the car - no Stop the car! Where are you going? the nearest city is 50 miles you hassle me why would I hassle you are you crazy? The Vespers should be here by now you try in gets us killed get in the car we will talk about on the way We can not run for too long but not in this way you said you can fight I lost my blade what I suppose to do? you think the militia is gonna help you? they do not care about you Come on, give me a chance. Why you still here? Look, you dont know how to use blade. I can train you why, you do not believe me? Come on, give me a try Come on. hit me. come on, I will show you hit me I was not ready OK. Ready Wait now I am ready How did you do that? Come on, I'll show you. I have to remind you if I did that in combat you dead learn easily actually you have to fight Come on, try. Again. , Go! nice try You have to feel it , Yes! Where are you going? to find back up I thought I was your back up we do not need anybody else anybody else wants Jude dead I am gonna find the drifters That is a bad idea who the hell they? They are my brothers. the only brother you have there is bounty on his head you were as brothers because you was in some children home together some home by ya they were with santenza dead and jude warned there is only two of us left You can put an end to this right now. no forget it, never mind deal is off What can I do without m ? What can you do without the car? make it right The last time. this motherfucker Sentanza Came and ... I thought you say you do not know him Well, I hardly know him We were not friends we just want to reward it dos not matter back to the issue loyalty, character , integrity. do I make sense? You are right. Sentanza was not intelligent. but vitor was different every one knew vitor like this was one time vitor and I were This story does not lead us anywhere Vitor was strong, everyone knew that but he have brains - What? - Nothing let just test him see how he will response - what are you thinking? - Sentanza betray me. i am telling you you can not trust anybody you still mad of me are not you? I want you to take the keys as a symbol of my confidence - You sure? - Yes, just park your car. vitor bungalow - kane - shawn so is vitor? I did not know that you were living together A drink? where is the brother that way we catch from long time I do not know how he will react when he sees you well I know its been a while but I really need to talk to him and tell him what? you remember the internment camps when the guards came around and practically ran the place it was shame only a few was survived we should stuck together Do you remember that joke, two evil brothers? Nobody say like Sentanza he is dead is not he? jude actually did it? I do not know but they want to kill him - vitor can - vitor is not around look I am sorry you came all this way Where is he? vitor can talk in sense with him he is the only one vitor come on here you have visitor juice? what happen to him? about a year ago he went to see jude I found him nose down head and throat still open you get any of this? I now figure you can get out I can not take him alone - You have to ... - Do not ask me Sorry brother. Sorry - How did it go? - was great We talked about old times. couple stories and couple laugh they are doing great I am happy for them they can not believe how much I changed they still think I am a skinny little kid Yes. They were a little busy right now they told me they will back me when I need them Vitor told me to stay a while but I told him I have to go I dont want them to know that you are around so right now no one does those guys they never change Hawthorne precinct station captain Troufeau office starting I think you do not like me Quite the contrary. gentlemen here wish to extend the hand of friendship As friends, we would like to discuss a issue with you but First How are your operations? - Running. - It's wonderful. I like to say the same but well I let you in on a little secret nobody really knows anything we all are just cover our own bottoms I know its surprising after the raids a few days ago you remember What raids? No need to feign ignorance We are all friends here Ah. the one you authorised the ones that is occurred a few days ago I am surprised when my secretary mention the extra body count several of the heads were bound with clothes on the eyes will gauge doubt Is that funny? you think that is funny? are you laughing at me? you think I am a joke listen jude I pay your youths every month and I am sick to get in the short end now I trying not to raise my voice but you making an end very difficult you think I am some punk you can scare I am sick that you come to this office and expecting me to kiss your ass It's your fault. - I own you now - that is right jude black Everybody is afraid of you well there is a bounty on your head some good Dr. Erick Lei what Do you think of that you got apex on your trail and I am the only one who can help. do You like the classical music? To tell you the truth, I have no time for that. you should make time for it its really quite good do You like that? you become quite liability to us give yourself up We will stage in arrest You want to live your life like a hunted animal? I expect an answer tomorrow or do not contact me from now on deal only with my secretary You're a fucking cancer Road to Immogen Lar we are gonna cross the desert here thru ckades by taking that road What? not to much going looks like we got some company they can not be vespers you got any suggestion here watch their hands because of the belt no hesitate OK. - you have troubles - no trouble here I know you? I do not think. My name is P actually we could use some help we are looking for jude black I have to ... Sorry I got 100 marks for you guys if have any informations? I heard he is heading south you left the back track See I told you you idiot I told him, i knew we are going the wrong direction could I saved a lot of time man I kiss you if I could take all the money thanks a lot guys really we appreciated Thank you. What? you can buy any of them with money I understand. you see the weapons they are carrying - yes - they are apex stars of biggest competitions Just lost 100 marks this guys won several games and I think to take them out of the game I guess anybody can be bought for a price what about I stir and you push What? You have to be next to me? all right - Elsa, its me - shawn where you been? They took him They took Dr. Lei - you sure? - yes your Positive? She will come She will brings water, right? Your friends are dead Troufeau is dead You're the only one who left. is the name VX remind you of anything Dr. Lei? I do not know what you are talking about you should you created it the virus Dr. Lei no wait, I did not do anything Let him go! what do you want? what do you want? just trying to see you I want to turn the generators off on this quadrant? I dont know what you talking about I have nothing to do with it You have the wrong man just let us go for anything you want - what Do you want? - to bring out to the world Nothing out there No, please! Please, I beg! they make me do it they were just obeying commands. you think I want this? you think I did this to my own family to my grand daughter? they force me to do it I do Not have a choice I got nothing same as you what Do you want? first Tell me how to turn off the generators! are you guys ready? - You stay here - Why? If something happens to us you get off from here It is my grandfather. come with me we will go to the back - Ready? - Yes you wait a couple of minutes and come at the front. from here, come on. did anyone else knows about this place shawn there is another room down on the hallway - What is this? - What 't you think? life behind the wall. - No? - Yes - no you are lying - no they lie to us We have been in quarantine. and we have left in the desert to rats now you wrong! who can you trust, Shawn ? I am your brother trust? is Sentanza did not trust you? Vitor? They betrayed me. we'll leave the quarantine. you are with me or against me so you meant back down they are all with me you will die jude well I am already dead Jude the apex it is not your time we gonna look at the Dr again - what about the Dr? - we got what we wanted - you are coming with us - vespers come on show me what you can this why I wanna to come back here its a blueprint Is the power generator its happening already shutting up the power dam they will target the main official first what left from them will rest or run We have to get as far awa from here as possible - I have to tell Shawn about this - I do not want you to see him Elsa I never liked that boy there was something wrong about him he was hiding something - you made the VX2? - That was an accident Create a biological weapon was not an accident. What you want me to say? about stuck here we are gonna die - Where did you go? - I thought to bring that thing the amazing this week is the go to wasteland you know people will take money for this I'm thinking of starting my business. In some place up north. what do you think? - you got your reward - yes, I will fix my car too What are you doing now? I do not know. I can blow away all my new savings quickly what about you? how you gonna spend the last of your days What do you mean? Jude will not get far. he will gonna burn this place down before he reach the outside you think he want that they trace to this virus? i want to go with you we both know I will be in the way yes Shawn wait - how is the Dr? - is doing good everything will be fine. we need to help shawn find out how to turn the power on Grandfather, I do not blame you grandfather what you think you are doing go and get my papers These are all my notes of VX2, creation, intention, everything. what suppose to do with that even you could not figure this out You are right I could not figure it out - should turn off the third generator? - not yet I do not want to draw attention. Propaganda, lies, it all ends now. we breach the wall we force them to find the cure Finally we are free You should not have come. I let you go. You do not know what you do. Do not know what I'm doing? You will get yourself killed whenever else with you It's a risk I'm willing to take. let it go Jude! - Some of us want to live - then get out of my way! Who are you? A friend. Nothing has changed. we are getting slowly smaller nothing has changed. Jude Black we are from NDC we are armed forces we ask you to get out lets get out from here come on lets go you really took it this time to find someone to fixed up your bleed out I'll take care of it something to do paste for me make sure they are coming and say According Shawn? OK. Jude Black surrender now! you will be fine. what we will do now? Live Shawn. Live
