 

                        Year 1894, China-Japan war Chin dynasty were defeated, signed Ma Kuang treaty Taiwan and Pon Hu will given June 1895, Japan army landed Taiwan People of Taiwan, fight for this invasion That year, Liao was still a boy of ten Sir, there are four anti-royalty rascals They are all in the village I don't care civilians or rascals, check this village How long have you been here? Since your father died, i was here It's over three years I used to touch your bones You will be famous later, be good No matter what, remember be a righteous man I rip off this contract in front of you Take these money, bring back to your mother Ten Din, take these, get back Premier has right to give away land and we can't do nothing about Master wants to go back to ask for help So can come back to fight with these Japanese Let go of me You get away... Get away Go Mom... Mom... i don't want to work for life l can come back to stay with you Ten Din, i... Mom... Bastard Master, there is a person there Really, really is over there, it's a boy, hurry, take it back Hurry, be careful You stinky bastard, unconscious for over ten days We thought you were died Master kept you for you had one last breath No one knows that you can live You are a lucky son of a bitch You two can do it, why are you so lazy? Master... That stinky kid is waking up What are you looking for? Flip, hurry Be serious Be careful, great Master Why are you crying? Be a man Japanese kill my Mom So in this world, i am alone Who are trying to cheat? Are we all beast not human? Don't cry, get up... Let me tell you Life is just like a drama Why don't you stay here and learn acting The world is a mess now These Japanese, they all try to eat us up Moreover, you had better play in the stage Better life Japanese is gone, change a play "King of Japan be headed by Master Kuang", let's do it Great... Get lost Ten Din is a nice boy l think he can play the third son of King later God, i heard that you were nice before So you are God now You don't have to worry about clothing and meals, lots of money that you can't spend But if you are good, please open your eyes and take a look lt's tough live now, lots of beggars l don't have an evil thought, just want to borrow some money To buy them some rice and veges Just borrow some money from you l will return it later God, if you permit, please give me the holy cup All the Gods, you ain't generous People are starving to death, who can afford to serve you, i will act an play for you now l don't care if you want to see it or not, i have to play I am making pass on you, i am foxy Pan Sorry I... i am foxy Pan's grand Ma l am not well, just want to borrow some of yours What are they worshipping? I heard that the god appeared last night And he gave all the incense money to them Hey! Pack up all the things! Ten Din, bring me the ropes Ten Din This is for you, wish you safe Thanks What are they doing? They are action What's about? King of Japan be headed by Master Kuang King of Japan be headed by Master Kuang. Arrest them. Yes Stop No more acting All stop Don't fuck with me Slave, how dare are you insulting our King? Yes, aren't you afraid to die? Dare to insult our King? Go to hell Ten Din, leave quick Master lt's dangerous here, leave quickly, hope can see you again What for? Get lost... Thief, damn kid, you steal money from God Everybody, thief, get that thief Don't let him get away Okay... Stop that You will kill him if you don't stop Look, he still have his eyes wide open He is unconscious now lf we don't stop he will die Unconscious with eyes wide open, kill him Beat... Stop Ten Din What, do you know him? Gentlemen, he is not a thief He... he is Lin's people Just a misunderstanding This time he is just helping Lin to take care of things Let's put him down, hurry up, put him down Okay, don't be afraid, nothing happen Look, almost got killed by you guys Only beat your own people Once you see the Japanese, run like a mouse He didn't say, how should l know? If he can say, he ain't Lin's people Be careful Okay, don't lick, take the bowl Although you can't read, you were here for years Master Kuang were play many times Ought to know that should be a righteous man How can you steal money from others? That is donation money l know, but i was afraid of starving Once i starved, l forget all those righteous things Take your time, are you enough? Two or three bowls will be enough Master, who is that Lin? Why are those people hear his name will give all their belongings to him? Lin is represent the spirits of Taiwan He is my Master too, kill only those Japanese When those Japanese hear his name, they all run away He is the bravest Taiwanese of all They can't beat him, they want to make peace with him No matter what happen, he is the boss He had ten request Just like his territories, Japanese can't go His people can go out with weapon His people break the law, he manage them by himself Japanese all said "very good" Chin Dynasty surrender to Japan Japan surrender to Mr Lin You have to remember, be somebody like Mr Lin lf you want to play with Lion, play their head Be a man, you have to be somebody This is something Get going, hurry, going... Hurry up you all Liao Ten Din... Help me Let me go, Liao Ten Din Help me... Ten Din Liao Ten Din... Where were you take her to? Let her go Stinky bastard, what are you trying to do? Are you looking for death? Liao Ten Din, help me Liao Ten Din, help me up, Liao Ten Din Here come Japanese, leave now TenDin, save me hurry... Let's save that girl, she is in misery lt's not l don't want to save her, l just can't Those human smugglers have connection with Japanese Look all these blood, cease the blood, hurry In 1903, Japanese Army had invaded Taiwan for 9 years The plains were gradually ruled by Japanese police Following his master Young Ten Din went to the suburbs of Taipei Ten Din, hurry up Show it to those Japanese, hurry Thanks, Master, let me do it You take a rest, l get in to have a sip of tea Today is not 2nd or 16th, no God's birthday neither What are you doing? Master, you don't know, Lin is died You nonsense, how could he died? How could he not to? Japanese gather big troops Attack him for hours Even an iron man will turn to ashes When was it? Two days before yesterday, we all didn't know Heard those Japanese soldiers last night. Lin is died Their governor saw the body Japanese soldiers will send back home We all knew then, Taiwan will be rule by police Come, hear me you all They said "depend on your parents at home" Depend on your parents How about outside? Will depend on you my friends Depend on good friends Today l am doing the really Kung-fu Real one Those traditional herb on the desk, you can take as you like Take as you like The money you donate, l won't take it Won't take it lt will be used to buy some thing for Lin's funnel For his funnel Ten Din, let them see your real Kung-fu Good Great, come Thanks, thank you all Come, this is from my ancestor, can cure all illness Take back and use it at home, go on... Master, Japanese is coming Japanese is coming, don't be afraid Noting to be afraid of, right? Let them see how great we are Kid, dangerous People who insulting royal army should die, go Master, how was it? Pack that box Master, are you okay? Master... l know l have fate with Lin, l need to follow him Master... Wake up... Master... Don't call me, don't think l am old l want to go with Mr Lin Master... What are you doing? Slave Master, when l, TenDin, am not by your side You call him to serve you for me Make him prepare food, wash your cloth, carry your box Let him carry you to mountain or down the river, Master... R... read and leave Hurry up... go All is mine... You win again, you got good hand today Have a sip of tea H... hurry, ready to go Cheating, you bastard How can you beat me? Buddy, we are in same gang Chop your finger off yourself Don't... Don't... don't hit me, l won't dare Okay, l chop, l will chop Hurry up, chop... You think that we Taiwanese is soft l will kill you, l kick you to death... Great, that is great fight None of my business You do this as Japanese slave Don't you shame your ancestors? Young man, handsome boy, sorry l just saying with thinking, l meant no harm ln fact, you help a lot, thanks You just call me a slave of Japanese l feel sorry deep inside of me Actually, l make money from Japanese l send it all back to my home to help those poors lf you don't believe me, l swear... lf swear were useful women in the world, how come they have affairs? You don't know the situation, l see you are a good person You are outsider, don't you? Let me tell you, l am Akaikamei, red turtle You have any problem just tell me, l will cover for you Foreigner like us, first is lack of money, second is lack of money We are friends now, the most important thing is we both happy As money, l know we both don't have l am afraid of hungry, if l am hungry l will forget all those righteous things You lucky to meet me, stay by my side from now on l promise you eat well and do less lt's over Hungry lt's bamboo Call sister-in-law Nothing Red turtle, you said eat well and do less l ended up be a slavery here lt's always has bad time, be patient lf not because of you kill a Japanese l don't have to come here to do this hard labor Let me tell you, you are with a right person Don't be lazy, finish it on time Hurry, do you job, don't block out, do your work Sorry Are you have something to do early morning? How do you know that l have something to do early morning? How can l don't know? l see you all dress up Hasty to l don't know where, tomorrow is 15th Dress up pretty, so calm his mind He don't know that fair lady is a slave now Who is he then? He was really mean, marry me less than a month He wanted to kill Japanese with ChanJen l told him, if both of us can live Never mind who will be the King He scold me, tell me to study hard And then, he died lf you were have kids, don't let them study too hard Read too much, you start to think too much Got yourself killed is nothing, but you kill others too lt's no use to ready too much l want to get closer to him, so l come here to be a slave l dressed up to worship him He was like others in the end Sleep over there without conscience He ain't silly, he dare to play lion head There will books about him and play about him Every body are going to miss him Sorry, it's my turn, give me nine Great, no nine, do you? Okay, one more time, 18... lt's really 18, sorry l don't know l got great luck today Bet, bet again Really weird, l even lost my money of meals Didn't you know? You can count on me for all your meals Come... Bet it on... Here comes supervisor... Mr Sakamoto, please... Get lost... Please... a chair here for him l don't want to play this way How about Japanese way? Japanese way, just try it After you, please Sorry This guy... Let's play bigger, dare you? Good Sorry l want this suit for a long time Thanks, please come again next time Mind your own business, bastard Ten Din That Japanese even lost his pants Ten Din, look the way you dress, it's not matching me How's it? How about this, l take you to the street to buy a new dress, OK? No need Money... Look at you, you never have experience to spend money l will take you out to relax, teach you be a... No l want to teach you be a really man, you don't want it Sir, here you come, please... lt's hard for you... Who is hot in your family? Sir, it must be your first time here ln our whore house, Liu is hottest We are very famous here, thanks Sir, come, come on in and sit down Come in... sit... Sir, did you have someone you knew? Call Liu Liu, she has lots of customers Besides, she only take Japanese customers. Sorry Only take Japanese? Bring this to her, ask her to look closely See if this is Japanese money Yes... or else Sir, give me your name card l will introduce her to you Name card, l don't give away easily Do you want name card? Bring me pen and paper Name card, here you go Sir, come on in and sit down Be nice, sit... What to write? What Liu mean is let's meet some other time You bring me over, go What are you doing? l want to see her, what kind of creature she is, go Wait, we wait over here Whether Liu's expression smiling or crying? ls it Okay? Liu Can you understand Chinese? I am Liao Ten Din ls she smiling or crying? Liu said she wants to keep this guest over night You go and tell that guest People will said buy you drinking or eating, no one buy you that Ask him to pay this by himself Liu said that she wants to pay the bills He is really something Look closely, do you really can't remember me? Come Eight years ago, in front of a temple There was a little girl selling her soul You took donation money to us The other day, everybody thank God l told God, who is really our savor lf God know, please protect you Wherever you go, good well follow Later you fight for me by the river For me you got hurt l made a decision then, if l were have fortune l will buy back myself l will serve you for the rest of my life, l will This guy, didn't come back till now yet Get away... What are you doing? See if your leg soften or not? Get lost You are feeling too good to come back, mess around with a whore Sun is setting, everyone ready to go home, and you back Red Turtle, un-righteous money is good for using You know what it taste once you use it, got hooked? No way, Liu is really misery We have to buy her back Cut it out, what you mean by we? Liao Ten Din, you sleep in warm bed and l am in hard wood You embrace beauty And l embrace broken blanket You soak in perfume and l stink by bad bugs What kind of brotherhood is this? lf l were listen to you later l, red turtle will become green turtle Red turtle Let me tell you, Yih came to see me last night She said wait till you come back What is she waiting me for? How should l know? l have told her not to wait Because you were with a fair lady tonight Tell her not to waste her time to wait Who allows you to bath here? Sorry, l thought every one has done Clean the bath tub and out OK Can't image that Taiwanese girl has that kind of body What are you doing? Let go, let go of me Help... Ten Din, Yih got something happened What are you doing? l didn't Somebody killed Hello... Ten Din, leave, you leave at once Ten Din, you killed a Japanese, go fast Wait, if we should meet again or else, you dress up nicely pray for me On 1st and 15th Ten Din, it's no time to play now, go hurry Ten Din, hurry up Hurry... Get him... Red turtle, over here, hurry Red turtle, over here Little girl, why are you crying? My mom... she is ill Take her to doctor then No money OK, Japanesse is gone Come out now He is died when working for Japanese Now is waiting for welfare to bury him This is for him to use on the other side Greedy ghost, this is for you After Japanese came lt's getting harder for Taiwanese Red turtle l think we should do something for Taiwanese Get away... don't stand there... Me... Sir, the figure is right Thanks, can go home today Rest earlier, hard work Yes Who? What for? l am good at it, let me do it Hurry Over here, hurry... What a bad luck My waist almost broken, come and help me, hurry... Forget it... Really broken Hurry... it's too late Mom, we have money now, we can bury Yen Don't you worry Peace at last Yes Mom, we have money to see the doctor now Thank God... Ten Din, worship by human is really good Can't image that l, red turtle, have today Be careful... Ten Din, look they got money and they keep on worship us lt's really feeling good l think we should leave a name for them to know Or else, they though these money is from heaven OK, stop that, come Alright... come... One, two, three Heaven watch over what people do We just want to do something for our fellow Taiwanese What the name for? No wonder you are the big brother You are smart, think deeper than all of us Will you take even a bigger case? Don't look, eat that sweet potatoes You are not deserve her, Liu is so misery She wear silky cloth, eat rare food Someone to hold to at the night, misery l ass We are really misery, water and sweet potatoes only Who is this guy? How elegance Sir, Japanese said that he had credit open Taiwan as territories Now is hot in governor house He married a Japanese girl as his second wife recently Might be not matching, so he is here lf you want to play with lion, play the head What are you trying to do? lf you want to die, go ahead TenDin... Darling, when is governor ask us for dinner? This Saturday l don't know what should l wear You wait a moment Darling... Who are you? l didn't get mad, why should you? Take it easy, killing dog is not my profession l just want some money l didn't owe you... Speak in our language, l just want interest lf l want all, you can't afford it with your three generations When did l owe you money? lt's too much You have credit betraying Taiwan Brought Japanese to Taipei city My mother had been killed by Japanese Moreover, you brought Japanese to watch our play That Master Kuang killed by you, do you know who is he? He is my supervisor How much you own me? How much do you want? One thousand ONE THOUSAND How much do you have at home? Couple hundreds Only couple hundreds left, go ahead and use it Come back tomorrow for the rest of it l want to take whole figure, l don't want changes l come back tomorrow, over here or outside? l have wife and kids at home, not convenience Tomorrow morning at ten, come and get it in Da Lon Do Market Dare you come? No, l will try Kao sir There will be a lot ask for interest later l think you better have your window done with iron Moreover, remember my name, l am Liao Ten Din Kao sir, here you come l bring the money Dare you call the police Listen to me, l swear with my personality Liao, l didn't call the police You have no personality Kao Sir, you dare to call the police You will regret it Liao Ten Din, no way you can run, knelt down... Bastard Mr Kao, why didn't you call the police? Will it help? l will get killed by your guys Follow me to the station, Sir wants to ask you personally Yes Madam, Yu is bandage for uncle Cause uncle was hit by car, hurt and bleeding That's bad Great Thanks Please, old mister Please... You are coming back, how come you look so bad? You get ready, we will move at once Today governor send many people to field But Liao Ten Din was run away Why did governor know? l don't know, l didn't call the police By the way, your uncle came from south to see you Uncle, my uncle was dead long time ago Ron, your uncle didn't die, just got hurt Where is money? Mr Liao, here are all your money l didn't call the police, l swear l didn't call the police OK, l believe you, l believe you didn't You don't have that guts, good thing you will afraid l give you one word, remember it Yes... lf you can't use it, leave it for your children lf you want to play lion, play its head Be a man, be an important man, book will write about you Actor plays about you That is something lt's Mr Liao, how come long time no see? Liu is thinking of you everyday, who are you like today? l don't like nobody today Then... How much will you ask if l want to buy Liu? Mr Liao, you are joking You want to buy Liu now You have to ask governor Why are you asking me? You tell Liu, l come here to buy her l can tell nonsense to others l know you are Mr Liao, how could l? Liu was bought by governor five days ago You know we are the same We don't want it, but we can't say no People like you in all Taiwan Don't want it, but dare to say no How many can you find? Madam, Governor will be back late because of Taiwan thief Liao Ten Din Take all these back, warm it when governor back Yes Ten Din All the cops in Taipei city want you bad Didn't you know that you are dangerous here? Don't get so nervous You didn't hear people said, the most dangerous place is the most safe place Liu, l really miss you a lot l know, or you won't dare to come here Ten Din, l am nothing, it is not worthy for you to do that Governor will be back any time, do you know? Governor need to be reasonable too l think a long time So l come to you l bring the money, all leave it to Japanese We go together lt's too late ls it too late? lf l go with you, they won't let you go Ten Din, you take good care, don't let me be your entangle My life is nothing, don't you worry about me Moreover, for our love's sake l... l would rather to die Ten Din l would like to be your slave in next life This life, we just don't belong to each other We don't belong to each other, you mean l... l endanger my life to take you with me You said that we don't belong to each other, you don't want to come with me You would rather stay and serve that Japanese l don't know what to say, you love me Governor good to me... Speak no more, l don't have this luck to match you You are here live in rich and famous How can you come with me and live in misery? l don't have good life l have been trade like dog, sleep on the roadside Now governor gave me a bed and a house l won't like l used to be, despise by others Up till now l realize, we are not the same For good life sake you would like to serve our enemy l am not... Madam, governor is back l got it l am home You are back, working hard What's matter? Are you crying? Nothing, l go warm your meal No, l am tire, l would like to take a bath Liu, can you rub my back? lt doesn't matter, Liu Good, go Sir, l got Liao Ten Din Really? lt's true Where is Liao TenDin? l have told my men l got him surrounded, he can't get away Where is Liao Ten Din now? ln the opium shop Which one? lt's that SiKou Shop Go Yes, go This guy is not Liao Ten Din He is not here now Even if he chopped into pieces, l still can know him You are not Liao Ten Din l am not his associate Why are you do this? Every Taiwan youth should like him Sir... Sir, l know where is Liao Ten Din Sir, let me tell you l know where is Liao Ten Din Where is Liao Ten Din? Tell me the truth if you know How dare can l speak nonsense to you? l was just like you sir, l want Liao for so long Where is that guy? OK, let me tell you He is now in high place Can't speak clearly here, you follow me Bastard Don't be so mean to me Come over here, pretty girl What is your name? Miao Ten Gin You are Liao Ten Din Not Liao Ten Din, is Miao Ten Gin Bastard, l will kill you for that, do you know? Don't get mad sir, let me write it Miao Ten Gin There is a room inside, write over there Liao Ten Din, where... Liao Ten Din, no joke, bastard How can you beat me? Where is that guy? Over there How is it? How should l know, let me touch What for? Didn't you touch before? Here comes Japanese, run Can you treat my people as you treat me? Don't treat them as garbage lf they were all like you, l will like them You really are a lovely and misery woman Although you were a Taiwanese ln Taiwanese heart, Liao Ten Din is like a God These criminal records more than 40% were fake But it is dangerous He was like Mr Lin before Tie together with people's anti-Japanese syndrome For us, this crisis compare to thief Will be our society problem huge than ever We have direct order from in-land, got to kill Liao Ten Din And he had to be killed by Japanese like Mr Lin We have controlled Liao's whereabout A man name Chang Fu hit him in Da Chu Li Liao will be sleep till noon We can get him before noon We will get him Get up Ten Din... lt's me, it's me Liu, Ten Din This crazy woman Ten Din Sun rises from the west side This noble Japanese lady, wife of governor You are will to come over here Sorry, first time we meet, you don't know me l told you, l am red turtle You Japanese call me AKAlMElSAN Before you became a whore l gave you my name card, do you forget it? No wonder, you are so foxy That's why TenDin suffer for you Red Turtle Ten Din ls it Japanese police know where we are? Ten Din, there are hundred of police want to get you You go hurry Thank you for your kindness, wife of governor You can give me this kind of information Will it shame on Japanese face? No matter how you scold me, l don't care Ten Din, you know how much effort to inform you? Please go hurry, police is coming Where can l go? Japanese is all over Taiwan lt makes no different where l run Ten Din, you are Taiwanese spirits You can't let Japanese cops get you No bad, you still remember you are Taiwanese Madam My life is like a kite on the sky l don't know when will the string broken, nothing to be fear l think you better take good care of yourself You may go Ten Din, l know you hate that l married a Japanese But could you think for me? l can't decide my own destiny No matter what, you are in my heart were always my first love What, how can this happen? Sir, someone inform Liao to get away Really, who was it? lt's madam governor Nonsense, she is always at home waiting for me Sorry Post it out, so the people will know Liao need to show up before midnight tomorrow or else Taipei police department will search all of street and lane of De Huai and Chun Shan But governor That is before, now... l will pay any price To catch him myself This is an order, did you hear me well? Criminal Liao is a killer and robber, stealing public property Challenge to Japan law Liao need to come before midnight today to turn himself into the police department Post to the good civilian of Japan, not to hide Liao lf his whereabouts known, report immediately lf Liao didn't show Police department will to those area Kill all the civilians Master, please protect these people Tonight l will fight first l think l should be go to your side quickly to serve you What are you murmuring about? Red turtle l entangle all these brothers and sisters l don't know whether if this is right? Right, how will it wrong? Everyone was talking For your sake, we can fight Japanese All those women and children were evacuated What more should we worried about? ln case we died, it's for all Taiwanese Drink up, come, drink up Ten Din, l have a wish lf we can be brother in after life, l would rather die Come, bottom up Gather Liao was run away because of me l don't kill them, they die for me What did you say? All those civilians was killed because of me They hid the criminal, blame on them not us Don't kill my people l as a governor of Japan, can't destroy rascals How can we keep this area in order? Don't go, you don't have a gun What are you doing? Give the gun back Don't kill my innocent people Give my gun back You... You... Why? l love you too, deeply love you But l am a Taiwanese Japanese dare not to come, we won
