 

                        See you again! You vomitted last week in my car, and it spend me 3-4 hours to wash it. Your $15 deal was not worth of that. Help! It's not my business... Let me alone. Shut up! Help... Do not come over! Or I will kill her! Shut up!Do not come over! Mr. Huang, calm down please! I want to see your boss Eric Chow If he does not come, I will kill this person! Tell us how did you cheat my money! I have not cheated you, big brother, sorry for that. Have not? Just now aren't you very imposing? Cut, Dun... Now Pretend to be a dead dog? Do not come over! Mr. Huang! Mr. Huang, Calm down! Don't give a shit, Let all reporter come out! When I came to here, I get ready to die Good, I promise you Why have reporters not arrive yet? There are bombs, so I can't pass over Help me Mr. Huang, calm down, reporters come over. You can say everything to them, but never become excited. Excuse me. Here, aim the camera at me. Eric Chow, come out! You are a vampire, you forced me into stockjobbing Promised me that it was profitable, and there would be no accident. Instigate me to peculate the money of companey. Want me to compensate my life to you... Now I compensate my life to you! Eric Chow, you son of a gun, come out! How long still will you hide? Do not come over, calm down, put down your hand! Stay back everyone and don't move forward! Don't mishandle! Chan Sir! Save the hostage! Open the sewer's cover! There! Quick! Chen Sir, It doesn't matter? No matter, disperse the crowd first Go! Remember to repay my debt! Caption Chen, thanks... That man is crazy If no one loses in stocks, who would win? What's more, indict him for 2-3 more sins. Put him into jail, Let him reflect on his sins. if everyone is like him, I would have nothing to do. Isn't it right? Who are you? Just now you were looking for me everywhere. My name is Eric Chow If you want to do stockjobbing, come to me. Why do you still stand byy? Take all the proof back. Yes!I will help you. Brother-in-law, fortunately you wore two pieces of bullet-proof. Look at you. Because you have winned several prizes Everyone become proudhearted. Do you guys really think we are no 1 of the police? Chao, you two were taking charge for controlling the atmosphere, How could you let a group of person surround? Original only one hostage, But then the reporters all became the hostages. If gangster shot, many would fall down. Where the atmosphere controlling you? Or you controlling the atmosphere? The Akang, come here. How could you let the gangster pull out the gun more quickly than you? Haven't I taught you to how to pull out the gun? Now show that for me. Your clothes blocked the gun. Each time when you change the clothes, your pocket is always filled with small changes or keys. Put a lucky stone in the pocket. Remember what your future brother-in-law's words, become more bright. I know, sister. Go out for a meal? Good...Have a meal... Chen, you seem to still have not talked to me today. What? What? Which birthday you have talked to them. No need to talk about it. Happy birthday, take it youself. Open the safe-deposit box. Open the safe-deposit box! My job for them. Feel very great this time. Have the telephone? I have Call the police Call the police! I just work for them, it's not my business... I just work of... Police!Put down the gun! Headquarter, here firepower is very fierce... Three... Four... Three... Four... Five, OK Five...Six... What are you doing? Calm down! Don't move! Put down the gun! Put down the gun! Take a look at your the back. Safe. A Jian, A Jian Tonight the asia bank is under robbing, Five bandits use... Everyone listen, A Zu 100 decis, Fire and A Tian 80 decis, me 60 decis The result announced. Beat police, 20 decis If officer or super, 30 decis Beat the police wagon, 10 decis But Sue, if you drop the cabbage, you will be decreased 200 decis How could be that!You all didn' help me How could you be bashful to say that. Do not quarrel for so little cabbage, the cabbage is important. Sue, if you lose again the next time, you will get nothing. After the fact, the police convenes the press conference Senior Inspector Chen Guo Rong take over this affair formally Here is his express: Three hours! The police has the enough reliance to catch these bandits in three hours. Through the abearance that they challenge the police I believe that they are babyish sheep without a shepherd. I promise to everyone... The police will certainly catch those bandits. Is that OK? Brother Sen. Almost payed. I really want to get out of the hospital quickly, to catch those bantits myself. Don't worry, tonight we will catch all of them. Do you have any clues? My informant have found the place where they hide. They are forethought very obviously, They take the police to be their target intentionally. A Rong, call Special Duty Unit Do you know me just now today? I am from Special Duty Unit. Don't worry, Brother Sen. Our buddies are much stronger than Special Duty Unit Yes... A Sen, Finance company Appoint a few hoods to your office today Don't worry, I will take the debt back, take it easy. That will be OK, If you have any trouble, tell me. I will do anything I can do to help you. I know. A Rong... Never be mercy when confronting those gangsters. They are crazy. Can escape out to have a drink with metonight? Tomorrow if have nothing to do, I will return to police station to recognize the suspect. A Rong, Your reliance is what I am in most admiration of. You'd better abstain gambling after you leave hospital. Chen Sir, you are relax in the car, Let me take it. You guy, want to be upgraded? Why not? Hurry up, there's a dinner party tonight. Me too. I'll go traveling tomorrow, and I haven't do the packing. Sir, let me do it. Hey, guy, save some of your strength. When's your turn? Don't kid and don't be cute. Let the same things talked at the dinner party. Divide into 2 teams, Team A go ahead first. Yes, sir! Follow me! Be careful. Somebody's there. Watch out! Don't move, if not, I'll shoot! Don't move! Divide into Team A & B, Let two people left here. I see. Come on, game starts. What's the matter? Don't be nervous. Chen Sir... Have you receieved yet, Tian Ming? I can't hear Chen Sir... Tian Ming! Rick! A Hai, stay and guard here, don't leave! Yes, Sir! Follow, AKang Where are those shits? Retreat! Stop! Tian Ming, Fire! Be quick! There are some gun shots sound. Where are those shits? Don't quarrell with each other! Hold out! Brother Guang... Chen Sir... Be calm. There's someone... Akang, don't pursue him! Akang Don't pursue him. Akang! Help me, Chen Sir! Brother-in-law... Akang...Akang! Brother-in-law... Akang! Don't die! How things could be like this? Help me... How the hell are you? Come out! Why? It's not because you are strong that you still alive. It's because we haven't tortured you enough that we leave alive. Who the hell are you? I'm the one hates you such police very much. Release him! You put down the gun first! Release him! No! Well done! Tian Zhao! Tian Zhao! I won't say the same words to you twice. What on earth you want to do? Just play with you! It seems that you're the shooting champion in your police station, right? You're good at guns best. So I'd like to compete you with putting the pistol parts together. OK How to play? These two are your mates' pistols. Let's seem who finishes putting the pistol parts together first. I'll bet with you! OK Ready! One... Two... Three! Help me... Brother-in-law You lose! Please don't What else you want to play with? It's my turn. Yor're the free-style fighting coach in the police station, right? I want to fight with you. And let's see who falls on to the round first! I'll bet with you! OK Ready... Start! Byebye! Please Don't! You lose again! Kill me, please! You always think you're so great, right? And You've said that you would catch me within three hours. You don't behave the same compared to the TV. Please release him! Kneel! Kowtow! I beg you, please release them! OK, I'll give you another chance. The same rules as before. Come on! OK! I'll bet with you for four. All right! OK Ready... Start! Well done! What a pity. Three seconds overtime. With one second, one man to be killed. OK! No! Please don't Why! Brother-in-law... go away from here. Akang, hold out! Don't kill him now, he's still some kind of usage. Akang! Akang... Wake up Akang... Nothing serious! Hold out! Save the people... there's a bomb Akang, hold out! I'll lead you out! I'll lead you out! Somebody's snatching me! Thief! Get away, don't stand here. Get out! Get out! Get out! Get out! Drunkard! Wallet! He's a policeman. Policeman? Give you a kick! Go! Hey, borther, there are still many things waiting for you to fulfill. Forget the past, and turn your sorrow into strength. Who are you? Police code 1667, report to you, Chen Sir! I'm your new partener, Zheng Xiaofeng. I don't need a partener. I have applied for a one-year-vacation. Officer Dai told me that your vacation has been cancelled from now on. Don't touch my things. To tell you the truth, your home can't be further untider. Today's service attitude can be like this. To change you should change you life style first. In other words, throw these unuseful things. Only from this, can help you find what you want. You're so irritated, give me a cup of water first. No water, but your girlfriend has just come here. Leave me an important thing to give you. A ring. Get out here! I won't leave here unless I've told you everything, sir. Can you wait till I'm finished? OK The guys that robbed The Bank of Asia three months ago have made their move again I've lost many men Tai Sir says that you are gonna take charge of this case on your own There are tens of thousands of cops in Hong Kong Why me? How should I know...It's hard to say Those guys are insane They are not doing it for money and, lately... There's a new game on the internet in the name of your case I doubt that they are using PC games... Don't talk about this case with me again, Go! Get Out! Go! Listen to me, Sir Get Out! Chen Sir, it's me You again? Leave me alone I'm at your girlfriend's home Her home?Anything wrong? Yeah, of course What's wrong with her? Why would I be calling you if there's nothing wrong? How is she? You'd better hurry Don't leave I'll be right there Smells good! Even better if you add some olive oil Try it Be careful OK Sure I gave the ring to him He was shocked at the sight of it Actually, he cares about you a lot But when it comes to that case, he just can't get over himself Hi...who's this? Hello... Why don't you come in? Come and sit What are you doing here? I've done what you told me Now you wanna dump me? You made me buy it that's two hundred And for poking my eyes, five hundred I thought you forgot Chen Sir picked up the cake and I'm in charge of express Happy Birthday... Happy Birthday... Happy Birthday It's a good day, Smile You are supposed to make a wish and blow the candles I...forgot to close the door Come and sit Things will get cold if you don't eat them What are you writing? Nothing I know what you are writing "sorry"? Why didn't you throw it away? Why? Even though the things are gone but the memory will remain. I know you won't forgive me That's what you think I'm a nurse I've been thinking all day that... Is there a cure for missing someone? What do you think? Yes To see the one that you miss What if I can't? If you can't, then as time goes by... it'll become memory I see I can't forgive myself What's the use of drinking? You are destroying yourself and retaliating your dissatisfaction with the society At the end, the only one that'll be destroyed is yourself In other words you should catch them as early as you can Otherwise what are you gonna say to your men? I've helped you to do a lot of work I think these guys are not robbing for money they... Can you hear me out? I've found out their exact details I'm very sure that... they must revel in PC games and their weapons, guns, bombs are all from Europe which is to say... those aren't cheap they must be rich You can go home Robbery!Over there! Robbery! Police! Freeze! Robbery! Poke and pry? Hit him! To hell with him! No... Get away! Wake up! Get them! Inspector Wing, you are a cop! You again, get away! You wanna get hit? Get away! You are a cop It hurts... Leave me alone, you basterd! It hurts! I'm sorry Because of some impulsive lust... I robbed someone's bag...Sorry I feel so reg... How to spell regretful? Sounds familiar... But I forgot Regretful? It's just regretful! Look it up in the dictionary while you are in jail you'll have a lot of time It'll be more profound, if you found it on your own Use "regreet" instead that's not very different Sister Madam, do you have a scroll? I'll get it Actually, I was going to ask you how to take these two prisoners to the custody house Just like that No, I mean...how? I'm new here, so i'm not so familiars Go Go Remember to plead for me! Thank you, brother! Stop crying Remember to check the spelling of "regret"! What did they do? Nothing big Let me introduce myself I'm supreme supervisor...Zheng Xiaofeng I'm not finished... I'm...the partner of the supreme supervisor Zheng Xiaofeng Serial Number 1667 I... I'm Sa Sa I'm in the department of computer surporting Everybody! Our big hero is back! So...what award would you like this time? How dare you come back here? You are not welcomed, got it? Who's talking? Chief of the police department? Who are you? Serial Number 1667, Sir! Who are you fooling? I'm assigned here to investigate the robbery of The Bank of Asia, Sir How come I've never heard that there'll be someone assigned to me? I'm not talking about you I meant with Chen Sir In this case, I'm the top commander here It has nothing to do with him Yes, you can go with him I applied to come here to solve this case with you and you tell me to work with this idiot? Can he crack the case? Kid, it seems I have to tell you something about Chen Sir Last time, he took nine of our men to solve a case and they all got killed! Do you know that?! People standing here have either lost classmates or comrades! If not their souls, at least their bows It was all because of his arrogance! You tell me, who's to take the blame? Yes, Sir But I also know that before the robbery of The Bank of Asia there's no case that Chen Sir can't solve So he came back today to solve this case If you're afraid that Chen Sir can solve this case sooner than you and that you'll be embarrassed in front of everybody... I can totally understand that, Sir! OK, I'll give both of you the permission to work this case We'll see who will solve it first! What's the bet? The loser has to knock head and apologize to the winer Count me in Are you qualified? Chen Sir... I'm out! Chen Sir, he has already said it out Whoever loses, he must never be a cop again Hold it! Deal! Deal! Where are we going? Go home and sleep What?We just took a bet We are sure to lose Then why did you take it? I wasn't planning on being a cop again anyway Please, I am with you now Why do you want to work this case? Who are you? Serial Number 1667 And? Serial Number 1667 I'm Kwan's younger brother Do you still remember your former following? I'm his brother I wanna catch these robbers Hoho, still remember your home? Where have you been last night? I've been looking for you everywhere I had some business to discuss Why does it have anything to do with you? You are my wife If I can't even take care of you how am I supposed to take care of Hong Kong police? Who do you think you are? A pile of shit! You are just a uniform You think you have a reputation? It's my father's! It's good that our son is not like you! How big a head master can be? What are you talking about? It's all by myself that I have become who I am today You are actually the pile of shit! Our son is just like you What are you saying? He is spoiled! Have you tought him anything? You are worse. All you know is fight! Get up! You pile of shit! Get up! Do you know what time it is? See for yourself! All you think about is internetspending money... I'm the head master here! How you disgraced me! Look at you! You are nothing like me, bastard! Piece of shit! Joe, just don't give a shit about your dad If you don't want to, just don't go to work today Mum will give you the money You can do whatever you like, OK? There have been complaints from the citizens about the attitude of some of our policemen Let me announce this once again While on duty the most important thing is: Fair, reasonable, and legal So, I guarantee to each citizen: As soon as there are problems, the police will handle it fairly, openly, and equally. Thanks, everybody Do you know that when you find something extraordinarily exciting... that'll be much fun than any other game in the world I already told you, those robbers are game fans They made a net game according to your case Did you find who they are? Very hard, they are from all around the world Sa Sa... This is taken from the wired television of The Bank of Asia Watch this robber what's the difference between he entered the alley and hasn't? That bag Sam met these robbers that day in that alley which makes him a suspect too Sam? Why do you always wear this clothes? It's very important to me Who are you looking for? Sam Sam?Who's Sam? One of your bosses He was a cop You know him? It's him No! Get away! You...push me? Be careful Get out! Push me, huh? What are you doing? Police! Get out! You are here to make trouble? You hit the police? Don't come out if you dare! That was awesome! Sam, what happened? Why are you hiding here? This is also legitimate Nothing to hide, right? Sam What! The boss is on the phone Boss, what is it? What are the cops doing here? Listen to me... Don't think being a partner is such a big deal OK, there won't be a next time I can't assure you next time! I got it Get out! Sam, I'm here for that robbery case You are the only one in that alley Wing, I really don't remember... I really don't... You were a cop You couldn't have missed this Do you still remember... Do you still remember there was a woman, with a bag? Don't you guff! Wing, I really don't remember what happened that night Don't ask me again, OK? I quit because of this case If you came here as a friend, then I welcome you If you are here for the case, then I'm sorry Sam, I owe our brothers Help me please All I know is that one of them is a woman The games they play are all very extreme This watch is pulled from the woman's hand That's all I can help Why didn't you say this before? Take care of yourself This symbol belongs to... a group of extreme sport fans who called themselves "The Ultimate Soldiers" They are going to hold a party at the top of Sheng Mao Center I see, thanks, goodbye Extreme sport Group B, follow them That sucks! The one with the red hair! Stand still! Stop, get down, get down! The police are here Try to leave I'll meet you downstairs Now you point them out for me you know the result Watch yourself Shut up! Your friend Get down!Everybody get down!Be careful! I'm on your side! 1667! Call an ambulance! Sam... I stole a bag of money and put it in a water tank to return feneration... But out my awareness, they found me... It was me who told them about your action... It was me who murdered all of our brothers Wing...I'm sorry... Go to hell! Calm down! Get down! Get down! Don't move everybody! Stay where you are... Don't move! Zheng Xiaofeng! Zheng Xiaofeng!Zheng Xiaofeng You are awesome! It's true, Sir Say it again Be good...Mum is here Tai Sir! Big brother, I really should call you that You have been disappeared for a year And have made a huge trouble as soon as you get back Now the Education and Stat.Office, Road Policy OfficeTransforming Office, Bus Company, Traffic Department... parents and citizens... The headquarter asks me to explain, OK... How would you like me to explain? How? I'm sorry, Sir When we found the robbers of The Bank of Asia Wait, when did you come back? You sent someone to bring me back I sent someone? You can ask 1667... Do you often cook noodles for others? No I suddenly feel...so warm to have noodles When I think of warmth, then I'll think of you Is it that simple? What else do you want? Chen Sir? We were just talking about how awesome you are today I'm busy Why would you pretend to be a cop? Over ten years ago there was a man who robbed some food for his son When he came out of the store he got hit by a truck There was a warm-hearted cop... I've already given you a chance And you are still lying? All that I've said is true I've checked You are not the brother of Kwan Who are you? I've been eager to be a policeman since I was a kid But I couldn't make it In my mind, to be a good cop... Being with me for so long Making so much trouble what are you trying to do? Yes, I'm not a cop But have I ever hurt you? No, No, neither have I And I know that he wouldn't I've already told Sa Sa's friend to pass through that game and find out the result no matter how As long as we pass the game we'll know what their next move is Believe it or not Have you ever regretted to be with me? I've made pictures of the suspects at the scene Sa Sa This is Sue Chow the girl of Asian Shipping's Zhou Jianyun Now disappeared This is the son of Yong Cheng Jewellery's boss His name is Fire Joined American Navy Land-battle Team before The owner of this Faraly is called TinTinLaw His father is the president of Jin Fu Stock MaxLeung, half-Chinese, half-Japanese A master of game programming The son of Yong Yi International Liang Jinkang is called JoeKwan He's just finished school in America He is now working in his mother's land firm Dawdle all day long But the most important thing is that... His father is a cop too and he is the head master of North section They are all well grounded actually leading a meaningless life Follow him Chen Guo Wing, Superior Supervisor After that event of ours he's been in bandh for a year He has a girlfriend but they can't get married If you want to be a cop so much why don't you go for it? My father was a thief so I couldn't make it Kid, watch your mouth if you lie again He seems to be playing with you It's my brother's wife's home I'm the top of the tops of games You are sure to lose This has nothing to do with Ho Yee Sorry, I'm the master of this game The game begins It's set in the headquarter of the police station Byebye! David! Sister kesaw, why you come here? Yes, I've receieved the same call which told me that Chen sir had had an accident. He wanted me to come here as soon as possible. But there's nothing happened. If so, I'll go to the meeting room waiting for him. I'll go to find him. Thanks. So, byebye! Kesaw? Yes It's me who called you. What's the matter with A Rong? He's on the way here. And I'm one of his friends. Please give this to him. This bomb has a kind of sea-level device. Don't touch it. It will explode if it suffers some shocks. You have ten minutes left. I supposed to give it to your boyfriend. I think you can help me to give it to him, right? Thanks so much. Chen sir, Sister Kesaw is waiting for you at the meeting room. I see. Evacuate the people here. Be quick! Bomb! Be quick! Call the bomb-dismantling specialist. Be quick. Be quick quick! Kesaw, don't be nervous. Chen sir, what do you want to do? Come here and help me to move it to the strong room. Remember, never touch each of the two sides. OK You go first. One... Two... Three My feet anaesthetized. Don't worry. Drag the box here. Wait! Generally speaking, the red or blue string is the detonating line. If not blue, then maybe the yellow one. Maybe not blue... Move out here! Go! Chen sir! Chen sir! Kesaw Don't be afraid. I'm not afraid. I won'f fear anything within your accompany. I'm sorry... My younger brother is also a policeman like you. I've get ready. If you want to blame for his death, just blame those whose kill him. I never blame you. For one year seeing your depression, how heartbreaked I am, do you know? Turn all the picture to the strong room, quick! Chen sir, I'm the supervisor of the bomb-dismantling unit. What's the matter? I don't know, I think I have solve the sea-level device. But there are still many circuits in the second and third board. Each string maybe the... It can't be dismantled, coz each string has it circuit. Each string maybe I can't save your younger brother... But I must save you! Maybe you feel that I'm so stupid. But I still want to ask you. Do you love me? I love you forever. Chen sir, the last method to solve this problem is to use carbon dioxide to cool the bomb. I'll come back soon. Chen sir... cut it by your own decision, kesaw. Kesaw! Chen sir, that bomb maybe a fake. You try to leave the scene as soon as possible. Wait! kesaw, don't move, what's the matter? Go! Kesaw! Kesaw... Kesaw... Kesaw, you're strong... Kesaw... Wake up... Kesaw... I beg you... The headquarters has receieved complaints that someone complaints you help other imitate policeman. And the case that bombing the police station is your personal kind and enmity I'll have to arrest you now. Sir, give me a cigarette. Get rid of smoking. Smoking do harm to your health. Don't worry. Go in the jail for several years at most. You deserve it! What the hell are you doing? Lawyer Lau comes. Why there are so many people? I am a good citizen and I'm afraid to be harassed by the police. Now, it's time to recognize the person. It's approved by the police office. Chen sir. I've forgot to ask whether your girlfriend is well or not. If she's OK, I'd like to visit her and give her some other gifts. If you dare to approach the hospital, I will not forgive you! Your what do you want? Solicitor Liu, whether should we indict him one more sin? The sin for threaten? All right To tell the truth, I hate deeply you these policemen. I will rob it tonight later. The game go on Joe Kwan, I will certainly catch you myself. You are welcome at any time. But...can you come out to say? The bank is in the maximum floor There will be 100,000,000 lumps today. The show time. My brother, let me come out to make a telephone call Beg you, I want to bail out Superior Chen, I'm sorry that I can't help you. Though I also want to catch those bandits very much Sha Sha What? How? Do you agree? No way! They have no human nature! ShaSha, you must do something to help me out from here. Otherwise many would die tonight. What can I do? Whether do jail delivery, or kill him. Do you say how to do? Think it youself. There's no no justice, no human nature  My father wants me to be a policeman, because that the police has justice. I will give it up tomorrow. I want to run away from home  I never want to see him in the future I go to W.C. Father, why do you always go to W.C.? Are you sick? Come here with me. They can not see us. Remember to repay the gun to me Thank you It is greater this time! In the game world, each time when pass a barrier, there will be new indications usually. Those bandits are so hubris. I believe that if I pass that game I will certainly find out the next object. Good!Beat it! HongKong Capital Bank? This bank is in the exhibition center. Sha Sha, no matter what you do, Prevent my brothers from approaching the exhibition center. Call the police Don't worry, call the police Fatty What's matter? I am the H.K. Policeman, coming here  I want to check your things Really here! Similarly, there it is? Lend it to me, thanks. ShaSha, help me make some similar call. Can't be long, your'd better hurry. The police got me very quickly. Don't take care of that, make some similar call first. Superior Chen! head off him! Listen to me, we will play a bigger game this time There will be double decis if beat the policeman. Ah Zu, there are many so people underside. Then...contune? Do not disturb the crowd, call them individually. Young lady, come here Young lady.. Come please Ah Zu, Something is wrong We'd better leave here. Shut up! Fire, go there to see. Where 's the father & mother? Why they come here? How do the father & mother come here? So many policemen? What's the matter? Where is my son? Where is my son? Your son is hijacking above. Hijack? Really? It's very imporsible Really?Hijack? I will give you 1,000,000, for killing my father! I will give you more 2,000,000 if you killed help to kill my father for me. Here is the exhibition center. Please follow me to enter one by one. There he is! Maith, come back. Maith! Maith, come back. Maith, where do you want to go? Don't fluster! Don't run My son! Maith.. My son, how are you? Wake up please  Call the ambulance!Call the ambulance.. Go! Go! Chen Guo Rong! You'd better not go out!Call the Special Duty Unit! Superior Chen? Ah Zu! I am hitted! Save me! I do not want to see my mother & father ever.. Go! Go! Don't fear, don't fear There's no winner last time, now have a match again! OK Go quickly! go quickly! Come! Come here! You lost Policeman! Every inside put down your arms and surrender! Put yours hands above the head! Forbid to do anything! Crouch down! People on your side! Crouch down! Who are you? I am Senior Inspector Chen Guo Rong. Someone suffers from the bullet wound, call the ambulance quickly! Who is injured? His is bulk bleeding now, save him first! If not save him, he would die. Hurry! It's really Superior Chen. Call the ambulance quickly! Don't move! Stop! OK  Put down the gun Ah Zu, Surrender, all of the outside are policemen. Really? I am not afraid. If die, there are at least two policemen to die together with me. I am a counterfeit policeman! If you kill me, you also lose. Ah Zu, What do you hate is not policeman. You hate your father, and yourself. Shut up! Your friend has already lost the life. No more should die, include yourself. The game endes, all is over. I will not lose! I will never lose! I play with you for the last one game! Ah Zu, I play with you! How do you want to play? Like the last time, I play with you for the gun set, the bet is his life! OK, I play with you Chen Guo Rong! Forget the past, you can do it well! OK Begin Ah Zu! Ah Zu What do you want to do? Ah Zu, don't mishandle! You bastard, you have lost all my face! Ah Zu Your father is a policeman, and you become a gangster? Surrender How can I step down now? Put down the gun! Bastard! Put down the gun! Truck! Wastage! You want to exasperate me? I am angry, you caused me into trouble. Bastard! Surrender! Put down the gun! No! He has no bullet! My son! My son.. Stand on! Boy! Superior Chen, your leg loosenned! I know Then why do you not clip tighter? I won't...release.. v Chen, do you say that you would clip tighter, won't release it? You try to see how can you clip me. Now I am harmed more heavyly than you ah, my brother! Thanks, thank you everyone. Superior Chen  You do not clip me nor release me? Hello  Keyi, you have recoverd from illness Get out of the hospital, become happier. Good bye. Keyi, become happier. Go home and have more rest. Keyi, bye Bye Salute! no need to hide Whatever happens, I will marry you Marry Superior Chen, become our brother's wife! Marry him! So excite. Let's go. Where to go? Return back to record affidavit for me If someone proposes toward me in future, My policemen must be more than his How about counterfeit policeman? Also OK. Brother Quan, how are you now? I have come to H.K. for more than a month My wife is still waiting for my news I have no money now, Can you lend some money? You promised me... Father, I am hungry Little Feng, wait here for a while Stop! Run! Quickly run! Call police! Hurry up! Don't run! Stop! Quickly run! Father...Run? Stole something? Superior Chen The thief also has dignity, call the ambulance Yes, Superior. Child, this world is thus, There is a lot of unfairness. There is a lot of happiness. You should forget the past, grew up to become a kind man. Ok or not? Child, what's your name? My name is Zheng Xiao Feng,
