 

                        Back in India, after 25 years in London, yet pure Hindustani London... A home there... a home here Shalini Happy birthday, my love The priest gave me a garland of flowers... for your portrait But garlands are for those who have departed But you haven't departed, you're with me... with me, every moment No, no news of Sanya It's past three am Let me check out the house once again Where have you been? - Friend's birthday I went out for a party. - You know what time it is? Aren't you ashamed? For four hours, I've been looking for you Why? I'm not a kid! Go to bed, Papa. We'll talk in the morning Why not now? You've been drinking alcohol? - Not alcohol. Just wine I told you! Let's talk in the morning Else I'll complain to the police, I'll report you Are you out of your mind? For the children, I'm no friend... unless I have answers for their questions Drinking coke, in the store? - Why not? I know it's your weakness, I've stocked up on Coke Not one, I have two weaknesses. One's this, the other is... your soft, lovely tresses Besides, this is the best coolant for my hot head Coolant for your hot head is also this. Look at this greeting card Sanskrit shloke The only time I heard Sanskrit, was the only time I spoke Sanskrit And that was during my wedding, and then the priest... recited the mumbo-jumbo and thence on... to Buckingham, Birmingham, and all over You are the scholar, you are the Oxford professor Better you translate that for me Meaning...? Till the age of five, children are to be loved After they turn ten, you ought to keep an eye on them Once that have reached sixteen, you ought to make friends with them Get that, love? At sixteen, make friends. That's if you want... a happy home, forever Old hat. - Also today's new message Striking a friendship with my daughters! For a father like me! In an alien land... Return the trolley. I'll be in the car Sorry, we're switching off life support How can this be? The doctor gives me only 2 or 3 minutes to talk to you No love, I'm with you In 25 years, I haven't even taken a breath without depending on you You've taken care of everything... what am I to do? The homes, the daughters... how am I to take care of them? What will I talk to them about? You will... you are their mother, Papa too Just promise me one thing. - Tell me, love Till they are married, don't stay away from them... be friends with them How will I do it, love? Ever since they have grew up... I haven't even had a simple conversation with them Remember that Sanskrit shloke? Yes Give happy farewells to our three daughters Understand them... give them understanding There! I've slapped you. Come to the police Report me If not with me, your friend of 25 years... with whom will you open up? You're my kin. Before who else, can I bare my heart? Stop bickering over every small thing So what if they're daughters? The world is full of daughters If he can't, well he can't If you're my son's best friend, why can't you be best friends... with your daughters? - L.K... daughters are different What will you do then? I'm thinking of returning to India, for a change of enviromnent For a father, playing mother is tough Kids these days! Ever since he was a child... I put Ronit away in a hostel That's why I left mine in Lahore. Kids, stay where you belong Beat me up. Give me a bad beating. I had gone crazy No my baby, you're my best Papa, we three have promised never to make you unhappy, never to fight It's all my fault children, it's all my fault Now I understand what a great friend your mother was to you The father is merely the provider of money, comforts But the mother... like a friend, she shares your woes, your sorrows I tried Yes, I tried, but I failed... to understand you, your feelings No Papa. Now that Ma is gone, you are our friend We'll do whatever you say For me today, the only true East where the sun rises, is my India The departure of my dear friend Raj for India, leaves London deserted My friend, he's gone. - Start worrying about your son Off he goes to India, right behind Raj? Simple sweetheart. For him, Raj is father, mother and friend Sure! You and I aren't his parents at all We are, only for namesake Ronit is the son of Raj and Shalini, in thought, in mind, in nature Which is why, he's so middle-class And he leaves this palatial house and sets up studio! Dance, music... Mohobbat.com ! - An artiste, he's an artiste Indian music ties millions of Asian Indians across the world... in a single thread The end of all quarrels over race and creed? Indian music Teaches one language to Punjabis, Marathis, Gujaratis, Bengalis...? Makes every Indian a global Indian...? For friendships, love, marriages... Iog on to our dotcom, cdguru.com Ronit, Raj uncle called for you. He has emailed too. Read it After Coke-Mohobbat.com... we aren't accepting sponsorships for anything less than 500,000 dollars If they agree, okay Sorry for coming away to India without telling. Lalit will tell you why Sorry pal, I had too. You must've understood Pointess telling you that we miss you. We keep talking about you Just today I was telling Isha and Avantika... about the incident in your college, when Shalini and I were visiting you You had just been awarded the trophy for the best student in the college You sidetracked Lalit and Nalini, and you headed straight for me You forgot your parents and you touched Shalini's feet Lalit was so jealous! I remember. And it made Shalini double-happy With memories like these we're trying to sette down to our new lives In any case, Isha is returning to London to complete her studies Take care of yourself, Ronit. Your best friend, Uncle Raj. "Loves..." "griefs..." "tales..." "words" "Words are forgotten" "Memories return" "Memories cherished, of beloved ones..." "return once they're gone" "Life, my darling..." "is like flowing water" "After the water has flown..." "what remains?" "Memories" There are loves There are griefs There are tales There are words Words are forgotten Memories return Memories of the loved ones come back once they have departed Oh these memories... alas memories... "All of us, in our worlds..." "long for our memories" "Some happinesses, bits of sorrows..." "they belong to us, we belong to them" "Memories..." "sweet memories" "bittersweet memories..." "of loves..." "of griefs..." "of tales..." "of words..." "of words forgotten..." "but memories return..." "memories cherished, of beloved ones..." "returning once they're gone" New York, Mr Black Our shares were down till yesterday, not today. Just you watch... by Monday next, they're going to peak. Yes, we're praying... to the Goddess of Fortunes. Now she will grace my home You tell that to those mutual funds Join us for the prayers Your uncle is very angry. Come, say the prayer An artiste! That's what your son is. Does he know how important it is... to propitiate the Goddess of Fortunes? - How could I? Till last year... you were trying to propitiate the Goddess of Bounty Worship didn't bear fruit. Therefore... change The pundits say that he fell foul of the Goddess of Fortunes last year Worship done, She will be placated. - The Goddess has been invoked Seek and you shall be given Really? - Seek, then see Do I speak out what I seek? As you wish O'Goddess of Fortunes... You are the Mother of all The mighty, the lowly, the rich, the poor, are all devoted to You The millions of poor in India worship You Then why do You not go there to eradicate their poverty? Over here, we are all so rich. What use Your staying here? O'Mother, desert the rich, go to the poor All of India awaits Thee Actually we're all fine here. Quite fine All we need are Your blessings Ma, I'm going to call Uncle Raj. Go on with the prayers Saw your son's insolence? That's the result of... not keeping children on a leash You should be ashamed! Such insolence? - Because I said the truth? God isn't meant to be propitiated for purposes. A prayer should be heartfelt Where to, now? - To Uncle Raj Your friend, he is. But his heart, I know Just think. After all these years abroad, what drives him homeward... is sheer agony. If we aren't the ones to share his sorrows, who else will? Nalini, who bore Ronit? You, or Shalini? Oh brother-in-law...! Your mother always said that after all of you were married off... she wanted both of us to retire, and come to live in India... here, in this farm house. And when it's about time, she leaves, saying... Not their Papa, be their friend "Papa" Ma was 500 percent right! - Papa, where did you first meet her? And who said "I love you" first? You or Mamma? Please, tell us I did Tell us, when did Mummy say "I love you" for the first time? You're going too far. On one hand, you want to be Papa-friend! On the other hand, just look at you... Can you tell me, what if someone says something romantically...? What romance? The fellow who does that gets slapped Just get married and push off What Papa means is that if something like that happens... first of all, we'll tell Papa Today, on my birthday, let's give each other a promise as friends. An agreement Didn't get that. - No need to get worked up What I mean to say is, sometime or the other... somewhere or the other, there will surely come into your lives... a boy who wants to marry you, whom you want to marry What's wrong with that Papa? - When did I say anything's wrong? All I'm saying is, you have every right to marry, and I'll concede too But... remember one thing. The right to choose the family he comes from... will be mine, completely mine. You'll give me so much, won't you? Why Papa? - How naive, my child! You won't be marrying only the boy You will be marrying into the family The entire family. Right? Papa is absolutely right! Condition accepted, what? Today, let's make a promise to ourselves, as friends To talk from the heart, with an open mind Let's be a well-knit, friendly family Avantika rustes up the fries and the sweets, fast! No fries, no sweets. First, give us a song Which song? - Our favourite one You left me all alone and came to India I know you would come You come to India, you forget! Not even a phone call...? Idiot, remember me? All forgotten Our memories, Coke-Mohobbat.com The whole world has turned into one dotcom, which draws closer... Indians in every corner of the world Those who don't want to fall in love, can get married straightaway How come? - Consider yourself. Assuming... we are to choose for you, a handsome worthy Our "Shaadi.com" can tell you where and how to find the most suitable boy Now you come to the point! Tell us. - Computer, advise us where to find... a suitable, handsome boy, the right match for Avantika Here you are 3 boys I like all three Let's get all three married off The boy in the middle is Pankaj. Pankaj Kudesia. I know him How come? - We studied together In London Presenty, he's a vice president with Hotel Surya in Delhi He was in London, but he stayed Indian Well Avantika? - Not I There's a boy for Sanya too. Take a look Find someone for our Isha too Scan Isha into the computer Here we go What was that? Talk to the groomspeople clearly, openly You know Isha, I can't take this "Hahn-ji, Nan-ji" small-talk What scant pluck I have is because I have Ronit with me. Else... What can Ronit do? He's a baby. Elders talk to each other Stop depending on him. - But I... TIMEOUT: 01:37:36:05 Not buts to yourself TIMEOUT: 01:37:36:05 Not buts to yourself Mr Raj, Ronit is to me what my son Pankaj is Ronit has told us everything about Avantika. All I wanted... was to meet you. Now we've met. - Me too... what I wanted... What I wanted, Ronit... - What he wanted was to meet you... and ask you... you know wedding matters ... if you have any conditions, demands Exacty! Whatever it be, be sure to ask. I'll fulfill everything Decent parents, a good girl and a simple wedding... my 3 conditions Nothing more. - Yes, and have nothing to worry At home with us, Avantika won't face the slightest hardship That's exacty what I meant Well, have I been talking excessively? - Not a question of excesses All I've been trying to tell him is to make a clean breast One colour, you know. Differing shades create problems Black or white. If it's black, let it be black, completely If it's white, let it be all-white. But some people will ruin... the best of situations, trying to mix black with white That's where the confusion arises, and confusion leads to problems And for every problem, finding a solution is tough, if handy Thanks to good company, we have a solution One must be alert, but no problem... everything can be solved How about tea or something? It's been quite long How long have you been working here? - Uncle Khama isn't a servant... he's Daddy's friend of 35 years. He owns a golf club As good as servant. Mohanlal demands loyalty from his friends Enough! Let me leave before another faux pas And look at my litte master staring me down Because of your cross-matched socks "What riddle is this?" "Why are such strange things happening?" "My restessness..." "My restessness, my loneliness" "In my restessness I am so lonely" "What strange breeze blows this year?" "Try as much as I will, but my feet are unsteady" "Why do these thoughts cross my heart...?" "When I see my friends wearing the hema...?" "Makes me wish I could wear it too" "What riddle is this?" "Why are such strange things happening?" "The days are too short, these nights too long" "Before the monsoons it has begun raining" "In my dreams I have met someone" "Go away! Don't teach me these strange things" "The two of you have killed me" "What riddle is this?" "Why are such strange things happening?" "This is no picture, this is a message" "From far away, someone sends you greetings" "He's handsome, he has a cute name" "And good friends bring hearts close" "One of you is to be a bride" "What riddle is this?" "Why are such strange things happening?" Cycles have brakes, you know? - Off to London without a bye-bye? But I met everyone. - Except me, idiot Didn't think it necessary. Idiot, you were busy working out I would've missed my plane. Hey, did you miss me? Not at all! On the day of the wedding, Papa gave me a gift for you. I forgot about it Here's your message Your gift. From Papa. Not from me. - From Papa? You can put it on, can't you? I've seen two nice boys on my "shaadi.com" One for Sanya, one for you For me? Why? - I don't want to marry Until when? - Until college is over And afterwwards? - I'll do whatever Papa says Marriage, or love-marriage? - I don't believe in love I know. But why? Romantics are useless. They're filmi In real life, love's an entertaimnent package that comes with youth When girls like you fall in love, great love stories are made Girls like me only make history, not love stories Remember, there will come the day, when a handsome young man... will move you to tears. That day, your love story begins That will happen, that will surely happen I ask you, who is this boy? Who is he? Papa, he's Sukant. I've known him for a year. He lives in Delhi And I'm in love with him. - But I've seen him... in the company of ruffians. Outside our house in London Yes Papa, but Sukant is very good at heart Besides, we've decided to marry. - So decisions have been taken already? Then who needs me? At least I should have the right to choose my husband Oh! Love-romance.com...? Look, your daughter loves our son. - And our son loves us both He's our only son. We got him educate in London, and he's just back You know Mr Raj, we received so many proposals for our son But we refused all of them. - In this case, the kids are in love Hang love! My son is a gem Your daughter is lovely too. She'd be lovelier if she wore clothes Mamma please, don't overdo it. - I'm not! This concerns marriage We ought to talk openly, yes Mr Raj? - Even I want you to talk openly I'm open! We aren't lusting for a dowry. - We have no objection... to whatever you wish to give your daughter, no objection at all We don't want suits, clothes, nothing! - But the wedding venue must be... a five-star hotel. Hotel Surya! Those with a standing do it in style The relationship doesn't end with the wedding. The exchange continues... even after the wedding. - After the wedding begins... the real relationship. Comings-goings keep happening But we aren't greedy, not at all Uncle, you haven't eaten anything...? - No son, not hungry. I'm in a hurry That's all? I enjoy this I don't understand! Who am I to marry? Sukant or his family? That's what I'm trying to tell you again and again! After the wedding... you aren't going to be called neither Juliet-in-love nor Mrs Sukant After the marriage, you'll be called, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, aunt... and you will have to live up to all those relationships. And his family... isn't worthy of you! - You just don't want me to be happy This I've come to know. But I've taken the decision about my life. Period Then hear out my decision too Saw that? Heard that? I've got to know everything. Let me talk to her For a father, handling daughters is so problematic Where do they come from? Leave me! I don't want to live! Why are you crying? - Sanya doused herself with kerosene She's trying to set herself afire! Leave me! Let me die! I want to go to my mother! Have you gone out of your mind? - If not yourself, think of us... think of Papa! Do you know what you're doing? Does anyone care for me? I don't want to live Sanya! You've gone crazy? - Yes! I'm crazy! Leave her Let her be Sanya, what is the matter? You aren't my Papa! - Sure, I'm not You aren't! - No, I'm not Come here, and listen to me. Over there... listen... I tried to make you see reason, but you won't see reason It will be as you want You're going to marry the man you want Sukant. - Yes Sukant. But remember one thing The future of this marriage is solely your responsibility I'll manage Avantika, Isha, let's prepare for the wedding Delhi-folks... folks with a heart... Salaams from the heart So finally, today, Sanya and Sukant's love triumphs What a thing love is! At some point of time or the other, somewhere or the other... everyone without exception has fallen in love Some have been consummated, some loves have gone unrequited But love lives on In the name of love, we the youngsters, have decided that tonight's song... isn't mine. I'm not singing Uncle Raj sings Amazed, Uncle Raj? "Some years ago friends, there was talk..." "of me falling in love with someone" "We too had a first meeting" "I too fell in love with someone" "In the rains, on the streets..." "holding an umbrella, I was going, she was coming... like this" "We crashed into each other, we were embarrassed" "We said, please forgive me, what we meant was..." "Give me your heart" "Romance happened ... by chance" "We became lovers, but we had litte time" "In a hurry, I give my heart, I call the priest..." "I sit on a horse, I become bridegroom" "I become the bridegroom" "So beautiful ..." "So beautiful was the night when we wed" "Oh yes, I too fell in love with someone" "Some years ago friends, there was talk..." "of me falling in love with someone" "Had she been here tonight..." "she would've played the dholak" "She would've been happy" "She would've kissed her girl" "She would've blessed you, she'd ward off the evil eye" "She would've sung a song of love" "Oh wouldn't she have have made me burn..." "in fires of jealousy" "But everything is changed, everything's changed" "There was a day when I wept like rain" "Oh yes, I too fell in love with someone" "Some years ago friends, there was talk..." "of me falling in love with someone" "Loves..." "griefs..." "tales..." "words" "Words are forgotten" "Memories return" "Memories..." "Memories cherished, of beloved ones..." "return once they're gone" Papa! What are you doing? How's Isha? Isha is away in Malaysia, for a cycle race You know, in London, Uncle Ranbir Rai has been named... best businessman of the year. It was on tvv Congratulations Mr Rai Congratulations Mrs Rai Malhotra, you're wonderful! - How come? No sooner than I get the award, you've thrown a party for me I have given you my hand in friendship, never to let go You haven't sampled my friendship yet Raj keeps praising you to the skies. - Raj is like a son I've known him since he was a baby. - His daughter's wedding... we couldn't attend. - You know, business matters... Monishka hasn't come? - There she is, with your son American Indians and British Indians I keep visiting your cdguru.com There are more dotcoms. Dosti.com, mohobbat.com, shaadi.com Right from friendship to love? - And from love to marriages Marriages? How boring What does the pair look like? What programme for tomorrow evening? - Tomorrow, I'm flying to Malaysia To cover the Asian Cycle Race. - Cycle race? Yes, big race Isha is here too? - I know But she doesn't know I'm here. - But where's she? Son, you can't even see her. Only I can see her Today's the first day of the Asian Cycle Race Companies from 21 countries have sent their best racers here Sunday, the biggest day of this event will see... Preeti Sawhney of Dubai participating. She is an Indian, and she has won... this race the last two times, consecutively. This year too... there seems to be no competition for her in sight Let's introduce you to Isha Puri from London Where are you from? - England Where from, originally? - India Your name? - Isha Your goal? - Always number one You have a boyfriend? You don't believe in love? Not at all. - What about affairs? Are you crazy? - No Trying to make a fool out of me? - And make a fool out of a fool? A childhood love... Never expected you'd crop up here. - Just dropped by I knew you'd be here. - Papa must've told you Also true. But you had to be here, you're the cycle-event star I'm just a small-time reporter here Look Ronit, don't mind. I'd like to be independent here Far from the world, far from home. - And far from me...? Maybe, too. - Yes...? So in this event, you and I... strangers Yes, strangers Come on, only an hour to go for the heats Wait, wait, wait... Soft fingers... warm hands... and solid wrists. You can be the only one I could stop a race to hear that compliment If you've said I'm best, I'll become the best Now the race starts! Preeti, I like your nature. - I like everything about you Pass-Pass. Want some? Look, plying him with Pass-Pass to get close My belt is a bit too tight Look! Undoing her belt How will I win tomorrow's race? What happened? Papa! I don't want to live in Sukant's house! It's Hell, not home His mother is so abusive! His father keeps cursing me Sukant takes sides with his mother! They're scum! I've thought it over, I want a divorce, that's all You were right, Papa All this about being in love is a lot of nonsense. Isha was right Relax, you're home, aren't you? Come on, my child There goes Preeti Sawhney, full steam All eyes, all bets on Preeti Sawhney Preeti Sawhney, going great guns Tailing her, Isha Puri, trying her best Isha Puri of Hero Cycles wins the Asian Championships It's the fire in the heart that takes you to victory That dig was for you. - She's the heroine A few words for our dotcom? Yes, I'm not saying thank-you to anyone. It's my grit... my determination that has led me to my victory. And God's grace No one takes any credit And these tvv websites are full of half-truths. Please don't trust them Congratulations But wimers aren't so vainglorious. - Then losers are? You go to your Ms Pass-Pass I see... you are... That was just a joke... - Look Mr Stranger... I'd like to say something straight. Tomorrow friends and I... are visiting Tuba Island. No need to pursue me Ronit, Tuba Island is full of dangerous beasts Stop her Wait! We're leaving Isha behind Isha is on Tuba Island! In trouble! - Her friends have deserted her... Any news of Isha? - Oh yes, lots of news Just because of your heroine, our hero is in trouble Even cellphones aren't working here Last night, the doctors nearly gave up on Ronit I got to see him. - You're supposed to rest Maybe you don't appreciate it, but what he did was unimaginable How's Ronit? - Out of danger Remember I told you, there'll be tears in your eyes? What's this? Let go Let go of my hand I told Sanya that when my mother loses her temper, she just flares up And Sanya talks back at her. Straight. - Whatever I said is justified I don't want to stay in that house. - And I'm in a fix. For no reason Sukant is here for Sanya. - I'll find a house once I have a job I can't live with his mother. Period Things don't work out this way, Sanya Look son, I understand everything. Just wait a while You decided on this marriage between yourselves You must find the solutions for yourselves When hearts meet... flowers blossom When hearts meet, flowers blossom When flowers blossom, hearts meet Hearts meet... flowers blossom "Oh, love's fires" "When the flames of passion are lit, storms rage in the seas of the heart" "The earth is shaken, skies rent asunder" "Love's ruination too, love is a prayer too" "Some pray for love, some curse" "When hearts meet..." "flowers blossom" "When hearts meet, flowers blossom" "When flowers blossom, then hearts meet" "Oh, love's fires" "Ever since you..." "came into my heart" "Life has been..." "so difficult" "Even amidst revellers I am lonely..." "in loneliness I revel" "This is a world of our love, come embrace me" "Put an end to this suffering" "Whatever you wish..." "let us do, oh let's do" "Right here, right now..." "oh let me die" "Our hearts..." "oh dear sweet hearts..." "with memories..." "let us fill" "Let hearts meet" "Let hearts meet, let flowers blossom" "Some pray for love, some curse" "Some curse, some pray" Lies! All lies Lies, everything! Friendship... this love, romance, all lies All deceptions! What a mistake I made, conceding! You lied to me A father can never be his daughter's friend... he can never be How I wish I had never given my consent Everyone is in Udaipur, and here you are, still. It's so late. Now go on Your friend's silver jubilee wedding amiversary! Isha and Ronit... are hosting a grand show, and you...? - But... No buts. I know you're worried about Sanya. I'll take care of her Please, don't tell anyone about Sanya, not even Isha Why spoil the party? VIPs from all over the world are there Rajasthan, Udaipur is home for me. What I don't understand is... how you chose the Maharajah's palace for the party from faraway London? It's my son Ronit's idea. Preparations for the party... the music, the celebrations are all being organised by Ronit and Isha But you haven't introduced Ronit to us. - Oh yes, where's Ronit? Call him Ronit, don't force me to dance at the party. I don't know dancing Who else is going to dance with me? - Latch on to some butterfly Lots of them flying about. You love flattering them, don't you? Do that What are you staring at? - Your eyes Just keep sitting Ever since we met, we've been friends Today we're lovers. Tomorrow... - Tomorrow...? Just you and I, together... - Just us? Just us Where are you my friend? Your friend is here Go to Papa Okay, I'm off You'll talk to Papa, won't you? About what? - Don't you know? Oh yes! I'll tell him, get Isha married off fast If she falls in love with someone, it could be a problem, no? Got you You're late, but I forgive you Before someone else tells you, I'd like to tell you something I get the first say. - First listen to me... Me first... - Me Me! Thrice over, and it's me Listen.... Listen my friend... Sanya... she married her lover Now she's back at home. She wants to divorce her husband She can't put up with his family Such is what comes of love, my friend I know! I got to be happy, I got to smile, I got to sing Avantika says... "Don't go there with a sad face. Keep smiling, stay with Ronit" And after all, it's my friend's silver jubilee wedding amiversary I got to sing, got to dance Don't overdo it. - Am I not entited to fun? You are...? We met at the party... How can I forget you? Back in America, whenever I was on the computer... I was always logging onto cdguru.com I've memorised all your dotcoms, all your catchlines Isha is refusing to dance! We need at least one lean girl Why don't you be my dancing partner? For us, do it, please Do it, for me For you, dotcom Everyone from Buckingham Palace to Chandigarh is falling in love It's echoing all over with "l-love-you-s" "Once you're in love..." "you're restess" "They'll scare you, but you aren't even scared of God" "This is a glittering evening" "My cup brimmeth over" "Life's another name for love" "Here's one from the heart... Oh Baby" "Hear my chiming bracelets?" "Talk-talk-talk..." "this doll talks" "Scorching sunshine, and not a shade..." "in love's world of mazes" "You're the princess in the maze, my love" "Just let me take your hand" "I wish no one ever knocked at the window to my heart" "I wish no one else leads you out of the maze" "Legends..." "they wrote" "Immortal legends" "For love, they lived, for love, they died" "Love's a blast" "My lover's fun" "The colours of love never wear off" "Romeos will never give up loving..." "no matter how many heartbreaks" "In the end, you lose, I win" "Losing to you will be dearer than wiming" "Today we're face-to-face" "I'm holding my heart" "Oh what a sway" "Swaying to your rhythm" "What the prophets have said, lovers have done..." "given hearts, taken hearts" My brother, Ronit, everyone is gone. Today I'm leaving for London too I've come to know about Sanya. What happened is very bad But my brother has some good advice. He says, we can help Sukant... get a nice job in a friend's firm in Dubai. Sukant can send home... a good amount every month for his greedy parents. They'll be happy Sanya will be happy How much indebted I am to your family Yesterday, my brother had another thing to say too. Quite strange... What? - That Ronit should marry Monishka Marry...? He has still to take an education, he must go places Didn't you watch, at yesterday's party? During the dance... how he held her hand, how he drew her close? Yes, oh yes! Fool I was, not to have noticed all this My brother is much, much-interested... - Then what's the problem? Why don't you raise the topic? So what do you think of the alliance? - What have you to think... of your daughter's airs? Twenty-one proposals, and madam likes not one! For the first time, she says, about Ronit, "not-bad" Not bad! After all, your daughter I say, let's say yes to Raj's proposition Else, she'll live to be an old maid. - I like Ronit too He'll handle Monishka quite well In that case you should see Raj Tell Malhotra that I accept his proposition We've known you for many more years than we know Ronit and the Malhotras Suffices to say that we're giving our daughter away because we trust you Everything went off first class! - What are you saying? Really? I'm coming to London day after tomorrow. But remember... not to tell Ronit anything until I'm there Where are you? - Heathrow airport We're in Thorpe Park. Come over. - Right away I have news for you! I've something to tell you! But we got the biggest news to break! - I got news! Me first. - Me first Uncle Raj, me first! - Me first Thrice over. Overruled I have a company policy. - What? Special messages are sent in style. As in... this Read on. We'll be back to take your blessings Blessings? On day one, I was refused On day two, she agreed On day three, she said I love you Where has Papa gone? He has left. Where has he gone? Just drove away He left the cards Initial shock. It was bound to happen Now he's going to ask me a million questions... then he'll say, okay I'm here to take care of everything Mr Hudson has arrived from Scotand, for the presentation Everything's set. Come over. Fast Isha, I have to get to the office. Important client-meeting I might have to stay away for three or four days Our case is very simple! No problems at all Later Ronit was right. "Your Papa is going to be happy, but he'll take his time" To tell you the truth, I've known Ronit ever since I was a kid For the first time, I got to know him. Says, if he wasn't born rich... he'd have a small, ramshackle house... a bit disorganised, but it'd be lovely Fights, patch-ups, hopes, despair, life lived moment by moment Having everything is so boring, isn't it Papa? Oh yes, it was he who propositioned me. Not I So now we like the boy, and the boy's family too You know Sanya is back home She wants a divorce from Sukant. Divorce If you want my answer in a word, then it's no You and Ronit... never Thanks be to Allah, he has survived I keep tell him, London streets aren't roads in Punjab, don't amble Is this any way to express anger? I don't like this approach one bit Those who shy away from responsibilities behave like this What was this? Some crisis? Ronit just cracked a joke using his corporate greeting cards I just went along with him to see what your reaction would be And I've seen! You run amok in the middle of the traffic like a kid! If you're angry, why not take it out on me? Why on yourself? There's nothing of the sort between Ronit and myself It was only a bit of fun and games in Bangkok, you know how it is? Why are you getting so serious? There was nothing Look at these keys, remember what Ma used to say? Lying...? Lying to your Papa? I've seen through your lie Oh how will you go through life with the pain I inflict? You love your Papa much, don't you? - Think, what would happen to us... if something happened to you? What would've become of us? Understand one thing, my child They're high-up. You can't make home with that family They're my friends. I know what they intend I went to Mr Rai seeking Monishka's hand for Ronit That's fine. Monishka is right for Ronit But I'm with you, Papa. I swear by Mummy I swear by you But first you must promise never to create a scene like this ever again I'll take that Look how she's coming me Papa, look who's here What have you done Papa? - Why did you have to tell everyone? Why? Am I not your daughter? - Yes, but... You're behind news. Just see who's here with us Uncle JKM sent us tickets to London and called us over Along with an appointment letter in his Dubai offices. On November 1 On 30th, we're leaving for Dubai. - God be praised! Lalit uncle on the phone for you Yes Lalit, they're here Yes, I'm coming over, I'm bringing Isha along too All the Gods and Goddesses have been kind to us But ever since Lord Shiva entered our house... our shares have been soaring And you visit us on a Monday, Lord Shiva's day... auspicious day Where's Ronit? - Getting dressed He has just returned after a two-day visit to Scotand Answer my one question, Uncle Raj! Whatever you are doing... is this the right thing to do? I have no right to choose my life partner? I don't accept Anyone who tries to force me into it, is an enemy, not a friend Not your enemy. My friend, it was a friend of yours... who finalised this match. I did it. Am I your enemy? I don't mean that. How do I explain to you? Look son, the family, the background matter when it comes to marriage What matters more are matters of the heart Cut out my heart and see for yourself if any other name is writ on it I don't even want to hear another name You must, Uncle Raj I've never asked you for anything. Today, I want a promise Before your parents, before your uncle... you will not create a scene. For my sake, for Shalini's sake Congratulations Over with the priests Now get up, meet people. Isha, show her around What a choice for Ronit! - The Rai family is one of... the top ten families in America. - How about lunch? This is the happiest day of my life, and it's all thanks to you I am obliged to you. If Ranvir Rai joins hands with Malhotras, we can be market leaders Our shares peak I like your house, your family, the atmosphere and particularly... this interior decoration. - And Ronit? I'm not about to tell you that. That's our secret Let me show you to your bedroom. Come on This jacket looks great on you Raj, we're giving our daughter away on your say-so Monishka is like a daughter to me too. I shall keep my word Monishka, I have to be at the gym at four. I'll call you later Then we can go out. - What's the best disco hereabouts? Ronit knows about discos. Ask him. - Where's Ronit? Should be somewhere around. Take a look It's chilly. Put it on You people are making a fool out of me! First put that jacket on I won't Okay, first cool down. Then we'll talk Go on, tell me Do you love me? Never mind, put the jacket on. Let me help you into it Look Ronit, give me a patient hearing There comes in life, those moments... when young hearts are swayed... when they fall in love, when they romance... without as much as a care... for consequences They begin to believe that... these romantic fairy-tale moments are reality. Something like that happened to us It was the right season, the right atmosphere, the right time For a while I had forgotten who I am So you never were in love? Was that an infatuation? You were just swayed? Ronit you know it. For me, such romances are... entertaimnent, influenced as it were by films So you were entertaining me. You still are... Look at me... Iook at me and tell me, you don't love me I love you, I love you very much, I did ever since my childhood But only as a friend would, like a pal Like a friend... only? Only Only? - Yes, only Look at that house... this is reality Your Papa, my Papa, and there's Monishka I'm telling you, she's a great girl And yes, I'm your best friend, I'll always be Isha did the right thing. I know your story And she says she doesn't love me. Whom do I fight? How do I fight... if she's the one... who's lying But one day, she will own up, and she's going to cry All right, yes it's true, she is my best friend Now I'm going to do exacty what she wants "In hearts..." "as it happens in the world of hearts..." "they smile while their hearts weep" "Hearts..." "no one knows, no one admits" "But don't let anyone know where it aches secrety" "You have betrayed me" "Will you ever find loyalty?" "You have pained me" "How can your pain heal?" "Desires rage in my bosom..." "like storms rising in sea" "Sometimes it's the sailor who drown his own boat" "In the world of hearts, it happens" "We smile, while our hearts weep" What angle is that? - Triangle That's Rohit's bedroom. Stay here. I'll be back after I see him Isha! Where are you? - At Ronit's place I was just knotting my tie, and I remembered you. Where's Ronit? Inside. - I'm going to Mr Rai's... Papa, I'll talk to you later Avantika! You're in the nick of time! Someone bottes up her emotions... she tries pass up love saying it's something else... then the botted up emotions break into tears, and truth outs Oh but Isha doesn't love me, and that's true too Because even without me, Isha can smile, Isha can cry But love me, Isha can't. Because even without me, she can live on Talk to your sister Then why don't you say you love me? Why don't you say it? I love you, I love you very much When I was in school, I loved you. When I was a kid, I loved you And I love you, still But you're my friend, aren't you? How can I be your lover? It's just that I feel like crying at times. I'm sorry, I broke down You're supposed to take Monishka to Mr Mittal's for dimer You don't remember a thing Go on, I'm leaving Where are you guys? - Uncle Raj, where are you? I've got to talk to you. - I'm seeing Mr Rai at Harry Club The manager won't let me in. I need Mr Rai to sign these papers Let me get them signed for you. Stay here, I got to talk to you I just spoke to the manager. You can go in You didn't see him? - There are big guys partying in there I felt a bit intimidated Dirty folks. - One coke, and you think straight So did you like my in-laws in foreplay? What a shame! So what do you think? - How are you bothered? Monishka is entering your family, not the other way around You got to do me one last favour I'm taking Monishka to Radisson Hampshire tonight All you got to do is ask my fiancee 3 questions 3 questions? So what are your three questions? Ask her My child... the first of 3 questions on behalf of the Malhotra family... after the wedding, will you live with Ronit's parents? Or your own home...? Of course, in my own home. - After wedding's done... what have parents got to do? And they had better come to see us after taking an appointment Parents too? She's from America. Life out there is so stressful, so busy No...? - My child... question two is, I hear you like late night parties, and you come home late? Nice, nice! So what? So even after you're married, it goes on... these late nights? Getting married doesn't mean giving up my friends, my independence After we're married, she can come and go as she wishes I don't mind. Why are you asking these questions? My third question is, Lalit says that after the marriage... we should have a litte baby, like a blossom... I've already cleared this with Ronit. I don't want a baby in 4 or 5 years I don't want to ruin my figure. - But this is part of our culture One has duties towards offspring, towards parents... Ronit, your uncle seems to belong to some village in the backwaters I don't like to have discussions with small fry like you To me, you are nothing more than a marriage broker for the Malhotras I should be leaving No one ever did what you did today I was fed up of these people, but how could I tell them? What are you saying Raj? It's true. I proposed this marriage. Now I am trying to break it off So what are you trying to break off? Ronit's engagement to Monishka After what I've seen, neither the girl nor the family is any good for Ronit We're throwing him in a quagmire for the money Raj, I knew one day your patience will break Patience...? - Before you came here... I received a call from Rai about what you've seen and what reality is They are rich folks, Raj. They have a lifestyle They're different. For a middle-class restaurateur like you.... all this may be amazing! The girl's ideas aren't compatible with Ronit's. Only you are opposed to her, Raj Wasn't I always telling you Lalit, to stay clear of this... poor friend of yours? Because someday or the other... he will show you how petty he is. In the truth, Raj and Shalini always had an eye... on your son ever since he was a boy. Ronit was a 50-billion cheque for them But now it's going to Rai It was in a fit of enthusiasm, that he finalised the match with Moniskha But it shattered his daughter Isha's dreams She had her eyes trained on Ronit Lalit, such was the scheme for having the engagement amulled... in favour of Isha. But now we all know, yes? Want me to show you some photos for evidence? Would you like to see... Ronit's arms snaking over Isha's waist and all over? Were you not my friend Lalit's elder brother... were you not the man whom I respected as my elder... then right now... at this moment... I would've slapped you so hard in the face... you'd carry my fingerprints all your life Let me speak, Lalit Listen carefully, Jagdish Malhotra Isha and Ronit love each other very much, very dearly But they have imbibed respect for their elders And out of that respect, because of me... they buried their love and they wiped their tears And the photographs you speak of... had they wanted, they could've made huge blow-ups out of them... and plastered them all over your house And then... not you, not your father could've done You are crossing the limit, Raj! - I'm heartbroken... heartbroken! Let me have my say Lalit. He has insulted our friendship. He has insulted my daughter. I swear by my mother... I swear by Shalini... Not I, not my daughter... will ever enter this house again. For us, you are dead... dead Forget it, man! You turned out to be a coward, Lalit! Coward! My friend, a coward! What's this Papa? Tears in your eyes? Didn't you console me? No, this won't do. Come home "Loves..." "griefs..." "tales..." "words" "Words are forgotten" "Memories return" "Memories cherished, of beloved ones..." "return once they're gone" Sanya, this is Ronit. Give the phone to Isha Isha isn't at home Isha, take the phone. Face the truth Listen to me, listen carefully All the VIPs in the world have been invited Come Monday, two big corporates are going through a merger Scions of two great families will get engaged... and the wedding date will be finalised Malhotra and Rai will climb to number two from number ten Here's your engagement ring. See if it fits your finger Come, son. - Don't call me son, Madam Ronit, I am your mother You aren't my mother, my mother you aren't You don't even know how grown-up your son has become... have you seen how big his fingers have grown? Because you're one of those mothers... who never held her son's fingers and taught how to walk You've never even taken a close look at your son, never held me to your bosom... You never looked into my eyes, never tried to understand my anguish A mother, you aren't You're just an executive director in this marketplace... where relationship, emotion, is laughing matter I'm not staying here, not in a home without a mother Without a father... - Son... Don't call me son! I'm your mother. - You are...? Then save me, save your son from the fires... that your family wants to throw me into Can you save me? You can't You can't save me For 40 years, I have put my blood, toil, heart, soul and mind into... building these companies. I have taken the Malhotra family into the top ten! Now what do you want? You want the businesses that have thrived for years to be ruined? You want this house to be turned into a memorial for lovers? This is a business house, and stays a business house If anyone tries to insult me, if anyone tries to stand in my way... I'm going to shoot him! Then I'll shoot myself Anyone who takes sides with Ronit will be responsible for my death Is everyone listening... you hear? This boy has rebelled I want to see Isha Go on... go to him He's bleeding Yes, what do you want to say? Where are you taking me? I want to your decision, not verdicts from the rest of the world Are you with me, or not? Today, we must take the decision Life? Or death? Death? - Yes death No, Ronit must be brought back. - Only one man can compel him... to attend tomorrow's function. - Who? Raj. Only Raj To save this 500-million corporation, you must overcome your vanity... And beg? - Maybe, yes Please try to understand how delicate the situation is I'm only asking you to accompany me I'll talk to Raj. You needn't say a word Memories cherished, of beloved ones, return once they're gone Sister-in-law... Ronit ran away from home, Raj Ran away? Where to? Run away...? He ran away? He ran away! Had to happen! Why doesn't Mr Rich ask his 500-million company to find the boy? Find him if you can, but he can't. Let's sit inside and talk You folks are his parents. Parents, period You don't rule him He's a romantic They are lovers They love each other The lover... has flown "O'Moon" "O'Stars" "Listen" "I think of you when I wake, when I sleep" "What's the whole world, compared to your love?" "I think of you..." "when I wake, when I sleep" "What's the whole world, compared to your love?" "You and I will love each other so much" "Anyone who hears will say..." "Who has lived forever? Who lives forever?" "Love it was, love it will be" "In your heart, in my heart..." "let nothing remain unsaid" "Time flows like a river" "Let go of the riverbank, lest the waters pass us by" As the girls's father, If I lodge a complaint with the police... you might land in jail That's exacty what I intend. If our families refuse to... approbate our love, let the world decide At 5pm today, your engagement to Monishka will be amounced officially The papers for the merger of the two companies will be signed Not today, I'm going nowhere What if I tell you... Your mother is calling For the families Malhotra and Rai, today is a historical day Alongwith the merger of two great corporates... two families are also entering wedlock After this ring ceremony, our children Ronit and Monishka... will commit themselves to a married life together Question to the chairman of our company, Mr JKM To whom goes the credit for this historical day? Let me come over to you Tell us Go on Credit goes to all of us. - All of us? Or just one? One...? I mean, all of us A person, without whom, this evening wouldn't have been made possible? Possibly... Raj Singh Puri Applause The man who has tied two corporates, two children together A few words for this man Not like that. Say it with an open heart I'm saying it with an open heart My brother wants to honour Raj Singh Puri Very magnanimous of him to honour a small man like myself I consider the honour of his family to be my family honour I recall a few lines my wife once wrote "When you enter life, when you leave..." "when you come, bring, and leave behind, when you leave..." "memories, memories and memories" Stop Uncle Raj Stop Just a while longer After everyone has made great speeches... the audience is uplifted For the first time today, my mother has encouraged me She called me home, and she told me... "Son, speak out in public if it's the truth you speak" She told me not to hide, not to resort to lies These people who addressed you... all of them lied to you They lied blatanty Because this is a stage, a public place Even Satan speaks with Godlike dignity from a public stage Yes son, you're right But you are the society, the public-at-large Remains to be seen which amongst you supports the truth I have a few questions Each of you has the merger report, one side red, the other green If I'm wrong, say I'm wrong. If I'm right, say I'm right Don't you say yes, if I'm lying Now give me a few answers What is he upto? - It's a public trial My first question Apologising... Apologising for fooling the public when one's heart is filled with venom? Honour. Family honour Turning a blind eye to the fact... that greed is the cornerstone of family honour? Culture is the cornerstone of family honour, Uncle Raj. Not loads of money Now, let's turn to a love story A girl who is in love... sacrifices her love because of a word she has given to her father Is that right? Or wrong? And the boy accedes to his father and he sells himself on the marketplace And his family will force him to marry a rich heiress... to jack up share valuation So, this story ends with the triumph of money. Love loses For the happiness of their children, parents who would sell themselves So I heard. Today I see parents selling their children for their ambitions Is this betterment? Is this progress? Emotions, love, friendships, relationships, culture... the mean nothing? Nothing? What gospel is this? What gospel are our elders trying to teach us? All right... all right In a while from now, I'll put this ring on Monishka's finger And I'll sell myself to this company and Monishka But my question is... will the wearing of a diamond, or the performance of some rituals... wed two souls? Is the union complete? Speak Give me an answer Am I to marry for the sake of the merger? Or should I marry the one I have given my heart... and my life? Speak Give me an answer I shall tell you Strange! You camot answer Ronit's simple question? Because you are a part of the Globex merger? Are you shying away from the truth under influence of the high and mighty? The truth is marriages are meant to follow hearts, not mergers Ronit is right. Diamonds and rituals don't make a marriage Marriage is a meeting of hearts and souls I ask Ronit's true love to come on stage... and in the presence of all of us here... let her give Ronit this ring Isha isn't here Today when you wish to insult your families, you might find... Sanya and myself to be part of this. But not Isha. She has left Where is Isha? This merger isn't happening. For the first time... these kids have shown me how good and truthful they are And what rogues we are, you and I in particular The worst of scoundrels that they are, yet they understand what... the children mean. And you are still wondering? Why did you leave me? You tell me to face the truth and you run away? Nalini told me something was about to happen on stage. She didn't call you? I left before he could do that. - Why? You always said that a girl who isn't accepted by her husband's family... rarely finds respect There's more to life than love, there are other relationships... the aunt, the sister-in-law, the daughter-in-law My child... for the first time, I have seen the world through the eyes of my children We rise in life, yet we become so mean. And I have risen to such heights... that I camot ask to be forgiven. But this much I shall ask of you... to marry into my family. If you do... I will understand that I have been forgiven Go... he has come to take you away Go Raj Singh's story doesn't end here. He stayed a friend to the children... to the very end, till the time he became a grandfather Where are you Supriya? Supriya is coming out with me for a walk Then she will come home, she will do her stretch-outs then she will take a bath Then she will say the prayers, then I'll take her to school And this evening, we're going somewhere far away Where are you, my child? - I'm here, grandpa Where's Avantika, your Mummy? - Everyone left me all alone And they went out for a ride. Everyone? But I'm here with you, your grandpa Grandpa, will you be my best friend? Like "Papa-friend"? Do you hear that? This one too...? All right, give me your hand. From now on, I'm your... "Grandpa-friend" Let's take a walk One minute, let me take my dear wife's keys When did Mummy-Papa get married? - 6 years ago Ronit Uncle and Nisha Aunty? - Been four years When are you getting me married off? Tell me "Loves..." "griefs..." "tales..." "words" "Words are forgotten" "Memories return" "Memories"
