 

                        Some people calls me Burbot! Burbot, which can fall anywhere... by the way name is laksh! If you make it like, so lakes Well i like alots of things... more than everything thing, is my father. I was 1 year old when he martyared for country saw mother always giving tuitions to other childrens... she loves this country, but I wanna get outta here. To foreign country, where is money and fun its says, that life teaches everything but whatever I learned from life but from my friends... with the friendship of friends... but he makes me waiting after asking to him he maybe busy, so first pick it up... then ask for forgiveness later. Me and my friend debu often used to drink beer stolen money from temple when we had break in our friendship, when debu gone to australia for study and I got stuck in this sikkim college college day started usually but whatever happened further changed everybody's life... what're you doing, something will happen today which never... you're going to college Today is my life's first kiss... to girl or boy? You jerk, to jenny to jenny take my watch take my googles. Take his deo. No way i'm not so mean my canadian jenny if you'll give me your ipod, so I can think about it. Today is my practicle... its my life's first kiss. Without love you're kissing, its lust. What we call it in hindi, vasna... lust... hormon mess up god made the hormon... or life would be boring. How dare you enter in the girls hostel... you bully, I'm not aunt, i'm girls hostel's warden talk to him, tell him he come back home soon i'm always perfect... you tell me you shouldn't come to india. Here is so hot, mosqouto and boring life... your'e giving this advice to your childhood friend. Just give me blessing. I'm on important mission go you may successful in your mission by the way what's your mission to kiss... who says sonehaal is kiss is doen? I missed it damn it sir, she is my family friend. He mother says. Actually we're cousins. Sir she was having toothache. I was just checking... i'll marry her. I can't lie more than it. Let me do it. Its my first kiss. What happened to principle something fishy tomorrow evening anual function back stage. Pakistan and india are on war... in which indian worrior are saving the country will you let me see the play its on 4 o clock 3 pm how can we reach to college. My bro... we're getting late... hurry up but how come he can go to stage. God has made the plane too while making hormon what're you doing i'll do everybody's work one by one who got the mercedes? I have. You first... someone said right. You've the deal with many jerks before meeting prince. Where were you stupid she's waiting. I've made a deal with him where's that jenny i've no time please save my honor. Be a mother for me. Have to become raj mata. He's waiting for you mother you've come... yes son sing a lullaby for me mother. I dont know lullaby sing something hug my mother. You're enemy's worrior. We just need your lap just hug my mother. Come in my territory, i'll protect you you die worriors... or principle will kill me. Now ponder on studies, and these are useless things. My ipod for this hormon... there's one more hormon exist. Because there's no girl of your type in this college. You believe on 100 mtr race. She lost the battle... not a war. If i couldn't set a hot sexy girl in coming days. So I'll polish your shoes... do you know half of student are going to expel? And whatever happened today, you're gone laksh... the half students are going to be expel... why... leave why, who's gonna expel? Expel them throw out the college girls... they made the college worst... boys sight is always on their feets... they dont see anything else on other options. Now bring out... what? You feelings... i've decided... to restricate all of you from this college... our this college. Is not only built on the king your highness land... many years ago he started this college. Now few days ago... prince has signed the deal... the portion of play ground and girls hostel... that all land has been sold to australian businessman and mr. Rockfeller wants to built an hotel and casino when i said to mr. Rockfeller, that an hotel near a college. Is bad idea... but he said that students are only intrested in study they're not intrested. So he throw an challenge... if our college students will defeat the australian students in a sports and culturer competition so they'll increase the lease of land for 100 years... you 5 have to save this college. We're only 4... who's is the 5th. It seems your father has hair oil factory that's why you sticked so much who? Me? Yes you... no its amlachap oil... did you met with the 5th member of team... i'm saloni which competition will she win. She'll win all... when she'll have amlachap oil, so then australin team will runaway they can't do anything. Why not we call the outside students and make them ours. Forgive me sir, what did you seen in them he's zero in study, always rides the bike who knows better than neil what bike can do... she's a daughter of flop singer. She has seen her mother getting flop closely again that story the son of musical instrument repair man. He loves the drums... an daughter of retired common teacher. Her memory is faster than a computer. Again that story his mother is teaching and earning... and he's the no.1 lazy irresponsible. That's it. My captain look mom... first period in library how did you climbed there. First i step there then there. And climbed. There's no quality in lakhs like a leader. You're maybe forgetting. Whose son is lakhse if we'll lost the girls hostel, so why to live. If you've life, so dreams. If dreams, so are girls in it. If girls are... so hopes... will find somewhere, everyone get that. The question is not about only girls hostel... its about our college and country... and our self respect... everybody will ask you in life which college are you from... our recognization is from this college... will we let those foreigner to occupie this college? No we'll shed the blood. And we'll defeat them its that blood donate camp? Is that easy to defeat them? How am I want to compete... what about the speech. I just gave this speech because girls likes it. But doing this... no one can stop us going in girls hostel... but you've no girlfriend in that hostel. But to whome will you go? If not. So will be. Lets make competition plane... tonight is a pajama party and you're inviting... check the purse first... why you girls are so judgmental dont you girls talk about boys like this... there're so many things to talk about except girls and boys. Keep to you... tell me how many girls are in girls hostel. But I couldn't understand it. Have to deal with all of them in one night? Where are you going? You lives in hostel for 5 days of week you just gets sat and sun for live in house. I've to complete the important project of college take care of yourself... what do you mean? Here's thief and bully's know its amar singh's house if he'd have done a corporate job rather than army so you wouldn't need to to give music tuition today he was fond of become hero, so he sacrifice himself for country one day you'll know why someone sacrifice for country one moment you'll get your papa's googles when you deserve it. I've come to pick up soloni why today is mata's night. Here? Actually an priest family has shifted from banaras... to their house... listen, aren't there any boys... no uncle there're only three boys... one will play manjeera. The otherone will play drum and thirdone will sing. Please papa... drop her at home at time. I wanna kiss you kiss me. Croach. Save me. Please help me. Baby are you okay? Cocroach on my feet. We can't become a friend ever. When did i say? And by the way... becoming friends... you must need 53.33 topics to talk about like? Like! Do you know there's new intel chip with high configuration what happned? Scared from her? She's so broing i've a cure for her. Feed her the liqour... i dont drink. Its juice... you should trust in friendship sure... what you told me that you're my friend. Trust me. I trusted you and you feed me liqour. Who feeded? You dont lie you feed me. You're not kishan kanhaya all girls die for you will they die... yes. But I'm not like that... i'm diffrent... you can't be in them why because you're gigabyte... you're terabyte its new chip of intel boring... saloni and jiya were drunk have to endure if I messed up; how do I drop her home. Her father hates the boys. Well, i hadn't any way what happened to her? She had mata on her. She's like that... she prays alot... stop your voice looks like male. Which prayers you sung? What's this? Mata's blessing they practice money we're going to get... what we've to do with it? We'll party is party everything to you in life? Everybody respects your father. He sacrified his life. But didn't let down the flag... and you... so what? What this country did for him for country anybody. Stop this books language. He was in army, for winning and fighting was his duty not mine the money we're getting for, is our duty too did you started churan along with amla oil listen, saloni is not wrong. We must practice. We'll do much practice that other will think we're serious. Why dont you join anna sir? Competition is going to start in 10 days... competition is in two parts... and part 2 will be. Cycle race, mountain climbing... by the way when the australians are coming australians aren't coming here. You all are going australia. I'm yours... and will be yours. I promise if salman khan will say, so I won't let her touch but why'd he touch you i'm so hot... that day you told me in booze that you likes me. Never, I can't say like that... why? What's lacking in me? You're an burbot... Iota? All the best. Atlast you found that your deserved you just wait an watch i'll make an girl friend everybody will see me. You're wounded when someone insult your country and are happy when... your country's flag is waving with pride. Its our country's flag. Dont let it down welcome to australia my bro who told you we're here? You didn't tell me... mother told me. Do you drive the taxi here? Yes... in part time. By the way I'm doing advance course in I. T... if you finished talk, so tell me. Will you take me to rockfeller college or not no... why? My bro till you're here. I won't leave you alone here. When the god gives... gives alot. I wasn't in hope that I'll find my dream girl in australia but I found her there. Australian team member she looked at me. And I looked at her. I got signal in a sec. That's one the short cut eat less fatto i was thinking for a while, you're that debo... you've not paid the money of my rakhi i had give you... liar... just give me some money when will you reformed i dont like this english food. Its hot. Leave some for student.s. Let me eat. Its mine your pride? People calls me niki mahajan. I teach the biology in this college. Are you married? No infact... waiting for a good boy me too are you waiting for boy? No... good girl... who can make good paratha's. Pandey sir's hormon problem was handeled by nikki and I was hoping with jenait. That rockfeller will arrange for outing for friendship with two teams. Said... enjoy you're so mean you know hindi she's australian... and dad is indian... friends makes fool saying the cold drink, friends feeds liqour saying girlfriends... meets with aunties. You always makes my insulted we've no pention of papa... i'll go from here forever. I'll settle in australia... i won't come back again i told mother that i'll go foreing will earn alot money but won't let you do this job tomorrow is competition. Lets ponder on it. You're right... they said its a rules. We should inform them earlier which song we'll sing. But in the matter of wandering we forgot. We made the mistake, so what do we do? Which mistake. Its cheating. I'll talk to them... who did to you / abused the mother... how'd they know mother grew me up... will something happend to me? Nothing gonan happen to you mother has no one except me. Bro... take me to mother she's waiting for me for two years. Hindi song is it rock and the winning team is... australia... debo you stay laid. What? Look, its not like that, they just beat me. I beated them too it was they problem i just slipped. We were wearing high heels. My hieght is little less. Height shouldn't be small ever. Be senti and bore me. Its time for your ambulance sir. She's so cute girl debo was trying to be happy before us. According to doctor, he was very critical it was beliefe of australian police that it wasn't racist attack but will investigate. Its good you've come bro why they're not letting me go mother is waiting... he's jelouse from me. That white nurse loves me. If you say so we'll take her together too do you know. Yesterday I phoned mother i'm coming with lakhs. She was happy she loves me alot. Take me to her i'll take you along me. I dont want to live here. What I did to them... someone do like that? If they'd come in our country, would we beat them? Take me to mother. When I'll keep my head in her lap so everything will be fine. I'll be fine. Take me to mother debo... mother i'll earn alot of money when i'll grow up and you'll not need to work in school there is bike race by next day paanday sir decide not to disclose deebu's death. Everyone get disturbed specially neel who have to ride bike and saloni who have to remember lap map. But someone tell saloni's before starting the race. That deeebu is dead. You be ashamed. Go and hide your face. I was young like you when I join this collage. Unfortunate you lose in Australia. Australian will be come in India in couple of days. Final is still pending. We lose in Australia. But we won't lose in India. Do you get it? They never did anything for collage nor for country. Ecause they don't have father like brigadier Amar Singl that night your father get shot. That time he have choice. He can leave the post and he can reach hospital of base camp. But he won't do this. He continue fight for country. His soul left his body but he won't left country. We see he shot 26 bullet in his body. You just decide where to go? Time will let you know which is right and which is wrong. What do you want? Cappuccino, Brownie, Black Coffee. Tutsi Ginger Tea. You will get it in 5 minute. Guy I will be right back. You are not able to do that. Australian team is coming to India. You have to dace for opening ceremony. You will dance like this? See what I get for you. Drink it and you will see how you dance? You told me there should be other topic in friendship. Ok then can we discuss dance. Stupid! We can practice dance. You can dace after wearing lots of cloths. No this is not like this. We are doing dance practice. Come and eat do practice later. By the way, your dance is awesome. Where you see? This is wrong. I think... you both like... there is nothing we are just friends but I like this girl don't call me aunty... call me mummy. Call me mummy jee... mother. But I decide to call her my daughter. Come take it. Sir, don't have change? Two ticket for tomorrow pictures tickets. This is for tomorrow show stupid two tickets for tomorrow evening show. Thank you sir. I am just deciding to watch with whom but I won't come. And I am not asking you. If you ask so you get the same answer. But why the same answer. Are you coming with us? No I have some work. You and saloni both are in love?? That is nothing now a days she is always watching you maybe she is decide to beat you or maybe she is fall in love. Who is fall in love? He is saying that he likes you. Who is he?? Even he don't have strong body nor good face. You know what I like? We will say everyone that We love each other. Can we tell everyone? Don't tell anyone otherwise we got problem which problem? All is done? But you remember your promise. Tomorrow is your welcome dance performance. I feel you are change. No I am not. You want to separate with me. Are you mad? I will talk tomorrow. You are in hurry may be guys always in hurry. When I see you first time I don't know I feel you are the one. I love you Lukh I won't tell you anything. I just tell you I love you. Did you read notice board. No,, why you just read and submit entry as well. I will wait for you surly. Which notice she is talking about? That is it. Saloni need to decide for boyfriend and kiss that guy in fornt of everyone. Who what to kiss her then submit his entry in box near notice board. I want kiss too. If boy have right to select girl. Then why girls won't they have rights to select boy for her. Who give them permission I gave her. Boy should know girls are not useless. Girls are not for use like tissue paper and throw. Who use you madam. This is the problem she became useless before use. These are three guy who are selected by saloni. But saloni will select one from them and kiss him in front of us. Lakhs stop her. What are you thinking? You want patch-up tell me one thing lakhs when she kiss you? Did you feel good. That was just fake. I was thinking that someone is with Australian among us. That why I get closed and she will let me the name. Did she tell you? Yes we lose part one of this competition. 2nd part the final of this competition which we have to win at any cost. Tomorrow is mountain biking and then after country cross. I will let you know. They have to run and do mountain climbing in biggest mountain... they have to reach there are both country flag. Have to get the flag. Then come again by crossing mountain. And come to collage and put on top of collage. Which flag will first on top of collage. The collage is all there. Lots of mountain climber died in between. Have you selected your team? Neel will participate in cycling and I will participate in final race. My father died for this country. But what he get from country. Nothing. All is arrange to settled you in Australia. Just let us win. That is decided. Neel will ride cycle. And he will lose. He is thinking you all with him but he don't know saloni will know anything about it and she will announced. And everyone knows neel is guilty. And I will be in Australia. You sale collage. Don't you think about deebo. He died for collage. We are calling neel and mike for cycle race. You will see what I will do. I will win this race. Who will in in place of neel. My son win the match. My son win the match. My son win the match. I know you will win. Sorry. If you are with Australian then you never win. I know you about it. So we decide to make plan and you become anger and win the race. And you win but I don't know that he get injured. And I have to participate the race. Forget everything. Now we have to win final. But mike will be in final. And he is injured. So we can easily win the race. Yes promise me anywhere in the world you see any innocent in trouble for any cast, race or any nationality don't be still stand silent. Mike will race the final race with you. Where is he come from? You know who is he? That champion he is not college student he is professional lakhs you will compete him? Stronger not always win hitler will die and Gandhi win. So don't be scare. Just fight and win first put foot there and there and climb. You are elder now my son. Jannet move to Australia. Panday also move Australia with nikki. And about neel... if he don't do this so deebo among us. But I call neel my friend. And there is forgiveness in friendship. How many packs in body get this 50 rupees go shave and brush your teeth. Why? I wanted to kiss you stupid. Finally we secure girls collage. Now I don't need it. Because I have girlfriend now. I am not confuses in why anyone died on him country. But I am still confuse... is it done or harmal loocha will attack again.
