 

                        Fo Shan's citizens were well off and practiced kung-fu as a hobby. Martial clubs became popular, turning Fo Shan into a province renowned for martial arts. Martial Arts Street in Fo Shan, 1935 Another competitor Okay, let's start practicing Come on, ready... One... Two... One... two... Sir, a Master Liu is looking for you May I know who you are? I'm the patriarch of the Liu Fist Sect I just started a martial club in Fo Shan Congratulations I hear that Master Ip is a Wing Chun expert I'd love to practice with you today Can we do it some other day? It's not convenient right now Since I'm already here, let's just play around for a bit It's all private. No one else shall know who wins It's not a matter of winning. I'm having dinner In that case... I'll wait for you Master Liu Have you eaten yet? Please join me You want one? No, thanks Is the food all right tonight? Very good indeed That's good Very quick Leave it, Uncle Wang. Close the door first Master Liu Please! Please! Are you okay? I'm fine... Let's start again! Okay, here I come Touch! Touch! All touch! Thanks for being lenient, Master Liu Thanks for teaching me. I've learnt a lot The pleasure was all mine Regarding this private duel, Master Ip... I won't tell anyone. Don't worry Thanks so much. I'm totally grateful Goodbye Farewell So long With "Move 1000 Catties with 4 Taels" Ip pushed Master Liu's whole body away Isn't "Move 1000 Catties with 4 Taels" Tai Chi? I thought Master Ip practiced Wing Chun Anyway, he pushed him away with one hand Liu refused to admit defeat Ip kept chasing after him fiercely! But Liu remained indignant after being hit He jumped at Ip like a hungry dog These tea leaves are pretty good and cheap Thank you Got to go Farewell Goodbye Goodbye, see you next time Who put these here, Uncle Ping? Your brother I thought Liu was good but he's so bad at defence and was beaten up like a pighead He co-owns his dad's restaurant. He's always idle Ask that kid to serve the customers Good morning Brother Ip! Morning, Master Ip Is Quan here yet? He's waiting for you upstairs Been here long, Quan? You're always late I'm busy Busy with what? Drinking tea, eating, practicing What else? This tea smells nice I'm talking about you Have you ordered yet? I got something to discuss with you Let's eat first and then we'll talk This just came out of the oven! Try it... Heard that you had a duel with Master Liu and had beaten him quickly. Is that true? Who told you that, Lin? My brother Should've told me earlier. I'm his disciple now! But you've been a disciple of every master Was the duel private, Brother Ip? We have things to discuss. Leave us for now Then I won't disturb your private conversation Good! Morning, Master! Morning Morning Master Heard that you were beaten by Ip Man Everyone in Fo Shan knows about it now Nonsense! Who told you that? Yuan at the restaurant Everything is costly in Fo Shan these days So what? That means the economy is good in Fo Shan Everybody can afford to spend money Is that so? Clothing is the most important in our daily lives There will be lots of demand for future clothing I'll open a cotton mill to provide cotton for them I want you to be my partner I don't know anything about business But I do I'm not in need of money Who's Yuan? Show yourself! I am You rascal. You ruined my reputation I must teach you a lesson! Master... He's my brother. Let's talk Calm down. Okay, Master? Your brother? He ruined my reputation He said I was beaten by Ip Man What's gonna happen to my martial club? Who will want to be my disciples? Apologize! I didn't do anything wrong. I told the truth! You're bullshitting again! You... Master... Master Ip is upstairs. Seek him out if you have guts! What? Go! Take it easy, Master... Master... Don't be angry, Master I've been wronged, Master Ip Master... Please tell everybody you've defeated Master Liu in a duel Master Ip... You got to clear my name You liar, why're you bothering Brother Ip? I'm no liar I saw the duel when I was picking up my kite Your kite was cut and fell into Brother Ip's house You saw the whole duel between the two masters Isn't that too much of a coincidence? That's exactly what happened Even if it's true, you shouldn't have told everyone You're not supposed to admit to certain things What's wrong with admitting to the truth? That might cause embarrassment for others What embarrassment? I don't know so much This is embarrassment! You don't need to do that, Lin Why're you laughing? You think I'm invisible? Captain... it's no big deal What no big deal? Leave! Don't you leave! Captain, it's no big deal I saw everything. I'm warning you... I'll nab whoever that causes trouble on my turf I didn't cause any trouble Someone ruined my name. I'm here to claim justice What justice? I am justice You hooligans are fighting all the time What age are we in now? Still talking about martial arts? We're talking about arms and guns! Guns. Got it? You know, Captain Li... We martial artists are energetic Sometimes we might be a bit too loud But that doesn't mean we're not civilized We're civilized folks. Please don't pull the gun Cut me some slack Lin, set a table for Captain Li. It's on me Yes... Captain Li, this way please What you looking at? Get lost Don't look Don't look... Get out of the way Please Master Liu As you please Why so secretive? I'm really not good at business Take this to set up the mill. Pay me back if you make a profit It'll be a while before I can repay you Take your time Another request: Take my son as your disciple There're so many martial club masters. Ask them None of them is better than you We're similar Brother Ip Lin Brother Quan I learnt some new moves. Practice with me You got so much time. You found your brother? Let him be He'll come back once he spent all his money Let's try Dad, did Uncle Ip agree? Let's go watch over there You draw very well, Zhun What new moves have you learnt? Let's see Brother Ip, my master says this move is offense and defense all in one Attack while defending. Defend while attacking Aren't they the same? Go away, ignorant kid Here I come This move attacks the midrib Stop reciting mantra. Hit your target Mom, I'm done with my drawing So beautiful. Show it to Dad Hit to disperse. Disperse while hitting My last move was "disperse while hitting"... Dad, look Wait. I'm not free at the moment You don't get it? No Come again if you don't get it Try again Dad doesn't want to see it There you go What? That was "disperse while hitting" Once more, Master Ip couldn't see clearly ee? What you wanna see? You guys fight every day. Aren't you tired? You okay, Brother Ip? Sorry, Mrs Ip Goodbye, Mrs Ip I wasn't talking about you No, there're things to take care of at the mill Yao I gotta go, Uncle Ip Okay, see you next time Bye, Ip Talk to me if you're not happy No need to throw a tantrum Okay, please take a look at your son's drawing Spend more time with him instead of your pals Let's go inside, okay? Go Brother Where's the martial club street? Martial club! Go straight ahead One, two... Which martial club should be challenge first, Bro? One... two! One... Back! You teach martial arts here? Come in if you wanna learn Who's the patriarch? I am My name is Jin I come here as Fo Shan is famous for martial arts I'd like to practice with Fo Shan's martial artists Practice? Yes! Provocation rather? I'm obliged Okay! Stand aside See how I'll beat these out-of-towners! Not here. Stand over there What about it? Wait and see! Very good! Where's your master? Here! You wanna hack me to death? Our master is not here Weather is so treacherous in Fo Shan these days Let me What are you drawing, Zhun? He's ignoring you. Spend more time with him Okay So early, Lin? Yes I'm not here to fight. Just a few words What's the matter? Some out-of-towners are provoking all the clubs Their kung-fu is too good for all the masters Can you look into that if you can? That good? Yes I gotta go, Mrs Ip Hang in there, Master Liu! We depend on you, Master Liu! Damn it No one in Fo Shan knows martial arts at all I thought everyone was Wong Fei-hong here It turns out you are just bums You can't even fight, let alone defend yourselves Brothers, our efforts have not been wasted Nobody in Fo Shan knows martial arts We'll be rich this time Brothers, let's keep it up We open a club here to show them our might We will be No.1 in Fo Shan! You think you're good by beating a few nitwits Wait till you beat the best Who's the best in Fo Shan? Ip Man, of course! Go! Come with us! See how we shall defeat Ip Man Dad, there're lots of people outside What can I help you? Sir... they... Are you Ip Man? I'm Jin. Heard that Fo Shan's famous for kung-fu I understand, Master Jin. I understand You bring a crowd here to challenge me to a duel? Of course We're opening a club here to show our might To open a martial club... you need a good site. No need to fight with me Please leave! Uncle Wang, take Zhun inside Ip Man! Don't dillydally. Are you scared? You think our house is a martial club? Who's going to fight with you? Get lost! You heard that. I won't fight with you Please leave immediately I heard Wing Chun was invented by a woman That suits you just right Are you afraid of your wife, Ip? No men are afraid of their wives There're only men who respect their wives Don't worry, Mrs Ip. I won't beat him to death If you fear he'll lose, I'll use only one hand If that's not enough, I can use no hands at all Fight with him, Master Ip! Beat him up! I'm too disappointed by Fo Shan. Damn it! So many martial artists but none of them good Shut up! Don't break my things Get out of my way! You rascals You come at the right time This place is small. Please get outside and close the door on your way out You have to redeem our honor Ask them to leave. Hurry up! Can I just watch? Get out Hurry up! Get out! Get out! Get out! Wing Chun, Ip Man I really wanna see... how a man can fight like a woman Good kung-fu does not depend on age or sex but on how well you fight. You will know later I'll pay! Good! I'll pay! Dad, Mom said if you don't start fighting everything in the house will be broken Okay Little rogue Mind you language Bro... Bro... You all right, Master Jin? I'm fine! How about that, Master Jin? My kung-fu isn't too bad, eh? That's enough My northern boxing has lost to your southern one No, it's not a matter of northern or southern style The problem is you So who won? Look how depressed he is. He must have lost Get lost! Go back to your hometown! Get lost, you out-of-towners! Master! You fought very well, Ip! You've redeemed the honor of our martial clubs I was just lucky... Don't be modest. You are Canton's treasure! Thank you Take a look. It's imported Master Ip, flowers for your wife Thanks How much, boss? On the house, Master Ip I can't let you pay. You saved our honor How can that be? You're running a business Don't stand on ceremonies. Next time Okay, next time Fruits, Master Ip You're too kind. I can't For the kid Thank you Please come again. Goodbye Buddy Say thank you Take this Thank you You're welcome... Farewell How are you, Master Ip? How are you? How are you, Master Ip? That isn't bad at all Yes, this is the best in our shop Really? It's our honor if it can be placed in your house Thank you What's the occasion? Uncle Man. Auntie You plan on opening a martial club... why didn't you inform me first? When did I say that? Everybody in Fo Shan knows about it Everybody in Fo Shan but me Let me help you, Uncle Man Please accept me as your disciple, Master Ip Master. Madam Bro You must be the one spreading the rumor Keep order for me Come. Go yourself I don't care. Yao has to be your first disciple Come on. You've known me long enough I don't like having disciples Be quiet Stay in order Stay in order and hail: Master Ip! Master Ip... Master Ip! Master Ip... On July 7, 1937, the Marco Polo Incident broke out. Japan invaded China, robbing its people of their livelihood and causing rampant starvation all over the country. In October, 1938, Fo Shan was occupied by the Japanese army... ...who destroyed factories, infrastructures and buildings. The population of Fo Shan shrunk from more than 300,000 to just over 70,000. Only a dozen factories in the whole city remained in operation still. Ip's residence was also confiscated and turned into the headquarters of the Japanese army. Ip's family was rendered homeless, living an abject existence. Cheng, I'll step out for a sec. Will be right back Wait It's cold outside. Wear a jacket Hurry up. Me this side, you that side Be careful, Zhun. Don't hurt others I'll give you more, Master Ip Thank you Don't push! One by one Don't push One by one You get out of the way! The mill may be old but it's still productive Fo Shan is very chaotic these days You left already. Why did you come back? Who's going to feed the workers otherwise? All my money is invested in this mill I can't pay you back for now Don't worry. I almost forgot No, I'll consider you a shareholder then Let me calculate... you should have ten percent shares It's really unnecessary Stay and help out, now that you own it too Uncle Ip Yao You'll be helping out? That's great! Everyone will be lively under your leadership And I can watch you practice Wing Chun Ip, stay for lunch. It's lunchtime for the workers Yes, let's have lunch together No, thanks I'm not free. Next time Goodbye Dad, why didn't you ask Uncle Ip to stay? He doesn't like to owe people favors Dad, you used to practice martial arts, right? Why did you stop? I get hungry when I exercise So I need to exercise less, okay? Got it. I won't play outside from now on You'll only stop playing today. Go eat Hurry up and eat This congee is a bit too thick But you need to eat some Be careful it's hot How much rice is left at home? Don't worry I've pawned everything worth pawning I am strong. I can look for a job It's not the end of the world You look for a job? I didn't need to work. But it's different now There's always a first time We have enough people here We don't need to hire more. Sorry Boss, are you hiring? No Thank you You want to hire me, Boss... Boss... You, you, you... Come up here... You want to hire me, Boss... Here You're looking for a job, Master Ip? Come, come up... Thank you Brother Ip! You can't dress like that to work I didn't expect to pour coals here How are you, Master Ip? How are you? How are you, Master Ip? So many martial club masters here? The boss here used to practice martial arts too That's why he likes to employ martial artists By the way, are you still practicing? I'd rather used my time to scrape a living I can't finish it all. Help me, okay? Eat some How're your wife and son? They're fine. Thank you Did you find your brother? I couldn't locate him since he left Don't know if he's still alive I don't even have the chance to say sorry What have you lost? I lost an iron box What iron box? Japanese solders are coming! Dear workers This is Colonel Sato He appreciates Chinese martial arts He knows Fo Shan is famous for martial arts He wants to find Chinese martial artists to fight with the Japanese Would anyone want to go? Would anyone want to go? Would anyone want to go? Master? You want us to be sandbags? There's no door, I tell you! Airhead Whoever that wins will get one sack of rice Whoever that wins will get one sack of rice I'll go! Lin... Don't get into trouble I'm going too! Me too! They took all our rice. Now I can get them back The world is fair Forget it Help me find the iron box Let's go. It's okay. Come Be careful Come, let's line up Come, come, come... Anything else? No, let's go Yes! Master? General Thank you, General! Got to beat them all Let me join in the fun They're not good enough for General Miura I'll show the Chinese what Japanese kung-fu's like Find three men to fight with me Give them rice even if they lose Yes, sir! I've done you a favor again General Miura will fight with three of you You can get rice whether you win or not The rice is not important. I just wanna beat them Who will be going? I will... Let go of me... Stop shouting! Lin, you and you... The three of you Okay! You've spit blood. Stop fighting We've lost General, they admitted defeat Your really wanna die? You asshole! Lin, how are you? Lin... Lin... Were you tired today? Pouring coal is not tiring at all I saw Lin today Really? How is he? Not bad I didn't expect to see him again Master Li, Master Hong Master Ip Did you see Lin? Lin? No No, I didn't Let's eat first Lots of us received rice yesterday General Miura was very satisfied. Anybody wants to go today? Anybody? Li... Li... Where's Lin? Anybody wants to go? I'm asking you. Where's Lin? I don't know Of course you do. You took him away Anybody wants to go? You'll get rice if you win Me! If Master Ip is going, I'll go too! Me too! I wanna have a good fight with the Japanese Anything else I can do? No, you can go Thanks Can I fight three more people? He said he wanted to fight three more people That's it for me... Why did you open fire? Li! Why did you open fire? Li! Why did you open fire? Who let you open fire? He took the rice even though he's lost so... I wanted to teach him a lesson This place is for tournaments only Never open fire here anymore Got it! Please calm down, General Miura I'll arrange the next tournament for you Continue! Who else wants to fight? Me! Li! Open the gate! Master... Open the gate! Tell me, was Lin beaten to death? Open the gate Master... Open the gate! Please open the gate I wanna fight ten people! You crazy? Please don't I wanna fight ten people! He said he wanted to fight ten people Ten? Yes Let's see how good he is Unit 5! Unit 1, Unit 3, Unit 5 Start! Be careful Stay back! Come back again He wants you to come back again I'm not here for the rice He said... he would come back What's your name? He wants to know your name I'm just a Chinese His name is Ip Man Be careful in the future I don't know what Miura might do Lackey! Why am I a lackey? Their deaths got nothing to do with me. I'm just an interpreter I need to scrape a living too! Scrape a living? You watch your countrymen get beaten to death. Where's your dignity? I don't have any You do. You have lots of it If you have the guts, go beat them up! Beat as many as you can! I'm an interpreter, not a lackey... I'm a Chinese! I'm back Daddy You're back? Have you been good? Yes Good boy Are you tired today? Go wash your face first You're so good I realize today I'm useless I can't do anything I practiced marital arts before But so what? This world... is minuscule I'm so useless I don't care what the world is like I only know I'm very happy now As long as you, me, and Zhun... can stay together, everything will be okay It's essential for a family to stay together Get off! Get off! Get off... Stand over there! On the side! Stand over there... Who's the boss? Come out! I am I just took your goods. You can buy them back Is that okay? I don't have money Don't beat my dad anymore! Wing Chun? Damn it! Wing Chun? Don't beat him! Do you have money? I don't Do you? No... I'll keep beating you till you have! The goods haven't been sold... I don't have money Uncle Ip! Uncle Ip... Please save my dad. He's almost beaten to death What's the matter, Yao? Auntie Let me go see what happens. It's okay I'm very reasonable It's fine if you don't have money now I'll give you some time to raise it As for the goods, I'll keep them for now Master Ip Dad, are you okay? I'm fine. Go help Uncle Fu How can I help? I thought your martial arts were impractical Now I know it's very useful I should've learnt some martial arts from you At least I can defend myself Uncle Ip, please stay and teach us martial arts so that we can defend ourselves Master Ip You're such an expert. Please teach us Yes, Master Ip. Please teach us I'm a businessman I know nothing other than running a business I can't protect them, but you can In peaceful days, it's okay if you refused to teach But in bad times now, shouldn't you do something? Teaching martial arts is very costly Are you paying their fees? You owe me again? Uncle Ip, I'll be your first disciple Dad, I wanna be taller Taller? Why hasn't Ip Man come back? I... I don't know... Find him I don't know where he is I don't know howto find him How big is Fo Shan? How difficult can it be to find him? Fo Shan is indeed very big No... Please don't... I really don't know where he is... Useless thing! Enough! Asshole! Paper, stone, scissors! You lost You colluded? Hide well Zhun That way I'm coming. I'll find you guys Master What're you here for? Miura wants you to go back and fight him Go away I can't Why not? Why not? What do you want? What do you want? How pretty! Shit Let's go. It's not safe here Let's go, Cheng Li You're a piece of shit! How could you let Ip run away? I'm sorry... Even Colonel Sato could not stop him... I've tried my best already... Sorry Shut up! Utterly useless! Tell them... to dig Ip out! This is an order Yes, sir Little Sis Brother, eat something How's the master? Okay. They are all fine Master Coming Madam See if it fits? So are you well adapted here? Yes That's good I'll let you know when the meal is ready Li... I'm fine I really don't know what to say Thank you It's okay We better leave Fo Shan as soon as possible Quan is trying to find a solution for us Where shall we go? Hong Kong In fact, it doesn't matter where I still have some friends in Hong Kong If something happens to me... What can happen to you? Nothing will happen to you They are here again! Let's scram! They are here! They are here! Is the money ready? We won't give you money! What did you say? I'm not afraid of you! You can't bully us! You want me to beat you up? Damn it! Whoever dares to resist... just beat him up! Stop it! No wonder they dare to resist They've found a bodyguard You spurned me for opening a club in Fo Shan And today, you wanna mess with me again? You wanna chase me away? No one wanna chase you away Ip, have you ever been hungry every day? Everybody is hungry nowadays The first day I came to Fo Shan, I told myself... I would never be hungry again I will never be hungry again! Keep beating! Beat them! Yuan, why you still idling here? Go! Kill them! Kill them! Go How can we get near him? Let's go! Master, you were so good! Yuan Stop there! You know what you're doing? I know. I'm a robber You're robbing the Chinese I'd rather be the bully than the bullied I want everyone to be scared of me! Your brother asked me to give this... Don't talk about him! You know your brother is dead? He's beaten to death by the Japanese He looked for you everywhere but couldn't find you Everyone needs to choose his own path Master That guy told Miura you're at the cotton mill Don't go back, ok? I gotta go. Remember, don't go back Scram! Hurry up! Where's Ip Man? Where's Ip Man? Tell me! Don't say a word You, come here Where's Ip Man? Tell me! I'm asking you! Hang in there. I'll figure out something Speak! Speak! Speak up... I'm here! I'm Ip Man... I'm here... Li! Wait! Wait! Please wait! Li, tell Miura the workers are innocent Ask Miura to release them I told you not to come back. Why did you? Tell him! Shit! Sato! He dares to hit me... Can't we put him to death? I know what I'm doing Li Yes Since the day you resisted the Japanese army you've already been a dead man But you're talented, you can be useful to us So I'll give you one chance to be loyal to the Japanese Emperor Teach our army Chinese kung-fu That way, we might still spare your life He wanted you to teach the Japanese kung-fu I won't teach the Japanese You wanna see me fight? I'll fight with you He said he would think about it He wants to have a duel with General Miura Take him away! Take him away! Quan, take my wife and kid away from Fo Shan Master Ip... General, you really wanna fight with Ip? Of course He's an expert But he doesn't look like... he wants to teach the Imperial Army He must have other motives trying to fight with you General, don't fight with him Let me simply shoot him dead He challenges me to a fight because he thinks he's better than me If I refuse to accept the challenge but shoot him instead... isn't that the same as admitting defeat? Fighting with a Chinese is not just a matter of personal honor for you It has to do with the national honor of our Empire Are you saying I will lose? I only fear for the worst I will win for sure I'll let the whole China know I've won Yes! I understand! I want you to teach us instead of killing you because I appreciate your talent But I don't think Chinese kung-fu is better than Japanese We will fight in front of everybody That's why we need a fain' tournament You invaded our country and killed our people Stop being hypocritical Excuse me Let go of me! Let me go back! Let go of my mom... I promised Ip nothing would happen to you It's too dangerous to go back I heard the Japanese are fighting the Chinese Who's fighting? Ip Man Look, the whole place is sealed up now In the past... I wished he could be with me every day So I always complained about his practice Every time he had a duel with someone... I would throw a tantrum I never truly supported him doing what he liked Now... This could be his last duel I fear there won't be another chance Why don't you give me this chance? Why? General Miura says... For the sake of Sino-Japanese cultural exchange, he is having a fain' tournament with Master Ip today to share their knowledge in a friendly manner, and to bring true peace between the two countries Fain' tournament? Is it possible? That traitor will surely be killed by the Japanese That's right Shut up! Here comes Master Ip! General Miura talked about a tournament But I don't give a damn! Listen up If you win I will kill you Remember this! Yes! You better let Miura win later Or he won't let you live It's more important to stay alive Although martial arts involves armed forces Chinese martial arts is Confucian in spirit The virtue of martial arts is benevolence You Japanese will never understand the principle of treating other people as you would yourselves Because you abuse military power You turned it into violence to oppress others You don't deserve to learn Chinese martial arts Ip Man! Ip Man! Ip Man refused to be subjugated by the Japanese army... ...and used his fists to call forth the unity of the Chinese people. Assisted by his good friend Zhou Qingquan, the wounded Ip Man successfully fled Fo Shan with his wife and son. On August 15, 1945, Emperor Hirohito of Japan announced that Japan would surrender unconditionally. The Chinese finally won and ended a war that lasted eight long years. In 1949, the Grandmaster Ip Man settled in Hong Kong. He started his first Wing Chun class at Kowloon Hotel's Staff Association Headquarters, turning a new leaf in his life. In 1967, Grandmaster Ip Man started the Wing Chun Athletic Association to foster... ...the spirit of Wing Chun with a group of like-minded enthusiasts, fulfilling the most cherished dream of his later years. Until now, Wing Chun has become a world renowned branch of Chinese martial arts. The lineage of Grandmaster Ip Man's disciples has exceeded 2 million people. There are lots of talented people among his disciples, including the most illustrious action star of all, Bruce Lee.
