 

                        At the end of Meiji period, who had been certified by the psychological experts... as the "See-Through" supernatural specialist Mihune Chizuru She is known as "The Vision of Thousand Miles" she is very famous at the time, but took poison for suicide at the end many rumors flowing around about why but there is one certain explanation: before she took suicide, a pretty woman told her everything this pretty woman is... the girl on the newspaper headline, herself! dad looks quite happy yeah, but mom doesn't look quite happy why? because there is a man who always work what can I do? The work just keeps coming everybody has a job, how come only you're so busy? right? Nana? yeah, dad is weird I know, I'm in trouble if I speak... uERRORv is there public phone around? mine doesn't work not around here I guess god damn it! we just passed by one but now it's very far away really? no, i'm not going back please, if I don't make this call I'll be dead if we turn around now it will be midnight when we get to tokyo it's about my career future, I beg you! then,if you promise me something, I might! what? you even bargain with me for that? Nana, this time dad is going to sing with us ready~ go! - Dad, I want you to sing too - Ok... uMessage Transferring...v mom, this is broken, can't open it usmall saloon was hit by a truckv uSatomi Nana]5 Years old^v well, ask your dad for help uabout 8 o'clock pmv wait a second what's wrong? Nana Dad, mom Help! Help! Mom! Nana Tonight around 8 o'clock, in Fukushima ken... there is a saloon collide face to face with a truck in this accident... Satomi Hideki and his wife Satomi ayaka was luck to escape this tragedy In the car, 5 years old young girl Satomi Nana... According to police investigation, the truck driver was dead in the accident And from the investigaiton, the driver might be napping The truck took away the life from 5 years old Nana At the scene, the wreckages splatter everywhere even after several hours Saw the newspaper? - Newspaper? - The newspaper said! Before the accident happened, the news is out! you saw it too right? Nana... can't see it? Newspaper, newspaper - it's around here - stop it! on the newspaper, it says that I... stop! Foretell ...the story is about it grabbed and eaten us all but, because not thinking at that time doesn't feel very horrible just in his hand... when I grab it, just feel... soft... in the middle of the palm... Please Teacher Please give it to me I took it You must be tired Oko teacher, you feeling alright? i'm fine if I have good mood, the image will be more clear I'm so sorry, make you feel happy is also our ultimate goal sometimes let the experimenter to concentrate is also very tough I know, don't worry - then let's proceed to the next one - please please read this newspaper newspaper? yes newspaper I resist the submitter is anonymous this is the teacher's "Mind Photo" right? i'm sorry, not today if I offended you please forgive me but please give it a try no matter what this is not part of the research is it? it's your private problem right? i'm sorry please wait as for myself, I beg you once more! Please! you divorced right? Teacher can also see the past? no have you heard of "confession record"? about the long past, far away future, every record it's all kept in somewhere in this universe you mean, that kind of place exists in reality? it sends out message from there according to those message, human will evolve a lot of consequences about "Foretell"... do you want to know? Horrible news yes someone name this phenomenon as "Horrible news" if you know anything, could you please tell me? it's been researched for a long time, where does he live is still a myth besides you, there are a lot of people feel interested about it yesterday someone send a message from Yamanashi KEN he said he received the newspaper please speak more about that mean in detail but, it's also the last contact after than, he's gone missing not discovered now, might not be found anymore stop now, if we keep continue... then it would be too dangerous that scar... it's deeper than 3 days ago... Help! Mom! Mom! Satomi teacher, here is the name list for the conference next week please fill that up and pass it down uCan't not Attendv Satomi teacher, here is the name list for the conference next week please fill that up and pass it down - what are you doing? - I'm doing it for kindness... what kindness! it's redundant! but it's free for one month anyway - I hate newspaper, I hate it when I see it! - ok hello? I'm Tachihara hello? hello? are you the teacher? Oko? gone... hello anyone? I'm Tachihara from the university anyone here? teacher uthe rotten woman body in the bathroomv uauto timer causes 19 people died!v uAxe attack!v uHashimoto Risa suicidev uLighting bolt killed 4 peoplev uthe machinegun in the hallway of high schoolv uGiant billow flips fishing shipsv uGhost shadow contactsv uthe Ghost shadowv teacher hello? you there? oh, it's you what's wrong? I just want to hear your voice what happened? can I go to your place now? what can I do? everything has been changed it's still about the newspaper What are you saying? I'm not crazy! Hello, hello? newspaper teacher saw it too - that kind of newspaper - what are you trying to say? - Wakakubo - I got the newspaper too it's the same as the teacher's wait a second, I... I didn't do anything that's good, just do nothing I didn't do anything that's good, just do nothing I can't do anything... uWakakubov teacher you got it? teach also... Wakakubo Wakakubo! are you ok?! what's wrong with you? are you alright? Wakakubo Wakakubo Wakakubo Wakakubo Wakakubo Wakakubo where? who is it? your ex-husband I finally understand through all these days ok and... coming the newspaper sayuri is dead...! I knew it, but I couldn't do anything... it's the same happen to Nana I'm like killing people, it's not different at all! stop, don't speak it's because of Me! everytime... I'm always late! No! - I... - alright! Nana, and that girl's death... it's not your fault at all! the Mind Photo, she also left don't be guilty, there is no time let's go to a place together I still can't believe this is when we just inside the hospital this is the picture half years later this is 13 years old sitll left some remnant at the beginning, it is written on notebook after it's full, it was written on the wall then the fecal matter then I use nail injecting sedative does not help at all finally, if the guard is loosen a bit bytes off the private part to write the blood letter we can't do anything wait so that's it? it's just death anyway eventually... we're all gonna die what's wrong with you... just reading the newspaper, reminds me that day reminds me my Nana at that time... it's fine if we don't turn back it's fine if I forget about the work it's fine if i don't read the newspaper it's better if I'm dead! I feel the same way as you do! Leave me alone! you're a coward! Dad Dad Dad - I'm Tachihara - I'm Miyamoto what's wrong? about the phone number you gave me, I found the address hello? uFujisan cliff collapsing, 8 people diedv Today afternoon about 5 o'clock, the mountain located in the Kawasaki KEN, Niikawagun which is Fujisan had a serious cliff collapsing up till now, already 8 people confirmed dead right now the recue had begun at the scene it's terrible I wrote it myself becomes truth it's embarrassed, there is no time it's hard to say if it is not her research I might still be hating you what time is it now? am? morning weird I can't feel time at all yesterday I got this thing Gas explosion happened in Hitaka city, a family of five people have all been killed how to treat the prediction in the Horrible news... is what I care the most I want to try it on my own it says on the newspaper that the people should be dead... if I warned them before things happened this is a monitor recording because I can change the prediction, no one knows what will happen but I've changed their fate perhaps because of this my body have something like this appeared... scars like this... what will it be in the future I'll try my best to record them down Killers attack, 3 people family are killed it will happen after 2 hours give them a phone call, maybe we can save them just like that person did don't! if you keep writing down I'll be like that man what should I do? I... why you want to search the newspaper? it's because I believe you that day Nana was dead that day if I trusted you I wouldn't lose Nana I... I... I'm sorry Ayaka Don't worry We'll find a way out Work... forget it today I'm fine about that but being afraid isn't going to help I'm right here reading all these data alright I'll be back tonight, don't go out uover hundreds of people diedv uThe train in Xiaotaku Ken derailedv udeath listv Tatibara ayaka wait u5 o'clock pmv Please, pick up! NO! what's wrong? nothing Ayaka Ayaka Ayaka - what's wrong? - don't go up! Don't take the train! - No! - Misato! can I take a look at her? please her face... is gone Misato Misato Misato here we are I had a dream don't worry we're well prepared wait maybe we can't... live together again I I love this photo the most remember? the apartment we lived in when we just merried at that time, I'm so happy better than here just,the wall is too thin Nana's crying always brings complains of the neighbors you snore too loud, I even hit you what's wrong? what? don't worry but it's coming! No! it's no use to runaway no use! what's wrong? your scar... don't touch me what do you want? I finally calm down and now it's you you're the one who broke up first! I've heard enough about the weird newspaper! how can I say to make you understand! I'm like this already, don't bother me anymore! Ayaka, no! don't come here again! Ayaka, Ayaka why is this... how's going? Doctor, doctor Wakakubo it's no use to change the future Nana's death, mine, it's all our destiny teacher we can't do anything teach me, Wakakubo right now the scene has just begun the recuing terrible huh? trying to change the prediction from the newspaper? your fate is your choice you also changed the prediction on the newspaper? please teach me am I dead? dead? it would be great if I'm dead what's that mean? it's a dream, it's truth it's alive, or it's dead? I can't even tell - what should I do? - hell! let you go to hell! go back to the most painful moment Nana let's ask Dad for help Ayaka, come out from there! what are you doing! come here! Dad what's wrong with his father? no! don't lie to me! Dad it's full, can't put anymore what are you doing? come on, give me a hand what's wrong? i can't see the road you'll fall off! but bear blocks my view, I can't see where are you going? - Nana - what? faster! what? - Hurry! - what? Dad is weird uSaloon collide face to face with a truck, 3 people family died instantlyv your destiny you choose understand! let's ask Dad for help Ayaka, come out there quick! - what are you doing? - you wait here! don't move! Dad Nana! Nana! Nana, Hurry! Eiki - I made it! - what? Hurry up, go go hurry! I finally made it! uSatomi eikiv TLF chinese subtitle website
