 

                        "Tokyo, 1987" "The March-born cat is crying" "From morning to night" "You must be tempted" "The abandoned cat and the roommate" "Better not fall from the window" "Don't make me repeat it over and over" "Beyond the window are the cherry blossom trees" "I guess you want to go out and play" "Would you like to try our new gum?" Here you go, enjoy Free samples of our new gum The new Kiss Mint, a avor of the forest The new Kiss Mint. Would you like to try it? Thank you, enjoy A avor of the forest! "Stop your alarm clock!" - Fresh arrival? - Fresh? Oh, yes, I just moved here today from Nagasaki Ah, you must be a student I'm Kogure, unit 205 Uh, I'm Yonosuke Yokomichi That your real name? Well, yes Huh, unusual name. Common in Nagasaki? No, not exactly Say, is that alarm clock always on, mm? Yeah, who knows if anyone's even home Maybe the person's dead I guess that's common in Tokyo...? No, of course not Shoot, the beef... The beef I'm cooking stew - Want some? - I'd love some Wait, really? Oh, uh... No thank you, then Yes or no? Um, well, I guess... Well, which is it? In that case... "Hosei University Entrance Ceremony" This is your first step towards allowing... your abilities to blossom Once again I remind all you freshmen... that in this day and age, such self-awareness and diligence... are what will instill in you the capacity to serve as leaders... who will guide our society towards continued progress This blows, huh? Excuse me? I had a weird dream and got a hard on Sorry, what's your major? Business admin Me, too! What's your name? I'm lppei Kuramochi Yokomichi Yokomichi? What's your full name? Yonosuke Yokomichi Okay, Okay Excuse me Sorry, excuse me Was this school your first choice? No, I applied to Waseda but got rejected Me, too! Man, we're like best friends already But I'm gonna apply to Waseda again to transfer next year What, take the exam again? I mean, we have a long life ahead of us We do? We can't have everything decided here already - Decide what? - You know, life Life... right Hey, I have a question This goes to Student Affairs, right? We turn this in to Student Affairs, right? Yeah I heard you can also mail it in Mail? Oh, thanks Straight from high school? Uh, yeah My name's Yui Akutsu Oh... I'm Yonosuke Yokomichi Yonosuke? It's like a comedian name - Your eyelids - My eyelids? They're stylish Thanks Say, what're you doing afterwards? I was going to check out the clubs Well then, if you don't mind, can I come with you? It's lonely going around alone Oh, sure Really? Wow Come join the fishing club! Fishing is great! You, come fish with us! You'll love it! Hey, Yokomichi! - Who's that? - Um, well... - Your friend? - Not really... Sorry, my friend's here. I have to go Man, they grab you and won't let go Who're you? What's your major? Uh... business admin Wow, same as us And you were... Kuramochi We met at the ceremony You're from... Chiba, right? No, Nagasaki They want me to join the samba club - So do it - No way, man So what's your name? Yui Akutsu I'm Kuramochi Something on your eyelids Glue on your eyelids Oh, it's a type of makeup Yeah, it looks weird Hey, you shouldn't... This thing on your eye... That's enough What's your problem? What's your problem? It's rude, we just met I don't even know you You see, I have a tendency to get too excited I think I got too carried away just now Wait, don't do that Your eyelashes will come off Ow, that's gotta hurt - I can't take this! - Stop this noise! Kiyoshi, I don't remember you reading books like these Despair What? It's a record of one man's despair Oh, right One must embrace it That's so deep You know, Auntie was worried about you She said you shouldn't be a writer because writers commit suicide Ozawa So you're studying mass communications, mm? Yes Great, they say media is the Third Power Right Together we can change the world Yes, sir What's the first and second, mm? Say, Yonosuke - Dance - Huh? Listen to me Dance while you're still young Don't bother asking why As you go on dancing, you'll be on the other side before you know it What other side? You know, the other side Ozawa, you understand, mm? Oh, yes, I do One day you'll understand Come on, Ozawa, dance Yonosuke, you too No thanks, I'm already dancing Huh? I'm already dancing What the hell am I doing? Samba, of course I need to get into Waseda. I don't have time for this Looking good, Yonosuke Thanks You look good, too - Good, now turn - Turn? Turn No, like this I didn't want to come to this camp But Yui kept inviting me You don't say Yui-san? Not since the day we met I decided not to use san san with any new girls I meet Helps to break the ice You think so? Just learning from high school mistakes Freshmen, time for a meeting! In Samba style! Remember to turn off the light Yes, sir You think lshida-san is going out with Kiyodera-san? Huh, I dunno You see, I... What, you like Kiyodera-san? No, what gave you that idea? Oh, you don't? By the way, are you a virgin? No Aren't you? I'm not - You are - Am not C'mon, don't lie I'm telling you, I'm not Shut up, it was a classmate What was her name? Who cares? What about you? No, I am not a virgin It was pretty recent, though Rinse all the shampoo off Not Kiyodera-san Yui Akutsu, right? How'd you know? She's the only girl you're friends with You're going out? I dunno if you call it going out, but... that's the thing What's the thing? Well, like, we're in the same... industrial theory class - And... - Interesting class? No, it's totally boring Anyway, ever since that first day we met, it's been awkward I wanted to fix things, so I invited her to get coffee But she turned me down, so I got persistent I kept asking her over and over, and we finally had coffee And so, she says she went and bought a book shelf, but can't assemble it on her own So that means I've gotta do it, right? I dunno No, I'm telling you Sol go to her room, and... you know, we kissed - What? You kissed? - Yup Hey, hey, hey- No pointing - You left out stuff - I didn't - You left out stuff - I didn't It was just magical, you know You ever had that? I dunno It was this natural transition... from the bookshelf to kissing Yeah, I just got here I'm about to see him I know Where's Tomoyo? I see Don't worry, I won't yell I know, I know Go ahead Thank you Sorry for the trouble he's caused And you are...? I'm the manager here, Handa Been looking after him since he finished junior high I'm very sorry, sir Why'd you keep my daughter out so late? Well, it was his birthday that day, you see He was stuck here late, working overtime, when your daughter suddenly showed up So it's her fault now? Tomoyo says she wants to live with you after junior high How old are you? I'm 18 You're just getting started Why decide your life now? But... I don't know what she told you, but my wife and I met in college. This isn't the same Sir, the kid's not an idiot You stay out of this It's true I didn't finish high school, but I'm... going to save up and open my own shop So what? It doesn't matter! Sir, please... Tomoyo's still in junior high She needs to experience things All I'm asking is that you let her think about her life Where's Tomoyo? In her room Has she eaten? She'll be eating by tomorrow - Want rice? - Not yet By the way... I went to lchigaya for work today I had time so I walked to the university The campus has all these tall buildings now Yeah, I saw on the Internet And you know what? All of a sudden, I remembered Yokomichi Yokomichi... Oh, Yonosuke? Right, Yonosuke Man, haven't seen him in ages Wonder how he's doing Actually, we sort of met because of him Wait, did we? Remember when we went to that samba training camp? Oh, I remember I was in the bath with him when I told him about us Told him what? About what? What was it? I forgot Silly You a student? Yes, sir Party while you can Yes, sir Here's your room, sir After you Getting the hang of it? More or less Got a fat tip, huh? Don't tell boss. He'll take it Do you get big tips, too? Sometimes, but after a while you won't want to work anymore Here you go Welcome You're late, man - What's that? - Mm? This suit? Installment payment Hello - Coffee, babe - Yes, sir What is this place anyway, mm? This? A joint that's popular with girls in the biz Biz? What business? You know, models, budding actresses... Buddin? So stop fidgeting It's embarrassing You're embarrassing I study media, remember? My colleague and I went around to talent agencies We just got back from Sony Records, you know? We spoke to the manager, and what can I say? He's totally interested in our event My colleague Kinoshita-san is unstoppable right now Hey, are you listenin? Wait, is that...? Is that what? You know her? Yeah, well, kind of Anyway, I'm thinking of starting a club that puts on dance parties Enough about you Who is she? A socialite that preys on men A party girl, as they say What's a party girl, mm? You know, like... They irt with guys, show up at parties... Mysterious figures They irt, mm? They're mysterious, mm? Yeah Her name's Chiharu Katase, sort of famous My friend from back home... You... Uh, yes? Interested in a gig? Mind if I borrow him? - No, uh... what? - Come with me okay You're going? I guess I'm going Wait, you're going? Here's your coffee Hey, did something happen? You need to come to practice. The parade's coming up Parade? What parade? The samba parade, of course Oh, samba Not really in the mood for samba right now Say, where's Kuramochi? Haven't seen him lately Well, you see, he refuses to leave my room Why? Is he depressed? Quite the opposite, I think Kuramochi is lucky He falls in love with someone his age... so much easier What? What're you talking about? Wanna hear it? - No, long story, right? - I'll make it short No, gotta go to my next class Hey, wait just a minute Listen, I've got a little girl trouble going on... - Did You eat lunch? - No Shall we eat together, then? I'll return the 50 yen I borrowed I'm sorry, but I don't know you Wait, didn't you loan me 50 yen at the cafeteria once? No Remember? I was short 50 yen, so you noticed and... - not me - Not you? You got the wrong guy Wanna have lunch anyway? Wait, what's your name? Well, I'm Kato Cool, I'm Yokomichi Hang on, Kato. I'll get my bag Let's go So are you going to explain about your "pinky?" Pinky? Who said anything about my pinky? Kato, were you even listening to me? Well, not really So you see, this Chiharu-san told me... that I need to become a real man I really meant it 'With the company in this state, I'm willing to abandon everything and elope with you It's true I can't promise I can make you happy, but... But still, if I'm going to be unhappy, I'd rather... I'd rather be with you Please, not in front of my brother Here, and here Sign them Sign them Thanks, you were great All I did was sit there It's fine, it was all I needed So you're a student? Uh, yes, and I also work here Oh, you do? Maybe we'll meet again Uh, yes By then, you'd better have become a real man A real man? Yeah A man I could fall for Let me tell you, since we're not even friends... What? We're friends now, right? Uh, well, whatever the case... A woman that toys with a BMW-driving guy. Seems to be out of your league She's not toying with him The BMW guy is just head over heels for her - You got a driver's license? - No Without a license, you don't have a chance I better get going I guess you're right I guess I need a license, at least Hey, you know... Wanna get a license for real? Why? I was thinking of taking driving lessons There's a discount for referring friends 5% off for both of us, pretty good But are we friends? We're friends We're friends, huh? You don't sweat at all Don't touch me with your sweaty hands What? You know her? She approached me yesterday Why? She asked me on a date No way, impossible! What does that mean? She said to bring a friend. Wanna come? You mean, a double date? It's gotta be a trap. It's too good to be true Fine, I'll tell her no No, don't do that! I didn't say no Weren't you into a certain "pinky?" Man, a double date... You better get it nice and organized Fine, I'll do it, but I'm not really into girls Yeah, right Stop acting like you're so cool I'll come over today Huh? Why? - You have air conditioning? - Yeah - I don't - Not my problem. Now turn around You sweat all over the desk You're such a dork I do samba and stuff Oh, I see, that's nice About Kato-san... Kato-san Oh, right, Kato What is he like? What's he like? You know, he's pretty much the same all the time All the time...? Which is... like how, exactly? Well, I guess, like, if you ask him a question, he'll answer you If he asks a question occasionally, you know, I answer back When an opinion is requested, it's met with a response Kato, you're late, man. I was waiting Hello Where's your friend? She should be here soon She's always on the dot I see What? She's here Thanks Good day to you Good day to you Hello, ma'am Doing well? What if it's not a good day? How should I know? - That's not her dad, is it? - He's the driver - Like in the movies. - Shut up My old friend, Shoko Yosano Hi, I'm Kato Kato-san Oh, I'm Yonosuke Yokomichi You shouldn't... A wonderful name, with alliteration Anyway, shall we go? Hi, table for four Sorry, we're pretty full We can seat you separately, though Should we try another place? I'm fine sitting separately Well? I'm quite fine as well Hi, can I order something? Sure, just a sec - Can I get a napkin? - Sure, just a moment Say, your friend Mutsumi... seems to be really into Kato She quite fancies handsome men Here you go, burger with everything. Enjoy So Shoko-chan, what does your dad do? Well, it's diff cult to explain Some shady business? Oh, it's nothing shady It's called waste soil disposal Waste soil? They dump soil into the sea to create landfill He says his dream is to fill Tokyo Bay one day Sure he doesn't mean bury a body in Tokyo Bay? Did I say something funny? Bury a body in Tokyo Bay! I'll mention that to him No, don't! Then he'll really bury me in Tokyo Bay Oh my goodness... Shoko-chan, Shoko-chan Are you in any clubs? Yes, I'm in the poetry club Poetry, really? I'm in the samba club You're joking Samba? Careful, Shoko-chan Shoko-chan The fork and knife Oh, my hat Ketchup on your nose Yonosuke-san Yonosuke-san Yonosuke-san Yonosuke-san, are you... here! I'm so glad you're here wait, you may not! Hang on Just a second Be right there Good day to you Good day, yeah I telephoned a few times, but it seems you're never home How'd you find out where I live? I called and asked Kato-san Oh, I see So, why the sudden visit? Oh, would you like to go to the pool? The pool? When? Right now, of course I can't, it's too sudden It'll be delightful Pool, huh? Yonosuke-san Yono! This is my older brother... Well, half-brother Ooh, she said it I'm Katsuhiko, her brother Well, half-brother Yikes! Have some champagne And some prosciutto Well, cheers What're you doing here? I'm not exactly sure myself, actually So you're dating Katsuhiko's sister? What? I am? I dunno, that's what I heard No, we're not dating Anyway, that's not important Just promise me Don't tell anyone about the other day Pretending to be your brother? Yeah, that... Okay? You're amazing, Yonosuke-san! He's like an Olympic swimmer Yonosuke-san! Shoko-chan Yonosuke-san! You can stand, you know Is that lady, Chiharu-san... your brother's girlfriend? Oh, not at all - Really? - Yes, I mean, she's... What? Oh, never mind Anyway, your swimming is marvelous! How did you get so fast? I grew up near the beach I used to swim everyday That sounds lovely I'd love to go there Not much there, but you should come someday I certainly will I've never been to Kyushu You should definitely come - Can I really come? - Sure You're going home to Kyushu for summer break, yes? Well, yeah, I'm going... So you're inviting me to come visit then, right? Turn that off, man Look, this is where I collapse I thought you were embarrassed about doing samba You actually love it I know, so watch! See? Yup, you collapsed Apparently I told them, "Forget me, just go" Uh-huh Can't believe I said that I was unconscious from a heat stroke Say, were you going back home tomorrow? Yeah Staying here today, too? I'll depart and arrive here. That's cool, right? I guess so Could you just stop that video? The samba rhythm's seeping into me Hey, Kato Kato What do you want? About Chiharu-san... That again? You think she's like a... a prostitute or something? Ozawa seemed to suggest as much After I eat this I'm going out Where to? For a walk I'll go with you You don't need to come I'm coming Hey, where are we going? Look, mosquitoes. Let's go back I said you can go back! The only thing up ahead is the park I heard parks at night are full of thugs and dangerous Hey, remember when I told you. I'm not really into girls? You said that? You see, I prefer guys Understand? Are you saying you're... What? No! You're not my type Anyway, now you know If it makes you uncomfortable, just don't come anymore What? - I can't come over? - I didn't say that You're not shocked? Why? What do you mean, why? This park is for people like me You see, I... I'm here seeking that sort of company I shouldn't be here, then! Exactly, you shouldn't be here Okay, I'll wait here, then That's not the point! It's fine, I won't get in the way Go on Aren't you going? Shut up What're you doing? Sorry Thanks You ate this like a rodent Gave you the bigger one Here - You sure? - Yeah What's so funny? Oh, nothing It's a bit creepy Well, it's completely trivial What is it? You see, today I passed by a really sweaty guy He reminded me of someone, but I couldn't remember I just remembered who it was You're right, it's trivial I told you - Cheers - Cheers It was a good friend just as I started college We met when he mistook me for someone else So, were you into him? What? Into Yokomichi? No way His first name is Yonosuke I'm not even kidding Yonosuke Yokomichi... Sounds vaguely familiar Maybe from a magazine I really doubt it He was weird, but a rich girl took a liking to him What? I forgot, you never met him Of course not That's right... Huh, I feel kind of lucky What does that mean? It's like the fact that I knew him... makes me luckier than you, somehow Unusual for you - Complimenting someone like that. - You think? You said no one in college was interesting Did I say that? I misspoke, then He was definitely interesting Wait, is he... ' What? - Sorry Look, it's Kiyoshi How's high school, mm? Studying hard? Sure, good to be back Quit messing around with girls Better study hard! I'm home You're late Shoko-san's already here Yonosuke-san Welcome back Thought you coming tomorrow I was suddenly able to come. I called you a few times She says you weren't home Said you done collapsed doing samba, mm? What you smiling for? So, you do lotsa cooking? Lotsa? You funny Used to ies? Oh, no Lots out here in the country Know what a y sticker is? I'm afraid not Don't got these in Tokyo, mm? Don't touch it! What? Honey, Yonosuke says the oven's empty! That right? You'll love this Thank you I could hit that with my eyes closed This here's sea bream, horse mackerel Thank you, it looks delicious Ito's gonna do it I like this hitter Second best man after me He did it! See, my hunches are always right - Sir, I'll pour some more. - Why, thank You Which gentleman hit it? Ito... san San Ito-san Ito-san She's adorable Ito-san! Ito-san! Fabulous! - Be safe. - I will Yonosuke-san, good night Good night - See You tomorrow. - See You Yonosuke You marrying her? What? She's a terrific gal But aren't you too young, mm? No, it's not like that Then what is it? I'm not really sure myself How could you not know? Who is she, then? Tell us who she is Like I said, she's just a friend Just a friend? I think so... Hey, he's here! Look, Yonosuke's here! Park here Can you hold this? Help him back in Left, left Keep coming Okay, you're fine Left, left Sorry Keep coming I hear some honking Keep coming You're fine Sorry, just a moment! He took off 'Will he come back? I'm sure he will Over here! Back up a bit What the hell were you doing? I was doing my best Been a while Yeah Oh, hello Hi, I'm Kurihara Good day to you. My name is Shoko Yosano - I'm Koike - Koike-san Thank you This is Shoko-chan We know Hello Sakura's dating Jiro now I know, Ozawa told me oh, yeah? Long time no see Let's go - Sorry we're late. - No sweat You and Shoko-chan fighting or something? Huh? Why? It's obvious She was sitting in the back No, she gets carsick in the passenger seat How's Ozawa doing? Wearing some ashy suit, studying mass communications He did say he wanted to be a TV announcer You're jokin. No, I'm serious What a nice day Your swimsuit is cute Really? Yours are adorable, too This is great There they are Yonosuke-san! Apologies for the delay! So hot Sorry! Man, I'm exhausted Me, too Someone's toss was terrible Hey, man Shoko-chan, you were jumping Yeah, jumping all over Been dating her long? Well, I don't know if I'd say we're dating... You're dating Jiro, right? Let's not talk about that Yonosuke-san! They have grilled shellfish over there! What, you're still hungry? Let's go C'mon, let's go Let's eat squid Whoever thought of eating squid first? You gonna walk Shoko-chan to her hotel tonight, mm? It's fine, ma'am, I'll take a taxi Don't waste your money Go deliver some sweets to Grandma along the way, mm? What? It's the opposite direction Grandma gave us that jelly you eating, you know Aw, if I knew that I wouldn't have eaten it Yonosuke-san, we can go as we enjoy the walk Gimme a break... Your grandmother is really quite adorable Adorable? Grandma? Yes, like her apron It's the apron that's adorable It's choosing that apron makes her adorable, mm Did I get that right? I imagine the beach is pretty at night Tired? From having too much fun You were outdoing yourself I suppose, Yes I am a woman, after all What? Yonosuke-san, you really don't understand women, do you? What? Seeing you eyeing your ex-girlfriend all day makes me sad I can't help it What? Sakura-san You used to date her, right? Did Kurihara tell you? It was obvious without being told Since you were paying so much attention to her... Was I paying that much attention to her? Yes, you were Sol signaled to you that I was sad You did? When? I shouted to you that they had grilled shellfish, remember? Yeah Wait, uh... l don't understand I'm allergic to shellfish Is that a real allergy? Yes, I myself suffer from it The world's full of allergens yet to be discovered I'm sorry Yonosuke-san I'm glad I came here to your hometown Really? I was kind of worried about it at first, but having you around has been pretty fun Hey, Shoko-chan... Yes? Um, uh... I'm not sure if this is something I should ask, but... Yes? Uh, well... How to put this? Can I... kiss you? Okay, well, excuse me... Um, would you mind... turning your head this way a bit? Yonosuke-san Yes? Perhaps this isn't the appropriate time to say this either, but... What is it? I think I see people... Who are they, exactly? Not sure, maybe fishermen? What's going on? Let's run! - They're refugees - Refugees? What do we do? We gotta tell the townspeople - Wait - What? Wait, please C'mon! We have to go! Wait, she has a baby! Yonosuke-san, Yonosuke-san We have to go! We have to go to a hospital! Stop! Are you two Japanese? What'll happen to the baby? Don't worry, we'll take care of her Were they boat people? Refugees from Vietnam, probably Yonosuke-san! The baby! They said she's fine! They took her to the hospital, and she was severely dehydrated, but now she's safe with her mother at a shelter I'm glad, really I'm so glad, too I'm so incredibly glad Shoko-chan? This episode taught me... what a truly useless person I've been Yeah Me, too Yonosuke-san You should get the phone Hello, this is Yokomichi Yonosuke, it's your mother What do you want? Listen, your grandmother, she's... Oh, here's Yonosuke Look how cute he is Sure is cute Grandma's so young here Lemme see That's me. Handsome, eh? Dork She kept everything, mm? These really are good Just heard this morning, couldn't make it to the funeral Not a big deal So you were still here Yeah, might as well stay for a bit You know, I really liked your grandmother After we broke up, I still saw her to learn knitting Oh, really? I didn't know that... She was really light But we all carried her coffin Everyone was bawling I...I've never seen my mother crying before It's only natural When I die, I wonder if they'll cry for me As they remember me... I wonder 'With you, they'll probably remember you and laugh What? Why? I don't know, just a guess Hey, when did you get back? I came back last week Boss asked when you're taking shifts I can start as early as tomorrow I know you've got a job, but you better show up here You're our only freshman Exactly In fact, if you have time, go recruit some Only freshman? Didn't you know? The other two quit Quit samba? No, quit school I had to call your parents, man Oh, so you heard? Yeah, you dropped out of school Oh, no, not that You see, I... got pregnant No, I meant, got her... pregnant? Yeah, so Yui got pregnant - Want some Coke? - No, not now So you're sure? Oh, yeah, yeah She saw a doctor So, what're you gonna do? Yeah... man I mean, I do think she's pretty shocked about this, too But she's oddly calm about it She said, "My mind's already made up" About what? Not sure... - You didn't ask her? - I'm too afraid to ask Maybe it's about... marriage? Marriage... Marriage... Wait, am I gonna get married? You're asking me? Right, sorry - Okay, Okay. - It's not okay But I guess... l can't help it I knocked her up, after all What do you mean, you can't help it? The pregnancy was careless, but... You need to remember, there's a baby at stake here! Huh? Anyway, you need to sit down and talk it over with her A real heart-to-heart Yes, sir And let me know if I can help I will - Loan me money, then - Sure What? I'm just kidding It's fine, I barely use money No, that's all right No, it's all right - are You okay? - I'm fine - are You hungry? - I'm fine It's me, Yonosuke Yokomichi. Remember? Yonosuke Oh, long time no see. How long's it been? Since the summer You a friend of Lil Chiharu? This is my mother She's visiting Hello, I'm her friend, Yokomichi Much obliged to you looking after her I'm not being looked after Well, I sure am glad... I got to meet a friend of yours before leaving Ma, you oughta go to the restroom before going Oh, I reckon I do Over here, ma'am Hold this Careful, now Oh, I can hold that Where are you from? - What? - Your hometown A small town in the northeast Not that rural, but... Well, it's the boonies I wouldn't have known What do you mean? I bet you were popular Oh, I don't know... Well, I suppose that's true I'm sure Say, what happened to Shoko-chan? I haven't seen her lately Oh, well, maybe I'll see you again sometime When shall I see you? When shall I see you again? When... shall we? Let's see, your name is... Yuta? Uh, yes Mind telling me your age and occupation? Um, I'm 19 years old, a student Okay, and what's troubling you? Well, I'm in love with someone Right, perfectly normal Yes, and, uh... She happens to be older than me I'd like to go to a lot of different places with her, but I'm kind of having trouble You ask her out but she says no? No, it's just that I know I'd have fun, but I'm not sure if she'd have fun with me So you're scared I guess, yes "Today around 5 o'clock PM, there was an..." Around 5 o'clock PM... Chiharu, something wrong? Huh? Why? You seemed off after that call-in What? Really? I guess I was lost in thought or something Hey, hey, hey- You know, "Around 5 o'clock PM" is hard for me to pronounce It's your northeastern tongue Making fun of me? No, no Jingle ending Today around 5 o'clock PM... Sorry to keep you. Let's go eat okay What should we eat? Oh... l don't care Hey, are you upset? No, let's just go Where should we go? - What? - Dinner Today around 5 o'clock PM, there was an accident at Yoyogi Station Two men jumped on the tracks to save a woman who fell from the platform They were 26 year-old Korean exchange student Park Seung-jun and 35 year-old photographer Yonosuke Yokomichi The three were transported to a hospital, but were later pronounced dead Yonosuke-san! Yonosuke-san! Yonosuke-san! It was delightful! I've never seen you so active Was I active? Yes, and aggressive, too Man, I didn't think you'd come I heard about it from Kato-san You could've asked me directly Well, if you recall, we hadn't talked in a while, and we had embraced a number of times before that It just felt terribly awkward Say, Yonosuke-san Do you have time afterwards? Why? Perhaps we could eat together again Actually, right after this, I'm supposed to help my friend move Ah, I see Well, I guess that can't be helped But how about next Sunday? Oh, certainly! Next Sunday! So you're dating this Shoko? Well, that's the thing What's the thing? - Oh, I got a job. - Doing What? A normal job, real estate broker Isn't that stuff shady? No no, it's a legit company Well, there's only six employees right now, but... Seems like it's doing well Hey, thanks for the money I was able to save face with Yui's mom Yui's stomach is this big now That stuff really is mystical What is this heavy box? Dirty magazines? Don't slack off, man Yonosuke I appreciate it I'm gonna... give it my best For the sake of the baby that's about to be born, I'll give it my all You were... the only one I could ask for help I'm gonna try... to make this work with Yui Hey, let's get on Neruton What? The dating show on TV, man We're gonna audition for it. Right, Kiyoshi-san? Yonosuke, I swear I'm getting on Neruton That's nice You've got time, right? No, I'm actually going on a date Save it for another day I can't From now on, I decided I'm gonna be... more serious about this About... what? About Shoko-chan, of course Good day to you Good day to you it's a fine, splendid house you've got here, sir He's waiting, hurry Apologies for the wait Shoko So, you're a student? Yes, sir How long have you been dating? Oh, well... Father, I've already explained this to you It's not serious or anything We're still students, and... Students or not, you're still man and woman What're you studying? For now, uh... business administration Administration? Yes, well, I'm still an amateur Does it look promising? Promising? Uh, graduating? Huh? Graduating? Father, you don't have to interrogate him like this You chose to date a guy with no promise? Of course he has promise He has more promise than anyone I've ever met Well, that's that, then Since you're here, make yourself at home Pardon me Um... Sorry about this He insisted on dragging you here No, it's... fine Actually, I was hoping to ask you this when we're alone, but... Yes? So... we're, uh... we're... dating... right? Well, um... from your standpoint... how exactly do you feel about me? Oh, well... l... I, uh... I must say... I like you Me, too I like you as well Oh, so... we're in agreement that we're... dating, yes? Yes Shoko-chan Shoko-chan Can you come out of the curtain? Please Please Um, what? Please go somewhere I'm so shy right now - Good day to you - Good day to you Oh, that's a wonderful hat Thank you - Come in. - Thank You Oh my, look at all this! Bought them all at the supermarket Here, a cake Wow, thanks! I'm impressed, Yonosuke-san I tried On your own? I'll take that Thank you One for me Oh, looks good - Here. - Oh, cool! 'Will the noise be okay? The neighbor's rarely home Thank goodness And... Merry Christmas! And a happy new year! Look, it fell in! Wow, cool! Who's that? It's Oscar Never heard of him? Nope And that one? That's Little Pierre. He gets shot to death And that one? That's Charlotte She kills herself Huh, what's the story? Oh, you've never read it? You really must Shoko-chan, come, look! Yes? Oh, my! Shoko-chan Wow, look! It's snowing! Wow! It's beautiful! Shoko-chan, look at all this snow! Indeed! One, two, and... This is amazing! There's so much snow! And we didn't even notice! This is amazing! When did this happen? Maybe when I was drawing Amazing Say, you're going home the day after tomorrow, yes? Yeah, I need to visit Grandma's grave I see... Well, I'm going skiing I guess I won't see you for a while Hey, what's wrong? Okay, well... excuse, uh... Excuse me Shoko-chan Yes? Sorry, just saying your name Oh my goodness, Yonosuke-san! - Shoko-chan - Yes? One more time Ahem, pardon me Oh my goodness, I'm so shy! Are your feet okay? Shoko-chan Ah, Yonosuke-san. Happy new year to you Oh, happy new year What happened? You okay? Yes, I'm quite alright. Just tripped while skiing Why didn't you tell me? I'm sorry, I didn't want to worry you Of course I'll worry Worrying about each other is our job, so let me okay lf l ever get hurt, you'll be the first to know From now on I'll say your name without san Is that okay? Sure, that's fine Great Well... Yonosuke okay-" Sh... Shoko Yes Yonosuke Sh... Shoko Yes Yonosuke Shoko Yes! Yonosuke Shoko Yonosuke I'm home Oh, you're home Good to be back How was it? Exhausting There's a letter here for you That name, Yokomichi... It sounds vaguely familiar The one I was dating in college, remember? - Yonosuke-san, right? - That cheerful young man This is from his mother I got nostalgic the other day and called his home Is he doing well? Yes You must be exhausted. I'll pour you some tea "To: Shoko Yosano From: Yonosuke Yokomichi" "For Shoko Yosano's eyes only" "Tomoyo" - Thank You. - Take care. It's off It feels rather cold Shoko-chan Yes? Let's stay together tonight Sure, would you like to come to my home? No, I mean... just the two of us Like maybe at a hotel or something Hote... Yeah Oh, but, wait, no... what? I really want to be with you Does that, um... mean... what I think it means? Probably... yeah But... But my cast was only just removed today, and, and... And? It's just too sudden Right, I'm sorry But I just really want to spend tonight alone with you Do you get to stay a while this time? Yeah... Well, until next weekend Where're you going next? Tanzania Tanzania? Where's that? Africa Ai-chan, I'm impressed! All these exotic places... Don't you get tired? Well, we did fight over mosquito nets last time Mosquito nets? What are mosquito nets? Look what you've done Got her all interested in your lifestyle Wanna ditch those silly exams and come to Africa with me? What're you calling silly? You know... It's Daddy. Excuse me for a sec Say, Shoko-san, do you still remember your first love? Why, all of a sudden? I do remember What was he like? How to put it... it's a bit hard to explain He was an ordinary guy Yeah... ordinary Ordinary? He was so ordinary, it was funny Ooh, is there someone you like? Like I explained, it's not that we shouldn't love each other Right All I ask is that we clearly define... when it's appropriate and when it's not Right In other words, meal time... is not kissing time Precisely! Yes, I understand Oh, by the way... It's not a present What is it? Chocolates, I think Someone gave it to you? No! You think any other girl would give me gifts? I suppose not Anyway, I just noticed it in my mailbox this morning, and opened it assuming it's for me Don't, not that one! Why? Is it a woman? There's no sign of any life. Rumor says the tenant is dead The alarm clock used to go off regularly, but even that stopped eventually I doubt there's anyone here Like a Buddhist mummy Some monks holed themselves up and rang a bell When the bell stopped ringing, the people outside knew he had passed away No, a woman lives there Yonosuke-san... Who is it? What? We're not suspicious people or anything It's this thing... They're probably gifts Hi, sorry, I'm from unit 207 This was accidentally delivered to me It's from someone named luchi-san. Does that name ring a bell? I'm busy right now Did you just say... luchi-san? Luchi-san? Luchi-san? Chocolates? For me? - Nice to meet You. - No, the pleasure is mine - Hello. - Looking forward to more Could I get a picture? Ready... Great, thank you very much "Gazes w The Photos of Keisuke Murota" Good luck Hey, 207 Kuramochi Oh, wait, wait... It's coming - You okay? Go slowly - I said I'm fine Hey, long time no see Did your water break? My water? No, just labor We're three days early, man! Sorry, slowly, slowly... - Really, I'm perfectly fine - Does it hurt? The door, lock the door - Hey, Can You lock it? - Now? Hey, careful, man - You okay? - I'm fine Slowly I'm fine How do I do it? How? How? Oh, forget about it I'll go first Ow! Dammit! Hey, grab my sandal! I said I'm fine, okay? You'll be okay. Just hang on tight Don't worry about him Hey, shut up! Aren't they cute? Which one? Oh, so adorable She has your eyes She's my friend's, not mine "Tomoyo" Hello, Yokomichi speaking Oh, hi, it's me Oh, what do you want? Nothing, I'm just calling You need money? No Say, the fruits get there? Yeah, I already ate 'em Weren't they sour? Wasn't so bad That's swell How's Shoko? She's fine. She's going to France to study France? Yeah, but only two weeks That right? She's an impressive gal, alright Well, I gotta go. Doing the dishes right now Stay warm, mm? Well, if isn't Yonosuke Oh, hello I guess it's been a while I haven't seen your lights on, so I assumed you'd moved out I only come home to sleep Huh, so you've been busy Yes, I guess so Hm, when I first met you, I wondered if you'd survive, but seems you've plugged the holes - The holes? - I mean, you still have some but there's less now I guess I've... grown a little Yeah, I guess you have It's a handsome camera Murota-san lent it to me The chocolate guy Oh, the photographer? Hey, would you mind sitting there? But why? C'mon, please Should I act natural? Oops, made a mistake What? Hurry, hurry Just a sec Hurry Just don't move Yonosuke-san Is that your first roll of film? Yeah, my first roll If you don't mind, may I be the first to see your pictures? Well, after you, of course Sure, but I'm not confident they'll come out okay Oh, it doesn't need to be I simply want to be the first woman to see your work I doubt it'll be anything special... But sure, I'll develop them before you get back, and keep them stashed in my closet That's a promise! The bus! Let's go Hurry, hurry Are you okay? Yeah, are you? Wait You Okay? Hey... Stop! Well, thank you What? I'll go to the airport You see, I'm not so good at being seen off How about I see you off Oh, c'mon Have a great trip! Well, okay, off I go Yonosuke! What! You're the best! Dear Shoko-san, thank you for your phone call the other day It was so nice talking with you after so many years I'm sending you what I promised on the phone, though it may not be anything special It's almost three months since Yonosuke passed away Having lost my only son, I am very sad, of course, but I know I can't cry forever When I do cry, I see Yonosuke's face Always that carefree smile... Recently, I've been feeling so glad that Yonosuke was my son This may be an odd way to put it, but maybe the best thing that ever happened to me... was being able to meet Yonosuke Please come by and visit when you have time Maybe we can get together and reminisce about Yonosuke I imagine it'll be one funny story after another Yuriko Yoshitaka as SHOKO YOSANO Sosuke lkematsu as KURAMOCHI Ayumi Ito as CHIHARU Go Ayano as KATO Aki Asakura as YUI AKUTSU Mei Kurokawa as SAKURA Arata lura as MUROTA Jun Kunimura as SHOK0's father Kitaro as YONOSUKE's father Kimiko Yo as YONOSUKE's mother Producers: Toshikazu Nishigaya Yasushi Yamazaki Cinematographer: Ryuto Kondo Lighting: lsamu Fujii Sound Recording: Masato Yano Art Director: Norifumi Ataka Editor: Takashi Sato Music by Ren Takada Original Story by Shuichi Yoshida YOKOMICHI YONOSUKE Screenplay: Shiro Maeda and Shuichi Okita Directed by Shuichi Okita
