 

                        Perfect Number It stopped raining It's a bit cold today, Yoon-Ah What are we going to do with this? Oh, no Hope it's not dead "No, it's not. Leave it, I'll take care of it later" - See you - Ok See you GOOD MORNING Take-out Good Morning Lunchbox to go, right? Yes It's our new dish Please try it. Oh thank you Have a good day Good morning! One Hand Roll, please The Good Morning Lunch guy who comes in everyday I think he likes you You noticed it too? You know how guys are just so attracted to me You surely can talk Why don't you go on a date with him? You know I have Yoon-ah What about her? She's in middle school She won't oppose if you get married I won't see anyone until Yoon-ah gets married And I don't really like dorky guys The nth triangular number is n(n+1)/ 2 The proof of this formula S is sigma K equals one to n n-2, n+1 Who the hell cares about those stupid formulas? Why don't you play it? Don't just pick chords What? If that's a note C If you play the twelfth fret What note is it? It's a C, an octave higher If you play a C and G together, what do you get? That's a C chord That's correct It's also called the perfect fifth because it's perfectly consonant Music is It all sounds different to our ears But it's only a matter of how to assemble chords in consonance Of course, notes like C, D, and E already have existed like numbers 1, 2, and 3 The person who found out the relationship between these individual notes and made formulas called chords - Is Pythagoras - Doped-gores This triangular number we are studying right now Pythagoras discovered it I'm home Auntie Yoon-ah! - What's wrong? - I feel sick Sick where? Oh my goodness Hold on Yoon-ah Excuse me! - What's wrong? - I'm not sure Doctor What are the symptoms? Her breath is irregular Fast and slow She's having a cardiac arrest Clear the airway and prepare CPR - Yoon-ah! - Please step aside Lift your head You alright? Ma'am this is medicine the man you came with left it for you Oh Good Morning Lunchbox to go. Right? Yes It's the hospital bill you paid last night Please take it Yes This lunchbox is the interest Yoon-ah likes math unlike other girls You're a math teacher. Right? Yes What was that? Nothing - There's something - You told me to date him Thought you said you don't like dorky guys Something must've happened Is he free-diving? Beginners should never try it Yes Fucking asshole Son of a bitch You laughing? Die, bitch! Die asshole! I'm going to kill you Asshole! Don't laugh! Is that you, Yoon-ah? Where's your key? Thought I couldn't find you? Fucking bitch You bitch Thought you could run away? You sleep well? Thought you can live without me? No fucking beer? Get up and sit down, you bitch Girl, I went all over town every bar and club in Daejeon Leave us alone please Leave you alone? Fuck me. Auntie, your daughter's home Hi, Yoon-ah You've grown up beautifully Your daughter'? That's some fucked up family tree Come in. Go inside Come say hello to your uncle You little bitch! Don't yell at her Tomorrow, I'll wire you every penny I have Yoon-ah Let me see your face - Wow, very scary - What are you doing? Go away Look at her boobs Just leave! Damn, leave her alone! What? Let's have fun This is nice and fresh I'm going to kill you Oh yeah? Let's die. Let's do that Alright, fucking kill me Stay still Fuck yeah You fucking bitch Fucking slut Fucking bitch Yoon-ah Fucking bitch! Move Come here bitch! "- Stop! - Come here, fucking bitch" Let go of me - Auntie! - Where you going, bitch? Stop! Don't hurt her Fuck Is this funny? Oh my god Auntie He must be dead Who is it? It's next door Hold on, please Don't come out Yes? Umm Are you alright? What? Yes. I'm fine I heard some noise A roach There was a roach Did you kill it? What? The roach Oh, yes I killed it I see Auntie Are you going to call the police? The police? No I will turn myself in I have to turn myself in too, don't I? What are you talking about it? Why? I hit him first And I held him so he wouldn't move Don't even think about it No way You were in your room You didn't see anything Got it? I think I can be of help It won't be too late to call the police after you hear me first Who is he? It's my ex-husband He tortured my aunt everyday - He threatened her - Yoon-ah Are you going to turn yourself in? Yes No, auntie If you go to jail, I'm going to be all alone No, auntie Yoon-ah You two did it together No. I did it alone She didn't see anything She came after I killed him, seriously The bite mark Whose is that? I did it all It's impossible for you to strangle him and hold his hands at the same time Will the police find out? They will know better than me No, not my Yoon-ah Oh, no If you turn yourself in there are extenuating circumstances But you might have to do some time Yoon-ah might not get off clean either You might not be able to think clearly now but if you let me help you I'll protect you two no matter what Was he supposed to come? Did you plan to meet him here? No, he came unexpectedly Did he call you? He doesn't know my number I'm sorry By any chance, do you go see movies often? Mang-won district near Han river Dead body found, calling for back-up Hey guys That head is like a rotten watermelon Do you think you'll get something? Look here The fingerprints are destroyed It might take up to 2-3 weeks to identify the body - 2-3 weeks? - Yes What kind of lunatic did this? The asshole grinded the body to hide the victim's identity The killer is an acquaintance Perhaps, the closest person to the victim So what? We can't even ID the victim What good does that do? What now? Are you going to fool around until forensics come out? The face is smashed so badly I don't think we can match a dental record I don't know if you can ID the body You're really good at making people feel worse That's a real talent Don't step around there This is going to suck The only thing we have is the body with two balls The disposal of the body seems too timid to be a psychopath's job The tires are all flat Is it abandoned? Lift that Is that a key? JINSUNG Inn Guess the bastard was in a real hurry to make a mistake like that He didn't pay and left his stuff I was going to call the police Have you seen any visitors? No idea There are so many who come and go The victim is 36 year old male living in Daejeon The name is Kim Cheol-min It's fortunate you found it The victim was staying in a motel just before the murder, since November 7th Luckily, we found the motel key at the scene The DNA from the hair in the motel matched the body's DNA Cause of death? According to the autopsy, he was killed by strangulation We found a consistent pattern of an electric wire used in heating devices on the victim's neck We analyzed it as the electric wire often used in irons Irons? Estimated time of death? We estimated it as November 9th in between 4 P.M. and 11 P.M. So the victim was walking alive before 4 P.M. on the 9th - Correct? - Yes "to be exact, he was alive till 736" Based on what? We found an abandoned self-service rental bicycle on the scene Self-service bicycles? You can easily rent the public bicycles by entering your resident registration number It was rented from a kiosk in Sang-am district It was rented with Kim Cheol-min's resident number Really? So you have a suspect? Considering the travel path and radius, Kim Cheol-min's ex-wife, Baek Hwa-sun is our prime suspect The reason is? Now, we need to find out Thank you Kim Cheol-min was found dead He was brutally murdered We had some trouble locating you because your address was changed According to the registration files, he doesn't have any relatives Do you know of any distant relatives? I don't think he has any I see When did you meet him last? I haven't seen him since I moved to Seoul You haven't talked to him during the recent months? No If you don't mind what did you do on the 9th? Pardon? November 9th I worked And after you got off? I took my niece to a movie Guess it was a nice outing for a change What's wrong with your hands? What? Your hands I got hurt at work When? A few days ago Hello It's me from next door The detectives were here this afternoon I did as you told me Ok. they're coming for Yoon-ah soon Okay What did you do to it? How did they find out so quickly? Did they find the body? Just answer like a machine only to the questions asked They might be watching you from near So even if we bump into each other, act like usual neighbors I'll warn Yoon-ah also Did you tell them about the movie tickets? No You told me not to show them until I was asked Where did you put the tickets? In my wallet No, no The movie flyer, fold it in half and put the tickets inside Not many people keep movie tickets They might get suspicious if you take them out from your wallet Okay I will I'll always call you around this time I was wondering Yes? If we really should do this You have to trust me Alright The only family she has is her niece She wanted to live out her sister's dreams She was going to raise Yoon-ah for her sister It is so sweet of her I admire her So she left town Did Kim Cheol-min come here recently? About a week ago He went crazy here trying to get Hwa-sun's whereabouts So did you tell him where she was? Are you insane? What did he do this time? Is he in trouble again? He was murdered Whoever did it, I am grateful Hwa-sun will finally get some sleep at night A real good sleep Thank you You said you saw a movie with your niece on November 9th Do you have the tickets by any chance? Pardon? The movie tickets No, I don't Oh I have this though Movie tickets For November 9th You saw this movie? Detective Jo, what's with you? Why are you keep insisting Baek Hwa-sun is the killer? She has a clear motive for murder And her hands It's due to strained ligaments You saw the scar on victim's neck When you choke someone to death with a thin wire, you will get a sprain That's a coincidence There's no such thing as a coincidence to a detective Isn't it too perfect to find tickets in between a flyer from the recycling bin? What's wrong with perfect? When are you going to become a real detective? From now on, it's about who cracks down first Put out the cigarette Let me warm up with it No It's cold Turn off the engine, idiot What's wrong with you, stupid? Baek Hwa-sun I think the cops are watching right now Here Isn't that the guy who went in first? I think so Pizza Movies It's all here How did you end up watching a movie with your aunt? You're in middle school Don't you have a lot of friends? Guess you're very close to your aunt She listens well too, right? She'll do whatever her aunt tells Anybody can use a credit card I didn't use her card She never gave it to me Really? So your aunt used it? Yes Thanks for the drink What is wrong? Wait What are you doing? Excuse me You? Cheers I can't believe I ran into you here this is so weird It's good to see you Hey, do you remember the woman living next door to you That case I told you earlier She's the prime suspect She has an alibi but an alibi is there to be broken It could be Okay Get in Alright. See you later Okay Oh! Doped out Pythagoras! Right? Right, right It's been a while Doped-gores It was good to see you What happened? What did you tell the detectives? They're probably still here Here. Act natural as if taking something from me Get inside She was looking out the window the whole time As if she was waiting Of course The guy next door was talking to a cop who thinks you're a suspect Must be really nervous I ran the credit card "She bought the tickets exactly at 7:52" So you believe Baek saw the movie And on Kim Cheol-min's phone record He ordered some Chinese on the 9th and nothing else He has never talked to Baek Ok. think of it this way The niece could've swiped the card and says she didn't Even if Baek went there herself, there is plenty of time But there's no proof that she didn't see the movie Don't you dare look at me like that So this is all about that Goldbach's conjecture Go where? Goldbach, stupid Like right now, there is suspicion but no evidence It will drive you nuts Did you get anything from your school friend? Seok-go Nothing interests him except for math Math? Have you ever seen a genius? It's not divisible, it's a prime number Yo, Kim Seok-go Doped-gores So you're a genius? What are you going to do with your genius brain? Prove Prove? Prove what? Have you ever heard of Goldbach's conjecture? No way So go on Every even integer greater than 2 is the sum of two primes True or false? Nobody has solved it in 300 years What do you think? True Then it's done Do you must prove it? If I don't prove it, I won't know the truth I want to know the truth The truth You want to find the truth By the way, making a problem no one can solve or solving that problem Which is harder? You prove that How would I know? Here. Lilac is the taste of love, true? Prove that, say "ahh" Good If you want to prove it, chew it well That is love, dude Bitter, huh? We went to high school together It's an unexpected variable but it's going as calculated Don't worry But you need to be more careful about such actions I'll trust you completely from now on Did the cops question Yoon-ah? Yes. She said they were waiting outside the school Can you get Yoon-ah on the phone? Hold on Hello What did the cops ask you? They showed me a picture and asked if I've met him recently I told them I haven't They asked again about going to the movies What did you tell them? I said I saw the movie on the 9th for sure And I told them about my friend I ran into at the movies Good. that's good, Yoon-ah And one more thing If they come again, don't be scared Just do as you're doing now Okay, Yoon-ah? I will Things are really happening as he said Surveillance tapes from the theaters Oh my head the moment finally has come Don't be intimidated Just watch the elevator camera Detective Jo Detective Jo! Baek Hwa-sun Did they come? The two came They did come to the theaters So the friend story is true Then I just need to find Baek leaving alone They indeed saw the movie Guys What's wrong with you? What are you doing? Shouldn't you be asking around Kim Cheol-min's acquaintances? Money problems, women problems Middle, high school friends People from military service Co-workers You Don't go looking for motives Go find people with motives Got that? Got that? Answer me! Yes, sir! Captain What, now what! They want me to take the lie detector test tomorrow I don't think I can do it anymore I should've turned myself in that day I think it will be better to turn myself in right now What would happen to Yoon-ah then? No. Just do as you've been doing You don't have to lie Don't worry about that I don't know what's going on Why is everybody asking about the 9th? You don't need to know The cops will soon find another suspect You said you trusted me that I'll protect you no matter what I do I trust you Tomorrow will be the last crisis Please lift the sleeve on your left arm I have a lot of appointments today So let's do this quickly Don't be nervous From now on, answer "no" to my questions Are you a man? No Is your name Baek Hwa-sun? No Good. We will start now Has Kim Cheol-min ever come to your workplace? Have you ever met Kim Cheol-min at your workplace? No. I have not You said you saw a movie on November 9th Is this true? Yes Did you watch the movie from the beginning to end? Yes Did you meet your ex-husband, Kim Cheol-min on November 9th? Meet him? Yes. On November 9th, did you meet Kim Cheol-min? No. I did not You didn't see him? Not even once that day? No There's no need to continue with the next question Thanks for your time - Is it over? - Yes Wait, you skipped an important question! Ms. Baek Hwa-sun Did you kill Kim Cheol-min? Did you kill him? Who the hell are you? No. I didn't kill him It's a lie What are you doing? It says it's a lie You're not an examiner I won't accept this Wait, don't turn it off! Ask her one more time Baek Hwa-sun. Did you kill Kim Cheol-min? We won't be seeing you anymore Get home safely Hey, Sang-joon Come on. Man It went well as you said Okay, you did good Let's eat Why doesn't he call? It would be nice if he joined us I didn't think about that Yoon-ah I'm sorry Why? I'm really super grateful to you Every single day Yoon-ah, promise me You have to forget everything You have to go on Alright. Don't worry Can I eat now? Yes Hey You saved them, right? What? My flowers I know everything Hey You like my aunt That's why you helped us, right? I wanted to thank you And my aunt waited for your call Yoon-ah Here's your order I'll help you with the bill Thank you Bon apptit What can I get you? Sunshine Morning Lunchbox, please Sunshine Morning? Thank you. Bon apptit Good Morning Lunchbox to go? Yes You will have to eat something else today I heard it's going to get colder starting tomorrow Clear Morning Lunchbox, please Yes I'll never forget your care, I Thank you Mr. Kim, I'll see you later I see Okay I understand Dude. Who killed you? Dude! Stop, stop, stop! She passed the polygraph And the polygraph said she killed him The examiner said anyone would do the same if you ask with that look Look here, compare them to the other people Do they look like they're enjoying an outing to the movies? I know you don't want to accept Are we going on a stakeout? Welcome Hey, Hwa-sun I went to Daejeon the other day and heard the news from Madam Jung Did the cops come see you? They came a few times I was worried that you might be harassed for no good reason I'm alright If there's anything I can help No. It's ok You've been helpful every time. thank you It's raining I'm alright No. You might catch a cold Woo-hoo! Who are you and where have you been? Take care. I'll call you later No. I don't think I regretted letting you go like that I won't do that anymore Get in Auntie, it's him calling Hello Was everything okay today? Yes Who was the man you came with? I know him from where I used to work in Daejeon I see He loaned me some money before He came to see me and I couldn't just make him leave So we had tea You don't have anything else to say? Then I'll call you tomorrow What's wrong? It's nothing Hey, drenched Doped-gores! Where have you been? Look at all these books here Look at these, you're hopeless This math formula It's sickening You truly are doped out Pythagoras Did you find the killer? No. I'm totally screwed Why? Your next door neighbor She really screwed me up I must be getting old I was pretty good back in the days but now I'm a big mess I'm looking for another suspect, but don't know where to look Where is that fucker? A mustache Look at all these old notes What is this? Nothing. I was bored Hey, this is Goldbach's conjecture Are you still working on this? Are you not going to drink? I sure am Are you getting some progress with this conjecture? Right. that's why no one has proved it in several hundred years This is difficult, conjecture You're right My brain is getting dull, It's getting difficult If I fail to prove it, I'll ask when I get up there What? Up there. He will know the truth Whether Goldbach's conjecture is true or false In the most beautiful and simplest proof You, a philosopher Drink up Hey, Seok-go Are you seeing anyone? You? I've been married for 3 years Also, it's been a year since I got divorced Ugh, I really truly don't get it You know what my wife said when she left me? She left a famous line Do you know what love is? She asked me that She implied that I never truly loved her But shit. think about it What is true? what is real? What the fuck is real love? Shit You said love is bitter What? You said Love is bitter When did I say that? Li Lilac! Right? You remembered that? You're a mathematician Doped-gores is smart I am so jealous of you, Kim Seok-go You are awesome doing all this math This is what's real. Mathematics What the heck is the Perfect Number? I'll never forget your care. Thank you Are you up? Yeah hey, last night Why did I drink so much last night? I didn't do anything weird, did I? I feel really shitty Good luck on your test Are you coming straight home after school? - Yeah, see you later - See you GOOD MORNING Take-out You still go to this place? Didn't I tell you? I always buy my lunch there Don't you feel awkward? Eating lunch prepared by a murder suspect? Though you wouldn't care about something like that I'm going to wash up I think I'm sobering up It's getting cold. Go under? Okay under Aren't they cold? It's not summer anymore These people here are always the same like clockwork So I've heard they are precise like a clock We're always fast or slow living life in a hurry If we free ourselves from clocks, will we be more punctual? Who is he staring at? Bye Hey Aren't you going to pick up lunch? You have to eat Hello No, no, no. I'm not a cop today I came as a customer Okay Let's see. What should I get? What are you getting? He always orders Good Morning Lunchbox Okay then, two Good Morning Lunchboxes, please Okay Hey. Did you find out? Hold on Sorry but do you have a piece of paper? Okay. So what? Hold on Sorry. the pen isn't working Choi Chan-min? Okay, be right over Thank you Welcome Hello Mr. Nam, you came again Here you go How much is it? - It's 12 dollars - 12 dollars? I stopped by on my way to work I wanted to try the lunchbox you make You're busy from early in the morning What should I get? Aren't you leaving? Oh yeah. I am Do you go ice climbing? I heard that is great Heard the snaps on this thing is terrific I don't do ice climbing but the customers have complimented on it Excuse me, please look around I I don't think we should see each other anymore I came here to tell you that I'm not saying we need to do anything right now We have our own situations, so let's take it slow Did you forget everything I've done for you? Watch me Watch what I will do You're late It's okay. No one's watching us You were charged more this month for the water What? I hear some leaking sound at night I was wondering if you knew You want me to fix it? No, it's fine Alright then See you later By the way Your clothes seem gaudy today And your make-up is heavy Detective Jo! What are you doing out in the cold? - I brought some hot - Left the bicycle Left the bicycle with flat tires here Bicycles? Meticulously destroyed the victim's face and fingerprints but left the victim's things on the scene You're saying the killer left the bicycle on purpose? What if he did? And tell us the time of the murder? Why would he do that? To prove Baek's alibi What? In order to prove Baek was in the theaters when Kim Cheol-min arrived here That's why the tires are flat So no one can ride it Then the window of time for murder is spread out and Baek's alibi becomes insufficient You still think Baek killed him? What if "Baek was at home in between 6 and 6:30" And Kim Cheol-min was killed there No way How can she move the body from her house to here in 30 minutes? She even has no car Did she grab a taxi? Also, she had to rent the bicycle She can't do all that by herself It's impossible, right? No way Especially, a woman by herself can't The victim's clothes we found here What was the size? What about it? That's not important. I found another suspect What? Did Ms. Baek ask you to kill Kim Cheol-min? Hwa-sun could never kill someone or hire a hit man And do you think I'm stupid? Even if I like the girl you think I'd kill someone? Then you killed Kim Cheol-min without her knowing? Because in order to be with her, Kim Cheol-min had to disappear What? What did you do on November 9th? Look here guys When will you stop bothering Hwa-sun? Well Until we have no reason to November 9th He's not our guy Geez man He has a clear motive A motive! So the motive The reason What? There is someone but Yeah? Who? But there is no motive Write question #1 on the board and if you have the time, do it up to #4 Hey So you are the disciple of Doped-Goras Excuse me? Back in school, your teacher's nickname was Doped out Pythagoras Aren't his problems difficult? Everybody says it's hard but I like it Oh yeah? Why? Well His problems have blind spots that mislead people It might seem like a geometry problem But it's actually a function You're killing them all Go on Yes, sir Study hard Let's go to the break room Okay What's up? Obviously, you're not here to check out my tests Don't take this personally According to this, you skipped the morning class on November 10th And you came to work in the afternoon What happened to you? A cold Really? What do you mean? And you were absent on the 9th I heard that you sometimes skip morning classes to do your math research But the administrator was surprised that you were absent on the 9th and 10th Said you never took off for two days in a row I haven't? Is that weird? A scrupulous person like you It's odd you didn't come to work for a mere cold On top of that, you were absent the day before Did you go see a doctor? What do you want from me? I suddenly want to ask you this Making a problem no one can solve or solving that problem Which is harder? Did you pity Baek Hwa-sun? She killed a person I have to go See you later Auntie The next door. He is here What're you doing at my place? You're home I'm almost done Isn't Kim Cheol-min about 5ft 6in? Don't they seem too big? These fit you Don't they seem too big for 5ft 6in guy? Guess so But you can wear pants however you want I felt uneasy so I thought well and hard But this has to be an unmotivated murder That's why there's no suspect You think a psychopath did it? Usually, when a murder happens the killer will do anything to hide the body Bury in the mountains or sink it in a reservoir Even if he didn't have a car Han-river was right in front of you If I were him, I'll tie the body with something heavy and sink it under water So you're saying the killer left the body on purpose for others to find Yeah, he's a psychopath He wants the world to know what he did At least that's my guess Then think about it this way The killer wanted the body to be found That's right Then this actually makes sense Nov. 9th Absent Nov. 10th Absent His problems have blind spots that mislead people It might seem like a geometry problem But it's actually a function Right? JINSUNG Inn There was an empty noodle bowl and he was gone So you didn't see him the day before his murder either? Chinese food think it was around midnight He asked about food delivery I gave him the number for a chicken delivery Over the phone? So you've never really seen the guy's face. Have you? Mister Mister No, no wait! Mister! Wait Mister! Hey! You going up? Stop right there! Hey! Until now I only focused on Baek's alibi But the alibi wasn't important in this case The problem was the dead body Really? But I I hope I'm wrong Looking at the homeless, you said they are precise like clockwork And you said when one gets free from clocks, one will become even more precise That's for people who are aware of time! For people living within the clock! I have no idea what you're talking about Did you kill someone? Even if you solve this problem, it won't make anyone happy Nor change anything You You think it's going to change anything? Yoon-ah must be really gifted at math What brings you here? It's just that I received these at the store today Stay away from Baek Hwa-sun You bastard can never make her happy Is there anyone you know who might do this? Should I call the police? No, no police You said you trusted me that I'll protect you no matter what Please let me in I have to ask you something Seok-go You like me, don't you? That's why you're helping me. Isn't it? The past few days, you feel like a stranger to me You sent those pictures, didn't you? What? You don't want me? Isn't this what you want? I should've known there's nothing free in this world All men are the same It's so obvious Do whatever you want, do it Who cares if you're a pervert I brought this unto myself Why? Why are you doing this to me? I barely escaped from a lunatic How can I live feeling so suffocated? What is it you want from me? Go home Yoon-ah's waiting Do you love Baek Hwa-sun? Who? Who are you? How much do you love her? Can you die for her? Huh? What the Who the hell are you? What the fuck? Asshole Who the hell are you? Come here fucking - Asshole! - You want to die? Who the hell are you? You're that fucker You sent those pictures, didn't you? You messed with the wrong person You crazy asshole Did you find it? He could be a real criminal Look closely Not over there, look up! If you don't break up with him I'm going to kill him myself I got it I saw him for the first time on November 9th Kim Cheol-min that filthy piece of trash He was lurking in front of the apartment As soon as I saw him, I knew he was Hwa-sun's ex-husband How did you know right away? I know everything about Hwa-sun What kind of music she listens to What kind of things she likes to talk about Which TV series make her cry Since when? What the hell happened? Your friend is a total psychopath Just now, he was caught in the act, trying to kill Nam tae-woo He also confessed to the murder of Kim Cheol-min What? And we talk through the walls The walls? I can hear everything Hwa-sun says She knows that too So she talks to me through the wall She said to kill Kim Cheol-min She said she's miserable because of him So I did what she asked But how could she date another man? Bitch I should've killed her first I found this in your mailbox You received threatening calls at the same time every day. Didn't you? We searched the call history from a payphone booth The guy next door, he is a total psycho He just confessed to the murder of Kim Cheol-min Stop there! Captain's going to be back soon - Just give me ten minutes! - Detective Jo! Wake up, bastard Get up and look at me Seok-go Stop with the acting You didn't kill Kim Cheol-min At first I thought You took pity on Baek and she asked for help So you unwillingly helped her move the body But the Kim Seok-go I know He won't kill anyone for no reason Because he is rational and logical But I overlooked something That as long as the logic fits, you can be the most brutal person That day, I saw the way you looked at Baek Oh, this bastard is in love Then, when Kim Seok-go falls in love, what would he do? When his loved one is in danger He will plan something. Right? A flawless and perfect plan! That's interesting but A hypothesis needs a proof in order to become true Fucker! Are you going to ruin your life for that woman? I just confessed to the murder of Kim Cheol-min Even if you solve everything, my trial would've been over by then If I get convicted in the first ruling and I don't appeal, then Kim Cheol-min case is over No, no. this is wrong You're out of your mind This is not love This is not real How can you waste your genius brain? It's not about my brain It's my heart Bastard Bastard You shouldn't have let me catch you Bastard Let me ask just one favor Ms. Baek I don't know where to begin I don't know what's happening right now But I came here to confess the things I've been hiding Seok-go wanted me to give this to you I don't know what's in the letter But it's probably not what I'm about to tell you It makes sense you don't know anything Because you've been doing what Seok-go's been telling you It's only natural that you passed the polygraph You never lied On Nov. 9th, you actually did dine out and see a movie with your niece But you probably wondered why people only kept asking about Nov. 9th because you killed Kim Cheol-min, on the 8th of November Yes, Seok-go isn't innocent He's guilty of a crime Mang-won district riverside murder Kim Seok-go is the killer He really did kill someone That day, the first day of murder on November 8th Seok-go probably contemplated over the dead body If the police finds the body, they will find the real killer Even if the body is never found he thought you would live your life in agony, worrying when the body will turn up So Seok-go decided to commit another murder His plan was to trick us into believing the body was Kim Cheol-min's Just in case, no matter what happens he couldn't back out He perfectly blocked off his own exit to make it impossible to undo Hello Inn Seok-go made someone you don't know into Kim Cheol-min And kills him in the same way So the body we found wasn't the real Kim Cheol-min And then some place where no one knows Seok-go probably hid Kim's body so that it can never be found But you see The person Seok-go wanted to deceive perfectly was you, Ms. Baek That's why Seok-go stalked you But then, an unexpected variable me, popped up Protecting someone until the end Even taking the blame for someone else's murder Is this possible for a normal person? I'm not sure Are you his family? Are you his wife? You're not even his girlfriend From the beginning, he planned to take the blames for you So now Everything is up to you I just don't want that stupid bastard to be miserable This is my heartfelt honesty And it is the truth I want to thank you for everything Because of you, I was able to keep going with my life I don't know I don't know! Auntie, what are you doing? Huh? Hand me that Wow, you put everything in order May I bring in the ones outside? No Until you showed up in my life I only thought about dying I believed math was the only perfect thing in life So when I couldn't find the answers anymore, the joy became agony and despair Maybe it was the loneliness - Hi - Hi We just moved in next door Here My aunt made it I can't guarantee the taste Is there maybe something I can help? Pardon? It's nothing, bye That guy is a bit But you can't guarantee the taste? I'm joking You know what's in those rice balls? That's when I realized There's something essentially as beautiful as the beauty of math in this world Hello Hello Miss Those rice balls were good That's great If you want, you can eat it every day You really came Hello, sir! I'm late Hwa-sun and Yoon-ah Thank you so much Mr. Nam seems sincere and trustworthy I hope he makes you happy Please forget everything about me and what had happened Don't ever feel sorry for me If you are not happy, all my effort becomes meaningless If you ever turn yourself in because of guilty conscience There's no longer a reason for me to live This is my last request I'll always pray for your happiness Always, Kim Seok-go Seok-go Wait Seok-go, wait Just need a word - What is it? - Please Seok-go - Stop the bus - Isn't that Baek Hwa-sun? Can you see me? Can you hear me? I'm sorry, Seok-go Sorry I said I feel suffocated I shouldn't have said that Seok-go, I Seok-go! Why did you do all this for me? You can't just go away like this Seok-go - Let's get going - Seok-go Seok-go, Seok-go! Ms. Baek! - Seok-go! - Ms. Baek! What will happen to him? This is all because of me You're the sole reason I'm still here I'm so sorry Ryoo Seung-bum Lee Yo-won Jo Jin-woong Director: Bang Eun-jin
