 

                        I wake up in the middle of the night Every night ... it's been 4 years I hear a cry in my sleep The voice of a baby screaming calling me for help I wake up and look around Erina is not here Although I am a mother Her warm embrace cannot soothe my pain Some said "make another baby" How can they be so insensitive Until she came back I thought I would go crazy As a couple Erina was our treasure But the Erina who came back of course is our child But the little Does not see us as her real parents She thinks her abductor is her real mother She loves her Do you know how painful how sad this is? That woman Has robbed the whole family The pain of our family Even as Erina is back still continues That woman Stole not only Erina's body But her heart also One who takes a life gets the death penalty But she took the heart of a whole family And there is no death penalty for her This is why I say ... Give us back our happiness Etsuko told me: "You are bare like a tree in winter" "You got pregnant from Hiroshi but terminated it" "now it went bad and you can't conceive anymore" "That's the price you pay for killing a baby" When Etsuko got pregnant I thought I had to take a distance from Hiroshi But I was too weak I couldn't Etsuko was calling every day Crying for her husband to return or the next day talking about Hiroshi's sex life taking pleasure in an open discussion an other day verbally abusing me she kept calling every day She seemed almost crazy when I heard the baby was born I just wanted to take a glance at the baby one look and that would be enough then I would forget everything change place and job Start a new life with my dad's inheritance It was all set in my heart Kaoru ... Little Kaoru ...protect this child I will protect this child Her smile would comfort me would forgive that ... I had killed my baby in the womb tried to steal a married man for all these she would be my forgiveness this is ... what I thought "In a baby's most tender years" "the accused took her away from her parents" "at a time when a child needs affection most" "she dispossessed her" "That little Erina's emotional scars will remain" "is also a concern" "Despite the cruelty of the crime" "The accused doesn't reconsider her act" "or show any sign of regret" "it is useless to expect any sincere remorse" "And in the view of these facts" "We apply the sentence of 6 years imprisonment" "We have given this penalty due consideration" Let the accused come to the bar This is the end of the trial Does the accused want to say something? If you do please be concise Until I was arrested I would pray every day of my life and every day, all day to live with Kaoru And I lived praying continuously For four year I was allowed to taste the joy of motherhood I would like to thank Mr. and Mrs. Akiyama Wouldn't you rather apologize than thank them? There is no word of apology Just die! Why don't you die! Please calm down Rebirth [The loneliness of the 8th day cicada] [John Mayer - Daughters] I know a girl she puts the color inside of my world But she's just like a maze Where all of the walls all continually change And I've done ... Ms Akiyama We're going out to karaoke I work until Oh, right You're Erina Akiyama? I'm Ando a freelance writer May we have a little talk? Are you a journalist? You are little Kaoru, right? I'd like to ask you questions about the abduction I don't remember it Here If you remember anything please tell me I'll come again Finished Work? Be careful on the way back Kishida Mrs. Akiyama congratulations ! Congratulations It's a family reunion How do you feel right now? How do you feel about the accused? Do you feel she is your own kid? Erina found in Kagawa, Shodoshima with 33-year-old abductor Erina reunited with family after an absence of 1342 days Kazuo Nozomi, no regrets expresses gratitude instead of apologies Oh, Yasue! Yeah ... Who is it? Kiwako Nozomi I'm sorry Right now I'm in your neighborhood Close to your house Alright, thank you Little Kaoru It's cold out there So your Mom got married and made you!? Little Kaoru is so cute Little Kaoru Let's make a tea pot? What? Milk What's her dosage? About that, Yasue I need your help What kind of help? I did not actually get married I lived together with this kid's father but I ran away Why? He was hitting the baby So I decided to take the child and run Tell me Kiwa, could this person be ...? No way! Of course not So, help me please I Broke with up with that other guy long ago He was so mean Although he was married He told you he'd leave if you cheated on him I thought of going myself and yell at him Yasue, typical Remember our teacher was smoking in class You started getting angry at him I did? You are the same person I used to know But there's no going back You don't need to be so dramatic I'll help you You can ask me anything you want Next, the infant abduction in Kanagawa A 4 month old baby disappeared yesterday in Hiratsuka City Kanagawa Prefecture [Magazines:] "Infant" "Mom and Baby Everyday" Erina daughter of Mr. Hiroshi Akiyama Is 4 months old [Book:] "My first Baby" According to the police yesterday around 8:30 am Etsuko, wife of Mr. Akiyama drove him to the station When she came back home Little Erina had disappeared She reported it to the police There was no evidence of robbery Police say it's highly probable that in the couple's absence little Erina has been abducted The investigation into a minor's abduction has started Please Welcome Hi! It's OK at the counter? What do you recommend? Handmade tofu and raw horse sashimi And a beer please Why the long face? So you came We never meet so I came - good evening good evening Did you read my document? We don't need to drinking but we could go to a place Who's this? Mr. Kishida I had a previous appointment with my friend, I'm sorry What? A Boyfriend? A Stalker? You want me to walk you home? We could bring beers home instead I think there was a convenience store there Tell me The cicadas are full of life They're still singing Cicadas wait in the ground for years to hatch Once they come out they live 3 days It's sad It's not 3 days it's 7 days Oh, is that right? Let's sit for a while and drink I was surprised you came suddenly? That's for sure This time I want to write about you about that abduction I got it, you don't want to talk I really don't remember it's quite plain, I was brought up by abductor It's too particular I came to listen to that particular account One more drink? Let's drink Let's buy side dishes too Ah, right Can't you drink at home? I want to go back and sleep I meant drinking at your place Where is it? No time to daydream let's go Wow, you have no shame I'm hungry How was my document? I read such prints a long time ago Oh, and where? Mommy used to buy them secretly Hiding them from me So you know everything about the abductor Kiwako Nonomiya What did you think about Kiwako Nonomiya? the interview has already begun? Well it's just small talk What did you think the first time you read such articles? Such books or articles tell so much it's hard to know it becomes confusing Well ... The writers purposefully designs an entertaining story, right? Well ... You have such wisdom It's like reading about someone else as if it didn't happen to me I see ... You know inside you'll find the trial record read it again you were four years old it's great that you returned safely to your family The truth be told, we still don't feel as a family It took me long to realize who my real mother was My mother too was embarrassed Every time she looks at me All the memories of the event come back Embarrassed? How is that? It's not your fault [Osaka Imperial Palace] Yes Yes OK I'm sorry ... OK, OK! Let's drink Let's drink Let's drink Let's drink You must be hungry OK, OK I decided to name it Kaoru You remember we said Kaoru sounds beautiful Be it a boy or a girl Kaoru is good it's not possible right now In fact I'd like to have dinner every night watch TV with you We'd have a normal life get married like normal people Not a sordid affair I'll tell everything to my wife and leave her so if this kid was born It would ruin our chances for a future I want a child Yet when we make a fresh start I know you understand It's not coming I know I'm sorry It's not coming "Everything he told you was a lie" "You thought he'd Marry you?" A person like you never becomes a mother Touch it Can you feel it move Hey It just kicked You felt it, right? You're bare as a tree in winter You killed your own kid You forced her out to kill her, right? How monstrous Isn't your bareness a just payback? How old is the baby? About 5 months? A Girl? What's her name? Kaoru Cute name Little Kaoru looks like her Mom The spitting image You can have this maybe a bit overcooked It's delicious and organic Ester! Yes Bye bye House of Angel Female shelter to set you free from family problems Women only House of Angel An ideal home in harmony I don't need money Stop seeing me in secret from Mom Please accept it I'm fine, really How about School? It's Summer vacation Are you eating enough? How about you Dad? You're eating properly? Mom prepares meals for you? Well Mom's in good health? She finally got used to you being away Really She's sad you should call sometimes You don't have to play the father part on me It does not suit you at all Is that right Maybe right Yeah See you She says she's been taken to a couple of strangers place So she ran away Kaoru can you tell me again? Erina Little Erina! You give us so much worry what a bad kid You hate our home that much? Such a bad kid doesn't belong to this family Enough now she is scared Please Erina Please, don't run again, please Etsuko, let's go home Please don't go anywhere Let's go home Erina let's go back Sorry for the trouble OK, let's go home "Write the truth in your diary" "No need to feel ashamed" "I'm embarrassed when people see me" "The end" You want me to sing your song Erina do you like songs? Sing the song of the Star OK Twinkle, twinkle little star No not this one Not this one It 's not this one Well The stars twinkle in the sky Not that one You know Ah right So, what could I sing Why do you do that to me!? Why is that? Why? Why? Why? I'm sorry Mom I'm sorry ... Etsuko! I'm sorry Mom You're hurting me! Stop I'm sorry Mom ... Stay calm! I'm sorry Mom ... I'm sorry I'm sorry Mom I'm sorry Mom A Souvenir What are you doing at this hour? I was an examiner in today's Exam but they canceled I came running how stupid of me Sorry it's not a good time I missed you so much How about you? Did you miss me? The cake is wasted You dropped it Makes no difference once it's swallowed Tastes just the same When you quit my classes I thought you'd met someone it's not that I was trying to forget you But I can't forget I thought if I could stay away for a month? I'd forget you Why do you say that? I don't know, anymore How does love feel? How can we stop loving someone we loved? You don't need to stop You and me we are solid Are you working all summer vacation? Yeah Such a job you have there Living on my own I have to see for everything I would be a terrible mother I thought you'd come back as soon as I call I was wrong You are tough you live your life Flatter me You're doing fine Enough Struggle on your own You finally appreciate your parents Ah, I don't want to return work What if you didn't return? Don't say that Really I don't want to go back I love you What do love in me? The smiles you give only to me and when we part the rear side of you How about you? What do you love in me? the lies you make when you're exposed Can't you find something better Thanks for your kindness Her husband threw her out she has nowhere to go She's asleep a girl, right? Let's do the formalities tomorrow Just the paperwork tonight then you can rest The application Mrs. Bani Yes If you please Good morning Good morning Oh! It's shorter A prospective member has come You are welcome Make yourself at home This is the "House of Angel" When Humans do stupid things Angel Always come to the rescue as long as you are here Angel will thoroughly fulfill her mission when a human does a stupid thing I have to come and help Your child's so cute And Who are you? You do everything that you're told, right? You're a woman? Yes Why Do you think so? Because I am not a man What do you mean by that? And what do you think about yourself? I'm nothing How that? Then, how do you consider yourself a woman? You had an abortion I'm talking to you from my soul So please talk from your soul too You don't talk of worldly things through your soul If one is old or young man or woman If she has money or not Isn't it futile chatter? It's good to drop one's obsessions About being a man or a woman If you can let go of it, you're happy This is what it means to live from the soul You don't mean anything Really? Simply I want to go live with this child To me This child means everything Somehow Please help me I got it Please help me! I got it In this place people are reborn as angels in this world There are several rules Sarai and the others will tell you Listen carefully Yes This way, please In charge of farm work Ms. Abel Ms. Esther Ms. Tobit Ms. Bani Ms. Ezekiel Thats it Why is that? I thought I heard Kaoru cry Shes fine, shes looked after The baby is the treasure of House of Angel Shes not here There is so much to do now: Crawl, touch, walk Soon you can speak with Mom I wish I gave birth to a girl Then he would have left her when he went You know my boy was taken away by my husband Or rather by my husbands mother I lost him in court Without money I couldnt get parental authority They wouldn't let you meet him? hmm Angel takes away the sadness but I cant I just cant His names Hikaru Although he's a boy his name's Hikaru It's a good name Thats right I gave it to him This kid is Rebecca And you're Ruth Angel gave you a name Ruth and Rebecca As you received it today from Angel Its become your birthday From today youre official members of House of Angel your old birthday and your old name have both become useless luggage You can leave behind you the pain Let's help each other live Happy Birthday Happy Birthday doh-bee-dah was-was-waaaa Happy birthday to you I'm sorry to bother you Alright, alright You called me because you remembered something Here Ah thanks You read it thoroughly Yes You always eat on your own? Why on your own? Its stress-free Really So maybe you have things to say? What do you remember? What? Shall we go? uh? Aah summers over I didnt go anywhere again this year Did you go somewhere? I had to work Sure A person has to work Excuse me How do you eat? Uh? How do you organize your life? I live an easy life my mother has an apartment she doesnt say anything even when I don't work This is no thing to be proud of Well I think I have a child on the way With whom could I discuss it? Other than my parent To your friends? I dont have anyone Are you saying you're pregnant? I don't know yet ... Your boyfriend is that kind of stalker? Mr. Kishida is not a stalker Oh ... Did you tell him? Not yet Why? Kishida has a wife and a kid on his own So you like him I don't know whether I like him or not Are the cicadas gone? When I told you Cicadas die soon after coming out You were not surprised They live 7 days its quite alright if they all die together the 7th day it's not particularly sad It's the same for all of them But suppose one survived the 8th day All her friends have died It is a sad situation What? Toilet I just bought it I'm checking it What here? Now? Now I'm drunk Whatever the result I won't be scared You have to pee on this If it doesnt reach the blue line, your fine We'll think about it Sure, take your time Thanks We haven't had lunch in a long time We need to talk Before that, cheers! Cheers What would you do if I was pregnant? Im saying "if" But you're still a student It means we keep it? or do I have an abortion? Of course I'd like to keep it But right in this juncture Practically it's difficult At some point it will be OK? Of course it will I would like to live with you Once you graduate Once my little one doesn't need my help anymore In the meantime we'll be very prudent I told you many times Why are you laughing? You look like my father when you talk like that Your Father? What about him? Nothing Are you pregnant? I told you I said "if" You're shocked? Of course I am Don't stress me Alright let's eat OK How is it? Yeah Umm ... Mr. Kishida What I couldn't say until now What now? I wasn't raised in a normal family You celebrated birthdays You would go to fireworks Or to see blossoming sakura you also had Christmas Parties But I had none of this in my family All this is I did for the first time with you You taught me many things There are so many fun things you said You taught me that So where do you want to go next time We won't meet anymore I really thought I couldn't end it But we won't meet anymore Thank you for everything You said you loved everything about me Thank you [WOMEN'S CLINIC] Now it is exactly this big she said What do you mean by that? They gave it to me at the clinic it's cute Isn't it Do you keep the baby? I keep it Is that right How do you plan to raise it? Did you tell Mr. Kishida? You didn't You're an adult, you should find the strength to tell him It won't happen He runs away from the hassle You fell in love with a mean guy You told me so "It's not your fault" you said Did I say that? You were one of the few to talk to me like that Only you and Kishida I hated it My mother was yelling and crying I thought everything was my fault I finally understood I was not alone not alone? It's because my family had been broken My Father's mistress was an abductor She was wanted nationwide He was working irregularly drinking too much My mother had enough of him She was always out not much at home The meals were always side dishes from the supermarket I hated it I got used to it But when I was in elementary school There was a birthday party for a kid He showed family videos when he was a baby It's no big deal I'll show you mine There it was on this video All the love and care I hadn't received What my parents said was right It's all Kiwako Nonomiya's fault If it wasn't for Kiwako Nonomiya Our home would have been normal Mom was kind dad used to laugh A usual home as any other That woman is public enemy #1 She messed up our family I felt so bad I vomited when I came back OK, let's eat OK Thank you Good appetite Good appetite Why are you so kind to me? You need material for your article I want to go some place I need you to go there What do you mean? I have to go there I can't do it on my own With you I could make it Isn't it what you think? If I was that girl I would just go When things get better let's make a trip to gather data Gather data? The place where you lived with Kiwako, and all Why? There's no need to go There's nothing I want to see The House of Angel for example You were called Rika You were Rebecca but they called you Rika And Kiwako was called Ruth All characters of the Bible You were there with Kiwako We grew up as sisters You don't remember me "Maggie opened an umbrella immediately" "Ha, you won't get wet like this" "And you won't get cold" "Ahaha, funny, funny!" "But as Maggie drinks tea" "It's raining heavily" "Keeps falling heavily" "Suddenly the whole place became a sea" What is a sea? Rika, you've never been to the sea Have you ever been there, Maron? I have "The waves are rolling and rolling" "...rolling and rolling" "The water runs all over" It's so big. These guys are brainwashed They rip you off your money, a scary gang They're gonna fool you House of Angel please give me my family back Give it back I want to hear the voice of my mother They came again They're coming in Nobue Come back! Nobue Mommy! Mommy! Mommy! Mommy! Maron! Maron! Quick! Kaoru! Kaoru! Kaoru! All right, all right Don't cry Kaoru Hold me tight When you come visit please call You surprised me Yeah I'm sorry Are you going to eat? I don't need to How about School? You go regularly? Yeah ... I'd like to quit I'm pregnant Into the 4th months now So I came to borrow money I swear I'll pay you back when I work The father He looks like dad There is a family but he won't be a father Please have an abortion I'll pay for it Please have an abortion! I'll take you now to a clinic Please terminate such kid's pregnancy No way! Calm down listen to her You're not going to raise it there's not even a father That much I know So Mom What did you say to that woman? "I can't believe she's having an abortion" "You're bare as a tree in winter" You told her, right? It's a lie It's a lie It's all because that woman is paranoid Me I'll keep it So I won't have abduct someone's kid I'll raise her alone Why is it you can't forget? It's been 20 years now Just forget You know how important you are to me How can I express how much you mean? Why would you believe what she said? You don't listen to a word I say, but you trust her Mom You don't even consider me as your mother You want to hurt me, right? Not at all You think, if I hadn't been there it would all have been much simpler The person who took you away from your life You believe it's me right? You're wrong What am I wrong about? You always saw me like that Etsuko! I wanted to be a perfectly normal mother! To offer you a normal childhood When I see a girl Smile to her mother I'm so envious I could scream Mom I'm sorry But you know I don't want to "become bare like a tree in winter" Why didn't I take you in the car that day Why did I leave you back home that day What should I do? I want you to love me? What should I do? Mom I often played house with you here I Don't remember sure You we're only three Tell me What was it here exactly? Well, a kind of women's shelter The staff at House of Angel knew Kiwako was the abductor and they hid her Ah really? The person Angel wanted was not Kiwako but you I think Me? Why? They wanted a purely bred angel An angel untouched by the world untouched by men When the Asahara cult gassed Tokyo subway in 1995 The press decided we were a cult too and attacked us died, it all petered out Finally an executive took the money and fled So it was over Looking at this wall even today I'm stressed and nauseous In this place They wanted to lead an inquiry Who wanted that? The press? The police? Let them investigate what they wish We didn't do anything wrong It's not like we're kidnapping people Not to worry There they speak the language of the world They are not speaking with their soul Whatever they ask you never answer them Al-right? Yes As usual today Each one to her chore Please start your own meeting Mother Angel! Please ... when the families came to protest Why didn't you deliver the person That Those who came here seeking refuge can't be expelled People come to live here away from their circumstances Do you understand? Ruth For Ruth and Rebecca I pray for angels to visit us Mama, mama, where are you going? Mama, where are you going? Mama, mama! Kaoru please keep silent I want to play with Maron I know, I know I want to play with Maron Kaoru it's OK? I want to play with Maron Go down to there ... There Mom, I want to play with Maron Mom, I want to play with Maron Enough now! It's OK Kaoru We're not coming back here Ruth! Take this Rika, I ... Do not let go of Kaoru Stay with her until she is big From now on forever Go Kaoru Come on ... Here, let's go It's so tight Kaoru Mom it's dark Look Kaoru The starry sky Stars? Those twinkling dots are stars You saw them in a picture book Hey Mom It's Scary There's nothing to be afraid of With me you're safe Come Mom What sweetie? Sing your song ... for me Which song? Alright Then I sing the song of the Star "Look up at the sky" "The stars at night" "There's a small star" "A small light" "A modest happiness" "singing" "Look up at the sky" "The stars at night" "just like us" "A Star with no name" It's so high above? Stars are so beautiful It's the first time I stop in such hotel Really? I used love hotels but They are different A love Hotel is more cozy Usually it's the contrary Say Has Kiwako Nonomiya finished her jailtime yet? Yeah The lawyer received a postcard from her Posted from Tokyo But she's probably not living there She doesn't have much good memories in Tokyo So where then? You know where she lives?! You want me to meet that woman It's not my intention I don't know her whereabouts or anything Why? You're really Going back?! I really don't know Stop, there are no more trains You find all this entertaining You'll write it all An abducted child, commits adultery, makes a child She's doing the same as the criminal I don't find it entertaining It's not because I am pregnant that I'm the same as her You just think I'm stubborn I don't think so I talked about it with you I really needed to hear someone's opinion about it all I told you everything Why do you think I want to become a mother? I can't figure myself as a mother I can't even raise a child I have no idea How to cherish her or scold her How to get close to her, to know her I won't become a mother I won't write if you like I won't write anything If you're worried let's raise her together As for me I'm afraid of men Their thick shoulders and arms their Adam's apple even now they frighten me I've never dated a man I have no experience with a man I can't understand your feeling I can't become someone's wife I think I'll always be alone sometimes my mind withdraws far away What I always wonder is Why wasn't I raised in a normal world? But you know Maybe I could be a good mother together with you You and me together can make a good mother You think it wouldn't work May I touch your belly? I hear something Its heart beating I can't say if it's Yours or the babies You girls came from Tokyo? You mean Shodoshima in Okayama? Yeah, I went sightseeing Did you visit the Okayama area? You have to visit that park Walk in Kurashiki look at Korakuen eat Rose sushi Tokyo people should know what rose sushi is I don't know what rose sushi is What? You don't? Well rose sushi is ... rose sushi Welcome Please, thank you very much We take it? Wait for the next? We take it? Kagawa Prefecture Shouzugun Fukuda 4028 If you visit there tell them I'm fine Kumi Sawada What's going on? So much water it's scary No need to fear Kaoru Look Look how beautiful the sparkling Seto Sea is so calm Sparkling and beautiful Excuse me Is this Kumi Sawada's family? Who are you? I'm sorry to come unexpectedly It's Kumi she asked me... to tell you she's fine Kumi did? Where does she live? Her company has gone bankrupt... We lived in the same dormitory Everyone is gone I see So you came here to deliver the message? I wanted to come and see once Kumi was often talking about the island She was talking about our place? If you don't mind could I work here? What? The company just went bankrupt we don't know what to do next and I saw the poster over there This has been there for 2 years Now I can't hire any staff Is that so? If I could help it's OK I'm sorry Let's go Just a minute You  You have nowhere to go How long are you staying on this island? Two, three days ... Alright, today father's not here Before you go back You can stay one night at our place Oh Dad is worried about Kumi Because of her divorce the quarrelling at her home That's what we know Would you tell us about it? You are so cute what's your name? Kaoru And how old are you? Oh! The same as Kumi's daughter We are there So beautiful Come Kaoru This is the Sea too? This is the Sea too? There are many here This is a town All kinds of people live there It's immense Yeah It's big Kaoru Let's go sightseeing We haven't yet discovered anything Let's go see places You're going to see many things with Mom All the beautiful things The sea? Yeah, sea, sky, stars, flowers Let's see spring and autumn and winter Mom's gonna work to earn money and buy things a beautiful book let's buy chocolate Chocolate! I'll buy you anything I'll show you anything you want I introduce to you our new worker Kyoko Miyata She's far away from home She's a distant relative I'm Kyoko Miyata Pleased to meet you Pleased to meet you OK, let's start Have a nice work Aaaaah! Let's play Come here Where are you from? "Where are you from?" She said Come over here Let's play together Come on Let's play Let's swing together Little Kyoko Come here How was work? I'm doing my best Quick to the park let's play What is your name? Shin Noriyuki Yuri Sakura Let's swing together Kyoko look It's men's things but you can wear them In fact it was for Kumi I wanted you to wear it I'll give it to Kaoru It's too much It's alright I'm happy to offer it to her Grandpa bought it for her Kaoru you can wear it It's as if my granddaughter was back, I'm so happy Look Thank you OK, let's get on There you are There Here we go All aboard! Hi there Hello Kaoru, I feel good It feels good, Mom What did you pray for, Mom? To stay together with you Tomorrow and the day after and the day after Let us be always together To be with you always On this island, there are so many gods Let's visit them all and pray to each one Yeah One, two Three, four, five Everyone makes mistakes at first I'm sorry! It takes time to learn Let's do this without rush Yes Thanks for the good meal Thanks for the good meal Mommy? Mr. Sawada is a girl? A "Mr." is a man of course but Kaoru is a boy? Kaoru is a girl She's a Cute girl But ... Really You saw men only in picture books Yeah Where we lived there was only women The fact is, man is one half and woman the other half Isn't it right? When you grow up a little You'll want to marry a person He will be a man Mom, you're a man? I'm a woman But I want to marry you so you won't have to work so hard anymore Is that what Mr. Sawada said? You hurt me Kaoru One day you'll fall in love with a gentle boy You'll follow him to his home I'm not going anywhere I'll stay with you always In fact I thought of getting an abortion I went to the clinic to get an appointment Then I saw her figure on the scan I was suddenly hit by the light I saw the whole landscape The landscape? Flowers, trees, sky, sea and light I saw all these beautiful things So I thought I had a duty to show them to that baby in me all these beautiful things things I saw and others I will see All the beautiful things You know Yeah? We spoke about the cicadas They die after 7 days That cicada surviving the 8th day is sad hmm I thought so too but maybe it's not so the 8th day cicada saw something that no other cicada saw It could be something very beautiful Yeah Maybe so Mama, on top of that shrine There is a ghost Uh, what ghost? A princess wearing a beautiful kimono But she's smaller than me She hasn't seen anyone for years she finally disappeared Why? Last year she fell in love with a handsome student visiting the shrine she didn't go with him? Oh, it started Yes, cheese Alright Hold your bag's straps Alright Turn your back Yes, look this way Give me a smile cheeeese Alright This time, everyone side by side Leave it here Kyoko too, come into the photo Me? It's OK? Of course, no need to be shy No, no, Really If you're sure This is for memories We'll have one in a photo studio We'll take one in studio too? Kaoru not yet Go to school, you'll get a school bag Let's go to the photo studio Hey, gimme a smile everyone Kaoru what's going on? Smile, smile Yes cheese Mr. can we play now? Alright Let's go play soccer You want to come along? Al-right Kaoru come play soccer Oh? She's a typical child of the Island Yes Kumi just called I told her about you and Kaoru she was happy She said she comes back to the island Kumi said that? Yeah If Kumi is back I owe it to you I didn't do anything What do you say? I didn't think I'd meet her again Instead of my granddaughter Kaoru visits me Thank you It's nothing I owe it to you and Kaoru A lot happened to you too that you don't talk about No I  I just enjoy being with Kaoru You know Kyoko Let me buy Kaoru's school bag Thank you hmm Someone knows what this is? OK, What is it? Yes, teacher! Yes, Kaoru Miyata first year An elephant! It's correct! Look, Mom Little Shin Kaoru come Hello "Body is nothing more than emptiness" [Heart Sutra] OK, you lit it I'm scared You're not scared To keep the bugs away from the rice we pray Let's do it You're with Mommy nothing to fear Lit it Lit it on, lit it on! Lit it on, lit it on! Lit it on, lit it on! Lit it on, lit it on! Lit it on, lit it on! Hold it tight Lit it on, lit it on! Lit it on, lit it on! Look Mom It's so beautiful So beautiful What's going on? I have been here ... Excuse me Kaoru, come eat Kaoru let's swing! Shin, the cicadas Kaoru be careful when you play Kaoru come Kaoru Kaoru Kaoru Mom Uh? You're tickling You tickle me too Kaoru! Look at the sky Kaoru It's so good Kaoru ... Ah Kyoko! Come here a minute Come here Come here a while Check this it's incredible Such a beautiful work It's really a prize It's the national contest This is incredible It's so beautiful The faces are beautiful Yeah We should pin it where everyone can see We need to show it to everyone Please stop this Kaoru Let's move home? Where to? Near Sakura's place? Let's get out of the Island No way, I like it here You'll be with me you'll be fine No way, I am not going anywhere Kaoru ... No way, I am not going anywhere Excuse me I'd like to have our picture taken A family photo Come inside Now we're ready Chin up Kaoru Come Where are you going? You take a boat with Mommy We take a boat and then ... we go to the zoo Do they have giraffes? They do And also hippopotamuses and elephants? Hippopotamuses and elephants, all there We are moving home now? Yeah Once we're back from the zoo? Can I play again with Shin and Sakura? Let's play a lot Come Kaoru ... I can't keep up anymore Are you Okay? Alright Let's buy something to drink I'm sorry ... Why? It's OK Please Here too Mom ... It's 630 yen Here perfect Thank you for coming Thank you Let's go Kaoru We must get on the boat in turn Why? Mom will follow you later Please Let's go together. Yes Come Go You're Erina Akiyama I'll take you back home Infant protection here to protect little Erina Mommy! Mom! You're Kiwako Nonomiya, right? Suspected for the abduction of Erina Akiyama arrested at 19:10 Let's go Mommy! I'm taking you back to Mom's place All right, all right Please wait! This child! Hasn't eaten yet Thank you Shall we go? Mommy! Mommy! Mommy! where are you going? It's OK Mommy! Mommy! Wait, what happened? Wait Excuse me Here, a long time ago You took a picture Show me your face? Kyoko Miyata & Kaoru As for the photo Kiwako Nonomiya took it She came here? About 5 years ago SHe asked if I had pictures of that time? That person ... Kiwako Nonomiya told you something? No, Nothing She didn't say anything She just took the photo Come Kaoru Thank you Mommy was happy with you Yes, raise your hands Yes What sweetie? I don't need anything else With you by my side I have everything I need I love you Kaoru Chin up! Erina Erina! You're ok? I had no grudge I didn't have any grudge For mommy also For daddy also For you also I wanted to return to this island The truth is I wanted to return I though it was forbidden It's fine When this child is born we'll come here I ... I will work Yeah If I work I can afford to show her many things Yeah buy her beautiful clothes and delicious foods I'll take away all her worries Yeah I'll tell her it's all fine That she's my favorite in the world I'll tell her often Every problem can be solved When she's born We'll show her to your Mom and dad We'll let them hug her Will they love her? She'll be so cute they'll love her I don't know why... I already love this child I haven't seen her face yet Why is that? song by Mika Nakajima: "Dear"
