 

                        Oh bloody useless. Just give me that I suppose we should cover her Yes Let's call an ambulance Right So? They're not a hurry I told they she was dead - No eggs this morning? - I forgot to buy eggs Get off Quick That's good You didn't see anything? Wait OK - What do the polide think? - The sergent doesn't know It was not a murder, there are no marks on the body YOu had a good look then You can't keep your eyes off women Even when she's dead I think she fell on water So how do you explain she was half naked? May be she was drunk May be she wander on boats or something May be she was pregnant Right Don't worry, it's just the drink What do you thinl, Joe? - About what? - The dead I think she went to the bridge fully dressed to breath the warm night air Then she took off her jacket and put it on the ground And the she unbuttoned her blouse And then she lifted up her brassiers And droped it down on top of other clothes Il lui restait sa jupe enlever, elle I'a laiss glisser sur ses jambes. And she unbutoned her skirt And slipped it down unfder her hips Then she undone her stockings and hold them up so they blew in the breaze before she let them flew off into the night And she shivered She wondered if she really wanted to do it She answered this question by kicking her clothes into the river Elle a vite enlev son porte-jarretelles et sa culotte. Et elle tait I, vtue de sa petite combinaison, Thinking over what brought her to this And the with particle below her She dropped into the river like a rose And float there for a moment Anh begone What kind of women woud do that? Just an ordinary woman You are going to sit there all day drinking tea? Hi Sign here and don't dirt it You are the one who found the girl? Right There are evil men in this town - How come you get so little water? - Shut your mouth Come on, Jim. This way There's a good pub in Leers. We should go there for a game of darts Right Joe do you want a game of darts? - You play darts? - Sometimes Just about the time You don't find anything more interesting to spend the time? I can tell One or two thing but not in front of a kid Don't you laugh to yourself - What is so funny? - Eat yoour tes potatos. Hurry up - Don't kick me, mom - Stop yelling You finished, Joe? May be they'll say something in the evening newspapers about that body Do you think they'll wite about us? No Myself and Joe picked up a body from the river this morning - Naked - Murder Possible. She had no clothes on - Was she cut? - Not a mark on her Here we are A body of a dead woman was found in the river Clay this morning The woman was wearing only a thin particle So far she was unidentified - Police... - You said she was naked The same thing, it was transparent Les, I've got a headach, I'am going back to the barge - Another game of darts? - Another time I'll give you a game Where's Les? He's found someone to play darts with He'll be here at least an hour We'll wake the boy Why don't we go up on deck? I'm not going any further Police are investigating that woman There's a bit in the newspaper about this What makes you thing of that? Something to say You have done enough talking for tonight Are you sorry? That's not good, do we? It's pity if he's coming back What? It's pity if he's coming back The bunk there You're nice, Joe You hungry? I'll fry you an egg No, not now I'll take a cup of tea though - You two are bloody quiet - Same as you, no? - What's so blood? - What's up he's lost money at darts again And he came back here to try to take out at me - Listen woman... - You shut your damned mouth, Leslie Gold! You have no rights to yell at me I have never lost money at darts You are a liar! - Tea is ready? - You in a hurry? The tea is ready when it's ready You read that they wote in the papers They didn't mention about us I am not really interested in any of that - Have you been swimming? - I don't swim How about you? I don't have a swimming costume You are here on holiday? I'm just free today - What's your name? - Cathie Would you like to go with me for a walk, Cathie? Where to? Over there Tim's over board! The boy is overboard, Ella. Help - You alright? - Right Thank you. Thank you, Joe - Look at that - A funfair. Can we go there? You can ask your mom Ella. Look at that May be we go there with Tim? - I've my work to do. You take him - I'll stay aboard if you want to go I have no time. You go Come along, Joe? Stretch for your legs Yes, allright Here we are Watch me - Yes, yes, that one! - Got it You see, I always win How do you like it, son? - And that's it - You are touching the line, sorry - Excuse me, i was not touching the line - you touced the line What are you doing here? - I'm working here now - Right, right, Bob. Thi is Joe Huggy. He works with us couple of months - Nice to meet you, Joe. - Me too Me and Les, we used to work on the same boat - Never the same shipyard - No - That was good time? - Yes Bob, here is my son, Jim. - Jim, this is Bob. - We close the game - I don't want to go back to the barge Do you want to go to the picture? There are two of them in town - Do you want to go to the picture? - Yae Joe, do you want to go to the picture? No, no. I'll walk into town then go back to the barge Let make it quick Go, Joe. I don't want to see you Go Look what you've done Give it to me It's broken Hello, Joe. Hello, Cathie. What are you doing here? - I'm working here by the river - You are working? Joe Taylor condescend to mix with the working class? I don't take any pride in it I see you never made it to China - Your flat is still there? - Yes I've got a flatmate now Is she nice? I don't see her much Why barge, Joe? Tou can find work more glamorous Just sort of have it, really - What about you, you still at the office? - Yes Nothing's really changed Except us - What did you do with my stuffs? - I thrown them away As you told me to I thought I would never see you again - Hi gentlemen - Go, Joe. - You sure? - I'm scaling a little It'll get hot in an hour Joe, get some sacs of coal - Tim! - Easy said than done We continue? Put it in the back of the truck, Joe. - It's in your truck now - Thanks What about the boy - Will you come to see him? - He'll be back in school again next week I have some surprise for you A banana! - What should you say? - Thank you, uncle Sam. - Thanks - Wlll you tal about the naked lady? - Yes, some pervert has donr it - Me and Jor found her - You're jocking - We called the police Will you stop talking about this? All talk about it Drink your tea Say bye to your dad - Bye, dad - Bye, son. Take care of yourself - Take care - Bye You're sad about Tim? He needs an education. But when he goes away I broke my heart Think of me when you look at yourself. With undying love, C. I had a dream about you yesterday I don't think for months - I think you have gone away - I had gone away I shed my own skin and hide in the frog I am pregnant it's your Two months has gone - Two months and you wanted me out of your life? - This isn't going to happen Is there anything you want me to do about it? I just thought you should know who you coud marry me and we'll make wonderful babies together Kid is not exactly I see it Why not, Joe? What are you afraid of? There's a kid in the barge and I spent every moment I want to kick him out of the sight You don't have to be like that We'll work out intelligently It's not about us It's about what kids do to people Cathie,I am not someone you want to marry and you know that - Have you been seeing anyone else? - It's your child, Joe. That doesn't answer my question His name is Dan, he's a plumber He's nice but I'm not really interested in him - He's married anyway - That's why you said it's mine It's true I have to get back to the barge Don't run away, we can sort it out together No, we can't. I'm not your anymore That was not true. We were fearless I was... then I have to go But Joe,what about the baby? I'll send some money when I have some I looked after you for more thay two years You owe me more... - Bye, Cathie. - Joe, do you want to get on? - No, see you at the next lock. - Allright. Look at that, Joe Daniel Gordon, plumber of 26 years old in Glasgow was in custody charged with murder of Catherine Dimly, a future actress Dimly's body was recovered 2 weeks ago by two bargemen. He'll be tried He'll be hang for sure Well, we're going to celebrate Not everyday I'm mentioned in the papers Here, Joe. - Joe, I'm going for a beer. Do you want to come? - No, I'll finish this Serve yourself - I see you later - see you later, Les Ella. Les will be back in a minute He's always late You scare now? Do you think he knows? Of cause he does How long he's been out there? He must come down and see us What can we do? It depends on him really Why it only depends on him? There's... anyhow He surveys the boat as if it prepared judgement It's just his way of knowing we're there Yes, he's done that You're just going to lie here? There's no hurry. I finish my cigarette. I'm sorry, Les It just happened There's nothing personal against you I just kick you fucking head I won't fight you, Les. Hit me if you think it'll make you feel better What about my son? What do you think happens to my son when you are fucking my wife? - It wasn't like that - Like what, Joe? Tell me what it was like Look, I'll get my stuff - I leave you to sort it out with Ella. - This hard fucking barge! I'll go So he'll write me a letter? That's what he said Do you want a cup of tea? - Right, I'll do this one - Me too Look what we said before to each other, Joe. Stop! Stop! I don't like it. Joe I can't swim. You know it. Stop! I'm scared, I'm scared, bastard They've set the day for the trial FATHER OF TWO TO STAND TRIAL I thought 4 he has - What? - Children. 4 kids Yes, so did I. It must be a mistake Push out the paper Poor bastard How? He killed an inocent woman You are not the judge He didn't do it What makes you say it? - It was an accident - Not what they think She died without her clothes so it must be a murder? Do you want to know how I know it was an accident? How do you know that I know I came for my stuff I'll get it - How is Jim? - You know how he is Go and see him yourself I thought he was comming Stay with me for a while - You want a cup of tea? - You've got work to do They asked me as a witness at the trial one of us is enough I can not tell them anymore anyway - You'll say hello to the boy for me? - Go and see him We need to find a lawyer To make things proper again Les said we have no future He said once the ration fuel stops The truck will take over But that doesn't bother me I've spent my life on the barges When we save enough money, if you wish There is a nice bangalo at the quiet side of Edinburgh Wouldn't take long, would it, Joe? - What? - The divorce I don't know, Ella I don't know about such things It will be easier when Jim's bigger, the three of us Say hello to Joe - Allright - Bastard! Mind you langue! Your wage. Tax deducted Board! Some more Stay ahead - What's matter? - It's Sam, my sister's husband There has been un accident He felt out the lorry, he was killed It's about a week, I just got a letter I sent her a telegram saying we'll visit her I see you hva a new boyfriend This is Joe. We're going to be married You have to excuse me not being dressed I was not xpecting visitors Hello, aunt Gwen. - Do you want a cup of tea? - I'll help you Com on, Jim. Gwen will come to barge for a week or two Hope you don't mind, Joe? Don't want to spoil your honeymoon That'll be good for him She doesn't drink Can't understand people who don't drink If I don't drink in the morning I'll be drunk the whole day Gin's my drink Not gin in lemonade just gin strait Some people find it a bit odd but not me We shoul get a drink sometimes Tonight? We can tel Ella we go to the cinema There's one thing I hate that's going to the dentists You sure you don't mind, Ella? - I want to go to the picture - No, you go Someone has to stay and look after the barge You enjoy yourself See you later, Ella Of cause I'm sorry for Sam one did not want it to happen I didn't have time to think a lot though I have to forget it as soon as possible The bus killed him I thought he fell off the lorry Yes he did. Then the bus ran him over It's about time Ella will look after ourself how she is doing One of your girlfriends? - Yes, she died - You still carry her photo Yes, I don't know why - I should have get rid of it long time ago - Of cause you should The dead can't count for himself Drink your cup We have better things to attend to Look at the mess you've made to me I'm tired See you in the morning Leave me alone, Joe He killed her, as simple as that We'll see what the judge will say - The law warranty the justice. - yes You want to know what I thing of this so-called justice? Lawyers only play words This bastard should be hung! I agree. If this guy is guilty he has to be hung Calm Hi there - Have you finished your writing today? - Not much I know you 're going to finish it you think it's easy? I'm trying to do something different, don't you understand? - I'm trying something new - No, I don't understand Why can't you write an ordinary book? What other people can't understand For 8 months I'm been gettng enough sitting in the lausy office And when I get home there is a drunker asleep Waht have you done today to earn enough money to eat? - I made some custard - What? I made some custard Custard? I worked whole day anh you made some custard Yes it triked me a good idea So i made some - It's overhere, on the dresser - Put it where you like Eat it yourself Taste your custard I put a lot of effor in this custard and you're going to eat it - No, you can't do it - Oh I know I'm going to do it You... you are a bastard You bastard He should serve enough time Pervert like that should be fucked Hanging, it is too easy if he is guilty, he shoul die that's what they say - When's your birthday, Joe? - What? - It's horoscopr, I read it for you - Where's Ella? Elle's gone. Come and sit down What do you mean Ella's gone darts? Elle's gone to see Les. What you think you done? I'm leaving Should have done it long time ago You are going anywhere? No, I'm leaving looking for another job You're looking for somewhere to stay? Supposr I am? - I'll find you a lodger - I'm not going to stay for long May be a month - Well, interested? - Yes, how much? I'll introduce you to my wife I work at night. You'll see her more than me You have to pay in advance. Your room is there I go to work I see you in the morning See you later Dady! I suppose you 're our last lodger Get up, he'll be here soon There were the bargemen who found her body, isn't it? - Anyone you know? - What? - The bargemen. Did you know them? - I knew one of them You have been in a trial? - No. You? - No I don't want to, either I think I might go along to it Just to see what it like, you know Pencils? Give me small something How do you describe your relationship with the deceased? We were flatmate but I don't know I recently moved in so... We were friendly rather than friends And what do you know her relationship with the accused? I think she met him when he came to fix plumbing in the flat I only saw him once, so couldn't from an opinion But I know she was lonely Her last boyfriend recently has gone to China Thank you You should have been rich, Joe then it might have been I loved you Will you write to me? I'll send you a letter from China - You are not going oot China - May be I am I'm sorry What are you sorry about? It happened We ran our course Goodbye, Joe What you do that for? I've no use for that - Must be worth something, no? - Not to me I saw him wiht her I recognize his face Thank you. No further questions. I'd like to call Mr. Leslie Gold. Can you please describe for us the circomstances Under which you found the body of the deceased? We were with a cargo of coal to be delivered and I saw a body bloating by and I fished it out, with Joe - Joe? - My mate I see Was ms Dimly dead when you... fished her out of the water? - Yes, she was dead already Thank you No further questions We have no further questions Thank you, you may step down So? You think he's guilty? - The murder is not proved yet - What do you mean? They didn't prove that it was They know that Woman don't get undressed for nothing - She had sex - You'll see They'll hang him Poor beggar According to the examination of the deseased's shoes it was found that they matched exactly those of the accused Also the fibers found on her finger nails exactly matched the material of the accused's shirt There could be no mistakes The chances that they could belong to anyone else are practically none with the evodence of sexual activities and the main of reason in my opinion there is overwhelming evidence that the deceased had intimate contact with the accused very shortly before her death - Objection These facts do not have any relevance for the jury Overruled I wasn't with her then. I swear I never went near the river Silence! Silence! Keep order. Just answer the question, Mr. Gordon. What was the question, sir? What did you do after removing the deceased's clothes? I never took her clothes off We just went for a walk together - You was with her - No, not then I see Were you aware that the deceased was pregnant? No. No, it wasn't me. No I didn't. I didn't - You new she was pregnant? - No You planed to get rid of her before your wife discover your dark secret - No - She invited you to her house as a tradesman She trusted you as a tradesman man You abused this position of trust You preyed on her loneliness I alone was with Catherine Dimly at the time she died The drowning was accidental There was no mueder I cannot identify myself without the risk of finding myself in the same shoes as Mr. Gordon. I made a mistake of not reporting the accident at the time and I have that on my conciense If you condemn Mr. Gordon, you'll be condemning an innocent man Ladies and gentlemen, who speaks for you? Have you reached a verdict? Yes What is your verdict? We find the accused guilty as charged Is your verdict unanimous or by majority? Unanimous Would the accused please stand Mr. Gordon, do you have anything to say before the sentence is passed? I swear to god I'm innocent You put to us in beautiful cloths! - You thought about the child? - Silence! Now clear the court M. Daniel Gordon, you have been found guilty of the murder of Ms Catherine Dimly. After taking in considerations and the circomstamces of this case I have no choice but to impose the maximum penalty I therefore sentence you to be by the neck until you are dead may God have merci on your soul Teke the prisoner out Ladies and gentlement of the jury Thank you for your civic duty All rise!
