 

                        It's the same story, for 300 years; if you're so clever, why didn't you join us from the beginning? Now, our only choice is to tell them "we're sorry" the university is closed, on strike. We'll blow a whistle when it's over. What about boycotting military recruitment at the university? There's only one thing to do: go to the recruitment offices, take a bottle, fill it with petrol, cork it... Yeah, but what if we want to blow up sociology instead? Listen, a molotov is a mix of petrol and kerosene, a radical white man is a mix of chat and shit. Listen, I'm not here to show you my revolutionary credentials, but there are plenty of white students fighting on the street, just as you in the ghetto. And there are plenty of unsatisfied whites who are potential revolutionaries. Here we go again with the same discussion, guys. When they put you in jail because of a bit of marjuana, you become revolutionary. But when they smash your face, break your head, prevent you from living, going to school, from getting a job, then you must become revolutionary. That's why you people say we negroes are living in another... Wait a moment. You're talking to white students. I think we understand. Yes, a lot of us understand what makes negroes revolutionary, but what makes white people revolutionary? The same fucking thing that makes negroes revolutionary. But it doesn't happen the same way. It'll happen, don't worry. You won't need to do anything to make it happen. You can prevent it, sure. You can break it off. You can do everything, but you can't... - For example? This country is falling into Fascism, can't you see? I mean, now we have police at the university, and then? Where next? Sitting with us in class? Inside our homes? And then? On the street, when you go out? Are you waiting for that to become revolutionary? What I mean is that we should close the univeristy, that's it, and nobody should break our chops, if they do, it'll be at their risk. And when they decide to reopen, they'll do it on our conditions. But why stop people from going to class? Why... Because they're against us. They prevent us from getting what we deserve. We've tried everything: begged, negotiated, written programs, but we haven't gotten a damn. I think, and I'm not alone, that everyone knows that the main point of every guerrilla is that the enemy is invisible. Things happen, and they don't know how and where. People who act to draw attention on themselves, do it on purpose to divert it from others I don't think, we've reached this point yet. We've just begun to involve people. If you want to close the university, what do you want to... - We don't even have the support of white people... - Hey listen to me! - We need mass demonstrations. - Just a moment! The side of the black students doesn't want to give a show. We just close the univesity and that's it. Speaking of what you say, I don't agree, you know, I mean about the help from white people. It doesn't matter so much. Because if tomorrow our agitation is successful, every student, demonstrator or not, black or white, will be considered an enemy, and it'll be easier to keep this tension that we've became a public threat. Well then I share your opinion. There is no more coffee. Can you make some more? Isn't there any man who can make coffee? - Now let's listen to you. - I suggest that we form some groups of 4 or 5, that should stay out of the university and that, at some given moment, should move behind the police. - Please! - Yes, I mean as distracting tactics, - So the others could have time to reach... - Just a moment! Are cars good to build barricades? - Cars? - Inside the university? - As tactics to... - Why don't you bring your own here? It's a sport car, is it ok? Bring it here, then I'll take care of it. Is it possible that you don't understand that until... - Silence! - There's only one way to talk with white men, and that's in their language. if they talk with weapons, you answer with weapons, it's easy - But are you ready to die? - Many black men already did, and many others are now dying in this country; if we're on the top of the movement, it's because we pay personally. - I'm also ready to die. - Alone? But not of boredom. Who the hell is he? No no, it's alright, he lives with me. Maybe meetings aren't his forte. Sorry, but if it wasn't to join us, why did he come? Why? Who has the right to say if he wants to stay here or not? What kind of bullshit is that? If he wants to be a revolutionary, he has to stay with other people, otherwise... That's why he came here. There is no revolutionary without other people. Who was Lenin with no organisation, or Castro. Even anarchists spent their life in meetings, what the hell... Tell that guy to start reading the Little Red Book, the first page, where it says that the revolution cannot break out anywhere without a revolutionary party. And that if he continues his middle-class individualism, he'll lose his life. To the end against the middle-class individualism! There was an open door on the third floor, now it's ok. Is it allowed to go on the roof? I mean, do you let me go up? Regulations I have to take a book, I forgot it upstairs at lunchtime. Which book? Why don't you eat at the cafeteria? - How was your holiday? - Well, we'll meet us later. Who can give me the permission? - Good evening Mr. Allen. - Good evening Tom. Did you stay up late today? Yes, I had to work. May I help you? Well, I hope. I replaced a secretary today, I went up at lunchtime. and I forgot... - A book. - Are you a secretary? - Actually I don't like it, I work only when I need it. Who's that girl? - A girl from my past past. - What's her name? Alice. My sister. What's that stuff? It's a form: in case of roundup, they release you sooner if you give it to them already filled up. "Always ready", don't you have another slogan? You have to be realist. Listen up, the day you'll decide not to resign yourselves, I'll enter the movement A lot a people cannot chose, for many it's a question of survival. That's what I mean. - What? - Really. I'm not joking. I'm sick of this, young people talk about violence, and the police do it. Have you seen that idiot today who said that one should do something... ...only when it's needed? Well, I need it before. Anyway, the demonstration will be in front of the rectorship all day. Well, alright. Here check 1 to surveillance 1AL51. It's enough for today. Surveillance to 1AL51. Break. What do you want? A friend of mine was arrested today. I'd like to know if he's been relased. - One of the students? - Yes. They are recording them. It takes some time. Sit down. Does it take a lot? - 5 minutes. Or 5 hours. Thanks Empty your pockets. - Name? - George S. Tolli. Put your hands above. - Tolli? - T.O.L.L.I. - No more names? A nickname? - No. Take away your glasses. - Adress? - 1152 Stock. - City? - AHA. - Employment? - History teacher on annual contract It's too long George: let's write office-worker - Money in the wallet? - Two dollars. Some of these boys need to be treated You didn't you say that you're also a doctor? - And who are you? - There's a friend of mine here, I came to pay the bail You're not allowed to stay there, off with you I thought that when someone comes to pay the bail... You thought? Did you think the regulation was for you? Did you think you're someone special? Off with you Hey Martin, do you need something? Here you are, now you can meet your friend Hands up What a day! - Name? - Karl Marx How do you write it? M.A.R.X. Goodbye - So? What do you want? - We'd need some weapons. Self defense. So, this is the law: you buy the weapons now and I verify your criminal record in Sacramento In 4 or 5 days you can come here to get them The law is valid in time of peace. This is an emergency. We live in a neighbourhood close to... you understand me... We have to defend our women You're right, for God's sake, you're right. I won't let you go with nothing in your hands In my opinion, you need at least a caliber 38 Hey boys, the law accords you the right to defend your homes: if you shoot them in the garden, then drag them indoor Ok Thanks The joy of a beautiful holiday out in the open The sun of the desert shining on your swimming-pool Why breathe the infected air of the city when you can enjoy your life with "Sunny Dunes Relax" Playing tennis on the emerald grass, walking in the open in the middle of the desert taking your kid hunting on wild walks You could even spot the mountain lion Sun, fresh air, good water in your garden Become an independent man, a pioneer's life in the West's endless horizon And for you ladies, a completely furnitured kitchen, for the happiness of your husband and child And don't forget the pleasure of a golf game on the golf court that Sunny Dunes has prepared for you Nine holes on a fabulous background What are you waiting for to leave that crowded madhouse city? Move here today, for a new life in the healthy climate of the desert Are you getting into aerial acrobatics, Bob? No, Jane, I'm just flying over the desert to look for our new home for the holidays Finding it it's easy, just call 84868 Can you repeat the number, Bob? Of course: Sunny Dunes Land Development Company, Box 82, Los Angeles, California News from inland: today the works for the new highway that connects the hills to the city of Los Angeles have finished because of the works, and the houses on the route had been knocked down. This is the data provided by the building department Vietnam: american soldiers who died on the vietnamese front are nearly 50.000 according to the latest data from the Pentagon The number of soldiers being cured in military hospitals wasn't noted. Corporal Darry Marshall from our city died on the battlefield a week ago - Did you see here? - What? we've got 7 multimillionaires at this time. We, who? California. Texas has 4, but New York beats us It was time I see to an extremist association have been arrested Talking at a businessmen's association lunch, the governor of California said that the time to put an end to student riots has come And now let's go to the weather report directly from the weather station I want to go and see what's going on. When you're finished, leave the line free, perhaps I'll call you - Good morning - How are you? Mister Giorgio, I'm calling because of this: as I remember, three days ago you asked me information about industrial and textile sectors on the Stock Exchange of New York Since the market is moving, I think it's time to do something - Do you want to see them again? - No, thanks Tim. We'll call your principal if we need some changes - Hello guys. - Hi. - Let me have a quick look at the advertisment No, the meeting is over. Go to bed - Yes, Mr. Allen? - Nathalie, where's Daria? I don't know, haven't seen her. - Try at home. - Yes, at once. I phoned her home, she didn't answer, maybe she's ill. - Doesn't matter. - Goodbye. - What? Hello? Here is Lee's Associate Do you know where I can find Daria? - No. She left in the morning. - Left? On which flight? - No flight. She took my car Do you mind telling me who I am talking with? Yes, I mind. How are you? In the next 10 years there'll be three million people more - Also more are expected. - Yes, I read it. Are this figures valid for the whole country? No, just for South California. - Do you understand what it means? - What? It means an expansion of at least 200.000 hectars. So our position on the market requires a global expense of 5000 billions in three years - Well, I think we can afford it, can't we? - Yes, of course Federal and public fees, the cost of living, inflation is not even included... Fuck off Surround the area all around here. Block all the entrances. Here is lieutenant Bell from the metropolitan police department You've infringed on paragraph 415 of the penal code. We know you're armed. If you don't throw away your guns and come out immediately with your hands up... ...we'll have to take you out in some other way Everybody down on the sidewalk Down, I said! He's armed! Stop there, nobody move Hands up, run End station Which bread do you want? - It's the same. - For me rye bread, with mayonnaise. This sandwich with salami is a bit poor, Bob, I'm not on a diet If you want more, you'll have to pay more I'll pay, I'll pay, don't worry - Hello? - It's me - Where are you? - In a shop. It's better for you to disappear, someone called, he said you were on television. Were you? What? - On the news. - Are you sure? - He said, it looked like you - Martin... Hello? Mark? Hello! - Sorry, can I ask you a favour? - Of course. I wanted to know if you can give a sandwich on credit You see, the problem is not that I don't trust you, but if I trust you than I have to trust everybody I see. Where do you think you're going? I'll go for a ride and come back, wanna come with me? - No thanks. - As you wish. Lilly 7, Lilly 7, here is tower AN, stop the take off, you're on the wrong runway, there's traffic landing on the opposite direction turn as soon as possible, Lilly 7, Lilly 7, here's tower AN I don't know, we agree on the estimate for the first step - Yes? Why don't you answer the phone? Yes. We invested 200 millions plus 40 for unexpected events Oh no, just a moment, why lock up 40 million for the unexpected? What unexpected? We found some areas with differences in the level... - Hello? ... quite relevant, that's the reason - Hi Land examinations have pointed out a density index that... Wait, I'll take the call in my office ... and then the arrangement of collapsing rocks How do you calculate... - And when will we know that? Nancy! It's difficult to make an estimate, at least as long as we are on this first stage What's the matter Daria, where are you? I'm in a city here in the desert, I called to tell you that I'll get late to Phoenix - But Why? - I'm looking for a place called Glenville or Ballyville or something like that Something with "Ville" inside. You know the desert, does it ring a bell? "Ville"... Hold on, wait. with "Ville". What do you mean? Like Denville? A place in the desert, Denville is in Connecticut. Or maybe it ends in "Hill", a word like that Yes, well, but why do you want to go to a town you don't even know the name of? An appointment? A friend of mine told me it's the perfect place to meditate. - And what are you going to do there? - Think thoughts think what? Daria! Listen to me, give me your number, I'll try to get the name of the town and call you back, ok? No, no, or else you'd be capable of sending an helicopter to fetch me Daria! - Please come back in three minutes - Just a moment miss Listen up, give me your number and hang up, I'll call you back in five minutes, so that I pay for the call. See you in Phoenix Excuse me, do you know a place nearby called Glenville or Ballyville something like that? - Barkstead? - Oh, that's it - Of course, that's where we are - Oh really? Did you come here to visit a James Patterson by chance? - How do you know that? - You have the same look. Tell him as for me that he'll be the death of this town, that he's going to ruin a piece of American history. Jimmy? - Do you remember Jonny Wilson? - Jonny Wilson? No. That's me. I was middleweight world champion. - Middleweight world champion? Bravo! - Thank you. He wants to be a benefactor, he brought pack of children here from Los Angeles he says, they are ill, traumatized, do you know what it means? But if Los Angeles doesn't want them, why should we? Fuck! You damned criminals! Just try to come back! So, you've seen it with your own eyes, that glass will cost me 30 dollars Hey you! Listen to me! Hey you! Hey, come back! Listen, where's Jimmy? Where's the guy who brought you here? Isn't he here with you? Will you give me a piece of your ass? - Are you sure you know what to do with it? - Yes. What the hell are you doing? What the hell... Who the hell is he? But... But what the hell does that guy want? Thank you for the T-shirt, but I don't think it's good for me Why? Wrong color? Wrong sex. - What direction are you taking? - Phoenix. Phoenix? There's nothing in Phoenix. Listen, I'm in trouble. And, since you've a car, could you give me a lift? so that we can go and look for some more petrol. - Far from here? I don't know. That guy said maybe 30 miles. It's ok. The radio said, someone stole a plane this morning. Tell the truth, was it you? And why? To get off the ground Stop it! This is an area of ancient lake beds, deposited 5 to 10 million years ago. These beds have been tilted and pushed upward by earth forces and eroded by wind and water. They contain borates and gypsum Borates and gypsum? Two old gold diggers that got lost How do these plants live here? They're so beautiful What else do you do, other than flying? Until yesterday I've been driving a wrecker for a cloth storehouse But I've also been doing other things - The university? - A bit. Why did you leave it? Graduate? - Activities out of program. - What do you mean? Stealing binded books instead of poket editions, making phone calls from the rector's line, whistling in the classroom, bringing in forbidden stuff, like dogs, bikes or women. What is wrong with that? We did it in the open. Once I went to the office and I reversed the calculators, and so... They kicked me out. You know why? Because I've sent engineers to art classes Uhm, she's coming down too Tell me the rest of your braveries Once I painted myself black, but it didn't work, so I returned to be as I was before Did you hear that Mexicans are bombarding marjuana fields on the border? I'd like to know what else is happening Nothing about the demonstration? No, I prefer to listen to some music Now they speak about it only if there are at least 200 or 300 wounded Yes, some kind of record Or dead Yes, someone killed a policeman, and someone trampled on the flowerbed I was looking for a rock station. They said the guy who killed the agent was a white man Uhm, a white man going on the black's side, eh? just like the old John Brown Do you want us to go to the river? - See you down there! - Wait! Hey you, foolhardy! Are you ok? Do you want to smoke? - Look, you're not talking to a free man. - What does it mean? Perhaps it's nothing serious, but the people of my group have some rules about smoking, they're bound to reality What a bore! Let's look for some shade What does it mean "bound to reality"? Oh yes, they're not able to imagine anything Sorry, but, you know, you could have left them I wasn't really in a group, you know, all that chatting makes me sick but at a certain point you have to decide on one side or the other Ther're lots of sides, not only the good and the bad Stop it - What's your name? - Daria. The point is that if you don't recognize them as bad, you can't get rid of them Do you think that if we get rid of them, the world will be different? Why not? Can you think of something better for us to do? Us who? Your group? You and me You and me? It's nice here, It's quiet It's dead Ok, It's dead So let's play a game You'll start from a side of the valley, I'll start from the other side And we'll see, who kills the most We'll begin with snakes and lizards, and then go on to wild rabbits At the end, we'll count how many we've killed, and the winner will kill the loser Did I say something stupid? Don't you want to play this game? I don't want to play any game It's nice of you to stay with a guy who doesn't smoke I'm tolerant But what are you doing here? Phoenix, are you serious? Because of work. I have to go there You're really tolerant Pretend that your thoughts are plants Ok What do they look like? Grown like in a garden or wild, like a fern or a rambling, I mean weeds A sort of jungle It'd be nice to plant thoughts in heads, so that no one would have bad memories It could be possible to plant, you know, only the good things you've made like a happy childhood, strong parents, only the good things Just to forget how horrible it was That's the point! There's nothing horrible Please! Sometimes I feel like shouting Why don't you do it? There's nobody around here, nothing, just the desert - But if someone...? - Yeah, a ghost, you can wake the dead. At any rate At any rate What? It should be just one word The name of a place. Or a river The river "at-any-rate" - Hey! Look what I've found! - Uhm, well done - What's that thing? Chalk? - It isn't salt. - Do you want to come with me? - Where? Anywhere I'm going Are you asking seriously? Are you answering seriously? They should build a drive-in here. It'd be a business Why don't you do it? Should I? Oh! - Something wrong? - No,I was going to the toilet Where's your car? I forgot it down there, together with my chequebook, credit card, insurance policy, birth certificate and... Goodbye What's wrong with you? Are you crazy? Is it loaded? No - Are you looking for water? - I'm buring it Why did you ask me about the strike? Were you there? The guy who killed the agent... No. I wanted to do it, but someone else did it. - But they said... - Who said? - The radio. I never shot a bullet You could need it. It'll be difficult to persuade them I don't even think about it Why? I believe you Let's go back to the car Let's go away from here. If you cut your hair, who is going to recognize you? Do you think I should cut my hair? No, you look very nice Maybe they'll think it's not an airplane Strange prehistoric bird flies over the Mojave desert, with the balls hanging I think you're crazy flying this thing back to Los Angeles Of course. You cannot steal a private plane, use it as you want, and then don't go back and thank. It's nice to see a young man showing some respect - It's beautiful. Great Grand'pa. - Of course it's beautiful Do you really think, you'll make it? I'll just land at the end of the runway, far from the tower, From there I'll make it. I'll run to the city, before they realize what happened Why do you have to take it back? You can come with me to Phoenix, - Why do you need to take this chance? - I like to risk. - Well, it's beautiful, isn't it? - Yes, it is. - Did you use the plane often? - Yes. Are you insured against damage and stealing? Yes, of course. It's a small plane, but not cheap at all, you know My wife liked it a lot. I painted it her favorite color, pink - Did you talk to the young man? - Yes, I did. And what did he say? Well, he asked me to go for a ride, it seemed that the plane was his own Did you believe him? No. - Well, then why did you let him go away? - I don't know. Do you remember how he was dressed? He was wearing a T-shirt, and long hair. - How old do you think he was? - Mah, 30. Maybe less, 20. 21 The 4H Club has organized a sport sunday at the Schoneberg school stadium A rodeo will take place, and there'll be horses, dust and fun for everyone and quite a lot of ice cream, I'm sure Here Lilly 7 is on sight, coming from north: it's approaching the landing runway Received Take-offs are suspended. Incoming planes stay on hold KHT759. Here's KHT652. Do you copy? KHT652 to KHT759. You'd have to see it, you wouldn't believe your eyes - What's going on? - Nothing, they just enjoyed themself painting it everywhere. Call an ambulance Give me a tool to open it The attempt of aerial piracy reached a tragic end this morning The episode happended when the police, after trying to block the plane with no results, had to open the fire. Several shots from an unidentified agent reached the cockpit The young man inside died on the spot. Stay tuned for more details Our program goes on with John Payne - Why, what was he looking like? - Don't ask her If this evening I get drunk, I'll tell you everything You know, there's nothing to do this evening Hello? It's for you Hello? hi, she said she'll be here in a moment Another time - Do you need a light? - Yes, thanks. It's really interesting, what Nicky said. It seems, she was here by the swimming-pool, she saw everything Dear Larry, if these are your last conditions, I can't see how I could possibly present them to my partners Your proposal is unacceptable Listen Jack, you know very well that the price of something is neither high nor low when it's not related to its potential use Right? - Yes. The only question here is: does this ground have a value to you? Honestly, I don't think it has any. And we don't want to commit ourselves more than you do He talks about potential use. This is speculation Why should I accept speculation prices? Don't you think they'll come? What do you think? Should we hold on? Daria! Hey What happended to you? Did you fall in the swimming-pool? Anyway, you're here now, it's the only thing that counts Listen up, Now you go downstairs, and change your dress Your room is the first on the right, at the end of the staircase It's obvious that this area has got lots of development possibilities, such as a beach, a lake, where you can live quietly, as you please... ...and comfortably I must say that this business makes me enthusiastic, but... Maybe we'll end up finding gold on this property If we find water, we'll also find gold for sure In this country, water is gold Water, electrification, the landing runway, roads the arrangement of beaches and all the other subsidiary equipment are only details of our general project.
