 

                        1 I'm sorry Are you freaking blind? Dammit! Just do what you're told We're only in it for the money Will let him go once the ransom is paid Stop smoking in the morning C'mon Adi Bro Fung Mr. Huang, Don't blame us After all your family doesn't give a shit Bet you ain't getting along with your wife Bow Who's this? Courier Please sign here Which company do you work for? Stop staring at her Go inside Huh This baby is the fucking shit It's called Bath Salt, my cousin mailed to me from LA. It'll get you really high! And gives you stamina Oh, cause you need that Oh, Excuse me? It's like that? Oh no You're sweaty What're you talking about? You need a shower It's fin. C'mon No, No, go shower No, just go shower first Hey baby Yeah? Babe! Wait for me and don't take one before me alright? Um Be right back! - Wooo! - Wooo! What's up my home girl? Why did you dress up? We gonna party here Are these your new friends? Let me introduce, this is my girl Linda - Hello. - Hi Linda Why do I keep forgetting your name? - You're such a jerk - Anyway, it's girls, girls, girls You've got something for me? Thanks Ya so David is in the shower, just do whatever Dammit! Still listening to that old rapper? Big B What's up man? You want this? Here you go Play my platinum album, It kills all the other rappers Okay, Cool OHOHOH!DAVID Hey can I borrow your room for a bit Bro. sure man. Do whatever the fuck you want Thanks Bro! You, you and you follow me Wait, what about me? Aren't you an adult? Sure So take care of yourself Oh yeah Take this and put it in their mail box And Hey Don't fucking mess up again I never fuck up Where all this blood coming from! Stop messing up The sky looks weird Attention everyone, the cartel is heavily armed Everyone make sure you're combat ready Excuse me Sir? Are we authorized to do this? Who's your Daddy? Bitch Oh, you are so fucking strong Fuck! I'm the Ironman of rap, one versus all You're so awesome Why don't you all come together? So hot here...I'm thirsty, I need the...water. What's your problem, I haven't finished yet Shit! Don't throw up in my buddy's house Fucking idiot, she's so high. C'mon! It's your turn! Oh fuck! Fuck! What the hell is this! Hey I don't like the way you bit me Damn! Are you really biting me? Fuck! How dare you bit me? Damn! You two are fucking psychos I knew you are the best Wow! Fuck! What's going on! Shit, you are fucking sick too What kind of fucking drug did you take? Shit Oh yeah Fuck! Dammit! Fuck! Dammit! Fuck! Babe? Hey What the hell? We're running a classy Halloween party out here You come dress like that? What are you thinking? Whoa, and the smell! Get a breath mint! But Check it out, good makeup though! Yeah! Let's get a picture here. Yeah Get in here...here Hey, yeah! Let's get a picture here. Hey, yeah yeah yeah. Get in here Whoa, Baby! Try a breath mint, man. Jesus! Hey, check it out Get in here. Get in here. Jeeze, he knows how to play the part, huh Baby? All right, go! Eat 'em up, Tiger Daddy is here Oh holy shit, help me! - Shut down the lift - Sir - Sir, what's going on? - Seal the front door, don't let anybody in! Damn,what a shitty place, the elevator is fucked Fuck man shit, stairs only...fuck Captain I have a bad feeling about this Follow my orders We go as a team, don't mess up the rules Sir! We're here to celebrate Nana's birthday Welcome. Welcome Nana Nana You're here Hello, sir Sir Next month will be our graduation And I want you to have this Nana Happy Birthday! Thank you What's going on? Ouch Don't stand there. Go inside Oh Hide the blow! Move! Faster! Put that weapon down! Drop that weapon! - Drop that weapon! Squat down - Drop that weapon! You get out here Listen, squat down Hey Boss It's you? You fucking betrayed me You think you can get away with this - Are you ok? - Get out OK Let's go. Let's go! I get the money Let's go, come on Go! Are you ok, Boss? - You all right? - Ok ok. I'm ok Hey! Freeze! Drop the gun What's going on? Be quick Oh shit!Shit! Shoot the fuck out of him! - Go! - What's going on? Run! Run Run Fuck!Go!Go! Fuck Damn! Fuck! Fuck! I don't wanna die now I just had my album released and ton of gals I wanna bed Oh Fuck! Fuck! Tiger, Tiger!I'm Tiger Woods! What the hell is going on today? It's supposed to be a celebration party Ah Help! Fucking help! Babe? Baby, do you wanna shower together Babe? Who the hell are you? What the hell... Don't drink the water here. Are you high? Fuck! Babe Babe What's up? What that fuck is going on? What do you mean what the fuck is going on? Who the fuck is this chick? I don't fucking know, those are your friends Why don't you ask Tiger who they are? He brought them here! You know what she was doing inside? - What? - She drank from that fucking toilet Eww, that's gross You know what, they're your friends So it's your problem, I'm out of this, I'm over it. Tiger! Fuck! Oh, what the fuck, my fucking pills man. Fuck Fuck! It's so not fucking cool at all Who's this? - Please help me! Let me in please -It's you again - Let me in, please! - Hey! What the hell do you want? What? Aww! Jenny! Open the door, Jenny please! Damn! I just wanna bring drunken girls for sex why did I get a living dead this time.. Big B! He's chubby but he's my brother Are you fucking transforming into zombie too? C'mon FUCK! Davie! Your cousin here. Listen! Don't take those pills I sent you Or else...Ah! Mum...What are you doing? I'm your son...Fuck! What's going on? Why the hell is this happening? What's going on? OH SHIT! What hell David David It's not funny, I'm not scared. Stop it Ah... Ah... Tiger, what are you doing? Quick, help me Watch out! Fuck! Move your ass right now! Go fast! Watch out Just keep going. Hurry up. Go! Shut that door! Don't let anyone in Open the goddamn door! Save us! Don't let them in What are you doing? There are people out there! Just leave them out there! We need to focus on our group now! - Zombies are everywhere! - What are you doing? Put the guns down. Put the guns down Forget about it. We need to stay here as a team now Stay focus I didn't sign up for this shit! We're a team now? This is the money You want this money? Come on. Take the money. All the money. We're a team, right? Yea You know what? God !Dammit! Fuck Son of a bitch Don't go off take up the money Hurry up Alex, give me your gun Yes sir Shu Fuck! Get the money Help me! Don't leave me alone Boss Go Shit! I don't wanna die, how dare you! Fuck! Hurry, c'mon up! There is a door Open the fucking door! Open the door! Fuck! Fuck you! People gone crazy brutally biting off a person's face It's cop Dad Oh, Sir Sir, you're here to get us out, right? Go away Sir, is it true about the zombies rampage -on TV? - Shut up This world has gone mad You come here Hurry up Bring me bandages and alcohol Hurry up! - Open it. - Hurry up. Hold down Take it Slow Sir, let me do it. Keep pressure, more pressure Dad - Harder put it harder - Sir, my daughter is a bit clumsy, let me do it in stead take him out More pressure. Push pressure Ah Dad Hey Stay here and put pressure - No, stop it Sir - Keep your mouth shut Sir, what's going on? Shut up! Who needs birthday party when the world is ending To Prof. Wu Hun Who is Yi-Yi? Yi-Yi? Come here Did you write this? I'm attracted to your gentleness look at class Especially when you're lecturing, it's so charming Since that day onwards... So turn out you're a well disguised pervert You fall for your teacher, huh? Ah Lee, what are you doing What we do is for money and women What's the matter? Please don't Then you're going to swamp with her Please don't Come and put those hands to work Ok Lift me up Daddy help me! No No Dad, save me please. No, Daddy Dad, save me please Save me, do not touch me In fact you don't need to be mean We'll do whatever you wish for Massage me ls this all right? Ah! Fuck Untie me now, quick, get me out of here How come they just don't die Yi-Yi, untie me Ah Untie me Nana - Sir - Cut me loose Sir. Are you alright? Hey Nana...Nana... Nana Nana...Nana... Sir Nana is dead Why are still alive? Nana Sir. I didn't mean to I didn't mean to run off I really didn't mean to Don't be afraid Don't be afraid Sir, I can't breath Sir...sir It's going to be over soon, relax Don't leave, I need you to accompany Nana I want you to be with Nana Sir... Yi-Yi, you need to keep her company Go down with her Ah What should we do? Don't worry We've been through so much, we'll get by We can definitely get out of this - Alright - Do you trust me? - I believe you - I'll protect you We'll get by, I love you Quickly What's going on? Don't you remember we always want a child but failed Hey Hey What's going on? Are you okay? Look, this is what you get when you want to be good Fuck! Why do you want to be good? Why do you want to be good? Do it. Kill me fast. I don't want to become one of them How can I do this? Quick! Kill me now, I don't want. I don't want to be liked that I don't want, I don't want to be liked that If you don't do it, I'll do it by myself Don't be afraid, I'm here - Let me go -I'm here Uh It's okay, you can bite me, Bite me I'm sorry! I'm so sorry! Maria! Maria Help me What are you? What are you doing? Ah! You wanna bite me? Maria! Help! Mommy! Jesus! Buddha! Maria Stand up now Maria! Come here! Oh! It wasn't me Ah Help! What's the salt for? The TV show said it could get rid of demons Go get something useful Hey Maria, don't pour hot water on me Go away Go away Go away, go bite my boss, don't come any closer What's going on? What the fuck is this? Shut up Shut up. I'm not one of them. Is that an exit? Come with me, let's go Shut up, c'mon That's the one that killed my boyfriend Hey, come in Andy? Andy Why are the lights off? We lost power an hour ago What are we gonna do? We gotta get out of here Get out? Where can we go? I don't know. But we must get out of here You awake? Let's get going Uncle, let's go together I'm useless, I'm a cripple, I'll be a burden to you Come here. Here's my car's key, it's parked right next-door It's got enough power to get you guys out Come with us Kido, I'm not as useless as you might think I was a better fighter when I was at your age My leg got lamed, so I end up like this I was once a fierce fighter but it's meaningless Calm down Calm down Oh I almost forget, come, I have something to show you Go See Holy shit What's this? It's my armor when I was a solider. Can't believe I'm going to put it on again I got a lots to tell you, and I never get a chance to tell you. until now, I just want to say I just want to say I'm sorry I didn't protect you well enough Fuck Look at you, what happened to you? Come mother fuckers Get out, pass me the weapon Just go and I'll take care of the rest Go! You're still young with bright futures Go and get her out of here C'mon, I'm gonna wipe you out C'mon bring it over Get in now You know hot-wire. Ok ok. Go go go Shit, you bit me? I'll bite you too Hold on - Seriously? - Yeah Nana don't be afraid No one can hurt you anymore Daddy will protect you Now the world is in Dad's control Nana Don't be afraid Daddy will find a way to cure you Nana, you are a good girl Hey, hey. Get up. Don't drag us down Fuck off Just stay with me, ok? - What's going on? - Look at me. Look at me. Stay with me. alright? Don't be scared, it's good Look at me What's wrong with you guys? We're fucking next You guys wanna see it together? You wanna live? We stick together. What the fuck is wrong with you two? We stick together. Fuckers! Go faster Faster GO Mr. B Alright, what're we betting on this time? It's your call, bet whatever you want Fine. I'll give you ten trucks of water if they can last 10 mins Deal I will give you twenty female slaves if I lose Hey. Some of them were movie actresses Movie stars, oh yeah! Listen carefully Survive the next ten minutes If you're still alive You'll be awarded with food and water Mr. B, it's show time! Let the game begin You piece of shit, fight Wake the fuck up Now that's what I called entertainment You've got five minutes left, get your girls ready Mr. B, relax, the night is still young Huh! Andy? Yes Fuck whoever you want. I'm gonna have that guy What the hell! How could we lose this? Excuse me Mr. B, I win again Losers weepers I'll get my zombies ready for next time. Go! Mr. B, don't forget my ten trucks of water Chill out! You got my words! Fuck off That girl is going to be a fun ride. Bring her to me! Remember to clean her up nicely. And that man is yours The world is cruel It's survival of the fittest You'll be the prey if not the predator Look at these folks They probably had a fancy lifestyle before But it's all the same here, just another walking dead Old man, let me release you from pain Are you sure you wanna fight against me? Go down first It's me!! I'm your dad Don't be afraid, it's daddy Don't be scared, come here Don't be scared It's daddy I'm your daddy Dad is always there to protect you I'm your daddy Don't be afraid How dare you! Look at my baby How dare of you with such a beautiful hair? They are gorgeous Don't move Nana, here's your new hair You have cleaned up well She is my daughter, Nana Her dad used to be a good person He was a science teacher at school He loves Nana very much He wants to find her a mom To take care of her You're tough I love a strong one You fit me well I don't understand I don't understand Become her mother, ok? Leave us alone We're all crazy You're crazy. I'm crazy So what's the difference in us? I like your look. I think you should be my slave You know what? I think you're stupid in a way I tell you what, I'm better fuck I think she is better than you Really? Get off! Just like I'd imagined You hate me right? Yup But you still get hard So why is that? Why is that? Maybe you should take my pants off and I'll tell you Really? You're hungry right? Yes You wanna have sex, right? Now I do Lots of it All that I can handle I don't think you can handle me you need some training You have no idea Why don't you just take my pants off Alright That's it I have something prepared for you I think you would like it Let's go That's it? I'm hungry still Fucking bitches Hey... It's not funny Oh my god You Okay? You sick bastards Andy... Everything you eat, drink and using are from me That's why you are still alive You two are really something, aren't you? Let's duel Whoever wins will be granted freedom Fight We don't have to do this Forgive me, It's for survival C'mon I got you Hun. No matter how good you fight, FUCK Bunch of idiots there's no way out Either kill each other or a short cut to feeding zombies - Go. - Go C'mon, hurry up Andy What are you doing? C'mon Andy What? C'mon. Let's go Go... Hurry What are you doing? Why? I need you to go alone, ok? No, why? It's...why You've got bitten? No, I'm not leaving What do you mean? C'mon. Let's run I need you to go No Please, just go and go now Please Go No, Go now. Get the fuck out of here now Get the fuck out of here I'm sorry, Andy I'm sorry Stay alive Not bad huh. You can find the way out! Come over here! Why are you coming back here again Wanna get screwed again? Come over!! Come over here!! Ah... Nana baby. I'm daddy Andy
