 

                        l have heard father wants Preety to marry someone else She is very impulsive She will marry and then she will feel very bad on it she dont pick up my phone why dont you delete her from your system? Preety's file is now corrupted Please let me talk to her he has send atleast 25 emails rahul is calling before taking any decision atleast talk to him once dont you trust me? Nothing work from my wish l have heard that you have told your dad everything thats why you hate me l did not had any other choice you hate me so much, you even count me in your list can we meet? l dont want to meet you ever l will prefer die but l will not meet you she went inside l'm coming to lndia from next flight he is coming on day after tomorrow at 4 AM Divya was saying he will stay in his flat he change all his programs in a shot again he will fell in Preety's love l'm going to clean the flat l will go to flat who come at this time? Preety haven't come to house since yesterday her marriage is fixed all relatives are coming l dont know where she is gone does she had any fight? your son rahul called her how can you say this? you know he is coming back from US to meet preety l never encourage my son to call preety l did not know what was the problem between them even l also did not know that they love each other so much trust me l only know that rahul and preety were working in an office and at the last moment you sent rahul to America rahul went to america without my permission who will pay its EMl? l will pay for it. you no need to worry when he will buy his own flat then he will not be in our control investigations will go on death was in flat? police must find something in flat? what is your plan? for how many days you will stay here? l haven't decided yet do you know anything about preety? l dont understand which weapon he used our team has searched your flat we have found these hairs with foriegncis lab report we have find out these hairs belong to old woman it means murderer was hidden in the flat do you have a doubt on anyone? nobody was my father's enemy l want to ask you a personal question she is my girlfriend.... my fiancy her father did report for her missing do you know anything about her? as soon as we know about it, we will inform you l want to see my flat if l will see your project than what will happen? you are so untrusty yesterday some people came to my house to see me l mean than what happen? they are waiting for my answer if you are waiting for my answer then... whom you are calling? give me my phone do you know much l work hard for this project? what happen? who placed a cartoon cd? who tell you to drink much? l did not inform at home l dont know what they are thinking is this my problem? are you scared? what did you think? l'm drunk? my phone's battery was empty and l did not have charger it was rahul's birthday thats why l'm late l give you more freedom than l promised to your mother dont betray my trust so up... if anyone jump from here why you are talking aboutjump? he will definitely die l was thinking why he made a flat on so top because god is very near from here dont touch me without marry me l will not marry you without touching you hey karan did you know anything? what happen? did you know anything? about New York what about your manali project? you are here this time? l tried to call you many times, even l sent a sms to you it must be on silent actually l was about to call you how do you know? that l'm pregnant thats why l come here with my baggage l informed papa that l'm going to Puna for my office work l also wanted to inform you some thing we will find a solution for it we have to find a solution l was thinking until now that l'm cheating on my papa now l understand l'm cheating on myself did l plan it before? what did l say thats why you are thinking this? you will stay in this flat he is thinking that l should not give my flat for rent when is your new york's flight? its better to remain empty rather than taking so less rental karan is my friend then why you are taking rental from him? business will not be successful in friendship if l irritate you then l'm sorry where are you? where have you been for many days? you wanted to meet me? can you meet me now? why dont you come at my house? l'm here we also have to big answer for elder daughter's proposal ask her where have you been? she was sleeping go from here one person came in our village do you got all the resorts permission? you were saying a file is stuck in process meet the leader of this area then work will become more easy l want to talk to Manoj Babu who are you? my chintoo run away he dont have brain but you have a brain? do you have a brain? do you know how much things your rabbit destroyed? l think you are very rich who are you and what are you doing here? l come here to meet you sister gave a message for you. Manoj do you know her? she lives in this village. she is a daughter of leader now return me my rabbit sir is very angry, you go home. l will bring chintoo what are you doing with him? he is Karan. he is making hotel here. l work with him let return her rabbit back then what will be our benefit? he destroyed many things she cooks very good you do one thing, make food for both of us and take your chintoo do you think l'm your servant that l make food for you? he is a leader thats why everyone come to meet him today Karan also come to meet him. l was scared why you come here? l want to meet your father l want to talk to him. For what? why l tell you? you are creating a problem l will make food for you daughter go upstairs as you know our company has invested lots of money in your area so l have a request you to dont create any problem if everything will go smoothly then it will be better i will be thankful to you l dont understand one thing if you love manoj then why dont you tell it to babu ji father will kill me then you have to marry with father's choice if l was in place of you then l wouldn't stay quiet if he wants to marry your sister then what is the problem? if you love her then why you are scared? because l belong to different cast its a non sense if you have a power than i will support you today l talked to Karan alot l love Karan everything is prepared karan will bring manoj what about father? he is already married he also did not invite us in his marriage you are mad. so much fun is not good if father will know it then he will kill me with the help of karan. why they still haven't come? groom is here. are you ready? if you want to save your life then go from here you dont care for your father's respect i did not think about it that father will become so angry sister was very upset. she did not talk to me i felt very bad to see my sister they beat manoj alot and now they are searching for you why l go from here? l was helping you its my mistake. now you go from here l was helping your father happened in my life that l will never forget after sister's death, i dont want to live l only trust Karan so much big banglow its a building and a flat in this building so up... if anyone jump from here then he will die why you are talking aboutjump? he will definitely die l was thinking why he made a flat on so top because god is very near from here dont touch me without marry me l will not marry you without touching you l make something for you l'm going out for few days from home if you need anything than call me but if its emergency than you are alone in home, dont allow anyone to come city people are very bad l was fed up with village l love watching cartoon because l miss my chintoo l also feel scare one day someone came at my house l'm rahul's father verma. is karam there? what happen? Verma has come there is a envelope in cupboard. give him that dont talk to him much do you take anything? you have to take something i will scare with loneliness now l used to talking to walls nobody come here to meet me he told me to dont go anywhere is he your husband? she bring me from village today when l see you, l miss my father l bring your envelope what happen to you? he told me one thing correctly. city man are very bad why you think of marry with preety what is problem in it? a girl sleep with you for whole night, how is her character? l also sleep with her. how is my character? who geetika? l want to talk to him who is she? she was asking for you. l told you it must be a wrong number what do you i dont know? its me where are you? l'm very happy we want to see you when you are coming back to meet me? tell father that l will come to meet him we have to admit her in hospital do everything here lets talk outside l dont want this baby its very risky we dont have any other choice why you did not tell me? that you are married you cheat me l will never forget you l will never forget your father l got loss of millions i bring you hear to give lesson to your father we will not give birth to this baby where are you? can you come to meet me at my house now? l'm going to sell my house are you coming or l sell my house? why you suddenly think about to sell your house? who is geetika? she lived here? then you killed her? have you gone mad? where is her body? what rubbish do you think l'm a murderer? l wanted to save her now this flat is yours where are you preety? l'm coming
