 

                        The world has been divided into the West and the East. The "Western Nations" reigned by the Queen, and the "Eastern Nations" in its opposition. In order to unify the world, the Queen of the West dispatched her confidential noblemen to the various countries. There they would pursue their work as the Queen's intelligence agency. They are known and feared by the notorious name "The Queen's Watchdog". Even for human trafficking, your ways of handling your "products" is too rough. What are you going to use these women for? Who do you think you are? Why do you have these pictures? You're not a normal little girl, are ya? Most of the victims of the serial mummification murder case... had all come into direct contact with you before. What's in the envelope in this photograph? How would I know? And what's with that look of yours!? Excuse me for interrupting you. Who the hell are you? Ah, forgive me, I... am a servant of the Genpou Family. I... have come... to collect my master. Master? What the hell is that for? Kill them! As you command. You...! What the hell are you!? Me? I am just one hell of a butler. There's no way a normal butler can kill like this! What are you saying? As the Genpou family butler, what would I do if I could not accomplish something of this level? Well, what will you do if I did this? Sebastian! Sebastian...!? It's just the name of my dog when I was a kid. Don't get carried away, little lady. Ooh, odd-eyed. This rarity will surely make a much larger sum than the other girls. Spit it out! How did you get your hands on those pictures? Just what are you? Hey! Until when do you plan to play? I don't think that floor makes such a comfortable bed. Did I hit you too hard? My my. Modern guns have improved considerably, in comparison to the ones of the past. No way... The precious clothes which the young master has provided me with... are now ruined. It's because you were fooling around, idiot. I have acted as you ordered me to, befittingly. Besides, enjoying that state of yours, is not bad at all. So miserable, and lovely at the same time. It suits the small and fragile you very well. Who do you think you are talking to!? Shut up!! This one... will die right? Well, what should I do? Hurry up, my wrists hurt. But young master, if I come closer, you will be killed. You bastard, are you trying to break our contract? By no means. From that day on I have sworn to be your faithful servant. If it is your wish, I will do anything. What are you talking about, you freaks! If my goal cannot be achieved, neither will you be able to get my soul. Of course. Moreover, if you get killed by someone, your soul cannot be mine either. Then just hurry up, will you? Young master, I have taught you how to ask for a favor, right? It's an order. Rescue me this instant! As you command. Shut up!! I will have you return my master. This game was not very entertaining. I will pay... five times what this one pays... No, ten times even! Work for me! I am not interested in rubbish created by humans. I have told you, have I not? That I am... a demon and a butler. I'll ask you again. What's inside that envelope? It's your last chance, spit out everything you know. I've got nothing to tell you. You'll all face hell. Really now? Well then it's game over. I've already seen hell. Prayers are useless, God does not exist. No one will come for your rescue. Well then, master Kiyoharu. For tonight's dinner I have prepared a French cuisine, as well as the cuisine consisting of sweets only which you had requested this morning. Which will you choose tonight? Sweets. As you command. Distinguished noble family, Genpou. Since the nineteenth century. The morning of its head, master Kiyoharu, starts with a fresh cup of early morning tea. This is the household's maid, Rin. Her actions are beyond my understanding. The problem here is not bad vision, but lack of brains. Have you not noticed? I'm sorry! I will take care from here on. She fans my desire for bloodshed slightly. This is the house steward, Tanaka. Inside the cup... Lemonade. Good morning. This is my master, Earl Kiyoharu Genpou. This scent. Ceylon today? Yes. Blue Lady of Higgins. At the young age of seventeen, she is the chief of the East's most successful toy company, Funtom Company. As the Queen's Watchdog she controls the underground world. You were screaming quite badly yesterday night... Just the same old dream. Done. If only I could be by your side in your dreams. It's fine. I'm more relieved not seeing that face of yours anyway. Rotten brat. Hm? Nothing. It's fine if it is just a dream. But I would find it very problematic if you were to be killed when I am not around. I know. However. If it be suicide, I will not stop you. If you committed suicide I would still be able to take your soul. Don't worry. I don't plan to die before completing my goal. For that reason I have dressed like this. No matter how long you think, it's useless. Victory has already been decided, Mr. Satou. Queen's Personal Secretary Charles B. Satou That level of intelligence and business skills at your young age... It's truly terrifying, Earl Kiyoharu Genpou. Save your flattery. What's your business? Another victim of the "Devil's Curse" has fallen. Our country's ambassador, Anthony Campelle. Just like the others, he was found mummified. At the crime scene a card was left. The devil was depicted on it. This makes number eight... All victims were ambassadors of the great countries. This case has become the major topic all over the world. Some media are debating whether it is the curse of the devil. For that reason, the great figures of the East and West have gathered and have decided to hold a large scale exorcism ceremony. Bunch of fools. Either way, because the ambassador of our country has fallen victim as well, we can no longer ignore the matter. The Queen demands you to close this case soon. Tell her Majesty that I will not fail her. This all started with the finding of the first mummy three weeks ago. Thereafter, more people were reported to be found turning into mummies alive in succession. This case is called the "Devil's Curse", or so it seems. Are you capable of turning people into dry bodies? Who knows? "Extracting' however, is our specialty. There is no mistake in that. All victims were somehow connected to that human-trafficker. Just what had he gotten his hands on? Get me the investigation data from the police. As you command. Foreign Affairs Bureau of Security Police Excuse me. I've been waiting for you, Mr. Tokizawa. If you participate I'll be very relieved. Just a moment, I've just finished this very important letter, Even though it's more like a love letter. We have found people seemingly related to the mafia in the storehouse at the pier. This is the report. Wait, wait. Shouldn't such trivial matters like knockings be left to the local police? Director of Department of State Security Saneatsu Nekoma We're still bound and foot here by the "Devil's Curse" case" Witnesses testified to having seen a man clad in a black swallowtail killing twelve men on his own. On his own? This was found at the scene. Please have a look at these files. Impossible... It belongs to the Watchdog serving the Queen of the West. It's the evil nobleman who kills and spies by order of the Queen. In this country too, there are informants who will take any crude measure, never mind involving innocent citizens. But those are just rumors, right? If the Queen's Watchdog truly exists, it will pose a great danger to our nation. We should eradicate him. You cannot get permission with speculations only. Well then, please pretend you heard nothing. Please excuse me. I have indeed heard nothing. However... Mr. Tokizawa, If you're going to eradicate the Watchdog, Make sure the pet owner will not find out. Thank you very much. Well then, meeting adjourned. Is work like playing house to you? Forgive me. Have you found out anything? If there's anything I can do for you, don't hesitate to ask, Kiyoharu. Thank you very much, aunt. Long time ago, Earl of the West, Ernest Phantomhive moved to our nation and has gone by the name Genpou. The Genpou family has achieved great wealth through the production and sales of toys through the generations. Their business was still expanding, but one day the third Generation Earl, Arihito Genpou and his wife Erika were assaulted and assassinated. Assassinated? Yes. Ever since, their only daughter, Shiori, has been missing. However, half a month after the incident, Arihito's bastard son, a child named Kiyoharu appeared, along with him a man clad in black. Presently, that "Kiyoharu' is running the family. To think he'd be able to succeed with that background... It has been the rule that only men can succeed the Genpou family business. At that time there had been many suspicions towards Kiyoharu, but DNA profiling has proved his identity. Erika's sister Hanae Wakatsuki, his only relative, supports Kiyoharu as his guardian. Under the cooperation of Kiyoharu and Hanae, the Genpou family business has grown even more. While there had been many against it, Kiyoharu succeeded the Earldom. "The Evil Nobleman" Have I lost again? Anthony died in the back alley of the ghettos. According to witness testimony, he turned into a mummy in an instant. As to where he had been and what he did there is still unclear. This is what the police force's investigation has yielded so far. How do you always obtain this kind of information? The Queen's Watchdog keeps a dog at his beck and call as well. By all means, please continue your investigation on Anthony Campelle's death. I have great expectations of you, fourth generation Earl. Why do you like cats so much? They are my only true companions. We're leaving. What car would you prefer today? Small one. Anthony's body will be transported back to the mainland by today's flight. We are now headed for the destination of appointment. It will take approximately five minutes before arrival. That's more than enough. It's been a while, Earl. I have awaited you arrival. But do you know why I have brought this body here? I do not just know, I altered the order-data. Now I am the one who instructed you to bring his body. If you keep silent, all there's left is your payment. Out of my way. Very well, five minutes. It's the wrapper of a cigar. From Cuba it seems. Very rare these days. This is all there's to be found it seems. It's time. Young master, you have forgotten this. How did you know... that there is a wine spot hidden in the handkerchief? There was a piece of wrapper between the corpse's teeth. From that I reasoned that the victim did not use a cigar-cutter, but his teeth. But judging from his polished shoes and fine suit, that person must have been a refined gentleman. For him to do something like this... it is conceivable that he had been quite drunk. Therefore, I reasoned that he must have used the handkerchief to wipe off the wine from his lips at least once or twice. For a demon, you sure are passionate about playing detective. As the Genpou family butler, what would I do if I could not accomplish something of this level? Of course you too must have noticed... Rotten butler that you are. Then, you know the brand of the wine too? Chteau Bonheur of year 75. Find the distribution route of the cigar and wine. They're both famous brands. As you command. High class club? While it looks like a common club house from the outside, there is an underground venue available to selected members only. It looked like secret events were being held there. I have investigated all distribution routes. Only that one place has both the cigar and wine available. Then, before Anthony turned into a mummy, he must have been there... Most probably. I see. What's in the envelope must have been the invitation to the party. Get me the list of attendees. Here it is. In order to attend, you will need to be introduced by someone. Between these people, there must be someone aunt knows. She must be able to provide me with something if I ask her. I'll speak her about it tomorrow. Well then, I will contact Lady Hanae presently. Meeting outside offices... so much pressure. Fear of strangers is also a form of illness. As the head of the Genpou family, a fair and open approach is most suitable. Please, don't pull that sour face. That is incredibly rude in front of a lady. Please act like you are having fun. Well, please smile. Let me go! I have already... Ever since that day, I have forgotten how to smile like I'm having fun. Thank you. It looks splendid, Sebastian. I understand, I just have to get an invitation, right? I'm sorry for asking so much from you. What are you trying to find out? You never say anything when it comes to this kind of business. Your mother was my sister. I am with you in your revenge. That is why I'll support you. I won't ask you anything unnecessary. Aunt! Akashi, my medicine. Please leave it to me. I will take revenge without fail There are quite a few people I know. There will be no problem. But... I have heard that you need to bring an invitee with you in order to attend. Who will you bring? I'm so sorry! Please forgive our servant's rudeness. Amazing! I've always thought that there's nothing you are not capable of. He is indeed an extremely competent pawn. But I am the king. Without my order he will not move. As you wish. Not too bad. Please do not stare at me... Ms. Rin. No matter when, no matter when, do not make any mistake. Un... Understood! This is the invitation. Be careful. What's wrong? This seal... It's the same as the one when father and mother were killed... Kiyoharu? Aunt, who is the organizer of this party? The CEO of Epsilon Pharmaceuticals, Shinpei Kujo. Let's go, Rin. Yes. Investigate Epsilon Pharmaceuticals' Laboratory. As you command. What is this place? The world's most prominent ambassadors, politicians and tycoons. This club... Shinozaki! The underground weapon dealer. Rumored to have made deals with terrorist syndicates. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome! I am today's party's host, Shinpei Kujo. Please enjoy this night to your hearts' content! Stay here. Young master. Rin! I told you to stay there. I am very sorry. But I have been ordered not to leave my master's side. I'm fine, go back. What is your business here? How fortunate to meet you here. I wanted to greet you personally no matter what, so I followed you here. Mr. Shinpei Kujo, right? Indeed... I am. A true pleasure to meet you, I am... I know who you are. Funtom Company's young and charismatic CEO. You honor me. And, the Queen's Watchdog. What are you doing?! You bastard! Useless barking. Ah, I cannot believe I... I understand... this is... Found you. Please look. At least we can present you the result of our research. Kujo and Shinozaki? They are the addicts of drugs that we have developed. When they were told there will be a secret party for them to try our newest product, they all rushed here with apparent glee. Well then, let them serve as our test subjects, It is time, ladies and gentlemen. We will now present you the new drug you all have longed for. This is the drug finally perfected after long years of research. Its name: Necrosis. Please do not be hasty. Necrosis is enjoyed like this. The liquid from the capsule will evaporate and the substance of the drug will be released into the air. Once you breathe it in, you will be able to enter heaven. Are you all enjoying the sensation of climbing the staircase to heaven? Isn't it far more thrilling than any other drug? That's right. Just like you suspect, That drug is indeed the secret behind the Devil's Curse. First you nose will bleed. Next from your ears, and lastly your eyes. Your heart will race to its limit and your body will dry up instantly. From the evaporation of the drug of the capsule to the loss of effect takes approximately fifteen minutes. But there is one way to save your lives. This is the antidote to Necrosis. However, taking one will definitely save you from death, but the chances of brain damage are extremely high. In order to return to your former health, you will have to take at least two. Ah! Once your eyes start bleeding you are close to your demise. Make haste! In the end, humans cannot share each other's pain. They would rather kick others down and choose the easy path for themselves to live. Please look. This is our world in miniature. We have obtained wonderful test experiences indeed. As long as we have the Necrosis and its antidote, we can control the world with fear. This is the formula to success. What... joke is this? Young master? Young master? Are you alright, young master? Young master! Young master? Young master! Rin, stay calm. You alright? We're all damned if the glass breaks. Hold your breath. Hurry! That Bastard! Stop fooling around. we're going back. Call Mr. Satou. As you command. The true identity of the "Devil's Curse" is a drug called Necrosis. A drug? When the victim walked out of the shop, Kujo probably handed him the cigar containing Necrosis, and slipped the Devil's card into his pocket. The victim inhaled the Necrosis wrapped in the cigar... No! No! ...and died while under despair. Using the Devil's card to complete the crime scene it also indicated the completion of the mummy. So, the mastermind is Kujo? No, he has already been murdered. He was used by that weapon dealer. There's no doubt that the one who ordered Necrosis and killed Kujo was Shinozaki. If the weapon dealer was behind this... Even though he has technique and money in abundance, his awareness of danger is in contrast lacking. This country has been exploited. But don't worry, I'll go to Shinozaki presently. Make the preparations. Understood. Young master. What is it? The police wish to speak you and Mr. Sebastian. Today is the day all important figures will gather for the mass exorcism ceremony. Please refrain from causing any trouble. Can't be helped. Go. Act befittingly, you hear me? As you command. There are exceptions to all matters. This place too is acknowledged as an exception within the police force. That's strange... there's no one to be seen. I'll leave for a bit. Meanwhile these three will take care of you. Do as you please. Please take your time. You can relax, but that's only for now. Very soon you'll miss me to death. But I'm afraid I won't come back for you then. Be prepared. Well then... Shall we start the interrogation? Interrogation? Ah, I am very sorry I fear I do not have sufficient time on my hands for keeping you company. Going through the trouble to kill them on the sheet... Do they plan to erase them without leaving any sign of murder? I have acted befittingly, my Lord. Young master. Rin! What are you doing here?! I was instructed not to leave the young master behind. Again? You... Rin! The moment I tread on the sheet I'll be killed. Young master! Shinozaki!? But why? Wasn't he behind all this? I see now... It had been my question from the start. For the culprit to go out of their way to leave the Devil's card behind, making the case stand out... If the development of the drug was their only goal, there would have been no need for this. It was to gain attention from the world. That time, the reason I was not killed was because as the Watchdog, they needed me to report Shinozaki to be the culprit to the Queen. Therefore they let me live. Then, the culprit is likely to use Necrosis to create great-scale terrorism. His goal, a place to gain worldwide attention. "Today is the day all important figures will gather for the mass exorcism ceremony." With this timing, there should be no better occasion than using the exorcism ceremony to propagate the Necrosis' thread to the world. If all people have disappeared from this building and they can make it look like they have fled, anyone would suspect Shinozaki and his men. All the more because his company is rumored to have made deals with terrorist syndicates. People will think that Necrosis has fallen into the hands of terrorist, and the world will be subjected to a state of fear. They sure make wonderful scapegoats. Young master! Don't! This way please. Here with that gun! Rin? I will distract them, please run. I have been told since I was a child that I should protect the Genpou family with my life. My family has lived for that purpose alone for generations. Therefore, please run, my Lady Shiori. Rin! You ... That day I failed to protect my Lord and Lady. Even you were taken away. I had thought about ending my life, But, you returned. In order to assume the position as Watchdog, you even disguised yourself as a boy. My Lady, no matter how useless I have proved to be at cooking or cleaning, you still kindly kept me by your side. At last I am able to show you my gratitude. Rin ... Thank you for everything. Please hurry! I have long ago prepared myself for the consequences of serving the evil noblemen. Mr. Sebastian? Why are you here? Young master! Aunt! Kiyoharu! Please bring me to the exorcism ceremony. Exorcism ceremony? Rescue our precious servant without fail! When you're done, head to the ceremony immediately. Act befittingly, you hear me? I have been instructed to "rescue our precious servant without fail'. Those words are wasted on me. Well then, are you prepared for the consequences? This is not the way. No, this is the correct way. A detonator? Have you ever seen it up close before? This is ... Indeed. Necrosis. Because you were muffled up last time, you couldn't see it well right? What are you doing?! In just 30 minutes all within the radius of one kilometer will turn into mummies. Surely this will become the terrorist attack that will shake the entire world. That is when I will publish this photo. Because you made a mess of the scene, the plan to frame Shinozaki and his men failed. So now I have no choice but to push the blame on the Queen. How dare you...!? Which reminds me, that eye of yours. At this moment, in accordance with your order, Sebastian is now rescuing Rin and headed for the exorcism ceremony. Without your order he will not move, is what you said, right? Your demon, that is. I knew. You gave in to the curse passed down the Genpou family and sold your soul to the devil. However, once I've killed you there'll be nothing left to fear. That day, father and mother were murdered. Everything was taken away from me. That is why I sold my soul to the devil to take revenge! I will... not die! You're pathetic in the face of defeat! I expected nothing more from someone who'd sell their soul to the devil. However, things cannot always go your way. Is this what you are looking for? I will... return this to you. Sebastian? Why are you here?! "Rescue our precious servant without fail! When you're done, head to the ceremony immediately. Act befittingly, you hear me?" The real meaning behind "befittingly' is... If it is to protect my master, I can act freely. Which is why I did not go to the ceremony, instead I used personal contacts for access to information regarding to this place. Just like I thought. I found you extremely suspicious. When I saw the documents in the laboratory of Epsilon Pharmaceuticals... Elixirs of the West The Amrita of India and the legend of Xu Fu searching for the elixir of life by command of the Qin Emperor. Myths of obtaining immortality by consuming flesh of mermaids. They are all related to perpetual youth and longevity. In short, Kujo had been researching life prolongation. The white pill I took in the laboratory and the ones you take are the exact same thing. Sorry! It is no life elixir, but it can help preserve youth and beauty; meaning it also has effect on life prolongation. Then... what about the Necrosis? It must be the byproduct of this drug. Initially, Kujo was commissioned by Ms. Hanae and began his research on life prolongation. This was long before the young master's parents were assassinated. After thorough research, the key ingredient to the drug appeared to be enzymes and hormones only extractable from living young women. While searching for the best compound, a way of enforcing rapid cell regeneration was discovered. That, is the truth behind the "Devil's Curse". Then, those girls in the store house... were they all ingredients for the drug? It's the fault of this cursed family's tradition! I used to be your father's wife, Did you know?! The head of the Genpou family who assumed the office of Watchdog was instructed to choose between my sister and me to become his wife. The one he chose... was me. I was very flattered. But... they turned out to be a family dyed red by blood. One day, the Genpou estate was attacked. Not only did I become victim, but also my child inside me. And I would never again be able to have children. Not being able to bear children, I was disposed of like trash. Instead, your mother became his wife. You're lying. Who would have thought that he'd choose tradition over me, a person? For that same tradition you even went out of your way to take up the guise as man. Father would never do that! Every time I think about my sister, I feel like I could explode. That is why I thought, even if I cannot bear children it's fine as long as I can attain immortality. And... once that tradition addict is gone, I will make everything mine! Now you know at last that everyone is a liar. My goal is eternal life. What's most interesting is that this medicine also controls my seizures. Ironic, don't you think? Some trash like you should never have been born in the first place! Humans have truly never ceased to entertain me. Were you the one who killed my parents? Yes, because they were in my way. Kill her! As you command. Sebastian? His physical potential has been maximized through drugs, a true work of art. Can a demon match up against a miracle created by the hand of god? I've heard that silver bolts work a miracle against Dracula. Well, how do you like a sword made of silver? Please do not lump me in with those graceless creatures. Are you sure? If she's killed you won't be able to get her soul, right? I wonder if demons can die. Foolish, the antidote is right... What!? Impossible. I will... return this to you. Now the table is turned. Akashi! Is this what you are looking for? Just like my master, light fingered. No! If you want to defeat me now is most opportune. Please! There's antidote in my safe! I obtained these in the pharmaceutical laboratory. I don't need them. In the end, you'll devour my soul anyway. Save me! I didn't kill your family. With this gun you killed my father and mother. I've seen it all with my own eyes! I was just taking orders! Your father was the Watchdog. You think I could do all that on my own? This is Lady Hanae Wakatsuki. In process of the Necrosis plan I was made to cooperate in assassinating the Watchdog. They were the large syndicate controlling everything behind the scenes in the East. The leader of the syndicate is the one responsible! There was nothing I could do! If I did not obey I'd... Tell me, who's the leader!? I really don't know! I know of absolutely nothing! What will you do? In case there's a chance that my goal cannot be fulfilled, I'll let this woman live. There are but two serves of antidote. I know, but there's no other way. Take it. Thank you! I'll live, I'll live! You really are an idiot. Everything you said, was that all a lie? What I just said was no lie. I'd like to tell you who's behind your parents' murder, but I really don't know. I am so sorry. You, what did you do? I just performed a small experiment. Experiment? In case there are but two capsules, what would humans, greedy as they are, do? However, I am afraid they did not contain the antidote, but necrosis dyed red with my blood. If you had taken only one the symptoms would not have appeared so soon, after all. I have acted befittingly, my Lord. Let us not dwell any longer and be headed to Lady Hanae's manor. What are you doing? Your goal has yet to be fulfilled. I know. You could not possibly plan to save everyone in your current state. The security code that butler inserted. Could it be Hanae's birthday? Perhaps father's birthday? You will not be able to take you revenge like this. Are you really fine with that? Father... mother... I'm sorry. Sebastian. It seems like I've ended up serving a most boring master. Seeing as you have chosen death yourself, I am under no obligation to protect you. Father's death anniversary... that's the day everything started. It's game over... For you to choose death for someone else's sake... However, it sure saved me some hassle. Now I am able to take your soul. Can't be helped. This is the path I chose. Lying to yourself and acting tough now? Dying without having fulfilled your goal, what a pathetic master you are. You too are lying to yourself, right? You actually wanted to see for yourself, no... ? what a human looks like... trying to save someone... by throwing away their own life... Still having expectations of the human nature... that is why you stayed in this world. No Driven my personal greed, if it be for money or life, even murder would not be too far gone. That is the human nature I know. I have heard that once demons used to be angels. Because they bore unrealistically high expectations, they were casted into hell and became demons. Ah, whatever. What did you... ? I gave you the antidote. Why? You were under no obligation to save me. Even if I took your soul now it would not be interesting. If I immerse your soul in darkness for a while longer I might be able to enjoy a soul darker than black. Danger? This drug... is the Devil's Curse's true identity. The Guard dog of the Queen is alive and well. Sincerely yours, -Nekoma Young master, can I ask you something? What is it? That time, if I had not let you take the antidote, what would you have done? Somehow I had the feeling, that even if I had only muttered something like "aah... ', you would come for me. Compared to humans, demons are many times more straightforward. Underhanded, cruel and unseemly. We are way more devilish than you demons. I am no different. I am rotten to the core. This is the human race. I am human, Sebastian! That is why I order you, Only you Only you should never betray me. Never. As you command. Sebastian. Stay here. Until I fall asleep. Without fail, I will stay... by your side. Until the day... your life ends.
