 

                        The world where we live is, in fact, overlapped by another world, where humans live together with Opapatikas, both bad and good like humans. I was just a human in the middle of a war, wondering when this war would end. Humans cannot repress their desires... Mr. Detective. Why do you want to know about us, Techit? Or do you want to know how to go beyond your capability? Humans' curiosity is infinite. The desire never ceases. The question is... what can desire get us? If you want to start a new life... you have to forget everything in the past. Do you believe in the next world? According to traditional beliefs, people can be born into this world in one of four forms. Sungsetacha, born from sweat and dampness. Untacha, from hatching of an egg. Chalaputta, from the womb. And the sudden birth out of nowhere is called "Opapatika." Demon Warriors The fourth form, Opapatika... doesn't happen to everyone. Only special ones can cross the boundary. What is my desire? To chase my dream. To chase my dream of eternal bliss. Welcome to the next world. What you don't see doesn't mean it's not there. This world has existed before Earth, and it's evolving at its pace. And the Opapatikas Iive among humans. When one becomes an Opapatika, he unknowingly signs a contract with death. Every human has hidden potential. For humans who have become Opapatikas, their hidden powers will be multiplied... ...to the supernatural level. It's all your fault, Jiras. I'm sensing your feeling. It's full of hate and pain. Is this my power, reading people's minds? It has been a long time since I've met a person like you. "Atchatikayan" or "intuition" is your power. The sixth sense that comes in exchange for the other five senses. - Exchange. - Yes. In exchange for losing each of the five senses each time you use this ability. Everything in this world... comes with a price. Nothing... comes without an exchange. This is the sin of suicide. It is not the way to truly be free. What I'm asking you to do is to find four Opapatikas, and follow a woman named Pran. It's a deal. If what you asked me will lead to what I am looking for. Don't be wasting time finding out what my power is. One day you will know, Techit. Techit... may I introduce you to Thuwachit. He is a human. He will give you advice. Your task is to find the Opapatikas. Just leave the rest to Thuwachit. Master Sadok's long lifespan allowed him to be able to tell who could be an "Opapatika." His name "Sadok" means "a hundred years." And his life had that much time too. He wanted to live a hundred more years. Or if possible, to eternity. Instead, he only had eight days left. During this time, I was ordered to capture all Opapatikas. After Master Sadok turned Techit into an Opapatika... the great war between humans and Opapatika started. Paison was a contract killer. He killed like a devil. He killed to release sufferings inside. If you wanted someone dead, just drop the order into his wife's skull. Every time he killed someone, the wounds he caused would return on his body. Aruth was weak and sensitive in daylight. At night, he was vicious and ruthless like a monster. He woke up every morning with blood all over his body, never remembered what he had done the night before. Ramil lived a wild and reckless life Iike the specter shadowing him. But the more he used the specter, the more his body became like it. Jiras, a demon who possessed the ultimate power, which caused him eternal suffering. Because it was the power of immortality. Techit, who yearned to discover the secrets of life after suicide, dared to sell his soul and humanity. He was proud of his mind-reading ability. But the more he read people's minds, the faster he would lose his five senses. The past is eating all of us. It is the first thing we have to cope with to start anew. But... there is nowhere in the world... I could live. I too live in this world, the "Opapatika" world which humans try to enter. It is the world where animals, humans, monsters, demons, and angels live together peacefully. But those who enter through suicide, will be tormented by the sins they commit. Techit's task was to search. My task was to hunt. I have lost many of my men trying to hunt Opapatikas for Master Sadok. Even though people can be reborn into Opapatikas, each Opapatika has a different lifespan. They might have a new life and power, but they can die, and be killed. His power is seeing each enemy's death spot with perfect killing skills. Once he fires at you your life will end in an instant. I repeat-- the target is highly dangerous. Be very careful. Paison was gifted with the power to see each enemy's death spot. But the death mark and the pain he caused would painfully turn up on his body as well. Paison... Paison. Just one person... ...can change your life forever. And even though he knew the consequences of his killings, he seemed to be willing to torment himself. Do you like to play games? Let's play a game. You're not scared? For us, what you do... ...is a curse. If it's like what you said, I will think of it as a game. Whatever happens, I will play to the end. Only the Opapatikas could distinguish their kind. While we were chasing them, the Opapatikas contacted and warned each other. For Techit, what he desired and searched for was utterly nonsense. I can't take the honor. Only special people can capture the Opapatikas. Keep your power to use when it is suitable, for a suitable cause. Because your superhuman power could destroy you too. Ramil knew the more he used his power, the more hideous he would become. But he never shied away from this self-destruction, as if he wanted to exit this world as soon as possible. Quick... Fire... Get down! Fire... Take him away... Like he said. He came to warn us about these scumbags. They're really going after you and me. Who are they? I don't know, but I'll kill them all. Thank you for the loyalty you've always given me. In the past I had been worrying that one day I would be gone like them. But today it doesn't look like that anymore. I will serve you the best that I can. That was the last voice he heard. What's the first damage? The first damage caused from your mind reading has started, hasn't it? What sense have you lost? What is it? Only people like us can meet each other. It is fate. This is another form of Opapatikas. They didn't realize that the sin of suicide is having to live in hell. Miss Duangkamol Mhaichee May this merit be spared from my relatives. May my relatives be well and at peace. Our loved ones... even though they are gone... we still miss them every day. Our lives go on. Someone once told me, if you need revenge or want someone dead, just write your wish to the devil. And the devil will make your wish come true. Sometimes... revenge gets us nowhere. You also want the devil to help you. I've lost someone. We're people with nowhere to go. Stuck in this world... with no way out. Like souls in limbo. Can't get away from all this nonsense shit. Why are you saying that for? I don't want you to get involved with that woman. And l have to obey you? It's not easy... for you to forget the hell you've been through. But if you don't listen to me, I'll do everything to stop you. In daytime, Aruth would be haunted by the vicious acts he did at nighttime. At nighttime, he would contemplate whether his weakness would allow him to live another night. His viciousness and kindness Ionged for one another. Like my dream is becoming reality. Or is it reality? I don't know what I want. I want to get away from what I am now. The world... doesn't disappear only when we close our eyes. I can't remember my feelings at night. Only that it's a nightmare. It's so real. So scary. I'm scared. I want to freeze time... at this moment. I want to stay with you like this. I don't want you to change. - Hey... - Huh? In case you need it. Get them before sunset. Maybe I should finish you here. Get away! Who knows? This nonsense can be fun too. Guess you don't like being alive. Even though you're not humans, maybe you should think about your lives. Hey... The question is, who's quicker? You or my gun. Let me pull the trigger and see if the specter can stand it. You can read minds, right? Why don't you read this prick's mind... why he's after me. To sacrifice us to his master. Pitiful. His last smell was the smell of blood. I know I cannot lie to you. But this is what we believe, and it works. It is what keeps me alive until today. This time it's smelling. The sense of smelling. Your intuitive power exterminates your other senses. Now you only have three senses left. In fact, you either can't smell, or is it because you are adapted to being one of us. Would you like to try some? Maybe... it might bring back some of your lost senses. People's minds are hard to understand, Techit. You must know what I'm thinking right now. You. You're the devil. Isn't love powerful enough? Please release me. I've warned you. Immortal. Silence... might be the sweetest sound for us now. Emptiness... might make us think hardest. Does it have to be like this? You'll never understand. It might be the only thing we do without reasons. Knowing what others think is painful. It is better not to know anything. Have we met before? You lie. Your eyes lie too. This would be the last thing he saw. And his eyes went blind by the thing he thought beautiful. What you think you're doing, think hard. What the hell. It is fate that they found one another. They're scars. They happen after I kill someone. The death mark will appear on the same spot on my body. It the law of karma. You do something unto others, it comes back to you. Why don't you stop it? Why are you being like this? Paison? Paison? Just one person can change your life forever. People... can change. It's just how we cope with our change. It's sad that we have to be stuck in this world. But it might be better... than being reborn indefinitely. It's a long time since we last met, Jiras. I am so jealous of your pathetic immortality. The dead world and the living world are not so different. How many lives does one have? What's the truth? You want to know my pain? Jiras had been an Opapatika forever. He didn't know the beginning or the end. From darkness to the twilight of time. You have to forget... everything in the past. Do you believe in the next world? At that time, Master Sadok didn't foresee that the power he attained would not be worth seeking. It came with suffering from the gravest sin. If we have to start anew after a mistake, it means... ...we have been living in failure. You will have to stop using your power. Or else... you would suffer like this. Will my weakness in the daytime allow me to live on? I don't know. But I won't leave you. When was the last time I saw sunrise? Do you even remember your last breath as a human? No. You want to say something to your other side? Sometimes we are not aware of our desires. This is life. We can't get everything we want. I must be the unneeded side. I think you are the deep side of him. At times, I was unsure of my duty. I have lost many of my men. I hope this would be the last war of my life. I was ready to die but only as a human. I will never understand what Opapatikas think. I can't see why they want to be immortal. But I wished I could release my master from pain. What you have done for me is invaluable. I would be long gone, if not for the life you gave. Same here. Without you, I would have been rotten in this body. Thuwachit, my eternal conqueror. Is this the last day? We'll find out soon if this is the beginning... or the end. The war that was going to happen would determine whether this was Master Sadok's last day. What about Pran? There are so many secrets in the Opapatika world. And this one of them. Anyone eating the heart of an Opapatika will recieve that Opapatika's power. The desire never ceases. The question is, what can desire get us? If you want to start a new life, you have to forget everything in the past. Do you believe in the next world? Isn't love powerful enough? It is heartbreaking to know... what you have been fighting for doesn't exist. Life is a pretense. We often pose as people... who doesn't exist. What you're seeing here... Do you not know or are you pretending to be unaware that this woman is a charade? The past... is eating all of us. It is the first thing we have to cope with to start anew. Knowing what others think could be painful. Maybe... it is better not to know anything. I don't like not knowing myself... not knowing my desires. I want to get away from what I am. Revenge gets us nowhere. The devil will make your wish come true. It was too late for them to realize the deception. Love is such the easiest trap. A woman called Pran was Master Sadok's secret. Master Sadok's power was creating illusions. It's the secret Techit had tried to discover. He lured all of you to the trap. He played with your weaknesses so you could become the sacrifices for his rotting body. I was never attracted to that woman. I've tried to warn you, but you didn't listen. If you don't believe me now, I'll kill you all so he can't eat you to break the curse. It's all your fault, Jiras. You made me like this. I've been suffering with this rotting body, and must eat other Opapatikas to survive. You did this before too. You did it to break the curse of being immortal. I don't believe this. It doesn't make sense. This is all nonsense. You can read my mind. I can read your movements too. What you're about to do... is worse than what you hate. Opapatika... It's your speaking this time, isn't it? I'll never become one of you. You never valued being human. A long time ago, a devil tried everything, just like what I'm doing now, to give hope to the hopeless. But now, the devil is rejecting what he has done. I used to revere you. I gave my life to you. Now it's your turn to sacrifice your life for my immortality! Do you think I am contented being an immortal? I wouldn't want to be had I known how excruciating it would be. Paison. Just one person can change your life forever. I never believed a human can't kill an Opapatika. What kind of man were you before you became an Opapatika? Do you believe in the next world? At least I got to know what kind of life I have to face after being an Opapatika. For me, the war has ended. I fully realize that living a human life is the most wonderful thing. But for Jiras, he must endure eternal suffering in this world. The real immortality can only be born out of righteousness. There is no other way. Kitsho Manusapa Patilapo "lt is of great difficulty to attain humanity. Human life is valuable. Committing suicide is thus a sin."
