 

                        - Where are they? - Still at it I hear they broke the bed! They didn't mean to It could be true, anything's possible Got a light? Don't tell anyone, they'll kill you Erbao's tractor was in a smash-up It was in Longwangkou The corpse is still lying there, you know When was it? Day before yesterday Now the Peasant Culture Group... ...from Fenyang will perform... ...Train Heading for Shaoshan "A southbound train... "... races across the sunny land "It's heading for Shaoshan! "Chairman Mao's hometown! "Look, here they come!" Wheels flying, whistle blowing Train heading for Shaoshan! Over mountains, across rivers... Towards the radiant sun Towards the radiant sun "Comrades, next stop Shaoshan "Chairman Mao's hometown "Really? "Miss... "How much longer to Shaoshan? "Forty minutes, sir "See, this gentleman finds the train too slow "Young folk, don't you know... " Learn from Dazhai Commune Where poor farmers raised the red flag They united in action Fearless and practical, they acted as one Everyone on board? Roll call - Li Hongyun? - Yes Yao Eryong? Yin Ruijuan? Wen Xuefeng? Zhang Jun? Zhang Jun? - Where were you? - Toilet Shangli Hongli? Li Yang? Yuan Fenglin? Guo Xiaoyan? Wu Jingming? Cui Mingliang? Cui Mingliang? Lu Jinghuan? Wang Xiaoling? Zhang Xiaohong? Zhong Ping? Sun Lijuan? Song Yongping? - Cui Mingliang? - In the toilet Slackers hog the toilet He's not a slacker! Driver Xue, sound the horn - Zhang Jun, your trousers? - Wearing them! It's really cold! - No, the other pair - Performance over? Of course! I'm on the bus! Are you? - Aren't I? - No discipline! - Everyone was waiting! - Are you in charge? You understand collectivism? Give me a break! I'm not that late - I didn't spoil the show - Didn't you? You think you were okay? - What do you think? - I'm not bad What the hell were those train sounds? I don't know how a train sounds! Never taken a train? Even if you've never tasted pork, you must have seen a pig! I've only heard one! Seen The Train Driver's Son? Seen Railway Guerrillas? I'm not a train driver's son Forget it, Mingliang Finished? Let's move Ready yet, Mum? Can't you make yourself useful? More chores? Have you asked Brother? Who's older, you or him? You should have had him first then Shouldn't have had you at all! We're different! I'm an art worker, I use my brain Really? Here, you follow orders Then I'll stop coming home Yes, society needs you, live outside! - If you won't feed me, the Party will - Get out! He slashed girls' trousers with a razor He used to cut the girls too, until he got more skilful Then the girls didn't notice... ...until they got home - Pretty bad - Your trousers, Zhang Jun The bottoms are so wide! I could sweep the streets with them! Didn't you see this boiling? Where did you get those bellbottoms? My Auntie got them in Guangzhou Your Auntie bought them for you? They're trendy in the big cities, you know Then you should go and live there! I would if I could! Mum, you should liberate your thoughts! You should try self-criticism! Watch out they don't lock you all up Men need to let off steam! No legwarmers? Catch your death, then Come on! - Want a pair, Eryong? - And get my legs cut? Who'd want to do that, idiot? Come on, help unload the logs Okay Your hat Hey! - What are those trousers? - Bellbottoms What? Bellbottom trousers - Can you squat in them? - Of course Show me Squat - See? - Okay People can work in those trousers? I'm an art worker, no manual work You sound more like a capitalist roader I can't talk to you What's the time? See, there they are Really? Them? That Cui Mingliang looks like a real idiot Why not teach him a lesson? - Go on! - I don't dare I do What time do you call this? Sorry, my watch stopped Not smart enough? Stupid! - What are those trousers? - Same as his Imitating others like a kid! - They're in fashion - One good turn... It's starting, it'll be sold out! Buy the tickets! Quick! Go on! Go on! I'm a rambler 'm a rambler A rambler's fate is sad 'm a rambler 'm a rambler won't disguise who I am 'm a rambler Yin Ruijuan of the Cultural Team! Someone wants you outside! Yin Ruijuan of the Cultural Team! Someone wants you outside! Dad! - Why are you here? - I'm not with a crowd - Who are you with? - Zhong Ping - Learn from good people! - What do you mean? Face the wall! You're easily led, always seeing foreign movies Cui Mingliang! Sir You're seeing this film too Why have you come out? - I have a report to write - Really? I have to go You can write reports? - Go back and watch it - No, I don't want to Then don't be late I don't believe him Wearing glasses doesn't mean he can write! He just blindly follows others! Of course I'm judging by appearance! I see hundreds at the station every day I know a bad guy when I see one Coincidence! No, I saw you I saw you too My father would too, let's go down Haven't you been with Zhong Ping? Why should I have been? Zhang Jun's family doesn't know yet? They should by now - What's wrong? - Nothing Zhong Ping's family seems to like Zhang Jun He ate at their place last night Your father goes too far sometimes - What do you mean? - He's like a KGB man Don't say that, he is my dad Since Mum died, he's worried about me But he's like a military dictator! Don't say that - What are you doing tomorrow? - Working Auntie wants me to meet a man tomorrow A prospective husband? They arrange the whole thing That's nice, to have it arranged Auntie says he's a dentist Great, a university graduate! - Why are you so happy? - Am I? Where is Ulan Bator? Capital of Outer Mongolia Where's Outer Mongolia? Up north, past Inner Mongolia And further north? USSR And further north? The sea, I guess And further north? What the fuck are you on about? Further north is here, Fenyang So we're all north of the sea "Romance... romance... "What is romance? "My soul is like a willow in March "Romance... romance... "What is romance? "Who loves not romance? "My thoughts ripen like fruit in autumn" You use this ruler for fighting? Comics? How old are you? Camelia? What's this Camelia? She sells camelias "Through Marguerite's sad demise, the book reveals... "... the ugly face of capitalism and the fact of moral hypocrisy "Marguerite has humble origins "To survive, she prostitutes herself on the streets of Paris... " Paris! Prostitute! Eat! Let him be, don't look for him "Slightly out of focus... Slightly out of focus... " Are you crazy? Losing your temper? Thinking about that dentist? We could beat him up! Smash out his teeth so badly... ...even he couldn't fix them! Good plan? I've been looking for you! I told you we'd get haircuts! Not you... Cui, you should watch TV this evening I'm waiting for a haircut I see, very impressive! Yin Ruijuan! Let's go - What's on? - Daredevil Garrison, I think Daredevil Garrison? - Supposed to be good - War film? Come on, Zhang Jun You weren't asking me Shut up and come along Quick! Come! Cui Mingliang Come on, Eryong Are you sick? Still taking the works bus home? - Any plans tonight? - Yes - You had a perm - Yes Looks good! I'll be going, then - You go ahead! - Okay Go on, Xu is waiting for us You were taking your time with her I had to let her finish Plenty to say to her, but not to me - We see each other every day! - So? Come on You're angry again No, I'm not What's upsetting you? You are... all your socialising with girls We all have pasts, you know Is that wrong? Didn't someone say you should love a person completely... ...including his past? - Who said that? - Who? A friend... Pushkin He thinks I should love that girl Han too? Maybe you can leave that to me I'll beat you to death! We'll meet again in twenty years How beautiful our great Motherland will be The sky is new, the earth is new City and village alike will glow Young friends, this spring will be yours Yours and mine The new generation of the 1980s! The new generation of the 1980s! We'll meet again in twenty years... With 8 or 9 wives and hordes of kids! Settle down, everyone We need to talk Zhang Jun, stand up Sing us Young Friends Gather I'm no vocalist Never mind, sing it Young friends gathering today Rowing little boats n the bright spring... That's enough! Quiet! What were you singing in the truck? I wasn't leading it No? I heard you! You were the loudest What was it? Is this a punishment? Calm down, our priority is unity! Unity? I heard it was you - I don't know - Don't know? - Who else then? - Don't know Me You again? Okay, sing it for us We'll meet again in twenty years With 8 or 9 wives and hordes of kids Stop! What are you singing? When is twenty years from now? Where will our country be by then? The 4 Modernisations: Industry, Agriculture, Defence and Science And what are your goals? Several wives, hordes of kids? We practice monogamy Several wives? Like landowners before Liberation? You think you could handle that? And hordes of kids? We practice family planning... heard of birth control? It's just a song Where's your discipline? Yes, there's the Open Door policy But reforms are still needed Think about it Okay, I'll reform "Long live birth control! "One child's enough! "Long live birth control! "One child's enough!" Come on in - What's wrong? - Forget it Don't want a perm after all? It'll look good What if it doesn't? It will! Do it for me! Come on, if Han dares to... - Say that again! - No, no - Anybody there? - No Boss, where are you from? - The south - Where? Wenzhou Far from Guangzhou? Around 400 km That far! You want to go south? Yeah, my Auntie lives there - It's nice there - Really? Can you turn it off now? Be patient, perms take time - I don't want curls - It'll look great Really You'll look just like that poster Quiet! The agenda is programme reform We'll introduce some pop music We've invited someone from town to guide us Maybe some of you don't like it But it's been popular in the cities for a while and there have been heated debates there My feeling is... ...pop music is relaxing and... What? Nothing I see Zhong Ping has a perm Very up-to-date She looks like a Spanish girl! She could dance flamenco! It would look great! The 5th National Assembly announces the rehabilitation... ...of Comrade Liu Shaoqi The Party resolves to return to the bases of Mao Zedong Thought under the flag of Mao Zedung Thought Onward to final victory! Honour to Comrade Liu Shaoqi! "Following the same trail, leading to the tree... "The morning sun lights my face and the leafy branches "Dear companion, dear tree! "Spring stream on the border "Clear and pure "Songs of the border... "... warm the heart... "The harbour nights... "... are so peaceful "Waves gently rock the battleship" Zhong Ping! You know who's being charged? - Who? - Piggy - What did he get? - Death penalty! His mother must be sad Serves him right! One less scumbag, who cares? - Many watching? - Lots It was packed I was just passing by Nearly finished? - Too big? - About right I taught you to cross-stitch! It's too hard to do This is out of fashion, you know Never mind I'm always wrong Did you see him die? No I don't know where they do it The police shoot them from behind Their brains must splash out... Don't! It's gross! Everyone watches What's up? You're smoking? - No thanks - Try one Won't your father be angry? He's out at work - Okay? - Fine Are you choking? I think Lai has a crush on you Me? He fancies you! No way! Lai is very choosy Yes, but that post-office girl dumped him Who dumped who? She dumped him! - I didn't know - Six months ago! No-one's better than Zhang Jun Think so? Then you can have him I wouldn't dare What do you think he's doing now? Probably thinking of you Not necessarily I'm not thinking of him! You have tears in your eyes! That's smoke You've made up your eyebrows! For Zhang Jun? It looks awful! No it doesn't It's the latest style - Awful! - No, it's not Don't do mine! Stop it! It looks awful. Shut up! - Mine look awful? - Yes! Take care! Will you shut up? This will make you look so fashionable Who cares? That's enough Don't move! Just a moment... Hang on... Wait till I've finished It hurts! Mind your cigarette! Been with her all afternoon? Just chatting About me? A bit Saying what? Good things That's fine Zhong Ping's been strange lately Why? Because of Zhang Jun? Don't think so She'll be okay What do you know? - What don't I know? - You think you know it all Someone asked me yesterday... ...whether you're my girlfriend Are you? Why are people so nosy? I want to know too I don't know Oh, there's some post for you For me? By the window Mingliang: the outside world is great! Zhang Jun, in Guangzhou We're so happy on vacation n the countryside with friends Light rain is falling... , Zhang Di, am always asked... ...if Taiwan girls are better than Singapore girls Mingliang! Stop! Foreign devil! - Doing well now? - When did you get back? This afternoon So soon? You bought a tape player? - Who's that? - Zhang Di Who? He's very popular More than Teresa Teng Let me see How's the big, wide world? Pretty good Come on, tell me about it Everyone's busy all day Zhang Jun! You're back! How are you doing? How's southern food? Okay... the food here's better Zhong Ping! Can I hear it? How do you open it? Careful, don't break it! The sandstorm blows, but we sing on We friends have no cares n the world Our cattle and horses are strong We sit proud in the saddle We warm the world with our light! Gen... Gen... Genghis Khan Nothing can stop me, know where I'm going... An electric alarm might be better It's not to keep out villains Who's a villain? We had a thief once He must have been hungry, he took two eggs It takes all sorts It's so hot! Where is happiness? Cui Mingliang, what's upset you? Who says I'm upset? Yin Ruijuan - What did she say? - She says you're sick Why doesn't she tell me? She doesn't dare - Why not? - Because you're sick! Can't you act normal? I'm normal enough Calm down and talk to me! Anyhow, she's a girl - It's useless - Idiot! Talk to her then You've upset her, don't you care? Hi, Uncle! - Visiting? - A washing machine? - Just bought it - We'll bring our washing over! Seize the moment, talk to her In all this time, I've never really thought of you as my boyfriend I was taken aback when you brought it up the other day You didn't notice I've been thinking I feel... we're not a good match And my dad doesn't like you I didn't dare to tell you before Of course, Dad's not the main problem It's me who feels we're not a good match Incompatible We can still see each other... You're right, but you know what's wrong? You're saying it too late Cui Mingliang... us 27 to Songjiachuan... ...is ready to depart Wen isn't stupid, is he? He made his own TV in two days Why is ours taking so long? No money this month, I bought a guitar What's up? Cui Wanlin, come inside! What is it? I'll say this in front of our sons You took that from my bag? Who did you buy this for? Erbo wants it for his wife You never buy anything for us on your trips! But you never forget that bitch! Mum, let him explain I won't listen It's not your business Father, I'm 24, I know as much as you do - Are you rebelling? - What if I am? have a little secret want to tell you t's something buried in my heart Here it comes! Don't miss! Let's leave How can I face them? Scared? If you are, let's leave Let's talk it over with our parents Be serious Chief, you were stationed here? That's right, I was here for years Close by, in a place for all of us lot from the city It's not bad here Yes, quite prosperous, you can tell from this hospital Thanks a lot, Dr Liang Too much trouble Don't say anything, you're almost family So, we're ready Let's do it then What's wrong? Don't give me a headache Chief, what do you think of privatisation? I'm not sure yet To be frank, it's very simple If you have money, you can privatise Everything's yours: the actors, the equipment... Good business! If I do it, you'll be mine! Maybe not... but are you considering it? Most team members are Don't miss your chance Many have longed for this chance Mr Xu, your friend's girl says she doesn't want it I'm scared Of course I'm scared No abortion I don't want it any more Then what do you want? Go on in! Fuck you! To celebrate the 35th Anniversary of the People's Republic of China... ...the armed forces will salute Deng Xiaoping in march-past... We must resolve the privatisation issue today The terms on offer are attractive Better than many other communes, you can check for yourselves The asking price isn't that high So what do you all think? Li Hongyun! Just smoking? This has been pending for months If you still hesitate, what hope is there for reform? My wife won't agree! It's like the Sino-British Talks... Your wife's become an Iron Lady? Inflexible! Don't criticise his wife! Li Yang, what are your thoughts? You're always harassing me about this Why are you so quiet now? The key thing is the money I can't raise that much It's not all that much The commune knows you're not rich Chief, you're so keen to get rid of us To sell us out! How could I bear to do that? I'm selling my own job here! Okay, I'll help you out, I'll accept the offer Really, Song? What a relief! Are you going to follow Song? He'll be our leader And you'll be his advisor - Are you leaving? - Aren't you? No, my father is ill Zhang Jun, stop playing I'm staying I'm waiting for you! I'd rather open a store Zhong Ping... - I'll teach you mahjong - Don't - I'm playing for you - Stop! Zhang Jun, stop playing! Stop shouting, just play - What's with you? - Mind your business Just play Your turn Nine! Zhang Jun! Very close... ...very far Just wait a bit We're almost done - Do me a favour - What is it? I promised to say goodbye but I can't Tell them not to wait for me Unload it all there Can you imitate a rooster's crow? Just copy me, okay? Zhang Jun, come and eat! What is it? Any water? - Why? - To wash my hands Really? Sanming, water Thanks A bit more Me too Cousin... I'm Sanming Sanming, I didn't recognise you! You have a moustache now! It's been a while! I was about to go looking for you! How's your mother? I'll go see her after we've eaten Tell her we're coming, okay? I'll eat first No, either the girl won't have him... ...or we won't have her Sanming will have a hard life He'll need a good wife No-one stupid or handicapped He'll work in the coalmine Wenying is still studying That's good, but it costs too much And it's getting more expensive! Sanming alone can't earn enough She'll have to come back, to work Pity, she's studied for 2 years Right... I'll keep going here for as long as I can... We'll save up to keep her there But if we fail, she'll have to come home She's still young She should study The only work here is in the fields and down the mine She'd do better in education But we're almost starving here How can we pay school fees? Here comes the electricity! There'll be power tonight Sit down No need for the oil lamp now It gets so dark in here - Big or small? - Small, it saves electricity Know what this is? They shit here Is Mingliang's cousin dumb? Didn't you hear him say hello to Mingliang? Then why doesn't he say anything? It's so nice to see the mountains You like mountains? - You should marry here, then - Why not? Better than marrying you! Okay, I'll find you some sex-starved old man I feel like shouting! Go ahead People of Jinjiazhuang! It's a few minutes to eight At eight, we'll have electricity From now on we can eat at home Our children will be able to study... ...and we can grind flour! Thanks to the Communist Party We have this wonderful facility Forever following the Party's lead Forever loyal to the Party Forever loyal to the Party Always grateful to the Party From now on, we must use our electricity with care Our homeland... ...is built on our prosperous fields Smoking chimneys atop new houses... Sanming Stop the truck Sanming, get on! No need, I'll go this way - This is quicker - It's okay, it's not far Hongxi! Hongxi! Where the fuck are you? Never here when I need you What are you doing? If you don't like it, quit! Fingerprint here Over there... Next! Get a move on, over there Fingerprint! Get changed, quickly I can't read, I'll get help Quick, don't fuck around Read this to me, I can't read "Contract Life and death are questions of fate "I am willing to work in Gao's Mine "Management accepts no blame for accidents In cases of death or accident, the Mine offers... "... 500 Yuan compensation to families Daily wage is 10 Yuan Get it? - Is it clear? - Yes Don't come to me with any problems We're not responsible for anything It's clearly stated That old hat is useless, go and get changed Cousin, I'm going Where are you from? Lin County? That's Xiaoyi over there You can see the lights from here It seems close by... ...but it's quite far - Your schoolmate? - No, I never went to school Who is she? Quite pretty The country is in my dreams My homeland may be far away... ut that will never change... ...my Chinese heart Cui Mingliang, it's your cousin Sanming, what is it? Please give this 5 Yuan to Wenying Tell her to get to university, never come back here I'm going The long and empty platform The wait seems never-ending The long wagons are carrying... ...my short-lived love The long and empty platform Lonely, we can only wait All my love is out-bound Nothing on the in-bound train There's a train coming! My heart waits, waits forever... ...waits forever... Oh, always Yin Ruijuan You don't understand her She's quite self-important, even tried to enter the provincial dance troupe Why didn't you? I preferred to stay with you Song asked me about you just now - Asked what? - Where you'd been What did you say? I said you were seeing the world Smart of you I'm going Do you have to? They would make a good couple You think so? But it won't happen... Unlikely Don't make fun of them I'm not, you'll see Tired? A bit hot This is nice, no-one knows us here So no supervision! Let's just stay here, not go back - No - Why not? I'd like to be your wife - Don't want you - Can't accept that Wretch! Just want to be your wife Come here... Why carry a knife? I just bought it Where? At the hotel Are you husband and wife? Didn't bring the certificate No proof? You can't stay together without it Are you having an affair? Are you really married? Tell me No No? We know everything, so admit it Think it over Your work unit? Cultural How are you related to him? He's my husband Husband? How did you meet? As kids How long ago? At least ten years! More than ten years? We're in the same Cultural Team, so we got married You got married? Why don't you admit the truth? The man has confessed You want us to go on with this? - Admit what? - What? That you're not married! So we're not Thanks, Song, here's to you Not like that, link arms! The couple's way Who here is from Fenyang? What's wrong? - Song Yongping? - That's me We have some questions for you Mingliang, take over from me I'll be back Hang on, Jiao, just a moment Boss, the shop's out of Energiser drinks... Just one bottle? Yeah, I'm so thirsty Put it on my tab HANCHENG - FENYANG Why blow your money on a restaurant? It's just this once I've never eaten out before, and it's my son's treat Eat up Try the meat Shall we order more, Brother? Boss, give us some braised meat Wenying... Here's 10 Yuan from Sanming Your brother's earning money now You have to study hard Ignore the pressure, concentrate You'll pass this time Eat! Come on, eat up! Wenying, eat up What's up with Zhong Ping? Zhang Jun, what's up with her? It's too much! No discipline at all! Who does she think she is? We're sinking in quicksand here! We're not even on tour yet I'll find her She's supposed to be the lead! Aren't we all equal in art? I'll find her Zhang Jun! - Mr Zhong, where's Zhong Ping? - Don't know You're her father I just don't know She's gone, and I'm worried Who knows where she is? These days, she goes where she likes I can't stop her, I can't follow her She goes wherever she likes - Aren't you worried? - What's the point? It scares me to think of it She didn't tell me anything What can I do? Gen... Genghis Khan Every beautiful girl wants to marry him Genghis Khan Gen... Gen... Genghis Khan Every beautiful girl wants to marry him Let's go... The next song is dedicated to... ...the guards in the provincial prison from their colleague s it true... ...I am leaving you? s it true no more tears will fall? s it true... ...I have a one-way ticket? Leaving on a road with no end? s it true I am leaving you? s it true no more tears will fall? s it true, as I said before... ...that lovers must be lonely? How many times must I feel this pain? Telling myself to go back Holding back my tears Telling myself I don't care The long and empty platform The wait seems never-ending The long wagons are carrying... ...my short-lived love The wait seems never-ending My heart waits, waits forever My heart waits, waits forever Zhang Jun! - What the hell? - I'm hungry You're kidding me Get to fucking work! Dear people of Jia County! Today we present, from Shenzhen... The All-Stars Rock'n'Breakdance Electronic Band! They've come here... ...on a tour of our province Comrades, give them a big round of applause to welcome them Our brother is two years older Three of us, we're twins Dad's always angry with Mum After a fight, he just lies there saying nothing Then Mum gets worried She asks me to talk to him We sisters have to mediate for them I think I have the best mother in the world... ...compared with other mothers A girl in our last troupe... ...visited our home for a festival She thought Mum was great! I asked her why It's because Mum's a doctor She looks after me when I'm ill, gives me hot-water bottles till I'm feeling better Most peasant mothers aren't so caring But Mum is so considerate That's why this girl was so impressed You're good daughter too! When we're with her, she doesn't need medicine! You know, when I go home... I could send you by mail! - A medical package! - It's true! She'd love to see us, but we can't go We have to perform We used to get only 100 Yuan a month Just enough to buy her some food Now I can send her cash We need the money What brings you back to us? I was restless at home Why? How's my stitching? I was just fed up Very delicate! Your mother taught you? No I taught myself! It's my talent You're a genius! I felt stuck in Fenyang, that's why I came - It's boring being alone - Terrible Get up! - What time is it? - See for yourself Quick, get up Time to rehearse! Sanlin, get up! Juan, get up! Hongli... Come on! Eryong, come on, it's late - Ready yet? - Nearly Get a damn move on! You lazy scumbags! PRIVATE MARKET FOR CLOTHES AND SMALL GOODS - Stop fighting! - Help! You think you can beat them? You must be out of your mind You think you're that good? What are you doing? What are you doing? Come on! t's natural to change position When two people are in love... ...any position is natural They can try in any way... ...to heighten their love Most prefer it with the man on top, the natural way The woman lies passively, face-up The man on top taking control He takes the active role JIASHEN - WUBAO You're the station master? - What is it? - Listen... We're the All-Stars Band from Shenzhen Rock'n'Breakdance Band We like this place... ...so we'd like to put up a stage and do two shows here Got a permit? From Shenzhen? We'll have to approve the show Of course Sure, we'll show you Would you prefer... ...the songs or the go-go dance? The hot stuff! Do Boy Under the Streetlamp It's "Girl", not "Boy" - How was it? - Pretty good! So we can put up our stage? The station master isn't here - He's not here - You're not in charge? No I'm not, he's at home - So why ask to approve us? - You can go see him What's up, girls? Come along now... These things happen It hasn't cost you anything Cheer up! under the street-lamp... ...a girl is crying Where did she come from? Crying so bitterly... Who has jilted her? Where can she go? ...and is expected to form an area of low pressure... ...in the vicinity of Ulan Bator The Inner Mongolian authorities... ...have issued a warrant for Shen Zhimin, 22, male orn in East Beijing He wears glasses He can drive and... ...wears green army clothes And for Yu Lik-Wai, 24, male orn in Guangdong Province He has a strong Cantonese accent TAIYUAN - FENYANG Where's Dad? He's opened a shop by the highway He lives there, rarely comes home He's that busy? No, he just doesn't want to come home Let's forget about him He doesn't treat this as home I'm past caring about it Those timbers are useless, sell them Who says? - Where's it from? - The mine Useless bloody mine We could make money with cement, what about that? Zhang Jun! Ah, the tax collector! - I can give you a rebate - How kind! Maybe I should break my leg Me too... disability allowance! Eryong, how's business? - So so - Quite good? Cui Mingliang, you're back! - Treating me to dinner? - Why should I? Just kidding! But they won't charge you - Couldn't take the risk - Who'd dare report you? Zhang Jun, let's take her to dinner Jinyun Restaurant Okay, I'll host, Eryong can pay! Thief! How's the big wide world? I kept moving How's your new job? Not bad Why haven't you locked me up? - Where? - At my place What's this roadwork? Fenyang is always like this now It never ends You haven't changed I'm alright Mum Why don't you divorce him? Where's your fish? You know my fish? No, it's my first time here I didn't like them Is it still snowing? Yes - What's funny? - Nothing Cigarette? No thanks Given up? - Have you? - No Help yourself - Are they a bribe? - I can afford them myself When did you start smoking? Ages ago - With whom? - Zhong Ping Have you heard from her? She's impossible! She left without a word And no-one's heard from her Anyone here? Want to buy something? Is Cui Wanlin around? He's out - Ask him to visit his home - Okay, I'll tell him want to move to the seaside 'd love to see the sky there And hear the sound of waves Get your bags packed 'll wait for you Processed by: B.B. COM - Paris
