 

                        I've lost You are the Supreme Master of Martial Arts now I shall retreat to the midlands and never fight again I shall retreat to the midlands and never fight again Changgong! (The Imperial City) (Tai Bai Restaurant) Come on... Unexpected that we could meet again. Come to upstairs, come on... Come on... I'll beat you. Stop! This umbrella is too expensive. Forget it if you don't want to buy. It's you? Let's go. I've invited you here to discuss Emperor Ming's hidden treasure The map is hidden inside The Imperial Palace Treasure map? What is the plan? The Autumn Festival is coming in three days We shall make our move on the night of the full moon The Imperial Palace is heavily guarded How will we get in? Heavily guarded, you say? The Emperor visits Lady Liu on the fifteenth of each month Other than a bunch of useless eunuchs no one dares to go near The Imperial Palace Chu can show off his lock-picking techniques I will be done even before The Emperor has taken off his Royal Pants! I will be done even before The Emperor has taken off his Royal Pants! How do we get the map outside of the city? That is where I come in I have been escorting convoy across the country for years I have been escorting convoy across the country for years I know the best route to exit The Imperial City Fantastic, it is done then In three days, on the fifteenth of this month let us make a toast to the full moon Cheers! Go away! I lost control. Go away, old lady! The horse is coming, go away! Who is this piece of crap interrupting my party? You are completely out of tune! I'm here for fun! Calm down, just ignore them Sir, you are really disrupting our performance Can you please stop and let us continue on our own? We are performing, too! I just want to be able to perform a sonata with her May I? Isn't that the Supreme Master of Martial Arts... Changgong? Isn't that the Supreme Master of Martial Arts... Changgong? What's he doing here in The Imperial City? Supreme Master my foot! I heard he was defeated by Na-Lan of Manchuria Probably came here to hide his shame Hide his shame in a whorehouse? Doesn't quite match up the reputation of a Master! He might as well be digging his own grave No point in arguing with these idiots Let's get out of here (Tai Bai Restaurant) So... your place or mine? What's that you said? To finish our sonata... How about... We meet in three days, on the night of the Autumn Festival We meet in three days, on the night of the Autumn Festival We shall complete our sonata under the full moon What do you think? Sounds good On the night of the full moon we shall meet at the highest point of The Imperial City we shall meet at the highest point of The Imperial City That was fast! Shush, someone's been here already Who? A woman? The treasure map! Go after her! Assassins! Protect The Emperor! Quick... My nose! You stood me up, why? Technically, you didn't forget our date under the moon because you did show up Why? Is our meeting all just a part of your plan? Is our meeting all just a part of your plan? It is hard to find someone who we can be in tune with It is hard to find someone who we can be in tune with Where's the treasure map? Hand it over! Otherwise I will have to take it from you Help me... Help me... Is this the treasure map? The treasure is hidden near this town! Forget it... I'm done with this You two can go find this treasure Men die in seek of wealth and illusions Totally not worth it... I want to go home! This drawing changes... What an old rundown temple I should tear it down renovate it into a few shops and earn rent "5 years later" We're ready to order! What you looking at? Make your order! Shark's fin soup Great... Stir-fried frog Good... That's it? Coming right up Don't keep us waiting too long Check out this chick She's steaming hot... That was quick! Enjoy! Young lady. What's wrong with you? Hey honey... where's the shark's fin and stir-fried frog we ordered? Yeah! This is what you ordered! That's just fish and pork with glass noodles! Darn, the fish isn't even cooked! What are you playing at? Father! There's trouble out here again! Good day, gentlemen What's wrong? Didn't you explain to them? My apologies, please allow me to introduce these dishes to you This is Genuine Sushi from the Ryukyu Islands It goes great with chili pepper And this, Braised Pork with Vermicelli from the Northeast Smells good, doesn't it? Ginger... Exactly! The aroma of ginger It's specially prepared by my father Think about it Pork, vermicelli, and fish You've got all the nutrition you need! And along with ginger Here, smell again It's absolutely brilliant! Correct? Agree? No! That's not the point, this is not what I ordered You shouldn't confuse what's on the menu with actual dishes that is served You shouldn't confuse what's on the menu with actual dishes that is served More importantly, consider this for a minute whatever it is that you eat what happens after that? It all comes out the other end, right? What's the difference whether it's shark's fin or glass noodles? Let's not fuss with such stupid formalities Just enjoy the food Please enjoy! Go ahead, eat... How dare you screw with me! Either you eat the food Or you simply leave Let's split! Hey, pay first! Careful! Praise the Buddha! My name is Jet Welcome to the "One Fund" Shop Everything here in the shop are being sold for charity Everything here in the shop are being sold for charity The money raised goes to help the poor in our town The money raised goes to help the poor in our town Here, check out this life buoy Life buoy? It helps you float on water It can save you from drowning Dude, I travel through the Silk Road There's nothing but the desert and sand Life is unpredictable You never know where the wind will blow A tsunami might take place in the desert, too! You should buy one, just in case No... Please sir Buy a flag then, it's for charity! Darn with your flag! Life is unpredictable! I ran into a tsunami once on the beach! I was talking about the desert! You never know, hey both got sand, right? Darn with your sand! Life is unpredictable... Life is unpredictable... (Tailor Shop) What in the world is this? I wanted a down jacket! This is Jackie Tang's Garment Tang style? It's the Ming Dynasty now who still wears something from the Tang Dynasty? No, Jackie Tang is a whole different style of its own You see these four pockets? You can put anything inside them, for example you can put candy inside for your grandson When you're holding him, he could easily find the candies Brilliant and convenient, don't you agree? I see, and what's this lizard looking thing doing here? It's a Dragon! The Dragon represents our Chinese heritage Jackie Tang's Garment is tailor-made for all of us! What a lunatic! It is impossible to see in the dark In the flowing water... we're in Paradise... Sorry, the pitch was too high The endless horizon... We easily part but may never meet again... In the flowing water... uh... the spring... we're in Paradise... Crazy! He is not teaching at all. It's okay, don't be scared, let me take you home How about I teach you to sing something else? I can do rap, too! Bugger off! See you tomorrow then! What happened? Nothing, a customer wanted to pay his compliments to the chef Nothing, a customer wanted to pay his compliments to the chef Hey, Jackie! How's the fashion business? It's doing just fine... My business would never match your vocals, Andy Gone out to buy dinner, Jet? Pancakes It's the night of the full moon, I need my energy It's the Autumn Festival tonight They still haven't given up on the hunt Changgong It's been five years We still have no clue where the treasure is Not "we", it's you Finding Emperor Ming's hidden treasure would unlock the secret to how this empire was built The Ryukyu Kingdom would no longer need to be a part of Ming China And we would never need to fear Japan again Not too long ago, my Mongolian ancestors ruled the world And now, Ming China has taken over the reign Also... I hear the Manchurians from the North have been prepping their military force for quite some time I doubt that some legendary treasure holds the power to save your country I don't care This is the task I was given I need to get hold of the treasure A Ninja always completes a mission Do you blame me for losing the map? Do you blame me for losing the map? I'm more curious about something else... You really have no interest in the treasure at all? Why is it that the wind always blow eerily when there's a full moon? Why is it that the wind always blow eerily when there's a full moon? Could there be ghosts? I wouldn't mind a female ghost! No, this ain't right I'm the Mayor of Side road Town And I'm about to meet the love of my life I must behave like a man! Darn, I need to pee... My nose! My hand! Still not here yet... I better get it done now I can't hold it anymore! My apologies Saint Tree please don't be offended Saint Water needs to come out... Mayor Gu! Don't be scared, I'm here! Are you okay? Mayor Gu Your coat... Coat... No worries, it's fake I mean down there... Nothing fake down there... I left the house in a hurry Done Where is it? It's still there Oh, you mean the Town Directory Here it is Please be careful with it Thank you Your hands are so cold, let me keep them warm for you The County Magistrate repeatedly warned me to keep this confidential I took this out with great difficulty I am sorry to place you in such difficult position I'd do anything for you, my dear Xin You know something? My fellow townsmen all call me "The Town Mom" Oh, what an adorable nickname Oh my god, what a beautiful smile Here, let me give you another surprise Here, let me give you another surprise Another directory? Here, let me show you my most well kept treasure Something I've worked on for years This here documents all the residential changes of this town I work on it every night, making sure it's accurate and up to date I lose a lot of sleep working on it This is Madam Zhang's eldest daughter She was only 18 when she left so young and attractive... So young, attractive, and desirable... I didn't know you were also such a talented artist Every young woman in this town is drawn in this directory Just ensuring the town census is in check I haven't checked you yet There will be a chance... Mayor Gu, are you also in possession of another book titled Southern Legends ? Oh, that book? I could tell you all the legendary stories Speaking of legends there's no better story than my own... |Mayor Gu is a busy man I wouldn't want to bother you Why don't you just get me the book? And I'll read the stories on my own You really want it? Yes, I want it No problem! I will bring it to you tomorrow I am so grateful! It's getting late, I better head back home Don't leave yet! What about our original plans for tonight? Good morning, Jackie! Morning! Jackie! Andy! Starting business so early today You two are looking great this morning Not as great as your leg My hand! My nose! My leg! Good morning, Lord Xu! Good morning... Lord Xu... What a coincidence... Looking to get a jacket made? It has been a year, nine months, and nineteen days since you last paid rent Then... Lord Xu... I have long heard that you're a brilliant mathematician I can see you are indeed a genius! It's true, I am quite good Okay, enough with the bull crap, pay up! We're both educated people here, we shouldn't be discussing unsophisticated matters such as money You? Sophisticated? I studied at the Imperial College for years before I could be deemed as a scholar Am I understanding this correctly? You draw a couple of ugly lizards and you're calling yourself an artist? It's a Dragon! Not a lizard! We are all Chinese Great descendents of the Dragon Why don't you cut me some slack Give me an extension of a couple more days Lord Xu Needless to say, you are a man of sophistication enormous wealth, and striking looks You are strong and wise, simply irresistible... Geez, cut the crap! But what was that you just said? Enormous wealth? No, that I already know Strong and wise, simply irresistible... Irresistible... Okay, you seem honest and reliable enough I'll grant you a ten day extension Lord Xu I speak nothing but the truth Cross my heart, hope to die! What was that again? Cross my heart, hope to die? No Irresistible... Wei... Wei! Is uncle and auntie home? Don't be disgusting You wanna order something to eat? Here's your lunch Eat quickly Wait! Now what? I want to order more dishes Order more food? You never eat! Look at how skinny you are! Actually... I only came to see you Fine, you've seen me Now, pay the check and leave! One more thing! I... What? Well... There's something I'd like to discuss with you What do you want? I was wondering when you plan on paying the rent! What about those three? They never pay! Why don't you go ask your uncle for it, huh? Fine... Please don't be angry I'll come back tomorrow Long time no see, Lord Xu. How have you been? Mayor Gu, I think you need to straighten things out a bit... Mayor Gu, I think you need to straighten things out a bit... People in this town are behaving like bandits What bandits? Where? There hasn't been one bandit since I took over the position of Town Mayor How could there possibly be bad behavior? Stop spreading such ugly rumors! Really? How am I to govern this town? You're right, Mayor Gu My father bought you this Mayor position before he passed away Have you already forgotten how you got here in the first place? Of course I have not forgotten I have the utmost respect for your father I have the utmost respect for your father And I treat you well since then. That would make me your half uncle, no? Right, uncle Good boy Did you like the birthday present I bought you? Oh yes, the briefcase is very useful The land where your office is located on was also a gift from my family Please, can we not talk about this here? It doesn't make me look good as the Mayor Fine, I didn't come here to pick on you anyways Let me asking you about something You've found the right person Nobody knows the streets of this town better than me The guy that owns the restaurant What's his background? You mean Moustache Man? He's nobody! Just some guy who made some money from selling horses His wife is purchased, they don't even love each other I don't care how his marriage is doing I want to find out what his relationship is with Wei I want to find out what his relationship is with Wei You talking about Wei? That's a very long story Once upon a time, three years ago... on a dark and windy night The old couple who lives in the Tang house suddenly died This little girl became an orphan So the Moustache Man adopted her claims he'd raise her as a child bride for his son You're so full of crap You shouldn't make up stories like this just because you are no match to him What do you mean by that? Look at my stylish hair... You are no match at all Who still wears fur these days? You dress like a rich jerk I dress like a rich jerk? Lord Xu, you look so handsome today Really? No rent will be charged for the day Thank you, Lord Xu. You are a good man Darn, why do I have the urge to pee whenever I see water? Darn, why do I have the urge to pee whenever I see water? Go back, retreat! Go back, retreat! My dear Xin! Mayor Gu, are you all right? I'm fine... Just a little wet I mean, something's on my mind Something smells here... Yeah Must be those stray dogs... peeing all over the place I'll check into this tomorrow Let's go over there Gosh, the smell's gotten stronger Uhm... After you then Darn, couldn't hold it So, where's the book you promised me? How could I possibly forget what Xin wants? How could I possibly forget what Xin wants? Here you go... Mayor Gu, you must behave I'm a married woman You worried about the Moustache Man you're married to? He may look tough, but he's probably useless He may look tough, but he's probably useless Unlike myself, I look weak in appearance but I am truly a strong man... Xin, look over there See how beautiful the butterflies look hovering over the flowers? See how beautiful the butterflies look hovering over the flowers? Oh, the butterflies have gone to sleep... Mayor Gu What are you talking about? I see no flowers I beg to differ! There's an old saying... When you wish for something, your dreams will come true When you don't want something, you end up getting more! Mayor Gu, what in the world are you trying to do? You leave me with no choice See What do you think? I drew these for you at work today One flower, la-la-la... Two flowers, tra-la-la... Three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, ta-la-la... There's a ghost! Changgong... Moustache Man! Gu Yuejin is rather amusing This area is desolated and he has the heart to draw flowers for me Lord Xu, you look cheerful today How can I be cheerful? Those three still aren't paying their rent How can I be cheerful? Those three still aren't paying their rent As the town Mayor, shouldn't you do something about it? As the town Mayor, shouldn't you do something about it? Of course, naturally I'll handle those three, don't worry about it You're in my way... Darn, we're done here, buzz off! What a coincidence! You still have the nerve to show up? I'm a regular at your restaurant, you don't want my business? I'm a regular at your restaurant, you don't want my business? We're not open today That's fine, too! No work for the day It's good to come out for the fresh air Mayor Gu, looking to get a Jackie Tang outfit? Whoa, what's that? It smells horrible! This is French perfume It's made from flowers extracts Smell it Go away... Hey, watch it! Don't you know who I am? I brought this back from the city specially for you My father told me to study hard So that I can gain more knowledge But I think the best way to learn is to travel and truly experience the different walks of life How about we go to the Imperial City together sometime? No That's fine, it's too far anyways. How about the countryside? We can pick flowers during the sunny day Admire the stars under the bright moonlight at night It'd be a wonderful trip! Not interested What's wrong with you today? Business has been slow Nobody's coming to dine at our restaurant Even passing by tourists are becoming rare All the food are becoming overcooked And the fish is going bad How are we gonna survive? Well then... how about I don't take rent from you? I never intended to pay you anyways I never intended to pay you anyways Let me take care of you then You think you can do anything because you're rich? I despise rich snobs like you You think money can buy you everything What's the big deal Thank you for coming Are you talking to me? Fortune teller I thought you were blind? Can you see me? Whoever told you I was blind? I just didn't open my eyes Young lady... Your eyes are watery, and your cheeks are pink It's a sign that true love is near True love? Lord Xu... Your forehead is shining bright also a sign that love is near Hey, what are you two playing at? Nothing! Stop denying! You think you can have everything Just because you got money? You get this fortune teller to fool me, you think I'm stupid? You get this fortune teller to fool me, you think I'm stupid? There was sand in my eyes The sand got in my eyes This outfit is perfect But I need to appear to be more forceful How about you guys do an act with me to demonstrate my great kung-fu skills Interested? You can count on me So, about the rent... I'll handle it You guys are about to go out of business and you still owe Lord Xu rent How dare you come to wine and dine here? This is too infuriating Scumbag! What great skill! Drunken Fist! Bottoms up... One more! Dangerous. Done. Amazing! I've got something even more powerful Deadly Sound Wave Huh? I don't recall talking about this Deadly Sound Wave Darn, he's improvising! Please spare me! That was awesome Deadly Sound Wave! Please spare me! Unbelievable... What are you doing here? Oh, how did it break? We're leaving now... Simply irresistible Let's go! What? Never seen someone caught in an act? What? Never seen someone caught in an act? Move! What are you laughing at? Is this funny? When I saw you with Gu Yuejin earlier on I knew there was something fishy going on What are you still doing here? Get out! I don't want to see you again! Get out! Please, let me explain What's there to explain? First you try partner with the fortune teller Now you're trying to fool us with Gu Yuejin I've had enough of you! Get out of my sight! Out! Open the door! Three of you don't come out You better not touch me I'll sue you for harassment. I would never touch you Ladies, you help me guard their doors Ladies, you help me guard their doors If they get away, I'll up your rent instead I'm gonna get locks to close down these shops for good! Lord Xu... Please don't shut me down! Shut up, are you going to pay me? No? Lock the doors! Lord Xu, we're really broke! No rent, no shop. Lord Xu... Please, just give us a few more days Lord Xu Lord Xu, I'll repay you twice the amount in a few days I'll pay you twenty times the amount Thirty times! Sixty times! Are you all idiots? Twenty! Thirty! Sixty! Is it raining gold here? You got treasure hidden up your butts? Crazy! We can hide treasure up our butts? How do we do that? You! Have you paid your rent? I'm just passing by... Who says you don't need to pay? I own this street! Who says you don't need to pay? I own this street! You! Have you paid your rent? I'm broke The Generals shall leave "The Three Fortunes" When the three stars turn, luck will arrive I'll take this as payment I'll take this as payment Big changes shall fall upon us now The seven elements added with three All the fortune will come alive Lord Xu! You know Judge Liu's Pancake Song, too? Did you pay the rent? I've never had to Why not? I'm gonna smash your booth I've known your father for many years When he found that treasure map I knew his luck had come See how he built those shops? Look how much fortune he's made for your family Nonsense! Just now you told me love is near But instead, I got slapped in the face You tell my father his luck had come Look how much bad luck this treasure map has brought He died two years after that restaurant opened I had no choice but to give up school and come back How do you explain all this? I can only tell you your fortune, not your destiny He died before he could spend a cent the heck with wealth! Lord Xu! Please put away that treasure map You must not expose your fortune this way You can have it I don't want it! Eat it... Treasure map... Lord Xu, please... Your father left this to you You must keep it safe I've seen the treasure in your future Stop torturing me! And he says he's sophisticated, such bad temper! And he says he's sophisticated, such bad temper! Lord Xu, calm down! Right, educated people should behave with more sophistication I'm fine now, thanks for asking... How come I didn't know there was treasure hidden in Side road Town? Better check it out... Once we find the treasure we can take Wei and leave this place Changgong... Do you want to come to Ryukyu with me? Or shall we return to Mongolia with you? After all these years of sufferings and disgrace I have finally found the treasure's hiding place But... But I've lost my home I'm so homesick! Hey, what are you doing here? Nothing, just looking at my town It's neither big nor small Just a dead town... Are you using the perfume I gave you? No, I didn't No? How's your face? Why didn't you duck away? You're excellent in martial arts how could I possibly match your speed I don't know any Martial Arts I only know the basic flying skill I'm an orphan When my stepfather found me I was being bullied by others He rescued me and taught me the flying skill He said as long as I know how to fly I will always be able to escape from danger You rich people would never understand Your life is too carefree I'm an orphan, too! My mother died when I was still very young I was barely in college for two years and my father passes away, too And nobody is willing to pay rent in this town You're blaming us for not paying rent again? I'd never take anything from you Well, my life is nothing like yours Know why we only serve two dishes? I'm illiterate I wouldn't know how to read or write a menu Two dishes is easier to handle I guess I'm the main reason that our business is so bad I guess I'm the main reason that our business is so bad I can teach you how to read You'll teach me? Let me teach you a poem first Sure! Roses are red, violets are blue Sugar is sweet, and so are you! Stop it! You're always kidding around! Like earlier today on the street We all heard you talking about that treasure map We all heard you talking about that treasure map Just a useless piece of junk Didn't you say you the other day when the weather is good you'd like to take me on a trip? Look how bright the moon is shining tonight Why don't we bring this map and go on a treasure hunt? Why don't we bring this map and go on a treasure hunt? I told you it's a useless piece of junk Who cares? It's just a game We're taking off! I can fly Are you using Wei to help you find the treasure map? Are you using Wei to help you find the treasure map? I didn't force her into anything She's happy to do it You've seen it, too Xu Sanguan is always coming around to see her What's the harm in two young people having some fun together? What's the harm in two young people having some fun together? You're just using her for your own agenda Don't worry I only asked her to get the map I'll protect them from behind They won't be in any danger Do you think this map will really lead us to a hidden treasure? Do you think this map will really lead us to a hidden treasure? I have no idea Like I said, it's a useless piece of junk But the interesting part is when you place it in water a lot of words would appear Really? Yeah There will have treasure What would you do if you found the treasure? I... would first purchase the restaurant from you And then I would hire a good chef! We'd be able to serve whatever the customer orders And my step-parents wouldn't have to sweat it all day in the kitchen to make ends meet That's great You wouldn't have to do the dishes anymore And you'd have more time to go travelling with me Who said I'd go with you? How about you? I'd give the treasure to you You'd be able to afford the restaurant and I'd get to see you everyday I don't want to see you at all! Let's go "Within 5 years" "self-determination" It's been five years Your time is up Are you okay? Where's Wei? Up there Who were those people? You should ask her They're here for the treasure map So the map is truly genuine? Everyone's in search of a treasure I know I've already found mine it's a bit heavy though So there really is a treasure hidden here Trying to fool me in my own town? Never! My heart is with Xin, but she only sees Changgong Life is so full of tough choices I'm going to report this to the County Magistrate I can't let Xin find the treasure and run off with the Moustache Yup, can't just let her run off like that But wait... what if Xin finds out it was I who ruined her plan? Would she hate me? This is fate! I am left with no choice! But on the other hand I am the Mayor of this town, I am obligated to report this Every man has his venom I will announce to all the officials that there's a treasure hidden in Side road Town And I will let Xin know that... I am her greatest treasure! Pick it up, we can barbeque the pigeon There's a message attached to it What does it say, Chief? There is treasure hidden in Side road Town Send over support immediately Side road Town Pass this message to every branch Tell them we're going on a treasure hunt Sir... Your forehead is dark and your face is fierce I fear that imminent danger will fall upon you, must be cautious... Shut up, you darn head! Don't you know there's a treasure here? I'm here to seek my fortune Curse me again, and I'll gouge out your eyeballs The fate is written, nothing can be changed According to the map we are at Side road Town Once we cross Mount Cloud, we'll reach the Black Lake This should be where the treasure is The map only points out a rough direction That red spot covers a huge area I think it should probably be... here! Are there any other clues on the map? The Generals shall leave "The Three Fortunes" So... Look at that rock! Doesn't it look like a huge peach? It does... The word "Prosperity" is engraved on it What prosperity? The Three Fortunes, Prosperity... peach represents Long Life We're missing Health It comes between Prosperity and Long Life Health... what about a green tree? Does that work? If you use a little imagination and shift the characters around a bit the tree would look like the word Health But what does it all mean? There is treasure Men die in search of wealth It is no longer safe to be here... A bunch of beggars... It ain't easy to survive They won't achieve much True that... Hello... You're here, too Chu! My dear cousin How is your wife? She's doing fine What brings you here? I hear there's a treasure hidden here somewhere Treasure? Jackie Chan, I have finally found you You killed my family and took all our money An eye for an eye, you shall pay your debt I'm not Jackie Chan, you're mistaking me as someone else Don't deny it, I'd recognize that nose anywhere I'm Jackie Tang! You... Hey Bro! He's not Chan, he's Tang! Jackie Tang? And who are you? Mind your own business What did you just say to me? Mr. Lau, I think Jackie Chan is over there Where's Jackie Chan? Here! You're all Jackie Chan? Yes! You guys got nothing better to do? Why are you all dressed up like me? Why would we want to dress up like you? I am famous for my nose! Jackie Chan's nose is way bigger! But I've never had any work done Ours is genuine, too! Mr. Lau, we better figure this out first Stop imitating me Idolizing me is good, but this is too much! Jackie Tang, I don't recall your nose being this big I think you're trying to be Jackie Chan I think you're trying to be Jackie Chan Ricky, I think they're trying to be Jackie Tang Not too long ago they had completely different hairstyle That's correct! You're wrong! No, you're wrong! I'm right, Tang is copying Chan! What's the fuss? Jackie Chang? No, it's Jackie Cheng! Jackie Cheng? That sounds familiar... It's that dude who always mumbles through his songs Which one is it? Let's have an autograph No I'm the one who mumbles through songs Geeze... stop imitating me... Hey, that looks cool! Hey, show some more respect to your seniors Please, your glorious days are over! Please, your glorious days are over! What's that supposed to mean? It means you're out of style! Who are you to judge? Nobody understands what you're singing Can you mumble through your songs like me? Let me be the judge, go on, sing! Let me be the judge, go on, sing! Who are you? Get outta here! I told you to listen to me, and you wouldn't You're in serious trouble now, the Imperial Army is here They're gonna kick your butts! On your set, butts, go! Who dares to block my way? I am the Mayor of this town What's a Mayor? You're too stupid to know I'm an officer appointed by the Ming Government What are you? We're the invading Manchurian Army So, you're the Mayor? Order everyone to come out and surrender Surrender! Move Move! Let's go. Uh... I guess my pigeon flew a bit too far Uh... I guess my pigeon flew a bit too far I had no idea you'd travel all the way out here... Are the Persians joining us, too? I better learn more language Hmm... which language should I start with... What's the next line? When the Three Stars turn, luck will arrive Everyone inside listen up, lay down your weapons Hand over the treasure, and surrender immediately Surrender immediately! We don't even know where the treasure is! We're handing in crap! There are so many caves This place is like a maze Which one should we go? When the Three Stars turn, luck will arrive So... Here, hold this Didn't you say the map looks different when it's placed in water? There's water here, let's give it a try If you don't come out and surrender, we'll kill everyone Kill everyone! Listen to me, we shouldn't be fighting amongst ourselves Let's join forces and defeat them, follow me! Na-Lan I have indeed found what I'm looking for I have indeed found what I'm looking for Changgong I will prove to everyone today I am truly the Supreme Master of Martial Arts! Wow, these characters look beautiful! But what do they mean? Hey, college boy Can you tell me what they say? E, S, W, N What does it mean? East, South, West, North The Three Stars do not go upside down... The Three Stars do not go upside down What? The game of east south west north I used to play it all the time when I was a kid Three Stars... upside down... Could it mean the direction here? It's three in the afternoon now so the east would be there Take six steps east, 1... 2... 3... It works! I'm so clever! You already are the Supreme Master Haven't I lost to you already? I don't want a fake reputation I have to defeat you with my sword We should have left the maze by now This map is amazing Wei, how did you figure it out? I'm good at anything, as long as I don't need to use my head There's more ahead... Na-Lan disobeyed my orders by heading in first So what if he's superior in Martial Arts It's the age of firearm Bring out the cannon! I'll show them what supreme power is! Light the torch What is this? Some sort of trap What's the next line in the song? Big changes shall fall upon us now Is that related to this? Yes, I think so It may have something to do with these characters The word Big There's Change Maybe we should follow the order of the line? We got it! Come We made it It's your turn! But I don't know how to read And I can't remember which characters you stepped on Here, let me teach you the first character Big, try to find it Big Yes I see it! Come! What is it? Here, let me help you Be careful! Wait, nobody move I think we aren't supposed to step on two characters at the same time What should we do? This isn't fun anymore Hold on, I think I know what to do Anything that won't require me to use my brain Tell me This is Big Which one is Change? This one That one with three dots I see it, it's this one Listen to me I'm gonna count to three, and you jump as high as you can I promise you'll be fine Listen Didn't I say you'd be fine? Yeah But why didn't you just directly jump over? You didn't have to make it so complicated Told you I don't use my head a lot The next character Which one is it? I think it's Come Where is the word? It should be... behind there How are we gonna jump over? Just jump over at the count of 3 And then you can jump back here to me Okay Wait, can you try to be a little more gentle? Fine Well? I thought you know the flying skill How come you're this heavy? Are you calling me fat? No Fat and heavy are two different things Next character! Gotta let them know, physical combat is no longer the trend... Gotta let them know, physical combat is no longer the trend... Release! Mother! You... Open the door! How come your ring is on my finger? Just keep it then What is this place? Wow, there really is a treasure! Come help me move it down Are you okay? Watch out! Father! Mother! Mother, are you all right? Are you okay? Who are you? What is this? Emperor Ming's hidden treasure... No The Manchurian Army plans to get rid of me I'm tired of military life anyways I have the Emperor Ming treasure now I will be the richest man in the world! No! Get over here. What do you want? Let go of me! Open it So what if you're strong? You still can't open it! You need a brain for that! You listen to me, if you let us go We'll open it for you, right? Okay, deal! The seven elements added with three All the fortune will come alive The seven elements added with three... All the fortune will come alive How do seven elements add to three? The seven elements of learning... that adds to our fortune... Is it what I think it is... The seven elements added with three... All the fortune will come alive Judge Liu had to learn how to read before he could pass the Imperial Exam Liu was the best at mathematics Mathematics... Seven elements added with three... it's a group of numbers Seven plus three equals ten Means 7310 Then 7304 Means 7321 It's open Let go of her. Get lost! Are you okay? I was born to humble beginnings, and understand the hardship of my people I work hard every day in order to stay alive I fought to stay warm and fed conquering the world with my spade A simple motive, but I end up becoming the Emperor I'm rich but I'm trapped in the Palace Darn! Shut up, I know how to read Darn! This is not what I wanted What I love most is my spade This farming spade kept me alive It helped me build a new empire When I stole a chicken from the widow next door My spade enabled me to dig a hole to cook the chicken The Beggar's Chicken dish, cooked with five different spices It was delicious! So my most valued treasure is none other than... this spade What's going on? Get out of here, quick! Changgong! Changgong! Go... Father! Go... Changgong! Go! Changgong! Changgong, come out please I finally realize what my real treasure is Come out please, Changgong! Come out please! Changgong... don't you remember? We have yet to complete our sonata Changgong! Father! He's fine! Today is the grand opening of Emperor Ming's Theme Park Today is the grand opening of Emperor Ming's Theme Park It is also the second day of the discovery of a rare treasure And what is the treasure? It is this fantastic spade I am holding in my hand With this spade, we are able to farm our lands With this spade, we are able to farm our lands With farming, we are able to have food to eat As long as we have food to eat, we are able to stay alive So staying alive is the most important thing of all!
