 

                        Meet you at the bottom. Wait. This isn't a race, we're looking for caves. Land Sat images are consistent with Speliogenesis... ...yea... yea... consistent with Spellio Jellio I'm not kidding. I could have been a lawyer. Woooohooo. Me gusta tus grandes ca. Well at least your Spanish is getting better. Rocks! You okay? I think so... it's my harness it feels, loose... Oh shit Michelle! Michelle, you okay? Yea... Anything broken? No. I'm okay. Hold on, I'm coming to get you! What... Oh my god! This is amazing Yea, then you're going to want to see this. At ease. Welcome to Los Angeles, gentlemen, and the Western home of Naval Research. Stow your gear, use the head, and we'll muster in the Ready Room at 1500. Dismissed! Seal Team. Dismissed! Lieutenant. You did good work in Angola. Thank you sir. What's this all about, sir? Well, you're here because of the delicate nature ofthis mission. That, and because you're the best search and rescue team we've got. Pardon me sir, but, search and rescue? Here, sir? Fifteen hundred hours. Aye, sir. Hey Jones, your sister say anything about me? That clock is incorrect. My name is Frank Reno, I'm the Program Director here, and I've been with the Navy since before you were born. Since before Jesus was born. Doctor Reno is a civilian, SES-5, that is a rank equivalent of an Admiral. Which means keep your goddamn mouths shut. Thank you, chief. Go ahead Doc. I graduated from MIT in 1942, I wanted to do my part in the war effort, but the Navy wasn't interested in a 12 year old recruit. Fortunately, they had other plans for me. I couldn't even drive myselfto base and there I was working with the greatest minds and theoretical physicists, on what would become the most important discovery in history. You may not be aware, but the US Military was already experimenting with stealth technology. We called it... The Philadelphia Experiment. It's been called that. But the official, unofficial name was, Project Rainbow. We were attempting to use electromagnetic radiation to bend light around an object. We were trying to make our ships invisible to the enemy. Instead we stumbled upon something far more powerful. In July of'43, the US Eldridge was docked in a Philadelphia Naval Shipyard, when all of a sudden it just disappeared. At around the same time, that same ship was spotted offthe coast of Norfolk, Virginia by a Merchant Marine vessel, some 370 miles away. Most ofthe crew vanished completely and 5 ofthem were actually fused to the various bulkheads and decks of the ship it self. Leaving many people, however, to believe that the government actually discovered teleportation. Not quite. The Edridge didn't move at all, at least not through space. The position ofthe ship didn't change, but the position ofthe Earth, did. A Rainbow device actually sent the Eldridge We're talking about time travel here? Indeed. Afterthe war, the program was moved here, where experimentation continued. By 1949 I was in charge ofthe program and eagerto take it to the next level. So on 29 November ofthat year, I sent a team of scientists and sailors, including my older brother, Erik, through the time portal. But the system, my system, for bringing them back, didn't work and 19 men and 2 women were stranded 70 million years in the past. You didn't think a couple of weeks were enough? We were trying to be careful. There was a great deal of debate about creating temporal paradoxes... Like if you went back in time and killed your grandfather sort ofthing. Yes, so I chose a time well before human history to minimize the chances of adversely affecting the present. I've spent the last 59 years trying to correct my mistake and improving technology to safely rescue the people I sent to their deaths. Excuse me sir, what makes you think they even survived the transportation? We weren't sure, until a couple of weeks ago, when a team of archaelogists discovered a series of cave paintings, in Western Argentina. Electro-carbon analysis dates these paintings at between 64 and 76 million BC. Yea, but that doesn't prove that those are your guys... This is not yourfault Lights please. Welcome. To the Rainbow Room. Everything you see here, controls the mechanics ofthe Rainbow device. What is it? Basically, a mile long Berillium tube, we discovered in Philadelphia, that by applying electro-magnetic energy, we could create a tactionic field inside the tube that spins at close to the speed of light. Afterthat it was just a matter of gravity. To do what? To open a wormhole. The theory of general relativity allows the possibility of closed time like curves, through which an object can move to any point within that curve. When the Rainbow Device reaches maximum velocity the path between two points in a curve is created. The gravitational pull of an object dropped into the singularity creates a passage through space time. Look, I could sit here and try to explain quantum mechanics, CTL's and Mankowski space theories, but I believe you would be bored, and you still wouldn't understand it. The bottom line is it's a surprisingly simple process, but the difficulty has been within calculating the space time relation. When hasn't been nearly as big a problem as where. That is until the cave paintings were found. Why not just go back sixty years before they left? First, there's still the concern about paradoxes, and second it's impossible to pinpoint the exact moment the team was sent. I'm confident however, that we can come within a few months or years that they disappeared. We? I'm going back with you, I never make the same mistake twice, and I won't send others in my place again. Besides, you'll need me to reopen the portal on the other side. It's an extraordinary mission gentlemen. More dangerous than anything you've ever done before, and I will not order any of you to accept it. If you don't want to do it, there will be no questions asked. Fuck it. We're in. Write your letters to yourfamilies, get your affairs in order. Dismissed. Get some rest. You leave at 0-300 hours. Is everyone ready? Men are good to go. The Eldridge Sailors reported headaches and nausea afterthe experiment, so we're giving you Salamine for motion sickness, and a strong N-Sed for pain. The oxygen levels during the cretaceous period are half of what they are today. So we're also taking Diamox, an altitude sickness medicine, to help us breath. Take yourfucking pills. Initiate Temporal Sequencing. One second sir. Ready. Good luck gentlemen. Alright ladies. This is just another search and rescue operation, let's mount up. Fuck it. Alright, let's go, go go. Move it, jump in there. Assholes and Elbows ladies, look alive, move it out SEAL Team. Move it! You okay there, doc? Yea, yea, I'm fine. SEAL Team, sound off! Manriquez! Burke! Jones! You guys alright? We got Stubbs and Pheenix? Stubbs! Pheenix! Stubbs! Pheenix! Stubbs! Yea! You alright? Fuck! Alright, let's saddle up. We need to get to higher ground. You can't just leave him here. Burke! You're on point! Let's move! Thank god it isn't damaged. What is it do? It keeps the wormhole open on the other side. As long as we have this, we can get back. So, doc, this is Argentina, huh? It will be. Right now it's the southern part of a continent called Gandwana. That's it What? The mountain, where the cave paintings were found. Nah, it's too small Ah, plate tectonics, it's been 70 million years. It's herbivorous, it won't bother us. Here, let's go. Alright men, you heard the man. Let's beat feet ladies. Hey, I think he likes you. Haha, right in yourface. Alright, stow it, stow it. Pryz, you alright? Pryzicki! No! Get Him out ofthe water! No! No! Pryzicki!! Get him out ofthere! Move it men!! Paddle, Move, Get out ofthe water!! Move it! Hurry Up! Alright ladies, that's ourwarning! Now let's move out! I'm not losing anymore fucking men. Move it! Yea! Now let's get out of here. What's the problem? I don't want to get eaten. Jesus Christ, keep it together! Now let's move! What's the problem petty officer? I don't know sir, I saw something, there's something out there sir. Alright. Don't shoot me. There's nothing out here. Jesus Christ Burke, we're not going to get eaten. Holy shit! Lieutenant, Lieutenant! Lieutenant! Lieutenant! Move team, move! Move it, move it! Fall back, everybody move, let's go! Hold yourfire. You're wasting ammunition. Burke!! Jesus, how do those things move that fast? There's more than one ofthem. ...and they're picking us off. Fuck this, I'm out of here. Manriquez, No! Get back! Manriquez! Manriquez! Wait, wait! Jones! Move! Move! Hang in there soldier! Alright, circle him up, circle him up! Get ready, get ready! Lopes! Lopes! Well shoot the goddamn thing, will ya? No! No! Ruth? Ruth? Ruth?!? Yes, Yes! Press here. We're not leaving without you, we're not leaving without you, sir. Stubbs, get out of here, go! Officer Stubbs. What are you looking for? They always hunt in pairs. Bud, look who's here, look who's here. Chief Stark. Well I reckon you could still cal me Bud, Doc. What happened here? Betty, what happened to him? Come on, we've got to get the others... We're the only ones left. Out of 21? and the rest, well... it's a dangerous place. You came back, you came back! How long has it been? We have to get this man, all of us, back to the entry point. Big Red's going to scent the kill. Okay. All of us. Back to the entry point. Hey, hey, who's... who's Big Red? Hey, is this stuff potable? Well I hope so, we've been drinking it forthe last 6 years. You've been here, 6 years? Well, give ortake, I forgot to bring my calendar, Doc. Dromas wipe their claws in their own feces. Lfthe initial attack doesn't kill, the inevitable infection will. I'm Sorry. Manriquez, leave me. Run! Let's go, people! Let's go! Move! Come on! We have to go now! Come on, move! No, leave me, just leave me! We're all going to die if you don't just leave me here. Come on, no way, sir. Oh, come on, let's go sir. Oh, come on, get off me! Leave me! Chief! I am the senior rank on this team, and I'm telling you to leave me, Leave me! Get off me! No! Come on, sir! Go! Leave me a fucking gun! Where's the chief, where's the chief! What the hell did you do to him? He told me to leave him, he told me to leave him, get off me! Chief! Chief! Stop, no, get down, get down! Chief! Chief! Get down from there, come on, get down from there! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Move, move, move! Let's go! Come on, let's go! Come on, we're almost in! Faster, Faster! Hurry up! Hurry up! Give me your hand soldier, give me your hand! That's Big Red! So, let me get this straight. We live in the 21st century, and we don't let women into combat. Now, how is it that you 2 were let on this mission, way back in 49. Well, Betty's a nurse and well I guess they needed somebody to take notes and make coffee. Bet you don't do that anymore. We ran out of coffee years ago. Don't be mean. I always thought you two would make a fine couple. Really? I always thought Erik was kind of a fuddy-duddy. Oh, and I always thought you were kind of sweet on Frank. Well who wasn't hot for Frank? Everybody had the hots for Squirt, right Ruth? Betty. Listen to those two. Frank, you ever get married? No. You ever gotten laid? Where's Bud? He's down there. Excuse me. Hey, are we at warwith the Soviet's yet? What's a Soviet? Hey Picasso. Hey, Doc. You know it was your paintings that helped us find you. Is that right? What the hell is that? Oh, just messing around. Hey, how's my Viv? Oh, Bud, she passed about 3 years ago. Cancer. I'm sorry. I figured Doc, I saw how old you got... She never re-married, she never gave up on you. Any my boy? David, he's okay. Out with it, Frank. I don't know, he's angry. He thinks with his fists, he damn near killed a man in a barfight. Goddamn kid! Damn it! Well I reckon he's biggerthan I am now... ...older and bigger. Isn't my Viv a beauty, Doc? Time, huh, it's a fucked up thing, ain't it? It's breathtaking. It's one ofthe things I'm going to miss the most. You couldn't have known Frank. The tracerwas damaged on impact. It wasn't yourfault. There's nothing you could have done about it. I should have seen it coming. I should have known. Frank, look at this. This amazing adventure. I'm seeing things that no man has ever seen, or everwill see. I'm going to go back to a world that's just as new and exciting as this one. It wasn't supposed to end like this. Who's life ever ends up the way it's supposed to? Alright, we've got to get moving, so pack light, but grab some things we need. Here, grab these, why don't you try these. Alright, when we get going, we're going straight and fast, make sure yourweapons are ready. Ruth, get plenty of water bottles... Got it. Also, rememberto walk side by side, it's very important... They're not going to take out the weakest prey, they're going to take out the lead so the rest scatter, so let's stay together... Yea, let's stay together, let's try and have a day where nobody dies. I mean, that would be great, I'd really enjoy not having to bury one of my friends, that would be great. Frank, let's go home. Hey chief, can we take a break, we need some rest. Yea. Yea, I need a breather. You need to get some water, Squirt. What are they recruiting in the Navy now? Girl Scouts? Frank. Where did you say that entry point was? About a mile and a half, due East. It's getting late, we better get going. Frank, we best be moving. Hey, come on man, we need to get going. Pull my hand. Pull your hand? Why don't you pull my dick! Get down! Oh, Geez! It's coming back! It's still working, alright, everyone move back, I don't know how big it will be. How are you going to initiate the Kassimer effect? Sub-atomic particles with negative mass. No, no, no, no! You created exotic matter? Let's move it people! No, no, no, wait! How are you going to close the margins without the Rainbow Device? Quickly, into the Singularity. Manriquez, let's go. No. Frank, No, Frank! No Frank. Unless the connection is closed, the weak energy condition will continue to expand the wormhole, until it absorbs everything. What is he saying? He's saying that someone has to stay behind to close the portal. What? I'll do it. No! You don't know how to operate the device. I knew what I was doing when I came here, I'm an old man, I've lived my life. I took away sixty years from you, and now I'm giving it back. Go. Go. Thank you. Take care of your boy. No, Frank. I'm going to come back for you, I promise. If it takes another 60 years, I'm going to come back for you. You alright? Time travel's a bitch, ain't it? Wooo! We're back... Yes! Yes! Civilization Baby! At ease, at ease! Yes sir! So it didn't work... Oh, it worked. But you just left... ...and we just got back. Okay, so where's Lieutenant, where's the doc, where's everybody else? Well, they didn't get through now, did they? I think something's coming through. Manriquez, Manriquez! What the hell is that thing, and how did it get here? Genus Therapoda, from the Cartradontasaurfamily, I think. Who are you? Science Officer Lieutenant Erik Reno, sir. This is Chief Petty Officer Stark, Yeoman Calendar, and... Yea, alright, alright, alright. Main thing, we have to keep that thing in the building. Yea, I wouldn't count on it. Oh shit! Oh shit, damn it. Come on, come on. Coronado, this is Commander Dorn. C Code, 47423 we have a situation. Jesus Christ. Holy Moses! Looks like you're driving. Yea. Coronado, contact Command Center. I need a Seahawk, North Tower. Alright, come on people, talk to me. What's this thing going to do? He's getting confused, he's going to find some place to hide. Look out! Jesus Christ, Go! Go! Goddamn that thing is fast! Yea, you're not kidding. Where is he? I don't know, we just have to get to that helipad, we have to get airborne. There's our ride people, let's go. Alright, Everybody in? Let's go. I don't like this. Damn it. Where is it? I don't see anything! LAPD at 9 o clock sir! Alpha Command this is LAPD Air One. Air One, this is Alpha Command! Please identify threat. The threat, is biological in nature, it is bi-pedal and it is carnivorous. Say it again Alpha, what is it that we're looking for? It's a dinosaur, we're looking for a dinosaur. Who the fuck is this and how did you get in on the secure line? This is commander Dorn, US Navy, and I shit you not, we are looking for a bi-pedal dinosaur approximately 60 feet long and 20 feet tall. This is bullshit, switch overto thermal imaging, now. Roger. Nothing Alpha, orwhoever you are, thermal imaging shows nothing. There's nothing like you just described, nothing. Where the hell is that thing? Sir, did he say thermal imaging? You're not going to be able to see him with heat sensors. Why not? Dinosaurs are ecto-thermal. Air-One, Alpha One, target is cold-blooded, you're going to have to eyeball it yourself, there is a dinosaur on the loose. Let me guess, it can fly too. I'm going in! Hold yourfire! There's civilians down there! What?! Civilians? You mean snacks! Okay, so this thing is cold-blooded, it can eat heliters, anything else we need to know? I'm telling you commander, this thing's got thick skin. M60 rounds don't even pierce it. People assume that because dinosaurs have small brains they're unintelligent. That isn't true. No. Red's smart! When we first ran into him, he chased us into a series of caves. Commander Deas our CO, came out, he ate him. Afterthat, we learned neverto enter or exit through the same place. Union Station, sir! Well, it's nice to see something's still the same Alright, let's put her down. Betty, Ruth, you stay here. Hey, hey! I don't think so! Stay in the air, we'll take the ground. Fuck! You just don't listen. I just don't want to. Any sign of him yet? I think that might be him. Swing back around, we'll check south of Pico. Take her up, take her up!! Holy shit, sir! I'll swing back around! He went down Brooklyn Ave, or I think it's Brooklyn Ave. Alright, we're going to have to split up and find him. Then what? We have to find him first. How the hell can they run so fast? They've been living in 11% oxygen forthe last 6 years. They're processing O2 like ultra-marathoners. Alright, you son of a bitch! Lieutenant! Bud! Bud! Honey, where are you! Bud! Don't you talk about my mother! Get out of here, get out of here, No! No! Oh God, thank God! Any ideas? Running always seemed to work. Well, you used to live here, right? What do you think we should do? Third street tunnel, we could trap him inside of the third street tunnel, I mean, it's still there. We could trap him inside of it. Well, great, great, so how do we get him in the tunnel. Yep, more running. I thought so. Alright. Sir, the CHP has blocked all traffic into downtown. Any sign of ourfriends? There, there they are! Move down, move down to there, right there! Ready? Ready. Hey! Hey Big Red! You've been wanting this forthe last six years, come and get it! Over here! You stupid piece of shit! Oh, shit! What the hell are they doing? They're trying to lead him into the tunnel. Tell LAPD to block the tunnel entrances. Alpha One, this is Stingray One, we understand you have a problem. There he is! Target is heading west on 3rd street. Stingray One, copy? Copy Alpha One, but we can't take it out without doing serious damage to real estate. Serious damage to real estate? It's already doing serious damage to real estate. I am not launching a missile attack against a major US city. Stingray One, hold your position, wait for my orders. Rogerthat. Alright, LAPD is ready to block both ends ofthe tunnel. They have incendiary bombs and flame throwers. Okay, we're going to burn that son of a bitch. Is he still following us? No. Where the hell is he going? It didn't work. Big Red kept right on going. We'll catch him on the other side of the tunnel. Shit, come on! He's coming over Bunker Hill, he's coming over Bunker Hill! Oh! Shit, what the hell is happening? Where'd that tank come from? I don't know sir, but it doesn't look like it came from Van Nuys! Go! Frank?! Oh my god, Erik? Oh, I missed you, I'm glad you're okay. How did you get back here? About a year or so after you guys disappeared, I came back 60 years older went through the time portal to try to beat you guys back. He went through the time portal and tried to reset the timeline. He went through as it was closing up. You crazy old man. As far as I know, his trip was cut short, got sent back to 1950, mortally wounded. What? Before he died, he told me everything. He showed me how to use the Rainbow Device. I could have never done what he did. But you did, you did! God, we missed you Squirt! Oh, don't call me Squirt! He told you. He didn't have to. Alright, I'm loving the reunion and all, but, what about the dinosaur? Well that's why I'm here. So, what are we supposed to do? We wait. Take position overthe top ofthat bridge. Be ready forwhen the beast gets back. No! No! Not this time Jesus Christ! Just be ready! Be ready! Kowalski, get a look, look down overthat rail, see if you can see him anywhere. There's no way LAPD is going to block every downtown LA access, before rush hour starts, we've go to end this now. This is Stingray One You can't do that sir, it's our people down there! I've got no choice. Lock on to these coordinates and arm your Mavericks. What about collateral damage sir? Light them up Stingray. This one's on me! Copy that sir. Stingray, this is, on my mark! I'm locked on target and ready to fire. Sir, he's leading Big Red back to the tunnel. Stingray, stay, hold yourfire! I repeat, hold yourfire! Please tell me that was one of ours. It's over, it's gone, it's over. Looks like you're stuck with us, Doc. Well, not quite, I never make the same mistake twice. Go home? See my Vivian again? She's alive? I think I'd like to grow old with you. Now, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Someone's supposed to stay behind and close that portal, right? No, it's my turn. You're crazy. He won't be alone. Good luck, Lieutenant. Take care ofthat son of yours. Alright? Yes, sir. Oh, I'm going to miss you Squirt, I may have picked the wrong man Oh yea? Look at this... Oh, I'm going to miss you girl. Take care, little bro, take care. I'll see you in 65 years. Take care bro. You know I will. Hey, hey, hey. One more thing, where did you send Big Red? Back where he belongs.
