 

                        Life is a gamble between fortunes and misfortunes There are people who are fortunate and prosper And others whose lives are shattered by misfortunes I still don't know in which category we belong By 'we' I mean Nila, Nancy, Ganga and I I, Revathi Nambiar am a TV channel reporter 4 isolated women This is the story of our fortunes as well as misfortunes lam Nila Lucky to have married the man I'd been in love with for many years Love is like a mountain climb, the thrill ending when you reach the top It's a just small misstep to fall into the depth of a hell called divorce I am Bhavya No...Now Nancy I never regretted convening from my religion to that of my lover Not only that, today prayers are the only relief in my life I used to think the mother-in-law tortures seen on screen were only injest But just one month of married life I realized they were all a reality Shibin who is in the USA hardly ever calls these days Divorce is his latest demand I try to console myself that my faith will save me Girls are beautiful, be happy and laugh only for a brief period in their life time It was only a brief life span like that of a colorful butterfly Among us, the owner of such colorful days belonged only to her She was our most favorite person in life Ganga Now, coming to me My profession gave me the wings to freedom in life In fact, what rescued me from a first broken love affair... ...was the thrilling chase after stories and scoops for the TV channel A live-in relationship with a colleague and moving on contentedly in life... ...I was proud of my mature decision But...! Get out woman! I know we have the freedom to move out of this relationship any time We had agreed upon it But I can't Please, don't hurt me I will go Just give me 2 minutes Each one of us had a hidden volcano inside us But when the 4 of us came back to the apartment... ...we carried on with the little joys in life I know we have the freedom to move out of this relationship any time We had agreed upon it But I can't Hello No I will call later Ours was a much stronger lover-affair We got married without our parents knowing I even convened for his sake What an affair it was! 5 long years...Romeo and Juliet Now do you know what he says He has no sexual feelings with me alone Modern love, no restrictions Living together for 5 years It was only to get what he wanted without spending money... ...which he tells me 5 years later Nowl am neither here nor there My loved one's hobby is to send me pictures of him with other girls in town And you want to be in love?! Like this we made Ganga back out of that affair We even got her a different phone number Although it was difficult at first she accepted and adjusted by and by What happened? Will it work? No! Our channel will do nothing based on your information The other party is tightening screws in higher places ls there no other way? Your 'quotation' job is dirty But ours is dirtier than that I often wondered which was better Forget it sister Please see my name doesn't come in If that viper comes to know I am finished okay That was the day when Xavier, Nancy's husband's cousin... ...came forward to solve her problems Hey! Come sit Sit Chechi(sister), it's not Shibi'chayan who's kicking up a fuss lam not saying this becausel am his cousin He's a simple man He still loves you It's his mother I'll talk to her and set it right for you Don't be so stressed I'll talk to mother and son and solve it Even if he's oblivious to your sorrows I understand you very well Be cool Since he is so intently pursuing this Appears his target is his brother's wife That's good to deal I will talk things over and call you But you must attend my calls Okay, see you "Sometimes, in my heart" Anna(older brother) Will this work out? Of course! Work out? You bet it will Otherwise, I will make sure that it does! We were right behind them He will make an effort for sure This is a bait for you Stop worrying my dear All guys with helping hands and sympathetic words to lone women... ...behaving like gentlemen have only one intention - Look, he's just fishing - High hopes! It was Ganga's birthday I had a special guest My classmate Lovely and her husband Sreekuttan They are here! Hi! How are you? - Revathi - Sree My roommates Come, let's go She used to be Revathi's roommate while in college hostel Her husband works in Dubai Now they are here on vacation Lovely and Sreekuttan? An inter-caste marriage, eh? May be a love marriage Revathi would have been the mediator - When is your interview? -After noon Where are you staying for tonight? We'll look out for a room in a hotel Oh! You come to my place and want to live stay at a hotel, eh? No! No chance! You will be our guest and join us here But you are only women staying here It won't be correct That won't be a problem Please, agree my girl There! The birthday babe is here Birthday celebrations are on its way and you will be our guests Your hotel idea stands canceled Okay? Hey! Come What...? Let go Let me go By evening...? Come on Don't move What's up? Carry on He's so romantic, isn't he? She's so lucky We are not destined for all that No need to feel jealous Sleep now Revathi!!! Get up Come soon - What happened? - Come fast Look there Come He's dead What will we do now? Let's inform his people Or we'll go to the police No Why? ' No! . But Why? We can't inform the police Nor his people They are not... ...husband and wife Her actual husband is in Dubai Did you know this earlier? - Tell me -Yes What do we do now? What to do now? Do whatever you want You solve the problem you created Don't involve us God! What do I do now! I know a man with a criminal background He's a hired thug You can call anyone and do whatever you want to What are you doing? Anybody else knowing this will only land us in trouble Let us put it into a car and then think of what to do What are you saying? And after that? What else can we do with it? We are wasting time...just listen to me Come with me - Slowly - Wait a second Come He's fast asleep Hold it Hey! Keep it down What...? No noise Careful Let it be Hey, wait...wait Quick Hold on Take it Slowly Let me go see - God! - What is it? It's that Azad living on the top floor What do we do now? Quick carry it now Blasted thing is always faulty! Let's take the stairs, sir - Sir? - What is it? I heard a sound What sound? - Maybe my imagination - Midnight harassments! - Let him go - He'd have gone Yes...yes I will leave at 5 in the morning I sleep in the car always Just listen Disconnect now Let me pee and I'll call you back lfl say I'll come I mean it really Okay, agreed Wait for me, woman! Doesn't she ever sleep?! I have always wanted to go pee in a ladies toilet Let me see what it's all about Hey! Nice set up Ladies, forgive me MBRHDRG Come MBRHDRG Call that thug We have no other option It's impossible for us to deal with it - Call him and explain - Shall I Call him? Be quiet! - What? - It's ringing What is this? Stop it Wait till I get back Tell me madam I'm listening As I said earlier, 50 grand if it's okay, I'll be there in 15 minutes Is it okay? Don't stress yourself I am Sura, and know how to keep my word I will deal with it perfectly, okay? lfl cross the compound safe, no need to worry about this anymore Everything turned topsy-turvy on a single night No one gave a thought then to what exactly was happening But the next morning You! Couldn't you have stayed in a hotel room with him? God knows what is yet to come You have ruined all our lives Any further problems and I will tell the truth, I'm warning you Get out woman! I said get out Lovely and Sreekuttan's love affair began during their college days Later, it died a natural death like all other campus affairs Years later, it was by pure chance Sreekuttan's wife... ...Nanda introduced Lovely back into his life Many meetings later... ...love blossomed Stronger than before Didn't I tell you? It was God's will Why else would my wife's lost phone... ...be found by you and she introduces me to you Who is it? Is food ready? Why did I go along with Lovely that particular day Our peace of mind was gone forever after that day She cheated us right? But why the heck did she do it? I wonder, what miseries are in store for us now? I tried calling Sura who had gone with the dead body But... - Shall we go? - Ready You know what? Just because you were a friend, I wanted to help you Now everyone is alienating me You are the sole reason for my miseries I curse the moment I thought to help you Thanks Thanks a lot My dear, please come there a moment The TV channels are not coming on Please come and have a look I called him again the next day But the calls never went through My stress levels kept increasing not knowing what happened to the body Come on It's okay Come You could have told us the truth Who knows what the consequences will be now This is enough to ruin our entire lives - Yes? -Where is the Sub Inspector? He is in there Please sit So, it's been 3 days he's missing, right? Yes Did you enquire at his regular haunts? Take it easy, we have all the details May be he's gone on a tour with his friends - Any female...? - No! Definitely not Okay! Okay! Let us investigate I'll let you know if we find anything Sura, he was only an informer for my news leads But, instead of hearing terrifying news we expected... ...we began to see unexpected happy things happening Didn't I tell you this was a very simple case? I am ready to help anyonel am fond of Aren't you happy now? You will be happy, I know Is this the girl I was refusing to accept all these days? My husband and I will come this very evening to take her with us So get everybody be ready Let me share some secrets with my daughter in law Come my dear From today you are like Nancy to me Very close friends Since we are close friends will you give your phone number? We'll call you at night Shall we give him your number? Will you really call? Really? Rakesh, pass this tape on inside Nothing anywhere I called all stations to get a crime story Nothing spectacular Only a case of man missing One Sreekuttan, 30 years old The wife has filed a complaint, that's all Man missing cases are not dramatic enough Only death will have news value Why don't people commit some murders? At least then can we fill our episode slots Joey! Get that bit about that old Minister We'll adjust with that for today's news Since Sreekuttan's case had been filed Will the police now come looking for us? Not reachable I am very scared What's happened to him? It's been so many days He's not answering the phone Xavier is calling Probably his parents are here Nancy? Just a minute You are leaving us You must never ever reveal what happened here to anyone Promise? STOP Come here Has Sreekuttan disappeared like this earlier also? No sir Not heard so far - Is he a trouble maker of sons? - No, he's a good man sir Okay, let's go Do you suspect anyone? No Any phone call Did someone come to meet him No sir - Did you know this? - It's been so many days now We will investigate in our routine way If you get any info please inform us Com e lets g o Nothing we feared happened On the contrary unexpected developments occurred You must forgive me I realize only now how badly I behaved It will never happen again I want only you...only you Only you and I hereafter I won't ever go after other women I swear Please, my dear sisters Tell her to come back to me Please Once Nila also left, Ganga and I were scared to live there alone Ganga shifted to the college hostel and I shared an apartment with a friend Although within us we were still terrified As days passed our tensions gradually lessened We slowly slipped back into normal life Four of us in 4 different places We returned to our busy routines It was the day Lovely's husband Johnson returned from Dubai Dead body? Where? What happened? Nothmg Remember Revathfi? Her father is ill Give me the key I will drive, you get in Move aside Move...give way Do you have any clue, who could be behind this murder? Sir, please answer Here it is Move aside Move I say Move...move I'm telling you to move aside Don't you understand what I'm saying? Next time I will take my mom with me, okay? Sura, the man who lies here murdered is understood to have... ...close links with political and business bigwigs The question arises if it was just revenge among thugs or something else Police have started thorough investigations DySP Unnikrishnan Namboothiri informs that culprits will soon be caught DySP is here with us This a challenge to restore peace in the lives of common man We have already begun all steps to bring to light the culprits who so ever they are We understand from higher officials that... ...the murderer will soon be apprehended Madam Let's go Hello, you don't know me I called to get to know you better Even if you don't know me I know you very closely And everything about you Including the most secretive things you've kept hidden from others Your ability to smile and be normal... ...when inside you are quavering in fear...hats off! You and your friends...the other night Such courage, right? Apan from the 5 of you another person who knows...thug Sura? The Lord called him back quite early Didn't I warn you that I know everything?! Suppose I tell this to someone? Then your lives will come to a full stop Your lives, your family Everything will be finished But you poor things! I hate doing this to you I have only one condition Only one Just do what I ask you If you obey me I won't ever tell this to anyone Otherwisemokay, I won't! By the way, if you dare tell your friends or the police...?! If you dare tell...!!! - Any questions? - Sir There are an estimated 6 million mobile subscriptions world wide 90% of the population and 80 % of people living in rural areas have mobile coverage Excuse me sir Two thirds of people who access internet do so from a mobile device You are absolutely right We are now planning into 3G Balu, I'll be late The team meeting has not yet begun No need, Balu You don't have to pick me up I'll come home by myself Sorry I was a little busy I'll come to you and collect the cash I'll call however late and come there whatever the time 'Mother? 'Did you hear what she said to my face?' 'What did she say that was wrong?' 'Get out!' 'Get out with your kid' Please, don't harass me Don't call me I have not done anything wrong Please don't create problems in my life The issue is not whether you have done wrong The issue is whether I will reveal this out or not If I decide to talk, your tender flower-like life will wilt away - Let me explain - Stop it woman! I don't want to hear anything Just listen to what I have to say Understand? Anyway, you are in my hands now Just sit quietly like a white little rabbit I will caress you to my heart's content My dear...dear What is this child doing in there? - Don't you want dinner? - Coming mother Hello? Good that it was you who picked the phone If it was anyone else I'd be forced to explain who I am You rotten woman! What did you think? Being very smart switching off your phone, eh? Don't overdo it, okay? Who is it my dear? Shibu? Yes, tell me Don't play your tricks on me Give it to me a minute I want to ask him something One minute, please Okay disconnect Here Hello Shibin? I can't hear anything on this Yes mother, it's been like that Something wrong with the line Wow! You hottie Thanks...baby You...? No need for all this show Don't pretend to be so goody-goody Try to be over smart and your husband will know Want to see? Come Good No, next one - How is it? - No, next one Show me 5 girls Who do you want? The last one I like tender coconuts Sure...tender coconut indeed Wait a minute Time 4 O clock, Place Sip and Lunch Table no 4 There will be a man waiting Just listen and do as he wants Okay? So be there on time 34 or 36? 34, I am sure I meant your weight Okay, don't tell me Anyway, I am okay I will soon know My wife will soon go off to Delhi for a conference In any case she has no interest in such activities Like carrying cane through the bushes In Goa...3 days to ourselves Just 3 days I have reference videos of sex Do you want to watch? Watch it now How is she bro? ls the bird okay? Sure! Young little bird Just give it to her Here Tell him you like me You can go, I'll call later You agree, don't you? It is Aroma therapy It will take about an hour It's okay I will wait at the coffee shop okay No Please Go Go away! Is it over? No it will take too long Lets come next week Why so? Come let's go home - Why? -I have work at home What work? - Mother asked me to come home soon - Then come, let's go - Hey! -Yes sir? - Do you know Sura? - No sir Why don't you know? Come, let's go Sir, I don't know Mol(daughter) take the books and come quickly, okay? Mol, wait here after your reference work I must go to the office room and will be back in half an hour An urgent matter Look madam Things are not what you believe I can give an answer within few days The investigation is at crucial point now We can't reveal what it is now, that's why Please believe me I will call you You don't have to come here every now and then, okay? We called each other to discuss about him But his threats instilled a fear that we'd lose the life we got back So each one of us kept it within ourselves...out of fear We were literally under lock up Hi I am a little late We'll go in the car Let's go in the car - Are you going? -Ans College Here Hi Come under the umbrella Don't get wet What the...! Come here Umbrella, my foot! Doesn't she like me? Angel Hospital, morning 10AM Token number 10, Dr Nirmala Mathew A girl in a yellow dress, with the token will wait at the hospital reception for you She's pregnant Pretend to be the girl's sister and meet the doctor And get it aborted Just be like an ayah, a helper and a companion to Neethu Okay? Auto! Angel hospital Were matters moving into dangerous grounds? I was beginning to feel convinced it was I wanted to find if there was a legal solution... ...and confided in a person A criminal lawyer who took pan in our programs...Rani Varma I held back only one info That the victim was myself Please sit, madam If he has really seen it and choose to reveal all... ...then Revathi's cousin and her friends...! ...will get into the real trouble if you look at legally... Evidence plays a major role In every case in court, Evidence is most important If you ask me personally... I suggest your cousin and friends accept to his terms and conditions That is only safe for them tiff Neethu? Aren't you Neethu? Sit, I'll be back Aren't you Revathi? I often see you on TV We have a celebrity client package It's quite normal in professions like yours If you have friends or relatives in need of abortion... ...just call us, we can easily adjust our rates Revathi She is alright now Come again, okay? I want to meet you It's very urgent Take this - What is it? - Madam Just a minute Don't share with anyone or you'll have to pay What is it? What's happened to you? Vinu wanted some more time When Rythin heard this, again confusion How do I take it forward? Nila, do you know how many times this is happening? One minute Listen, you must apply for leave tomorrow Asmall favor I want your help I will call you in the morning Let it be a secret, Don't tell anyone We wanted to tell and yet we didn't Fear refused to let us talk Emmanual silks, 3rd floor, 10:30 a.m - Where are you? -At office A small problem I want to meet you urgently What is it? The documents must be submitted at the bank today I forgot them at home I will be there in 10 minutes Just come down with the house key I don't have time to come upstairs tiff See you in the evening Bye - Here - Thank you It's a resort with a private beach in Goa It's ideal 3 nights and 4 days The flight tickets has to be booked I want your ID proof to buy the ticket 15, 16, 17, Keep your ID proof ready I will come and collect it I won't go I won't! I won't! If you insist, I'll commit suicide Hey! That's too big a threat my dear If you die, I simply don't care Not only your life I'll finish everybody else's also You will go Please, I will do anything other than that Will you do anything else? Will it be okay? It's most valuable to a girl What is more valuable than that? I need money Come on, tell me man How many mobiles does he own? - 3 - Only 3? - No sir, 4 -4? No sir 5 Really? 3...4...5 Thomas, I think he needs 3 bottles of that medicinal concoction The one that has a good fragrance What do you say? Go ahead, you will How many SIM cards does he own? '5 '4...4 No sir...5 Sir, it's not 4 It's actually 6 Sir punch me but don't use the cane He actually has 8 But I only know 6 of them That's all I know sir So, totally he has 8 connections? I have 6 numbers with me I want the remaining 2 Anyway, tell me the 6 numbers you have Write it down Good girl You've become good friends, eh? Very close? Become a little more closer, okay? Yesterday's program was very good - Thank you - But we missed the beginning There is a repeat telecast today You must watch, okay? Since you work in a bank You can deal with it very easily Considering the number of notes passing your hands Tearing up 10 of them is will hardly be noticed I don't have an option Just an exchange of money Take it Please wait Great! You really did exchange the notes at the bank, didn't you? Yes Good! You have a fantastic gift Collect it before you leave This is for you One more money exchange 10 lakhs I know it's difficult But you will do it Come in Don't go to church, stay back I'm on the way I need 15 minutes alone What happened? Aren't we going to church? I am... Okay, you take rest See you later Hi Shall we go? Okay, agreed That's my dream Your problem is the venue, right? There's a stylish open beach resort I don't like to spoil my meal just picking at it I need time to taste savor and enjoy what I eat I have come all the way How can I go back empty handed? How many sovereigns is this? I meant this Should I remove it myself? Please! Hi - Hello ma'am - Come in Please sit I was here to record a byte of our regional MD I was waiting here for almost an hour I saw you leave the restaurant Mad am, tea A little late What do you want? You can order - What about you? -Anything is okay for us As you like Hello? The reception is at 7, rig ht? Sure, will be there Room 411 3 fresh orange juice I ordered orange juice Yes, come in Aren't you coming for the party this evening? Have it One minute It's from my office This incident has shaken the entire state of Kerala Who was it who tried to smuggle in such a large amount of fake notes? Thanks baby You can leave - Sir it was not I -You don't have to say anything Sir, I am not I don't know anything sir Sir, I am innocent Move aside Get in I say Those were moments as if life had come to an end The realization that it was disaster waiting around the corner Nancy called everyone To meet directly and urgent The next day, when we were supposed to meet, a phone call came Ganga had met with an accident Doctor, how is the accident victim, Ganga? It was not an accident It was a major operation Here look this What the Doctor had given us was an agreement letter A letter signed by Ganga that it was not under coercion... ...but of her own full free will she had donated one of her kidneys What made her do this? Excuse me This is Ganga's mobile I was the one who called She asked me to tell you that it was an accident Thanks baby But the beautiful 3 nights and 4 days in Goa would have been a better for you It's him Hey! Can we meet tomorrow? Green Park open beach resort Let's enjoy my dear 9387944158, Mary Varghese Thadathil house, Mavelikkara This is the number Sura was using just before he died Hey! Who is this, who's called 1450 times to a guy who was already dead? Sir, it belongs to some journalist Details are just being printed Go bring it quick Listen! Nothing more to do You can wrap up everything The DySP has got hold of the last number to Sura I warned you the other day Don't worry man I am already here "$ir...! Hey! Don't stress yourself I've come directly to clear up everything You will get your dues, Mr policeman Isn't that enough? Sir, these are the details of numbers Your Minister's henchmen killed Sura and threw him on the street I must close this case for you Yes sir You do know, I have a Mr Clean image - I did not mean it that way -Well, that's how it is...from today I will wind up the case neatly What do I get in return? Whatever you ask for Come in the evening We'll talk in private Okay, sir This journey of mine...no, our journey Perhaps one of the most important one in our lives To know the truth behind some incidents... ...that had happened to us and yet none of us knew of it Ganga's phone love affair which we had once terminated... ...has now materialized into marriage We must help her come out without her people knowing Let's not discuss it here No one knows about it if they come to know, it will be a big issue I'll be right back I am not able to contact Aravindan In his last call, he'd promised to take me away after the marriage You think he won't come? Just to fool me? - Why don't you tell her? - Let's not tell her Then...? It's obvious she does not know anything 'Public Cemetery' We happened to get his mobile when everything was over But...we were stunned to see the pictures in it Romantic photos of Ganga with the guy she was in love with None of us understood anything of this He had betrayed Ganga the most How did this happen? Our mission after that was to trace his messages and calls That's how we figured out what actually happened Even though we thought it had all ended Ganga had continued that relationship The night of that incident she had received a call from him For cheating Ganga, and the rest of us and to put an end to everything... ...we finished him off and it was only on our way back we realized... ...we had actually killed Ganga's lover What is your treat for me, birthday girl? If they knowl called They'll kill you I have a surprise for you tonight What's going on? Go ahead How was your birthday party? Revathi's friend who was supposed to come, did not turn up - So we all went out -And? - They gave me a fantastic treat -After that? Nothing Came back and slept soundly Nothing special What was the surprise? Tell me I will tell you later If you ever tell your friends or the police, I will reveal this Table #4 A man will be waiting for you How are you? Why are you so tense? Tense? Me? No tension? - It's nothing -You sound strange Aravindan, you must be imagining it - Who called you now? - It was from home - I'll call you back later - Okay Ganga who was coming with us all set to marry Aravind, did not know... ...that we had finished off her lover Neither can we ever tell her in future Unaware of all this she continued to dream of her life with Aravind Revathi Nambiar...1455 Must be really sick...stay there - Sir? - What is it? Sura case remains unsolved I came to tell you something I forgot the other day Aweek before he died, he and I placed... ...a dead body on top of a water tank outside city limits Dead body? Whose dead body? I don't know Why didn't you tell this earlier? It's only nowl have a doubt That Sura's death has some connection to that dead body That's why I decided to tell you this I know who chopped up your friend But there is no case I closed that file But what about that dead body? Let it remain there man! Does it affect us in any way? Let it be there for the time being If it becomes an issue in future We'll look into it then Now go away Whether it was fortunate or unfortunate the story does not end The dead body of Sreekuttan is on top of the water tank Ganga waiting for her loverAravindan, who'll never come 3 others with Ganga who are forced to hide what they know Sreekuttan's wife who waits hopefully for his return Sura's friend who is suspicious about the dead body Everything is safe for today But tom orrow...? "Green, yellow red adorned little one I got for myself by a stroke of luck" "Yearning gazes, brought flowers in bounty into my heart in spurts" "Come, be my friend Sing along with me" "Wear a smile upon your lips and a cloak of warmth always" "Forget the tears and sing Let only joy be what you seek" "Listen my dearest girl Hear what I've got to say, little one" "We are not here to dance to the tunes of any tom dick or harry" "if tears appear unasked Close your eyes and mask" "Never hesitate, but laugh away whenever laughter comes your way" tiff "My dear little girl Stop your coquetry" "Don't kill me sweet one with your coquettish ways" "Kill me for all you want But don't betray and abandon" MBRHDRG "There's always a second chance in life Come on, get in and hang on again" "I an in a battle of wits with my fate To get back my unblemished face" "Listen my dearest girl Hear what I've got to say, little one" "We are not here to dance to the tunes of any tom dick or harry" "if tears appear unasked Close your eyes and mask" "Never hesitate, but laugh away whenever laughter comes your way" "Green, yellow red adorned little one I got for myself by a stroke of luck" "Yearning gazes, brought flowers in bounty into my heart in spurts" tiff "Green, yellow red adorned little one I got for myself by a stroke of luck" "Yearning gazes, brought flowers in bounty into my heart in spurts" "Come, be my friend Sing along with me" "Wear a smile upon your lips and a cloak of warmth always" "Forget the tears and sing Let only joy be what you seek"
