 

                        Do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what a day may bring [Proverbs 27:1] Static time machine? In order to create an artificial blackhole, we need at least a 100 LHCs The LHC project costs $9 billion If there are a 100... Even a time machine has to be reasonably priced I'm just a businessman I've seen this before It's the Great Blue Hole in Marshall Islands Russia's core energy research lab is located nearby It may look state-owned, but I'm the owner A bad M&A deal, might I add Gravity works differently in the blue hole When particles collide in there, it has the effect of 2-300 times the LHC In other words... It'll cost a fraction of creating artificial black hole on land Using a worm hole inside the black hole to time travel is a known theory Worm hole is so sensitive that even the tiniest speck could shut down its entrance In order to prevent that, we need 'negative energy', and we developed a technology to transform it from regular energy Using core energy, a bad deal, as you say, to sustain the worm hole Your wife died 2 years ago Died of cancer Is your time travel research related to her death? To get the cure from the future perhaps? Cancer is probably cured in the future And stem cell technology may be perfected too Allow me to take you there, where such technology exists Walk proudly on your feet Time travel... is possible Produced by LEE Woo-jung LEE Jung-suk, CHOI Yoonho Directed by KIM Hyun-seok Mr. President wants the time machine to be called 'Trotsky' Things would've been different for Russia, if Trotsky came into power instead of Stalin 3 years later I have seen the future! Remember all those pop girl bands? Girls' Generation, Miss A, Suji... I've seen the future I know I can never be with them Yuna got married last year Before I can soak it in, Suji got engaged Suji, please be happy! You're so right about that, Doc My accuracy haunts me I hate artificial UV rays, I want to feel the real sun That's the natural light It amplifies concentrated light from the surface Don't belittle me 'cos I don't have Ph. D Know why I didn't get it? Because my name is Doc If I had it, I'd be Doc Doc! Imagine the repercussion! Maybe I should get it... I wonder why they built this underwater Because nuclear fusion requires cooling system So they just built it in the water Russian way of thinking If we didn't have this, there'd be no Trotsky project And we wouldn't be together That's one way to look at it There's no 4th string I requested classic guitar string, but they sent acoustic one It's Christmas Now that I think about it, we've been together for 7 years It was Christmas then too Been that long? I remember crashing a KAIST University party That night, you dropped to the ground and cried You took advantage of a crying girl I wonder if there are anymore bawling girls HQ wants full evac in 2 days Come on... They can't wait another month? They waited 3 years I barely managed to get you the extension But couldn't stop the Russia staff from leaving And the contract renewal? Well, I have to talk to the HQ further, but not likely... We succeeded, almost! You call traveling only 1 day in the future a success? The Wrights' first flight was only 36.5m! And first radio wave was through a wall! This is only the tip of the iceberg And we accomplished all this in 3 years In the end, those are just simulation data So... What are you doing? Consulting a friend... about our simulation data, what's up? You have a friend? So immature What'll happen to us now? Evac crew will arrive in 2 days So is it a vacation or a full withdraw? Whatever it is... think of it as HQ's treat to let you spend Christmas on the surface Einstein said once, "I understand the world, but not why it is the way it is" I don't understand you fully, but I trust you Let's do a test run tomorrow Then have a vacation with fuzzy feeling of success After the Russians left last month, core energy was neglected There's no telling whether it'll work properly Moon's taking care of it It's still dangerous Humans will be in it We're not sending a monkey into the orbit This is the only way to renew the contract - Then I'll take Young-eun's place - Of course you can't! Coca-Cola CEO and SVP never fly together You'll time travel to tomorrow for 15 minutes? Core energy can sustain the worm hole only for 15 I'll write it up upon return and then evacuate How can you verify that you were in the future? How about bringing back CCTV feeds? I don't think it's an ethical method, but you decide what we should do Then take a hatched mayfly, and take it to tomorrow Okay, it's settled So long since I last went up You had a surface assignment last month Sure, but it was an overnight in Vladivostok What shall we do on our vacation? Come with me somewhere Where? Curiosity killed the cat Will it succeed? You can see the future, Doc I only see my future For example, we'll never ever become good friends Dad! Why does a sock always Disappear in the washer? Well, you see... There's a black hole in the washer The time machine I'm trying to make, uses the same principle Understand? Or not? It's the renewal contract with the president's signature When you leave, I'll put it in your cabinet, and let it open in 24 hours Go to tomorrow and sign it, and then come back Kill 2 birds with 1 stone Better than the mayfly method May God be with you X-Men? It's the uniform Texture's nice Come on You got 15 minutes Take care of the lab Don't worry, even if it fails, I'll send Young-eun back Stop saying nonsense If she comes back, it means it worked Think about that Anyway, I trust you You got 15 minutes Do not go over You'll need this more than me Why did he give a cross to a Buddhist? I saw dad in my dreams The basis of this research was from him The lost sock in the washer theory? Still believe that he's in the future? Main hall roof closed Tomorrow's waiting Trotsky anti-gravity shield activated! Artificial blackhole formed Negative energy detected Worm hole stabilized Got an e-mail from Dr. Jung! From the future? It's a scheduled e-mail That's what I thought I got it too Young-eun, you okay? Did it work? Yes Let's go! By the time you see this, I should be in the future When you decided to leave med school for physics, your mom scolded me over the phone Bad influence or something Anyway, you were my private student, but you felt like my teacher at times That didn't come out right Without your research, we wouldn't be here Enjoy your 1st vacation in 3 years with Young-eun Merry Christmas! And to you too! He's never sent me an e-mail, but he sent a greetings card? I can't get used to this He must've felt so nervous before the test run Let's all write him back! Smile now! Doc, smile! Good, one, two! Okay! Have a safe trip back! This was taken after we left The power's off Main power stays on even during vacation What was that? Was that core energy room? Set the return program, I'll get the contract 3 minutes passed, hurry up! Warning: Resilience over limit Replace TTC Trans Who was that? I gotta swap the TCC Trans Where's the contract? That's not important right now What happened to the lab? I don't know I don't know CCTV... I'll copy the CCTV files Board the Trotsky! Yes Mr. Jo Downloading 100% Complete Young-eun! No! Young-eun! Manual override failed Young-eun! Young-eun! Young-eun! Blackhole energy is detected Are they back? Boss! Where's Young-eun? So she's stuck in the future? What do we do now? Gotta bring her back 2 full days to recharge core energy Wait, we're talking about just 1 day in the future If we wait 24 hours... Yeah, it'll be tomorrow And Young-eun? - Should be there? - My head hurts The lab will be empty, she'll be fine Don't sound like it's someone else's business The president is ready to hear the good news! Due to core energy recharge issue, the test run was aborted What happened, Mr. Jo? I just received the report too We're looking into it What about the evac crew? Please have them on standby until we're ready That's a shame I'll report to the president What are you doing?! So the lab won't be empty? The vacation's just cancelled So we'll be in the lab tomorrow That's not right No one's in there Sensor calibration must be off F parameter of Fc is normal Let's see 2 people? I'm alone here It's 1 again Young-eun... - Young-eun! - Young-eun! She was in the TCC Her body temperature is low Because she passed the worm hole like that What happened? Did something happen? What the hell happened?! Someone tried to kill me Tried to kill you? Who? I don't know, the lights were out I think the lab will explode Pressure walls crack due to explosion... If it's near the core energy, will it affect the power? Power's not the problem Oxygen... How long can we stay in the safe room? 10 people can last 48 hours I doubt it'll come to that Idiot, he saw the future! Dr. Jung, shouldn't we evacuate? What about 'Trotsky'? You said it'll all burn! Let's not overreact It hasn't happened yet Boss, this is our future! We can change it It's not up to you to decide for us all CCTV files? Unethical my ass We gotta know what happened to the lab to prevent it So this contains what'll happen in the next 24 hours? We need to find the source of the explosion What's with the music? That's weird This is LP Virus What? Young-eun made a mutating virus for sensitive files It morphs images into sounds, it's impossible to hack But why's it here? So someone infected the CCTV files The cams are connected to the main system... Hence, the main system is infected? There's no problem so far By whom? Why? This one's okay The virus didn't reach it? Pull it up on the screen Time of the fire? It's around... 5 a. M... Where... is that? Can't tell It's filled with smoke There's one more! It really will explode That's all? 90% of 936 files are infected Other files are affected by random errors Those 2 were the only ones we can see But we did get the explosion time Tomorrow 11 a.m. That's enough to prevent it Recover the files first, got the vaccine? It should be on Young-eun's PC, we need her password though Impossible That PC has AC2 security measures You know, it's impossible to hack Then figure it out, make it work! Sook, can you do it? If I have the security algorithm... but I'm not an expert... 1 day is hardly enough Young-eun had be able to hack the security We can try when she wakes up If she wakes up, she can unlock her PC Right... What is it? It's world's first MP3 player from 1997 Bought it off eBay, you love stuff like that It contains LP Virus, but if you listen to the music, it'll sound like old LPs People will die and lab'll explode? You're betting everything on recovery of those files We have to try So you'll avoid direct orders from HQ? It's breach of our contract Didn't you breach it too? We know what Mr. Jo was doing for you, he was too incompetent to send any vital data Also... contract renewal was never part of the plan, right? I saw the contract in the future, it was an agreement of some sort I think you're gravely mistaken The energy base and lab are all company's resource Conduct full evac right away! Sook, send all research data to HQ Moon, log out of energy system Don't move! Once we transfer the data, all our work goes to waste Since I represent the company, I have the full authority What? Mr. Jo's right Ji-wan! Don'tjust think for yourself, but include us too I know, eh? I've never thought of this project as my own! - Boss! - Dr. Jung Okay, let's have a vote then That's... As he said, this project belongs to us all - Evac for me - Mr. Doc My life comes first Doc, wise choice I agree, another vote for evac We got the upper hand Shall we prep for evac? No, I can't give it up - Goong Sook! - It's 'Sook' I got fond memories here, I want to finish it I don't believe it We can recover the files We'll find the source That's 3 to 2, our favor Of course not, my evac vote is a given Only my team's votes count He has the right to have a voice here - Thanks, Doc - Don't push it - Young-eun! - Right! An absentee vote Well... Since she's Dr. Yoo's lover, he should cast another vote That's nonsense! No, let him Boss! You know Young-eun the best, so vote in her shoes You're making a huge mistake Hey! Call the evac crew! If you wanna die, leave me out of it! When was the fire again? Around 5 a.m. But the fire started some time before Let's say it started at 4:30, if we can't recover the files by then, we'll go to the safe room and request evac team Objections? Okay I'm getting my Ph. D Someone will burn to death at 5, and the lab will explode at 11 10 hours till the explosion, and all we can do is... find the passcode? Moon and Doc are searching for potential explosion sources Better luck finding a needle in a haystack Thanks, for siding with me Young-eun sided with you What are you doing? Go to the smoke booth Come on... What if this is the source of the explosion?! I don't know what's in those videos, but what we can't see is not a confirmed future And what we saw is set in stone? I'll follow your lead until 4:30 Do whatever you can to find the source But if the time runs out, I'll do it my way Yeah, go ahead Sector C is no problem Airlock area no problem Get off my back If the shock absorption is the problem, the lab'd be destroyed, when Trotsky took off Sector G clear The time of the fire? 5... in the morning, or so Will you still love me, tomorrow? I'll find out... when I get there Did something go wrong? This sector could be it This wasn't maintained after the Russians left Sook, go to your room Don't come out for anything, okay? The fire was in a big space so it's not your room I feel the safest when I'm with you Could this be it? It's a bit corroded... Are you okay? Can you get up? I'm fine I'll do it AC2 Security System Activated Why are you here? To wake Young-eun up? It's past 4:30 Move I'm sorry, Young-eun Young-eun, wake up! - Let go of me! - Are you mad?! She's our only hope Or we can just evacuate - What about Trotsky? - We'll build it again It's our last chance! Our lives come first! Do you even care about this project? You must've joined our team to stay with her Even if this project succeeds, you can never travel to the past She and I traveled to the future and came back You're just back to the starting point! Like an elastic that returns to its original form! The past is outside the boundary of event horizon You can never go back You know that Just don't want to admit it You got it? Sook! Sook! Moon! Where's the virus vaccine? LP Virus - She just woke up! - Let go! Young-eun, the lab will explode, we need to recover the files Where's the vaccine? There isn't one I never made the vaccine What? Who makes the virus and vaccine together? Then do something Only you can recover the files, get up Stop! - Get up - Woo-suk! I had too much canned food I requested evac team They won't be easy to handle Sook Sook! Moon Hurry! Moon's in there! He's inside! Moon! Moon! - Moon! - Boss! Moon! - I'm over here! - It's not working! Dammit! Who had emergency training? Since the Russians are gone, Moon's the best we got But he's the one in danger Isn't there a cargo elevator back there? Not for a while What are you doing? I'll lower this from up there How will you reach him? No, the pipes won't hold! Then what can we do?! We can'tjust stand and watch Don't look at me Want me to go up? Sook... No... - No! - It's okay It's too dangerous! Sook! Don't do it! Please! - Sook - Stick to the wall! Oxygen production lab's next to us, remember? Drop the firewall when they arrive Sook! Who lowered the firewall?! Sook! Sook! Moon... Raise the firewall, Mr. Jo! No We'll all die I'll take the responsibility, just raise it! You can't make that call! Raise the wall! Sook! Sook! Please! Backup generator is active It can only supply the command and supercomputer There's no heat, it'll get cold Pressure wall may be damaged Why did you lie? There was a vaccine You can't open the CCTV files Why? They said not to What are you saying? I met someone there Who? The evac team? They tried to kill me, and you believe them? It's someone I have to trust Step aside Now! Don't open it! Woo-suk! Now that... you're gone... the time... will move so slowly... Nov. 15, Vladivostok Medhelp Clinic, 4 weeks! Vaccine program loaded Restoring system Recovering the files may take some time Let's check the ones recovered We just need the source My god... Exactly as it happened... I guess it's supposed to No need to check what already happened It's in the past Why am I wearing a coat? It's now Concentrate from here on Put it on the screen Wait! What's that? Is that blood? Let's stop this We need the source! Look... Look at that We can change it! If we can travel back, when would you go back to? Before Ji-yoon's death? You said, "you can't go back" Hawking's theory could be wrong Event horizon is just a theory We haven't found the source yet Young-eun's on it The sanest person here... is Young-eun Ever wondered why the lab exploded exactly at 11? We're so shell shocked that we overlooked a simple fact Trotsky's arrival! Right? Since it left yesterday at 11, it arrives at 11 Which means... shock absorption should activate, but due to fire, the pressure wall is weak, and Trotsky arrives in that spot Due to black hole's pressure, something gets overloaded Upon Trotsky's arrival, core energy extractor'll explode first There's no way to prevent this Next, sectors B and C will have a chain reaction Let's give up B and focus on C If we do that, we can save research lab and supercomputer Let's start shutting it down Shut it down? It's easier said than done Ever notice the size of the hallway? 4.5m wide, 5.5m high It'll take all day Then what, do we just sit around and wait? Welding is your specialty, please take care of it, I'll help Dr. Jung You're younger than I am, but I respected and trusted you This time, I'm doing it my way Goddammit... They'll lose their minds as time approaches! We can give up at 10:59! Lose your ego! I know you don't care about others That's why those around you are all lonely You know me so well? Dad wouldn't have done this Dr. Suh? He'd have gone farther He was not selfish like you, and was never a nuisance They all leave before I can become one! Woo-suk! This should be safe, right? It's called 'safe room' for a reason So... when does the evac team arrive? Well, they're delayed due to a storm You knew, didn't you? The cargo elevator was removed and a retractable wall was put there No, wait... So why didn't you open the retractable door? It could've saved her life Moon, hear me out I didn't know what it was for, I just signed it The Russian mechanics did that Was it to stop the fire from reaching the supercomputer? Moon, that's not it Moon! It's a shame what happened to Goong Sook... 'Goong Sook'? It's 'Namgoong Sook'! Say it right! Dr. Jung knew about it too! I thought you'd retract it But you didn't! Killing you... won't bring Sook back from death Supercomputer damaged This is more important than Sook's life?! Humans come first! Moon, no! Just leave it No! You feel calm, when there's nothing to lose 11 a.m., lab explodes 5:05 a.m. Fire in ancillary room, Sook dies 8:50 a.m. Supercomputer damaged 9:40 a.m. Mr. Jo... Where did it all go wrong? What if that crazy fuck Jung didn't conceive this time travel idea? Did his wife really die of cancer? I heard it was thyroid cancer Isn't that treatable with radiation therapy? He stole from the president with his bullshit dream And made us... Young-eun... Everyone's crazy At least we're not I kept this file away from the others Let's sedate Dr. Jung That's why those around you are all Ionely! I understand you, but not why You never tried to understand me, and never wondered why! You... only know yourself! You're hurt Let me give you a painkiller I'm fine It's in really bad shape You need first aid to continue to work I'll help from here on Yeah I wish I could just fall asleep If only everything's back to normal when I wake up I proposed to my wife 7 years ago today Why did I cry then? Maybe to seduce you? Anesthetic What happened to us? Surprised? Thought I'd be asleep? I want to sleep, but I can't Doc's trying to escape He'll try to use the mini sub to open the airlock wall, but Trotsky will arrive soon The pressure of the black hole will demolish the lab I don't want my name in the history book, I wanna live a long life Doc! You mustn't open the outer wall I'm sorry I'll use the virus to shut down the main system It'll affect the airlock system too LP VIRUS Infecting... So that's how CCTV files are infected It's all happening accordingly As scheduled Main system error Unable to open outer wall Dammit How do I die? I know you hid some files Is it Ji-wan? I shouldn't have closed it I can't reach the HQ evac team Go to the airlock Doc may try to open it manually No! Let go! Let go! My future... is only death! Let me go! Doc, please come to your senses! Ji-wan, did you see yourself die? I... I saw how I died! It's 11! Young-eun! I saw this coming 11 a. M... Young-eun! Young-eun! No! Young-eun! Young-eun... She... What, did she die or something? I didn't see her die in the CCTV files Don't be so nonchalant! She loved you so much! She has Electra complex She's not sane She believes that her dad's in the future Son of a bitch! Don't talk shit about her! Don't bet everything on love How are you different from Moon then? Shut it! You have no right to say that! Do you know why she fell into depression It's all in the past Right But aren't you trying to correct the past with this? Why don't you put safety net when she jumps to her death? Do you know who she talked to before her death? It was me She didn't have anyone else to talk to Pitiful bastard Why didn't you tell me? Would it change anything? Nothing can change the past We're seeing the proof of that right now! Even if you go back, you can't prevent her death! Why didn't you tell me! You're a killer! Do you know how many of us died for your greed? Die, you fuck! I understand the world, but not why it is the way it is I understand the world, not why it is the way it is I understand the world, not why it is the way it is It's so lonely being with him Ji-wan Yes, Ji-wan I understand you, but not why Ji-yoon... our team, you killed them all Because you never think of anyone else! Who was that? If we're here... did something go wrong? You'll be confused when you go back But remember one thing Do not open the CCTV files Or it'll start a chaos Hurry! Young-eun... She's alive... I saw her Find her and get to the airlock Get up, let's go together This is the end for me Don't be so feeble You can't change the future We can I'm sorry Another Woo-suk is somewhere in the lab We gotta stop him from going back Or this tragedy will continue in a loop Downloading 100% Complete Dr. Jung! Young-eun! No! Young-eun! Young-eun! Young-eun... Young-eun! Young-eun! No! There's nothing we can change now We must survive this! How do we open the outer wall? There's one last explosion It's up to our fate Now! Young-eun! This is my protege Hi hi Other profs wouldn't take him, so I did Keep this to yourself, your dad is neither dead or missing He developed a time machine and went to the future Don't worry Jesus! Tada! Official Letter of Admission Excuse me! Where's the Natural Science? Natural Science Excuse me, this is KAIST, right?! Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas! Hello again You don't even go to our school I saw dad in my dreams Still believe that your dad's in the future? I never once believed that He got caught embezzling the funding, and jumped off the bridge I may've believed you if I was in grade school But I was in middle school See you tomorrow Tomorrow Yeah See you tomorrow 1 month later The string broke again Dammit The mood was getting there When we... Yeah? Escaped in the mini sub... How did the outer wall open? I assumed the final explosion collapsed the wall Do you really think that? Did Woo-suk... change the future?
