 

                        Jingle bells, jingle bells  EMMA: I fell in love with dogs when I was 11 years old. It was in a town where there were no dogs allowed. There was no one to love them, and they had no place to go. (CHUCKLES) But Mikey Stevens and I loved them all. We had to transform a whole town, touch their hearts, and change their minds about the dogs. So we put on a show. A great, big, wonderful show with kids and dogs and Christmas miracles. We called it The 12 Dogs of Christmas. For this Christmas day, I wish, I hope, I pray A puppy's under the tree Waiting there for me The best gift of all, From dear old Santa Claus All I want for Christmas Is some puppy love Puppy love, puppy love Oh, Santa Santa, Santa A soft little bundle of cuddly fur Hugs me and kisses me everywhere One puppy smile can melt my heart A new best friend, we will never part Loving devotion to the end This is puppy love For this Christmas day, I wish, I hope, I pray A puppy's under the tree Waiting there for me...  EMMA: I could never have imagined that six years later, I'd be coming back. All I want for Christmas (nos BARKING) Is some puppy love Puppy love, puppy love Oh, Santa Santa, Santa Bring me puppy love  (TRAIN WHISTLE BLOWING) (DOGS BARKING) Why do you suppose dogs love chasing things? Because they hate to be left behind. Is she a Papillon? Yes, how did you know that? Dogs have been an interesting part of my life. Where you going, honey? Doverville. Doverville? Isn't that the strange little town where no dogs are allowed? (CHUCKLES) It used to be like that, but not anymore. You visiting your family there? Funeral, actually. (TRAIN WHISTLE BLOWING) (PEOPLE MURMURING) Oh! Excuse me, why did the train stop? Freight derailed about 40 miles east. But I have to be in Doverville by 2:00. I don't drive them, darlin', just punch the tickets. (CAR HONKS) Here you are! Are you going to Doverville? Of course I am, honey. I can take you all the way to Mrs. Stevens' funeral. How did... I'm sorry, I don't... Did we meet when I was... No, no, we've never met, but I know who you are. So let's go, you're already late. Get in, get in! Oh! She was a fine woman, your Cathy Stevens. You knew her well? She was like a mother to me. Thank you for the ride. Give me your hand. You're gonna need a place to stay. (CAR DOOR CLOSING) Thank you. Mmm-hmm. Mikey? I'm so sorry, I tried to make it here on time and then... Emma? (SIGHS) I am so sorry about your mom. (SNIFFLING) (GRUNTS SOFTLY) I am so sorry about your mother, son. If there's anything I can do, anything at all. That's very nice of you I'm sure he's just... Thank you. Yeah. He seemed nice. Mikey, if there is anything I can do, you just let me know, okay? How are the dogs? They'd love to see you. MIKE: We're here. (nos BARKING) Nessie, Nessie! Come here, come here! Good. This is Nessie. Hi, how are you? Hi, Nessie. Nice to meet you. (LAUGHING) Here we are, come on in. Oh. my gosh. Hi! Oh. my gosh! Hi! Okay, names? This one is Jack, there's a million of them. This one is Badger, Dagwood, Flapper, Nibbles. There's a bunch of puppies, too, Angel, Harpo, Jake, Lucky. There's Pepper, there's Napolean. I just want to hold you! You are so cute, yes, thank you for the kiss. You sure like basketball. I love basketball. Hi. Hi, Sweet Pea. They were going to put her down. She broke her leg. If it was lost, abandoned, wounded, hungry she just couldn't say no. You know my mom. Knew my mom. So what are you going to do, Mikey? Finish what she started. (WHISPERING) Tucker. Tucker. Hey. And what about college? Becoming a veterinarian? This was her whole life. Hey. Happy. Happy- (CLICKS TONGUE) Your mom was great, Mikey, but this was her life, her dream, not... My friends call me Mike now, Mike or Michael. Okay, Michael, you need to start thinking about your life now, and your dreams. What would your mom want? Find them a home. Someone to love them like she did. Stay here. I don't believe that. There was nothing more important to her than her dogs. Except for one thing, Mikey. You. MIKE: You sure this is it? EMMA: It's the address she wrote on my hand. What time does your train leave tomorrow? I'll come and say goodbye. Okay, I'd like that. ZOE: You're later than I expected. How did you know I'd really come? (PLAYING SOFT MELODY) (PLAYING DREAMY MELODY) I'm clairvoyant. I have extrasensory perception. A sixth sense. Psychic powers. And it's a constant headache! So, you can see the future? Can you keep a secret? I can't stop it. I end up knowing something about everybody. And I don't know how to control it. So, you could tell me what Mikey Stevens was going to do? I mean like, stay here or go to college? (EXHALES) Huh. I'm still getting the hang of things, so I experiment a lot. But Mikey Stevens? I got nothing! Give me just a minute. And don't touch anything. Bing Crosby? (CHUCKLES) Hey! Sorry. I said don't touch! Didn't your mother teach you manners? My mother died when I was 10. Oh. I'm sorry, kid. Psychic powers are horribly confusing. Between the dreams and the bones, and the cards and that thing, which clearly never works... So you pretend. No, not exactly It just requires. You're an actress! And singer. So, this is just a performance? None of this is real? Not even... No. No, no, no, actually some of it is honest-to-goodness. Like the reading of the palms? I never miss. Oh. Oh! Uh... Your linea vitalis converges with the Ring of Venus. My linea what? It's the line of your heart. I have never seen that. Oh, my, my, my- What? Never mind. I'm only an actress. Come on, what does it say? I'm actually not sure it's good for you to know. Please tell me? There will be a romance in your life. Romance? When? Oh! Is Mikey... (CHUCKLES) My, oh, my- (SIGHS) BURCHESS: She left everything to you, of course. Your mother and I never got along, she didn't trust the bank. Unfortunately, when she bought the Wilson farm for all those dogs of hers, she assumed a great deal of debt, which is also now yours. I'll figure it out. And these were returned. Undeliverable. Emma! Oh, my gosh. What time is it? Ten minutes till 10:00. Well, goodbye and thank you for everything. It's not goodbye. I'll see you soon, kid. Okay, I'd like that. (HONKING) (TALKING INDISTINCTLY) (SIREN WAILING) (TRAIN WHISTLE BLOWING) All aboard. Train's movin', darlin'. (CHUCKLES) (MIKE SCREAMS) (PEOPLE GASPING) (PANTING) Mikey! Mikey! Mikey, are you okay? Mikey! (NESSIE BARKING) (FUEL TRICKLING) Mikey! Mikey, we gotta go, come on, Mikey! (SIREN WAILING) (NESSIE BARKING) Come on, Mikey, come on! Mikey, don't do this, please wake up. (OFFICERS TALKING INDISTINCTLY) Ready? One, two, three, lift. EMMA: Is he going to be okay? It's too early to tell. He's in critical condition and we won't know more until the doctor gets here tomorrow. Well, can I at least see him? I'm sorry, no. It's going to be okay, Emma I'm sure Mike's going to be just fine. Let me drive you home, come on. (BARKING GENTLY) (VEHICLE APPROACHES) (BARKING) Nessie, shh. (VEHICLE DOOR CLOSING) (DOGS BARKING) (MAN TALKING INDISTINCTLY) You see, this whole thing will be one big dog racing park. And I'll tell you something, the big money's right there. Right there? (CHUCKLES) You're a genius, Mr. James. No, no. You're a big part of this now. Yeah? Yeah. Loyalty is the most important virtue, don't you think? Yes, sir. Absolutely. Good, good. And my dogs, they always win. Oh, yeah. This is one I like to call "Picking the winner." (BOTH LAUGHING) So, what you want to do with the rest of these mongrels we got no use for? Well, I'm gonna leave that up to you. It's such a shame his mother dies, now this. All those dogs and no one to take care of them! This is Michael's room. Okay, thank you. Nessie? Nessie? She's fine. I want to see her. She's okay, Mikey. What are you doing in here? He spoke to me. Does that mean he's going to be okay? Really, you can't be in here. Come on. But... Well, is he going to be okay? His back's broken. His legs are paralyzed. Paralyzed? Yes. Yes, whoever pulled him from the truck probably crippled him for life! (SIGHS IN DISBELIEF) (BREATHING HEAVILY) (SNIFFLING) You can't sell the Stevens' farm to Finneas James! Who are you? I'm a friend of Mrs... Of Mikey Stevens. My name is Emma O'Connor, and... (STUTTERS) The business of this bank is no business of yours, young lady. Aren't you worried about what he'll do to the dogs? The dogs, yes, yes, good day! He's going to kill them. Did you have a dog, Mr. Burchess? When you were a boy? What was his name? Ragtag- And what if it was Ragtag that they were going to kill? Finneas James is not going to put any dogs to sleep. It's not sleep, Mr. Burchess. It's dead! Well, do you want to pay the delinquent mortgage? How much is it? Two thousand, three hundred and seventy-four dollars, as of today. By Christmas? What can you possibly do by Christmas? Whatever it takes to save Ragtag. Look, please. What are you doing? I am begging Yo" Get up! Get up! Get up! Thank you, Mr. Burchess. (EXCLAIMS) By Christmas! We won't let you down. Thank you so much. Miss? Miss O'Connor! (WHISPERING) Go. Go. Okay, come on, let's go. Good girl, get him. Come on, wake him up. Nessie. Hey, good girl. Hey, Nessie. Hey! Of course I remember you. The girl with the golden voice who thought she couldn't sing. Hi, Mrs. Clancey. It's really nice to see you. Hi, sweetie. (HESITANTLY) Emma? Emma O'Connor. It is you! Oh. my gosh, hi! I missed you so much. What are you doing here? Mrs. Stevens' funeral. Right. So how long are you staying? You're staying to take care of the dogs, aren't you? Yes, but just until... It is so good to see you. I know, I've missed you! Why don't you show Emma around and I'll call your school and let them know you're here. Welcome home. Thank you. (WHISTLE BLOWING) (WHISTLE BLOWING) All right, guys, play some ball out there. Play some defense. Look for the opening. Look for the pass. Look for the pass! Look for the pass! Come on, Walker! All right, let's try it again from the top. Ready, here we go. (WHISTLE BLOWS) Look for the pass, gentlemen, look for the pass. Good one. All right, Connor. Walker, Walker! (BOYS CONGRATULATING) (CHUCKLES) Really? Slow down, kitten. He's a total crumb. What? What? Come on. Really? Thank you so much, I really appreciate it. (DOGS BARKING) Quarantined? MAN: Whoa, whoa, whoa. That's not a good idea It's just not safe. What are you talking about? Did you put these up? The dogs are infected. Dangerous. Deadly. My friends down at the bank, they told me you knew Mrs. Stevens. Even lived here for a time. You see, Mrs. Stevens and I, we were special friends, you might say. Until she wouldn't sell you her farm? Is that what Mike told you? I know people who know things. Well, what people don't know is how she died. She was killed by a rabid dog. Rabies is a terrible thing. No. I don't believe you. Give me that. Let her go, let her go, let her go. (DOGS BARKING) (SIGHS) Hi, Tucker boy, want some food? There you go. You want some, too? There you go. Come here. (GRUNTING) I just want to talk to you for a minute. Look, I understand how hard it must be for you to imagine her being killed by one of her own dogs. How terribly upsetting that must be for you. Particularly after what you did to Mikey. Why don't you go back to wherever you came from and you let me take care of Mikey Stevens? I think I'd like to pay for his college. You would do that? Well, I think he'd make a fine veterinarian. Don't you? How do you know about that? Knowing what people want, that's the secret to success, isn't it? But what about the dogs? I love dogs. (BARKING FURIOUSLY) (FINNEAS CHUCKLES) He's probably in a bad mood or something. Yeah. You promise the dogs will be okay? You have my word. (DOOR CLOSES) No! EMMA: Would you at least think about it? No! Finneas James will pay for you to go to college to become a veterinarian! Well, that's all aces then, isn't it? It's what you've always wanted. Yeah, but what I don't want is money from a guy who is going to kill 50 dogs so that I can go to veterinarian school to learn how to keep dogs from dying. (SIGHS) What are we going to do? Another show. What? The 12 Dogs of Christmas. The big show we did as kids. It's a legend in this town We'll just do it again. Only this time we'll sell tickets! They are definitely giving you too much morphine. Every time it rains It rains pennies from heaven  Do you think it's possible? (WHISPERING) To rain pennies from heaven? No! A big Christmas show. Raise money and help Mikey save the dog orphanage. He should just let Finneas James have it and go back to school. Well, that's what I said, but... This is the best part. If you want the things you love You must have showers So, when you hear it thunder Don't run under a tree There'll be pennies from heaven For you and me  Big dreams, right? But if you never try, you wonder your whole life. It's true. Hey. MIRANDA: Hey, Connor. Don't you just love Bing Crosby? You're joking, right? We thought it was a Tarzan movie. So who's your good-lookin' friend? Emma. Hi, Emma. I'm Connor. This is Muggs, and that's Walker. WALKER: Hey there. I saw you at school. Yeah, yeah, I saw you, too. Sorry about these guys. Here. Thank you, that's very nice. I'm a prince. What can I say? You can breathe now, Emma. It's okay. Excuse me. Can I ask you a question, Dr. Splinter? The sign says "Private property." I assume you can read. Sir, I just want to ask you a question. Well, it's my day off, so if you're not bleeding I think it can wait until tomorrow. Did Mrs. Stevens really die from rabies? Her son, Mikey, says that that isn't true. Well, Mrs. Stevens was bitten by those dogs of hers lots of times. Yes, but she would have known if one of them was sick. Well, the rabies virus can incubate for months, even years sometimes. She was bitten by a rabid dog, and that's the end of it. Why aren't you in school? Because I want to know what's really going on. The quarantine speaks for itself. No, it doesn't. Not if it's only there so that Finneas James can steal the Stevens' farm! (LAUGHING) I'm not even going to dignify that ridiculous accusation. Well, is that because you're not telling me the truth? Now you listen to me, young lady. When you grow up a little bit, you'll understand that there's more to every situation than what meets the eye. And you wouldn't be so angry if you would just tell the truth and get it off your chest! We've doubled the dosage, but it's affecting his bones. FINNEAS: Listen to me, I don't care about his bones, all I care about is how fast he can run. Yes, sir, Mr. James. Mr. James... Couldn't get her out. TEACHER: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. One, two, three, four and up! Guys, as promised, the famous Emma O'Connor. Oh! Hardly famous. Hi, guys, I'm Emma. You don't remember us? I told you she wouldn't. And a poodle in a dog house  (GIRLS LAUGHING) Oh. my gosh! Hi! It's you! Oh. my gosh! Hi. I didn't live here then but Miranda said you're doing it again. We are so excited. We have to show her that little dance number we put together today. Yeah, we should. Wait, where's McKinley? She's supposed to be here and... This is rehearsal, I mean, she has to be here. I could play for you if you'd like. Okay, but who are you? This is Zoe. The Zoe. The Zoe that knows Bing Crosby? Okay, come on, you guys, you ready? (PLAYING UPBEA CHRISTMAS MELODY) (GIRLS GASPING) The 12 Dogs of Christmas, the musical! Broadway comes to Doverville! And the show we did as little kids is a long, long way from Broadway. Yeah, but your show's famous. And I want to be famous and Mikey has all those dogs. Hammers and nails and puppy dog tails. You're going to need some boys. (ALL TALKING EXCITEDLY) (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC PLAYING) GIRL: Glide and use your legs. Okay, I'm ready. Whoo! Are you trying to kill me? I'm sorry. I'm not very good at this, if you haven't noticed. Yeah, you just need to listen to the music. Well, do you like music? Yeah. Some. Well, do you like to dance? Are you trying to ask me to the Christmas dance or something? No! No! Good heavens, no. Good heavens, no. No. Easy. (LAUGHING) Are you guys Okay? Yes. Have you asked him? Asked me what? Okay, well, we're doing a show to raise money to help save Mikey Stevens' farm. And we need some boys, really bad. The 12 Dogs of Christmas thing? Yeah, I heard about it. Yeah, but it's not the same. It's way bigger and... And much better if you guys could help. Okay, well, what's in it for us? Well, what do you want? Win our game on Friday! Yeah, and how's she gonna do that, lunkhead? I don't know. I have an idea. ANNOUNCER: Bulldogs down by 12, 4th quarter. Five minutes to go on the clock. COACH: Keep an eye on those guys. What's that? What was that? VISITING COACH: Just bring it on home. There we go. ANNOUNCER: Another two for the Lewiston Leopards. Bulldogs in trouble. You're killing me out here, you're killing me! Winner here today goes on to the semi-finals for the State Championship. Excuse me. Hey. Do you think you can do this for me? Yeah, okay. (GROANING) Time out. Time out, Bulldogs. Now, come on, guys! Come on. All right, guys, get in here, get over here. Now, come on, guys, you're not... What are you looking at? (DRUM BEATING) (ANNOUNCER EXCLAIMS) Looks like the Bulldogs have some new... Are those cheerleaders? Give me a D-O-V-E-R-V-I-L-L-E Doverville Bulldogs, go, fight, win!  (BRASS BAND PLAYING) (WHISTLE BLOWING) Let's go out there and play some ball. ALL: Bulldogs! I'm watching you. (CHEERLEADERS CHANTING) Take that ball down the court, shoot that ball and raise the score. Looks like a different team out there! Not much time left. Steal by the Bulldogs! (CHANTING) Take that ball down the court, shoot that ball and raise the score. Bulldogs, Bulldogs, go, Bulldogs! Go, Bulldogs! Another Bulldogs score. Time out, time out! Time out, Leopards. Final time out. There's got to be something in that little book of yours... What's going on? (ARGUING) Two minutes remaining. (ARGUING INDISTINCTLY) I got nothing. Oh! Come on! Whatever coach Marty was mad about, the refs rule No violation. (WHISTLE BLOWS) (CHANTING) (FANS CHEERING) Bulldogs on fire! Two more for the Bulldogs, closing the gap. Less than a minute to go, Bulldogs are down by one. Bulldogs! Bulldogs! Bulldogs! And the Bulldogs win it at the whistle! Unbelievable! Bulldogs advance to the semi-finals. We could just be looking at the new State Champions. What a game. Hey. What's with the cold fish? That was great! One more game, one more game like tonight and we go straight to the championship. You girls have got to be there. They never play this good! Everything's negotiable. Name it. We kinda need a little favor. Okay. Okay? Really? Okay, yeah. Okay. It's right there, perfect. (PLAYING UPBEAT MELODY) COACH: Come on, guys. (MUSIC STOPS) Come on, come on, come on. Where are you taking us? (GIRLS TALKING EXCITEDLY) The 12 Dogs of Doverville. As promised. Hi, guys! (EXCLAIMS) Seriously, Coach, thank you so much! This is going to be great. Are you guys so ready to dance? Are you excited? Dancing? That's our special training? Does wonders for coordination. Wait, you didn't tell them that they were dancing? Does wonders for winning games! Come on, Coach. Dancing is sissy stuff. Dancing, dancing is how we won the game last night. Yeah, and it's not that kind of dancing. Let's go, guys. Come on, try it. Girls, don't be shy, come on. Listen, I can win State without the help from a bunch of girls. You can count me out of this wingding. Do you ever think of anyone but yourself? Mikey Stevens and his dogs aren't my problem. Do you really think we can do this? Yes. Hundred percent. Really? I mean, we have to ask, of course, but it's perfect. Let's go! Let's go! Come on. I'll need to see a copy of the script, meet your producer, and, of course, there's a substantial deposit. When is your show? Christmas Eve. And how much is "substantial"? Christmas Eve! I've gotta get permission from the owner. Do you know who this is? Emma O'Connor! The 12 Dogs of Christmas? The show she did that changed... ...the whole town. It's perfect. Come on. Well, it's a benefit to help save the dogs. Dogs? Yeah. Your show has dogs? Well, it's The 12 Dogs of Christmas. So, yeah, I mean, of course. Dogs on my stage? That's not going to happen. Hello, Edgar. It's so nice to see you again. It's been too long. Gigi? Gigi Star. What in the world... ZOE: I know! You're the Gigi Star? Used to be. It is you! Oh, my gosh. I haven't seen you since... Philadelphia. The Roxie. The Roxie. You were in vaudeville together. Yeah, for one brief shining moment. Yes, I mean she went on to Broadway and became a big star. And here I am in Doverville. Backstage. Well, are you still performing? Mmm-mmm. Not at all? You were so brilliant. People who talk to dummies for a living are a little, you know... No, show the girls! What? ZOE: For me. Please? Excuse me. ZOE: He is, by far, the best I've worked with, and I've worked with a lot of dummies. (GIRLS LAUGHING) Okay. Okay, wake up. It's about time, Edgar. EDGAR: I've been busy. Take a look. (GAS PS) Hello, sweetheart. Hello, Charles. Hey, you mind your manners! So, Zoe, look at you. You look so young and gorgeous. How is that when he got kind of old and ugly? He's not old and ugly at all. In fact, I think he's still quite handsome. And such a marvelous talent! How have you been? Good. You know. I've been okay. Actually, he hasn't felt this good since Philadelphia. Charles! Well, I was hoping you could help the girls with their show. Well, yes, of course, sure... Uh-uh-uh-uh. I'll talk. Sweetheart, for you, he would crawl across broken glass. You are such a dear. That's all you get? I got the whole smackaroo! So, about the dogs? The dogs? Edgar hates dogs. No. No. No! No? No? I love dogs. Yes, yes, yes. Yes, yes, yes. He loves dogs. Thank you. (ALL TALKING EXCITEDLY) Okay, so last time we did the show we had all the dogs come running on the stage and it got a little chaotic. So it's really, really important that we get the dogs to trust you so they feel comfortable with you, you know, like bonding time. Here, this is Belle. Why couldn't it be The 12 Cats of Christmas? Come on down, guys, get acquainted with everybody. Hey, so is Walker coming? We tried to get him to come, but I don't know. No, that was our deal with the coach, though. Walker ain't afraid of no coach. Yeah, not with his old man's influence. MIRANDA: Well, what are we supposed to do? GIRL: Merry Christmas. That was so good! Pretty fun, huh? See you. guys- Hey. Little late, don't you think? No, I didn't come here for that. I came here to not mess things up between you and me. Between you and me? Yeah. You are the most conceited boy I have ever met. Yeah. People think that, but really it's just a confident humility. Australian Shepherds, right? You know dogs? No, not really. I had a Lab when I was seven. Lucy. And then she got run over. I'm sorry. I don't know. After that, things were just... (BARKS) This is Nessie. Hi, Nessie. So this is my competition? Well, what can I say? She's Mikey's dog. So where were we? You were telling me how much you love dogs. Hey. Hey, come on. Come on, what's wrong? We really need to do the show, Walker. And we could really use your help. Well, are we negotiating? It should say, "Starring the Bulldog Basketball Players." People would pay a lot of money to see those clowns try to dance. (SCOFFING) You know, some of those clowns are actually really good. You're not using Walker the wonder boy are you? No. He's not helping us. Yeah. Why would he? You know who he is, right? No. Finneas James' kid. Enemy numero uno is Walker's old man! What? What's up with you and Mr. Perfect, anyway? What's that supposed to mean? It's my legs that don't work, not my brain. You are so dumb! Visiting hours were over an hour ago. Sorry. Okay, guys, watch, and pay really close attention. You ready, Muggs? Okay, ready and up, great. Twist spins to the floor. (ALL EXCLAIMING) Awesome! That's beautiful! And land. All right, let's start from the top and remember it's "For this Christmas Day, I wish, I hope, I pray." Okay? For this Christmas Day I wish, I hope, I pray A puppy's under the tree Waiting there for me  That's pretty good for the first time through. Tell me about this. It seems that they're using my theater. Well, that gypsy woman sweet-talked Edgar. He let them in without my permission. They can't possibly pull it off, can they? Maybe. Are you helping them? No. Maybe you should. You know, I'd like to get you involved. Keep an eye on things. Keep me informed, you know? You want me to spy on them? I can't do that. (LAUGHING) Of course you can, Son. Of course you can. They're my friends. I won't. When I married your mother I promised to take you in and give you the perfect life. And I think I've done that. Well, she's gone now, so I guess you're off the hook. It would be a terrible shame if the most valuable player got cut! Then, as the "Howling Huskies" move into place, Then, as the "Howling Huskies" move into place, you will lead in the children with the nine Chihuahuas. Okay, so let's try something. Miranda, okay, you come help us. Let's try this. Hands around my hips, ready, and up. No, no, no, this is really dumb. This is not going to work without boys. Why are they always so late? ZOE: It's okay. We have all these sweet girls, and we'll come up with something new. Hey. (GIRLS MURMURING) What? Even the most conceited guy you've ever met can change his mind. And does your father know you're here? Well, does your old man know everything you do? Why are you helping us? A prince. Like I said. No strings attached? Okay, Prince. Let's see what you got. WALKER: What? ZOE: Come on. WALKER: No way. Let's see if you can do a lift. (CHUCKLES AWKWARDLY) A lift. Okay, right here, just put your hands on her hips. Hips. Here we go. Now you're going to put her on your shoulder and lift. ZOE: To your shoulders. Okay. Okay. Good luck. Okay! (ALL GASPING) All right, okay, now with some poise. What? Grace and posture. Posture, Emma. Shoulders square. Hey! ZOE: Ready for the drop. Okay. Yes. Lovely. But can he do that in a leotard? Oh, my gosh, how are you? (CLEARS THROAT) MIKE: I'm feeling a lot better. Gonna prove the doctors wrong. I'm so glad you're here. Me, too. So, are we going to make it? MIRANDA: There's some reservations, but unless the theater catches on fire, we should have the money to Mr. Burchess by Christmas Eve. We've already sold over 65 tickets. ZOE: Emma. Emma, wake up. I'm sorry, sweetie, can you wake up? What is it? I don't know, something's wrong. It's the dogs! We've gotta go. Get dressed. The what? Hurry up. We've gotta go! (DOGS BARKING) (GASPING) What? What do you see? It's fire! Oh, no, I see fire! (BARKING) (DOGS BARKING) (DOGS BARKING FRANTICALLY) (COUGHING) Get the dogs! Be careful! I'm going to get the others! Go, go! (TALKING INDISTINCTLY) Go. Okay, go. Come on, we've got to go! Zoe! Help me with the puppies. Oh. the puppies! Are you okay? Okay. (PUPPIES BARKING) (NEIGHING) (SIREN BLARING) (MEN SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY) MAN 1: Grab the ladder. MAN 2: Grab the hose. A little faster. Where are the dogs? We found most of them. They're in the shed with Zoe. You're so sad, cheer up. You are so small. Hey. Hi. How are they? They're all right. I thought you could use some help. Thank you. Your mother was bitten a week before she died. I was treating her for pneumonia. Asper said she had rabies and Mr. James offered to make a gift to the hospital. So I'd like to say that I jumped to conclusions, but it was more than a wrong conclusion. It wasn't the truth. I'm sorry. Young as you are, you're right about one thing. Getting it off my chest feels pretty good. All right, let's get the injured ones into the car. Thank you so much. (DOGS WHIMPERING) Where's Nessie? I don't know. Maybe she went looking for you. Nessie. Nessie. I've got to find her. Mikey, you can't go out there with... Mike, you stay here. We'll go find her. Where could she be? I don't even know where to look. I have an idea. I know you're an actress, but if there is any part of you that can actually see the future, we need to find Mikey's dog. Okay. Did you say your prayers this morning? (SCOFFING) Sweetie, sometimes that's when He hears us best. What do you see? You know about Arachnomancy? "Divination by the web and movement of spiders." I read about it in your book. Okay. (GRUNTING) You okay, Mike? I'll be fine. Are you sure you can do this? Yeah, let's go. She saw the word "mill," that's why. You don't really believe all that junk, do you? We have to start someplace, and she saw the word "mill." How did she know that Hatti's haunt used to be an old grist mill? Zoe just... She just knows things sometimes, and I know it sounds spooky, but I think she's right. Nessie! Nessie! (DISTANT BARKING) Nessie? Nessie. That's Nessie. Okay. You stay here, okay? Nessie? Nessie? (BARKING) Hi! Hi, Nessie! Hi, baby. ASPER: Come on, put her up there. Tie her up. Make sure it's real nice and tight. Come on, Pluto, this isn't right. Court order, Jack! I'm doing my duty to uphold the law. That's what you want me to do, right? Give him to me. ZOE: No, not him. What do you think you're doing? Get your paws off me. You can't take the dogs. Emma, there's nothing we can do. Not right now. He has a court order. Why are you doing this? Rabies! That's why. That's why I imposed a quarantine! You let it go till the symptoms appear, you're already dead. Ain't that right, Doctor? I see no evidence of rabies here. You keep that hypocritic oath of yours and you tell these people the truth. These dogs are perfectly healthy. Yeah? Stay. (BANGING GATE) (BARKING) EMMA: Run, Nessie, run! MIKE: Go, Nessie, go! ASPER: Get back here! CATHY STEVENS: Dear Emma, I am writing because I have a surprise for Mikey's graduation, and I want you to be a part of it. In spite of everything, I have managed to save some money for Mikey to go to college and reach his grand dream of being a veterinarian. The only thing that would make the surprise any better is for you to be here. You are Mikey's best friend, and the daughter I never had. I can send you the money for a train ticket. I don't trust the bank, so I keep Mikey's money close to my heart. All my love, Cathy Stevens. It's gone. Mikey's money, it burned in the fire. You don't know for sure it was there. "Close to my heart"? She loved those dogs. What else could she have meant? What are we gonna tell Mikey? He has to know. He has to know how much his mother loved him. You're right, of course. The question is just when. They canceled our show? Okay, so what happened to "The show must go on," Eddie? The owner of the theater shut us down. He demanded that I cancel. Let me guess. Finneas James owns this theater? Like everything else in this town, apparently. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I understand and I've forgiven you. Have a look here. Finneas James Racing Park. Dog racing? Is that even legal? Well, with the help of a few motivated politicians. We get a pass today, well, that banker just may share a taste of these profits. I gave the young lady until Christmas. FINNEAS: Well, the dogs are missing. And I closed that theater down. You do understand. There is no way I will let this show, this 12 Dogs of Christmas go forward, don't you? Then you've got nothing to worry about, have you? Good. Good man. Hey, Mikey. They locked us out of the theater. Did Officer Jack find out what happened to the dogs? Mikey, I don't see how we're going to be able to make this work. We have to do this. We can't let him beat us. Now, I've no right to ask you to do anything, you've already done so much, but... What are you doing here? (SIGHS) Well, you need my old man's theater. It was wrong of him to kick you guys out. We don't want anything from your father. He's not my father. We don't need anything from you. Your stepfather just happens to be the one trying to steal Mike's farm and shut us down. That's why I came to help. Why? It's personal. Okay. So assuming we really are that desperate. What do you have in mind? Well. Knowing what a man wants is the key to success. That's what your father said about Michael. Yeah. What he really means is knowing a man's weakness is the key to controlling him. Now there is one thing that intimidates Finneas James. Famous people. Now I heard that your friend may know a few. Come on, let's get out of here. Merry Christmas, Merry Christmas Merry Christmas, Merry Christmas Jolly old St. Nicholas, lean your ear this way Please tell every single soul What we're going to say Christmas Eve is coming soon Now, you dear old man Our big show goes on the night Please come if you can  Hi. My name is Emma O'Connor. And in spite of the fire, and having our dogs locked up, and scaring you all with a phony quarantine, The 12 Dogs of Christmas will go on. GIRL: When is it? It's on Christmas Eve. Where's it going to be? The location is... Even more important than when or where is whether a show created by a bunch of kids is worth $2. (CAR HORN HONKING) (CROWD MURMURING EXCITEDLY) So we asked a fellow who knows. MAN: Give me 10 tickets, please! Ladies and gentleman, recording artist, movie star, and the most famous man alive, Bing Crosby. (ALL APPLAUDING) Every time it rains It rains pennies from heaven  I'm in the show and they still make me pay! (PEOPLE LAUGHING) Wonderful to be here. It's an honor to be part of a show that celebrates the magic of Christmas and is dedicated to such a good cause. And a special thanks to one of Doverville's most notable citizens and my good friend, Mr. Finneas James, who has made his fabulous theater available for the performance. Come up here, Finneas. (PEOPLE LAUGHING) Well, if you'd like to audition, or work backstage, you can sign up over here with us, come on. Give me two. I'll take two. Yeah. WOMAN: How nice of you, Mr. James. MAN: Thank you, Mr. James. Thank you very much. Why don't you have a seat there, Thomas? Sorry to make this so unpleasant, but it's time to sign the farm over to me. Just think of it as a Christmas present to your family. You know what I mean? That a boy. Now... Always a pleasure. (SIGHING) Almost. You know, even if you pay it off, there's nothing left. I'll rebuild it. Mikey, but the dogs are gone... I'll get the dogs back. You can't rebuild it, Mikey, you... (SIGHS) I'm sorry, I didn't mean. I just meant... No. That's exactly what you meant. This isn't what your mother wants. You haven't talked to my mom in six years! But I do know exactly what she wants for you. HOW? I didn't know whether to give this to you or not. With the fire and all, but... (SIGHS) Wow. I looked for it, but I couldn't find the money anywhere. Do you think it burned in the fire? I don't know. Well, if she wouldn't keep it in the bank, then where would she keep it? Close to her heart? (READING INDISTINCTLY) ((SIGHS);I-ls) (FAINT WHIMPERING) Hey there, guys, what's going on? Everything okay? Come here. Good boy. What's going on? (MUFFLED BARKING) (DOGS BARKING) Hey, guys. What are you doing down here? What you doing here? I'll get you out of here. Come on. (WHINING) You have made this incredibly awkward for me. How do you explain such blatant disloyalty? How about what's right? Sometimes what's right and what's legal can get a bit tangled. You call burning down a barn full of animals tangled? (STUTTERING) That was unfortunate, but that had nothing to do with me. Pluto Asper does what you... Shut your mouth! You're the one I'm worried about right now. Now we gonna get past that. And my dog racing track gonna be obscenely profitable. Now, you tell me right now where we stand. Where does that leave us, son? We win. We're doing the show. We? We? Now, I want you to be very careful about where you choose to fall on your sword. When was the last time you've ever known me to lose at anything? I want you to sit in there, and you take this time to think about it. You just think about exactly who it is you think you are. And me? Well, I'm going to go see me The 12 Dogs of Christmas. (INDISTINCT TALKING) Hey- Hey- Have you seen Walker? No, no, I actually haven't seen him yet. I think he went to find the dogs. (DOG WHIMPERING) (NESSIE BARKING) Nessie! Nessie! Come here! Nessie, come here, girl! Come here. Good girl. Hi, how are you doing? I'm sure there'll be a Dalmatian. Do you know what a good man your daddy is? How lucky you are he always does the right thing? Yeah. You enjoy the show. Nessie, Nessie, come! Come here, Nessie. Come here. Good girl. Come here. Go find Mikey. Go find Mikey. (HONKING) (AUDIENCE APPLAUDING) (CHEERING) The 12 Dogs of Christmas changed Doverville once. And we hope that it will again. And I'd like to introduce the girl who started it all, and has once again found a way to change our hearts. Miss Emma O'Connor. And now, it is with great pleasure that we present the new and spectacular... (AUDIENCE EXCLAIMING) Nessie, Nessie. The new and spectacular 12 Dogs of Christmas with special guest, Mr. Bing Crosby. The 12 Days of Christmas was published in England over 150 years ago... Nessie, what is it? What is it, girl? How did she get away? Walker's in trouble. Wait, what's up? (AUDIENCE SINGING ALONG) A partridge in a pear tree  I know where he is. You take care of the show, okay, Mikey? This is your show. She still calls you Mikey? I'm sorry. Michael! Michael, Michael, Michael. Wait, I'm coming with you! She can call me Mikey forever. The carols we loved to sing Will last throughout the year 'Cause the season of love is here (APPLAUSE) On the first day of Christmas My true love gave to me A poodle in a doghouse  (AUDIENCE LAUGHING) (BRAKES SQUEALING) CONNOR: Do you even have a license? (PANTING) No! Have you ever driven a car before? Yeah, once before. Oh, joy. (TUBAS PLAYING) (AUDIENCE LAUGHING) On the second day of Christmas My true love gave to me Two Saint Bernards On the third day of Christmas My true love gave to me (BAND PLAYING JAZZ MUSIC) Three Cooker Spaniels One, two, three! Jolly old St. Nicholas lean your ear this way Don't you tell a single soul What I'm going to say Christmas Eve is coming soon Now, you dear old man Whisper what you'll bring to me Tell me if you can  They okay? Hi, Jacks. They're fine. What about you? Yeah. Just get me out of here. (SLOW SWING BEAT) Four Basset Hounds For this Christmas day I wish, I hope, I pray a puppy's under the tree Waiting there for me He kisses me nice His love is my life Santa, won't you bring me Bring me Christmas love Oh, Santa, oh, Santa, oh, Santa, oh, Santa  Oh, hello! What are you doing here? What are we doing here? We're checking out your ventriloquism. We're in the middle of a show! Who are you? He's Santa Claus. I'm not Santa Claus. We're your Christmas presents. Please go away! CHARLES: We want to adopt a dog. These aren't real dogs, theyre just puppets. Really? It doesn't matter. I'm not a real person. Get off the stage! Okay. All right, step back. WALKER: Nice. You hate dancing this much? Oh, very funny. Hold it right there! You're in quarantine. You're not going anywhere. EMMA: Sic'im! (BARKING) (GRUNTING) (MUFFLED GUNSHOT) CONNOR: He shot himself. (LAUGHING) He's tranquilized. You get back to the show. We'll catch up. Okay. On the fifth day of Christmas My true love gave to me Five Golden Retrievers Here we come to get the presents Underneath the tree That's mine, that's mine, that's mine! All the presents here for me Love and peace, come to you And to you glad Christmas too We get nothing for Christmas now 'Cause we've not been so good You must wait till Christmas morning As you should Four... Basset Hounds Three... Cooker Spaniels Two... Saint Bernards And a poodle in a dog house (FUNKY MUSIC PLAYING) On the sixth day of Christmas My true love gave to me Six Boxers boxing (CHANTING) Go, team! Go, Bulldogs! Go, team! Go, Bulldogs! All right, six Bulldogs bouncing My true love gave to me Give it up, give it up, give it up for the dogs (RAPPING) Bounce, bounce, bounce As we pass the ball Shoot the ball, we get around We going to the basket And we making lots of racket So, we bounce, bounce Bounce the ball, pass it and we shoot it And we make a lot of racket We attacking on that basket Deck the hall with Bulldogs bouncing Give it up, give it up Give it up for the dogs Give it up for the dogs Go, team! Go, Bulldogs! Go, team! Go, Bulldogs! (SINGING) Deck the halls with Bulldogs bouncing (RAPPING) On the sixth day of Christmas And all through the house The crowd began stirring And cheering to the bounce, bounce, bounce Go, team! Go, Bulldogs! Go, team! Go, Bulldogs! Feel it, feel it, that Christmas spirit Feel it, feel it, that Christmas spirit (SINGING) 'Tis the season to be jolly Six Bulldogs my true love gave to me And a poodle in a dog house (SLOW MUSIC PLAYING) On the seventh day of Christmas My true love gave to me Seven Huskies howling One, two, three, four, five, six, seven Hark how the bells (HOWLING) Sweet Silver bells (HOWLING) All seem to say Throw cares away Christmas is here Bringing good cheer Merry, merry, Merry Christmas Merry, Merry, Merry Christmas Seven huskies howling Seven huskies howling Seven huskies howling, howling My true love gave... Six bulldogs bouncing My true love gave... Five golden retrievers My true love gave... Four basset hounds My true love gave... Three cooker spaniels My true love gave... Two Saint Bernards And a poodle in a dog house On the eighth day of Christmas my true love gave to me Eight Sheepdogs sleeping  (SHUSHING) (WHISPERING) Quiet. On the ninth day of Christmas My true love gave to me Up on the housetop reindeer paws Out jumps good '0! Santa Claus Down through the chimney with lots of toys AH for the little ones Christmas joys Ho, ho, ho, who wouldn't go? Ho, ho, ho, who wouldn't go? Up on the housetop click, click, click Down through the chimney With good Saint Nick (UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING) On the tenth day of Christmas My true love gave to me Ten Dalmatians dancing Around, around, around the tree (AUDIENCE EXCLAIMING) Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the way Oh, what fun it is to ride In a one horse open... In a one horse open... In a one horse open sleigh Hey, hey, hey On the eleventh day of Christmas My true love gave to me Eleven laughing Labs (CHOIR VOCALIZING) (APPLAUSE) (PIANO PLAYING) On the twelfth day of Christmas My true love gave to me The biggest surprise of all  A cat! Hallelujah! A cat! Hallelujah! A cat! Hallelujah! A cat! Hallelujah! A cat! Hallelujah! A cat! Hallelujah! A cat! Hallelujah! Eleven Labs a-laughing Ten Dalmatians dancing Nine Chihuahuas chomping Eight Sheepdogs sleeping Seven Huskies howling Six Bulldogs bouncing Five Golden Retrievers Four basset hounds, three cooker spaniels Two Saint Bernards And we wish you a Merry Christmas We wish you a Merry Christmas We wish you a Merry Christmas And a poodle in a dog house Joy to the world! Joy to the world! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! We wish you a Merry Christmas We wish you a Merry Christmas (READING) Oh, I will! Good tidings to you with all of our love Good tidings for Christmas And a happy New Year A happy New Year to you We wish you a Merry Christmas We wish you a Merry Christmas We wish you a Merry Christmas And a happy New Year  Merry Christmas! Mr. Burchess? Thank you so much. You've given us the best Christmas present. MIKE: We didn't finish counting, but there's more than enough. Just enough to pay for my theater. Unfortunately not enough to pay for the lawyer to keep you out of jail. It's all right though, certainly no hard feelings. Mr. Burchess here is a man of his word, and it seems that the Stevens' family orphanage for dogs and wayward children gonna be under new ownership, doesn't it? Isn't that right? Make sure that thing doesn't turn my theater into a toilet. The property, this property is mine. That's actually not true. Course it's true, sugar. It was never signed. What are you talking about? Never signed, he signed that right in front of me. Not by Thomas Burchess. A slip of the pen, I'm afraid, Finneas. A slip of the pen. (FINNEAS READING) You signed that "Totally Bogus!" How could you? After everything I've done. (ALL TALKING EXCITEDLY) Alli, oh, my gosh, you were so good! Oh, my gosh, you were so amazing. Oh, my gosh, that ending. Look at the little one you got! You did so great. Thank you! There are some people in Hollywood I want you to meet. Really? Thank you so much. Thank you so much. I don't even... (EXCLAIMS SOFTLY) Did you hear that? See ya. WALKER: Hey, Mike. So when you gonna get out of that thing, man? We need you back Sooner than you think. Saying thank you for everything you've done is a little weak. You don't have to say anything. I am just so thankful that you're okay. (CLEARS THROAT) So, I guess this means we aren't going steady? Merry Christmas, Mike. This is something from your mom that was close to her heart. What? What? How? How did you... EMMA: Christmas for us was a day of miracles. Mikey got the money for college, the dogs all got homes and someone to love them, and we all got the feeling that Mikey's mom was there, and we were close to her heart. I believe in miracles The magic of fairytales I believe that promises don't ever fail When we open our hearts You know dreams prevail I believe, oh, I believe in Christmas I believe the best in fife shared by the best of friends I believe with hard times hope never ends And when given the chance, peace lives within I believe, oh, I believe in Christmas The love that Christmas brings That's what this world needs Give love a chance and see it sets your spirit free But you must believe in miracles The magic of fairy tales Believe that promises, they don't ever fail When we open our hearts, you know dreams prevail I believe Oh, I believe I believe in Christmas In Christmas I believe  Dashing through the snow In a one-horse open sleigh O'er the fields we go We go Laughing all the way Bells on bobtail ring Making spirits bright What fun it is to laugh and sing A sleighing song tonight Oh, jingle bells, jingle bells Jingle all the way O what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh Jingle bells, jingle bells Jingle all the way O what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh A day or two ago I thought I'd take a ride A ride And soon this pretty girl Was sitting by my side Her lips as red as rose So red A twinkle in her eye Her eyes An angel in the snow We rode in to the night Oh, jingle bells, jingle bells Jingle all the way O what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh
