 

                        Jordan is asleep But I'm bored, so let's wake her up and see what happens. - Hey. - Mmm Jordan? Jordan? Hey. - What? - Good morning - Good morning. - Good morning! Hey. - What? - C'mere. Give Daddy a kiss - Seriously?! - Give Daddy-- What? Give Daddy a kiss It's not even on. Give Daddy a kiss Then why is it in the bedroom? Um, you know, it's just-- - Just to add effect? - Yeah, exactly. - Hmm-mm. - Give me a kiss - You in the mood? - No, I'm not in the mood Yeah, I'm really in the mood now, now that you've woken me up. Listen... Hey hey - C'mon. - Are you serious? - Yeah. - Are you for reals right now? Yes. The people need to know C'mon. - Give me a kiss - I don't want to. You'll want to in, like, a second No, I won't! You have bad breath. And do I? I do Last-- oh God Last chance - So your hand doesn't work? - Oh wow. That's-- okay, well Tomorrow is another day Okay Um... ahem. I've been thinking about this a long time and... I don't know. I'm pretty sure that this is-- but I'm just-- I'm really nervous today I think-- I think it's gonna go well Um, this video's for you, Mom, Dad. Mark, Karen, it's your daughter Lovely lovely lady and I just-- This moment's going to change my life, so.. Yeah, let's do it - We did it - Cool. And-- I don't know-- I was really nervous, - and I was really-- - I made a believer out of him I don't know, I-- I can't wait It might sound corny, whatever, but it-- it's true It's like... it's a decision that you make and it's one that makes me really happy So, Mom, Dad, I didn't tell you guys about this, I didn't tell anyone about this, - and-- did you have any idea? - No. - Yeah, I didn't think-- - Surprise! Ba-bam. But you know what? We're young. - We're in love - In love. And I don't see any reason not to, so this is the woman I'm gonna spend the rest of my life with. Show 'em the ring One more time. What the fuck? Hello? Hello? Oh fuck Ah- Fucking Christ, dude - Oh ohh. - Oh, fuck What up? why are you laying down? - Oh, fuck. - What happened? - What's happened to you, man? - Jesus Christ. You're a-- you're an asshole, dude You're a fucking asshole - Oh my God. - You don't mean that You don't mean that. How are you feeling? I-- I'm-- I'm shvitzing. - I'm-- oh my God - Want a beer? - Yes. - You probably want one I probably want one. You probably want one? Here you go - why, dude? - Huh? - Why? - Because it's funny You can't fucking knock like a normal person? How's, um, how's married life treating you? How's the married-- not married yet. - Yeah well. - The engaged life Oh yeah. It's on the way it's not bad, dude. It's the same shit, other than-- you know. I guess there's a-- Win-ifs? mmm The no-- the no-- it's been kicking in It's been three weeks now, not even a nipple. Nothing. It's okay. I still remember-- I have the image in my head - for days when we used to-- - For sure. Yeah well, that's good - Well, cheers to memories - Cheers to those days. And here she is. Jordan! Speak of the devil. Jordalini. - Jordan! - Oh hey, did Jordan and Steph tell you what they were planning? Anything? No, she just told me that they're fucking planning. She didn't talk to you about it either? No, she didn't tell me shit They told me they're planning something It's gonna be a huge huge surprise when they walk in. I keep thinking we should have just downplayed it, because I don't want to be let down when it's the worst plan ever. It's gonna be like a movie It's gonna be a movie. I'm gonna be like, Really? It'll be a date?" And go chocolate tasting. And we were like, "What?" - I don't know about that - Yeah, so-- Jordan! Okay, now she's fucking funny She took a cue from you Let me scare him a little Jordan! Hey, come here for a second, seriously We've gotta talk about this surprise. - That's it - Jordan. Where dis foo'? Jordan? You're really fucking funny - Awwww - Yes. - That's right. - Oh, you guys - Hey! - Okay, I see - One-two combo. - This is cool, this is funny - This is funny. - Hey, Aiden, where's Jordan? I don't want to talk to either of you right now - I had a question - That's a lie. - I'm actually upset - I think you're not. - You're not upset. - Look at me. That's my mad face - Look at me - I'm sorry. Really? So you're gonna have her pop out? - Ohh! - Hey. What-- okay. ls-- is she hiding? - Is she about to pop out too or what? - Are you hiding? I don't know where she is Is she at work? - No Party on Party on Woman versus machine-- woman prevails. Hey, lookit. This is like haunted Hollywood - Okay. All righty - Um... basically it's really all the stories that are haunted the history behind them-- the haunting. Screw the history. We want to know the gore - The gore? - The gore. Okay, what about this site that I found? Look at this. - It has all the addresses - Look at it-- see, a map. We can just go right there "The Sharon Tate house as it has become known for its part in the infamous Manson murder spree, was actually built in 1944 Awesome. it's still-- I mean, that's really close to us - That's really close. - That's right in Beverly Hills Right down the street, okay? So that's one. Should I copy the map onto our webpage? - Yeah. - Uh... oop January of 1947 January 15th Oh my God. January 15th, 1947, a passerby spotted her nude body in a vacant lot near Hollywood. Her body, cut in half, was bruised and beaten Grass had been reportedly been forced into her vagina and she had reportedly been sodomized after death." - That is a cruel Friday night. - "Rumors of henna in her hair and 'B.D.' carved into her body as of yet to this outlet have not been verified. - Henna in her hair? Why? - Oh, that's-- "The restless ghost of TV's Superman George Reeves supposedly haunts the Beverly Hills home where he was found dead of a gunshot wound." - Oooh. - Copy that one Was he a friendly ghost or a not-so-friendly ghost? - Is he like Casper? - I don't know. In a Superman suit? We should go find out All these are so crazy isn't that-- what's his name? --Charles Manson? Isn't that actually-- that's what The Strangers" is based off of, - isn't it? - Yeah, and then Marilyn Monroe-- - we can go to Roosevelt - Type the address there. I feel like the boys are gonna try to get out of this, - but they're not going to - No, it's mandatory. It's mandatory fun They got a fucking- they got a presentation? Yes, they are going to present us with a presentation. - A little pitch? - Yeah. Dude, they worked hard on that shit, dude. All day, dude. She didn't even answer her phone? She was like, "Not now - Oh, shut up, shut up - Hey, we gotta- - hey, chuckle a little bit - Oh... - Little bit - Oh! - There they are, okay - Here we are. All right - So are you ready? - I'm ready. - I'm so ready. - Let's hear the pitch - You were born ready? - Yep. - No doubt - The pitch. - Okay. - Here it goes? Um, well, we are going to take you on a Hollywood haunted tour - Okay. - Basically we want to encompass, like, old Hollywood and what inspired us to bring us out here and look at it today - Yeah. - Like all of the haunted horror stories - or-- yeah. - The grittiness, the realness. Just like all the stuff that doesn't get talked about The Black Dahlia, the Manson cases-- like all those things happened in our backyard, basically. And like the old glamour of Hollywood and everything that happened here before And-- I mean, Marilyn Monroe, and all of these people and places and their stories? WSW Yeah, come on, Daddy, get on board - I-- I mean-- - Daddy? - What are-- - Interesting Okay, we'll begin with number one? The Black Dahlia The Black Dahlia murder, of course? Elizabeth Short was murdered in a park-- well, not murdered in a park, but her body was ditched in a park - "Why so serious? - Her mouth was slit from-- That's fucking gross - --from ear to ear and she - It's my birthday. Yeah. Was found cut in half bruised and beaten. Grass had reportedly been shoved in her vagina. Oh, that's-- then we have to go And then she was sodomized after death. - Wow. - And then there's Dorothy Stratten which is crazy because she was our age or a little younger even. She was the 1980's Playboy" Playmate of the Year-- - Okay - Hey- - And she was shot and killed by her. - Yeah, that's what I'm talking about - ...estranged husband. - Are you guys even listening? - No. - Yes You're just looking at her picture Stop. It's kind of gross if you think about it. It's more about like the stories behind all the places. No no, I'm honoring her. That's why she was a Playmate - I mean I'm honoring her life - That was her job-- This is how she would have wanted me to remember her Ew. Not like that Anyway we want to go to these places 'cause-- - What other houses are there? - Okay, this is... - Name off some beats. - 10881 West Clarkson Road Los Angeles, California, 90064. Oh, 99064. - Beckett. - Seriously? - Sorry sorry. - Okay okay. Yes, I apologize And she apparently, like, haunts the "Playboy" offices, like roses-- you can smell roses when there are no flowers. You can-- - the fax machine will turn on and off - Yeah. And, I don't know. There's all these stories behind them Gimme something fucking gross - Gross gruesome? - Sharon Tate. - Oh shit. - Murdered by Charles Manson - and his followers. - Charles Manson is a fucking mass-- Before she was murdered, she had a vision or an experience where she spotted one ghost who was Paul something-or-other who was a theatrical agent at the house. And when she ran down the stairs to flee from said ghost, she encountered herself at the bottom of the stairs and she was bloodied and had like a rope tied around her neck And coincidentally that is the way she was found murdered. - Coincidentally? - So you're saying we're just going to go to this house-- I mean, do you even know if it exists? - They all exist. - Marilyn's ghost haunts the Roosevelt - Um, there's a cafe on the-- - It's real! - We're in there - There you go --which is now a production company that Thelma Todd's, like, apparation-- - or what is it? --apparition is there - Apparition. - She's so cute. - It's about the realness It's about the greediness and the realness and it's in our backyard and we haven't been taking advantage of it. And now instead of going and paying 70 bucks or 80 bucks a pop - to go to Hollywood Horror Nights - I agree. - It's a good point - Very good point ...so some moron dressed in a Freddy Krueger outfit can push you around. You are quite a pussy Take the camera It's our turn. - It's our turn-- - This is clearly a cheap ploy No, this is our turn to ask the questions here So you presumably-- so you have a list of-- this is a list of houses you have here and we're gonna drive to these places-- George Reeves?! - George Reeves? - Exactly. You guys saying you did this for us? - Yeah. - Well, yeah - We did it as us for a group. - You did spend all day on it You can't lie. We do have some-- You guys planned tomorrow, so we can plan tonight. You know what? We're going to need a moment to compile all the evidence And then hopefully we'll reach a verdict that favors-- that's fucking gross. I mean grass in the vagina, you know? That's a big selling point. The jury's come to a verdict Really? Does the jury care to spit it out? Yeah, um, we've decided upon reviewing all the evidence, that we've-- we'd really like to go - We would really like to go. - Yeah, you guys did an excellent job And you guys are adorable and we can't turn that down The amount of work that went into this-- She's got studs on her sweater - How cute is that? - Under one-- listen - Listen. - Ooooh - Under one-- one condition - One condition? Uh-oh, they have one condition If this is fucking lame, if this sucks... - It's not going to. - ...In exchange we get - Beer! - ...sexual favors. - Sexual favors. - Sexual favors?! Yes. Agree to it now, otherwise we're not going Agree now or we're not doing it That's it. I will throw this right out the window I will burn these with the candles - I will burn them. - Actually that's probably better? Because then it wouldn't pollute You used a lot of paper? - For this, by the way - It would pollute. - It would be air pollution - Yes, I agree. - It's not gonna suck, so-- - Ah, that's why I love you! - Jordan, Jordan. - I'm sorry, you must move? Jordan, Jordan! Do you agree, miss? - Sorry, baby. Sorry, baby - Okay okay, I agree. - Hey, it's on camera - Yeah, I know. Oh, can you put it on camera that Jordan and I are the best convincers ever - and you can't deny us? - You guys are the best convincers ever - So say it in the camera - You can't deny us. Jordan, say it in the camera Steph, say it in the camera "if this sucks--" "if this sucks... repeat after me - If this sucks-- - You. - If this sucks-- - will suck." Say it. I will suck This is called the Wattles Mansion - The Wattles Mansion - What a name. Are you guys ready for the scare of a lifetime? Take next right - I think she is. - At this next location A bus stop once stood in front of the Wattles Mansion, but has since been relocated because people had become spooked at the unexplainable screaming and mysterious noises - that come out of the house - Take next right. "Some people have even reported to hear the sounds of galloping horses - that wisp throughout the night - Aw, ponies. At night the grounds become haunted with the sight of a female apparition." I sort of think I'm gonna like this house Galloping horses? Unexplainable screaming and mysterious noises coming out of this empty house supposedly. Can we go stand where the bus stop once stood - and wait for the noises to appear? - Arrive to destination - in 700 feet. - Wait. Whoa whoa whoa - Are we almost there? - 1324... - No, we're-- was that 13 or 18? - 13... It says "Wattles" right here It said. - Really? - Yeah. Oh, okay, well then - Let's go then. - Wanna go check out Mr. Wattles? It's so cool. We probably aren't allowed in here Well, the gate's open so it's free game. - Think the door's open? - It's pretty-- oooh! - Oh, okay. - Do it. Go try it, go try it Well, I'd try it, but-- let's just try it. It's probably locked. It's probably locked. She's going up. You want to open it with me? Here we go. One sec. Yeah. Wait one sec - You ring the doorbell. - I'm not gonna ring the doorbell - It's locked - It's locked Locked out. Does anybody have a flashlight? Who has the flashlight? Why is the flashlight in the trunk? I don't have the flashlight Okay. - Okay, somebody open it. - Whoever looks inside gets cursed Oh my God, they're gonna get arrested Arrested Oh my God! Dude.Dude What are you even doing? - Oh my God, it's unlocked. - Oh my God, are you shitting me? Just open it. Just open the top Just do it really quick Before somebody fucking realizes Hey, is he gonna do it? It has been an hour. Yeah, just fucking do it. Stop being a pansy-ass bitch Don't-- I swear to God. Did you see that? You're so full of shit - That-- - Oh my God - You're so full of shit - I'm not lying to you. Oh, no, bullshit. You would have just like-- - and it went on forever - It was-- oh my God. It was like a well or something Fuck, that was crazy I'm not-- I don't believe you. I think you're full of shit I swear to God, there was some sort of like sacrificial cross - or something. - I couldn't believe it opened Where-- what's the next house? Where-- what's the next house? Next up on our old Hollywood tour is the Black Dahlia murder site. - Oh shit, look at that - Nice. She was killed in a field, right? Yeah. It says, The murder of Elizabeth Short? Was intrigued and mystified even disgusted the city of Los Angeles for more than half a century She was killed on January 15th, 1947 Actually no, I lied. She was discovered then She was discovered by a passerby-- "spotted her nude body in a vacant lot near Hollywood. Her body, cut in half, was bruised and beaten Grass had been reportedly been forced into her vagina and she had reportedly been sodomized after death." That's her body cut in two pieces. - Oh my God, is that her body? - And he gave her-- - Let me see. - He gave her a perma-smile too He cut her from, like, ear to ear so she's smiling - Let's see - Ugh. "Even in death..." "Some say she was named the Black Dahlia before her murder in January of 1947. Others say the name was applied to journalists-- by journalists who sensationalized the crime Okay okay, chill chill chill Let me figure out. We should be like really close - Arrived at destination - Oh wow. - Oh fuck! - Seriously? - Are you kidding me? - It's one of these two on this side 'Cause that was 3801 . So let me just pull over here So it's just two houses down - Guys, it's right over here - Oh my God. This is exact-- this is where they fucking found her body There it is Dude, what the fuck? - Okay, really? - Wow, okay, yes Okay. Why don't any of them have mailboxes? - It's this house. - Well yeah, it looks creepy too - The desolate look - Oh my God. - This junk-- - I think this is where they found her It was right here - Yeah sure. - No, I'm serious You're so full of shit - I think. - It's not where they found her Can you imagine just getting down? - Oh my God - Really? - Oh, look at that - Come on. Two halves of a whole This is just-- - that's just laughing at her now - No. Yeah, now you're just mocking Is this real grass? That's what I want to know It's very close cut. Where are we-- what is this next house? Okay, the next one is Dorothy Stratten and she was a "Playboy" Playmate. - Oh yeah. - "...promising career was snuffed out She was barely 20 when her life was taken by her then-estranged husband Paul Leslie Snider - on August 14th, 1980 - That's our age. "...In his West Los Angeles apartment on Clarkson Road a home they once shared He got pissed because he made her a Playmate, and then afterwards she started falling in love with a director on one of her sets called Peter Bogdanovich. Oh, Peter Bogdanovich I know this guy. You know him? "This enraged Snider, who was obsessed with Dorothy and the lifestyle he thought was owed to him as her husband Oh fuck! - By summer 1980-- - Glass bottle. - What was that? - Glass bottle. I think I ran over a glass bottle Are you sure it was just the bottle? - Don't stop. - It was the Black Dahlia Maybe. Maybe it was the second half of her torso Oh wow, that was too soon Too soon. Prepare to turn slightly north Okay anyway. By summer 1980 the couple had separated. During this time he carried on his relationship-- she carried on her relationship with Bogdanovich, even moving in with him while Snider plotted his revenge Snider purchased a shotgun, talked Dorothy into coming over to discuss a financial settlement regarding the divorce. Then restrained her in a homemade bondage device, sexually assaulting her, and finally putting the gun to her face and pulling the trigger, killing her. He sexually assaulted her corpse, then turned the gun on himself and fired." Jesus fucking Christ She's 21 years old. - It's like-- she's our age - She's our age. - Arrive to destination - Oh my God. - This is actually kinda creepy - 1-0-what? What? At least the lights are on there - Well, nobody-- - 1-0-- There's a pattern. Nobody has numbers. They don't have fucking numbers on any of the houses. I don't think that one was, because it's too close to the-- All right, let's do this. You guys. This is so nuts - Sure is, man - Hey hey hey I want to know what was in the side yard Why don't you just hop in there and find out? Well, because the light turned on and then it turned off so either somebody turned it on and off or--? Shh See? Shit, what is that? It's turning itself on and off It's gonna do it again and you're totally gonna miss it - What the fuck? - Okay no, that's her activating the thing 'cause you guys are walking too close. - But I just walked there. - Yeah, but that one isn't activating But I walked there too and it didn't turn on. - Towards that one? - And what? It has a dimmer? - Motion sensors. - Yeah, but there's no motion sensoring - at the side of the house. - It could be a raccoon back there I'm just being logical I'm just being logical You're being skeptical Look at this bullshit. - You guys are the ones. - Mr. Granny-visited-Mom. You guys are overreacting It's a light. - Whoo! No no no! - Walk around the front - Oh God. - Oh Shit! All right, I'm getting the fuck out of here. - Enough is enough. - Big bugs, big bugs! - That was enough. - Should we see the front of the house? Cockroach Where are you fucking going? I'm not-- no. Oh Shit. Shit Don't sweat Oh Shit Fucking bad shit. Let's get the fuck out of here - Okay, come on - Okay. That truck scared the shit outta me All right, fuck. I'm getting outta here - We're fucking getting outta here - My heart is beating so fast. - We're fucking getting outta here - My heart is beating so fast. My heart is, like, seriously pounding - Fuck, me too. - How funny was the cockroach? No, that's not even-- Um, okay, this is the Houdini house And... "On a dark night around 1918, a full moon was gazing down upon the Hollywood Hills. On a rugged hillside stood a Gothic castle-like mansion that had been built several years before by the wealthy owner of one of the city's largest furniture stores And on one of the night-- er, on Halloween they were having a party And all of these people were, like, costumed and going And his son decided to escape the party so that he could go up to... the back balcony so he could hang out with his lover. And it was a time when, obviously, gay men couldn't - Yeah. - ...be known And "They were having a romantic moment and then for some reason an argument ensued. The orchestra had just taken an intermission when a scream filled the air The heir to the furniture fortune had pushed his young lover off the balcony and his body now lay in a pool of blood? There was no question as to who had killed the man, but the father nevertheless hired the best lawyer that money could buy In an effort to save his son, he spent nearly every dime that he had paying off policemen, prosecutors and event-- and the event-- he paid off the trial judge himself Finally it was ruled that there was insufficient evidence - to prosecute the furniture heir - How convenient. "...and the man and the family name were saved But unfortunately the house was sacrificed to save the son's life. And this was not the first tragedy- or this was the first tragedy to occur that could be connected to the Gothic mansion, but it would not be the last In fact it has been said that the place is cursed and that all those who have occupied the house were plagued by bad luck and disaster." - Okay. - "In addition to the murder, other strange events have taken place here over the years. Many of those have involved the man who purchased the house from the furniture store owner His name was Harry Houdini and he lived in the mansion during his short career with the fledgling movie industry in the 1920s That's so cool. "While he lived in the house and became a frequent host to sances, strange experiments and more, some say this cursed castle may have finally cost the famous mag-- magician his life - That's the word. - When you're holding sances Not-- mm-hmm Well, apparently the young lovers cast a spell I wonder if we can see the balcony where he fell off Is this the street? Just let these people pass Huh? No. That was the street We passed it. - Oh. - I just-- I can't park on Laurel That would be really stupid - Okay. - All right, let's go - Leave the parking brake on. - 2398, remember that number What did I do with the-- did I get a light? Oh Shit Out of the road! - Oh shit. - Book it, book it, book it Go go go go go. Oh, dude, look at this. Holy shit, dude Wait, how do we get in? This is-- it's got cameras. Look Yeah, it definitely has cameras and it's padlocked. So it's not gonna happen? Dude, yeah 'cause after the cameras I needed the padlock to convince me Look at the cat, dude. I know I feel like it keeps looking at me - Jesus - Wow. Way up this drive, look at this fucking huge house This is so massive I would classify this as a mansion. - It's freezing out here. - It's got big fucking spiders on it I just walked through a spider web. You should see what's on the cat Private property Right to pass by permission and subject to control by owner." Let's buzz in! I definitely couldn't live in one of these houses after - If it wasn't 11 :25, I'd buzz in. - ...something happened here Okay, let's-- what we're gonna do Are we gonna take the sidewalk now? No, we'll cross on that side so at least we can see around there. And then we run across the street There's a sidewalk. - But we gotta like be kinda-- - Stealth about it? --Not-- no, not stealth EH-ii, - We don't have to be quiet and fast - Not stealth, fast! We can be loud and fast We just gotta be-- Just wave your arms a lot. I think, like, everybody should start running right now. Oh Shit Jordan almost got hit by a fucking car. I didn't almost get hit by a car. I wasn't going to run in front of it Okay, George Reeves. "Los Angeles police..." Okay, George Reeves. "Los Angeles police..." - Who? - "...arrive at the home of 45-year-old-- Sorry, what's the address? Sorry, I didn't mean to-- - 1579 Benedict. - Okay, so we have to keep going. Sorry Okay. "1959, Los Angeles police arrive at the home of 45-year-old actor George Reeves, famous for his role - as TV s Superman..." - Arrive to destination "...and find him naked and dead of a gunshot wound to the head. Ruled as a suicide, Reeves' death inspires a series of conspiracy theories? And the interpretive biopic 'Hollywoodland' as well as a persistent urban legend itself famously known as 'The Superman Curse The renters revealed that one night while entertaining guests in the living room they heard noises. The bedroom-- Reeves' bedroom-- previously neat and orderly was a mess Linens torn off the bed clothes strewn around They straightened the room and returned downstairs to find that all the drinks on the coffee tables had been moved into the kitchen Another time the couple's German shepherd barked - at the bedroom door furiously - At least he's clean. Then suddenly cowered and slunk away as the tenants peeked inside and discovered the bed had been moved across the room The last straw came around 3:00 a.m. one summer morning when the apparent ghost of Reeves, dressed in his TV Superman costume, appeared in the living room and within the hour the tenants had moved out." Is that it? That's really pretty - Is that his bedroom? - Yeah, that's where he shot himself Holy shit Wait, there's something-- - Fuck. - Yeah, well this was-- this was everybody's idea - Oh - So. - So... - Are we gonna try to go inside? That's George Reeves Okay, we gotta, like, make up our minds. Like, are you gonna go or not? Come on, Steph. You know what? Go go. Because you're so brave No, you're so brave and you were calling me a bitch? - So go. Go - Oooh! No, because when I called you a bitch - you still didn't do anything about it - No, go go. Go. You're calling me out? You're calling me out on the camera, so go Come on, tough-- come on, toughness. Let's go - Let's see what you're made out of - I got close. You got close? You got close? - You gonna follow me with the camera? - What, did you walk over here? Did you walk over here? Did you walk here? - Did you walk here? - Keep going, keep going Shut up. I don't feel like it All right? So shut your fucking face! - Oh shit. - You can call me tough boy That's what Reeves said right before he died. He said, Shut your fucking face - Yeah. - And then he blew his head off And then he blew his head off I promise you I'm not leaving the car on this I promise you I'm not leaving the car on this I promise you No, you have to leave the car No, I don't have to do anything - I'm a grown-ass man. - Proceed to destination, 900 feet "Lights in the kitchen go on and off by themselves, while out in the living room people see strange formless light in an outline form floating above, near the ceiling." - It's a bumpy road. - "In a corner of the living room near the mailbox-- a small mailbox she-- you know, you can hear? Heavy heart-breaking sobs of a woman." Oh my God, look at this Look at-- oh my gosh Okay, I can't see anything now Here, I can get out if you want me to Whoa, that makes everything look really fucking creepy. You might want to roll down your window though, that would be helpful. And get out of the way sorry Um, all I can see is a gate too, so it's not really exciting Should we pull over for a sec? - We are pulled over - Should we drive-- just pull into the driveway Here, do you want me to hand the camera to you? Okay. I think it's relatively focused for the distance It's recording. Well - All right. - So this is-- what's the name of this house? The Jean Harlow house, is that right? - Yep. - Just-- This is the house she moved to after the studio told her to move to a nicer house So this is the nice house? Apparently. For the 1930s Look at the mailbox. Yeah Place doesn't look lived in Yeah? What does that mean? That means we should go in It means we can probably get in. - Go on, Beckett - Ridiculous. - Why aren't you parking? - Parking where? Just stop for a second There's a car coming this way So pull back in Okay, why don't we get out? Okay yeah, that's great. I'm driving. That's great You're sort of parked at the moment. I'm trying to figure out what we're gonna do. - Are we getting out then? - Yeah. And looking at this gate outside just for the sake-- This is the one right here? It's not the one next door to this one? - This is-- this is-- - I'm highly conf-- I'm like - Yeah, this is it. - ...reviewing our relationship and - wondering if it's really what I want - Because the one before-- Like I'm just wondering now at this point. Is this really what I wanted with my life? - Right now. - Yes, okay. - Right now. - Yes, okay. it's Henry and Emily Strawling They were a loving couple in their late 20s. Henry was an established cinematographer and had photographed many celebrities from the 1920s natural eye for lighting blah blah blah. "His wife Emily also worked behind the camera as an up-and-coming costume designer. Together they were remembered as a loving and devoted couple." Et cetera, et ectera. Um, "Shortly after they moved into their new home Henry began to become easily aggravated and short-tempered. Never having a history of this behavior before, Emily discarded it and figured it was a result? Of the increasing pressures of his burgeoning career. However things became worse He became depressed talking angrily with himself and at times had momentary outbursts of rage Still Emily kept the matter private, as she still held on to the faith that underneath it all the man she married and fell in love with was there." then take next right Um... Okay well, what did he do that was creepy? - He was a paranoid schizophrenic - Oh shit. - Okay. - Et cetera. She was pregnant- eight months pregnant Who didn't know, so he wasn't on medication "On October 30th, 1931, Emily, eight months pregnant, Henry decided to take the life of his unborn child. When Emily returned home that afternoon, Henry is said to have sedated his wife, stuffed her mouth with a cloth and proceeded to cut her stomach open to remove the unborn child." Why couldn't we just do, like, a regular Hollywood tour? - See some celebrity houses? - See the Hollywood sign. With the baby in his hands, he took its life. Emily eventually bled to death When he came to, he realized what he had done - and took his own life - Arrive to destination Um, he thought that the baby was the devil - And it's said it's been-- - Is it on the right or the left? No-- uh-- it's over here Pull over right here, I guess Right, 16 - 1666-- - Did we just pass it? I mean it's a fucking abandoned house over there - It's a nice neighborhood - Hold on, let me-- Beckett, we gotta do it. Where are we going after this? I think we've been to - every place. - We could go eat Food! Hey hey Where's the number? Do we see the number on that house? Well, this looks like-- this looks like what it would look like And it looks well-kept. I don't think it's this one Oh my God - You look concerned - Huh? - I said you look concerned - Shut up, dude. - It's gotta be this one - Ya think? 'Cause that one's the house before it Oh. - She has spoken. - I meant the number Gosh, you guys are rough I'm coming Hopscotch. Oh my gosh You all right? - Hopscotch? Really? - Really? I think it's better standing before that - Yes. - Yes? - It actually is. - Legal, illegal - I'm on the sidewalk - This is not-- - You're on the actual property - Yeah. - So... - Well, somebody wants to sell it it's-- nobody's in it! - So they're trying to... - Who's gonna call the cops? Get us to view it. Why are you so worried about the cops? Cause they're the law? I don't know. - Yeah. - 'Cause you get raped in prison In Steph's own words Fuck the police. You're not pretty enough I'm-- I don't have to be. Let's go, fuck it Jordan, Jordan! - Jordan-- - Jordan, please - Really? - It's just the backyard What are you, five years old? - Kind of, yeah - That's mean. I'm trying to maintain my childlike innocence - Oi. Yep. - Are you gonna come up here? - No. - I didn't ask you You know, we're not the one who parked. Anyway, it's like this is a hunger strike Hey, let's go, come on I just want a breath of fresh air since I haven't been let out of the car Okay, so, Steph you're awesome. You're really brave and I commend you for that - I'm not trying to be brave. - What are you doing though? - I was trying to have fun - What are you doing? I don't understand What is the fun? Where is the fun? Please, no, tell me I really want to know. Tell me-- where is the fun? - Where is the fun? - Yeah, where-- what is it now? We're sitting at the porch. So what do you want to do? - There's-- I don't-- - No, really, tell me I don't want to sit in the car right now. I think these places are cool - Okay, just hang on the porch - Me and Beckett will go. Then we'll just come back and pick you guys up. - No. - You can hang out on the porch Okay. Busted I mean that's fine if you're scared. - Come on now. - It's not about being scared - You're a child. - But it's an abandoned house It's for sale. You guys are sitting there Exactly, it's abandoned-- no one's here. Yeah, but if it's for sale, there's obviously people-- you know what I mean? It's like-- come on. You're like playing these-- Jordan's trying to get into the fucking backyard. - Okay really? - Steph, please! KR-an - Come - No. It's fine. We'll touch the door and run - Why? - Because then we can say we did it. Okay, touch the door and run - We need a light. - You have a light - We need your light. - It doesn't work, Steph? - Nope. - Oh, that's mature That's great Steph, please. Come on, I'm asking you nicely And so am I. I'm asking you to touch a door What is this, boys versus girls? This is really juvenile. - Let's just go up and touch the door-- - Smart versus dumb. If we go up there, we leave, okay? - That's fine. - We go up there - Yeah, it's probably locked - ...you-- we go up there, you touch the doorknob we leave. - Okay. - We go to the next house, cause this is-- this is-- not an idea of a good time Tomorrow night's your night anyway, so-- All right, fuck it Let's get out of here All right, okay. - Okay. - Okay, what? - It's just cool. - It's just the doorknob Oh, good thing the flashlight works there - I was getting scared. - Nobody's been in here in forever - Except for spiders. - Okay, touch the doorknob - Yay! - Touch the queen - No, don't-- - Oh my God, it's locked Obviously it's fucking locked - There. Are you happy? - No. - You got your-- - I asked Beckett to touch the door Oh ho ho. She asked Beckett to touch the door. - No. - Come on, just touch the door Please! And then we can go See, car right there? Shake his hand Promise. - Promise. - Dude, I'm a grown-- I can just leave. I don't understand what-- - Yeah, let's just leave. - You're gonna leave all of us Besides me, who you don't like, you're gonna leave your two best friends? No, I'm leaving you regardless, but-- It's not funny. I don't want to be here - I'm sorry. - Beckett, Beckett - What? - I'm on your side on this one, - but I'm just saying - Touch the door. All I'm saying is-- listen, shake her hand first so you know that she's-- - Didn't they just shake hands? - No. Regardless, we're leaving when I touch the door. Okay, he touches the doorknob and then we're fucking leaving. Really? " It's locked"? - Oops. - It was - Did you fuck with me? Are you serious? - I didn't! - I didn't open it. - Okay, stop, Steph! - I'm sorry - All right, let's get the fuck out of here - We touched the doorknob, come on - Please, come on, honestly. - Steph. - I'm leaving. Come on, I'm leaving I'm getting the fuck-- I'm getting out of here Steph, let's go now - Come on - Steph! - What?! - Come on, get the-- let's go! - Jordan! - We're not supposed to be here It's illegal to be here. Okay? I don't care anymore - We're just looking at the property - Hey hey, honesty. We just want to see how many bedrooms and how many baths Oh yeah yeah, that's fucking- - that's exactly-- - Jordan! - There's no one here - That's why. - Why do you want to go in? - Haven't you ever been in your house when the power's out? It's fun. Yeah, my house. This is not my house Beckett, let's just leave. If we leave, they'll fucking- - come on. - You're gonna leave? - You're gonna leave us? - I'm leaving. If you guys want to stay, you can stay. I'm leaving - Really? - Jordan, stop - Jordan! Are you fucking kidding me? - Dude! - Oh my God. - Jordan, come on - Steph, that's enough - Stop pulling me! - Can you hear it? - What? You're just being a big baby Driving to every place, you're like, "Oh yeah, that sounds really cool. Let's go." And then we get here and you don't want to do anything No, actually, I didn't say that once - I'm pretty sure. - Oh, your handshake, you're like Yeah, let's go - If this sucks, you suck, ha ha - This does suck. Uh-oh. You know what that means? It only sucks 'cause you're not participating. - It's not a joke. - You're not participating. - What? - Hey, Jordan, let's go. Come on - What? - Let's go! - No. - What do you mean "no"? Look, you saw inside the house Look at this. - You saw inside the house. - We didn't really see inside the house - and you guys haven't joined us - Okay, so what-- You were threatening to leave us behind. Because I want to leave and I'm pretty sure-- Beckett, do you want to leave? - Okay, so-- - Of course Beckett wants to leave 'cause he's no fun It's not so bad So, what? Everything has to be on your terms? Nothing tonight is on my terms - Really? - I'm pretty sure. So I'm cut - Beckett, tonight-- one night - That came out of nowhere. Okay, we're gonna do this here Jordan, come on I'm not fucking going in there Jordan, come on. What are you doing? Really? There's no fucking power, dude - What? - I don't know If there's no power-- okay yeah, you're right. You're right, you're right There's no power. It's for sale. It's not our house. Let's go Steph, no! It's just an unscheduled viewing Jordan, come on Come on I'm scared Hey, punch her in the face, knock her out and we'll just pick 'em up and drag 'em out of here. You guys don't even want to be here. You're just standing in the fucking middle of the living room, come on Dude, crap. Aiden, grab Steph pull them out and that's it. - What? - Grab your girlfriend Let's get the fuck out of here Let's get the fuck out of here - Come on, I'm serious. Let's just go - Steph. - Come on. - Don't touch me! Are you kidding me? Come on Oh my God Fuck. This is a damn shame - Who shut the door? - Oh, babe. - No one shut the door - It was just the wind. No, it's not the wind I mean, there's just obviously another door in the house. Well, fuck. I don't wanna fucking be in here anymore. What kind of fucking door doesn't open? Why don't we try and get out of these doors? If this way was open-- We shouldn't fucking be here, man - Fuck. - No no, fuck There has to be-- houses have more than one fucking entrance. - That was super comforting - It's ridiculous. Well, we're not going to get anywhere standing here So what are-- what are we doing here? - We're trying to find a way out - Listen, we're stuck. We shouldn't have fucking come in here. It's fine. We're just gonna find the quickest way out and get out of here. - Exactly. We'll just-- - Tomorrow because there's not supposed to be anyone in here - Wait wait, stop - Stop what? There's gotta be a way out Right? There's a way out. - We just got in. We're gonna get out - No, she's right. - The door just shut on us - It's just a house. She's right. Listen listen, shh shh I feel like I'm going crazy because you're all-- Shh shh shh, now everyone calm down, all right? Listen, she's right, okay? There's a way in, there's a way out They had a backyard. There's gonna be a back door - Okay? All right? - Thank you. So let's just fucking go out the back door - All right? - Let's just look Let's just have a fucking great time in this fucking house. - Oh, I'm sorry! - No no no, I don't - Okay, let's go. - Thank you, thank you! Oh, Shit. I can't see - It's just for show. - Anything in there? - It's not real. - It's boarded up Shit. Okay. Creepy What is this? It's just a house It's just a house where a man killed his wife and baby And we're stuck inside it - Close the door - Stay close. Close it. Shit, Jordan Okay, I'm sorry. You told me to close the door Yes, but just don't slam-- don't slam the door. I didn't slam the door - Don't pretend like you don't know - Jesus Christ. - Next time you can shut the door - Are you done? - Yes, we're done, we're done - No, I'm not. - You're not gonna shut the door? - Beckett, just be done. You want to open it instead? - Shh shh shh - Oh my God. Okay, go in now! I don't want to be out in this fucking hall. Okay okay Steph, just shine your light in the doorway. Make sure no one-- oh shit it's an empty house. There's probably animals or-- - It's a fucking closet - Okay, it's a clo-- - Can we rip this off? - Looks like we're gonna get arrested, that's what I'm worried about Always yes So at least I can see it, okay? Do you want to be in charge of it? You can hold the light - You can check this door - It's probably in here. - Here. - Oh come on, man! What is-- okay, it's locked Oh Shit How are you so calm right now? I'm not calm, Beckett We're all just trying to find the way out. - Shh. Beckett - What? Who the fuck boards shit up from the inside, dude? - Really. - Honest. Yeah, that's exactly right Yeah, I know. They don't want people inside - The drawers. - I don't want to be out in the hall Check the drawers for what? There's no one in the fucking house - Yeah. - All right Okay. Okay, it's just a room - Check your pockets for shit - I don't have anything. You have nothing on you? No, I don't have anything on me - Let's just call someone. - Dude, I don't have any service I don't have service either Shit, I don't have my phone on me either - Keys. - Keys? - Keys, I have keys - Wallet. I have a key. I have keys - Do you have a knife on you? - A what? You have a knife on you? - Babe, can we-- - How boarded up do you think these are? Do you think both of you could pull them off? I don't know I mean-- - Give it a try. - Yeah, let's try it - These things are-- - Give the camera to Jordan - Help him out - Really? - Yeah. - I'm pretty sure I can hold it Dude, I want to get the fuck out. We're already criminals, so.. yeah now. I've gotten in the house - I wanna get out. - Now you want to damage it? - Yes yes, I do! Yes, I do. - Now you want to damage it - Let's fuck it up. - Okay, let's fuck it up One, two, three Come on! Fuck! - Let's go again. Let's go again - Shit. Give me a sec Give me a sec men One, two, three! - Well yeah. - Oh my God - Ready? - We should try another fucking window Well, that's obviously what you do One, two, three - It's not going anywhere - I'm dizzy. I'm fucking lightheaded anyway You think they're all like this? Try 'em all? - Fuck. - Can't hear us. One, two, three I'm fucking dizzy as shit I'm hyperventilating. Fuck! - Just gotta- - Dig deep. Gonna try it one more time Just try it one more time I'm gonna break it down Okay. Is that a door? That's, you know, about it I mean, logically, there has to be another way out of here Right? This is-- it's fucking house. There's a way in, there's a way out You guys can speak up. Ideas? Shh Oh Shit men There's nothing there I know We've got to get out of here, guys Let's go. Help help! I anyone. please! - Aiden. - We're stuck in the house, please! Please get us out of here, anyone, please! Help help! Aiden, what the fuck, dude? - Help! - Aiden, fuck this. Fucking help! I want out of this house now! I want out! Okay, try the door Fuck! I knew we shouldn't have fucking come here! It's gonna be okay Why the fuck did we let them do this? It's all your fucking fault I swear to God. - Jordan, you okay? - Yeah. I fucking-- I knew it I fucking knew it! - Stop. - Who's the fucking bitch now? Stop it! I didn't know this was gonna happen! - Stop it. - Shut the fuck up! - Shut up! - Just relax for two seconds Just relax, okay? - We're gonna get out - It's gonna be okay. This is shit, okay? This shit doesn't fucking happen - Houses don't fucking lock. - Dude, we heard a fucking baby cry There's nothing there! You just heard a fucking baby cry! There's nothing there, okay? Stay-- just just-- - What? - We're fucking losing it. You know, we're just tired We're just tired. We're losing it because we fucking- don't fucking touch me now! It's 2:00 in the morning, okay? Just relax. I know we're in an abandoned house at 2:00 in the morning and there's fucking babies - and we can't get out. - Just think of where we can get out It's gonna be okay We've gotta do something Yeah, like what? Let's just stay here No. No, I'm not staying here any longer. I want to get out of this house right now I do too, but I'd like another No no, Steph Not another 10 minutes because then it's another 10 minutes and another 10 minutes and another 10 minutes for what? - We should just stay here - Nobody's-- We're all together. Nothing's bothering us Nobody is coming, okay? And I don't want to stay here any longer than I have to. I think we should do another loop around the house. I don't want to stay here any longer either, Aiden, but I'm fine right here And I have Beckett and I have you guys - Beckett? - Let's just stay - Beckett, I'm staying here - We're safe here. Beckett, we gotta do another loop around the house. What if we missed something? It was dark and maybe we did. - We checked every door - We were rushed, we were scared, all right? All I'm saying is maybe we missed something. - I'm not leaving - Why? Because I'm safe here Nothing's bothering EH-3, How could you suggest we go trudging through the house after-- after that? You just want to sit here? Vane, How much longer do you think the light's gonna last? Think about it We're safe. I'm safe here I'm safe here Aiden's right - You want to go out there? - No, I don't want to. I don't want to stay here - What? - I don't want to go anywhere We're fine Yeah. No, we're not fine here I'm not fine here. Nobody's fine here, Steph. Okay, we have to go check one more time We might have missed something - It's gonna be fine - I'm fine, just-- let's not go around the house That's not the point. Okay? We can't just sit here. I'm not fucking around anymore I'm serious. - Let's get out right now - We need to figure out - a way to get out of here - Beckett. We gotta get out right now, man I'm not sitting here any longer. - I know. - It doesn't make sense - Come on - Okay. Jordan, come on Stay close, okay? We'll be okay. - Jordan. - Come on, Jordan We're all sticking together Oh fuck I told you this was a bad idea We shouldn't do this Now what? - Okay. - Jordan, take this Mm-hmm It's this part right here Come on Fuck. Are you okay? - Is it coming off? - What?! - Hey hey, Aiden! - Cut it out. Just stop it The fuck, dude? Hey What are you doing? Come on, let's get this off Fuck. Fuck. All right, come on, come on Steph, come on Fuck. Fuck! Over here. - Fuck, man. - Are you okay? Okay. Okay okay. Okay. - All right, all right. - Come on. Come on! You okay? Guys guys guys guys! I got you. All right. Okay One, two, three Again Two, three Fuck, it's freezing! Whoo! Honey, what do you see? Oh. Guys, I think I'm-- Help me, please! Help me! Jordan, turn on the fucking light I can't find it! I can't find it! - Find the light. Beckett, hold on - I can't find it. Fuck. Oh shit, oh shit Okay, I got it. I fucking-- I found it I found it Oh, you're fucking kidding me. Oh fuck I got it I got it, I got it I got it, I got it. Okay okay. Come on Beckett! Men Beckett! - Aiden. - You hear me?! Oh Shit All right, help me up there, all right? - I'm gonna go see if he's okay - No, I want to go. - Just leave-- lift me up. I'm lighter - What? I want to see if he's up there, Aiden, please. - Okay. - Please let me go All right. I got you, I got you Okay okay, go. Okay. Almost there You guys, he isn't here. I don't know where he is Beckett? - Do you see anything? - No. No. - You don't see anything? - There's nothing up here. Aiden, there's nothing up here He's not here. Oh my God, oh my God There's his nail there's his nail. Shit, okay, fuck. Come back down then You're okay, you're okay I'm not okay, I'm not okay, Aiden Beckett's gone. I miss my dad it's funny if you think about-- being a kid and how happy we were and how, like, the smallest things would make you happy for days. Like... a fucking ice cream cone or a balloon or something? But I think that was the favorite part of my childhood Just being with him I don't know. I mean, he was there to drive me to every practice and every-- every day to school it's like you get older and it's funny 'cause it takes-- it takes you like 20 years to realize that shit. And then one day you wake up and you just hope it's not too late. I just wish he was here, you know? I'd tell him how much-- how much I appreciate everything he does. I wish Beckett was here. I remember the first time we hung out. We hiked all the way up to Runyon Canyon and we'd had a couple drinks, which I guess wasn't the best thing to do. But we climbed the gate and went all the way to the top And we just sat up there for hours, talking and laughing. And it was just like, we just found each other We had our dreams in front of us We overlooked the city and-- I'm here and-- I don't know. We were just so full of hope and-- I knew then that I was so in love with him, but I couldn't tell him. It would have been totally weird But, um-- can you guys hear that? God, my ear really hurts. Ow. WEE? You're okay You're okay Can you hear that? It's okay, we're gonna get out of here. - Can you hear that? - Steph, Steph, Steph - Stay with me. - Can you hear that?! Jordan, can you help me out for a second maybe? Just calm her down. You're freaking her out You're freaking me out Can't you hear that? We're gonna get out of here Jordan, stop it! Mam am. I loved him steph! Open the door, come on Jordan-- Open the fucking door Steph, can you hear me? I need the light. Jordan! Come over here Jordan. She fucking took her cellphone Shine the light on the door. Jordan Okay. Jordan Jordan? Go away You okay? - I don't know - No? I'm sorry. Okay, you know, I didn't mean that, okay, Jordan? You know it wasn't me It's this fucking- it's the place. It's the house. It's the fucking- I don't trust you Why don't you just open the door, okay? No. I miss you And I know you're just on the other side of the door, but I fucking miss you. Okay? So please open up Jordan? You remember-- you remember when you met me in that elevator? - Hmm? - Yeah. Did you think I was cute? No. I thought you were cute I thought you were beautiful You didn't like me, not even a little, huh? A little bit Maybe a little I'm still the same guy, Jordan Okay? I love you. Just open the door And then we're gonna get out of here It's gonna be okay. I just need you to open the door first, 'cause I'm not gonna leave here without you - I love you. - I love you too Just unlock it, all right? I'm right here, on the other side I can't. It's locked - Fuck. - It's locked, I can't-- Jordan, just relax Jordan! Relax! Just turn the doorknob once, okay? Just unlock it Jordan! Fuck, Jordan, open the fucking door! Come-- Jordan! Jordan! Fuck, come on! Give me the light - Is she there? Jordan? - No. Jordan? Men All right, come on Come on, let's go Steph Steph, come on, stop it. Steph, come on. Cut it out, okay? Steph Steph, cut it out! Oh no. Hey, wake up Hey. Hey hey. Come on, come on. Wake up. Steph Please, wake up, come on Oh Shit Come on. Come on, Steph Oh God Come on. Wake up. Hey! Steph, come on, please wake up Hello? Hello! Yes, this-- this is an emergency okay? Listen to me. We're in this house, okay There was four of us. There-- there was four of us and now they're dead. Okay, they're-- they're all fucking dead and-- no, I-- I-- I don't-- I don't know where we are I don't-- no, wait-- it's, uh-- it's 1666-- it's-- six-- shit, I don't-- I don't know. Fuck! I-- hello? Hello? Oh no It's here Oh no, it's here Oh shit. No, it's here. It's here No. No! No no no! Everything you need Is everything I need to be I sit across the room Your breathing starts to croon to me Very prone to be A pillar of things you never will need So please don't let me go Down old paths and radios for long? And when the day comes The dreadful scene approaching Don't leave. With your hands covering Your face Well, my body is stone cold here well, don't go Don't leave Don't leave my place When everything goes dry Remember it's no big surprise When everything you love Starts messing with your head And phones drop Well, go ahead, blame me And push me down the stairs to the street I'm slowly getting up My body aches of sunlight inside And somewhere Far away? In my mind I'll dream And call out loud Without inviting you. I've gone too far away. In my mind I'm dreaming And I'll call out loud Without inviting you. Please won't you lead me back? Please won't you lead me back?
