 

                        Again God won't enter the crease. Can't believe. And also hard to bear the sadness. We have started loving Sachin, by plucking out... ...our hearts for the last 4 years. 24 years... I still very well remember that night. Like the tides of the sea, the tumult came beating into my hearts. The world cup final of 1983 which was held at Lords, in England. When the ten year old, Sachin Tendulkar saw this at Bombay. A village lad named Rameshan, this me also saw the game. At that time I was also ten years old exactly. During that time in finals by defeating, West lndies in their hat-rick lock. Our lndia won the cup. The rhythm of tumult heard on that day, ...Iater became the rhythm of my heart beat. Later never, never did that leave me. "Within the hearts.. Within the hearts..Within the hearts" "Within the hearts.. Within the hearts" "The rhythm that every lndian sings always resounds within my heart" "Within the hearts.. Within the hearts" "The rhythm that every lndian sings always resounds within my heart" "Together under one flag with vigor" "The body and the hands joins together" "The new light of troops in a line" "On the other side, they are also coming vigorously" "Rising above the limits of the sky And the striking starts.." "Now the lndian flag will fly through the paths of the clouds" "The flag will never come down in the days to come" "That will be always held high" "The victory will..Come again.. In great mountain heaps" "Within the hearts..Within the hearts..Within the hearts" "Within the hearts..Within the hearts.. Within the hearts" "Within the hearts..Within the hearts.. Within the hearts" "Within the hearts.. Within the hearts" "The rhythm that every lndian sings always resounds within my heart" "Within the hearts.. Within the hearts" "The rhythm that every lndian sings always resounds within my heart" This is the timing wheel. What did I say, what this is? Timing wheel. For all motor engines there will be a timing wheel. You take that 15-16. Hey tutor Gopi! Hey tutor are you teaching the lad, even now? The things we learned by seeing and hearing, just telling all... ...that to children, that's all. Oh! Yea, does the boy have any interest in this? Interest and all is there... ...but that won't help, the children must have education. Even though we could not study. During those times there was no chances for studying... ...that must be also told. Even though you have not studied, ...the tutor Gopi, is bigger than the engineers out here. Is it not? Then what is there? - Then what? What is the use of being a motor mechanic in the village, Divakara? My wish is, I must really make him in to an engineer. A mechanical engineer. Look, he is really smart in studying, the teachers are also saying that. Lucky, if it progresses like this. Tutor, he will become. You hold it with a newspaper piece, ...or else there will be full of dirt in the hands. Divakara. - Yes. If you smoke beedi like this often, your heart will be doomed. If there is any problem with my heart, will remove it and give it to your hands. Won't you repair that and make it ready? Okay tutor shall we take leave? My father used to say in life, for everything a timing is required. But in the case of my timing, my mother was not at all happy with it. Hey boy Ramesha! By calling the throat is gone! Ramesha come here, I say! Coming. Where were you boy? Don't you have to learn anything, get inside it is evening now. Ramesha! Only my timing was correct during playing cricket. Somehow all my memories and sights mingled with the cricket. To say honestly, ...the shining of a dew drop was really seen in a cricket ground. 'By keeping a dew drop within the hands, ...the little flower stood at the enclosure' 'Do not pinch, do not pluck, never hurt the little flower' Teacher. What is it Ramesha? Teacher, why is that when the light goes through the dewdrop... ...the color of the rainbow occurs? Through the dew drops? When the light passes, why is that seven colors are seen? That is because, when the light enters through the dew drop. Will there be a color like that? Teacher Chandran, will there be one? I'm running here to and fro, like a dog whose foot is burned. Then where is the time to watch the dew drop and all? Let me settle this arrears. But still..How can that be? Rainbow! Like a rainbow, my school life was quite colorful. The Manjula Sasidharan, who was studying in 5th-B division... ...came to my life as rainbow's bit fell below. My God. "The palm leaves sparrow, will you come swinging in the winds?" "By coming in a friendlier note, by stroking gently feathers of the eyes" "Did a tender smile arouse like a 4 o'clock flower?" "Did the tender ink plant remove its veil and come near you?" "Did it come in the sweetness of the dream like rain?" "Me, getting wet for the first time" "The palm leaves sparrow, will you come swinging in the winds?" "By coming in a friendlier note, by stroking gently feathers of the eyes" Don't you have the game of cricket today? Yes, it is there in the evening. I checked when I went to wash the hands. Stopped playing during afternoon. Why is that? Ramesha, don't you like playing cricket? Yes. Did the head really get hurt? No. It happened by mistake. No problem with that. Where is that ball? I have kept it safely. For what? Simply. Shall, I go? Look, has Rameshan, given name for science exhibition? Yes, I have. My uncle has told he would prepare a chart for me. What about Rameshan? I'm making a trick? "Come with the wings, like small birds to flutter in young sun shine" "With the tender honey dipped words to hoot like a black studded bird" "ln the shadow of laughter and play" "To commence in a beautiful manner" "With the tender smile like a small anklets worn, the heart is full" "The palm leaves sparrow, will you come swinging in the winds?" This is not clear. You see now. Did it become clear now? Not clear. You check now. No, not at all. Now is it clear now? Get lost you naughty! Now is it clear? In our village, TV was there in the house of Sunnychayan, ...who had gone to America. We used to watch TV along with the commentary of... ...Sunnychayan's mother. During that time, there was only one channel, Doordarshan. Children who had set that arrow, is it Lakshanan? Mother its not Lakshanan, its Lakshmanan. I know all that, those who had come for seeing must watch and then go. Don't act like a teacher, did you hear that? We grew up like that, by playing cricket in the grounds... ...in the paddy fields... ...getting scoldings from the family, by watching Doordarshan. I saw the semi-final world cup in '87 by bunking the class. But in the semi-final we failed with the England. At certain times when the game gets really tensed in the last over, At that time.. My god! Right from the morning itself, will sit in front of the box. What an idiotic game is this fellows? This mother had spoiled everything, ...it was the last ball, now the game will be over. Mother, this is the game of cricket. Yes, you fellows. To play and to see the game lot of lunatics. When the TV came to library, we bid goodbye to Sunnychayan's house... ...and boasting of mother. So in my teenage period, god in the costume of a teenage, ...some other person was entered in to the grounds. This is our cricket team. 'Friends 11' This is Pappettan. Pappettan was our team captain. Not only was the team captain, but also one who told the last word... ...in all the things among us. This is the Babukuttan, ...he is the wicketkeeper, blower and batsman among us. Our all rounder. Sajiettan was our opening blower, we used to call him Ambrose Sajietten. Was it because of the speed of the ball or it because of that form, ...that name was given? Mani, catch the ball. Mani, I have never seen any ball fielded by Mani. He is one of the best fielders among us. Chandru. Lord, must make him out. This is so called Mantle Johny, Johnychettan. To get the batting, praying to get the own team member, to be out. This is Nawas lkka. In all the games, Nawas lkka was run out. Nwaas, what kind of running is this man? Didn't reach on running. Basheer, you get in. Should prove in the first over. Run Basheer, run. Go man Mantle, are you not ashamed to say own team got out? I swa him, stumping the ball like this. Go man. Hey man that's an out. Varkey, Varkey has got some amount of manipulations with him. Whatever the case may be, Varkey will break that. Basheer, Basheer was a single minded. Can't say how and when he will react. Man, I'm also there for the game. Look, here comes the assistant. Hey man, I'm also there for playing. This is Prahalathan, my class mate. You take Prahalathan for free. Come man. Hey Basheer, wear the loin cloth properly, not worn undergarments also. Then see buddy. Hey man don't create a scene. Not creating scene, truly I have worn it. Just see. There is only elastic, there is nothing in the bottom. He will get out soon, just enter on getting the full toss. Okay, hold tight. My god. Gone. Gone, rub man. Gone. Why man beating on top of his head? Thing might have reached on top of his head. Beating and pulling it down. Hold your nose and jump. Jump man. Jump. Basheer, for the time being, you move. I though the same on removing the loin cloth. I got retired, now any one can enter. Come, come man. There is no problem in fielding. No, not at all that is not an out. Pappetta, in the first place itself, had told that there is no L.B. Leave it man, for this time. Don't run. Throw. Throw! That is not out. I have put the bat here. Pappetta, I entered on the 'grease' Not 'grease' man, 'crease' That is not an out, here. If you want, you play. The shrewd fellow getting angry and going. Not that Pappetta, I had entered on the crease. If its out, leave it man, you enter. Sim ply saying out, to do the bating. Don't go outside you stand here, it is whole fielding. Pappetta, give that bat. This is my lucky bat man. This fits in to the hand well. Hey man here it goes Aakashavani Trivandrum, Cochin and Allappey. Go and take it man. Here it goes again. Hey man don't just throw to beat. Nawas, you stay near that forest itself. Hey man all of you search. How come he is always beating to this side? How many balls are you striking like this man? Who are you man? Are you Vivian Richards? If you again beat like this, will stamp on your feet did you hear that? Pappetta when are you going? Must do the treat for going to gulf. This month last. On 27th. Yea, on that day our exam is also getting over. Pappetta, got the ball. Let me see. This is the ball which was gone yesterday. What is there in that? Still can play is it not? The bating is for the team which wins. You go to church and tell that must put the toss. Stay there itself. No matter how he bats, will strike the ball for sure. By hitting like this only, he won that girl at the school. What is her name? Manjula. Manjula Sasidharan. "ln these mornings when the grass for rituals, blossoms on the paths" "On your eyes, is the tender sun shine coming?" "The paths gets distorted in the water" "A sweetness which is drenched" "Under the shelter of an umbrella" "Body getting wet in these rains" "The palm leaves sparrow, will you come swinging in the winds?" "By coming in a friendlier note, by stroking gently feathers of the eyes". "Did a tender smile arouse like a 4 o'clock flower?" "Did the tender ink plant remove its veil and come near you?" "Did it come in the sweetness of the dream like rain?" "Me, getting wet for the first time" All this time was, just thinking should finish the studying at this school. Now, when thinking that, it saddens a lot. That is correct. What did you, also think like that? Why not? How was the exam man? Had written something with the bits obtained. Don't know what will happen. What was the answer for the last question? I skipped that one. How was it in general? Might nearly pass. Aren't you ashamed to say that? In this school, I had told everyone that it will be Rameshan, who will be... ...securing highest marks. I don't have any grievances on that. Then what is it? On thinking can't come again to this school, a sort of sadness. Why is that? Not that, can't see friends and teachers again. Not able to see whom? Then, don't you want to see me? What is the plan on vacation? There are playing cricket and tournaments and all. Only thinking about that, is it not? Then what else? Then? When will we meet again? Nothing to say? Can I go? Look, will meet while going to the temple. Hey man Ramesha, come will go Pappettan, will be about to go. Come. What is this gulf about? Is it a country? Heard that is the cluster of many countries. Out of that, going to place called Kuwait. Must be with a hefty salary, is it not? On saying whatever Kuwait it may be, will it be like our native land? Native land, what is the use of being here? Can simply play with children and simply roam around. That is true, to succeed must go to gulf. Initially and all it will be little difficult. Can one survive without struggling? Seems he is about to leave. But won't he understand that? As if we are forcing him, like taking to kill. Tutor is Pappettan, not here? Yes, go, go inside. Drink the tea. Pappetta! Is the packing and all over? That is all ready man. How was the exam? Not bad. And for you man? Had written. Hey man, doesn't feel like going. Gopalan chettan doesn't like us, on saying playing with us. Only now he has got a relief. On hearing this, he will throw us all. Once Pappettan, reaches there, we also have to come there. In Nadodikkattu(Name of a movie) must remember only two dialogues... ...what Mamukoya says to Lalettan. 'Asalamu Alaikkum, (peace be up on you) 'Va alaikum assalam' (May peace be upon you also) Look, don't forget to send the letters on reaching. Hey man, one more thing. Hey man, have you packed everything? Why not packing, is all over now. From now on you keep this. Let me return, as rich man then we will renovate our club. Pappa, time to start, okay. Mother. Mother, shall I go and come. Father. Okay then. Okay Pappetta. Okay. Must write on reaching. Here, tea. Brother, where is Saji? He has gone for job. Has he got a job? Why not? The same job only, roaming here and there. We defeated, defeated! Our youngster gang is coming, lifting something. That is a 'toffy' Not toffy, trophy. Whatever it may be, what is the difference? Toffy or trophy. Who all bated? Rameshan 70, Babukuttan 30 and me 36 not out. Mantle, how come you didn't score anything? Why not? He was duck! That was a false L.B. Now you can say that, Mantle, time for you to retire. Including this, it is the fourth duck. When it is the time for retirement I'll tell that. Brother, 11 tea and eatables. Magistrate, how come you are standing there? Hey man Saji, don't stand there idle, go and help father. Go brother Saji. By the prayers of Gopalan nair, Pappan went to Dubai. You people roam around like this. Saji, one letter is there. Is it some kind of love letter? Though getting old, no shortage of sugar! Is it not an old engine? Yes, indeed. Ampere will be more. Let Pappettan, live of hundred years won't die even if whacked.. Here, his letter! Pappettan's letter? Yes. For dear Saji and friends to read and know. Pappettan writing. I had reached here, I'm fine here. Took charge of the job, there is A.C in the room. That is great. But it is severe hot outside. But still anyway we must appreciate those people who had made... ...this much set up in the sand forest like this. There are people from all parts of the world. Looks like, Malayalee's are the maximum in number. Then man, how are the things over there? Truly, there is no better place like our country, anywhere in the world. The enclosures, the ponds in our country, then... ...the greenery it is really a heaven. Then how are the cricket tournaments going? How did it turn out, on going for the victory club tournament? Pappettan, we got the cup. Hey did you notice a black mark? A mosquito which had bit me now, killed and pasted it. In gulf also there are mosquitoes. Ramesha, what's your Manjula saying man? Does Mantle, still plays tricks in the game? Has got only that one. Babukutta, Varkeycha, Mani, Navas, Prahalatha, ...the new year is approaching is it not? The more news in the next letter, should send the reply, ending the letter. Your own Pappan. Hey boy, to see you as an engineer how much has your father desired? That poor man out of grief, had not eaten any food and has left. Mother, I passed is it not? Indeed a great thing, with no money, brought books, this and that... ...is it to secure third class? Can you get an admission in any decent colleges? Is your father having money stacked up, to get admission... ...in colleges by paying money? Mother, it is all because of that worst game. How is that? As soon as the dawn breaks, ...will start going with stick and twig. How come she can boast all this, has not passed 10th standard? That is because she has got no brains to study, ...with you the problem is, it is in excess. Hell, I'm going somewhere. Go, go boy, you go and play with the ball. When the S.S.L.C mark list came, ...for me it was 240 and for Prahalathan, it was 210. We got an admission for Pre-degree, in a parallel college. Manuel who secured 510, in a regular college at the town. "On seeing the thunder, the festival of game will not be over" "The parrot has told, which was sitting on top of a old pupil tree" "This drumming at the field are all a routine" "Let the rain start showering and let the sunshine glow in flames" "Without loosing the fun Let this festival continue" "Let everyone in all the shores gather" "Let the seven shores hear" "Along with that, all the compatriots also join together" "The time is fleeing, with the wink of an eye" "The present is going without waiting" "The time is fleeing, with the wink of an eye" "The present is going without waiting" "Don't leave man, hold tight" "The time is fleeing..." "On seeing the heads, the game will be commenced" "On seeing the thunder, the festival of game will not be over" "The parrot has told, which was sitting on top of a old pupil tree" "This drumming at the field are all a routine" "On the paths, one sweet voice and tingle of bangles" "ln the hearts, a small birds sound of moving of feathers" "The eyes get knotted each other" "Without saying anything, everything is understood" "l have not seen anything my parrot which swings" "lf at all on seeing anything, don't go and say anything, to anywhere" "Kuwait captured by lraq army American warships to Gulf" My God, Pappettan. What is it? Have tried in all the numbers which was given, no chance. It was this America, which nourished this Sadam Hussain. It's all a war in want of oil, is it not? That is it. Any news of Gopalan Nair's son, Pappan? "No compromise: lraq ready for the war" "American bombers, arrived" "Food stuffs not able to port by lndian ships" "ln the island of Failaka, at Kuwait nearly 500 of Malayalee's trapped?" "lraq military moved away" "The ship started off, with 750 lndians" Pappettan, has come. Look, its better to study in here for the exam, is it not? No, with combine study only, it will help. Look, he is really sorry on getting low marks for 10th standard, ...he is struggling to get good marks for PDC. Hey lady, he is really trying. This was our combine study. 92 world cup was during the pre-degree examination. The game was held at New Zealand. In our place the telecast was at morning 3 o'clock. But in that world cup.. We failed miserably. "Friends cricket team has entered the final..." "...by defeating the fighters team in semi" "Tomorrow morning at the final, Friends 11 V/s Champions" "For the winners Rs. 5000 cash waard and trophy" It seems Pappettan, is still not revealed from that shock. He has got an idea to start a business at the junction. On winning this match, it is not one or two rupees, ...if we can give him that money. That will be helpful in paying off the deposit. Yes, yes. Where is that Biju man? Will he not turn up to play the final tomorrow? Heard that won't come. I have a person with me, okay. With you? Bring, morning by 8 all must reach. Tomorrow I will come with the person I told, okay. Bring man. He is a super player, you wait and see. My dearVarkey, other day since you came with a person, ...we failed in that match. Told to come by 8, it is already 8: 15 now. Where has this Rameshan gone? Always it is that Rameshan, who comes first. That assistant is also not seen. Here he comes. Hey man, where is Rameshan? Look, don't think Rameshan will come today. Why is that? Our Pre-degree result has come. So what? He failed. Did you pass? I won't write all the exams, is it not? Even if you write, you will pass like anything! Will go to Rameshan's house and come, okay. You people go, we will be there at the ground. Do we have to go there? Go fast! Varkey, you go and call that player which you have told. I will come there. He and his game! Father my bat. Move back you fellow. You and your cricket. What are you doing? You move back, or else you will also get. For 10th on getting marks full of baskets, didn't get in... ...any of the good colleges. With the little money in hand, send to parallel college. Did you learn? With some market boys playing balls, how will you pass. Man, it's problem will flee. Sit when we get up now, tutor will see. Why you didn't tell its this much problem in here? But for that, if I say you people must believe. Is it not? Will tell you. Saw man, he swa. Hey fellows what is it? Came to call him, is it not? Friends, those kids who studies and be better off, to spoil them... ...there will be always people like this in all the places... ...who has got no job or nothing. They will not flourish themselves and others will be also ruined. If I had not come here, a murder would have taken place. Must sit at home quietly. Come, come. I will come, go. Hey man will he come. Hey fellow come. What man can you come or not? Pre-degree result has come, I failed. Result, all balls, you come fast to play. I also failed is it not? Go, go, I will come. Hey man today is final. Must come there, fast. I will come to the ground. You guys go. Pre-degree, can be written again, is it not? Why sir, has not gone with the friends to roam, ...and remain sitting here? Aren't you going for any cricket match today? Haven't you read in the newspaper? That I decided to retire from the game cricket. Any way good, grown up like a buffalo. I heard, got real hard from father is it not? Babukuttan, might have reached there with Rameshan, is it not? Sajichettan and Mani would have reached the ground now. What are you saying whom are you going to bring for playing? Hey man, Sachin. You will hear something from my mouth. It is not that one. Then? It is a different Sachin. Hey man, he is the relative of our Kollamparambil. At Bombay, name is Sachin will return today by evening. Morning has agreed to play the match for us. He told has played with Sachin Tendulkar. A gamer to the hard core, we got it out of luck. That must be seen at least. Boy, he will rock. Here, he stands. Hallo Sachin bai. Hallo Varkey bai. How are you? Has reached just now. Good. These are all our friends. All are cricket players. Greetings. What happened? Koiwa(crow) Koiwa! A crow. That m ight have got shock from this electric wire and died. That is what I'm also thinking, ...in this country since there are millions of crows here. All the crows are dying on getting shock from the electric wire where are... ...all this crows which dyes on getting old? But where will this crows be going and dying? Kind attention of the audiences, the final of the 4th victory tournament... ...is going to be held here today. A fierce competition is going to be held between Champions... ...and Friends cricket club. Those winning in the completion, will receive T.K Rajan's... ...ever rolling trophy and Rs. 5001. How come Rameshan has not come? Don't worry man, Sachin is there. What is this, bitten by ant or what? What is this man? Heard that Joseph has brought super players from the town. They are Kerala players, in that one guy called Federik. Has taken 6 wickets in the sem i, in 3 overs. That is Kerala team, we have got a person from the Bom bay team. Darna Math(Fear not) Don't worry. Have you really seen the real Sachin Tendulkar? Have seen or not? In Bom bay there are only two Sachin's. His fate line is not correct. What does that mean? His fate line is not correct. Even if Allen Donald or Waqar Younis comes to play with them, ...we somehow have to win this match today. Will Waqar Younis come to play today? Here comes Rameshan. Saved. Who is this? Sachin. Sachin! Imported from Bombay. A real player. Should see all this in the ground. Rameshan. Are you bats man or bowler? Are you bats man or bowler? Good. The captains of the both team, come to the pitch immediately. To put the toss. Look whatever it is, even if its dying we must win this game for Pappettan. That is for sure. We will win. The captain of friends team Saji and champions team captain Jose mon... ...are now going to toss. We are in to bating. By winning the toss, decided to bat. A waesome battle is going to be held here, to startle everyone. The members of the friends teams, come forward for fielding. Yes, to lock the champions we will see what kind of fielding methods... ...are friends team going to weave, we will watch. The brothers Niteesh Kumar and Bineesh Kumar... ...has come as opening batmen of champions team. Like Mark and Steve Waugh. Now the bating is done by Satish Kumar. Bowling is by Saji, who is known as Ambrose Saji, captain of friends team. A good shot to the off front. Though the fielder has tried to block it by diving, it has taken a four. One single. When the first over is finished, the champions team has scored 8 runs. In the next over, for bowling comes Babukuttan. Bating is by Niteesh Kumar. With a magnificent catch of Sachin, Niteesh Kumar is out. Sachin, the triumph card of friends team. The next person coming to bat is 'lightening Freddy' Here comes, Babukuttan for bowling. There also our person is there, Sachin. What man? You go there and stand man. The game is continued. Rameshan and others are planning the strategies. Now Sachin, has come to do the bowling. Yes, Satish Kumar is bating he has taken the single. Bating is by Freddy. Out! Freddy is out. For the special attention of players. This is not a fish market. Cricket is the game of decent men. Then who made you to sit here? You mike swallower! Here comes one more wicket, a beautiful catch by Rameshan. Captain Jose mon is coming for the bating. Tell him to stay there. I'll tell. One after the other sixes is coming. Now, the friends team is nervous. Like the advice of Sree Krishna, certain lessons from Sachin. A discussion is taking place between captain Saji and Rameshan. One after the other sixes are flying, friends team is forgetting the game. Champions team have scored 156 runs losing 3 wickets in 12 overs. Jose mon, 61 not out. Also a Kerala player Satish kumar 62, get out. They were striking like anything. No man, on playing properly can win. Let Sachin be the opening batsman. Varkey! Their opening bowlers are too tough. Rameshan you be there after some time. Navas, look you don't run without requirement and become run out. I will run, let others reduce this bulky fatness. Coming to play cricket with paunch! Does David Boon have fatness? They know to play the cricket. Is it not true? For the special attention of players, cham pion team is requested... ...to come forward for the fielding. The group prayer of champions is over. Sachin must rock. I'm there, no? Now Navas is striking. Opening ball is thrown by Jose mon, captain of champions. It seems Navas has not seen the first ball. Yes, Navas is run out. For the friends team the first wicket is lost. The next bats man is Varkey. One down bats man Varkey to the crease. Bowler Jose mon. Don't run. My heavens. By striking the ball, Varkey has taken a single. Play carefully. You continue taking single, I will strike. The next bowler is Satish kumar. Six, a beautiful six. Look Varkey has made the score board move for friends. I think only Varkey is enough, there is no need of anyone else. A beautiful game. Seems like, what is told became a mistake, here goes Varkey, to outside. For the friends team the second wicket is also lost. One after the another the batmen are shedding. Watch and play. The batsmen of friends must play carefully. Looks like the team members of friends are under tension. 4! Jose mon. Sachin is bating. Don't know whether Sachin, could see the ball or simply left the ball. One doubt. Sachin has taken one single. Basheer. 4! Beat man. Basheer also got out. One more wicket is lost for the friends team. Do one thing, Babukuttan you enter. Babukutta, play carefully. The next bats man is Babukuttan. Satish Kumar. Stay in the crease man. Remain in the game like males. Babukuttan has obtained a single. What is this? That shot did by Sachin not understood, ...may be some kind of Bombay shot. Sixer! Babukutta. Go and take man. Babukuttan is also out. Don't know who and how this team will go forward. Hey, Mantle you enter. Play man. I will take it, to win. Champions team is nearing to the cup. Now Mantle Johnny has entered. Mantle Johnny. Mantle Johny became golden duck. Where is the bat? Ramesha. Play carefully. Ball has touched on the ground, play carefully can win. Though a baby in age, becomes an hero in scoring, master Rameshan. Again in 4 overs 70 runs to take, Rameshan and Sachin... ...who takes single runs on the crease. The lightening bowler of champions team lightening Freddy has come. Only if they strike in all overs, then only the friends team can win. The second ball was hit but seems Sachin has bated by closing the eyes. Beat man. What is this is he a spinning toy or what? Why don't we bring Dawood from Bombay? What is that for? To kill him. Most probably that will be needed. This pitch is not good. When the game got over, it was a maiden over for the friends team. Only 3 overs are remaining. Friends team can only win, if they exhibit an astonishing skill. Can Rameshan do that? Jose mon is bowling. Sixer. By flying Jose mon's ball to a sixer, the expectations of winning are... ...maintained by friends team. Four! An astonishing show by Rameshan. Next mega sixer. Intelligently Rameshan, has taken a single in the last ball. A face to face combat between Rameshan who took more number... ...of runs and Freddy who took more number of wickets in this tournament. On seeing this game, one thing I'm strongly saying, ...if two teams comes to a fight. It is sure that one of them will win. The lightening Freddy. In the first ball of lightening Freddy, Rameshan has catapulted a mega sixer. A reply of an actual warrior. Four. Again one more big sixer. If you had swinged like this, it would have gone little more further. 12 more runs are required to win, to chain Rameshan can Jose mon do that? Rameshan is in full confidence. Again sixer. In the last over, the first ball was fleeted to a sixer. To win, the friends are behind 6 runs. With Rameshan's shots, friends team has become the champions. For receiving the prizes, we welcome both teams. The Winners of this competition is Friends Eleven. Rameshan really rocked man, a very good bating man. Okay then. By today evening going back to Bombay. Are you going today? Somehow must enter in the lndian team. That is my aim. Okay then fine. When you get time to come to Bombay, will plan a cricket match there. Poor fellow. "ls there any other friends who joins together like us" "After searching all these years, ever seen like this?" Right from morning to evening worked for the family and come is it not? Must be hungry, eat tummy full. I don't want. Must sit there itself. Otherwise I will poke with this one. I'll tell you one thing clearly, ...from now onwards my son shouldn't roam around. And at the time of eating, you don't have to come. For those people without doing any job and simply roaming around... ...those ones will not get porridge from tomorrow onwards. Have told not to give, even the starch water. Who? Your father. Then in that case, tell father to arrange a job tomorrow morning. Then my son hear that also. From tomorrow onwards must go to lathe along with father. To lathe? Yes you fellow, for a guy who has failed in pre-degree, there is a... ...white collar job waiting. Hey now, the boy is working under the tutor? Because of the ability of studying, now the job is over here. Whatever dreams we dream, god might have decided certain things. What is the use of blaming god, because of one own acts? Not that, I simply told. Before completely disdaining, we will see whether it will sutvive or not. Then we must not have any prick of conscious. You go to town and get some diesel. What is the price of diesel now? Rs. 6.10. Take that cycle. Thought of making him a big engineer, ...see the way he is going with a can. My only prayer is let him manage this lathe properly. Hey Ramesha. Why are you here? Came to give the cloths for stitching. I joined along with father in the lathe. When is the class starting? Happy, at least asked. I joined there itself at St. Xavier's, for BSc Zoology. Tomorrow the class will start. Daughter got after stitching, come will go. Mother, this is Rameshan. One who studied with me in the school. Remembers, son what are you studying now? Rameshan, to join engineering next year, this year he has joined... ...practical entrance coaching. Is there a course like that, son? Yes, yes, there is come lets go. Okay then Ramesha. Tomorrow while going to college, see you at the bus stop. Mother will go. You should also have joined that entrance coaching. After getting lot of degree, will you forget people like us? Go man, next time must write the PDC. Then should join degree. Yea, should write. I'm sure you will get it. Why is that? I have prayed to do an offering in the temple beside the river shore. Why laughing? Not that, if this prayer was made before l, write the exam... ...thinking that I would have passed. For you everything is always a joke. With the wink of an eye the degree will be over. I'm getting scared. To finish off the degree, why is that you get scared? You will not understand anything. The girls will very soon reach the age for the marriage. Marriage? Have you become ready for that? No, it doesn't mean it is marriage now. It is for you to win in the next exam at least. Who has got time in here to study by heart like you and pass the examination? The bus has come. Again if you go saying cricket, I will kill you. Manjula. Ah, aunty! Daughter how are the things going? Fine. Daughter is your studies over? Finished MSc. Did you get any jobs? No, trying. There are lot of proposal coming, to daughter your father told on seeing him. The job can be searched even after the marriage is it not? Stop, stop. One passenger has to get down. Daughter why do you want to get down here? I need to meet a person here. Oh yea, when did you come? The sari is real good. I was simply, for the children when they told its final. Then is your studies going well? Do you know the proposals are taking place for me at the house? How long can I continue like this? I will be made to say a decision to the family members. Brother Ramesha. On getting late, they will be given walk over. No need to discontinue the game because of me. Go fast. 'After four years, 23rd March 2003' What Mani? There is no painting job today. From afternoon onwards festival is going to take place, then who... ...is going to bathe in white wash. Today its rest for the brush. Come fast man. Come, get in. Leave. Okay then leave. Where were you man? How long I was waiting there? Nothing more to say, got little delayed. Come fast, or else will have to hear the scolding from brother Saji's mouth. My dear son Johny, three times I walked in and out of Panchayat Each day will, tell to come up with different papers. I'm really fed up of this walking up and down. Son Johnny, please tell and make it done. My dear Mariayamma sister, you don't have to worry about anything. I will make it ready, only thing I need to call and say is it not? Go, go peacefully, son Johnny will arrange that for sure. After the noon, there is an urgent meeting. Today noon, there is no chance it will happen. Tomorrow we will see. Babukutta, its only a matter of ten minutes. I won't happen within ten minutes. If don't take this and go, I will hear what is there in owner's mouth. Again if you insist you will hear what is there in my mouth. Did you hear that, okay? Please Babukutta. We'll do it tomorrow. Babukutta. I knew that you will not go today. How to go like that? Rameshan, why not close the shop? Make it fast. When this grinder came just checked that's all. That will be over now itself. How come, haven't you gone for work today? Today, I took a leave. So the policing job is all cool, is it not? Why not, really cool. Not that, how is tutor Gopi now? Difficult to walk up to junction and do the work. As that shed is constructed near the side of the house, urgent works... ...will be done from there. In a way doing the work from there is more enjoyable, than working... ...in this small shop. Then shall we go? Come. Will go. Okay will go. Pappetta. Yea. Aren't you coming? Okay, now its like that, I was waiting for you guys. I'll come now. Brother Saji. Who is this? What man, is your tapping all over? Afternoon tapping, I did it early the evening tapping... ...should be delegated to someone. Is there toddy? Must celebrate at night. Why not? Then I'll reach there. Should reach. When I return late, close the shop and go. Will go. Yea, will go. What's happening man? Got the toss, should have taken the bating. What kind of job is that, they have done man? What's up? Took the bowling. Pappeta, all together its a bad omen. No, there is nothing sort of a bad omen, this time Ganguly, ...will snatch the cup. Hey man, Ganguly has got the ampere for that. In the game so far, Ganguly is the top scorer. Sachin will strike against Australia. Don't you remember how he stroked for the Sharja cup, single handedly? Simply giving the runs. Man, what kind of a bowling is this? Who took him to play? Man, I told earlier itself. Did the game start? Oh, here comes the assistant. Got late is it not? Come, sit. Oh, heavens! Simply striking. That was a bitter bating done by Ponding. Ruined. I told no, when the first ball came? Sachin will beat and make it win. Sachin will beat. Lucky if he beats. Don't catch. Shit, gone. Spoiled. Gone, what is there to see? Nothing is going to happen. Hey man Sehwag, is beating. Make it win man. Beat man. Hey, don't run. Gone. Hey man, what is this? "Again Australia" After all, our cup which was supposed to be taken... ...by our Ganguly was taken by Ponding. Mantle. Yes. Everything gone, is it not? Look the trophy which was supposed to be ours, ...its in the hands of Ponding. The trophy which you must have lifted, there is yet another Ponding... ...coming out from the Panchayat office. Ponding? Yes. Which is that Ponding? Who is that? Come, come. Look there. "For you I became unfit to adorn" "The blood within me reddened" To go to America, came to receive the birth certificate of the child. "Couldn't touch by the tip of fingers" "Always my strings will be longing for you" "Always.. My strings will be longing for you" "Obscured by darkness, beyond the shores of seasons" "Beyond the deep shallow shores of memories" "You are always one, adorned with vermillion coming at the far off dusk" "Beloved you are always like that to me" "Beloved, though it is sadness the thoughts about you is..." "...a great pleasure for me" "Always let it fill my drinking bowl" "The pain that is felt in your absence" What is this man? Brother Saji, who has written this song, that makes people cry? Hey man this is not a song, its a poem. Chullikadu sir's. Why are you crying? Anyone will cry on this. What happened to him, my heavens? Ramesha, you don't cry man. Get out from my sight! So that's the case, no doubt why she has left you. Ramesha, thinking on the other side, you must be happy. She got a boy who is educated and good looking, they have got a child also. Yes, a child that was not born to you. You guys don't tell all this crap, and make him more sad. If a girl dressed with ear stud has gone, ...then a girl with ear ornament will come. Yes. I was about to say a serious thing to you. What is wrong with that proposal, which was... ...brought by brother Thankappan? Pappetta, that won't turn right. How come it won't turn right? Pappeta, I don't want marriage now. Even I can't stand properly. At that time.. Hey Ramesha, when you can't stand properly, at that time only... ...you need a companion to lean on. After marrying off Rajani, from your house your mother is telling... ...several times by doing work, she is tired and somehow make... ...you to agree for the marriage. Nawas, how is that proposal? Why not? Look she is a good girl. Only one sister for two brothers. On checking the horoscope, his mother told out of 10, it is matching to 8. Also in terms of education they both are in perfect match. How? He is PDC failed and she is SSLC failed. That girl is known to me, a poor one and knows little bit of tailoring also. Pappetta, fix this one. Then what, on hearing the girls name 'Susheela' ...don't we know she is a good girl? You people simply. You sit there man. Sit man. Ramesha, you are not going to say anything, we are going to fix this one. For the marriage, your house painting is free by me. But should give the money for the paint. So we are fixing this. Susheela Rameshan. Move away from the back. Now get down. One doubt, is the height little short? No, not at all. Is it? No. Seems little less. Hey fellow, be silent. Dear, is the makeup little over? Only the makeup, is little less that's all. Who has done the makeup and all? In our native Pushpalatha sister, who runs a beauty parlor. It is really good. The girl has told, needs only simple make up. So I could not prove all my skill. Good that, you have not taken out everything. Shall we go? "Like a love song Like the tides of beauty" "Who are you? Who are you, goddess?" "Like a love song" Here, milk. "Like the tides of beauty" "Who are you? Who are you, goddess?" "ln the garden of flowers, are you the flower that raptured..." "...the season of flowers?" I don't know how to start? What? No, this life. "ln the garden of flowers, are you the flower that raptured..." "...the season of flowers?" Did you drink? Will drink after you drink. "Like a love song Like the tides of beauty" "Who are you? Who are you, goddess?" Tell something? Anyway, good that your makeup is washed off. I didn't know, you didn't like the fashion? Fashion? Dear, whose photo is this? Which photo? Here, this photo? "The vast shores of loneliness" Don't you know who this person is? Rameshetta, I don't watch this Hindi movies and all. Not that, don't you read newspapers and all? Dear, where is the time to read newspapers for us? True, people who has got no other job reads paper. Is it meant for people who are busy? Who had put the name 'Susheela' for you? Aren't we all 'Su?' What 'Su?' I'm Susheela, my brother Sukunan, younger brothers name is... ...Iittle fashionable, Sumesh. You come here, I will tell you a 'su', no a trick. Come here. Can put the fan. "The vast shores of loneliness" Susheelaa.. What is it? Did you like this song? Did you like it dear? It seems someone has written it for me. My heavens the current is gone. Don't worry I have turned it off. Hey Kanna, I will give you good beating. When the dawn breaks will start. Rameshetta... Did you see this, lad is beating the stones? And hitting on the body. Morning itself. I didn't do it. Will not allow to sleep also. Kanna, when it hits on the mother's body, mother will get angry. Mother you move back, let me play. Mother's child's nails are all grown, shall I cut this? I will cut. No need. Why is that? No need to cut now. Will give you beatings, if the dirt gets inside the nails.. Rameshetta where to? I'll come now. Where is father, girl? Father is inside. How is the small one, doing? He is fine. Ramesha, what is it man? Wanted a bat and ball. So, the junior Rameshan, also started playing cricket is it? A sign of it is shown. I will pay the money afterwards. Mother, father is coming. You come here. Where were you? You come here. That's all there. Is it to buy this, went early in the morning? Hi..A bat! Did you like it? Are you happy now? Then my child eat this. A good child okay. Here. Where are you going, don't go? Eat, only after eating. Enough. You move back. Let the child play, in between that. Is this man mad or what? The child has not eaten? That and all he will eat later, you move back. Here. Here, beat a six. Beat, in a swing. Yes, like that. Here, one more. Yes, great one. When the child stated walking, look at the thing which... ...he had given in the hands? Hey fellow! If a person who doesn't learn by seeing must learn from pitfalls. You will be satisfied only if you spoil, that child's life is it not? You and your worst cricket! Grandfather! Going to school is it? Should be a good boy, okay. Should study well. Tell grandmother also. Have you kept the water bottle? Yes, it is kept. Should be careful on sitting on the cycle. If you make any marks on my cloths.. You and your cloths! If you want lady, spread it out on the other side. I don't intend to. I'm really getting mad, do you know that? Will start right from the morning onwards. Will stop..Stop. Grandfather. Fried cakes made of grams, okay. How come, you had not gone to lathe today? Yes went, but came to take some things. Give it to everyone. Okay will give. Go girl! 2nd April 2011! Like this in one night when father was young, lndia got the first world cup. In 1983, during that time Kapil Dev was our captain. Did you hear that? 'Sixer club's - Cricket Carnival - 2013' You are watching the finals of sixer clubs tournament on 2013. A fierce battle is going on between.. Hey man I have reached. Now for TVS club in six balls should require 18 runs to win. Hey man, how is the game going? One person is batting like anything. Is that so? Have seen you somewhere. Aren't you that old bowler? Yes, Freddy. Yea Federik. What are you doing now? Now I'm in the news paper. As what? As photographer. Son? Not mine, friends. Rameshan, don't you remember? Rameshan? Has Rameshan, come to watch the match? What to watch? Rameshan, is the person who is standing over there. The Rameshan is still in the forefront, who has shown a brilliant... ...performance through out the tournament. Rameshan has scored 82 runs from 37 balls. Really hard core! Al least will be of an age of 40. Must surely accept. How was father's batting? It was really good. Ramesha, see who this one is? Freddy. Hey man, there is no change in your batting. How is he? Does he play cricket like father? He also, runs with the bat from morning itself. Dear sports lovers, the one who has come here by accepting our request is... ...the ex-captain of Kerala cricket team and... ...prominent coach Sri. Vijay Menon. Along with him, one who has reached here is Ranji player... ...and lPL cricket star. Sri. Rohit Kartha. To talkfew words to us and also for distributing the prizes... ...welcomes honorable Sri. Vijay Menon. Dear ones, at the old England, the shepherds to get rid off their... ...boredom, in the mist of gazing the sheep they started hitting the ball... ...with a wooden stick. The cricket what we see today, originated like that. Today it has really grown and it became a strength... ...to influence the financial structure of the world. When the British left this country, they also looted several... ...valuable things of ours. Our queen's ear ornaments, anklets, Kohinoor jewel, lot of things like that. What was left behind, an important one, among them that was cricket. But in 1983, when our brothers went to Lord's... ...and brought the world cup, here. After that cricket became a festival to us. It became an unending ceremony. Then all over lndia, there developed small, small grounds. Through out the village. We got lot of smart players. Sachin, Dravid, Virat Kohli, Ganguly. We know mostly who had succeeded. There are lot more who have failed lakhs in numbers. Lot of dreams which were scattered in the small, small grounds in lndia. Today in these kinds of tournaments, ...which is not widely spread outside. We used to see some of the astonishing talents. For example, that person who has gained century in 40 balls. He is somewhere here. These kinds of talents which go unnoticed, to another dimension of... ...the game or else in the hard world cricket, to a serious format. I pray openly, they grow and raise to that level. He is one of the best coaches which is around here. Are you sending your son for coaching? No. If he is interested in the game, why can't you send him for coaching? You only have to decide the routes towards that. My thanks to all. Hey boy, be calm if water remains in the head will get cold. Even otherwise, exposed to the entire fog and has come. There is no use of drying like this girl. Within five minutes will come back fully sweat. Is there any kind of madness like this, for the children to play? How is that? The children will learn from the elders, is it not? See the boys teeth. It was really beautiful in the same row. Now look at this? Hey girl, let his full set of tooth develop, ...then will go and consult a doctor. Mother enough. Sit there child, otherwise I will pluck out your teeth myself. Father, shall I go and play? Kanna, where are you running speedy liked this? Going to play. Rameshetta, this is too much, if this boy plays like this he will... ...definitely fail in the exam. Then what? Is it because that you failed 10th standard on playing cricket? That is because I got small pox. Then what about the second time? By the time I lost the touch with it. Should have tried one more time, should have won hat-rick. No, nothing at all. Take the catch man. After hitting the ball, simply running here and there. Like dog going to market, what is the use of running? Hey lady, you won't understand. Aren't you the first lndian, who doesn't know who Sachin Tendulkar is? Then what can you understand? You see, I will make him into a big player. I'm going to send him for cricket coaching. Coaching? Why? Haven't you heard of coaching? Yes I have, neighbor sister Malathy's, daughter has gone for... ...a coaching to become a doctor. Hey man, the way you look seems, I will flee from this country with your 250 Rupees. Your father is there no, Gopi, he has never asked money to me. If I say will give, I will give it did you understand that? Great hurry to repair it, to pay the money reluctance. What son? Have you told anything? These people will give some things to repair, only once in full moon. Those people coming are of this nature. Here comes the next one. Hey man, where are you escaping by shutting down the shop? To collect the interest of Rs. 2000 must pour the petrol of Rs. 3,000. Brother Raju, what is the subject? The subject is science of finance. Brother, will give next week the work is dull now. This walking is also dull for me. If you shut the shop and go for playing balls, how will you get the work? I will come next week, must pay off the pending interest Ramesha. Or else I will take the things inside the shop and go. Why brother, a kind of threat? Don't you know giving money on interest is against the law? So, that is it now I became a wrong doer, is it? There is nothing like this kind of acts, when coming to get money on interest. Brother will give next week. Ramesha, now I'm going, but must give next week. Go man, go. A sort of new rules. Hey man, what's happening as you told tomorrow will go for... ...coaching along with the child? Should go, some of the money to be received from here and there, after... ...completion of work. Hey man, if you want money I will give. Return when you receive. Will this be sufficient? No, that..Is. That doesn't matter, you keep it let the things take place. Brother, This Vijay Menon sir's cricket coaching? Yea, here itself, sir is that person standing over there. Have you come to meet the sir? One minute okay. Sir, one person has come to meet you. Who is it? Brother come. I have, somewhere. Sir, last time at the flood light match. What is the name? Rameshan. Yes. Who is this? This is, son. Which class are you studying? 5th standard. Is it? What is it Ramesha? Son likes cricket a lot. Going for any coaching? No just thought of showing to sir, that is why brought him. Have you brought the bat? No, its at home. Is it at home? Don't worry, come. Where is your native place that you told? Brahmamangalam, from here it is around 10 to 50 kilometers. Here daily, there is practice from 3 o'clock onwards. School? Is there any problem with the school? Then in that case, for the time being come on Saturdays and Sundays. He is correctly picking up the line length of the ball. Should buy a batting kit. Things like helmet, pad and gloves. The application form can be obtained from there. Will see you, sir. Sir, this is pure English willow, it is easy to use. Has got good grains and is real strong bat. All the things on cricket? Here sir. Son, this pad, helmet and all. It is there sir. What will be the price of all this? One minute sir, will tell now. That will come to 4,500 sir. Rs. 4,500 is it not? - Yes. I'll take when I come next week, now not taken the money. Just to know the prices. It is all right sir. We will buy when we come next week. Father will buy it, for you man. It will be sufficient, is it not? Why not? How is it? Good. Shall we play? Come. Vijay sir says, he has got that kind of thing, to play. It is place where the children of rich men are coming. On seeing him playing in the mist of those people, ...truly saying my eyes were full. For that, he is always playing in here, is it not? Does anyone have to teach him more? Then you are the man, who gave him the bat into his hands. Then how come he wouldn't play? Hey lady, this is not the game I and all played. This is the real game of cricket. Must buy some good bat and pad. Out of desire to see him play, by wearing all that. I made one with the help of our Babukuttan. But with all that, can't go there. Must buy a new one but for that... ...It will come to somewhere around Rs. 4,500. Will buy it. Must buy! Rameshetta, on giving this can you buy? No need of this one, that won't be possible. I'm trying to call a saving deposit. Will see whether we will get that. I know you Rameshetta, will not sleep without buying this. On getting the saving deposit can take it back. Must listen carefully and obey what sir says. Became stylish by putting the new dress and all. Be bold Rameshan, you sit along with those parents. Run man! What is your name? Kannan. Where is your house? My house is at Brahmamangalam. There is nothing to look back, he will play all of them... ...who had come to this ground for playing has only succeeded in life. Then Vijayan sir, is a man of discipline also. Ramesha! Hey fellow Ramesha! If he doesn't have brains, at least you must have brains is it not? Hey girl, you who had removed and given it, should be beaten first. The boy's madness getting more and more and the house will be ruined. Did he say he had pledged the gold or has he sold it? Mother don't create a quarrel, Rameshettan, will take it back when he gets the money. Child, from where will he take it and give? Here the fire-heath is burning somehow that's all. With the left over gold, has purchased things for the lad, to play. Do you know what will happen when father comes to know this? Haven't I told, I don't want your gold? Will not give peace of mind at all. On asking where are the bangles, I told by mistake only. On asking about the bangles, told by mistake..What the hell? Move. In olden days playing was done by chopping the stalk of the palm leaf. Now playing, by buying the things with money. Because don't know the value of money that is why. The children are also growing up by seeing all this, is it not? Don't know when this fellow, will be better off. Hey fellow! Ramesha, come here I say. I have got the job, now no time. Aren't you coming to this house, is it not? Grandmother, father has purchased for my coaching is it not? My child, do you know anything? Your father used to study better than you. Then, did you see how he is roaming? Your father will say lot of mad things. You stop all this playing and start studying something, my child. What is the use of saying all this to you, child? Don't know how this Rameshan, was casted with this spirit? A father and a well suited son. Haven't you opened yesterday? No, went up to the city. I had come yesterday. Hey Ramesha, heard that son was taken in the lndian team and all. Will you go along with the child, after shutting down the lathe? After all he went with his child, is it with your wife? For you to become so irritated. As you are a police man, don't think you can say any nonsense? Just told on thinking because of this game the boys studies, ...will be put on lurch. You first of all teach your child and make him to a lAS officer. Only after that you attend in to the affairs of the compatriot's children. Did you understand that? I'm not there to say anything. Well making him to play like Sachin Tendulkar or what... ...nothing of that sort will happen. Even otherwise Jose, is an itching character. Good that you told nice two dialogues. That is always his routine, is it not? Leave it, what happened on going for coaching? Just started now, everyday there is coaching. We can only go on Saturdays and Sundays, is it not? Hey man, must tell if you are in need of money or something. No, there is nothing like that. Here he comes. Where is the bat and ball, man? The bat and ball is at home. At home? What did they teach at the camp? Taught defense. Defense? What is that? Will show. Is that so, are they teaching to play the test? Sir is teaching him defense over there. Has anyone taught, anything like this to us? We will beat like anything. What is the next one that is taught? Then taught drive. Drive? Yes. What is that? Will show you. Kanna, don't be scared, just drive okay. Its very good to see this confidence. I'll hit you! You go and put it. Tomorrow there will be a house match. Boys are all playing very well is it not? He is sitting there with the helmet and all. For me its a wonder, when you told you have seen 1983 world cup on TV. I was 11 years old at that time. Though the Kapil and Gavaskar were our heroes. We had felt a fascination towards Vivian Richards. Don't you remember? Yes, yes. That guy wearing a red cap, chewing, chewing gum and all. Coming to the field. Without a helmet also. Come on lmran Khan, without any kind of fear. Like a lion walking and coming. Imitating him once we went to the ground without a helmet. Could not judge the bounce. One solid hit on the head, fell on the ground suddenly. One year..Was bed ridden because of paralytic. After that on seeing the children playing, without helmet, I'm scared. So, while playing at the house Kannan, should wear his gear and play. Gear? Gear means cricketing gear, this helmet, pad and all. Okay, all right then. He is for the first time, in a ground like this. The chances which you didn't get, through him god is giving like this. That guy who is trembling and going, that is you only, is it not? During that time, there was no one to understand you nor your passion. Today for him you are there. That is not his luck, but yours. "Come near in warmth by toddling, toddling" "Will come with a song to sing, will come to make friends" "You come like a dragon fly, by wafting around the sky" "I'll come with the honey from the flowers in the sky" "At a distance, when the dusk blossoms" "When the herds of naughty clouds reaches" "Come with the radiant smile" "When time is there, as companion to un-veil the peacock..." "...feathers of desires in the mind" "Come near in warmth by toddling, toddling" "Will come with a song to sing, will come to make friends" "High up, the desire which swings in the thread" "Will come running, extend the arms and will touch you" "High up, the desire which swings in the thread" "Will come running, extend the arms and will touch you" "The moon flower is at a distance" "ls it looking at us?" "On the snow falling mountains, someone.." "Did hum slowly?" "Can you sing in a melodious tune?" "Will sing in your ears" "Hearing that sleep my beloved" What does this least common multiple mean? Ask mother. Mother, what does this least common multiple mean? I had not studied in English medium like you. Long back we have studied in Malayalam medium also. It is called 'Lasagoo', 'Lagudama Sadarana Gunitham' Do you remember that? Yes, now I understood, I remember that now. Then you explain it. Don't know whether the potatoes have boiled or not? Yes, yes. What's up? Did the son's interest in playing increase now? Now, for him he wants to be here on Saturdays anyhow. Everyone has got good opinion about him. Is it? Who has told, is it coach? Heard senior students and coach also saying that. Then Vijayan sir, is a good support. He also likes sir a lot. Didn't you know that, Vijayan sir is going to Chennai? To Chennai? Yes. Why is that? One coach ofVijayan sir is there, Chandrakanth, a senior coach. He is there in Chennai at M.R.F's club. He was called to be there. As Chandrakanth sir, is not feeling well, Vijayan sir was told to... ...undertake the coaching. When he calls, sir cannot deny going. Not that, then who will be here? Here, a new coach will come. Not that, we are somehow managing, when sir was there, ...was a great support. What is from now on.. Ramesha, should start a regular coaching for him. Can't leave like that, can you shift the school to here? Heard that sir is going to Chennai. Yea, I forgot to tell that. There is a small matter at Chennai. That is no problem, here there will be Vikas. I can understand your difficulty for not able to come for regular practice. Then Ramesha, here in all the districts there are cricket academies. So connected to that academy, there will be one school also. Children can study, at the same time practice will also take place. Everything is free of cost. But there, we should get the selection. The academy in here, the coach is an old friend of mine. I will give a letter. We will make a try. At the release time give maximum effort. This year's selection is over. Vijay, knows that. On checking the skill, from a district only 15 members will... ...be taken in the academy. Then even if we try also, he is too small a child. To play, some more stamina is required, is it not? No sir, don't look on the size, he will play very well. Were you in Vijay's club? Yes, on Saturday and Sundays will go for the practice. Not only that, we are daily practicing at home also. Will you play? I will play with the tennis ball and all. All the parents will have big ambitions about children. But his size, I don't think he is ready for being admitted to the academy now. Sir, should give a chance to him. No matter how you throw the ball, he will beat. So, is he a bats man? Yes sir. Do you have the kit? Yes sir, the kit is brought. Pad him, will see. Come, come. Should beat and make it fly did you hear that? Yes. Sir's doubt should be cleared. I'm beating all the balls there, is it not? Man, father knows it. He is ready. Go. Play well okay. Didn't I say? There is nothing to be sad on this, isn't he a small child? First of all admit him to a club and teach him regularly. You don't teach him. This tennis ball cricket has got lot of difference with professional cricket. If you teach wrongly at young age, it will be very difficult to correct it. When he gets older, we will make another selection. No, one minute. What happened to you? Place the leg forward and play by watching each ball. Did you hear that? There, you are playing brother's ball and all, is it not? You can do it, play carefully. Sir, he used to play nicely, one more chance. Only one more. My god Kanna, where did it hit? What happened? Hey boy, there is nothing at all, nothing. Hey someone bring some water, make it fast. Let me see. How many times did I say? He is not old enough to judge a ball. For all the parents, their kids are wonder kids. We will play the cricket on getting little more older, did you hear that? Get up. Won't understand on saying. Simply trying to take the stone with a dragon fly. Boy, what happened to you? There, you used to hit everyone's ball, is it not? Father, haven't you seen that brother's ball throwing. That brother was having the speed of Brett lee. Come on, Brett lee. Really, there will be 140 kilometer speed at least. 140 kilometers speed? Honestly. I didn't see that ball itself. But next time when I come for selection I will make it flee, ...that brother's ball. How is that? We will be doing practice, is it not? Is your pain subdued? It was there at that time. Now its okay. Show, where it was hit. That doesn't matter. Let me see, show. Father there. Will go there. I also want to play. Shall I go? Do you want to play? Yes. Go. Will give the bat okay. Is this the maximum speed of this? This machine has got only this much speed. This is made with single motor is it not? For the children to play. Son, is playing well. For serious players, there are higher end machines. Brother, there are machines with in swinger and out swinger. Son, next ball. But that will cost up to 2 to 2.5 lakhs. That is no use, installing it here and all, brother. 5th ball okay. Son, the last ball. For serious players, there are higher end machines. Machines with in swinger and out swinger. Will cost up to 2 to 2.5 lakhs. For serious players, there are higher end machines. Will cost up to 2 to 2.5 lakhs. Will it win? Just ask why not to win? Shall I take one more bumper? No need, this is enough. How come taking the lottery and all? Shall I take one? There is need for 2.5 lakhs of rupees. 2.5 lakhs? That is some kind of a big need, man. Let me see. Has he not closed the shop, even now? Hey Ramesha, why don't we go out for a movie? No man you guys go. There are some job. Hey man its Vijay's movie. There will be big fight and all, come man. No, you guys go. Okay we will go. Heard that there is fight when the movie starts. Is it? Rameshetta, not yet ready to sleep? No, got some more work. You sleep. Hey lady, what is he working over there? I have never seen him, doing a job so sincerely. He might have thought, that without concentrating on job... ...will not be able to sutvive. I'm also seeing it. Good if he gets well off with it. Is it the machine that we saw at the park? Not like that, but almost like that. Why is that, it is not turning? That is what father is also checking. How did father learn all this? Father is a smarty, is it not? What kind of a machine is this boy? That is, this wheel one should turn to left and other to the right. At the same time. This is turning but the other one is not turning. How can it be? What is this for? I have never seen a machine like this. Bring it here, on putting the ball like this, will go like this. To practice the cricket. What, a ball? Ball. Ball, to play the cricket. I thought he will became good, on putting the dog's tail in a tube... ...will it be worthwhile? He is making some stuff for the child to play. Hey girl, what is he doing? I don't know. Then what do you know? For you only, father is hearing this scolding can you understand that? Then what is this dog's tail and tube all about? You are not old enough to understand all that. Then won't this be mended again? It will be problem, on staying here. We will try at night. It would have been better if grandfather, is also taught cricket. Then all this problems wouldn't be there. True man, I have also thought about the same. What is your problem? No problem at all, I'm going for work. I'll go and come. What is this machines problem? This machine? Yes. That is, this is running but that is not running. Both together at the same time should rotate like this. You come, taking that pliers and screwdriver. Go and take the plier man. Boy, what is this hammer for? You turn on that switch. Beat man. Now I will do the bating. Throw! Sir, what is happening with the Chennai journey? Planning to go by next week, before going must meet Venuji. Hey man Vijay, its been quite long on seeing. Man, just drop in at the club some times. Hey man, I met that boy, which was send by you. That small boy. Don't have the strength to lift the bat itself. What happened to you? Is it, did you see his trials? Best, have I seen it or not, before the children blooms from the egg... ...the parents will uphold them. Won't understand on saying also. You are right from the olden days, a person of sentiments, is it not? We will see the things only in the professional line. Boy fell down on hitting the ball. Has he got injured, how? Ball was hit on the back tail, don't know what happened next. Haven't they called you? Kutta. What is it sir? Do you know that Rameshan's house? Don't know exactly, it is somewhere near that Brahmamangalam school. Tomorrow we must, go up to there. Will go sir, tell when it is. When the reflex is gone, why delaying man? I'll tell before one year, should have retired from the test. Vijay, I was telling, it is good that Sachin, retires. Let the new children come, man. In the last years half of the matches, Sachin is bowled. Gap between the bat and the pad. Man, have you noticed that? Technical mistake. We are all teaching the children without the mistakes, the basics and all. Son David, in our country there are lot of critics. Sachin Tendulkar, a fluke. Even if you bend down and touch your nose and howl... ...none of them, won't never reach near these legends to... ...wash their legs and drink! Sachin Tendulkar is 40 years of age. After 30 years he is 70 years. At the age of 70, a straight drive which Sachin is going to play. Have you played in your entire span? If you knew all this shots and stuff like that, a big brat how come... ...you got drained and remained here only? Couldn't you climb and spread out into the lndian team? Hey man, this is all a frustration, not able to reach anywhere. To finish that, this kind of spitting by laying on the ground. That is not your problem, there is a thing called 'parentage' It is the mistake of that. When we told the matter, abused our father. If you have any other ill-feel, there is no use of behaving by... ...putting that inside the mind. There is no use, that is what I also said. Buddy, this Sachin Tendulkar's son Arjun Tendulkar, to coach him. I came to know that, a person still now not obtained. Why not try that? "Within the hearts.. Within the hearts" "The rhythm that every lndian sings always resounds within my heart" "Within the hearts.. Within the hearts" "The rhythm that every lndian sings always resounds within my heart" Anyway it is play, then I also thought let it be serious. Is it not Sreedharan? Yes. Rameshan says, boy is playing really well. Do we know all this? Thought of making him an engineer, that didn't happen. But anyway happy with one thing. He tried to make one machine. There is an engineer inside him. Rameshan says, it is tutor who had made it. Simply he himself, has made it. I just touched it here and there. That touching is called 'grace'. "Within the hearts.. Within the hearts" He like this, right from the childhood, is it not? Why should we at this old age, turn against his likes? Husbands wants to make son to a great player like Tendulkar. Mother don't you know Tendulkar? He is a big player, started playing at the young age onwards. Go girl, who is there, who doesn't know Sachin Tendulkar? What are you, making us belittle? Ramesha. Sir, where else have you come? Where else to come, here only? To see you. Why is here, a gathering of the people? For the Kanna, to play we made a small balling machine. We were just trying to play with that. What made a balling machine? That's a good one. Ramesha, what is this, just show. Sir, here we can adjust the speed from here. The in swinger and out swinger can be adjusted from here itself. Sir I will show you. All move back. This thing is great, for that club to buy a balling machine... ...the discussions are going on for the last one year. So far nothing has taken place. Your passion towards cricket is immense, where did you get this idea? That is... My mind is saying all this difficulties undergoing now, ...it will not be without a reason. Lets hope its all for good. Will this work only on tennis ball? No, on putting a rubber bush inside, it can be used for hard ball. That is being done. Rameshan you come. Okay then. Ramesha, next week it is under 14 district selection. On saying district selection, it is the first step to the national level. After district, it is zone, then state. But only in district there is open trial. That is a hurdle. He should obtain this. If he gets this, rest he will climb and go. I'm sure about that. He will get it sir, won't he? Only after that, I'm going to Chennai, we will see. Anyway let him practice very well. Kannan eat some more. No mother, enough. Eat Kannan. Should play well, did you hear that? Should obtain the selection. Hey lady, is his getting ready over? Look, they are about to leave. Here he comes. Grandfather. Should strike and make it flee all the balls which comes. Did you hear that? Come here. Will go and come. Son, is there any tension? No. Play boldly. Is there any tension for him, put the bat properly? Has he taken any food in the morning? Of course, he had his food in the morning. Pappetta. Son. Where is brother Saji? Come get inside the vehicle, Saji told will reach there directly. His today's duty is at the town. Aren't you coming? No, there is a meeting that cannot be avoided. You people go and come. Okay shall we go? Should play properly boy, did you hear that? Pappetta, bag. You people go, we will come when Saji arrives. All right then. Son, all the best. Okay son. I will also go along with them. Should play nicely, did you hear? Should watch every ball and play nicely. Sir. Stand in the queue. This application form. That is what is said, stand in the queue. What happened? What did he say? Told to stand in the queue. You both go I will come there. Is this, the boy? He is a small child. He will play very nicely. What is his age? Sorry not for young children like him, the... ...selection is for the children of age 12, 13, 14. No sir. The child will get injured, the trials are done on hard ball. Next. Will come to know, on trying. Can't you understand on saying? There are chances up to 14 years of age, is it not? Manoj, leave the things whether the ball is hard or soft. The selection is for under 14, below 14 years of age. That is the rule. Not that, whether the child will look like 14 or not. Or will he fear on seeing the hard ball? That is not a criterion at all. Collect the application form Okay give the application. Navas. Is the duty over? Yea over. Pappetta. How many children, this district team selection is a big thing, is it not? Did you hear what the coach told other day, ...the district selection is the first step? Without getting an entry in it, cannot move forward. Likewise on going further and further can reach till lndian team. Otherwise, there is no use of playing cricket in the village, like what we did. Correct, our Rameshan itself, how well he used to play. Then did it make any benefit? Is everyone ready? Opening bats men and new ball, bowlers be ready. Each and everyone will be called according to the order. The selection is based on the performance at the pitch. Then. Yes. The function is about to start. Is it? Has it started? They have entered there. Come. Note it. Did you see that brother playing? Should play like that. What man? Look there. What happened? Why are you getting scared? Nothing. Is there any bowlers among them, who made you injured? Over there. What is there? Now you are playing, with the ball much faster than this. Play boldly man. Kannan, ...when Sachin Tendulkar, was to play the test cricket for the first time. He had to face the ball ofWaqar Younis, ...one of the fastest bowlers of that time. The first ball which was thrown by Waqar was hit on Sachin's nose. Blood came from the nose. But Sachin remained in the crease itself, with the wound. But he replied it by hitting two balls of Waqar, to the boundary. Don't we have to give a reply to the bowler, ...who had hurt you on the other day? Yes we must. Kannan, at the park on that day what did you tell. father? If he comes to bowl, didn't you say will strike boldly? You play boldly. You can do it. Son, you don't have to look at that bowler's face at all. His hand and his fingers, only that. You play boldly. Kannan, go. Go. Go man boldly. I loved cricket not for any motive. Even loving now, maybe what l played will not be cricket at all. Like how I loved the cricket, now my son also loves cricket. Now I'm seeing the dream, he wearing the lndia's jersey. I know, should walk too far off distance and... ...should reach on top of a mountain. As he walks his little legs shouldn't get weakened, by holding his hands... ...I only need to be along with him. Father did you say anything? No, what man? Felt like, as if told something. Did you hear what Sachin Tendulker said in the speech? To be a good cricketer, it is not merely playing cricket. Should be a good human being, should have great modesty. Should require honesty. Should have sincere effort. Along with our dreams, should work hard and reach for it. Without any short cuts, only in the straight paths. Did you hear that? Yes. Come. Within the hearts.. Within the hearts" "The rhythm that every lndian sings always resounds within my heart"
