 

                        Sonic Youth Sonic Youth Sonic Youth Sonic Youth Sonic Youth Sonic Youth Sonic Youth Dance! Dance to dancing To German prancing To fuckin' France and All the rest. Dance to decadence Dance to the train that runs through my mind Searching for the snake running into my behind Dance A dance A fairy dance A dance that will surf into man's hole A dance that -- turn man's hole into man's soul A dance to all the dead people who say: "Hey, don't forget We are the ones Who create the earth's sweat." A dance A muddy fucky dance A muddy track A muddy slice into the crack Of god's homosapian whack Oh yes, the flowers they will grow And they will show us how to blow In the wind Like a Dylan(?) fog Like a fuggy wog (vermiefter Kanacke) Like the sky will come down and rain the mud The muddy tracks The muddy wax Oh yes, a dance A fucky wucky dance A dance to America's pha(s)tic plastic plastic holes in disguise in disguise In Judy's eyes In Judy's eyes Judy in disguise. Oh yeah, you know I dance to the film That captures my fucking million ants Crawling through the rocks Of my prehistoric mind To a dance A dance A dance to the teeth That are in the bucket of my head A dance A dance A dance to the puppet of meat That sways its head over to its feet And sneezes: "Hello, I love you, Won't you tell me your beautiful fucking name? You American insane chicks and dicks Together we will click Into the great golf ball In the sky Dance! Dance! Dance! Dance! Dance! Dance! Dance! Dance! And DIE! I went away to see an old friend of mine His sister came over she was out of her mind She said Jesus had a twin who knew nothing about sin Then she's laughing like crazy at the trouble I'm in. Her light eyes were dancing she is insane Her brother says she's just a bitch with a golden chain She keeps coming closer saying "I can feel it in my bones Schizophrenia is taking me home." My future is static It's already had it I could tuck you in We can talk about it I had a dream And it split the scene But I got a hunch It's coming back to me People of the universe! Tonight Tonight will be the night that the skies will open and spray forth the divine hand with poison finger and say everybody: You're not just a duck You're human! You saw that lady on the bike that---? You are human! Go forth! Go forth and thrash! This is out of our range This is out of our range This is out of our range And it's grown. This is getting to be This is getting to be This is getting to be like drone. I'm a negative creep You're a negative creep We're all negative creeps She feels stoned. I'm a negative creep You're a negative creep I'm a negative creep Daddy's little girl ain't a girl no more Daddy's little girl ain't a girl no more Daddy's little girl ain't a girl no more Daddy's little girl ain't a girl no more This is out of our range And it's grown. Getting to be a drone. Negative creep and I'm stoned. Negative creep This tour, I mean... The way I see it is this tour to me it's like a dare. You know. Cause I know this kids out there and they have the same -- They have the same feelings To me it's like -- It's like us and Nirvana and all the other bands that we are going to be playing with to us it's like -- It's like a dare to our parents, it's a dare to the the Bush administration, it's a dare to the KGB who have overthrown Gorbachev this morning as we speak. God knows what it's going to be like in the future. And the future to us -- is a dare. So to us -- I mean fuck 'em Fuck 'em all! I wonder where Sonic Youth is playing tonight. I wonder what festival they are playing with Nirvana tonight. Yes, woof woof, I will see Sonic Youth tonight. Yes, woof, where is Sonic Youth playing tonight? Yes, yes. Here we are playing with Gumball and Nirvana This picture represents the fact that it's a live gig. See, this is the lead singer singing live. It's live. You know, it's not clone, it's not fake This shit's fucking live, man! "Take my hand" he said to me Follow now or you'll be damned Let's go to the other side Let's go to the other side Great balls of simplicity Great balls of simplicity Brother James gave 'em to me Brother James gave 'em to me I don't need 'em anymore Don't go knockin' at my door I don't need 'em anymore Don't go knockin' at my door. Take my hand, you might as well We're going straight to hell I don't wanna hang around Won't you stick yr head in the ground Those grapes, I shall eat every one. Grape, my grape, my grape every single grape on the plate. Then I go to the oranges. There are five oranges. No, there are six, they were being hidden by the grapes. Then I'll eat every grape. Then there is the kiwis. There is only four kiwis because they are so precious. It's a fruit you don't find everywhere. Then I go to the bree. The bree there is three slices, half of which I'll eat in one. And then I go to the bread. The bread, this is the soft bread, this is the melba toast and this is the Huit bread. And then I shall drink every spare canister on this table. Not only that with the Royal Club Light. But I don't like Pepsi, I drink coke. And there's ice, ice, ice for everyone! You don't find ice in Holland. I love my ice. Then I'll drink the beer, but no, I'll share the beer. And I'll share the wine You like to have a glass of wine? I would love to have your wine. Oh, the potato chips! I will eat the chips. There are three flavours, I'll eat them all. And the box of juice, would you like some? Yeah, juice is doing fucking for me. I will shake the juice till it bursts. I love the juice! I love your juice! Won't you believe it? It's just my luck. Won't you believe it? It's just my luck. Won't you believe it? It's just my luck. Won't you believe it? It's just my luck. No recess! No recess! No recess! Won't you believe it? It's just my luck. Won't you believe it? It's just my luck. Won't you believe it? It's just my luck. Won't you believe it? It's just my luck. No recess! No recess! No recess! Your eyes to the grill Your eyes to the grill Your eyes to the grill Your eyes to the grill You're in high school again Your eyes to the grill You're in high school again You're in high school again! No recess! Thank you, thank you, you did a wonderful audience! Thank you, thank you, no really, no you're really a wonderful audience, thank you! - What is your name, sir? - Achim. - What is your name, miss? - Christine. - Your name? - Christian. Alex. My name is Jens. Jens, what do you think of the current state of young Rock'n'Roll, today? I think it's a problem because Rock'n'Roll is getting older and older You know, for me are the sixties the only -- the real Rock'n'Roll and you only can try to copy it. Lots of people see Rock'n'Roll as youth culture and when youth culture becomes monopolized by big business what are the youth to do? Do you have any idea? I think we should destroy the bourgeois capitalist process that is destroying youth culture. By mass marketing and commercials -- commercial -- paranoia behaviour control and the first step to do is to destroy the record companies. Do you not agree? This is called -- Hey, did you know that Punk Rock finally broke in '91? It's called Teen Age Riot. Everybody's talking 'bout the stormy weather And what's a man do to but work out whether it's true Looking for a man with a focus and a temper Who can open up a map and see between one and two And here he comes now Stick to your guns And let him through 's great and narrow I ain't the farrow It's a fucked up shoe Everybody's out on the summer vacation Go around in the sun in a hyper nation for you Looking for a log and a rock and a barrel To save on a slave it's a super narrow view. We know it's down We know it's bound to loose Coming round to the city ??? Takes a teen age riot to get me out of bed for now Round and rounder I feel the sky it's up above He acts the hero Paint a zero on her hand We know it's down We know it's bound to loose Everybody's sound is round it Everybody wants to be proud to choose So who's to take the blame for the stormy weather You're never gonna stop all the teenage leather and booze Now it goes round A one man showdown Teach us how to fail We're off the streets now And back on the road On the riot trail I'm(?) balling in a foreign country. - You're vegetarian? - M hm. - Needs five minutes. - Yeah, ok. - And you? Chicken? - Chicken. The festival scene is beautiful, man! - The sight is a picturesque -- - The sun is out. -- mud field. A picturesque field of mud. - What are you eating? - This is a -- This is something ??? cause to me - I need this elixir. This elixir of -- skinhead violence. Atom bomb! So sir, we're going to try this. Tell me what kind of cigarette it is. What do you think? - Winston Light? - Yeah... Not really. But I'd like to give you this carton with cigarettes to take home and give to your family and -- And here, and you can have your practical(?) hot pink cigarette type dealy-bob. In excellence! I'm so desperate for some fun. What about you, tell me what the latest gossip is! What's been going on in AMPAS(?)? Well, ever since Uma left things haven't really been the same. Everyone has their head down and no one is smiling anymore. Another day some guy lit himself on fire uncommented(?), and no one even cared cause Uma wasn't around anymore. But whatever happened to you and Uma? You are still going out with her? I don't know. It's just too painful. I just can't talk about it right now. I've seen enough to eye you But I've seen to much to try you It's always weirdness while you Dig it much too much to fry you The weirdness flows between us Anyone can tell to see us Freak scene just can't believe us Can't it just be cool and leave us? I've seen enough to eye you But I've seen to much to try you It's always weirdness while you Dig it much too much to fry you The weirdness flows between us Anyone can tell to see us Freak scene just can't believe us Can't it just be cool and leave us? It's so fucked I can't believe uh(?) Anyone can tell to see us How it could work just can't conceive it What a mess! Sometimes I don't thrill you Sometimes I think I'll kill you Just don't let me fuck up will you 'cause when I need a friend it's still you. - What's the magazine? - Scootering Magazine. - Scootering? - Yeah. At the moment I'm saving to get a brand new one I'm customizing the around the LP "Goo" - Really? - Spraying(?) the front cover on it. Then you put the front cover of "Goo" on your scooter? On the side panel, yeah, and on the other side on the rail. - You'll send us a photograph of that? - I will indeed. You know Murph, the drummer from Dinosaur? I have heard of him. When they come here you should talk to him, he's a scooter fanatic. Peace! See ya! Peace! This is Keith of the crew and he's gonna explain the phenomenon known as Thurston-itis. Thurston-itis is basically when you loose all control of your mind. You just walk around in a daze, stay with a baseball cap on backwards, your bangs in your eyes, and you go deaf. Are the signs going searching for used record stores? Is that a good indication that you are falling under the spell of Thurston-itis? Yeah, I think we are following the king of Thurston-itis now. Yeah, looking for pre-used stores that don't exist and pretending that you know where they are. And asking the locals and -- pretending you understand the language and you don't and you nod a lot. And it's usually a lot like: "It's right over here! It's right over here!" Oh, Steve Shelley! Iggy! Iggy! Here boy! Here he is! Here he comes! Iggy! That's Iggy Pop! You're outrageous! Fun House is my favourite LP! Can we get lunch together some time? Raw power, I can feel it. So anyway you guys -- Last night I was gonna ??? Instead I have a -- oh thank you! Hey, what's green and flies over Germany? Snotsies. Woah, shoot Yeah, shoot Indian Billy simple sin scratches across my skin Oh my soul, there's a hole(?) Soft gravel scratches cross my skin Oh my soul, there's a hole(?) It ain't love, baby, that makes this martyr grin Simply sick, where Billy's been Sending psychic messages you can't even hear From my dumb mouth to your deaf ear Sugar spit sentiment never even meant We've all dragged our Jesus hair around Dust cake boy(?) boy boy Woah he wavers me something Woah he fucks real mean She screams out your name 'cause she sweats to be Me, me, me, me, me, me Has a crystalline cunt made of mint julep Tea, tea, tea, tea, tea, tea You're staring at something you're never gonna see Take your small eyes away from Me, me, me, me, me, me Woah, he fucks real mean On one of the sleeves you've got the name of Raymond Petibon ??? What's it exactly, I mean it sounds like it's got to be a French name is he French or is he --? Raymond Petibon is not French. This is another in an endless stream of interviews with foreign journalists who don't really understand a word you're saying as you in turn understand nothing that they are trying to communicate to you. It's Mr Microphone, hey baby! See you here to pick you up later. What are your influences? - You've been here before, in '87. - Yeah, long time ago, when it was raining and they were throwing mud at the mission where they were wearing their white robes and smoke machines. That was definitely a worthwhile concert. How was your concert then? It was horrible, of course. And this one? Will be more horrible? This one is gonna be a new Sonic. What do you mean with a new Sonic? I'm gonna come out and I'm immediately gonna puke on stage, and then douse the puke with lighter fluid and light it and then kick it into the audience, and this entire field with 100.000 people is gonna go up in flames, and then I'm gonna get a shotgun and just do it, do it baby! That's cause I'm just gonna keep on. Just gonna keep on and on. This is to the extreme, you know. I don't call myself the only living white hope of the great era of the colors in the sky. Because my eye is full of bees' wax. Yeah, peace, baby! Here we go to another candle I know All the girls there playin' on a jelly roll Time to take a ride Time to take it in a midnite eye If you wanna go Get on below Pinking out the day Dreaming out the crazy way Finger on the love It's all above Everywhere it's six-sex-six by luck A satellite wish will make it just enough You'll be making out with a witch in a coffee truck Time to rock the road And tell the story of the jelly rollin' Dirty boots are on Hi di ho Pinking out the black Dreaming in a crack Satan's got her tongue Now it's undone I got some dirty boots Hey, dirty boots I got some dirty boots, baby Dirty boots Oh man, aaah That was something for the soul. It was like a fucking party on stage, man. That was great Kim, you were amazing Kim, Steve, Thurston Hey, it was great, you know it was a quite fabulous show tonight. You guys were really neat. See him Ignore him Yeah, I have Bright and clear See him Right here See him Bright and clear Mama Mama Kill With violence Beat him Right here Deal with it Go to hell Go to jail Our rider sucks. Everyone else has everything better than we do. We have Coke, everyone else has Pepsi. I much prefer Pepsi. There's no ice, there are no plastic cups, An Emotional Fish have vegetables and crackers and we have paprika balls. Fuck. It's filling! It's filling up! ??? hatch! You guys have a good rider, man. You're hatching the riders? Yeah. John? -- I mean Freddy? Yes? What were all those fat dudes sitting in the front row? You promised me, there'd be no industry people in the front rows. What fat dudes, Kim? Right. Right. I don't understand what you're saying. Me and you know how they got here, right? I don't know how this people got here, at all! What are you talking about? Have you seen your trainer today? You told me there would be no fat industry people sitting down in the front. That's okay, I mean look: when we figure it out between you and Thurston and Steve and Lee we split up, and of course I take my portion of the cup. You're gonna be making like 2000 dollars apiece. At least 200.000 We sold those tickets to the front rows. That means no percentage for Danny, right? No, no percentage for Danny, it's all going to me. How long can this go on? Safety pants, bondage trousers. Do you still consider yourself a punk after all this? I consider myself more fucked up that I ever could imagine myself to be. Another work of arts? Yes, I must say. And now for some real shit. We shall play live. She comes into my mind Twisting thru my nerves I don't understand A word she says She's on my side I love her all the time I love her all the time I love her all the time I love her all the time She comes into my mind Twisting thru my nerves I don't understand A word she says She's on my side I love her all the time I love her all the time I love her all the time Yo, yo, yo, Hello Space Shower TV, I am Thurston Whore of Sonic Youth and I want you all to get down and pray for Rock, baby. Hello, Space Shower TV I am Kim Gordon of Sonic Youth. Hello, Space Shower TV I am Lee of Sonic Youth. Here. My name is Matt, and when I'm hanging out on Venice beach, pumping iron with Hank, I like to listen to -- What station is it? KXRO? Yeah, KXRO, I like to listen to that cause they play Hank (Williams). Do you like to be here? What do you think about a festival like this, a big festival? It's a quite major one. Right now, we're chowing down with the members of Sonic Youth one of the few American bands on the bill. I love English food! English food is my favourite. Listen, I think you're being a little sarcastic there. - No. - ??? How do you think you're perceived in Britain? Is it starting? It's starting. Lee Ranaldo, ladies and gentleman. This is Matt from Mudhoney. Matt from Mudhoney, say hello! Hi, mom! It's an evening with Sonic Youth and friends. My mom's a poof (homosexual). You better introduce everyone. The biggest star in this room is Courtney Love. Can we get it? A close-up of Courtney Love, yes! - Courtney Love! - Hi! - Hello! What do you want me to say? - Your chance baby. - I'm an American! I'm an American! - Don't blow it! I am. This is just like - too much! Far too much - for any -- I'd like to thank Dave Kandle for making me a star today. Only he could do it. Giving me my big brake. Help! I can't take it! It's from the album. It's called Pre. This is the problem: What the fuck is a Bratwurst? What the fuck is a Bockwurst? We can't tell the difference between Bratwurst, Bockwurst, Currywurst, Leberwurst, Knackwurst, all the Wurst. We have somebody here today, who is a Wurst aficionado / specialist? This small ones come from Franken which is the part of Germany around Nrnberg. This one is a typical country style Wurst. - A hot dog. - Yeah -- This one is from Thringen which is a part of the country in the ex-DDR Now those are what? Bockwursts? This one is a Bratwurst, as well. But it's coming from east Germany, actually. Typical east German Wurst. And why is it white? I suppose to -- It's more natural pig meat, you know. I would say it's white because it's from DDR. They never came to Spain. That's why it's so white. Didn't see any sun before these pigs. - I don't know what's going -- - So the word Brat as in Bratwurst just means grill? - Grill, right. - grill Wurst. - But Bock doesn't mean anything. - No, nothing. It's just sort of, like -- A Bock actually is a male animal. A male anima - animal? Animal. Male. Male. Oh, good. So, I still don't know what the hell I like best. I kinda like the fat -- You know, like an arm holding a baby's apple kind of Wurst. I'm hungry. I'm hungry! And I feel like eating a pig's head. Does anybody here have a - know where I can find a pig's head? Cause I'm hungry, dammit! Hungry! Hello. Do you like Rock'n'Roll? Who are your favourite Rock'n'Roll bands? New Kids on the Block? Oh no, what about the Bros? Scorpions? You like Heavy Metal? Rap? Funk? Do you like Indie Guitar Swing? Is J Mascis your boyfriend? Tell me about your Japanese love child! Well, there's this kid being born about - maybe tomorrow. And they don't know if it's my love child or HR's. Well, I think we'll know pretty soon, don't you? I don't know. It's a tough call. Dreadlocks and pale skin. With lots of tangles. Do you think you play differently when you're a skinhead, than you are now as you're now as a hair? Yeah, well, I had lice, so I had to get a skinhead and it was It was really hard playing with lice cause you're like - trying to move around shaking the lice off your head. Were the lice falling on the drum heads? And then you would hit the drum head and they hop up in the air? Yeah. Sometimes they just splatter into millions -- What do you think about when you're playing the drums? Usually my room at home. I'm thinking about what I'd be doing. What do you look at? It seems like your view from the drum set is is J's rear end. Does that get kind of tiresome? No, that's cool. I look at him a lot. It's been a while. I can keep it up. There's been a place I'd go But you're not there And I'm supposed to know How to get to where you're gonna be But you don't even know So I'm sailin' while you're flalin' off without a course in mind Without a mind, without a dock What is it that you wanna find There's a place I'd like to go When you get there then I'll know There's a place I know you've been Here's a wagon, get on in Baby, why don't we? Baby, why don't we? Why don't we? You won't see me You won't see me There you are and here I stand Tryin' to make you feel my hand You won't see me You won't see me I ring the doorbell in your mind But it's locked from the outside You won't see me You won't see me You don't live there anyway But I knock on it all day When we first came over here it was like -- We were lucky to get a hundred people in a club. Who actually never really were. And we would arrive either by a train and get picked up at the train station in a car and taken to a little shitty club. And now we're spoiled brats in our 30s. And this is the price we pay? Is brat core what it's turned into? - Come in! - I just would like to ask a question. When you guys finish today it'd be possible that you could bare two autograph cards for my kids? No problem! Yeah, of course. Do your kids know who we are? Oh yeah, sure. Okay, thank you! Our audience is expanding. My mind is turning to kind of a fine gelatinous ball of pepper. I have to soundcheck. If broken bottles shine like jewels If this decision points to you If what you say is ever true Then I'll be fine Then I'll be fine I'm down in the daytime out of sight Comin' in from dreamland I'm on fire I can see it's all been here before Dream a dream that lies right at your door When the seasons circle sideways out of turn And words don't speak just fall across the carpet You're just in time to watch the fires burn It seems a crime but yr face is bright you love it All the time I saw her today I saw her face It was the face I loved And I knew I had to run away And get down on my knees and pray That they'd go away Still they begin Needles and pins Because of all my pride The tears I gotta hide Yeah! Oh I thought I was smart Okay, here we got a -- Look over here, bro! We got King King. Over here. King Kong. And next to King Kong we got Cheetah. Next to Cheetah we got Judy. And right now in action we got King Lewis. And here we go! Hey, monkey! Hey, monkey! Next to monkey Next to monkey we got Charley. And Charley says Load up on guns, bring your friends It's fun to lose and to pretend She's overboard and self-assured Oh no, I know a dirty word Hello, Hello, Hello, How Low Hello, Hello, Hello, With the lights out, it's less dangerous Here we are now, entertain us I feel stupid and contagious Here we are now, entertain us A mulatto An albino A mosquito My libido Yeah I'm worse at what I do best And for this gift I feel blessed Our little group has always been And always will until the end And I forget just why I taste Oh yeah, I guess it makes me smile I found it hard, it's hard to find Oh well, whatever, nevermind Denial A denial '91 is the year that punk finally breaks. Through. To the mass consciousness of global society. Modern punk as featured in Elle magazine. Mtley Cre singing Anarchy In The UK in a European arena in front of 100.000 screaming people. In the most sickeningly candy-ized version you'll ever hear of it. But it is the song itself. And you read an interview with John Lydon. He doesn't give a fuck. To him it's a larf. The Ramones! Hi, I'm Joey. Have you seen Dee Dee? Hi, we're the Ramones. We're making our own tour movie, here. Can you wave? For the Camera? For Sonic Youth? Thanks, Joey. Are you psyched to see the Ramones? Surely. Actually with(?) the Ramones. I'm psyched. I'm finally playing with the Ramones. I've played with Iggy. Now I'm playing with the Ramones. They do their best, they do what they can They get them ready for Vietnam From old Hanoi to East Berlin Commando - involved again First rule is: The laws of Germany Second rule is: Be nice to your mommy Third rule is: Don't talk to commies Fourth rule is: Eat kosher salamis They do their best, they do what they can They get them ready for Vietnam From old Hanoi to East Berlin Commando - involved again First rule is: The laws of Germany Second rule is: Be nice to your mommy Third rule is: Don't talk to commies Fourth rule is: Eat kosher salamis You are in no condition to play tonight! - Yikes! Yikes! - You played yourself. - You played yourself. - You played yourself. Yo, yo, you played yourself. You played yourself, boy. I'm a player. I'm a high roller. He livin high. He's livin life. - Yeah, player. My man. - Player! Kool Thing sittin' with a kiddie Now you know you're sure lookin' pretty Like a lover not a dancer Superboy take a little chance here I don't wanna I don't think so I don't wanna I don't think so Kool Thing (let me) play it with your radio Move me, turn me on, baby-o I'll be your slave Give you a shave I don't wanna I don't think so I don't wanna I don't think so Hey, Kool Thing, come here. There's something I go to ask you. Don't be shy. I just wanna know, what are you gonna do for me? Are you gonna liberate us girls From male white corporate oppression? Fill up your head Come on, baby Come on, baby Come on, baby Come on, baby Like this Kool Thing sittin' by the kiddie Now you know you're sure lookin' pretty Rock the beat just a little faster Now I know you are the master I don't wanna I don't think so I don't wanna I don't think so Kool thing walkin' like a panther Come on and give me an answer Kool thing walkin' like a panther What'd he say? I don't wanna I don't think so I don't wanna I don't think so It's hard bringing lipstick on someone else. Doctor! The Rabbi Doctor Hillel Brother. - Is it legible, Chris? - Sure, all -- It's in your handwriting. You have to go like , or anything? Let me see you, Dave! Dave, Let me see you! All in how do I loot. - The loot, the loot! The loot! - Yes I want the grass. We could turn these skirts into mini skirts. Yeah, I think so, too. Hey, there's something on the back! I didn't know that. Oh, big "Search and Destroy". Polly wants a cracker Think I should get off her first Think she wants some water To put out the blow torch Isn't me Have a seed Let me clip Dirty Wings Let me take a ride Hurt yourself Want some help Please myself Got some rope Have been told Promise you Have been true Let me take a ride Hurt yourself Want some help Please myself Polly wants a cracker Maybe she would like more food Ask me to untie her Chase would be nice for a few Isn't me Have a seed Let me clip Dirty Wings Let me take a ride Hurt yourself Want some help Please myself Got some rope Have been told Promise you Have been true Let me take a ride Hurt yourself Want some help Please myself Polly said Polly says her back hurts She's just as bored as me She's caught me off my guard Amazes me, the will of instinct Isn't me Have a seed Let me clip Dirty Wings Let me take a ride Hurt yourself Want some help Please myself Got some rope Have been told Promise you Have been true Let me take a ride Hurt yourself Want some help Please myself It is the last show of our tour. Two week tour with Nirvana, Sonic Youth, Nirvana, some Gumball action, some Dinosaur action some Black Francis action, some Ramones action, etcetera, etcetera, ??? Iggy Pop and Agnostic front. It's the end! it feels like we only begun. It's so short, it's sweet, it's to the point. Tonight I'm going to defecate on stage. Because I think that is the only way to express the nature of my soul according to Rock'n'Roll. That of waste and that of especially good taste. Wouldn't you say so, sir? - ??? - Yes. There's this fine line between clever and -- We're gonna kill The California girls We're gonna fire the exploding load In the milkmaid maiden head We're gonna find the meaning Of feeling good And we're gonna stay there As long as we think we should Mystery train Three way plane Expressway To your skull Mystery train Three way plane Expressway To your skull Mystery train Three way plane Expressway To your skull
