 

                        1864, April 22nd. I remember that day like It was yesterday. A renegade troop of Northern soldiers fought In the so called Civil War, raped our women, murdered our children, even took out my goddamn eye I can still hear Granny's cries as they burnt Pleasant Valley to the ground. They killed us all, doomed us to a life in limbo. Nothing more than ghosts seeking revenge. Guess that's the way the good Lord wants It. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, as the Old Testament says. One thing's for certain, our souls ain't ever gonna find rest 'til all 2001 are avenged Yes, sir, name's Buckman. Mayor James W. Buckman. And here In Pleasant Valley, the anniversary of our tragic massacre has arrived. And so have we. Knives have been sharpened for justice, table set for revenge. We try to make sport of it for the little ones. No reason vengeance can't be fun. Only thing missing are the Yanks. And so, yet again, we wait. Must admit Granny's been deeply loyal through the decades. Just ain't Into rubbing ankles with her no more. Last time we did, I popped my son. Filthy scum. I think that's them coming now. What in the blazes-? Yee-haw I Come on. # The South's Gonna rise again # The South's Gonna rise again # Yeah I Yee-haw I # The South's Gonna again # You ain't gonna like this none, Daddy. Sheriff Freeman here, done tore down the detour sign Will you please? # Yeah I # Damn! What seems to be the problem here, my good Sheriff Freeman? The problem, my good man, is every spring I get calls from State police after yours little festival, looking for missing Northern folk. Up 'til now, I've played ball ya'll, but now I've got Ben sniffing around my butt. "You've played ball, " because we've paid you quite a generous bounty for your stewardship, ain't that right, sweet cream? You didn't mind me when you was a cub scout, you little Davy? No, ma'am. You wouldn't be pretending you can resist me? No, ma'am. That's what I thought. Look, milk or no milk, I ain't dropping the soap in prison for none of ya'. Ain't gonna be no more jamborees. No more feastin', no more killin'. None of it! Is that clear? Clear as a nighttime kiss, on a young possum's cooch. This town used to be a jewel on the crown of the South. You maniacs squeezed it into a turd. Now hush up, you big baby, you're ruining all the fun. Amen, Harper. Such Ingratitude brings a tear to my eye when I think of all the hard work that went into making this thrill ride. Am I right, folks? Yeah! Damn you and your thrill ride. Well if that's how you feel I'll have to tickle you on the way down. Hold on a minute, wait a minute ya'II. Come on. Hold on. We'll make a deal. No! No? No. Fuck you and your maniacs! Wait, wait a minute. Bye-bye. No. No! Okay, folks, what time is it? Roll out the barrel! The what? Roll out the! I'm- I'm sorry, I can't hear you. Kill that mother fucker! You got it! One, two, three! Ugh I Bulls eye! Ooh! Oh! Let's hear some of that 'oI death rattle! I'll see you in hell, Buckman. We're already there. Ugh! # Rot in hell Rot in hell # Ah, well, Bucky, if the Northern folk won't come to the South- Well, we'll bring the South to them! Right there on the road, don't forget to check the backseat. Next week on Road Rascals the Old South gets a taste of Beverly Hills, as America's favorite debutantes Rome and Tina Sheraton, head to Georgia. Watch out, red states. 'Cause we're coming your way. I hear the South smells like shit. Isn't the Liberty Bell In? I hear they have these bugs there, called chiggers, that sleep in your puss. Those Mexican cleaning ladies better not bitch us out. My sister has got to ditch that icky dead dog, yeah it was sad when Biscuit died but then Rome got it taxidermed. I cannot stand my sister's boyfriend, Falcon. He's so gay. Hello? Tina's, not for sure, but, you know, it's not like we're married or anything, so. Yo, yo, yo, what plays in Georgia, stays in Georgia. Just don't tell Rome. Right, bro? All this and more, next week on Road Rascals. So, that's the promo. Nice. Don't you just love it? Absolutely. Red state, blue state, Rome and Tina Sheraton, the wing of the left flying deep Into the heart of the rights. I think we're talking Golden Globe on this one. Why so shortsighted, Jerry, I mean, why not Pulitzer, or the Nobel? What could possibly be more prize winning than these two jiggling their tits across the heartland? Bristol, please. Well, I know Mommy's little Biscuit loved it. Didn't she? Mommy's little Biscuit doesn't love anything any more, will you bury that already. It fuckin' stinks. Why do you have to be such a goddamn tool, K-Jay? I'm not the one smacking a stuffed corpse. Tina. Falcon. Stop bagging on the rat. Ow! I mean, K, can't you show Biscuit just a little respect? Bro, who's on the fucking leash? You or the bag of sawdust? Look, dude. I kiss her ass, she makes me famous. Fucking cheapskates put some damn curtain like I'm the fucking hired help. Where the fuck are we anyway? Iowa? What the fuck Is In Iowa? I shouldn't have let you drive. Will you get off your rag already? How many times do I have to tell you? Momma wants a hard shell taco when all you got is a soggy chingadera. Shut up, baby. I got a hard shell taco. You need to supersize it. Now back to work. Come on, come on. There you go. Now shut the fuck up and suck it. Yes, yes, yes, I can see. I can see It. I see a new moon rising. Excuse me I've had enough of this shit I know you and these asses like to do whatever you want down Rodeo drive, but here, I'm the producer I'm the boss There'll be no party, no drugs, and no sex! Do you think you can put that no sex clause in Jerry's contract? There's no respect, I'm the driver, the production assistant, I'm the fucking caterer the fucking- Fuck, fuck, baby. We're full time party girls, Val. Okay? It's what we do. And it's like, you don't want us doing what we do. Yeah, like making me wear panties to the Saturn A wards, or not letting Rome shave her head. Girls, girls, it's not about wearing panties or shaving your puss- Head, It's about not letting these parasitic boyfriends drag you down. You got to evolve into modern women. More like modern rug munchers. Shit- Uh- Uh, uh, Madre de Dios Madre de Dios Damn I What happened? Get off of me What the fuck is wrong with you, Jezus? It's "Jesus", puta, and I hit a fucking detour sign. I n the middle of the road? Yeah. How much is this gonna cost me, Jesus? Knowing your cheap ass, you probably didn't even insure this piece of shit, so I just made you some money, bruja. Look, they spelled it the French way. Where the fuck are we anyway? Iowa. How the fuck did we get to Iowa? Sorry, I was a little bit distracted. Hey, we could always camp out. You know, get the girls In thongs, roasting marshmallows, It would make for some great footage. H m, I don't think so. This place looks way too creepy. Yeah, It makes Biscuit's hair stand up. That would be the Formaldehyde, babe. Dude, respect. For once, I agree with the debutantes. Let's just get out of here. I hate to Interrupt the production meeting but I got two busted front tires and only one spare, we ain't going nowhere. Call Triple A. Call them yourself, diabla rubia. God! Do I have to do everything? There's no signal. Que sorpresal Pleasant dreams, m'Ijosl What? They spelled it in French. K- Jay! I said no anal! Babe, don't look at me! Uh, I was just checking the, uh, the battery and- Come on, babe, let's get some privacy. That's right, fool. Get sticky with yourself. Oh, yeah, baby! Lower, lower! Rake the clam! Is that good? Is that good? Rake it. Rake the clam. Rake it! You like that? Yeah! Now give us a nice big smile. Oh, nightmare. Tinkle time. Make that tinkle for two. Let's finish together this time. One. Two. Three What the fuck! Welcome to Pleasant Vally! H m, sorta. # Hey, Hey Yowdy, heydy, aye # # Great new world Brand new day # # Hey, Hey Yowdy, heydy, aye. # Whoo-hal Now let me introduce myself. Name's Buckman, George W. Buckman, and ya'll arrived just in time to be our special guests at the Pleasant Valley Travelling Jamboree You clowns for real? As it gets, macho. That's right. Now, uh, back In our hometown of dear 'oI Pleasant Valley, Georgia, every year about this time- Whoa. What the hell Is that? Why, that's my pooch box. Pooch box? Scarlet Red means log box, gentlemen, come her 18th birthday I may present her with the key. She's very progressive. Oh, you good at licking rock, Hollywood? Hell, I'll lick your rock silly, babe. China Rose is trying to say " Picking locks? My lock. " I can pick locks. When I was a kid, I broke into a shul, and the Shammes caught me lifting a challah. Holy Moly I Folks, we got ourselves a Hebrew I That's "Jew" to you, Colonel. Jew, Hebrew, Christ-killer, It's all the same in Spain. That reminds me, what's the difference between an Israeli and an Israelite? About 100 calories. Moving right along, folks. Every year, down in Georgia, we put on a show- Wait a minute. Did you say Georgia? Why, yeah, ma'am, our proud govern state. Do you think we could cheat this local for Georgia? For the right price, I can play Laguna Beach for the Golan Heights. What's all the whispering about? Uh, Mayor Buckman. Turner, VaI Tuner. Producer. Oh. Well, I do think we shall join your jamboree. Well, that's great news H it, Crow! # Hot games and feasting' Yeah! # Ew. Ugh. # Hot games and feastin' Yeah I # Hot games and feastin' Yeah I # Christ on a cracker, boys. After all these 140 odd years, sometimes, I think we should just, burn the whole goddamn North in one giant bonfire! Ah, but, what's the style In that? One shot discharge- None, Captain my. None at all. You're damn right, Harper, besides, It goes against tradition, and quite frankly, Is about all we got left. The network is gonna love this, a bunch of redneck outsiders who thought the South won the Civil War. They didn't? No, Tina, they didn't. Duh, that's right. It was the Nazis. Anyway, while our sister act pretties up... Jesus, you and Jerry go and do some scouting. See if you can find some indigenous locations here. You do know what "indigenous" means, right? Hey, VaI, why don't you, me and Bristol do some Interviews with the hicks? You know, put a face to the place. If you don't mind, I'd rather go with Jesus and Cherry. What? You got a thing for this cholo? What's that? You want me to give you a second briss? Chill out, Jay. Look, I'll carry your shit, you just go show her a good time. Make sure you save enough sugar for Black Cherry. Cool? Cool Whatever. Come on, get over It, Jerry. Come on, come on. If we nail this, the network Is gonna be talking spin offs, pay per view blue ray box set. If these fine folks of Pleasant Valley play ball, this gig will never end! I know I speak for us all, sir, when I say I'm proud to be among the chosen few here with you, In the chance location of the troubles. Well, God bless you Harper. You know, you're rigging' a goddamn Mark Twain with you poetizing. You have earned your spot on the bus. Ya'll did! Even Jezebel, too, Daddy? Yeah, Jezebel, too. Except she earned her spot in the section called " Provisions"! You don't mean you're gonna harm- I mean that stuffed piece of lamb is gonna be on my dining room table next to some mint jelly and a good bottle of Muscatel unless you boys go out there and get me some Yonkers quick! Now skedaddle! And make me proud. Or something like it. So when's your CD dropping? End of summer. Excuse me, your CD? What happened to our CD? We can't do everything together Romy, besides, it's music, not a basketball team. Yeah, the label wants me to record, too. EM O meets death metal. Ha! Ballads with balls. Yo, yo, yo. Check out Abder, macking on my boy's dill pickle. Dude, I ever tell you about the time I totally fucked my baby sitter? Bro, I thought you said your uncle was your baby sitter. Never mind. So what's a hottie like you doing with a limp dick like Jerry? Ever hear of the dumb blond that slept with the writer to get ahead in Hollywood? Guess that was me. Oh, baby, you're no dumb blond, you're just misinformed. See, it's not the writers or directors that get you ahead, it's the teamsters. You stick with me, I'll hook you up. Yeah, I've never heard that one before. Bitch, I ain't playing you. Oh, yeah? So who are you gonna hook me up with? For one, a bunch of buddies got this indie hard thing going on. See, horror has its hell these days, you know? I would love to get killed in a horror flick. I bet you would and I bet you'd look good, too all naked and covered in blood and shit. Damn. Yo, ladies. It seems like a job for a homie. Oh, Yankee suckee dickee? I said "homie, " not "homo. " Give me that thing. Now that a gentleman has eased our burden we can finally commence to practice. Uh, excuse me ladies, but we were in the middle of a conversation here. Madre de Dios. Uh, Jesus, remember me? Bristol, horror movies, covered In blood? Naked? Ugh. Madre de Dios. Definitely more tongue. Are you getting this? You are perfect, Granny. Sure you got a tight shot? Yeah, I got it. Let's start shooting, come on. Am I good? My rouge looks good? You're beautiful. I want you to really- Okay, and action I Our native American friends- All right. Cut. Cut I Excuse me, but- I'll excuse me, but I'm the director and I'm the one who calls "Cut. " I write the checks, okay? All right, the structures aren't working. Let me think. Granny, profile. Give me a profile. I got two. Other profile. Face this way. All right, just go with it. Action! Our native American friends taught us the many uses of maize. You can boil it, you can pop it, and ladies, trust me, with a little pig butter- this corn cob makes one hell of a nighttime buddy. Lookie-Loo, Jezzle, a fallen soldlerette. Sniff her out, girl, check her vitals. Yo, get that beast away from her. That beast is my lady friend, senor. And If you are habia Ingles you'd understand she's telling you to go call on M r. Harper. M r. Harper? Alexander Harper, honey. He our veterinarian, he fix chicken and such. Oh, he does people, too. I want some, so pig knuckle on the Chinaman. Hey I Yo, you mind? The name's Hucklebilly, dumb ass. And I don't mind at all. You like what you see, little man? My, my, my, the South is rising. Dang! It must've gotten stung by a bee. I'm all swelled up down there. Don't you have some cotton to pick? Some shit to shovel? My chores are done. It's playtime now. Why are you stampeding me? Get your paws off me you damned dirty yanks. We'll give you a lesson, H ucklefuck. Hucklebilly, ass clown. The way things look down there you two might wanna get yourself stung. Party poopers! Hello? Yo, anybody here? Looks like the little lady can use my help, Santiago. It's "Jesus. " And no shit, Sherlock, she had an accident, she bumped her head. Give me that iron. The one on the table. You know, If you like son, I can also help you with that speech Impediment. Yo, Dracula, it's called an accent. The good doctor needs his quiet, dude, I suggest you join the others. Go on, boy, go on. I must make sure you fix her good, I don't want nobody suing me. No need to worry, we'll bring her round. When she's done. Whatever, ojete. Knock yourselves out. Oh, you can crack corn on that. Agh I The secret to Southern home cooking is you never ever tenderize without loving your blade. I love you. Treat your meat as you would an old friend. Ha! Come on in. Agh! Or an enemy. Or your friends and enemies! Agh! Agh! Agh! It's dinner time! It's dinner time Come eat your goddamn. It's time What you doing now, Rufus? I'm making myself a Jesus chicken. Oh, Christ. Cut. Clamp. Clamp. Wrist clamp. Wrist clamp. Pig's snout. Plg's snout. What the fuck Is going on here? Well, you got yourself a boo-boo. When our livestock gets a boo-boo we take 'em back and shoot 'em. Please let me go, please. You don't have to worry none, honey. We ain't gonna shoot ya. That would be way too boring. Ah! Ah, just what the doctor ordered. No, please. I'm a good girI, I'll do anything. This little piggy went to market. And this little plggy's stayed home. And this little piggy went whoo whoo whoo. La, la, la. All the way home! Guess who? You know what Granny told you about coming in here like this. Aw, the heck with her, Jemima! My passion for you is stronger than candy. It's hotter than corn bread. It's sweeter than watermelon. H m. Remember the first time you crept into my stable, told me how things were gonna be, I'd be your tar baby, I'd do whatever you like, no matter how dirty, or nasty or forbidden it might be? I am your lord and master. Are you really? Are you really in charge? Uh, Are you really? Are you really in charge? I think so. I'm gonna lick you clean, Master. Ah, Jemlma. Oh! Goddammit, Buckman! You romancing my griddle cakes again? No, Granny! No. No. You're just thinking about your darker nature, is what you're thinking about. Go on! Oh, you race trader, you chocolate dipping- Guess who? Oh, fudge dripping. H mmm. Black ebony! # Do you even know Who you are? # # Facebook Superstar # This is a very expensive, very uninsured camera that my uncle Sal got me for Passover. And if it's fucked, I'm suing somebody's ass. Probably yours, I'm just saying. And I'm saying, that old hag was chopping those chickens like she was Jeffrey freaking Dahmer, so fuck your camera! I ain't filming these people. At least these people are not afraid of a little hard work. Kiss my black ass, Val. Bend over, honey, and I will. Hey, Bossman, why don't you let me work the lens, I got experience. Last time you worked the lens, it cost my Daddy half a mill to buy back the video. It made you famous. No shit, I got my little bro through juvie. Ah, look who's here, so, Jesus, where's Bristol? Oh, she's with the doc, PM S or some shit. It's cool, he's got a tent. So let me get this straight. You left Bristol with some, uh, some white trash doctor and it's 'cause he's got a tent! Yeah, I thought you people were with doctors. You let them suck the shit out of your fat asses, don't you? That's it! I can't work this way, I mean, It's bad enough I don't get per diem, now I gotta take insults from Speedy Gonzalez over here! I'm finding Bristol and I'm outta here. You walk, you're in breach. Then it's your ass getting sued. Good point. Chill out, Schindler. I'll go get your girl. Oh, no you don't. Sit down. You can go. Next scene up Is Rome and Tina solo. H m. Hot. Walt. You think two girls Is hot? Totally. All sushi and no hot dog? Sure. No blunt objects, nothing you can poke en eye out with? I think two girls is hot. What? Fuck. # A shy Southern belle # # A proud, Confederate gentleman # # Now they're Lost in hell # # This love once heaven # Ugh. There are some desires that even death cannot remove, wouldn't you agree, Buckman? Oh, yeah, like revenge. I'm not talking about killing'. I'm talking about loving'. Because that's always the thirst before the slaughter that gets the temperature risin'. Oh, yeah. Well, thank God we got that lovely Milk Maiden. Screw our lovely Milk Maiden! And I'm sure you are, you son of a bitch! Hey, Granny, what's cooking'? Huck? Buck. Fuck. That's what I'm trying to do! Ugh. It's stroke left, then right, and you might wanna blow In her rear. That really gets Jezzie's juices flowing. No way, same with my baby. Yes, ma'am. You know it. It gets them wet. Like a bog or a bayou. Hey, how about next, you let Jezebel give Biscuit a little pony ride? Yeah I hear sawdust and sawdust Is a real turn on. What kind of doggie biscuit is this? Put him down, now. It's a him? How can you tell? Now! Falcon, do something. Hey, be gentle with that, okay? I can be gentle. God dang sodomites. Doo, doo, doo. Hm. Hm. Hm. Ugh! Now this right here is unholy. I'm too sober for this shit. You think Miss Bossman will miss us? Oh, Miss Bossman's too lost to worry about us. Hm-hm. Hm. I wonder what type of J these freaks are smoking. They stay in character like this all day? 10 to 1 It's as fine as mine. Parati. Parami. Come on, baby, let me fuego. Yo, where'd everybody go? Where's the party at? Soldier blue. Soldier Blue? What the fuck's a Soldier Blue? Pearl? I'll give you a pearl necklace. Soldier blue. Oh! Here's where the party's at. Hello? Ladies? Oh, you girls wanna play hide and seek? K- Jay loves hide and seek. blue. Want to slip Into something more- Comfortable? Why are we doing this again? Look, I told you it's representational. The epic struggle between the North and the South. Brother against brother, sister against sister. Good against evil! Just take her top off. I'm too fucking stoned to undo all this shit. Take them off. Shut up. I need to get out of this place. I do too, baby, we just got here. Did you blow your nose on me? You got some fucking mocos In there? No, shut up. Green-nosed goblins. I feel like I'm back In the sweatshop In Tegucigalpa. She's totally a Lesbian and won't fucking admit It. My name is VaI and I am a Lesbian. Will you please reprogram me with your Mexican wiener? Take off my bandanna, baby. Uh? Are you ready to put on our fucking Confederate clothing? To join these assholes? Did you hear something? I did. What was that? Now we get down to business, Soldier Blue. Five dollar, I make you holler. Whatever you like I do for you. How about 20 for plenty? Okay. Oh. So glad you could join us for your complimentary old time photograph. You're gonna take pictures of this shit? We like to capture the true essence of our "jamboree. " Hey, I'm down. Just keep it off the net. Uh-uh-uh. Don't you move, boy. We need you sitting' still. Lest they come out blurry. Ooh! Fuck me like you're gonna get your green card, baby. Emancipate me, baby. Emancipate me! Faster, you Mexican jumping bean! Darn ya', Oprah, you grunt louder than a churchyard chicken. Well, nice and tight, Miss Scarlet. N ice and tight and hard and firm. Exactly how I like it. Oh I I'll bet you do, son. I'll bet you do. Well, Granny, it looks like our honored guest is ready for his closeup. Walt, dude, I don't wanna have my picture taken anymore. Want has nothing to do with it, M r. K-Jay. That's right, boy. I am sure, that these fine Southern gentlemen didn't want their portraits taken neither. I am sure that they did not want to be in this war, and I am especially sure that they did not want their family and houses burnt to the ground by you Northern heathens Whoa! " Northern heathen?" Dude, I'm from Burbank. That's where the devil lives. Bye-bye. Say cheese! Oh I Good boy I Smoking I Oh! Puker! Dang It, Granny. He didn't smile. Oh, well. # Yankee Doodle went to town To bone himself a hottie # Amen, brother. # Stuck his feather I n her cooch # # like fresh baked manicotti # Hell, yeah. Fresh baked. What's your name? It's Hucklebilly, dumb ass. What's my name? H ucklebilly, dumb ass. Typical I I'm out there, sweating my ass off, and the two of you are sitting here, getting this mentally ill child stoned. Shut the fuck up, retard! It's Hucklebilly, Mister. I promise, I'll just film It, no web. So anyone know whether Jackass ever found Bristol? Hate to bring It to you, Moses, he's probably off plowing Bristol in some corn field by now. Excuse me, that's Rome's boyfriend you're talking about. Yeah, man, don't be a hater. Suck my salty Salvadorlan sack. You'd probably like that. You little twisted reality show wannabe. Enough I Look, Jesus, unless you want to crash the unemployment line like the rest of your family, I suggest you get this tin can moving! As soon as we get what we want from these rednecks we'll get the hell out of this fucking two-bit shit hole! Come on! All right. I hear you, boss. I can scam one of them tires off that old school bus those freaks got Whatever It takes. I wouldn't advise that, my friends. Some folks around here just might be inclined to define that as stealing. Stealing is a sin. I wasn't gonna steal nothing, abuellta. I said "borrow. " I guess borrowing is okay. That ain't stealing. Maybe we can help you out with the tire. But first- Yee-haw I I'll tell ya', Granny, that display of majesty makes this Colonel weak in the knees and full in the groin. Ugh! Bucky, I ain't begging no more. It's time you discharge your musket, Confederate style. Madam, lead me to my execution. Yee-haw I You'd better be getting all this. This is money in the bank. Solid gold. Oh! Buck-man. Buck-man. Buck-man. Buck-man. Candy apples. Buck. Buck. Buck. Candy apples? Yee-haw! How do you like these candy apples? Them ain't real. Theme's plastic. Probably got worms in it, too. My mighty sword! My mighty sword! My mighty sword I Crow! Crow! Crow! Crow? Crow? Buck? Oh, too much dark meat, bitch! Ah! Now, for our next demonstration, we're gonna need another volunteer. Oh, oh, oh I Ugh. You boy, with the smiling eyes, you'll do fine. Yes! M mighty fine. Come on up now, boy. I ain't got eternity. Come on. Don't mind the darkness none. You ain't never heard Helen Keller complain. Turn around now, boy. Step on right up on here. Come one. Show everybody your pretty face. Now you see him? Uh- Now you don't! So, should I keep the blindfold on, or- Uh, hello? Hello? So weird. Ah, okay. Hello? Hello. Is anybody here? Howdie ho there, boy. What the fuck? It hurts. What kind of man are you, you can't handle a little arm wrestle? Shit, Rufus. I knew you were different. I knew you were different. You see right through me, don't you? Right through your heart. My heart? Yeah, you know, all my life I've kept my heart in the closet. Lately though, my ass keeps poking out. Whoa! I ain't queer like that! But that don't mean you gotta stop. I don't know. Maybe you're right. Listen, this is the wrong time, wrong place. I'm dead! Ain't that the truth. Ugh. Agh! Agh! I'll give you Brokeback. H m. H m. # Revenge is sweet When you're munching On the meat # # Of a Yankee Whose doodle is so dandy # # We don't like to boast # # But we make a tasty roast # # With grilling We're really pretty handy # # 'Cause we're cannibals Cannibals, yes it's true # # And there's just no way That you will survive # # We're cannibals # # Cannibals, yes it's true # # And you know we're gonna Eat you dead or alive # Hit it! Ah! Ew. I clean up pretty good, don't I? Without further undue, I would like to introduce one mean ass mother fucker butt kicking son of a bitch. Yeah! Buckman! Yeah! Go, go, Buckman, go! Go, go, hl, Buckman I Good evening, one and all! I hope you're enjoying the show so far. Can I get a Yee-haw? Yee-haw I I wanna tell you, tonight we got a show for you you ain't never gonna forget or my name ain't George W. Buckman. I know you've been worried about where your compatriots were well, we were too, until we found them In the medical tent, playing doctor! Right, boys? But seriously folks, they're all back stage with your young M r. Falcon undergoing an extreme makeover for tonight's grand finale! But first, It gives me great pleasure to Introduce Pleasant Valley's very own Rhett Butler, M r. Harper Alexander! Ladies and gentlemen, please enjoy with me as we recreate not only one of our favorite moments of the annals of history but also one of the great spectator sports, as well. Any volunteers? You, sir. You want to win 50, 000 dollars? Did you say 50, 000 dollars? I sure did. 50, 000 Confederate. Well, In that case- How you doing' tonight, Abraham? It's Jerry. You sure look like an Abraham to me. Why don't you just take your seat? Now tonight, the role of Miss Mary Lincoln will be played by Miss Married Milk Malden, and good ol' honest Abe, well, that'll be you, D. W. Griffith. Go ahead, please. You're 9 Inches away from starring In my next movie. Feels more like 3 to me. Now, the game Is If I miss, you lose. Uh, I'm not too sure about this. Ready? Oh, come on, time out! Aim. Hold on, time out. Walt, wait, wait. Wait. Time out! Time out! Yeah I Yeah! Yay I Aside from that, Mrs. Lincoln, did you enjoy the show? Fuck this shit. Ah I Now, now, now that you're all a little groggy the fresh air otta take care of that. We're all here and we're gonna play a little game, a little game we call the Revlsltatlon of the troubles. April 22, 1864, we were living our lives, minding our own business, when the Yankee man came. When you came! killed us all, destroyed our way of life. Hell, we weren't ready back then, but this time we are. War's over, jefe, you fucking lost, move the fuck on! Well, that's precisely what we aim to do, muchacho, precisely. You're telling me you're with these crackers? I was with these crackers when your kind came condemning us all to the same fate. "My kind?" What the fuck's wrong with you, brother? I'm not your bother. I'm Southern bred. And you, Miss Gutter Mouth, you'd be Northern scum. Now, now, Crow. Remember we're trying not the use the " N" word. You're right on that one. That's right I Now let's see here, from here to the road it's a couple of miles, same distance we had to flee from Pleasant Valley, now, there's no sport In shooting fish In a barrel. so we hide some guns and ammo along the way. Now, If ya'll can go out there and find them and put up a good flight why, you're free to go. Oh, that is bloody bullocks! If you don't let us go now, I'll have my lawyer slaughter you before you can say spectrum. I mean It, mother fickler Spectrum? I'm not kidding I Neither are we, Miss. In case you have any doubt, Miss Maiden. Hm. K- Jay? Ma-ma-ma-ma. Falcon Bastards! Presentation. Well, let the games begin I Pum, pum, pum. Gimme that I Gimme that! # Building from the ground up # # Starting nowhere # Did you see what they did to K- Jay, Biscuit? They killed him. They fucking killed Falcon, too. We were gonna present at the Teen Dream Awards together. You were? # Well, they put us I n our # Crying over spilled blood is not gonna get us outta here, we gotta find those guns and cap those mother fuckers. You're right. You and Cherry head for the RV. Fix that damn tire, I'll grab the girls and find those weapons. What are you gonna do if you find them? I know my way around weapons. My mother used to be a prison guard. That explains a lot. # Again # Bleed that heathen good and dry, son. We could all use an after dinner tonic. When do we get to eat supper, Daddy? Ain't you done chewing on that surfer? What about me, Daddy? AII I had was a gristle from Jezzie's hindquarters. Oh, enough I Stiflel Go on, git I What are you laughing at, China Rose? Why don't you do some of that Chinese laundry we Imported you here for? This time get out the blood stainsi I don't want no ring around the collar. Your wish Is my command, Mayor Luckman, But remember, not tickee, no shitee. Go on, git I Well, I see there, Ganny, looks like you're favoring that dark meat a little bit too much. Maybe if you were a little bit more black in your stallion, I wouldn't need to visit the stable on long lonely nights. How many Northerners to seek vengeance on 'til we can finally rest? Well, let's see, uh, last jamboree I think we took care of 8 of them. It's 9 here with this now, It still only makes us half way to 2001. Dang it, does that mean we have to go through this shit again next year? Ah, don't complain. Oh I My bunions are killing me If I was one of those psychos where would I hide those weapons? Kinda like an Easter egg hunt. Huh? Yes. How old is this piece of shit? It's fucking rusted together! Whatever. I'm gonna smoke and laugh about all this. Are you fucking crazy, negra? Those rednecks think this is the Civil War or something. I always knew the South was loco, but damn I Shit! Are you okay? Fuck finding a tire. I say we ditch those bitches and save ourselves. Let's go. The Kosher way to do this is what? You gotta cut the throat and let the blood draln. This Jew boy ain't got no throat no more. Well, then, cut his balls off, I guess. Yeah, I guess. Speaking of balls, I've been meanlng to mentlon somethlng to you. I just don't get you. What? You know. Your taste. Explain me this, brother. You, brother, spend your time on some soft girlie girI like JezebeI. Gosslplng, shopplng and settln' up house. I, on the other hand, like to hang a reaI man, practicing, soldiering, and wrestling. And my taste? You tell me, brother, who's really on the side of the Lord here? You gotta be fucking with me. This easy? I guess not. No ammo. You're kidding me. Fuck this cracker, VaI, let's go. Since our lives are seriously at stake, there's something I have to ask you. Go ahead, babe. If they find us dead here our bodies naked on display for the whole world to see- You mean like in your video? I'm being serious, Tina. Fine. Spill It. All right. I'm just gonna come out and say it. Do my thighs look fat? Oh, my God I Rome, a gun I You think It's real? Ah I Tittles Ugh! Looks real. Fuck, we're going' around in circles. I don't get it, Jay. That's it. Let's split up. I don't wanna split up. M m-hm. Look- If one of us gets away we're both saved, right? You know I'll come back with help. I guess you're right. Of course I'm right, baby. You go that way, I'll go this way, one of us is gonna find the road. Okay, but be safe. You know I will. What about a gun? Don't I need one, too? Well, at least we found a gun. Should I say thank you for that? It was an accident, Val. God I Do you always have to rag on us, we have feelings, too. Yeah, like we didn't feel bad when the avalanche hit New Orleans. Okey-dokey, now. One. Oh, no, you girls despise me. Why can't you see me like I see you? Three Oops. Agh! Ah I Oh my God! You stupid little fake tittied, no talented, trust fund sluts! Just fuck off! But you stepped on Biscuit! Can I make myself any clearer? Just go! Just wait 'till the network hears about this Yeah, we would never fuck you anyway. Yeah! Ugh! Yoo-hoo. Uh, uh, uh. What the fuck? Looking for the Underground Railroad? Hey, Granny. Do you think the Mayor would mind if we kept that beaner boy to ourselves? I don't know, sweetie. I'd rather kill him than fuck him any day. Sh, sh, sh. Do you hear something? No. # Rock a-bye baby, On the tree top # # When the wind blows # # The cradle will rock # # When the bough breaks The cradle will fall # # And down will come baby # # Cradle and all I # I always knew those little cunts would be the end of me. Biscuit's really dead meat, huh? Yes, sweetie. She really is. We're dead meat, too, aren't we? No, Romy, we're gonna be okay. Trust me. That's what you said the time we got crabs tag teaming K-Jay. Whoopsle-dalsy I Oh. I thought the Mayor said killing Mexicans didn't count towards the total. No, they don't deary. They ain't North, they ain't South, they just ain't. But there's nothing wrong with a little sport killing. So long as it puts food on the table. It must've been a squirrel. Come on along, now. Peekaboo. Ah! Can't you Northern folks do nothing right? Tonight at dinner, yet again, caught Granny picking a little too tenderly on a dark part of her brisket. Got anything to say about that, boy? Ugh! I ain't nobody's boy. Not even yours. Maybe so, Crow. Would it be too hard just to, uh, stick to your chores? Ah! I do stick to my chores, as much as I find them distasteful, And which one of you are too tired from ploughing the fields, or splitting the wood, you can't deny that. Tell me, Is there one amongst ya', one, amongst ya' willing to hit it when there's blood on the conch? Well, I know how to plow. and I know how to split, but you sure have some very satisfied bitches in your Pleasant Valley, thank you very much. Man's got a point. Shoot, Daddy, I think I made the rope too long. You stupid ass white mother fuckers you just wait until Al Sharpton gets a wind of this shit. I'll own everything in this albino circus. including that fake ass, dumb ass, stuffed mother fucking sheep? Yeah? When pigs fly. And the fat lady sings. And there's a black man in the White House. Where the fuck have you mother fuckers been at? Down South! Ugh. Ugh. Ugh. Fools them every time! Yee-haw! Relax. Everything's gonna be just fine. There's nobody here but us ladles. Please help me. Please, help me. Please. You gotta help me, please. Folks like my kin, they can't fathom the modern woman. They wanna keep us all caged up. Cage our bodies, our passions- That's right, momma! Oh, no, no. I hear there's a cherry in the center. Ah! Ugh! H m. Cider red, always makes my pink wet. Oh, my God, Tina. We're back to where we started. Please, just go away! Ah! Spread the red. I'm cold. Get the bus, Let's take it outta here. You try to start it, I'll stand guard. Okay. Jesuz! It's "Jesus", bitch. Agh! Why Isn't It working? Shut up, babe. Got some shit under here. Try the key! Like this? Anything? Nope. Nada. I am I doing this right? Can't you hot wire this thing? Yo, bitch, I went to film school, not prison. Uh-oh. Oh, shit. Do you think they're mad at us? We offered the entertainment, sport, a chance to redeem some sense of honor, for the atrocities committed by their ancestors. And they play along by running away. Oh, you wanna play? Fuck, I'll play! Gentleman to gentleman? Yeah, If that's what you call yourself. Bring it on! Charge! Go on, Tinal Go Make It start I Go I can't Tina, come on Come on Oh, start Come on! Do your best Colonel Cracker. Yeah. Come on. Oh, my God! Get off me! Just wait Fuck Hurry I was gonna let you go, seeing your kind don't count towards the total. Brown or white, you're a yank to me. Ugh Ah! Go! Go engine, go Go, start Agh! Brown or white beats your one-eyed freak show. Ah Oh, now we're playing. Ah! Yankee scum! Ah! Go, Tina, go! Go Walt, Romy, It's Jesus, he'll save us Can you fix it? Go ahead, try It now. Come on, come on I Start I Start I Why won't you start? It's turning Come on, Jesus. Get on the bus Go Go Puta, what the fuck are you welting for? Hey, Two-Eyes. Suck my Dixie. Agh! Whoo-whee! shall rest 'til all obey. Don't turn it off, you stupid bitch! But it just killed Jesus! Let's finish this. Oh! Ah! Fuck Keys. Please. Fuck you. Turn It on Come here. Go! Ah! I'm going! Tina, go! Rome, I'm going! I'm going! Ugh! Get us outta here! Just go. It's over, Romy. It's over. I can't believe I've ever decided to make this crap show with you! You're so fucking annoying! You're so wrong! Fuck you, bitch! You know what? I killed your fucking beloved Biscuit! Really? Well, I'm the one who snorted your 8-ball. Fucking bitch Cunt! Damn Yankees. Now what, Bucky? H m. Ah! Rufus, is this contraption working? It's 12-4, Daddy. Howdy, folks! George W. Buckman here, inviting you to come to the Pleasant Valley Traveling Jamboree! We got it all folks, we got singin', we got dancing', we got games, Uh, I'm not too sure about this. But most of all we got some real nice mouthwatering Barbecue. Does that mean we have to go through this shit again next year? [Buckman] Don't forget to bring the kids, especially the chubby ones, portly always gets In for free. Just look for the detour sign off the main road. We'll be welting. So come on down and get a taste of the old South. And let the old South get a taste of you. Come on, Granny, keep pushing. Oh, oh, oh. Keep pushing. I am pushing, you morons. Breathel I think I see something coming. Oh, oh, oh. Oh! Come on, Granny, keep pushing. Ma-ma-ma. I see it's here coming. Ugh. It's a- What is it? A negro?
