 

                        October 26, 1909, 9 am Harbin Station, China Failed assassination attempt on Chosun Governor Ito Hirobumi Assassin Choong-Kun Ahn shot and killed on site the Korean peninsula Ito Hirobumi appointed as first governor of Chosun in Pagoda Park dispersed as second governor of Chosun in Honxiao Park, Shanghai fight as allies in World War II over Manchuria on Berlin World War II ends accepted into UN as a permanent member of the UN Security Council satellite goes into orbit held in Nagoya held in Japan Toyotomi Hideyoshi, The Last Exhibition of Inoue Artifacts It's amazing We don't have to do the rounds, right? There are bodyguards all over the place... Who is it? I'm in Roger! The terrorist group that has taken Ito Hall has been identified as the "Hurei-Sen-Jin" When their claims of Chosun independence failed to earn public support even from Koreans they turned to terrorism Authorized Personnel ONLY In the Hureisenjin attack on the Japanese Cultural Center in 2007 The leaders of the team were apprehended and the team was believed to have been destroyed but another terrorist attack was carried out today The Hureisenjin have apparently rebuilt their team Eight SWAT teams are standing by - How many terrorists are there? - We believe about 10 Their demands? Nothing yet, sir! Can we move in right away? I wouldn't do anything hasty Think of the Cultural Center Stalling will only result in greater damage They've taken many hostages No more negotiations with Hureisenjin! Sakamoto! Sorry to cut short your vacation Tough luck! Sakamoto! How's the situation? It's strangely quiet They've taken control of the Central Hall but there's no movement I have a bad feeling about this It reminds me of the nightmare at the Japanese Cultural Center Go! Bring them to the east exit We'll be standing by Drop the gun! Drop your gun and surrender! Fuck you! I didn't come here to surrender Any more resistance is useless Drop the gun! Are you Korean? Drop your gun! I asked if you were Korean! How can you shoot at us? You're just criminals Criminals? How can a try to get my country back be a crime? I'm going to count to three I am Captain Joon-Hwan Kim of the Korean Independence Army One! Tell them this message - Two! - Korea is an independent country! Japan has committed a crime by forcefully invading Korea We... Sakamoto! What did he say in Korean? JBI Seoul Office Judging from the break-in route and the overall nature of the attack We know it was a well-trained team Hureisenjin has rebuilt itself This incident will provide material clues material clues to the direction the organization plans to take But The current evidence isn't enough to clearly identify their specific motives Maybe they were after the national treasures? The Hureisenjin are not known to commit simple robberies That's right Many were damaged in the gunfire But there is no evidence that they tried to steal any of them What are the other possibilities? The interesting thing is that they locked up the hostages Almost as if they wanted to protect them Then they must've had another motive They completed their task but the police came sooner than they expected This was confirmed by statements from the hostages There is another unusual detail One terrorist tried to slip out with the hostages This man This is just speculation but we believe the gun fight may possibly have been... ...a cover for something else Ten men were sacrificed to save one?! Please leave this case to Saigo and myself Why do you always go for the Hureisenjin cases? Do you have something to prove? Why not let Inspector Miura take it and leave me out of it? I have no idea about you sometimes Who has the most to lose from this case? The Inoue Foundation obviously Could this be relate to the Foundation? We can start by checking out the background for the exhibition Thanks, Saigo! Hey! Don't dump this on me! You know that picture? What picture? That Hureisenjin guy... It's nothing! I'll make sure that nothing affects the schedule Here you are! - Who are you? - Oh! You mean Mr. Inoue That's Mr. Inoue Kenji Chairman of the Inoue Foundation He's the grandson of the second governor of Korea This painting "Utopia" is by Kawabata Yukio He drew paradise as he saw it in a dream This kind of celadon is famous around the world It's magnificent, isn't it? Amazing that it made it through all that gun fire The last exhibition? After this exhibition, all the artifacts wll be moved back to Japan This exhibition is amazing But this is nothing compared to the really important gems that already have been moved to Busan for shipment back to Japan This one piece was huge Huge? What was it? Over there That's where it used to be Inoue was the Korea's second governor and he collected every treasures he could He was quite a collector I've heard stories that he even collected a lot of forbidden things by the government and wilder stuff than in this exhibit... One time, he saw this mountainous rock in Harbin that he wanted so much but couldn't move it with the technology at the time So, he left instructions in his will and eventually had it moved Talk about obsessive So he got it after he died - Daddy! - Ok. Ok! - Go to Mommy, Go to Mommy! - All right. I know Why did you ask me over anyway? Oh, that...? Ask Yuriko! This is when your Daddy and I were at the Police Academy Your mom and dad had started dating when they had a fight What are you telling her? And your daddy said that they should break up Stop it! But, your daddy loved your mom So much that he just cried for days Daddy cried? That's not all One day... The things you tell a child That's enough Mommy! One day! Mommy got a letter I hadn't gotten a letter since I was a little girl... There was a strange name on it Mommy read the letter and thought "If he has a friend like this I could trust him with my life" Do you know that Yuriko still has your letter? What did you write in that letter? How come you keep secrets with someone else's wife? Every time I see your family I envy you Yuriko is so warm and gentle and Keiko is really cute Was it a woman? Huh? You said you sometimes see visions Oh, that Well... I don't know... It looks like a woman... At first, thought cuz you're workaholic But I don't think that's it Then what? It's time you got married You still have feelings for her? Who? I was pretty drunk at the graduation party but I remember clearly You said that you felt like You've been in love so long I told you that? I don't get it... What? The Hurei-Sen-Jin Why were they fighting so hard? Obsessed with the past, I guess Chosun disappeared and was reborn as a united Japan They're in denial about reality That's the problem Is that why you're obsessing about this case? If I had Korean blood... I would understand how you feel But let's be realistic You and I are Japanese You don't need to get emotional about something like that Sakamoto! I've never thought of you as a Korean Aha! You drag me all the way to this smelly dump... Being in Korean districts always gives me the creeps I just got here and was having a smoke I already had dinner You used to love sushi What happened? Like father, like son You love sushi just like your father Masao loved sushi, too when he was at your age Don't talk about my father - Sakamoto! - Please... Your father was a great police officer Then he wouldn't have been shot by a fellow officer Sakamoto! Yes, I'm not being very smart today I should've just congratulated you I know it's late, Sakamoto! Happy birthday! Is your investigation going well? We're still just getting started Did you know there was a similar case before? That time, too, we couldn't figure out Hureisenjin's motives Year 1985 The Vladivostok case Chronological table of Hureisenjin activities Attempted hijacking of Vladivostok barge Agent Sakamoto Masao found to be corrupt Searching: list of shipments Inoue Cultural Association Origin: Harbin Item Item:..... Access Denied! Access Denied! What are you staring at? I was wondering if it was related to this case Really? Hideyo! Why don't you get some new glasses? They're not pretty but my wife bought them for me... She likes them Then it can't be helped Here, the picture you asked for Oh, thanks! - What is it? - We over looked a simple detail This thing is over where it was originally displayed So? It's rock so it's heavy and Look how big it is! There's no way it moved that far during the shootout Think about the guy who tried to escape They left this morning What do you mean? The rest of the exhibition's cancelled and everything is being moved back to Japan earlier than scheduled What is that asshole? Mission complete! Move out! Mission complete! Move out, K1! Answer me, K1! K1! Sakamoto! Let's go! K-team! Move out! This was the motive for the Ito Hall incident! That's the motivation! The so called "Lunar Soul" Extremely ancient. Exact age unknown The Inoue Foundation excavated excavated it in 1923 The excavation site was at Wandal Mountain near Harbin It was used in religious ceremonies Why would they steal something so useless? That's the key question We figured out that Finally, Hureisenjin got a "Lunar Sou" The Lunar Soul was their goal But still don't know why they needed it This is a list of similar cases Anniversary Hall bombing of the Vladivostok Barge One incident in 2005, two in 2006 five from 2007 to date including this And they are all connected to the Inoue Foundation Their goal is the Inoue Foundation? It can't be just a coincidence The two organizations must be related somehow There's no other logical explanation A full investigation into... the Inoue Foundation is necessary in order to find some answers Investigation? The Inoue Foundation is no easy match Hasty action without solid evidence is unacceptable The Inoue Foundation? Scared? Sakamoto, did you get the Commissioner's permission? The higher you get the scarier things get Even with solid evidence The Commissioner will hesitate But you can't investigate without the Commissioner's permission You saw the record on the Vladivostok case 24 years ago, right? The case where the Hureisenjin tried to hijack the barge? On the report it says they were after semiconductors But there were other things on the barge. You know what? More Inoue Foundation artifacts? Yes! The rock thing that was being shipped to Japan from Harbin The huge thing that Inoue wanted! That was on the barge That's what the Hureisenjin were after? Yes! What does that have to do with this case? Harbin! Harbin? Both the big rock artifact and the Lunar Soul were found in Harbin The conflict between the Hureisenjin and the Inoue Foundation must be related to that artifact I'm not sure how this fits in but it's too strange to be a coincidence Harbin is where the attempted assassination of Ito Hirobumi took place... It was Inoue who saved Ito at that time What do you want from me? Please tell us. I can't find any info about that artifact anywhere It's been erased from the Foundation's collection list. They have it, don't they? I said I don't know... What are you trying to hide? You think it's justifiable to barge in here and demand info about something from 24 years ago? I'm sorry, sir. We'll make an official request for your cooperation later We'll meet with the Chairman in person and... This is unacceptable! Who do you think you are to treat the Inoue Foundation like a criminal? Why are you avoiding answering? Wasn't the thing on the boat shipped from Harbin? Sakamoto! what's wrong with you? Calm down! What did you say your name was? Sakamoto Masayuki Now I remember Yes, there was a Korean police officer The Hureisenjin paid him off A corrupt cop... That has nothing to do with my question! A fellow officer shot him, I believe... - Answer the question! - Sakamoto Masao! - What is on that ship? - I said I don't know! I heard his son became a cop, too... Sakamoto! - What's wrong with you? - What! This attitude it's not like you! You saw that too He's hiding something for sure! That's why you got so upset? That's why you attacked him without thinking? Listen, we are police officers We have to be objective Don't drag your petty feelings about your father into this! What? All right My father was a corrupt cop. He was a Hureisenjin dog...! A filthy cowardly traitor! That's what you want to hear? You want to despise me? Fine, laugh away! There's tainted blood running through me Sakamoto! Calling your feelings "petty" was bad of me. Sorry I'm solving this case Harbin International Airport Congratulations! Ancient Koreans worshipped the sun and the moon This is where the templestone the altar where rituals to... the Sun god Haemosoo were carried out Professor Ono! What is the Lunar Soul? It's the knife used to cut off the head of the sacrificial animal They called it the Lunar Soul because it contained the spirit of the moon The Lunar Soul... it's a beautiful name, isn't it? That was 20 years ago Everyone here was against it but they were adamant People said there would be a curse... No one lives here now... That's right! It was the Inoue Foundation Commissioner's He's the one Saigo Shojiro! Say hello This is Mr. Inoue Kenji! Don't move! Do you know me? You must know me JBI agent Sakamoto Masayuki And also? A traitor who turns his gun on his own people How can a criminal be defending her people? A criminal? Then you're saying your father is a criminal too? We're Just trying to get our country back But no one wants to get it back You're just making Koreans suffer Cut the crap. You're just an errand boy for the Japanese Why don't you drop your backwards ideas! What? - Korea is gone! - Shut up! You can't shoot I can see it in your eyes Then you shoot me! You just don't have the courage to become like us! Sakamoto! You've been taken off the case You know why? Because you're Korean Please explain to me what this is You don't even know what you did! Did I tell you to investigate the Inoue Foundation? What are you trying to prove? The Inoue Foundation is the key to the case As long as they keep quiet the Hureisenjin... Shut up! You want to some sort of hero by investigating a powerful figure? You arrogant jerk! What was that stunt you pulled at the Foundation? The 1985 case was about the "templestone" The templestone is related to this case Excuses! That's enough! Investigating without reporting is grounds for suspension! Any objections? No, sir That letter... what was in it? It was a long letter... Everything about Sakamoto was in it At the end He said that you were a precious person to him and he hoped we would reconcile for your friendship Were you that upset for my scolding you for not eating kimchi? You had tears running down your face - No, I wasn't - Don't deny it It was just spicy, that's all I haven't been able to eat kimchi since then - You were a crybaby - No way That year remember the picnic? Stop it now! I put aside my case and went to all that trouble to make that lunch And you threw it away and cried because you were the only one... without your parents So I got mad at you I was just a kid No! I was a little hurt because you didn't understand me but, I was really mad at me for not able to take your father's place I promised myself that I would never make you cry again I have to keep my promise to Masao Why did you give me info on the 1985 Vladivostok case? Sakamoto, you're mistaken about your father He wasn't a corrupt cop, like you think Yes, he did side with the Hureisenjin He thought that he had to do it for Korea I was 7 years old Did he have to abandon his family like that? No! Masao worried about you until the end He came to me the night before he went to Vladivostok He asked me to take care of you It was the only time I ever saw him cry You have to understand how much it hurt him to leave you behind He loved you more than anything Stop it! We're out of drinks I'll get it! You were drinking and got angry at being suspended You were arguing and then go mad, so you shot him? Answer! You're a cop so you know the drill Confess! Sakamoto! Keeping your mouth shut will do you no good Saigo, you do it Someone was after me He killed Takahashi thinking it was me - He died because of me... - Name? Name? Now you too He was like a father to me You know I didn't shoot him Just answer the question! You were holding the gun You didn't report it and your so-called intruder left no trace It's a conspiracy Isn't it? Saigo! Are you part of this? Look at me in eyes! Why are you trying to stop me? It's connected to the case, isn't it? Because you're protecting the Inoue Foundation? Why the hell are you doing this? Sakamoto, you are under arrest for the murder of Takahashi The bullets in the body was identified as yours Arrest him! You'll find a lot of friends in jail Since most of them are Koreans Hideyo, you got new glasses Oh... the old ones were out of style Don't come back Next time we meet you and I are enemies Where... Where am I? Someplace... not safe for you at all Don't go outside this room There are a lot of people after you Hey! Thanks! Don't move! You! You're Japanese, aren't you? Do you know how many of us died because of people like you? You wouldn't shoot... Don't come near me! Ouch! You're Herin's boyfriend, right? What? The only man allowed in this room is me! What's your name? Min-Jae! Min-Jae! Hey Hey, kid I can't stand... arrogant pricks What the hell do you think you're doing? Arrogant bastard Stop it There's someone who wants to see you Welcome, Sakamoto You know me? I knew your father Masao Sakamoto Do you know Choong-Kun Ahn? The assassin who attempted to kill Ito Hirobumi? Assassin... You have good reason to call him that How do you think history would have turned out if he had succeeded? And what about if Japan had lost World War II? Atomic bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1 945 and Korea gained independence...? The history you know has been tampered with The damage caused by the atomic bomb was horrendous Korea became independent and we lost the war However, Korea was soon engulfed in a civil war, and... We used that war as an opportunity to become a financially strong country with great power North and South Korea united to become a new nation with a strong economy and military Korea became a new icon in Asia It was then that a movement to try and regain the land that used to be ancient Korea started You may not know this, but Manchuria used to belong to ancient Korea Of course, the Chinese government would never begin to consider that but we managed to organize a joint research project between Korea, China, and Japan But the strangest thing was uncovered in the process That artifact held the secret about a doorway in time Fortunately, our research team found it first and immediately sent it to our organization That was the templestone And the Lunar Soul is the key that can open the doorway of time We wanted to erase the bitter defeat of the Pacific War and the bombing of Hiroshima... An extreme right-wing organization in Japan sent an assassin named "Inoue" to change history October 26, 1 909... Inoue went back exactly and stopped Choong-Kun Ahn from assassinating Ito in Harbin That was the starting point of our unfortunate history... Aren't you curious how history could be changed by only one man? Because Inoue had come from the future He knew what would happen for the next 1 00 years This our great secret and the Inoue Foundation has kept the templestone completely hidden until now... The Hureisenjin, judging from their actions obviously know this But there is no way they could know... When the door of time was about to close a female researcher was drawn in... She didn't realize until later what had happened to her She told her story to a resistance group They are the Hureisenjin of today I know it sounds unbelievable I thought so too at first... But for the past 1 00 years many comrades have fought and lost their lives for this unbelievable fact Your father was one of them... We are trying to right this warped history We believe the templestone will cross the Sea of Japan tomorrow This is our last chance in this distorted history of ours to erase the pain and sorrow we have had to suffer This is our only chance We have endured decades of humiliation for this day After tomorrow if our efforts end in failure this perverted timeline will continue and the truth will be silent forever in disgrace We cannot afford to lose this opportunity If we can't stop them the tragedy of losing the war and the atomic bomb will be repeated The house of Yuriko is no exception Yuriko and Keiko would not exist Most importantly How could we stand the Koreans challenging us? If I pass through the door of time will I be able to come back? The moment you pass through the door you can never come back You want me to believe that? Do you actually believe that? On what grounds? You think your father believed it? And those people over there? It would probably hard for anyone to believe it, like you now But we realized something Whether you believe or not is not important Look at that kid Like you, he lost his father Min-Jae! Do you think he understands what his father was trying to do? Things like independence and liberation? But Min-Jae is proud of his father He trusted his father He trusted that the things his father did were right He trusted his father's beliefs Min-Jae will always remember He believes his father's promise that he will come back That's his hope If someone were to take that hope away from him what could we do for him? Where is it? What do you mean? The Hureisenjin hideout This is just a bar... What? Search! You take the second floor Okay. Move out What is it? It's all because of that bastard He brought them here I should have killed him earlier - Min-Jae! - Min-Jae, Watch out! Are you trying to get yourself killed? This way Quick! There's no time to lose No. You have to come with us We split up now doesn't mean we'll never meet again Sir! There's nothing left for me to do The rest is up to you Take Myung-Hak and go! What are you doing? Agh! Myung-Hak! I'm counting on you Good-bye! You bastards! Goodnight! Goodnight! Miss Keiko! Goodnight, Daddy! Goodnight, Keiko! Yes, I see! I'll see you Be careful! Busan Port, Pier 1 Seraching! Congratulation! Thanks! No! Sakamoto! I can't let you go I can't let you rewrite Japan's history Don't try to stop me, Saigo This is the nation that many have died to regain I don't want to lose it again Sakamoto! Shoot, Sakamoto! One of us has to die! Shoot! Now, Shoot! Sakamoto! If you don't shoot I will! Sakamoto! Excuse me... Memorial Hall These people are the ones who gave their lives to reclaim our country Without them you wouldn't be here Everyone knows the great independence fighters AHN and YOO, right? Yes! Choong-Kun Ahn...
