 

                        Frank This is Dr. Trish Lane What is she doing here? Training This is a nice little reunion, but you couldnt have pick a worse possible time Frank have been working around the clock to excavate as much as we can before the blast, it will blow within days Hours! - What? - Within hours This is the latest reading that we need to evacuate Reaction got more frequent Yesterday we coming up coming a couple of hours, now they're coming 20 to 30 minutes How do you know Dr. Lane? We have a history together Next time you wanna bring somebody to take over my site, you might wanna consult me first! - Dr. Richards - Raul, you alright? The earthquake, it open up the third chamber You will come Alright we got to get everybody out of here, you leave me one car and we'll rendevous at El Tajin Follow me - How can this be possible? - I dont know Go...Go! Getup! Come on lets go! Lets go! Raul Get in the car! Here what we know Seimic activity has increase exponentially over the last 24 hours, and that increase is growing steadily Weather center also reporting unique climate changes all over the globe and we have a theory that explains this activity We believe the earth's rotation is slowing due to the solar system alignment with the black hole at the centre of the galaxy Thats impossible Sir. NASA known about this alignment for decades We run the calculations and theres no way that the gravational force can significantly impact this planet I dont know whats causing it but I tell you, by all our calculation, this theory is all the only one that make any sense ? ? Gracis Hey Hey Are you OK? Who are you? I'm just a photo journalist That doesnt help me at all Are you alway this nice when you meet someone? Look, I'm sorry if I seem late, just trying to find a doctor for 2 weeks. I thought somebody might actually help OK, I'm out Sarah Nice to meet you Look if you can to help me you can OK Missionaries I've been down in the source for 3 months Last month half the villagers become ill, I've never seen anything like it One little boy who not will see help right away he'll gonna die. Nobody in the town will help us or ? Nobody from city will come to town Somebody has to help us OK, look I'm not a doctor but I did a few years in med school so I know people, I'll see what I can do for the kids. OK? If not, I got a car I'll take them to the city Half the village ill ? not gonna help at all This way Hello OK Got a drive by shooting guys Whats his name? Martinez Alright...Alrigh...Alright Stand back please! You find a pulse on him? Its weak. Its weak You have him? Barely Quick, I think I got him Put the oxygen on him His blood pressure dropping Step back please Let this people work Stand back! - Susan! Pulse! - 50 Put this, put this Mr Martinex, you have to seperate your hands Move your hands! What is he saying? He is saying the lord's prayer Mr Martinez, listen to me you have to move your hands - Move your hands - Move your hands Please! Please, try the action again Come on buddy, come on Move you hands! No pulse Move back please! ? computer is at least somewhere between the year 300 and 600 AD What does that mean? The Mayan use crucifixation? No...No...No There is no scientific to suggest that This is something entirely new Which is? This proves the European Christan were here long before Columbus We created a detailed model assuming that the rotation is moving toward a complete stop put all the major fault areas and I programmed the artifcial intelligence to accurately move the earth's tetronic plates and I also download the latest weather conditions and you can see other signs realistic pressure areas of each of the global zones Now again, assumming that the aligning bringing the planet rotation to a complete stop You can see the model predicting here, S2 This is 2 hours ago and this is now the red indicate seimic activities the blue, the green areas are are weather conditions it took 12 hours The weather system died down the seismic activities peak when the rotation of the planet stops This is 24 hours Now This happen. The ocean will flood the West coast of every Continent America, this mean that the entire state of Washinton, Oregon and California will be under water And then what? Then I have no idea but with this information I'm making the recommendation to the President to evacuate the entire Westcoast of the United States Anyone have any objection to that? It started a few weeks ago We've been trying to find a doctor even since How many are sick? Almost everyone It started with the children but it spread Dad, Hey Sarah Listen to me Sarah Listen I can't talk long But something is happening I think it going to be a big impact on Mexico, so I want you to come home Wait, Dad, I can't just... Listen to me! If you can I want you to get the next flight to your grandparent's house I think it ought to be safer in the midwest and I can meet you there in a couple of days Dad, I cant pack up and leave, I'm needed here Sarah, Please! I don't have time to argue with you for once in your life, will you listen to me! Get out as soon as you can I love you and I'll see you in a couple of days Dad? Dad? The cop said he had a Green Card His family were all native Mayan back in Mexico His neighbour said he moved here a few weeks ago Welcome to America, right? If he would have listened to us We could have saved him It was his time - You don't really believe that do you? - Yes I do When people have an illness or disease , we dont just say, well its their time and leave them to die We use our technology, our modern medicines to cure them, to save them God did not save people. We do! We couldn't save that man today If he would have listened to us, we could have saved him. No Doubt But he didn't. He didn't There's a reason for everything, Susan Just because you can see it or don't believe it, doesnt mean it not true I mean you can believe whatever you want but people live and people die and we do whatever we can, we do and we do whatever we can and we can't control that And you see people die everyday and you still believe in God? Yes When somebody dies you can see the light leave them I mean, when they're gone I can feel it Don't you feel it when they're gone? I don't know, maybe I'm... The cross must be reunited with the Great temple before the end of the long Count Calendar The long Count Calendar sir? The Calendar is made of 13 cycles, that cover a period of 5125 years and the last cycle on the calendar is this year, December 21st Now according to this, this cross is part of the phophecy. This cross is a national treasure. we have to get it back to the National Institute Trish This cross may play a key role in a historical event thousands of years in the making We have to get the cross to the temple before the end of the cycle ? Do you copy ? Go ahead ? Look out! It's happening. The ? is in a state of unrest. I don't understand You live with them they're sick, your not What's the difference? I'm a vegetarian So do you thnk its the fish? I don't know It could be some food poisoning or the source is polluted or something My gosh! Its hot Those volcanic activities up north must be heating up the river I saw on the news this is happening in Hawaii Is that what killing the fish? Increase in temperature would raise the bacteria level My guess is something must happened here Wonder if it anything to do with it? Alright...Come on Lets go, Let go Move it! Sir. We have report in Iran and Turkey Multliple reports in Japan and Phillipines Los Angeles, San Diego, Mexico City Italy and Romania Veracruz, Mexico Wait...Wait...Wait... What was that last one? Veracruz, Mexico Sir A Volcanic eruption ? in Orizaba the entire area has been evacuated this just in, we now have report of similar earthquakes currently hitting Sudan, Southern Saudi Arabia the unusual seismic activities seem to be disrupting areas around the globe I'm now being told that the President of the United States is to make a statement - My village - Where is everyone? Hello? Makob Michelle? Hello? Hello? Hello? Where is everybody? Maybe they left because of the earthquake I don't know But they didn't take anything with them Makob Hello? Michelle Makob The villagers were too sick to be removed Don't know where they would have gone ? Sir, its your daughter on the phone again Thanks god Sarah Hello Are you all right? Did you get a flight? No Dad. I'm still here - Something is going on, people are sick and I.... - Sarah! I told you! you have to get out of there as soon as you can Why? What happening? The earth's rotation is slowing In the next 48 hours, we're going to see a huge amount of seismic activity and climate changes The President just evacuated the entire Westcoast So you got to get north as fast as you can OK? OK. Yeah I mean the whole world is about to fall apart and I just have to know that you're safe and Sarah I love you Love you to Dad Well, what did he say? Just the beginning Its happening everywhere and it only to get worse the President evacuated the entire Westcoast Oh my gosh He said we suppose to head North, my grandmother in Oklahoma He said we need to go there OK, lets go, my car just over the hill Wait, I mean...I don't know what if I'm suppose to be here What if its god's plan? What if its God's plan for us meet so I can get us out of here? I mean Sarah, the entire village is evacuated They probably headed North to find safer ground We need to leave Now! Go! ? Gino?.. Gino? ? Gino, how did you know I was here? - ? -OK ? ? OK Great A woman in the village is sick I don't know, maybe this what I'm suppose to do I feel like this is why I'm here I have to go OK I'm going - No.. wait - I'm going No..you have to get North - Its not safe - Look Sarah You talk miracles and science maybe I'm here for a reason OK why I even meet you today? I don't even believe in all this stuff I don't but... I'll think take my chances besides... who gonna take pictures? OK Lets go ? - Your're not coming with us? - No ? Alright He's not coming with us? OK Mum! Are you alright? Katherine So good to see you Are you OK? I'm just fine They're going to evacuate the entire Westcoast In 2 days, this entire area will be covered in water Its the apocalype Susan! Its the ends of day Mum, you know I dont't believe in that You must believe! Please! This is the end Susan! and those that don't repent shall perish Mom, it is just an earthquake It is not! It is not just an earthquake unusally high wind recording just north.... I'm gonna just pack some thing and we're gonna get out of here and where are you go? Susan I don't know but its not safe here .....interrupted major fault lines around the world destroying thousands of home, schools ...from Chichen-Itza on the Uzatem Peninsula, temperature have drop to recent levels as snow begins to fall on these ancient Mayan ruins Look... Susan Its the pyramids from your dreams Native people are calling it end of the world ? What did he say? When you were little you used to tell me bad dreams, of the great big pyramids you drew pictures of it I did? You don't remember? I saw a man with a tattoo like that today I couldn't save him Maybe God... trying to show you something? People here are taking the neccesary precautions... What time is it? Its after midnight Why is the sun still out? It's happening What's happening? The end of the long count cycle the Mayan predicted perfectly the sun will shine for 2 days and yet... the 2nd day the sun will set the darkness will fall as predicted How far are we from Chichen-Itza? About 4 hours It won't be long The tornadoes just touched down in San Diego ? tremedous air circulation coming from the Artic Australia just saw the largest typhoon ever recorded Mexico, there is a pressure system unlike we've ever seen Bring up Mexico on the model Assuming current pressure fringe continue... whats it gonna look like in 24 hours? Bleak...Sir This cold front is out of the world! hail, snow, sleet, ice, this model predicting temperature at -20 below they're not prepared for this its going to be a complete disaster! Are you OK? Susan, whats wrong? I don't know I just know I have to get to that pyramid I don't know why... I just have to... In a strange time, he's calling you You're very special Mum, you know I don't believe in that! Susan.. why can't you see it? why can't you feel it he loves you? that he wants you to be with him? It doesn't make any sense, Mum Science can justify everything you claim God has done When people get sick with... they live through a disease that.... that medicine has saved them not God! I see people that go through their whole entire lives without believing in anything and suddenly on their death bed they're sold the idea of... God, and heaven and eternal life I watched... good honest people die everyday Where's God then? its a nice fantasy its not real its just the way... to keep people away from dealing with reality its a lie God love you Susan Whether you willing to accept that is not... its not a fantasy and its not a lie... something is telling you to stop everything and drive to a pyramid in Mexico! you cant describe it, you cant explain it, but you feel it! Know that it exist! For the first time in your life Believe in that something outside of yourself in faith in an idea that... something great is happening in truth... in that God We were in Alaska for 6 months setting migration pattern for the native American across the... Baring Straits Thats the only other time that I've seen the Sun up at 2 O'Clock in the morning Frank... Watch out! Go back!..Go back! Get out!...Get out!... ? No If I don't let go, we'll all die Ian, hold on! Good Luck No! You know ? why you do that? he said it was the best thing Anna? Yes ? Yes Are you sick? No Have you seen a doctor? No I don't understand. I'm not a doctor! This woman could give birth any minute! I don't know how to operate! OK.... Well... Lets get her some help Its not your fault! Its not your fault! He knew what he was doing We could have saved him! No we couldn't have! We could have all died in that hold Trish! OK? He sacrifice himself so we can go on I just don't know whats going on anymore! Its going to be alright! No its not! The world is ending Frank! Its changing Its not over! We're still here you know... maybe this is a gift you know... give us a chance for a new beginning I dont know what to do now! - I dont know where to go - Yes you do The prophecy has told us exactly where to go The prophecy? Its a myth Frank! A legend! No its not a myth! No... its happening! Just like they predicted 2000 years ago! The cross is a gift! delivered from God, Christ himself or fate but its a gift and its up to us take it to the temple and fulfil the prophecy now are you with me? Are you with me? - Yes - OK Alright OK OK Just got a little further to go... OK? OK Lets Go... Come on, we got to keep moving We're almost there Anna Snow Whats happening? The temperature dropping I don't know Trish! Trish! Your're bleeding When I jumped from the jeep... I hit my back on the door... head on OK, your losing alot of blood, we got to get you some help Come on. My car just right over this hill Watch your head! - Your bladder? - Yeah This will help OK She needs medical assistant! No! We got to take her to the temple! Its happening for a reason, I can feel it! Jena, was the messenger! What? Sarah, are you crazy? Look, we need to get her help! You want to drive across the country to some... Mayan temple with the one about to give birth just because some village boy told you so? we dont even know if we'll get there OK the road is going to be destroy, the bridges going to collapse and all I'm saying is, if we don't get her a doctor in the city, we don't get her a doctor at all Listen to me Alex... OK something is happening here I can't explain it... I can't rationalize it.... ....but I just feel it! I got to trust that! I need to get her to the pyramid if you don't want to help I understand... I do... I won't think less of you ...but I got to do this! Alright You not gonna make it on foot, I can tell you that OK... Get in Lets go Frank I need you to stop! You still have it? Of course I do Why isnt the ring gone? We were never divorce You never had time Well, part of me never wanted to make the time You know if it make any difference... I haven't been with anyone else neither have I I realised it was my fault I took that for granted I always thought that... it will be there when you walked out I dunno You must have seen it coming I didn't I tried to talk to you so many time I know I was so focus on me, I just thought that... if I were successful, the that meant we were successful I know now that was not the case I was selfish and I never said that I'm sorry and I am I'm sorry You were the most beautiful thing that ever happened to me and I let it slipped away When we first started dating you told me I was your greatest discovery Oh no... I thought that was the cutest thing Thats terrible... I'm surprised you still talk to me Mom? Yeah, hunny? When did you started believing in God? I've always believed it But why? Well... look around... see the sun... shining in the sky and the... the clouds, and the trees I think... how perfect life is ? from that great sun down to the.... tinyiest little creature on earth all working together all one great system perfectly designed ? ? It wouldn't work Its amazing I wish I saw the world in.... You can You just see the dark side of things eases the pain and suffering of humanity You see death on a daily basis and you forget the glory of life its the gift... using it everyday is a gift some people abuse it and I know you seek it and it must be so hard and I pray to God everyday that he would just show you the good things You a good thing You've always been a good thing I remember you were born now that was a miracle Oh... I didn't believe it is finally happening I created you inside of me a child, a daughter When the doctor put you in my arms I remember thinking you were the most incredible thing in the whole world we know alot of thing about the world, sweetie we have.... technology, medicine but something as beautiful and perfect as a newborn child that can only come from God A miracle ? How are you doing? You OK? Where my baby go? my people is angry I no have hospital My mother and my father give me away I talk to God why he no love me? why... he make baby? He not say can you help me? He help me check on his son? Thats why I'm here thats where we're going Gracias Hello? Dad Sarah Are you alright? Yeah. I'm fine OK listen to me... Listen to me very carefully Wherever you are, just... take cover and stay put I'm coming down to get you Dad.... Dad... Your breaking up a little bit but listen to me, I can't stop now I have to get to Chichen-Itza What? Chichen-Itza... No hunny Not Chichen-Itza! thats on the upper ? coast there's a huge storm brewing right out - Dad I can't.... - Yeah - Dad your breaking up - You got.... Dad I can't hear you! Its not safe there... Find some indoor, find some wood Burn it so to keep warm, because I'm telling you hunny its gonna get colder and this storm.... is gonna get stronger Dad. if you can hear me, I can't explain it I have to get to the temple at Chichen-Itza What? Hunny.... your're breaking up Dad can you hear me? - Sarah? - Dad? -Sarah? -Dad? Listen.... I'm coming to Chichen-Itza So just.... Dad Dad... I love you I love you I love you Hunny? I've never seen anything like this Have you seen it fly? She'll make it its gonna be a bumpy ride I want you to know, I'll appreciate this Jim I don't know what I do if I lost Sarah too Its hard to lose somebody in your life Ruby died almost 10 years ago ....and it still hurt sometimes but I feel her, looking down at me I know she'll alright When Jess was in hospital she said everything was fine God was with her I prayed.... I prayed.... I prayed.... I prayed... for him to make her better I just wanted God to save her and she died took her I can't tell you why Jess died, you know God was not trying to hurt her Thats not what happened there are things in this world that are just impossible to understand the hard, the painful things but I do believe they happen for a reason they teach us something. they... they us down a different path Hold on to something Hold on I'm holding.... I'm holding.... Come on Come on.... Come on.... Alright - Alright - Alright Didn't quite know what you meant when you said bumpy Its so cold We're almost there. Just a little further Frank No matter what happen You got to promise me..... to get this cross to the pyramid We'll get there We'll get there Promise me? I don't know how much further I can go We'll make it Well... This is it Aren't you coming? No As far as I go What? You can't.... fly back now, the storm will be too intense this is your journey I was suppose to get you this far I don't understand Trust in God Pray to him He will show you the way I'll try See that car Yeah the keys are in it, its all take care of What? - Where did you manage to get that car.... - Go Good luck OK.. Thank you for everything No Mom, it looks like we have to walk Mom? Mom? Mom? Mom? Whats happening? God Are you there? If you are there I just..... I dont know whats happening I dont know what to do Please tell me what to do Just give me a sign Please God, Please..... Hey Hey Hey Are you OK? This is crazy but.... my mother just disappeared... she just completely disappeared Are you alright? I don't know I don't know Where are you headed? Chichen-Itza Chichen-Itza Conme on... maybe we suppose to figure this out together Frank I cant go any further I'm too tired It's too cold I can't No, its just over this hill. We'll get you inside and I'll get you some help Frank, you have to leave I'm not leaving you Get the cross to the pyramid I'll wait for you - Come on - Frank - Frank - I'll help you - I can't - You can do this Come on.... we're almost there Come on! So where are you from? Do you believe in resurrection? The ends of day? ? are alive, we remain are caught up together with them in the clouds meet the lord in the air and thou shall we end ? That ? I'm not sure Well it is Do you know what it mean? It mean that we been left behind that God has made his decision on who he wants but you and me are still here what about your mom? is she a believer? I'm sorry... I just sound like a total loser No I'm usually a very very practical person No no not at all... really actually you sound very reasonable I'm Lowe by the way Susan Why Chichen-Itza? If you don't mind my asking It gonna sound crazy but.... I really don't know Trust me at this point nothing sounds crazy My daughter was a missionary here even when all this all started happening and I told her to just get North as fast as you can toward the States and I got a call from her early this morning saying she was on her way to Chichen-Itza and I say No.. Don't, Stop! find cover! she said..... she was part of something special you'll gonna find her How are you know that? because when I saw you... I knew that.... you were part of all this Your daughter right.. something happening I just wish I knew what ? Sit tight Hang on! ? up ahead, We can make it, we can make it Alex, Look out! Oh my gosh! Alex ? OK Oh gosh No... No... No... No... OK OK OK...OK... Going to get you help OK Going to get you help OK We're going to pray together now ? we realise that we're here please save us we know that your son ? he died for us.... we believe this is Alex is in place.... his easy now Alex! Don't.... Oh God Whats happening? Pain! Pain! OK.. OK.. we'll get to the temple soon OK we're so away right now they will be here... ? - hold on OK? -OK.... ? alright, here we go, we're almost there In the great cycle when the sun sets a woman will give birth to a soldier this will bring together chosen messengers of Christ Help! Help please! OK Your OK? OK, we're fine Here Come on Careful Help please! Help.... Please..... Watch your steps Its OK Help! Please! Hello? Watch your steps Hello? What are you doing here? Please... She is about to give birth We were suppose to come here Please help us Sarah! - Sarah! - Dad? - Is that you? - Dad? - You alright - Yeah this is ? she needs our help Susan, you said you were a doctor? A paramedic Well it looks like.... we found out why you are here We should go inside Yeah. Yeah Come on Here. Here her contraption been getting closer and closer together ? she had to climb her way here OK. OK. Its gonna be OK Ok. She's done fully dialated. Its not gonna be gone Is she OK? She's fine. She's fine She's fully dialated Its time to give birth Its happening this is it Dear Lord... we pray for comfort in time of distress we thank you for bringing us here together and leading us to this temple and we pray for the loved one, we lost along the way please put this child this new life that remind us of you... your love, your magnificant power we believe Lord no matter happen, we have faith in your holy name, we pray Amen Amen We did it... We did it... I need a towel or something You've been chosen messengers of God spread his word to non- believers left on earth the miracle of life brought us together reminding us of God's grace and power Its still a world out there God has given us the chance to show that world his eternal love This isnt the end Its just the beginning
