 

                        What's he doing here? I thought he's off today? That's a speciaI cake Hi boss, don't tell me you're making your own wedding cake? Funny guy, you should be on tv and stop selling fish That's very good boss It's for a speciaI person I'm late, can you pack it off? Yes, boss, no problem Thank you Afiq, here Boss Hai Raju Are you getting married? You look good Don't I always? I'm getting into the car I'll be there shortly Miss, are you ok? Call for an ambulance Hurry up Hello, peace be with you How are you doing? Congratulations, sir Adam! Aunty Rose, how are you doing? Good Congratulations BeautifuI wedding Wait till you see the cake Is it nice? Perfect! Thank you, Adam You're welcome Take a seat and I'll see you later Be carefuI, you know that Aunty Rose is looking for a second son in-law Don't mess with me Have you seen Rozy's sister? She's hot and she's just back from Finland What's going on? Her sister is a bit crazy No, she's been crazy for my brother Since primary schooI She sent him flowers, letters, Valentine cards Wow! And what else? Hat, socks, scarf and an "I love you" banner Wow! And best of all, when I had a flat tyre in London, she sent me one That is really sick I pity you So, it's true that she's Eh, where are you going? Don't leave yet Sit, sit only for a while Adam! Suzy Yes, Adam Hai everyone Suzy Yes, Adam Hey, Adam Everything's ok? Ok Adam, will you reserve this seat for me? This the singles table, right? I'm still single In case you don't know I was already told Really? - Yes I'll see you later Oh, yes I got a surprise for you Okay Mama! Mama! Adam is here I know Please lower your voice I feeI like going home See you guys later Too late Pictures, pictures Pictures Please, don't be shy It's too much Nonsense, eat up Why didn't you put on the napkin? You'll ruin your shirt I don't mind I'll take care of you Eat up Why are you not eating? I'll help you out Ah, good boy See, I"ve told you Adam, surprise! Congratulations, Khalid, married at last Adam, thanks for coming to my wedding I know you hate weddings At least you know Rozy, if Khalid messes around Just give me a call I'll always wait for you You know my number, just call I think I'll give him a chance first Give him a chance The minute he messes up, call me, ok? Do you know that Suzy's back? What's wrong? I already met her Adam! Ok, bye Wait, wait, wait Adam See you later? What? Stick it in here and voila! That's really nice I got inspiration from someone Boss? Yes There's a customer to see you For compliments or complaints? I don't know, will you see her first? So sweet, is that one married? Adam! Aida! What are you doing here? How are you? Ok, ok, I'm ok Ever since you're not around, ok I need to give you something What's wrong? Reflex For a long time, whenever you said you wanted to give me something, you really "give" it to me Adam, that's the past I can't believe you still remember that No, I don't No, this time I want to give you something speciaI Oh my god, congratulations Congratulations Please come, you can meet lots of single women And don't worry, not all of them are as violent as me I got to go Will you walk with me? Are you marrying that politician? No, a lawyer Lawyer? That's a good choice At least they rip you off legally Adam! You You've always been funny EhLawyerLawyer You must come, okay? Thank you See you Hi, boss Another wedding? Another wedding? When is yours? The fish had better be fresh Here's the bill And the receipt Are you free to get married? Not free Anyway, he should be here Speak of the deviI Adam! Adam! All right That's the guy I've been telling you about My best friend Adam, Jen Jen, Adam Nice to finally meet you So, this is Jen? - Yup Finally You're prettier than what he described He said you were short, with small eyes and a taiI Okay, Adam Relax, I'm just kidding You've to find your own She's mine I'm trying Thank you Hello How are you? I'm the bride's guest Please come in Thank you If you got insurance policy and you're not afraid of being beaten up Then maybe it's fine Your card, sir? Yesyes You are over there While you, sir, are over here Aren't we supposed to sit together? No, no, no They're over there while you're over here Come So, I'm over here Sorry, bro See you later Nice meeting you Can't I sit there? No They force people at weddings now I've a stomach ache You can't sit here Your seat is over there Adam! Come here! Come here! I"II sit next to you Why are you stunned? Do I look too pretty? Come here That was hilarious Stories to tell your grandchildren If I see another singles table, I would burn down the wedding Relax There won't be any singles table at my wedding All right! Now, that's cooI That's it, man I really can't believe it What? Me getting married? Yes, I mean, you getting married before me When you've found that speciaI someone, you won't let her go Is that true? Yes The thing is where can I find that speciaI someone? Thank you, I loved everything you showed me I'll see you tomorrow Okay Bye Hey! Hello, hello How are you? I'm fine How are you? Are you done? Yes I need to see your tux It's bad luck for the bride to see the tux It's bad luck if I don't see it and it turns out to be horrible Would I do that to you? Let's go Come It'd better not be blue with ruffles I swear I'll kill you How do you know? I want to see it right now Do you smell something Something smells like Jennifer's inside, isn't she? You're Adam, right? Alex's best friend? Hi, I'm llyana, the wedding planner I like camelias Okay So, that's why it's on the salmon tartare You've been to my restaurant? Many times I love the salmon but my favourite has to be the Chocolate Fantasy I've to go now Can you pass this to Jennifer? She forgot these Okay See you at the wedding Okay You should try my cod dish It's nice Sure Wow It's beautifuI No throwing with this one, okay? Adam! Look at you Excuse me Come, come with me I've reserved a speciaI seat for you Alex has set up a place for me That's for married couples This seat"s better Everybody, this is Adam Don't be shy Get to know one another Hi, how are you? Have fun Enjoy yourself Adam, where are you going? The men's room Please rescue me! Don't I look like I'm in a kungfu movie, wearing this kind of shirt? No It doesn't feeI right I feeI like hitting someone No You look very nice This is nice BeautifuI Thank you They must be looking for me It's all right Let them look I've to go, Adam Okay It's not appropriate for two people to be alone in the dark Someone might jump out from behind the tree to scare us So, it's better if we just join them for a drink Adam Sorry, you go first I've seen Alex's card I helped design it This is my in invitation card I'm sorry When we met, It was already too late Everything has already been planned But why meet only to say goodbye? Congratulations I'll try to make it Adam Hi! Adam I made you a cake Adam, I'll be downstairs - Okay Okay ma - Okay Why aren't they ready yet? The groom's going to be here any minute We've fed you and everything Who chose this flower? Let it be I like it It doesn't belong here Let's get something else, okay? Adam's right There's more than one flower in the world, especially camelias Hi! Peace be with you all! Peace be with you! Gina It's Dina Dina Her name's Dina Dina, sorry Congratulations! Isn't that the crazy sister you were telling me about? Shh, they're a couple now Congratulations, give me a kiss I'll be your sister in-law, so, you've to kiss me, Honey, the flower's so pretty It's okay, I understand These are so beautifuI! Are they for the bridaI gifts? Yes! They're so beautifuI! They're so pretty, Adam! I love weddings Do you know that Adam and I met at a wedding? We lost touch for years and when we met again, it was like a bolt of lightning We were instantly attracted to each other Oh, honey, honey Where's your mother? I haven"t seen her She's downstairs I'll go downstairs for a while Say hello to her Get her blessing Or another lightning will strike No You wait here, okay? Don't go anywhere Go ahead Don't go anywhere, okay? I won't take long Don't go anywhere, okay Wait or me Okay Mama? Brother She loves me Peace be with you! Thank you for coming Thank you for coming Mama, I'm sorry Mak Yam, I'm about to make a speech Just be prepared in case it goes too loud Peace be with you How are you? Good! Great, folks from Taiping are here too To all our guests, I'd like to say a million thanks for coming And to those who are uninvited but still come, it's fine Thank you all for celebrating my dearest baby sister's wedding today To the lucky guy, what was your name again? - Ross What"s your name? RoseRoss It's Ross I know his nameRoss I was just kidding But we can see that they match each other in every way Isn"t it? Ya Because they got matching clothes And like the Malays would say, they're like two halves of a coconut To find out about Dina and Ross' love story or their nickname, Diana Ross, Let's take a look at their love story Come over so we could all watch the TV Both of them are sensitive My family members are known for their sensitiveness, but they"re extreme Also since preschooI, they were known to be smart My sister's way too smart and a bit violent too, So, Ross should consider buying an insurance policy Ross is hopeless with maps, so, don't ever ask him for directions to the jungle Both of them are equally kind, equally strong And often extend a helping hand to others They are good and they are very strong people But the most important thing of all, they love each other very much In a marriage, it's important to get the ingredients right And I feeI that Dina and Ross have all the right ingredients May both of you live happily ever after I wish to congratulate both you, Dina and Ross Congratulations to your wedding And to all you shameless people, let's eat I've made this cake for you to take home Thank you Stop that, will you! Non stop Adam llyana So you got my card, I mean, my sister's card So how's married life? You did not attend my wedding I'm a bit busy Have a lot of work to do If you had, you'd know that it was cancelled What, cancelled? Adam, I'm someone who knows what I want I'm sure of my choices UntiI I met you After that I'm not sure about anything anymore It's strange How life changes in the blink of an eye It's really strange But why you didn"t tell me? Alex told me that you're engaged Maybe there's no more us, it's not meant to be I don't know why I came I just I just wanted to see you And And? To say goodbye I'm moving to Melbourne I'm leaving tonight No, no, no You can't do this to me Oh no! The cake fell! What have you done?! Can you wait for me here? Can you? Don't go anywhere I warned you, don"t play and run What happened here? Don't worry, mama I'll get another from the restaurant We don't have any more time Relax, mum, there's still time I'll rush over now Don't go anywhere, wait for me Promise? Promise Please Nina, I'll be very busy this month Can we postpone our vacation? A month After that, a year We can take a vacation anytime, right? When? We have lots of time Boss Hi, Raju Are you getting married? Looking good I always look good! Nina, what are you doing? Nina, are you ok? Okay I'll go there for a while Miss, miss, are you ok? She appeared out of nowhere Call an ambulance, quick Sufi She's gone Ashraf, forgive me Forgive me for not saving your mother I've to go out for a while Do you want some more? Finish your milk Sorry, Nina, don't have time for breakfast I've to go Bye I love you I love you too I love you three, mama They don't make Roadrunners like they used to Yeah Let me take a look Maybe I can help No, it's ok Give it to me This looks quite bad This should get you home Thank you You're welcome New shoes? Yes Another pair of Roadrunners? Actually, the other day it was my fault not the shoes I just couldn't stop running Were you running away or running towards something? If you plan to run some more, find shoes with air cond Air cond? Yes, air cond Your feet won't get hot And then you can run without stopping I'll make a move first Ok Good morning, boss I got an idea What idea? New shoes, with air cond Air cond? Not reaI air cond It's like a cooling mechanism Your feet heats up when running We need something to conduct the heat away Simple I'm sure the technology exists, just that Ashraf, come here I want to show you something I want to make a new shoe with air cond Air can go in and get out from here, to keep out feet cooI all the time Is this a good shoe? What do you think, Ashraf, will it work? Certainly That's what I thought Try to put it on Is it nice? Ok, I am going for a run I'm testing the shoe I'll come back later I want to show you something Shoes with air cond Really Take a look Where did you get this? I made it Really? Yes I have shoe factory Roadrunner is your company? Yes Ok Good Now you can run as far as you want I don't feeI that's necessary anymore Marya You want to know why I'm often here, don't you? I like coming here because of the children They make me happy Don't you have any? I've been trying for 7 years But still no luck I want to know something too Why are you always running? I run so that I can breathe So that I won't be suffocated by guilt My wife passed away because of me But now you've stopped It's because of you I don't want you to pin your hopes on me Marya, out of the millions of people in the world, why were we destined to meet, if we weren't meant to be together? Mr Sufi, someone's here to see you
