 

                        The British Isles are fast becoming the greatest arsenal in the history of man. Farms, where once sheep and cattle grazed, are now storage depots for tanks... ...and planes and guns. Hundreds of thousands of soldiers are training and waiting for that fateful day... ...when Allied power will be unleashed against Nazi-dominated Europe. That an invasion is forthcoming is now an accepted fact. But where and when is known only to a handful of men. So far, the time and place is the best-kept military secret of the war. There is one man who would like to know... ...and is making every effort to find out. And the Allied High Command is working just as diligently... ...to discover what preparations Hitler has made and how much he does know. - Here, keep it. - Thank you very much, sir. - Good evening, Pike. - Major. - Oh, good evening, Major Pike. - Hi, Ted. Thank you. So you see, Jeff, von Rundstedt is running the whole show... ...and seems to be listening only to von Rundstedt. It appears that he's putting all his chips on the Pas de Calais. Mac, you amaze me. Over 300,000 men waiting for us at the wrong place and you're worried. Well, this business is very much like marriage, Jeff. When things are going along too smoothly, you can't help but be a bit suspicious. But every German general since Clausewitz called this the only possible invasion route. Dover to Calais. It's the shortest distance across the Channel. Good beaches, good harbor, maximum air cover. Leads right to the Ruhr Valley and the heart of Germany. It makes sense, Mac. Maybe we have fooled them. It makes better sense to assume we haven't. But look at their disposition of troops. Over 60 divisions here and only nine at Normandy. - Pin? - No, one of those damn paper cuts. I sliced it on the edge of the map. Like a razor. Now, where's their greatest strength? Right here, the 15th army at Calais. But will it stay there? Supposing all these comforting bits of information we've picked up... ...were leaked to us deliberately? Supposing they've known all along? Supposing at the last possible moment... ...after we've committed ourselves, the 15th moves to back up Normandy? Come in. Colonel, the general's office just called. He can see you now, sir. Right. We've got to find out if they're playing games with us, major. We haven't much time. Monday is the 5th. Do you think your contact in Lisbon might know anything? Maybe. I doubt it. He's only a clerk in the German Embassy. - He was right about Torch. - He was awfully wrong about Anzio. Mac tells me you felt that was deliberate. I don't think he's working for German Intelligence. I think they know he's working for us. Whenever they wanna mislead us... ...they make it easy for him to find some false information. They leave a file open, let him overhear a conversation. They feed him enough unimportant authentic stuff to make us think he's dependable. But you've always been able to determine which is which. Yeah, it's not so much what he tells me, but how. If he's positive and expensive, I can be sure it's a fake. Which makes him trustworthy and reliable, in a reverse sort of a way. So if we find he's absolutely certain it's Calais? Guarantees it, swears on his mother's grave and asks $ 1000... We can be reasonably sure they know about Normandy. You can make book on it. Sit down, sit down. I think it's worth feeling him out, major. Well, he'll only talk to me, sir. That's why I'm sending you back to Lisbon. Well, now that I know the details of the invasion... ...and maybe they know I know... ...what if they pick me up and work me over? They haven't violated Portuguese neutrality so far. I'd bet my bottom dollar you'd keep quiet, Jeff. Thanks, Mac, but don't bet too much on it. I've never had my ear used for an ashtray. You figure it's worth the risk, general? If it were a one-time thing, no. But aside from the information factor... ...you've been making weekly courier flights to Lisbon for a year. Suddenly stopping might make... ...the imminence of the invasion even more obvious. TIME magazine predicts it's going to be the first week in June. You know something? I have a hunch that German Intelligence is almost as smart. The old man wants us to do all we can... ...to make the Germans think we're doing business as usual. We're sending David back to Stockholm. And we've got that actor reviewing troops in Gibraltar... ...impersonating General Montgomery. Is he getting away with that, sir? Apparently, even some of the British officials believe he's Montgomery. When do you want me to leave, sir? We've booked you on the midnight flight. It's 12:30 now, sir. Well, I arranged for them to find some mechanical difficulties. They're holding the plane for you. Here's your ticket, Jeff. Embassy car'll pick you up in half an hour. BOAC announces immediate departure of Flight 16 to Lisbon. Passengers will proceed to Gate 23. We apologize for the delay, but mechanical difficulties made it unavoidable. - So long. Good luck. - See you soon. Thank you. Hello, love. Tell Ma that Pa just went to see Bert. Oh, no. No, no, no. That's all right. At ease, at ease. Now, we've all been through this many times before. But this one is the most important. Therefore, not the slightest mistake will be tolerated or excused. Those of you who are posing as Americans will speak only English at all times. Anyone who forgets and lapses into German will be court-martialed. Now, is that understood? Fine. Any questions? Oh, yeah, one thing I forgot to mention, major. All the vehicles are in good shape except the number four jeep. It was captured in North Africa. It's pretty beat up. - Don't use it. - Yes, sir. Now, his radio. All set? Yes, sir, and the programs have been selected. Good. Any further questions? You're dismissed. Gentlemen, you may now proceed. We'll have transportation for you back to Munich as soon as you're finished. Is this satisfactory? - Perfect resemblance. Who is it? - One of the soldiers. - Put it in his room. - Yes, sir. Anna. So much of this depends on you. Do you have any doubts? No, sir. - You've studied his biography? - Every word of it. Good girl. After this, I'll do everything I can to help you. - You know that, don't you? - Yes, I believe you will. And these are taken from the comb in his London flat? Yes, we have tested them before the patient arrived. As you'll see, they have proven highly receptive to the dye. - We anticipate an excellent result. - Good. But we must warn you, it'll be a marked contrast to his beard. We'll shave him just before he comes to. But when it grows out again? We'll have the answers by then. Now, how long will that be effective? Two drops in each eye will, for 48 hours, blur his close vision. What about his distant vision? It will not prevent him at 60 centimeters from distinguishing any object clearly. Fine. Now, are the reading glasses ready? The frames were selected to complement his complexion and his taste. They are similar to his sunglasses in this candid shot taken in Lisbon last August. Fine. Three minutes every hour through the night... ...will give the patient's skin a similar appearance. It will make a noticeable difference. Major, Colonel Ostermann wants to see you at the castle. Okay. He says it's most important. Karl. Karl, Karl. - Could I ask that we speak in English? - Of course. I don't want to run the risk of speaking German, even for a minute. I might forget later on, and one slip could mean failure. Of course, I understand. Well. I have some unfortunate news for you, Walter. The SS is sending someone over, perhaps to interrogate the prisoner. To interrogate...? General Ungerland protested in every way he could. But as you know, since February... ...the SS has taken over all matters concerning intelligence. - The powers of the OKH and the General... - Those stupid, arrogant... Pike has been trained to resist interrogation, no matter how brutal. I didn't say it was definite, I said perhaps. The general was able to secure a concession. They're giving you 36 hours. If you don't have the information, the SS will take over. I can do it in that time. Unfortunately, that decision was arrived at early this morning. Karl, why didn't you call me? Because I'm sure that the SS has tapped these lines. - Oh, the S... - Now, Walter. I know you're an outspoken person. I didn't want you to say anything that might endanger your health. So I drove here. It took longer than I thought. The unbelievable stupidity. If this was some whim of mine, I could understand their attitude. This procedure has proven successful in 18 cases. Walter, the general explained all that. He showed them the records. Now, wait a minute. I admit the information we've obtained so far has been minor, all right. Troop disposition, strength of units. But Pike? Pike attended the final briefing of the Allied High Command on April the 15th. He knows every detail of the invasion. And he'll tell me everything we wanna know... ...openly, completely, willingly, if given enough time. You still have more than 24 hours. Karl, it takes overnight to dye his hair. - That doesn't give you much time. - No, it certainly does not. Not with some ignorant, heel-clicking storm trooper snooping around. They are sending a Standartenfhrer. His name is Schack. He speaks English and he has been told to wear civilian clothes. Walter, can you do it? I can try. He should be coming around any moment now. Come on. He's conscious now. Here we go. He's accepting it. Good. He's completely disoriented. - Shall I go in to him now, doctor? - No. Got a feeling he's gonna come barging out of there any second. Take it easy, Jeff. Jeff, take it... Jeff, take it easy, you're all right. You're fine, Jeff. Jeff. Now, come on. Told you not to leave him alone. Sorry, doctor. When I saw him coming out of it, I called you. Now, that's it. That's a boy, Jeff. Easy, boy. - Where am I? - There we go. Jeff, Jeff, do you feel all right now? Jeff? Jeff? It's Walter. Don't you know me? Or Anna? He doesn't remember. His reaction's different to the other incidents. His recovery is similar to Colonel Watson's. - He's in a mild hypnagogic state. - He'll be in good contact in a little while. What happened? How the hell did I get here? Jeff, Jeff, just take it easy. We're gonna explain everything to you later, but right now, you just relax. Believe me, you're in no danger. You're in a U.S. Army hospital, I'm an Army doctor. - How did I get here? - We'll come to all that later. Now, listen, let's just try a few questions first. What's the last thing you remember? Where were you? What were you doing? I was in Lisbon. I went to meet a contact. Do you remember anything since then? No, I don't. Definitely lapsed into an anterograde phase. - I don't remember... - Jeff, Jeff, now, listen. Lisbon was six years ago. - How can I just lose six years? - Wait... - I don't remember. - Wait a minute. - Here's yesterday's paper. Look at the date. - I know. I saw it. All right, all right. I'm in a hospital, but where? - In Germany. - Germany? The war's been over a long time, Jeff. We won it. We kicked the hell out of Hitler. We're occupying the country. Here, look, look. All right. What happened to me? - I don't remember anything... - We'll put all those pieces together later. For the moment... And you've probably realized it by now. - You've had amnesia. There's nothing to worry about, you've recovered. Trust me. I promise you, everything's gonna be all right. Now, the thing to do right now is just don't get panicky. It could possibly cause a recurrence. That's it. Now, listen. Right now, I just want you to relax, take it easy... ...and then Anna will get you back to your quarters. - There you go. - All right. That's it, that's it, that's it. - Check his blood pressure and chart it. - Yes, doctor. I'm gonna find the other doctors and tell them. We've been waiting for this moment for months. See you later, pal. You're going to be fine. Hope you feel better. - How you feeling? - Strange. - Say, doctor... - Come on. It's always been Walt. Okay, Walt. What about my father? Had a letter from him yesterday. I'm keeping him in touch on your condition. Since he had that heart attack in '44, I was concerned... Oh, no. He's fine now. - I'll be over later, bring the letter with me. - Thanks. He's written to you too. The letters didn't mean anything to you. You didn't remember your father. But you can read them now. I've saved them. Hey, what's with the free ride? Pretty soft, Jeff. Pretty soft. - I'm supposed to know him, huh? - Yes. You're good friends. That's Captain Abbott. You play chess together. Afternoon, major. Today's paper just came in. Thank you. Here we are. Jimmy, take this back to Recovery, please. Do you remember it? - You've got a microphone in the room? - No. It's too risky. He's too smart, he's been trained. He'd find it. But, doctor... All the questioning will be done here, where there is a microphone. You can monitor any conversation from the castle. Good, good, good. And he suspects nothing, huh? No. His recovery was quite routine. No different from the other 18 successful cases. The others were stupid, gullible foot soldiers. This man has been trained to use his head for something else than a target, huh? I'm perhaps even more aware of that than you, Standartenfhrer. This isn't just a dossier. This is a biography of Pike. The reason we're so prepared in this case is because... ...we were gonna abduct Pike to learn about the Italian invasion. - And you didn't succeed, huh? - We didn't try. General Ungerland didn't think I was prepared. But since then, we've been adding material to this every day. I know this man as well as I know my own brother. He'll accept me as a friend, as an American doctor trying to help him. Just because you speak the language without an accent, ja? Well, partly, yes. I was born in the United States. I wasn't brought to Germany till I was 16. I know the idiom, I know the attitudes, I know the customs. And he'll be convinced, just like all the others. And what if he becomes suspicious of the surroundings and tries to escape, huh? He won't. This hospital is completely isolated. The nearest village is eight kilometers. There are no military or industrial targets within 90 kilometers. Consequently, there's no air traffic and no necessity for blackouts. As I was saying, when he sees through all this nonsense... ...and tries to escape... ...what precautions have you taken? After all, the Swiss border is only six kilometers away. The hospital grounds are completely fenced. So was the prison camp at Bregenz. And only last week, seven men escaped into Switzerland. Yes, well, it wasn't from here, was it? Excuse me, Standartenfhrer. I must see the prisoner. By the way, I've arranged for the billeting officer to find you quarters at the castle. You doctors and professors amaze me. You learn everything at the universities except common sense. Even a peasant would know better than to oppose the SS. I'm merely trying to take advantage of the little time left to me. Doctor? Why don't you turn the prisoner over to me now and avoid the risk of failure, huh? And in that way, you could avoid the risk of my success. Do you really believe this scheme of yours will succeed? I'll stake my reputation on it. You'll stake more than your reputation, doctor. Much more. Heil Hitler. The waiter must have slipped a mickey in the coffee... ...because as I walked down the steps into this courtyard, it hit me. Well, I passed out. And when you came to, they questioned you. When you wouldn't talk, they beat the hell out of you. Here's what you looked like when they got through with you. - So that's what caused the amnesia. - No. No, unless there's a permanent brain damage, which wasn't true in your case... ...loss of memory from concussion lasts anywhere from a few minutes... ...to a few hours, a few days, never longer than a week or so. You had what we call a functional or hysterical amnesia. Oh, swell. That explains everything. All right. Well, let's look at it another way. You possessed information you didn't want to reveal. And also, the experience, the beating, was too painful to tolerate. So as a defense mechanism, a protection... ...and a protection against revealing the invasion plans... ...you just washed it out of your brain. Wasn't a conscious effort on your part, you had no control over it. It just happened. Well, I don't understand all of it, but I'll take your word for it. Wait a minute. Let's take an easy classic example. A little boy's in a rowboat on a lake... ...and he's looking at the cottage where he lives. Suddenly, the gas stove explodes and his parents are burned to death. When they find the boy, he doesn't remember anything. You see, the experience was so shocking, so horrifying... ...that the mind just forced itself to wipe it out, to forget it. Oh, I see. If he couldn't remember, it just didn't happen. Exactly. As in your case, you took the expedient of complete nihilism. In other words, you lost your identity. All right. All right. Now that I've got it back, where the hell did the last six years go? Yeah, well, that's a little tougher to understand. Wait a minute, look. Let's assume this is the day you were born. This in the center is the day in Lisbon and that edge is today, now. Right. Now, everything from here to here... ...everything that's happened to you your whole life, up to this point... ...is suddenly wiped out because of the traumatic episode in Lisbon. It's a blank now. You remember nothing. That's retrograde amnesia. Now, slowly, through treatment, we bring this back into focus... ...into your consciousness, and you remember again. But sometimes when we succeed, suddenly... ...this portion is blanked out. And that's what's called anterograde amnesia. That's what you've got right now. Our job now is to bring these six years back... ...so that eventually, you remember everything form here to here. That'll take another six years. No, it won't. You see, you want to remember now. In the retrograde phase, you wanted unconsciously to forget. How the hell do you do that? Same way you try and recall any experience that slipped your mind. First, you remember a face, an object, an experience. We keep adding pieces until the jigsaw is complete. Here. This is gonna help you. This is your medical record since Lisbon. Your charts, your reactions to various tests, your talks with the doctors. Looks longer than Gone With the Wind. Might find it even more interesting. - I'll get you something to eat. - Yeah. Good, I'm starved. Are you finished with these letters from your dad? Oh, yeah. Thanks, Walt, for being a friend of the family. - I appreciate it. - You're welcome. See you later, pal. - Sore? - Oh, no. Not much. You should be. You've had three IVs and five hypos. What for? Dr. Gerber's method is a variation of a British treatment. With sedation, he keeps the patient on the verge of a deep sleep for a day or so... ...and during that time, he talks to him... ...tries to get him to remember what he's forgotten. Without the conscious mind resisting... ...he very often comes to with complete recall, as you did. So if your arm's a little lame, you blame me. I gave you the shots. Considering the results, you're forgiven. Now that you remember them, we can put it out. - Thank you. - Would you like a little drink? - The doctor said you may have one. - Lady, I could use one. Only, not a little one. Make it a great big slug. I can barely lift this thing, let alone read it. It's the technical language. Words like "hypnonarcoanalysis" weigh a ton. I remember, the last physical I had, the doctor told me I'd need glasses someday. He was right. Have you waded through this thing? As the nurse on the case, I practically know it by heart. Even with a medical dictionary, it'd take me days, and I'm a little impatient. Could you give me a fast synopsis? I'll trade you. - Lisbon... - I'm gonna need some fresh air with it too. Well, after you were missing for three days in Lisbon... ...they found you wandering around the airport... ...and you didn't know where you were or who you were. One of the legation staff members, a Dudley, Thomas... Oh, that was Norweb's deputy. - He took custody of you and you were sent back to the States. You entered Walter Reed Hospital on 16 June. Then, October '44, you made a recovery. - Then this is not the first time. - No, you've had several. Unfortunately, each time, you had a regression. Well, that means that there's a chance that this is only temporary. There's always that chance. But so far, your reactions are a little more promising, the doctor says. And he'll be able to tell more when he digs back... ...and sees how accurately you remember. - What are they talking about? - Everything's all right. She's got a copy of this record and she's reading it to him. You made another recovery and were released in April '46. You returned to Tulsa, you worked there... ...you lived with your father for almost three years. Then you took a long vacation... ...and wound up visiting your old friend Peter MacLean in Edinburgh. Then last year, December 4th, you just wandered away. And rather than send you to another stateside hospital... ...they shipped you over here. - Why here? Your friend Peter MacLean arranged it. He heard about the success that Dr. Gerber had with the treatment I mentioned... ...and he pulled a few wires. - That's Mac. Say, tell me something. When did the war end? In Europe, November 21 st, '44, in the Pacific, three months later. Then I win my bet. He bet me it'd take at least a year after we landed in Normandy. I'll send him a cable and say, "I just remembered you owe me $ 10." He'll know I'm all right then. He'll probably deliver it in person. It's getting a little chilly. I'll get my sweater. Anything I can do before I go? No, thank you. I'll get myself a refill... ...glance through Gone With the Wind, see if anything rings a bell. That's all he said? Yes. Just Normandy. I didn't press the point. I felt it would be obvious. Good. Good. Go back to him now and continue as we planned. Yes, sir. Normandy. Fantastic. What? Yeah, the truth very often is. - You believe it? - I'm not sure till I question him. He could be talking about a diversionary attack. And then again... I must report this to Gruppenfhrer Kraatz. We seem to be having a good time. Dr. Gerber took it a few weeks ago. We were on a picnic. Have we known each other long? That was my mother's engagement ring. And I gave you this one...? We were married two months ago tomorrow. All right. Let's hear the rest of it. Later. The doctor said he doesn't want... Later, later. Everything is later. The doctor's treating me as if I'd forgotten somebody's damn phone number. This is six years out of my life. All right, Jeff. At first, I suppose we felt sorry for each other. Which one? First Auschwitz, then I was transferred to Ravensbrck. I was there for over five years. That's a lot worse than amnesia. That's what made it so ironical. You came here wanting to remember. I wanted just as desperately to forget. It's quite a lot to have in common. I know this is a strange thing for a man to ask his wife... ...but what's your name? Anna. Anna Hedler Pike. Well, Anna... ...I'd say we're in one hell of a mess. These last two months have... I wanted you to get well... ...and yet I prayed you wouldn't. There was always the chance, if you did, I would be a stranger to you. And now I am. I'm terribly sorry. Don't be, Jeff. I was wanted and loved for a short time, and I loved in return. I never thought I could feel that way ever again. Standartenfhrer Schack speaking. He can't be reached for an hour. Well, in that case, I'm gonna talk to Pike. I haven't got much time left. Doctor, if you need an hour or so more, take it. For someone who was so opposed to my procedure... ...this sudden cooperation's very baffling. Not at all. Being a practical man, I like to be associated with success. It's better for promotions. Now that I see that there's a possibility that you might succeed... ...I would be foolish not to cooperate. Whatever your reasons, I'm glad we're not gonna be working at cross-purposes. For the moment. You see, if you get the information... ...there will be medals and honors... ...and I'm quite sure I can figure out some way to take half the credit. We worked together, I helped you. I'm not interested in medals and honors. Don't you realize that...? In this case, I can take all the credit. But if you fail, please don't expect me to come to your defense. It wouldn't be practical, huh? I would have to be against you from the beginning. You understand my position? Yes, I'm afraid so. Now, so I can be completely sure you are not deceiving me... ...I would like to be with you when you talk to him. - Wait a minute... - You can introduce me... ...as someone from the village, someone he doesn't remember. But you might make a mistake. By refusing, you might be making a bigger mistake, huh? You don't remember me, major? Otto Schack? The restaurant at Waldshut? You and Frau Pike take dinner with me very often, and afterwards we play chess. The day you put this ring on her finger... ...you came to my place for the engagement celebration. - Look, Mr. Schack, I just don't remember. - You will. You will when I make your favorite again for you, gefullte kalbsbrust. Sometimes what the brain forgets, the tongue remembers. Well, I'm sure it'd be a novel cure for amnesia. I'm sorry if I got a little edgy. Although physically it's six years later... ...emotionally, for me, the war just ended today... ...so the Germans are not exactly my favorite people. That's not unusual. You'll get over that. I suppose so. Did he say Waldshut? It's a village down the road a few miles. - Close to the Swiss border? - Not far. Why? I thought it sounded familiar. Oh, one of my first jobs was questioning escaped fliers. I remember this one RAF pilot. He got into Switzerland through Waldshut. I guess a lot of guys did. Oh, yes. I helped many to get over. Some minister helped this guy get across. Minister? Oh, a good man. A very good man. Did you get a chance to look at that record? Well, Anna gave me a quick rundown. I don't know where I'm going, but I know where I've been. You got any questions? A few thousand. First, what about the war? After the invasion, it went pretty fast. When we got to the German border... ...Rommel and von Rundstedt advised surrender. Hitler refused, so the military pulled a coup d'tat and assassinated him. They beat us to it, huh? Yeah, they also got Gring and Goebbels. A bomb planted at a staff meeting. First time hitting the jackpot with three lemons. What about Himmler? He was arrested and executed, along with the SS and the top Gestapo brass. And the German people took care of the rest of the small fry. So the invasion caught them flat-footed, huh? More or less. At least I was right about that. Before I went to Lisbon, MacLean and I were talking about it... ...and he was worried they were playing cute with us... ...but I figured if they had their 15th army dug in at Pas de Calais... ...the odds were against them expecting us to hit at Normandy. That's one of the things I wanted to ask you about. This conversation with MacLean. Now, at Walter Reed, you gave one version, and at Fitzsimmons, it was slightly different. Really? That's funny. It's as clear in my mind as if it were yesterday. Good. Because I've got a statement from MacLean. Let's see how close you come to it. Here's dinner. MacLean can wait. - You're hungry and tired... - No, no, I'm fine. Have your dinner. It'll give me a chance to drive Herr Schack. I feel like Rip van Winkle. If answering a few questions will help, well, dinner can wait. It will take a few minutes to set the table. Okay. - What else did you and MacLean discuss? - Well, the date, for one thing. We knew that the German weather reports were as good as ours. They knew it had to be the 5th, 6th or 7th. We didn't think they'd pinpointed the 5th. Anything else? Well, we went to see General Allison together. We discussed my Lisbon contact. That's pretty much the way he remembers it. Now, there was another conference on the afternoon of the same day. - Do you recall what was discussed then? - Well, sure. We were going through a lot of information... ...to decide whether the Germans had learned code names to our beach sectors. Do you remember the code names? Utah, Omaha, Gold, Juno and Sword. Good, right on the button. I'm gonna get tougher with you. All right. Do you happen to recall the disposition of troops in the various sectors? Well, let's see. Utah was the U.S. 7th Corps with the U.S. 4th Division making initial assault. Omaha was the U.S. 5th Corps with the U.S. 1 st and 29th divisions. Gold was assigned to the British 30th Corps with the British 40th... No, the British 50th making the landing. Juno was the Canadian 3rd, and Sword, the British 3rd. How'd I do, coach? You batted 1.000. That's definitely enough for one session. Jeff, you can sleep easy. We'll have you out of here and cured in no time. Amazing. After all these years, he could remember such things. No, to Major Pike, it's as if the last six years never existed. - When are we gonna get to that? - Tomorrow. Start with Lisbon, bring you right up to date. See you then. Right. Well, thanks, Walt. Well, Herr Schack, I'm sorry I don't remember you yet. Oh, you will. You will. - Auf wiedersehen, major. - Goodbye, sir. Everything's all ready, Jeff. Oh, what about you? Oh, it's too early for me to eat, but I'll have a cup of coffee with you. Walk slowly. If I hadn't heard it myself, I would never have believed it. Do you still think it's an idiotic scheme? Oh, doctor. It was just never explained to me properly, huh? If I had known, I'd... Do you remember everything he said? Of course not. Do you? Normandy and the 5th. Also the code names, Sword, Gold... Omaha, Utah. And there was one more. Those places and numbers... Tomorrow in my office, we'll have him repeat it. There'll be a microphone and a stenographer can monitor. Tomorrow's already the 3rd. The time and place will keep headquarters busy until morning, at least. Doctor, that woman, the nurse. Are you sure of her? She can be trusted. Someone from a concentration camp... Will do almost anything to keep from being sent back. Oh, yes. Yes. And that was good to hear about the minister, huh? I can hardly wait to talk to him. The subject exhibited the usual perturbation... ...and insisted upon knowing the details of the outcome of the war. He accepted without question a brief, superficial summary of... The minister's in Munich for four days. - You'll have to have him picked up there. - Oh, no. You forget I'm a practical man. I will wait until he returns and arrest him myself. That would be very good for my record, huh? A brief, superficial summary of a fictitious Allied victory... And speaking of that victory... So all the SS were executed, huh? Just a fantasy. Or perhaps wishful thinking, doctor. If there are executions... ...don't be too sure it won't be the intellectuals with their backs to the wall. Now, did you remember anything else? Yes. The fifth code word was Juno... ...and Sword was the 3rd British Division. - Write that down. - That's all right. I'm gonna call Colonel Ostermann. - That won't be necessary. - Those are my orders. I will give the information to Gruppenfhrer Kraatz when he returns my call. You really are a practical man. I was barely alive when the Americans marched into Ravensbrck. After a few months, I was able to work again. Since I was a nurse and I could speak English... ...they sent me to many military hospitals... ...wherever the need was the greatest. Two years ago, I came here. You've had it pretty rough. Thank God I was strong enough to last. - I'm gonna need a handkerchief. - Top drawer, left. - God bless you. - Thank you. - Are you all right, Jeff? - I'm fine. Just, I can't get used to this fella in the mirror, that's all. I know it's quite a shock, but don't try to fight it. It can set up all sorts of psychic disturbances. I guess it's a lot like the weather. There's not a hell of a lot you can do about it. You won't get much. The reception's pretty bad because of the mountains being so close. Sometimes we can get the armed-services station in Munich. That's 720. And Darmstadt rallied for three runs in the bottom of the ninth... ...to beat the Frankfurt Engineers 5 to 4. That puts the Darmstadt Flyboys back in first place. It looks like the only thing that'll keep them out of the zone playoffs... ...is to have their pitching staff transferred stateside. Well, that takes care of the sports roundup for today. Be with you again tomorrow at 5:00. And now, back to Staff Sergeant Lefko and some more music. Here's a new recording of an oldie. Everybody was whistling this one six, seven years ago. Well, they had to whistle it because they couldn't remember the words. Anna, are there any books around on the last few months of the war? I'm curious. I'd like to read about it. Oh, there are several in the hospital library. But the library closed at 5. Oh, well, I've waited this long. Another day doesn't matter. I think I'll take a walk. It might seem strange. Would you like me to go with you? Oh, no, no. I'd rather be alone for a while, if you don't mind. I'll probably hit the sack when I get back, so no need to wait around. Oh, that's all right. I'm naturally anxious about you, Jeff. You can understand that, can't you? Sure. Anna, I didn't see any of your clothes around. You don't stay here, huh? That would be against regulations. Hello, major. I see you're getting a little exercise, huh? - I thought I'd take a ride into the village. - Fine. May I see your pass, please? Oh, I forgot to get it. Oh, gee, I'm sorry, major, but I can't let you through without it. You see, they've been cracking down on us... ...ever since that schizo lammed out of here last week. Good afternoon, general. Dirty trick, major. These generals, they always give me heart attacks. My little laugh for the day. Think I'll be heading back. Want me to call Major Gerber? Maybe I can get an okay... No. Don't bother. I can get plenty of exercise right along here. You scream once and you'll find out how easy your neck will break. Now, tell me the date. - I don't know what you... - What's the date? The 2nd of June. You Krauts go to a hell of a lot of trouble. - Even so far as getting tattooed. - That's not a lie. I was at Auschwitz and Ravensbrck. That's why I'm here, that's why I agreed to do it. You just might have bought yourself a roundtrip ticket... ...if you open your mouth before I've had time to figure this thing out. God, you must feel proud of yourself. Don't you think I know what I am? Don't you think I know what I've become? You've heard stories about concentration camps? About the inspiring courage and the exalted spirit? Well, don't you believe it. Oh, yes, perhaps at first, everybody swears to protect each other. Then, little by little, pound by pound... ...as you waste away, so does your humanity... ...and it disappears and you don't face death bravely. The closer it comes, the more you fight to live. You'll do anything for another day, another hour. You'll lie, you'll steal, you'll become an animal. - Don't try to justify yourself to me. - I've seen mothers. I've seen mothers inform on their own children for another piece of bread. And I was no better. I worked in the clinic for old people who were too weak to lift a spoon. And many times, I gave them water and I kept the soup for myself. Is that supposed to make me feel sorry for you? No. I'm not asking for your pity, but just one last chance for self-respect. You must let me help you. How the hell did you get here? I spoke English. I was a nurse. And I was more than willing. I would have done anything to get away from that place. I did exactly as I was told, because there was always the threat of being sent back. You would be amazed how obedient that makes you. I'm glad to hear it. Now, once more, you're going to do exactly as you're told. If you don't, I'll tell them I learned the truth from you. If I help, it won't be because of any threats... ...but because I want to. They'll never send me back. Cyanide? Either way, you'll wind up pretty dead. But I want to help. Call it guilt, call it penance, call it anything you want. - You've got to trust me... - All right, just shut up. I'll do anything to help you. Believe me. - Oh, major? Major. - Yeah? - Damn it. - Trust me. You've got no other choice. All right. I want you to run out of here hysterically. Tell him I know it's a hoax and that I've known from the beginning... ...but tell him nothing else. While you do that, I'll duck out the back window. - You can't escape. - I know it. But it'll look more convincing if I try. Go on. You don't look very hysterical. Can't you cry? I've used up all my tears. Yes, sir. He escaped just a few minutes ago. So he knew, huh? It was the nurse who found out. I'll come immediately. Don't feel badly. Even Dillinger couldn't break out of here. - You're dismissed. - Yes, sir. - Something in here tip you off? - No. When did you find out, major? Just before I left for Lisbon, I cut myself, a paper cut. I don't know much about medicine... ...but I do know that it doesn't take six years for something like that to heal. The dermatologist went over you from head to toe. You can hardly see it. It's right in the crease, but I felt it. That girl played your little game right to the end, but I made a slip. She got suspicious. She's a smart girl. I'm curious, major. If it hadn't been for that cut, would you have been convinced? Completely. We studied all your methods of getting information... ...but this one just wasn't in the manual. It's not generally known. The newspapers, the gray hair, Gone With the Wind, my glasses. - How the hell'd you do that? - Couple of drops of atropine. Just affects the close vision. It'll wear off by tomorrow. You. You were the most convincing thing. I must admit you were convincing yourself, the way you rattled off about Normandy. When you learn a cover story... ...you learn it so well you can rattle it off in your sleep. In fact, you were so convincing, I have a sneaking hunch you were telling the truth. I don't think you found out until after you told us Normandy. You're absolutely right, doctor. If I were you, I'd notify headquarters to have every available man... ...and piece of equipment moved to Normandy. Now that you've found out, I doubt if they'll have much confidence in my opinion. You know, of course, I'm gonna have to turn you over to the bullyboys. I didn't think you were gonna send me back to Lisbon. That man who was here, Schack? He ain't from the village. He's a Standartenfhrer, SS. He seems rather innocuous. So does Himmler. I'm sure by now one of my trusted staff has told him about your attempt to escape. He shouldn't be too long now. You think you're in a tight spot? You got company. I'm sorry I have to turn you over to Attila the Hun. I appreciate your concern, but why? You see, this is only fiction. I wrote it to make the six years seem real to you. I got another record, a thicker one than this. Everything we could find out about you from the day you were born. I studied it for months. I got to know you as well as I know Cyrano, David Copperfield, Robinson Crusoe. I came to the conclusion you're a hell of a guy. Feel like I'm turning in one of my best friends. Well, you've got your job to do, I've got mine. I have the strangest feeling. I'm almost sorry I messed it up for you. - It was important to you, wasn't it? - Yeah. Oh, not the securing of information. That was a recent development. It started with these sick kids being sent back from the Russian front. Battle fatigue, complete mental breakdowns. Some of them were catatonics. Wouldn't move a muscle, wouldn't speak a word. I've seen a few soldiers like that. I couldn't get through to them. I tried chemical hypnotics, shock, everything. Finally, I sedated them. When they came to, I convinced them it was two years later and the war was over. They lost their fear of being sent back and recovered. When they could take it, I told them the truth and had them transferred to desk jobs. And most of them stayed well. Then, as with most well-intentioned things... ...someone saw some real, solid, corrupt possibilities in it... ...and it became perverted. You wanna have one last drink together? I have a feeling I'm gonna need it. You don't know what sort of thing he has in mind for me, do you? They all have their favorite techniques. Might start with something learned from the Russians. It seems to be in vogue at the moment. Very simple. No sleep. Unless I get eight hours, I'm just no good the next day. Deprive a man of sleep and you take away his resistance... ...confuse his loyalties and loosen his tongue. If that fails? For your sake, I hope it doesn't. Normandy, huh? You didn't think I believed that, did you? You might fool this university man, but not me. Now, what have you got to say, huh? How are things at the restaurant, huh? I promise you, you will tell us the truth. I promise you... ...on a map, you will show me every little detail. Standartenfhrer, to read the map, he'll need those glasses. Get them. Go. So it couldn't fail, huh? He will tell us everything willingly, huh? Quite a coincidence, doctor. Your time is up. Cyanide, huh? So there are two of you. A few minutes ago, you betrayed him and now... I have been questioned by the SS. You will be again. Yes. Yes, put him on. That was a stupid thing you did. Now they'll get the truth out of you. Never, believe me. I think we've already gotten the truth out of him. Normandy. Ridiculous. The Gruppenfhrer was very angry with you. And as a practical man, I could not defend you. Here. You might need this. They've either killed him or gotten him out of Lisbon. Maybe to Germany. They'll put the screws to him. What's your guess? He'll hold out for a time and then give them the details of Fortitude, not Overlord. Fortunately, we'll be bombing Calais round the clock. That'll help to make it more believable. - Leak the word to the underground. - Right. Some of them are bound to talk. You know, general, I'd like to try something locally. - What? - Well, Perkins is a very convincing drunk. He takes a punch rather well. Last orders, please! Last orders, please! Listen, buddy, let me tell you something. Take it easy, Yank. Why don't you finish up your drink and go home and get some sleep? Come on, shut up, Perk, and let's get out of here. Leave me alone. You limeys will still be in the Channel while I'm having dinner in Calais. Calais, he said, and the other officer knocked him down. I don't know. I just know it's not Normandy. That's all he told me. In the last two days, we've received information from very reliable sources. Major, it's senseless of you to keep refusing. We know it's Pas de Calais and we know it's the 7th. Then what the hell am I trying to be a hero for? Good. What do you think of our methods now, huh? What makes you think that's not a lie? Because it confirms the opinion of the High Command. Now, listen. I've been going over Pike's reactions, his answers to my questions. I'm convinced he didn't find out until after he told us about Normandy. My dear Gerber, before I came here, I read your record. It called you a leader in your field. Take my advice. Don't try to be a leader. I have discovered it's much safer to be a follower. Well, we made it. D-day. They're just about ready to land. May God go with them. Thought that last clap of thunder might wake you. You both had quite a sleep. How do you feel? How would you feel if you'd done what I did? You can stop the dramatics, major. The invasion started a few minutes ago, at Normandy. So you didn't know from the very beginning. - And you knew that, didn't you, Anna? - Yes. Amazing. We had it right in our hands. Every single detail. Oh, by the way. This clock got pushed ahead. If you wanna know the correct time... ...it's 11:42, night of the 4th. You've got your job and I've got mine, major. I'd telephone this information, but I'm sure the lines are tapped... ...so deliver it personally to Colonel Ostermann at his home. - Now, here's the address. - Yes, major. I don't know what's in store for us... ...but before it happens, I want you to know that I'm grateful. You did everything you could. Still a major? I thought by now you'd be at least a colonel. Or maybe even a sergeant. Your Army didn't show up. I suppose invasions are like baseball games. They're postponed sometimes on account of bad weather. At least, that's my guess. The radio says it's this way all over Europe. I wouldn't worry, major. The extra time won't help us much. My message was intercepted by Schack. It's probably in a wastebasket by now. Yeah, they believed your Pas de Calais story completely. Fits all the other information, it conforms to military strategy. Oh, but most important of all, substantiates what the High Command is committed to. Looks like Schack will be in the same boat with us. Oh, no, no. He's a practical man. You can be sure that he and Kraatz have decided... ...that neither of them heard the word "Normandy." That leaves the three of us. And you can also be sure he'll be on his way back here to make certain we don't talk. Dead certain. These are some of the case histories of those soldiers, the guys I told you about. The ones with battle fatigue and nervous breakdowns that were cured. I'd kind of hate to see them burned... ...along with the triplicate requisitions for toilet paper. It's a duplicate key to that door. The west gate is your best bet. If you get by the guards, you might get into Switzerland with the help of that minister. He lives just behind the church. I've seen the fence outside this hospital. It's 8 feet high. The castle's not on the hospital grounds. Just get to the woods. Don't try and make it to the village in daylight. Wait till it's dark. What about Anna? This is my revenge. I want it to be as complete as possible. Of course you can go, Anna. Thank you. I had to do what I did. I hope you understand. Oh, I don't blame you. But it was a foolish thing, Anna. The cyanide, I mean. That was clumsy. Intentionally clumsy. I think, down deep, you wanted to be caught. Why? Guilt cries out for punishment. Punishment as a specific cure for a feverish conscience. - Is that the only cure? - No. Very often, understanding and forgiveness can produce the same result. I hope you find it. What about you? Schack just told me I'm under arrest. I imagine they'll be coming for me in a minute. Take good care of it, Jeff. It's the only important thing I've ever accomplished in my life. I've had good success with true amnesia victims. Some other doctor might pick up where I left off. Here comes my jailer to lock me up. But they'll be wrong. I'll be in that envelope. If you make it, so do I. Major Gerber. I'm sorry, but Standartenfhrer Schack has just ordered me to place you under arrest. Please don't. If you're worried about what I have in mind, forget it. This is hardly the ideal place or the proper time for a seduction. Just don't touch me, please. I was only trying to warm you. A man's arms are welcome and comforting to most women... ...but not to me. At Ravensbrck, I was used by the officers... ...by the soldiers, by the guards. At first, it was vile and horrifying, and then, after a time, it became worse. It became nothing. I didn't scream or fight or cry anymore... ...and I haven't cried since. I'm sorry for you. To love takes tears. I hope someday you'll be able to cry again. Let's go around. She says they won't come for us until early morning... ...that we should get some sleep now. Now I have a chance to practice my English. The day the Americans declared war, I started learning. So when the occupation begins, I am ready. You speak very well. I think I have yet a little accent. Something wrong? Well, nothing, it's... Well, it's just your uniform. Are you really an army sergeant? Regular army, no. I am too old, too fat. Home guard. We are patrolling the border. So then the young, strong and handsome men can go to Russia and freeze to death. Wonderful system, huh? Oh, you think I'm not loyal to the Fhrer, but I am. He's a great man. Whatever he tells me to do, I do. He sends message to the home guard. He says: "If the enemy puts a foot on German soil, it is your duty to drive them out." You are the enemy. I cannot drive you out. I have no car. So I make you walk out, huh? Heil Hitler. Now I take you to my house... ...and I give you something that smells like coffee but tastes like hell. If I can go through here, anybody can. Elsa. From here to here is my patrol. In these rocks, you will hide. I will come over this road. You will go through the woods. At 6:00, a truck will put me at my post. Twice, I patrol. Takes 14 minutes. If you hear no warning, I will come to the rocks and everything is all right. And you will have hot chocolate in Switzerland. Now, let's talk business. How much can you pay? Pay? You think I do this for nothing? No. In Germany, a man must make enough money during a war... ...so between wars, he does not get hungry. - But we don't have any money. - Money. Who wants money? After the first war, I went with basket full of money so big... ...and I come back with one bread, so small. Gold is much better. Those rings. Now, what do you have? - Any gold teeth that come out? No? - No. Not much, but it's all right. - When do we go across? - Fifteen minutes after 6:00. You set your watch exactly like mine. No gold, but makes the right time. Now... ...it is exactly three minutes to 4:00. Thank you. Now you study the map, that you know it like your own hand. When I come back, I will test you. Come, Elsa. Heil Hitler. Normandy. Schack. Nein, Schack. Schack! So it was Normandy, huh? Oh, no, no, no. Why should I take you back? There would be questioning which could be embarrassing for me, huh? Your dear friend Gerber is dead. It will be easy to blame him for it all, huh? And you two, you were trying to escape and I had to shoot you. Quick. We'll take him to the fence. So that's how he found out. Let's hang him over the top. There. Now, under there. Fast. Go, go, go, fast. Good. This is your car. You will be taken to the American Embassy. As a refugee, you must be taken to an internment camp. They're quite different from the ones you know. - Goodbye. Good luck. - Thank you. - Goodbye. - Goodbye. Thank you, from the three of us. Anna, I suppose the embassy will sneak me back to London... ...but I'll try to come see you before I leave. Please do. I'm sorry. - Goodbye, Anna. - Goodbye. You're crying.
