 

                        Scenario & regie: Lee Soo-Youn Now arriving at the last station, Jang-am Please exit the train at this station This is the last station, Jang-am The doors are now closing What are you doing? You scared me! Why didn't you make a sound? I thought you were a ghost Is it raining? Is this the only umbrella you have? There should be another one Oh right, I lost it You dummy Oh well Any problems with Chang-Hyun lately? You've been drinking a lot It's nothing like that I drank with Jung-Woo today Jung-Woo? I told you not to hang out with him! Who told you to laugh? Who? Ouch, that hurts He always tells his friends that marriage and kids are hell Who is he to say that with that big gut of his Car's out in front, right? Yeah, I parked it in front Oh yeah, Su-Jin's in charge of designing our wedding invitation The first draft will come out in a week The table, the invitations Your friends are doing it all. It's always like that I'm leaving Don't come out, you look tired Okay, bye Chul-Woong resisted but I managed to take it from him Good job, huh? He wanted to just give me money But I offered to do his lights for free when he gets married That's how I got it He said it doesn't sell well since it's too modern looking There were still many in stock This table suits someone like me Honestly, for a family table it's a bit too unfriendly. They won't make him rich Anyway, why is the lighting on the people only? That's what we call sense These days the table isn't for eating, it's for the family to sit and talk as if each person is an actor on stage Sounds great, huh? Yeah Sounds great THE UNINVITED This is the 12pm news At 6:00am today, the corpses of two girls, aged 5 and 6 were found in a subway on line 7 by a custodian The children were sitting on the fourth cart, facing each other Jung-Won, come here Did you pull out the line? It's not near the back? Let's try tearing here Try tearing to the side more Jung-Won! About seven stitches Did you find the power line? Okay, have fun. Hey, you're here early Are you okay now? Yes What did the doctor say? It'll mend in about a week That's a relief. Hello everyone You're already here? Why didn't you rest some more? Does it hurt a lot? You look restless Let's have a look Dont. Come on, let's see Looks like it's going to leave a scar Forget it Find the power line? No, not yet. This building is a mess inside We opened up the ceiling, and a pile of trash fell down The wires seem different from the drawings We'll just have to look Be careful! Something might fall out Chang-Hyun... Not there The ventilation shaft on the right There? Here it is - You found it? - Yes. Wonderful Now let's hurry. Please drag the line this way Mister, please help me open the chandelier box Hey, how'd you know? Why aren't you picking up? - What happened? - Did you fight? Hi! Did you do this to him? - No way! - I hurt myself yesterday You might get a scar. Are you okay? It looks okay on the outside but I think it's screwed up inside Dummy Let's have dinner at your place tonight There's something to celebrate But I'm staying with my dad in llsan Why? When? Because of this? Is it that bad? - Don't you think you're overreacting? - No, I'm just tired - So what are you celebrating? - Oh, what a disappointment - Samho Hotel! - Really? You're doing it? - Yep! - That's great, congratulations I called you all this morning to tell you first but you made me come in person I'm on my way there now I'm late Rest while reading the paper, and don't work, okay? Better not make him work today - Bye. - Okay. Call me later! - Hey, be careful! - Okay. Have a nice rest while reading the paper Damn it Two girls found dead in the subway - It works perfectly - Thank you Jung-Won... What's wrong? Come eat dinner Congratulations on the New llsan Church Best wishes to Pastor Kang Jae-Sung Let's eat Hee-Eun must've been surprised We were even more surprised I thought you were a robber late in the night You should've come straight from the hospital It should heal before the wedding, right? Of course Anyway, construction was done long ago, so you should ask them to clean up the scraps I still owe them money for their work I hate seeing all that mess, too It should be okay Have you had more followers? Previous followers come here, and from far away, too Really? Dad, we should provide a bus for them, huh? I don't know why they follow us so much This is the last station, Jang-am This is the last station, Jang-am The doors are now closing Wake up! Wake up! It's time to get off! Hey, wake up! Have some tea while you're waiting His last patient was late for her appointment Thank you Then whenever's convenient for you Make the appointment for next Wednesday at 2:00 PM I apologize Mr. Kang - Did you wait long? - Not at all Shall we talk in my office? Please take the medicine before you go Wait a moment please Since it is psychology, patients want to hide the fact that they're being treated They don't want to run into other patients I've put a gap between appointments, but if one patient is late, they might run into each other since there's only one door So you want the entrance and exit to be separate, right? Yes, that's right - Okay - Let me show you something in my room. It also has sleeping medicine, so take it only at home This is the door I told you about - Can I take a look? - Of course. Out that door leads to the hall near the fire exit This is completely dead space If we put the pharmacy here, patients who are done can go through here to the exit Mr. Kang, what do you think? Miss, are you alright? You said seven stitches so I didn't think much of it but it's worse than I thought It looks repulsive, huh? I just hope that it won't leave a scar, that's all You haven't gotten your battery yet? No, well... How's the hotel work going? Oh that? I had trouble thinking up of a concept But yesterday, something popped into my head Wait a sec Look If we install halogen lights up like this the lights will be a spring when you turn it on Usually halogens are hung up straight But it came to me that people don't hang them up curved You see that there, the white one? Be careful with that part of the ceiling Temporarily closed for renovation Now for the main news The person who fatally poisoned two children on the subway was none other than their 32-year old mother What? Can I help you? Excuse me, isn't this a hospital? The clinic is closed for renovation this week Didn't you see the notice outside? Did it fall down? Witnesses said that the children followed a 30-year old woman - What are you staring at? - Oh, when did you get here? Why are you so dazed? Here's your darn battery, finally Did you go to my place? What was the rush when you left home? The kitchen lights were still on Know how many days it's been? All the bulbs almost burned out So did you go turn them off? Then what do you think I did? Here! Really? Mister Mister Mister? Dad. Still having nightmares? I thought it had stopped How long have you been standing there? For awhile, I think Are you nervous? Making your own family is certainly a nervous affair Oh right, are you coming to the morning prayer? Yes - In the name of Jesus Christ. - Amen. - You live in Mokdong, right? - Yes. Good-bye! - Please give them a lift on your way -Good-bye -Yeah - One more person. - Alright. Please get in. Thank you. - Thanks for the help - Sure. You live far from the church I used to live in llsan not long ago Really? Sorry about the bumpy ride I guess men like these kind of trucks Not really, I just need it for my job. Here you go. I see. Call me if you ever need to fix up your house Thanks. Is it here? We live in the same apartment complex Miss... Wake up. Please wake up Miss? Hello, Please wake up! My name is Jung Yun. When you find me faint, call 011-9354-7179 Do you feel better? Where am I? You're in my home I didn't know what to do, so I brought you here Do you remember what happened outside? I'm sorry - I must've frightened you. - No, it's alright. Your husband said he'll be here soon Pardon? I called the number here Oh, I see You must be very ill? I'm sorry, but could I have a glass of water? Yes? Oh, sure Excuse me I should get going now Sorry to trouble you. I think my husband's here Anyway, you should put your kids to bed. You don't have to see me out Wait! Yes? What did you just say? I said I'll go now because my husband's here - No, not that - Pardon? Are you alright? Hi, I'm Park Moon-Sub I'm so sorry for all the trouble No, it's fine. I'm Kang Jung-Won. Thanks again for you help Good-bye Have a good day. Seoul District Court To: Jung Yun Hwakok district, Hyundai Apartment #205 Where are we going? Home Please stop, I want to stay here I said stop. What are you doing? What's wrong with you? You know this is the second time already this week Sorry dat je moest komen. Whenever this happens the only person to call is still only you You know that Of course you have to call me I'll find another way soon Stop? Stop? Stop what? What did I do wrong? How do you expect to stay there alone in your condition? Don't use my illness as an excuse You know that's not the real problem. I'll see you later in court Did you just get here? What are you doing here? Oh, Young-Suh.. Do you by any chance know a church member named Jung Yun? One of our members? The current ones aren't there Jung Yun Who is she? I took her home this morning, This morning? Why are you looking for her? Oh, she left something in the car What? - Her Bible - Give it to me I'll give it to her But I left it in the car No, that'll work out - What's wrong? - Nothing, you were standing there - Are you leaving? Yes - Are you leaving now? - But I made breakfast - I guess he's got urgent business - What are you doing? - He wanted me to find someone Hello, how may I help you? Yes, it is Yes, one moment Dad, it's the head of the construction company Is the first witness, Miss Jung Yun, here? I know this is putting you through a lot of pain I sincerely apologize for having to call you out here again I know it is hard, but please be precise in your testimony Aren't you a friend of Moon Jung-Sook? Yes There's a large age gap between you two So you're not school friends, right? No, we aren't In that case, how do you know her? I married and had a baby when I was young... ...And her child and mine were... ...of the same age. How long have you two been friends? Before... ...I moved to llsan,. I've known her for three years We lived in the same building before. According to your neighbors, you were practically sisters Yes. Well I'll now ask you about that day You received a call in your llsan home from Moon Jung-Sook So you visited her home with your child that day, right? Yes. She called that morning saying that... ...she was sick. My husband was coming home late that day and left the car So I thought I'd go nurse her, and take care of her child In what state was Mrs when you arrived? Worse than I had thought She hadn't eaten anything for four days She had no strength, and looked out of it So you left her with your child, ...and went grocery shopping to make some food, right? Yes. So you witnessed what happened after you returned, right? Yes. - Long time no see. - Hi. - Here to visit your friend? - Yes - Please, I'll take it Oh, thank you - How've you been? - Good. Jung-Sook, why didn't you lock the door? Jung-Sook? What are you doing? Jung-Sook? Jung-Sook, please come inside Jung-Sook, please Jung-Sook! Jung-Sook! The phone you have dialed has been turned off Hello? You still haven't given Su-Jin the photos? Oh gosh, I'm so sorry You'll be sorrier if you don't give them to her by tonight Are you working late today? There's been a delay, so I might be done late Can't I give them to her tomorrow? Fine, but I'm warning you Bye! It looks delicious Will the photo really do? I guess so, since there aren't any. We'll just have to change the design What photo? Her friend is making the wedding invitation... ...so she needs a baby photo. But Jung-Won has none. - Why do you need it for the card? - Yes? It's popular these days People look at the baby photos on the card and say You should've met earlier! I mean, it's a match made in heaven So what will you do without a photo? Well, he fortunately has a photo from grade school I'll just match it with my photo from kindergarten But how could you? You should've taken some baby photos of your only son Things were too hard for us back then Well, your marriage is perfect as it is Please eat before your soup gets cold I was cooling it on purpose I can't eat hot soup, you see Oh, you're still a child My brother's the same If you eat something hot, doesn't it feel good going down? Feel good? Some also say it's refreshing If I swallow something that hot it hurts too much going down. But actually, that kind of pain... ...can be refreshing. Father, please go back inside. - Alright then. Good-bye. Tell your dad that I'm very sorry I'm very grateful for him lending this land to me And the guarantee for the bank loan We're gradually getting more members... ...so I'll be able to repay the loan soon The phone is currently turned off. To: Jung Yun Court Summons: Homicide case, Moon Jung-Sook Excuse me... Do you remember me? From this morning I'm very sorry about this morning I didn't even say good-bye properly. If it's okay with you, I'd like to ask you something When you left my house, what did you say? What did I say? The children. Oh, when I told you to put your children to bed? You saw the children? Could you... Could you really see the children? What's wrong? I'm sorry, but who are you? How were you able to see them? What I saw... Wait, please! You're insane Hello? It's me, Chang-Hyun. Jung-Won isn't picking up Where are you? Driving What? Going somewhere else? What are you talking about? I'm going home You and Jung-Won already? I just finished drinking with the guys at work... ...and was hoping the three of us could have a drink Chang-Hyun, I'm driving right now Oh right, sorry. Well, bye then. - Okay, bye. Narcolepsy. A type of sleeping disorder. Also showing signs of severe depression. Trust in the counselor is substantially high. Seems to be having hallucinations. Sessions need to be recorded. So shall we start now? Are you nervous? Yes, a little. You'll get used to it. You told me about the first time you fainted. Do you remember Of course. You said it was a month ago? Yes. I saw that woman once on the elevator. She used her cat as an excuse to talk to me I don't like people who approach me like that I know women like her who will do anything to talk to someone Then I have to stroke the cat a few times. But I hate cats People shouldn't raise cats in an apartment My mother told me that you shouldn't keep cats as pets Your mother? Why? Because cats take revenge Unlike other animals, cats have souls But I don't believe in that I just don't like their cries It sounds like a baby crying Yeah, they're so alike My husband didn't believe me He said the speed of the fall makes it impossible to see Do you also agree with him? Well, since something like that isn't common wouldn't it be natural for him not to believe that? Of course You're right Before, he believed many things without experiencing them Do you think that people believe everything they experience? I'm sure there are times when they don't Right, they don't They don't People don't believe things just by experiencing them Only when they are able to accept it... ...can they believe it. What is your relation to the defendant? I'm her husband You may proceed At first I thought she was unable to produce milk But that wasn't it My wife could've produced enough milk ... ...but she just refused to breast-feed. Did you ever ask her why? Yes. My wife said that she was afraid. She was afraid that the baby would bite her. But the baby hasn't even grown teeth yet. Since then her headaches got seriously worse. One day she vomited... ...and I was worried that something might be wrong with her brain. So I told her to go to a hospital It was in the MRI room. Her husband was on a business trip... ...so she asked me to accompany her. My wife hated going through tunnels. If we were stuck in a tunnel during traffic... ...she'd get very agitated. Pull yourself together! Since you're alone all day, you're getting stranger! Why am I strange So are you saying that what you saw was real? You still don't believe me Then why didn't you tell them in court? About what you saw with her at the hospital? Jung Yun, Hyundai Apartment 205-601 Oh, hello Sorry for the trouble last time So how's your wife feeling? Fine, thanks to you.Good night Hello? How did you get this number? Today? Yes, I'll meet you there Bye. Could you turn the lamp to the right by 15 degrees? Just a little more - Sure thing. That's perfect The angle has to be just right for the lights to work properly Yes, I understand. - About that favor I asked Miss Jung What are you doing? Please go away Please listen to me! Please help me Let me go before I scream I'd believe whatever you say! Hello - It's been a long time How long have you two been living separately? About three months Yes, it must be painful for you, after going through all that I bet seeing him will only remind you more of the child I guess things can't be like before So when will the divorce papers be ready? What do you mean? What do I mean? Weren't you thinking of divorce? I hadn't thought that far yet How can you be this way after what's happened? You're shameless as always Shameless? How could you say that I've lost a child I've lost both a son and a grandson! Let my son go! I'm not holding on to him You bitch! Don't look at me like that!. This is all your damn fault! Yes, thank you Great work Oh, hello How are you? Finished early I see. - Yes, we worked all night. What do you think? Hello? Is this Kang Jung-Won? Yes, it is Do you know Jung Yun? Pardon? See you at the inauguration I'll call you Okay. - Good-bye. Hello? Yes, don't worry. It went fine, and I think they liked it. This way. Are you okay now? Your aid is here How did he know You didn't have any other numbers So I called the card you had in your pocket Will you take that? - It's nice That wrapping paper will do That wrapping paper will do Are you alright? Excuse me I feel very weak Sorry but I have to lie down This illness that I'm suffering from... ...waaraan ik lijd... ...Which makes me pass out all of a sudden... ...It's called narcolepsy. Have you ever heard of it? No Neither did I. I only recently found out at the hospital They say it makes me faint. But I don't really go unconscious I'm wide awake... ..but I can't move my body while lying down. On the street... ...I can hear the people talking around me... ...as I lie down like I am now. And as I lie there... ...on the street... ...with people surrounding me... ...listening to them while I lie there... ...I keep thinking about my mother How lonely... ...she must've felt. She must've felt like this... ...while she was alive. What... ...did you mean about... ...what you said this morning? That whatever I said... ...you'd believe me? That's exactly what I meant. You and I saw the same thing. Yes, you and I. Just the two of us. Before it was just me and mother. Just us two in the world. My mother was a shaman. But I'm not. Come to think of it... ...I was never ashamed of my mother... ...I was never ashamed of my mother. Maybe afraid at times... ...But I was never ashamed. Do you feel better now? Ja. Anyway, thank you. I don't know why I was able to see them I just saw them When I was young, ...I always had the same nightmare. It's hard to explain. Really? I have no memories before I was seven When my father ran a church in a poor neighborhood. he said I had an accident by inhaling a lot of coal gas That's why I lost my memories After the accident, we moved out So I can't remember anything Do you really want to remember? I knew someone like you. But after she knew the truth, she suffered a lot Do you really want to remember? Whatever it may be? Tell me about your dream There was a neighborhood I had never seen All the homes were run down I'm always standing on a steep hill Strange I'm positive I heard it I'm positive I heard the kids running Was it summer? It's too hot Too hot It's too hot No place to escape Nowhere Who is he? Father. My real father. What happened? A child disappeared It's okay, tell us He's inside a hole in the ground It's a sign that means I did well My teacher marked it Five circles are the best Do you want to go to church? Then what do you want to do? What do you want to do? I want to go to school What? That's an amulet? Sure he's a fortune-telling prodigy? Daddy! Please stop, it hurts! Please stop it I won't say I want to go to school anymore I'll just work Just... ...kill me instead What are you doing? They said last week the neighbors died this way They said they died and now they're in peace And your sister? Eun-Young? Eun-Young's fine I took care of her... ...so she's safe. Are you awake now? No! No! Hello? Sir, it's Mr. Choi Ah, yes I was wondering about the favor I asked you I thought I said I'd think it over Come on, sir I don't want to keep bothering you I'm too old to work this hard If I had my own store, I won't be any trouble to you I'll contact you later Will you really? Oh, and I received a court summon For the third of this month Wait, that's tomorrow You'll be there as well? Alright. I'll see you tomorrow then Go to sleep, my baby Go to sleep, go to sleep Don't wake up and go to sleep Don't cry, don't cry Don't suck mom's blood and go to sleep Now go to sleep, my baby Go to sleep, go to sleep Has the witness appeared? Please swear. - I swear. So you met Jung Yun at the defendant's home on that day? Yes. She had come from llsan... ...and I carried her shopping bags to the lift. Shortly after, I heard her screaming. So I ran up. Jung Yun was there She was standing there, not knowing what to do And Moon Jung-Sook looked totally out of her senses Her eyes were strange as she stood there She didn't seem normal So you're saying she was mentally abnormal? Yes. Thank you, that is all Hey, what happened yesterday? You should tell us if you're going out What's with you Why do you make people worry? I've been looking all over for you since yesterday Yesterday, I... Can you drive me to Seoul Station? Seoul Station? Are you going somewhere? I finished my hotel work I need a rest, so I'm going on a trip A trip? Sorry to take him away again so soon Oh, it's okay Long time ago there was this village The villagers were famous for their strong faith. There was a drought once, and it didn't rain for months So they all gathered at church and prayed for rain They strongly believed that it would rain if they prayed It's important to believe in what you pray, right? Like believing that God will make it rain. After a long prayer... ...everyone came out the church. And then... There was no rain, right? No, it came. It rained just as they prayed That's the end? Yep, that's it The story is a bit bland That's the end But ... ...among all the villagers... ...at the church... ...there was only one child who had brought an umbrella 'Since it'll rain... ' '... Since it'll rain after we pray, I better bring an umbrella.' Only one person thought this way. People are really strange. Even if the church is near... ...no one goes back inside. Even if they're soaked, they don't go back in How many more secrets do you have that I don't know about? What? I saw you a few days ago at Samho Hotel Hee-Eun, you see... - Shut up! I don't want to hear it now. It's the invitation. Let's talk when I get back. Hee-Eun, I can't explain it all right now, but... I'm going to be late. I'm taking the subway. Hee-Eun! But you don't have an umbrella. I prayed that it would rain today. The defendant, Moon Jung-Sook Considering all the evidence... ...this court finds you guilty of murder. However... ...according to the medical evaluation... ...and the psychoanalysis report... ...the defendant is confirmed to be mentally unstable. The ruling is as follows: The defendant is innocent. But since the defendant can repeat another offense... ...she is to be put in the National Psychiatric Hospital. I heard you met my mother. The papers will be ready soon. - Stop this. It's all over, so come back home now. What's all over? You're still doubting me Jung-Won! Where's dad? He's at the bank. Are you okay? The prison van has arrived. It wasn't easy for me to accept all this, too. It was difficult. Difficult? As much as me? I don't want to talk about it anymore Wait Change your clothes before you catch a cold Oh yeah, did you return the Bible to that woman? Was it Jung Yun? No. Why? I heard that something awful happened to her I heard that her child died The funeral was held here Dad knew about it, too Her child died? Yun! I'm not sure, but I think he died in an accident Accident? Like a fire? Fire? I don't know that much Get some sleep I'll wake you up when dad comes Hello? Hello? Hello? Yun, what's the matter? - I'm scared, scared What the hell's wrong? Jung-Won, you trust me, right? Right? Yes, yes, I trust you so please calm down You asked me to tell you You asked me Both you and Jung-Sook. I only told her... ...because I felt sorry for her What did I do wrong? What? You said you wanted to know, too You said you did. You said you did Jung-Won... Do you hate me, too? For showing you your childhood do you hate me? No. I don't hate you But it's hard to deal with You trust me, right? You believe me, right? Patient: Moon Jung-Sook Infanticide suspect attempts suicide just outside courtroom Infanticide suspect innocent, but attempts suicide Currently in critical condition Why aren't the lights on? Don't turn on the lights What's the matter? Don't turn on the lights! What is it? Did something happen? Father Yes I'm your son, right? I'm your real son, right? What's wrong with you? Did something bad happen between you and Hee-Eun? Please answer my question Jung-Won... You, you... What about me? I'm your son, right? Jung-Won... Right now... ...I'm very happy right now. You've grown up so well. Now you're marrying a smart and pretty girl And I finally have my own church now. Father! I knew it. I knew it. Hello? Hello, Jung-Won? Jung-Won, where are you? I need your help Strange people outside are watching over me I feel like something bad will happen Please hurry here. Hello? Hello, Jung-Won? Jung-Won, are you there? - Yun, listen to me carefully I can't go... ...to you now. - What? I mean, I won't go Yes, I won't go What's wrong with you? What are you saying? What are you talking about? Hello? Jung-Won? Jung-Won? Why didn't you tell me about the baby? Baby? My baby? Why does that matter? Where the hell did you hear about that? Yun, listen to me carefully This is just an illness It's like a mere cold You can be cured You can be cured Yun, please don't confuse me I'm confusing you? What we saw together... ...How do you explain that? What you and I saw! How would you explain your memories? That... My father said it isn't true My father said that I'm his real son You said you wanted to know the truth Fine, I guess if you can't accept it... ...it can't be the truth! Yeah I had forgotten again No. - I don't You do, huh?. You're all the same Even Jung-Sook And you, too. The same. The same. You're all the same The same I feel like I'll go insane being alone all day This child won't stay away from me It's suffocating Don't you feel the same? But they look so pretty when they smile I did? I survived by eating my own mother? That's not true, right? That's what I saw I don't know. Yun, help me. Keep the kids away from me! Tell them to go away. Stop, she's your daughter. Jun-Sook! Jung-Sook! Jung-Sook, please come back inside Please put the baby back in, Jung-sook Please don't Jung-Sook! Jung-Sook! Hee-Eun, it's me I'm at our home Hee-Eun, I'll wait for you here I love you Please come quickly The message has been sent Hello? Hee-Eun? You didn't believe me, did you? Hello? When I said that I saw that woman's eyes... ...you didn't believe me, did you? - What are you talking about? You didn't, right? I'll make you believe I just want you to believe Are you ready? Open your eyes wide Don't blink even for a moment I'll make you believe Yun, don't I'll make... ...you believe. Yun, don't Yun, please don't Yun? Yun, don't. No! Does it taste good? It's still too hot
