 

                        I have filmed my friends fight for Ungdomshuset from August 2006 to March 2007. I was allowed to film almost everything. I have so far as possible told it chronologically, and as I see it. Director, Nikolaj Viborg I'm going off on Sunday so I won't be here when it starts. It's a really special feeling for me to stand here right now. It can be the last time that I'm in this house. It looks like it. "Theyve got the house, we'll get peace" Copenhagen Mayor, 1982 Mads Lodahl. Ungdomshuset activist Hi Tanja. I'm collecting materials for my article. Where would people like you go if there wouldn't be Ungdomshuset? I would sit all day in my house, pissed off and sad. Because here I'm also all day. I don't want to be anywhere else. That's the only place where I don't fell like a freak. I think many people feel the same. Without this house it will be hard to find some other place like this in Denmark. Ungdomshuset, 28. August 2006 It will look like a joke. - That's what its all about. Don't look at me. - Try to shout. Today, the Supreme Court holded up the decision of the County Court. Super! Hi. Today, the Supreme Court holded up the decision of the County Court. Anyway, we are staying. We are still ready for negotiations, but if they don't want a political solution, confrontation is inevitable. Today, the Supreme Court ordered the youth to leave Ungdomshuset. They gave the owner of this building - the religious group Faderhuset - rights to use this building. What is the situation in Ungdomshuset? It's tight. Ungdomshuset attracted all youth groups from Norrebro. Their representatives don't want confrontations, but will they manage this situation? If I would like to be dramatic, I would say that this is a peace before the storm. Does it look good? - Your fringe is a bit too high. Do they look real? - Nope, your face is too pale. I look like Amalie. - Yeah, Amalie also wore it like this. My openness about my homosexuality has been often met with violent reactions. In Ungdomshuset it's different. I quickly found out, that Ungdomshuset is a place where I can be myself. Copenhagen Authorities gave us Ungdomshuset in 1982. By doing that, they confirmed a need for a place that will be for all outsiders. It seems that people who rule now think different. It's not important what I think about their decisions. I'm expecting that we will find a solution. I'm expecting a dialogue about this. I think that's the way we should handle with this. Ungdomshuset, 18. September 2006 Who will read the plans for the weekend from 22. to 24? It will start with a demonstration. We need a group on the sides of trucks and on the front. Something about eight people... - What about accommodation for the night? If the 80 people from Holland won't come, and if 120 from Kiel will, then we have night rests for everybody. As a Monday Summit Ungdomshuset representatives, we want to show our strategy so you will know what to do. Our official statement is, that we don't support combat actions. No destructions or vandalism, unless in self defense if cops will start it. We're in negotiations with the City Council and we agreed to participate in this democratic process because we know that we will get beat up if we would fight with police. I have promised to encourage everyone to participate in the Saturday demonstration. It must be peaceful, we want to show how broad is the spectrum of support for us. DEFENSE OF PEOPLE I will tell you something about those, who they call "the youth" All newspapers write about fights with youths... City will pay a lot for this. You are responsible for fun, but what about fights with police? We don't want any fights and there won't be any, unless the police will start them. Come on, they want to arrest everybody from the group up there. We gotta do something! Is she so dangerous for you? How much extra payment you get for beating innocent people? How much do they pay you? On the side. - Further on right. Our motto "We decide, when we fight" is super, but the problem is that we don't always decide. If cops will attack we don't have what to decide about. We can only decide if we defend ourselves or passively get beat up. We can't require from the demonstrating people, to passively set themselves under police batons. All this case with revolutions romanticism... These times passed away. Today it's only a vent for rage and frustration, so people fight with police. To be real, it's counterevolutional... because you direct all anger on police and honestly, you shouldn't be mad at them. I don't agree, because we can't run from our history. When the movement appeared, the movement who wanted to get Ungdomshuset and they've asked for one, they were ignored. They didn't get one until they started to be serious. They've squatted empty building and were attacked by tear-gas. It forced them to defence and that's why they got this house. Its true that nobody wants this confrontation. But we must remeber that we wouldn't get this building without a fight. From today news: On Norrebro violence exploded. Attention: We are showing unpleasant scenes of meeting punks with cops. Enough of this. In the place where I come from everybody looks the same and this is scary. Somebody says: "Why can't you respect their lifestyle? They've chosen to live in a city without graffiti where everybody looks the same." But I didn't choose this when I lived there. I wanted something else, engage in something. But there wasn't anything like it. That life was deadly for everybody who didn't toe the line. Homosexuals always moved to Copenhagen. ...as everyone else who was different from "normal people". They had places like Ungdomshuset. If Copenhagen would be just like Herning, then what's the point of moving to Copennhagen? It would be the same in Copenhagen, lonely and sad. ...arised a foundation, that wants to buy back Ungdomshuset for the youths. We estabilished a foundation... [Association] and we want to buy the building back from Faderhuset and offer some avalaible solutions, so Ungdomshuset could continue their activity with us. With the foundation behind us we have a good position. So it's important to hold the politicians good will. Faderhuset is the only one who don't want us to stay here. If I convince them to sell the building to the foundation then we are saved. We don't brake the law by calling to them, just to talk. We don't need to threaten them. You can say, that you worry about their safety, or whatever you want ... We had made some smaller campaign, when we called them and jumped for a visit. Thanks to us, they didn't have any mass in one and half month. And we turn off their telephones. Today they announced, that theyll start again making their services. It's a clear invite for us, to "visit" them on Monday. I remind you one more time, that protests should be peaceful. Another one? This is where I grew up. It's the coolest dog in the world. She's sweeet. Faderhusers congregation, 26. November 2006 It looks shitty... Police talking! Sit on the ground! Everyone is arrested! Sit down! Now! Don't touch me! Get off, you idiot! Next one, who will try to run will get on the ground! What the fuck are you angry about? - What the fuck are you doing? You can't just fucking beat people! Sit down! - What for, You are beating us anyway?! Sit down! - Im sitting! Nikolaj! Nikolaj, is everything OK with you? I think he's ok. - Nikolaj! What the fuck are you doing, you fucking fascist pigs!? You can't just fucking beat kids! Shut up, it's not your boyfriend who got hit. Do not negotiate with terrorists, because it results in a greater terror. We, the owners, we are inflexible [Ruth Evensen, Faderhuset leader] - and we're still saying, that the house is not for sale, whatever price you offer. Faderhuset won't sell Ungdomshuset, what paves the way for riots. Threat of violence scares citizens that live in the neighbourhood. Copenhagen is like a vulcano, ready for eruption. Everybody waits in tension : "Oh, fuck, when this is gonna start?" But there is a place in the city without this tension. In the City Council everyone is absolutely calm. They cover their ears with hands and say that this isn't their problem. With friends we realized that it won't end on talks because the other side does not want to talk with us. So, like it or not, we are preparing for a fight. It's nice up here. Why can't the foundation find an another place for their activity? Does the city want to find such a place? [Ritt Bjerregaard, Copenhagen mayor] The city is not obliged to treat this youth in a special way. But they aren't going to get off. What do you do with this? I can't do anything. They are not legal owners of this house. People are afraid, because they saw bottles and stones on the roof. [Ungdomshuset; meeting with neighbours] This scares them. If just one cop will be cripple or dies, because he will get hit by something, then you will lose all your support. The situation of Ungdomshuset is different than our neighbours situation, but we are afraid of an escalation just like you. We hope that people understand that avoiding this confrontation... could be made only by a miracle. All legal possibilites are depleted. All battles are behind us, except this one. History tells us, that you will be involved in a fight, if you want it or not. I would like to be able to do something, but I do not know how to comfort people. I believe you, but still I must tell you that people expressed their fears. We are aware of these problems, but we find ourselves in a difficult situation. Therefore, the house appears to be as less open than usual. Kept in this team, closing from the outside world. Kopenhagen Authorithies had plenty of occasions to find a peaceful solution, but they've ignored all of them. They ignored not only possibilites, but also agreements that they agreed with us. If you experience this often, you lose faith in their system. That's just not fair. You say "their" system, but isn't it also "our" system? Not my. Not in the present form. You sound like a dissapointed man. - I'm very dissapointed. I really am... There isn't anybody else who wants to help the youth in getting a new home. Foundation Jagtvej 69 withdrew from participating in this dispute soon as the City Council waived the right to any liability. We are here, and politicians are there! The foundation is helplesness and as sure as a boomerang always comes back is that the case comes back into the hands of politicians. City Council is discussing about Ungdomshusest. What will the talks be about? About four proposals: - City should offer buying back Ungdomshuset. - City should play mediator role in this dispute. - City qualify building as historic building. All proposals were rejected. They don't want to touch this case, so eviction seems to be inevitable. Norrebro, 16. December 2006 Before the unrest, the Foundation has proposed the creation of a working group which would consist of representatives of the foundation and city authorithies. Why did you reject this proposal? Because it's based on a misunderstanding, according to which the city has an obligation to help this group. And this is not a political matter. The building has been sold ... But with this the city just fled from the liability in relation to young people. Selling a house is entirely legal. Am I looking into a lens? OK, I just need to know where... On this New Year's Eve, Ungdomshuset is staying on crossroads. We are entering this New Year in siege. Important people said that in this building are two active groups. The first, which organises concerts, and second, sitting in basement, wearing black clothes, which is only waiting for the opportunity to fight with the police. There are no two different groups. It's only one group of creative youth which lives in order to establish the value of cultural diversity for the benefit of all. Others don't need to justify. Why is there a place for opera, but isn't for punk pub? Why is there a place for speculators, when people can't afford an apartment? Why is there a place for fast-foods, but isn't for our soup-kitchen? Why is there a place for rich, but isn't for poor? Tonight, consider - what Copenhagen do we want? Happy New Year. Copenhagen is changing into Herning. Christiania, Ungdomshuset and youth clubs are vanishing. They are replaced by shopping centres, expensive residential skyscrapers and operas. Expensive icecream bars, cafe latte and expensive, designer clothes. Copenhagen citizens are dictating the fashion, but under this shiny facade the violence is heating up. That's because society is made up of different units. You can force people to subordinate, but theyll still be different, so you will drive them out or you will crush them until something finally breaks. We are from Ungdmshuset. We have a metting at noon. [Kindergarten, Norrebro] We do not trust that police will inform everybody when the eviction will come. So we organized a phone for emergencies, that will help us in informing everybody, as soon as it starts. Well, okay, call, but you said that you are peaceful and you don't want confrontation. And suddenly come here and say that it will be a confrontation. We didn't come here to discuss what can be. We just want to warn you. You are warning us, because you know what is going to happen. This is just so that they have a plan "B". - We have plan "B". For me personally the situation is quite severe. All these riots and all. Others also feel the inconvenience and I'm not sure what to think about this. But you didn't come to discuss. Am I want to be on your "alarm list"? We do not know whether we'll do a chain, or if we just call everyone by ourselves. I can give you my number. I'm also expecting informations from other sources. But, who knows? At least 11 buildings, owned by the city could be used as a new Ungdomshuset. But Major Ritt Bjerregaard still says, that the city does not have any buildings for the youth. Ritt Bjerregaard doesn't have to search for a place for the new Ungdomshuset. List of empty buildings owned by city is long. I can not afford everything so I do not want to spend 15 million crowns (danish) for a new building. I think that I'm showing city authorithies priorities in a clear and transparent way. I like better to give this moneys for schools, than buying them a new house. (fucking populism :) ) It seems that the negotiations are in a dead point. For the first time, the youth announced that they're ready to leave the building. Bbut only under the condition that the city will give them a new one. Dortheavej 63, 13. January 2007 Send the address to your acquaintances: Dortheavej 63. Somethings going on. - Im in. Dortheavej 63. They can not enter. Cops came earlier than we thought. I am in the middle. This is not funny. You can't simply require coordination when we don't know... Relax. We have a big banner, but police block the entrance. Come on, this many people can do this. - What entrance they should try to enter by? I don't know. Should I try to find the entrance? - No, cops will get there faster. Tell them, that they shoud just come here. They are exceeding cops by numbers. Come in! There is little to no police. Come in! Enter! Welcome in your new Ungdomshuset! Fuck yeah! - Yes! "Copenhagen authorithies are obliged to find a new building bound by the agreement signed by the city in 1982. Even then, City Hall is refusing to cooperate." We've made it! Bye, Bye! Some were already inside. Outside are hundreds of people. It is very fond of the media crowd. I think that police got to the conclusion that staying here can only exacerbate the situation. Are you prepared for violent clashes? That's not the point. It lies in the necessity of an increased number of homes for young people. The case of Jagtvej 69 is in deadlock and we generally want to open new talks. Thousands of people need a place for them and around are plenty of empty buildings. How will you solve this conflict? Dortheavej 69, 14. January 2007 Press conference is at 3 o'clock. We will use the technique of a scratched vinyl disc. When they ask us about violence or how we want to defend ourselves, we will say: "It's not about eviction, but about the need of existence of houses for the youth." Let's concentrate on transmitting our message, not on answering their questions. We will keep repeating the fact that in this city there are plenty of empty buildings and lots of young people need a youth house. Let's concentrate on empty buildings, not on stupid bricks. Did any politicians managed to react? - Geertsen says: End of dialogue! - Ritt representant says: It seems that the youth does not want a political solution. Mogens Lonborg, leader of Conservatives is afraid that after we opened a second front, it will be harder to get rid of us. What message do you want to give? I want a world in which there is a place for everybody, in the whole World. Does this sounds pathetic? - It sounds a bit pathetic. My philosophy about people ... I don't... Want... Something on the lines ... My philosophy about people is based on trust instead of all this shitty rest. Mayor of culture, Martin Geertsen. Why dont you want to give them a building? This group brakes the constitution by squating a house, which is not theirs and still wants money from politicians and taxpayers. This type of dialogue is not acceptable. - Geertsen talks about money. But politicians and the rest are obliged to support all cultures and not to fight those, who they don't like. People who are keeping others property and then demand money for a house rather do not qualify for keeping their own building. From the top. We all agree that we won't throw the first stone. It is beyond discussion. If the cops want to evict us, they will do it anyway. It will take 20 minutes or 5 hours, but they will do it anyway. Given the situation in Norrebro. Yes? If somebody will be beating me with a baton then I will fight, but I won't start the fight. That's the point. There is too much holes. We must do whatever we can to stop them from using tear gas. Calm down! Let's sit. What's going on outside? - They are unable to cope with our barricades. Two cops are examining them, the rest is waiting. They don't wear gasmasks or helmets and that's a good sign. Media wait until something happens. I do not know what. Ill ask them. We are waiting for slogans. - They want slogans. What do we want? Homes for kids and for everybody! If you don't belong to the rest and you are making your statement by peaceful meetings and funny happenigs, letters and petitions, then it doesn't matter if you are 30 or 3,000 people politicians are going to silence you. They use force to fight with all outsiders. - Shouldn't you go into dialogue ... We were in dialogue for 7 years. After the sentence from 28. August we were looking for a peaceful way to lead the self-governement youth home. But politicians just didn't listen to us. [Socialist Youth Front] I've come here to tell you how we see this situation and how we want to handle the threat of eviction. We'd prefer for people to organize themselves. To come to agreement in small groups and if it's needed to get to the streets. Are there any limits? I definitely want to get involved and I want to meet with a group of friends. The problem is ... That if somebody will die ... then it's too much for me. Of course, this is a battle that we must fight, even a war, but it's really hard for me to accept that somebody can die. I know that people are willing to die for that house and I do not think ... It's just a problem for me. Everyone has a right to decide for himself about participating in illegal and combat actions. Any help is important to us, if the need arises from the heart. We don't want that something bad happens to our neighbours or the Kindergarten. But they will come for us in battledresses and guns in their hands. They're serious. We are inviting everybody to defend Ungdomshuset indoors, but this won't be like a walk in a park. It will be dangerous, but we invite everyone. Ungdomshuset. February 2007 This cuts off a cellar. Do you have any strategy of cutting each particular part of the building, when they come in? Did you position your people to defend each barricade and so on? Police want to catch us by suprise. The most obvious way for them would be to enter from below. But they know that we know this, so they may try something else so our barricades must work from both sides. Rice... Other scenario, rather unlikely probable assumes, that they will be besieging us and will cut off electricity and water. Two activists were arrested in connection with the December riots. How does it affect your mood? The situation is tense because of "preventive arrests". The authorities want to eliminate key characters releated with Ungdomshuset before the eviction. SMSs informing about the coming eviction and rumors of a large mobilization of the police, all this shows how tension is growing in the home and in neighbours. When we came in, we met those old squatters which were afraid that we will get claustrophobia ... But we've said to them, that we are cool. Now, after four months, I begin to understand what they meant. Where the hell are we? All the time I wonder what my former classmates from school are doing. We, barricaded in the big house are preparing for a war with police. Nah, we aren't soldiers. - Are we ninjas? We would like to be ninjas, but we are only a bunch of youngsters. Many of us had trouble with the police, but this is something completely different. Sometimes you comfort a friend who was dreaming, that he had been shot by police during eviction. Several times I wanted to get off, but I just can't. - Exactly. I tried to sleep somewhere else, but I'm always coming back, because what if today will repeat itself? I do not want to go out into the streets armed with a helmet and a pipe in my hands knowing that they can shoot me or one of my friends. Or knowing that I can change a policemen into a cripple. I don't want this. But I also don't want us to surrender without a fight. That's just not fair. If we won't have a home, where will I go? What will I do? My life will loose something from its meaning. Norrebro, 1. March 2007 Come on! Tear Gas! Fall back! Fall back! Get him on the ground! Teachers and parents always tell us to do what is appropriate, to behave and support democracy. That every conflict has a solution. Many of us were teached that way and we see a sense in this. But if authorities do not play by the rules, then what can we do? We can't continue this game. It's like playing Monopoly with somebody who cheats all the time. In one moment you will get mad, dump the board and stand off the table. People from Town Hall don't want to play with us in the democratic game. From the very beginning they wanted to destroy us. When you ask me, I have enough of this game. I want to destroy them, their system and their game. After eviction more and more people are joining the fight for a new building. [Superintendent] Who can solve this conflict? - Mayor and City Hall. It's the city authorithies problem. Go talk with fucking Ritt Bjerregaard! The recent months were full of riots and made a hard time for the police budget that has to reduce spending on the fight against violence, drugs and prostitution. In fact, it pressures the Mayor to find a solution. First of all, we must find an appropriate place but what's most important, behind me is standing the whole City Council. Voting about estabilishing youth home in Copenhagen. Proposal accepted in 35 with relation to 10 votes. Copenhagen opened a new youth home. Corrected and re-timed by anticopyright@moose-mail.com
