 

                        Item 215: the spouse undertakes the duty for living together Alright, we are in the lesson of disgusting civil law... Character: Catherine Frot Ends it But the law is a law, it has to be Character: Didier Bourdon We are the witness here... This is the most solemn time and amity combination Settle down in our region The combination of Natasha and Francis, We are all happy for this Let start the wedding, stand up Francis Would you like to marry Natasha...? And swear to be faithful to her in happiness and unfortunately? I would like to. Natasha, you would like to get married to... Francis, and swear in the happiness... And unfortunate faithful to him? I would like to I declare... You are couple now The trouble begins Pierre You can kiss each other now Sending me does not disturb you? However, we'd better go there slowly Sure I wish them happy Let's see in 7 years My wife and I will go to hell in 7 years How about you, get married? Yes, for 7 years Not, but Audrey... Audrey, I can't hear you No, I unknown white you Listen, I am on the train on about 16:00... All right, I will call you a taxi I will... call a taxi Sorry Name of movie: 7 years of marriage You are at the Parisian train station in- in Lyons now TGV terminal station Director: Didier Bourdon Ensure nothing left in the TGV Oh, oh! Ah! Oh, oh! Are you dreaming? I signaled hint to you... For quite a few hours! Dear father! You have never thought I would come? Alright, my small flea? Here it is, take it. Alright, let's go, the car at the back! I waited for the taxi for 20 minutes, but useless to come here We even have no time to have a drink! Very good, I have some documents to handle Give your check to me ?everything is changing" how about marriage? Do not say "everything is changing" But Francis is my friend He must be married simple-hearted girl He is still faithful to her? I tell you, listen She is 33 years old, a neurologist They have a beautiful house And invite us to go there... To celebrate his 40th year, we won't go When do we move? In April, daughter, but as to which year... How about the photograph of the apartment? In the pack of your shirt We took the bounce ball, which you like That's good, lovely daughter, but I am in concentration You are talking Do not forget pack and your shirt. Not, I did not forget Come, you must study well Don't forget anything? Did not kiss Ah, that's right See you tomorrow Oh no... No... No! My most irascible customer... Even know he has to fill the check! Oh, Camille... Camille! Do you know what the time is? Ya, I know Turn off the light! Alright, I will go to bed What's the mess? I forgot to clean up You do not want to tidy up your own thing! All right... But... what is this? What is this dirty thing? Don't be like this! I want to punish you! You are prohibiting going out with grandpa! Enough follow the Saturday rites of this old and lazy gun You? Can explain to me? What are you doing? Anything stupid? Do you dress up as the lady?s' wear? No Let celebrate the birthday party in the "king empress" Who? He came to my shop for curtain And he gave his adornment to me And you repair his apartment for free?! Guess about his work, you would be happy I know nothing, barber? Dancer? I do not know, fashionable? so... Really openminded! Not, he is a banker, similar to father And you, you become... Like mother Arnaud! Em... You want to pass your neighbors wearing like this? Not, I will change my clothes in the basement Very good, I have seen enough tonight Where do you find her? No, not serious, a fight TC without PC, TS... Doctor, shirt First, good evening Should we see it later, bounce ball? Not need, where is your particular menu? Gastric washing TS, a neck bone X light photograph... Come to leap? No thanks She waited for a long time The vagina inhales. Again? How lonesome for women! Lonesome? I am single and... Let her coming in. Alright, doctor, madam Mere? It's your turn Wait, I am coming Go For me Good evening, madam. We come to see Arnaud. I'm coming I'm coming, so... Is your underneath fitter than top? Because neighbor?s... I will explain to you This is my elder sister, Audrey She works in father's bank This is Jean de la Ferriere, I take charge of "City" Jean de la Ferriere - Miner Joy de la Ferriere national bank I were once introduced to your father In addition, I and Chantal... Your younger brother said, he is a model Go? We don't use the elevator It's sad that I have to go Good evening, you are so charming See you Mother, I can not sleep. No way, go to sleep Go to sleep You know, mother, magazine... I found this in father's pack I want to play the tennis Father? Do not worry You have no disease, go home I don't know what happened I were put on the long sofa I thought I must be sitting on it It rings, and I jumped... Ok, I understand You may put on your clothes I stand in amazement, it keeps ringing well, I am leaving Goodbye, Madam Mere. Goodbye, doctor She can't accept that. Niclus, what is wrong? motorbike accident abdomen is hurt, maybe also the spleen and pancreas How about the spine? No, it is all right. Did you get it? Yes, 8.6 All right, I am coming. I am coming! aha, I catch you. Done, the hem of your clothes. Anyway, Rocy... It is not the time! This is urgent! Help me. I am coming Doctor, my baby is sick I told you, no parking here! There is the indicator All right, all right Oh no! Damn it Damn it Oh Hay... it is you? What are you doing here? I don't know. You make me crazy. You know that... Why do I have to bear all this? What is wrong? How about this? What is this? em... Put that dirty thing in your bag! Hay, you saw it?! No, don't worry, it's Camille She saw this last night. Camille? Camille, you eight-year-old daughter What? I am listening... A tennis buddy passed it to me There is an article about losing weight Lose weight?! you will become a retardate if you use it Lower What is wrong? You are not retardate, are you? Covet a beauty? a twelve year old child... Don't think I am a fool. you web address... Unbelievable. what? What address? Hay, enough There are those on TV... blue movie. and last Sunday... "Dear, have a sleep, you are tired. " Listen, it is enough. after my tonight duty, it is still in this way! please, do not be clamorous. Enough do not speak! even to covet the neigh neighbor. and her super briefs... Excuse me; it is called ferret type briefs your short pants are enough for ten people. What do you say? grandma's short pants, it is strictness... brassiere? brassiere is everywhere, I am surrounded by them. every woman wears it. everyday? they should see doctor. but you should go to see alienist! you know? in the hospital we use this magazine... to study the body of mankind they are muscularity, it is very useful. they are beautiful. ok let me take it. be careful, the best one is my father. when he is naked, the best place is his bell. why the disk... more beautiful today. ah, right... ok? have you gone? No. Sorry, I don?t think you are here. today Saturday, let me introduced you Haissa. hello, Alain let me take the bowls, this is Camille. my little princess, hello, miss Is he your fiance? No, my name is Haissa I am a drawer. your home is very good, right. our home will be better... I have prepared the breakfast for you. I go out. syrup? ok, give it to me. here you are. let me introduce you Haissa. hi, good morning madam! drawing uncle. Please invite your banker partners. you, your city comrade ..., make out a bedgown. What? ok ... after swimming I bought ferret inner clothes, smear silicon oil don't do that... grandpa! Please invite your father tonight. No..! Ho, I like your huffy appearance Hello, Dad Let me introduce for you Adriane?s friend, Haissa. No, Haissa Ha! They are the same Haissa Grandpa Did they help your English whole afternoon? It is right "afternoon? Dad, sit down please, coffee ok? Thanks, I have drunk it at Colombia station Do you live in Colombia? Yes, street. An isolative hardware shop. Shit! Dad, please take Kamie to go out. We have something to do My princess. Mother punished me. Punish? What? you punished Camille Sorry, dear... My mother forgot to cancel punishment, go to wear clothes. ok Since now, you can do anything you want to Especially, no punishment! Ho, shit... Your sister is so cool, are you sure she doesn't smoke? No, impossible, no, my mother is here tomorrow, if you want en... Take it; bring it to your mother, for trousers. Doctor Maynaejo? Is it your duty today? No. I have a date. this... how many times do you make love every month? en... it is depend on the status, en... normal, but the lust get lest and lest. for her? No! No anyway... yes anyway Listen I don?t know, I... I find she is more beautiful. but... she can not let me to be exciting... but, she is always dog-tired, and grumbles She is not like that before. how about other women? oh! No. the nurse in the fifth floor? No, do not say... I never pay attention to that woman. how about your plan? Will you move to other place? Right, but she cannot help me, I promise. She should change her attitude. I am too annoyed If you continue, I will flee... it is your turns, when you get up, are you excessive? why you can not understand. the prim one is Audrhee, it is not me. I can imagine... every one I take in. They are the same. the man is good at sex. and they think they are the only one who has the sex imagine. They condemn their wife for their formality. Because they never join their lust game. But they have no suggestion. we are very familiar. Excuse me! We are friend, this is not the topic. the topic is that Do you want to have amused lust with your wife! Think, we came here for this. Attention, the amused lust! what? You should take Auderhee to... the game you think it only for you! Do you think Auderhee have no fancy? the little things with you, you will know his coldness. How do you say that? hi, Auderhee if they are gay... No, the story of his especial diet is true. He is a stupid. Your young brother should find a habitation. for your mentality balance. That is not his fault, open eyes! Auhdehee! in the childhood there is a story about ass. right, It is about my younger brother. Oh, you see it? that is almost outrage call. she will agree. so will you. You think you are a... ah! We can not continue to next step without watching! It is too excessive. Did you read the magazine about Point? Point G, shit, Point D, lust point. that kind of magazine is used to get rid of Point G. This foundation is essential. This point located in the four side inner fossa. lust point all of them have it... attention, Ariane If no stimulated, Point D gets the brain shink... and change into the first Point D, so... the first Point D can not let people happy. the woman begins to conceal their lust. any oomph will be disposal! Most of woman will obdurate in the colder. You will know the result...! after she is not in Point D we are very happy We go to sex-shop. we went to Paris for exchange the sex-partner. the happy lust. But... We love Ariane attention no cheats, no deceit, just love! Viviane... Ariane! Listen, if you want to be like me. take Audehee to the same way, you will be very happy. Audehee would not... the man who talks to you is not your friend. He is a sex expert who knows your wife deeply. You love her? Yes You want to take her to your fancy? Yes. very well. Are you ready to stimulate her Point D? Yes at least... You will depend... My recipe. Begin the treatment from today. in the morning and noon, do nothing. From tonight you should talk to her to stimulate her Point D. You should think you believe... it is vulgar for your wife. After stimulation, you should let her join your side. So you can do anything you want... sex video tape? Oh, No No, I haven't, even a half sheet You will go with her... This means: bitch "Look, How I will deal with you. This kind of glossary. No, I don't want... This is prescription, Ariane you must begin tonight, don't send them tomorrow ok... You are right, you are right. You'd better stop these indecent words and deeds. I am happy hear you say that. I am so satisfied with my bachelordom that I see you stay together with those men, Do you have brassieres? I don't know whether I have more. No, I didn't Hi, Aerno, what's happen?! Did she leave any message? nothing She went to association with Alina. I have called her, no answer. Don't wrong, she will come back. Yes, this on, speed work up? right My fitment only begin let us go Ayisa, should we go? Yes, it is only 11 o?clock. Come on, let get on barge. What I will do on barge? Come with your wife In these nights, people will explode It's not suitable for her. Not insult you Your wife is a bomb When will you back home? You should say beforehand I'm so worried We went to the association, and then watch a movie We are going Thanks for your generosity very much You are a couple... Let's go Thanks I send you 10 messages! Don't quarrel with me! NO! Just want to know what you have done Now you know I go to sleep My bag... En... Wait Wait Have a seat... Otherwise... Are you having a happy night? Right We saw a disgusting but favorable movie Audrey, I thought over We should talk. -Right, I'm listening You know... Because of your work and my on duty We are routine, aren't we? I think our life should be exceptive You know... I thought over I know I should change somewhat We should regain the harmoniousness You know... Maybe we can... Maybe what? Any drink? En... Ok, a water please How about Vodka? Long time no drink As you No, but it's true... It's the time now... You know, I thought over You think over so many times! Yes, yes... We should be a more mature couple like before I should stride forward you And you receive my steps Anyway, steps stride toward us Toward orexis... Maybe, your steps are more than mine All the steps are large! This morning, when you talk about blue movie... I believe you are right It's time you go to watch with me It's just a game... I didn't say that! Sorry, don't refuse me I can't, sorry; I think it's too vulgar Art is a production a fire with audience, a kind of surge Only I who am fancy of sex? What? It's time to join my fancy En? Oh! I think you are great! Look, I want you Even greater than Michel-Angel! I never have the bourn I'm really glad you react like this Dear... Dear, wait! I have reason to say every woman... You too, You want I talk to you... Bitch, am I fucking you? Medically! Medically! But you are totally ill! I go to sleep It's medical... Door is rattly You shut up. Fuck! You are so great! Oh, right! Right! Thanks for your advice! Succeed! Her first Point D is fixed in her gracious mind It's realistic immerging in technique A better way is to arrange a night with Viviane Wait, we won't... NO! No! Just one night that let me calm you down Ok, how to? Emergency doctors have their techniques so do sex experts! How to help? Arrived, just here Here? -Right It hasn't finished yet! No, don't say that! You like green! I like town more, woman isn't... Oh, shit! My running clothes! Its better, that's for sure Bright... It's important to a couple Montaigne said: "wherever you go, take your question. " In that aspect, what does he say? En? Plmmerge Audrey's flesh into... where provoke excitement Where do you take her? Not yet, imprudent thing... I don't know, hot place Like this, traveling You understand her Audrey won't go to such place Let's see Let's go, L?immersion, Alain. It's so crazy, people talk it all days Exactly! Want something? Why invite them to join literature broadcasting program? It's not literature! People talk about new trends But it's dirty feminism In every book, there will be... X movie! Take care of child's ears Ok? What happened, daughter? No, nothing, mother, oh! Oh la la! Onard! Oh, Elf! Elf! Elf! Right! Vendor tells me he wants to... let it adapt, it is so lovely Yes, daughter... I prefer Toby Didn't you eat? I'm not hungry What did you see in yesterday's TV? Pivot's dictate Alain, did you see? No... Now Alain doesn't like it Your father makes 20 mistakes. Hein?! No, my father doesn't make any mistake! He isn't doing... dictate of primary school, be polite! Camille! Alain... Do you know the word? One? Wait, eh... "hys"... "hysterecotomie" No, no,"hysterectomie" Ah? Right, "hysterectomie" hysterectomie And it causes... change of life. Isn't it? we are eating! But I... father Alain is a doctor Ah, yes Yes. Alain... How do you feel of the fitment? You are really more sexy... Young! Any advance in the work? Slowly Where is Arnaud? I guess he hasn?t got a house? Alain is usually on duty It's good for me that he is here Uncle there is a new woman like your drawing Pardon? No, a very strange toy child Wrong! He even collects toy child! I can still hear the words of psychologist when he was small What's the matter, my... Oh! Nothing! What happened to you? Sorry I step on it You leave Your dessert? No, no I... I rest for a quarter of time Excuse me. Coffee? No, thanks What's wrong with him? He isn't well these two days Alain can... No, if he didn't turn well, I ask the doctor All my buddies are not sponsored! You attaint me only for 300 franc? The same money! I have tried my best for you to conceal the deficiency I paid the arrearage. Of course Give time to company... I hided in cabinet for 18 years, come out 5 years ago Arrive in SMIC 5 years ago! But: "Wait, Mr. Masson" I don't want to do this... Give me your check book and blue card Dirty things! Those things are not for me If can pay off, I will give you Don't worry! I can pay soon! Ask for a loan, then Listen! I will tell you a thing! My child doesn't have a father of banker! Shut up! I told them before with bankers. I... Shut up... Shut up! Bourgeois! Mr. Masson... Hello, what's the matter? Oh! Mother... Sorry En? Father? En? Remake here as entry Here Ratty, it's the charm of old condominium She is my wife, educated in Zaire She likes very much... Sorry. I will call you later Ok, telephone contact. Answer the phone Should be your wife Oui, hello? Oh, shit! The Affair will harm the government Foreign Minister... State like a witness politic and financial world... The same as many people This morning, 6 to 7 people had been enquired All the people will have something to do with transsexuals It makes... one day of large amount of money trade You understand your father He has nothing to it But transsexual... Nothing In emergency treatment, you will see more dirty things It's different, he is my father He is the same as others What should I do? I want to see my mother, she isn't well, I think How is Camille? You look after her, I should go alone I should go to see her alone Hello, is mother in? Yes With priest Jacques Mother? It's not the time! Be quiet He always likes bitch. Don't look on him as that Transsexual, bitch! Carnality is a small corrupt But it's the source of every evil First, it likes infant... understand its smallness It digs into obstacle ham-handed But it grows! It destroy all its things before But sir goes to church every Sunday! And, gay! Calm down It's nothing we spend but the twisted story! You should learn to forgive, Jeanne, come, calm down Lean on my body How can I do without you all the time? Learn to forgive, Jeanne I'm glad I don't know, but I imagine my parents making love People usually don't think of parent's making love My parent, I am frozen Do you see my mother enjoy? Ah! Ah! Ah! Arnaud! Need acid milk? No I want to compromise with her My trouble about money is over Right, you, you! Audrey, you don't care! You are too factitious Finish eating? Right Wait! It's not a dissembler! You see, board! and a miss like to report! Hair is done! dressing is done! On mother's back! Age of Remi Who is Remi? Neighbor, he is 10 years older than you How? Father has nothing to do with the intrigue against each other Don't worry about him Have you known? Something to eat? No, I'm not hungry What about the story of transsexual? We will hear! It will let me famous Arnaud, ok, it's good! Actually For your mother, it... You can smoke now? Audrey smoke again, It's cheering Mother seduces with priest Jacques Hein? Mother seduces with priest Jacques the one preside over us? secularized one? I want to buy lottery! No, no Come on, go I believe you are right I'm a madman looking at you What did you say? Even my mother! Do you understand? I understand your reaction, but... You, obviously! Wait, I talk you as a doctor What, as a doctor? In sex, all are explained I saw in "human sexual behavior" recently it said people get an extraordinary finding: Point D Don't you talk be about Point G tonight? No, I talk about Point D, seriously For your mother, I think impersonally... Her first Point D turns to Point D... Ok, don't say That's all for tonight, ok? And... Ok! Great We need to stop. You want to stop? Wait, mother, priest... dogs soon When she was shocked at adult's... sex reality? You are so interesting! What's wrong with you? "You are so interesting!" Listen to me She saw her parents have no sex Now, older every day She remakes the compendium for her But because of their normal libido Your Audrey will explode Ok, ok... Go? Fall on the ground, transsexual It's not pathological In Audrey's mind, her father looks for transsexual because her mother never has woman's sex-identity Not to be the same as her mother Audrey will avoid Her mother? I'm so surprised. Go and look Now, whom she wants to protect is her father Oh! I'm waiting for you Don't come every day! I have a question Is my wife dead? Yes, for months But don't come all day, goodbye, Mr. Badurian Oh, my wife is dead! Jesus vive! We don't know ourselves lucky! "you" don't know you?re lucky Are you free tonight? What? I phoned to Audrey we four go to Cupid on for dinner You called her? Of course Talk about a club... exchange sex partner club! She is very glad Claude! Explain! No, just to restaurant, immersion, segmentation I'm leaving Doctor, where is your badge?! You haven't dress work clothes! I don't know! Hello, Audrey? It's me, are you fine? Oh, I'm enough! I stay in the bank for one whole day! Father's story... everybody is real evil-minded What's means! Where are you? I'm with Ariane in an expo Do you know a man called McKoy? Er... no, no, er... Claude called you? Yes! I haven?t tell you I don't know what happens to my brain He is kind But... He explained to me for my father Er... he told you its tonight? Yes, it's joyful, isn't it? Err, yes, but did he say where will we go? Yes, Cupid on, with Viviane Yes... but Cupidon do you know what is it? Are you looking me as a fool? There is a restaurant there In addition, I'm curious Are you? Err, do as you like I need to change thought See you at home, ok? Do you have news about your mother? Don't mention mother, I don't want to see her See you later, goodbye. Er... ok, kiss you Oh! He is right, idiot But he said right! Right! "immersion, Alain"... "immersion, right im, im, immersion Alain, im, im, immersion! im, im, im... Are you ok, doctor? Yes, pretty good, where are the patients? They are waiting Yes, reasonable Sorry How much I give you? Good evening, is it ok we come to Cupidon? Good evening Is it the restaurant? Good evening, madam, sir. Good evening shall I keep your outer wear? we are here to have dinner, and have an appointment with Mr. Aboulker Yes, Claude is waiting for you Err... Your overcoat? Ah, ok... ah, yes... We have the convention of asking name, too But if it bothers you... - Sarah. - Bernard. She is Sarah, I'm Bernard Ok - Ah, restaurant is over there. - Ok, thanks - Thanks - Sorry - it's hard for us to find a taxi - can you drive here? Good evening In Paris, parking is disgusting - Yes, I know - Good evening Are you ok? - Yes, yes. - I?m fine, and you? Yes, yes, not bad Somewhat tired, I'm writing a book It won't be popular. - absent of confidence? People won't read topic hard to understand! That's for sure! What topic? A kind of try I try to make changing terror reasonable under the circumstance of without defending for mental sex consequence It's important - Claude helped you? Oh, no! Not at all Not at all, to me I try to provide evidence for politics side of coition in society But that's for the reason of purification Funny Ah! I introduce to you, Daniel Boss of the first class place Daniel, couple friends Viviane, my wife You know Good evening Anybody places an order? No, but we have time I ask the foreman to come, see you later... Audrey, what are you reading? Good evening Tonight, we don't have delicious... filet any more, but chanterelle I'm reading "Platform" by Houellebecq Ah! Love is mixed with free libido... Acerbic! Disregard to... bourgeois, I like it Right, er? And you, Alain? Houellebecq? I'm reading the menu Sorry My wife and I invite you to the bar downstairs... to have a drink, you get along with each other after dinner We dine ourselves Next time... Sorry Have a royal time See you later, I hope He is not bad, but she... Don't be too much, she is lovely She always show up her husband's size of penis It's so unsatisfactory. - fancy is secret He is difficult to judge Do as you like No, but listen! Leave it... Around the table who will admit his own fancy? Really! Not whom we are talking about Alain, for example what else can you fancy? except a couple go to sex shop? Er... No It isn't... I was a child then No, but... Because when I went into sex shop... a couple is there, it has past I was a child then No, but it isn't some words that can express fancy, er? And you, Audrey? Err... What? I, I don't know... It, somehow, with Alain we two, I don't know, we Audrey, it's nothing to say No, and you? What do you fancy, Viviane? Err, I believe I can say... hello? Hello where are those people? Downstairs, can have a look after dinner If you want... "they are married, having many children" Did grandfather do something wrong? Err, he did something wrong... What bad thing did he do? Err... I! No, not this You are so funny Say, say what did he do? Nothing, he played with his neck But bad man don't like to be that Look, aren't you looks well? Now, time to sleep. I want to sleep with you It's impossible Not tonight. Why? Haissa is back? No, he is a bad man, too He plays with his neck? Now, time to sleep, my little princess Good night. Good night. Collective frolic can be constrained in a baleful show window I don't object Houellebecq totally describe the intimacy of 3 a froup That is a couple are making love with another man There is a form of poetry and romance What do you think, Audrey? Yes, it is I will begin to read Houellebecq... Sorry, I have to go to the toilet, be right back We meet at the bar. I think it... Sorry, is toilet downstairs? Ah, yes, "it's downstairs" Sarah. Err? ah, yes... Ah, you are not clever... It's empty inside, you go inside alone? Yes... I've finished Young virgin... Ok! Look! Isn't he De Rigal? frequenter Damn! Celeb is coming? Of course Will recognize them?! It's important! It's a good thing to show up in exchange sex partner place They bring their wives? Yes girl friends, too Prostitute! No A third man... A luxury bitch This makes gentlemen come in easily Admitted opinion There are young girls here! Claude, dear! They are your friends? How are you She is so lovely! Grace, you are handsome yes, absolutely handsome Any champagne? Take mine... Cool! I make a strip Will you go downstairs? See you later She is really excited, your friend I totally understand... Who is incited by the place, upside or underside According to term of cure, people call it body immersion body immersion Want to have a look? No, not tonight I see you off No, I take taxi No, I see you off I go home, don't pay attention to me Leaving? Let's go Claude, where do you pass by? Immersion, Alain Immersion It's a person? Yes, I ensure In Boulogne woods, only transsexuals They are pretty! Anything wrong? Incredible I am thirsty Err? It makes me thirsty! Here you are Thanks Look, as you wish! Great I go to sleep Did I do something wrong? Oh! Please forgive my appearance, madam Nouchette invites me The drawing odor of our condo... He did well, yes I hope you visit in return... so that pays attention to his talent I won't don't go, good evening, sir Please allow me praise your libido climax's... beauty like wagnerienne Dear, open the door please? I know you will come tonight That makes you so excited that want to do good things? Just once, Viviane, come on Open the door. I don't regret went there Audrey is so restrained she should read a book cold alone I want to make love with you... You make me disgusting of you! Don't, just once I want Return to Cupidon with your prostitutes Bitch I promise to you! You will see woman in her forty is ardent Her brightness finds all the fuels under the caress How is it? I'm hungry to death! Do you have 2 minutes for me? Very bad mood... Don't tell me things go bad! No, I just finish the corpse dissection See you later Do you know what have we done? No, she isn't the type, we? No, I told her not to go too far Once got home... Viviane is so excited! her face is full of thirst for libido She is naked She dresses ermine. Ermine?! A coat! Are you crazy! Things we have in emergency treatment and portable... Before the excessive libido She hope I take her to sex shop Then? Great! It's the next step of Audrey and you No. Yes, yes Yes, she is prepared to enter your fancy No, I was a child, I told you Go, let's relax Will you still do autopsy? To find out why the child talked with me yesterday died yes, I see... Ok, you don't want to... You don't want to see the last Tetsuo Kosiwato at 14? No, I return to office And I have visitors seeing the condo Haven't you sold it? It's expensive! Won't you wear it? Look straight, we should look for good things! I won't wear Good morning Good morning Can I help you? Err... I... I want to have a look at the ferret underwear and respective bra Bra for what? The pairs in your glass show window are beautiful Ah, yes I'll show you, here, and first class Then... What's your circumference? Have to measure Can I? Audrey, I'm leaving I will miss that one Wait, Ariane Your female accompanies? A friend, I don't know what happened to her Not cool, er? Take it Err, are you drinking Vodka? Another visitor Are you ok? Camille stayed overnight in Elodie?s home Ah! She should be happy! How is it, ok? Yes, her assignment is 10 Hoot! Nice. Excuse Is kitchen here? Yes. Err... yes They come and go for 20 times What did you do this afternoon? I called you, but you are our I bought a new drawer What? Want to have a look? Do you like it? Err... yes I see nothing, but good You can't see clear, because I wear corsetry Salesman suggested me to buy a long sock for separate use Really nice doesn't it obstruct cycle? Stocking suspender is better. I bought, too A nice salesman. Right Very well, we have a consideration Please. No, one last question Is it comfortable window facing window? Don't you feel observed? No, on the contrary, ask my husband very good Sir, madam. Why will you sell it? We need money, but condo is a waste Don't pick a hole in it Goodbye What should we do? eat here? Have to go out? I don't know I don't prepare yet, we should go out since we don't talk about... Let's go out Err? er... Ok, do you want to go inside? Oh, I don't know, one more round So many rounds, we need to recognize the direction One more round. Go to the restaurant Then we go there Wait, we'd better go one round more Do as you like, what are we risk at?! Err? No, really what are we risk at? Ok! Let's go! Go. Actually, I don't know if I want to go Or to restaurant, or go home, go as you like Do you want to? I don't know, yes... No, anyway... yes then we go! Go, but are you sure? Yes Wait, I... No, it... Oh! Let's go! Go! Let's go! Oh! Sorry, sir Oh, I didn't see you! It's me, me How are you Ah, look, in all the x-movies, at least I know... girl's monsveneris are cut I like it This, I don't like at all What's this? This, this is... If you want to listen, this is... Many visitors buy this. You know? Many visitors buy this... To put on glans, up for a long time No... I, leave it... No? It's not a problem Geisha ball, to put into private part Very wet private part, madam will be satisfied Madam? Madam will be satisfied without it I have something to you. We want... Personal small room? Out of stock Underside, project... Very beautiful movie Quiet Go downstairs? No. No, we have a look We... go to attend the agriculture salon Ah, I have a good meal! Ok, Jackie? Is underside hot? What are you doing? That's my customer What? My customer! You continue? Goodbye Isn't she pick something, little lady? Madam Dubreuil! - Mr. Masson! Shit! I introduce Mr. Masson to you One of my customers It's my husband... with whom I marry Wait I, a customer? Last time we met, you are just saying the opposite words It's good to be coincident I should call you today Want to tell me what? Err... Because I intercede for you, then... I will return the check book and blue card to you Ah! You believe I'm right I'm not a man ungrateful! We are leaving Don't go like that! No, but... small things, small gifts Love, love forever! I know you are a kind man madam Dubreuil Actually, I ask about your father through my friends, he is a good man If he is to be in prison He will be fine, even for 10 years Here you are my pleasure We can't... Bother you so much Don't worry! Ok, ok, we are leaving Ok, wait, I want to say... Oh, thanks, really appreciate Err, you know... We just pass by occasionally In the bank, I hope... You know... don't worry I'm coming, this... Your husband? Yes, my husband Ok. We hug then say "you"! Goodbye Goodbye, thanks Don't worry! Bra makes me uncomfortable. Me either Cusp makes me uncomfortable. Do you think can I put back the ball? Yes, yes... I will come soon Are we crazy, er? We are totally mad I'm coming Lumme! Do you know where I put the keys, er? Ok, it's the second floor. Er... Nice Nice, er? a small cuckoo! This is my baby's room, with bathroom That's good I should ask one more thing from architect They prepare for us all the things on time! Its hall Brighter, we will be much better here We will be happy here, I'm sure Do you see special room, opposite the room? Yes, washroom. No, you don't see clearly Come on. Alain, no, wait... Come, we have a look again I've seen, people all around What's the matter? Sorry, sir No, oh! You have no right... Here! Madam! But it's really a pretty lady! You don't wear that safety helmet! Ok. No, stop Ok, ok... No, no... Just a minute Sorry, I'm late Don't hurry, I have plenty of time Ok... It's for you Don't do that, I'm not well. Open We call each other using "you" Ah! perfume? Disappear so fast, I don't use it Wait, it's not perfume! It's "3-in-1" It's spicy Inciting libido, and... Shake massager All women buy it! So novel If you are tired... thanks very much Very practical Really, I thank you... thank you, then... Give it to you. Ah! Thanks, my little girl As for the story you attended the salon... No one knows! You go to the bar, watch a movie of naked ass Override, overrided... then, replay Art type, renaissance...? It's Versailles! No, but we, not so If I am not there, attention, under, right Intrigant! Male? Gay, sodomite! To us, it's just curious Ok, sign here Listen to me, bagnio, run up you Don't you try all the stuff I gave you in the sex shop? you know... If your man wants, then do Otherwise, he will find someone else, instead You will be home alone Like a fool Sorry, I want to tell you... I finish, come in, please Mr. Villiers, our manager How do you do How do you do, sir. Oh! Do you ruin it? It's the gift from Mr. Massion Perfume? Be careful! No, nothing, it isn't... It's an alarm clock Novel, hope I don't ruin it No, no... Ok, I'm leaving See you later In a night and a place where you know... quiet, Zen Mr. Massion... How? Still fine? What's the matter? Hello, sir Camille cried for a while Did he? Why? yesterday, I see my mother naked and she doesn't have pubes any more I?m scared Are you ok? Oh, yes, I'm fine... Don't worry You know, Camille Ok, we are leaving Goodbye, sir, Camille Goodbye. Are you feeling better? Yes, will you still go out tonight? Err... Yes I feel it vague. Why? Good evening Good evening is... Mr. Massion here? Massion is not here tonight, just me Ok... We are back, go! Do you have silver? I give... give us... 10 Wait, that's 5 hours! Ah, no... Here you are Thanks. Then underside Thanks It's the ladder I can't see anything I can't see anything. Take off glasses No! Not this side, its male gay Male? Gay Good evening, my beauty. Good evening Good evening do you wear panties? Err? No, But where do we go, do you have silver? I have one... give it to me You seem pretty... Wear long socks? Yes, yes... Err, Audrey... No, but... Oh, you smell good Come on, closer. But leave it... We should see more clearly. I'm leaving! Enough! Quiet I ask you be quiet! Should know! Come on, don't worry Go straight! Relax Will I go? What "will you go"? Pretty materials! Am I dreaming! I never see you like that! What the matter with the man?! Come back! What's the matter?! We are not gay! Let me see your wife? See my fists Where does he go? What are you doing coming here? Go, go! Go! Calm down, it's an elegant room Do you want to see your elegant room?! Go the hell, you lewd man! Mr. Alain... goodbye, goodbye Mr. Alain... ok, see you Monday "male gay!" Happy chat with Massion! What, Massion? Are you mad! What I?ve done is just for you I thought you like to be that But the peeper... "let me see your pants. " But you even don't say a word! I care nothing about the man! I even don't know him If I didn't stop where will you go! Not at all! Tell me, I'm scared Yes... It's not my fault, the dirty places! If not for you... It's my fault? It's man's problem! They fancy, but this lays down us! Oh, please, enough! What about you? Do you mind my fancy? In envy place You saw I made love with another man?! Don't continue our silly things I like to with another woman, too Why? Have you done? No, but can't, isn't it? Why you say so? I saw in "life" For those men, the first fancy is to sleep with two women Don't deny! I'm not "those men" Right... Ok, sleep See you tomorrow Let's sleep "male gay!" No! You tell her I'm still dating Oh, I have some problems with my mother... How many months you will pay back? If possible, 2 years Ok, do you bring payment card? Yes Thanks I will give you a lowest rate Thanks Do you see Houellebecq? No, heard that it's novel What happened? Go to see guard what?! Go, my OAP is here Be annoyed too much! What's wrong with you, doctor? I'm coming! Doctor, something happen to my daughter! What's the matter? Where? The end, in the room What happened? The first time, we got chucked We are punished! Vanessa, don't say silly! Chantal, solvent for lumen No, release solvent for the convulsion Serious? No, just a kind of cunt convulsion... Happen strongly, hardly see Dirty girl, I went to see sister, then see you It's not my fault No, it's not your fault Who tells you that? Ok Pay attention Err... fine will be ok, soon. Thanks, doctor I won't do that again Hope so! No, you can, otherwise, it's too miserable Ok! We are nearby Thanks. What is it? I pour them a barrel of water no use, man! Oh... No It's true! You should answer my phone I know what I want to do Audrey, how do you talk to me?! I talk whatever I want Are you smoking now? Anyway... What did I do to you, daughter? Explain! Things are not solved like this! You are wrong totally Go and see! Ok My life is not so simple, tell you! Your brother looks at me that way... And your father do wicked things for 20 years! Please, enough You don't know how lucky you are You have normal couple life Audrey? Err... Excuse me... can you give me a corsetry? Go to find in chest Ok, hello Who is the girl? What's the matter? Err, right! We 3 make love at night Audrey! Don't dash! Ok, er, I... I'm leaving. Just it Tell me, daughter! What do you repeat and repeat? No I'm not evaluating you I'm explaining something about Jacques It's difficult to tell daughter Where is Camille? In her grandfather's home for weekend I can also take her when you were... leave it... where is Arnaud? He fined a good condo Err... sorry Do you only have this? Because it is somewhat horrific Your corsetry isn't horrific Ah! I sell her white corsetry... and ferret underwear Be careful White looks sickly Please allow me say something I disagree It's pretty, but dark one is sexy It's her career You always want to refute me Give me a cigar Do you want me to come tonight? No, Alain is on duty tonight On the beam. No, without Alain... Even if he, you see, not ok You are so charming, with your men Telephone, er? No, you saw all these... That's great, I thank you, and it owes to you Actually, do I trouble you? No But maybe we go too far No I'm not a man of envy but in sex shop You should look! And yesterday... We hade dinner with a lady She invited her to home It's too late, the girl decided... Stayed at our home, if I didn't stop... Strange things! I don't recognize her Maybe you think I'm a fool! I ask myself her first Point D maybe become to Point D soon What do you think? Tell me Err, what's wrong with you? No, nothing No, what's wrong? What did I say? Serious? No, not you, it's... Viviane What's wrong with Viviane? She did nothing for 10 years, she didn't want to make love with me Ah, no... Nothing, it will be settling fluently Look at Audrey and I Yes, But yours is different My Viviane, she doesn?t love me Yes, Chantal, I hand over for you, its exchange Hello? Is it? Ok, I'm coming I have to go to emergency treatment, sorry Err... Be brave, old guy Where is he? Here Is it serious? No, I can say Good, what happened? My nose I broken, have to do surgical no, not serious, come on Oh, you frighten me! What happened? My boy friend banker promise to leave his wife for me Chantal, I will deal fluently His wife comes to find him, they drive me out He wants to put daughter in the hall you can go home I go to new boy friend's home Don't you think it's over like this? You new boy friend?! You should go home Sorry, not against you Do you quarrel to death? Not quarrel I think she has more interests on others than mine Are you really crazy?! Didn't she tell you the travel to Spain or Austria? Do you know a photographer, McKoy? Yes, an extraordinary black big man. Audrey won't leave any impression of him Sorry, I even don't know what I'm thinking Alain, you haver! You are so lucky! Between man and woman, there always breakpoint Yes, er... Don't say anything silly I understand her, she is my sister I know what she said to me, don't be like that! Alain! Somewhat bleeding Oh, sorry I'm leaving. If you want to see him, don't go No, his job, has the risk of late return I come over Saturday No, impossible We bring father a surprise We want to see "all are changing" What she wants to say is Francis Ah, Francis? For celebrating his 40 You will be happy Father will be happy But the scarf isn't yours! This one? It's Elodie?s She gave it to me I give mine to her we exchange sex parnter, too What are you thinking? Goodbye Don't worry, I'm not wandering in the street Better think of yourself, think of you I?ve glad for you where does your boy friend live? He has an admirable room in the 11th floor Ok Let's go, goodbye I will explode. Are you ok, er? Kiss Camille; tell Audrey nothing for the moment Have told you Don't park here, there is a notice! I don't want to... Let me go... It's not good... Oh! It's not good... Don't! Dear, what's the matter? I'm hungry! I'm coming... wait! Don't look! Don't you like my little surprise? Like it, very good You should be happy we?d leaving the old condo soon Neighbor, look... neighbor! Neighbor! In front of you, there is a woman... She never be so amorous to her man Yes, and she needn't please me with cry like a cat You are too bad saying that Err, what? Where do you find it? I... find it from mother's bag I want to spray some perfume What are you doing getting up? Go to sleep What's this? Funny perfume Why do you disguise? For bash Not Christmas now! What's this? Oh! I'm annoyed; her problems are more and more Garter belt... Tell me what this is! You... I have rights to ask some question! It's perfume, Mr. Massion... Given to me before coming to bank Then... how do we deal with Camille? you always aggrandize This thing isn't I don't know Ask for advice from Claude Ah, No! It's not a good idea Is it? All your stuffs, really a hard time! "All my stuffs!" We are two persons! I stop tomorrow, it's not difficult! I stop tomorrow! I didn't say You upset all I don't understand you men and us, will always break up? Don't say such silly old words I stop I stop! Can you please help to take off? the plaything cry like a cat? You wear too badly I don't know how to Upside, belt! Do you quarrel? No, not at all I want to be intimate with you for a while You disguise just for celebrating "all are changing"? No, no What? Nothing Mother has bought tickets for "all are changing" A surprise Simply saying Francis is ok It's ripping surprise Should stop in Vienna or Valencia? Valencia will be better What I bought is this one Tonight you will scream for love? What's this, Camille?! Arnaud tells me it's screaming for love He can only say silly words, Arnaud! Can you let me hear actually? Err... tomorrow Yes, tomorrow Can I do that? Err... later, later Are you free, dear? I like it very much Is it true of the condo? Yes As Benin's embassy the woman tells me you have let her seen Yes, I remember A pretty woman She is not bad Yes, I think she is too pretty! honey, we talk about Africa They are familiar with Zaire They will arrange a reception at the end of the month I want to go very much We go then... Err, Camille Enough! Do you want something like small go-cart? I want orange I want a bottle of water I go with you Be ready soon Dear, can you put the DV? Let's go The end
