 

                        On Dec 23, 1993, Maximilien B., a 19 years old student, killed three people in a Viennese bank. Shortly after that he shot himself in the head Gamsakhourdia's fighters pound the city day and night with illuminating bullets. Waving a white handkerchief, a sign of peace, refugees cross the line of front. More than 100,000 people are fleeing in an effort to escape the war. Peace efforts in Somalia have just failed. Leaders of the two rival factions, Aidid and Ali Mahdi, rejected the peace conference because they had not taken part in the preparations. For the first time since the ceasefire, Aidid's fighters resumed attacks against UN bases in Mogadishu. American air forces are trying to apply controversial tactics of president Clinton. Deafening airplane raids, bombs, artillery fire, threat gestures. And psychological war: American and Somalians shake hands as a gesture of peace. But under the surface, it is obvious: Rebel boss Aidid is opposed to reconciliation. Somalis are having trouble believing him, in view of American soldiers heavily armed, with tanks and helicopters. Aidid's opponent, Ali Mahdi, is asking Clinton to clarify his position. If the clans are not disarmed, Somalia will fall into anarchy again, he says. But the Americans have already decided to leave the country six months from now. Haiti, a Caribbean nation, is a hot new spot for the United Nations. 1600 military advisers, police instructors and administrative experts are trying to reestablish democracy. But as in Somalia, the opposition to American and Canadian troops is growing. Ralf Hoogestraat reports: The American battleship Harland County is still anchored in front of Port-au-Prince. Armed thugs have taken over the port opposed to those who are inviting the foreign intervention. During an orchestrated action by the Haitian military, diplomats and journalists... 71 FRAGMENTS OF A CHRONOLOGY OF CHANCE How is she? 39.3 degrees... by direct manipulation. - What does that mean? Using the mouse instead of the keyboard. How much time do you have? Until the end of semester. Regarding time, your minute has passed. Look what you did. It is not that easy, eh? - That will be 20 shillings, dear. - Ah, what the heck. Game debts, honour debts! Which one is it? The one with the green sweater, isn't it? Are we going in? Sure. Mr. And Mrs. Brunner are here. They have come to see Annie. Annie, are you coming? Hi Annie. Hello Annie. Look what we brought for you. Here Look, Annie Don't you like it? Can I have it? No, Petra, the lady is... Be patient. It is a natural reaction. Are you my new mom? Hello. Mrs. Tomek, please sign. The world today. For pension payments, always. Hello. All is well? Yes, thanks. Goodbye. Can I use the telephone? Of course. Excuse me. One, two, three, four. Goodbye. Thanks. Hi. Here.. How are you? Fine, thank you. Good! How? How what? Sorry, I did not hear what you said. No need to be sorry. I said: Fine, thank you. 9372 schillings. .. and 40 groschen. Daddy, I do not have the time. Call me tonight. We'll have a chat, OK? OK. Sure. Sorry about the mess. Hi. Hi. I am calling you. Good day. Good day. ... to finish the power station. Close to 4000 jobs per year will be created. During 1997 the first turbines will deliver electricity to the network, if all goes as planned. This year, it would help if the winter is mild, so that there are no spikes, and that Christmas spikes appear between December 24 and January 6 and not in November, like last year. If we need to catch up, because of a severe winter, the costs will go up. The construction is spread out to the left shore of the Danube. That is where the dam will be constructed over the next two years. This islet is the first part of the barrier that will prevent the water to flood the construction site. From now on, the navigation at this place is managed by a unique system. That is what the dam will be like once it is finished. This is a bird's view of Vienna. From 1998 on, the power station will be generating enough electricity to supply 270,000 households. Computer enthusiasts will be back in the Congressional Palace over the next few days. This morning, the 3rd PC-Expo opened its doors. We went to this venue to discover the new IT trends Breathtaking images and fantastic universes keep us fascinated. The market for electronic games is very strong. The imagination of computer designers appears limitless when it comes to finding new opportunities. This businessman has just lost his notebook. It could not be simpler than this digital assistant which can take your handwritting digitize it and transfer it to a computer This entrepr... Good evening. Your papers please. When did you leave the barracks ? This morning at 7 o'clock. Why ? There was a break-in at the weapons cache. Were you checked on your way out? No regular sanitation transport. The vehicle is carrying medications. Do you have any personal luggage? Thanks. To you too. Close it a little... Claire. ! - It must be blocked, otherwise... - No, wait. ! Claire, come here! Anything new ? - I can take only you! - But wait! Claire, come, at last! Good night. Good night. - A cross? - Yes. 100 schillings ? - A minute? - Yes. That is funny. There are more pieces this time Otherwise it would be too easy. 30 seconds. .. - 35... - You close it, OK? and 60 ! How much time you want to put them back together? Sorry. Don't understand. You want what? ... in escape. The assasination is an act of vengeance by extremist Ulster Freedom Fighters in response to an IRA bombing that killed 10 Protestants last Sunday. This is what the terrorists said to a local radio station. This morning, a few hours before the shooting, a 70 year old Catholic was killed by the Ulster Freedom Fighter. The showdown between the French government and Air France personnel continues The pilots joined the ground personnel's strike Thousands of employees of Air France that are protesting in the airports of Paris are joining their colleagues from Air Inter. Half of the flights had to be canceled, except for the international ones Strikers demand a written guarantee that budget tightening measures will be revoked. The government had in fact planned to eliminate several thousands of jobs, before it was forced to shelve the project because of the strike. Attacks by the guerillas of PKK, Kurdistan's Workers Party, claimed new victims in two camps Since yesterday, 42 civilians, including children, died in PKK attacks. In Eastern Anatolia, 38 young people were massacred. The cries of pain, anger and powerlessness. This man is trying to find the shoe of his dead brother on the bloodied ground of the village cafe. The policemen had to force him away from the murder scene. At Javi, not far from the city of Cut, five PKK fighters, disguised as soldiers, attacked a bar and opened fire. The victims were between 15 and 25 years old. Ten other men were injured, some very seriously. This woman lost her husband in a fight where, as all the other victims... Dear Lord, may the young ones live long and in good health and may I live long and in good health and may Marie be happier and help me be better and happier and may I not get a deadly disease and may there not be a World War III or a nuclear catastrophe, neither in ours nor our children's time and help all those who suffer in the world and I thank you, My Lord, amen. - When did you return? - It's been six hours. Right on time! Hi Annie. Good day. - Come in, don't be shy. - Good day Annie. Good day. Come in please. Let me take your coat. - Was it easy to find? - Oh yes. No problem. Let me take your jacket. Your colleague from Children's Aid had trouble finding us. Do you like her? I am happy you that you put it. Come Annie, take off your jacket You will be very hot. That is kind of you. Thank you. I promise I will return it to you. Here, come in. It's that way. Here Please sit down I hope you like the cake - Please have a seat. - Thank you . Are you coming? Come Annie. Sit here. What is it? What are you saying? I do not understand you. Ah good. .. She wants to see her room. Excuse me? She would like to see her room. Ah good... of course. But, it is not finished yet. Here you go, little Miss. So, do you like it? If you follow the rules you will not have any problems. But this is not good Do you have another idea? Do you prefer to have it bad? Back up. ! Please back up to the quay If you bet on his existence you will win all. If he does not exist you do not lose anything. The other guy asks: But then, why bet? The first guy replies You don't have any choice, you are in it. It is an empty promise, if I don't want it, I am not forced. If you say that you are not betting, you are saying he does not exist You can not say that abstaining from voting is not a political act. How lucky to find you here. I did not feel like training at all. I will give you the money tomorrow - Why did you step out like that? - I You did not pay attention, that is all! Look at this. Look, here, you are well positioned, the centre of gravity, the feet, it is good. Base position, good. And then here: Look where you are: Way too close to the table! Your feet are turned the wrong way. Why don't you back off the table? That is too late. And where is the ball? Way behind. And your centre of gravity, in your ass! You can not get the ball anymore, it takes you too far back. Look how you twist yourself. All of your energy is wasted to the left - all wrong! You were surprised because you were not paying attention! That is not an excuse! Smashing, that is not enough. Open your eyes Look at the opponent! You are not playing alone. OK! No need to get nervous. Do not annoy me and concentrate yourself. - And stop making excuses. - I am not making excuses. You do not stop excusing yourself. You were too much forward, a point, this is all. You have to follow the ball, not the other way around! Yes, I know Finally, if you believe It is easy to say that, I know I am troubling you No, it's nothing, it is not difficult to do all that and pretend, I suppose you would give me trouble anyway. OK, fine Why? Why? Come on, stop that is a waste of money. No, I am very busy Do you want me to tell you all that I did during the day? Good, well Yes I agree. Good, well I almost forgot, where is Gebhard being transferred to? I can not begin to understand that How much time will it take? Maybe he would have again. OK, that is good I know I will stop talking Yes What works for you doesn't count. Clearly, an old person must be grumpy otherwise, the world would come upside down Ben just needs his nose broken That is not my job.. OK, I beg you but it is true Yes, of course Let's erase that What do you want me to say? If I do not say anything, I am indifferent. And, if I say just one word, I meddle too much! What do you want me to do I am sorry I exist, excuse me OK, good. I'll stop Say, I wanted to tell you, Wawrik, you know, the one next door with the dog, she moved to live with her children, because it was becoming too much for her, cooking, housekeeping, and you know, all the rest. Now, her children took her in, because she said she would rather kill herself than go to a retirement home. I wouldn't believe a word of it. but it worked  Ben, that is all. I do not have anything else to say Say hello to Gebhard and kiss Sissi, I long to see her You have no idea how lucky you are with her. Stupidities In the end, could one have even more fun? I said that kindly Yes, of course Go, kiss. Such stupid word, I never did it Kiss! Your mother shattered me over time Between adults Maybe it's nothing What? Say, is that my telephone bill? Apart from myself, what do you want me to talk about? That is the only thing that an honest person can talk about. What? If you had enough just hung up! But you will regret it later You see how I know you As if I made you. Yes, you are right. When bored. one tends to say a pile of crap Good eh good. Then good night. Wait Call me back Sissi, just Yes, good Bye. Hallo, my baby sleep well have beautiful dreams. No I do not know what you dreamed yesterday. No! Say it Ben! Good! What did he do? I understand, I would have done the same Listen. This night, you will do something else. When you Mommy, what is she saying? Call me back Listen really. sometimes I ask myself, I assure you What? Ah good? You are really mean, do you know that? What is that? You want to offend me? Or rather  Sir, calm down and listen to me. Stop screming like that all the time! Well, hang up then I already told you everything. Ah good ? Perfect! You'll see Why do you want the revenge? What? Why do you want revenge? You can't be nasty just for fun  I would really like to see you in my shoes.... Yes, exactly Everything will pass Exactly! You will see Bye! Sissi, call me back one more time just briefly  as not to interfere with your family life. My baby I love you. What do you have? Are you drunk or what? Yes, why? Not too much. What do you have in your head? Won't say, just like that. I love you. You above all. So, what do you want? - I thought that would be useful ... - What? Old High German. Yesa bit strange, like a foreign language, but I can't say I don't like it. Just before Christmas. Looks it is not too hard His questions are rather easy. The main problem is that I do not like studying. What about you? Did the Gauweilers finish renovations? I can't wait to see what it looks like now. And Dady? Yes, me too. If not, there is nothing new. That is fine. - How are you? - Very well! Bye Mom, will call you, OK? Come in! What happened? Eh well, what is it? When will I be able to sleep here? ... I gave money to the driver. And where did the money come from? I begged and then I stole. It was expensive - 200 dollars. Then he said he will only take me to the Austrian border It was too dangerous to get me across. How long did it take for you to get the money? Several months. I had to eat too. I am not on the game. You said that you crossed the border more than 2 weeks ago. Why you did not go earlier to the police or elsewhere? The driver told me that if they catch me and I did not speak any German, they would expel me right away. And what did you live from during this time? People do not pay attention. It is so easy to steal. Where did you sleep? - In empty houses. - Were you not cold? Sometimes yes.. I have this anorak. Now, it has been cold for a few days... and this is why I went to the police. Can you tell us how you came up with the idea to come to Austria? I heard that people here are kind to children. Who told you that? A girlfriend. And how does she know that? She is in the loop, she talks with people. How old is she? Almost as me. How did you live in Bucharest? Don't you have parents? No. I fled home two years ago. There was a gang of bigger kids, around the train station. They were my family. At first, it went well, but then it got worse and worse. Two of my friends are dead. Then, I did not want to stay there anymore. Isn't this unbelievable ? What do you hope for now? - He is not natural. - Sounds like an adult. - I want to stay here. And where in Austria would you like to live? I do not know yet. But... they said that I may not be allowed to stay. But, if they send me back, I will return in a few months. For Marian Radu, a permit to remain in Austria is in the hands of the Immigration Service. The legal challange is: The foreigners who enter Austria illegaly from countries where human rights are not threathened, can not claim asylum here. All of Austria's neighbours guarantee human rights. In addition... You can't sleep? No. Are you thinking about the boy? Yes. And the little one. Me too. So? I do not know How to make her understand? ... against the agreement of Gaza and Jricho. They proclaim: Death to Israel and America. Pro-Iranian Hezbollah fighters are grieving the loss of one of their commarades who died in an Israeli attack. In fact, Israeli aviation bombarded Hezbollah positions as a reprisal for a Hezbollah attack against a barrack of the South Lebanese Army which is supported by Israel. After pounding the base with machine guns and grenades, Hezbollah fighters had managed to capture 12 south Lebanese soldiers. To The Hague, the judges presented to the UN Tribunal for war crimes in the former Yugoslavia. The list of accused war criminals includes Croats and Serbs, as well as the leader of Bosnian Serbs Karadzic and the Serbian president Milosevic. But the Court faces difficulties as it depends on the will of Serbian and Croatian authorities to hand over the accused. It has been two years since the images of atrocities in former Yugoslavia spread around the world. The concept of 'ethnic cleansing' that entered the everyday language, revived the horrible memories dating back to World War II. New massacres are being discovered, with frightful regularity. Soldiers and paramilitiaries kill indiscriminately. Women, children, old people, nobody is spared. Thousands vegetate in prisons and concentration camps, in deadly anguish. In this war, the violence seem to be limitless. Serbian soldiers are trying to undermine the resistance and the morale of the enemy by mass rapes. Until now, the victims were hopeless that those responsible for... Hit the left key to fix it! You can turn it with the right one There.. now it is fixed... You can do this with others. That is clever And it's brilliant. No, it does not go there. No, it should change colour. There Give me the mouse. You can see the pieces of the puzzle here.. and here is the maximum time, and up there are different symbols. Let me continue. I think I almost had it. In the end, it is easier Two minutes, that wasn't hard. It resets if you go over the time limit. The last piece The end Really great. What does your prof think? Are you going to sell it? Think, it is a kid game, and there are tonnes of more elaborate ones. But next year, MIT will lend us its Data Glove It is an electronic glove that you must have seen on TV. You slip it on and you can move in three dimensions on your computer. Ah! Do you know about Mikado? It's been a long time. It is.. a just-in-case address. The Data Glove will soon be on sale. That will be a new software sector. Now I have to go back to programming. Do you know how to play? More or less. Mikado is there. When you get one, you can use it. That's it. It is gone now. Go. - What are you playing? - Nothing. Nothing is worth nothing So? I've no idea. Let's go Where to? What is the problem? Oh, please. Move.. OK, let's go, seriously OK, what do you want to play? Your gun? What are you betting on? What do you want? No idea. It's up to you. Your watch? It is my graduation gift from my parents. OK, we will play for nothing. It was your idea. Move! Should be nicer than on TV - Does he know the time is up? - Yes. He is aware of the legal situation. Are we going? Let's go! A peaceful Christmas, that is what people in Sarajevo dream about. Like Dalida, who is seven, and her friend Boris. While they decorate the Christmas tree, the shells rain on the city. People run to escape the bullets from sharpshooters. The stands at the black market of Sarajevo are almost all empty. Apart from some Christmas some Christmas wreaths. But they are too expensive, says this young woman. We are happy to have a little glimpse of Christmas But many are desperate, like this mother: This afternoon, she had to take her baby to the hospital, her leg was scraped by a shrapnel Did Michael Jackson say the truth or is acting up? That is what his fans are asking after the appearance of the superstar on TV last night. After weeks of silence and a detox session, he gave a live interview from his Californian ranch to refute all the accusations of children abuse. A report by Ralf Hoogestraat: Do not treat me as a criminal. I am innocent, said Michael Jackson, with tears in his eyes, from the depths of his Neverland Ranch. Visibly moved, he told about the examination of his genitals by the police. They were trying to confirm the description given by a 15 year old boy. ...telephone number 0459299. Your call costs 13.33 schillings per minute during the day. During the weekend and at night, it is 8.67 schillings per minute. I am going - When will you return? - In six hours. It almost all melted here. How about there ? It spoiled the skiing. We'll see. I have to go there. I have to take a truck for the trainer and his car. It is too complicated to explain now. I will tell you about it tonight. I have to go, otherwise it will be too late. What? By schedule, it leaves at 1.30 pm. Yes, it should arrive between 5 and 6 o'clock. Ben, call the railway station to check. A star. A Christmas star. That's it. Like in the sky. Do you understand? The night, all the stars. Are human. You: Be human. Me: Be human. That: Be human. ... and stronger in the mountains. It will reach about 40 km/h... and will calm down in the evening. Coach 7 is arriving. ... costs 79 schillings and marinated mussles 86 schillings. The dish is served with French bread. Here some 20 meters away, a kioskr with the charm of a beach snack. Through the window, an Asian cook can be seen preparing sushi... Japanese raw fish dish. A young man is stepping out of the kiosk, I am asking him what he ate: ... I ate salmon sushi, it's impeccable. It's raw fish with rice with green sauce on the bottom with the... horseradish, I believe, it is really great, impeccable! How much did it cost you? I am a little ashamed to admit, but I ate two servings, normally, one big portion is enough. That was 290, two times 145, but it filled me up for the day. A culinary journey to distant countries is not necessarily so expensive, assures me a student from a nearby Technical University. He began with a Korean soup, then went to the Greek restaurant where he had spinach pie, and for dessert he had oranges from Israel bought from a Turkish grocer. And all that for 42 schillings. Now, I have to go to a bank to take the money for vacation. A bank! That is it. That is where the money is. Let's go. My God, what a crowd. We have to wait in line. Are you taking cheques? I do not have any cash. There is a bank machine available. Where is it? You just have to look! Out of service Excuse me, my car is outside, I need just 300 shillings. Please stand in line. But the bank machine is broken! I am blocking the whole gas station. You said that already! Move back! Well, it's not for you. That is unheard of! Can I help you? It is OK, thanks. You wait here. I will be right back, OK? Do not leave. Stay here, OK? Good, I'll be back. Good day. Mrs Tomek, sign please. Good day. - Here you go. Merry Christmas! - Thank you. Same to you. ... Billrothstrasse, a little after the deadly shots were fired. The bodies of the three victims are taken out. Police investigators are examining the lobby of the bank, looking for clues and motives but not for the perpetrator: he shot himself to death. After the massacre in the bank, the man crossed the street and rushed to his car at this gas station where he killed himself with a shot to the head. In the meantime, we learned that it was Maximilien B., a 19 year old student. The reason for this absurd killings is unknown In any case, it is clear that he was not trying to rob the bank. The gas station attendant, one of the last people to have spoken with the shooter, does not have any explanation. No idea, I do not know. This is madness. Come on, on Christmas eve. Distraught people, faced with an act of a madman. To Brussels now, the latest attempt to bring peace to Bosnia before Christmas has failed. The talks between the warring parties were interrupted without result at noon. In central Bosnia, soldiers of the Bosnian army removed three Blue Helmets from a tank. The cease-fire that was planned for Christmas has been broken on all fronts To celebrate Christmas in peace, that is what most people in Sarajevo dream about. Just like Dalida, 7 years old, and her friend Boris. While they decorate the Christmas tree, the shells rain on the city. People run to escape the bullets from sharpshooters. The stands of the black market of Sarajevo are almost all empty. Save for some Christmas flower arrangements. But they are too expensive, says this young woman. We are happpy to have this little glimpse of Christmas But many are desperate, like this mother: This afternoon, she had to take her baby to the hospital, her leg was scraped by shrapnel. Did Michael Jackson say the truth or is playing a game? That is what his fans are asking after the appearance of the superstar on TV last night. After weeks of silence and a detox session, he gave a live interview from his Californian ranch to refute all the accusations of children abuse. A report by Ralf Hoogestraat: Do not treat me as a criminal. I am innocent, said Michael Jackson, with tears in his eyes, from the depths of his Neverland Ranch. Visibly moved, he told about the examination of his genitals by the police. They were trying to confirm the description given by a 15 year old boy. Jackson's lawyer, Johnnie Cochran, defended this public relations action. Michael Jackson thinks it is time for him to respond to the accusations. A source from Jacksons's camp said, that once this affair is over, Michael will celebrate his big comeback to the world stage. His career...
