 

                        1 Die, scumbags You know, you're late, Tommy Rico, relax Okay, then, okay, you're the boss, come on That's Hugo Porto's mob, huh? He tried to move in on Big Sep's territory down in Atlantic City Killed Victor Viking's mom in the process Wow, what a bunch of scumbags, huh? Whatever, and there's proof for Big Sep, you got a ticket on the red-eye The heads are nice and clean and ready to go, okay? Okay Tommy, Big Sep's hot I'm two weeks late delivering the meat If he doesn't get that by noon tomorrow, more heads are gonna roll - You know what I mean? - No problem Do you love me? - Where you headed? San Diego? - Mexico - You have a good flight - Thanks a lot Do you love me? Do you love me? Do you love me? Do you love me? How you doing? Thank you, thanks Step over here please Gun! She's got a gun! I don't even own a gun! - Hey, kid, is this yours? - Yeah Do me a favor, will you? Put that right under the seat And see maybe if you can keep that right near you I got some important stuff in this bag I'd like to keep it close by me, you know what I mean? Thanks, that's really nice of you - Good kid, thank you - Okay Atta boy, fits right under there No, it doesn't fit right under there Maybe you can get a spot in another bin, thanks, I appreciate that It's nice of you Excuse me Careful, careful I almost didn't make it Well, I'm sure that someone is glad you did Let's see, 49C, right down this way Thanks - Excuse me, sir, is this yours? - Yeah I'm sorry, we'll need to use this compartment Would you mind using another one? Because I have valuable family heirlooms in there Sir, as you can plainly see, this is an emergency situation Well, maybe you can use somebody else's bin I mean, this kid's not using all of his Would you mind if they used some of yours? Hey, excuse me, but screw you Hey, hey, come on, be nice, be a gentleman, will you? We're trying to help over here, here, let me help you This goes right over here, it's small That's okay, thanks, don't... don't? Wait! Wait! Don't kick it! For God's sake, those are live human organs! Trust me, pal, they don't feel it Would you sit down please? Sir, I'm really sorry about that - Sir, we're gonna have to use your bin - Excuse me? But? And actually, sir, I think your bag is over the size limit Well, no, because see, the guy outside measured this and he said that it was okay Sir, it's clearly over the size limit, it will have to go in cargo Listen, wait a minute, wait a minute? Hold on, hold on a second, listen Maybe we could just leave my bag where it is, all right? Are you trying to bribe me, sir? No. I'm trying to purchase a place for my bag, which I already... The place for your bag is in cargo, sir Excuse me, maybe I'll just take another flight Fine, the next flight to San Diego leaves in seven hours, sir All right, let me make a phone call Sir, do you actually think that we're gonna hold the plane while you use the phone Now, are you flying with us tonight or not? - All right, Miss Burke? - Yes - That's your name, right? - Yes This bag better be in San Diego, you'll be in a lot of trouble if it's not Yes, sir, it will be the very first off the plane Does that make you happy? - When it's there, then I'll be happy - Okay Have a seat, sir, thank you Happy? Yeah, I'm happy, I'm thrilled Happy What are you looking at? You started all this with those friggin' organs You're happy, right? Happy, who's happy? Look, I think we got off on the wrong foot, I'm Charlie So, where you headed? I'm gonna meet my girlfriend's parents She races these cars She's great, she's great! I wish her parents thought the same of me, I'm on my way to meet them for the first time I haven't seen her in like six months, and... Yeah, well, I'm gonna go to sleep Think about what you're gonna say to them, okay? Yeah, I don't know, because I mean I haven't even met them Already the father, he doesn't like me, I know I could understand that, I just met you and I don't like you either I got to sleep, didn't you hear me? Come on I'm just trying to make conversation, but... Good, make it in sign language Laurie? - Something wrong? - No - You look great - Thanks - What is the matter? - Nothing, let's talk about it later Okay Oh, no. No, Jesus, please, no! Charlie Pritchett! Shit! What do you have in there? It looks like you packed for a month You know me, ready for anything - Oh, boy, look at this loser - Honey! Be nice now, come on Charlie, these are my parents, Annette and Dick - Annette - Charlie, it's a real pleasure Dick, very nice to meet you, this is for you Oh, these wrappings are beautiful, thank you Oh, my God! Dick, I left yours on the plane... No, no, no, why don't you call the airlines? We got a long ride, we've got to make tracks Sorry Woodgy, why don't you ride shotgun with your dad? Wudji? Wudji like me to drive? I think I can handle it No... no... Jesus House of pain - Yeah, hello, who's this? - This is Qaddafi, who's this? Qaddafi, huh? Listen, this is Bill, I'm an old friend of Charlie Pritchett's I was wondering if you could help me find him Yeah, he's gone on spring break with the rest of America - Did you try looking in Mexico? - That's very funny Look, this is really important You think you could be a little more specific, Qaddafi? Not unless it's for a grade Hey, Bill, is it? Tell me if this sounds like a phone hanging up Yeah! Shit! Shit! I need a flight to Bethesda University I'm not sure the University has their own airport But we can fly you to Baltimore, will that do? Hey, don't get cute with me, asshole, huh? Wake up, people, we're here! Made it in record time - I'm famished - Oh, me too Boy, could I use a Margarita, what time is it? Thirteen fifty hours Bear, remember what we agreed about your drinking? You be a good bear, take one of your new pills They make me woozy, Wooly Besides, I said I could use a drink, I didn't say I'm having one Listen, there is absolutely nothing in this whole world That could ever, ever make me take a drink again So, relax, okay? - Bienvenidos! Welcome back, senior - Hola, Juan Hope you catch some big ones this time Gracias, gracias - Manny, I ran into a little delay here - What do you mean, a delay? Excuse me, are you going to be long? - A day, maybe two - On the phone? What? What the hell's happened, Tommy? Manny, I can't go into it right now but it's going to be okay All right? I mean, can't you talk to Big Sep? Big Sep is riding me like a race horse, I told you if it was late... Listen, the job is finished, so what's the big deal with the delivery? Tommy, you didn't lose nothing, did you? Manny, you know how many years I did this for your father? How could you even ask me something like that? Mister? Hey, lady, you interrupt me one more time, you're gonna swallow this phone Now get out of here Go ahead, take it on the heels One day, you got one day, Tommy If big Sep doesn't get those heads in his hands by noon tomorrow You might as well chop off your own head and put it in with the others, capish? Don't worry about it, all right? He'll have them before they start stinking - Please or you'll be stinking - Yeah, yeah, I know what you mean - About time - Yeah, I know Here, it's all yours We've done a lot of redecorating since you've been here, senor It's quite lovely, we hope you enjoy it - It's beautiful - Senor Pritchett... your room Thank you The mini-bar, el bano, the bathroom If you need anything, please call me Everybody unpack later They're only serving lunch downstairs for ten more minutes - Yes sir, no problem - Good Pepe, venga! Pepe, venga! - Come on, Bear - I'm coming, Wooly It's 206, room 206 Okay, Laurie, what's going on? Not now, let' just talk about it later, okay? No, let's talk about it now Look, Charlie, I don't know quite how to put this But... I think I want a divorce What? A divorce? We're not even married, we're not even engaged You know what I mean That's why you invited me here? To tell me this? I thought you invited me to meet your parents I didn't really actually invite you Excuse me, but you invited me to your parents' house And then you called and said we were coming to Mexico instead When I said we were going to Mexico, I didn't actually mean you What?! It was just supposed to be me and my parents for my dad's birthday And you got so excited; I didn't know how to break it to you Laurie, what's happened to you? Six months at home and you've mutated From a fun-loving free spirit into... Nancy Reagan Look, I just want stability in my life, Charlie I need to be with someone who really knows who they are And knows what they want in life You know what this is all about? Your folks They don't like me, and it's affecting the way that you feel about me But just wait, Laurie My being here will turn out to be a blessing in disguise I'm not giving up on you, Laurie - Is my hair all right? - I am open-minded It's just that he's such a dip! Do you think he's a dip? I think he's really cute And he seems funny, and he seems smart I mean, what do you want for Laurie? I want what I was when I was his age - I was charismatic, ambitious... - That's right - I was clearly headed to the top - Clearly, darling The very, very top I mean, we can be honest with each other when we're alone, can't we? Oh, I think that's a good idea, Wooly I've always wanted to be... Oh, I forgot something, will you go down and get us a table? - What's the problem? - No problem, no problem I just forgot something and I'll be there in just a second Okay? I'm running Senorita, no, no, it's for decoration, not for sale, sorry I better go check on Bear - Ah, Mrs. Bennett - There you are, Bear We ordered you an enchilada - Bear, are you all right? - Mrs. Bennett? Jesus! Ma, are you okay? - Would you, would you like to... to sit? - Mom, what are you doing? Good God, Bear, don't tell me you've been drinking again Now, remember what the doctor said, take nice deep breaths - I have some pills if you're not feeling well - Yeah, why don't you take some? It's, it's, it's... all right, folks She's just a little hungry, she's hungry and her blood sugar's dropped Are you hungry, Bear? - Mom, for God's sake? - Would you like an enchilada? It's all right, folks! No harm done They're just happy to see each other You little son of a bitch, I should have known Wake up, Qaddafi, we're gonna play College Bowl For ten points of your life... Hey Stevie, you got any notes from last night? I don't need them Hey! No, no, I've got it, thank you very much Seniorita, your mother is going to be fine Take this please Senor, I gave her a sedative, it's muy, muy strong - Let her rest, huh? - Thank you, doctor We've only been back here an hour and already she's on the booze Would you go easy on her, dad? She's obviously under a lot of stress Okay When she wakes up, we won't mention a thing, okay, Laurie? Why don't you watch her, while Charlie and I go rent a boat for tomorrow? - Okay, Charlie? - Yeah, great Is my hair okay? Uh, do, do you mind if I change my shirt before we go? No, I'll use the phone in your room so I don't disturb her All right, we're gonna play a game called Be Honest With Me? Now, the rules are very simple I ask you a question and you have to be honest with me, okay? Now, where did Charlie Pritchett go on vacation? Second rule, you have to answer, Qaddafi - Why does he keep calling you Qaddafi? - I don't know Now, look, I don't want to have to put you kids through hell So let me tell you what's going to happen here First, I'm gonna hurt you, then you're gonna try to be brave Then I'm gonna hurt you again, and you're gonna tell me everything That's not being honest, that's not honest That's not honest! Now, look, this is not gonna get any easier, it's only gonna get harder So, I don't know why you're protecting this kid, because I'm gonna find him There we go, atta boy I swear to God, we don't know where he is all he said was Mexico and he's... Come on! We're not trying to protect him! I'm not going to repeat myself! Mom, if you want to come down, you're certainly welcome It's just that the weather is terrible Well, it's rained since we got here, mom, there are storms everywhere I mean more storms are on the way Mom, I'm just thinking about you Mom, l... we..., of course we'd love to have your company, mom Well, I know you're young enough to travel, it has nothing to do with that Mom... mom, please, please, mom, please don't dredge that up What's the matter? Are you okay? L, uh, uh, ants, ants everywhere Ants' I don't see any ants, what are you talking about? Mom, there are ants down here, ants everywhere Mom, please don't dredge that up Because it's got nothing to do with her What is it? What is it? - I have a cramp in my leg - A cramp? Ay, ah! Well, pull yourself together, stop screaming I'm, I'm sorry, I'm... No, mom, I'm not arguing with my wife, I'm arguing with you I mean, mom, mom, please, I'll have to call you back Mom, I'll call you back, I'll call you right back Can you keep it down? Now, why don't I meet you downstairs in the lobby in say, five minutes? - Five minutes? - All right? Five minutos! And don't send this laundry out, it's gonna cost me an arm and a leg! Yeah! Oh, yeah! Obviously, this is, this isn't real It's a, it's, it's a fake, it's a fake God! God! Senor! Senor! - Are you okay? - I am fine I just, I ate a hot pepper - Oh, ah, hot pepper - Venga, Pepe No, no, no Charlie, are you okay? I'm fine, I just ate a killer pepper A chili pepper, I'm fine There's some water in the mini-bar, senor No, no, no I like the sensation I' yee haw! Yee haw! Enchilada! Okay, well you call me if you need anything, eh? - Will do, thank you, Paco - Pepe, venga! Pepe, come on! Pepe! - God! - Charlie, what's going on? The police, this has got to be a setup! Oh, God! There's got to be a camera or something We're in Mexico, why would there be a camera in Mexico? Mexican Candid Camera, still on the air! Charlie! You're acting insane! - I'm okay - Would you get it together? - Okay? - I'm okay What the hell is going on? Look, Laurie, you gotta promise you won't freak, okay? Okay I found something in my duffel bag Something, oh... I mean, look, it's a... - What? - Forget it, it's nothing, it's nothing - Charlie Pritchett, you're such a sneak - No! You got me a present, I didn't know you got me one No! No! It's not a present Laurie! Laurie, don't open it, it's a head Laurie Laurie! Are you okay? Honey, are you all right? Yeah - Senora, are you all right? - She's fine, everything's fine She had a pepper too, she loves them, actually, she'll be fine Are you sure, senorita? Pepe, Pepe, venga Pepe, venga! Pepe! Pepe, andale! Vamos Pepe! You call me if you need anything, eh? Will do, thank you, Paco, bye-bye All right Laurie, are you okay? Can you stop screaming? Good God, Charlie, what are you doing with a head in your bag? I don't know, you think I know? Yes, I think you'd know If I had a head in my bag, I think I'd know Laurie, Laurie, don't get upset but there's more than one What? Charlie, there's two? - No - Three? Four? How many? Eight? It's those gringos, son locos Laurie, you're not in the hall, you're in the closet Don't you think I realize that? - Laurie - I'm not coming out - Laurie! - I'm not! - You have to come out! - No! The bodies are in there I was... I was kidding, I was kidding Kidding? You're kidding at a time like this? Well, I had to calm you down For God's sake, Laurie, try to stay calm, okay? Calm? You expect me to remain calm When you have eight human heads in your luggage? Laurie, there may be two people in China who didn't hear you - Then what the hell is going on? - I wish I knew Could it be Steve or Ernie playing some sort of sick, hideous, medical prank? I don't think so, the thought of blood bothers Steve And this isn't Ernie's style They're my best friends, but come on, they're dull guys with dull lives You psycho! You psycho! We don't know anything! I don't know shit! You're right Besides, the only heads we have access to are cadavers - And these heads are fresh - Charlie! I'm sorry, but it's true, check it out for yourself No! - Let's call the police - No! No! No! - Why? - Because we're in Mexico, Laurie A third world country. You don't just call the police in a third world country And tell them you found eight human heads in your luggage - Why not? - Because they have no laws here! - They'll turn me into a taco! - All right, what do you suggest then? We have to think this thing through rationally - Okay? - Oh, my God, Charlie - What if they have your bag? - What? Your bag! What if the person who owns this bag has your bag? They're going to come looking for you Laurie, I just took a mental inventory of my bag There's no... there's nothing in that bag that could possibly lead them here His family lives in Clarion, Vermont! They're in the furniture business Laurie is from Denver! Last name, Bennett B-e-n-n-e-t-t! On vacation in Mexico Okay, that's reassuring What do we do? Simple! All we have to do is throw them away They lock the garbage Senor Pritchett? - Ah, Paco - Can I help you? No, no, I was just putting the, the, the trash in the garbage Putting the garbage in the trash, you know? - I'll take it for you - No, no, I got it - What is it? - It's? It's none of your business No, Senor, I meant what kind of garbage is it? Aluminum? Plastic? We recycle here It's, it's really not recyclable, it's, it's perishable - Oh, well, perishables we compost - It's really not compostable Sure it is! Everything perishable is compostable Jesus Christ! I mean, come on! I'm sorry, senor! Go ahead and put it in - Thank you - I'll take care of it later Actually, you know what? It's fine I'll just take it back It's really not that bad. I just need some oil and formaldehyde and vinegar And it'll be just as good as... - Are you sure, senor? - Yes, thank you, Paco Mom, why are you bringing my inheritance into this? Excuse me! You still haven't changed? What are you doing? - Well, l... - No, not you, mom I found a roa... roa... a rat in my room And it had a ball of... I don't wanna be rude, but are you coming? Or am I going to spend the entire day waiting in the lobby for you? I am so sorry, I'll be right down What am I going to do? Flush them? Nothing fits around here No, no, no, por favor, no clean No clean, room clean, no clean - No clean - No clean, gracias No, I mean, I'm, I'm asking you to come, mom But there's really no need for you to come Mom, it's two hundred degrees here You go in here! Like that! Mom, if we're cut off, it's the lightning What? Let's go rent a boat! I got 8 human heads in my room and I gotta go rent a boat! Okay Mrs. Pritshett? Hi, this is Ernie Lipscomb, Charlie's friend from medical school Oh! Great! Great! The number of as many hotels as you can give me No, I know, it is, it is late It's just that we've run into a little bit of a situation up here All right, okay, the Mayan - That sounds great - No, no, no, relax, everything's fine But I do need to get a hold of Charlie. Did he tell you what hotel he was staying at? He didn't... Right, no, I know how sons can be - All right, and that's the last one, right? - Yeah, no, I'm good - School's a little crazy - Well, thank you You know how that goes You sure he's only going away for a week? - He packed enough stuff here for a year - Charlie is a compulsive packer "Sleight of Mind" by Charlie Pritchett again He's writing a detective novel Yeah, it sounds like his autobiography It's a pun on sleight on hand and dim-witted. You know, a pun, play on words, get it? No, no, no, relax. Everything's fine No, I don't know we got midterms I'll talk to you soon, Mrs. Pritshett gotta go, bye I popped the last guy who tried to pun me, asshole. Get it? Yeah, I get it too. Make some more calls You too, asshole Charlie, this is none of my business, hopefully... but, let's review You've been pre-law, pre-architect, pre-vet, pre-med... - No, I'm in Med. - He's an intern And now Laurie tells me you've been thinking about becoming a head-shrinker - Charlie - A... a what? Shrink, headshrinker, psychoanalyst Whatever you call an overpaid hand-holder these days Actually, sir, I was thinking about that... but I don't know what I'm doing anymore - I'm certainly aware of that - Dad, enough... Annette? Bear? - Wooly, are we alone? - Yeah, we're alone, but where are you? Wooly! - What are you doing there? - Wooly! Thank God Thank God you're alive! Still alive? Of course I'm still alive Where's Laurie? Not with him, oh my God! Not with that maniac! Calm down and tell me what you're talking about What I'm talking about? Our daughter is dating a mass murderer I went into his room to take a gift to put it in his bag In his bag he's got body parts! Senora Bennett, I sorry to scare you I was fixing the gutter Dick, I am not crazy! I know what I saw! - I believe you - No, you don't believe me Yes, I do believe you, but remember what the doctor said about your drinking - I did not hallucinate - Bear I had the drink after I saw them Please, Wooly Bear, what about the pills? I saw you take them, you said yourself they made you woosy Right, but then what about the bag? Okay... where's the bag? I don't know, but I was in his room when he unpacked He unpacked right in front of me would a maniac do that? Oh, no! Oh, no! No, no, no, no It's not my room! It's not my room! It is my room, okay - Senor? - What? - We clean room - What? - Room clean - Oh no! Hola - Oh! I am... - Paco? No... I'm... blind... I'm blind I mean, I mean, you're blind... I'm a guest and I forgot something - Adios - Adios - I draw the line on mass graves - Mass graves? You know, maybe we should just do individuals, seven of them, you know? This reminds me of when I was a kid, I was thirteen years old Me and my friends used to rip the heads off Barbie dolls... and burry them in the mud in the backyard - You used to rip the... - Hola, amigos Find any buried treasures, gringos? We have laws about these deserts They are environmentally protected now you know - Actually, no, we didn't know - Si, si We got protected snakes, protected lizards protected toads Are you familiar with the Mexican horny toad, chiquita? - Oh, no - Oh, yeah! Mexican horny toad is a very special species It's against the law to hurt a horny toad in any way... Oh! You just hurt a horny toad! Laurie Whoa, come on, amigos. Vamanos! - Are you all right? - Yeah No, shit! They stole my car! Go get them! - Senor - Dick is going to kill me I want you to stay here at your hotel - Okay - You're much safer here - Okay, thank you - Thank you Thank you, sir - Senor, you forgot your bag - Thank you, thank you, sir Thank you, good night Well, that went well - Charlie! I got it! Fed Ex it! - What? Fed Ex them to Steve! Fed Ex them? Laurie, we're in Mexico there is no Fed Ex Well, then, Mex Ex them, I don't care the point is just ship them! And just let Steve innocently open a package full of heads? Of course not, we'll call him All right boys, I'd like to do this forever but... I'm sorry, I don't know what else to do You know? I think it's time that I got rid of you two and moved along. Come on, come over here What? You, you can't just kill us We're trying, all right? We're trying... Trying? What are you talking about? What does this look like the Special Olympics? I need the bag! Get over here - Well, wait... - Trying, shit, get down! Listen, we can call more people or... Yes, we can help, man I don't know what to do I can go through friends Can I answer that? It might be Charlie, all right? Put it on speaker phone - Hello? - Steve - Oh God! - Oh, Charlie, thank God. Jesus! Listen to me, you asshole, you got my heads and I want them back, you understand? Who is this? Never mind who this is I want those heads! Jesus Christ! You're the guy from the airplane! Charlie, listen, listen... What does this look like, a family reunion? Steve? What are you doing to Steve? I'm killing him unless you shut up and listen to me! Where are you? I'm in Baja I'm six hours south of San Diego Listen to me. You meet me at the San Diego airport and bring all 8 heads with you San Diego airport? I'm on vacation with my girlfriend's parents Okay, okay, San Diego You make sure you're there by six o'clock if you ain't there, your buddies are history - But what if I don't have all eight heads? - What? - I lost one - You lost one? You lost one? How the hell could you lose one? The maid got it What do you mean a maid got it? How the hell did a maid... What, what do you mean? What, which one did you lose? I don't know! Oh Jesus! I can't believe this shit! I can't believe this shit! Damn it! What's happening? I don't know I don't think he's taking it too well Charlie, listen. The guy is serious he's not screwing around He's a psycho, all right? You gotta do what he says, all right? - Are you there? - Yes, yes Yeah, listen to this All right, bring the rest and make sure you're there Remember what I'm telling you now you got it? - Got it. Before you hang up though... - What? If you hurt my friends you'll never get them Charlie, what are you trying to do? Are you threatening me? No, I'm just telling you a fact... and don't lose my book either It's my only copy Charlie All right! All right! All right! Forget the book, I'll be there Yeah, you better What's happening? We have to go back to San Diego San Diego? My dad will shit himself! What are we going to tell him? What to you mean he forgot to turn in his lap report? - I know it sounds flaky and... - Flaky? It's ridiculous! You mean he came all the way to Mexico without turning in a report and for that we have to go home? Mom is sick and anyway it's your fault My fault? He took your advice He's decided on something Well, he's decided that he'll never be a member of this family, that's for sure - We're leaving - How did he take it? It's gonna have to fall under the category of blessing in disguise I'll make it up to him I'll give him a year of free analysis - Cute. Here - What's this? It's a surprise for his birthday He likes his macho stuff Can you pack it in your bag? I don't want him to see it Where exactly would you suggest I put it? - If we're going, let's get going - Right, dad The shirt's for you. Get packing And the macho statue with all the disgusting... Laundry I didn't... Thank you Who's this guy? He might do - Do for what? - Hugo Wait a minute Are you telling us you're trying to find a look alike for the head Charlie lost? Yeah. We got some time to kill before we go to the airport Oh, my God! But these are college professors! You know, innocent people! You can't just kill innocent people because they look like someone else Let me tell you something, college boy nobody's innocent Now, who is he? He was my anatomy professor. He almost flunked me Good, here's your chance to get even with the prick. Get me his address Wait a minute! I just thought of something! - What? - Cryonics! - Cry-what? - Cryonics! Frozen bodies! This university has the biggest Cryonics Foundation in the country So what? So it could save you a lot of troubles is so what! You go on a killing spree here, Big Sep's gonna hear about it When a couple of gangsters die nobody cares But you blow away professors Big Sep's gonna read about that Big Sep don't read Still, this cryonics facility has hundreds of frozen bodies Why they got hundreds of frozen bodies? - I think for situations like this - Don't be a little smart ass They have them because people are hoping that in a couple hundred years... maybe they can bring them back to life, clone them a healthy body - Are you jerking me around? - What? Oh, my God, he just put welts and bruises over 90% of my body, now you're talking... about having me help you decapitate some professors. Would I be jerking you around? Calm down, tough guy. What are you trying to tell me? I'm trying to tell you that right across campus is a gold mine of heads Heads R Us. Night of a Thousand Heads. If I was a guy in desperate need of a head, as you are, I'd at least check it out Senor, I can't find your jeep anywhere What do you mean you can't find it? It's red, rojo Oh, my God. I forgot. We, we went for a drive last night and... it got stolen You forgot it was stolen? Well, we... This is ridiculous! How the hell are we going to get out of here? It's not a problem, senor take a plane Oh, a plane! A plane! And where would we take a plane from? Here. Since you've been away, senor, this has become a very important city I mean we have built our own airport - A plane comes every day - Well, aren't we lucky? Now, that's a Hugo - This one's good? - For Hugo Porter, unbelievable! All right, we got a keeper! - What was that? - Thawing it out No way Good God! Look at that! Lassie, sit girl! Stay! Oh my God! Oh my God! Guys! Ernie! - What? - I'm not very comfortable, perhaps Why is that? We're messing with people's immortality here. It's murder! Technically, it's not murder, Steve because they're already dead No, these people, they believed in the freezing thing All right, this is like grave robbing, grave robbing, or worse I don't see any graves. Do you see any graves? There's gonna be two fresh ones, if you two don't start looking for heads, come on All right - Sir, I'm really sorry about the Jeep - It's open seating Now you take these tickets and you check in the big stuff We'll take the little stuff, and we'll go get the seats Do you think you can handle that? Yes, I really appreciate you... Come on, Bear. Come here God! Permiso, senor, do you have anything to declare? Any fruits, vegetables, native plants? Are you kidding? Sobrino! Sobrino! Mira! Mira! Que es eso? No se, mira como esta aqui Excuse me, could you handle me my bag, please? - Un momento, senor - I don't have un momento! I have a plane-o to catch-o, got it? - Machete? - No, sera una pistola? Excuse me, it's right there, I can see it I'll just reach in and get it myself, okay? Senor... no. No, Senor! What? Is it dad? What? They found two heads in Dad's carry-on Oh, no! Put me down! Put me down! Oh, my God! Help me! Help me! Oh, my God! - Decent, hold this one - Yeah, wait. Do you need a Helen? No, you can play with her when I leave Get over there - This guy do anything for you? - He's not bad either Could be a Stu - Yeah? - Yeah We could beat him a little bit give him a few cuts Random disfigurement Yeah, definitely a Stu Worth a try anyway. I'll take him and I'll take him - Great, I'll wrap them up - What do you mean take? Huh? You know, for a future doctor you're a pretty stupid kid I mean take the heads No, No No, no way! You do it! This is your crazy idea, okay? It's my idea that you should do it But, he's a neurologist, I'm only going into dermatology So don't screw up the skin Now there's a pleasant sound Mr. Escobedo, this is my mother, Annette, Charlie and Fran Bennett Dad's mom. She flew down to help us out Nona, this is Dad's Mexican lawyer - Delighted - Charmed Now, cut the crap and tell us what the hell's going on! Certainly Miamigos, in your country you have what you call the good news and the bad news The good news is that Mr. Bennet underwent only very mild torture - Jesus! - Oh my God! Shut up, you poodle. What's the bad news? He confessed and was sentenced to death - Oh my God! - That little weakling! Oh, Mom! - Wait a minute. Don't get upset yet - Not get upset? Let the man speak, damn it! There are remedies here. This is a civilized country There's going to be a trial some sort of hearing Of course. When my partner arrives, we will formulate our strategy Until then, try to relax It's a beautiful day. Enjoy Mexico I can't belive it Things get a little rough and he cracks - Nona, they tortured him - Oh, what? A little castor oil down his gullet? A little electricity on his dillywacker? Cat piss! I am spent! Chopping off heads just takes it out of you Shit! Time to go, I got four heads I'm screwed But you got a good start I'm sure one of those heads in there will do for the one Charlie lost I doubt it, the way my luck's running today, kid Let's take a second and take stock of where we are so far Let me tell you something, kid, okay? Just so you know, I gotta kill the both of you So don't think by helping me it's gonna change that, all right? Yeah, I know, sure, I'm just saying that you're doing all right you might be better off than you think Okay, but I'm just saying too I want you to know Okay, let's see. I got a Hugo, a Marty, a so-so Stu, and a bad Frank Right, and then at the morgue, you said something about Little Joey - Right - Okay All right, so I got Little Joey, a Hugo, a Marty, and a bad Frank - No, where's Stu? - I said Stu, so-so Stu No, just a second ago, you said Little Joey I know I said little Joey but I also said Stu But then where's Frank? All right, let's start over You got a Hugo... a Little Joey... - a Frank... - Yeah - A bad Stu... - No... Frank... bad Frank That's what I said No, you didn't, you said bad Stu, Stu was just so-so No, sir, I said a so-so Stu You did not. You said bad Stu Yes, I said. Everyone heard I said so-so Stu You said bad Stu! I know their names and you don't Will you two stop it! Goddamnit! These are not baseball cards we're talking about here, all right? These are heads, human beings' heads Where were we? - I said we have a Hugo - Yes Ho, ho, wait a minute, just a sec. I can't believe I didn't notice this before What? With some black hair and a busted nose, this kid makes a decent Frank - What? - Yeah I mean I know you're a little young, but with that stubble - a couple of missing teeth - But you have a Frank I got a bad Frank, you make a better one But you don't even know if you need a Frank! - I might - Please no, please, no Listen, please, no, listen I don't want any trouble Look, I fly, I fly - What are you? A fairy? - No, no, he has a pilot's license You don't wanna fly commercial airlines with all these heads That's how you got in this whole mess. He can fly us. It's smarter I fly All right, grab all those heads. Just leave the top one Why? Because the top one doesn't look like anybody and Big Sep will never buy it Wait just a minute! I sawed this off and you re not even gonna use it? - Steve, chill - No, you chill It s not fair. I spent a lot of time on this head Don't you think that you could've at least told me this before I cut it off? I saw that coming - Don't fuck with a guy looking for heads - Good advice Now take all the heads and let's go, okay? - Big Sep, it's Benny - Where the hell are my heads? I just talked to Tommy a while ago. He'll be there tomorrow First it was two weeks ago, then three days ago I gave them to Tommy. It's Tommy's deal now Don't you talk to me about Tommy. I trust Tommy This is your job Big Sep, what are we talking about here Heads! It's not like they got any value on the open market It's not like we re talking diamonds here now that's what's bothering me Ben A guy pays 80 grand and doesn't see proof... He starts thinking maybe, just maybe he's been double-crossed, you know what I mean? Big Sep, I swear on the soul of my dead mother, I off them myself me, and Rico, I give you my word! Your word ain't what I paid you 80 fucking grand for, Ben I paid you 80 fucking grand to see their fucking heads Now you bring me their heads Bennie! Bennie, Bennie, come in here, hurry up! Bennie, you re not gonna believe this! Look, look at this! - My God! That's Hugo! - That s Hugo and Stu, I mean... didn't I tell you he'd screw up, Bennie, didn't I tell you? - This ain' t good - What the hell's Big Sep gonna say, Bennie Shut up! Ernie Lipscomb, Please pick up a courtesy phone This is Ernie Lipscomb Ernie, it's Charlie. Let me talk to him - Sure. It's for you - Yeah? Hi, it s Charlie, l... I lost two more heads What? How could you lose two more heads? - The police got them - How could the police get them? The one I lost earlier, I got it back What are you looking at? He's talking about potheads We re de-programmers with marijuana anonymous He hates to lose a client Listen to me, you little incompetent piece of shit! Where are you exactly? The La Purisima Hotel Don't move. Don't leave your room for anything. I coming down there If there s any more heads missing by the time I get there I'm gonna replace them with your family and your friends, you hear me, huh? He really cares, and that's what makes him the best What? I'm thinking that once he gets these away from us your dad's a goner We gotta move I, I saw a place just outside of here, we gotta check into another hotel, come on, get up! Uhm, I'll take these I had nowhere else to put them I'll take these to the American border, I'll give them to the police I'll rent a car I'll drive all night - What am I gonna tell my mother? - Tell her anything Tell her we had a fight, tell her I called you fat It doesn't matter what she thinks the important thing is to save your dad I'm not fat Look Laurie, maybe your dad was right about me Maybe, I'm a total nimrod who can't follow through on anything But I got him into this I promise you, I'm gonna get him out Get your hands off her Maniac! Hold on! You may want me to think I'm crazy but I'm not crazy and I'm not stupid you had those heads hidden in your room, and then you pinned them on my Dick Mom, what are you saying? I'm calling the police on him, I'm gonna do it right now - No - No Mom, calling the police is a bad idea. No, no Laurie, I love you. Take your hand off the phone you, back off, I know exactly what I am doing No, you, you're not thinking clearly I am thinking perfectly. I know exactly what I am doing. I told you to back off! Operator? No, I wasn't yelling at you. Could you get me the police please? Oh yes, operator, I need you to get the police for me, policia? Si, si, si, I'm trying to reach the police, the policia, si, gracias... Yes, Si, Si! Yes, of course, I'll hold, I'm happy to hold For Christ s sake, keep it down! Yes, oh, hello, police, yes, I have... Charlie, hurry! Go! - I need to rent a car - Sure, that's no problem We got chevys, jeep, chevys... Hey, that looks like our jeep Well, uh, there's a lot of jeeps, you know, senor With this magazine in them? I don't think so. This jeep was stolen from us I don't know, senor a lot of people read magazines On seizures? You gotta be kidding me! You really like that magazine, huh? I'll tell you what I'm gonna do You rent this jeep, I'm gonna throw in magazine for Nada Unbelievable! Excuse me. Where can we rent a car? Thanks! All right, make sure it has A.C Hold on, champ. Thanks Are you telling me I just passed out? Come on, drink up, you're a little dehydrated - I'm gonna get us packed - My butt's staying right here Why? I hear the Tropicana s wonderful It's a waste of money, honey! Give me the two c's, a cot and a crapper, I'm set But... Laurie, Charlie, it's Ernie - Jesus! - Who the hell is Ernie? - Nobody, grandma - Well, he sure as hell seems to know you - No, grandma - Is this some guy you're boffing on the side? - Grandma! - What the hell are you doing? - Where's Charlie? - Who are you? I asked you a question where the fuck is Charlie? And I asked you a question, who the fuck are you? Now that we're in this frigging La Purisima, what do we do now? We find a cop station and we get our heads All right Benny! Look! It's him! It's Tommy! What the hell do you think he's doing? Do you think he got the heads back already? I don't know, but why don't we follow him? Come no! Where the hell is he going? Keep following him I told Charlie to stay put I told that son-of-bitch to stay put So who are you? God? Why the hell should he listen to you? Oh! I am so groggy! Do you mind if I lie down in the back? I don't give a shit what you do lady, just keep quiet Watch your language Ow! Fern, stop it! Ugh! Oh! My God! Another head? Oh! My God! Lady, lady, shut up! I can't stand it! I'm losing my mind! Everywhere I look are heads! Shut up, lady! Jesus Christ! You're not the only person on this planet with problems Shut it! Jesus! What a head case! Is that supposed to be a joke? Killer humour! Looks like this guy I dated in High School Hugo Porto Hey, I think we're gonna pull over because we need some gas soon - Keep fucking driving - Didn't I tell you to watch your language? What are you doing? Where are you going? Get your hands off me, you goon! Don't fuck with me! Grandma! - My money says he ain't got the head - Mine, too Man, how could you do that? - How could I what? - Throw her off the cliff? A man can only take so much, Kid Oh! My God! I can't believe it! I can't believe he... - I thought the old battle-ax would never die! - Mom! What do you wanna do now? Keep following him, but I don't like the smell of this - Well, well, well, if it isn't our old amingo - Oh! No! Not again! Isn't once enough, huh? Can't you give a guy a break? From one human being to another That's, that's very moving, gringo But the real question is, are we gonna cut off your conjones? Or live them on? You don't have to do this, come on guys, you can't kill me, can't we flip for it You think you should kill me, flip for it? - What? - A coin, you know? Flip a coin, I win you let me go, you win you mangle me you're a crazy man, gringo - Call it - Heads Oh, you sure? You don't even wanna you sure you don't wanna think about it? I've never been more sure of anything in my life Juan! Don't take the keys! Don't take the keys! Oh, God! Oh, this has not been a very good vacation Hello? Hello! Who's there? Stop! Stop! - Not your kind of music - I hate that shit Are you talking to me? I said, are you talking to me? I don't know who you're talking to - I'm the only one here - Shut the fuck up! - Are you talking to me? - Yeah, I'm talking to you, shut up! Shut up... Screwball! - What's that? - What's what? Stop! Stop! Oh! No! Whoa, hold on now! Hold on, hold on, just okay, okay Hey, come here, stop okay, don't shoot! Don't shoot! I thought I told you to stay put? Where's my heads? Where's my heads? They're in the jeep They're in the coolers - Good - But I lost another one What? Here, coyote - What's he doing? - The kid ain't dead, that's for sure Here coyote! - Shut! - What? - Shut up! - What? What is it? I'm dead, shit, I'm dead Who, uh, whoever they are, it doesn't look like they're coming after us Not yet. Just the fact that they're here means I'm dead though When? As soon as I give you the heads? Or as soon as I get them across to the States Knowing them, they're gonna let me take that risk too Who are the heads anyway? What? Non of your business What the hell do you care? You spend your vacation with a bunch of heads, you kind of want to know You think about their hopes and their dreams Their lives cut short Hopes? Dreams? Those bums? You have to feel something! You don't just kill eight people and not feel anything! It don't really matter, but let's just set the record straight, okay? First of all, I didn't whack them, those guys did Second, Mister Phi Beta Craphead If I hadn't fucked up, I'd be retiring after this Hey! Hey! Look! Look! What is he doing? It looks like he's chasing after a dog? - What if we could help each other out here? - Impossible Why? Because you're stupid besides I'm not gonna take the chance of going across that border Well, if you know it all then how come you're in this mess to begin with? Because of bad luck It's not my fault that the bag was to big to go in carry-on There was a gift shop right next to the gate Didn't you ever think of taking two bags? Oh! Shit! So I'll repeat the question, what if there's where a way we could help each other out? What way? I'm not into mass murder if I'm not getting paid for it But I'm warning you, anybody gets in my way is dead - Thank you again for getting rid of fern - Mom! The going rate five thousand dollars, but you can owe me lady Where's he going? I don't know, Do I look a mind reader? Let's go, come on So now what do we do? Drive to the border? Hello no! We gotta get those heads back and save your dad Hey! Come back here! I'll kick your ass! - Come on Bennie let's take him now - I expect that's exactly what he wants Uh, let's see, how lucky We got here. Ah, we got Marty Ah, we got Benito Little Joey What is he doing? I don't know, it s like he's teasing us wait a minute it's caught on my neck! Ouch, Jamal, you wanna bite, huh? Jamal! Jamal! Let's see, what do I need? I need a Stu, a Frank and a Hugo There's a Hugo - Who is it? - It looks like Stu or Hugo Frankie you suck... but you're gonna have to do, buddy How many has he got now? He's got one, two seven, eight. - He's got all eight heads - I'm gonna make him the ninth head And you, you I definitely don't need what a bunch of douchebags! Lost dreams! What a crock! This coyote won't be doing anymore running away I got him trained! That is disgusting I can't leave it outside for the coyotes Everybody be still, this is our last match Good work Steve, you asshole! That's it, we're just gonna have to wait till dawn Steve, shut up! Heads up! Stop ahead! Anybody need to use the head! Steve, shut up and go to sleep Oh, don't let it go to your head whoa, whoa, whoa, you're way ahead of me Steve! Hey, don't bite my head off, all right? - That's it, I m sleeping outside guys - Me too Steve! Get a grip, go to sleep Or what, huh? You'll have my head? Enough! Mr. Hitman I'm so alone Ain't got no body to call my own Ain't got no legs for walking all over Can't hold my liquor so I gotta stay sober Mr. hitman, give me a break Tell Mr. Pizza that I ain't no steak Please put on your magic sheen Mr. Hitman bring me a dream Jesus! - Bennie! Wake up! He's up! He's up! - I'm up! I'm up! Relax! Damn it! This always works on the Camaro - You can do it - I Know. All right! Can I get some breakfast here? Si, Senior, please, sit anywhere you like - Bennie, what the hell is he doing? - I don't know, let's go find out, shall we? - Coffee, Senor? - Uh, yeah, good - Juice? - Sure Wow, look at this surprise! Bennie, Rico, you boys decide to take a vacation? Yeah, Tommy, you know we never seen Mexico We figured this is a good time to check it out Good, good... it's nice down here I know you re waiting for me to cross over to the States But I gotta tell you now, when I do You'll get that bag over my dead body Funny. We was thinking exact same thing, huh, Rico? That's his Van The guy with the van, where is he? Uh, he's in the hotel, Senior You're not going in there after him, are you? We need those heads, yes, I'm going in there I can't believe you're actually doing this Give me your guns Jesus! Charlie, where'd you get that? - It looks like mine - It was yours You dropped it in the dessert, now it's mine now both of you, put your guns on the table Or I'm gonna blow your heads off Right now! Laurie, get the guns Ernie, get the duffel bag - Wait a minute! - Easy, kids You don't wanna mess with these guys He's right, Charlie, what do you want those heads for anyway? He's gonna take them to the border, and turn in, right, Charlie? - You'll be a hero with her old man - Something like that Forget about it, you do that and Big Sep kills us all Fuck Big Sep! - Mrs. Bennett, Senor Prit-Shit - Paco We're F.B.l! He's the Unibell man Senora Bennett? Back off Come on, Laurie, drive faster What have you done? Laurie, why do you have guns? What... what... Senor Pritchit, senor Bennett, what's happening? What's this all about? It's about heads - Steve, leave him alone - Why does she have guns? Look! See? Heads! All right? I know, but it's okay, Paco, Paco I told you it wasn't recyclable Paco, it's okay, Paco Charlie, what are we gonna do? Charlie? - What are you doing? - Ernie, give me the duffel bag Everybody stay in the car! Steve, stay in the car! Move, please! Move! Hola! Hola! I have something to declare! His mistake, he doesn't have anything Arrest them! Arrest them! That's his bag! Arrest them All right, everybody freeze! Don't do anything stupid and nothing stupid will happen - Get to the plane, Rico - Oh! Shit! No need to be excited! Charlie! We're just getting in the plane and fly away, bye-bye, have a nice day Arrest them! Drop your guns or I'm gonna shoot him - Move in, goddamnit! - No! Charlie! No! Arrest them! Check their bag! Open their bag! There's a human head in the bag! The man you arrested yesterday is in jail for the murders these guys committed He father is innocent These are the guys who did it Right there! Wait a minute! That's not ours! - You arrested us for the wrong head! - Rico - Our heads are not here! - Shut up! - Where are our heads, asshole? - Shut up, Rico Al suelo! You knew it? You planned it? - You got a future, kid! - Thanks "Slight of Bag by Charlie Pritchett" Show me the law about bringing a head out of the country It ain't a fruit, it ain't a vegetable it ain't a native plant, goddamnit! Alto! Alto! You can't have it! It's mine! I spent a lot of time on this head It's my best friend!
