 

                        Well, l would say, l get hired to do a lot of things because l can andbecause girls like it. A lot of male talent have to be Iover-boys with girls. They have to kiss them and love them. Girls don't like that! What they like is a guy who can really bring the sex act to them. l want that 'krckyou', you know? When you're finished here you can go home and make love to your husband, l hope. But what we're here today for is to fuck and... so they like that, you know? l don't wanna make out with you and shit. It's fucking disgusting! 105.3FM and ' looks like another sunny day in the southland. LA temperatures in the mid 70s at the beaches. That's loohing good. We are gonna be little stichy in the mid 80s in the valley. Iow 80s downtown. There is heavy traflic on the 405 south at the 101. Also an accident is still blocking the 2 leR lanes on the M5 atthe Van Nuys exit... l ty to help provide an atmosphere as the women of the house. Dy cleaner. Pick up stuff and drop off the other stuff. That's a girl, guess what?! And then we both need to go to AIM. l got in; l wanted the money, then l kind of was like, 'Alright. This is what l'm gonna do and then l really liked the attention. ' l took that and l ran with it. l was like, 'Alright this is hot. ' But it took a good year... for me to really understand it too. l'm in this business for 16 years now and nothing ever, ever goes smoothly for me. lt just doesn't happen. Bad things happen all the time. The one reason why l kind of can do this job: because l know l don't have to. When l started working young, l saved my money. My father was a garbage man in the suburbs of Chicago. The furthest thing from my mind was, that l could be an artist of any kind at all. l didn't even know Hollywood was in Los Angeles. Look! There is a car on it's roof. You know, where is a girl who hasn't gone to college or even maybe finished high school... make more money than a doctor? Porn! And the winner is: Audrey Hollander! l first want to thank Otto Bauer. l love you! l feel fabulous. Thank you guys so much! This is easily the next Jenna Jameson. And that's not just a proud papa talking. That's on the strength of Audrey's skills. l mean, she's beautiful! You know, really a glamour model if she wanted to... she's had offers. Hey man! How are you doing? l was just calling to make sure l am at your place on Thursday! Yes sir! Correct! Alright man, l'll see you on Thursday. Bye-bye. When Audrey and l met in 2000 she found out that l'd been in some pornos and was intrigued and thought: 'What is good for the goose is good for the gender'. She wanted to maybe involve herself in some porno as well... and in order to even the scales. So, l put things in motion with some contacts that l had... and Audrey and l became a porno couple. That's correct! As her husband l'm concerned about her happiness and her level of integrity in this industy, just as l am as her manager or as her director as her producer in the movies that l make... lt's in my best interest that she has a great reputation and that she puts out only the finest work. l love it. l feel like a spoiled girl, because l get my own make-up artist... You are spoiled! Jenner on bord. And myself, of course. l'm pretty reliable. l'll be there. Audrey we've got. OK - the criteria is fairly simple: lf they do anal, then they are definitely in the running because my movies feature anal sex. Beyond that, gee... l like them to be healthy and attractive, but... l've got the best make-up crew in the business, l tell you that! Hi, this is Otto calling with call-times for your girls tomorrow. We are shooting for Otto Bauer's Supercore. The dictionay definition of pornography is: 'Any material that is designed to stimulate an erotic response in the audience. ' You know, there is no technical definition of pornography. Total beauty, total glamour, total nastiness, total decadence. Porn is about making filthy, disgusting sex. My definition of porn would be: The overindulgence of human sexuality. Exciting, filthy and fun - Porn! l got into porn because l really liked jerking off to porno pictures, naked women whatever... it happened. l'm 11 years old, l'd see a picture of a girl naked, and my dick gets really hard! Boy, that feels really good, how can l do more of this? EviIAngel is a name l started in 19$2 when l first started my little porno newspaper... and then it was my production-company name from '$3 until '$$, when l was producing the movies and then selling them to other companies. ln Januay 19$9 l started as a manufacturer. l saved my money and... So l became EviIAngel. the company as we know it today. We sell to approximately 40 different countries and then even those countries sometimes... have a deal with us, that they can themselves sell them to another county. Our biggest customer of course is Canada, but we do a lot of business in Italy, Spain and Germany. Sex sells! Last year almost 13.OOO new releases came out. That's an unbelievable amount of movies. We now have over 600 DVDs. Here in Porn Valley, much less around the world, it's staggering how much product is on the market. We do anywhere from 10 to 14 a month. So 13.OOO new products that a store could possibly stock, is an insane amount of movies! A strong movie in the first month is going to sell between 5 and $ to 10.OOO copies in one month. Even though it's a 12,l billion Dollar industy, there is too much product in the market place. Porn is made and produced all over the world, but here in Porn Valley, this is where the bulk of this happens. l'd say probably close to a 100, the most of them aren't all big companies, but 20 big companies, maybe another 30, 40 medium size... and then like some, there's probably a hundred small ones. But a lot of them you never hear from. This is definitely the hub. Most of the companies are set up here, the distribution is here, the duplication sites are here, the studios are here So this is, the Hollywood from porno, the San Fernando Valley. l really honestly believe, the reason that eveybody settled in the Valley is because the rents were cheaper. we are able to have a Ievel of trust between us, Yeah, it's Mark Spiegler, right, well, you point out to him that... the $2100 is no fucking fee for a Julian or a Ramone or anybody that's any decent talent. Listen her rate for girl-girl is 100. So if it's girl-girl and a BJ, it's a 1000. Say 2200 and then you can settle for less. l tell the girls you have 3 jobs in this business. First there is the and fucking part... Then there is the 2 hard ones: Don't make me look bad, don't give me things to wory about. So, do yourjob, go home, don't give anybody a hard time, you know? l tell them if they have a problem say: 'Hey l didn't know about this. Let me call Mark. ' And if they have a problem, they call me and l will settle it. lf they are new, they don't know anybody here and they don't have a lot of money in the beginning... so they stay at my place for a while until they get some money. And then usually get their own apartment. The girls are pigs. Did you just see my living room? This whole place will Iook like this. They are all left here by people... some of these things are probably here from years ago. l mean all of this stuff here... All this stuff here...girls: suitcases, shoes... there is like a bag over there with enemas in it. So many people come in all the time... Yeah, we clean a little... l've done all of the booking well in advance of today and arranged the studio. They've been building sets for me, evemhing at this point is a matter of making sure things come together and of those things don't end up coming together l have to have suitable replacements vey quickly. l already have operating in my head a plan B and C for things that could explode and not work out. l shoot 5 scenes in one day, soft and hard footage and so it's an ambitious product. What is that? lebra? That's just for us to sit while we are shooting the other... Let's just make it vey simple and clean. Even we can take that pink stuff down, the gold and orange and black like... But then, but here is the problem. Now here's the thing- That's great, OK? And you can do a pretty tease and l appreciate your concern with all that, but how do l work 3 guys fucking you in to the sike? The sike doesn't work. l need to have some sort of... l like the interesting teacher thing, if you want, but you're here because l'm gonna be the teacher for... let's just say some sort of teacher put 3 desks, school desks, on this orange stuff with nothing on the walls... and what ever you need to... - OK! You're gonna work over here! So, you'll be in this set right here. OK? Yup. - Thank you. She doesn't know this. But the name of the movie is... Extreme Violations. So, we're not throwing that out there for the ladies. But, she's only done 3 anal scenes in her life. Do we know what her limitations are as far as that goes? Well, l wanna talk to you first, OK? And then we'll deal with her. Alright! - So you get the picture? You need - wait a minute, you know what, you need some kind of meter to hold. Chris, go shopping and find some kind of idiotic thing out in the shelves out there. You know what l mean, so you can: 'Well, OK! ' And then finally you give her the dick: 'OK, now we're rolling! ' - and then just throw the thing away and kkkrgggh..., you know? l'm Alex. l'm fucking you in the ass today. Waiting for you, so give me the usual 3 112, 4 minute soft tease-strip thing. You know, really super-soft. OK - hop on in there, Miles is gonna take care of you. This is fairly straight forward... No! You stand right here, wherever Miles puts you. l'm gonna pull it out slowly, OK? ls there poop on it? We're having an inspection. Don't wory. l am not scared of shit, Baby. You're in good shape, trust me. The tension that shows on your face looks really good on the camera. You're good, you're perFect, you're clean! This is like her third or fourth or something scene, ever. l've seen the first though... And? - And Jenner took 6 hours. Don't you fucking tell me shit like that! No, l'm serious. You better get ready to saddle up. All l was doing was tying to get the scene going. Shhh, you cannot with girls that will take all day... She did fine but seriously. She did fine once they were going... You have to make her go, right? And once eveyone left, she was vey self... You can't be a waitress, if you say: l don't cary plates, and l don't wait on people, then you're not a waitress. Jim did evemhing. You just have to push her. Well, she is with Alex Sanders, so l'm not worried. Did they started fucking yet? - l'm on the way. Talk nasty to him! Right into the camera, honey! Want your fucking cock slide into my tight asshole? Be a whore! Say it! Let it out, last position! Bring it home for me! We consider ourselves to be high-end hardcore. We spend a lot of time on our productions, providing beautiful girls, great lighting... We like them to feel good about themselves, give them the environment to work where they feel great. And it comes through. Alright! Well executed. Thank you Alex. Thank you Sophie! You guys rock! Can l get changed? Yes you can, honey. You are dismissed from the set. l'm tying to think, let me think. Hang on a sec... l put you on speaker, l gotta look at my phone. l got one that could be, if you want? Oh. which one is tha Adriana Nicole, l mean she can act, you know, annoying. Peect! She'd be first option... Yeah, that's, l don't...that doesn't bother me. How much does it pay? lt's with a little driving dialog. Uhh...how much. how much would she charge? l don't know, 350 is fair. l'm sorry. what? - like 350? So. OK. itwouldbe a pop on the hce and a little dialogue and uuh... Hello?... Wait, hang on a minute, hang on. Lorraine, l gotta call you back! ...Alright. Yeah. OK...all day? How about 5? OK!... Alright, thanx!...OK, Bye-bye. Fuck my nasty little fuckhole... Oh yeah, right there. Yeah, in the beginning it was difficult of course to see him be with another girl. But the sex in ourjob is just a physical thing. But if he ever wanted to actually sleep next to another girl instead ofjust fucking them... like he does on camera, l would be vey, vey hurt and upset. Two different things happened: Audrey lost her rings, her wedding ring up Tyler Win's ass... and another time we lost a whole 6 inch fucking dildo up Keane Lee's ass. OK, turning around on the set now. Of course, l think porn has changed me because it has helped me grow and... understand things in different ways as if l was just a civilian, you know, just a normal person outside of the industy of porno. Sly! We got talent, let's get fucking, Iet's pop, let's do this! Bring it home! Sure! When you see your wife being pounded away by some other guy, you can get anxious for a few moments. But unlike most fellows, because we both perForm the same activities. Thank you Audrey! That was fun. Thank you guys. Next! Hi! My name is Dr. Sharon Mitchell and l just want to give you a little orientation on what you're going to be expecting when you work in the porn business. l was battling a drug addiction for many years. A heroin addiction, which really had nothing to do with porn. But it kind of facilitated porn, because l felt, that l should have Ieft 10 years before l did. l was vey unhappy, l would go to work, l make money and go out on the road and dance... lt's vey tough because, on one side of my head l have all these fans and l'm an entertainer And this is great and l have made a name for myself and... on the other side it was like: 'Yeah, but you've only been known for spreading your legs for almost 20 years. ' One day l got attacked by a crazed fan. He followed me into my home and brutally raped me... and beat me and crushed my laynx and broke my nose in 5 places. Knocked out my teeth, bit me, bit chunks of skin out of my body and was tying to kill me. l managed to live through this fight, because l picked up a weight in my house and hit him over the head with it and knocked him out. But after that l thought: 'lf l keep doing drugs and if l keep doing porn, this is what's gonna happen to me again and again..# l just felt, it was not the right thing for me to do. And l never had a long term goal. So l thought: 'What would take me a long time to do? ' 'l'll be a doctor! ' And that's what l did. lf you're having a problem, weather it will be with an agent, with a relationship, with a producer, with a smelly vagina, whatever is going on with you. lf you're loaded, if you are not loaded. If you want to get clean and sober. lf you need mental health treatment lf you need hepatitis-vaccinations. Whatever it is, please call AIM-health care. l founded this facility for you. AIM stands for: Adult Industy Medical Health Care Foundation. l started AIM in 199$ after there was an HIV-positive male, who was knowingly and willfully forging HIV-tests and spreading HIVto 6 women. When l found this l started the process in the adult entertainment industy of screening talent routinely evey month for... HIV, STDs, Chlamydia, Gonorrhea, Syphilis. We also do Pap smears, birth control, drug and alcohol counseling and pretty much anything else that could come up. l had been an actress in the adult entertainment industy since 1915. And l really didn't want to do anything for the adult industy anymore. l really didn't want to come back. In fact l was almost embittered. l almost became like a reformed whore temporarily, god forbid. But l also realized, that my friends, people that l worked with, people that l knew, people that l grew up with... were dying or had the potential to die if l didn't step in. And l took on this problem. l know that this industy is extremely difficult just by the sheer nature of the type of people, that are drawn to this industy. A lot of people are misfits and renegades... and people that don't quite fit in vey well in other areas of life. You know it's like the difference between Otto and James. Yes! That's right. See? l'm just a regular, regular fellow. But you know, l have this reputation on camera being Mr. Rough Guy. You don't buy that? l don't buy it, because l know the real James. That's right! Sweetheart, right? - Yeah, putty in my hands. l'll see you next time. - OK, be safe! Yes, it's got much safer since AIM has been around. Of course, because we have proof, and our statistics say that... we have 1.$O/o STD's, which is at least 120/o lower then this age group in the United States in the general population. l've been through 5 HIV out-breaks since AIM has started and... boy there is nothing...eveybody is so good the first 6 months after a HIV out-break but then eveybody forgets... Denial is the background of pornography when it comes to health care. Nobody wants to take a look at it! l was fresh. l had no idea what l was doing. l got in, l wanted the money. Then l was kind of like: Alright, this is what l'm gonna do. And then, l really liked the attention. l got into stripping first. l started stripping in a fully nude bar and l really liked it. l was like: Yeah, this is cool. Then one of my girlfriends, she calls me from LA and was like; lf you want to get into this, l have an agent here. l said: Well maybe l'll do magazines. Just girl-girl. And the first thing l ever did was boy-girl-anal. And my first anal ever on camera! Then when l met my husband, he had a lot of different skills as far as... holding the camera, doing the stills, editing, all that kind of stuff and... he's really been a support system for me. l like to shoot my movie. l like to edit my movie. l like to choose my talent, l like to do all my own artwork. l'm a web master. The King Web Master. - The what? - The King Web Master. l was raised vey strict and religiously and Mormon. l was always told masturbation was a bad thing. But, l have a good relationship with my family. My father and l don't really talk about what l do as often as my mother and l do. l mean now that l'm aware that this is what l'm gonna be doing for a vey long time... even when l stop perForming, l'm gonna be in the business. l'm tying to think about the future, because l also have a daughter so that makes it even more important for me. l think l was around 14 years old, when l started to steal my mom's car. And one day she says, when you come home, you're gonna be arrested, because you have my car. And l was like, 'Oh god l'm never coming home. ' She is like: 'So just that you know, once you step foot in this house, you're getting... hand-cuffed and you'll be taken to DT, which is like a detention center for kids, kind of like jail for kids. ' And? - And l did. l got hand-cuffed and put in the back of the car. Of course l was screaming at her, 'You're an amul mother! You're so mean! ' But really, l mean that had... She had to do something, somehow she had to discipline me and this was the only way that she could do it. l always got in trouble. l'll see you soon! - l'll see you soon! - Bye! And good luck with your shoot! - Yeah! Thank you. l'm fine, l'm in Hollywood. l'm on my way home now. We're done shopping. Oh, how was the, wait, how was the class? Did she wear tap shoes and ballet shoes? OK - did you see that? Mhm. - Do you like it? Honestly? Yes! - Do you want to see it on? Yes! It's... Uuuh, should l wear fishnets, or... - Stand up! Backwards. That's a vey, vey unflattering. Why? Luchadores! Are you seriously gonna wear this? - No, l didn't say it's for dancing. Can you pull it up? - l thought it was cool. Whose boobs are this low? - l don't know. Maybe it's supposed to make it look a certain way. No, it's supposed to be for someone short. You won't believe how far you can get in porn just by being on time and being organized. They know that if they call me, l will be there and do the job. She understands that it's a business, it's showbusiness, you know. It's show-'Business', not show-show, you know. But a lot of girls - like - l had another girl recently and herwhole goal: she wants to be famous. And she wants a contract. But l tell them all the time: lf you have the choice between 'rich' and 'famous', take the 'rich'! Because there is a lot of famous porn stars, that can't pay the rent. l tried to find a way to earn some money so l could pay for my studies. Then this came up and l thought: 'OK, let's do it. ' Then l met another German girl. She asked me if l would like to come over to America. Then l met Mark Spiegler. He hooked me up with a lot ofjobs. l was working almost evey day. Different things: porn, stills. From then on l realized this might be something that l'll be doing for quite some time. l don't know, if you have seen the glass ones. They have like...it looks like an egg on top? That's my favorite for spinning it around in the pussy! Yeah, your ass sure does open up, huh?! - Yeah. lt doesn't look like it can take anything and then it does. Yeah, it's tight. You know a lot of girls want to pretend they are yeah, 'l'm a porn-star! ' And they are partying and they are fucking But those girls never last. It's the ones that, they do a good job on the set, but then they go home and they have a real life and they save their money. Thank you lady! l have to say, Mark is not only my agent. l trust him. He's like a friend to me. We respect each other a lot and l'm vey happy that l was with him from the beginning. l think that it's kind of important, that girls, when they are not working not to hang out with porno people from the set... to have a real life. It's better for your mind. l'm a vey typical East German girl. l was growing up without TV. The only thing for me and my friends to do was sit around and talk. l couldn't just go shopping, getting a handbag for 3000 bucks, you know? Girls who were able to do that are the ones who have the fame-syndrome. There are 3 subtypes of people... l put this in my thesis, that are drawn to pornography: And that are those that are addicted to sex, those that are addicted to money, and those that are addicted to fame. The people that have the most crucial needs in my opinion and my experience are the people that are addicted to fame. Because these people have compromised backgrounds. Perhaps some vey bad family life... some abuse growing up as a child. So therefore on their 1$th birthday they end up in Los Angeles, thinking... that pornography is going to be the backdoor into Hollywood. And the 'backdoor' part would be accurate, but Hollywood however... it's vey rare that you are going to end up as a ''Meyl Streep'' actress, if you are starting out having two dicks in your ass! When you are fucking for a living, not eveyone is going to understand this... and even less are going to like this. So, it does separate you to a degree from the rest of society. There is an e-mail from Sasha Grey, l received her original e-mail April 10th 2006: 'Hi! My name is dadada. Here is some nude photos, personal info, enjoy! ' l hope to hear back soon. She didn't include a stage name, because she didn't have one yet. Open to discuss it. Then she wrote - and she never worked before: 'Available for solo, stills, girl-girl, girl-girl-anal, boy-girl, boy-boy-girl, ATM, anal, DP, double vag, interracial, throat-gagging, swallowing, cream-pie, BDSM, fetish, facials, feature dancing, bachelor-parties and groups of no more then 4. ' Well she worked with 6 people the first time she worked. Well Sasha is a little different in my opinion. She wasn't, you know, the typical, bouncy porno-girl who was just kind of there. She...what really struck me about her was... the letter that she wrote to the agent Mark Spiegler about why she wanted to be in porn. l'm in the adult filmscene for mainly one reason: On average most of the porn is boring and does not arouse me physically or visually. There is only a handful of porn stars that continue to push the boundaries of... what women are supposed to like or be like in bed. This entices me to be one of these young women, not mention my lust for sexual creativity. l hunger for all modes of sexual perversity. l'm determined and ready to be a commodity that fulfills eveyones fantasies. After hearing it l was like: 'This type of person is the girl who needs to be in porn. ' l wanna make it nasty. l wanna make it dirty. l wanna make it filthy. l wanna make it creative l don't want just a 1, 2, 3 step formula: Blowjob, pussy, doggy in the ass. l don't want that. And a pop on the face. l'm sick of that. It's routine. Pornography should always be exploring sexuality in evey form. Who inspired me? Well Belladonna did of course! And so l did one scene with her and l guess l was like the first girl she ever had sex with. l was like 'that was so hot! ' So l said 'Let's just do a movie together. 'l booked her for 5 scenes. l just had her planned for 5 scenes. Then l said, when you come to this, bring a list of things that you really wanna ty or do in this movie. l wanna fulfill some fantasies of yours. Dude, she had like 2 pages typed out: descritions, details. She's just got her shit together and l like, l really look up to her and she's only 1$, you know? l wanna show people that l love what l do, you know? This isn't a 9 to 5 job where l go home and beat my kids and hate my husband, you know? l like what l do. l don't have a... l don't consider myjob boring at all. And , yeah, it's definitely something l'm proud of. We started dating after she moved into the business. So she let me know right upfront; 'This is what it is, this is what it's not. l'm telling you the truth, you know? We have a strong friendship. l don't want to ruin it, but l have romantic feelings for you, but l'm a pornstar. So you gotta be OK with that? ' And honestly, it's a challenge. Sometimes when l know she's shooting, she goes off, l think about it in my brain. lt was hard to get used to. 'Well, she's probably doing something now, you know? Probably got a dick in her mouth now. ' Like she showers, she comes home. If l didn't know any better, she could have just spend a hard day at the office. l don't know? How do you see you male perFormers, your co-stars as... l see my co-stars as a prop, you know? That's my tool and l use it. That's my gun and l use it to shoot. lt's like midnight and l'm like 13 years old and went over to my neighbours house. l said: 'Alan, you've got to take my virginity! ' l lost my virginity at 13, because my older sister told me that she had lost her virginity. OK? And l wanted to be just like her. l come home to find out that my big sister never lost hers until she was 16 years old. By the time l was 1$ years old l slept with 9$ people. Me and my sister were always like outcasts, like nerds, geeks growing up. We only had each other. She's like, she's my world. Throughout high school... it just didn't work out for us, like with the whole making friends and you know, being part of the crowd and fitting in. Thank God, she's here! - Hey, hey. lt looks like a cartoon character. - l know. It's odd! This is the layout that me and my sister just did a couple of months ago. You know what's funny when l told my mom about this. My mother, she goes 'OK, where do l get it? Just, l can't tell your dad. ' But she was happy. In a vey awkward way. Yeah we're total complete 1000/o opposites. The type of guys that we like, the type of sex that we like, our looks, evemhing. We've always been friends. - We've always been like best friends. l just talked to my mom and she's like: 'Are you guys still not talking? ' lt's like: 'No, it's a little bit better since l got my own computer, but still it's like ehhh... you know. ' l don't know. - l figure we have to get our own, like, apartments next to each other. lt was always competition. Oh my god, you did not do that on my carpet! l was feeling a little excited. She gets so nervous. Sex plays a massively huge role in my life, because l worship sex. l don't just love sex, l worship it. No, l was not really a porno freak, but because l was watching movies and being a little pervert. l'm the only person l'm working for. l don't have an agent. l don't have a PR, it's just me! What are we doing? More porno? This is for Pulse. It's more of, like, classier and sexy. Copy that! - You know, more like sexy and nice lingerie. Yes sir! After l moved away like from Reno, Carson City down here, all my old friends, either they forgot about me... or they don't know who l am because l do this. l mean, l have my sister. She's gonna be there for me... until the day l die. l wanna have sex scenes for as long as l can have sex scenes. You know, l have internal orgasms all day. Today l am never ever been happier. Living a pretty hardcore life. l've never been happier than l am right now. l don't have any worries, because evemhing is going so great right now. Having fun and being myself. l love my life! Porno just made it 10 times better. So do l believe them, when they say they are happy right now? About, at least half the time l do, because... they are young enough and they haven't learned self-reflection. When l first got in the business, l was thrilled to be there! l was vey happy! l wasn't doing five guys, but l was still vey happy to be there. That was not a lie. So l am not saying these girls are lying, but l am saying in a few years they might modify their description a little bit, when they get a little more experience. So you think, you want to be in porn... it's really important for you present mental health and your future mental health, to know why you want to do this. l don't like the fact that agents recruit young girls, and these girls are inexperienced and they ty to talk them into things... they haven't yet tried in their private life. No, l don't like this! Nobody cares if you're only 1$ and if it hurts. The big dick has to go up your ass - that's it. l see the casualties over and over and over again: 'They didn't really tell me, that there was gonna be 2 guys. They didn't tell me, that l was going to have anal sex. They didn't tell me they were gonna slap me across the face and choke me and call me a whore, but l felt l couldn't say no. And they told me if l didn't do this, l wouldn't get paid. ' That's the other side of it. She is making 1000 to 2000 Dollars a day... kicking up her heels and having sex with her friends. Sounds great, right? Well now it's time to leave the industy. Say she doesn't, or hasn't had the opportunity to save any money. She doest have any education, cause she started when she was 1$. Where is she gonna go? l'm in this business for 16 years now. Bad things happen all the time. Half the time the people l book will not show up and we have a problem to replace people. We constantly do. So l'm just used to going with that. A little anarchy is good, so it gets more creative. 'l'm sory! But l really don't feel comfortable doing the scene, especially with an expired test, because... if l'm not comfortable l won't give you a good scene anyway. ' She doesn't anyway, because she is on drugs! What does it matter? Then the continuation here: 'l'm sory! You won't change my mind, so don't come to my house, please! ' And that was the end of it! Hey, Haley Scott just flaked out again, yup. Now, Johnny's tying to pick her up, pulling up to her place, she texts him that her test is expired... We're going ty to, we're actually tying to get a girl for tomorrow. We're gonna move 'White Trash Whore'to tomorrow. So she basically flaked out again. Does Gia Paloma do interracial, Johnny? - l don't know! We call Spiegler back. Listen, evey girl that Spiegler can get. Let's start calling all the pimps. Hello! We just ty tomorrow. What other girls do you have that might wanna do it? What about Adrianna Nicole? Ow, what happened to her? Are you serious? His dick must be bigger then yours! What about Lorelei Lee? Well call me right back. Get me a white trash whore. Just call me back. Bye! Dearest! What are you doing? Check the mail from yesterday, it keeps you busy. Pussycat! Come on! Just play ball! Come on pussycat. Come on let's ty to catch it again! That's a good boy. Sit! lt's too heavy, knock your tooth out. You would look even stupider. l know that the place was built in 192$ by Jack Warner of the Warner Brothers. And then it was given to Clark Gable either that or he... l don't know, he purchased it for nothing or whatever... You know, as a vacation place. As a place to come to get away from shit like that, that has been brought out here. By that l mean the subdivisions... the neighborhood across the way here. So, nothing lasts forever. Oh, he makes me do certain shit, that l wouldn't do normally. But l do it because l love him. Before l met Otto, l would never let anyone be... l mean some people call it controlling, but... Tell me what to do, you know what l mean? Like l was just: No! But, when you fall in love with someone, l guess the compromises come easier ror you. They are having problems. Cause actually one of his friends almost fired him the other day on the set. But also, they were at a mainstream-shoot and... they had problems and then they left, like, in the middle of the day. But l haven't seen them around much. That's a slow fire. lt's slow to get going today. We have Cindy Cramord! We have the alcoholic. 'White Trash Whore' continues tomorrow. We have the alcoholic! So, we'll see how it works out tomorrow. We just hired Cindy Cramord. Ohh; l show you, who Cindy Cramord is. This is our new White Trash Whore. She fucked up our last 'Violation' really bad for me. This is Cindy Cramord. She's the one acting like a dog... climbing out of the doghouse. Tomorrow at $am. The festivities begin at noon. Hey, you know, we are at the TaxfordHouse and we are doing a White Trash Whore. Hopefully with a perFect scene Jim could put... l wanna put some 21 inch Highness Spokes on this ride here. l need 500 Dollars to lift this up, l know l chopped it down. Tashan, cause now l'm ready. l'm ready to do this scene, dear. Cindy Cramord. She's been in good spirits. This is her first time she's doing black men. And she seems to be really relishing it. She's having a good time. lt's been said, 'Once you head black, you never go back. ' We're gonna find out if that's true in Cindy's case. OK, here we go! Act like a hooker, when you come in. The stoy is guys, she's a hooker! Now, be the hooker! Come walking in the room with all the guys following. Guys, go just grab a beer or something. You guys are all showing up from where the hell you were hanging out. Where are you going now? Jay, put your clothes on, we wanna start. Just wear some clothes. Come on in Dre. You're not gonna die! Trust me. We're gone make sure you live. Please don't walk in naked and look at eveybody. It looks vey bizarre. Basically the idea here is: We find a blonde chick. She's gonna get gang-banged by a group of black men. ln America it's kind of a bad thing for these girls to go fuck the black guys. Oh yeah, fuck me! Oh yeah, fuck me! Yes, fuck this nasty white bitch! Yeah, it is shit! Just like Punkrock is mainstream now and it's shit. This is all shit. We are in a world of shit. l just work in a shit-factoy and l keep on pumping it out. l'm knee-deep in it. ls she making fun of you, B? - No! Can't let that seriously, for reals. Yes you can! Mind over matter. There's an old saying: 'You have a shit-eating grin. So, when you're running around shit all day, you gotta be grinning, Cause you smell so bad, so you might as well grin. ' When l make a movie, l ty not to degrade anybody. l never want a girl walking away feeling like, what she did was bad. We're making movies and l don't find them degrading at all. They are movies. lt's like saying...you watch a movie like Nicole Kidman in Stepford Wives. She has definitely degraded herself appearing in that movie. That was terrible! Porn gets crazier and crazier. There are things, what l've heard about, like girls getting like punched, and crazy stuff that l'm not necessarily into. And l like to get pretty rough. lt's wall-to-wall sex and a lot of it is extremely violent. There is a lot of choking, a lot of spitting, a lot of name-calling, l see a lot of degradation towards women. l think the experience of degrading is in the mind of the person. So l don't do things that l consider degrading. That's not to say, that l don't do things that other people consider degrading. And looking at me having sex on camera, looking at me perForming fellatio other people can project on to me: 'She is degraded! ' Because for them in that position, they would feel degraded. Some of them don't say a word if they get beaten up. Afterwards they realize, 'l didn't want to do that! ' Many girls think they only get famous by doing this extreme stuff. Some women don't like this kind of scenes, but other women - believe it or not - like the challenge. And this is the hardest thing for modern feminists of my generation to accept. l think that there is a line you need to draw, because people are seeing this and theyjust gonna keep wanting more and more and more until it gets to the point where, l don't know what will happen. The future of the porn industy, short of driving a train up someone's asshole? l don't know what else they can possibly do. Yo! - Hi, how are you? - OK! You know what? All the girls will be gone from my house by tomorrow, they' re gonna be all gone for a few days. Oh, really? - Yeah! - Cool! lf you're real nice you can come by and visit! - Alright. You miss me? - Yeah! - Aaaaah! Wait, hang on, hang on! Roxy Deville! Ahh, it's an audition, we're doing today. l don't..., l don't wanna go! Like, can l just whine about it? Damn it! Looking back it all made sense. And when l used the bathroom l noticed the pink razor sticking out of his shaving bag. Awesome! You know, most parents raising kids wouldn't be like: 'Hey, you're a senior now! Why don't you go out and suck some dick? ' Well, l was a dancer and l never really made as much money as the other girls. And, it was heart-breaking. l'm like: 'l'm a pretty girl. How come l don't make any money? ' lt's because l wasn't fucking my customers. So you may as well take dick by a professional that's tested, that you don't have to call and keep in contact with. So l got into porn. You know what? l will say that l have met some incredible people in the business, l just don't like the way it ends up making a lot of people. And l don't want that to happen to me. So l ty not to be too involved in it and get too close or... like base my life on porn. You know, it's ajob like any otherjob. lf l worked in the mall, l wouldn't wanna base my life on working in the mall. l definitely ty damn hard to keep porn life far away from real life. Thank you! lt was fun for like a minute, but l don't party. l don't go to clubs. l pretty much hate socializing. Hi Mark! Yeah, she doesn't want that anymore anyways. - Hmmm? Nothing. You sound a lot better. - Oh, l feel a lot better. Oh god, yesterday l wanted to kill myself. l have 2 checks for you at home. -wo Yeah, one of them from l think Playgirl or whatever and the mainstream movie. l like money! lt's the main motivation. l mean l think anyone would be lying, if they said that it's not for cash. lf it was just for fun, you would do it for free. You know what l mean? Fine day for an audition. Roxy Deville. - Thank you. Thank you! Awesome. Good job Roxy! How did it go? lt just so happens l'm the best actress ever! l'm not in it to be famous. A lot of girls do this because they think they're going to be famous. They couldn't make it as like... real actresses or real models. So they wanna come in and do this to be stars. l don't wanna be a star l just wanna do what l do and then buy a house and move away and have 100 kids. OK, Mark! - l got you guys cookies! Oh, you're the best daddy ever. l am strict about business and that's what this is all about. Like l tell the girls: You could work hard 3, 4, 5 years now and then relax the rest of your life or... you can blow all this stuff now and then when you are a waitress at 40 years old wonder what the hell happened with your life. l like to know each girl and if l don't think they are reliable whatever either l don't take them... or after l take them they are nor reliable, they gotta go! l had the feeling that Mark didn't support me like he used to. Katja? l don't know? That's a good question. l don't really know. She didn't say. She called me up and asked me to take her off. So l did. l'm sory. l tried talking to him. He simply doesn't do enough for me. Somewhere else l'll make more money and it will get me further. But l mean, she's tying to say that she is working all the time now. l don't know. l could work more with the right person on my side. The business slows down. You have been here forever. Eveybody shot you and of course people tell you the grass is always greener on the other side. l don't need someone who pretends to be my daddy. Yeah, l mean l did more than just an agent. When she had problems with like immigration stuff she come to me and this and that... The car she was driving was mine, the insurance was mine, evemhing, l took... and l don't have to do that. This is what bothers me. He is vey manipulative and decides by himself what is best for me. ln the end, don't expect loyalty. l feel really strongly about what l do and a lot of people don't take it that seriously... and theyjust think it's a buck for a fuck. And that's not what it is. You make your name a trademark. That's what l believe. You coin your name and you coin your image and... people wanna keep seeing you. But eventually there is going to be a time were you get burned out. And you're gonna be so tired and so stressed out, that you're not going to able to work. They squeeze you up like a piece of fruit, drain all the juice out of you and then they're done! My parents got divorced when l was 5. l grew up in a poor area with my mom, my brother and sister. The best way l put my mom is, she's a survivor, you know? She raised 3 kids on her own. And you have to have a lot of balls to do that. No, my mom did not know that l was getting ready to do porn, because l think she would have done evemhing in her power to not let me leave? l started acting when l was 12. Not professionally but l mean, taking real theater classes. l'm not looking to get into the next blockbuster. The next Spider Man. It's not about that for me. l think the most important thing is to have a vision of what you want to create. And if you can do it well, you make yourself happy, that's... that's a great day. Come up just a little, raise up just a little... l think that even works better. Good! PerFect. Don't move, perFect. Now Sasha, come in just a little towards me like that. Here we go right there! Here we go and let's see if we can make this happen. l saw a little bit of your interview with that fuckin' home doctor. Yeah, it's... - He's so gay. - That was one half. Somebodyjust tells him he's gay and stop fucking around. You don't dress like that and talk like that and not be gay The teeth were blinding me. They were so white. l chose to go on different TV shows. l knew that they were going to ty and victimize me. l knew they're going to ty to make me look like a confused young girl... as opposed to a strong, confident women. But it's still free press and... people all over America are gonna see that. there's gone be some people that hate me and... think l'm disgusting and the other half are gonna check out my work, come check out my website. ln porn, people love to villainize that, you know? Because it's easy. Because we let evemhing open. OK, quite please! l need more, l need more, l need more! Give it to me! Are you ready, Princess? - Yeah! OK, gentlemen! l just brought the bowls in, because you guys are drool sources. Let's face it. And at the end, just dump it on each other. - Alright! Eveybody is ready? And action! l like your fucking cum! Do it fucking harder, if you do it. Do it harder! Harder! Harder! l told you harder. You gotta go harder. Your cock tastes like fucking piss. Your cock tastes like piss. You're tying to piss in my mouth? We're sexual athletes. We are supposed to push ourselves a little bit more. You know, you're not supposed to be there, having romantic sex like you have at home. You have to challenge yourself a little bit. You like this little fuck-junkie's mouth, hah? You like this little fuck-junkie's mouth? Sasha Grey has cultivated a vey unique style and... a vey big following single-handedly on her own. lt's something vey auspicious. It's really amazing to see... what she's done with herself. l've only got to work with her twice and l'm amazed she's a really good perFormer. l wish her well. l hope she has a really long career. l think she will for a long time. l think she's completely insane, but... We need more. That's mostly spit. l want some more cum. That was the most disgusting day in my life. Thank you! That was hard work. We moved beyond being just happy when a guy gets a hard-on. We moved to the point where we're looking for something real and the market is much more competitive. People outside of porn are way more twisted then people inside of porn. That's why they are buying the 'White Trash Whore 7' that's why they're buying the cream-pies. lt's their fantasy. It's what they want. We're not making it for one dude. We're making it for the world. is in a dark corner of society, is... because that's the way they treat their sex lives. ln fact, people have prejudice against porn stars. People have something where they think differently about them. lf you think that's damaging to you, you shouldn't get into porn to begin with. And that's one of the great things about being l porno is that, You're around all these people, that have the courage to be disliked by a large portion of society. And l like people like that! Those are my kind of people. ln fact, l'll fight for a young Iady's right to suck a Great Danes dick. l'll fight for it. Not that l necessarily think it's sexy. l just think, that when a girl's exercising her civil rights to express herself sexually... that's the kind of thing that makes our county, what it is. Whatever that is. What's up, Chopper? Jim is here! Because nobody is gonna pop, it's like a 1000. And what's that thing, like 650? Hey F. Iook! This is where l was Friday night. - l like it, Jim! Now SurFpunks came out '19, '$O. - Really? Yup, cause it'll be before l moved to California. - l'm aging myself. Yeah, that was like '19, '$O. What was the ah, the one with the E. T. Hand? Remember that? Plastic Surgey Disaster! - Plastic Surgey Disaster. l hated that album. - Yeah, l didn't, l didn't care. lt was all...they were tying to be thrash. - Yes, they did. That's like: Nazi punks, nazi punks, nazi punks, fuck off! God, l hated that. hahaha, good times man! Now we used to play and we would fill, we had this pottey barrel, you know a donkey? We fill it full of ether and light it on fire. lt filled the whole room full of ether. And, you know, people like yuhu... lt made the first few minutes of the show really smooth. Wow, ether! - Yeah! Yeah totally. - Ether can kill you. Absolutely, yes it can kill you and it's highly illegal. So the whole audience would be high? - Yeah. - That's funny. Yeah, for like 2 or 3 minutes and then we dissipate, cause we couldn't afford to keep pumping the shit. Carla bought those for me. - l got myself a pair too. They were on sale, 2 for 1. - l told her not to... l got the same pair in the car. Aren't they cute? - They are cute. You have no idea how cheap they were. They were 2 for 1... OK, what do you want? That's RD's shoes underneath so he won't get jealous. Shit, if l don't get some pot real soon, l'm starting having a bad day. Boy! She's the live wire! That one is the live wire. There's your whore. Get over here and play with his dick. l'm off! l'm gonna have myself a fuckin' beer. Don't wory about me, while you're here. Suck his dick, baby! - Audrey..., don't mess up your make-up! Ty not to break my dick. OK, we are shooting soft and hard. We're doing anal, you know that? Right. l don't need to do all anal, obviously. We have some pussy fucking. Why not? - You know, and... Otto! l need a light. Sory Jim. Do you have a lighter, baby? - Here you go, hon. You fuck her good! - OK Audrey! l need a really good fuck. You gotta be kidding. - No, l'm not kidding at all. Jesus Christ, Wendy! Push me harder. Do it, do it to me. Suck it! Fuck yeah! Take 'em off, l'll stick my dick in it. Yeah! That tightens mommy's pussy! Yeah! You like me tight yeah! Don't you? - Fuck yeah. That's so awesome. l told him to quit his job. Because l wanted him to do this. lt wasn't like, he was like: Hey let's do this. How about the best, no, this is the best part of about that. She made me quit myjob... l didn't make him. -... from Evil Angel. No, she made me. She told me, she said: You're quitting and come on to work for me. And John said: 'lf you leave, you're done. You're not going back. ' l said that l understand, so that's what l wanna do. Within a few months... - Well, l got pregnant then. She got pregnant. And we are flying home from somewhere and she said: 'l don't think l want to be with you anymore. ' l was pregnant! l was emotional! l wanted to kind of tell you about what we're doing. This movie that l'm shooting, it's called 'lodine Girl'. My head is being shaved skin-bolt. Yeah, but like my make-up will be really extreme. l wanted to let you know that, because l don't.., l thought about that and was like: l wonder if that would... you know... bother you guys? lt'll be vey bizarre. Alright, cool... thank you so much. l appreciate it. Alright, bye bye. So listen: l've seen your work. l know it, l know what to expect. He's all: and if l don't get turned on tomorrow, then something is wrong with me. l was like: Thank god! ' l don't know really, what we have to do besides...? - l just have to do your make-up like this. And get my clothes on, that's it. - Yeah! l just need to clean my butt. - Yeah. - That doesn't take long. - No. So let's talk with them a little bit about the scene today. He is going to have a mask on also. l want you to both be more aggressive and controlling in the situation. You guys can fuck around for a while before we actually start the scene. l'll shoot it as 'behind the scenes'. And then we'll shoot the scene, you know? l mean, yes, have a good time, but less of showing it as a good time. You think you guys are able to do a DP standing? Alright, let's get fucking! - OK. Alright, here we go. And... Action! Fuck yeah! Wanna sit on my dick? Let's turn around, l'll ride you good! Sit on my fucking cock! Uuuuhh, uh, you want to stick it in my ass? That's my pot! That's my weed! - You want the phone? - l have to have my weed. Wow, l learned a whole new thing! l like being a c-light girl. Hello? Actually it was my pimp. Come here buddy. l just put Cappuccino. That will work. Oh and man, l've got medical strength coming in, in about a month and a half from now. - Get out of here! Love you! - Love you more! lf one guy is strong and one guy is not you focus on the strong guy... or keeping the guy in the back. lf the perFormance is good he'll pretend that he's going with a different angle, where you can't see anything, lt totally works, cause no one ever knows, you know? lt's... it's definitely hard for the guys. l would not want to be a guy do this. l have much respect for male talent, cause l couldn't do it. There is no way l could do it! l'm lucky if l last 5 minutes in there. l mean l'll keep going as long as it is exciting to me still or..., you know? Like now l pace myself so much, so l can see myself being around for a lot longer. l don't wannajust throw all this away, all this l that worked so hard for. Although sometimes, there is time l'd like... l feel l need to prove something to myself and... where l will be able to say l can do something else besides suck cock. lf it's up to me and to be perFectly honest: Without her part of this company l wouldn't be able to do it. l wasn't able to do it before her l wouldn't be able to do it after h!er. Well you're talking about' supportive-wise, you need support, but as far as being able to do evemhing on your own, you could do it on your own. l need your support. - Yeah, here you go. You are my one and only support. Look at this! He's doing this for the camera. - Did you take a shower yet? - No. That's funny! l mean, l have an American flag hanging in front of my house, because l consider myself a liberal artist in evey sense of the word... and l'm your neighbor. A product of, of this great county, that allows me the opportunity to do as l please. And l'm proud to, proud to live here and proud to be an American. OK, so here is the idea that we are supposed to preach abstinence, and nobody is supposed to look at sex or whatever. Have sex, talk about sex until they get married... and then you've got this hardcore extreme pornography. So we have to wonder: Is this what our youth of America thinks sex and intimacy is? Are they one and the same? Part of the function of porn is the pure fantasy. lt's sex without consequence. No pregnancy, no death, no disease. l call porn live action cartoons, because in the real world sex doesn't happen that way. lf you are a 13 year old kid and you are looking pornography and you go: 'My god! There is like two dicks in this girls ass and he's choking her, is that what's gonna happen to me when l get married? ' Where is this gonna go? We don't like sex here, or we profess not to like it. But we really do. Otherwise this business wouldn't be more popular than the music industy. Here in the United States according to the people who are against pornography, according to people who are tying to outlaw, according to people who think it's the worst thing in the world, there is about 50 Million people who use pornography on a regular basis. Supply and demand. If people wanna buy movies with anal sex in it, they are gonna buy more of those than without anal sex. And that's in fact the case. lf you look at the economics though, pornography is mainstream. lt's the absolute mainstream entertainment of young American men. They spend more money on pornography evey year than... they do on all professional sporting events put together. Eveybody consumes it, nobody's gonna come out and publicly say: Oh yeah, l watch porn. So we wonder, if our people are fed the type of pornography that they have to watch, or they're buying it, because that's what they wanna see. When there's only one way being given to them, how do we know? That's a green enema? Looks like it's green. That's green! Load her up! Load her. l don't have much pink left. - We need more pink! R-Dog, got more pink? We gotta put more in to Audrey. Ready! - Ready? Watch out, R-Dog. Ready guys? And... go girls! How was that? l mean we squirted ass-crap all over the place, yo. l mean my mom is really proud of me too, you know? Somebody has to do this. Otherwise Jim would might have amateurs in here. We're all amateurs at one time. - Not now! That's just a state of mind. You know, the... the milk-enema-thing, l don't know. That's a professional thing. Did you go to school for that? - Yeah! - College? - l have skills, dude! ls that Otto... Otto-Tech? How're you doing? Have another beer. Have a party. Follow me. You smell so good. You look so fresh. What a charming booty. - Thank you. l can't wait to get my action today. We are doing some stills while Alicia's squirting outside! Ass-blasting! Rolling tape and action! Yeah! Get it, get it, get it, get it! Good boy, come on! Good boy! Get it! Fetch! Get it, get it, get it, come on! Good boy! When he's carying it and it goes back and forth and he's like closing his eyes not to get hit in front. There is one reason, kind of l can do this job is, because l know l don't have to. Somehow psychologically l know l can walk away. Then it's like: OK, cause if l had no money and l really had to, l'd fucking hate it. When you are finished recording you may hang up or press 1 for more options. To leave a call-back number. Yo! It's Marky, gimme a call! l don't know? l like it. It's different evey day. Keeps you busy. l don't know. l'm good at it, so it's kind of fun. l know the people. l don't know. What l don't like? Half of these people are knuckle-heads They can't flunk out of porn! Alaska! Like l said, l would never get anybody into porn. l wouldn't want my sister, not that l have one, but if somebody is in and once they don't do well, l help them out! The thing is, l don't want to turn into one of these other agents, where you're like: fuck them, l don't care about the girls. lf that happens, then l probably quit, cause, then there's no fun to it. l'm just bouncy, that's me. l'm smiling inside, you can't believe. ln 10 years from now, l'll probably sit right here, just a little older. Maybe a different apartment, but, you know... l'm pretty consistent. They say l'm at the bottom of the totem-pole right now. And l don't have a lot of creative control. And when l do, l milk it... and l get in there l'll tyto mix it up and do things a little bit different. l'm a support system. l'm not doing it. l'm not in the business. So l have my opinion on stuff and... l'm a support mechanism. That's good, because l think a lot of girls in this business don't have a support system. She wrote that mission statement, you know, that she sent to her agent... that is now on myspace. Those are her ideas. lt's her concept to do this. l didn't concept this, you know? l mean people say: 'Oh she's 1$ and, you know, she does porn. That's amul. ' But it's like: you go look at other kids my age, they already have two kids. They don't know how to raise their fucking children. They're still children themselves. At least l'm mature and l know what l want. l wish l could live in a dream in my future. Life would be a whole lot easier. But this isn't a dream. My sister left without telling me. She didn't give me any notice. l miss her, a lot. l don't know where she is. But l love her. l don't really, l don't really know, what l want. l mean, 3 years ago l didn't know l wanted to even get naked in front of people, let alone fuck in front of people. So you never know, where you're gonna be in 10 years. l don't really want anything. l don't want to... l don't want to be anything really. You know what? l wanna raise guide-dogs again. l'm really sad that l'm fucking moving. Even though it's to a really good place. And it doesn't... It doesn't have what l want: Like, my sister. Yeah, l really feel lonely without her. l feel lost. And l don't even know, if she's gonna come back. lt's like we really did break up. It's so stupid. My mother wants me to go home to Germany. She really annoys me. But l don't know what to tell her. l don't think she really understands that l'm gone for good. She wants me to do something serious. To go back to school and become a beautician or something like that. She is worried about me all the time, even though l'm the only one of all her kids who can make a living. l did my first photo shoot when l was 20. l will be 2$ soon. So for the last $ years l made my money being naked. l actually started this a year ago. l tell my agent that l need a week off and then l go to different cities. There, people can meet me in private. ln one week l can make more money than in a whole month of porn. Actually the, the... the escort business is like... you get paid for the time you spend together. And the fans can spend an hour with me. All full of lube and shit. Butt in my hair. You know, a lot of times, when we're shooting and some dribble comes out of the girls butt, you don't want to make a big deal out of it and stop the movie. So of course you just grab it off her butt and put it in your hair. lt gets nappy. But at the moment it seems like the thing to do. But it gets kind of yucky. You now you get tired in a daytime... you get tired one day at a time, from a solid days work, but... l'm kind of hoping in the back of my mind that my friend in here Johnny has some trouble with this girl, because l'd like to get in there and fuck her too, frankly. l mean, you know, she's hot and even though l'm tired Jim would not ask me to move around too much... l could just lay there and let her ride me. l'm up for another fucking. And for Christ's sake! l mean even if l don't fuck her... l'm gonna go home and fuck the shit out of Audrey. That's for sure! Yeah! He's all: 'This one's great. She doesn't complain at all. ' l think he didn't even have a refrigerator when l met him. He's made me the woman l am today. Haven't you? You know all the hard times you give me and all the hard times l give you... Just like l wouldn't leave her and even through all the: 'l don't wanna do this anymore. l wanna just totally quit and move to somewhere. ' To Costa Rica with nothing... - To Costa Rica and that's it. - And l say: If that's what you wanna do, then we'll do it. - With Flip Flops and live on the beach and just be like a hippie... you know? ln my eyes, being able to leave evemhing and just have nothing... and be happy with nothing is more important to me than having all the money in the world. But l feel differently. - But that's... l feel a structured life and a healthy income... can only make us live more normally and average. Having money and being able to have things and do things is a lot better than... throwing evemhing away and starting with nothing. Listen! - What? The important things in life are not the things you have or the money, because those things will not go with you when you die. - OK. The thing that's important to me is to have a simple life and not depend on much. But l will sacrifice those needs for you. Yeah, we're pretty average, pretty boring on a 9 to 5 basis. l would like to see the Jets win a Super Bowl. The Mets win a WorldSeries. Maybe the Rockets from Houston go to the NB finals and win. That would be cool. Those would be some personal goals for some sports teams to do well. l'd like to quit smoking, you know? ln 10 years l don't see myself as being a cigarette smoker. Right now is not the time for me to quit... l feel like l should, but l'm not going to right now. Watch my wife continue to, you know, decorate our home in her unique way... and grow in our relationship. You know, l don't want a whole lot of things to change, because l'm pretty damn happy! Parents! If your kids wannajust...oh, they're just, she's just working in that bikini bar.
