 

                        (# Jefferson Airplane: Somebody To Love) # When the truth is found # To be lies # And all the joy within you dies # Don't you want somebody to love? # Don't you need somebody to love? # Wouldn't you love somebody to love? # You better find somebody to love (Explosion) # When the garden flowers # Baby are dead # Yes and your mind, your mind # Is so full of red # Don't you want somebody to love? # Don't you need somebody to love? # Wouldn't you love somebody to love? # You better find somebody to love # Your eyes, I say your eyes may look like his # Yeah but in your head baby # I'm afraid you don't know where it is # Don't you want somebody to love? # Don't you need somebody to love? # Wouldn't you love somebody to love? # You better find somebody to love # Tears are running # Running down your breast # And your friends, baby # They treat you like a guest # Don't you want somebody to love? # Don't you need somebody to love? # Wouldn't you love... # (Man) Ready, aim, fire. Ready, aim, fire. Present arms. (# Last Post) (Quietly) Excuse me. (Man) I had come to say goodbye. Vietnam tore us apart. We went there believing in freedom and democracy but somehow we lost our moral compass. How did we let it happen? A decade ago things seemed so much clearer. (# Chubby Checker: The Twist) # Come on baby # Let's do the twist # Ooh-wah-wah # Come on baby # Let's do the twist # Ooh-wah # Take me by my little hand # And go like this # Ooh # Ee-aw # Round and around... # These are extraordinary times and we face an extraordinary challenge. Our strength, as well as our convictions, have imposed upon this nation the role of leader in freedom's cause. It is a contest of will and purpose as well as force and violence and, in that contest, we cannot stand aside. (Man) Gentlemen, to West Berlin and next year Moscow. - (Men) Moscow. - West Berlin, shit. You'll never fire a shot. Oh, Vann, you wanna tell me what the hell you did so wrong to pull Vietnam? - I'm gonna see combat, boys. - A bunch of gooks with shotguns. - Hey, those gooks beat the French. - Ooh, beat the French. - Who hasn't? - Mark my words, gentlemen, - Vietnam is the war of the future. - (All) Ooh. War of the future. - Right. - (Gl) Oh, man. (Chatter) - Howdy, darling. - Hi. Same again for me and my constituents over there. - Right. Two whiskeys, two beers. - And a Coke, please. - Yeah. We have a good boy over there, huh? - That's me, honey. I don't drink or smoke. What else don't you do? - Keep the change. - Thank you. (# On jukebox: Brenda Lee: I'm sorry) # That I was such a fool... # Oh yeah. # I didn't know # Love could be so cruel # Oh, ho, ho, ho # (Dog barks in distance) - Hey, I bought you some flowers. - What's to celebrate? I got it. I got it. The Pentagon? You... Vietnam. Vietnam. (Laughs) Vietnam? W-Well, what happened to Washington? Mary, don't you see? I'm going to war. You know what happens in a war? Guys like me get promoted. Now I can fight my way to the top. Oh, we are going to Washington... but I'm going as a soldier, not a goddamn clerk. Oh... Wait a minute, John, you kind of smell like perfume. - Oh, hell, honey, it's the flowers. - Oh. Baby, this is the chance we've been waiting for. This is it. (Shouting) - Enlisted men over here. - Yeah, tell 'em to hustle. - Enlisted men, over here. - Saigon, over here, in the trucks. - OK, right over there, sir. Morning, sir. - Vann, John P, Lieutenant Colonel. Colonel Vann. Colonel Vann. Er, I don't have you on manifest, sir. I was supposed to be on yesterday's flight. I missed it. - That flight crashed, sir. - Well, I'm glad I missed it. Go ahead, take that Jeep right there, sir. - Steve Burnett, the Times. - Go ahead. Hey. You're a lucky man. You should be dead. I should've been dead long before yesterday. What's your name? - Er, Steve Burnett, Times. - You don't say? You need a ride? - Sure. - Hop in. - Welcome, Colonel. - Thank you. Do you mind getting in the back, soldier? I like to do my own driving. Let the man from the Times sit up front. Just point me in the right direction. (Burnett) An exotic little war in an Asian paradise, that's how one of my colleagues described it. After the French were defeated in 1954, Vietnam was divided between Ho Chi Minh's Communist north and the southern regime of Ngo Dinh Diem. The Communists launched an insurrection to capture the south, so America sent 11,000 advisors to bolster Diem's army. (John) Look at this place. Man, this is a place worth fighting for. Can you imagine what it's gonna be like if the Communists get it? (Burnett) God, look at that. - (John) Where'd they get all the water from? - They terrace the fields at different levels and they have a bunch of canals and dikes and bring it all down. - That's fantastic. - Yeah. Gentlemen, each one of you will be assigned to a division of the South Vietnamese army to act as our senior advisor. The South Vietnamese soldier is a magnificent fighter, highly motivated, tough, and intelligent. The body counts given to this office are nothing short of remarkable. Just take a look. Theirs is a splendid effort and it is our job to support 'em. I know you're all experienced soldiers but we have been sent here as ad-vi-sors. Their President Diem is decent and God-fearing, our God, by the way. He is emphatic that this is a war between the legitimate Vietnamese government and their Communist invaders. Now we all know that Red China and Moscow are behind this, huh? So we have every right to supply and support these people but it is their fight and they are in charge. So give them your best cos they are giving us theirs. Colonel Cao? (Soldier shouting in distance) (Man speaking Vietnamese) - Sir. - Lt Colonel John Vann. - Er, Frank Drummond, sir, S-2. Ron Dray. - Sergeant. - Sir. - What the hell's going on here, Major? Well, er, this is just a little positive thinking, really. Let me introduce the division commander, Colonel Cao. - Colonel. - Welcome. - Welcome, Colonel Vann. - Thank you. Yesterday we killed many, many VC but they take some of the body away. Still, I must send photo to my president. It is good for morale, no? Come, let me show you my command. (Man shouts in distance) Careful with it. - How many men are attached to your division? - About 500. - Impressive. - Yes, we have a very strong fighting force. Thanks to your government's assistance, we are arming the people to fight beside us. - Soon you and I will defeat the Vietcong. - I look forward to it, Colonel. (Announcement in Vietnamese) - Good morning, gentlemen. - Morning, Colonel. What's going on? - We have important intelligence. - Frank, what do you got? A village elder is confirming a Vietcong instructor has infiltrated and is training new recruits right here at this village. - OK, what's the plan? - We will attack here... and here. Shouldn't we bring a team around behind the village - to cut off any retreat to the mountains? - Yes, yes, but, er, all in good time, Colonel. Shall we, er, commence battle? Let's go. - Er, Colonel, I thought we fight better together. - Yeah. No, no. We must command from here. This is where I fight many battle. Gee, Colonel, that's not how I do things. Colonel, please, join me, by my side. Tiger Centre, we're approaching Than Bin, over. - Sir, we should cut off their retreat now. - Patience, Colonel, we must not hurry. (Man speaking Vietnamese) Tiger Centre approaching from south, appears to be movement up ahead. Over. (Gunfire, cries) One man down, repeat, one man down. Over. - Hold the advance, I send helicopter now. - I'll take care of that. Colonel Vann! Hold the advance. I will send a helicopter to you now. Do not advance. Repeat, do not advance. OK, Frank, I've got a chopper, I'm on my way. What's your situation? Over. John, we got one ARVN soldier with a leg wound. He's stabilised. Over. - Roger that, Frank. - John, my hands are tied here. The enemy's getting out the back door. (John) I'll come from the south, cut off their escape route, see if I can't put a scare in them. Over. (Speaking Vietnamese) (Pilot) I see 'em. I see one, two, three, four hostiles. - Go lower, circle around fast. - Roger that. (John) Get down low behind them, by that tree line. Don't let them get away. Go lower. (Pilot) There they are, there they are. We're coming in behind them. (Pilot) Get in with the chopper, men. (John) Hold it, stay on the deck. (Pilot) Great shooting. (John) Let's go. (Pilot) Outstanding, sir, outstanding. (John) All right, let's get after the rest. (John) Looks like we got a reception committee. (Pilot whistles) We got prisoners here, let's go. This is no good, Colonel. I am in charge, you hear? I am in charge. Your plan worked, you've killed the Communist recruiter. Congratulations. Good work. I will radio headquarters that Than Bin has been cleared. - Very good. - Man, look at the scars on this old guy. They gotta be years old. This man was a warrior. Probably been fighting all his life. The Japs, the French, now us. In recognition of his outstanding victory at Than Bin, President Diem has awarded Colonel Cao the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry. We are honoured to have his sister-in-law, Madame Nhu, who will make the presentation. Madame. I am so proud of Colonel Cao. (Applause) I hope he will kill many, many more of these Communist traitors and together, we will... kill them all. (Applause) - That's one tough lady. - Yeah? - I heard the men aren't so tough. - Bullshit. There's been talk that Diem's men are unwilling to fight. These men are kicking the Vietcong's ass. All we're doing is supplying intelligence and logistics, right, Major? - Yes, sir. - (Man) Madame Nhu, photograph. (Man) Madame Nhu, this way. (Second man) Right here, sir. - Thank you very much. - General, move in, please. (Speaking Vietnamese) Excuse me. Do any of you ladies speak English? - We all speak English. - Oh, you're students at this school? - They are students. I am the teacher. - You're the teacher? Well, I hope this is my lucky day. I need a good translator and, well, I'd be honoured if you'd help me. (Woman laughs) Soon I must go. Do you still want me to translate? Yes, I do. Would you read the last entry? "The Americans are here. "They have brought tanks and helicopters. "The young men are afraid "but I tell them do not fear because the Americans are huang phi." Huang phi, it's a word that means soft. Well, actually... decadent. Do you understand? "They can never win because they use only those of our people who are also huang phi. "The peasants are with us because they hate the huang phi." What do you believe? Oh, I'm not interested in politics, Mr Vann. What are you interested in? My school. I enjoy it. You know, it allows me to decide my own life and that's a very rare thing for a woman here. I have to say this. I think you're one of the most beautiful women I've ever seen. You did not bring me here to translate, did you? (John)... immediate kill, he disables his enemy, then he kills him. OK. Again. (Burnett) These men are kicking the Vietcong's ass. It wasn't so much a lie as something he knew he could make happen. - Here he is, tiger of the delta. - Colonel Vann. Congratulations, commander. Beautiful medal. I must have a photo. (Burnett) Vann would charm, coax, cajole, anything to rally the South Vietnamese. At first it worked. By God, the best US Vietnamese team for fighting Communists. (Broadcaster) American advisors work to bring the level of training and combat readiness of these forces as high as possible. Superior equipment and mobility are used to full advantage to carry the fight to the enemy, swiftly, wherever his presence becomes known. The Vietnamese soldier is quick to grasp the techniques involved in copter-born counteraction to guerrilla raids on villages, and he uses his new knowledge well. (Speaks Vietnamese) Colonel Cao, what is the mission? - We are mounting an assault on Than Bin. - Than Bin? We've already cleared Than Bin. No, no, we must cleanse the village thoroughly. - This is ridiculous. - Colonel, please. You have to understand, I must follow the order of my president. If I do not, then my family is in danger. - He has told me no casualty. - But you are at war with the Vietcong. You want us to fight the Vietcong, so we fight them. My president needs your money and your guns, because he has many enemy. Thing are not as simple as in America. Jesus H Christ. We're eyeball to eyeball with the Communists all over the world and these guys are out shooting rabbits. "General Giap's instruction for us to steal back the rice "on behalf of the peasants has paid great dividends." This General Giap is a very clever man. Tell me about your wife. We're separated. What does that mean? Well... It means that she lives on one side of the ocean, and... I live on the other. (Woman speaking Vietnamese on radio) The Russians are taking the missiles out of Cuba. Ha! I knew it. These are dangerous times, John. But they're exciting times, Lee, exciting times. (Helicopter overhead) Saigon Command has located the enemy's radio transmitter here at Ap Bac. We will land the first airborne force here and the second here. Advance here and here and capture the objective. I have to brief my men, Colonel. (Man speaking Vietnamese) All right, here's the drill. Frank, I want you take the lead armoured. Ron, take the first chopper. I'm going in the spotter plane. - What about Cao? - The hell with him. I'm gonna check this one out for myself. Go. (lnstructions called out in Vietnamese) (John over radio) We're coming up on the target side now. Over. (Gl) Roger that, Colonel Bogie. (John) No signs of movement below. Over. (Burnett) Ap Bac, January 2nd, 1963. For a year the Vietcong had studied the Americans and their tanks and helicopters, studied and learned. Now they were ready to stand and fight. Vietnam's exotic little war was about to turn into a quagmire. (Pilot over radio) Foxtrot-alpha banking right 45 degrees. - Heading one-five-two-four south. Over. - (John) Roger that. Thumper, this is Colonel Bogie. What's your ETA? Over. Roger, Colonel Bogie, this is Thumper. We're about 30 seconds away. Over. Roger that. There's a big tree line east of the LZ. Tell your boss to stay at least 300 yards away from that. - Roger. - OK. Over. OK, reposition, come back around. Hawkeye, get those tracks ready to move fast when I give the order. Over. Roger that. OK, you're headed for the tree line. (John) Take your three birds out to the west behind the tree cover. (Gl) Colonel Bogie, this is Chopper-four-alpha. We're swinging west of the target zone. Over. (John) Thumper, put your two birds down to the east. (Gl) We're coming in from the east toward the LZ now. (Pilot) 400 yards, 100 feet, dropping down to 50. Thumper, you're too close. You're too close, get back. You're over-shooting the LZ. Go around. Ah! God damn it. Hawkeye, what the hell's keeping you? Get in there, we got two birds down. (Frank) We're taking heavy fire here, John. Shit. Tiger Centre, Tiger Centre, we got two birds down, move on the objective now. - Move up to the tree line now. - (Speaks Vietnamese) (John) Shit. Damn it. Come on, come on. Get out. (John) Come on, Frank, move. He doesn't understand English now, John. Go. (Screams) Shit. God damn it. Hawkeye, come in. Thumper, come in. God damn it. Take her down now. Give me a hand with this guy. Hold his neck. (Screaming) What the hell's going on here? This isn't a game. - We have lost helicopter. - Yes, you lost helicopter. - Now get your infantry out there. - No, we must withdraw. You will not withdraw. We have men down out there. You will hold the line. (Gl) Second chopper coming in. Let's move it. Move it. (John) Get that Jeep over here. Shit, come on, soldier, don't go to sleep. It's OK, you're gonna be all right, hang in there. Hang in there. No, stay awake, stay awake. Come on. How you doing there? - What the hell happened, John? - Let's get him loaded up. Almost there. Let's get him on the Jeep. Charlie kicked our ass. They knew they wouldn't fight so they stood their ground. - Moving out. Moving out. - Come here. (Agonised cry) Ah, jeez. What a waste. Goddamn stupid waste. That's six-five-nine. - Ten hut. - Carry on. - Gentlemen, you wanted to see me? - Yes, sir. Well, sir, given the setbacks, I thought you'd be interested to know... Just what in the hell is this? Sir, the red areas indicate current Vietcong concentration. We control these areas. Sir, I'd have to argue that. - Who've you talked to about this? - No one, sir. Get this straight, Ap Bac was a victory. We took the objective. We drove off the enemy. Everybody knows that ours beat theirs. - We lost 88 men, sir, 1500... - Don't lecture me. If you spread defeatist nonsense, I will have you court-martialled. And the charges, this time, will stick. I want that overlay. (Whistling sigh) - Steve. - Hey, John. - Thanks for meeting me. - My pleasure. D'you see this? An important victory. 101 VC dead. (Scoffs) So what's the truth? The most miserable damn performance I've ever seen. - Would you talk about this? - Somebody has to. John, you have a military career and if we do this thing, a lot of people are gonna read it. I understand. Start writing. South Vietnamese Command has no interest in fighting the Communists. The ordinary soldiers are willing but their officers' priority is to protect Diem's regime, rather than to stop Communist insurgency. What about all those things that we get, the casualty figures, battle reports, the briefings? The numbers are all phoney, they make 'em up. These battles are a joke. They attack areas that the VC have already vacated or they attack from one side and leave the enemy a wide-open back-door escape route. Surely American assistance has made a difference. Oh, yeah, that's helped. It's helped the Communist. We supply guns to the peasants and they turn straight around and give them to the VC. At Ap Bac we were being shot down by our own weapons. The US Army advisory programme is a complete sham, totally ineffective. (Chanting) What's going on? Er, two days ago in Hue, Diem's forces opened fire on a Buddhist protest. Killed nine of them. Can't get this guy to fight the Communists but he's willing to kill his own people. I should cover this. (Chanting continues) (Chanting stops) (Man chants) - No. - It's OK. It's OK. (Woman screams) (Women cry out) (Monks chant) - No. - It's... Yes. Yes. Yes. (Men) No! - Can you believe that? - Come on. You have no idea what the hell is going on around here. "Miserable damned performance." Heh. That's Vann, I can just hear him say it. I want him busted now. - Get him out. - General, he's got a month to go. Let's not stir up the press. Let him finish out, - then we'll take care of him. - Shit. I gotta go. Give me your hand. What is it? It's for good luck. I'll be back. Mm. (Woman makes announcement over PA) (John) Thanks a lot. - Hey, hey, John. - Where's the story, boys? The story's the shit-storm you caused back at home. We got cables from the Pentagon, Washington. - We picked up some new friends. - (John) Who are those guys? Diem put his boys on us for reporting Ap Bac. - Well, the truth hurts. - We got something for you here. "To Lt Colonel John Paul Vann, "from his good friends and admirers, the American Press Corps." - I don't smoke. - But you can use it to light a fire under the brass back at home. You can depend on that. Bobby, thank you. Nick. John. John, I hope nothing I've written hurts you. - Nothing can hurt me. - OK. (John) Gentlemen. Give 'em hell, John. (Burnett) He was our hero, an officer willing to risk his career to tell the truth about Vietnam. He set out to spread the word to everyone and anyone who would listen. (Horn hoots) - Dad. Dad. - Ah. Oh! - Hey, Daddy. - Oh, God, Katy. Oh. Good to see you. Man, you have grown. - Honey, you look great. - It's good to be home. Boy, have I got work to do. I'm gonna give them the clearest, most concise, kick-ass report in the history of the US Army. Southeast Asia. Rubber, timber and manpower. Southeast Asia, the Communists want it and we wanna stop 'em. The Communists want it, we wanna stop 'em. And in my hand, I hold the secret weapon to win the war in South Asia. Secret weapon to win the war in South Asia. In my hand, I hold the secret weapon to win the war in South Asia. Rice. Rice, gentlemen. Rice. For the Vietnamese peasant, it is everything. They fought the Chinese, the Japanese, they fought the French for their rice fields. The Communists have hijacked that rebellion. This man, Ho Chi Minh, and his General Giap, have promised the farmers they will give them back their rice, while our man, President Diem... ...continues dealing it. We must regain the goodwill of the peasants... ...restore the good faith of the people. To win the war in Vietnam, we must take back the rice revolution, throw out the rice dealers and give them back their rice. We must wage war for the peasants, not against them. Build their houses, don't destroy them. Kill the enemy with this, instead of this. In short, we must harness the peasant revolution to defeat the Communist revolution. Thank you. - Outstanding, Colonel. - Thank you, sir. I'm gonna recommend that the Joint Chiefs hear this as soon as possible. That's great news, sir. (Man) Send him over to my office, I'd appreciate it. Lt Colonel Vann to see the Joint Chiefs. - Please have a seat, sir. - Thank you. Lt Colonel Vann to see you, sir. - Great to meet you, Colonel Vann. - Real pleasure to be here. I'm sorry I didn't get in touch sooner but your briefing's been cancelled. There must be a mistake. I was assured an audience with the Joint Chiefs. It appears there was a conflict in scheduling and the chairman is anxious to hear your briefing at a later date. (Burnett) The old guard closed ranks and shut him out. Vann resigned. His military career was ruined. That's what he led us to believe. But John Paul Vann had no career. He was an outcast, a man whose dark past had denied him the general stars he thought he deserved. (Mary Jane) Where were you last night? (John) Don't... (Shouts) No, don't lie to me. Don't lie. I know where you were. - (John) Wait, honey... - To hell with this. - Honey, wait. - You are a liar and a cheat - and you will never change. - Don't do this now. We are finished. I am so sick of putting up this front for you, for your career. (Scoffs) Your career? You screwed yourself out of your career years ago. We are gonna do something or I am outta here. Come in, Mrs Vann. - I think we've made some progress here. - Good. Your husband has been quite forthright about his lapses. If I could just explain something. Often when military men get put in pressure situations, they find themselves in a difficult position. They see sex as a kind of an outlet, it's a release. Erm, it's almost unconscious, you might say. I thought we came here to be honest with each other. I am being honest. Did he tell you about the housemaids in Japan? Well, er, Mrs Vann, we didn't go into every specific case. Oh, not every specific case, OK. How about the baby-sitter in Kansas? - Go on and tell him. - Mrs Vann, I don't think it's productive... This is a very specific case. He slept with our baby-sitter. She was 15 years of age. She told the army. He was gonna be court-martialled until he asked me to lie for him. No more lies, please. - Tell him about your mother. - (Quietly) That's enough. Please, tell him about Myrtle. This is where it all came from. We can talk it out, please. Mr Vann, maybe you would like to talk a little bit about this. - That's it. - (Mary Jane) Please. I... I can't do this. Just, just tell me what it'll take to make you stay. I want a life for us. I don't wanna be warehoused in some army base. You got it. Just don't bring Myrtle up again. Come on. (Hollering) Let's go. Take your toast with you. Here's your lunch. - Thanks, Mom. - I love you. - (Radio) The regime of South Vietnam... - I want to hear that. ...comes to an end in a wave of violence. - Can it. Honey, leave him alone, he's just playing. ...a man who seemed to have no... Oh, I love this song. (# Pete Seeger: Where Have All The Flowers Gone) # Gone for soldiers every one # When will they ever learn? # When will they ever learn? # Where have all the soldiers gone? # Long time passing # (Woman) What? Oh, my God. (Radio) We interrupt this programme for an important news flash. John Fitzgerald Kennedy, president of the United States, shot by an assassin as he drove through the streets of Dallas, Texas. (TV) He is three years old on this day, November 25th. He moves a pace apart from his mother and lifts his hand... - What is that boy doing? ...saluting his father... - He's saying goodbye to his daddy. ...one last time. Renewed hostile actions against United States ships on the high seas in the Gulf of Tonkin have today required me to order the military forces of the United States to take action in reply. We intend to convince the Communists that we cannot be defeated by force of arms or by superior power. General Weyand, please, Lt Colonel John Vann calling. Hello, sir? Yes, sir, I resigned my commission but I knew I couldn't get through. Everybody's fine, thanks. I'm doing great, just great. Well, no, I'm not. Fred, I'm dying here. I need to be in on the action. Anything, Fred, I mean anything. Must be something I can do. Anything at all. I understand. You can't fight this war without me, Fred. OK, I appreciate it. Goodbye. You're supposed to be at the productivity meeting. Oh, yeah, right. I'll be right along, Don. (Phone) (John) Hello. Hello, sir. (Dog barks) Boys. Throw it here. - Shoot, Dad, shoot. - Yeah, baby, he shoots... ...and it's nothing but net. Take it back to the line. Three seconds left. Come on, double team, get him. - Hey. What's up? - Hey, honey. You guys go ahead. The army called me today. Guess what. They offered me a job in the civilian aid programme. What is that? It's back in Vietnam. Vietnam, oh, I see. Once again we're gonna get dumped? No, listen. This is another chance for me. I can't let it go. I know how to win that war. I tried. I thought maybe you could've been the kind of father you never had. (Boy) Catch. Make sure I can have a decent home for these kids. - Hey, Dad. - Hey. Shoot. (Gl) Let's go. Let's move it. Move it on. Move, move. Formation. Let's go. Let's go. Left, right, left, right, left. # Goodbye my sweetheart, hello Vietnam... # John Paul Vann with the aid programme. Where's my ride? - Ride's right there, sir. - Thank you. - Move over, soldier, I'll drive. - Yes, sir. Thank you. # And you know it involves us one and all # I don't suppose that war will ever end... # Fred. How the hell are you? God damn, it's good to be back. - Good to see you, John. - Thank you, sir. That's a lot of hardware out there. It's phase one of General Westmoreland's three-stage plan. We put together a superior force, then engage the enemy on the battlefield. - Three, wipe them out. - W... Well hell, Fred, I don't know if the enemy's gonna go along with that plan. We're not fighting a conventional war here. You can't roll out the tanks like it's World War II. I mean, God damn, hasn't the Pentagon learned anything in three years? John, you gotta learn to keep your mouth shut. It was a hell of a job to get you over here, even as a civilian. You're here to work with the aid programme, right? You're right, Fred. I read your briefing and I agree with you. We gotta win these people over. That's why I want you in charge of the aid programme around Bau Trai. I'll get a good man to work with you. Let's try to put your ideas into practice. OK, you're the boss. No, John, Westmoreland's the boss. Is that Vann? John Vann. John Vann. Hell, I thought they buried you. They tried, Steven. Hey, Nick. - Are you part of this US aid programme? - We sure are. Doug Elders, Steven Burnett. - Oh, it's a pleasure. - (Order yelled) (# Trumpet salute) (Man) Ten hut. Gentlemen, General Westmoreland. Fred. At ease, gentlemen. The aid programme is a, er, noble effort to bolster the civilian population in the hamlets and particularly to help them resist Vietcong infiltration. Gentlemen, you are part of a great new mobilisation. We now have at our disposal the best army that the world has ever known. We have the men, we have the materials and we are going to stomp the Vietcong into the ground. Thank you. Thank you. We'd now like to take this opportunity to introduce you to your various counterparts. - Fred. - (Man) General, can I ask a quick question? I'd like you to meet John Paul Vann and Doug Elders. Colonel Dinh. - Mr Vann, Mr Elders, welcome. - Thank you. I am your regional commander. We have a very good region, you and I. - We will do well together. - I look forward to it. Thank you. (Horns beeping) (Woman) How are you? (Students) Fine. - I'm fine, thanks. - (All) I'm fine, thanks. - What's your name? - What's your name? - My name is. - My name is. - Can I help you? - Can I help you? Can I help you? (Speaks Vietnamese) - (All) Goodbye. - Goodbye. What happened to the schoolgirls? Times change, John. They have more needs now. It's good to see you again. Look at you, you look different. You, too. (Horns hoot, dog barks) Howdy. Welcome to Bau Trai, guys. - Terry Pike. - John Vann. - Doug Elders. - Nice to meet you. Do you know there's a Jeep outside of town with a body in it? - Nobody buries them? - They're too afraid to go out there. Now I don't mean to discourage you guys but this place is gone. See that bunch of kids standing over here? (Child crying) They're Vietcong. Our defenders either work for 'em or pay 'em off. - So who's in charge? - That'd be Colonel Dinh. I don't know if Charlie works for him or he works for them. Don't matter much, though, cos nobody works for us. Well, maybe we should just hand it all over to the Communists right now. Mr Vann, these people don't have any money and they don't get a chance to vote. That sounds Communist to me. (Speaks Vietnamese) Now if you don't mind, it cost me 50 bucks to get Colonel Dinh to get me a military escort out of here. I better get before the price goes up. It's all yours. Stay alive, gentlemen. (Doug) Jeez, what a mess. (Thunder) OK. Each family of six or more gets one five-gallon can of cooking oil, - 100lb sack of flour per month. - Yes, sir. Doug, check the manifest, see when this stuff's due in Tam Huang. All right, we do what we call an inventory. That means everything that goes in and out of here gets accounted for... (Children speaking Vietnamese) (Teacher speaks, children repeat) Sorry. Sorry. OK, you tell these men to put these ladders here and pull down any loose tiles. - Yes, sir. - Replace it with this corrugate. - One there, rip out all the tiles around... - (Speaks Vietnamese) - You tell them. - Yes, sir. (Speaking Vietnamese) - What'd she say? - She said to stop, she cannot pay. You tell her she does not have to pay. - What was that? - She says somebody will always have to pay. Who needs a treat, huh? Oh, OK, OK, OK, OK. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. Chiclets, gentlemen. The secret of the children's revolution. No, it's just candy. No, it's OK, it's just gum. For you, for the school. (John) Presents for the teacher, eh? (Engine outside) (Speaking Vietnamese) - What's going on? - You have used my material without paying. I'm sorry, Colonel, but this is aid material. Yes, my aid material. This is my region. It is my aid material and you must pay. (Speaks Vietnamese) - Whoa, whoa. - Put that down. Colonel, if you do not leave, I will disgrace you in front of your men and this village. Tell the men. (Speaks Vietnamese) Jesus, John. Uh. Uh. What the fuck was that? (Doug) It's blood. What the hell is it? It's a tongue. Come on. - (Dog growls) - (Doug) Ah. (Doug) God. (Shouts in Vietnamese) - Get Dinh. - He's not here. - Where is he? - Bau Trai. He's gone to punish the village. (Soldiers laugh) (John) Dinh knows the VC have fled the village. What the hell is he playing? (Soldier) Whoa, whoa, whoa. Slow down. - What's going on? - Colonel Dinh's holding an air strike. - God damn, call it off! - Wait. (Muted cries) (Screaming) (Screaming, shouting) It's OK. It's OK. It's OK. Look, I'm sorry. Sorry. (Screaming, crying) Fred. God damn it, I want that murdering bastard arrested. Look, I just came back from la Draug where four companies of air cavalry went smack into the North Vietnamese army. We lost 230 men. So don't come here telling me about one corrupt ARVN colonel. - 230? - It's all over in the boonies. I want you back here in Saigon, working here. You know the locals? Get together your own squads and clean out these villages. (Sighs) I'll give you all the authority you want. Excuse me, gentlemen, I need a shower. (Broadcaster) Our casualties in Vietnam in a single week had exceeded the average weekly rate of dead and wounded in the Korean war. 240 Americans killed, 470 wounded. Most of these casualties were suffered in the battle of la Draug Valley. The United States is indeed at war, a full-dress war against a formidable enemy. (Burnett) Vann threw himself into the war effort with a passion few others could muster. He ran pacification programmes, mobilised his allies among the South Vietnamese forces, coordinated American support and still found time to bombard friends and foes alike with his theories on how to turn the war around. (John) December 23rd, 1966. Dear sir, despite the fact that we now have 385,000 American soldiers on the ground, the Saigon government remains corrupt on all levels. If it were not for the fact... (Burnett) Vann worked twenty hours, slept four. He never stopped, on all fronts. (Arguing in Vietnamese) (Bicycle bells) May I be of assistance? What happened here? Wrecked bicycle? Yes? Orchids. This is what you need. For you. That's a picture. - I'm in love. - How old is she, 17? 17? She's 18, goes to college. You have your teacher friend translate for you? (Laughs) Well, you know me, I can't help falling in love. Yeah. What? My mother's dead. (Bell rings, woman calls out) John. Come on. If you don't get moving you're gonna miss the Tokyo connection. It's your mother, John, you owe it to her. That's funny. I owe her. My mother was a whore and I'm her bastard son. You know what my birth certificate says on it? John Le Gay, a son of a bitch. That's why those god damned WASPs at West Point wouldn't let me in. Fucking bunch of hypocrites. When I was a little kid growing up in Norfolk, I used to see her screwing them in their cars. Grunting and carrying on. You know how she died? Somebody cracked her skull open with a whiskey bottle. Go home and bury her, John. (Man, muted)... whosoever believeth shall not perish, but have everlasting life. The father loveth the son and hath given all things into his hand. - Amen. - (All) Amen. (Sighs, sobs) (John) Thank you. (Man) My condolences. - Thanks for coming. - Sorry, son. Hey, you need some money for a haircut? What's the matter with him? He's against the war. You don't say. (Sighs) I better have a word with him before I head back tomorrow. Wait a minute. I, erm... What is it? John, I wanna file for a divorce. - I just need to be free from you. - Baby, come on, I need you. You don't need anybody, Myrtle made sure of that. - And you have the war. - Johnny. - I'm truly sorry. - Thank you. - Your mama was very special to me. - I appreciate that. - You don't remember. I'm your cousin Artie. - Oh, yeah, yeah. I'd like to introduce you to some friends of mine. Danny Dykes. - Our condolences. - Thanks for coming. - I'm sorry for your loss. - This here's my wife Bella. - How do you do? - (Artie) I've been reading about you in the Norfolk Leader, all those battles he's been winning. It's a great thing you're doing, son. God knows it's a great thing. Imagine Myrtle's boy advising the United States Army. Who would ever have thought that? Yeah, you need a hand, you know who to call... (Burnett) 1967, the year of delusion. 465,000 American troops fought major battles from the delta to the DMZ, while Westmoreland declared the end was coming into view. Vann knew better. - (John) I thought we cleared this area. - We had, sir, then we discovered these tunnels. Here... here... and here. And here, sir, is where we found the documents. - What do they say? - Last month we destroyed the Vietcong here but according to this document another VC battalion has replaced them. (John) Where did they get the manpower to do that? I don't know, sir, I thought we had killed them all. I'm afraid we are back to where we started, Mr Vann. (John) Well, God damn it, we'll just have to clear it out again. Hey, get away. Jesus, John, now we're fighting schoolteachers. She was never VC until her village got bombed. Er, John, how the hell do we have a Thanksgiving dinner with these things? - (Doug) What's the news? - Spencer Tracy died. Huh. Who said this? "I don't have no personal quarrels with those Vietcong." - Cassius Clay. - Muhammad Ali. His new name's Muhammad Ali. I don't care what he calls himself. He dodges the draft, no Negro soldier's gonna fight. - Lock his ass up. - Hey, can I just say, John, what an extraordinary pad you've got here? It's called harnessing the best houses in Saigon. - That's the new US aid programme. - What the hell's that supposed to mean? It's odd to see you in this context, that's all. When I met you, rice paddies and peasants and now... What are you saying? You accusing me of selling out? - I read your articles. - Oh, have you? - Yeah. You're ready to surrender. - Since when is criticism surrender? Screw that. Nobody's been more critical of how this war's been fought than me. But you think it's your duty to spread this defeatist loser crap. Oh, winning and losing, that's what it's all about, isn't it? A soldier's sole purpose is to win. I got no argument but you're not a soldier, you're a civilian. - (Doug) Come on, guys. - (Door opens) Mr Vann? Excuse me. What sort of a man are you? She was a good student. Now... she's pregnant. I love your daughter. I will take care of her. Shall we? (Lyndon Johnson, on radio) I have asked General Westmoreland what more he needs to meet this mounting aggression. He has told me and we will meet his needs. There's incipient uprising in this country in opposition to this war and it's gonna get worse. This talk about sending over 100,000 to 200,000 more troops, you're going to create a very serious difficulty in this country if you go through with that. - Captain, where can I find Doug Elders? - Right over there. - Thank you. - You're welcome. - Hey, Dr Doug. - Hey. - Jeez, you look like shit. - Thanks. I brought you something. For the revolution. - I'm going home, John. - Home? What are you talking about? - It's jaundice, you'll be out in a week. - You see this shit? Those are Marines. Now we're the ones burning them out. - It's just one damn photo. - It's more than one photo. - We're losing our souls here. - Hell, do you think I agree with it? I don't want to fight with you, John. Come on, man, we've been through a lot together. John, I'm going home. OK. OK. Well, I'm not real good at goodbyes. Don't get killed. Gentlemen, as you all know, until now the fifth division of the Vietcong has had sole control of the Saigon operational area. - These captured VC documents indicate... - Attention. Carry on, gentlemen. Fred. Please continue, Mr Vann. I was saying that the intelligence we now have indicates clearly that divisions formerly positioned in the area on the Cambodian border have been moved to here, here, here and here and now all share the Saigon theatre of operations. General, there's aerial evidence of advanced movement to support this. And what is your conclusion? Well, sir, our conclusion is the enemy is about to strike at the capital. Gentlemen, that is exactly what the enemy wants us to think because they are going to lay siege to the Marines here with regular forces, trick us into believing that they are going to invade the capital with the Vietcong, we hold back our forces, they overrun the Marines for a spectacular victory just like they did the French. That's not gonna happen on my watch, gentlemen. Fred, I want you to have every available man ready to move at a moment's notice. Sir, I don't believe a strategist like General Giap would risk his troops openly against us. I appreciate your input, Mr Vann. 101st, 199, you have them ready, Fred. Lee, what's wrong? I haven't seen you for so long. I'm worried. Look, there's a lot going on right now. Let's go away together. For Tet? We can go to my family's home by the sea. Please come, John. I can't. - Who is it? - General Weyand. Look, I'm sorry, Lee, I gotta go. Be careful. Yeah, go, Fred. (Fireworks cracking) (# Easy listening lounge music) (Man) Happy New Year. (John) Happy New Year. Admiral, very nice to meet you. Happy New Year. - Good evening, Mr Ambassador. - Hey, John. - Can I have a word with you, sir? - Sure. - Sir, did you receive General Weyand's alert? - No. - Are you sure? - Absolutely. Our intelligence indicates the enemy's about to plan a major offensive. - Where? - Here in Saigon, sir. Why didn't the General Westmoreland tell me this? General Westmoreland doesn't agree with our analysis and I feel he's about to make a grave error in judgment. - (Guest) Good evening. - I'll take this up with you in the morning. Welcome, Major, good to see you. Try to relax, John. Evening. Help yourself to a drink, enjoy yourself. Nice party, huh? All that's missing is Nero and his fiddle. Did you see who's here? They made him a general. Rising star at the palace. Inspiring, huh? - (Fireworks fizz and bang) - (All) Oh. (# Pianist plays Auld Lang Syne) (Drumbeats, fireworks) Hi. Me? Hello. Hello. Hello. (American) Hey, baby, how much? (Woman) Hi, GI. Hello, GI, I really, really like you. (Blows kiss) # This is one of those days... # (Sighs) (Man shouts in Vietnamese outside) (Gunfire, explosion) (Machine-gun fire) Shit. (Man shouts) (Shouting) Let's go, head for the embassy. - Let's go. Let's go. - Man, get us out of here. - You know what the hell's going on? - Give me that radio. Lightning-six, this is Vann. Over. Lightning-six, this is Vann. Over. (Man on radio) The airport's under attack. He's up on the roof. Well, get him on the horn, God damn it. Over. Come on, get those bags up here. (Man shouts)... field of fire. Ah! - We got them up our ass here, where the... - Holy shit. - Control... - Our guys are firing into the embassy. Charlie's taken the fucking embassy, man. (Heavy gunfire, shouting) (John) Come on, let's go. Go. (lndistinct shouting) (Man) We need a... - Who's in charge? - Somebody down there. Fuck this, man. (lndistinct shouting) John. - Yes, sir. - I was in bed. It's unbelievable, John. They've taken the radio station they're about to take over the palace. Get General Weyand on the horn. It's John Vann, sir. John, we're holding them here. What about there? Over. They're pushing to take the whole city. We got any troops, Fred? I kept six battalions in reserve. I'm sending four to the city. That's great news. Keep that line open. - What's happening? - We got the men. We can hold them. Now CIA men and MPs have gone into the embassy and are trying to get the snipers out. We've got two more alert forces that are trying to push him out this way but he's heavily fortified. 232 Gls killed and 900 wounded. (Broadcaster) 21 towns and cities attacked... ...snipers and suicide commandos... The palace, the radio station, the Philippine embassy... ...sniper fire still coming... ...civilians caught in the crossfire. Annie. Hi, baby. You OK, the baby OK? Don't worry about a thing, Gran, I'm gonna take care of all of you. I gotta go. I gotta go. All right? (Broadcaster) The official explanation, that it's an attempt to divert American forces... The Vietcong paid dearly for their terrorism... The enemy is mounting some last desperate campaign. - Clean this up. - (John) We're mopping up. What's the word at the radio station? Over. I see, real good, keep us posted. Over. Keep this line open. John. Ah. We did it, Fred. They threw their best at us and we beat 'em. - Yeah, it got a bit crazy out there. - (Man) General Westmoreland. - What's your assessment of the situation? - (Bang) That's just our guys clearing up some unexploded M-79 rounds. The enemy appears to be trying to take over South Vietnam. - The Vietcong has very deceitfully... - (Bang) ...taken advantage of the Tet truce in order to create maximum consternation in South Vietnam. Particularly in the, er, populated areas. - John? - Mr Ambassador. - Good work, thank you very much. - General Weyand should take the credit, sir. - Well, I'm aware of that, thank you. - I'll tell you this, you throw a hell of a party. Yeah, a real blowout. Yeah. Yeah. Let's get a picture. - Muek. - Yes, sir. Get a picture. Little hands. Come on. (Johnson) I shall not seek and I will not accept the nomination of my party for another term as your president. I, Richard Milhous Nixon, do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of president of the United States. North Vietnam cannot defeat or humiliate the United States. Only Americans can do that. (Gl) We get really stoned. Then, you know, like, who cares about the war? Gentlemen and ladies, as you know, General Westmoreland has returned to Washington and General Abrams has replaced him as commander of ground forces. This reorganisation is part of the president's Vietnamisation strategy. Now the new second-in-command, General Weyand, is here to brief you on the implementation of this phase of the war. Ambassador, with Abrams in and Westy out, is this an admission that Westmoreland's strategy was a failure? - General Westmoreland was promoted. - (Journalists clamour) Ladies and gentlemen, we now believe that the South Vietnamese are ready to take on a primary role in driving back the enemy's forces, their divisions, North Vietnamese regulars across the western border. - Is this an American withdrawal? - No, no. In no way is this a withdrawal. (Weyand) It's a change of strategy and I have appointed the former Lieutenant Colonel John Vann, whom you all know... John, please step up here? ...to act as my deputy for military functions, who will help me implement this strategy. He will serve as a commanding general for the central highlands region. Please, General, help me clarify this. You are placing a US civilian in command of ten divisions of south Vietnamese troops in the central highlands, which is a large area, while the rest of the US troops pull back? We're not pulling back. The South Vietnamese are moving forward. If it's not a withdrawal, what is Vietnamisation? Well, that's what we're trying to explain to you if you just, er, pay attention. John, you've always advocated that the US take control here in Saigon, yes? That's correct. But Tet has proved that the South Vietnamese are capable and willing to take control of this war. - (Journalists clamour) - The American people have been completely demoralised by recent developments. Not at all. Not at all. On the contrary. Our intelligence indicates it is the Vietcong who have been demoralised since Tet. Wait, I'm highly confused. I find this contradictory because, with this restructuring, the South Vietnamese are not in command but you are, Mr Vann, while US forces go out the back door. - No one is going out the back door. - (Journalists clamour) - Will any American soldiers go home? - Certainly, as the Vietnamese people assume greater responsibility there will be some reassignment of US personnel. John, did you and President Nixon discuss Vietnamisation? - I met the president, yes. - So was it his policy or your policy? It's the policy of the United States government. (Ambassador) US policy has not changed from day one in terms of our involvement in helping the people of the Republic of Vietnam. (Burnett) Nixon ordered all American combat troops out of Vietnam by June of 1972. The South Vietnamese, although backed by American air support and advisors, would have to fight the war themselves. Ten years down the road we were back to where we started, but this time John Paul Vann was in charge. Intelligence says the enemy's moved large numbers of troops, maybe five divisions, down the Ho Chi Minh trail to here. We also know that there's heavy artillery, even tanks, further north. I see what they're after. If they can break through the line here and head for the sea, they'll have cut our forces in half and have a clear shot at Saigon. If the South Vietnamese troops can't hold the line, it's over. The South Vietnamese are good soldiers, they just need some leadership. Oh, they'll hold the line. We'll do one better. We might turn this whole goddamn thing around. I think old General Giap's about to make the mistake we've been making all along. He's gonna try to fight this in a conventional fashion. If we can persuade him to send his troops out of these hills around Kontum, he'll be vulnerable, and that's where we could crush him. - I don't know, John. - I do, Fred, I do. I've never seen anything so clear. I've been waiting for a moment like this all my life. - Yeah. What can I do for you? - I'd like to have a word with Vann, please. - General? - It's OK, let him through. - I'd like an interview, John. - I don't have time. Yeah, I'll make it quick. You intend to carpet-bomb around Kontum with B-52s. That's operational information. What a line of bullshit you fed us about the peasants and the revolution, and I bought it. - I still believe it. - But you're gonna bomb with B-52s? - How can you say that? It's wrong, John. - Wrong? It's the same war it was back in '62. You were there. Why didn't you say it was wrong then? Shit, you and the fucking Kennedys, the good old boys who sent us here, now you all want to change your minds because there's blood and guts on TV. Well, I don't have that luxury. I've got 50,000 people in Kontum whose lives are on the line because of us. They can't change their minds, can they? I gave those people my word and I'm gonna do everything I can to save them. Let's go. - Colonel Ba. - Welcome, sir. - Frank Drummond, I thought they retired you. - Retirement sits good with you. - Thanks for requesting me, buddy. - My pleasure. - Major Darryl Jones, sir. - Major Jones. Finally, I got a fighting team I can be proud of. - Well, gentlemen, let's get to work. - This way. (Typewriter clicks) Ten hut. Gentlemen, senior advisor. At ease, men. All right, listen up, everyone. We are gonna hold the line here at Tan Canh, then mount a staged retreat back to where we are, Kontum. That will pull these North Vietnamese divisions out of the hills and when they do, we are gonna call in the B-52s and carpet-bomb each of these squares. We are gonna wipe out the second, third, and fifth division of the North Vietnamese army. My old colleague, Colonel Ba, will conduct a forward command defence and withdrawal. This is General Giap, commander of the NVA. He's a genius. He's never been beaten... till now. I've studied this man for ten years and we are gonna whip his ass. You know why? Because he wastes his men. Pours them away like piss in the wind. There's not a man in this room, not a man on that line out there I wouldn't die for. No matter what we've done with our lives, you and I can be proud today because we have the noblest of all professions. We are soldiers. The good Lord said it all about us. He said no greater love has a man than he lay down his life for another. And by God this day will not end but I will see you all safely through it and we will hold this ground. - Redirect that fire. - Sustained mortar and small-arms fire. Over. - Get me a sitrep at forward command. - Forward command, sitrep. Over. Enemy still 500 yards to my immediate front. We're holding them here. Roger that, Major, good work. Tell Colonel Ba we will withdraw in one hour. Over. (Shouting in Vietnamese) (Speaks Vietnamese) - Ba, why aren't you at your post? - I have been replaced, sir. - Who's in charge of the ARVN? - Who's the general? - It's General Dinh, sir. - Tell him I'm on my way. Sir, Kontum Four, en route to you. Out. Kontum says Vann's on the way out. (John) Let's go, forward command. Step on it. Cover that right flank. Lay it out, boys. (Panicked shouts) - What the fuck was that? - OK. We got an enemy tank here. There's a tank. There's a fucking tank. - Got an enemy tank here. - There are no enemy tanks reported. Fuck you, son. I'm telling you there's a goddamn tank up here. - How long to the LZ? - (Pilot) We're two minutes out. Let's go. Get a move on. They'll be cut off up there, God damn it. (Shouting) (Frank) Hey, get back here. (Panicked shouts) - Frank, how long can you hold it there? - Dinh's running like a son of a bitch. - Get out, Frank. Go. - Yep, we're fixing to do that. God damn that asshole. God damn. Go, everybody back, go on, fall back. - Let's go. Go. - (Frank) Blow this fuckin' place. - Move. - Go. Go. (Pilot) My God, they've blown it, sir. - (John) There. There. - Jesus Christ, it's a minefield. (Shouting in Vietnamese) (Screams) - (Pilot) Jesus Christ. - Take her down. - But, sir... - I said take her down. - Right here, put her down. - Coming around. Coming around. - Frank. - (Pilot) Going down into a minefield. Enemy 300 yards, we need support, over. Frank, come on, get up here, son. Come on, get him in. Come on. Come on. Frank! - Frank, hold on. Grab his arms. - Frank, it's me. Let's get him up. - OK, got him? - OK. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. - Damn it. Hold on. Hold on, Frank. - It's a tank. (Pilot) It's coming around, damn it. Come on. Come on, let's move it. We gotta go. - OK. - Hold on. Ba, get these men back to their posts. - What's this? - Sir, we're ordered to withdraw. Withdraw nothing, get Bomber Command on the horn. Sir, the enemy have passed the coordinates. - Give them new coordinates. - Stand by. - 1580. - Sir, that's us. - Call it in. - One-five-eight-six, one-five-eight-zero. - Soldier, let me have a look. - That's correct. Yes, we know. - Sir, they want confirmation. - Shit, we're about to be overrun. - Just do it. - Senior advisor says go. (Over radio) Recon Skyhawk, enemy is now one mile. Recon Skyhawk, enemy now 800 yards, over. Major, here they come. Colonel, let's get ready. (Speaks Vietnamese) Come on. Come on. Come on. (Orders shouted in Vietnamese) Come on. Come on. (Approaching aircraft) (Muted explosions) (Shouts and groans) (Loud creaking) (Coughs, groans) (Coughing) Where you get your luck? Ba, let's get these men organised, get out there, see what's left. (Man) Here he is now. (Pilot) Roger, touchdown, over. - (John) What is all this? - Congratulations, John. Hell of an action. Mr Ambassador. The president asked me to convey his and our country's appreciation. - Thank you, sir. - John, step right this way. (Order shouted in Vietnamese) We have a little surprise here for you. - John, President Thieu. - Mr President. The people of Vietnam are grateful for your help in defending our country. I'm honoured, thank you. Congratulations, John, you deserve it. (# Military march) This was great, Fred, but I better be getting back. - You sure? - Yeah, duty calls. Good luck, John. You know, Fred, we can win this thing. - You bet. - (Ambassador) I'm not here to supply gossip. Yes, but... Excuse me one moment. John. - Congratulations. - Thank you. I have something that might interest you. "Former Vietnam veteran Douglas Elders "claimed the US government has conspired to deceive the American people "in order to pursue an illegal war in Vietnam." - Well, I'll be dammed. - Someone's prepared to stop peddling the lie. - What lie would that be? - That we're here to solve Vietnam's problems. We are the problem and that's the truth. Well, you see, Steven, there's your truth and there's my truth and they're two different things. All I know is up that road is old General Giap and when he and I speak to each other, we never lie. General Giap and you? John, the war's not about warriors any more. It's about children and women and rice paddies, and you know who told me that? You did. You did. I gotta go. I got men holding the line up there. (Over radio)... flight will be cancelled. Repeat. Recent wind... Boss, we really don't have the weather. Come on, let's go. (Sighs) (Phone) Hello. No. He's dead? How? I was just... Oh, man. (# Bugle plays Last Post) (Sighs) (Burnett) John Paul Vann was America's warrior. He personified our good intentions, our arrogance, our courage, and ultimately our folly. He had fought to redeem the unredeemable, to salvage the doomed enterprise called South Vietnam. In death he had triumphed over defeat while the rest of us are left to ask... "Why?" (# Where Have All The Flowers Gone) # Where have all the flowers gone? # Long time passing # Where have all the flowers gone? # Long time ago # Where have all the flowers gone? # Young girls pick them, every one # When will they ever learn? # When will they ever learn? # Where have all the young girls gone? # Long time passing # Where have all the young girls gone? # Long time ago # Where have all the young girls gone? # Gone to young men, every one # When will they ever learn? # When will they ever learn? # Where have all the young men gone? # Long time passing # Where have all the young men gone? # Long time ago # Where have all the young men gone? # Gone for soldiers, every one # When will they ever learn? # When will they ever learn? # Where have all the soldiers gone? # Long time passing # Where have all the soldiers gone? # A long, long time ago # Where have all the soldiers gone? # Gone to graveyards every one # When will they ever learn? # When will they ever learn? # Where have all the graveyards gone? # Long time passing # Where have all the graveyards gone? # Long time ago # Where have all the graveyards gone? # Gone to flowers, every one # When will they ever learn? # When will they ever learn? # English SDH
