 

                        0 Wake up and my husband.. he left ! Affection! Robert, these there? Robert? I sought this, he was calling... It is usually when waking up this here, but it was not.. The car deles/delas this out... Then I heard that all the Mexicans left... And my husband is Mexican We met each other in Tennesse, I was the singer of a strip of Rock Now he is the singer of " The wet Dogs" It is a same strip pillion popular... And it is common that it is not But it doesn't disappear there is little like this Then Lucy, my daughter.. she entered for my room She was crying.. And she spoke to me that Bobby, my son also had party I want to say that even accent the teeth deles/delas in the bathroom.. The would never leave without the deles/delas teeth... ONE DAY WITHOUT MEXICAN I said that you stop! This will be a good day in California... "The Boy" will be sleeping during the following three daas... Don't wake up him/it... And he brings somebody... Because we will have some magnificent days in the bay, what reminds me, safe it will be in "Great Marshall" "San Jose's Bass the Horseman "Car show They wait them a little of sprinkles here... In it is Worth Central doing to people very happy... We will go now to the South of California.. The sky will be a little darkness in that area.. systems of press of discharges here... There is a system of loud press here... very strange... But to who worries him... These will be good days to do sport.. Good because, I am Jos Velzquez... and this was, "Good morning report" The water continues dripping... Try to close this but it continues leaving.. Please Mr. Tim when he has time I will thank for this him... I said this in the conference of press... and now I speak this other time.. "I never went... against those illegal workers... They were contracted for my part of back... One day before the disappearance It proves and I was for the station of the.. He/she marries crazy, to negotiate, two Mexican painters... Steven, lowered at the 7:30 hours exactly I eat daily, he/she found there for the Mexican painters The vi that lowers the square of the father deles/delas... but it felt uncomfortable, he is very sensitive in that Steven is very special as for the colors and the workers offered him/it to equal the colors to that of the sofa Out of here! It was! ! It was ! It was ! Out of here Who devils did hire them? Of next time I will call him/it immigration authorities We are American, simply defending.. Our earth, our values, and they cross that border... Without our permission People that Blanca disappeared in the whole country... they come here, they take ours works And they are also filling this country of drugs... It is a robbery... they are stealing us our lives We are here to exercise the freedom of expression and to give safety They are entitled of to give the opinion deles/delas It is a country free.. and those they are some mad We are not in the side of anybody Although we agreed with them and they are in the correct thing The Party of May 5, it is a Latin festival day same.. Excuse it is not a Latin festival day He/she is only a celebration of Mexico This albeit it is yours do name limits? Layla Rob Well, Miss Rob ... we are seeking one Latin Reportera I am Latin... I want to say, mine rectifies one name he is Rodrguez My name profecional it is Layla Rob The first day for the one that Lilac was it station... She asked me... The one that I have to bring to be like you? And I spoke to him/her... You his/her even - Do you speak Spanish? - If of course He/she begins of the beginning and some American Spanish uses Allow to hear me that that truly you have.. allow to hear me The Latin Flavor The party of May 5 It is a festival day of Mexico larger been celebrated in the United States Of that it is of this that me he/she was speaking.. He/she remembers that if you don't have accent you won't have his/her own career you won't have great success this well, you understand? If, it is right - Helen! - If, affection Helen like you can negotiate for that the people? They are Mexican of the station They are in front of of the station and they are the Mexican illegal of Guatemala and Honduras Guatemalan and Honduran they are not Mexican that is something very stupid These types will make the interior and the exterior for the money that you gave me That me hard... here they are the country deles/delas incites Do you make this on purpose? You believe that can affect my career That is what is thinking... if we used the regular Mexicans it will be worth much more I take charge of that this well.. Tracy, wash their teeth vmonos it is 7:35 hour that we have still 10 minutes If I affect, but his/her father he/she has that consiguirme two Mexican more before arriving for the work deles/delas his/her maaneras of jokes that comedian Vmonos of Tracy.. Tracy, pay attention to his/her father, hurry And, senator... Any thing of trifles among coma that he/she has good day... - Good-bye bebita.. - Good-bye - A cafecito? - Please Catalina, the nanny of mine daughter... it is Mexican But she is legal, of that, I am safe She worked for Reagan before working for my family Father, you have their glasses of put contact? I lost them If we sold the rural property we will have the money now and enough for 20 years 20 years? I say, you could retire, to travel, to enjoy his/her life, For how long there is state planning this? Of last week... For God you are a man... To sell the earth, and to deny that you/they are He/she leaves the agriculture to the third world, vaymonos, Thank to have come him/her to see us tonight Father Hi the boys, I brought a pair of for them packages of cigarettes Hi Affection She is Susi, it will be ours I reinforce for the trip That fortunate one, they acquired this quite quickly... it is brilliant I help him/it No, I already have this it is dinner She is Lucy, Filho helps me with this please... thank you - Affection? - If? Is there lemonade in Refri? There are lemons, you can to do one walk him you make this the.. Hold, detn the damned truck - What devils is he/she making you? - Loui! - Are you well? - If It was a grandota Filho, Jos has little saved his/her life We never spoke Spanish or yes? He/she was able killing this was able killing... You can count "thanks him/her" George No, but he/she is "Appreciated You" can say I will make him/her a belt with this If, diamond... Only, they were afraid he/she for the son deles/delas if I know this, it is that this grandota The friend to be calmed down... Damned idiot You and his/her race have me even the tip of the stick Tomorrow - What was that? - Any thing 319 yellow tree, they can check two chickens fell to the bag Captain, change, Captain Snchez, copied Somebody spoke to me that A Mexican he/she never urinates only.. It seems that it was inside the correct thing That sounds the homosexual Sanchez, answer if he/she listens I am Yellow Tree allow to see me that He/she has a hooter, and I don't have need to see that.. I see a van for 50 feet Snchez, do you copy me? where this her? those demons Sanchez, feel his/her position That car is of Tree Yellows no? oh mierda... don't shoot Rays, Roberto? Mierda Where this? the car deles/delas this but him not You believe that you gone there with that woman Susi No, My pezcadito left He/she stops to cover this, if he is This morning at the 6:30 hours the one emergency service 911 he/she received but 350 calls informing the disappearance of... Partners family, employed, and business proprietors Where you said that it was his/her brother? We are going Jef, I am not none Latin Reportera I am a reportera Lilac, I am Steve Patrix and I saw him/it in the report of May 5 it was a reportera Rodrguez he/she wants you to say He/she informs that of the Mexicans lost workers Lost workers Mexican? we go, I was born in California... I am civic of united States I can make any thing He/she trusts me, feel something big, something important The Mexicans are now international.. this could be big 3, 2, Now a report of Stockton Lilac beforehand They left a comfortable fire.. Sausage, tortillas, sew personal But the workers not lost they left explanations of the absence deles/delas Good morning Mr. Mclaire As of the workers deles/delas did they disappear? He/she asked me bringing the one tractor truth? If Something eats this him had he/she happened before? In passed days 5 or 10 but never something as this Therefore I will lose her/it all the one personal He/she has some idea that there is last? ANS does difficult that the people they come and they stay here California depends in that the people, they make this work of fields Thank him/her for Mr. Mclaire They are continuous receiving calls of the people that disappear In the state of California Any explanation is even provident ! Lilac, care, - Helen? - If I affect... - I am making breakfast - Thank you, the daughter only has care Leaves of Tracy that right now - Where what does this Prove? - I don't know this, it never arrives late - There are no French fries - I am cleaning, I didn't cook - Where this the marmalade? - On top of there Oh, forget... Senator takes to take breakfast for Tracy - Brilliant Ok vmonos of Tracy.. 1, 2, 3, 4, If he/she doesn't upset him/it that you would deteriorate to pass for the return store to live I will think this... He/she only played Hi I am in substitution of Jos Velzquez Daz this is good morning "Report" What raisin with the graphs? Is all that we have? As they can see he/she, we don't have one clear imgen of the satellite I listened in a fog finds strange in the costs and the mountains That he/she only makes my work more difficult Do make the boys that it happened goes? now we won't have anything Do I take him the order deles/delas? - Did he/she make the senator, do hear the news? - What news? - do excuse? I thought that it was alone He is, he/she waits.. I cannot wait, he/she knows him/it does that he/she want? Breakfast of Burrito This with... Alan? Nick waits Extra beans Black Nick progress Senator, is a lot of people that we cannot find I cannot communicate with the one governor Dawson in Washington Like this I need this here right now, as governor What with Santos?, as it is for the control Losing, losing, The General Jumper called of emergency for a meeting in the capital immediately I enter in highway Mother? I am right now busy I sit down for not having... spoken yesterday... but tomorrow I speak to you... this well? "The size worries" I sit down this... even traffic! Hi aunt's gigi Hi, what do you make here? I finish him/it of seeing in TELEVISION these well? If I am well, I have little went for the one hospital but I am well Do you know where my parents are? No, but I bet that Teresita and Jos is seeking him/it He/she calls to his/her office.. I already made this but they are not there... He/she hears, you know that the people that this that disappears Ted spoke to me here that there is many Latin Or, Muky, everything California this full with Latin That believes Oh my god, I have that to go for the station You could speak to me when see my mother - If, good-bye affection - Good-bye Muky, you forget about his/her magazine Oh, don't belong to my father Oh my god.. Hi for everything Governor Dawson and the one lieutenant Santos is inaccessible like this I was asked for to be the interim governor It is my duty to declare... A state of emergency until not discovering that it happened with lost people I ask people from California not to pull down any panic And to respect the properties of the other On such difficult moments the only thing that we can... ... to do is to continue with ours regular activities.. and to pray for the people from California 911 received a million calls informing lost people... Will this be a Terrorist attack? People disappeared without leaving rake, there are no bodies we will take some conclusions until receiving the transmiciones of the military armada that in these moments are making the report We waited that them find something Did He/she speak to Washington? No there is any communication far away from the one State We have our best the men and women that work in this Thank you A dangerous Fog he/she continues coming more intimate authorities recommend him/it population... to stay home and not to try to cross this No there is any communication out of the red line Telephones, Internet any sign of radio It cannot penetrate the Fog that about California.. Isolating the population of the rest of the world For all that I am seeing me I recommend everything That they don't leave to the streets less the that it is quite necessary People struggle among them he/she seems that a wave of anarchy he/she had contaminated for the city only leave continuous in the same street but there are many cars And the traffic this detainee I see two companions, while being stolen some Cd of a car They are of the Tigers of the one North so that rays make that It is same exitante all this... Lilac Lilac these there? In agreement with the armed forces the damages and losses that they happened that they are priceless All the forces are small for all the insults that happen Senator Abercrombie governor was named of the state And what will do close we will have to guess this... for that the only thing that we know is that everything the genta disappeared The characteristic of everything these disappearances it is the descendant deles/delas Hispanic My own friend Juan Velazquez Daz of good morning "Report" This that loses the person in these moments If, don't stop, no you stopped Mierda Why did you stop? Because there under behind heat We go you make this again I affect, I have a lot of things does he/she do to do him/her care? You will pay.. no you want to continue We are going spoiling has to finish the one that you begin Jos, we should be but careful There are cameras of safety for all of the sides We have a lot that to lose How that what? Our works... Would you like to lose yours? If, undoubtedly if That is better Only let to stay this amusing this well? Already, this well I see him/it tomorrow That is amusing He/she only does some moments our reportera... Rodrguez lilac that informed of the streets of Los Angeles During a recording The car deles/delas was wrapped in an accident and there are no rakes of those bodies She is another victim of the epidemic of disappearances Eperamos that Lilac, and Jos finds the one in route to live and that they receive the courage of the whole people open to it receives and to facilitate information of this emergency situation The gilded State, no this, polishing California was taken for a dark fog Why theses were taken people?, because.. they are Hispanic, Latin, Mexican, Chicanos... I center American, Cuban, Contribution Rican American... without worrying the nationality the first thing that we are... he/she is the people These people are the third part of the whole population of California People deserve to be loved and it respected There are many scientists Honest heroes Big celebrities Big talents And world talents These people helped him/it one declare to be one of those main world savings Do excuse, are you a Mexican? Do I seem Mexican? daily it is the same thing I am not Mexican... Of where is? I am Israeli, the non Mexican has a minuscule head Don't unite grandota... they also disappear This is a disaster... This is a serious disaster you know that now if we waited a grandota That is.. 90 percent of the whole crop it is collected for Mexican people.. Illegal foreigners, illegal workers, that they crossed the borders that they bring all this little money God, forgets that it parked his/her car That he/she will give him/her a glass of water in the Restaurant If we didn't find those Latin ones we will be in serious problems I teach in an university and he/she worked with Ral... we were a team, Abdul and Ral !! He/she left!! People would like to accuse us for the disappearances but in the reality we are inside a rescue" "operation He/she is entitled to stay quiet any thing that you/they says will be.. There is this the people that they were fed they will be given a place to sleep call, they will be read those right we understood the illegal foreigners Those that look for those true criminals that they do for this border the one more dangerous of the world This activity obviously he/she lowered done lower? no there is any longer activity in the border.. Already nobody happens I liked but when.. everything ran they jumped and all those things The incredible thing is that we are making our work that is to maintain far everything the illegals uh that good prison, ask him/it, Homy smiled this close to me only I close my eyes, me, I relax a little suddenly he/she stops, I open my eyes and no there is nobody there It is supposed that should be read "As"esino This way the person won't be capable for to obtain respect of anybody Did my "Burrito" leave where? Did we call him/it Hispanic for that what? Cuban, Colombian, Bolivian Argentinean Or right Mexicans? Excatamente of Non Everything for the south of the border There are 40 countries for the south of the bordering do he/she know that everything disappears? No, of California?... skies believe that it is grandiose less traffic this well for me The director called me I am the teacher of this school I can be seen that today there would not be classes it seems that there was a situation that you left control the 20% of the teachers of the first degrees are Hispanic This is my nun Sharon She didn't discover that this day of work it was canceled Affection should feel fatal but both know where they are But in the reality, He/she doesn't worry what happens I will take mine but big Faith It is the beginning of the Apocalypse 7 years of tribulations and there is nothing that we can do Me no, don't believe in that Only I believe that my husband and my son will return in any moment He/she excuses... My book speaks in all this these people spoke to God One moment, it excuses this car belongs a... Disappeared person Juan velazquez Daz The one of good morning "Report" Only I make my work Have beautiful day Not completing the quota alone deles/delas? The panic can feel in the whole atmosphere People fill the stores place in search of the basic needs Fresh vegetables and fruits they finish soon The can opener has a lot demand "Cable Comunication" in the state he/she will continue without working all of the comuniacion systems that it depends on satellites and technology he/she without threads fell Until that the he/she of moment didn't calm down I contact with anybody Welcome again for "Victims of the disappearances" Rodrguez lilac, is the first generation Mexican-American that works hard in the east of ngel The parents deles/delas, Teresa and Jos Diego Rodrguez also losing, they supported her lovingly during all his/her career Jeff, Lilac didn't disappear I know this, that didn't happen No, she is not Mexican If, I know this she is a reportera No, don't listen to me these understanding No there is any reason so that her he/she disappeared... It is that all that that this event and the one that you tell me.. He/she doesn't make sense A ray of hope Our Rodrguez Lils it was found at a Hospital close She is in intensive cares What will you make with this?... It is his/her decision The one that we have in mind it is that those disappearances without leaving rake... today we are here to explore an explanation for any conventional thing... Dr. Takeshi Twelve days, the partners behind, of the government and those French worked in one accelerating of molecules Doing of different posts and containing of a group for other For army purposes? correct, we called this elective bomb So that this it detonates him/it exactly inside people that you/they wants to kill to be but specific That serious one very efficient It is, my theory, is that somebody I steal that technology and it used this in the Latins You believe that you can apply for any ethnos?, Afro-American? Asian? Anglo? absolutely desdeluego Listen to that clown He/she is not a clown He/she worked for nosostros in the area 51 there was a small laboratory that it exploded We should stay quiet this fast We needed to identify the factor L Do factor L? "Latin factor" This crazy one? better knots bring peanuts, it is our best hope up to now Cut, catch and feel some French bragged That he/she does for Jos a Jos and not a Jos? They could isolate that something... we can revert the process and to develop a vaccine That sandeses But we needed a Latin You spend Catchup mustard If the Latin deles/delas didn't disappear contact doctor Takashi Let to do us this together My following guest, a woman that... With a third of the consumers losing, the bankruptcy this in all places We found our lover the friend and reportera Rodrguez Lils The only Hispanic that not there is desparecido the lost connection Lilac, you should be very tired Where my mother? We tried to find this but all of the people disappeared - Gigi? - Gigi comes for here the lover I affect, you can explain to us that you did I pass in the car? The light changed green and he/she listens a voice.. that he/she said, cable. and then... This well, lover nescesitas to rest This is our Lilac one very special human being That it challenges to the destiny of to disappear Don't leave ,24 hours that camera he/she will register the Lilac To have certainty that ours lost connection be with us When we returned, of the official net of losing We will interview the nurse that it recognized this, for the man that I inform the roar to the 911 and for the mechanic that it was with the car I am Vicky Morgan News of KMT, let to turn to the study It really scares me this case because he/she enters more knots thought in the dependent that we belonged to the Latins, people will despair more We already saw places where the they are rapturous the people the food Van and they assault the refrigerandores because they are hungry Go affection, the one of her really this in a negative space If, we go we will greet her do recofontarla know? Mary J?, we listened that of Robert and Boby I sit down a lot this... Tomorrow night we will do a meal home if you want to come that we will be there this well taenia ever since sews to do tomorrow sew of the school, they already know everything is of head Such all this finishes in any moment... It will be this way, I am safe Mary J in the tv asks for the Latins that they are still here they will see the scientist Be thought of taking Lucy? No. We are going to the supermarket They recommend to buy fresh vegetables and fruits if you desire that we bring something for you... No, I am well... thank you I call them then Don't leave I believe that Sucy, was with us... He/she is the singer beautiful, good I totally sit down below out This for both I know this, but before me was it one that he/she was in miniskirt he/she went to the trips... I still say I can sing attendances you are good... If you... I know this, he/she will speak Spanish To sell the children, to leave my work, the house to fly This was part of our plan do you remember? We are doing that it happens This well, I know this I am totally well I want you to be well, really Wish me luck This well, but it will be better than speak to me all of the nights All of the nights Each two nights He/she calls the children for dinner Sacred Mara.. I ask him/her that please you forgive me Good girl While probably not survive physically We united some things that they will help them and to give them extra time so that them it can feel a lot and to pass the eternity with yours Mr. and Salvador, Jesus Christ, On behalf of God, what this event? I want to order three packages of survival I affect, they come stops here No, I have faith and the one of her me to take with father for my faith Sharon that devils that it happens? Mary, takes under the care of their words If my key is "Chosen 4 9 3" This is my house, this he/she is my daughter you are not entitled to do this He/she excuses... If that is his/her house but, the one of her not he/she is his/her daughter, he/she is the daughter of God Don't please him nieges the one right of being safe Count his/her God... that he/she makes that my husband and son's return, we go Operator, I call this then he/she takes his/her garbage and veto of here I love him out Make the peace with god and it allows this to go It was Mamy, I want to disappear for that my potato me this wait and all of us can hug each other when we went back home He/she speaks to this number - It was - Calls of He/she He/she is sad when something good as the faith, becomes tragedy In San Diego it was a house wrapped in fires, When some candles inside the memory of a Latin person they pulled down the rug... The fans of the Baseball were furious to the the game to be canceled for... 8 players of L.A Dogers they are Latin Out of the stadium the crowd was furious and he/she entered in the city that causes destrosos For the bother that caused them the cancellation of this provident game feel some words in Spanish Family that happens, May 5, It is same says, really you did we lose? It is not better than only let to speak to us in English And that if they are hearing? I think that... it would be a good detail... It is not his/her fault that the show of the one senator Shaw was canceled it will be brilliant, to lose this, I say... the highway this liberates one Senator Shaw is one "Latin of Closet" Do they want food China? the store this closed one Alan, they can the and Tracy to do one he/she gyrates early of press tomorrow Clear up, the school this closed of any way I believe that Mnica left... but it was normal, I am like me Mnica is from Argentina Eat Chinese well this, thank you With seasonings You have faith of Non that is ironic You are a senator now you could be a Governor My father will be beating in the tomb deles/delas There are still the people that accuse Steven for what it happens... I don't believe that that is exactly... My husband had his/her campaign against the illegal emigration Why any white and rich man that this against the minorities fire this racist? California voted for in him Gigi, that is ring of his/her family Muky I believe that God me he/she is punishing What do you speak? good, I am the only that it is It was accustomed to you makes a mistake of father and mother with my friends the whole time centers in the fashion cheaply... I deserve this, really He/she looked for that the parents of mine better friends were mine In the secondary, you remember that picture of the students and the parents deles/delas? Oh! Teresita and Jos they loved that picture Because I came more intimate more for my friends' potatoes So that while that picture, exists him the people think that she was his/her daughter and not of mother and father The stranger Teresita and Jos non puedieron to have a better daughter that you/they touch that is You know that, this that is among us... they will say that I am strange be not like this with me he/she worries what happens.. I affect clear, now you owe to rest The police were a correspondent to protect business and houses abandoned, however, they fear that... Be permitted to speak to them, he/she would want that mine mother-in-law was Mexican Today, the team SQUEEZES apoplectic attack 600 boxes full with fresh tomatoes 200 boxes of oranges and half pound of cocaine This situation has me until the mother Can mother say here? I called people of the market black people of the 70 that that you/they trafficked with drugs and that now they sell fruits and vegetables I took a risk the life to enter in my car for tomatoes, tomatoes... no you if they are the people of a video of MTV by God the saint, this me forest Then I came here, the place was one disaster, I had to wash the plates I will have to close my restaurant if they don't return I need those individuals Mexican All the Latins in this area they are exhibited of being Mexican Hear, you! That is illegal ah if, I don't worry good I will find other The high prices are lowering All this that disappears... of the stores They don't want to lose the disappearance sale Our friends left a lot merchandise and now you can help myself she to disappear For 10 discount%? No For 25 discount%? No For 50 discount% The person doesn't eat they made that They come to celebrate the fact that still these here and also the markets! Don't get lost the one day of the disappearance in Market In the best thing that I can think today it is in Jesus... Leave that he disinfects the souls deles/delas today Good morning Vicky Lilac, you are amazing well, as he/she touches to be it only Latin in California good, I am impressed that the people in the street make to feel the love deles/delas, value, and consent for the Latin community I want agracerles to everything and each one of them, I say, I can to see this in the letters deles/delas and flowers We received a hundred of letters, electronic mail, everything with good desires and prayers for t We see you young Gigi, there, hi you young Gigi Hi Vicky, calls me aunt's gigi the whole call this way me Clear.. Aunt Gigi, is the best friend in Lyla and he/she gives us pleasure to do this now with you We have senator Abercrombie in the line Senator's progress Hi Lyla, welcome to the team a lot of pleasure Thank you, in the reality it is Lilac us we knew when it presents me in the deles/delas it finishes campaana do he/she remember? clear up, you young Rodrguez on behalf of California and the great nation for the one that we belonged that I want to thank to do the duty deles/delas as American, you he/she represents a hope for the future I want to take advantage this opportunity of declaration for the citizens of Californian not to pull down any panic and to have aligns him/it red so that anybody on the other side try to cross the fog But that never, we needed to be the great "Family of California" and to bring the all our siblings and the Hispanic sisters we are going for some enchiladas Lilac will follow their steps sweet speech Senator... I will donate my body to the science To try to discover that it happened with my people... but if the encounter that would I owe saying? Speak to them that California needs them this well, I believe that that has him/it listened before Thank him/her for Lilac, Thank him/her for the Senator Thank you Very small they ascend for the car you are going with his/her father... I brought churro for them People that the Latins say they take 3 trillion dollars in the services social deles/delas and they don't pay imposed That is a great lie! We calculated that they are a hundred trillion of dollars that the Latins contribute for the state of Californian, the illegal foreigners meanwhile, they take 3 trillion in social services even this way, they are 97 trillion, that is a good business But no, they were exaggerating, alone people want to take and to take That was shown to be a lie Lyla Rodrguez, better acquaintance, as the lost connection they donated the body deles/delas to the science hoping to solve the Latin "enigma" There are my species in danger that gives, no this well do you use something what having humid? Not only I wash them Good, this tomografa will measure his/her factor DWARF'S intensity Doctor Takashi, limited experience with the human but yes several experencias with frogs and other amphibians She is our only hope and I walk for an answer Very well, what is the one you see? a hamburgesa How is it going this? Mass and enchiladas very well Mr. McAlire, the fruits and vegetables don't wait I need capable people in these fields now The agriculture is the industry #1 of California, non Hollywood There are some people and they come more so that this it can move forward that with the car of patrol of the border, they are not making anything It is something that we have to see, can he/she wait one week? I spoke to him/her that I am not capable for Wait, he/she waits... pose for the picture stopped .. and for the small can, him he/she was a second father some people you they deceived of him... but the own heart deles/delas laughed, and that was enough for him If my father, never profits that will my father be? Non spoil, no, his/her father he/she will always be his/her father We go, let to say us to God so that he/she he/she brings this of return All this in the Hat a friendly family picture but now they can see this yourselves that the image is clearly a proud one representation of that that they want to do The ship nurse The ship nurse Disappearances, Jos, hat... this will allow to show for the world my discovery and to cross the fields of the science to reproduce right here my own laboratory be permitted to give them other example, here there are some images of Jos Ship nurse that if we put turned them face to face... he/she doesn't pass anything... But now that it happens if, we turned the image what do have us? Mathematically they come this, perfectly compatible Check this.. I have little gave to something big if we united these words he/she will take drives us to the answer Put his/her part bastard of behind in my stick and he/she stops to hold as dog I believe that the government doesn't hide him/it truth... or for that call them "foreigners", "illegal foreigners" as the Latins, Hispanic, Mexican people of that type why then the government do he/she call this "foreigners? " If they won't think that they are of some "other place" do they understand?... that the government he/she suspected certain point even because they knew that that is "foreign" Peep him he, peep him him In the streets there are the thousands of people celebrating the disappearance participating in a type of ritual celebration Or it cannot be... Mexicans similar to Foreigners leave for the house deles/delas Ei, my hero - How does the leg go? - He/she goes well We will need that you refresh... they will be 10 years old only if, only feel one minute - do you want him to accompany him? - no this well Only I broke a window, don't enter I am well "Prostitute" disappears It is the first that it aligns of defense, All Californian he/she will have the antibodies of his/her body Am I a wandering vaccine? The government's priority it is to take care those that they are still here I thought that the main objective was to bring from turn to the Latins That is secondary Lilac feels well if I am well You could take me with the doctor Takashi? I return soon No, I take that.. you stay sitting down I said that I return soon Everything will be well There are three bad experiences in life When George disappeared for 6 hours when taenia 6.. That was terrible for me, he/she were able to not even sleep When my wife died he/she left well for and my Jos best friend We grew together, we worked the earth together I want this likes a son Castle, it is calmed but it is strong that I can speak to him/her.. Hi, as they were? what this event? The school this closed one I owe the construction, the half, for cerrrar of the people they are losing them can you believe this? the 60% of the manufacturers in California they are Latin I brought the children so that you light under the care of them during a pair of hours we are in half of a situation very serious Well, I will take them with me for the construction so that something it falls them above, die and then any longer one you precupes for never to take under the care of them we are going the boy do you worry this? Don't move forward.. And official Carl, it could not play coyotes and illegal? please well, I have to leave Here you have coffee and Jnior didn't take yours breakfast It is not afraid, I do myself I carry, I love him Good-bye the children Boys come with the uncle deles/delas Arm We will play coyotes and illegales, I will be the coyote - Mrs. Gigi this same one... - Aunt Gigi? If, ei... this declaration foolishness she wants the own deles/delas... "Gigi Show" he/she wants to give him/her something for that he/she to be calmed down Certainly, it should be devastated, I will take charge of her thank you And I will speak to them... I am aunt Gigi they will accuse me... good, this well, well... Celebrate the disappearance! It is our country! You conquered me - A more victory for you - Brilliant Hi the father, I sit down arrives me late Hi Diamond, but we will go first to the party, do you remember? You are also welcome I believe that I will go... Like you he/she wants... Loui is going for his/her backpack To teach to his/her son to happen the pain of the other it is not exactly as his/her mother and I educate him I decide that teaching my son he/she is alone, a traditional one and it cleans party to the American style of the people of the ones that they don't like to take care from the earth deles/delas to be invaded you can respect other point of view? what is this that yours do you respect George? ooh, asks trick... what? Father, except me the one "this era the earth deles/delas with the fruit of the work" deles/delas, earth earth you are knows? Texas, California, Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, Wyoming and Nevada they were part of Mexico Only they are hard-working migratory father only treatment of doing the best thing for my family correct, fair like us a great and happy family - Good-bye the grandfather - Good-bye As the invisible thing would do visible? you remove this of the highway and I believe that for that they left so today, for those... what time is it? 7:09 in the point at the 07:09 hours I will cross for the nublina until the other side, where owes to have an answer I will exercise the right of to take my own actions totally conciente of the risks that this insinuates we go the flashlight... What is this? - I love him Lilac - Me also the master No, I want to say that Me the, master, master - He/she returns... this well? - Well those they are my pants favorite mmm, the camera, He/she has a ribbon of 30 minutes totally loaded, like this... I will return, this well? this well Hear he/she listens... that is one restricted area we cannot allow that it happens, please, apage the camera I am entitled to go... do I need to go, this well? I am civic of those United States This in property of the one state of California we have orders of arresting during second time, turn that camera out If Mister, certainly Mister Stop! You are going for her The wall has 4 meters of loud and it is recycled of the War of the Golf Relax him/it, only relax him/it Listen... Don't hurt Relax him/it, relax him/it, relax him/it allow to leave, it doesn't donate the Lilac Forget about the factor DWARF, so soon, as it arrives that we will have that to kill during 3 or 4 seconds and to take this the other dimension She finds them, and then we returned them Which the risks are? That he/she never returns, retard mental, paralysis he/she would leave but, don't I tell truth of Spanish? We still needed the permission deles/delas... if, we already have that Some people are serious problems he/she wants to say, the car of patrol of the border for instance they don't have work... they are waiting for that the immigrants come so that them he/she can work de return where you came, for the other side of the wall... nos sees the friend / i on purpose, the half of the he/she of patrol car it left they were Latin He/she drags of those losing You could say the Lilac that Alex this here? I am the cinematographic operator... the one of her he/she knows me, we worked together allow this to be spoken to me - I pay, I see him/it at night - Good-bye Jackie I am so much happy that you returned it is this way Muky that this here? He/she is only nurse's aunt What him what this puts there? Dr. Takishi calls him/her something that he/she helps him/it the if it relaxes so that he/she he/she can sleep better No, he/she won't make this... it is the same thing that... they gave me ei ei ei he/she waits... what is this? they want... killing tonight Jeff, Jeff, wakes up, he/she looks at this good? they want killing... they brought me of return... why reason? I don't know this, if they are in another dimension, maybe it can show them the highway but are those people now God? No, not It is my responsibility, do you know? he/she wants to say... I will go I want to go why is his/her responsibility? No, no, it is very dangerous I won't allow them killing No, it is better than dying, to try of to find the people that I love They are not their people... to the what do you go through? you are not Mexican put to the air changing the camera two what this saying? he/she wants to say, he/she is very sweet aunt Jeff didn't allow to speak to me this to you, but it is true here... You were born in Armenia He/she looks, this he/she is his/her mother I affect, forgive me... My sister, and this I am me to the 13 And he/she drinks this you are you... We are from Armenia, in 1969 His/her mother was very sick we didn't know here anybody, Terecita was his/her best friend like this she left him our care, and he/she did us never to swear that we would speak to him/her, so that you grew as American The picture in his/her room... is she? if She loves him so much That is the reason for the one that I am here because I was educated as Mexican Tried as Mexican My heart was born inside a tree of daisies there I learned how to share my jugetes, to complete my promises To select my own nest to say, thank you and please the actions speak more strong that the words His/her mother... he/she left... for the husband deles/delas... in the country deles/delas so that her it was able to to offer a better life that is respect of value I respect him/it, but it is question of the blood you belong to people that you he/she teaches the world and... My heart, my heart, it is Mexican... That is not leaving this, please, Oh love... Lilac Where carajos this? Communicate with the hospital you go there and it finds this, Did he/she leave where? What did happen he/she? Did he/she leave where? How that left? It was here and he/she left Was lilac where? Lilac - what did happen he/she? - I don't know this Where this? He/she revises the room Juegen of Non with me, the one of her not it is Mexican, it is Armenian they disappeared, Gigi is not She is not Mexican She disappeared, while leaving to the step deles/delas the fear and the despair Going back to the hospital to speak with the aunt popular Gigi Aunt Gigi, you that this it is difficult for you but he/she speaks to me, why to reveal the truth to 3 in the morning? because they will kill her he/she had promised my sister that he/she would not say anything but this it was a life situation or death and he/she had to stop this now hear the last ones words of Lilac you belong to people that you he/she teaches the world and... My heart, my heart, it is Mexican... This makes to think us, that from where we are it is not as important as where we were high, that he/she loved us, that it fed us mention and heart for mainly our prayers and thoughts are with Lilac and our Hispanic siblings Lucy, Lucy, Baby What does happen he/she? I cannot find Lucy, somebody took this to him Please aydemne he/she only leaves this for one second Lucy God please did you revise upward? if no this there - We will find this - He/she only part one second, Lucy, for this no this We are going affection, salt, did you already revise with his/her sister? No, devils... He/she only part one second for this I cannot believe that no this here At this time... Mary J, I believe that her this with Robert and Bobby She cannot be with Robert and Bobby she is Mexican half as Bobby Dean of Non.. she is his/her daughter Karen, this lucy with you? I speak then to you What? She is his/her Dean If it only went one night Mom Dean, the Father looks he returned When we returned... Senator Abercrambie he/she will announce a new martial law But first we see the report of the time, Cris They always wanted somebody that them of the report, well it allows this to be given It is a great mierda tormeta there are 30 million lost people and you could be the neighbor And do they worry on the time?... personally... I don't give a ca... This is a form of acquiring a commitment These people buy 25% of the whole Toyotas and Ford in the state and they eat 48% of all of the hamburgers There are no treatments to close, no there are the people that buy the houses I know this Mr. Katana, conciente of the situation is Our company no you he/she committed to the agreement Let to leave us that the things get ready, To stop, Mr. Mclaire, It can always be more people No this type of people Mr. Mclaire - We will enter in contact - If, brilliant Please, return - We felt this - We were deceived - Our works... - I return... Thank you They believe inside... ... the American dream Me not They are very here but them still they, truth don't come? "Hope" is the last victim of this disappearance the still of the atmosphere it is... terrifying Rudy: Remove of my will for George Mc... and it transfers the earth... for Jos Mendoza and for my grandson,... To send 10/40 are activity, 10/90 space - Ei, Mr. Louis... - Where devils have been it? - I went to put gasoline to the tank... - Oh my God he/she seeks... we will work Gigi? and this? Teresita... Oh, my God Didn't you see my magazines? - I threw them - That what? I sit down arrives me late, somebody steals my car Jos... They explain later to us, I limit Vicky - Lilac! - That what? What? What? Oh, my God, good it was already time Prove! I found them they will give us one a second opportunity - Breakfast this intelligent one - Proof Be never happened to leave me that new one... Mom's glances Father! These well?, miss you, God, I love him - What does happen he/she? - Robert, you returned Oh, I thought... yours you know, Lucy I made him/her lemonade do you want? What this course baby? love needs to speak Light! Now! vamos,vamos, we go, movement They are Mexican! They are Mexican! Any Mexican one was destroyed in the filming of this film In memory of Eduardo Pigeon Parallel universes, they left during some seconds but for us they were days It was as in this film, Contact I love that film, plus than the Secret Files X when Mulder kisses Scolly and she cannot remember this - It is a great episode - Amen Was this a warning? The nature reminds us that our destiny is united that our life form it depends on everything us being here to do our work He/she listens, the General Office he/she called for a meeting of emergency in the capital, him we needed immediately forget, it cancels that orders, take the time deles/delas Who smokes a cigarette? Why we tell everything those lies? Where this the weapons of bulky destruction?
