 

                        How much? for bottle taken away What's your name? Why'd I tell you? I've already known it You're named... So Lai-chun Who told you that? You'll see me tonight in your dream I didn't see you in my dream last night Of course, you haven't slept at all It's useless! You'll see me, for sure You look something special today What? Nothing special Nothing Why do you have red ears? What do you want? I just want to make friends with you Why should l? Look at my watch! Why should l? Just one minute, OK? Time's up, speak now Today is... April 16, 1960, one minute before 3 pm You are with me Because of you, I'll remember that one minute From now on, we're friends of one minute This is fact, you can't deny it Cause it's past I'll come tomorrow Haven't he remember that minute for me? I don't know But I've memorized this guy Later on, he did come everyday We became friends, started from that minute ...to 2 minutes Later, we dated at least an hour a day How long have we known each other? Very long... I've forgot My cousin is going to get marry soon Really? Send my congratulation to her She said that she'd live with her husband's family What's that mean? I've to find some place else to live I'd like to live with you So, how should I tell my dad? Tell what? Our affair! What affair? Would you marry me? No! I'll never come back Didi, be quick, come over here Your mother has drunk, she has drunk too much I'm in a hurry Give her a cup of tea Are you hungry? Do you want something to eat? Who's that guy? Only one pair of earring, take it back if you want to I don't think that it all you have stolen I've told you many times that I never stolen! She gave it to me willingly You mean she was willing to pay for your living? Do you think it's so easy to do so? Don't beat me... Then? Stop beating me! What? What? Say it out... Louder! I stole it! Louder! It's me, I stole it... I don't want you to see my mother again you can change now Have you seen any earring? No, but I can look it up for you Hey, what are you doing here? You like this earring? For you Hey! Why only one? I'll wait for you downstairs Who's place is it? My home I've never promised to go home with you But you've never refused Are you living alone? Is the rent high? $40 Wow, my family live in a room which costs $28 only Do you bring girls home often? Sometimes Let's make a deal, I'll stay a while only It's stuffy Are there many families living here? Why it's empty? You're nosy, aren't you? Where's the toilet? Let's go & eat something Why don't you say earlier? It's raining heavily I'd better leave now, take me home Why did you come with me then? I've just promised to stay a while, who do you think I am? Don't think that I can easily go to bed with men Don't think that you can do anything be sending me a pair of poor earring I'm different from those flapperish girls! Don't come over Guess how long you can stop breathing Thief! Who's that? It's me! My friend I've told you many times that you'd not climb up I don't want the Indian guard to bother me I don't know that you've a friend here, I leave now Take the stairs Where I come, where I go Your friend is strange, what's he? Don't be nosy! Is he a thief? What time is it? I've to go home now Shall we meet tomorrow? May be Well, call me Do you have my phone number? I'll write it down Call after 11 , or I won't be there Leung Fung-ying? Aren't you called Lulu? My colleagues don't know my Christian name Keep your promise to call, OK? OK I know you won't call me I will You don't even memorize my number! It's written down, why should I keep this in mind then? How about if it lost? if it is lost, I may be lost too Go & lost it, if you dare! If you lose it, I will cut your face! Stop saying that to me You're great! Where there's an illness, there's a cure! Are you going home? I'll call you a cab I don't want to go home now Well, stay here then Go to hell! Good morning Why you still sitting here? Why don't you go home? You haven't gone home too I'm not going to talk to you Hey! Have I ever met you before? I don't think so But, have you ever noticed me? You know it pretty well What's your job? My job? Turn the volume of the radio louder please Any idea? Got it? Not yet Dance once more for me OK? Do you want to take advantage from me? Hey... What's your name? Call me Mimi I've heard that there was a kind of bird with no legs It could fly and fly only... When it got tired, it slept in the wind This kind of bird could land only once That was the time it died Auntie Come here, I want to talk to you Excuse me Hey, who is she? What do you mean? What? Why did you beat him? He tried to cheat your money! Who said so? No one If not why should he be with you? How old is he? And how old are you? You are not young! Right, he does it for money, but he can make me happy Have you ever made me happy after so many years? Have you? Right, I never made you happy before Then, let's be unhappy together What do you want? You know it pretty well I've told you many times I won't tell you anymore You want to find your own mother, right? Go and find her yourself if you can I've taken care of you for so many years, Anything I want to say, I have said it long ago I didn't say it before because I don't want you to leave And I won't say it now still Cause I don't think it's worth to I tell you, ...what can I get if you go to find her? Nothing! And you will forget me as well Why are you starring at me? OK, I want you to hate me At least, you won't forget me Come on, treat me better Maybe, I will tell you some day If not, never dream so Alright, I will wait for that moment Is his mother rich? I think so, she used to be a prostitute before You know York for long? He lived in the flat up above our garage Do you know what is in his mind? I don't know But I know what is in your mind What? Don't fall in love with me It's so late, what're you doing here? Waiting for my friend What's the matter? A girl downstairs said that she was your friend, you'd better go & have a look Excuse me Why do you come for me? I'd like to take back my stuffs Come up then I'd like to stay with you What for? I'm not suitable for you I don't like marriage like the others do I don't mind I just want to stay with you Why are you so attentive to me? You can't please me for my whole life! You won't be happy to stay with me Have you ever loved me? I don't know how many women else I'd fall for in my life I won't know whom I love most till the end of my life Wait here I'll collect the things for you Somebody's home? Who is outside? Don't be nosy! Take off you slippers Why? It belongs to someone else It's hers? Who say so? Any proof here? Are you going to take it off? No! A woman comes up suddenly, ...and she claims that this is hers, that is hers, How can I know how many women would come up later? If one comes & says that you are hers, should I give up? I give nothing Once I step in here, everything is mine Why you come up? I've told you to stay downstairs I'm leaving Well, sleep with the slippers tonight Are you care about the slippers? OK, I'll return it to her Are you satisfied? Somehow, nothing in this house belongs to me! What am l? I'd better leave! Don't come back once you step out Do you treat all women like this? I won't be as stupid as her! What are you doing? Why do you treat me like this? Stop it, I'm hurt... How come it's you again? Why don't you go home? Many trouble will be solved after a good sleep Can you lend me few dollars for me to take a cab? I've only $5, is that enough? How can I pay you back? Forget it I'm always on duty around here A chance may be, take it It's you I'm taking the money back to you No hurry, it doesn't matter Sorry about that Thanks! Are you alright? I'm leaving now, I have to go to work So late at night? What kind of job? I am working in the SCAA There's games holding tonight, I've to work in the box office Then I can have free ticket for football match I like football match before, but now, I'm busy If you want to see any game in future, just come to me Then thanks a lot Bye Can we chat? I can't help you about your boyfriend I just want to chat You got no friends? I don't want others to know it Then how about me? If I don't... If I don't say it out, I'm afraid that I'd be mad I thought that I would be OK I always tell myself Don't tell others that you are unhappy Work hard Go home and sleep earlier I want to go home! But my home is in Macao I don't know how to kill these nights I can't sleep I don't mean to come back I promise myself that I wouldn't go back anymore I'll hate myself if I go back again I don't want to hate myself Help me please You can't be like this still I will be OK by getting through this night You are cheating yourself by saying this only How did you pass last night? If you had passed last night, you wouldn't have been here You should make up your mind If you really can't live without him, ...why don't you tell him? If not, pretend not knowing this guy from this very minute Don't mention "this very minute" I always think that a minute can pass very fast But sometimes it takes long One day, one pointed at his watch and told me, ...he would remember me forever for that very minute It was very pleasant to me But now when I look at the watch, ...l will tell myself, ...l have to forget that guy from that very minute When I was young in Macao, I dreamed to ride on a tram Whenever my cousin returned from Hong Kong I would ask her when would she take me to HK Your cousin is from Hong Kong? No, but she studied in HK when young She is great, she got a job in an office just after graduation And her boyfriend is smart as well She is going to get married soon Not everyone will be in good luck Don't compare with others I didn't think that I was poor before Till I found out that I didn't have a new uniform every year But my classmates all had new ones At that moment, I realised that I was poor What make you to be a police then? I wanted to be a sailor But my mother's health was not so good And there was no others at home So I had to stay over to take care of her Don't you think it's bored walking around all the night? I don't think so I'm tired, I want to go home now If there are anyone who can talk to, ...come to me But I don't want to interfere your working hours You can phone me then I am here around this time everyday Hey, do you have enough money for the fare? Yes, bye I never dream that she will call me But I always stop in front of the telephone kiosk Maybe she has returned to Macao Or maybe she just wants someone to kill a night with her No soon, my mother past away Then I changed to be a sailor Son, come to eat your meal It's ready now Ranjet, come and eat Don't you want me to beat you? "My heart is broken..." Am I pretty? Have you cleaned the floor? Of course, but it gets dry very soon I can swear if you don't believe Swear if more curse if you want to Why? So what if I haven't cleaned it? Why should I curse myself? I'll clean it when I come back, OK? Alright, I'll clean it before I go out Can't you cheer up a bit? You seems to be very upset I'll treat you to the cinema, OK? I still have a few bugs with me Are you very poor? Maybe I can support you My sister has transferred to work in Oriental Nightclub She said it was easy to earn a living being a club girl But you have to pick me up every night after work Then I will be your "boy" then To be happy is the most important thing I won't tell others You still want to go to the movie? Let's go then But I want to set my hair first You don't have to change? Hey, you still haven't changed your shoes I had breakfast with Old Man this morning He realised that I'm in bad mood He asked me to go to USA with him I know it pretty well that, ...in my age It's difficult to find someone really like me Since he treats me so well So is it! Though he's quite old, but he is kind hearted What do you think? I won't come back anymore If you want to, you can go with me I won't force you if you don't like to Of course you can't force me You want to leave yourself Don't dream! You force me to be with you so many years And now you just said that you would go I won't let you go! I've taken care of you for so many years I won't dessert you I have arranged everything for you I will leave you the house I'll send you money every month I want nothing I just want you to stay behind You always want to keep me with you So now I won't let you go If you dare to leave You want to scare me? Alright, I don't mean to leave I'll be old after few years Do you mean that you would take care of me? For what can you take care of me? I don't care If not, we will die together then This is your dream You did quite a good job! You have been a foe to me for these years Can't you be a bit better to me? You shouldn't let me know that I am adopted Everything will then be perfect You let me know a bit and hide a bit, ...I only want to know who are my parents Why don't you tell me? Don't you know that you are giving me an excuse to hate you? You can go and find it out yourself The Philippines is not so big after all, go & search then You dare not to go! You're afraid to find out that your mother is not rich And she's not from a famous family, maybe worse than me That's not your business I'll not give up if you don't tell me We can play this game onwards You will have to tell me the truth some fine days I won't be happy to hear from others I want you to tell me by yourself Unless you have died Then we will be happy I should not let you know before I tell you, ...for you are not my own blood I know you will leave me I always think that I will be alright I never know that I am unwilling to let you go I keep not telling you, ...l am a bit selfish I do it because I want to protect you They planned to dessert you If they really want you, they will come to find you long ago You won't understand I know that you'll not listen to whatever I said now You spoiled yourself for these years & put all the responsibility on me, you want a revenge Alright ...I'll tell you who your mother is now I can't stand it any longer You always use such an excuse before You can't use it any longer You want to go, right? Alright, go now Go as far as you can Don't let me know that you are cheating yourself Have you made up your mind? I've said so many times It's time to go for once That's good Have you planned how long would you stay? I don't know what would happen there And I don't know when I would be back Take care of yourself Doesn't she know that you are leaving? I have to leave no matter she knows it or not Tell her that I've left if she comes to bother you Take it I know you like it for long Treat it well! Has he ever come here? Did you listen to me? Don't you think that you can ignore me? I know you two meet frequently Why do you have to be so cheap? He has said he didn't like you already Why can't you just leave him? Have you finished? Now he left you and you'd better go home to cry Why do you tell me this? I don't want to know that he treated me not so bad, ...and treated you not so good as well Don't touch me He treats all women the same We are almost closed, you have limited time here I shouldn't be here actually I shouldn't give you such a chance to feel cheerful But I feel he likes me a bit more No matter how, he left you because of me It's better for you to know it earlier You are the one to cry now I have recovered long ago What's the matter? Did your son ever come back? No Then do you know where can I look for him? No, he never tells me anything about him If you ever see him Tell him that Mimi is looking for him He gets my phone number I don't know whether I will see him or not I am leaving tomorrow Will he be leaving with you? May I have a look of your house? He used to ask me to wait downstairs before I really want to know... ...what does this house look like It's just the same Am I silly? No, I am the same when I was still young Do you want me to call a cab for you? No, thanks It's you, I think it's York! He has left for the Philippines Why you have to follow me? Go away, I don't want to see you anymore Why do you ask me to go? Why don't you just let me to follow you? I don't want anything to happen to you I don't want you to be so good to me! I've told you not to love me before What do you mean? Taken up? His car is now yours, and you want me too? It doesn't mean that I've to love you when he's not aside I don't like you What are you doing? Don't stand on my way! What do you want? I really want to go to the Philippines I really want to go! Put the money safe Why so much money? Just as what you've said, it has to be matched He looks smart on that car I wonder what will I look like on that car So, it's better for me to sell it Go to the Philippines if you really want to Say sorry to York for me when you see him Tell him that I have sold his car If you really can't find York, ...come back to me then On 12th April, 1 961 At last, I come to my mother's house But she didn't want to see me The maids told me that she was not there By the time when I left this house, ...l knew that there was someone behind starring at me Though I wouldn't come back anymore I just want to see her for once To look at her face Since she doesn't give me a chance, I won't give her such a chance Any spare room? Yes, the rent will be $30, $5 for one extra bed How many days do you want to stay? Two days, I have to wait for the ship Thanks Who's that? Sir, are you alone? What? Not yet What do you want? Why? You don't like me? Easy! Don't tell me that you will help me Wake up, you don't mean to sleep here? Hey! Are you serious? There is a lot of bad guys walk passed here Hey, wake up! You haven't gone out? I just come back You have friend here? He is just my friend Am I bothering you? No She's quite good Have you ever been here before? China Town is quite a small place Many people come and stay in this inn Almost everyone will stay here Are you coming from Hong Kong? Yeah! What's your profession? Sailor How long? I'm green hand in this field I used to be a cop before Not bad Why do you change to be a sailor then? I just want to wander around How long have you been in Philippines? A few months already What for? Working? I don't like working I am here to look for my family Then have you found it out? It should be counted as OK What's the time now? I have no watch Half past three Why don't we go and have a drink? It's already too late If it is late for you, why not just stay here? I have wine here, you can have it I am homeless I have to go to the station when sunrise And it's only a few hours later To drink is better to sleep for these few hours Are you leaving for some other place? It's bored to stay in one place for a long time As what you have said, to wander around Hey, do you want some? Thanks Then when will you go back? Till they have all the goods unloaded I think it probably takes 2 days time How about you? Will you go back? Maybe, even though... I think it takes quite a long period of time Maybe we'll meet each other on the street of HK We won't know each other at that time I hope not Have I ever met you before? My memory is not so good Me too Get out of here! Go! Go! Get out of here! Hey! Which train are you going to take? I don't mean to take the train So what are you coming here for? To wait someone here I've to go in for some dealing I owe you this meal, I'll be the banker next time This is a very good passport This is my job, do you like it? Now, where is my money? Money? I don't have any money! What a fast dealing! Stop him! Go! Have you ever been to USA? Why don't you talk? Are you afraid of missing your ship? Not everybody is like you! You need not care about life! I have to work, to earn my living, don't you know? Should you want a passport, buy with money! You should not make so much trouble at all! Don't you know that we are almost killed! Don't you think you would be killed? Men will easily get killed, may be train accident! How can you predict it? I don't care what you think, but don't drag me down! I have told you to leave first, now it's you tailing me! I do wish that you were killed! Did you ever heard of a bird which... Yes! The bird with no legs! You can only cheat those innocent girls Are you like a bird? How? You're like the drunkard picked up from the garbage of China Town! Don't you think you are like a bird? If you could fly, you would not have to be here Go and fly, if you have such ability! There is a chance! But don't look down upon yourself if this day come Tell me When can we arrive the next stop? I don't know what you are talking about! How long? How long to next stop? Tell me! Thanks That day when I came out from the hospital, I felt very free I need not to worry about my living any longer I will get US$50 monthly till the boy is 1 8 I do want to know is the end shot of my life So, I must not close my eyes when I die How about you? What do you want to see most when your life end Life is so long, many things that I have not yet seen I don't know, I don't know what I want to see most Think it over Since your job is so boring! Life actually is not long, it's time to think it over There was a bird... Which lied and flied until it died It never goes to anywhere Because it died from the start I've said that I never know which woman is my true love I wonder what she is doing now Dawn breaks It looks fine today How about sunset? When I last saw him, I asked him a question Did you remember that Did you remember what you were doing on that day? Why do you ask in this way? Nothing A friend of mine always wants to challenge my memory He asked me what had I done on that day I've forget, how about you? Did she tell you? I think that you've already forgot! I can remember what should be remembered Are you two dated frequently? In a certain period After my new job, we seldom meet then How about you? I? No What else did she tell you? No more Actually, we know each other for a short period of time only Do you like her? It's different, we are friends only When you see her again, tell her... ...l've forgot everything This is good to both of us Maybe I will never meet her again Even if I can see her, Maybe she can't recognise me You come here alone, Aren't you afraid? I heard that people from HK live here So I want to talk to you
