 

                        1 If a 1000 rupees falls from my pocket I never pick it up You know why? The time it takes to pick up that note I make deals in the millions... And here it takes my trucks two days to reach the city Do you have any idea How much of losses that is for me? And this is the cheapest location to dump our toxic waste This lake is our biggest problem It's beacuse of this lake that our trucks have to go around Then why are you wasting my time? We can't buy that land in order to build that bridge Sir we tried to make them understand alot Tree! Actually there is a 200 year old tree on that land People believe its from the saints Who is the owner of this land? A mother and her son lives there Her son teaches martial arts in the local school Show a little respect So you guys are afraid of a martial arts teacher You came to negotiate my land! What are you looking at? Take out the car! Why are you people staring at me? When it's time to give the rent every month then I don't see anyone Mother, you started again You keep quiet First you give me nine months of rent! - I am your son! He was the first sardar to go to Shaolin and learn Kung-Fu Lovingly they used to call him the flying jatt And you are scared of a little height Tell your wife to take a vow again I'm very happy to meet you Only if I can say the same about you I heard that you are very religious You won't understand the importance of this tree Even if this tree was not on this land I wouldn't have sold it to you The pollution from your factories have destroyed this city Do whatever you want, I will never sell you this land I just took a vow that you sell me this land Its' either my vow gets fullfilled Or it will prove that there's nothing in cutting down an ordinary tree Disappointingly you don't know who you are! Your father, Sardar Kartar Singh In the whole of Punjab no one could challenge him in a fight But he couldn't fight against cancer And you want me to sell this land to Malhotra He's giving us good money for this land Let's sell it and go away And Im tired of being Kartar SIngh's shadow Children! At least listen at times Someone stop that Move backwards kids! Aman are you ok? Imagine the teacher is in this condition Then what will be the condition of our kids? Kirti how are you? What does Malhotra think of himself? Malhotra has called for you You lost again I spoke to her sir It won't happen again My poor daughter doesn't have a mother That's why I play with her like a kid Everything must go from this world Money, land But nothing must happen to mother What if something happens to your mother? Why are you getting so scared? Sir, you called for me? Where's Rakka? Go! Hey Foreigner! You want to take a hit on me? Now see how I kill you No one knows That once I trusted you I took a vow for my father But you did not save him I know Malhotra will definitely do something But I won't be able to do anything Hey! Whose's there? What are you doing? Do you want a break? Make it faster I didn't know that you play the violin? I also didn't know We couldn't find out anything about Raakha And that tree is still standing there Tell us what to do sir People will look at you and say that you're gone mad From the morning I'm hearing strange noises I have the cure for it You want to take on Malhotra Kill him! Leave me! Kill him! Where did they go to? If you shot them, then where are they? I told you not to interfere with Malhotra He was running at 200km -What? You don't believe me? Look at your shoes I'm going to sleep Did you drink? You know, those ruffians fired shots at us! And him, instead of becoming Sunny Deol He became Sunny Leone He was dancing in front of them They fired multiple times at him And nothing happened to him I told you so What are you doing? What happened to you guys? My son, you have become a superhero What madness is this mother? Mother I din't tell you something. Last night... When I woke up there was not a scratch on me And nothing happened to the tree That's why I thought it was a dream This is all God's doings He gave you all this strength to defeat injustice What did you wear? You don't even know how to fly Look at this This is what you call a superhero costume Come son! Wow! Wonderful The time has come for you to wear it Please Mother, the costume looks better without this If not your father's turban Then keep his name Hey why did you sit? Then what must I do? Go save the world Why are you going through the door You can fly! Oh God! He has become a superhero But his fear of heights hasn't gone Go chase some cars Hello son! Did you save anyone? I didn't see anyone yet Where are you? Mother it seems that they are kidnapping a child Who is his father? Who is his father? What are you wearing? No need to run What are you doing? This ruffian came to rob me I don't want to be a superhero What kind of noises are these? God please save my father As you can see the situation is very tense Who is this? Who lands like this? Oh son! Go quickly! Go quickly! Who is that? Are you ok? Sir! Sir! What is your name? I think he's an alien! Whatever he is, he's mine The criminal's enemy and friend of the poor The chandelier is clean When will the city be clean This is public property and there's a school here How can you dump waste here? Who are you? Is this property on your name? Who did this? The land may not be on our name But this filth is yours That is why I'm sending it to the right address I wish I could meet him! Hey keep quiet I heard that you don't get hurt Just give me this coconut I will hit him on his head and he will feel nothing That was nothing. I will show you more Hey give me your bat Now see how the bat breaks but he won't break This is enough for today I wanted to be Flying Jatt for a little while I swear on God, I never knew it was you A man can withstand a level of pollution His veins are filled with toxins I don't understand how he is living What happened that night? He is worrying me The answer to his strength is you Raaka Bring me 2kg of calabash Superhero's dont eat food? I told you that superhero also eats calabash You too must eat it You will take money from Flying Jatt? Do you know me? Do you remember? Behind you If I want to, I can finish you off right now But I am not like you You have strength I have their trust Your calabash The people are right I produce alot of filth in this city Look at yourself Why are you taking out your anger on that mirror That superhero closed down all my businesses You? Here? Actually I didn't thank you properly for the calabash And plus I have to pay you I told you before that I can't take money from you Please God, don't let him be angry I want him to stay It was the most beautiful night in my life Is there any problem? No! I won't wear your costume Rohit please I promised Kirti that Flying Jatt will meet the kids Then why don't you go as the Flying Jatt Because she wants to introduce her best friend Aman to the Flying Jatt Now tell me! Are you going to wear it or not? With you? That's great He's a superhero He can meet anyone Are you gone insane? How can you compare yourself to other girls? He is my friend Aman Why is it necessary to go in an auto? We can fly Hold on tightly so that no one will fall What happened? Who are you people? Hey Fatso, try fighting with our superhero Superhero got scared A real superhero is someone who fights for justice without powers If an ordinary man like Aman is certain that he can save an innocent man Then automatically he will get powers You don't believe me? So children! Who is the real superhero? -Me or Aman Sir? There is no confirmation of the arrival of the superhero Aman should definitely go for this function You planning to spend Valentine's Day with Kirti? Son, God didn't give you powers to seduce girls Were you expecting someone else? I wanted to talk to you Actually I wanted to tell the both of you something too Mr Flying Jatt your fans want to see you flying and so do I You fulfill everyone's wishes Fulfill mine too He is a cheater He fell in love with Shakti Kapoor's daughter I told you to wear the costume not to accept a wedding Rohit understand one thing I love Kirti only and forever will What happened? You look very happy today? And we kissed for the first time He came to me and grabbed me And then he started to kiss me everywhere Actually he wanted to do more Kirti why are you lying? He's not the superhero Kirti! I am! I know I heard you both talking at the tree last night What never happen last night should happen now Promise me that you won't make me wear your costume Today you can't refuse to use this turban That is why I cut my hair I was ashamed They saved their daughters and sisters and returned them safely And this story made history When midnight arrives The army of the looters would be scared that the Sardars don't attack Why are you throwing so much of dirt Raaka? You should keep the city clean You know I have waited a long time for this moment They will continue littering and Raaka's powers will grow People call this train the cancer train The pollution has spread so much in the country That the cancer is spreading like the flu He never used to get hurt The biggest wounds used to get healed in two minutes We are all responsible for him Aman gets his power only from a tree But Raaka gets his from everything near him She had a difficult time breathing Her condition got so bad that we had to put her on her ventilator This happened because of the pollution that you have caused Raaka hs changed the image of this city in two days The whole city is burning Superhero is the only hope for this city If Aman goes in front of him in this condition... Then he won't last for a minute But people are dying aunty Uptil now I have given you money to do my work Raaka Today I'm paying you to do nothing This involves my daughter Where is your superhero? Aunty! Aman! -Aman is upstairs If he is here then who is with Raaka? I told you that there is no place on earth that you can kill me Rohit was the Flying Jatt Everyone thinks that he was the real superhero A real hero is one that fights for justice without powers We are all responsible for the death of a superhero If we need to chase Raaka away, first we got to get rid of pollution Think about it once more aunty This place was uncle's dream I lost one son. I don't want to lose another. Let's go from here I can hear everyone's scream I can feel their pain But Aman you can't face Raaka's strength But what can I do? I am a sardar This is the only way to deafeat Raaka A superhero is not scared of anyone A sikh is like a million Raaka You were right Raaka There is no place on earth that I can defeat you But here I can
