 

                        1 Stop You, go check over there - See anything? - No They're back here Follow them Over there Cousin, you better leave without me No. We'll go together This is HK already. Hurry, go Go I've made the call but I can't find your aunt You're a stranger in HK, stay with me Scared? Let me take it out for you Don't be scared You are incurable Do you have a sound reason for being transferred eleven times within only one year after you left the cadet? You are like a human football Did you hear what I said? What? If it's not because we're relatives I'll never let you work in my district Mom I know He's here Phone call for you Uncle, there's a phone call for you Sister, what is it? Watch out for my hat Don't interrupt when your elders are talking I'm talking to your mother I won't be coming I'm being bored to death by your son here Nothing you can do can amend it I'll tell him. All right, bye What did mom say? Don't soak your athlete's foot in the tub Your son caught the bacteria on his scalp It's a good thing it didn't go into his eyes Or else he'll have athlete's eyes Shut your mouth I have all the experienced CIDs here Choose one as your partner No I can't stand experience cops They'll be on my back constantly Just get me a lazy one But one not as handsome as I am That will be hard to find This one is the worst. How about it? Good morning Judy, you can go now No, I want to see you go in Fine - Morning - Morning Bon, all dressed up for a modelling job? Yes. Playboy asks me to pose for their cover Can't you be serious? I didn't say anything wrong Don't you want me as a model for your company? Resign? What's wrong with being a cop? If something happens to your family You can be sure I'll work hard on the case If you and I are to get marry, you must quit Then, we'll just live together No. I've typed up your resignation letter How smart There's a typing error More You're great Let's go You can't come and go as you please Being a model beats being a policeman? Police are respected Have you heard of models are respected? So I want to be a policeman I've transferred a top man to assist you Tell 23838 to come in When you see him, you may think I'm lying But, don't let your eyes deceive you Whether you're a good cop or not is genetic In him, runs the refined blood of my family So, you must not doubt his performance quality Come here Let me introduce you This is your new partner Long man King Kong What King Kong? Ho Ting Bon Now I know why you haven't been promoted You talked too much But it doesn't matter Really? Birds of a feather, flocked together Now that you're partners, I've a case for you I hate apple polishing So, don't give me any royal treatment Even I'm his relative, don't do me any favours This is Addict Hung He may have a drug deal at 4 pm tomorrow So, he is your uncle Who says? I am his uncle My father is still young for his years I am an accident from his old age Did you hear what I've just said? About Addict Hung? He may have a drug deal at 4 pm tomorrow Correct? Don't you two have work to do? Yes, sir Taste samples, please try The taste is great Try some Please try some You've been at this 3 or 4 times already I just want to taste it better With so much sampling, you should know by now How many boxes do you want? You're not buying? Then move It's boiled We've been here for 3 days Is the info true? True or not, we must be patient Being a CID is hard, I'd rather sit in office Shoplifting I know, but we can't identify ourselves I'm full Thanks Mister Shoplifting Stop right there. Police Addict Hung, don't run What are you doing here, go after him Go Why are you dragging this girl along? She was stealing, I may get promoted from this Just handcuffed her first Let's go - Did you see his car? - No Watch it Let's go Let me go Let's check on her No serious harm done, I'll call an ambulance Do you want to work as a cop still? Of course Well then, call a taxi and get her to a hospital If Headquarter finds out, it'll be the end of us Thank you You're joking? Me-a husband? Who'll believe it? I'm more like her little brother Who is the patient's husband? Him You are both her husbands? I am her ex. He's her present What? Correct Her marriage to me is a mistake Only they belong together. They're a lovely pair Till death do they part - Right? - You... Fill out this information sheet for your wife Come on, fill it out Shit What are you doing? If Headquarter knows about this, we'll be fired Consider my height If I'm not a cop, how else can I bully people? If this small pleasure is snatched away from me What else is there left for me to live for? Don't talk too much I've already admitted I'm her husband I'll bear whatever consequence there is to come That's nice to know If she has damaged her brain from the accident You're in luck To have such a beautiful wife all of a sudden Shut up She looks prettier by the minute Don't sweat it I'll pass her to you for sure Hard to find a girl with a lower IQ than yours To match you Let's look again to see if we can find some ID Haven't we looked earlier? No use talking to you It must be hidden somewhere private What are you doing? Try to take advantage? I just want to have a more thorough search Nothing You think she might be a stowaway? It will be great if she is We can immediately deport her What should I do now? I must continue with this pretense She's regaining her consciousness Miss, how do you feel? Careful now Wai Hung Wai Hung? Who's Wai Hung? She's up Wai Hung, don't you recognise me? I'm your wife, Kwong Sun What did you say? Don't you recognize your own wife? Start Don't be scared, you may be in shock still Not necessarily amnesia Can you hear airplanes around where you live? Can you hear them at your place? I can't hear them That excludes around airport Can you see 3 huge chimneys around your house? Can you see them at yours? No Then, it can't be around industrial estate Are we questioning you or are you asking us? Aren't your place my place as well? How can my place be the same as your place? If my place is your place I would have brought you home already What else can you remember? Wai Hung What does Wai Hung look like? He looks like you In the old movies, when the actress has amnesia A good scare usually helps her remember Are you crazy? Screaming like that so suddenly? - Where are you going? - Wai Hung Miss, I am really not Wai Hung My father was an illiterate He would never give me such a decent name My name is Ho Ting Bon It's not yours ID pictures are just an approximation I'm not your husband and you're not my wife So, don't call me Wai Hung anymore Just rest for awhile What are you doing? Come on, let's leave What? We got her this way. We can't just go She can't remember a thing. What else can we do? Well, we can ask her to stand on the road Let her get run over by a car again If she's lucky, the hit may regain her memories If she's unlucky and died from the crash At least we can get rid of her. Let's go I can't believe you can even think such things No wonder you're so short I'm waiting for someone. Please come back later Now what? Well, to make you feel better Let's have our Royal Majesty decide If it's heads, we'll go. If it's tails, we stay Heads This is fate. Let's go Well, there are letters on the head side too I saw the 2 gentlemen left at the backdoor What? You want to eat without paying? Got any money? Pay up What are you doing to my wife? See? I told you my husband won't leave me here This is counterfeit money? I'm sorry Don't ever tell people I'm your husband again Wai Hung Where are you going, Wai Hung? I want to do some shopping What do you want to buy, Wai Hung? Wai Hung is indeed a pleasant name But my name is not Wai Hung It's really no use telling you this, is it? Let's play a game, all right? What game? It's called, My name is not Wai Hung. That means, even if I am really your husband Let's pretend I'm not tonight Just treat me as a friend When you regain your memories back All is well if I'm really your husband Even if I'm not, you still haven't been taken in Then, I'm leaving. Where are you going? If you're not my husband, I can't be with you All right, we won't play this game We'll play another game You can treat me as your husband I'll just pretend to have a wife tonight I thought having a wife means I can relax Turns out I have to sweat myself in the kitchen The taste is not bad Chow time Come sit down It smells wonderful Not yet. There's more What's that? Champagne Bottoms up Let me teach you another game You're stupid, I'm stupid, he's stupid Drink up One more time Apprentice overtakes the master It's not fair Do the dishes Go do the dishes What about you? You go. You're my wife, doing dishes is your job You keep saying I'm not I won't do them You can't get away with it this time. Get up Whoever the bottle point at will do the dishes Fine with me I can't believe this Go do the dishes All right They're all clean now No way. Wash them properly There're no such rules in this household Let the rats clean them then Get up. Cheat China City Night Club Can I talk to the cleaning lady. Ah Wan? Who? Can you speak louder? The cleaning lady, Ah Wan She doesn't work here anymore Where can I reach her? Who are you? I'm her niece from Kwong Zhou Please give me her address Please wait Thank you, go on - Good morning - Good morning Sorry. My hands are tied This is a fat chicken. It didn't go far Thank you, miss - Bye - Bye Rise and shine Morning, mom Morning still? What brings you here so early? My club fees are due for collection today Why are you sleeping in the living room? I have a friend staying in my bedroom A friend? Boyfriend or girlfriend? A girlfriend A girl? Not that kind. We're just friends Of course I know it's not that kind Or else why won't you be sleeping in there? Strange, where is she? Is your friend up yet? She's gone When are you going to bring your girl over? How about tonight? I'll ask her to come dinner What are her favourite dishes? Mom, don't you spoil her She has a bad enough temper as it is If you pamper her, she'll be worse Your mom has a reputation for being nice I know what to do It's useless to put on a strict face Nowadays, it's important to be easy and friendly Go, clean up and have breakfast Auntie Wan Kwong Sun You're already come to Hong Kong? Before mom died, she did ask me to come see you Mommy, Skinny took Billy's bottle I don't believe this, you bad boy Billy took my ink bottle first You kids are all useless Look at you Ink all over Give me a break Auntie Wan, can I stay at your place? Who's here? My sister's daughter, Kwong Sun She wants to live here with us Uncle There shouldn't be any problem Let her stay here Sure. Where can she sleep? Just shut your big mouth Any rice left? I left it on the stove. Go get it yourself All you do is eat and sleep What a lazy bum I must eat if I'm hungry Mommy, is this how a lazy bum looks like? Better get up from there or I'll spank you good No, mommy, no I'm going to break down Mother once told me that if I can get proofs From the delivery clinic I was born in I can apply to stay in HK as a resident It's been so long The mid-wife may have died Billy was also born in that clinic There's a name card at the bottom of the drawer I didn't think you would still keep it Kwong Sun, it has been too long You're even prettier that your mother Make yourself at home Do stay here Get out of here. Always in the way This is the address of the clinic Kwong Sun, You now know - what HK is like - Mommy, Billy is pooing everywhere Coming I must take care of them and earn a living too I really don't have time to help you out Mommy, Billy has poo all over his face Can't you wait? Stink Here's $200 I worked my fingers off for that It's the best I can do I don't think I can do more even if I wanted to 1 997 will be here soon Why did you come here? But I was born here I don't see what's so great about it What has that got me? If it's not for these damn brats I'll head back up there myself Look at you. It's all over your face and clothes Dirty as a rat Hold still and let me clean it up Stop crying Stop it, I'm not dead yet Shit Really, when I was the young bride-go-be I was so nervous to see my in-laws Now that I'm the in-law, I'm still nervous I'm so useless It must be them How come it's you? I should've guessed you are Bon's girlfriend Please come in. Come in You slept here last night? It's really none of us old folks' business Just ignore I've even asked the question Come over here Sit down Where's Bon? Didn't he come back with you? He... Cops are all alike They lost track of time I don't even know your name Just call me Kwong Sun Well then, Kwong Sun Is it all right it I call you Aunt? In Cheung Chau, everyone calls me Mrs Ho The people from church call me Madonna If you consider me as one of the family Like Bon, you can call me mom Mom Good. Are you hungry? No, I'm not Just sit over there. I'll get you some soup Go ahead. One must eat if one is hungry I was starving just now. Look here I ate them all You can't tell, can you? Let's have some soup first Take it How's the taste? It's really good It doesn't matter if a woman can't raise a kid But it's important that she can make good soup Why is that so? If a man wants to go and fool around He can use the need to have good soup as excuse He can't say he needs to go raise a kid, can he? The way to a man's heart is through his stomach Believe me, it works everytime It doesn't work any other way Anything wrong, mom? I'm choking Will that work? Yes, this may be an old wives' tale But is works everytime It's your turn? Keep it up Hurry It will work How is it? Does it work? Does it work? It works Of course it does. Old remedies always work Let's eat some more What if we finish all the food? We can always cook some more Bon says she's never worked a day in her life She's even better than I am I won't live with your mom when we get married You haven't even met her yet I've asked her many times to come live with me She has never once agreed Mom I have to use the washroom Terrific Eating before everyone else again? This is good mom. Try some Smart boy. You do know how to pick them What? She's such a wonderful girl You must have taken after your father Mom was just talking about you Mom, this is Judy Auntie Who is she? My girlfriend Then, who's the one in the kitchen? What kitchen? Wai Hung Wai Hung? Who's this woman? There's something wrong with her mentally I don't even know her She's crazy I really don't know who she is She's nuts How can I be called Wai Hung? Who is really my daughter-in-law-to-be? Of course it's this one, mom Her? Are you sure? What are you doing? She's not the real thing, is she? What real thing? How you wish? You've kept this woman here behind my back? Who says? Mrs Ho, you do know how to bring up your son Teaching him to be a two-timer Watch it. You might spoil him to death What's wrong with that? - His father was a clock repairman - Right He could time 1 0 clocks at once if he wanted to That's right You can't take it? There's other fish in the sea Mom, don't say that I'm talking to your son You shut up Ask me to shut up? I'm telling you to ship out Mom Judy Judy, I can explain I don't know her She's crazy Wai Hung, Mrs, how's life? You spoil everything What have you got to say now, Wah Hung? I don't ever want to see you again Get out Stand still I've never interfered with your life before But choosing a wife is a big thing One must choose careful? If it's like that Judy, I won't have it Kwong Sun Don't be frightened As long as I'm here, he can't bully you Come on in Mom Granny, when cousin Wai Hung & I left for HK I thought our future was so bright and hopeful I'd never thought it would turn out like this Auntie Wan doesn't want me to stay with her But I've met this friend Both him mom and he treated me really well Wai Hung My name isn't Wai Hung. I'm a trouble seeker I hate to bump into you Can't you leave me alone? If that's too much to ask, leave my mom alone Let me warn you, don't get too friendly with her I'm sorry, I was just talking nonsense just now Can't leave you alone for a minute All is well, get some sleep Let's have breakfast tomorrow before I leave How's the girl back home? No thanks to you If she can't regain her memories ever You'll have to mind her the rest of her life Yes, I've got it all figured out for you It'll cost around $3,000 per month That much? Around that I'll ask you for it on pay day You're kidding? Who's kidding? Look what's happening over there? Make way. We're the police - Police. - Make way What's going on? Sir, one of our customers passed out suddenly Can you come and check on him? Calm down, let me take a look Thanks Please co-operate and move out of the way Fine now, go back to work Sir, will that do? Of course. I've learnt this from St John's Can't you people hear me? I said out It's not working. Sir His breathing is getting weak Will mouth to mouth resuscitation work? I'll give it a try Thanks Bad breath It really stinks I can't stand it Get up What are you doing? Stop kicking him. He's not well Get up What are you trying to do? Kill him? What is it? What are you doing? What? Get up Damn it. You sure know how to put one on Let me go for old times' sake, please Must you do your act in such lavishing style? I don't own all the restaurants here you know I'm broke and there's no informers' fees coming Get out of my sight Go Jerk Sir, how can you let him go without paying? How much did he owe you? I'll pay for him That's more like it Just take this money Still stinks? This is useless. I must get some insecticide That guy's mouth is worse than a sewer Really, you should have told me he's pretending Don't want to spoil your enthusiasm That bum sure is a good actor He could have me fooled if it's not for you Honey Can't you remember what today is? What? Your birthday? More important than birthdays It's our wedding anniversary For you Thank you More coming Thank you You're welcome. There's more... What's this? Open it Is this a net? Negligee Negligee? For you? No, for you I'm not wearing it You prefer being nude? Fine with me What are you doing? Something that'll have a result in 1 0 months I can't You can't? But I can Come, my darling wife My mom's not here We're married. What are you afraid of? Don't be shy. We're husband and wife Come on, darling You don't like it here? We'll go in the bedroom Come on Let go of me Here I come Please don't. I'm not your wife Don't treat me as your loving husband Treat me as an animal Stop it. I'm really not your wife Then why do you keep saying you are before? But I'm really not your wife. I'm not That I know from the start. Who are you really? I am sorry I don't want your apologies. Who are you? Actually, I'm a stowaway It's by chance that I bumped into you I didn't mean to deceive you You didn't mean to deceive me? Calling Bon. Wanted at headquarter. Urgent Be there right away Bon, please don't arrest me I'll leave As a cop, I should have arrested you long ago But it's our fault that you got injured first I'll let you off the hook this time I want you gone before I come home Addict Hung is upstairs having treatment Not putting me on again? No Go Both front and back doors are guarded But we don't know what's happening upstairs Send one of our men to go in as a patient But Hung will recognize all of us Yes He has seen me before Does Hung have 2 big pimples on his nose? I can't remember See? Since you can't remember how he looks like He won't remember you neither We'll give you a brand new image Let's go Can I help you? I've twisted my spinal cord, I think Come in and have a seat Thank you How did you get this? Thanks to this book Those positions can really get you I think I've hurt my back real bad Just fill out this registration form Thanks Calling station Only suspect & one woman here Get our men ready and stand by at the front Are you the one twisted the spinal cord? Yes It's your turn So soon. Isn't he first? He's just waiting for someone. Come in OK Crazy What now? There may be a lump in my underarms No problem. I'll just change needles - Doctor - Yes? Actually, I'm. . . What is it now? Not only is there a lump in my underarms I think I have breast cancer Well then, we'll need a bigger needle No. Help Ouch. The pain Freeze. Police Bad You've been out cold for the past 24 hours How did you get here? Your mom just went home to rest this morning She'll come and see you again later on Thanks for taking care of me I won't bother you anymore Where are you going? Mom, he's better now You must be tired staying up all night Go home and get some rest Bon Mom Mom, I must leave HK for a few days I won't have time to come over Take care of yourself Kwong Sun Don't say anything. I know what happened No matter where you are from I'll always consider you as my daughter-in-law Stay with us Don't cry, my child Bon is a good son Let me talk to him What is it now, mom? A woman knows how a woman feel That poor girl A young girl in a strange place all by herself She told you? She didn't tell me anything. I saw her letter She was born here you know All she needs is to find proofs Mom, I'm a policeman How can I keep a stowaway in my house? Nobody will know if she doesn't go out Of course I can't decide Or else she can stay It all depends on you What do you say? Is that a yes or a no? What do you think? Whatever you say mom. Happy now? I'm just trying to help a poor girl Kwong Sun Is the person in charge here? Anything important? I want to have my birth certificate searched The owner went to Macau Come back next week Dim sum. Tasty dim sum Want something, miss? How about these? They're fresh Pay time I can get paid How many days have you worked? Seven That's $280 With tips, that's. . . The immigration people are here to spot check What should I do? Go Hurry up What about my pay? What? Worry about it later Hurry up, go You'll be in a mess if they caught you You'll get deported What are you doing coming back here? Hurry up, go Hurry up Nice We have more money to spend this month Right on Want to make more money? Hire stowaway workers Shut up and hand me my share Mahjong? I'm not playing What do you mean? We've said earlier that we're celebration Bon's recovery with a game Right I won't win. You always cheat What? Me cheat? Yes You never wear you undies when you play It's a real curse I know I can't. What's the big deal? You four go ahead Don't count me in Forget it Let's go Bye Want to go see a movie? Fine What now? Your wife What? Let's see what's going on first We've just got rid of her. Don't bother with her If she can't heck it, she'll come back Let's go I hate to be on duty when it rains We are soaked All over my pants Damn I'll get you next time Let's find somewhere to dry off How about over there? Anywhere Is there something. I can do for you? She's my sister She has moved to Canada I'm not sure if there are any references left There're appliances and files to be packaged They are not shipped out yet Do you think you can help me out? No problem Why don't you write to her and tell her your situation? Can you give me her address? Of course. Let me get it for you Here it is Thanks a lot It's nothing. Write to her soon I will. Goodbye You two wait here I need to get some money Sure Wait here for him. I'll bring the car over Told you not to lay them out so far Sorry sir. I'll fix it right away I've told you many times Want to get arrested? Sorry Miss What are you doing here? I'm just waiting for some friends Can I see your ID? Let's see some identification Sorry Partner, what is it? Is she your friend? Yes. Sorry, we're running out of time Stay right here Duty is duty Sorry to trouble you ID please I told you we're in a hurry Excuse me. ID please Can't you just spare me the trouble? Sorry no. Please show your ID Haven't got it? What is it? Who's bugging you? Say what? I suspect she doesn't have any ID Sorry, ID please Come over here, partner I'm from Kowloon Headquarter, Triad Dept Listen No matter what you see, don't be nervous Stay calm We have received information There'll be 8 armed men coming to rob this bank Don't get nervous Our men are dispersed all over this area Including those two at the bank They can't identify themselves on the street How many robbers will there be, you know? Around 8. Armed with 2 handguns and 4 rifles There may be hand grenades and machine guns too Don't let this information out I know Can I help you? What can you help me? I wanted to, but since cadet school I've only open fired twice And both times, I missed and hit on-lookers There's no need then. This is a dangerous case Can't make any unnecessary sacrifice, right? - Right - I'll leave Don't look around Stay cool Don't frown. Try to whistle Whistling may help relax you Strange? How come everyone seems to know I have no ID? Of course. Look at you Sure look conspicuous I'll take you to get some decent clothes Go try it on How do you know this place? Judy took me here Watch it.You might bump into her Don't be silly. It's office hours How come she's here? Miss Please wrap this up for me Yes See anything you like? No. Nothing fits me It's not good Shut up I want to look at some sunglasses Girl, take your time Yes Bon, what are you doing here? What a coincidence Long Man and I are looking for toilets We have to go desperately Yes Is this a toilet? So, is you Don't you lose your cool. Let me explain I won't but I don't want your explanation I'm leaving Miss Judy, please let me explain Slut Why do you hit her? So what? What do you want? Please, stop it Get your hands off me or I'll yell rape Enough. Look at you You're acting like a maniac Yes, I'm a maniac At least I'm not like her a cheap whore Who do you think you are? You're just a cop I'm raising your standard by being seen with you Men like you are a dime a dozen But if you want to find another girlfriend like me Do more good deeds Maybe in your next life, find a wealthy father Then, you may have some hope yet Only men like you are worthy of women like her Have you said enough? Sure. I've hit her enough and yelled enough What can you do about it? Arrest me? I'll arrest you As a member of the Royal HK Police Force I am charging you for assault She is the victim I'm the eye-witness Don't be scared. What's so big deal about cops? Right. Take them to court You two know this woman? What if we do? Then, you two are in this together? You two may now also be charged as accomplices Show your IDs Partner, I think we need to call a big van Make the call now I don't know her well We'll just acquaintances I'm just doing my job. Get your IDs out IDs Forget it You're lucky the victim isn't pressing charges Can I go now? Wait Legally, you can go But personally, I think you owe her an apology Me, apologising to her? Say it Sorry Can you people here her? No Well, they can't hear you Sorry Let her go Why don't you answer the phone? My ears need a rest Let me explain to her Just wait till she cools off first No explaining now She thinks we're together Let me shower first and we'll go eat something Bon, listen good. I've turned the gas on You better come here in 1 0 minutes and apologise Or I'll kill myself Please calm down, Miss Judy Let me tell you the whole story He's just being kind to take me in Who are you talking to? It's Miss Judy Come talk to her. She wants to kill herself Don't over react I won't At least my place isn't a refugee hut What do you mean? That dummy told me everything Normally, I should feel proud To have such a boyfriend as kind as you But you really overdid it this time Now is my chance to make you pay I'm giving you ten minutes To get your ass over here Or I'll call the police on you Judy What did she say? Stupid Why did you tell her everything? We're in deep trouble What do you want? What do I want? Don't think I'm blackmailing you to get you back I won't I go out with you because you're not bad looking At least, you won't degrade me Thank you I know I'm too good and refined for you But still, I gave you the chance So that you'll feel grateful towards me And will obey my every command But you... Not only do you disobey me, you even step on me So, I'm not giving you another chance It's finished between us Are you finished? Stop. If you go, I'll call the police I'll tell them you hid a stowaway at your place If you're not a woman, what you've just said Will entitle you to a good beating If you squeal on me, I won't keep your secret I'll tell the world your breasts are injected Jackass Where are you going? Sorry to have troubled you I'm really grateful I don't want to bother you anymore, Goodbye It's true you've given me a handful But I've given you a lot of troubles too I'll feel like a jerk if you go now Well, I've always been a jerk But ever since you came, I find being a jerk With you is better than being a jerk alone What do you say? I am very democratic It's good if you stay If not, it's fine with me I've made up my mind. I should really go Goodbye I'm not democratic at all I won't let you go even if you want to I'm serious You've gone through so much to get here All you need now is just one letter What if you get caught by the police? All your efforts will be in vain Don't worry. I'll take good care of myself Of course you know how to take care of yourself If both of us can take care of ourselves Then let us take care of ourselves together If... What am I saying? Will you stay? Want to go for some fresh air? Where? Come "We danced at one fine night" "Your smile circled around" "I was delighted" "And I got slightly drunk" "I wish we would be in love forever" "I wish I could stay with you every night" "I wish I could sleep with you" "Love is like an eternal flame" "I will remember every moment" "My heart was broken when we departed" "I miss you" "after we are apart" "I wish we would be in love forever" "I wish I could kiss you" "I wish I could sleep with you" "Love is like an eternal flame" "Burning ever and forever" I'm going to work now, Don't leave the house Bye Wait Where do you think you're doing? Let go of me Let you go? I tired so hard to get you out here What have I got in return? Look at my face Come out, you bitch What's going on? Shut up. Stand aside One word out of you and I'll kill you Move Sir, it's me What do you want? Don't be uptight Money is all I want For only $30,000 All will be well Where do you want to collect the money? That was a fast decision Today, 3pm at Kowloon Tong Rail Station Sir Where's my friend? Don't think I'm dumb enough to bring her along As long as you pay me And I can leave in one piece You'll have your girl back in no time I'm not looking for trouble Count it There's no need for that. Thank you One more small request Wonder if you'll oblige? What? I want to treat you to a train ride Fine I'll see to it that you get aboard Bye Bon voyage Hello, Wei Mister Yes? Which floor does that man live on? Second floor I'll wait for you at the front No one's home I saw him come in awhile ago I'll go up and check Mr Ho. There's a registered letter for you Are you the Mr Ho on 1 st floor, block A? Yes Please sign here for your letter Thank you Thanks People like us do keep our word Since I've been paid, of course I'll let you go However, I can't let you have it so easy I'm not born gorgeous looking Thanks to you for this scar I don't think there's much hope for me left You've given me such an unforgettable present I must return the favour before letting you go Not so easy Bitch Go to hell You can't leave so easily Get up Help No, please Help me How pretty This is just the beginning What took you? - How are things? - They're upstairs Are you blind? Everything is all right now What are you doing? Give me back my gun Don't come near me This is no joke. It's dangerous If you come near me, I'll shoot Get out of my way Don't fool around, it's dangerous Give me back my gun, come on I'll shoot Taxi Don't move Are you crazy? What's going on? Sir, help me What's wrong? Help 34587 calling station Don't move Bon Call an ambulance Bon, how are you feeling? I am fine Mom took me to a fortune teller once He said I will live till I'm 80 That's why I was fine from the fall last time I'll make it this time as will But if I don't pull through You must take care of mom and Kwong Sun for me I will Pal, don't ruin it Don't let me see you cry I won't cry I'll go check on the ambulance What are you doing? You are a policeman Crying in public What a disgrace I quit. Can I cry now? Sir, it's a real mess down there I think you can get your ID soon But I don't know if I'll live to see it I may not make it No. You will be alright I'm not sure if he'll be all right But as for you, I'm sure you won't be Yes No Check to see if the ambulance is here Let me go Go Don't Go Just rest Get her into the car Let me Go down and check Don't worry. Nothing will happen to Bon Get in the car first No need for the ambulance. Call the undertaker What? Undertaker? Bon Get a hold of her What's going on? Let go of me Stop it Bon Miss, why are you crying again? Careful. He's one of our men If it's not for that pager in your pocket Your injuries may be fatal It's still working Bon, how do you feel? The fortune teller may be right It might not be time for me to go yet There's something I want to ask you long ago Do you really have a husband named Wai Hung? He's my cousin back home Tell mom to bring my birth certificate along When she comes to see me Why? I'm going to change my name to Wai Hung legally Since both you and mom keep calling me that Might as well let it be If you wish I don't mind Bon, I'm not worth your while What can I say to make you understand? I am not a perfect person And I've never asked for perfect things What happened today may have marked you for life But, let me tell you In my heart you will always be the best Don't you go Don't go Stop fighting Damn shorty. How dare you hit your superior You won't even let me see him for the last time Bon, you didn't die? He didn't but you will Who are you talking to me as? Using pressure on me as a superior again? We'll do it man to man Even if you tell mom, I'll still get you You damn shorty Don't you guys help out I've been wanting to fix you for a long time Then, as your Uncle Have a slap on me Go tell your mommy now Stop the car Stop it
