 

                        [Music] [people click glasses] [calling out Speech, speech, speech, speech] Well I'm not much for making speeches, but, on behalf of her mother and I, I would like to thank you all for coming to Rachel's going off to college party. This is the moment I've been waiting for. Dad. [Laughter] What I meant was, the moment I haven't been waiting for. One of the hardest things for a father is when it comes time to send his little girl off to college. Rachel, we love you so much, and we are very, very proud of you. [Mouth thank you] Just remember our deal though, you promised you wouldn't get married until you're at least forty-five. [Laughs from everyone] You sure you don't want to take any of your photos? You've seen the dorm rooms, I don't have room for all that stuff. I know. This house isn't going to be the same without you. Mom, its only three hours away. I'll be back from time to time. And you two can come visit. It's not like I'm going away forever. How's she supposed to get anything packed with you crying over everything she owns'? You tell her Dad. Yeah don't let him fool you. When you're here he's all together, but when you drive away, he'll be missing you. Did you enjoy dinner'? Yes, thank you both so much. You know you didn't have to do it. Are you kidding'? Going off to college is a big deal. I think your other clothes are probably ready. I'll help you. Be right back Dad. Okay- [Music] Oh hey, are you my roommate? Um, I guess so. I'm Ally. Rachel. I went ahead and threw my stuff on a bed. I didn't know which one you wanted so I just picked one. That's fine. We're just going to the student union. Do you want to come with us'? I think I'm just going to get moved in first. Do you need help with your stuff'? I got it. Thank you. Alright, I'll see you later then. See ya. [Music] Welcome, welcome, welcome. Is everybody alive'? Yeah. I say is everybody alive'? Yeah! There we go. If you are wondering what plane you're on, this is Introduction to Biology where we will be studying life and its origins, and all that good stuff. So if you are on the wrong ight, this would be the time to disembark. I am your humble pilot, Professor Marcus Kaman. Out in the hall, behind my back, you call me anything you like but in here I would appreciate Professor Kaman or, if you must, Mister Professor Kaman. [Students laugh] I'm going to try my best to entertain you during our time together, in return I would appreciate from you a little critical thinking. Science is after all, the field which challenges us to redefine the conventional wisdom of our predecessors. That's what makes us grow as a society and as a species. I want to have some honest, intellectual discussion in here and I want each and every one of you to participate and that includes you. And now for the good news, it's about your grades. Attend this class, and you will pass. In fact, if you show up every time, I'll give you a C, even if I know you're only pretending to listen to me. [students laugh] [Opening door] What are you doing'? Just a little work. Rachel, this is our first weekend at college. We're going out! [Music] You look like you could use a friend. What'? I said you look like you could use a friend. It's hard to hear you. Let's go outside. [Music] That's better. I'm Jason. Rachel. Good to meet you Rachel. You're a freshmen'? Yep. I was a freshmen once. Last year. You liking your classes so far'? They're pretty good. What are you taking? English, Spanish, Government, Algebra and Biology. Biology? Did you get Kaman'? I did. Professor Marcus Kaman. Welcome, welcome, welcome. Is everybody alive'? That's right. Yeah, I had him last year. He's a fun guy. You know he made biology really interesting, and I hate biology. I'll look forward to it then. You have a major yet Rachel? I do. What is it'? Biology. Oh. I brought you some juice. You ever going to get up? What time is it'? Almost 10 a. m.. So how was it with Jason? He was nice. We just talked. Do you know him'? I was here this summer and I met him. He's available. I wouldn't wait around though, he won't be single for very long. Yes, Richard, looking forward to it. I've got it down. Rachel? Yeah, she's fine. Yep, she ended up going off to the university. Well, Kimberly and I struggled a lot with that because our goal was to send her to a good Christian college but she really wants to be pharmacist and they have a great program. She'll find a good church over there. Ladies and gentlemen, today, we are going to answer the age old question that has been asked by generation after generation throughout history. It is the question of questions concerning the origins of life. It is, of course, which came first, the chicken or the egg'? [students laugh] Now, how many of you would answer that by saying the egg came first, raise you hands. Mr. Blair, why the egg'? Because without the egg, there could be no chicken. Good answer. Now how many of you would say the chicken came first, raise your hands. Alright Miss Whitaker, why the chicken'? Because without the chicken, there could be no egg. Good. Once again, if you're with Mr. Blair you think the egg came first, raise your hands. Now, if you think it was the chicken. Well, the correct answer is, drum roll please. [hand drum roll] The egg.- The egg came first. Scientific research of the fossil record and the diversity and similarity of living organisms has convinced most scientific minds that complex life forms evolved from simpler life forms. And if we open our books to chapter two, we can study this in a little more detail. [chatter] I just got a text from Jason. He wants me to meet him right now at the student union. I'm telling you, he likes you. He's just a friend. Sounds like he wants to be more than just friends. Hey, what did you think about what Professor Kaman was just saying. About what'? About the egg coming first. Sounds okay to me. I know my Dad would not agree with that. Well, Daddy's not here. But Jason is. Now, go meet with him. [papers slams on table] What's this? Have I got an important job for you. Okay, what this'? Old newspapers. We need to archive all of the key articles onto our web site. Alright, I think I can handle that. Shane! I think there there's more newspapers than just this. Huh? That's right, this is only about five years worth. We'll start with these. How many years are we going to do? Well, the paper's been in existence for over sixty years. Sixty? It will take me all semester to do that'? And the University will be indebted to you for your effort. No wait Mr. Jamison, I was mistaken, it will take my entire college career to do this. And the University will be indebted to you for your effort. [Music] [laughter] So, she comes over last night to watch TV and then she said she is only going to watch it with me in the lounge. Is that stupid or what? You know how to pick them. Yeah, I know how to drop 'em too. What'? She's one of the cutest freshmen we've seen. I don't care. Aren't you getting with her later today at that student union. Supposed to. You know what you're problem is Jason, you give up too easily. [Caught football] KIMBERLY: Stephen, Dinner in five. STEVEN: Washing up, be right there. [Music] Alright, here's your hundred. You know what your going to say right'? I already told you, I'm not going to do this. Rachel come on, this is a good idea. But I can't do it. Yes, you can. It's just Tyler. He's my roommate. The guy in the red shin. I can't. You have to because he's cute. You think everyone is cute. Well he is. Now go. I can't. Rachel if you pull this off, everybody is going to be talking about this for years. Yeah but why me'? Let Ally go. No, he met Ally this summer. He might know something's up. Where'd you come up with something like this any way? I found this old book in the library. From when, the nineteen seventies? Actually nineteen sixties, but thank you very much. That happens to be why nobody knows about this. This is so stupid. Rachel this is fun. What are you worrying about, I got your back. I don't know. You've got to loosen up girl. I won't be able to say it with a straight face. Yes you can. Come on Rachel, just do it in the name of college fun. Yeah, this is your moment. It'll be great. Trust me. [chatter] Alright. Alright. [Music] Here are your eggs. Now you just got to say everything exactly the way I told you to say it. Okay! I have no idea why I'm doing this. You both are going to owe me. [Music] Excuse me, good looking. Me'? Yes, you. You wanna make a hundred dollars'? Hundred dollars'? Yep, hundred dollars. Right here. Yeah, right. What's the catch? No catch. You just let me crack these three eggs over your head and this hundred dollar bill is yours. What'? You heard me. I crack these eggs over your head and this hundred dollar bill is yours. FRIEND: Do it Tyler. Come on, this is a joke, right'? Here, your friend can hold the bill. FRIEND: It's real money man. That's a lot of cash, what gives? It may seem like a lotto you but from where I come from, that's spare change. BUDDIES: Just do It man, Come on. Come on man, hundred bucks. Easy money bro. Three eggs. Do it, come on, yeah dude, let's go. Okay, go for it. What do I need to do? Just sit right there. BUDDIES: Alright Tyler. That's what I'm talking about. Hundred bucks right here. Here comes egg number one. [egg. Cracks] [friends laugh] Okay, and now egg number two, you ready'? Here we go. [friends laugh] Alright, one more to go boys and that hundred is mine. BUDDIES: A hundred bucks let's go. Last one. You know, I think two's enough. I'll just take this hundred. BUDDIES: What? Hey, that's my hundred? I said three eggs. I only did two. Bye. BUDDIES: There goes his money man. What! BUDDIES: Are you kidding me. One hundred dollars. That's not fair. That's not fair. [Phone rings] Marcus Kaman. Professor Kaman. Well hello Phil. Just calling to get your topic for the October debate. I'd like to promo it at the one we're doing tomorrow night. I thought we were going in November'? Originally yes, but it got switched around. You didn't get the memo'? No, I didn't. You mean to tell me there was a communication breakdown between our journalism department and yours, again? Imagine that. Phil, I don't even have a topic yet. Can you give me a week or so'? Yeah, I'll just say it's going to be your department doing the next one. So, what are you and Jason doing later? We're not. Is he busy or something? I don't know. Wait, isn't he still calling you'? Yesterday when we talked, he hinted that we were just going to be friends. So. Oh. I'm sorry. It's fine. He's just a friend. It was never anything more. I'm going to the library. [chair movement] You okay'? Yeah, fine. See ya. [typing on a keyboard] How's the archiving going buddy'? It's going. He gave me five years to do and I'm on year two. Sounds like world record pace to me. Sounds like a waste of time to me. Who's going read these old things? You do know why you're doing this, right'? [Music] No idea. You put the articles online. The Alumni read them. Re-live their glory days and donations go up. Couldn't have said it better myself. Wait if that's wh at this is all about, I should be getting a cut here. Evan you all set to cover the debate tomorrow night right'? Yes sir, I'll be there. I should get a cut of this Mr. Jamison. And the University will be indebted to you for your effort. [Music] No matter how times I throw it to him. No matter how times I throw it to him and no matter how accurate I am, he just can't catch it. Hey just, just give me about 5 minutes and I'll meet you over at the computers alright. [Music] A excuse me, can you tell me if I'm in the right place to get breakfast? I was hoping to get a couple of eggs. Oh hi. [both laugh] I thought we should be formally introduced, Tyler Mathis. Rachel Whitaker. I'm really sorry about what I did. What about that'? Hey look anytime a pretty girl comes up to me and says hey good looking, that's all I need to hear. She can crack eggs over my head anytime. You know who put me up to it. Yeah, yeah I know. I'll get him back. Get him one for me while you're at it will you'? You got it. You mind if I sit for a minute'? Go ahead. [chair movement] Whatcha working on? A report for Biology. You got Kaman'? I got Kaman. You know you don't have to do any work in there right. All you have to do is show up every time and you'll get a C. That's what he said. It's true. I had him last year. The man kept his word and I am living proof. Well I need to get better than a C. My major's Biology. Gotcha. So you are going to the debate tomorrow night right'? Debate? Yeah at the Fine Arts Center. What debate? What is it'? There's posters everywhere. I haven't seen any. Well, there's one right back there. Where'? If you look just around the corner next to the copy machine on the left, on the bulletin board, there's a poster. I guess you missed it'? Must have missed it. [Both laugh] And these are can't miss events. First of all, they're educational, which is what college is all about. Second of all everybody goes so they're social, which is what college is all about. The debates are a must. [banging on table] I'm picking you up. What'? You and me, we're going to the debate. I don't... I don't know. I think there's a certain someone at this table that owes another someone at this table a small favor. [Music] Good evening and welcome. Thank you all for coming. I'm Phil Jamison, Professor of Journalism here at the university and I will also be your moderator for this evening. Great crowd huh'? Yeah, glad we got here early. Yeah, I was afraid we wouldn't going to get a seat. And tonight's debate is being presented by our Math Department and so let me introduce our two debaters to you now. [door closes] [Laughter] Thanks for walking me back. It was fun. Hey, hey, any chance of us doing something again? [Music] I don't know. Well you did crack two eggs over my head so I feel like maybe I should get two chances. You got me there. How about this weekend'? No I can't. I'm visiting my parents this weekend. Ah, yeah, gotta do that. They are anxious to see me. How about when you get back? [Music] Yeah, that could work. Well, okay then. I'll call you. Thanks for coming out with me tonight and I'll see ya. See ya. Okay- [Music] [knocking on door] Dinner soon. Thanks Dad. You busy? Just sending a text back to Tyler. Oh, new boyfriend'? He's a friend. I just met him. So, tell me more about your classes? They're going good. I really like all of my instructors, especially my Biology teacher Professor Kaman. He's a riot. You and your roommate getting along? Oh, yeah, Ally's great. We get along well. Good. You were always good at making friends. Meeting new people every day it seems. Did you find a church yet'? No not yet. I've just been so busy getting used to everything. But I will. Come on, we're going to be late for church. We need to go. [Footsteps] I'm here. Honey, we live so close, it's embarrassing when we're late. Stephen'? Is also here. Let's go Rachel. We'll meet you in the car Stephen. Okay- Dad, will you get my Bible for me. Sure. [Footsteps] [Music] I'm headed out. It feels like you just got here. I'll be back to visit soon. [sigh] Bye Dad. Love you. Drive careful. Love you too. [Music] Let us know when you get there. Rachel: I will. [Music] [Starting car ignition] Bye. [Music] She seems to be doing well. She's made some friends, likes her classes. Seems to really like that one with Professor Kaman. I'm glad. [Music] STEPHEN: The guy's an evolutionist and a big proponent of It Pastor. He's written several published articles. I mean it's a long list. And there's nothing in the whole course description about biblical creation as even a plausible alternative from what I could see. Does that surprise you'? All our public schools and universities teach evolution as the answer to the origins of life. Even some of our Christian schools are buying into the evolution theory as pan of the creation account. You're kidding. The attack on Genesis is a real battleground. Well, I certainly don't like the idea of Rachel sitting under this guy in class. Have you had a chance to speak to her about it'? No not yet, but I will. Actually, she's not the one I'd like to talk to. Mister Blair, may I dialogue with you for a moment'? Ah, yes sir. I understand you're here on a track scholarship. You're a fifteen hundred meter man. Yes I am. Congratulation s. I use to do a bit of track myself back in the day so I know a little of what you guys go through. Do you mind my asking what's your best time in that event? Ah, four-o-three. Four minutes and three seconds. That is very impressive running. That must be the best time on your team. No. There's actually three guys ahead of me right now. Three. Well then, I guess you've got a little competition ahead of you, don't you. [Class laughs] Yeah, I'll get 'em. That's the spirit. You got what ten teams in the conference. I think so. No there are I checked. So, lets say there are four fellas on each team running the fifteen hundred, that's forty runners, where do you think you'd place among them'? Not sure sir. Thirtieth maybe'? Could be. Well then I guess you got a lot of competition ahead of you. [Class laughs] Yeah, yeah I guess so. Well you're a freshman, we'll give you time to move up through the conference which lam sure you will. Besides, we can look at this whole thing from another angle. For one thing, Mr. Blair can certainly outrun anyone in this class. But better than that, if he had run the fifteen hundred meters in that kind of time in the 1896 Olympics, he would have won gold. He'd won by thirty seconds. And if he had done the same in 1904 Olympics, he would have won by two seconds. Do you see what's happening here'? As we evolve, we're getting faster, stronger, smarter. Look at the technological leaps that have happened just in the last fifty years. Imagine what our species is going to be like a hundred years from now. How cool would it be to stick around to see that? [Music] Hey. I figured you'd be here. A few of us are going downtown to grab a bite to eat and there's a jazz band playing. Why don't you call Tyler and come with us'? I can't, I just got here and I've got to finish this for Kaman's class. Ally: Can't you do it later? I ts not due till Thursday. Rachel: I know. But I've got other work to do too. You're so studious. Okay, well if you change your mind, call me. Okay- Have fun. You're taking Kaman's class? Pardon. Sorry, couldn't help but overhear. You're taking Professor Kaman's class. Yes I am. You too? No, I had him a couple of years ago. His class is so interesting. Didn't you like him'? Like him, yeah. He's seems like a nice guy. Agree with him, that's a different story. Don't you think Professor Kaman has some good concepts. He could be right. It looks you've got a lot work to do, and I was just on my way out myself, so. By the way, my name's Evan, Evan Carlson. Nice to meet you... Rachel Whitaker. Alright, see around Rachel Whitaker. Yeah, see ya. [Music] By the way Rachel. [Music] He's not right. [Music] Luke: You sure those girls are going to be there? Jason: They told me they were coming. Luke: Just remember, I get first pick. Jason: Yeah, right. You'll be lucky if one of them even says hi to you. Tyler: Don't worry Luke, Jason ain't going to get anybody so you get your pick. Jason: Okay, how about you worry about your own deal you got going on. Luke: Tyler still playing that game with Rachel? Jason: Oh yeah, and striking out. Tyler: Actually we're building a meaningful relationship, something you two amateurs wouldn't know anything about. Jason: Which after translation means, he's not getting anywhere. Come on Tyler man, I told you, you should just dump her. Look boys. I'm not just going to let someone crack two eggs over my head and come away empty. Alright? I'm just not as impatient as Jason over here. My little plan will play out. Just wait and see. I just talked to Rachel, I told her I could take the day off tomorrow and we'd ride up for a quick visit. She said she'd love to have us. We'll take her out to early dinner and then drive back. KIMBERLY: Up and back in one day? Don't worry, I'll drive, you can sleep on the way home. [Knocking on door] [Door opening] Hi Mom. Hi honey. I can't believe you guys decided to come up here today. Well, it was your father's idea. Where is Dad'? [Knocking on door] Professor Kaman'? Yes. My name is Stephen Whitaker. May I speak with you for a moment'? Sure. I'm sorry, have we met'? No, but my daughter is in your freshman Biology class. Rachel Whitaker. Ah Rachel. She's a pleasure to have in class. Thank you. Professor Kaman, I don't mean to come off so direct or with any disrespect, but I'm concerned about what you're teaching in your class. Is that so? [Pen dropping] Can you give me an example'? Well, it seems your class deals quite a bit with the subject of evolution. Yes it does. Can you explain to me why you teach only evolution? Sure, but first let me ask you Mr. Whitaker, are you a religious man'? A religious man'? Well you believe in God and the Bible. Yes sir I do. And does that help you'? Help me? Does that help you to be at peace with yourself? Yes it does. Well then I think that's great and I would encourage you to go on believing. But you're teaching evolution. Mr. Whitaker, I teach what my textbooks tells me to teach. It comes from real people who have conducted real experiments and observed real evidence and frankly, I'm at peace with that. But it goes against the core beliefs of everything we've been teaching Rachel all her life, against what Christianity stands for. Dad. Hello Rachel. What are you doing here'? I came by to talk to your instructor. But why? Well I just wanted to stop by for a minute. [Chair movement] Hello Rachel. Professor Kaman. Mr. Whitaker, I've got to meet with another student momentarily so I'm afraid we're going to have to pick up this discussion at another time. But I tell you what. You strongly believe in the creation story from the Bible, right'? Yes, that's correct but I don't call it a story. Every month the university sponsors a debate that is also open to the public. My Department will be hosting the next one on October 19th. Why don't you and I debate this issue? It would be a great opportunity for you to express your views. They're moderated, they're orderly. Evolution versus Creationism. What do you say'? No, I couldn't do that. I mean, I never intended to- Professor Kaman, my dad can't debate you. Rachel, your father has the passion of his beliefs, that's what makes for a great debate. You can read oft a prepared text, that's done all the time. But, Dad you can't. Now wait a minute Professor Kaman. I did not come here with any intention of doing a debate with you. I understand Mr. Whitaker. It's just that I think this topic would be so valuable for the students. And you do believe in your viewpoint, don't you'? [Music] I can't believe Dad agreed to debate Professor Kaman. Mom, you've got to stop this. The man cornered me Rachel. What was I supposed to say? You could have said no. This man obviously has no respect for God or anything that we believe in. But Professor Kaman doesn't claim to be a Christian either. Do you know how embarrassing this is going to be for me? I don't want to embarrass anyone, especially you. Dad, you're not going to convert Professor Kaman to your beliefs so why even try'? Actually, it's not his beliefs that I am concerned about. What's that supposed to mean'? I feel this man is affecting you Rachel. That he's causing you to change your views. That's ridiculous. Mom, say something. Honey, your father's just concerned about you that's all. I can't believe this is happening. And I'm certainly not happy with what this Kaman guy is teaching you. [Music] Let's just go to dinner. [Music] [Phone ringing] Phil Jamison. KAMAN: Marcus Kaman. Professor. Hey Phil, I think I've got the topic for the next debate. How does evolution versus creationism sound? Ah ha, well unless you changed teams, I know what side you fall on. We'll note it on the calendar of events. It seems some of my views are being challenged. JAMISON: Now who in thew right mind would challenge anything you say. The father of one of my students. JAMISON: The plot thickens. Yeah, I got a religious dad who doesn't like his little girl thinking for herself. I see. I might have to do a little publicity on this just to build the crowd. Well, I got his name and number right here if you need them. Yeah, no problem, here you go. Evan, got our topic for the next debate, and I think this one will be of interest to you. It seems the father of one of the students is challenging Professor Kaman. Evolution versus Creationism. I wanna do a story on this prior to the debate and build it up. There's the father's contact information. See what you can find out, you know his purpose, motive, what he hopes to accomplish. I'll get Shane to do the same thing with Professor Kaman. Okay sir, will do. Who knows, maybe we can get some community interest on this one. [Music] Whitaker'? Before we begin today, I'd like to make a brief announcement. I'd like to make a brief announcement. Each month the University sponsors a debate at the Fine Arts Center and our department will be hosting the next one. Yours truly will be taking part as it's a topic that is near and dear to my heart, evolution versus creationism. Now we have a slightly unusual situation this time in that my debate opponent is the father of one of the students in this class, Miss Rachel Whitaker. I don't doubt that Miss Whitaker finds this situation a little embarrassing but I want her to know that she has my complete support at this time when she is beginning to think for herself. I just wanted the rest of you to be aware of the situation, and I hope you're all planning on coming to the debate as a part of your participation in this course. Okay'? Let's get to work, open your books to chapter six. [Music] We just left after dinner. I felt it best to give her some time. She was pretty upset. I agree, sometimes it is the right thing to do. Maybe I shouldn't have accepted but I felt put on the spot. Now I feel like Rachel's against me because of this. She's not against you Stephen. Plus I'm not a public speaker like he is. I've never done anything like this before. Look, you know we're here to help you anyway we can. I appreciate that. [Footsteps] Rachel, right'? My name's Evan. We met the other day. Can I talk to you for a minute'? Not right now, I'm got a lot on my mind. Is your father's name Stephen? I can't believe my father went to see one of my Professors and then like some self-righteous fundamentalist gets into a discussion about creation and evolution. I'm sorry you're so upset. I mean, do you have any idea how embarrassing this is going to be for me'? Rachel, I wouldn't be looking at it like that. How would you like it if your parent was going to debate the most popular Professor on campus? Put yourself in my shoes. I understand, but I don't necessarily think it's a bad thing. It's not like Professor Kaman's preaching some son of gospel truth here. I've gotta stop this. [Chair movement] [Phone ringing] It's Rachel. [Phone ringing] Rachel. RACHEL: Hi Dad. I'm calling to ask you to please stop this debate. Rachel we were just talking about you. I am glad you called. This is going to ruin me on campus Dad. STEPHEN: I am not trying to hurt you. But you are. Rachel, this is an important issue. You're not going to change Professor Kaman's mind. Then how does he believe the universe was created? What does he teach you in class? That there was a big bang or something. Dad, if you love me, you will stop this debate. Please don't say that. You must stop this debate. Rachel please. You must stop it! [Music] She hung up. [sigh] You can't leave it like that. You gotta call her back. [Music] [Phone ringing] RACHEL: Hi, this is Rachel Whitaker, I'm not here right now... Voicemail. [Music] Hey. Hey. I set up a meeting with Professor Kaman to do that interview. Did you talk to that father yet'? Oh no, I was getting ready to call him. Before you do, I think you should check this out. What'? Professor Kaman was in the news yesterday. Front page story. We didn't run a story on Kaman yesterday. Yeah, well we did twelve years ago. It appears our dear Professor got one of his colleagues fired over this same issue. What'? Yeah, some instructor named Portland refused to teach evolution in his biology class and Kaman got him ousted. It's all there. [Music] Oh and by the way, when you talk to that Dad, tell him I said good luck. [Music] STEPHEN: Listen to what it says in this high school textbook. I picked up at the library. "Humans came from apelike ancestors. "There is nothing supernatural about the origins of human beings." How can they say that and get away with it'? I don't know but they are. [The phone rings] Stephen Whitaker. EVAN: Mr. Whitaker. This is Evan Carlson, calling from the University. I am a student on staff at the campus paper here and our editor wants to do a preliminary story about the upcoming debate. Would you be able to meet up sir'? Meet'? Well I live about three hours from there. Yes, I know. I was thinking we could meet halfway. Can't we just take care of this over the phone'? I know Rachel sir and I'm aware of the situation. I'm a Christian, and I'm on your side. I've got some information that may prove to be helpful to you but I'd rather talk to you about it in person. [Birds chirping] EVAN: Kaman is smart and clever. EVAN: Kaman is smart and clever. He'll take what you say twist it around, question you, corner you. I've seen him debate before and he is good at it. STEPHEN: And I've never debated anyone before in my fife. Sounds like a mismatch to me. How many people have come to these events? EVAN: Normally not many twenty five, thirty but there will be more at this one especially since Kaman's doing it. He'll probably make all his classes attend as well. STEPHEN: Much to Rachel's delight I'm sure. EVAN: Plus the editor is running this story before the debate which isn't normal, and he is planning to contact the local media, could get a pretty good audience. STEPHEN: Great. More pressure. EVAN: Look, I got some material in the car with good information on science from a Biblical perspective, I'll give it to you. Thanks. Appreciate it. We can sit here. You seem pretty serious about this. Maybe you should be the one debating Kaman. God didn't give me the opportunity sir. He gave it to you and I think what you're doing is great. Rachel sure doesn't. I found out something interesting. Twelve years ago at the University there was an incident involving Kaman and another Professor on the same subject. Joseph G. Portland. Portland used to teach Kaman's class, except for he taught creation. Kaman joined the university staff that year, didn't like it and got him fired. That's Portland's contact info. He lives nearby. Maybe you could give him a call. Or even try to go see him. He could offer some good insight. I'll keep this in mind. And now I do have several questions I'd need to ask you for the article. Sure. I think it's interesting you chose to meet here. I figured it was about halfway. This place is very special to me. What do you mean'? Let me show you something. [Music] This is about the spot. When Rachel was ten years old, we were spending the day here together and she was over by this river playing. I remember she was looking for stones that she could throw in the river. Suddenly though, she found a fifty cent piece lying on the ground and just after she reached down and picked it up, a boy grabbed her hand and took it from her. I saw this from over there and noticed how he taunted her as he walked away and went back towards his father. Rachel of course was upset over losing the coin because she found it first and came over to complain to me. [Music continues] I then tried to use that incident as an example. I told her it was wrong for the boy to take that coin from her and that stealing was a sin. But, I also pointed out to her how all of us have sinned against God in our own lives. In essence, we've stolen many coins from Him. And the only one who can forgive us for our sins is Jesus. Rachel seemed to understand this, we prayed to the Lord together and I believe that day she became a Christian. [Music continues] That's great. [Music continues] Hard for me to believe someone is now causing my little girl to drift away from what she's been taught. [Music] Let's go over to that picnic table and I'll answer those questions for you. [Music] [Kimberly chopping veggies] Oh hey, how'd it go? It went well. Evan's a committed believer and was very helpful. I need to make a quick phone call and then I'll tell you more about it. Okay- [Footsteps] [dialing] [phone ringing] Hello. STEPHEN: Professor Portland? This is he. Hi, my name is Stephen Whitaker and I have an unusual situation I'd like to speak to about for a moment. What is this pertaining to'? Well, first, lam a Christian and my daughter goes to the university you used to teach at. That's right I don't teach anymore. STEPHEN: Yes sir, I know. The reason I am calling is because she's taking a class from a Professor Kaman and I'd like to ask you about him. I'm not interested in discussing anything having to do with the name you just mentioned. But I have a debate scheduled with Professor Kaman on the subject of creation versus evolution and I was hoping you could help me. I said I'm not interested. [Music] [Music] Hello, Professor? [Music] Tyler, what am I going to do? You might have to let him do it. No. Well look, first of all, nobody goes to those things anyway. You told me everyone went to them when we first met. I wanted you to think that I was into stuff like that, you know, with you studying in the library. Look, you saw how many people were there. I've been to a couple of them before and they're lucky if they get ten people. Listen Rach, nobody takes those debates seriously so if I were you I'd stop worrying about it. But what you do need to take seriously is our ag football party coming up weekend after next. Stay in your dorm from now until after the debate, but that Saturday night, you're with me. Okay? Okay? Okay- Good. Now, if it will make you feel better, call your Dad one more time. [Stephen's phone rings] Rachel? Dad, I am calling again to ask you to please not do this debate. STEPHEN: But Rachel. You debating Professor Kaman is not going to solve anything. Rachel, honey, you don't know everything your Professor believes. I've been doing a lot of research, reading some of the reports he's published. This guy stands against everything that we believe in. Evan told me some things about him also. Evan'? How do you know Evan'? [Music] [Music] You went and met with my father. Gave him books, talked to him about Kaman. You're encouraging him'? Hold on, first of all, I had to speak with your father since the editor assigned me to do a story on the debate. And of course I'm encouraging him. This is an opportunity for the truth. My father is no match for Professor Kaman and you know it. Your father might do better than you think. I don't know how I get myself into these situations. EVAN: I can answer that one. You let Kaman play with your mind. Professor Kaman is a very intelligent man who makes good points. No, Kaman's a gifted communicator who only makes it seem like he's making good points. Did he do the chicken and the egg thing yet'? Yes. EVAN: And he said the egg, right? Then gave you some line about scientific research and the fossil record. And what if he's correct? Rachel, think about it. Life comes from life. It doesn't come from non-life. God created the chicken first, just like the Bible says, and then set it up so that life could reproduce itself. Kaman doesn't believe in God so he teaches the opposite. Come on Evan. You're not helping. Just answer me this one question. Did God create this world or did it come about through evolution like Kaman says? Evan. Just answer the question, please? No. I'm not going to answer that. You just did. Just forget it. [Music] I just don't think I have a good enough handle on this subject. Stephen, you know enough, just share it. That's all you need to do. I don't know. This outline you've shown me is good and you won't be alone. A group of us from the church are coming to support you. Thanks. Professor Kaman will probably get all of his students to attend, and I don't think too many of them are going to be rooting for me. [Music] [Car door slams] [Music continues] Hey. [Things sifting] Hey, I thought you were going to Tyler's game. I have too much work to do. I'm going to the library. Maybe I can find a corner to hide in. Rachel, not all the students agree with professor Kaman. Yeah'? Cuz the only guy around here I know of who doesn't, is Evan. She's going through a mini-crisis, that's all. Dude, just admit that you guessed wrong and move on. Yeah, we won't hold it against ya. I didn't guess wrong. She's interested! I just didn't expect this deal with her Dad popping up. You're wasting your time. Plus she's way too religious. She can't be that religious if she's with Tyler. [Luke and Jason Laughs] Alright look, our ag football party is next weekend. That will be the night I make my move. Then I'll let you know how religious she is. [Horse sounds] PORTLAND: I don't know why you're wasting your time driving all the way out here, didn't I say I wasn't interested. Well sir, I thought if I could explain the situation to you in person. I know the situation. Kaman is brainwashing your daughter's mind like he does all the students that take his classes. I was hoping you could give me some insight that would help me prepare. Why are you debating him'? It wasn't my idea. What he challenged you and you accepted'? [Stephen Sighs] If I were you, I'd get out of it. I was hoping you could help me. I mean you know the topic so well. Read a book, lot of good ones out there. But you know Kaman. I want nothing to do with that man. That was a long time ago. Th at university was my life. I wasn't going to teach evolutionary lies from those textbooks. Then one day because of Kaman, it all gets taken away. Maybe it got taken away because you were making an impact for the Lord. This is a battle we're in. I lost mine. Professor Portland, there are so many people that you could be inuencing with your life and the gifts that God has given you. I haven't taught at that university for twelve years. I'm out of the game. We should never stop trying to share the Lord with people. You remember, for God so loved the world. I said I'm out of the game. I'm trying to forget this, not relive it. Would you please leave? But Professor Portland. I asked you to leave. [Music] I don't believe the lies either but it still comes down to a choice we all make. And by the way, a Christian is never out of the game. [Music continues] You got nothing from Portland? Nothing. He still seems bitter about the whole thing. He asked me to leave. Well Mr. Jamison's contacted some of the local media. It looks like they're going to pick up on it. [Music continues] Mr. Whitaker'? You still there? [Music continues] Yes, I'm here. You have people praying for you sir. You have supporters. Just makes it tough when I know Rachel's not one of them. Thanks Evan, I'll talk to you later. Alright bye. [Music continues] Hey, I'll catch up with you later. Uh, excuse me, your Dad's the guy that's gonna debate Kaman, right'? Why do you ask'? I'm in your Bio class. Why would anybody wanna debate Kaman'? He doesn't. I don't want him to. Have you ever see that thing Kaman does where he shows how we all came from apes'? Pardon'? How we all came from apes. What is it'? How do you know'? I stayed after class one day heard him go through it. He'll make your father look like a complete idiot with that example. Look I told you I don't want him to do it. Excuse me, couldn't help but overhear. Are you talking about Professor Kaman when he goes through his routine about how we all came from apes'? Yeah. Have you seen it'? Yeah, I've seen it. I thought it was great. [Evan snickering] Let me ask you something, does your moth er look like an ape'? Wham yam say'? Does your mother look like an ape'? Watch it man. I'll assume that's a no. How about your grandmother'? Does she look like an ape'? What? Man, who are you'? I'll take that as another no. So your mother doesn't look like an ape and neither does your grandmother. How about your great grandmother, do pictures go that far back in your family, does she look like an ape'? What's your deal man'? Kaman says we all come from apes. So which one in your family was the monkey'? I got news for you. You can take it all the way back to the very first man and woman, Adam and Eve, and guess what, no one was ever an ape. You know why'? Cause apes come from apes and humans come from humans. Now, who's going to make who look like a complete idiot? [Music continues] Whatever. [Music continues] I don't need you to defend me. [Music continues] I wasn't defending you. [Music continues] My picture and everything. Hey, I know a good story when it comes my way. I'm getting some great feedback already. I'd say you and your team put together a very nice article. Thank you, I'm shooting for a full house on this one. I just hope your opponent shows up. Any reason to think he won't'? No. But I've got a feeling after this debate is done, he'll wish he'd stayed home. Hah. You're too kind. I'll see you Thursday night. JASON: Look, its not that hard. All you gotta do is memorize this stuff and then after the test you can just forget it. That's what Tyler and I do. LUKE: This is so stupid. How's this ever gonna help you in life? JASON: It's not, that's why we memorize and then we forget. Just like I keep telling Tyler, you've just gotta forget that Rachel girl. But you know him, he'll hang in there. LUKE: Maybe he really likes her. JASON: He likes her because she's cute. That's all. LUKE: I wouldn't let anyone crack eggs over my head. I don't care how cute she is. JASON: Yeah, Tyler and his stupid plan. Well we'll see what happens at the ag football party this weekend, that's when he's supposed to make his move. Eventually he'll see I was right about her. [Music continues] [Music continues] What is so important that you need to talk to me right now'? Could we sit down for a minute'? Come on Evan. Could we just sit down for a minute please. What'? Rachel, I'm sorry to bother you but I need to tell you something. What you need to do is talk my Dad out of doing this debate. You should really listen to yourself sometime. Kaman's sure done a number on you. Why are you so against Professor Kaman'? Does this sound familiar? Just show up and get a C. What'? Kaman's class. He'll give you a C as your final grade if you just show up without doing any work. Didn't you ever wonder about that'? I mean no other teacher does it. Maybe that's why he's the most popular instructor on campus. Or the one with the biggest agenda. What do mean by that'? He teaches his evolution lies to get students to doubt their faith in God and the Bible. So, you're saying I'm not a Christian now. You tell me. I mean, just the other day you wouldn't even admit that God created the world. I know God created the world. Yeah. Committed to that truth? Then why are you all over your Dad for wanting to defend it'? He's just never done anything like this before. You know why is it that one Christian wants to take a stand for his faith and the next one doesn't'? Why do some Christians have convictions about things and others don't'? Maybe the difference lies in how we first came to the Lord. Was it by addition or submission? What do you mean by that'? It seems to me that a lot of people have just added Jesus to their life, but that's not it. You can't just add Jesus to your life, you must submit your life to Him. There's a big difference. So you are saying I'm not a Christian? Only you can answer that one. Just leave me alone. You can't leave yet. Yes I can. Rachel, I came to tell you something. I'm not interested. Tyler's the one not interested. [Music] Having you crack those eggs over his head was a set up. I just overheard two of his buddies talking about it in the library. And that ag football party this weekend, that's when he's going to make his move. [Music continues] Rachel, Tyler only spends time with you because he thinks you're cute and that's it. [Music continues] You're making this up. [Music continues] It's the truth Rachel. [Music continues] That's why I came over here. [Music continues] I thought you should know. [Music continues] I don't believe you. [Music continues] I wouldn't lie to you. But Tyler is. [Music continues] Sorry. [Music continues] EVAN VOICE: It seems to me that a lot of people have just added Jesus to their life, but that's not it. You can't just add Jesus to your fife, you must submit your fife to Him. [Music continues] Lord Jesus, I want to submit. [Music continues] [Stephen phone rings] Rachel? RACHEL: Hi Dad. Are you alright? RACHEL: I'm fine. [Music] Dad first, I want to tell you how sorry I am. [Music] I brought you some juice. Hey, you're up early. [Music] Ally, I need to tell you something. Alright that's it. A reminder, the debate is tonight at the Fine Arts Center and I strongly encourage you all to attend. Now as for the debate itself, I accepted a challenge that was brought before me. It is my obligation to this University and to the students I teach to defend what I know to be true. I do hope I see you there this evening. Dismissed. [Students packing up and leaving] Why don't you go ahead, I'll catch up later. Okay- [Students walking] Professor Kaman'? Yes Rachel. You said that my dad was the one who challenged you but that's not really correct. I think that you're the one who challenged him. Your father wanted to confront me on my views, I could tell from the moment I met him. I planned to go easy on him and I will. Was there something else Miss Whitaker? Yes sir. Well? The chicken came first. [Music] I've been waiting for you but I'm in a rush. I got a game. Walk with me please. [Music continues] Where we heading, because like I said, I've got a game to get to. I can't see you anymore. What'? I can't see you anymore. Wait, what, what brought this on? I don't really know how to say this, but I haven't been fair with you. Fair with me'? What are you talking about? I like you Tyler, I do. You're such a nice guy and you've always so kind to me. We're not right. Not together. I thought that things were going great. Did someone say something to you'? I got right with the LORD. And I want to start living my life to please Him. I'd be happy to tell to you about it if you want to hear more. No, no, I'm not ready for that. I'm sorry, I should have told you about this much sooner, but I was just so selfish and caught up in my own stuff. And for that, I am truly sorry. [Music continues] I'm going to be late for my game. [Music continues] Bye Tyler. You ain't kidding. What did you say to her? What'? What did you say to her? What are you doing man'? What did you tell her? Who? Rachel! I don't know what you're talking about. She turned on me man. Somehow she knows. Well, it wasn't me. Well, someone told her. It wasn't me. Luke, did you say something? Not me. TYLER: Well somehow she found out. She pulled some religion garbage on me about a minute ago and now we're over. Okay, what's the big deal'? Is it a big deal. I wasted a lot of time on this girl. Dude, I told you she wasn't worth it. And you didn't listen to me. Somehow she found out. [chatter] [Music] Hello Pastor. I told you we'd be here. And several others from the church have come out as well. Thank you for coming. Professor Kaman. Hey Phil. That little paper of yours has more of a circulation than I would have guessed. Yes, it's a good crowd. I see the visiting team has some followers here tonight. Hey, we're ready to start so if you will take your place, I'll go inform your opponent. Got it. [Crowd talking] Stephen Whitaker? Yes. Phil Jamison, Journalism, we spoke on the phone. Thanks for coming. My wife Kimberly. It's a pleasure. Hi. We're ready to begin, so if you'll take your place up there on stage, we'll get started. Sure. Okay- People are praying for you. Hello, hello, hello. I'm Phil Jamison. I'm Phil Jamison. I am the Professor of Journalism here at the University and I'd like to welcome everyone to our debate tonight which deals with the subject of Evolution versus Creationism. What a great crowd, I'm a little nervous up here myself, I can only imagine what our two combatants must be feeling. It's my best line guys, it's all I've got. [Crowd laughs]. Let me introduce to you our two participants now. On my left, speaking on behalf of Creationism, he has a daughter who attends the university here. Please give a warm welcome to Mister Stephen Whitaker. [Mild applause] And on my right, a man who needs no introduction, he is arguing on behalf of Evolution, he is from our Biology department, please give a warm welcome to Professor Marcus Kaman. [Strong applause] Okay, this is how this is going to work. Both men will are going to give brief opening statements and then they'll be able to question each other's comments and after that, we going to open up this forum to you, the audience, for your questions. Okay? Mister Whitaker, you are first, you may begin with your opening statement. Thank you. [Clears throat] Let me say first, that I've never done anything like this before. I do believe though that the topic at hand is an important one and in fact, as I prepared for this debate it became clearer to me that it's more important than I ever realized. It seems that when the question is posed as to how life came to exist on our planet, the theory of evolution has become the dominant scientific view that is taught in our schools and universities across this great land of ours. Frankly, this amazes me. The first problem I immediately see is that evolution is not scientific in the truest sense of the word since science deals with what can be observed and reproduced through experimentation. Scientific claims must be accepted only after they have been verified. The origin of life can be neither observed nor reproduced in any laboratory, even though they try to show us this with their illustrations in the textbooks I studied. By definition then, true naturalistic science can furnish no knowledge about where any life form, including the human race, came from or how it got here. If God did not create the universe than who or what did'? A big bang that produced a cosmic explosion'? What caused it to go bang'? A chemical reaction? What organized the original chemicals or molecules or gases or whatever evolutionists say happened to form life here on earth'? And how did it create so much detail and beauty and design and intelligence? Nothing times something does not equal everything and yet, as I see it, that is the true definition of an evolutionary view of the universe and what millions and millions of people are placing their trust in as how life on this earth began. The evolutionary world view is clearly as much a religion as any theistic worldview. Not only is the teaching of evolution an attack against those well-known first words of the Bible, "In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth," but it is an undermining assault against the authority of God which really becomes the main issue here. At least when we're starting with God as the first cause, it seems that everything else that happens makes sense. That's it I guess for my opening statement. Thank you. [Mild applause] Thank you Mister Whitaker. Professor Kaman, your opening statement please. Well first I'd like to say well done Mister Whitaker, very well done. You have debated before. You put forth some very compelling questions and ideas. In fact, I think if we were to pass a hat right now, you might being in a nice donation or two. [People laugh] I just had a few problems with what you said especially at the end there about God being the first cause, you can't prove any of it. Now I know you're going to say that it all has to be taken on faith, but that's always the out on your side. That's always the explanation. We know what faith is; It's wishful thinking. And in case you haven't noticed, things don't always turn out so good at the end. The good guy doesn't always win. Wishful thinking doesn't bring home the bacon and it cannot ever be proven. But, when it comes to the evolutionary answer, laboratory experimentation and intensive scientific analysis have proven conclusively that living organisms evolved from nonliving chemicals, and what makes that so important is that it means that intelligence wasn't needed for life to form in the beginning. We are all descendants of a common ancestor, just as you and your cousins are descendants of a common grandmother. And through a process of descent with modification, that common ancestor gave rise to the fantastic diversity that we see in the fossil record and living all around us today. That is proof Mister Whitaker. That is scientific proof. Evolution means that we're all distant cousins. Man and the oak tree, the hummingbird and the whale. Life is about change and the sequence of fossils in the strata documents that change. And the clear progression of simpler life forms evolving into more complex life forms is accepted by every clear-thinking scientist mind as irrefutable truth. Radiometric dating of the earth, shows it to be four point five billion years old, give or take, and the rocks and fossils that we see all around us are millions and millions of years old. That's a lot of time for change, Mister Whitaker. That is time for evolution. Thank you. [Loud applause] Thank you Professor Kaman. You may both now question each other's opening statements. Mr. Whitaker'? I guess my first question for you Professor Kaman and the most important one I can think of is how do you explain away God'? Explain away'? Yes, what about God'? Simply put, man created God. Man created God'? I am a hundred percent with Freud on this one sir. That man created God'? Dr. Sigmund Freud brilliantly observed many years ago that man is riddled with deep seated fears living as he does in a world of disease and famine and disaster with very little control over his circumstance so yes, he created God. He postulated a being who could deliver him. Kind of life a supernatural sky hook that could pull him out of trouble. [Crowd laughs] Man also believed that he was getting a raw deal from just about everybody so he wanted a cosmic umpire, to blow the big whistle and halt the game until everybody got what they deserved. But most of all, man fears death and extinction, and so he needed a heavenly Father, who could take him at the end to some heavenly place that he decided to call heaven, all because he couldn't face the fact that eventually he was going to vanish from existence. So, what's the purpose of life Professor Kaman'? We live, and then we die and go back in the earth. That's it, there's no afterlife. Face the music Mister Whitaker. Elvis is dead, he's left the building. [Crowd laughs] In this life, we get a chance to make a mark. If we do that, maybe the next generation will remember us, maybe we'll even teach them something but there is no afterlife. I believe there is much more than that. Yeah, you believe Mister Whitaker but do you have any proof of an afterlife. Proof'? Proof. Scientific proof, any kind of proof'? The Bibles says we believe by faith. Faith in what'? In a God we can't see and a book we can't rely on? I'd like a little scientific proof. I can't offer scientific proof. Well the words in this book that you hold so sacred, how do you even know they're true? The Bible is very trustworthy. I didn't ask if it was trustworthy, I asked if it was true. The Bible is the word of God. Wasn't the Bible written by men'? Yes it was. Then how does that make it the word of God'? Look, I can't explain it. So, your betting your afterlife on a book you can't explain about a God you can't prove. I am sticking with Freud on this one Mister Whitaker. I am definitely sticking with Freud. PORTLAND: Freud was wrong! [Audience move in seats] Freud was wrong. Freud was wrong. Excuse me sir. There will be a time later for the audience to ask questions. STEPHEN: It's okay. He's my friend and he's with me. [Audience mumbles] I decided to get back in the game. Mind if I take over from here. Mr. Jamison, if it would be alright, I would like for my friend here to continue for me. Well that's not how we normally do things. Is that acceptable to you Professor Kaman'? Proceed. You never cease to amaze me Marcus. Of course you are going to agree with Freud's views on God since evolution leaves no room for a supernatural Creator. And since there is no God, then there are no rules, and no one to whom we must give an account. But man didn't create God. Freud got that wrong. In fact, I would propose to you the very opposite. I believe that if man had his way, he would rather God did not exist and eliminate God. Haven't you noticed, whenever anything goes bad in someone's life or there is some tragic event that occurs, people, religious and non-religious, almost inevitably blame God. How could God allow this, how could God allow that? No, if man had his way, he would rather eliminate God, not create him. He even comes up with theology that says God is dead and has left the building. [Crowd laughs] Sorry to be so rude to your guests. My name is Joseph G. Portland, Professor Joseph Portland. You see, twelve years ago, I was the one that taught Biology here at this university. Only I taught from the perspective that God is our Creator and I refused to teach what I felt were evolutionary lies from the textbook. When Professor Kaman joined our staff, he got me fired over this very issue. I despised you Kaman. I blamed you for ruining my career. Sadly for me, I let you take me out of the game. You're talking about how those laboratory experiments have proven that living organisms evolved from non-living chemicals as proof of a naturalistic origin of life. This is just not so. Those experiments only showed that certain organic compounds could be formed from inorganic compounds and intelligence was and is still needed since someone had to conduct and design those experiments. Certainly that's far from creating life in the laboratory. And you know that the amount of information contain ed in the nucleus of a living cell shows that it could not have evolved from nonliving chemicals and that it must have been created. You know the fossil record does not show the continuous development of one kind of creature into another and that no one has ever seen one kind of plant or animal changing into another of a different kind. Dogs change into different kinds of dogs, but they are always dogs. And we can breed dogs to form new varieties, but they never turn into cats or kangaroos because they remain in the boundaries that God created for them in the beginning. And you know that there are layers of assumptions used to calculate the age of the earth using radiometric dating so why are you misleading our audience'? The earth is not billions of years old. The earth is not millions of years old, not even close. You see, the Professor and I can go on and on and on and bore you with our technical definitions. Whatever he says, I have a rebuttal and back and forth. We could go outside right now and the stars can come down and form the words in the sky God created the world, and the evolutionists would blame it on those clever Baptists. [Crowd laughs] To me, the most troubling aspect about this issue is that in our society today, evolution is being taught in our schools and universities across this land as a matter of fact. But no one can scientifically prove evolution, just as no one can scientifically prove that God created the world, since none of us were present to witness it. Both of these teachings then become a matter of faith. The evolutionist has nothing but vast periods of time, random chance events, and the ever-changing ideas of man to base his worldview upon. While the one who holds to Creation has his beliefs firmly rooted in the truths contained in the Bible and a personal God who created everything. I loved this university. I loved teaching my students. But one thing got in my way. Led to my downfall. It wasn't until I was visited by a new friend that I came to realize it. And it was not you Marcus. I blamed you, but it was not you. It was me and my pride. I was the one who was at fault twelve years ago, not in what I was teaching but in how I went about it. I should have taught my students to look at both sides of the evidence realizing that everyone individually has to make their own choice. Either you are going to look at life through men's ideas or God's word. So if evolution, follow where that leads. If God, then serve the Lord. We can't prove anything here tonight, we can only present theories. You can chance your eternity on the views of Freud and Darwin if you want. I'm putting my trust in Jesus Christ who died on the cross for my sins, was buried and rose again on the third day. I know some of you will call that stupidity. I am calling it humility. And I will trust and I will follow Christ and wait on the hope of eternal life that He offers. May you find that same hope. [Music continues] Marcus, I'm sorry for my attitude and I held bitterness towards you for a long time. I hope you can find it in your heart to forgive me. [Music continues] Professor Kaman. Is there anything that you'd like to add'? [Music continues] Okay, that concludes our evening everyone. Our next debate will be November 14th presented by the business department with a discussion about government spending. We hope to see you then. Than ks for coming. [Crowd moving out] [Crowd chatter] [Crowd chatter] Evan. Thank you for all your help. I couldn't have done it without you. You're welcome. It was a pleasure meeting you. Same here. Keep in touch. Yes sir. Your Dad did good. [Music] SECRETARY: Great job with the debate last night Professor. Yeah, it was a... interesting. Yeah, it was a... interesting. [Music] [Keyboard typing] Hey buddy, interested in making a hundred bucks'? One Hundred dollars? Yeah. Just let me crack three eggs over your head and it's yours. Yeah'? Yeah. Show me the hundred first. Can I talk to you for a minute'? Yeah, sure. First I wanted to thank you for helping my Dad. And second, I wanted to apologize for how I acted. I'm sorry I gave you so much opposition. I lost perspective but I'm back on track with the Lord. God used you in my life and I wanted thank you. You're welcome. That's it. See ya. See ya. [Music] Rachel! What are you doing Saturday afternoon? [Music] You stood before creation. Eternity in your hand. You spoke the earth into motion. My soul now to stand. [Music] Okay this spot, right here. What about it'? You ever been here before? Yeah, I told you lots of time for family reunions. Would you look at that, on the ground'? It's a fifty cent piece. Do you remember that'? What'? What I just did'? Took the fifty cent piece from your hand? Think Rachel. Think back to when you were ten years old. You saw a fifty cent piece on the ground and some little boy came up and grabbed it from you when you found it. I do remember. How did you know'? Did my Dad tell you'? Yeah, your father told me. But that little boy was me. What'? Eight years ago, you and I met here at this very spot. We were throwing stones into the river when you saw a fifty cent piece on the ground. I came and snatched it out of your hand when you picked it up. Just stole it from you. My Dad saw the whole thing and he used that incident to show me how I needed Christ. So on that day, this selfish little boy became a Christian. You see Rachel, God used you in my life. I wanted to say thank you. [Music continues] You're welcome. [Music continues] You know that little restaurant up past the bridge? [Music continues] I'd be happy to treat you to lunch. [Music continues] Alright. Yeah, I think I'd like that. [Music continues] So, what could I say and what could I do? But offer this heart Oh God, completely to you. So I'll stand with arms high and heart abandoned in awe of the one who gave it all. I'll stand my soul Lord to you surrendered, all I am is yours. I'll stand with arms high and heart abandoned in awe of the one who gave it all. I'll stand my soul Lord to you surrendered, all I am is yours. I'll stand with arms high and heart abandoned in awe of the one who gave it all. I'll stand my soul Lord to you surrendered, all I am is yours. All I am is yours, all I am is yours. [Music]
