 

                        1 That's funny. That's appropriate, isn't it? How does that go? Let's see... The jingle bells are jingling The streets are white with snow The happy crowds are mingling But there's no one that I know I'm sure that you'll forgive me If I don't enthuse I've come down With those Christmas blues I've done my window shopping There's not a store that I missed But what's the use of stopping? When there's no one on your list You'll know the way I'm feeling When you love and you lose Then you'll have the Christmas blues When somebody wants you Somebody needs you Christmas is a joy of joys But friends, when you're lonely You'll find that it's only a thing For little girls and little boys May all your days be merry Your season full of cheer But 'til it's January I'm going to go disappear Yeah, Santa may have brought you Stars for your shoes All Saint Nick brought me Was the Christmas blues Those brightly-packaged Tinsel-covered Christmas... Blues - Merry Christmas. - I'm not here. - Mr. Murray's suite. - I'm already dead. - Yes, of course. - The answer's no. - Who is it? - Your producers, Mr. Murray. They're outside. They've heard your beautiful voice, sir. - God hates me. - Forgive me, Mr. Murray. But God is your biggest fan. Number one fan. Truly a huge fan, Mr. Murray. - You really think so? - Number one, sir. Number one. - Hey! - Hey! Murray Christmas! - Get it? - Yeah... - Wow, you look festive. - I would lose those antlers. Has anyone shown up for this thing? - We're here. - Yeah, so that's one friend. - Paul's here. - Yeah, Paul's here. I wouldn't miss this nutty gig for the world. What are you worried about? Come on. Let's do the show. - Chop, chop. - There's no one moving in the whole city. The airports are closed. The trains are closed. The buses and bridges and tunnels are not working. A couple of saloons have closed. The entire city of New York is shut down. And you're expecting me to go downstairs and do a show? - Anything that's fun is always hard. - That's right. Oh, it's a miracle. You two are going to shut up for a second. - Please be George. - Please be George. - Hey. - Is it George Clooney? - Is it Clooney? - Is it Clooney? - Is he on the phone? - Please, God, let it be Clooney. How did you get this number? Now, you'd better tell me because I'm going to find out. I am working. Don't ever do this again. Ever. You got it? - My sister. - Family is important. I need you to produce! - Okay. - Okay. - How do we cancel this? - Okay. I understand why you're frustrated. I would be frustrated, too. Maybe we shouldn't do it. - Bev, should we cancel it? - Okay. You two, grow up. The satellite is bought and paid for and non-refundable. - So we can't cancel. - You've got to try to cancel. - We placed all the ads, man. - Which is so exciting! - The network has been pro-mo'ing this. - They are very jazzed about it. And I don't want to tell you how personally on the hook you are for this. You do not want to get sued, Bill. You don't want to be personally on the hook. That is scary. So we've got some weather issues. Hold on, Bev. Bill might have a right. Maybe... Bill has a contractual right to do the best fucking Christmas show that he can. Let me guess. You're the bad cop. Yeah, I'm sorry. That was a little over the top. Hey. - Think of the troops. - Yeah. Right? And the kids in hospitals. And pets outside. I need my antlers! You always forget them. - Jackpot! Here we go. - Thanks, Paul. Come on. Here we go. Here we go. No, no, no, no. No elevator. The little guys in uniforms who run these things couldn't make it in today. Yeah, we're walking. A little exercise is not going to kill you. - Come on. - Goodness me. Dimitri, hold onto these. Oh, the weather outside is frightful But the fire is so delightful And since we've no place to go Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow Let it snow... This is your idea of a Christmas special? This is a national disgrace. Alright, stand down, Double D. He's just a Hollywood sleaze bag. I don't even know how to express my shame in this moment. The Murricane skulking down the back stairs like some 25-dollar-an-hour Twin Cities hooker. Go away. I told you. I don't want a manager, especially you. Maybe not. But you definitely need one. Bill, Billy, this sad excuse for a Christmas special... No harm intended... Oh, none taken. Seems more like a Christ-mess, as in, what a mess! We have George Clooney. I rest my case. You saw Monuments Men? - I was in it. - Number what? Seven on the call sheet? - You were so good in that. - You were great. You were very good. What I'm saying is we all love George, right? He and I are close. He's a citizen of the world. But we need size. We need edge. If security had come in today, I would be calling them right now. Look, just sign with me today, okay? I know you're a big fish. But you're not going to snap my line, okay? I'm hanging on tight. Here's our Murricane special. Blimp shot down into Dallas Cowboys Stadium... - Done it. - Retractable roof opens. - 80,000 screaming fans. - Yeah. What? You do it in post. Camera zooms in. We see Miley Cyrus wearing a sexy red mini skirt, sitting on a white sleigh. - You run in... - Miley's in Tahoe. I know Miley. And that may or may not be true. Okay, you just have to go away. I'm sorry. Please just go as far away as your company will send you. Miss, could you check him, please? Thank you. I've heard that one. You better check yourself, Bill. You better run like a thief from this car wreck. Total disaster. Total disaster. Are you an actress? Tonight, Christmas Eve, from the legendary Hotel Carlyle in New York, Bill Murray and his celebrity friends gather... See, Bill? Easy peasy. We cut from you here live on stage, to your guests' pre-taped reaction shots. No one knows you aren't in the same room together. Boom, done. - A Christmas miracle. - You've got to be kidding. This is from last year's Golden Globes. That's not going to match. Yeah, match it... What does it have to match? It's all just fantasy, right? I mean, we're the weavers of dreams. We're the makers of merry. - This is all just an illusion. - Absolutely. It's all an illusion, Bill. That's Brad Pitt and Angelina. They're in Africa. And it's daytime in Africa. They're not in New York at Bemelmans. They're in Africa. Those are huts. Who sees a hut? Come on. Bill, calm down and trust us. Were you nominated for an Emmy for producing the SAG awards? - No. - Neither were we. So get up there and do the show. We go live in 90 seconds. Bill, I think it's a blessing that these people didn't show up. Because now it's your time, you know. The universe gives us many gifts. It's whether or not we receive them. - That's right. Receive the gift. - This job is always surprising me. - I'm so alone. - Okay, Bill... - You know... - We're with you... You know, you and I... we're not in the same business. Okay, there he goes. He's going. Bill, I don't want to pressure you, but one minute until air. Five cameras. I like our chances of someone getting it right. 60 seconds! He's going up. Let's get ready. Are you ready, Paul? - Ready! - Alright. - What are we doing? - Let's jingle those bells, buddy. We're going live in five seconds, everyone. Is there a microphone or do we imagine that, too? - Use your stage voice. - Yeah. You're on stage. There we go. Look. - We've got one sound guy. - Swing the camera. The other way. You people are disgusting. - You're looking great up there. - Crushing it. We're going live on air. Stand by. Everyone set? We're live on TV in... eight, seven, six, five, four, three... Make it great. Two... Go, Bill! Dashing through the snow In a one horse open sleigh Over fields we go Laughing all the way Ha, ha, ha! This is a nightmare. I can't do this. I'm sorry, Ivan. - I can't do this. - Cut the tape! I'm sorry. I'm supposed to be laughing. I want to weep, okay? Go to commercial. I am weeping. I am weeping. I've never wept on a stage. This is a first. I just can't do this. I'm sorry. We've got to... I don't know. Show an old football game or something. I just can't do this. Total disaster. I've got to run. I've got to hide. Oh, it's freezing out there. Oh, God... Oh, it's cold! I should have quit right then and there. I should have stopped right then and there. I'd give anything for a guest. Any kind of medium, half-talented fool. Whoa! Wait a minute. - Bill Murray! - Chris Rock! Chris! Chris! Bill, what are you doing here in the biggest blizzard in the world, man? - Don't leave. Don't leave. - I'm not... Don't leave. Stay, Chris. Stay. Go around. You can't go that way. - Counter-clockwise. Counter-clockwise. - Counter-clockwise! The other way. - Counter-clockwise. You are such a pro! - It's a pleasure. Counter-clockwise. Chris! What's up, man? How did you get uptown? - Subway. - They shut down the subway. They are. They are. I had to walk on the rails, man. - Sit down with me, buddy. - I'm sitting down, man. What's going on? What's all this stuff? Well, I'm supposed to be doing a live TV show. - Okay. - Live Christmas special. - Are you in it? - It just started. - I'm the only one. - Oh, man. You're doing a live special in the middle of the biggest blizzard of the year. That is so you, Bill. That is so you. - But now you're here. - Yeah. - And it's us. - No! - Yeah! - No! - Dust off the pipes a little bit. Sing a... - I don't sing, Bill. - You sing. You're a rapper. - I don't rap. Do you know me? Some... You can do it, Chris. You've got to help me. You can be the guy that saved Christmas. I don't want to... I can save your Christmas. But what about mine? I've got to get out of here. I've got stuff to do. I've got to get home and build stuff. I've got to build a Malibu Barbie Beach House. - You can't leave. You're trapped here. - Bill. - No way you get out of here. - Bill. Now, look. All you've got to do is come in, sing a couple of songs. Dance a little bit, you know. We'll put you in some cool clothes. And I swear on my life I will get you on the first snowmobile in the morning. Bill, I barely know you, okay? - I just met you... - This is our chance! - Where's your boys? - Let's hang! We've got to hang! Where's George Clooney? Matt Damon or John Goodman? Your boys! Why am I here? Maybe you should postpone this. Do it a little later. Is there any way? No. I've got to go, Bill. There is no fucking way I am doing a live television special. No way. I think I'm hearing you. Look who's here, everybody! Said the night wind to the little lamb - Do you see what I see? - Do you see what I see? Way up in the sky, little lamb - Do you see what I see? - Do you see what I see? A star, a star, dancing in the night With a tail as big as a kite With a tail as big as a kite Said the little lamb To the shepherd boy Shepherd boy - Do you hear what I hear? - Do you hear what I hear? Ringing through the sky, shepherd boy Shepherd boy - Do you hear what I hear? - Do you hear what I hear? A song, a song, high above the trees With a voice as big as the sea With a voice as big as the sea Said the shepherd boy To the mighty king Mighty king - Do you know what I know? - Do you know what I know? In your palace warm, mighty king Mighty king - Do you know what I know? - Do you know what I know? A child, a child shivers in the cold Let us bring Him silver and gold Let us bring Him silver and gold Together. Said the king to the people everywhere Listen to what I say Listen to what I say - Pray for peace, people everywhere! - Everywhere! Listen to what I say Listen to what I say... Hold it. Wait a second. Is that us? - Chris? - Who cut the power? - Are we still... - Go to tape. Chris? With a voice as big as the sea Chris? Rocky? Don't try to step off of this. Where's Chris? He's gone. And so are we. Oh, my God. It's out on the entire Eastern seaboard. Pack it up, kids. We're out of here. Amazing. This is good news. Force majeure. Your contract was voided. You know what this means? You're off the hook. Insurance will cover all of this. Yeah. It's been a living hell. See you on the next one, Bill. Not if there's a God above. Well, thank you... Thank you, everyone. Have a merry Christmas. Okay. - Bill. - Paul. - Yeah? - Where are we going? - You haven't quit drinking yet, have you? - Should I? Good man. Chris and I sounded pretty good there for a minute or two. I was moved. Well, I thought it was beautiful. Ah, thank you. The heat's off in here, fellas. This will help keep you warm. Well, you, or this, is the nicest thing that's happened to me all day. To you... It's Christmas Eve. It's my favorite night of the year. The power is out. The storm is raging outside. We're in here all cozy. For now. For now. Have another sip. Warm up, hon. 'Cause, baby, it's cold outside. Can't you stick around? I really can't stay Baby, it's cold outside I've got to go away I'm not kidding. It's really cold out. This evening has been so very nice Been hoping that you'd drop in My mother will start to worry Your hands are like ice. Let me do this to you. And father will be pacing the floor Listen to that fireplace roar So really I'd better scurry You're too darn pretty to worry Well, maybe just a half a drink more Okay, you flip the records while I pour. The neighbors might think... Baby, it's really bad out there. Ooh, what's in this drink? You couldn't get a cab if your life depended on it. I wish I knew how To break this spell This is so corny, but your eyes look like starlight right now. I ought to say no, no, no, sir I'm going to move in much closer At least I'm going to say that I tried Duly noted, you have tried. I really can't stay Oh, baby, don't hold out on me, please. Ah, but it's cold outside Here, look at these hands of yours. This is ridiculous. Here, put them right under here. This is the second warmest spot on the human body. This is an old native trick. This can keep your fingers from freezing, turning black and falling off. I'd hate it if you could never wear gloves again. I don't think I could forgive myself. Here. Where's... Give me the other one. There's bound to be talk tomorrow Think of my life-long sorrow At least there will be plenty implied You get pneumonia and die, it'd be my fault. I really can't stay You've just got to trust me on this. Ah, but it's cold Outside Wow. You are so wasted on the hospitality industry. Oh, the chefs! I've got to go. - Oh, let me help. Paul, watch the piano. - Alright. The refrigerators are down. The chefs are freaking out. Hey, are you guys okay? She's dying. You mean she's melting. I mean dying. It's a catastrophe! It's a disaster! It's not a disaster, it's a celebration! Tonight will go down as the greatest night in the history of the Carlyle Hotel. Your beautiful food will not die. It will live forever. Because we will consume all of it! Now, quickly, form a human chain. Pass all the food. Up to the bar. All women, grab lobsters and vegetables. Men, any meat that's hanging. Someone get ice cream. You look like you'd like to have your photograph taken with me. What? I notice that seems to really cheer people up a lot when they do that. They get big smiles. I don't think that's really going to do the trick right now. I saw a cake. It looked a lot like a wedding cake. A lot... Is that yours? It was supposed to be. But now... no wedding. Because none of our family or friends or guests could make it in. So it's ruined. Well, you're preaching to the choir. We had to cancel everything. Our dream Bahamas honeymoon, everything. And then we're trapped in here, so sad and angry and things just have gotten... Elliot, my fianc, and I just started fighting. Yeah, I bet. So Elliot caused the blizzard. That bastard. He ruined my TV special. Where is he? I think he's in the bar. Well, he's a little smart. Want to come in? They're giving away lobster. You know, I have a theory about getting married. And when I fall in love, I have vowed to practice it. Would you like to hear it? Not really. - Cool... - Thanks. Alright, well, if you get hungry or thirsty... Oh, this is an improvement. This is much better. Much, much better. Something is missing, though. We've got food. We've got booze. We've got attractive people. - We need music. Christmas music. - Oh, music. We need someone to sing a Christmas carol. We need a volunteer and that person is going to be you, Dimitri. Come on, you Macedonian madman. No, Mr. Murray, please. No, no, no. I can't. You've got to dig deep in your history. You've got to go deep, to your childhood, your infancy, if necessary, and just bring us a Christmas carol. A one, two... On the first day of Christmas my... You're not a singer. And we don't have time to find out if you're a dancer. Let's try this fellow. Scooter, give us something. I know you know something. Come on. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. You guys... are both not working out right. Come on, my little brandy angel. You've got... Look at you. I can... Something... Good King Wenceslas looked out On the feast of Stephen When the snow lay round about Cool and crisp and even I could watch you sing that all night long. But no one knows the second verse, am I right? No one? - You're done with it, right? - Yeah. Sorry. Okay... I'm going to you guys. You're going to be my Hail Mary. How about you fellas play something that nobody knows. A pleasure. Key of "D"? Sure, yes. When you find for some sad reason You're alone this Christmas season And the joys of home grow dimmer Just like a memory's distant glimmer Mr. Sandman, I need help. When your love and you are parted Can you get in here? Just hit it. Just you. Just... Just... Do it. It's sad, I say, when you're away You're a natural. From love on Christmas Day Why the sadness? You got to move on When there should be gladness Keep moving on All you can do is keep moving on Time is mending You've got to move on Pain, too, has its ending Keep moving on Know in your heart It soon will be gone Whether cruising the lonely highway Or jetting miles high Through some skyway When you've reached your destination Awaiting baggage from the station When you see some happy greeters It can make your bitter sweeter But still for real, it's sad to feel Alone on Christmas Day Why the sadness? You got to move on When there should be gladness Keep moving on All you can do is keep moving on Time is mending You've got to move on Pain, too, has its ending Keep moving on Know in your heart It soon will be gone And you guys can cook, too. Wow, you're going to be a real catch. You're Elliot. - How'd you know that? - I'm the Ghost of Christmas Present. I'm here to warn you. Sorry, sir, but I'm not in the mood. For love. The question is, are you in the mood for a lifetime of regret and loneliness? Please go away. I can't. I'm a ghost. I've got to keep haunting and haunting and haunting. There's a lovely girl in the lobby, crying. And not over her dead wedding cake. - See you in a minute. - Wait... Peaches, love's got an up button and a down button and you decide which one to push. What? You ever try a "soiled kimono"? - No. I... - Just drink it. That's it. There you go. And listen. Hey, Paul. Christmas The snow's coming down Christmas I'm watching it fall Christmas Lots of people around Christmas Baby, please come home Christmas The church bells in town Christmas Are ringing in song Christmas What a happy sound Christmas Baby, please come home They're singing "Deck the Halls" But it's not like Christmas at all 'Cause I remember when you were here And all the fun we had last year Christmas Pretty lights on the tree Christmas I'm watching them shine Christmas You should be here with me Christmas Baby, please come home They're singing "Deck the Halls" But it's not like Christmas at all 'Cause I remember when you were here And all the fun we had last year Christmas If there was a way Christmas I'd hold back these tears Christmas But it's Christmas Day Please Please Please Please Please, please, please, please Baby, please come home Oh Baby, please come home Baby, please come home Oh Whoo Oh Please come home Baby, please come Hey Oh Hey Yeah! Does anyone want a piece of cake? I think she means you. Okay, now tell me your theory of love. Well, it's really more of a philosophy. Whatever. Try to remember the specific moment... the exact second when you knew that you were really in love. Not a time or a date or a trip. But the instant that you knew for sure you were in love. And then what? And then sing about it. To you? To each other. But I'll probably listen. It was late last night I was feeling something wasn't right There was not another soul in sight Only you, only you So I walked along Though I knew That there was something wrong 'Cause the feeling I had Was so strong About you Then you gazed up at me And the answer was plain to see 'Cause I saw the light In your eyes In your eyes Though we had our fling I just never would suspect a thing Until that little bell began to ring In my head, in my head But I tried to run Though I knew it wouldn't help me none 'Cause I couldn't ever love no one So I said 'Cause my feelings for you Were just something I never knew 'Til I saw The light In your eyes In your eyes Do-do-be-do Do-do-do-do But I love you best It's not something that I say in jest 'Cause you're different, girl From all the rest In my eyes And I ran out before But I won't do it anymore Can't you see the light In my eyes In my eyes In my Eyes Will you marry me? Yes. By the power invested in me by the Writers Guild of America, the Screen Actors Guild and the Directors Guild... I'm also on the wait list to the Teamsters Union... I now pronounce you two officially reengaged. It's 12:01. Merry Christmas, everybody. Merry Christmas. - Merry Christmas. - Alright. Merry Christmas. We're going to have to make a Christmas decision. It's either Slovenia or Mexico, folks. It's your choice. Here we go! It was Christmas Eve, babe In the drunk tank An old man said to me Won't see another one And then he sang to me "The Rare Old Mountain Dew" I turned my face away And dreamed about you Got on a lucky one Came in 18 to 1 I got a feeling This year's for me and you So happy Christmas I love you, baby I can see a better time When all our dreams come true They've got cars big as bars They've got rivers of gold And the wind goes right through you It's no place for the old When you first took my hand On a cold Christmas Eve You promised me Broadway was waiting for me You were handsome You were pretty The Queen of New York City When the band finished playing They howled out for more Sinatra was swinging The drunks were all singing We kissed on a corner And danced through the night The boys of the NYPD choir Were singing "Galway Bay" And the bells were ringing out For Christmas Day I could have been someone Well, so could anyone You took my dreams from me When I first found you I kept them with me, babe I put them with my own Can't make it all alone I've built my dreams around you And the boys of the NYPD choir Were singing "Galway Bay" And the bells were ringing out For Christmas Day And the bells were ringing out For Christmas Day And the bells were ringing out For Christmas Day Hey Oh, dear... Oh. Just hear those sleigh bells jingling Ring-ting-tingling, too Come on, it's lovely weather For a sleigh ride together with you Outside the snow is falling And friends are calling "Yoo-hoo" Come on, it's lovely weather For a sleigh ride together with you George! You made it! Well, there was traffic, so I caught a sleigh. And you brought Miley Cyrus. - Of course. - It's her sleigh. Hey, save your money. Flying private, you know... - It's the reindeers that'll get you. - Oh, yeah? Trust me. Our cheeks are nice and rosy And comfy cozy are we We're snuggled up together Like birds... - Hello, Paul. - So nice to see you. - I thought I'd make a Martini or two. - This is the place to do it. Sing a chorus or two Come on, it's lovely weather For a sleigh ride together with you Ding-a-ling-a-ling-a-ding dong ding Ding-a-ling-a-ling-a-ding dong ding - Hello, ladies. - Oh, my goodness. The girls are here. Hi, ladies. Are you interested in a Martini? Just hear those sleigh bells ringling Jing-ting-tingling, too Come on, it's lovely weather For a sleigh ride together with you Outside the snow is falling And friends are calling "Yoo-hoo" Come on, it's lovely weather For a sleigh ride together with you Ding-a-ling-a-ling-a-ding dong ding Yeah! Well... that is wonderful. Wonderful. These kids have got something to do. Let's go make ourselves scarce. Gosh, it's beautiful isn't it? Yeah. For a sound stage in Queens... Silent night Holy night All is calm All is bright Round yon virgin mother and child Holy infant So tender and mild Sleep in heavenly Peace Sleep in heavenly peace Silent night Holy night Shepherds quake At the sight Glory stream from heaven above Heavenly hosts sing halleluiah Christ the savior Is born Christ the savior is born Silent night Holy night All is calm And all is bright Round yon virgin mother and child Holy infant So tender and mild Sleep in heavenly Peace Sleep in heavenly Peace Now Mama's in the kitchen cookin' The children all fast asleep It's time for Santa Claus To make his midnight creep because Santa Claus wants some loving Santa Claus wants some loving Santa Claus wants some loving now Yeah, I know There's something real pretty Underneath the Christmas tree But I ain't had no lovin' all week It's beginning to worry me because Santa Claus wants some loving Santa Claus wants some loving Santa Claus wants some loving Santa Claus wants some loving I've been trying to find This old bicycle I can't seem to find my pliers I'm halfway watchin' Mama For that sleepy look in her eyes because Santa Claus wants some loving Santa Claus wants some loving Santa Claus wants some loving Break it down for me will ya, Paul? Now, holy-moly... Alibaba and the 40 Thieves... What size shoe is that anyway? Is that a seven-and-a-half, eight? Or is that an eight-and-a-half, nine? Could... Yeah... You're... You're awful fine but I don't think you're mine. You know there's no place like home for the holidays and... I think I'd like you to take me home or vice versa. I don't want no turkey I don't care if I get any cake I just want you to come back here, Mama Before the children wake Santa Claus wants some loving You're driving me crazy, Mama. Santa Claus wants some loving Santa Claus wants some loving Now Christmas is for the children And I want them to be real pleased But right now, Mama It's Christmas Eve Come make your pappy happy Pretty please Santa Claus wants some loving Santa Claus wants some loving Santa Claus wants some loving Santa Claus wants some loving I am the king of Christmas. Oh! Oh! Knock it off! Knock it off! Come on! I can't breathe! Oh, the weather outside is frightful But the fire is so delightful And since we've no place to go Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow It doesn't show signs of stopping And I brought some corn for popping The lights are turned way down low Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow When we finally kiss goodnight How I hate going out in the storm But if you really hold me tight All the way home I'll be warm And the fire is slowly dying And my dear, we're still goodbyeing But as long as you love me so Let it snow Let it snow Let it snow Look out, old Santa is back. Thank you. Merry Christmas, Mr. Murray. Is it Christmas? All day. That's good. Thank you, Dimitri. Not too bad. We wish you a merry Christmas We wish you a merry Christmas We wish you a merry Christmas And a happy new year Good tidings we bring To you and your kin Good tidings for Christmas And a happy new year - Merry Christmas, Bill. - Merry Christmas, Paul. - Merry Christmas, Mr. Murray. - Merry Christmas, Dimitri. Merry Christmas, everyone. Young lady, cheers to you. - Cheers. - Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Young lady, my ass.
