 

                        People know the truth. Without proper license, Rao brothers are quarrying. What's your comment? Whoever does this our Govt won't stay quiet. Open the gate. - What's the matter? You 1st open the gate. l can't do that without my owner's permission. He refuses to open the gate without his owner's permission. Useless fellow! l've bribed these politicians generously and still... ...no one to pull us out of such a mess. This is all we get out of trusting them! Make sure you stash away ...all the gold and cash that's in our house. l'll do it right now, bro. First disconnect all phones. Let all the ladies be made to wait in one room. Have you locked the main gate? Go ahead and check. Who are you? Who let you in? Communication from this house is taboo. How dare you not answer my question? Landline to be disconnected. l'm Afzhar Hussain, Deputy Superintendent of Police from CBl. Krishna Babu, Additional Commissioner. From lncome tax department. Who are you? You are ordering me in my own house? Why are you sitting quietly without protesting? Why have you come here? Madam, don't shout. Go and sit in that room. Who are you? Move aside. How dare you order my wife? Talk to my lawyer. Hello! From this moment this house is under our control. We won't allow anyone inside. You cannot call anyone either. Confiscate his phone. Are you the inspector for this area? l've never seen you before. Why are you silently watching all this? Why don't you talk? Please proceed. Srinivasan, take them inside. Check here. Both of you accompany me. My owner will want lunch to be served at 1:00 p.m. Your owner will go hungry today. Sit quiet and don't call anyone till the raid is over. Are your respective wives also partners in your company? Or just you both? Remove this screen. lf they are partners, what is their source of income? Parents' property. l need proof. We own 20-25 companies. Only our auditor can provide proof. You are so incoherent. Where are you going? l'll drink some water. l'll get it for you. Get him some water. List out everything. Nothing should be missed out. Clarify with me if you have doubts. File information properly. Over? Are you done with your procedure? Check once and then sign. lf anything is missing, l'll be held responsible. Sign. Please sign, sir. Can l talk to you personally? You can talk right here in front of everybody. We can...settle this amicably. Tell me what % you want. Yes, sir. Are you trying to bribe me? Keep your vices to yourself. Don't teach me to earn the wrong way. Please sign. Pack everything. You must come with me to my office for further enquiries. Bring them both in my car. We are leading a respectful life in this city. Please give us permission to travel in our car. We cannot allow that Come with me. Give me the phone. l'll be waiting in my office. Be there in the next half hour. Rao, for one week fully your matter was discussed. The entire assembly was in an uproar. Opposite party, press, media are bound to enquire about us. Then answer. We feed you with enough comfort, right? Wasn't that reason enough for you to defend us, Kothapeta Subbarao? What am l saying and what are you blabbering? Don't act as if you are innocent. As soon as you gave your interview... ...CBl and income tax department raided my house. Subbarao, don't think l'm the only one caught. Chief minister and you also feature in the hard disc. lf something untoward happens, l will not spare you or the officer. What kind of political connection do you have? CM would have listed 100 such enquiry commissions. Will everything get processed immediately. Won't l inform you if l knew you'll be raided? You spin some story that some officer came and hauled at all? Something's wrong somewhere. Someone has ripped us off. You find him first. What happened, bro? Can you hear me? lf our names are in the hard disc we know to save our skin. Find out who the culprit is before the news gets out of hand. Otherwise l'll have to discuss your raid in the assembly. Who came to my place then? You find out. That's your job. Ask him who the officer is and his address, bro. Why did you disconnect without asking for details? He wasn't even an officer! Ameer's AADHl BHAGAVAN There is no one resembling this face in our team, bro. l've never seen anyone like this. Have you? What about you? l don't know. - What do you know? l don't know, bro. His appearance is so deceptive! Only educated people are involved in such murders. l'm sure he is not from Andhra. How do you say this? Knowing you both will anyone dare come to raid your place? He has got involved in this game without realizing the power you weild! There is no such decent rowdy in our entire area, he's an outsider 'Pattaya - Thailand' A memento from Andhra. Adhi, do you think l'm a kid? Buying me a toy? What's interesting in this? lf you laugh it will imitate you. Whatever you do, it will also do. Where's my share? ls that all? lt's all in dollars. This won't do. l want 50% this time. Why? You know the amount l captured...then why so less? Adhi, master plan is mine. My master brain executed it. Do you wish to come up in 1 day? Or go up straight? You wanted to know what's interesting in that toy? lf you laugh it will imitate you. lf l command it will explode! Only the doll is made in lndia, boss. Unfortunately the RDX inside is made in Germany. Remote alone is 'buy 1 get 1 free'. How can you antagonize him and continue this business here? When we've decided to make money we shouldn't care a damn about this. lt's not important whom we run with... but who forges ahead! lf he finishes you off...? We should move forward. - What are you implying? Why are you so shocked? Without hassling either of us, Sam himself will do the planning. lt's not good for him to be alive for long. How are you, ma? How long will you continue not talking to me? l'm just 10 kms away from you. You didn't even want to visit me even once, did you? Why are you shutting the door on my face? You think l'm the only one making a mistake in this world! Nothing is wrong. We came to this city to toil hard, right? Didn't one chap swindle us completely? When we lost everything and stood in the roads, it hurt, ma. That's why l got into this frenzy to earn. We were together, when we were struggling. Now you live aloof and away from me when we are affluent. Come and see what l've earned. All that is for only Prabha and you. lt doesn't feel good without you in that house, ma. You don't want to understand my feelings. She wants to know your name. lndra Sunderamurthy. Here? Prabha. Where has Prabha gone off to making you do all the work? She's gone to study some new course. How did you get so much money, da? l got a job, no? What kind of job? Why do you want to know all that? l just want you both to be happy, that's all. To whom does all this money belong to? What a question! l earned it. ln which crooked way? Don't, Adhi. Don't follow your dad's footsteps. Only because that man was into wrong kind of dealings... ...l brought you both here to this city to lead a new life. Have you also started now? Why are you suspecting me unnecessarily? lt's easy to earn in this city. You've started lying to me. Whatever the city maybe you cannot earn this much. Don't lament. Put the money inside. You won't realize its flavor. Serve me some food. Are you mad or what? Wait...don't go, ma. Hey! Prabha. Do you also want to suffer along with her? Just keep quiet and follow me. l don't consider him as my son any more. 'Andheri - Mumbai' A week later. Moron...concentrate on what you are doing. Commissioner Office Hydrabad Where is he? Cool down, Mr Rao. He is safe inside. Where is he? Why are you creating such a ruckus? His name is Malla Reddy. He was jobless for the past 1 year. Did you ask him about Afzhar Hussain? As if we need his story?! However much we hit him he claims he doesn't know. Sir, don't hit me. What are you doing? Which area is he in? How do you know him? l swear l don't know him, sir. Ever since l was a kid... ...l always wanted to enroll in the police department. He said he'd pay me well to act as a Sub-lnspector. So l agreed. Ask him not to harass him. l'll trace him for you within a week. You guys promised and l want him caught somehow. What can l do? Your chap is not in Tamil Nadu crime list. Give me some time. l'll get him for you wherever he is. Does it still hurt? Tamil?! What do you want, sir? You haven't answered me. That shouldn't be your concern. Tell me soon. Boss wants me. Doesn't matter, tell me. Does it hurt? l'm not that kind of girl! My name is Karishma. My mother's from Tamil Nadu. My dad is from Mumbai. Heavy loss in his business. So he had to face many problems because of that. Last 3 years he's bedridden. That's why l had to work. The chap who hit me in the restaurant is related to me. He was fine in the beginning. Then he began to torture me to use me and make money. l'm unable to escape form here. l decided to kill myself. They brought me here depriving me of even that chance. l'll ensure you don't have any problems hereafter. You saved me today. l can't expect the same every time. Who is he? - l don't know. Tell me. l'm telling you, l don't know. Don't try to fool me. He'll hit my men and spirit you away. But you don't know him?! l don't know. Then why did you run away? You better live with the guy l ask you to. Otherwise l'll kill you. l can't do that. Go ahead and kill me. How will you being dead fatten my wallet? Did you intend settling with some random chap once for all lifelong? l won't let you settle for 1 man. Unless l change a guy for you every 6 months... ...l can fatten my wallet. You are the knight in shining armor? l don't need your history. Do you know her price? Did you think you can take her for free? lf l ever see you following her... ...you'll be lying in a pool of blood right there. There's no compulsion you need to stay with me because l paid for you! You decide lt's your call. You rescued me not knowing anything about me. lf you'd left me behind my whole life would've been ruined. l might have even died. l can't even think... ...of a safer place than being with you. For making you my guardian angel... ...l just have to thank God (sacred chants) You don't even have the heart to bless me, right? Go...don't look back, ma. You don't need to bless me but can at least say get lost! l'll then feel happy. Consider your son dead. Who are you to tell me my son is dead? So l am your son, right? l had a son. He used to lend his shoulder and lap to his sister and me. When l brought him to this city, l lost him. l asked God to give that son back to me. Not a scoundrel like you. He never owned a car or a bungalow. He doesn't know to parade like this! He was so gullible. You are a notorious criminal in this city. Are the 2 of you lf you ever talk ill of my son...? Whoever abandons you, l'll always be with you. l'll do anything for you. ''With the wind l swayed And my love l weighed'' ''l flew to feel your caress l surprised myself l guess'' ''Oh! Like these clouds ethereal l seem to dissolve and disappear'' ''True or false l don't inspect Advocate became the architect'' ''l rode piggyback on stars that shone Hundreds of continents l have flown'' ''lnto you l did drown'' ''Walk with the wind l treasured And my love l measured'' ''Spirit of my soul split into two My fragmented youth dazed anew'' ''Bedrock melted, enjoyed Two pairs of eyes rejoiced'' ''Blue sky, my head caresses Words within me paint verses'' ''Why did you and me Without a query become we?'' ''lnto my breath you merged true You unlocked me to me and you'' ''Who are you? An address l knew'' ''My lips play the shy game Tongue imprints your name'' ''ln love's drizzle l sizzle for you Are your eyes parasol too?'' ''Dumbstruck l melt, l soften Your words, my reply often'' ''As a fan l looked for my icon ln you l submerged thereupon'' ''Climbing on the back of lightning l crossed continents rejuvenating'' Don't hit me. Kiss me. - Another day. Why did you ask me to come here? She's my sister. So what? l know that. That's why l came here. Do you love her? No...no, she's the one who loves me sincerely. Ask her. True love. Baby, haven't you told your brother about us? Should l ask you permission to date her? l intend kissing her now. Should l ask you permission for that too? Let me go. know how much you love me. Do you love him? - Yes, l do. He isn't right for you. - l'll be the judge of that l'm not a kid. Please understand. But grown-up enough to decide for yourself?! He is simply beating around the bush. Take what you want. Let her go. She's innocent. Bro, listen to... - Just shut up. You fill what you want. What do you know about me? You think l love your sister for your money? Put your money inside. Look at his attitude. How will you ever get along with him? Ditch him. You were the one who said nothing is wrong. Don't force me unnecessarily. He will reform. l can't think of anyone else as my spouse. Don't touch me. l did this for you. Get lost. Listen to me. You are a murderer. He was not right for you. Don't cry. Why did you take him away from me? Where are you going? You are angry only with your son. So why ignore me? What's the use of him as her elder brother? She found a life for herself. Why put an end to even that? You are misjudging him. He did it for Prabha's good. He himself isn't good. How can he do good for others? Being his mother how can you say this? You keep quiet. You influenced him in this wrong path. He has now stooped to murder. Look, my dear. l don't even know you. You are a new addition. At least to you ask him to be true. Every time you left like this in a hurry, you changed him. lf you had stayed behind and advised him... ...he'd have reformed. Be patient for a while. l'll bring the Adhi you expect to see. Adhi, where are you now? l'm coming to floating market. Not there. Where? Ship yard? Why did you change the venue? l met your mother yesterday. l've promised to bring you to see her. Shall we go? Let's go tomorrow. No, let's go now. l'll be there. l have an assignment. We'll go after you are done with it. Do you know where l'm heading now? Sam, Wesley refuses to do business with us anymore. Why? Wesley has found out Adhi is not with us any longer. He wants to deal with Adhi directly. We mustn't take this lightly. He'll soon become more powerful than us. Then no one will want to do business with us. Their meeting is confirmed. When? Sam, only Wesley and his team mates are here. Adhi is not here. You wait right there. Adhi will come there. Wait here for half an hour. Don't step out whatever happens. Their deal has begun. l'll do anything for money. lf anyone pays me to kill you, l won't hesitate either. Adhi...what's happening there? Take cover. Come down. l am scared. Be patient. Just a little longer. Do you know to sketch? ls this me? lt would be awesome if you looked like this! lf you hadn't been there that day, l won't be here today with any face! l thought l was rescuing you from trouble. ln the end actually you saved me from death's jaw. Mumbai Hyderabad commissioner has sent 2 men to meet you. Bring them in. - Greetings, sir. l've come from Hyderabad seeking your help. My name is Kondal rao. This is my brother, Hemanth rao. What do you want me to do? Joint commissioner Rajagopal told us you are looking for this man. lnform us when you catch him. l'm looking for him to kill him, not to inform you! We've been searching for him. And still haven't trapped him. l know he is not in Mumbai now. Whenever he shows up l'll be the one to kill him. Consider our request. We want him alive. lf this is the purpose of your visit you can leave this place right now. Escort these people out. Leave your address behind. Once l kill this rascal, you can come and see his dead body. How strange! We thought he'd get him for us. He's himself bent on killing him. Looks like we need to save him from this fellow! Be patient. Something fishy. We should first find out why Rana wants him. Do you truly love me? Why this sudden question? This moment right now... Will you marry me? Are you scared to live with me? Then? ln my life till now... ...not even one wish on my wish list has been fulfilled. Whatever l didn't expect seems to be happening now. lf l say 'no' there won't be a bigger idiot than me! Then why the tears? My father wants to see me. l don't have the heart to leave you in this condition. You go and visit your dad, l can take care of myself. lf l go by myself he will ask for you. He badly wants to meet you too. We'll leave for Mumbai tomorrow. That's your phone ringing. Who? - Dad. l'm coming. Yes, with him. l can't hear you. lf l don't pick up the phone can't you understand... ...that the coast is not clear?! Why have you been ignoring me? No calls from you for a whole week. lt's not as easy as you think. Many complications. l can't handle the pressure from the Commissioner and minister. Why do you keep repeating the same dialog? Can't you manage for 1 more day? Whatever happens l'll hand him over to you by tomorrow. There's someone looking for him here in Hyderabad. You ensure you don't get trapped by them. Come back safe and sound. l don't need anyone's advise. My plan is going like clockwork. Nothing should go amiss. Don't think you can scare me. l've never been scared of death. Just wait and see what will happen in Mumbai. Chinchi Watt Pune Please spare me, l didn't do anything. Don't do anything to him, Bhagawan. Forgive me Bhagavan. Police tortured me, that's why l told the truth. l never repeat it again. Spare my brother. Forgive me bhagavan. l'm not the God above to forgive immediately. l'm Mumbai's Bhagawan (God)! ''All around the world they call me Bhagawan'' ''You baby get to know the name, call me Bhagawan'' ''l will take your life in a flash Call me Bhagawan'' ''All around the world they call me Bhagawan''. Second half of this film around on Mumbai and surrounding areas. So some scenes are dubbed in Tamil, for viewer convenience. 'Wanted for murdering 15 victims including Central minister Bhaji Rao's brother.' 'Bhagawan was arrested last night according to police information.' 'When the press asked Assistant Commissioner Rana...' ...Sir, we heard you arrested Bhagawan last night, is it true? We chased him last night. But he somehow escaped. We've got information about his whereabouts. We'll find him within the next few days. You've been saying this for the past 6 months ls Bhagawan alive or have you killed him? Give me a few days time. l'll show him to you either dead or alive. You are lying. l got information that you have arrested him and he is in there. Come...come with me now. Whoever has any doubts can come straight in and check. We will definitely get Bhagawan. Don't unnecessarily doubt us. Where did you get hold of him? That's none of your business. He has changed his disguise. Open the bag. l'll pay you more if you want. l want this mongrel to die. Stop it! This is not the place to deal with money. What's wrong...? l'll come by in the evening and collect. Face the music for having been with him so long. ls this place safe? - Yes Sir. Couldn't you find a better place? - Officially this is ideal. Are you still alive? Don't you realize my influence? Why are you hitting me? Who are you? No one benefits with you being alive. l will kill you with my own hands. What do you think you are doing? l should have killed you the day you killed my brother! He escaped cleverly. Listen to me, l'll kill him officially. Listen to me, l'll kill him officially. You got saved now...but don't think you can escape. Traitor! You'll die only in my hands. Sir, wait for... Tell me who you are. l don't understand what you are saying. Tell me who you are. Whatever you said didn't make any sense to me. l'm not the man whom you are looking for. Trust me, l am not the man you want. They won't believe you however much you may shout. Who are you? Do you know why they have locked me up here? l know. What did they do to my Karishma...tell me. Do you mean your girl friend who accompanied you from Bangkok? She is not Karishma. Her name is Rani Sampada. Have you seen her before? l know who you are and who she is. l know how you came here. And that we'll both die. Why should l die? That's your fate? Who willed it? Bhagawan! Not the Lord above. Mumbai's Bhagawan (God). God will forgive you. But this Mumbai fellow will never forgive you. Because he is not God. He is a devil in God's disguise. Who is that Bhagawan? Tell me who he is? ''You know who l am'' ''l'm gonna kill you man'' ''Come test me'' ''Cheer'' ''Let's go'' ''Yeah'' ''Oh gee!'' ''King of the jungle! Name who can stop me'' ''You'll be thinking that l'm tripping'' ''But l'm really ready masserati'' ''Buddy anybody comin lookin for me anybody stepping to my zone'' ''You not leaving'' ''Annihilate destroy anything in my path'' ''l'm a physco an animal l kill with a wrath'' ''Set my mind on money'' ''And my money on my mind'' ''No time for honey 'cos the money on the grind'' ''l'm a hustla baby'' ''Originated gangsta'' ''Boss'' ''Killing everybody but the banka'' ''Watch'' ''You wanna turn this beat into a monsta..'' ''All around the world they call me Bhagawan'' ''You baby get to know the name'' ''They call me Bhagawan'' ''l will take your life in a flash'' ''Call me Bhagawan'' How are you Bhagawan? Take a seat. You too, Rani. What will you drink? Brandy or whisky? Romeo always likes red wine. What will you drink? Why did you want to see me? You know l've been in politics for past 25 years. But l've not climbed higher in the rank for the last 15 years. l have the same wish as other members of the party. To become central minister. l lost that chance twice. Now for the 3rd time... ...the offer has come in search of me. There's a problem. What? My brother's name in the final list is only as 2nd preference. member of parliament Venkatachalam. He is very powerful. Prime minister has great faith in him. l don't know for sure if l'll get a chance again. Bhagawan, l've done so much for you. Somehow make me the central minister. lt will work out good for all of us, no? lt is in your hands. Venkatachalam has an appointment day after with the prime minister. He should definitely not be chosen to go to Delhi. l'd like you to serve me. When should we go to Tamil Nadu? You don't have to. He is in Mumbai. We don't know where Deva will be. The minister already is under the security of Deva. We don't know where Deva will be. You may not know but l am fully aware where Deva is. Shall we go? Why are you walking off without saying anything? ls there a fashion show now? Why sudden appearance? Not for that. l just came to touch base with all the darlings. His hip movement is itself a fashion show! Don't pull a fast one on me. l know why you came in here. Out you go. You are already wanted by the police. Don't get trapped into unnecessary politics. Go and have your fun with her at home. l'm not in the mood for having a ball, darling. lf so, l'd have come to be with your wife! Don't stab me. Hotel Moon Walk, he is in room number 302. Why is he fast asleep? Sad that he'll die without knowing the reason. l am Kumar here, Get ready soon or you will miss the flight. Your appointment with the PM is confirmed for the evening. Thank you so much. Good morning Venkatachalam. How did you get in here? What were they doing at the reception? Don't be hasty. MP sir, you'll be a minister soon...? How can you be so blissfully unaware and asleep? l've been waiting for past 6 hours (im)patiently! Who the hell are you? Forget that. lf you are heading for Delhi why did you come to Mumbai? ls there no direct flight from Chennai to Delhi? ls Bhagawan supporting you? Gun is not firing. Not me. The good Lord above. Sit down. Venky darling, Bhaji Rao has a bad habit of pestering me to fulfill his wants. When did you step into politics? Would you have earned roughly 10 billion? Wasn't that enough for you? Will you earn even more by becoming a minister? Poor fellow...Bhaji Rao. Why can't he also be a minister for some time? You've enjoyed enough. Time to go up. There's a shortage of men in hell it seems. Let me explain. Not the good Lord, l am Bhagawan. Don't shoot ''All around the world they call me Bhagawan'' ''You baby get to know the name Call me Bhagawan'' ''l will take your life in a flash Call me Bhagawan'' Yes, Bhaji Rao is very happy. As per seniority, he should have become minister long back, no? Welcome, Bhagawan. Why such a late entry? Look over there lot of politicians. Lots of celebs from Bollywood. We've organized a special party for you upstairs. Please move to that hall. Please be seated. How is my blazer? l've bought a Ferrari sports car today. l'll come with you. Please do the honors. With such a beautiful girl like you beside him... ...why does Bhagawan behave like this? You are in the wrong place. l'm in a correct place. also a bar girl. Everyone who set eyes on me wanted to sleep with me. He was the only one who asked me... ...if l wanted to go home with him? For his happiness, l'll do anything for him. l'll give up anything. That wasn't what l wanted to say. l'm unable to turn a blind eye to all that's happening here. l didn't mean to disturb you. Minister's brother hated Rani being so fond of Bhagawan. At that time, Susheel called us to discuss an important deal. Will you never understand me? Please understand, l am not like Bhagawan. Why did you guys bring me here? Why did you bring me here? Hey...Bhagawan! lf my brother gets to know about this... ...he will surely kill you. You had the audacity to touch my soldier! l spared you. Why aren't you talking to me? Shut up! King! Now show your power. Go...move. Bhagawan, sorry! Don't do anything to him. He's blabbering in a drunken stupor. l'll take care of him. l'll apologize on his behalf, Bhagawan. You fool! Do you know whom you are talking to? He's intoxicated and unaware of his opponent's might. Just this once, please forgive him for me. Why are you pleading with him? ls she his wife that l shouldn't touch her? He has a ball with all the girls in town. Why does he have a problem if l touch his girl? Brother, you are a minister now. Shut up. Don't blabber like this. Why are you scared of this idiot? His name is Bhagawan, but he's no God. Why don't you shut up? l'm tackling this, no? Bhagawan, don't hold any of this to your heart. l always want your support. Look there. Look what l got you! Open...open. Bhagawan, this is all for you. Rani, the minister is loading us with money. Shall we let him go? So much money...! Money...money...money!! The scent of crisp and fresh notes! Money is very important to me in life. lt's very important. But my happiness is more important than money. More than these two, more...much more... ...what matters more to me is she! Bhaji Rao, your brother has been drooling over my queen for some time. Shouldn't he know how to treat Bhagawan's 'queen'?! A scoundrel, rascal, idiot like him shouldn't even think of her... l've apologized on his behalf...leave him. l made you minister. And is this how your brother rewards me? Hey what will you do? Are you playing your political games with me?! Susheel? 'After he killed his brother, the minister became angry.' 'Feud between Bhaji Rao and Bhagawan intensified.' 'Bhaji Rao used his political clout somehow and ordered... '...the Commissioner to kill Bhagawan.' Apart from the minister's brother, Bhagawan has 18 cases pending. And so our department is bending backwards to find him. So we've alerted all our check posts. Hence Bhagawan and his people cannot escape from the city. We won't let him escape whatever the situation may be. We are confident we will catch Bhagawan and his team very soon. You aren't listening to me at all. How long will you both evade capture? Ask Bhagawan to surrender to the police. Minister Bhaji Rao has decided to kill Bhagawan. The department is serious too. So, surrendering is good for you. lf we can't stay here, you want us to surrender? Why are you getting angry with him, Rani? l want to get back to my world and live life to the fullest. Are you mad? Have you lost it? They'll shoot on sight. Do you understand? No one can save you. Can Bhagawan die? ls someone born in this planet to kill me? l was born to kill all of you. Rani, ask him to go now. Look, Bhagawan, the situation outside isn't good like you think. Understand when l tell you 'Rana wanted Bhagawan to surrender somehow.' 'That's when we all saw you for the 1 st time.' 'When we didn't know what to do, our gang member told us about you.' 'Your life changed from that moment onwards.' Stay in jail for 6 months. l'll make all arrangements to take you out on bail. No one can advise you more than this. Rana, shut up. What did you say? That he'd die if he comes out? He will come out. And he will die. He will die for all of you. But it won't be him. Have you lost it along with him? Come 'That's when we all saw you for the 1 st time.' Another Bhagawan look-alike? l can't believe it. Who is he? Where is he? He's in Bangkok. But l don't know who he is. We need to find out soon. - That's all well and good. But how will he come here? Who can bring him here? You...can you? Hey, Romeo, will you? - Rani...l will bring him. You are taking too much of a risk. l'd do anything for him. l'll come back with him...or die 'That's when she came to Bangkok.' 'And she came to all the places where you'd spot her easily.' 'You also fell for all of it.' Rani, Adhi is coming. 'We couldn't handle the pressure from the minister and that's why...' '...we brought you here.' 'lf we surrendered you to the police, they'd kill you.' 'Bhagawan would be safe. This was Rani's plan.' How are you, Adhi? What? Mumbai wasn't what you expected? ls everything different? Bhagla must have filled you in on the story from A to Z. Adhi, all the wrong you did was not really a big deal. Child's play. Do you know the biggest mistake you made in your life? Tell me...tell me. You don't know? You being born like my Bhagawan. Childishly falling in love with me. No...what did you say that day? Didn't you say you brought me to save you? l wasn't with you to save you. But to kill you. Don't be tensed that you'll die now. You should have died long ago. l've saved you many times. You know something, you are a big waste! You didn't figure out who l was the whole time l was with you. One who knew something was wrong was your partner, Lewi. Where is Adhi? - He's sleeping upstairs. Tell him l'll see him later. He could have left it with just suspecting me. He started chasing me as well. Fool! Do you know the twist in this story? He didn't find out anything for himself. And he didn't tell you about me. He bit the bullet without doing either. Sorry...sorry...sorry, l made him bite it. You were never inside my heart. Even when l touched you passionately... ...it was Bhagawan who was in my heart. Got it? Bhagawan would always say... ...no man should die without knowing why he is about to die. ln that sense, you are a very, very, very lucky guy. What's sad is that when you die... ...Bhagawan and l won't even be in lndia. l won't get to be at your funeral. What is he saying? Forget him. He's a dead snake. Those fools, commissioner and minister. Did they believe Adhi is Bhagawan? Hook, line and sinker! There's no problem there. Don't take too much time. Finish it quickly. l'll take care of it. But where's Bhagawan? What will you do by knowing? Just do what l tell you to do. Check if someone's there? - No one, sir. You can leave. Rana, when will you end Bhagawan's life? Sir, the formalities are in process. We have to wait for the Chief minister's permission - Can l help to speeden it? No, it's not an issue. We'll get a letter by tomorrow. l'll inform you immediately. Don't delay. l'm eagerly waiting for the obituary info. No one should suspect a thing. Understood? lf the Commissioner calls, say l've taken him for enquiry. Your mobiles are all switched off? Where's the mask? You go that side. You sit next to him. Look here. Get whatever information you want from him. Only 3 hours. Money...where's the money? - ls the money okay? For sure. Bring him out. For 4 months you made us roam around cities like lunatics. l won't let you live. Until you tell me where you have hidden, l won't let go of you. Tell us. Wretched fellow! You thought l would let you go so easily? Tell me where my money and all my documents are. l only have a small share. Sam has the rest. Where is he now? He's not even in lndia. Liar. This won't make him talk. Lower him down. He hasn't told you after you hit him so much. Will he tell you now? lt's late now. Send him soon. Be a bit patient. He'll tell us for sure. Brother...brother. What are you doing? Can't you aim properly? Whom did you shoot instead? Brother, what happened to you? Come...inside. Here...l prepared this passport with great difficulty. Ensure he resembles the face in this passport. That's what's good for him. Move fast. Take the money due for this. Don't think you can order me around. He has no idea what he's talking. Just take him and go. Am l the one blabbing? You are the one bungling. Tell him about me. Don't think you escaped from the police. Your death has just got postponed, that's all. You are not making sense. The reason you are here now they haven't left lndia. Bhagawan and Rani are here. Don't let them catch you. We were extremely careful. Still...he escaped. He fooled all of us. But l assure you l'll find him. ls this what you came to tell us...aren't you ashamed? Nincompoop! What else can l do? l've done all l can within my official power. That's why l'm sitting here suspended from my work. You've been suspended due to your stupidity. We didn't contribute. But Adhi escaped thanks to your carelessness. Why get mad at me? This wasn't easy. l staked my life for 6 months and brought him here. As if l'll cheer you! We've all wasted our time depending on you. l should have just given his corpse to you. My fault. You volunteered to kill him officially in front of the minister. l got diverted believing in your stupid plan. You are the sole reason for all this. How can you point a finger at me? You both are the criminals. Not me. l'm a policeman. l know how to get him. Don't underestimate my intelligence. With great difficulty she brought him here. With your greedy nature you'll get paid and let him escape. Then spin some sob story to us. Hey Bhagawan! Listen to me. Only if l catch him, l can save you. That's why l shouldn't die. Listen to me. Clean up the mess. He is a very bad evil. We start immediately from here. l must see him. No , Aadhi. don't make truoble your self. They have both traumatized me. What's Bhagawan's famous dialog? No one should die without knowing the reason. He will know the reason when l do the honors. Either l should end up as a corpse in Goa. Or l should make both of them corpses. Don't take too much time, Vikesh. We can't wait for a week in Goa. We must leave lndia tomorrow. Make all necessary arrangements immediately. Okay? Why are you so tensed, darling? You don't know Adhi. He'll definitely hound us. Rani! l can't believe you can be so scared? ls he such a force to be reckoned with? He seems to have impressed you! Then shouldn't l see him? Listen to me just this once. Let's leave immediately. l need you in my life. He must come here and die by my hands! Till then...let's chill out. ''Leading an uneventful life style is wasted, not worth your while'' ''Live life to the fullest Recharge and savor the rest'' ''Living a life of the downtrodden Make it into a life worthy of Heaven'' ''Bargain for cheap and costly best l'll make it balance, more or less'' ''With my feet tapping the clouds light l must also indulge the moon bright'' ''With the wind l'll spread my wings l'll etch my name with glad tidings'' ''Rain or shine, come what may l'll settle scores whatever time of day'' ''Leading a life drab and mundane can gloat of only sad disdain'' ''Live life to the fullest Relax and favor the best'' ''Why live life with fear and worry? Live courageously and carefree'' ''Problems by the second evolved Ensure they are settled and solved'' ''The heart can beat erratically Spin life in a frenzy, frantically'' ''lt weaves the lub-dub waves into sheer magic rays'' ''Your sole heart distinctly unique ''Wipe clean their fear Fill smiles in every tear'' ''Rogues and ruffians are my fan following'' ''Paid to get their hands dirty in everything'' ''Stubborn, as crazy as a cuckoo Bad and dangerous villain are you'' ''lf you hassle me and argue l'll rip you apart and chop you'' ''Leading an uneventful life style is wasted, not worth your while'' ''Live life to the fullest Recharge and savor the rest'' ''Living a life of the downtrodden Make it into a life worthy of Heaven'' ''Bargain for cheap and fancy best l'll make it balance, more or less'' Vittal from their team told me. That's why l'm so sure. What if he gave you wrong info to divert you? They are all Sanjay's men. Rani will come. Just wait and see. Where is Sanjay? l must leave at once. l've called him. He'll be here now. l told you l'd be here in an hour's time. Then where is he? That's why l didn't want to have any dealing here. l can't be here for more than half hour. Rani, don't get angry. Heavy security around the city. Long time since... We don't have time to chitchat. Adhi and Bhagla may come here any moment in search of me. Check it. lf you escaped from the police... ...why didn't you rush back to Bangkok? Why did you come here? Are you so much in love with me, darling? l traveled with you for a short while. That's why l didn't wish to see you die. But you seem to want me to send you to hell. Where are you trying to escape? Face me. You go to hell first. l'll send your lover right behind you. Come my dear Mumbai Bhagawan. You had the gall to plan on killing me? Rani has gone to hell. You follow her. Come. My queen Rani... You've left me. Come on. l'm myself a criminal. You think you can beat me at my own game? l've really struggled in my life. There should not be Shall we end the game?
