 

                        ABBA - The Movie Good morning! It's one minute to five, and it's a beautiful day. It's time for me to go. Catch you tomorrow night. From midnight till dawn, with the latest and greatest in country music. All you truck-drivers, late-nighters and early risers - remember: What you see is what you get. This is Ashley Wallace... Thanks for keeping me company. ABBA - the hottest property on the pop scene. They sell sixty million records around the world. - ABBA? - Yep. How does this grab you: "Radio 2TW will present, on the night of their departure from these shores"- - "a two hour ABBA radio special. For the first time"- - "your favourite country and western host turns ace reporter." That's really not my bag, is it? Come on, it's a good challenge. Take it! We want ABBA! I know it's a rush, but I want it on air 7.30 the night they leave. That gives you one week. What about Lenny? I mean, Lenny handles the pop scene. Lenny's not on. He's too slick, he's too superficial. I want an exclusive, in-depth interview with the people themselves. ABBA, the people. The real people. We want ABBA! I want an interview. I want a gut-level dialogue. An exclusive, gut-level... dialogue. You know what I mean? You don't want me to interview... You don't want me to interview them? - You want me to just have a chat? - Come on. You know what I mean. Yeah... But... Get inside their heads. I don't want to know what they have for breakfast. I want to know what they think, what they feel, what they fear... - What they hate! - Sure. Right. I understand. We want ABBA! Listen... The pop scene's never been touched like this before. Really? We want ABBA! I mean... It's a good idea. I mean, about not sort of being an interview. A slice of life. Got me? We want ABBA! Good on you, Ash, my boy. Your deadline's the night that ABBA departs these shores. - 7.30 tonight week. - Right. Okay. Good. Go. Go - right. We want ABBA! Are you sure you want me to do this documentary? Don't use that word. It's not a documentary, it's an event! This is going to be worldwide. We want ABBA! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! Lots of cameras around. What do you want us to do? - What's all this? - I don't know. Hello! A little wave. Excuse me, pal... Do you know what time ABBA are arriving? - 9 o'clock, I think. - Where are they coming through? I really don't know. You all right? All right... See you! Excuse me, what time are ABBA coming through? - They've gone out the back door. - The back door? But I have to interview them. You'll just have to wait for the press conference, won't you? - It's on in half an hour. - Do you know where? ABBA wishes to thank their supporters for coming- - and are sorry they cannot see them. - I'd like to rent a car, please. - Do you have a reservation? No, I don't, but... just any car. Any car, as long as it's fast. And now we take you back to the ABBA press conference. Here they are - ABBA. They've finally hit Australia for their long-awaited tour. - What?! - ABBA, the pop group. - Do you know where they're staying? - Who? The pop group - ABBA. Do you know where they're staying? Any performer gets very nervous before going on stage. Do you still go through that traumatic experience before you go on stage? Every show is a bit nervous before you... You think you have a good performance- - because you had a good audience the day before. But going from Amsterdam to London- - or from London to Sydney, is such a difference. I'd hate the sound of 30,000 people booing. Excuse me, is this the right jam for King's Cross? - No, it's back that way. - Thanks. I think the travelling is very very hard. Come on! One day when I woke up during our European tour... ...I started to think "Where am I? In which city?" And it's terrible. I think that it's a bit of an asocial life on tour. You just eat, sleep, go on stage, and nothing more. And it kills creativity in a way that I don't like. It's boring to travel, but it's fantastic to be on stage. I love that. - Move! - The biggest pop group ever... The groups arrival in Australia has been accompanied by a blaze of publicity. According to the promoters They are bigger than The Beatles. And with an entourage of 105 people- - they are almost twice as big as The Rolling Stones concert. While they are here theyll perform eleven concerts in ten days- - to a nest, mated 140000 people. ABBA are obviously very big business- - and the organizers are treating them like royalty. Theyve even arranged a civic reception for them in Melbourne. Do you take drugs or alcohol, or anything like that? - No drugs. - You're clean? No, not clean, but we don't take any drugs. The four of you admit that you are now millionaires. Are you worried that you make money faster than you can spend it? No. It's a lot of money coming in, but there's a lot of tax to pay- - if you're a Swedish citizen, which is fair. But still, it's... It's a matter of hard work, and the money isn't that important. Really, it's more a matter of pleasing yourselves in what you're doing. We can't do anything else in the future- - than trying to keep ourselves happy in our work. I' d like to direct a couple of questions to Agnetha if I may... I read somewhere w here you are the proud owner of an award- - which declares you as the lady with the sexiest bottom. Is that true? How can I answer that? I don't know. I haven't seen it! Thank you ABBA. Thank you ladies and gentlemen of television. Excuse me. Do you know where ABBA are? - I think they've left. - They've left... They've gone? We want ABBA! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! Have you filmed the umbrellas out there? It's a fantastic sight. Agnetha, I have... ...four kilos of make-up. - Is the make-up artist here? - Where could she be...? - She'll come if you ask her. Don't go out and get your hair wet, okay? We want ABBA! We want ABBA! Because the only thing I'm worried about is that the power just stops. The opening? Just walk out there. I don't think there's much we can do, really, with the wind and the rains... There's not a lot we can do. We want ABBA! Ten minutes to the show of a lifetime! The city is a nightmare, a horrible dream Some of us will dream it forever Look around the corner and try not to scream It's me I am behind you, I always find you, I am the tiger People who fear me never go near me, I am the tiger Yellow eyes are glowing like the neon lights Yellow eyes, the spotlights of the city nights I am behind you, I always find you, I am the tiger People who fear me never go near me, I am the tiger The city is a prison, you never escape You're forever trapped in the alleys Look into the shadows and you'll see the shape Of me I am behind you, I'll always find you, I am the tiger People who fear me never go near me, I am the tiger Yellow eyes are glowing like the neon lights Yellow eyes, the spotlights of the city nights I am behind you, I'll always find you, I am the tiger And if I meet you, what if I eat you, I am the tiger, tiger, tiger! Thank you! All right. All right. - Can I see your press card, please? - I haven't got my card on me. I'm sorry, but I can't let you in if you haven't got a card. Okay. But I'm a radio announcer. I've got to get an interview with them. There's nothing I can do. If you haven't got a card, you can't get in. - I'll buy a ticket. How much are they? - Sold right out. I haven't got one left. I'm very sorry. Hello, Sydney! Very glad to see you! I'll tell you one thing: You make us forget the rain. I just hope that we can make you forget it, too! Where are those happy days, they seem so hard to find I tried to reach for you, but you have closed your mind Whatever happened to our love I wish I understood It used to be so nice, it used to be so good So when you're near me, darling can't you hear me S.O.S. The love you gave me, nothing else can save me S.O.S. When you're gone How can I even try to go on When you're gone Though I try how can I carry on You seemed so far away though you were standing near You made me feel alive, but something died I fear I really tried to make it out I wish I understood What happened to our love, it used to be so good So when you're near me, darling can't you hear me S.O.S. The love you gave me, nothing else can save me S.O.S. When you're gone How can I even try to go on When you're gone Though I try how can I carry on ABBA tickets for sale... ABBA tickets going cheap. Want any tickets, mate? - Want any ABBA tickets? - Are you selling tickets? - How much? I'll buy one. - 50 bucks. 50 dollars? I haven't got 50 dollars. You ain't gonna see ABBA then, are you? Money, money, money Must be funny in the rich man's world Money, money, money Always sunny in the rich man's world Aha-ahaaa, all the things I could do If I had a little money It's a rich man's world It's a rich man's world A man like that is hard to find but I can't get him off my mind Ain't it sad And if he happens to be free I bet he wouldn't fancy me That's too bad So I must leave, I'll have to go To Las Vegas or Monaco And win a fortune in a game, my life will never be the same Money, money, money Must be funny in the rich man's world Money, money, money Always sunny in the rich man's world Aha-ahaaa, all the things I could do If I had a little money It's a rich man's world Money, money, money Must be funny in the rich man's world Money, money, money Always sunny in the rich man's world Aha-ahaaa, all the things I could do If I had a little money It's a rich man's world It's a rich man's world Thank you, Sydney! The Sydney Opera House? They should be there, mate, that's what they reckon. Terrific. Thank you very much. Thank you. Could you... hold this? Could you, sort of, hold it in the middle? Let's have a smile. Down. Lower! Down a bit. That's it. - Happy now. - What do you mean, "happy"? Excuse me... Is it possible to have a talk? Not now. Go somewhere and have a quiet talk? I know that this is an incredible hassle for you... with all these people. I can understand these problems that you have- - but if we can go somewhere quiet... Have a drink or something to eat. Go back. Press photographers only. - Can we go somewhere quiet...? - You can't go anywhere with them. No interviews today at all, it's just press photographers. I was a fighter always looking for trouble And my life was so empty, didn't care for anybody But then it happened one night as I got into a fight I could hear someone saying as though he was praying: Ah... Treat him well, he is your brother You might need his help one day We depend on one another Love him, that's the only way On the road (on the road) that we're going We all need (we all need) words of comfort and compassion Treat him well, he is your brother Love him, that's the only way I was a woman never thinking of others And my life was so lonely, didn't care for anybody But then I happened to meet a begging man in the street As I turned down his praying I heard someone saying: Ah... Treat him well, he is your brother You might need his help one day We depend on one another Love him, that's the only way On the road (on the road) that we're going (that we're going) We all need (we all need) words of comfort and compassion Treat him well, he is your brother (brother) Love him, that's the only way Yeah, yeah, sure. Everything's fine. There's no need to worry. I met them at the airport, we spoke for quite a long time... Yes. Yes. There's just one thing: - I have to go to Perth. - Perth? That's 2,000 miles and a very expensive airfare away. Yes, I know that, but you wanted the close personal story, and they... That's the way it has to be. I have to get to know them. They have to trust me. I want every listener on 2TW to share ABBA with you- - and me and all of us, privately. Right? Don't worry. I'll get the personal side. No, no, no. I'll be able to edit and record as I go. I've already got some interviews in the street- - some comments on people, how they feel about the group. Yeah. Oh! Also... Could you send my press card to Perth? I left in such a rush that I left it in the studio. - Can I help you? - Yes. Could I... Can I have these two T-shirts, please. I'll take this as well. Thank you. Thank you. ABBA: Four members. Agnetha and Bjorn married. Frida and Benny living together. Frida: Described as modest unobtrusive self-critical. Born: 19,5 Norway. Moved to Sweden one year old. Before ABBA solo career in jazz. Benny: Described as calm stable open and generous. Born: 46. Play ed accordion from early age. Self-taught pianist. Member of Swedish pop group Hep Stars. Hits on Swedish charts. Agnetha: Described as practical observant. Bjorn: 1950. Worked as telephonist for car firm. S pare-time singer with dance band. Recorded own songs that made Swedish charts. Bjorn: Described as intelligent good with languages and business. Bjorn: 45. Formed folk group at school- - called Hootenanny Singers. Hits in Swedish charts. Earlier studied company economics and law. Manager Stig Anderson known as fifth member of group. International breakthrough by winning- - the Eurovision Song Contest in Brighton in 74 with "Waterloo". My my, at Waterloo Napoleon did surrender Oh yeah, and I have met my destiny in quite a similar way The history book on the shelf Is always repeating itself Waterloo, I was defeated, you won the war Waterloo, promise to love you for ever more Waterloo, couldn't escape if I wanted to Waterloo, knowing my fate is to be with you Wow wow wow wow Waterloo, finally facing my Waterloo ABBA: Now selling more records World wide than any other group- - since the Beatles. Live in Stockholm. Summer houses on island in archipelago. Most songs written in small cottage- - by jamming together with piano and guitar. Ladies and gentlemen. In a few moments We will be landing in Perth. Why do you like ABBA? I suppose it's... It has a good beat. It's got good rhythm, I think the lyrics are good. I think it's appealing to all people. When a little baby of about eighteen months can say "ABBA"- - and recognize the pictures and recognize the music... ...I think it even appeals to the very, very young as well, you see. What do you like most about their music? Well, I like the clean-cut beat of the music... - Just the beat? - No, the beat... And the clean-cut appearance of them. They're a fantastic group. What do you think of their...? ...because I think they're nice and clean. - What do you mean by that? - They've always dressed nicely... ...and tidy. I think that's what we all like, the older people. I don't know about the kids, but we do, anyway. It's a bit quieter than the more modern ones at the moment. Not quite as loud. Well, they look tidy on stage, even though they have nice costumes. Some of the groups today look positively ugly on stage. I think they appeal to the young children, too. Perth Wednesday interview number five: What do you like most about their music? Make me very happy. Make me wanna get up, and dance. - And... Just everything. - Thank you. Thank you. Thank... - Are you an ABBA fan? - Not particularly. I hate them. I've got a 12-year-old ABBA nut. He's got the records and posters. The house is full of them. It's as much as a man can stand. Just one look and I can hear a bell ring One more look and I forget everything, o-o-o-oh Mamma mia, here I go again My my, how can I resist you? Mamma mia, does it show again? My my, just how much I've missed you Yes, I've been brokenhearted Blue since the day we parted Why, why did I ever let you go? Mamma mia, even if I say Bye bye, leave me now or never Mamma mia, it's a game we play Bye bye doesn't mean forever Mamma mia, here I go again My my, how can I resist you? Mamma mia, does it show again? My my, just how much I've missed you Yes, I've been brokenhearted Blue since the day we parted Why, why did I ever let you go? Mamma mia, now I really know My my, I could never let you go - Hi. Has my press card arrived yet? - Just a moment, sir. No, I'm sorry. There's no mail at all for you. We want ABBA! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! Look, can't you see I'm a journalist? But you haven't got a press card, and we're all sold out. There's nothing I can do, I'm sorry. Excuse me. I'm doing some interviews. Are you an ABBA fan? - Yes, I am. - What do you like about the group? Well... They're a clean-cut group... ...with nice music and a nice beat. That's great. Fantastic. Thank you very much. Excuse me... Do you know where ABBA are? - Yes, they're straight through there. - Good. Thank you. Very nice. - What do you think you're doing here? - L-l-I've... ...got an interview... - Who with? - ABBA! - Who said? - Stig Anderson, their manager. - Well, show me your press pass. - You haven't got a press pass. - Well, I have, but I... You haven't got an interview either, have you? - Out! - But listen... Rock me, give me that feeling Roll me, rocking and reeling Baby, so dont stop doing it, dont stop doing it, now (dont stop the rocking, dont stop the rocking I said dont stop the rocking) Wanna be wanna be in my babys arms Gonna be gonna be Nice and gentle if you want me to Just as long as Im in love with you Yours for ever, honey, thats what i Wanna be wanna be wanna be, yeah Rock me, give me that kick now Rock me, show me that trick now Roll me, you can do magic Baby, and I cant get enough of it Rock me, give me that feeling Roll me, rocking and reeling Baby, so dont stop doing it, dont stop doing it, now (dont stop the rocking, dont stop the rocking I said dont stop the rocking) Wanna be wanna be with the one that I love, love, love Gonna be gonna be With you baby every single night I can teach you how to rock all right Your sweet lover, honey, thats what i Wanna be wanna be wanna be, yeah Rock me, give me that kick now Rock me, show me that trick now Roll me, you can do magic Baby, and I cant get enough of it Rock me, give me that feeling Roll me, rocking and reeling Baby, so dont stop doing it, dont stop doing it dont stop rocking, dont stop rocking, dont stop rocking Thank you. Thank you! I, Im gonna make you mine Youre gonna feel so fine Youll never want to leave me I feel you belong to me Someday you will agree Please, believe me You thrill me, you delight me You please me, you excite me Youre something Id been pleading for I love you, I adore you I lay my life before you Ill have you want me more and more And finally it seems my lonely days are through Ive been waiting for you Oh, Ive been waiting for you And finally it seems my lonely days are through Ive been waiting for you Ive been waiting for you ABBA - which floor? Number 5, but you haven't got a chance! That's okay, I'm a professional. - The Sydney reviews. - Thank you. Would you give me that one, please. - What does "kinky" mean? - Kinky? It's a... ...sort of a perversion. Usually sexual perversion. What do they find kinky? - "ABBA's kinky, velvet bed." - "Velvet" what? - Velvet bed. - Bed. "This is the giant bed Agnetha and Bjorn ordered"- - "to be ready at the hotel." "And the manager made sure their dressing-gowns were ready"- - "when the super group arrived." What a kinky journalist. Your bottom was the best thing in the show. - "Agnetha's bottom tops show!" - Oh, my God... Don't they have bottoms in Australia? "'Damn! ', a middle-aged man beside me said with feeling." "It's really something worth seeing." I suppose he thought that was a very funny headline. At least I did something for the show, didn,t I? Nah, nah, nah. None of that stuff here, okay? No, it's okay. I've got an appointment. I have an appointment... I've got an appointment with them. Nah. That's a really interesting sound you're making. I collect funny sounds. - Would you like to do it in there? - Nah, nah. Thank you. I think I've got it. Nah, nah. Cut that shit out. Look, there's no need to shove! That was pretty dangerous for a while, wasn't it? The rain on the stage? - No, not really. - You were very lucky. - You didn't hurt yourself. - Yes, really. Excuse me. Cut it out! Listen, pal. I ought to shove this microphone- - so far down your throat I could record your stomach talking to you... Haven't I seen enough of you today? Guided tour is this way! This is known as an elevator. It goes up and down, and you're going down. Benny! Bjorn! THE NAME OF THE GAME I've seen you twice, in a short time Only a week since we started It seems to me, for every time I'm getting more open-hearted I was an impossible case No-one ever could reach me But I think I can see in your face There's a lot you can teach me So I wanna know.. What's the name of the game? Does it mean anything to you? What's the name of the game? Can you feel it the way I do? Tell me please, 'cause I have to know I'm a bashful child, beginning to grow And you make me talk And you make me feel And you make me show What I'm trying to conceal If I trust in you, would you let me down? Would you laugh at me, if I said I care for you? Could you feel the same way too? I wanna know.. The name of the game I have no friends, no-one to see And I am never invited Now I am here, talking to you No wonder I get excited Your smile, and the sound of your voice And the way you see through me Got a feeling, you give me no choice But it means a lot to me So I wanna know.. What's the name of the game? (Your smile and the sound of your voice) Does it mean anything to you? (Got a feeling you give me no choice) (But it means a lot) What's the name of the game? (Your smile and the sound of your voice) Can you feel it the way I do? Tell me please, 'cause I have to know I'm a bashful child, beginning to grow And you make me talk And you make me feel And you make me show What I'm trying to conceal If I trust in you, would you let me down? Would you laugh at me, if I said I care for you? Could you feel the same way too? I wanna know.. Oh yes I wanna know.. The name of the game (I was an impossible case) Does it mean anything to you? (But I think I can see in your face) (That it means a lot) What's the name of the game? (Your smile and the sound of your voice) Can you feel it the way I do? (Got a feeling you give me no choice) (But it means a lot) Hello? Good morning! Everything is going really well here. Everything's fine. There's just one small problem. I have to tag along with them to Adelaide. Adelaide... Ever-Lovin' Adelaide is taking a chance with you, Ashley. Listen, you don't have to worry. I know them all quite well... ...but the time is not ripe yet for an interview. I'm trying to remain friends with you, but you're making it bloody difficult! They have to have confidence in me. It's too early. Do you know what I mean? All right, go to Adelaide. But please, Ashley, get that dialogue we spoke of! I'm sorry. I didn't get that. The dialogue! Oh, the dialogue! Yes. The dialogue... That's exactly why I wanted to wait. 0h... Just one more thing. My press card. Can you send it on to Adelaide? Great. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Shortly we will be landing in Adelaide. Please fasten your seatbelts- - and make sure that your seat is in an upright position. They have a very distinctive, a very individual sound- - which is all their own, which is very difficult for others to copy. The girls' voices have their own special sound. They utilize the technical facilities of a studio to the utmost. I believe it was an English critic that commented that if you took- - an ABBA song apart and laid all the different pieces, out before you- - there would be only one way to put the song back together again- - and that's the way, of course, that they had originally done it. - Okay... - It's inflated. - I thought it would hang... - It's like a cloud. - It looks good. - It's a really good roof. What do you like about their songs? It's got type of... a feeling that, you know, you're happy. I just like them. I don't know why I do. I just like them. There's nothing really special about them. They're only human beings... Except their music. That's what's special. Right. Listen, I just want to recheck with you on the arrival arrangements- - in Melbourne on Saturday morning. Start with violins and then the chellos. There's only two violas. Somebody, give me a hand with this. Very comfortable! Very comfortable. Their image is very clean- - and it does provide a large contrast to a great number of popular groups. They don't have anything to do with chains and violence. Their music and their performance has to do with having a good time. I think most parents react very favourably to ABBA. At the concerts amongst the public- - you see sometimes two even three generations of a family. Just a small portion. Could you rip it off please! I think it would be very wise if you all slow ed down a little bit- - and just took your time and s at down. There is plenty of room. Well they are not like other groups you know that get up- - and sort of go crazy play their guitars and shake their heads. - Thanks very much. - 0kay. ABBA books and posters! 75 cents each! ABBA buttons! Get your ABBA buttons here! - I dont much... - What dont you like about ABBA? - They show off too much. - How do they show off? They just wear too many... They just wear too many clothes. And too much make-up. That's all. We want ABBA! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! Why Did It Have To Be Me When you were lonely, you needed a man Someone to lean on, well I understand It's only natural But why did it have to be me? Nights can be empty, nights can be cold So you were looking for someone to hold That's only natural But why did it have to be me? I was so lonesome, I was blue I couldn't help it, it had to be you and I Always thought you knew the reason why I only wanted a little love affair Now I can see you are beginning to care But baby, believe me It's better to forget me Men are toys in the game that you play When you get tired, you throw them away That's only natural But why did it have to be me? Falling in love with a woman like you Happens so quickly, there's nothing to do It's only natural But why did it have to be me? I was so lonesome, I was blue I couldn't help it, it had to be you and I Always thought you knew the reason why I only wanted a little love affair Now I can see you are beginning to care But baby, believe me It's better to forget me Well, I like them... ...very much. They are very nice people. Would you like to tell me why you like ABBA? Because I sing it... - I'm sorry. Could you tell me again? - I sing it. You sing it? I like the songs, and it's really good. What do you like about the songs? The parts that are good. What parts are good? The songs are good, because their names are good. And one of the men is sexy, you know. They look sexy. - Do you think ABBA are sexy? - Uh-uh. Nice. So do I. I think they're nice, but it's a bit sexy. - Sexy?! - Sexy... ..... taken by surprise When I kissed the teacher Couldnt quite believe his eyes, when I kissed the teacher My whole class went wild As I held my breath, the world stood still, but then he just smiled And I couldnt help it, I just had to kiss the teacher One of these days Gonna tell him I dream of him every night One of these days Gonna show him I care, gonna teach him a lesson alright What a crazy day, when I kissed the teacher All my sense had flown away when I kissed the teacher My whole class went wild As I held my breath, the world stood still, but then he just smiled I was in the seventh heaven when I kissed the teacher (I wanna hug, hug, hug him) When I kissed the teacher Hey, I'll tell you something about ABBA! Do you know that ABBA's in the Bible? It means "father". - It's in Mark. - I didn't know that. The Gospel according to St. Mark. Chapter 16. "Abba the Father", it says. He told me. I thought he was pulling my leg. It's right in there. A-b-b-a. Abba - Father. I've got to get that interview. I've just got to get it. Get on the carousel Get on the carousel Get on The roundabout is just beginning Get on It's fun to see the world a-spinning Get on the carousel Well, all I really wanna do is get off Get on the carousel Well, all I really wanna do is get off Get on Your happiness is waiting for you (It's only making me scared) Get on Be famous, let the world adore you (Well, I don't know if I care) Get on the carousel Well, all I really wanna do is get off Get on the carousel Oh... I really wanna go I feel so dizzy I wanna go Listen! Now I dont think I can take much more So cant you tell em to make it slow Listen! I want the speed that I had before Im feeling sick and I wanna stop Spinning! So wont you let me get off this thing? I got a feeling I reached the top Spinning! I only wanted to dance and sing The roundabout is just beginning Get on... (Oh, please) It's fun to see the world a-spinning Get on the carousel Well all I really wanna do is get off Get on the carousel Well all I really wanna do is get off Get on Your happiness is waiting for you (It's only making me scared) Get on Be famous, let the world adore you (Well, I don't know if I care) Get on the carousel Well all I really wanna do is get off Get on the carousel Oh... I really wanna go I feel so dizzy I wanna go Listen! Now I dont think I can take much more So wont you tell em to make it slow Listen! I want the speed that I had before Im feeling sick and I wanna stop Spinning! So wont you let me get off this thing? I got a feeling I reached the top Spinning! I only wanted to dance and sing Hey! Can everybody just... Let's see some of the people in the back- - by some of the people in the front dropping down a little bit. Okay, everybody! Looking up this way, and a bit of action! - Take it easy, will you! - Stop it, will you. Come on, fellas. No pushing, eh? Take it easy. - Excuse me. Please... - Not you again. Just five minutes. Please. - Not tonight, Josephine. - Just for five minutes? - Can I...? - No, you can't. Melbourne...? Ashley... Did you say Melbourne? At 7.30 tomorrow night... I have... Ashley, I have told 40,000 people that at 7.30 tomorrow night- - we will give them a two-hour ABBA radio special. In depth, with warmth... and sincerity. Please, Ashley... Please? Hello there! Excuse me... You are ABBA's manager, aren't you? - Yes, I am. - I hope you can help me. - I have to get an interview with ABBA. - Ignore this man, Mr. Anderson. - He's crazy. - Take it easy, will you! I'm doing a radio special, and it has to be on air tomorrow night. I really need that interview. But Mr. Anderson... I'm really desperate. If you're down in the reception by 10 o'clock tomorrow morning... ...I will arrange this for you. Okay? - For sure? - I'll get to talk to them? - Okay. Bye-bye. From concert to concert from town to town as though her whole world was spinning She got what she wanted, and yet she feels like a marionette! You're so free That's what everybody's telling me Yet I feel I'm like an outward-bound, pushed around, refugee Something's wrong, got a feeling that I don't belong As if I have come from outer space, out of place, like King Kong I'm a marionette, just a marionette, pull the string I'm a marionette, everybody's pet, just as long as I sing I'm a marionette, see my pirouette, 'round and 'round I'm a marionette, I'm a marionette, just a silly old clown Like a doll, like a puppet with no will at all And somebody taught me how to talk, how to walk, how to fall Can't complain, I've got no-one but myself to blame Something's happening I can't control, lost my hold, it's insane Look this way, just a little smile, is what they say You look better on the photograph if you laugh, that's okay!! I'm a marionette, just a marionette, pull the string I'm a marionette, everybody's pet, just as long as I sing I'm a marionette, see my pirouette, 'round and 'round I'm a marionette, I'm a marionette, just a silly old clown I'm a marionette I feel something's wrong, got a feeling that I don't belong As if I have come from outer space, out of place, like King Kong I'm a marionette, just a marionette, pull the string I'm a marionette, everybody's pet, just as long as I sing I'm a marionette, see my pirouette, 'round and 'round I'm a marionette, I'm a marionette, just a silly old clown I'm a marionette One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. Ten. Hurry! They're 3,80 dollars. One, two, three, four - and again. One, two, three, four. Okay, and we change across. Down again. One, two, three, four. Last time. One, two, three, four. So sit down please. There are a lot of children behind you- - who want to en joy this concert as much as you. Dont you? It is time to get your rocks on! First row, right? Thank you. Everybody on stage! All right! Ten minutes and away we go! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! Now we're old and grey, Fernando Since many years I haven't seen a rifle in your hand Can you hear the drums, Fernando? Do you still recall the fateful night we crossed the Rio Grande? I can see it in your eyes How proud you were to fight for freedom in this land There was something in the air that night The stars were bright, Fernando They were shining there for you and me For liberty, Fernando Though we never thought that we could lose There's no regret If I had to do the same again I would, my friend, Fernando Yes, if I had to do the same again I would, my friend, Fernando Thank you. Thank you so much. - I'm goanna talk to them tomorrow. - Really? - Yeah. Interview them. - Really? - Yeah. - Good luck. There was something in the air that night The stars were bright, Fernando They were shining there for you and me For liberty, Fernando Though we never thought that we could lose There's no regret If I had to do the same again I would, my friend, Fernando If I had to do the same again I would, my friend, Fernando Youve been sitting for a long time now so its about time you got up- - because were gonna play a dancing number for you - "Dancing Queen". You can dance, you can jive, having the time of your life See that girl, watch that scene, dig in the dancing queen Friday night and the lights are low Looking out for the place to go Where they play the right music, getting in the swing You come in to look for a king Anybody could be that guy Night is young and the musics high With a bit of rock music, everything is fine Youre in the mood for a dance And when you get the chance... You are the dancing queen, young and sweet, only seventeen Dancing queen, feel the beat from the tambourine, oh yeah... You can dance, you can jive, having the time of your life See that girl, watch that scene, dig in the dancing queen Youre a teaser, you turn em on Leave them burning and then youre gone Looking out for another, anyone will do Youre in the mood for a dance And when you get the chance... You are the dancing queen, young and sweet, only seventeen Dancing queen, feel the beat from the tambourine, oh yeah... You can dance, you can jive, having the time of your life See that girl, watch that scene, dig in the dancing queen Dig in the dancing queen Dig in the dancing queen Why the hell didn't you wake me up? ...and music, dancing and singing. Just like we do here in Moomba for the Moomba Festival. Let's get together and have fun! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! We want ABBA! The Moomba Festival presents the last appearance of ABBA in Australia. They are leaving for the airport shortly and return to Sweden But here is your last chance to show your appreciation. - I suppose they've gone already? - Who? - ABBA. - Yes, I'm afraid so. They just left for the airport. - They've just... - They've just gone. ...for the airport? - I'm afraid so. Is there anyone else you wish to speak to? You're beautiful. Testing one, two. Testing one, two... Aaaaaah! So long, see you honey You cant buy me with your money Chasing, dazing, driving me crazy But Ill never be your girl So long, see you honey You cant buy me with your money You know its not worth trying So long, so long, so long So long, see you honey You cant buy me with your money You know its not worth trying So long, so long, so long - Thank you. - We love you! Goodbye! Mr. Wallace... Your press card's arrived. Keep it. That's yours. Excuse me... I'd just like to... Can I have a... an interview...? - Sure. - If I can just... get this... If you just... "Eagle" They came flying from far away, now I'm under their spell I love hearing the stories that they tell They've seen places beyond my land and they've found new horizons They speak strangely but I understand And I dream I'm an eagle And I dream I can spread my wings Flying high, high, I'm a bird in the sky I'm an eagle that rides on the breeze High, high, what a feeling to fly Over mountains and forests and seas And to go anywhere that I please As all good friends we talk all night, and we fly wing to wing I have questions and they know everything There's no limit to what I feel, we climb higher and higher Am I dreaming or is it all real? And I dream I'm an eagle. And I dream I can spread my wings Flying high, high, I'm a bird in the sky (I'm an eagle) I'm an eagle that rides on the breeze High, ah-high, what a feeling to fly (What a feeling) Over mountains and forests and seas High, high, I'm a bird in the sky (I'm an eagle) I'm an eagle that rides on the breeze High, ah-high, what a feeling to fly (What a feeling) Over mountains and forests and seas And to go anywhere that I please That was absolutely fantastic. Thank you very much! I have got everything I need. That's just great. Fantastic. Thank you. It's been a pleasure meeting you. You're fantastic. Bye-bye. Have a nice trip home! Thank you. Love you, buddy boy! Righto, see you soon. We made it! Not now... Radio 2... Radio 2TW, and make it fast. Right. Hang on to your hat. - What are you up to? - Radio special on ABBA. ABBA? You're not with that mob, are you? Strewth. I took the wife and kids to see them the other night. Bloody terrible it was. Cost me a fortune. I thought it'd be the nicest, cleanest show I could take the wife and kids to. Not on your life, mate! They came dancing out on stage- - all dolled up in these white cloaks. And before you know it, they rip half their clothes off! And instead of facing the audience with the microphones in their hand... And this sheila had on the tightest pair of white slacks you ever saw. ...she suddenly turns her back on the audience and starts flapping her... You know what I mean. Starts flashing at the audience. Doing this sort of thing. Can you drive a bit faster? I can't hear you. Could you please move a little. People were so nice, you know, and we had a really good time. We've had such a good time, and I'd really like thank everybody- - for supporting us so much. Anyway, there she was with what they say 'the most beautiful bottom in Europe' Well, I guess... I've seen... I've seen a few bottoms in my time ...I guess it was pretty nice. We're both red-blooded males. I quite admired it in a way- because I can take all that sort of thing, but not in front of the wife and kids! And it's not the sort of thing you want to go flashing at them. Not in front of, literally, thousands of little kids. Flashing it away there. Goodbye! - "I am a tiger..." - Keep the change. What sort of a song is that? We want ABBA! We want ABBA! Just in time, Ashley. - It's in studio 2. - Right! - Hi. - We thought you'd never make it. Neither did I. - Okay. I'll go and tell Jim. - Thanks. - Benny... - A pleasure working with you. - See you again. - Bye-bye. All the best. - All right. - Practice the outside inside, all right? - Practice the inside outside. - I'll practice some of it. Thank you. This is a crazy thing, you know - leaving everything. This is Ashley Wallace, back from Sydney... ...Perth, Adelaide and Melbourne, with... ...a two-hour special, including an exclusive, on-the-spot interview- - with those super-Swedes, ABBA. Theres nothing really special about them. Theyre only human beings... - Are we on the air? - Everythings okay. - We're on the air... - Except their music. Thats special. We're on the air! I'm nothing special, in fact I'm a bit of a bore If I tell a joke, you've probably heard it before But I have a talent, a wonderful thing 'Cause everyone listens when I start to sing I'm so grateful and proud All I want is to sing it out loud So I say Thank you for the music, the songs I'm singing Thanks for all the joy they're bringing Who can live without it, I ask in all honesty What would life be? Without a song or a dance what are we? So I say thank you for the music For giving it to me Mother says I was a dancer before I could walk She says I began to sing long before I could talk And I've often wondered, how did it all start? Who found out that nothing can capture a heart Like a melody can? Well, whoever it was, I'm a fan So I say Thank you for the music, the songs I'm singing Thanks for all the joy they're bringing Who can live without it, I ask in all honesty What would life be? Without a song or a dance what are we? So I say thank you for the music For giving it to me I've been so lucky, I am the girl with golden hair I wanna sing it out to everybody What a joy, what a life, what a chance! Thank you for the music, the songs I'm singing Thanks for all the joy they're bringing Who can live without it, I ask in all honesty What would life be? Without a song or a dance what are we? So I say thank you for the music For giving it to me So I say Thank you for the music, For giving it to me ABBA - The Movie prepared by Radz
