 

                        Some new words out there you probably need to hurry up and get hip to. - Okay. - Uh, sexting. Sexting is out there now. You familiar with that? Explain to those that may not know... ...what sexting is. Sexting is when you text sexy. - You know what I'm saying? - Like what? Like, "Boy, what you got on?" "Ooh, I got on something, you know?" It's your favorite big booty, Alexis Texas, and I wanna sext with all of you. The reason I think people engage in sexting is the reason that people engage in all sorts of electronic communication behind the screen. There's immediacy to it that's great. It's like window shopping. All you do is kind of like, "Oh, I like that. I like that." You know. It's like, "Oh, I'm just gonna go ahead and try that on." It gets me through the day. It makes me feel good about myself. - It's a form of seduction. - Exactly! That's what I said. "I'm thinking of you. "I want you right now, but you're not here. "Can't wait till you get home." You know, it's not like, we met in an airplane, and now we're in the bathroom fucking. It's all about the build. There's a sense of safety. There's a glass screen in front of you, and you don't see the person at the other end. So what you see is a reflection of you. It's sexy. Who doesn't like hearing or seeing something sexual about somebody that they're interested in? The idea of lovers communicating secret little messages is as old as writing. Sexting, first of all, can be either verbal or visual. I kinda have a different feeling about both of them. From the verbal side, sometimes I think it's good for people to be able, behind a screen, to say things they might not be able to say to someone's face. Most of the sexting that's going on tends to be healthy, in my opinion. I think a lot of people are doing it to keep their love lives active, and to let their partners know that they're interested and aroused by them. So I think, absolutely, it's healthy. Since I just moved from Virginia to here, I don't have the connection with the person that I was dealing with at the time. So we're constantly, always, sending little things back and forth to each other every day. I learned about sexting through my friends in high school. It was, like, not really an adrenaline rush, I guess. I mean, maybe a little bit, but more of like an approval, too. Like, I send a photo, and they send back, um, which means that they're interested. There's an anticipation aspect to it. The back and forth exchange instead of having everything so instantaneous. I think it builds arousal to have that anticipation. The idea that men are more visual and that women need to be stimulated through their mind, is completely a stereotype. Of course, there are women that prefer to be stimulated more emotionally, and there are men that prefer to see a sexy picture. But there's also the opposite situation as well. It's really a per person and preference based situation. I'm not really dating or doing anything, so it's necessary right now. 'Cause I'd be so lonely without it. I haven't been out on a date, a real date, since 1984. Do you have any advice that you can offer me before I put myself out there? Sexting is out there now. You familiar with that? I've heard of it, yes. - You've heard of it? - Yes. You're gonna have to participate. What's interesting is they're not finding any profile of the "sexter." It's not particularly one kind of person. It seems to cut across many ages. It cuts across ethnic backgrounds. It cuts across everything. It's really an activity that I think is going to start to increase more and more as people feel more of a connection through their devices to the rest of their world. There's something really fun and sexy bringing sexting into a relationship, and teasing the person while they're not allowed to get to you. If they're stuck at work, or something like that. And then you waiting in an outfit, you know, when they come home. It's... That's a really nice way to spark up a relationship. The most appealing thing about sexting is maybe, um... It's kind of like going to Costco and getting a sample. You know, I don't wanna buy the entire Hungry-Man meal, but if I can get a little taste of the macaroni, a little taste of the turkey, then, okay, I think I like this. We both know it's going to end up here. We're going to end up on bed, doing it. Got it. What mood will we be in when we get there? Is it pursuit and capture? Are we gonna be two goofy young kids? Are we two sophisticated people of the world? Am I gonna be a World War II spy, you're gonna be an officer? In what way are we gonna go where we're gonna go? When I open the door, it's like, "Whoa! "This amazing person who showed up at my doorstep is gonna take me away now!" And you get to walk in and be the guy who takes her away now because all that boring... The important yet dull stuff has been handled. If you're a really shy person but you wanna learn how to dirty talk in bed, start doing it over a text. You know, just little things like that. If you're not so confident in the bedroom, you wanna be a little more confident, doing your own little personal selfie photoshoots is a great way to do that, you know? See, this is an art, and this is a relationship that men and women have had since the beginning of mobile devices. Okay? I don't quite know when I learned about sexting. Or when it began. Shoot, when did cellphones start? Back when I was 14, I was on my Internet all the time. And it would start with chatting, but it would end up going to sexting, and I didn't realize it was that. But definitely IM chatting turned into some sexual stuff. I was really naive at first. You know, taking photos. I just thought I would take a photo, I would send it to this person and that was that. Only their eyes would see it. I think I was 17 when I first started sexting. I wasn't completely comfortable with it just yet. Like, he would say things, and it would, like, turn me on, but I never knew what to say back. I was a teenager when it became a prevalent thing. Um, it's kind of like a rite of passage with teenagers, I guess. I have a funny feeling that someone said, "Send me a sexy pic." You know, and being a girl, and being young and in her 20s, I'm pretty sure that I was just flattered by the attention and wanted to impress whoever it was asking. Really, I first learned about it through my children. My first time was a photo because I didn't know how to do it. I didn't know what to say, or what would be appropriate to say until I sent the photo and there were words sent back to me, and then I started. I had a cheap, uh, I think it was a Motorola Sliver phone. So, uh, you know she couldn't really see the intricate veins and details of my penis, uh, which is probably a good thing. There are ways that something like sexting could be healthy. You know, phone sex has been going on a long time. Think about long-distance relationships where couples might call each other and have a sexy conversation. It could be arousing. It can be bonding. So sexting can be the same thing. It's just a different form of medium. It's a different medium. It's a different way to communicate. I'm a big fan of using sexting as a tool. It's a new and most modern form of flirtation if it's used correctly. Basically, I think the best way to send a sex message is to be blunt about it. The most bluntest thing that you can say, you say to see the reaction. I'm trying to. Dot, dot, dot. First of all, we'd like to talk about St. Louis region of the first quarter sales. Last quarter, the sales were up... First, we started with the answering machines, which was kind of good because if you really didn't wanna see somebody again, you didn't have to call 'em back. Then there was caller ID, and that was especially good. And you really didn't have to talk to them if you wanted to. We didn't have technology, but we had more personal interaction. Let me give you the history before... You think sexting, nobody did this before in the old days? I'll tell you. First of all, with the pictures. This is what you did. When you were a kid, there was no digital film. You couldn't just like, you know, take a picture of yourself, put it on the computer, something like that. It went on a film which means you had to bring it to the photo matte. You bring it to the neighborhood drug store and you give it to the lady behind the drug store where you buy all the cold medicine from, and all that other stuff. And you give it to them, and you just hope that they don't look at it before they give it to you. And when you go to pick up your pictures, you are worried. And the women at the back, they go... And you know that they just saw your dick. To fully understand the evolution of sexting, we have to go all the way back to the beginning. 30,000 BC. The earliest known example of transmitted sexual imagery date back to cave paintings created in paleolithic times. 1150 AD. The preferred method was the carrier pigeon. It's not a stretch to imagine two young lovers exchanging naughty words by means of an unsuspecting fowl. Although, the months long wait for a response, might have doused the flames of love just a bit. 1909 AD. A clear proponent of the long-form sext, James Joyce was quite well-known for his saucy correspondence with his spouse, Nora, in which he employed similar prose found in more modern sext messages. "Nora, my love for you allows me to pray "to the spirit of eternal beauty and tenderness mirrored in your eyes. "Want to fling you down under me in that soft belly of yours, "and fuck you up behind like a hog riding a sow." 1948 AD. With the advent of instant film and the Polaroid camera, the sexter's cause was greatly advanced not only by the amount of time saved, but also by the lack of smirks from photo lab workers. 1970 AD. A certain numerical sequence enjoyed prolific use with the invention of the pocket calculator beginning in 1970, and was popular with adolescents and less than mature mathematicians. The cleverly crafted sext, 8-0-0-8-5, AKA, BOOBS. 1990 AD. Although the technology has existed since the late '50s, it wasn't until the '80s and '90s that pagers became more widely used. And not just for emergencies, lustful companions often used them to trade sexts of the alpha-numeric persuasion. 1992 AD. 22-year-old engineer, Neil Papworth, is noteworthy for having sent the very first text message in history. Using his computer to transmit the message to a colleague's phone, he typed "Merry Christmas." It's rumored the very next message was "naughty or nice?" But this is unconfirmed. 2000 to 2002 AD. Even though MMS wouldn't be invented for another two years, consumer electronics manufacturer Sharp released the first cellphone with a camera, the J-HSO4 in 2000. 2004 AD. An article aptly named "Textual Gratification" appearing in "Globe and Mail" is believed to contain the first ever documented use of the term "sext." As well, the term was officially added to the Oxford dictionary. In September 2011, two Stanford University students launched the popular app, Snapchat, which allows any picture to be sent to and viewed by friends, but only for a pre-determined length of time before being deleted. The mobile phone app, Snapchat, is proving to be massively popular amongst young people. The Electronic Privacy Information Center claims Snapchat deceives users promising to delete photos but, really, leaving them available. At this point in time, Snapchat has attracted an estimated 82 million users, with the majority of them between the ages of 13 and 25. It's the beauty of what you call, you know, disposable media. That's what these instant apps are. Snapchat, you know, Secret, everything like that. There's protection in anonymity. Snapchat's probably not for me. So I don't think I need to do that. I'm already Instagramming, sexting, texting, e-mailing, sometimes Facebooking, old school. I don't use Snapchat. Let the kids have it. It's all for them. I receive a lot of sexts through Snapchat. Like what? Uh, you know, dick shots. Kind of stuff like that. That would be typical frustration, wouldn't it? You finally get the picture from the one girl, and it's the perfect picture. You're like, "This is awesome!" Then it's gone. That's the story of my life. I was married for 11 years. I know all about that shit. When you send a Snapchat, you can only open it once for as many seconds. Like, I can take a picture and choose how long people can view it for. Like, I can do it for one second or like ten seconds, and then they can never ever see it again. First, Mike, have you ever sexted on Snapchat? I'm afraid I can't answer that question. Snapchat. What do I think about Snapchat? Now that's the thing where your dick erases. Ain't that the thing, like, where you put your dick on and then it just vanishes? Hey, you can't do the time, don't do the crime. That's the way I feel about it. You know? Look, it's awfully convenient for you to just, you know, be... There are consequences to everything. You know, just think if Anthony Weiner had used Snapchat instead of Twitter, we might be calling him Mayor Weiner. - Might have. Might have. - That's it? I don't do it too much through text messages, like actual pictures, because then they have it there forever. They can show whoever the hell they want. Snapchat is my best friend, you know? Ten seconds or lower, you know. I kinda give them a glimpse, three seconds. And they be like, "Oh, send me more." And I'm like, "Well, you gotta send me some." Snapchat is definitely one of the more intense ones. 'Cause it's gone, so I guess people feel more comfortable and are willing to do more things. Whenever I get a Snapchat picture, I don't screen-shot it because you can't. Then the girl can see that you screenshot it. So, therefore, if she sees that, then she won't send you another one again. See, I need these things, and sometimes when you can't find your glasses... You know what I mean? It's no good. I get a great picture. Now you're telling me it's gonna disappear in five seconds. Takes me 20 seconds to get my glasses. Use the app for what it's intended for. For pictures of sunsets and sexting. But a selfie on Snapchat, that "ish" disappears. Okay? So, like, I really don't get why you're sending it. So that I can go, "Yo. Yo, yo, remember that one time you looked good "for seven seconds?" I'm actually a Tinder fan. Well, I don't use Snapchat. Mostly, it's Tinder. It's usually Tinder that I usually go through. I always get my numbers from Tinder, and then all of a sudden, start sexting from there. Sometimes it'll be a fail, sometimes it'll be a positive, and we'll see what happens. A new app called Tinder is quickly gaining traction. For those of you who are a little shy and need some help breaking the ice, this app just might be for you. Is Tinder a dating app? Okay. Is that what we're gonna "pretend"? Tinder is a "dating app?" All right. I like the idea of just like, hot, not, hot, not, hot, not, you know? I think random, like, "Hey, you're five miles away from me. Let's meet up and fuck" thing is kind of crazy. I'm on Tinder right now. Like, while I was waiting. Oh, I shouldn't say that. What do I think about Tinder? I think Tinder's great. It's awful. Uh, Tinder has taught me that I'm hideous. Yes, I'm on Tinder. I've gone on a couple of Tinder dates, and they've been fine, and gone nowhere. How are things with you? The applications itself is not dangerous. It's how people exercise their behaviors with the app. If somebody uses Tinder and meets somebody right away from the Tinder app. They meet at a bar and they have unprotected sex. Is Tinder dangerous? No. Is their behavior dangerous to themselves? Yes. There are people that get relationships off of Tinder, but it's an immediate gratification application. An application that caters to people that wanna meet up right away. What does that tell you about our culture? Okay, so you like this girl? - Yeah. - You want her. She wants you back. You're gonna sext her what? "I'm gonna shove nine inches of limp dick in your ass." "Your giant tits make me rock hard." How about, "You make me think dirty thoughts"? The dirty thought "I wanna fuck you tits" - is still in there. - Okay. But she can be like, "What kind of dirty thoughts?" She says, "You're making me hot, too." See? Think dirty things and text naughty things. All right. Okay, well, let's wait. - The waiting part is the hardest, isn't it? - Yeah. Oh, it's so hard. I mean, you know, yeah. Give her 20% and make her do 80. - Okay, Uh... - So you give her that thought and it gets her involved. As opposed to just being the canvas, it's a... - It's a give-and-take. Okay. All right. - Yes. Aah! A-ha! Keep that shit to myself. She's clearly is into you having dirty thoughts about her. Okay. Okay. So, now you just want to keep the "your tits" or "your ass" here. "I wanna paint your vagina like the Texas tunnel." She said, "Are we gonna have dinner and dessert?" Dot, dot, dot. Oh. Shit! Yeah. I sent it. - You did not. - I sent it. You did not send her a dick pic. No! "I'll be wearing a carnation..." "And you'll be wearing a smile." "And you'll be wearing a smile." Yes! She says, "Yes, I will be wearing a smile, and so will you." Thank you. Now I'm sending the dick pic. You have to use proper punctuation. Capitalize your first letter. In a sense, use a period. Maybe it's an age thing. I want complete grammar in my sexting. That lets me know that the person who's sexting me has a complete mind. Less is more. That's what I say. People always try to go on and keep going for it. And also, here's... When I say something clever and sexy, when you use it back to me, I'm like, "I just fed you material." That irritates the shit out of me. Come up with your own stuff. Keep it tight and simple, and always throw in a compliment. Words are good. Words are powerful. You don't need a picture. Words are good. If you're a creative writer, you can definitely make someone, you know, get into it. I find sexting to be a very powerful foreplay tool. Very powerful. Almost too much. Almost to the point where it's like, this is so good, the actual act can't hold water, which is why I don't really even do it as much anymore. 'Cause it's like, this reality is disappointing. You know what I mean? Sexting is like foreplay. It's foreplay with your words. It's the best way you can verbally turn someone on without physically being there. I would say if you're new to sexting, don't, like, go really crazy. Like you're gonna choke her, slap her, spit on her, all those things. 'Cause you might scare someone away. I would lightly, uh, tread first, and then, uh, work your way into those really dirty, dirty messages. I think girls are a little hesitant to be forward about sexting and stuff. They don't wanna be seen as a slut, or too forward. So if you make her feel comfortable and give her the go ahead, and tell her, "I think it's really sexy when you sent me back the little flirty text." She'll feel more inclined to keep going with it. Well, I don't send nude. Um, I don't send my vajayjay. I use my assets to just... That's mainly me. I'll just send you a ass shot. Like, "Oh, look at these new jeans," or, "Look at these panties." And flirt like that. Like more of just my ass, or me just being cute and freaky, like recording something. Oh, the guy? Oh, yeah, you can send me whatever. Oh, yeah. I wanna see it all. Yeah, there's a certain method before I, uh, go straight into the dick pics and filthy erotic stories. Um, you gotta, you know, kind of test the ground first. You start complimenting her a little bit. Start with the mind. Work your way up to the physical. And then, uh, hopefully she gives you something in return. You know, "Oh, I think you're cute." "Uh, I think you got a nice little figure." "Oh, yeah. I think you are kind of hot too." And that's kind of like, you know, that's a green light. I'm a pretty dominant, aggressive person. So I'm initially gonna ask you, "What do you want to do to me, or what have you thought about doing to me?" And if you don't give me a good enough answer to come off with, then I'm gonna stop the sexting from there. I have no idea how to maintain a relationship without texting, you know. Especially sexting. It's got pacing to it. You have to keep up the pace. You have to be creative. You can't use the same words over and over again. You know, you can't stop in the middle. Ladies. I might do a boobie, or maybe, you know, a butt shot or something like that real quick. And if he's asking for more, then I'll go through some other avenues and do some other things. Yeah. Different angles. I have like... I have like a... It's not really even a sexting thing. It's just like a language right now. It's like, "You gonna be up for a while?" "Yeah, you wanna come through?" And that's, uh... Now we know what's happening. And it's just, you know, very understood. It's very grown, so to speak. But I reserve my sexting for the people that I'm boning. I like butt. I like men's butt. So, they'll send me like... Nice little picture of the frame. Yeah, I like that. I mean, to me, that's really like, "Oh, sexy." It gives me a turn on. I like that. Is there something about sexting that annoys me? Yes. It doesn't happen enough in my life. Uh, other than that girl who sends me pictures of her boobs. Those are really good boobs, though. She likes to send me pictures of herself naked with the cat. Like, she's got this really hot picture she sent me where she's like arched up, and her cat's just lying in the middle of her. She's like, "Where are you? My kitty misses you." Normally, you know, she'll send a picture of her tits. I'll send back, you know, one of my pussy. It's really hot. I keep 'em. I masturbate to 'em. Very few people know how to sext. That's just the fact of it. People who don't know how to talk dirty also don't know how to sext. I wanna turn this TV off and turn on your vagina-vision. I used to try to get guys I used to date to talk dirty, and, um, you'd be surprised at how... If that's not something that comes to you naturally, it's a flop every time. Don't get me wrong. Some people have the talent to do it right, and some people don't. There are some moments when I'm reading through a text and I'm like, "Okay. Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm. Oh, yeah." And then it's like, wait, what? Okay, that really threw me for a loop. Like, that really turned me off. And then you have other people that like... It's like reading "50 Shades of Grey." It's just like a crazy, fuck, sex, romance novel. And you're like, "Oh, my god." There are some buzz words, and not in a good way, that I can't handle. Like, "suckle." You wanna suckle my breast? Uh-huh. You're not my child. That's not gonna... I can't... "I wanna watch you pleasure yourself while I suckle on your breasts." That's the worst sext ever in existence. There's a time and a place to understand somebody could be doing something. I'll give you an example. Couple of weeks ago, I was flying home from a gig. I'm in first class, sitting next to an older dude I've never met before. And of course, as soon as we land I'm turning on my phone, and he's looking at my phone. Which I think is rude, but whatever. I don't say anything to people. I never look at anybody else's phone. And, of course, it was one of those moments where one of my dudes thought it'd be a great idea to send me a picture of his big black cock. So I opened the picture. And I leave it open 'cause I know this old guy is looking at my phone. He's now horrified. He'll be like, "Oh, my god." That was not the time or the place because that guy knew I was traveling that day, and I really didn't need to see a cock shot. Just had four-hour layover. Our other flight was delayed. It was brutal. So you have to know time and place. It has to be in something engaging where how you got to this point where you feel it's necessary right now to send that cock shot. There's absolutely nowhere I wouldn't sext. I'm gonna be honest. Um, because the more inappropriate the location, the better. You know? Like, if I'm on a thing with someone, like, if we're having a sex thing, like put me in church. Um, oh, okay. Giving birth. If I'm giving birth and the head of my child is crowning out of my pussy, I probably wouldn't sext then. I will say that the most mundane moments in life are the best time to sext. You can make any monotonous job fun just by sneaking a couple of sex texts from your phone. My favorite time and place to sext is probably while at home by myself. My favorite time to sext, typically, is late afternoon into evening. When I'm drunk. Um, yeah. Here's what I say. You never go to the grocery store hungry, never text horny. I sext any time of the day. In the morning, in the afternoon. While I'm in the shower. It's cool too, 'cause my phone case is waterproof. So I can, like, just take my phone in the shower and send snaps in the shower to whoever. It's funny. I get a lot back. Like, immediately right back, I'll get snaps. Like, whatever. I don't, like, designate a time or a dojo to sext in. I just kinda sext whenever I want to. We're really... It's kinda on his lead. He'll hit me up, or, you know, talk to him on the phone. He'll be like, "Baby, send me a little something later on "while I'm at work, so I can look at it when I'm on my break, or whatever." So, he'll usually start it out and it'll get me through the day. And then I'll start sending just random stuff just for fun, to see what his reaction is gonna be. And do it randomly, pretty much. Um... Maybe like... I have no limits. I don't care where I'm at, really. I don't know. I probably would in a lot of places. I mean, the only place, probably church 'cause I try not to look at my phone. I mean, I suppose if you go to church, you shouldn't sext in church. But I'm not really a regular attender, so that doesn't work for me. But if I'm there at home, oh, yeah, it's going down. Mm-hmm. I think you shouldn't... Maybe when someone's on stage, and you're supposed to be supporting someone, or something like that. Maybe. I don't wanna talk no more once you say that right. And I get that little feeling in my body and it goes up... Yeah, she tingling. Oh, it's time to go down. But other than that, I feel like, yeah, you can probably get it in. Depends on how fast you are. I have gotten surprise dick pics. Yeah, I have. It's shocking in the worst ways. I wanna see your dick for sure, but sometimes, the poses, one, or the places, two, are the most horrendous things. Or sometimes the way that your dick just looks in the picture. I think it would be funny to send my flaccid wiener. Would I do that? Just to everyone? I would do that to everyone. Dick pics are like the modern day flashing. So, usually flashers are like turned on because they know that they've got something, you know, between their legs that they're like, "There's nothing up here. There's nothing here. There's nothing in my wallet. "So let me show you, you know, what god gave me." If you leave, I'll send everyone your nude photos you sent me. You wouldn't dare! Oh, look, you as a sexy Ash Ketchum. What would your mother think if she saw your Pokeballs? Damn it, Claire! That was our little secret. I'm in a phase right now where I have been masturbating to dick pics, but, like, huge ones. Like, eight-and-a-half, nine inches, and, like, thick. Like... Like that, and like that. You know what? I would take a picture off the Internet and send that instead of my thing, and just let them be disappointed when it's too late and they can't do anything about it. I don't need a picture of your cock. It's not all that. When I see it in person, that's awesome. But I also don't send any graphic photos of myself. Because I know what guys do with them. They just show 'em to their friends. And you can get enough photos of me online. I just say, be like everybody else. Google me. I don't think that pussy shots or dick pics are necessarily sexy. You know, genitals are the weirdest looking things I've ever seen. Probably 80% of women are like, "Don't send me a picture of your dick." And then the size queens are like, "Yeah, send me a picture!" You know? Men are out there texting women photos of their penis, all the time. You wanna see something amazing? Watch this. Clap if you are a woman in the audience. Okay. Now clap if a dude has sent you a dick photo before. Was there even any difference in the applause? Now, dick pics... Dick pics are a whole other thing. As a woman who's had a lot of sex, I can look a dick and go, "Oh, my gosh. I would do this position, that position. This would be perfect for that." So I can tell how you're gonna... I can tell, from looking at an erection, how I'm gonna like having it inside of me. I had a dude, one time, get a nut. I mean, show me before it even busted. He was talking to me. "It's coming, Kim. It's coming." And I swear to god, through the whole thing, pop, pop, pop. I had three or four pictures of an exploding penis. Yeah. So that was kinda surprising, 'cause I didn't think you can hold a phone at the same time while you're jacking off. I didn't think you could do it. But it can be done. So here are my tips as to how to take a good dick picture. First one being, make sure you have good lighting. Just make sure you look presentable down there. You know, not all guys like to shave. If you guys just trim, trim it up a little bit. Three, is it's all about the angles. Just like on MySpace. I like to get it from like down here at the base, you know what I'm sayin'? So even if you're not big, it just looks triumphant and powerful. You never know when you're gonna get a picture. And I'm not really big on the pictures to be honest. Like, if you ask me for a picture, I'll send it, and I'd like the same courtesy back. Which means that if I'd like a picture, I'll ask. Why are you sending me all these dick pics? Like, I had this guy... I do not know who this person is. And they send me this pictures, and this guy has this dick, it's this big. Not exaggerating. Whenever it starts to get into that realm, I always get scared. Like, when's it coming? When's the dick pic coming? You know? And, you know, to be honest, they're never good. He drew a spider web on the head of his cock, and he's like, "Look at this funny little dick. Isn't this hilarious? "Isn't this blah, blah, blah?" And I open it, and it's this dude's dick. And I'm like, "Oh, my god." For the most part, it's an unflattering picture of something that I typically enjoy. I'm as self-conscious as any other guy out there. Um, I want to have a little bit of assurance that she likes what she sees before she sees it in person. I would just send dick pictures to... Dude, I would just send them up a storm. That's the thing to do. It's like, it's either a body picture or a dick pic. It's gonna be one of the two. The Captain Morgan picture. It's my favorite stance, the Captain Morgan. I don't know. Now that I think about it, it's kinda shitty. Yeah? 'Cause all of my junk is just out there. When you send your junk through Gmail, for example, the NSA got a copy of that. The good news is there's no program named the Dick Pic program. The worst is when they, like, take dick pics on the toilet. Do not take dick pics on the toilet. Like I think, like, "What are you doing that you have to do that?" Men who are not gay are socialized to only think about their dick as a source of pleasure. Giving or receiving. A guy sending a picture of his dick going, "Me happy. Share fun you? Me toy fun share?" And the woman goes, "Eek, what?" You know, men want in. Hi. My name is Janet, and everybody is talking about dick pics. I've never received a dick pic. Uh, so my friends put together this slide show of 89 dick pics. And, uh, we're gonna take a look at them. I'm gonna see what this is all about. So here we go. This does not look like a person, I don't think. And this is a... Okay, so I know this is an uncircumcised one. I don't know if this is erect. This is like a sort of moodier one. I'm not a size queen or anything, but this is very short. This is a big, round lollipop dick. Oh... It's like... Yeah, he's like, bleh. I don't know what this is. Curve. I mean, I guess he could be tugging his own ball sack, right? Or... But it seems he maybe fingering his butt hole. Hmm, makes me wonder what you could do with that. Yes! Yes! This is the one I would wanna receive. I don't... And I add, I don't believe it's real because it's too good. This one, I'm sure, is real. So, guys, women are complicated, and even though you think you're just sending a picture of your penis, we're constantly trying to put together the clues about you, the man behind the dick. But your wieners are fine. Put your dick out there and be fucking proud of it. If you sent it, you meant it. I'm gonna text my ex. Probably shouldn't, right? I'm gonna do it anyway. Could we get some blow? I desperately need some blow. But first, let me take a dick pic. Let me take a dick pic. Mystery's gone. I guess people don't want mystery anymore. I'd rather be surprised. Should the elderly sext? Yes, but keep it to themselves. People still want to have sex at 50, 60, 70. So it's kinda natural that that would happen. I wouldn't do it myself. No. Nope, Let's just nip that right there. Nope. No. They can send e-mails. I mean, come on. It's been my experience with elderly people that they really can't even get to their contacts, you know, and their phone very well, so... Fuck yeah. Hell yeah! They need it more than anyone. Who the hell wants to look at an elderly... No. Nope. E-mail. Stick with e-mail. I don't know if Viagra... You know, people should've been not having sex for a long time. Like, should've been done, retired from having sex, all of a sudden, having sex. And you know, they leave things around. You know, so their phone's gonna be left... You don't want, like, the grandkids to find the phone, and then it's like, ugh. If you're an old person, and you have a cellphone, and you know how to text, uh, yeah, go ahead, knock yourselves out. Look, we got parental blocks all over the world. I think it's about time we put some grandparental blocks on some things, and sexting might be the first and foremost to put it on. Some guy's going, "Hey, look at this. "It's going to work. It's going to work." The woman's going, "That might be going to work, but my pussy's retired. "So, I'm sorry. It's gonna have to call in sick." E-mail at maximum. Maybe a family picture sent. But sexting, no way. No one wants to see those wrinkle sticks. You can't make "Don't sit under the apple tree with anyone else but me" sexy. You can't. Well, you know, with Viagra, I suppose, you know, why should they be left out of it? But that's like putting a new flagpole on a condemned building. I mean, what the fuck? Breaking news just in to our newsroom in New York City. The New York mayoral candidate, Anthony Weiner, now admits he sent additional explicit photos and texts to a woman online. For the past few years, I have engaged in several inappropriate conversations conducted over Twitter, Facebook, e-mail, and occasionally on the phone with women I had met online. What about the gods opening up the clouds and giving us that one? But it was just so easy, you couldn't even touch it. No pun intended. Anthony Weiner, perfect example. Sent a picture of himself to somebody he really didn't know, and had conversations with that person electronically he didn't know. And look what happens. He tried to... As far as I can remember, he tried to deny that it was him. Then people were, "It's kind of a big dick. He goes, "Oh, yeah. That is me." The craziest part of the whole Anthony Weiner thing is... the guy never met you face-to-face. No, he never met me. But I've had more contact with you already. You had to say to yourself "This guy is one sick puppy," right? Oh, totally. Especially after the first scandal had already happened. Brett Favre, the same thing. Jen Sterger, the New York Jets TV host caught up in a sexting scandal with Brett Favre. It was all investigated by the NFL last fall. They concluded Jenn did nothing wrong, but fined Favre $50,000 for failing to fully cooperate with the probe. Oh, my god. You guys saw Brett Favre's dick pic? He had fucking Crocs on, and his dick was not even hard. That's the worst thing you can do, is to be wearing Crocs and have a small dick. Before sexting, Congressman Foley had an instant message conversation with a page, where he said things. Stupidly thinking that instant message conversations just sort of disappear when you're done. Not knowing that the person was copying and pasting everything that he said. He lost his job. It turns out that James Franco was trying to pick up a teenager on Instagram, in case you haven't heard. The Oscar-nominated actor was busted for flirting with a 17-year-old. You can hear him saying to the girl, "Tag me on Instagram" in that. 'Cause he, obviously, thought she was hot, and wanted to be able to find where this person was. Then they Instagram messaged back and forth, and then it flowed into texts. And then he said, "Well, do you want me to come over?" Uh, you know, I'm embarrassed, and I, uh... I guess I'm just a model of, you know, how social media is tricky. I used bad judgment, and I learned my lesson. I think we need to manage our expectations of celebrities and politicians a little bit better. The reality is that these people are humans. They're people. We need to have realistic expectations on their behaviors. I think we expect people in those positions to almost be inhuman sometimes. And then we shame them for these behaviors. And I think this should be looked at as a symptom of our culture. Hollywood actress, Eva Longoria, caught her NBA husband sexting. Sexting can lead to divorce just like cheating leads to divorce. And as a matter of fact, sexting might be used as evidence in a divorce case. Sure. Sounds good. How does eggplant Parmesan sound? LOL. Okay. Shit. LOL. Whatever you like. Ah. This just doesn't work. Come on, that is a foul. Clearly. Eggplant is fine! Again with the eggplant. Um, yes, eggplant is fine. Wait, wait. "At attention"? At attention? Uh, yes it will. Oh, sorry. Too late. I think I just started my period. Hmm, okay. It's gonna be fun to deal with that later. One of the things we've already started to see in this era of electronic communication is that some people, for some reason, don't pay attention to the possible problems that can crop up from sending something from your phone to someone else. I think that one of the problems of this being such a great tool is that then people will rely on it too much. And then you find that people will end up having almost entire relationships just using this. You lose so much in just sexting because you don't have the tone of somebody's voice, or you can't tell what someone's feeling. And so those really simple subtleties are lost. Things get just misconstrued, where, you know, someone says something. You get a text and you're like, "What did that mean? Did he mean it like this? Or did he mean it like this?" And then, something gets taken completely out of context and a fight gets started just because of how something's said. You lose the art of actually socializing. You know, people aren't going out as much. You know, you end up doing this really weird thing where you're at home isolating to find somebody. The exhilaration, the excitement from a possible encounter or to see where something goes, far outweighs the threat of danger. Today, a Nova Scotia woman is speaking out about a tragic tale. She shares her story of her teenage daughter's suicide, and the bullying she encountered. Rehtaeh's mother says Rehtaeh experienced months of torment after a revealing photo was circulated. That night, she says, four boys raped her daughter. While one of the guys was having sex with her, another guy said, "Take a picture. Take a picture." And she heard the picture click. What did it show? It showed a guy having sex with her. It's scary. Her story is similar to the case of Amanda Todd. The BC team who put up a video on YouTube detailing how she was bullied over a graphic photo. A lot of the messages are not just confined to one person's phone. There may even be a group of people who are sending the messages back and forth. And you don't know, really, who you're talking to. I was talking to a guy that I met at a high school football game. And we would just text, like every day. Like, flirt and whatnot. And, um, one night, we were texting, and like in the middle of the conversation, I got a random text. And it was back when I was younger, so I had the flip phone. And I opened it, and it's like, "Would you like to download the picture message?" And so I was like, yeah. It totally downloaded, and I just got a picture of his dick. Just a full shot of the dick and everything. And I was, like, traumatized and shocked. 'Cause I was only in seventh grade, and it was the first time I'd ever seen a dick. And it was just like gnarly for me. If you're, say, a teenager or even a pre-teen, your brain is not completely developed to the sense that you can make a good decision there. And so, the kinds of decisions you make are faulty. And so, you go ahead and go, "Oh, I think I'll take this picture and send it to somebody." Boom. And it's gone before you've thought about it. I really don't think the parents are getting involved as much as they should. And I think you have to start young. Like, nine and ten, and say, "Look, just don't set yourself up." Especially for women. They're jeopardizing themselves. I wish younger people would not send sex pictures of themselves to each other because of the consequences they cannot yet understand. I'm not a parent, but I used to be a teenager, and I totally get the desire to... "Am I attractive?" What kind of, you know... "Am I sexy?" I mean, 'cause when you're body's changing, you wanna know, "Am I sexy? What is sexy?" And you're still discovering that. My father used to tell me actions have consequences. And when it comes to teenage sexting, actions have consequences they can't even contemplate. They don't have any experience. It's not that they're not smart. They just don't know enough to know what the consequences can be. Forget Mom being mad at me. And yet, all the horror stories, that this picture got spread around, the girl got slut shamed. It still doesn't seem to stop young people. Because it's not gonna happen to them, the magical thinking, the invincible shield of being 16. It's gotta sink in that people don't care, and they're gonna send those pictures to whoever they want to. And that's what sets people up for bullying. You really don't want kids under the age of 18 sexting because it's child pornography. And that's illegal. And it's also not healthy because they are not at a developed mental level to be able to handle it. And also, kids younger than 18 tend to be much more free about distributing messages to everybody, all their friends. And you really don't want naked pictures of you, or nasty talk to get spread to a bunch of teenagers. It's probably not a good thing. If you take a clever picture, and it's one wrong button, then you're in big trouble. I mean, it doesn't even go to the NSA. It goes to your Aunt Lorraine who doesn't like those pictures. You know, I think that any time we talk about teenagers or children and sexuality, it becomes such a taboo subject. But the reality is, our sexuality develops since we were very small children. Some people really have difficulty talking to their children about sex. And that's a cultural issue as well. We need more support with parents. We need to teach them how to talk about sex to their kids. How to appropriately give their kids technology. Are these kids being monitored? You know, a lot of kids come home from school and they sit down on their computers with no supervision. They have cellphones. The parents aren't watching. And then trouble happens. Well, especially to the girls. Um, I don't think the message is communicated enough that they can say no. You know, I think that the emphasis of abstinence or abstaining from sexualized conversation with teenagers and children only hurts us. It doesn't help us. So let's talk about it. Why are these kids doing it? Their sex drives are going up. They're going through adolescence. The reality is that they're becoming sexual humans. How do we deal with that and teach these kids responsibility with what they're doing? Are their parents monitoring their phones? You know, it's up to the parents to monitor and teach these children how to conduct themselves. That's the issue. Parents have called it dangerous, and new tonight, a west Michigan sex offender is speaking out about the app called Kik. Wow, I can be whoever I wanna be. I can get anybody I want. I can achieve my sexual glorification through this app. That's when I said, "You know what? I have to stop this." Please make sure to take Kik off your kids' phone. Our thinking is still stuck back in the pre-Internet days, that if we say something to somebody, if we send a picture to somebody, it's private between the two of us. It's not private. In fact, nothing's private. We have a really sort of uneasy relationship with this concept of privacy. It's sort of an exchange here. We've exchanged privacy for the ultimate connectivity. We're willing to give up privacy so that we can stay connected anywhere, anytime, to whoever, whenever, whatever. That's the new Worldwide Web. If you post something on Facebook and you decide five seconds later, "Oh, I shouldn't have said that," and you delete it, somebody may very well have copied it down tweeted it, re-posted it, shared it, whatever. And there's no guarantee of privacy. In fact, one of the rules in this world right now is nothing is private. My advice to a friend sending a naughty picture would probably be not to do it. Um, it's not really a good idea, especially if it's not someone that you know. Like, I've only ever sent pictures of myself in a revealing situation to my boyfriend. Someone who I know is not gonna share that with anybody. She's not gonna share that with someone she trusts that much. Don't do it. It's not worth it. Don't put your face in it. 'Cause you don't know where it's gonna go, and seriously, think about... And no identifying features. So if you have very distinctive hand jewelry, take off the jewelry. Make sure you're in front of a plain background that could be any place. Not, "Oh, my god. That's Sally's kitchen. "I totally recognize that magnet her mother brought her back from Barcelona." Bad. Make her send you the picture first. Easy as that. So make sure she sends you the picture first. Because if she sends you the picture first, and he sent her a dick pic, and if she tries to go viral with that, you got some back up plan. You go viral with her naked picture. Easy as that. Often what happens is you break up with someone, the breakup is nasty. The person who's hurt the most then sends off the nasty pictures, and boom, you're in real trouble. I come from a really small town, and things got around really quickly. And, um, I just remember one girl sent a photo of herself. Like, a full nude with her face in it, to a guy that she liked in our high school. And immediately, like, that morning, everyone had it. So, I kind of like learned my lesson vicariously through her. Then I was like, "Maybe I should be more careful about this." That cock shot, or those nude shots can incriminate you later. So if someone breaks up with you, wants to show it to all their friends, or send them to your job, or anything like that, you've gotta be concerned with that. I mean, I know some people would say, like, "Well, don't let him, you know, film your face." You know, but that's hard when you're giving a blowjob. You hear a lot of stuff about people's pictures getting put online, and things like that. Actually, somebody stole some of my pictures and put them on a Craigslist thing. And they were trying to act like they were me with my pictures. A friend of mine showed it to me. I'm like, "Wow, that is me." But they blacked out my eyes with a black bar. It's interesting. My first piece of advice would be, don't show your face. 'Cause you could end up on a website. Ex-girlfriend Revenge. The dirty... I mean, you'd end up somewhere you don't wanna be. So always make sure when you're sexting to maybe not show your face. When you put these photos out there, there's a chance it's gonna end up on the Internet. And I've had a bunch of girls send me some naked photos. I've even recorded a sex tape, but I've deleted them now because I don't want the stigma of being responsible for a girl, uh, having her naked photos posted on the Internet. I mean, it's one thing for me to look at it, but a million horny guys looking at her, I don't think that's what she signed up for when she sent me her tits. A man accused of setting up a revenge porn site is now facing extortion charges. It's a site where, basically, people would put up like, inappropriate pictures of their exes. Like, sex texting and that kind of thing. Hunter Moore is a 26-year-old web renegade, and his website, isanyoneup, was designed for public humiliation on a scale only the Internet can offer. They can come to my site, submit all the pictures you sent, um, in a "sext," along with your Facebook, or you Twitter, your Linkedln, or any kind of social networking profile that you have, and we would link it directly to that. Officials released a 15-count indictment against Moore that said he and a co-conspirator hacked into victims' computers and stole nude photos. A month before that, the FBI arrested Kevin Christopher Bollaert who operated yougotposted.com. He was charged with conspiracy, identity theft and extortion. She had never sent the picture to anyone. She had taken the pictures alone in her room with her cellphone in the mirror, and sent them through her e-mail to get them to her computer 'cause she wanted to save them. And one was topless 'cause she had over 100 clothed pictures in that batch. The photos came from ex-boyfriends or were hacked. All of them included the woman's full name, location, age, and Facebook profile link. When women would complain, they were sent to Bollaert's other site. Bollaert then charged women up to $350 to have the photos removed through his second website called changemyreputation.com. There was a situation where, um, I was in a long... Well, not a long-distance relationship, but I was traveling a lot. And, um, we had a very rocky relationship. There wasn't a lot of trust, and, um, we would just, sort of, breaking up on and off all the time. It wasn't the best. Our relationship was lacking a lot of, you know, love, passion and respect, unfortunately. Um, I wish things could've been different, but they weren't. Um, however, every now and then, he would ask me to send a picture of myself to him. And I'd just be like, "Oh, babe, I look like crap. "I don't have makeup on. I look gross. "I feel gross. I'm tired. I'm just gonna go to bed." Something like that. And then I would get a text message back saying, "I know that you're probably... You probably just don't love me. "You're probably with somebody else." And that was the kind of guilt trip I would get. And I just like, click, you know. "Here you go, babe." I was dating a guy for a year. We moved really fast. I moved in with him, um, and, you know, even we didn't sext before we even got into the relationship. That wasn't even, like, part of it. Uh, we didn't even have sex until a few months into our relationship. Once I felt more comfortable, I was like, "Eh, why not?" You know, I literally sent him just of ton of, you know, photos of me while he was at work and stuff like that. I ended up on a revenge site for exes. It's one that's specifically designed for people to submit pictures of their exes, or people that, you know, they have beef with. And of their private parts. Your social media addresses are up there. They can't put your phone number. They can't put your address, and things like that up there, but they can put photos of your face. Photos of your body. And then they can give a little description, say anything that they want about you. Anything at all. After we broke up, um, he made a fake profile of me online, and actually showed all of my nude photos and sent them out to everyone. My family members, my friends. Basically, just everyone on there, It was just really humiliating for me. Especially after finding that I... I was getting texts from different people saying like, "Oh, we received your, you know, photos and stuff." I was in love with this guy. I trusted him with everything when I sent those photos as well. I didn't even think that after we broke up that he would, you know, make that profile and put those photos up there. At the time... At the time, I was out of town, and when I kept getting all these links from people, these strange men on Facebook. And they were telling me my pictures were up there. I, um... I wanted to die. Like, I just couldn't believe that this had happened to me, and now my life was over, and people were, you know, not gonna take me seriously. I won't ever have, like, a future with a guy who'll take me seriously now. I called a couple of friends and talked to them so that they could talk me off the ledge. Not that I was actually gonna kill myself, but it was something I was contemplating. I, honestly, after that situation, I locked myself in my room for days at a time. I didn't wanna go out and stuff like that. But I think if, you know, you're in high school or junior high, um, you have to show up to school and you have to face those people. That emotional toll, I can't even like wrap my mind around that. How am I gonna find love when the man that would want to marry me or be with me has to see that, or has to deal with it, too? "I have a lady coming to paint kids' faces and do balloon anals. "I mean, balloon animals, not balloon anals. OMG. "I don't want a balloon anal." You know, you can have a really good job doing a balloon anal. From Mexico to Utah. This one, it's a good one. "You should come over and play with my titties." "I'm coming over." Five exclamation points and a big, old smiley face. "Kitties. I meant kitties. "Damn, Autocorrect, you just ruined my life." That's a big-time failure of Autocorrect right there. Got his hopes all up, next thing you know, he's got kittens instead of titties. See, that would be my sexting experience. I'd get it all wrong. I'd get all excited about the titties, I end up with the kitties. That's why I'm not big into sexting, right there. "My god! All I can think about is nuzzling my nose and mouth in your pussy, "and plunging my coco in your honey bowl." I like that "coco" is the problem they had with this one. Like, "honey bowl," no problem with that. "Nuzzling my nose into your pussy"? "Plunging my cock into your honey bowl"? Honey bowl? Honey bowl? I can't... "No, seriously, tie me down. "I also want some sort of pie. "Like, dessert pie. Can we also have some whipped cream? "I'll tie you down and rub cherry pie all over you. "I'm gonna shove a cheesecake so deep inside of you, you'll moo." "Now I realize why I feel off kilter." "Why?" "My office cock has not been adjusted for the time change. "OMFG, my office dock. Ha, ha, ha." "Mom's cell. "Hi, Dan, guess what? "The deer are in the back yard. I just fed... "I just fed one of them out of my vagina." "Ignore that last sentence. "I just fed one of the deer out of my vagina. "Out of my veranda. My phone won't let me spell it." "LOL. Be careful, Mom." Uh, okay. A couple of things about this one. Uh, she typed it twice. She meant to say vagina. Right? Two, no one says "veranda." This isn't 15th century Italy. You don't have a veranda. You have a fucking porch. "Don't do too much today. Stay home and rest. "I left orange juice and chicken soup in the fridge. "And I put tissues by the bed in case you need to blow your load. Love, Mom." God, that is just such a great mom. Happy Mother's Day to her. I do. I please myself when I interact with my fans. I use social media, and I take pictures on my cellphone for them. You use Twitter? Mm-hmm. Absolutely I use Twitter. I get the most comments and interaction with my fans when I take selfies, as opposed to professional pictures from my shoots. Hey, guys, it's Summer Brielle, and I'm here on set shooting some brand-new sexy stuff for you. Hope you like my little outfit. You know, if I'm on set or if I am out of the shower, I like to take little teaser pictures and, you know, post them on Twitter. You know, I like to get in on... What is it? Thirsty Thursdays and, you know, Wet Wednesdays, and all that fun stuff. I noticed there's something about the personal interaction of the selfies. Guys love them. I mean, I hope they beat their little brains out to them. I mainly get asked for selfies by fans. No one who knows me in person has ever been like, "Hey, can I have a pic?" And, you know, for a fan, it's personal. It's something that I probably made just for them. I feel like social media, sometimes, are haters against us girls in the adult industry because of the racy things that some people... They don't follow guidelines and stuff. But then you get fans that have like, either me getting fucked, or something as their avie. And I'm like, "How can you get away with this?" Or they'll send you a dick picture. I'm like, "How do you get that, and I get flagged or reported?" Life of a pornstar. What're you gonna do? I think that cellphones have impacted... And Twitter, and Instagram, and Facebook have impacted the adult industry in a huge way. And I think, definitely, having personal interaction with our fans, and them feeling like they can connect with us more personally is more important than ever. And it's only gonna be more important. It's not gonna back away from that. A more intimate relationship with our fans as a result of cellphones, and I think it's only gonna grow more in that direction. I have Snapchat I've used. Um, it's fun to send little videos, but I actually work with a company that sells access to my Snapchat. So that was my first time ever using it. Hi. Does this make you horny? Are you gonna come play with me later? You know, I try to create content that goes with that. Half kind of getting to know me better and half "this is dirty." Um, it's kinda hot. It's kinda hot being able to take your phone and being able to be like, "All right, I got 10 seconds to waste. I'll do 10 seconds on my phone." Yeah, InstaDM has definitely, um, made a lot of dick pics happen in my life the last couple of months. So, um, I've seen some interesting things to say the least. And the funny part with that is that they can actually see when you see their picture, but I never comment back, which is hilarious. And they're always like, "Come on, I know you saw it." And I'm like, "I don't care. I'm just laughing at you." Sometimes you may correspond with someone you may never meet. So it's really fun to have that person you text once a day something dirty. And then, you know, you go on with your life. You're not expecting to actually meet this person. You don't have a planned date where you're gonna meet this person and have sex with this person. But you might have a couple of times a day where you text this person. You maybe in another country. You know, she maybe in another country. Always constantly posting pictures on Twitter and Instagram, but mostly Twitter, nude ones. Especially before I'm gonna do Skype shows, or I'm gonna jump on cam and stuff, but I'm always posting sexy pictures. I'm just in the shower... The bathtub. I'm gonna get all nice and wet for you. Just thought you'd appreciate a little video. I had Snapchat before, but I got rid of it 'cause, um, the only person that was Snapchatting me was my best friend. And she was Snapchatting me pictures of food all the time. So it didn't work out. There's no more, uh, innuendo. There's no more, uh, real man's flirtation. It's right in your face. It's right on your phone, and you can show your buddies. We've just evolved, you know. Evolved to a Retina Display that can show intricate details, and you can really make out what a penis looks like and what comes out of it. A new app called Sex With Google Glass is set to hit your face in the near future, and the makers hope you'll indulge as a way to see sex from a new perspective. - What are those things on your face? - These? This is Google Glass. You want to try 'em? - Absolutely. - Okay. That's pretty cool. What type of apps are you guys doing for this? Pornify everything. Our obsession with imagery right now is 10X. It's why we have to make such grand experiential things and go bigger and bigger. Because with the consumers expecting more and more of that, they want to fall into fantasy. And so we have to build the construct in what they live. I mean, it's very Matrix like if anything. Giving out tips. Are you kidding me? - I know. - It's more than just that. I can see all sorts of stuff. In my fucking cunt. Yeah. - Oh, the definition of cunt just popped up. - Oh, wow. Even Ashley Madison has it's own casual sex finder app. And I think what that shows is a shift in the online dating market. So is it gonna be too much of a surprise to see eHarmony, to see Match, or even JDate start their own mobile dating apps based off of location and NFC capabilities? Not at all. In order to keep paid users, they're gonna have to evolve to where their users are now going. I think I read recently that it's one in eight couples that marry meet on online dating sites. Which is pretty extraordinary. Literally, there is something for everybody out there. There are so many people that are out there that felt like there was something wrong with them, because they felt like there was no one else like them out there, and now they can go online and they can type in whatever their fetish is, or their kink, or something, and they can find like-minded people. Hinge, Skout, and even Pure allow people to find casual sex, BDSM hookups, threesomes, and a host of other things that fit their sexual needs. You know, the recession is over. The economy is coming back. People have been restricted in what they spend, what they indulge in. And we're about to get a little bit more hedonistic these days. Technology and sexuality really go hand in hand. And I think the bigger question is, the chicken or the egg? Is the technology there and it causes people to behave more sexually? Or are we sexual people and that technology is being created to cater to our sexuality? When we used to look at technology use, um, we used to think that they would eventually... Any technology there would become a backlash, and people would start to use it too much, and then go, "Oh, no. That's enough." And yet, we haven't seen that with any of the major technologies. I text with a lot of people. Women have never sent me, like... What are they called? Emoticons or emojis? Is that what they're called, emojis? Women don't send emojis. Dudes send emojis. Which is really disturbing. I don't like them. Um, I think they're weird, and they definitely should not be involved in a sext situation. Like, um, my boyfriend sends me eggplants. Purple eggplants, as if he has a big black dick. It's like, you don't have an eggplant. I like you and everything, but you're Canadian. Like, there's no eggplants involved in this. Okay, so this is like the Rorschach test of emojis. "Let's get drunk, and make out, and listen to music at the beach"? I don't know what that is. It's like, "I'm gonna get you drunk and take you to a Micheal Bolton concert "and fuck you while the sun goes down." "Let's drink. Let's fuck to music till the sun comes up"? "Don't whine while I'm having sex with you." Sexy time? That's what I said. That, that's a "sexy time"? Why don't they just write fucking "sexy time"? Sexy time. Okay. Oh, I get it. Well, where's the wine? That's a lot of blowjobs. All I can tell is that's a lot of blowjobs. Is that what it is? It's a lot of blowjobs? Oh, that's an "O" face. You had five orgasms. Good for you. "Five faces of people..." You know what? I know what that is. You see what that is? Five people with their mouths going... "What the fuck are you talking about?" "I can't believe... This is horrifying." That's what that says. Blowjob. "Blowjob"? It's a fucking job to figure out what that says. All right. Now, I see those two peaches again. It's somebody clapping. "Make it clap." "Make it clap." That thing where they put their butts together. Uh, the single butt. One butt. Is that it? Okay. Double ass... Double penetration. Double... Oh, oh. "Let's DP and then pray." Okay. Now, this is two peaches and a fortune cookie. Is that a fortune cookie? Two hands? Oh, those are two hands. Um, you know, who the fuck thought that up? I mean, Jesus, second base. Why don't just put a fucking baseball diamond and put a base in second base? I mean, why two peaches? It's the end of the world, you know. Is that a piece of pizza? 'Cause if it is, I'm in with the purple dick. I would eat the pizza before I took care of the dick. That's what I would do. Now, here's my old friend, the eggplant. "Every time's a good time when your shit's out"? Good sex. Good sex? Do people believe this? Good sex. Okay. You know what? Some people keep it simple, you know? Seems like it would be quicker to write "good sex." That's a smiley happy face, but also, the tongue looks like a lady's vagina. So, I... Eating a girl out? It's eating five girls out. It's five happy vaginas. That one says "Make sure you bathe before we bump, "and bathe afterwards again." They must be Catholic. "Wash your pussy "before I stick my eggplant "in that big fucking tub of yours." You know what? "I'm gonna take a bath with an eggplant up my ass." Tub, dick, pussy, shower. Um, oh! "Piss on me." All right. Now you're getting into my wheel house. There's a hand clapping and a horse. This is some Alabama shit. Um, nope. Whatever it is, I'm not doing it. Looks like there's a horse in the situation. There's an eggplant, a peach, a party hat, a star... You know what? I'm gonna tell you what this means. This means "I'm so fucking stupid "that I can't call somebody up and say, "'Listen, I wanna have sex with you. "'I have to send you a bunch of fucking hieroglyphics "'hoping that you can understand what I'm saying to you, "'and if you do, then you're just as fucking stupid as I am, "'and we should not have kids.'" I would say now that I've started to enjoy sexting, I'm definitely well on my way of becoming addicted to it. I am addicted to sexting. I am. Why do you think that? Because I do it a lot, and I have fun with it, and I enjoy it. I'm not addicted, but I'd probably do it once a week. I probably actually do it once a week. Is that an addict? I think so. If there's a term of addiction, and if it's not drug, it would be that. So would you say you're addicted to sexting? Absolutely. - Absolutely? - Yeah. If so, why? Why would you say that? It's easy money. I wouldn't say I'm addicted to sexting. Um, I think there's a lot of people out there who have worse addictions than I do. I'm not addicted to sexting. I can go without sexting, but I definitely couldn't tweet without sexting. So, I don't know. I guess I might have to admit my addiction, right here, now. Addiction is a bio-chemical issue. It's the brain's need for dopamine. And so, we see it, for example, with video game players that they play to get a squirt of dopamine in their head to make them feel pleasure. The Internet itself is neural stimuli. It can ensnare you in a dopamine loop. Whether you're on something as simple as Pinterest, which you pin and pin and react and act and act, and you're falling down a rabbit hole because it's stimulating your mind. An addiction is only an addiction if it's interfering with other parts of your life. When we talk about sexting or any technology, there's really no, uh, disorder for technological addiction. We suggest that people take breaks from their devices. Even turn them off for a while. Definitely not have them on in the middle of the night, so that you're not getting alerts and rings, you know, while you're sleeping. And during the day, try to minimize the number of times that you're checking your phone. If it's not a problem, don't treat it as a problem. So if people are sexting and there's no negativity about it in their lives and they're happy about it, it's something they don't need to be focused on. If sexting makes you feel pleasure and you're doing it because you constantly need that replenishment of pleasure, but you can only get it through sexting, then it's problematic. And so, if you're addicted to the sexting part, that's not a good thing. Because that means you're not carrying it over into your sexual relationship, and it's a tool in and of itself. For many people, particularly their smart phone is an object of obsession. We're noticing in our research, more and more people are carrying their phone in their hand all day long. Not relegating it to their pocket anymore, but carrying it close at hand so they can feel that buzz, that vibration. So they can get it immediately. What we're really seeing, as a race, being totally consumed by our ability to connect to another person through a little box we carry 24/7, 365.
