 

                        1 I get this feeling racing through my veins, this Rush... I never get enough, I'm never satisfied, I race to win and that's my purpose. Every drop sends my heart racing Relax and let the vitals spin I don't think so Every pulse of new blood burning Like current sliding underneath my skin Dark takes it. [Audience Cheering] Let it all crash... we 'll be ok If it all falls... I'm not afraid I fee! ya flow. ..feel ya move. . . feel ya shakfn 'me I feel ya runnin' through... So I think you have something that belongs to me That's what I was thinking. But you know what, tonight is your lucky night, because... I am going to give you a little something to help take the dust off your windshield. No! you like a dusty windshield, That's fine, you know different strokes for different folks Have a good night! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Bottoms up fellahs Racing fuel Why do you like that? Racer chasers I think it's your shot Wow! Look alive When is it ever going to be my shot'? Pretty impressive race tonight Thanks So I hear you're the car to beat these days'? Yeah with uhm 444 cubic inches topped with a max wedge cross ram, pushing 11:1 compression, not to mention a hydraulic roller cam... yeah it's pretty much the car to beat. So does it have a back seat'? Joseph, We've got to go. Hey! Is this your boy'? He don't look like much. Yeah, well he's the best driver in the state, possibly the country. Really? So I'm standing in the presence of greatness. Ha Ha, we'll see. As discussed, this will be a race for $10,000 dollars. I'll send you a text message one hour prior to the event which will take place at 7 o'clock on Tuesday. This is business, I expect to see you and you alone. I don't want any cheerleaders standing around causing any extra attention. Now when the nevent is over, the winner will take the prize and the deal will be done. Do you understand? We got it. Did he say...'? Did he say best in State'? Best in the country? Who are you kidding slim! Huh! You know what I see here'? I see an overzealous punk who thinks he has it all figured out. He thinks that after he finishes this one, he's going to stack up, that he is going to matter. But it doesn't work that way because, racing is no place for wannabes. It's not in your DNA, okay. You don't have it, your old man didn't have it. That's Why he's not here anymore. Save it... Save it! I hope your launch time is faster than your reflexes. Otherwise, I would stay at home and save yourself some embarrassment. Tuesday, 7 o'clock, cash in hand. Yeah we got it. Let's do this... One, two, three One second, ha ha. Ohhh! Mom! I socks, You ever going to get your own place, man'? No man! Free food, rent, laundry... Please... Those socks kill me man. So how are you feeling after last night'? Oh he is going to regret that. Mr. Kringle! Oh, you've got something for us. Is that how we 're doing this... Santa Clause? Alright then. Merry Christmas. Push of a button and BOOM! That's what I'm talking about. Yeah, boom baby. Yeah, Aha, fat me tab' you what I'm talking about, I know you two are trying to big time me. Street Racing, Snow Man talking... You want to race, put it on the track. Put it on the track, alright. We know. Yeah you know, what do you know'? I don't want to hear nothing on Facebook, Twitter, newspaper, nothing... alright? Yeah. Alright, get out of my store. Is that it'? That's it, that's the speech, go! Come on. One second, quick question... Am I on the naughty list'? Right here, solid, on the list. Come on, let's go! Alright, next time I got the milk and cookies. Top of the list, Out of my store! I feel ya flow...feel ya move...feelya shakin' me'? I feel ya runnin' through my veins like adre-na-line Adrenaline... You 're my adrenaline Light the fire... energize... You awaken me I feel ya runnin' through my veins like adre-na-line Adrenaline... You 're my adrenaline Breaker breaker 1-9, What's your 20 good buddy'? All set, let's do it. Alright here we go in Three, Two, One Go! Wow! Lucky socks, what you go man'? 11.10 big daddy I like the sound of that, lets push it. Wow! 11 flat Joe Wow! yeah! Yeah! Alright, let's go. They're here. It's about time. You, come here. Do you think we have enough time for this'? Oh it will be over in 10 seconds. Line's right here. You start this, we'll finish it. I don't feel good about this. This could drop at any moment and it might get slick out there. Then you better hurry up. Okay, but I just don't feel good about it. Hey, I got this, let's go. Get out of here! Okay, okay, hey good luck. Let's do this! Joseph! Joseph! Joseph! Joseph, oh no! Joseph, no no no! NO! Joseph! Help! Hello. Help! Hey Joseph, just try to remain still, okay. We're going to get you fixed up. Joseph as we've discussed. The injuries from your accident have left you with significant trauma, to your L-2 and L-3 vertebrae. We call this a class-3 spinal cord injury. Unfortunately with an injury like this, the chances are you'll never Walk again. Mr. Jenkins My name is Josie Rigsby, I'm your physical therapist. That's okay, today is just an opportunity for us to get to know one another. We'll get to the tough stuff later. Look you've been through a lot so, you're off the hook. I 'h' see you soon. You have a visitor. Hey man. Page me if you need anything, okay? So what's in the bag'? Oh, yeah. Well they told me you might be here for a while, so I thought I would bring you a couple things from your apartment. There's some other stuff in there too. Oh yeah and I got you What do you think? I appreciate this... but I'm done with it. Dude this is a super stock cross ram Hemi. That's very nice, but I don't want it. I know, but it's got real detail, look at it, if you put some fuel in Trace, get it out of here! I just thought that... You thought what? You thought what? That a constant reminder of everything that was taken away from me might somehow cheer me up'? What are you thinking? I don't want it. I'm sorry. I died out there alright. Yeah, well you 're still here. Half. Look, Why don't you just get out of here alright. I almost forgot. Cement fuel pump to side of engine block Okay, okay. Sorry if I woke ya, found this all banged up. Hope you don't mind. Looks nice. Guess you're never too old to try something new. Looks like you got pretty banked up there, Did you get yourself into a quarrel with a squirrel? Ha ha ha And we go'n be, cooped up here for a few Weeks, just you, me and the Almighty. Might as well get to know each other. My name is Elijah Benjamin Salisbury. Not to be confused with the steak - although that is my favorite food in this institution, Jeff-O is not bad either, but I suggest you take a pass on that meatloaf. You sure are one for conversation. What can I help you with Joseph? Joseph? Joey, Joe Joe, Jay bird, Jay Jay Dynamite! What is it'? I want to be moved to another room. Well, I can't do that right now. Why not? All the other rooms are full. If you wanted me to be quite, Jay bird, all you had to do is ask. I'm sorry Nurse Amy, there Won't be any more trouble. You just let me know if you need anything else, okay. I'm just go'n to mine my own. I do me and you do you. I'm just gonna get back to putting this here... Engine together. Mr. Jenkins, we have you scheduled for physical therapy. Mr. Jenkins, Hmmmm... Joseph. Look I'm doing my best. But you're going to have to meet me at some point here. Your life is over Joseph. You're old life that is. Excuse the mess, I don't really spend much time in here. Much less time to clean. I don't typically bring patients to my office. My first three years here, I kept a scrapbook... Of all the patients I got to know and I guess I felt like... maybe I made a difference in their life. Everyone in this book, went through an experience. Just like yours, Where in an instant, it all changed. To some, they thought they were lost causes. But each and every one of them, ended up doing some amazing things. This is Kate. She was 22. Four days after her college graduation, she lost her leg. She got a great job. Got married and is now pregnant with her second baby. This is Jake, he's a murder ball champion. He's for the Carolina Crash. This is Meredith, she's a morn, has three kids, husband, was a lost cause if there ever was one. She became an author. She's currently Working on her third novel. All of these people are much worse off then you. Joseph. They went on to do great things. You can too. When I wake up, I get this emptiness inside. I have the yearning to feel the rumble... of a big block V8. The dead calm right before the flag comes down, and 3 gs are pushing on me as I go from zero to 120 miles per hour. It was more then what I did... It was a part of me. How am I going to get that back'? What could you possibly do to help me'? Cement 196A fuel manifold, the filter, then sub assemble number 202 connected... Cement the fuel pump monitor the fuel pump and fuel manifold. What the heck is a fuel manifold? It's what distributes the fuel to each of the carburetors. Aha he speaks. You know what JJ'? I knew you would come around. Yeah, well I just can't believe it's taken you this long to finish building that engine. Well, maybe I'm just not what you would call a car person. Gearhead! Say what'? A gearhead: a person to modifying cars, hotrods and engines, anything mechanical. A-huh. Well, now baseball... ask me anything you want to know about the game I can tell you. San Francisco's own Barry Barnes broke the all-time single season home run record when he hit 73, which broke the 70 mark set by Saint Louis Cardinals first baseman Mark McGwire 1998, see what did I tell ya! Well I guess you're not into baseball? Nope. But go on, anything to help pass the time in this place. Well, when you've been in this place as long as I have, you figure out all kinds of Ways to pass the time. Well it doesn't look like I'm going anywhere any time fast, so! Well, then I guess I could show ya...the list. The List'? A collection of the best time killers, each one personally tested and perfected. I would like to get a copy of that. Son, I said... I would have to show ya. You've got your bearings on that thing yet'? I think I can manage. Well I tell you What, Why don't you strap yourself in and follow me. Looks clear. Come on son, I thought you were a racer car driver! Oh this can't be good. Alright, let's go, do it. Get it in there, get it in. Ahhhh! One more try. Okay, okay alright It's in. Yes! Ha ha ha Yeah! Now this here, is about my favorite place in all of God's creation. They get in the back of your mind, this might be the last beautiful thing you ever see. And that would be alright with me. Hey Eli... Thanks Yeah, never you mind Jay, trainings my pleasure. Oh Oh! Yes yes yes! Ahhhh The good stuff. You really know your Way around here. I've been in and out of these places for the last 40 years. You've just got to find a Way to keep yourself entertained. 40 years I can't imagine. Since about my senior year of high school. I was the biggest thing on campus too. All Star pitcher. I had the state record in strikeouts, everyone knew I was destined for the big leagues, I had scouts knocking on my door every other day. That uhm... my prom date that year was Sally Wilcox, prettiest thing you've ever seen. Nice too. You might say we nwere a perfect match. I drove to her house that night. To pick her up, parked the car, headed up to the house. Heard the screams even before I got to the door. Sally's daddy was a drunk and he liked to beat on her. A secret she had kept for nearly a year. I charged through the door, pulled him off her, wrestled him to the ground, gave him a couple licks. It ended, got Sally to the car, dress all torn and bloody and put her in the passenger seat and was about to close the door and felt a burning sensation in my back. Then another and another. And there it was... Shot 3 times in the back, never to walk again. And left with a heart that's barely hanging on after all these years. But my number's finally up on the transplant list. How did you do it'? It's about faith, but it wasn't all bad... Sally daddy ended up in the pen and after a couple years... Me and Sally got married! Really Yes sir! Ha ha ha Now that's a story. Yeah, don't get me wrong, I was upset about it for quite a while. Yeah but in time I come to realize you've got to get right or you're gonna get left. What's that mean'? Let me put it to you this way... Every man runs a race and at the end of the race there's a prize. For some it's money and fame, glory. But, those things don't last forever and not all races end at the finish line. So you've got to ask yourself... What am I racing for'? Hmmm. Dad'? Hey kiddo. Hey, Hey mister. What's your name'? Joseph. Fowl? Miles! Get over here and leave that man alone. We brought you some food. Mmmmmm, smells heavenly. Did you bring the corn bread? Oh I got it right here! let me tell you, you want to get in on this right here, I'm telling ya. No, I'm good. Oh, that's nonsense, just nonsense. Boy come here, mind your Granddaddy and give this to Mr. Joseph. Boy I tell you, you're still as stubborn as the day we met. Takes a strong man to withstand my husband. You're going to be in my prayers son. Pastor had a great message today! Sure did. Oh yes yes, it was good. Amen, yes. Amen, Amen. Thank you Jesus! It was boring. Miles! You better Watch it! Okay Momma, geez. Excuse me, what did you say'? I mean yes mam. That's what I thought. Alright enough of this, I'm famished. Let's eat, come on, let's bow our heads. Gracious Father we thank you for this day. For this family, and for new friends. May we realize Lord that you give strength to the weak. Lord God, you are the healer of the broken. Father we ask that you give us strength during these difficult times. Jesus, we ask that you forgive us for not trusting in you. Thank you, thank you Lord for every new breath. Let us not take for granted the short time we have left here. May each and every moment from this point forward be a reflection not of who we were Lord, but who we are today. To you be thy Lord for ever and ever, Amen. You all set'? YUP- It's been real, Jay Train. Yes it has. Thanks for keeping me busy. No problem. Don't be a stranger, huh'? I Won't. Is this you'? YUP- Here we go. Nice ride! Dude, it's free. Okay. No, I've got this, I need to do it. Okay. I'm sorry about the car Dad. NYou oughta be sorry, that car raced for two seasons. Two seasons without so much as a scratch, then you get in it and you flip the thing over. That old Max Wedge made 525 horsepower. We broke the record at Indy. It was 1' 1:21' at 121' mile/hour and we went on to win the event. But still it was nothing like that day. Now that, was a moment to remember. We'd just taken home the 1990 championship. We were the "unbeatable team" they used to call us. - Your Dad and I. Uncle Paul'? Yeah! Uncle Paul, that was what you used to call me back then. Mind if I sit down'? Oh Yeah sure, sure. That was the last race in the old cuda. He ran straight and hard, but the next season we got a new car running pro-stock. nl remember. Yeah, but I'm sure you're Wondering Why I'm here'? The thing is, I've been trying to get the courage to come see you ever since you had the accident. I didn't have the strength for that and I'm sorry. You don't owe me anything. No, no I think I at least owe you an explanation. For what? About the crash that took your father. What's to explain, first round of the qualifying. Car got out of shape, he collided with the side wall. Right'? Your father told me, that he felt like the backend was shaking so much that it was going to come out of the frontend. I tried every adjustment that I could think of, but... The floor length, rear shocks, everything. And I never quite figured it out, but still I insisted that he go on and make a full run, and keep his foot in it and you know the rest. After that day I drank myself into an oblivion. I lost everything I ever had and I never forgave myself. The reason I'm here is because I need you to forgive me. Joseph I should've been there for you, I wasn't and I am truly sorry for that. So, you said that uh, the most horsepower you ever got out of that Max Wedge was 525'? And that was on a good day. We got her up to 625 on the dyno. 625'? 625! It looks like it's clearing up a bit, would you like to go get some fresh air'? That sounds good. 625'? 625! Ha! Right over there is something you don't see every day. 1932 Cadillac V16. They stopped making those babies just before WWII. Of Course right here is the Ford flathead V8, preferred power plant of hot rodders everywhere. This place is incredible! Yeah, well I've got something else I want to show you. Hang on... Pro stock engine. Just like Dad ran. Hey! Take a look at this! Tada! This isn't real... Dad's Barracuda! Yeap! I didn't have the heart to sale him. Amazing. ADRENALINE. Perfect name wouldn't you say'? Oh yeah. Yeah he's tried and true, battle scarred, that's for sure. Hasn't been run in over 20 years, but I think with a few tweaks here and there he'd be just fine. Wheelie bars, Lexan windows... That's a tube chassis right'? Yes it is! See that button on the steering Wheel? Tranny brake! What I would do to feel a kick like that. Well I do just happen to know a guy who knows a guy... I'm that guy. There you go. Ha ha ha. Figured next time I seen you, You would be in a wooden box. NO, I wouldn't do that to you, You would miss me too much. Is that right'? That is right! So who is your friend here'? Come on take a closer look. Ronnie's boy Joey. Joey? Shoot boy, you've seen better days I reckon. You've got to forgive Bennie, He's not much for conversation, it kind of confuses him. Hey! All seriousness, your Daddy was a great driver. I used to let him test out here. Ha. Seen better days I guess! No, it looks about the same. Ha. Now that's nostalgia boy. What's y'all doing all the ways out here anyway'? Came out here to teach this young fellah how to drive again. What? What? You said you wanted to feel the kick right, there's no better place to feel the kick then right here on the track. I think you're missing a pretty important piece here. Look all I want to do is get you back into a oar so you can get the feel for it. I'm not talking about breaking any land speed records. But I do want you to adjust to something new. This is the best place, if you want to learn to drive. You don't have to race again. But you do have to be self-sufficient. You're out of your mind. That may be, do you have something I can put him in'? Okay this is obviously a whole different car then you're used to. Tell me something I don't know. I want to start by working on your coordination. Yeah, I got it! I'm thinking we'd go a whole lot faster if you actually start the car. Pull it up to the line, nice and easy. Oh he's lost his dang mind for sure. I can't Watch this. It's okay, don't worry about that, back up. You've got this, just try it again, let's go. No way! I can't do this. You don't have a choice. You're going to do it. But We're going to crash. If we crash, we crash! Now on three, you ready'? NO! 1! Steady boy, steady. Haaaa! Alright, ease off, counter steer. Okay. I've got it. Brake. I can't, I can't! Brake, Brake, Brake! Brake! Now that's what I'm talking about. How do you feel'? Let's do it again. Let's do it again, Ha! Alright, back it on up. Boy can't hardly Walk. But he sure can drive. We must have ran that track like thirty times. Finally had to stop when the sun went down. That's incredible. I..- I can't believe it, that's great. Yeah, it was great, just... great. Maybe one day you'll get a page in my scrapbook. Hmmmm. That was just for fun. Felt good though. Well you only have a few more visits with me, I'd say I've helped you just about as much as I can. Got any plans this Weekend'? All... uhm. Or not, there's a points race tomorrow and I just thought. Yes, I'll go. On! Okay! Haven't been to a race like this in a long time. Everything is the same, the sounds, the smells, everything. Missed it'? Never thought I would, until now. I grew up on the track, every Weekend this was my world. Nitro fumes, burnt rubber, popcorn with butter. Extra butter for me, ha. Everybody loves extra butter. I know the feeling. I had a place like that, that my Mom took me to when growing up. Yeah. Yeah. What was that like? You don't want to know. I do, tell me. Don't make fun of me. I Won't. My Mom used to take me to this place called... "Mary's Gone Mad" Basically, this lady one day just started painting, everything in her house. Everything inside and outside of her house, Windows, toilets, kitchen sinks, you name it she was painting it. People in the community started finding out about it and just would show up to see what she was doing. She built this chapel, like a full on chapel out of glass bottles in her front yard. I don't believe it. Which I have to say was incredible. I don't believe it. Well, I will just find you a picture then. I'm going to need to see it. Cause it's amazing. Okay. So what about your Mom? I never knew her, she died when I was born. And my Dad raised me till I was twelve years old and then he died. Then I was in and out of foster care until I was eighteen. But luckily for me though Trace and I kept in contact and... As soon as I was out, it was like I had never left the neighborhood. He's a good friend. He seems like it. What are they doing to their tires'? They're spinning the wheels to get the tires hot and sticky, so it will have better traction on the track. Put your ear plugs in. Huh? PUT YOUR EAR PLUGS IN! QUICK! Woohoo! That was so much louder than I had expected! That's a rush for sure. Was that fun'? Yeah. Newcomer Jason Skinner, pulls up to the line for the final run of the night. He's had a great season so far and has finished up very well in his class. And here to play there's no doubt about it. If he pulls it off today, it will be his third straight win. Did he say... Did he say best in state or best in the country? Who are you kidding slirn, racing is no place for wannabes. It's not in your DNA okay. Your old man didn't have it, you don't have it and you never will. Joseph? I want to race again! I can work hard, really push myself. Hey, hey, hey, slowdown, slowdown. What are you talking about? There's a race in three Weeks. I want to do this, I'm going to do this! Are you absolutely sure'? YES! Meet me at the track in the morning. I'll be there. Oh boy. Hey, I got something for ya. Woohoo! No way'? Way! How did you get this'? Oh, I figured your Dad would want you to have it. This is legit. Alright, this is it. Trace get my helmet. Wait? Hold on a second. Am I missing something here'? I'm going to race again. H ow'? He's been practicing. Boy knows what he's doing. This is LEGIT. So you in? Yeah... I'm going to need my socks! Come on, start it up! Wow! Alright. I thought the car would run faster than that in the 8th mile? The Car will run in the 5s. So what's the problem? Well, either there's something wrong with that clock or he's not getting off the line fast enough. Huh. Let's run it again. Well, it's not the clock. I can't get my feet to react fast enough. Naw, you're just having trouble getting off the starting line, that's all, everything else is fine. Well how am I going to fix that'? I don't know. How about a hand lever system'? A what? Yeah they make something like that for handicapped drivers. I checked into it while you were in the hospital. So he would have to start the car, stop the car, and steer the car all with his hands? Think you can handle something like that? Yeah. That could work. My legs are the problem. I don't think it will be as easy as you think, but... Boys we've got us some work to do. Come on! We're not going to do it here. Give a little gas there mousy Woohoo! What do you think of that? That's it, that's it! Alright, out it , out it! Turn it off! Let's take it to the track. I don't see why not. Woohoo! Yeah, now that is a run! That was good huh'? Did you see him get off that line'? He went right off that line! So anything new'? Oh you know, not much. Still hanging in there, every day I move up on the transplant list. Shouldn't be long now, or at least they keep telling me... Doctors. Well, you need to get out of here and come see me on the track. That's a deal. First race is tomorrow. I wan't to be honest, I'm excited, but... I'm a little nervous too. The adrenaline's pumping that's for sure. Adrenaline, huh'? Makes me feel alive again. There's nothing like it. Tell me, how long does that feeling last'? Less than 10 seconds. That's a whole lot of work for 'lo seconds. It's worth it though. Is it'? Hey I uhm, I really should get going. I've got to uh... practice and uhm... Okay, okay don't let me hold you back. Hey- Rain check'? Rain check. Yes Sir. Alright guys, I've got this under control, let me do all the talking. Okay. Sorry I'm late fellahs. Paul Sharpe, Trace Mallery, Joseph Jenkins Now since this is you first official race, I want to get a few things clear, alright. Before you can even get on the track, my tech has to check out your car. Make sure it meets IHR regulations, if it does you can race, alright. Follow the rules on the track. If you don't you will be disqualified. It's as simple as that. Simple. Alright. Yeah, yeah. Alright, then all I need is your driver signature right here and we'll be good to go. Oh, I'm sorry. That's okay. I can't believe it either. Well, see ya on the track. Good luck. Thanks. It's too late now. Oh yeah, I've got this old man. I don't want you to break anything. Old Man! Alright Rookie, I'll meet you at tech. Hey you. Hey, you made it. Of course, I wouldn't have missed it for the world. Oh no, me either, ha ha. Nice set of Wheels. Oh thanks, it's a 67 Barracuda with a low block stroker. No, I wasn't talking about those Wheels, I was talking about those wheels right there, ha ha ha. What's you all dressed up for boy'? Looks like somebody going to race. Oh yeah, you going to race? I'll shut them up on the track. He's going to shut us up on the track. Ooooh! Hope you drive straighter then your legs look, ha ha ha. Hey, listen, this is your first run. So if the car gets squirrely anything goes wrong out there just ease up. Okay, ease out of it. You this. nGo Cripple! nYeah! Woohooo! Ha ha ha. Don't ever do that again. Stay a while. I can't believe this could get any worse. I lost everything I've ever had, cause I threw it all, away. Oh I know I need a change. Can you hear me, am I the only one here? Get around, turn the pages Of all the years that I've gone ahead and wasted. Is it over? Is it all for nothing? I'm not so sure... anymore. Hey! Hey! Why don't we lock it up'? Yup go get some rest. Alright. Let's call it a night. Hey Kiddo! Look at you, all grown up. Dad! I miss you too buddy. Listen to me Joseph, you have always been a driven person. Disciplined, I always knew you were destined for great things. But I need you to understand something. As much as I love the sport... racing wasn't everything to me. If all you have to live for is the next rush, well then you're a oar without an engine. You serve no purpose. I need you to understand what I'm telling you. Racing was a job... Not my life. I love you kiddo. Dad! Lord we thank you for this time that we have together. And Lord we pray for special protection for our friend Joseph. As he pursues his dream. Yes. To you be the glory. Forever and ever. Amen AMEN! Now that's what I'm talking about right there. Cornbread? Ooooh. Here you go hunny. Ha ha, hey hey! No I'm good. Oh come on nonsense! You might as well, he's gonna get his Way no matter What. Alright. Jay Train, thanks for... Thanks for coming to see me like this. It's the least I could do. So one last week here. My number has finally come up. Mine too. I can't believe it. In 3 Weeks I'll have a chance to compete at Dragstock X. Man who Would've thunk it. Not me! I mean this is like the world series of drag racing. I'm proud of you Joseph. I appreciate that. Hey Eli, Uh hmm. Do you think dreams mean anything? Why do you ask'? I keep having this dream, It's Dad... He's at the end of a track. And I'm running, I mean I can run my legs work. I see him and I'm going as fast as I can toward him. When I get to him, he's trying to tell me something. What is he trying to tell you'? I don't know... He says that I'm a car without an engine. Ha ha, I mean a car without an engine'? What's that supposed to mean'? What do you mean, "What's that supposed to mean"? A car without an engine doesn't get very far does it'? Sounds like a man without a purpose. I have a purpose. Okay, and what is it'? Glory. I mean isn't that enough. I mean... Even without being able to Walk people look up to me now. They need to know that I can win. I give people hope. I'm someone to believe in. Spoken like a true fool. Was glory worth losing your ability to walk? I don't need this... When I first met you, I told you, you had to get right or you were going to get left. Do you remember that? That meant you had to get right in here. But mostly it means you have to get right in here. I think your Daddy's trying to tell you that without God... That thirst, that need for that adrenaline pumping threw your veins or you'll never be satisfied. You'll always be like a junkie trying to get a fix. Why do you always do this'? God, really? I hate to break it to you, but I think God is a joke! Joseph. Listen. Joseph! You listen to me this time! What kind of God takes a Dad away from a 12 year old boy'? You tell me that? Tell me that? If there was a God, Why would he let me crash, leave me crippled, let someone shoot you'? Come on, God's not running the show here... We are! We control what happens, it's our choices. And you need to start seeing that, open your eyes and wake up. Take a look around you. God's a fairy tale. I earned all this myself. Protect him Jesus. Protect him. Joseph Jenkins, [off to a rough star'! at pro outlaws] [He stalls out the car, right after his burn out] [engine having troubles starting] [Engine Starts] [Chief is running up to see what's going on] You all set'? Yeah, let's go, I don't want a penalty. You okay'? I said let's go! I don't want a penalty Okay! Okay, alright. [Car appears to be okay] [Joseph now pulling up to the line] [Revving it up on the chip] [and...] [Jenk is all over the track, almost crossing the line] [Loses to Jessie Nowling] [Jessie Nowling going to the next round] [Jenkins loading his ar in the trailer] Wow, wow! Hang on! What happened to you out there'? I couldn't get off the line fast enough. Yeah I saw that, you seemed a little distracted. Oh was I'? Yeah you were all over the track. Did you check the lane'? What kind of a question is that? Did I check the lane'? The right lane wasn't right, I didn't have any traction out the hole. If the right lane wasn't right a lot of people were racing in the right lane. Nobody had any problem except you. Is that what you told my Dad before he ran that day'? What's this really about? Responsibility! Responsibility to my Dad, Josie, Trace, everybody! People are depending on me now! Is that right'? You think this is about responsibility? Come on be honest with yourself, what about Jason Skynard'? Huh. I know it, Trace knows it, everybody who knows you, knows it's between you and Jason Skynard. Even your Father would tell you that if he were here. Well, he's not, you made sure of that didn't you'? I'm going to do us both a really big favor and forget you ever said that. Don't you pretend for a second, you're the only one who ever lost anybody. Why don't you get lost. You're pretty good at that aren't you'? Hey guys. Hey- Where's Paul'? He couldn't make it. That's weird. Yeah, I'll see you after the race alright. Everything okay'? Yeah, I'm just trying to concentrate. Okay. [And here we are, final round pro outlaw Joseph Jenkins lining up against Pete Folsom. [Jenkins on edge, he's got to win this one to go to Rockingham. [And he does it!] [Jenkins is going to the finals!] Woohoo! Yeah! We are gathered here today. To celebrate the life of Elijah Benjamin Salisbury. A man Whose heart gave more love and happiness... Amen ...then he could contain. Hey buddy. Hey- It's going to be okay. He Would've really loved this. I wish I would've had just one more chance to say... I know. I just don't understand. I don't think we ever really do. Then why'? Why does this have to happen, to Elli, my Dad'? I should be the one dead not them. But you're not. You're probably just going to say that's a miracle. I know this is going to sound crazy, but I... I think it's much more than that. There was a time I had my doubts, but I don't anymore. Why is that? I think We're all here for a purpose and... Eli served his. He spent most of his life in a hospital bed. You're missing the point. It's not about the time he spent in a hospital bed. It's about what he did with that time. I saw Eli make people laugh when they were crying. He changed them, He changed me! He changed you. His love was real and powerful... and greater then all of us. Eli always said that love comes from God. Do you think that's true? I do, It's a kind of love that never gives up. It's the kind of love that Eli and your Dad had for you. I want that kind of love. What's holding you back? Okay. Okay. Morning Kiddo. Hey- Thanks for coming back. Not a problem at all. Just taking one last look. You sure you're ready to do this thing? My whole life, I just didn't think I would get here like this. Did you ever see something like this and think to yourself... If this is the last beautiful thing I see, it will be alright with me'? Listen Paul I... I want you to know, it was never your fault. [ Welcome ADRL Nation, ] [The dragstock X here at beautiful Rockingham Dragway, [Steve Earwood's palace of speed] [If you would, please stand, remove your caps as we sing our national anthem. Oh, say, can you see, by the... You all sit down quickly ...early light, What so proudly we hail'd at the Twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars, thro' the perilous fight, You made it just in time for the pledge of allegiance. Miles, it's the National Anthem. It's the same thing Mom! The only thing that's the same is that you put your hand over your heart. Yes, mam. That's what I thought. And the rockets'... [so as we get set for this first round matchup] [between Shawn Barron and Joseph Jenkins, ] [one can only imagine] [what is going through the young Jenkins mind, ] [after all he's been through] [Should be quite a day, we'll see if he can handle the pressure] [Speaking of guys that can handle the pressure, ] [our Diane Godwin is with Johnny Lightneen] Hello with Diane Godwin and I am live back on the track. Today We've seen many great races and it's almost time to find out who this year's new champion will be. Standing right next to me is last year's winner and top contender, Johnny Lightneen. Why don't you tell us, what are you feeling right at this moment? I mean you are on the verge of winning your next champion title, will Lightneen strike twice? Well first of all it's very exciting to be here again. Uh-huh. But you never can tell what's going to go on with this kind of talent. He's cute. No, No, No. He is not as cute as Joseph! Oh and you're not biased at all'? Come on! [So the wait is finally over, ] [it is time for Shawn Baron vs. Joseph Jenkins] [as Jenkins rolls his beautiful barracuda towards the starting line] [here at a packed Rockingham Dragwayj [all a part of the excitement here at Dragstock X, ] [and this is where champions are made] [This is where nerves take over and if you can manage] [those nerves and get past this round, ] [the rest of the day could be just a little bit easier. ] [Right now he makes his final adjustments] [He'll get set to do his burnout. ] [Here we go ADRL fans, make some noise] [Cheering and engines revving] [The burnouts are complete and nJenkins will purge the nitrous] [and get set to traverse the 1/8th mile here at Rocking/tam dragway] [Jenkins is away green, they are both off green, ] [Barron at the 1/8th mile stripe, ] [it's going to be Jenkins running a 5.37 at a 129.05 mph] Now that's what I am talking about come on. [And the young man is moving on to round number 2] [Next up it's going to be Jason nSkynard taking on Jake Varner.] Hey, this is the guy he is always talking about. What the heck is he doing there'? {And Skynard's away with a huge whole shot] [He straps one on Varner at the finish line, ] [it's going to be Skynard with the easy victory, he is moving on. ] I don't like that boy. [The honey badger doing his thing right there] [and that is awesome man, to see that car. ] {Team Alan Obye and that little mustang] {that's laid down the world's nfastest record, recorded run. . .] Those trailers are huge man. We're doing it man, we are really doing it. Hey guys, Hi, Hey Lizzy. Nice run out there today. Hey not too bad yourself. Thank you. Maybe one day I can run top sportsman like you. Now you're talking. Yeah give you a run for your money. Ha ha ha Do you think you can handle my class? Do you teach private lessons'? We've got to go Lizzy come on. I've got to go, I'll see you guys. Alright, see ya. Good luck out there. You too. Do you teach private lessons'? Seriously? That was good man. Stop play'n- Jason skynard, how do you feel about going up against him'? To get into the finals? That's funny, you know, the whole season I've been keeping my eye on him, I've Watched him, he sort of came out of left field and he's doing real well, so I would say today is going to be a very interesting time. [So up next it's going to be Tony Cameron taking on Joseph Jenkins, ] [will the dream weekend continue for Jenkins] [or will Cameron move on to the final round, ] [we are just seconds away from finding out] {AH the stage bulbs are fit] [the green light is down and... ] [So Joseph Jenkins and his beautiful 67 barracuda go into the finals] [but man you saw the puff of smoke fans, ] [he has hurt that motor, ] [no doubt in this announcer's mind, ] [they're going to have to thrash between rounds, ] [but none the less Jenkins going to the finals] [the American drag racing leagues premiere event. . .] Ha ha ha. Way to go Joe. F... Are you kidding me] Trace check the intake and the heads. What's the problem I don't know, I definitely found a loss of power. Here get me out of here. No, no, no, take a break. I'll check it out, you get focused. How do you fee! about Joseph Jenkins Joseph... uhm. I don't know really what to tell you, except he's been through a lot. Uhm, I've been very impressed with him and I'm very interested to see what he's going to do. And actually you know, If I was going to say anything to him right now, I would say "Hey Joseph, God bless you buddy, good luck". It's the head gasket. Either that or the head's cracked. How bad is it'? I don't know I'm going to have to pull it. How much time do we got'? Not enough. Your lucky socks, do you got them'? We've got a chance. Alright. See you back there. [Alright, ADRL fans, who's it going to be] [taking on Jenkins in the championship round? ] [Will it be Johnny Lightneen the defending champion] [and future ADLR hall of famer in his 57 ford thunderbird,] [or the young up start, Jason Skynard in his 66 Chevy too] [here we 90-] [Man'o man what a heartbreak for Johnny Lightneen] [he turns on the red light] [which means Jason Skynard is going to the final round, ] [Johnny Lightneen is going home.] I don't like that boy. [... Get through this top sportsman Al Tucci,] [we are going to bring in the original champion] [dragstock back in 2004.] This is it. Yeah it is, thanks for everything. You're welcome for everything. Now go out there and win this thing. You got it. Please tell me it's all fixed. Let's just say we put a bandage on it. Lie to me. It's all fixed. Good Job! [So the traction twins putting the final touches] {oh this track surface as we get set for our championship match-Lip] [Is it going to be Jason Skynard or does the dream weekend come to the ultimate end, ] [for Joseph Jenkins? ] [They approach the water, it's burnout time at the rock. ] [In the words of hall of fame announcer Al Tucci,] [ 'Beautiful smokey burnout! ] [Both stage bulbs are lit, Will it be Jenkins? ] [Will it be Skynard?] [The tree comes down] [they're away and they're both away clean and green dead even off the start] [Jenkins with a slight lead on Skynard] No! No! [Awww another huge puff of nsmoke again from Jenkin's car. ] [Jenkins and Skynard are glued together at the finish line, ] {who's it going to be'? ] [Who won? ] [It's dead even, in all my years of doing this] [we're going to have to go to the 4 digit and triple zero margin of entry, ] [we have no idea who won, ] [we'll go to our assistant director of competition Leida Corzine,] [take a look at the computer printout] [By one ten thousandth of a second, ] [my voice is shot Rockingham] [Joseph Jenkins gets the win the dream weekend dragstock champion, ] [can you believe it?] Heavenly Father thank you so much for the family and friends around us, we love you and we pray for this food for the nourishment of our bodies and our bodies to your service. Amen. Amen, Very good Who wants some of this... Green beans. I thought my life was over, but it's now only the beginning. I found the rush that always satisfies. I discovered... It's not what you drive it's what drives you.
