 

                        [audio static hissing] [woman crying] - [giggling] - Whoa. [laughing] Here we go. - [giggling] [voices overlapping] [men speaking foreign language] [cat playing repeated notes on piano] - Boo! - [laughs] - Hey, sweetheart, tell everyone your name. - Cherry Dee. - You're gonna blow me right? - Yes. - Then I'm gonna fuck you, right? - Yes. - Then I'm gonna fuck you in the ass, right? - Yes. - Then I'm gonna come in your mouth, right? - Mm-hmm. - And you're gonna swallow it, right? - Yes. - Sweetheart, tell me your name. - Cherry Dee. - No, not your porn name, your everyday name. - I don't want to say my real name. - Why not? - Because it's none of anybody's business. - So you won't mind if I call you whore? - No. - Are you scared Mom and Dad are gonna find out their baby girl, Cherry Dee, is a whore? - No. - You were expecting that, right? - No. - I want you to say, "Hi, Mom. " Put your hands behind your back. "Hi, Mom, I get fucked for money. " - "Hi, Mom... I get fucked for money. " - You do think that, huh? That's good. It's good. You're being honest now. That's all right, 'cause I've broken you. I see so many Cherry Dees, and you know what I've learned? You all like it like this. Right? Right, whore? - Yeah. - So get on the couch. It's okay. Get on the couch. Get on the couch and spread. - [panting and moaning] Yeah, fuck me. [rapid knocking on door] - Coming. Hold on. [knocking continues] Hold the fuck on! - I smell cum. - Dave, you do the math? - No, I'm gonna do it tomorrow. - Thanks. You know, Nick, the senior, his dimes are, like, twice the size. - Yeah, well, if you want to smoke some swaggy shit, then go to Nick, but I can just sell that to some other freshman, you know? - No, it's cool. - All right. And if you need me to pick anything else up, just tell me, and next time I go to the city, I'll pick it up for you, all right? - Where were you guys? - We were with the Talberts. - Again? - We cut practice to chill with them. Nothing happened, though. - I really can't tell the difference between the two of them, can you? - Nope. - Rob, you don't even play any sports, do you? - No. - Jesus Christ, you're a pussy. - Fuck you, man! - [snickering] - No, get the fuck out of our room. - You guys seen this clip yet? - Which one? - Check it out. [voices overlapping] - Shit. Where is that? - I don't know. Some school somewhere. - Jesus. Look at that. She's knocking the shit out of her. [laughter] Jesus. [alarm clock blaring] - Wake up, Dave. You're gonna be late for morning meeting. [alarm clock blaring] - [laughing] Let's quiet down because there's a lot of announcements to make this morning, and pay attention. There might be a little note in here that could change your lives, maybe an activity you never knew of that'll turn out to be your calling later in life, your career, and from one little announcement you heard in morning meeting. Good morning. Miss Jameson, did you sleep all right? You just missed a little inspiring speech on announcements, about you possibly being inspired to try something that will ultimately be your future, but I wouldn't worry. McDonald's will most likely still be hiring after you graduate. Ha, ha, ha, okay. Enough fun. I have Mr. Anderson here with a note on clubs and activities. Remember, everyone needs to do one activity, either a sport or afterschool club. Failure to do so will result in a markdown on your report cards. Okay. Mr. Anderson. [cheers and applause] - "For Hecuba, what's Hecuba to him "or he to Hecuba, that he should weep for her, "what would he do had he the motive "and the cue for passion that I have? "He would drown the stage with tears "and cleave the general ear "with horrid speech and make mad the guilty "and appall the free, confound the ignorant, "and amaze indeed the very faculties of eyes and ears. " All right, where are we going with this? Can anyone see? "Hum, I have heard "that guilty creatures sitting at a play have, "by the very cunning of the scene, "been struck so to the soul "that presently they have proclaimed their malefactions. "For murder, though I should have no tongue, "will speak with most miraculous organ. "I'll have these players play something "like the murder of my father, "before mine uncle. "I'll observe his looks, I'll tent him to the... to the... " Robert, do you know the answer to number four? - Hamlet's gonna have the actors, um... re-enact the murder in front of his stepfather? - Right, right. That's right, Robert. He's gonna play out the play and have his stepfather watch his own crime, and, hopefully, his guilt will drive a confession out of him. Right? "The play's the thing, wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king. " - Fuck. - Dude, we're late. Come on. - One second. - Hurry up; hurry up. Let's go. Are you done? - Yeah. All right, just wait a second before you come in. - Here come your coke whores. - See you after lunch. - How does Dave know them? - The Talberts? I don't know, actually. - Oh, shit. I still haven't signed up for afterschool activities. Is it two weeks or three weeks until they start taking points off? - I don't know. - Do you have to bring your freshman friends when you come here? - Shut up. He's not doing anything. - Yeah, shut up. - I think it's only two weeks, so next week... - I can kick your ass. - Isn't your sister Maria the senior? - I don't know. - You know I fucked your sister. - Does she know that? - Her pussy's so wet. Did you know your sister's pussy gets so wet? All you got to do is brush up against it. You know, your sister gives mad good head, right? Gets the whole thing down her throat. Last time, when she was sucking on my dick, it only took me, like, a minute before I came all over her face. I bet you jerked off to pictures of your sister, huh? Next time we do it, I'll find you. I'll let you smell my fingers. [laughs] - What have you been thinking about doing? - Oh, uh... I think I'm gonna do video. - Yeah, me too. - I don't really want to play sports, and I kind of want to do something creative, I guess. - Yeah. Hey, Mom. - Hey, honey, what are you doing? - I'm just waiting for lunch to be over. - How's school? - It's all right. I don't think anyone likes me here, Mom. - Oh, stop. Why do you say that? Everyone loves you. Don't say stupid things like that. - No, I just get this sense that... I don't know, that I'm not, like, really too- - It's been two years already. Why are you still saying that? What about Dave? Dave's your roommate, right? - Yeah, no, not Dave, I mean, really. I just get this sense from people, even Dave- - Robert, you're being ridiculous, come on. Let's talk about something pleasant. Are you liking your new teachers? Are classes good? - Yeah. Stop, though. Listen. I think I'm not a good person. - Stop it. You're a great person. Is that guidance counselor still the same from last year? - Yeah, yeah, Mr. Virgil. - Okay. Why don't you talk to him? He seemed really nice. We could always do medication. - No, Mom, I don't want to do meds. - I don't want you to either. I think it's a horrible idea, but what else is there to do? I don't like to hear you like this, Rob. I love you, honey. Please... tell me you're okay, please. I have enough to worry about at work. Please don't make me worry about you all the way up there. - No, I'm okay. - Okay. We love you. - Mm-hmm. Love you too. All right, bye. What's up, man? Sorry about that. - It's all right. - Are you going? - Yeah, let's go. Just relax, it's gonna be another five minutes, okay? - I'm gonna be late, man. - All right. Just tell her you're in the nurse's office. - They know I'm not on meds, though. - Then tell her you're with a friend. Just chill out, okay? - How much coke did you do with them? - Just a couple bumps, not too much. - Are they paying for it? - No, they just- they just do it for fun. Besides, they usually buy their own shit, you know? - Oh. - Hey, David Wilson. - Here you go. How are you? - Thank you. Good. How are you? - Good, thanks. Have a good day. - You too. - Anyone else? You're all set? Okay. - Hey, Dave, hang on a second. - Hey, Mr. Virgil. Fuck. - Hey, buddy. You missed our last two sessions. Next time, I'm gonna call your mom, man. - Yeah, I know. I had to go to practice early. - Yeah, whatever. Our talks are more important, huh? - Yeah. - Oh, yeah, and have your mom call me. I haven't seen her since last night. - Then I'm gonna put together five different crews, and we'll figure out how that goes. The first crew will be dedicated to interviewing teachers. That'll be John and Michelle. Crew number two, that'll be what we call B-roll. That's establishing shots. So we'll be doing visuals of the classrooms and the corridors, the cafeteria, et cetera, et cetera. Rob, what's going on back there? Come on, Rob, what's going on? - Rob wants to use the video to make a porn. [laughs] - Well, that's, uh... That's a very nice idea, but there will be no fluids permitted around the camera, bodily or any other sort. [laughter] - Okay, crew number two. How about Rob and Amy? Crew number three. - You got $30? - Oh, no. I thought it was only $20. - All right, I'll-I'll take it. Just give me the rest later, okay? - Thanks, man. - See you later. - See you, man. - Dude, how much are you spending? - Not much more than usual. - Why can't you just wait till next weekend to go back? - 'Cause I'm really low, man. Hey, can you send me the Bio answers? - Yeah, sure. So, listen... Maybe the next time you chill with the Talberts, I'll meet up with you guys. - What do you mean? You don't do coke. - Yeah, but... neither does Trevor. - Did you get it? - Yeah, hold on, I'm sending it. - I don't know. They're weird. - Whatever, Dave. - Yes, I'm not introducing you to them on purpose. You're not cool enough, man. - I don't know. - What are you filming? - You. Think that's good? - Yeah, I think that's all we need, probably. - Okay. [playing gentle piano music] - Do you play the piano? - Not really. - Sounds like you do. - We used to always have one in the house. I used to fuck around on it. I think my dad really wanted me to. - I don't play anything. - Yeah? - Well, in the third grade, I played the recorder, but, like, every class had to do that. - Yeah, I think we had that too. - I wasn't even good at it. [laughs] Have you ever had sex? - What? No. - Dave told me you didn't, but I didn't really believe him. - What did Dave say? - Nothing really. I was just talking, and I asked. He said you hadn't done much. - Dave's an asshole. I've done more than him. - Well, Dave's not a virgin. - Don't make fun of me. - I wasn't. - How about you? Are you a virgin? - Yeah. But I can have sex whenever I want. I just haven't wanted to yet. - Guess that's pretty convenient for you. - Well, it's easy for girls. You know, it's really not hard to get- to be able to have sex with any guy, whenever, whoever. So what have you done? - I guess, like, everything but. - So you've had a blowjob? - Yeah. - Like, a lot? - What's a lot? - Well, I wouldn't know, like... - I guess, like, something like 10. - Oh. Cool. [laughs] Are you trying to strangle me to death? What are you doing? You're weird. - Hmm. - Hey, Mr. Burke. [laughs] There are the Talberts. - What do you think? - Get closer. - Like this? - Is that Dave? Yeah. Hi, Dave. - Everybody be on your best behavior. This is being videotaped. all: Hi! - Okay, enough fun. Quiet! Good. All right. Our very own Tigers will be playing Algonquin this Wednesday... - [hiccups] Excuse me. - ... At their field it seems. A little piece of history. This will be the 72nd meeting between the Warriors and the Tigers since the league was established and although our Tigers have maintained- - Camilla, Jess... Ugh. Audrey. [applause] There are the Talberts again. - The majority of our losses have occurred on their home turf, so if you finished your studies this weekend, please come out to support your brother Tigers. For all of you sloths, the spirit bus leaves promptly at 10:00 a. m. Saturday morning. Also, stragglers... - Do you want to do those hallway shots or should I? - Um, you do it. - Can I get that note to get out of class? - Yep. Hi, Dave. [dull thuds] [strained breathing] [metallic clang] - [groaning] [strained breathing] [crying] [screaming] [strained breathing] [screaming] [strained breathing] [breathing stops] - Go to the office! Have them call 911! Oh, my God. Oh, my God, Robert, what happened? Oh, my God, Mary. Mary, open your eyes! Are you-are they breathing? Mary! Oh, God! Someone get help, okay? Please go to the office. Someone call 911. We need to call a paramedic, please! Rob, what happened? What happened to them? Mary, can you hear me? Can you hear me? Open your eyes. Can you see me? - What's going on here? - What's going on? - I don't know. - Okay, fine. - Find out what happened. - What's going on? What happened? - We're at Bryton Academy. - What happened? You're filled with blood. What's going on, Robert? - Second floor hallway. - Robert, can you stand up? Robert, look at me. - Tell them that there's a lot of blood and they're not breathing! They're not breathing. - There's two here that seem to be out completely. Mary and Anne Talbert. All right, everybody-everybody needs to clear the area! Back to the classrooms. Come on, back in classrooms! Come on. - What was that? They're 18 years old. - Come on, you guys, get back! All right, come on, Mary. [voices overlapping] - This way. Follow me, please. Amy, come on. Come this way. - Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. - Go right upstairs, right now. Go upstairs. - Okay, come on. Get back now. Back. Go back. Come on, back up. Make room. [voices overlapping] Come on. All the way back. [voices overlapping] [silence] - Go back. Go back. - Were you with the girls anytime before... what we just saw? - No. - Why were you filming in that hallway? - My teacher told me to. - We just started an audio-video club here. - Were you friends with Anne or Mary? - No. - Did you know anyone who knew them? - No. - Anne and Mary were very popular seniors. Rob is only in the tenth grade. There's not much interaction between sophomores and seniors. - Yeah, I get it. I used to be a kid too. Why did you walk over to the girls instead of calling for help? - I didn't know what was happening. - And once you realized that something was wrong... why didn't you go and get a teacher? Rob? - I don't remember. - Have you ever tried cocaine? - No. - It's hard, huh? It's very... Okay, Mr. Williams, is there anything else you'd like to say? - Rob, I know how hard this is for you. This is going to be very difficult times for a while for everyone. But the most important thing, I think... is for us... to be strong together. - Mr. Williams is right. - Rob, have you been seeing Mr. Virgil? - No. - I really think you should. I think we're going to encourage everyone here to start going to see him. It's important that no one be afraid to talk at a time like this. Rob, if you want to go home for a little bit, we would understand. - Mm-mm. No. I'm okay. - Okay, I'm done. You can go. - Be strong, buddy. Our kids are good kids. Rob's a bit confused but is harmless. - I'm ready for the next one. [voices overlapping] - Hey, Mom. Yeah, I'm okay. They're questioning everybody. Just to see who knew the girls. Yeah, I'm fine. I'm fine. No, don't. It's fine for me. I want to stay up here. - # All through the night # # While the weary world is sleeping # # All through the night # - This is so sad. - # O'er thy spirit gently stealing # # Visions of delight revealing # # Breathes a pure and holy feeling # # All through the night # # Though I roam a minstrel lonely # # All through the night # # My true harp shall praise # - It's hard to be up here at a time like this and to have to speak to you like I usually do, but I will because I have to. The police have determined that the illegal substances that killed Anne and Mary that day were not purchased in the school. They were bought while the girls were away for the weekend and only used that morning. How can we know this? We are confident this is the case, because not two days ago, a similar unfortunate accident occurred with a young boy in the city. An examination revealed that what killed the girls was a lethal combination of narcotics and poisonous agents, one of which was rat poison. Now, what is important to remember is first... who these girls were. They were beautiful and full of life. They were victims of bad judgment, of misguided energy, of the threats that face youth. They made a mistake and paid dearly for it. I have been in touch with the parents of Anne and Mary. They send their love and thanks for everyone's cards and warm wishes. It has been a comfort to them to know that their girls were so loved here. The only thing that they can hope for now is that what happened to Anne and Mary will never happen again to any other student here. We wanted to give each and every one of you a chance to... say something about the girls or to them and to do so now. So anyone- there's no pressure- please form a line to the left of the podium and one by one come up here. Anne and Mary, we will miss you. - Anne and Mary, things'll never be the same without you. Life will never be the same. You'll be in my heart, in all our hearts, forever. - I'm so sorry that this happened and that we didn't get to know each other better. But you will be missed. - I wrote a little something about the girls. "As a constant reminder of our love "and their indomitable spirit, "the Talbert girls will always thrive in our souls, miraculously human. " - Okay, I talked to Mr. Wiseman, and, uh... he's planning on working on a memorial video for the twins, you know, for the school. You like video, right? - Yeah. - Yeah. Do you-do you think it would be a good idea for you to work on that? - Yeah. Yeah, okay. - All right, great. Good. Well, we'll call this a short meeting and... my office is always open anytime you want to come by. Okay? And I'd like you to come by maybe a couple times a week, all right? - All right, sure. - Okay. - Does it matter what order, Mr. Wiseman? - Oh, no, no. Just leave them there for a few seconds, and then we'll figure out how to use them later. - So these are from when they were babies. Now, when we finish up with this, we'll get back to the video tour. Yeah. That's good. Right, yeah, move in a little. Great. - Mr. Wiseman, can I be excused for a second? - Oh, sure. Sure, Amy, I understand. - Casey, why don't you fill in? - Yeah. - And anybody else who feels like leaving. How are you doing, Rob? - I'm okay. They're really cute. - Okay, next one. Mr. Burke, Mr. and Mrs. Talbert are here, if you're ready. - Guys. Gloria, Tom. Thank you so much for coming. - We thought it would be good to come back and do something for the girls. - Take however long you want. This is Amy, a freshman here, and Robert. He actually was the first person to... find Anne and Mary that day. - Robert... I'm so sorry you had to see that. - Um... I'm-I'm sorry, Mrs. Talbert. - Whenever you're ready. - Hello, everybody. This has been the hardest time for both of us. We were used to an empty apartment for a good part of the year since Anne and Mary were at school. Weekends have been particularly hard. Sometimes we feel... when we've been without them for a week... that... they're going to be showing up Saturday night... But- - Oh, please. Please. [crying softly] - I don't know why I keep crying. - Did it hurt you? - A little bit. - I'm sorry. - Thanks. - When? - Today. - When? - After AV. Break. - I don't believe you. - Don't believe me, then. - Okay, so how was it? - I don't know. - What do you mean you don't- Was it all right? - Yeah. - This is such bullshit. - What's wrong? - My mom. She isn't able to come pick me up this weekend. - Oh. Well, can't you just take the train in? - I mean, I guess so. But I really hate taking the train. - Where do you live? - In New York, on the Upper East Side. - Yeah, I live on the Upper West. Would you want to come back with me? - Okay. I mean, if that's cool with you. - Yeah. No, no. You can't go. - I really just want to be home for a day. - Mm-hmm. - Are you sure it'd be cool with your dad? - Yeah. Why wouldn't it be? - I don't know. Thanks a lot, though. [strained breathing] - Can you play it again? - Yeah. - Who made this? - It's not my camera. - Yeah, looks like a cell phone. [strained breathing] [screaming] [crying] [muffled screaming] - If there's something that I need to know, he does tell me. It's nothing to worry about. It's nothing to worry about, okay? If it was, I'd let you know. You know that, don't you? You know that. I'd let you know immediately. Don't worry. I know how you're feeling. Don't worry about it. Just enjoy your beautiful car. Drive him around in it. - Do you like it? - I adore it. I adore it. I'm green with envy. Young man. - I hope he's okay. - Don't worry, okay? - Seriously. - Don't worry. Enjoy yourself. - His mother and I would do anything... - I understand. All's well. - Speak with you later, all right? - Why don't you just say what's on your mind? You're telling me that you don't have any thought in your head. - No. - It's like a grapefruit? - It's just- I'm just- Just wasn't even thinking about anything... important right then. - I thought we-you know, I thought we agreed just to talk, doesn't have to be important. Tell me something. Just want to know what's on your mind, what you're thinking about right now. - I mean, it's hard. Like, what are you thinking about right now? - I'm thinking about... - See, it's sort of just hard to tell sometimes. I don't know. - Just tell me something, anything. Boom. What's the first thing that comes to your mind? Rob. Just say anything. Say anything. - My skin's peeling. It's all dry in certain parts and coming off. Happy? - Yeah. Yeah, I like it when you tell me what you're thinking. I feel like there's a lot you want to say, but you're not saying it. - Sorry. - Don't apologize to me about it. Did I make you upset? - No. - You know, I'm not judging you. None of this leaves the room. What do you think about your mom? Do you know that she's got crabs so big, I ride them to work? - What? - Rob, come on, man. When somebody makes fun of your mother, you got to come back quicker than that, right? Right? - Uh... Your mom gets fucked for cash. - Okay. Okay, fair enough. All right. See, that was easy. You just said what's on your mind. - I thought that I wanted to be like them. They're the ideal senior girls. They were what everybody... looked up to. - Hey, guys. Hello. We got new security checks. I'm gonna check your bags. - What's all that about? - Not really sure. But I'm gonna need you to step up here, and if you could stay down there, please. Just put your bag on the table. - There's nothing in there, I can assure you of that. - Nothing in here? I'm gonna take some stuff out and make sure you're not bringing anything into the school, all right? - You're lucky you didn't have anything. - Yeah, Burke told my dad that they might do something like this. I just brought some weed, and a couple bottles of vodka. - What happened last night is just the first of many necessary steps in trying to make this a safer place for everyone. The majority agree that the steps we are starting to take are the right ones. First, you will not be allowed unlimited Saturdays back home. Random room searches and drug tests are allowed, and the first series of these will be starting this week. Anyone in possession of alcohol or drugs besides those given to you through the nurse will be expelled. Anyone caught smoking will have a three-day suspension. So-everyone settle. Settle. We have lost Anne and Mary, but if there is nothing else, we can only hope that this experience prevents this tragedy from befalling others. And anyone who disrespects these rules is disrespecting them. Is that clear with you guys? All that we're asking of you is that you uphold the values of Bryton. Now, I believe in the students of this school, and I really believe that you're inherently good kids. Now, we will do everything in our power to ensure that is always the case. Okay, as of last night, several of our school's students have been either expelled or suspended indefinitely. Now, Mr. Ullman will be reading a list of their names. It is important to remember that these students, some of whom are your friends and roommates, did not respect this school, themselves, or you. Mr. Ullman. - Charles Wentworth, Claire Goreman, Trevor Stuart. - I think he's really upset. I'm gonna go talk to him. - We have to film Burke. [metallic clang] - Hey! Cool it, guys. Get over here. Just stay right here. Just go. - What's going on? - I thought you were asleep, didn't want to wake you. - Where are you going? - Going to see Mr. Virgil. Thought it'd be a good idea. - Is the light okay in here? - Yeah, I think it's okay. - Yeah. I'm very excited to see what you guys have put together. Mr. Wiseman says everyone's been working really hard on this project, especially you and Amy. I'm proud of you, Robert. Some people would have lost their cool after seeing what you saw. Has this video been helpful to do? - Yeah, I think it's been nice. I'm-I'm set, so we can start. - Should we wait for Amy? - No, I don't think she's coming. - All right, then. Give me a second. - Rob? - Yeah, fuck me. - Well... I mean, I used to really like videos, but I think I might be getting tired of them. - You mean like movies? - No, just like short clips. - You mean like kids' video blogs? - No, I think those are kind of phony. No, just like little- little clips of things that seem real. Usually just like a- like a cat or a baby doing something funny or- or something violent. Like, there's this one I really like where it's, like, a mother and her six babies, and she's got like septuplets or whatever you call it, and they're all just, like, laying around her, and the dad, who's filming, just keeps making this noise from behind the camera, and whenever he makes the noise, they all just giggle, and they all stop giggling at the same time. - Do you like porn? You can tell me. - Yeah. - No real moments in porn, I can tell you that. - Yeah, I know, but... there are these ones that I watch. It's like this guy who never shows his face and he'll, like, grab the girls and, like, talk real hard with them. I don't know, he just gets them, like, pretty scared and not fake. - Has doing the video for the girls been good for you? I mean, I know you don't want to talk about the twins, Rob, but... What's that? Is there something you want to say? - It's all my fault. - Rob, it's not your fault. Can I tell you something? And you promise you won't tell anybody? Swear? I knew the girls were using drugs. I knew they had issues. I knew a year ago. They stopped coming to see me. This year, other kids were talking about it. I hear what's going on. Anyway... I decided to tell, you know, the school. I felt like the girls were in danger, and... they told me they didn't want to hear it, that the Talberts were too important to this school and friends with certain people and, uh... they weren't worried about it, so... Nothing you can do, nothing I can do. In case you thought there was, there wasn't. [strained breathing] [screaming] - Okay, I'm excited to see what you got. Should I turn off the lights? - Yeah. - Oh, gosh. Look at them. - Okay, so it's not completely done yet. It's-it's close, I think. - My mother once knew a girl who- she was at a party, and she overdosed on drugs, and her friends thought that she just passed out because she had drank too much, and so they took her to the school, to the parking lot, and they just laid her in the rain, thinking it would be funny, but, really, it wasn't, because she died there, and... - I don't know, they liked to have fun. They were real cool girls. I didn't know them as well freshman year, but obviously they- they were a little intimidating in the beginning, because they were so pretty and- they sort of took over as soon as they got here, and it took me a little while to get into the swing of things, so I didn't think I deserved to hang out with them right away, but, um... they were- they were more genuine than I thought they were. So they were a lot more approachable. So it was really cool for me to- I don't know. I sort of felt honored to be able to hang out with them. - No. But they- They always seemed like they were having fun, and everyone always talked about them... and I guess they were the kind of girls I would like to be like, and it's weird that they're not there anymore. - I'd really just ask them about their, you know, final experiences on this Earth and just what they were thinking, any remorse for any mistakes they had made, any... - It was always a marvel to- I'm sorry, can we- can I-can we start again? It was always a marvel to me to see how two young women who seemed so similar- Was that serious, Robert? - What do you mean? - Is there something wrong with you, Robert? I'm no editor, but I can safely say that was probably the worst thing I've ever seen. You didn't even have music. I'm gonna tell Mr. Wiseman to have someone else re-edit everything. I'm very disappointed. [voices overlapping] - I like pudding. Don't you like pudding? [voices overlapping] - Yo, Rob, let me get the homework, man. - No. - Give it to me. - No. - Yo, Max. - Yeah? - Can I get the homework? - Okay, fine. Here. [voices overlapping] - Fucking pussy. - Fuck you! You fucking killed them! You fucking killed them! - Come on. Come on, outside. - You almost killed Dave. Do you realize that, Rob? There are a lot of people who think you should be expelled. You boys are roommates. Friends. What would make you want to do that? I know this has been a tough time for you, Rob, in particular. It's been a difficult time for everybody here. Dave, I can only hope you've been there for him. - Yeah. I've been really worried about Rob. He's been acting really weird lately. - Rob, calm down! All right. Dave, um... I need you to give Rob and I a few minutes. Then I'll come and talk to you. I've heard things from Mr. Virgil. There are a lot of things he says that really worry me, buddy. The things you've been looking at on the computer, that's not good. A lot of things, and the kind of things parents don't want to know about their son. And there was something else, something you kept saying. Do you remember what you kept saying, Rob? You were cursing like a madman, and you were saying, "You killed them. You killed them. You killed them. " What did you mean, Rob? - I'm sorry, Mr. Burke. I don't know what I was saying. - Were you talking about the Talbert Twins? - No, Mr. Burke. I don't think I was talking about anything. - It's a serious allegation, Robert. That's why I'm asking you like this. I know Dave, and I know his parents. He's a good kid. He's like you, just a little troubled right now. Were you trying to say Dave had something to do with the death, Rob? And if you know something, please say it now. - No. - All right, Rob. I had to clear that up. There's something I haven't really said out there to the other kids, but... no one knows where the girls purchased the drugs that they got for sure. It's scary to think it could have been someone in the school. But the truth is, Rob, we all kind of gave the girls those drugs that day. Do you see, it's not just one person's fault, Rob. It's everyone's. In a way, it's mine. And, in a way, it's your fault, Rob. In a way, we all kind of gave the girls those drugs that day. Do you see? In a way, we all did. We're not gonna expel you, buddy. I think what you need is some time away, back home. I've talked to your parents, and they're obviously very concerned. It could be a couple of weeks or a couple of months, but when you're ready to come back, Bryton will be here for you. Robert? Can you get up? It was always a marvel to me, to see how two young women who seemed so similar could be so different. Anne and Mary, we'll miss you terribly. - Whenever I would see the girls pass by my office before morning meeting, they always had a smile on their face, and they would always wave. I'm gonna miss them. They were a bright spot in the day and in the week for me. - Nothing like this should ever happen to anybody. You'll be missed. Take care. - I was happy to have known them, and I miss them. - Bryton won't be the same without you. - You're the most beautiful girls I've ever seen, and I'm really gonna miss seeing you around campus. Good-bye, Anne and Mary. - Good-bye, Anne and Mary. - I'm gonna miss you. - I would say that she was the best person that I ever knew in my entire life. - I will miss you. - I never knew the Talbert Twins, but I'd always admired them. We'll all really miss them. Our hearts go out to their parents. - To the students of Bryton, we want to thank you very much from the bottom of our hearts for all of your well-wishes and your kind words, flowers, cards, the many things that you sent to us. - Anne and Mary loved many of you very much, and we do hope that in the future of this school, that will never happen again. [applause] - That was beautiful. Please join me in a moment of silence in memory of Anne and Mary. Thank you. I'd like to give another round of applause to the audio-video class. [applause] What a beautiful card to remember them by. Their parents are truly grateful. Thank you, guys. Let us never forget this tragedy and always remember that we must remain vigilant against the dangers out there. Okay, everyone, please make your way back to third period. - Marie Durgin. - Thank you. - David Wilson. - David, here's your medication. - Thank you. - Have a good day. - Mike Charles. Thank you. - Have a good day. - Robert. - Robert, how are you? - Good, how are you? - Good. Have a good day. Anyone else waiting? Have a good day, Robert. - [coughing] - Hey, Rob! Rob! How's things been working out? - They're better. - If you want to talk anytime, come see me, okay? - Yeah. - And the surface area of a sphere. The formulas are quite simple. Once you know the formula for the area and the volume of a- - Fuck you! You fucking killed them! [knocks on door] - Lights out, Rob. - Two, three. [raucous cheering] - Good-bye, suckers! - So long, suckers! [cheering fades] - [strained breathing] [audio static hissing]
