 

                        Ladies and Gentelman, you are about to see an unforgettable show, a film destined for immortality, immortality as the music that will be performed now and interpreted by cartoons. To bring music to life in the form of cartoon images, to give body and colourto its notes is the secret wish that burns and swells withing the soul of every true cartoon designer beginning with his childhood fantasies. With this film we've finally succeeded in achieving this union: cartoons and classical music, a couple destined to live on, and we're sure of it, in the history of cinema. A new, original film which has even astonished even us... who, modestly speaking... even astonished us we, who, modestly speaking... created it in the first place. A film where you'll be able to see, where you'll be able to see, where you'll be able to see the music and listen to the cartoons. In a word a film full of... FANTASY. [Telephone] Hello, hello who's speaking? No, no, no, no let me talk first, no you talk first... no, but look to whom do you want to speak to? Eh? California? Cali... Hollywood's on the line. HELLO! Hello yes... yes what? You did what... no, I don't think I got you right... you already did the... now look, no listen here, well... if you feel like kidding around... I'm not the least interested in kidding around. Listen. No, perhaps we've misunderstood each other, look - forget it... you-re an ill-bred, impostor, an ill-bred, yes uncouth and a liar! A liar, that's it, crafty liar, liar from California! Nothing to worry about, somecrazy types, they're wild madmen. They're trying to say they insist that this film, what an absurd thing to say, that this film was already made many years ago by this guy, this guy a certain Frisney... Prisney... Grisney... an american. Anyway, before talking big mouth, do yourself a favour and see the film! Did you hear?! Well, say?...Can you belive it? Help... Help! O.K. Calm down Damned old bags, I'm coming, I'm coming O.K. O.K., let's go now, move on move on look alive. Quickly let's not waste time, go up, go up, go up, get on the bus... you must earn your keep... we are not a charity organization... - Our instruments... our instruments... - They're already at the theatre together whith the costumes, and don't get stranded along the way... we wouldn't want to lose you just now. But Pisney, has done this, eh? Come on! It wasn't a problem to engage the orchestra but our main task was to secure the creativity of a true artist... an open artist, one free from whatever conditioning, free from whatever compromises... a cartoon designer capable of expressing himself in complete autonomy! Hey there, how's it going, you look happierthan usual... you knew your day was coming eh? Tell the truth you knew, eh... It wasn't easy finding and keeping the ideal originator of our cartoons... so we had to win him over with a clear contact based on trust and mutual respect... Up, up... let's go you've been tied up for 5 years you can't be that great... O.K. let's go, let's go. Stand up... no, no... quick the orchestra is already upstairs... let's go Rise your dental plate if you want to play the trumpet. - Kick the drum, please... - I kick what I like - Kick her, kick her. - By all means... If they hadn't put me in first line I would've never come... The only thing I was worried about is that they might force some nude scene on me... Where are you going mhm... Mhm... - What an ugly place... - I really need all my honesty... I always defended it... Nothing is missing... one second we're here, the great moment... I said one second! The great moment... we're here the great moment... but... O.K. WE'VE GOT IT, the great moment has come the only thing missing is... the Maestro. Ah ah... Ah... Girls, chickadees, sweethearts... mugnachite... we're starting with Debussy... Prelude to a Faun's Afternoon... Beautiful piece... the artist will certainly not lack the stimuli, the imagination to visualize this musical piece and to confer upon it, to breathe into it a new life, looking to and counting upon this pencil, his trusted pencil, will succeed in giving a new life, a new life to this fantastic musical piece. Eh eh he (Laugh)... get ready girls The artist creats... Sstt... Ready...girl...let's go with Debussy... Sstt... One, two, one two three and four... Good, good, ...really good. Mhmmm... remain seated or I'll pin you to the wall... remain seated... I didn't even enjoy myself, you didn't make me laugh. Great, outta'singht afternoon... [Whistle] Grandma... How do you feel? Cut to pieces Maestro... cut to pieces maestro. Hey you there pick her up. Pick all of her, can't forget any of the pieces... Smile now... be happy, nothing has happened... Cut to pieces Maestro... cut to pieces maestro. Girls what's happening? Don't you feel well? Let's try the exercises o.k.? Stand up, sit down... Stand up, sit down... Stand up, sit down... Stand up, sit down... STAND UP, SIT DOWN! STAND UP, SIT DOWN! STAND UP, SIT DOWN! STAND UP, SIT DOWN! STAND UP, SIT DOWN! STAND UP, SIT DOWN! STAND UP, SIT DOWN! - Hey you!... - [Trembling] Me??? - Why don't you come with me a little bit. - Go on be obedient. My little Na-nny come here, you seem a bit pale. Are you reflexes a bit off eh? nothing, it's nothing... [Shout] It's not so easy to keep order in an orchestra. You've got to... how can I say, run it with an iron first but handle it with KIDS' GLOVES! That's it, iron first whith kid's gloves! The second piece girls is Slavic Dance N.7 by Dvorak... a cheerful piece. [Laugh] He did not realise it... Break... Everybody take a break. It's time to eat! I'm starved! Bohemia... Fruit... Fruit... Exotic fruits... Beaujoleaux, Damn... Chicken... Chicken... Potato! Oh to hell with it all... - And me? And me! - It's good Well Maestro, what's the next piece on the program? - Ravel's Bolero! - Ah Boler's Ravel! - but who, who is the author? - Ravel! Yes, of course our Ravel. Ravel's Bolero, who else but Raquel, eh Ravel eh raquel... a great lady who acts and looks well and even writes bolero... Some people have it, some people lack it. but she's GOT IT! Yes folks, Raquel's Bolero just for starters... Ravels-raquel's Bolero and Raquel... Anyway it's mucho bue-ee-nita Raquel in Bolero, great piece and what a show... Yes, no doubt about it... A great piece of French-Mexican-American jaz with that famous Bolero soul; Folks, this tomali's a hot one! Take a hot, festy Louisiana Bayou father with a spicy Mexican mama... and what have you got folks? Ravelita, Raquelita pouring her heart out in the great Bolero Soul tradition. Yes folks, make no mistake about it: Raquel in Bolero is a hot numberthe world over it's got the germans drooling Der Bolero ist so gut... over a few pints at the local bierhaus; and the French dreaming away with Les Bolero-o-o, Les Bolero, Les Bolerou at cafes all across France, steppin' to the Bolero sound... and from the U.S. of A, we've just heard that the millionth copy of the LP Rolling', Ravelin', Raquelin' Bro has been sold in Sunny Burbank to young feelin' and thinkin' 85-year old Grandma Luella Perkins... A great success! A grat piece... and as they say: A touch of Bolero keeps you alive and alle-groo-ou! We're not here to stuff our faces But what's the monkey got to do with it now? Well, I... there is no big monkey. I don't see any monkees in the set. There are other animals... but I don't see a single monkey. That big monkey looks like a young man that I met once in 1912 beforthe big war. Nowadays men like him are not seen anymore. It's snowing in the theatre, a very bad sign... Leave it, leave it... I don't believe it, but what's he doing be careful, you are breaking him. The old bags are all upset... who can control them now? Oh I knew it, my eye is twitching when I get nervous my eye starts twitching always the same thing, always... The next number on the program is the Valzer Triste by Sibelius... if you don't do it right I'll nail you to the wall. On the wall. Remember. Bravo... what feeling... well done we can't go on like this the musical pieces are all too sad, that idiot doesn't know what humour is. I'll nail to the wall, I'll make him rot in chains. Calm down... relax, relax... calm down, we too have our wrongs, we know the artist needs a certain kind of crowd in which to express himself. Frankly it isn't that we, with the girls, there, did not give them the ideal... - Bullshit, you can't dictate Art - hang on, I've got an idea... suppose we... were able to find him a woman so that... they can stay together... in orderto... to create. That's would be allright. I know a girl... hang on, I'm coming right away. Hang on... Hey there my dear artist how fare thee eh. Come here. You seem a little exhausted... why not look for some fun. Come with me. I know this quiet spot, come... good get in here. Eh eh... YOU understood exactly what the problems is. It's a boy you'll see... It will be easy like drinking a glass of water. You get into the piano and then... the rest will come. Quick, Quick, Quick... Hallo everybody Our bad orchestra, the big piano and our artist. I recommend... try to help him. Hey shall I come... or not Get ready forthe next number, I think it's going to be a spicy one. A Vivaldi concerto. Aren't you laying it on a bit thick? Yes, yes perhaps, o.k. enough for now, yes yes, let's go... let's go... These old pianos there're some inconveniences. Unfortunately you know when you go inside but you don't know when you'll come out... If you don't start to make me laugh I swear I'll turn you inside out and skin you like a cat! But yes, can't you see, now he turns his face over. I hope so. On the contrary I'll change it... Yes of course, he is happier now. Much happier, look at his eye - I tear his eye... - Noo... you will see the next number will be wonderful, get ready. The curtain falls. The curtain falls. [Laughing] Help... Help... I'll show you. I take that piano player and I throw her on your head and I'll break all your bloody bones now. Nothing, Nothing has happened, just a minor misunderstanding, some minor insignificant. Leave her! I said nothing has... get out of the way, away with that minor. Minor misunderstanding, nothing, nothing, nothing has happened! The next one is one of the most famous pieces the well-known Stravinsky's Firebird... Stravinsky's Bird, Stravinsky. Silence! A really famous piece composed by Stravinsky as he walked the wild woods at the foot of a still active volcano, and has he strolled along, a red-feathered bird struck his eyes in welcomed surprice and its fiery'red colours won his imagination, he looked to the volcano and then to the big bird... And then to his lips murmured -FIREBIRD- Leave me, leave me, I don't have the medical assistance... damned let me go, let me go down Nothing, nothing has happened, the Maestro had to let's say... temporarily excuse himself, but he'll be back presently... the show goes on. Well, eh excuse us for a little while longer, some minor delay, we'll quickly resume with Strawinsky's Firebird, of course whithout question the show must go on, or as the French would say, eh... I'oiseau doit chanter, the Bird, the FIREBIRD WILL SING! Ah! A snake... Stop! were are you going. Come back damned old bags... it's only a snake! We've got the anti-viper serum... we must finish the film you can't go away now... bastards... Dirty bastards... Here, here we are, a different finale, a not-so-grand finale that we expected, a finale without orchestra, without the Maestro, without music... an entirely new thing. Luckily we still have with us our artist our designer... Our... Our... What are you doing... Where are you going, come back, I'm coming back too, don't leave me all alone... wait for me... take me with you... damned damnation... we need... we need a finale... a finale... Hello, hello will you please bring me a finale... what, you mean to tell me you don't have any... come on a theatre equipped the right way should have shelves full of finales... ljust need a finale, quick, quick! Finale... We're finished, it's the bitter end Girls, ready now. Stravinsky's Firebird. - All done, all done - So all we need is a finale That too is already taken care of... You can go back down there - But then, so we're unemployed now. - Yes Unemployed, unemployed... till the next film, I've got a great idea in mind... a real shocker a love story. - A love story? - Yes, but not typical love story, no this one's a bit more complicated, many characters involved... at least eight protagonists... - Eight? - Yes, but not what you think... it isn't four men and four women... something new is needed, like one gal and seven guys... It seems to me like an expensive undertaking. Well then, to save, we'lljust get 'em short, maybe some midgets... Boy, what an image that brings to mind... Yeah, what a scene... I can just see it now, seven indefatigable workers, seven admirable midgets working hard in a coal mine, why not? I can see them now, rumbling about like frogs, happy as can be... lalala... lala The title is... have you got something in your mind? That's easy, if you considerthe effect scene it could be let's say... Snowwhite into the forest but... let's start now. Let's keep quite we shouldn't tell it around No! Why not? Because it isn't easy to write a script, somebody could copy the idea... you can't trust people, they might change the title, emphasize the sex and then... call it... let's say Snowwhite and seven midgets and we... we are cheated!
