 

                        RAIN a.k.a. JUNG Ji-hoon YU Jun-sang SHIN Se-kyung The Black Eagles finally take off! KIM SUNG-SOO The Black Eagles finally take off! LEE HA-NA LEE JONG-S UK JUNG KYUNG-HO What a formation! Simply spectacular! What a formation! Simply spectacular! CHO SUNG-HA OH DAL-SOO A round of applause for our Black Eagles! A round of applause for our Black Eagles! Here comes wedge brake That's the fan formation! Amazing! Aren't you fed up with performing the same maneuvers? Stay in formation, don't do anything stupid Just watch I'll show you something cool Jung Tae-hun! Jung Tae-hun! Get back in formation! Looks like we'll witness an unscripted maneuver! Zero-knot! Mommy, is that plane falling? What the... Engine problem? Zero-knot Engine off Recovery at 300 knots Hey! Turn on the engine! DIRE C TED B Y KIM DON G- WON Everyone, this is... the best air show in the world! Everyone, this is... the best air show in the world! Did you see that? No one can pull that off Even the Thunderbirds would applaud, right? - I'm the best - Here he comes Salute I told you never to do that! Get rid of this bastard now! You're in deep shit Grandma, not all Fighter Wings are dangerous I'll call you later Tae-hun Look who it is Been a while What, what are you doing? Can't old friends hug it out? Something wrong? - Have you been well? - Of course - You look good - When did I not? Say hello, this is Captain Jung Tae-hun And this is our rookie, Lieutenant Ji Seok-hyeon Weren't you the Black Eagles' youngest member? It's an honor! My reputation precedes me Good to meet you He's also the fastest member to get kicked out Enough... Good to have you, I heard all your antics Caused headaches Good thing I got in here, wouldn't have been fun in other squads Listen. I was performing zero-knot at the air show... - Attention! - Just listen, dude - On the way down... - That's enough! 'Dude'? Stand up! - Oh, come on - Stand up! I am your direct superior and squad leader I will not tolerate such unacceptable behavior Yes, sir - Name and rank - Captain Jung Tae-hun! Just messing with you Come on dude, don't do that shit What happened to our mighty Tae-hun? Let's get you a welcoming drink! How low you've fallen - Dude, should I drive? - No, no, I'll do it - My driving bothers you? - Yeah You're doing 20 Can't you hear everyone honking? This is 30, can't you feel it? How the hell do you pilot a jet this way? A car is not a jet I'll just walk, it'll be faster Feels like a roller coaster I'm sorry, commander You've been too generous You should at least meet her Come in Salute! Captain Jung Tae-hun reporting The zero-knot hot dog who screwed the air show I'll head back sir Salute What was the reason for the dangerous maneuver? I can'tjudge its potential without trying it, sir Captain, being a pilot is about protecting the public, not quenching your curiosity Remember that, got it? Yes, sir Salute Salute Let me ask you something - What was the tactical reason? - There wasn't one, sir Didn't think it was dangerous? I did not believe it was dangerous, sir So you're free to perform a banned maneuver with a $100 million fighter jet? Listen carefully As long as I'm here, I'll fix that rotten mindset What's with Major Lee? So anal He's our Wing's ace USAF's Red Flag appointed him as Top Gun - Ace my ass - Be careful He even scares me I don't care what happens, gonna go back the first chance I get Major, who are those guys? Search And Rescue Looks like they're training - So they'll rescue us? - That's right Hey, keep it UP! Go easy on him Captain Jung Maiden flight? Fresh from the Academy I will do my absolute best! Sir! Don't scream! My ears hurt! This isn't the marine corp Flying is about a sense of duty That's important too, but just have fun Sir? I really hate being serious No progress that way, got that? My darling? - Yes, sir, I got it sir! - Salute, go prep - Run! Run! - One, two, one, two Don't do that I was like him too She's a beauty - Salute - Salute This is our Wing's handsome chief mechanic Min Shucks, you're so right - I'm Jung Tae-hun, sir - Jung Tae-hun? - Pleased to meet you - That idiot who got kic... Who'll work on my aircraft? That'd be Sergeant Yu, she was right here... - Sergeant Yu? Sergeant? - Yes? This is our team's ace For her skills, of course Salute Sergeant Yu Se-yeong Pleased to meet you - Have we met before? - Nope, never I'll get back to work Hey, Sergeant Yu, sergeant? Be gentle, my baby How do you like Sergeant Yu? Not sure yet, sir You don't have an eye for women yet Totally my style She can be a major pain Let's be careful - Only 100 days till my discharge - Yes, sir I told you to be careful, you idiot! This is 10-point parking, bumping into other cars It's American-style Were you born there? No, I'm from Southern Korea - In the Boonies? - Yeah I'm so pleased to meet a hick You improve my life, thank you - Salute! - What? Salute I'm really sorry, but... could you two assholes step out? You don't deserve to be a soldier! 'Mental' at one, 'concentration' at two! - Got that? - Yes, ma'am! - One! - Mental! - Two! - Concentration! - One! - Mental! - Louder! - Concentration! Pre-take off check, all systems go Okay, let's get started Down, ready - Sir, wait, wait! - Don't be a pussy Oh Shit! I'm gonna pass out Let's start with the basics Seok-hyeon, let's do this! Your half-assed job puts wrinkles on my delicate face! Listen up! There are And when you fill it with 35,000 pounds of fuel... and shove that in, got it? We couldn't hear you, sir! Listen now an aircraft, right? And fill it up with because you guys aren't paying attention! - We couldn't hear you, sir! - We couldn't hear you Forehead on the ground Sir, couldn't we go a little slower? Lesson 1, you mustn't let anyone get on your tail - Are you ready? - I can do this Passed out? Alpha 2, don't go overboard - Tae-hun, take it easy - Roger, joining formation - You okay, Seok-hyeon? - Yes, I'm fine Jung Tae-hun! He's a natural in an F-15K Sir, why did you accept that troublemaker? Didn't want to waste his talent He must be on a par with you Please assign him to my squad, if you're letting him stay I'll either make him into a decent pilot or I'll break him in 3 months Alright, let me think about it Salute, coffee delivery Americano for you, and camera mac: c: hiato.. I meant caramel... Thank you Caramel... And yogurt for me Forgot the spoon Seok-hyeon, let's go greet our commander Let's go! Hot! That's hot! That burns! This is a top-secret doc! I'm sorry, sir Jung Tae-hun, you bastard! Jung Tae-hun! He went too harsh on me Se-yeong? Daddy! Sergeant Yu! So embarrassing... Not even a hand... Has time stopped? Only a month till my discharge I'm not even close I got 630 days, dammit What? 'Dammit'? Mind your superior! - 3rd level - 3rd level! Not cool enough, stop - Air condition - Air condition, sir! Yeah, this feels about right Damn you! Stop right there! Is it too obvious? I was passing by, nothing wrong with that Right? Let's go Wait, maybe a little obvious Woong, get behind me - Like this? - That's it Watch out for that missile Don't come near me! - Shit! - Shit! You're not allowed to say that I was just imitating you You can't say it just because I did It's auntie Yu-jin - Woong! - Auntie! Have you been well? - This is for you! - Nice, pizza! - Why are you here? - I was just passing by Look at the dirty clothes - Leave it - Hold this - Aren't you flying today? - It was in the morning Dad! Fork! Fork? Could you hold this? - The flight... - Dad, can I eat first? - No, you... - Of course! - Eat it - Yeah, eat Here, sauce Good boy Can't forget to take a picture Come take a picture with us Come, come Here, take a slice too One, two, three I'm cut off Let's take it again, one, two, three The North and South Korea summit will focus on peace... Damn, what if we really unite soon? Can I go home then? Unification doesn't happen that easily Who knows what'll happen - Yo, a cup of coffee - Right away, sir Wait, we'd be jobless if that happens - Salute - Salute Yo Captain Jung Buddy, air combat isn't a joke Learn a thing or two from Major Lee Salute Why not focus on your job? I feel bad that you get scolded - You little shit! - Calm down, calm down Get back here, say that to me again! He's always talking back to me Dammit, that's hot! Why didn't you say it was hot! This is a top-secret doc! You're on my blacklist Major Lee has never lost a combat exercise He's got the best aim too He'll remember today, the day of his first defeat Won't be easy - Let's start with them on our tail - Yes sir, this should be fun Zoom in - Bogey at 11 o'clock - Okay, let's get this started Okay, follow us if you can Contact - We got you, you little rat - Be careful! Right turn Yo, Tae-hun, where are you hiding? Did you only learn to hide at Black Eagles? Major, watch out! - Careful! - Ready missile We're on collision course I don't care, just shoot! 3,000 2,000 1,000 Are you nuts?! Is he on our tail? Lock-on! Missile's ready for you Mission accomplished Dammit! End of exercise Bring them home Good job, Captain Jung Can't help but laugh at your futile effort to win You call yourself a fighter pilot? Good work everyone! Has it ever crossed your mind? If today was a real situation, you wouldn't be here Aerial combat is not a show Your life is on the line I made a sharp turn here I should've had him, but why didn't I? Tactical maneuver... tactical maneuver... What the hell's going on? What? Hawk Aerial Combat Competition? Can I really come back if I win it? Why wear just one earphone? Can't you look at me? Se-yeong I have a question about the F-15K's... That wretched hag... Bringing out old tricks? Aren't you too old for that? It's nothing, this is part of my work Let me remind you that you're an air force officer Have a little pride Pride is worthless on the battlefield of love Keep it together, don't get kicked out of here too Why is the food here so dry? - I don't have that kind of power - Come on, sir I heard you are the most influential person here Where did you hear that fact? Sir, please help me Well... But why do you want her? We've got tons of mechanics I heard her jets are the best Sure, she's our team's hopes and dreams impeccable track record Flawless But there's a problem There are, you know, people Tons of competition, such as... He was just here Chivas... What do you take me for? It's 18-year-old single malt This goes down smooth, doesn't it? Sir, I beg of you Please Sure, don't worry I'll take care of you Thank you, sir Chivas... 18... North Korea Wonsan I gave you plenty of chances, comrade Chief comrade... So quiet today It's near Armistice Line Stay frosty What the hell? Unidentified bogeys at 1 o'clock What are they after? What do we do sir? Only fire when fired upon Everyone on full alert What the hell? Tango 2 follow me, rest of you stand by Sir, what are you doing? You fucking startled me! Falcon Tango, we're heading back One strange thing is that... Ministry of Defense Top-Secret Vault those who were purged were in charge of the Wonsan base Isn't that the base built to launch ICBMS? It not only has an ICBM launch pad but it has a new airstrip capable of deploying MIG-29s We're working with US intelligence to figure out what's going on - But... - Go on We can't rule out the possibility of a power struggle, which would lead to a coup Salute! Flight complete! You've completed Congratulations! Salute! It leans to the left What? The jet I was flying It leans to the left I checked the steering many times That can't be I just said it leans Are you deaf? You can't rely on your looks alone to get by What's with that look? Stand down Stand down! - It leans! - What? You think I'm full of shit?! Why is he always on Yu's case? - Of course not! - Morning, commander! Salute! Salute! Captain Jo reporting! I'm sorry, from behind you looked like him What? - And major's looking for you - Dammit And you! Your promotion depends on my recommendation You hear? And Jung, I look nothing like him! - I'm sorry - Watch your mouth What the hell did I do now? Goddamn toothless mutt Are you alright? Shit always rolls downwards That vile piece of shit You pilots got some bad habits Sergeant Yu, since it came up, how about further steer testing? Hey, sergeant... Did you need something? Was I talking to myself? Sergeant! Sergeant! Let's talk O Sergeant Yu, come on, open the door Salute I'm here, sir - Didn't you call for me? - No, I didn't Salute I'm gonna pass out... You could've... given me a ride How could you just take off? Sergeant, I need your help I have to win the upcoming Hawk Competition And I need the best mechanic Between you and me, I really want to beat Major Lee That's none of my business Why not? Don't you know Captain Jo is his co-pilot? It's our chance to kick their asses Right? Then can I ask you a favor? Yes, please do that It's unlikely, but there was a complaint that my jet leans Can you check it out on your next flight? Okay, got it - After you win - Sure A modern fighter jet is filled with cutting-edge tech and sensors I know that Ever heard of the RLS system? RLS? I heard that before Even when a wing is shot off, RLS will cut off hydraulics on that wing, so that the aircraft can continue flying for a while There was an incident in which an Israeli pilot was able to land safely Question, what if it malfunctions and the wing is blown off? What do I do then? Then you're fucked Or eject Follow me Falcon Tango, flying 15,000 Left turn Break time Survival training's hard, isn't it? My calves... Don't smoke? I wanted to try Your parents raised a soft child I grew up in an orphanage Don't know what they look like Staff sergeant, we're ready sir Let's go You know that we got your back, right? My role is to save a pilot at all costs, okay? Okay I'm late You haven't trained enough for the competition tomorrow My everyday skill is enough Fly with Tae-hun from now on It'll be better for you Is that an order? Yes it is I'm so sorry, and good... Good night Sergeant, working late? I brought some snacks, have some What are you doing? Don't you know drinking is forbidden here? I know it's forbidden But you gotta drink I'll take the heat I looked into the leaning problem you mentioned It's pretty serious Could you elaborate please? I need a drink first The problem is that there's no problem! How about a bet? If you don't win, I get to slap you Why? I really want to slap you if given a chance So what do I get if I win? Must I do something for you? Give-and-take is the basis of a bet Right? What do you want? Let's go on a date Or buy drinks? Deal? - Okay - Okay, deal! Let's toast... Are all pilots alike? No, not everyone's a bastard You drank too much Go get some more! What's going on? You can't drink in the hangar! I'm sorry, sir - Sergeant - What's wrong with her? You idiot, are you drunk? You're adorable! Se-yeong, stop that! I'm sorry, sir Come here! Why is she so strong? Please stop that Take her inside, go! What do I do with her... You shouldn't have given her drinks Let me pour you one You should've came to me Thought you were busy... Hey! Do it right She's a bad drunk Turns out, she has a sappy story What do you mean? She's an Air Force Academy graduate Academy? She was in the hospital for a while Her eardrum was ruptured, so she can't hear well without a hearing aid Why wear just one earphone? She gave up becoming a pilot but she couldn't give up aircraft What's the big deal about being a pilot? No, let me pour you one Are you listening to me? - Sergeant Yu - Answer me - I said answer me! - Hey, Sergeant Yu So salty You think you're so high and mighty? My fault for getting you drunk I hope you give your 100% At the very least, don't let another Wing take the win - You got that? - Yes, sir Commander I don't know if I should ask you this But is there a prize? Is there? I'll grant one wish within my power Nice! Awesome That is all Attention Salute Dismissed Major, shouldn't we at least get a car for winning? We're risking our lives here - Did you laugh at me? - No, sir You got time to laugh? It's been a while since your squad last won This is your chance Challenge us You're the ace... I'm not done with you! - All ready? - Yes, sir - Salute - Salute Where did Sergeant Yu go? She went on a personal errand Where could she be? - Captain Jung! - Yeah? - Shall we? - Let's go And get that win Please bring home the title Currently Major Son is leading the charge We'll begin the air-to-surface match between Eagle and Falcon squads Captain Jung Tae-hun Major Lee Cheol-hui / Major Son Kyung-soo Captain Jung Tae-hun Major Lee Cheol-hui / Major Son Kyung-soo The Hawk Aerial Combat Competition first began in 1960 As the Air Force's biggest competition, and over 200 pilots compete to test their skills Firing ASM Falcon's Major Lee takes the lead with perfectly placed shots Captain Jung is out of the ranking despite an early lead Jung, you'll get yours if you don't win Captain Jung is up next for the precision strike We can do this I'm a low altitude specialist If we go low, we can cut the lap time It could be dangerous You've got no balls Let's do this - I might pass out - I'm gonna eject you What? I'm kidding The pilots must hit all 5 targets precisely within the time limit This category awards the most points Please look carefully at the target Time's running out - Ready, now! - No, wait a bit - We have to fire now - Just wait! - Captain, fire! - No, not yet What the hell? How far will he go down? Lock-on, fire now! Deploying missiles Impressive! A total of 3,980 points Holy shit, awesome! What did I tell you I said I could pull it off Goddammit! The winner of this year's Hawk Aerial Combat Competition is Captain Jung Tae-hun with 3,980 points - Yes! - A round of applause everyone With that, we'll bring the broadcast of this year's competition to a close Yes! Why is it so noisy? To the winner of 52nd Hawk Competition, thank you Captain Jung, you made my day - Let's toast! Soar! - Into the sun! Honestly, I didn't think you'd win - It's all because of Seok-hyeon - Oh, come on now - I almost fainted again - Captain Jung Salute - Good work - Thank you, sir So you're going back to the Black Eagles? I want to think about it further Let's have a drink! I'll buy, but I'm not interested in dating Beer? Yeah, I'll buy Hey! You startled me! What are you doing there? Working of course, what else? I didn't know you were there Don't shout at me Don't take it out on the jet My ears... Why haven't you gone home yet? Got some work left to do - Waiting for someone? - What? Nonsense Alright, go home already Sleep in your own bed So tired Good shot, sergeant Haven't you gone home yet? Why are you here at this hour? - Just passing by - You scared me Did you wait for me? Of course not I wanted to rescue a bored paper plane-folding girl Forget it Should I take you home? Forget it Come on, I'll walk you home Harder than it looks She's good Se-yeong, wait for me! We're here, right? How did you know? You don't remember? You were so drunk that night, I circled this area several... You idiot I'm off Invite me up for tea or coffee! By the Way Aren't you asking me out? Right A promise is a promise I'm off tomorrow, see you then Good night! I'm sorry I didn't come more often Please don't come anymore - This is the least I can do - No You make it worse by coming here Take care Engine output is dropping Emergency! Losing control Dropping fast! Mayday, mayday - We have to eject! - No, we have to save this jet! Sir, we have to eject! Elect! Elect! Tae-hun, you can't do this! - I haven't paid off the lease yet! - Watch your hand Hey! I need my car in the afternoon Take a cab, I'll bring it back with a full tank No! Be careful! No speeding, and keep a safe distance! Watch your front! Be careful, you bastard! Good morning - In a suit? - Nice, isn't it? First date impression is important It'll be cold... This is the worst date ever! Wanna fly it? I'm a fighter pilot You want me to fly a toy? I got pride too! Try it Se-yeong. helP! Easy, easy Just feel the wind - Feel the wind? - Smooth, like this Good, steer like this Nice and easy This is awesome! - Good flight? - Yeah It's strange... You realize you and Tae-hun are so much alike? Drop the bullshit He's not a soldier, he's a child who does what he likes You were like that too as a cadet, you were the best If it wasn't for that incident I told you never to bring that up Cheol-hui, it's about time you let go You did your best in that situation What's with the weather? Did you check the weather? It's fog off the sea - What? - Sea fog I think we came too far What do we do? It's hard to see We gotta land now, over there on the beach Land here? Where's the ejection switch? No such thing, stupid! Switch to glide That's it Stop fidgeting! Hold tight - Let's go down - Now? - We're falling! - Easy, easy - Daddy! - Will you calm down?! - Almost there! - Brake! Brake! Come on, give me fire already! Does this really work? Sure, I did this many times in survival training You've been at it for 30 minutes Here it comes! Come on, almost there! - Almost there, look! - You're good for nothing I knew you were useless when you busted my glider Look, I got a spark! So useless You should've said you had a lighter! I wanted to give you a chance to impress me All that work for nothing! Don't get mad at me You really didn't see any villages nearby? I told you, there's nothing here Not a single visible light Did you get a good look? I walked a klick all around, but there's nothing Not even an ant, absolutely nothing Did you bring anything else? Like a blanket? It's getting cold I have an emergency sleeping bag But there's only one Just one?! That's perfect! Since it's freezing, we should hold each other tight - What was that for? - Did it hurt? Since I got the firewood, go fish for something to eat - What? - Stop pinching me What's the occasion? This place is too fancy Aren't you eating? Just watching you eat is enough I had dinner with the commander The commander? Why? I requested my discharge - Are you nuts?! - Nope But this is Yu-jin, will you marry me? Is that a no? - Is that an order? - Yes, it's an order Last order as your superior Come on, don't cry Sergeant, did you do what I asked? I did not, sir Wasn't I clear enough? Why didn't you do it? - He said not to do it - Who did? The commander flew in the morning and said nothing's wrong He liked the feel of the aircraft - The commander flew it? - Yes, sir - Did he have a scheduled flight? - Of course not Just a little bit Major Lee is flying later, should I adjust it drastically? What? ' No! ' Why not? Don't! Just don't What's with you today? You said it leans to the left It used to, it really did but it's okay now Let's go Keep it UP Laughing at me? Something wrong... with the jet? It has serious leaning problem! Do your job properly! I think that asshole's the one with serious problem - You think so? - Forget it, let's go How's dinner at my place? Got an announcement Announcement? Yeah, and buy me a new fridge With dual doors Got a new addition to the family - Fridge? - Smile Can't be... Hey, Seok-hyeon Go fetch a blanket in my room YO. YU-jin! Watcha doing? Woong has a field trip tomorrow Here, taste this one Good? Yeah, not bad I left this out Our mighty Yu-jin's domesticated now Go away, watch TV or something - What? - You look happy You're distracting me, go home Okay, Okay Dude, I'm off! Careful of the cars Put on your bag Don't fight with your friends and listen to your teacher Okay, dad Bye! Give me a kiss - I'm late - Alright Your lunch! North Korea Wonsan An enemy aircraft has crossed the Armistice Line Eagle Alpha, this is HQ - Move to zone A10 ASAP - Roger that I am Li Hyo-su of 2nd ACC Requesting defection The bogey is sending defection signal I'll lead the bogey, Alpha 2 cover his 6 Roger, Alpha 2 Moving to zone A5 from current position Bogey Sighted Another bogey in the area! Eagle Alpha 1, emergency situation Tail the bogey There's another bogey - Take care of it Alpha 2 - Roger, Alpha 2 - Requesting support - Deploy support Support squad en route - This is a real combat situation - Roger This is no joke Visual on bogey 2 It's tilting its wings - Alpha 2 cover him until support arrives - Roger, Alpha 2 Tae-hun, let's be careful I got a bad feeling Roger Defector in sight, permission to fire Granted Tae-h u n, careful He's ying to Alpha 1's position Bogey 2 fired a missile Missile on our 6 - Defector MIG hit - This was a setup Right wing hit! Lock-on, firing Fox Two Do not engage! You're in a civilian area - Absolutely no civilian casualties! - Switching to guns Guns ready Gun malfunction, it's damaged from earlier Dammit Lure the bogey away from the city He's following the river Get me Joint Chief Enemy aircraft in Seoul air space Do not engage until permitted I'll lead the bogey to the city limits - Tae-hun, cover me - It's too dangerous Come after me Eagle 1 is under attack, permission to engage Denied! Get it away from the city! They fired on us first! MIG's heading for the city - It's too dangerous, lock-on! - Roger Missile ready Dae-seo, get outside the firing range! Don't shoot! Bogey's near the skyscraper! MIG's heading up the river This is Falcon Tango, joining Alpha squad Alpha 1 is in danger, requesting permission to fire! Sir, they haven't reached the city limits Maintain current position Do not fire, maintain position Do not fire until command permits - Permission to fire - Shoot him now! Watch out! Alpha 1's in danger, there's no time! Take this! Alpha 1 is hit, going down Alpha 1 going down hard No control over the aircraft, losing altitude Snap out of it Seok-hyeon, we have to eject! Wake up! Falcon 1, I'll pursue the bogey Crash imminent, ejecting co-pilot Abandon jet, eject, Eagle 1 Civilians at crash site, I'll steer away Alpha 1- eiectl Elect! ' Eject before it's too late! - Eject! Please! - Eject! Dae-seo, please This is your last chance, eject now! Permission to fire Permission to fire! Let me shoot him, dammit! He crossed the Armistice Line - Do not engage - Fire! Fire, goddammit! Return home I repeat, do not engage Alpha 1 co-pilot is drifting north of the border Ejection position, whiskey 5-5-4-2-4-7 I repeat, whiskey 5-5-4-2-4-7 Why didn't you fire? Dae-seo's dead because of you - Didn't you hear the order? - Fuck! You'll follow orders and let your wingman die?! You'll risk an all-out war? Fire when fired upon, that's what you said! A soldier Mustn't act on emotions like you If it was me, I'd have fired at the first chance Am I wrong? Son of a bitch! Get Up! You're not the only one in pain My love Yu-jin, thank you for being by my side PS. I'm sorry! couldn't find you the right ring in time Ready, aim! Fire! Fire! Fire! Political struggles within the North's government has been uncovered The People's Army Chief Kang Sung-yul was responsible for the attack... as pan of a hostile take over and the beginning of a coup d'etat Yesterday's attack on midtown Seoul by fighter jets was pan of the coup plans ROK-US Combined Forces Underground Command This wasn't reported by the media, but according to the KH-12 recon satellite, the Wonsan ICBM began fuelling - And the target? - It's presumed to be the USA The United States is targeted Our position remains the first stealth aircraft attack will take place in the Wonsan area. What do you mean? I have talked at length with the Commander of the Pacific Fleets for an attack order from the George Washington utilizing stealth aircraft We will not simply wait around for the ICBM to become fully fueled are you clear that? Minister Tiger 0, Tiger 0, this is Eagle Alpha 1-2 Current position, Charlie Tango Bravo 3-6-1 We found him His GPS signal is live We picked up the pilot's signal The satellite confirmed his location Where is it? It's near the 38th Parallel where Kang is in control This is 21st Fighter Wing commander Choi One of our pilots is behind enemy lines If we're given 48 hours, we'll deploy SAR to secure our pilot, and neutralize the threat at Wonsan base That's the right course of action We cannot permit any other operation We must carry out a precision strike on the nuclear facility He's right If a nuclear attack takes place on our soil, another colossal tragedy will follow We must not let this happen This is our land Absolutely not Anything outsides the U.S. operation plan will not be tolerated - Captain Jung, please calm down - You can't do this Captain, we can't let you fly! - Let go! - You can't! - I know how you feel - Let me go! What are you doing! Please allow me to deploy! I'll bring back Seok-hyeon on my own insubordinate prick! I can't let you do that Take him into custody Don't fire, don't engage, don't rescue Is this what being a real soldier is about?! My squad mates are dying before my eyes, and I'm supposed to just ignore it? Let go of me, you fuck! Pardon me sir, but I'm with Tae-hun on this We should do whatever it takes to bring him home If you were me, what'd you do in this situation? Give us the order, let us retrieve our man You're dismissed Get me Ministry of Defense The President approved, can we succeed? In all honesty, I cannot say But there's no contingency plan The North may fire that nuke soon Deploying a battalion will get their attention right away We'll carry out the mission with just 2 fighters I will inform the North officials of this mission For security reasons, do not update me Yes, sir Please complete this mission and come back alive That's an order Salute You'll be in charge of situation command in the air A KAI-developed FA-50 is on the way to our base It's a modified fighter for low-altitude flight Does that mean you want Captain Jung on this? You two are the best fighter pilots we have This mission will only succeed if you combine forces Who do you want as your co-pilot? If possible, I'd like Yu-jin to watch my back Let's go It's 0400 hours, exactly 2 hours from now, we'll execute a rescue mission A fighter team will deploy first and take out their defenses I can't promise you anything But you must succeed at all costs I believe in every one of you Attention! Salute the commander! Salute! There's no turning back How are you? Promise me Come back alive Don't worry I will Operation Return to Base The first half of this mission is bombing the Wonsan airstrip by 2 fighters prior to the rescue When meet with opposition, the F-15K will engage and the FA-50 will y low and attack the missile silo 7 minutes is all we have The attack must be carried out within that time Tiger O, Tiger O, this is Eagle Alpha 1 Current position, Whiskey Delta 4-9 I repeat, current position, Whiskey Delta 4-9 I will command from This is 737 Peace Eye SAR's staging area is Echo 9-3 Take-off complete Coordinate input complete Formation from the 21 Fighter-Wing and peaceeye are already heading to North Report the Commander Yes, sir Roger that Anti-air radarjammer on Minister kim what do you think you're doing? I'll take full responsibility Let us carry out this mission You cannot makes this decision No, this is my country's affair, not yours The ROK-US combined forces command Withdraw all orders This attack was given without permission Repeat... - Disconnect communication - Disconnecting We now take orders from - Frequency is X-ray 5-1 - X-ray 5-1 Roger, X-ray 5-1 Sir They disconnected The North will allow safe passage across the border Patch me in Alpha Bravo R-0, R-0-1, mission launch in 3 Roger, 3 minutes to mission launch The North will not fire anti-air until the Wonsan base SAR team on stand by and fighters are a go Black night 01 this is eagle And remain in preliminary attack position The white tiger will engage redfox Approaching target, go under the radar Watch out for the AA turrets Roger - One-in hot - Two-in hot Bogeys sighted SAM homing in Flare, flare! - Underground airstrip sighted - Target confirmed Target coordinate confirmed Missile ready to fire Ready Fire Airstrip taken out, send in SAR team Package located, roger Can you hear me? Open your eyes Lieutenant Ji, wake up! This is Hurricane Hawk, rescue complete Package secured, ready for last mission - Roger - Roger that Spike 2-7-0, bogey at 9 o'clock Golden Eagle, get to the silo, the bogey's mine Roger Missiles head on He's mine - Speed brake - Deploying! Fire Yu-jin Good bye Reached target position, starting assault Golden Eagle, watch out for AA turrets at Wonsan base I repeat, AA turrets at the base SAM at 5 More missiles Heat-seeking SAMs on me Flare, flare ICBM fueling complete and ready to launch Launch One missile left Impossible to reach target There's no time! Get rid of it! Your priority is the missile silo We can avoid a nuclear attack if you take out the ICBM Roger. going in No visual on target Can't get close Wing's hit Target confirmed Target intact Gotta get rid of the missile first I can evade it by shutting off the engine Zero-knot! Engine off Mission accomplished, returning to base Shit, missile still on my 6 I can't shake it Buy some time I'm on my way! Tae-hun, release flares! Please! Tae-hun Golden Eagle going down Jung Tae-hun! Losing pressure, oxygen level low Tae-hun, activate RLS! You have to eject now! Jung Tae-hun! Snap out of it! Tae-hun, please! - I can't see him - Tae-hun Tae-hun! Golden Eagle signal lost I'm at crash site Position Charlie Delta 2-6-5-0 Requesting SAR... Requesting SAR... Salute - Good work - And Captain Jung? The SAR team is looking I got a signal Respond, respond! Sergeant Yu! Tae-hun! You had me worried Tae-hun Salute Salute Thank you for coming home alive Air Force Major Park Dae-seo Come in Salute! I have a request, sir What is it? I'd like to claim the prize for winning the Hawk Competition Which is? Please allow me to fly Sergeant Yu in the fighter But you'll do that regardless No sir! A soldier lives and dies by his orders, so... please grant it before I disobey Why you... I got a request to re-assign you to the Black Eagles - I just signed it - What?! Please deny the request My honor and pride are with the 21st Fighter Wing! How can I not grant your wish then? - Okay! - Thank you, sir! His salute's snappy I'm your pilot for the day We'll now begin a special ight for our lovely Se-yeong Reaching altitude of 7,200 feet Beautiful weather - Wanna see something cool? - What's that? Awesome - Yup, I'm awesome - No, I meant the sky You're no fun Alpha 2, no dangerous maneuvers with a civilian on board Don't do anything inappropriate in the cockpit, Tae-hun Can't you see we're on a date? Hold on tight - Pursuing Alpha 2 - Yes, sir! How far will you follow us? As your wingman, all the way - What? - All the way You're a headache Couldn't you let us alone? - No can do - Roger Sergeant Yu, I was thinking... No unnecessary chatter, keep your eyes on the sky Don't force me to eject you What's with you? I ew out of hell to get here Then why did you get hit? You lost an expensive jet Things happen in battle You're making me feel bad - Are you hurt? - Yes I am
