 

                        The Amazon ... the ancestral origins of the forest, born more than 100 million years ago. A forest of mist and fog, hot and humid, exuberant and always green. A paradise of plants. This forest needs light to regenerate. From the top of the trees every day light opens a difficult passage towards the ground, which brings life. The light, of which the young shoots that sprout from the soil they need to grow and become high and so reach the time. It is also a paradise of water, with the longest river in the world, the Amazon, that flows through, together with its countless tributaries, on whose shores dwell formidable predators. When the forest and river meet this universe reveals his magic and its mystery. The forest needs light, but also of water. The water emitted by vegetation forms clouds and, making its eternal cycle, back to the forest. Water, source of life and a key element of the richest ecosystem of our planet. The Amazon rainforest is the home of endless types of plants, birds, fish, but also hundreds of varieties of mammals and other species that do not exist nowhere else in the world. Water for the snails. Water for grasshoppers. Water for frogs pink and green ones. And for the hairy caterpillars. A treasure trove of biodiversity in a multitude of forms and amazing colors, in which species coexist in perfect balance. To survive, the more agile must keep away from the ground, its shadows and its dangers. The forest is an inextricable maze of lianas and trees, offering thousands of shelters, passages, passages. Thousands of paths towards the sky. Captured in the morning mists in their wake, the treetops offer a perspective of the forest yet different. This is the realm of Records, rich in fruits and light. It is getting dark. A symphony of bird songs fills the forest. Away, is preparing a storm, is shaping up. The wind increases, gradually. It blows stronger and even more. In the sky, black clouds pile up. The storm breaks. Within minutes the forest is flooded. This is the rainy season, when showers sweep away everything in their path and transform the placid rivers in rushing streams. Gradually, the Amazon River overflows and invades everything. Within a few weeks much of the forest is flooded. The forest becomes aquatic. Spectacular views which is renewed every year, a metamorphosis that lasts almost six months. In the heart of the jungle animals adapt to new characteristics of their habitat. A mythical forest, a forest of colors and sounds. A forest of shelters for species oldest and rarest. A forest of wonders, trees laden with fruit and flowers throughout the year. A forest of vastness. An ocean of vegetation, flowing endlessly. A forest of miracles of nature. But for how long?
