 

                        This film is dedicated to the memory Of Akira Kurosawa Ame Agaru (After the rain) An Asmik-Ace production with Kurosawa productions produced by Hara Masato and Kurosawa Hisao Editing by Yamamoto Shugoro Edition Kadokawa Screenplay Kurosawa Akira Screen-directors Ueda Shoji and Saito Takao decor Muraki Yoshiro light Sano Takeharu sound Benitani Ken'ichi costumes Kurosawa Kazuko music Sato Masaru guardian of the flame Nogami Teruyo Montage Aga Hideto Associated Producers Sakurai Tsutomu and Yoshida Kayo assistant producer Araki Miyako director of production Kumada Masahiko with Akira Terao Yoshiko Miyazaki Shiro Mifune Hidetaka Yoshioka Tatsuo Matsumura Hisashi Igawa Takayu Kikato Mieko Harada Fumi Dan Tatsuya Nakadai director Takashi Koizumi With this current... even if the rain stops, the river will remain insuperable. We'll have to stay here for at least six days, if it isn't ten... You look like a traveler, master. The inn should savekeep its clients, blocked by the rain. The only one getting any richer is the inn-keeper! We, the travelers, have nothing. not even something to wager! Quit whining! Even if it continues raining, we have a place to stay and a bite to eat. But the flat-broke travelers don't even know, whether they will eat tomorrow. We aren't without resources! What have I got myself into? We've got no spare clothes! We must wash their clothes well! Being nude belongs to the essence of man. Aren't we born nude? They won't dry! Where has the sun gone? When will this rain ever stop? It will stop one day. All rain showers have come to an end. How true! Well spoken! This samurai is really good. Not a swanker, He's smiling all the time. Best of all is, that he's got a meaningless appearance. There you are again. I went to the river. We're stuck here for a longtime. I'm sorry, I bring you nothing but worries. I will make you some tea. There's a thief in here! Someone stole rice from me, which was cooking! I had left to do my laundry... But I had made a mark on the stewpan. - Her again! - Let it be... And? Who stole my rice? Who's the thief? That's just too much! Even if it's true, It's not possible anymore! Sure, but... We must be kinder towards her... We shouldn't treat her as a castaway. She has been abandoned, sadly. She's looking for attention. Answer, old sermonizer! Don't act all innocent! Me, I've got eyes in my head! I've known it's you, since the beginning! Stop it! Stop it. No one here is that bad. and you... Leave us. A warrior has nothing to do here. Because of my unworthy profession, I should shut up when I'm robbed? No. Of course not. But I could repay you... No, I don't have... I didn't protest because of that! I could relend it to you. Excuse me everyone... Could you come and help us? Drop everything. Put it there. Master... What's happening? I had wanted to exorcise this long wait... To work, my friends. Let's prepare a good meal. Good, that's all there is. but long live the good mood! Don't let my husband heat the sake. He would drink it all! Did you see that? with all those fine dishes in front of me, and my cup filled with sake, What luxury and abundance! You'd think you were at the shogun's court! Don't get caught with your head between the clouds. You might fall to the ground! I must be dreaming! If I had all this once a year, I'd support anybody! I've tried to seduce a snowman He didn't answer me but he did melt A snowman? When there's a blistering heat! That's what I wanted to talk to him about! To cool us down a bit. If you don't like it, listen to this. Look who's coming over there. It's the painter O-roku. That o-roku, she's a real man-eater! Shit, that's what they all say because of her beauty Man-eater or not, I couldn't care less! I want to make her mine! Well then, old friend, you will have her... in the sack. She's very pretty! The kids are quite wise! they're busy fighting each other. Look, there she is again. Come this way. I will return your rice to you. Come on! Who do you think you are, treating others like robbers? Going about attacking an old man! come on, let's go! I've kept my part for you, without touching it. Look at you! come, eat! No! Wait! Don't talk like that! Everybody can make a mistake! and later on, you know... one can be is so unhappy about it. Come on, forgive her. Reconciliate yourself with her. I beg you... join us. Come have a bite to eat. I beg you. You know... we're all... a little bit... listen to an amateur... A robber had arrived in a watermelon-field with a rope, he had tied up and took his legs up to his neck My turn. The precocious fern grows up all straight like the fist rises up straight on the side of the hill blows the springtime wind Listen to me, all of you! Don't stand yawning with open mouths when you see the beautiful dancing. That's alright for now, but when spring comes, you'll have a nest inside. The beautiful mussel from Akita and the sea cucumber from Tsugaru forage on the beach alone. The mussel attaches himself to the cucumber and strangles him. The sea cucumber finds himself totally dissolved. Seducing the wife of another It's the scream the time it takes to loosen a kimono and undress being together all night without speaking of the sweat when the husband emerges, jumping in the sandals quickly here's the scream I'm sorry. I ask your forgiveness. You have participated in a duel... in all sincerity... I have indeed fought. I didn't have a choice... after hearing them... really... they were all embarrassed. She was furious. in truth, I... You did promise me not to get personally engaged in any duels. really... I had left to pawn my sword... but the pawnshop-owner was absent... It's really the truth. Forgive me. I won't do it again. Would you please accept This. Just take a little bit... to prove your forgiveness. My big sister was so cold that she warmed up her backside at the stove. She was so happy about it that the stove began squeaking everywhere. It stopped raining! It has stopped raining, it's true, but you won't be able to cross the river for some time. Anyway, it stopped raining and that's great! Master! Thank you very much for yesterday-evening! You made the rain stop! Right! We owe you a lot. Master! Where are you going to on such a great morning? Just going for a walk. After this rain, I feel totally benumbed. What could I be good at? I wonder For me, it doesn't matter, but there is also my good wife Tayo, Come on, pull yourself together, Misawa he Stop this waist! Useless to interfere! One last time! - Do you really want to fight? - Yes! Stop! Stop, I beg you! No! Swords are not made for butchery ...if not they're used by imbeciles. There here to suppress the stupidity in our hearts. Who are you, idiot? I am right... Get out of here! It's a man's fight! - But... - Silence I am sorry! stop! That's enough! Private duels are prohibited! Fools! - you dawdlers! - Your horse, sir... In comparison, our horses are no more than jades. Shut up! Bring me those idiots. I don't know with whom I have the honor, but, for stopping this ridiculous duel... I, Shigeaki, Lord of this fief, express my sincerest gratitude. I watched everything with great attention, from the top of that hill there... As a matter of fact, it was very impolite of me. Not at all. I was charmed to assist a demonstration of such quality and by a bare-footed man, If you permit me... I thank you. Are you staying over here? At the Matsuba-inn. I'm called Misawa Ihei. I'm a ronin. With all this rain, I couldn't cross the river... I see... It must be overwhelming. Tell me... to distract yourself, What would you say about coming to the castle? I wouldn't know! Well, then... I before you, send by the lord of this fief. am Gonnojo, the chief of his garde, at your service. I also belong to his garde and I'm called Masahiro. His lordship summons you to the castle. Give us the honor of your acceptance. I humbly thank you. Would you give me a moment... I must prepare myself. Sure. Take your time. Divide this between the lot of you. It's a carp. Cut in pieces, it's really delicious in soup. What a situation! The lord of the fief summons me. I know. But... What to do? Have you seen my attire... Put on that kimono. But... how did you do it? His Holiness! Welcome! I hope my invitation wasn't too inopportune. No, not in the least. Put yourself at ease. The other day, you have prevented young idiots of my clan killing each other. I thank you again. please. Alright... let's cut the preliminary chatter. In fact, our master of arms died six months ago and still hasn't been replaced. We're looking for his successor. I've seen many candidates, but until now, none of them were satisfactory. This room is much to ceremonial for us to discuss something. let's go outside. We'll talk in the garden. To tell you the truth... watching you the other day, I've thought about you as our master of arms. That's why I wanted to get to know you Without embarrassing you. In my youth, I have worked as an accountant of a small fief in the north-east. but, I must confess that I was bored a lot staying seated after my desk, from dawn till dusk... I left the fief. You fled? Yes. Edo, the capital, attracted me, but I had to run secretly and I didn't have any money. and then, what did you do? A friend taught me an excellent method. On the way to Edo, there are numerous fortifications. There should be fencing-schools. Take your chances with them. Duels? Certainly not! I wasn't strong enough for that! What did you do? I took on a very serene posture and, without affronting the students, I asked the master to teach me a special stroke. Thus I affronted the master and just before he stood up to me, I would renounce. You would renounce? Yes. I would lower my wooden sword, throw myself to the floor and I would proclaim that I was defeated. How would that permit you to pay your voyage? My attitude would put the master in a good mood and he would do me favors. He would invite me to his table, offer me a drink and he would even go so far as to give me some money for my travels. I see! What a great tactic! That way I was able to reach Edo. And what did you do then? Happy to finally be there, I roamed the streets of the capital When I came across a big dojo. I hesitated for a moment but, decided to make it my ultimate goal, I stepped over the threshold. I arrive at Tsuji Gettan's, The master of the school of the unity. Tsuji Gettan!? Nobody ignores that master over there! So you entered and did you defy him? Yes. But no... you can't go about defying a man like him... It's unthinkable. Precisely... It's just this 'unthinkable' that happened. Master Tsuji, accepted my challenge without being begged about it. Truth and subject are one. I asked myself... at what moment I would throw down my sword and declare myself defeated... I renounce! I don't understand! What happened to him? I was also surprised. Without understanding his reasons, I had revealed my secret intention. and, Master Tsuji... I understand now. To this day, I have fought with an uncountable amount of men. But you were different. Though you gave the impression of being badly prepared, You stayed calm and showed no desire to win. I didn't understand you. I didn't know what to do. That's why I lowered my sword. I am truly beaten, today! That's cool! What a nice story! And then, what did you do? Master Tsuji took me on as an apprentice. He treated me with great affection and I succeeded in becoming an instructor. Thanks to him, I was able to be engaged in the service of a fief, But it didn't last. I really couldn't make it there. My reputation deteriorated. I had to leave the fief. After that, I've served two other fiefs... and now, I have no master. My wife says that I wasn't made to serve a lord and expects nothing more of me. Another thing, I would like to take a closer look at your sword... Can I? I beg you. Gon, where is the sword of our host? In the sword-depository. To say the truth, he's called 'Gonnojo', but 'little Gon' fits him better. And now, let us have a look at the garden. With all this rain, It's been a long time since I set foot in there. With your permission. The forging of fine grain... delicately moistened... very well drawn groves... a proud blade has the freshness of a spring breeze. and the perfume. It's not signed. But no less admirable because of it. Where did you buy it? It's master Tsuji who gave it to me. They say the sword is the soul of the warrior... It's really a splendid piece! Anyway, it must be hard to be a ronin. Sometimes it's hard and even painful, but sometimes it not that bad and even fun. You meet all kinds of people in all kinds of situations. In comparison, serving a lord is tiresome. The officers are all, without exception, arrogant and blunt. Their conversations are uninteresting and spiritless. They provoke only boredom. Our lord loves slander. He also loves to give nicknames. silence! This being said, I also gave you a nickname. I know it. 'badly received pumpkin'. pale skinned and never letting go... of your exalted but. I'm beginning to get hungry. What time is it? I've sent my pages and the women away. We'll serve ourselves. I'll do the introductions. My chief-vazal, Ishiyama Kihei. 'mule-face'. The second vazal, Akashi Butayu. 'The scarecrow'. I am Misawa Ihei... at your service. Those two here are the antiquities of the fief. the old-fashioned geezers. I don't know if the have real value but I know they're really old. Okay, everybody take their rolls and take it easy. The dishes are beautiful but the contents aren't worth it. Especially for me whose health is under constant watch... They forbid me to eat any greasy fish and while the fish is being eaten, I always eat my cold soup. It's really horrible! The other day, I wanted to give some fish to the cat of my concubine. She smelled it, looked totally disgusted and preferred to leave the room! Oh yes... I have chosen our master-of-arms. Here he is. I've had a wonderful day. The proposals were interesting and I have refound pleasure. Sir, this post is very important. We must proceed with the greatest precaution. You doubt my judgment? Gon! That man has enchanted me. What do you think of him? Your judgment is sound. I've also had the honor of seeing the wife of sir Misawa and the excellence of theirs characters has fulfilled me with admiration. but, in choosing a master of arms, everyone must agree and tradition wants there to be demonstration... Again 'tradition'! I don't think it's necessary! If we fixed a date so he could demonstrate his talent, would that be appropriate for you? At your service. mule-heads! I will remain angry! Facing us three, dojo masters, he has won each duel! It's intolerable! Sir, that was all a trick. He has shown himself so humble and so delicate... He has fooled our vigilance! That such an individual has been invited to the castle... it's incomprehensible! He's a devious man. He knows how to sell himself... with extreme politeness. Either way, the master of arms of this fief must be one of our own. If not, how will we uphold our pride in this stronghold? No worries! His Holiness is very attentive to details... We won't let a buzzard steal our cheese! Listen to this! He left in a carrying-chair with a following covered by gifts. I thank you. If I find any food, I'll bring it to you. Hello again. Rejoice yourself. I've been appointed to become the master of arms of this fief. At least, I think it's decided. In fact, It will be official when I give a demonstration, but the lord said that's superfluous. So it's practically acquired. He really appreciated this sword... He's very well-informed... of everything. Have you waited for me? I am sorry. I've been to a banquet at the castle... Here... It's a present for you. In fact, you've been brought up during the dinner. It didn't prevent the lord from truly amazing me. He understands things so well... He's really passionate. I told him. This samurai is a good man. He's not a ordinary person. He's even nice and attentive to someone like me! A hero on a heap of manure! We don't deserve him. It's true! Take it, it's for all of you... a gift from the lord of this fief. He's an absolutely excellent lord. What are waiting for? Well, the three masters of the city dojo should have come but they haven't arrived yet... Are they the only combatants? No. Two men of our fief are also ready. Moron! Why not start with them? We begin! Nabeyama Tahei. At your command. Misawa Ihei. Pleased to meet you. I give up! What a pity. Are you alright? I haven't hurt you? Not at all. Next! Inuyama Handayu. Pleased to meet you. I surrender! Next! The dojo masters still haven't arrived. They have preferred to avoid the confrontation! It's no use waiting for them. Go, Gon! Go there and face him. A thousand pardons, Sir Misawa is far too strong for me to face him. Somebody else then... Is there nobody else? That anybody who wants to, name himself! You bunch of yellow chickens! Very well! I will go myself! Let us wait a moment longer... silence! Tell me! A training lance isn't really interesting. What if I used a real one? Good. Bring me a lance! Be careful! It's a real one. Don't think about scratching the lintel. Okay! Here I am. I beg you. No reserve between us! What an unpardonable error! I was caught in the middle of the game. A thousand pardons. Are you safe? silence! Shut up! Don't worry. Our lord calms down as fast as he gets angry. He knows the value of things. He would never defy a man, that he would like to engage as master-of-arms. It's a good remedy. As for me, I don't know when I will ever learn... Very well, I will go. I will call you a carrying-chair. No thank you. I thank you for your kindness. Those court-clothes fit you incredibly well! What's this about an asshole wanting to become master-of-arms of the fief? It's so funny it makes me piss my pants! And who are you? Have you forgotten about our duels? You had us good the other day, But this time, it'll be different! Draw! Draw, you beggar of a ronin! Wait a moment. I have disposed of all my gains and thus I can't give you anything, But it could happen that I have to renounce of becoming master-of-arms... following the events of today. Shut it! Take guard! If there is one day to be angry at myself, It must be today. I get angry and when I lose control over myself... I answer to nothing, attention! You're talking! Let us not go any further. That's enough. Did something happen? Nothing at all. Did you get angry again? In fact, during the battle, I was completely balanced. I wasn't as moved as that, but the one who drove me over there excused himself so excessively that I thoroughly lashed out at him. It's childish of me, I know, but the benevolence of the winner wounds the heart of the loser. I had the impression of being mocked and I was furious. This man interests me a lot. But the benevolence of the winner could indeed wound the other. Without a doubt. Nobody likes to be pitied. It hurts your self-esteem. It must be hard for people who are strong. It would be nice to be very beautiful, but really your quality would surely make you detested. Wait! He told me... that he always had trouble when he was employed. So that's it! I see. It must be! Good evening! There you are again. Do you want to have dinner? Tonight, I would love... to have some sake. Understood. Everybody left today. It's become very calm. They were all so nice, so good, although they had hard lives. Aside from that, they were all warm-hearted and touched by humanity. Poor people have no other support than mutual aid. They can't survive if they only think of themselves. The old sermonizer... He told me he was never happier in his life, and that he learned, at his age, that the world was a beautiful place. And that, even if he couldn't get any younger, and whatever the difficulties, it was great to be alive. I thought my heart was going to burst. Let's leave it at that. You're much too... Anyway, All this ended well. I think it should be said. In fact, I've won all the fights today. It's true that at a certain point, I possibly went too far, but it should be alright. It already happened... Yes, but this time, the lord is a whole different class all together. Of course, I can't be sure... but I really believe that, this time, I can have faith in him. I would like to believe that too. Do you want some more sake, or do you want your dinner? Right... I almost forgot... I should eat a little. I'll be back in a while. What a nice day! We need a clear sky. For if we want to go over the hill where it rains a lot, we need to cross the river on a day like today. Are you leaving? No... I'm just... going for some air. Hello! It's a nice day. A fabulous and blessed day. I pray for the happiness of you and your wife! Concerning the weather, nothing to tell... We should get some news today. We can't leave without saying something. That's true. That doesn't withhold me of preparing everything, in case of... Naturally. We'll have to get out of here by all means possible. There they are! You are an exceptional fire-eater. Your skill is without equal and your confidence unsurpassable. His Holiness intensely wishes to name you master of arms... No... Your offers are excessive. I don't deserve them. However every time, despite a small setback, The decision is made to recruit you... an unexpected problem emerges. This problem is not of our making. It's entirely yours. You anticipated in duels. You fought for money, in the city dojo... which you took after you won. You must remember... It's true. I do remember. I remember but... It was for people really, sincerely in need, Boarders of this inn. Whatever the reason, for a warrior, it's the ultimate dishonor, fighting for money. Besides, because there was a complaint, custom wants it that the fief breaks all ties with the responsible. With great regret, you must forget our job offer. His Holiness has asked me to give you this money to contribute to your expenses on the road. But no, I didn't know... Don't worry about me. I have already been... Please... But of course. We accept with recognition. My husband was wrong to participate in those fights. For a long time, I've been begging him to stop doing that. However, I see that I'm wrong. I have just understood. My husband knows, for sure, the dishonor connected with those duels. Yet knowing this, he still participates. There are times when he has no choice. But I understand now. The important thing, is not what he does but why he does it, isn't it? Can't dummies like you understand that? Stop it, Tayo. Let's not be impolite. Right, I'll stop. However... I have something to tell you. From now on, Every time it seems justified... participate in duels when by doing this, you'll be able... to help the poor, the weak and the miserable find a little happiness. Madam... Take this with you. Whenever your sandals are hurting you... it's tobacco-ashes. with some saliva, it's works nicely. It's not that great... But it is, it's very nice of you. Thank you very much. And to say that they despise a master as yourself! That lord is nothing but parade-carp! What? It may look like a carp, but it's empty on the inside. Don't say that. The lord of this fief is a good lord. To say the truth... I really thought that it was a place where I could have served. And his wife said that the important thing was not what he had done but why he had done it. Right? Yes, that's right. And then... 'Can't dummies like you understand that?' You, what did you answer? Huh? You blunt mule-face! Bring this man to me! Otherwise, I'll have you cut into pieces and fed to the carps of the pond. But you allowed him to discharge himself. Can't I ask you anything, you retard! My horse! You're a beautiful human being without equal, You don't know whether to open up, that's strange, isn't it? but for me, it's alright that way, you don't push people aside nor do you take their place. If the opportunity arrives, you help the sincere, even the poor, find happiness and hope, whichever way you are, you are fabulous, I've sweat a great deal. It's alright, let's go. I've put aside my regrets. Take courage! I have plenty of it. I believe I can say that. This is so beautiful! What a superb view. It's true. It's really magnificent. One feels the vital force bubbling in the entire body. Misawa Ihei Terao Akira His wife, Tayo Miyazaki Yoshiko The lord Mifune Shiro The prostitute Harada Mieko Master Tsuji Gettan Nakadai Tatsuya Scenario Kurosawa Akira Director Koizumi Takashi International sales Pascal Diot - idpl
