 

                        Do you have any plans in the United States after your studies? No, I will come back to my country Who are your idols? Who, someone you admire? Meng Xiaojun Meng zi? Meng-Xiao-Jun Mr Meng Xiaojun, congratulations! Come back at friday to pick up your visa Thank you Sorry, I give up my application Why? I love my country! He never knows After 20 years, I am good at helping people go to America. In the general view Here is the place for teaching chinese people english This is a cool place for them Here are the scores from TOEFLGRE and IELTS from the NEW DREAM students Americans ask me: how can the scores being so high? You must cheating Americans sometimes is so naive 10000 studens who are studying in U.S 3/4 from NEW DREAM! Our flag has already inserted through the entire United States Here is another one. Wisconsin Wang yang says For hundred years, Chinese people don't know how to speak english use their mouth. Why don't you just open your mouth? Because your confidence has destroyed by the traditional education Scared your broken-english make other people feel bad. But don't forget, your english sucks That will only make other people suffering, what are your afraid of? Meng Xiaojun, he doesn't like talk in public He likes private chat That's because you're not confident enough You think he is talking to you about visa In fact, he is talking about America Self confidence is the most basic requirements for individual in America culture I have no confidence I am afraid of being rejected Courage is resistance to fear Mastery of fear Not absence of fear Mr Meng I've fell in love with you over a year I'm married I know, but at least you can see my courage now Meng Xiaojun's grandfather is a doctor that returned after studied in U.S in 1925 gave him a English dictionary His Father is a doctor that returned after studied in U.S in 1955 gave him another English dictionary Meng xiaojun's family history is America His destiny Just like he and Liang Qin's love I think a man's dream aways begins from a woman Before I know my frist love I always help another girl to carry hot water Then I found out she got a boy friend I asked her Why you still let me to carry hot water for you? She said: That's because she wanted her boy friend to take a break Although she kept refuse me over and over again But I still wanted to see her everyday Because she was my dream What is dream? Dream is a kind thing that makes u want to hold on and feel happy 20 years ago, I was the one usually give the speech Niu Yongxiao who came from the NEW DREAM says You are the one of the most unprincipled person he've seen in his entire life Do you agree with him? He should remove the "one of" 20 years ago, Cheng Dongqing has not yet learned how to talk about jokes in public Meng Xiaojun also doesn't acting so serious Only I got no change Meng Xiaojun says he loved America He does say: loved But me, the godfather of the students Never been to America And today, America sues us Cheng Dongqing was a loser in 1979 2 times failed the college entrance examination I want to take another exam Family can't afford anymore If you want to another exam Mom has to borrow money, get up Uncle Get up Dongqing, Just be reassuring be a farmer Get up get up How about Let Dongqing take another exam Yeah Rice still grow in the fields Well, this will be the last time That's it Let's go Please wait Money Money Americans never know Chinese hero can get down on his kneel Even can crawl through other people's crotch Shen Qing, I love you My frist day in college I met Wang Yang and Meng Xiaojun Are you insane I'm reading what are you yelling of? Go taking your own shit Jerk Damn you Stop, People get hit! Wait there, don't run! Sorry dude You should blame that neuropathy didn't mind his own shit Who are you talking about? You! What you just called me? Are you alright? I'm gonna beat you up Try me Don't stop him have a try Since then, I began stay with Meng Xiaojun and Wang Yang Cheng Dongqing, where's the place you most want to go Tian An Men square Tian An Men square Why? Cheng Dongqing, let me tell you look, all water is boiling Meng Xiaojun told me The place everyone wants to go is America That's it, we finish reading today Oh, there one last request I wann you guys try to use a word to describe our generation Catching up The ideal Impulse Freedom Doubt The pretty Lonely Desire sincere What about you, Cheng Dongqing? Red flag never fall Have you ever thought, right here We've been talking too much thoughtsdoctrinesmethods Why? Because we all want to find a ready answer We all hope someone can tell us How to live our lifes In fact No one can tell us how to live our lifes Lifes belong to our own We should find the answers for our own questions by ourselves So I think The most important thing in our generation is Change Change everyone around us Change everything around us And the only one thing won't change that's our courage If we can do that We will change the world! Meng Xiaojun told me Only one place can really change the world U.S.A So what do you think of U.S.A? Wang Yang is always busy join dancing parties Sometimes also accepts interview Although it's violate the school's rules USA In Chinese is "Mei Guo" Means beautiful country In Japan, it means "Mi Guo" It sounds like "Rice country" Rice country? That's right Later, Wang Yang asks Lucy to interview him very often Cheng Dongqing Have you been learned the japanese Oh yeah, that one you have is legacy version You should read the oxford version Look, "Louse" means lice lice from the animals Can I? Sorry It doesn't matter I promise to Meng Xiaojun In order to be like him I will read 800 books during all my 4 years in college I will sweep the whole Yanjing University library I only have to ask Wang Yang for help Let him to get a key from library manager I thought I was the frist one sneaked into the school library instead of stealing books Stop following me There is a kind girl will refuse you Before you talk Wang Yang says the love is like a video camera Sometimes needs to fast forward, and sometimes needs to rewind Sometimes, needs to pause Sorry Now Lucy press the fast forward button He vomited Vomited... also cried all night I only cry for one thing When I myself boared on the TIME magazine in America Why don't you say when you become American president Actually that's the only thing I can't do You have to born in U.S U.S will never get rid of racial discrimnation If a white person see 3 black men entered the elevator at same time He will escape the elevator right before the door close In the opinion of white people Black people are always the lazyignorant and savage race So those chinese Americans should be clever and hardworking in America But they say Chinese people destroyed local people's job opportunities. Sir Have you been in America before? All you know about America is from the book Yes sir Practice is the sole criterion for testing truth What's the major of you two people? The "American dream" is the dream that everybody has the equal opportunities Only U.S.A can do that in the world Young man, you are too young Too naive Sir, I will go to America I'll find out by myself Sit down! You need finish the class Who the hell is you He is my teacher Non of your business Teacher deserves respect! What the hell is this world Beat them up Run! If I didn't qualify to become their good friend Now I do Meng Xiaojun says if I keep chasing Su Mei just like kicking against the pricks Wang Yang says he gonna help me do the "kick" thing She is coming I gonna move away the ladder Hold on Good luck Ladder What the... Ladder Rorbert Frost says A mother used 20 years to make her son cleer while a girl make him a stupid in 20 seconds Hey, time's up If you don't accept me I will drag you jump with me Would die rather than surrender Jump I can't swim Jump! At last, Su Mei got acute pneumonia Wang Yang says this "kick" just like a protracted war The most important tactics is clingy consumption of the other side At last you may get her Beat it I told you, beat it Just leave it's infective Cheng Dongqing Why you Why you? Why it can't be me? Be accompanied by the cough sound At last I got tuberculosis, had to take a year off One day when I was in hospital Wang Yang asked Meng Xiaojun to come to hospital visit me May I leave now Bye I didn't see any thing, "Dai Yu" I really can't go there TOEFL exam is coming soon What if I got infected after I visit him This is so important to me Give this to him I fulfilled my promise finished 800 books My english no longer be heard as japanese But in the end still got rejected Who are you to reject me Who are you to reject me I've got all materials done! How many times I've been here Please listen Let me explain! American people needs me! Lucy says she doesn't wann to leave China Wang Yang gave up the visa for her Why? Why reject me? U.S.A Here I come! U.S.A Here I come! Let's go, American people don't need you right now Xiao Jun Thank you for those words on the bookmarks "Hope one day I will make you jealous" Meng Xiaojun says he was born for this day His grandfather and father all been studied in U.S.A Then they back to China But now he want to break his family tradition I won't come back Meng Xiaojun You got the guts If you got the guts, Don't ever come back! Xiao Jun, I've been busy having class recently The students like my class Because other classes make them tired, they can go sleep in my class Also I love my country Sorry I got 2 more times jejected I love my country Class over Mr Cheng, here is the mail from U.S Xiao Jun, don't you send TIME magazine Because you haven't on the cover yet Right? I think this magazine is more suitable for Wang Yang But I still need to check it frist with critical eyes Got water? Yeah The latest date of TOEFL ridiculously expensive Wait a little longer After I get payoff Nevermind doesn't matter Be careful Xiao Jun, You have no idea rooster Timid people who like me rooster Good Also become a tutor to earn money Da Ming Very good! Day break Day Break Cheng Dongqing Even you go into the business We all will be better As for me Now I'm working in Oliver's lab as an assistant in columbia university Meng Xiaojun? Zhang Xi? Hi, Long time no see How you doing? I still learning biology, got my master degree Really? Where are you working now Tough time, couldn't find any job after graduation Why did the rooster crow before the day break? Why How about Liao Qin? You get married? She is teaching piano in long island So..why you here? I've come for a job interview I got go Ok Let's contact by phone Take your time Let's have dinner later Sure Bye Bye Director Gao I've been teaching Dong dong for a long time Mr Cheng, You have worked hard Yeah, I should Director Gao Actually... I'm wondering You haven't metion about my remuneration Mr Cheng, Do you know why I ask for your help? Because you are an honest man School isn't the market Money will change the nature Take this Enjoy Other people go into business, I only cook dumplings Where you got these money It's the payoff from my tutoring Eat more I'm full Pretend I am the visa officer now No need ask I've got the visa today Cheng Dongqing, I told the visa officer When I finish my study... Lucy broke up with Wang Yang Lucy said her VCR now only has the fast forward function She wants to go back to America Because the luggage has been more than enough Will be overweighted if take Wang Yang with her No one is willing to publish my book Now you are just a pile of waste paper I'm just a neuropathy Wang Yang said His 80s die today Very cheap Please get me a few trucks then Got dollars? Bill of exchange also ok Wait, buddy, let's make a deal What's the matter with you, Still reading Carnegie? He is a liar Why you moved here? There is a American grandpa open a store in the front Still got enough the soaptoothpastetowels? I will send you more if you need Oh right, Old Di went into business in Hainan He mailed 2 boxes of coconut milk coffee to you But it doesn't taste good, so I won't send no more Cheng Dongqing kept come here to call Su Mei every week Su Mei said she studies very hard everyday for the scholarship Except that she goes to a restaurant wash dishes Hurry up, we're off duty Every time when I called, at last Su Mei would say That's it, I'm tired Cheng Dongqing Professor Oilver treated me very nice, and the students also very friendly The assistant needs high professional requirements Although it's hard but compare with washing dishes here is the heaven Xiao Jun Cheng Dongqing I with Liang Qin rented apartment Near the school, only 2 blocks away Although it's a little noisy but we got good lighting If I keep teaching piano like this I'm gonna lose my hands someday But it's ok, You still got a laboratory job So we can move away from here soon We are still lucky At least we're still doing our old profession In the letter you wrote me doesn't say so I got caught by school being tutor outside They may fire me Congratulations You will long live in your students hearts I'm in college now My mom owns every neighbors money in the village, don't want her to repay If I were you, I would resign before they fire me Resign? It would take me starve to death I already quit, Am I dead here? If not me, you should've dead already The world has changed Selling eggs in the street even earn more than you did Don't worry, you will be alright Keep watching I break the rules from school and run private english training class deserve punishment With a heartfelt admiration But earnestly request the leadership give me a chance to take the lighter punishment Self-criticism person: Cheng Dongqing Cheng Dongqing Let's break up This year, Beijing's bid failed Both of them stayed behind Stayed behind You can not sleep in class You are at the best university You parents spent all their money sent you here Not for sleeping If you don't like my class You can leave Why you want to learn english Go to America, Mr Cheng Do you like English? No So am I Really But you know my vocabularies is also good That's because of you One day a student bring up a english word and ask me How to read this word It knows me but I don't know it I feel so embarrassed So I went back to read dictionaries One by one See any of you can got me You know The most thing I afraid of is other people look down on me Because I'm from country side So I always want to please them My best friends Meng Xiaojun and Wang Yang laughed at me Said: Don't act like you are stupid stupid I wasn't sure what they were talking about and even refuted them I'm not acting like stupid I am stupid And later I got a girl, the most beautiful girl in school to be my girl friend Then we graduated After graduation, we studied TOEFL, and went to get visa In the end, she passed, I was rejected So I become... The man who was left behind She slept with me right before she left China Mr Cheng, Why you acting so different today Students Cheng Dongqing, who from the forgein language department Because run private classes outside the school Has disrupted the order of teaching rules in school Caused serious adverse effects So the school decide Give the teacher Cheng Dongqing dismissed faculty punishment Cheng Dongqing became the frist teacher dismissed faculty publicly He was written into school's history This is the thing even Meng Xiaojun can't be done That day he was forced out of the teacher's dormitory Mr Cheng Mr Cheng Where is your private school? I will take the TOEFL exam next month I'm afraid of examination, and I would like to join your english tutor class No one knows better than me He had no choice If he didn't accept, He had to go back to his hometown And speak english to rice in the field everyday You should understand Su Mei won't leave America So she had to break up with you What's wrong I think my youth is over And buried here You are disgusting When a lovelorn person suffering starvation will acting abnormal Whenever Cheng dongqing found a wall He would start posting ads Almost all the walls near this area all damaged by us He almost climbed all telegraph poles in Yanjing University The way I used taught him to chase that girl Now he is using it to sell his training class Cheng Dongqing picked here for the training class Only one reason Order 1 chicken nugget, you can sit here all day Progressive Lower your voice Progressive Go get another chicken nugget Today we talk about this Ambulance How to make your remember better? (in chinese: I can't die) Ambulance Pregnant (in chinese: I want a boy) (in Chinese: A man jump to me) Pregnant In fact the choice made by a person who under the living helpless Always right But this is not a permanet fix We need a more bigger place more students How about you join with me to be my partner You're better than me, and you well trained by American chicks We're on same boat All yours Successful people always spontaneously with the needs of the times Who said that Carnegie I thought you said he is a liar The biggest liar actually is ourselves Because we always want to change other people And refuse to change ourselves I'm in if there more chicken nuggets This huge place is ours now This is a abandoned country-owned factory All workers here are laid-off at home now Cheng Dongqing, the chicken thief After he took advantage of American grandpa and now he gonna take advantage of this country Students Learn english just like learn bird chirp When you are learning bird chirp in the woods If there 4 birds land on your shoulders That means you just passed english leve-4 If there 6 birds on your shoulders That means you passed english leve-6 When there a flock of birds on your shoulders That means you past the TOEFL That means you become a bird man! Outside there was a girl came to ask me Mr Cheng, I fall in love with one guy But except He has good looking face No other advantage How should I do I told her If this girl looking for a guy only for his good looking face That's called "Hao se" Horny But if a guy looking for a girl for her good looking face That's called "Shen mei" Aesthetics But my aesthetic ability has been maintained at the statutory range Later I catched up with the most beautiful girl in legal system This loser mocked his love in his class For make students laugh He was so mean Must very painful in his heart But I'm using the Hollywood movie teaching method Did you not hear me? Most of it, Just... You never seen this moive Malone Brando's "on the waterfront" Nope So what moive you watched recently "Ghost" Ditto "the same, like before" Means: " Me too" Using "Ditto" word It gives affectionate Ditto Ditto I and Wang Yang all have 12 classes each day From morning to the midnight Very tired Wang Yang said he got bad memory when he was tired Never ask why we are doing this But feel happy We got the money Bro - Bro - Stop! What would you do if the life deceive you You're drunk You should deceive back from your life! Meng Xiaojun We can't change the world The world is changing us I did lied to you But you lied to me too You said we came to U.S for doing great things Meng Xiaojun We are here for what? Hometown's rule: After long way back Cut hair before go inside the house Wang Yang Ask some girls tonight We got a bro back from U.S Not married Keep the biggest room for us tonight Wang Yang, General manager Okay, see you tonight Teacher's coming Mr Cheng, Mr Wang - Yours - yeah Here is a little bit far from downtown So the students have to live here But Xiaojun I think we might got good future Of course we can't compare with you in the U.S Comrade, Please let the chief finish his talk How many students now Not much around 2000 Students Please allow me to introduce the keynote speaker for today Mr Meng Xiaojun He has just returned from the U.S He's my idol The one I want to catch up but only approach his greatness Please use the applause to welcome Mr Meng truthself confidencespecificreasonable Is the basic idea of the principles of philosophy USA visa If Lack of confidence, He... will be weak very weak He... He believes that the weak... Sorry Students Mr Meng just returned from U.S Still has jetlag it's called "Suffering Jetlag" Suffering Jetlag Suffering Jetlag Yes, very good There another speech tommorow Cancel it Why He didn't sleep well Doesn't looks like it He is the one too harsh to himself Maybe that's "Stage Fright" Impossible He never had this before You haven't seen him for years I cleared myself No body knows America more than me I won't do any large lecture anymore I will do the one-on-one interview for visa, mock interview Oh yeah, if who wants go to U.S, they must get through... The NEW DREAM As for the speech phobia No one metioned it again As it never happened I don't understand What's the matter with your girl friend related to your visa being jejected She hurt me She metioned break up with me only in a month after she arrived in U.S That's good That means she didn't cheat you She could tell you about this after a year Let's talk about your visa being rejected It shows the reason you being rejected because they think you have the tendency of immigrants I don't want to immigrants Even they give me that chance But no matter how I tried to explain they just didn't listen Well, since you have no tendency of immigrants Why you wrote this on the application form The purpose you go to U.S for increase revenue I was telling the truth Everyone knows that in the America you can easily earn more than in China Right If the applicant has any sign shows the purpose he want to go to U.S Not only for receive the education It would be denied You haven't even thought of this means you don't know America You blame your girlfriend means you don't know women Long story short, You don't know yourself Go back to modify the application form Mr Meng Thank you very much! Next Let me tell you The visa officer wants to see active and enthusiastic students who eager to talk You can't even speak clearly Second day The line of the students who came to join Meng Xiaojun's mock interview Has been discharged into the street Do you think Americans are easy to fool? Can't you talk? If you keep crying, I can't teach you anything You should show the momentum as a green card is a piece of toilet paper Even too hard to wipe your ass Today The one who take Meng Xiaojun's interview is Wang Yang Your moive methods of teaching has slow effect No structure Have you ever thought Why your oral english is better than me? Why? Because you are the only one used to got American chicks Are you still contact with Lucy? Non of your business You think you can also guide me? You know what is the core of the English It's not expression But logical thinking You know what Americans think So you speak like Americans Teach this to your students No other people can do this One student came to ask me I have correct oral english Correct grammar Huge vocabularies I can easily read the "China Daily" Better than read the "Beijing Evening News" If that means I have good English Then I gave to him a piece of news from "The Wall Street Journal" Same one reported on "China Daily" He hardly understand this news He was so surprised and asked me why I told him "China daily" Just wrote in English But the "The Wall Street Journal" wrote by American logical thinking So, if you really want to learn good English, you must remember American English thinking Good speech But you should give a more vivid example For example An American go to your home He knocked, you open the door What's the frist words you would say Welcome! Americans don't say welcome to their friends They are drect and not so polite So he would say Come in, Then you just go in More vivid? You with a foreign girl had 4 years relationship And one day she came to you and say I'm going back to America alone How you suppose to answer this one Don't you love me anymore? Don't go, stay with me No Don't say anything Turn around and leave Otherwise she will treat you like a piece of luggage Perfect! Last person who took Meng Xiaojun's interview Is me Do you have a dream You don't have to make the atmosphere so ecstasy Be serious, ok? As for me, I'm responsible for the visa consulting Wang Yang teaches the American English thinking Actually this is technological competitiveness What do you think is the core competitiveness of the NEW DREAM? It's you This is not funny I'm very sincerely Alright, I say I'm not sure whether you have a dream or not But you should understand No one can be more persuasive than this incompetent president Cheng Dongqing You are our core competitiveness Just read what've wrote Subject: What is the dream Your turn Students I never have any dreams And I don't know what is the dream I only know what is failure I'm not good at other things Except failure Chinese students are the most prone to failure students in the world Because you have to face the most brutal test in the world The Ministry of Education announced the enrollment rate in 1993 From middle school to high school is 44.1% That means nearly 6 millions students have failed. The college entrance examination's enrollment rate is 39.9% 1 million and 40 thousands students have failed The students who came to NEW DREAM to take the TOEFL and GRE exams I already calculated the proportion About 1/4 students can made it to study abroad and get the U.S scholarship Another 30 thousands students have failed Failure is everywhere Life is so desperate This is the reality So what should we do? Fall into the water you won't drown Stay into the water you will drown You have to swim And keep moving forward Those people who choose to give up from the beginning They won't suffer failure because they have failed from the beginning Failure is not terrible thing Fear of failure is the really terrible thing We need to find the victory out of the defeat Find hope in despair Who is responsible in here? Me You are using abandoned factory as campus unauthorized, without permission from goverment agencies This is a very serious violation behavior Besides You lack of formalities for this campus Accordance with the law, you will be banned Is there something so wrong with that? We have submitted the complete formalities We can't do anything about they keep delaying the time The condition to apply the school certificate That the applicat must have the academic title of associate professor at least Also must be approved by your original units You have both unqualified Listen, We are negotiating with the departments concerned They have agreed to help us out. We're just in accordance with legal procedures Can't help What makes you say to banned our school? Now the country support the private schools We are protected by law Who are you Let me talk It's not like we do nothing It's because they keep delaying the time Also we are protected by law If you breach of privilege I will sue you Then go! I'm waiting, go! You can't do that, sorry Our friend got drunk He just back from U.S Still jetlaging Is that makes you so different If you got the guts why you're back No, no, You say that again Sit Pleast, tell us how much? We will take the punishment Xiao jun This is not U.S, it's China Sue the cops doesn't work here I didn't think you were so naive Get in I'm not going back to U.S Cheng Dongqing I will stay Be your partner If the NEW DREAM also be a VCR Meng Xiaojun has the remote Ambition (In chinese: I must win) For him, the remote only has one funciton Fast forward button Pest (In chinese: beat it to death) The value of the marketing isn't newness It's share He launched 25 development project within a year It's 30 project This is the preparatory plan of the future internet education Ponderous One plan is (in chinese: Fat to death) Meng xiaojun said: Teachers are the centre of the traditional university But the centre of NEW DREAM are students Let our students give teacher's score Students can fire the teacher You still can be the teacher If you can't take the simple job as a teacher There only one way out This job even suit for idiot Like Principal This is a bit too much Nope, we can go futher than that Wang Yang and I believe Meng Xiaojun who from U.S Has longer-term outlook than us The internet It seems far away from us If it close to us means also close to other people So I always say one word to him: Yes As the president of your campus I've seen, you are the coolest This is the largest private school in China I would like to ask what's your formula for success Is there any? At least I don't know My personal experience is When you realize the failure is a detour You've been walking on the track to success Principal here ready, shoot Hold Let's shoot more Alright Godfather of students Cheng Dongqing wow, On newspaper now Do I look like him Master Cheng, shareholding reform plans Cheng Dongqing Yes or No This time I will say: NO Yes I know this is very important Please consider again I thought you would say "No" Zhang Ji sure gives the lowest score But He was born with no sense of humor Just like me No, It's alright if he didn't accept the training But he even openly opposed our teaching method After all he still one of the senior statesmen Has been with us since the abandoned factory Otherwise I can transer him to the school office So that means He's not fired but just got promotion I don't understand how come you don't even have the guts to fire a person How can you be our leadership I will change, eventually Li Ping Is there more food Yep Let's talk about the shareholding system reform What do you think Xiaojun, I think we need to temporarily postpone this it can't be postpone You keep it being postponed I don't know what do you want Yes or No? Just tell me you don't want to decentralization No, I never think so Yes I agree You're the greatest contribution and this is your share I take 51% You and Wang Yang together 49% You 25% Him 24% You cooked this? Nice Let's find another time to sign subscription agreement Cheng Dongqing Do you have a dream Please, not again I feel like vomit to talk about this everyday Do you have a dream You mean spring dream? You know, When you listen to a person Don't listen to what he says But listen to what he doesn't say What you don't say Come on You slept with a girl student and make her pregnant Meng Xiaojun You can't do this After all, I'm still a good friend with Liang Qin You're cheating her Shut up Our own material part: The TOEFL and GRE test haven't authorized by EES from USA education service center it will be a great hidden danger in our future Cheng Dongqing The negotiations failed Please be on the market Yeah, be on the market You really no need take too much pressure I don't blame you about the outcome of the negotiations with EES Still remember druing the 2nd day after I returned home I said: This isn't just a school I didn't say because I didn't want to shock you You tell me Why should we list to the stock market To become number one I thought we are already number one certainly not if out of China So we need to start listing as soon as possible, the sooner the better This time I will say: NO NO A friend sent me a bottle of 82 Lafite today We are not lacking of money, why we have to be listed I only know reading and only want to do the education The NEW DREAM belongs to us Barony cost is the lowest The market is investment shareholders Why give yourself a cage everyone is in the cage That backward thinking has became his imprison cage To make the NEW DREAM become internationalization it has to be listed He is not totally oppose He is just against to listed company right now Every competitor wants to become the frist chinese education industry shares He felt there is still time Let me tell you No one will remember the second man on the moon Why should we leave the earth He is too eager Education for stability and capital for fast They are not compatible There not only 3 person on this boat now We've got 50 thousands students here Frist we need ensure the boat won't sink He dared not risk because of his fear of failure Afraid of getting back to the loser There is only one reason What? Because he doesn't deserve today's success He really said so Yes He said that you are now more and more successful He's very proud of you Have you ever thought about what Meng Xiaojun really wants to Merry Christmas What's this What's this This isn't funny Cheng Dongqing Enjoy your christmas! This is his christmas gift The 300 square meters land that has the right to use for 70 years He doesn't know What I really want He doesn't know what Meng Xiaojun wants He can only be sure What he doesn't want Today is our NEW DREAM's first time shareholders' meeting Please read this business plan What's this? Our 3 person's stength is limited We should reunite all forces we got Now NEW DREAM belong to everyone who sits here My question is why I got less share Me too I raised 30% of the shares Some was given to these old employees Others as part of our option pool All of our shares have been diluted But you and Wang Yang are still the largest shareholders except me You know it I just heard But I agree It seems that I was the last one know about this Why This is my decision after careful consideration You're doing this to prevent me continue my listing plan I was right You're too eager I just want to slow it down Some things only have to stopped to see more clearly Yeah, it has stopped now You gathered all people here with the interests You can deny any plans of mine in the future You start taking over my job now, right? I agree Now this is system History as a Mirror a fundamental solution, right? Absolute Wanli of the Ming Dynasty But Cheng Dongqing, Don't forget what kind of age we are living in now I think you may have misunderstood That's it! Meeting dissmissed You've got plan to learn swim with coach, you can go now He has already learned how to swim I'm so surprise to see the way you are Why can't we just talk about this in private Not only 3 of us on this ship now Let me tell you, Your ship has been out and it can't stop Only have to keep moving foward Nobody can stop the NEW DREAM listed on market I have the most significant responsibility for the NEW DREAM The person who should make the decision here It's me Because I'm the greatest leader in NEW DREAM Leader I was the one who give the "NEW DREAM" advise The technology layer is given by Wang Yang As for you Except take money with sacks, What else do you know? Cheng Dongqing, Lackeys of the US NEW DREAM the lackey's school Traitor Cheng Dongqing, you're a traitor Who is the traitor Call the police, quick Who is the national sinners, Who is the traitor Americans bombed Chinese embassy You came to hit the english school What if aliens blow the earth Are you going to hit the space department? He can always step in at the most inopportune times This I can't do What's the difference between 30 years ago and now All you do is nest cross Chinese people hit chinese people Coward Outrageous Go to learn from the person who hit you Until you become stronger than him Now he is the godfather of students Everyone thinks I'm gonna leave the number of NEW DREAMS students have broke Three million eight hundred and eighty-eight thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight You know when I was fired from the school I just started this private school Everyday I carried the paste barrel ran into the roads and climbed wire pole paste ads Now whenever I saw the wire pole, I can't help to climb up and paste more ads This doesn't hurt Do business Bowing down is the basic skills chick's attitudewidow's treatmentwomen's pursuit What does he do recently Reading various business management books Also researching other company's listed plan book This is the market survey report I've done Adopted the views of all parties I think it's not suitable for listing We need to wait for an opportunity What opportunities? I'm still waiting Waiting for a Feng Shui master We've been waiting for 4 years During 4 years If a new company can listed also What we do is the education industry It can't be blindly listed Besides, America market isn't good during recent 2 years The U.S listed Chinese companies Either suspended Or broke Most became rubbish shares Junk stocks still is stock Still have more value than just put billions money in the bank Let's ask our shareholders Can we start listing now I propose indefinitely postphone the NEW DREAMS's listing plan Who agree with me please raise their hands Cheng Dongqing, this is the public opinion Today I am going to dictatorship for once I'm the largest shareholder of the company have the power of veto I oppose the listing You're a hillbilly Master Cheng, as an senior consultant I have the responsibility to remind you The chinese money will appreciate in the future It will impact on the domestic industry But for international business... You are...? Xu Wen, I was your student Now as the NEW DREAM's listed investment adviser You're fired I'm listening to you Learning how to fire people Cheng Dongqing, fuck you! Cheng Dongqing Mr Meng, Master Meng Cheng Dongqing, fuck you What do you want? You fooled everyone For so many years, don't you feel shame! Are you finished? Then I have something to say I'm getting married Wait... Who are you getting married to? Thank you so much for join my wedding getting married is the coolest and the most sense of achievement thing in my life Also very grateful to my wife Li Ping willing to marry me She let me know True love comes quietly without any toss and I will love you forever Finally, give you 3 pieces of advice Never play mahjong with mother in law Never sleep with the woman who has more ideas Don't set up a company with your best friends I hope everyone today can eat good and drink good, enjoy! Toast Bottoms up Cheers Cheers I've only had one life Not the same with others Now I know The way of life that most people pick will be worthwhile So I married Li Ping I'm so happy, very happy today I want to withdraw share What? What did you say? I'm done Meng Xiaojun the NEW DREAM can't without you I decided We've been friends for more than 20 years, man Friends? You want to talk about feelings When we were in school I believed once I went to America You guys went to see me off at the airport I beleived once Now? I don't believe Let's talk openly Remember that dictionary? Those words I wrote on that note that wasn't for you It's for myself Sorry to let you misunderstood I know, in your mind I've always been a Stupid hillbilly Meng Xiaojun, You carried it too far today If not Cheng Dongqing, I wouldn't be friends with you at all You always think your own business is more important than others Do you remember that time He had tuberculosis, and you said you have to take the TOEFL You didn't want to see him You're so selfish So it's because of this Since that day You think I despise you So you have been looking for a chance to stop me doing one thing then give me a lesson Right? Isn't that interesting, Cheng Dongqing? Yep I think it's interesting Very interesting If you want to quit I will use 1 million yuan buy your each share, in cash! What's your problem? What are you talking about? You called him back from US at the beginning He has been worked so hard for company and now you're treating him like this, are we still friends? Am I not? Do you think I doing this for myself? Yeah, I'm doing this for myself At least I admit Cut it out, stop Maybe you should make a fight like man Come on, come on Make a fight! Come on You metioned quit first Something wrong with you since you back from US, why? At least I fought for once And you? Got crushed by a US girl What did you say? Stop! Get away, stop! Well Yes I'm crazy You Godfather of students Elite returnees You all kickass Look what we become now What we become now I've never been a overseas elite Do you have any idea what did I do in US How should I know I wasn't even a waiter I was a handyman Even not eligible for tips Do you understand? I couldn't live any longer, so I'm back I have no friends except you two I don't care if you are happy or not I've told you everything What about you? Stage fright I do have this phobia I dare not say Why don't you ever metion? Have you ever disscussed about this with me, are we friends? Friends Wang Yang, you are wrong I used to thought my own business is more important than others Used to I will go to Shen Yang tommorow There is a person want to open a private english school So many years I've been tired everyday I did all this for you two I've had enough Don't want to play no more I've been numerously wanted to meet her again I think she would say to me I'm proud of you today Cheng Dongqing If we changed the world or the world changed us president Cheng is coming President Cheng, president Cheng President Cheng, if the success of the NEW DREAM because of the piracy President Cheng, rumor says the NEW DREAM because face prosecution will suffer large area closures If the USA has formally request sealed up the NEW DREAM? You haven't been to US, right? At least tell me the way Let's look for a chinese restaurant Great! I miss chinese food Come on Where are we going? Let me take you go a place, western-style food This is the place where I used to work Yeah, she is the woman sometimes She gave me some small change I earn the least When I frist time came to America fed the mice in the lab and carried dishes in here When I second time came here I took our busniess came here the busniess I'm proud of I want to tell them that I'm not a loser But they even... They even didn't give you the most basic respect They kept checking me up over and over again for a hour They still think the people who come to American all want to illegal immigrant I waited for 6 hours, and drank 8 cups coffee At that moment I realized We are really too young too naive So I think Only if at the moment when we standing on the NYSE and swinging the hammer They will really see you Recognize you Respect you Cheng Dongqing You're rigtht We don't need listed I admit I did that for myself I'm sorry Xiao Jun After eat Let's capture America Xiao Jun The laboratory now with your name I did the donation with your name The gift I gave to you last time, actually I don't like it either Don't know how do you like this one? Hillbilly I like this one Second day, we went to Vegas Cheng Dongqing lost bets till nose bleeding Sometimes I still go back go back to those bright days As the host, Su Mei specially invited us to eat a meal She told me, the most important thing is not success But as a man, you can't lose dignity That day I had a dream Meng Xiaojun from 1980 walked in the street of New York He looks so young, so confident Just like the sunshine in the street Then I told him, When wrinkles have carved on the forehead All you can do is Don't let wrinkles engraved in your heart Cheng Dongqing replaced his sexual life with speech Now he doesn't speak like human in public places That makes me sick He turns of the lights not for romance, but for saving money He never want to change the world But at least He can make himself not changed by the world To be a hillbilly boy forever!
