 

                        The more you begin to investigate, what we think we understand, where we came from, what we think we're doing, the more you begin to see we've been lied to. We've been lied to by every institution. What makes you think for one minute that the religious institution is the only one that has never been touched. The religious institutions of this world are at the bottom of the dirt. The religious institutions in this world are put there by the same people who gave you your government, your corrupt education, who set up your international banking cartels. Because our masters don't give a damn about you or your family. All they care about is what they have always cared about and that's controlling the whole damn world. We have been misled away from the true and divine presence in the universe that men have called 'God'. I don't know what God is but I know what he isn't. And unless and until you are prepared to look at the whole truth wherever it may go, whoever it may lead to, if you want to look the other way, or if you want to play favourites then somewhere along the line you're gonna find out you're messing with the divine justice. The more you educate yourself, the more you understand where things come from - the more obvious things become and you begin to see lies everywhere. You have to know the truth and seek the truth and the truth will set you free. ...'cause I gotta tell you the truth folks, I gotta tell you the truth. When it come to bullshit, big-time-major-league bullshit, you have to stand in awe of the all time champion of false promises and exaggerated claims - religion. Think about it! Religion has actually convinced people that there's an invisible man, living in the sky who watches everything you do, every minute of every day. And the invisible man has a special list of ten things he does not want you to do. And if you do any of these ten things, he has a special place full of fire and smoke and burning and torture and anguish where he will send you to live and suffer and burn and choke and scream and cry for ever and ever till the end of time. But he loves you! He loves you. He loves you and he needs money. He always needs money! He's all powerful, all perfect, all knowing and all wise. Somehow - just can't handle money! Religion takes in billions of dollars, they pay no taxes, and they always need a little more. Now, you talk about a good bullshit story! Holy shit! This is the Sun. As far back as 10.000 BC history is abundant with carvings and writings reflecting people's respect and adoration for this object And it is simple to understand why as every morning the Sun would rise bringing vision, warmth and security saving man from the cold, blind, predator filled darkness of night. Without it, the cultures understood, the crops would not grow, the life on the planet would not survive. These realities make the Sun the most adored object of all time. Likewise, they were also very aware of the stars. The tracking of the stars allowed them to recognize and anticipate events which occurred of a long period's of time, such as eclipses and full moons. They in turn catalogued celestial groups in what we know today as constellations. This is the cross of the zodiac, one of the oldest conceptual images in human history. It reflects the Sun as it figuratively passes through the 12 major constellations over the course of a year. It also reflects the 12 months of the year, the four seasons, and the solstices and equinoxes. The term zodiac relates to the fact that constellations were anthropomorphised or personified as figures or animals. In other words, the early civilizations did not just follow the Sun and stars, they personified them with elaborate myths involving their movements and relationships. The Sun, with its life giving and saving qualities, was personified as a representative of the unseen creator or God. God's Sun. The light of the world. The saviour of human kind. Likewise, the 12 constellations represented the places of travel for God's Sun. And they were identified by names, usually representing elements of nature that happened during that period of time. For example, Aquarius - the water bearer, who brings the spring rains. This is Horus. He is the Sun God of Egypt of around 3000 BC. He is the Sun anthropomorphised in his life as a series of allegorical myths involving Sun's movement in the sky. From the ancient hieroglyphics in Egypt we know much about the solar messiah. For instance, Horus meaning Sun or the light, had an enemy known as Set. And Set was the personification of the darkness or night. And metaphorically speaking, every morning Horus would win the battle against Set while in the evening Set would conquer Horus and send him into the underworld. It's important to know that dark versus light, or good versus evil, is one of the most ubiquitous mythological dualities ever known and it's still expressed on many levels to this day. Broadly speaking, the story of Horus is as follows: Horus was born on December 25th, of a virgin Isis Mary. His birth was accompanied by a star in the east which in turn three kings followed to locate and adorn a newborn saviour. At the age of 12 he was a prodigal child teacher. At the age of 30 he was baptized by a figure known as Anap and thus began his ministry. Horus had 12 disciples he travelled about with, performing miracles such as healing the sick and walking on water. Horus was known by many gestural names such as "The Truth", "The Light" "God's Anointed Son", "The Good Shepherd", "The Lamb of God" and many others. After being betrayed by Typhon, Horus was crucified, buried for three days and thus resurrected. These atributes of Horus, whether original or not, seem to permeate many cultures of the world for many other gods have found to have the same general mythological structure. Attis of Phrygia, born of a virgin Nana on December 25th. Crucified, placed in a tomb and after three days was resurrected. Krishna of India, born of a virgin Devaki with a star in the east signaling his coming. He performed miracles with his disciples and upon his death was resurrected. Dionysus of Greece, born of a virgin on December 25th, was a travelling teacher who performed miracles such as turning water into wine. He was referred to as "The King of Kings", "God's only begotten Son", "The Alpha and Omega" and many others. And upon his death he was resurrected. Mithra of Persia, born of a virgin on December 25th. He had 12 disciples and performed miracles. And upon his death was buried for three days and thus resurrected. He was also referred to as "The Truth", "The Light" and many others. Interestingly, the sacred day of worship of Mithra was Sunday. The fact of the matter is, there are numerous saviours from different periods from all over the world which subscribe to these general characteristics. The question remains - why these attributes? Why the virgin birth on December 25th? Why death for three days and inevitable resurrection? Why 12 disciples or followers? To find out, let's examine the most recent of the solar messiahs. Jesus Christ was born of the virgin Mary on December 25th in Bethlehem. His birth was announced by a star in the east which three kings were managed to follow to locate and adorn a new saviour. He was a child teacher at 12 and at the age of 30 he was baptized by John the Baptist. And thus began his ministry. Jesus had 12 disciples which he travelled about with, performing miracles such as healing the sick, walking on water, raising the dead He was also known as "The King of Kings", "The Son of God", "The Light of the world", "The Alpha and Omega", "The Lamb of God" and many many others. After being betrayed by his disciple Judas and sold for 30 pieces of silver he was crucified, placed in a tomb and after three days he was resurrected and ascended into heaven. First of all, the birth sequence is completely astrological. The star in the east is Sirius, the brightest star in the night sky which on December 24th aligns with the three brightest stars in Orion's belt. These three bright stars in the Orion's belt are called today what they were called in ancient times - the Three Kings. And the Three Kings and the brightest star - Sirius all point at the place of the sunrise on December 25th. This is why the Three Kings follow the star in the east - in order to locate the sunrise, the birth of the Sun. The Virgin Mary is the constellation Virgo, also known as Virgo the Virgin. Virgo in Latin means Virgin. The ancient glyphe for Virgo is the altered M. This is why Mary along with other virgin mothers, such as Adonis's mother Myrra or Budha's mother Maya begin with an M. Virgo was also referred to as the House of Bread and the representation of Virgo is a virgin holding a sheaf of wheat. This house of bread and its symbol of wheat represents August and September, the time of harvest. In turn, Bethlehem in fact literally translates to "house of bread". Bethlehem is thus a reference to the constellation Virgo - a place in the sky, not on earth. There's another very interesting phenomenon that occurs around December 25th or the winter solstice. From the summer solstice to the winter solstice the days become shorter and colder. and from the perspective of the northern hemisphere, the Sun appears to move south and gets smaller and more scarce. The shortening of the days and expiration of the crops when approaching the winter solstice symbolized the process of death to the ancients. It was the death of the Sun. And by December 22nd the Sun's demise was fully realized. For the Sun having moved south continually for six months makes it to its lowest point in the sky. Here a curious thing occurs: the Sun stops moving south, at least perceivably, for three days. And during this three day pause, the Sun resides in the vicinity of the Southern Cross, or Crux constellation. And after this time, on December 25th, the Sun moves one degree, this time north foreshadowing longer days, warmth and spring. And thus it was said: the Son died in a cross was dead for three days only to be resurrected or born again. This is why Jesus and numerous other Sun gods share the crucifixion, three day death and resurrection concept. It is the Sun's transition period before it shifts its direction back into the northern hemisphere bringing spring and thus salvation. However, they did not celebrate the resurrection of the Sun until the spring equinox or - Easter. This is because at the spring equinox the Sun officially overpowers the evil darkness as daytime thereafter becomes longer in duration than the night and the revitalizing conditions of spring emerge. Now, probably the most obvious of all the astrological symbolism around Jesus regards the 12 disciples. They are simply the 12 constellations of the zodiac which Jesus, being the Sun, travels about with. In fact, the number 12 is replete throughout the Bible. This text has more to do with astrology than anything else. Coming back to the cross of the zodic, the figurative life of the Sun, this was not just an artistic expression or tool to track the Sun's movement. It was also a pagan spiritual symbol. the shorthand of which looked like this. This is not a symbol of Christianity. It is a pagan adaptation of the cross of the zodiac. This is why Jesus in earlier cult art is always shown with his head on the cross. For Jesus is the Sun. The Son of God, the light of the world, the risen saviour who will come again as it does every morning with the glory of God who defends against the works of darkness, as he is born again every morning and can be seen coming in the clouds, up in heaven with his crown of thorns or sun rays. Now, of the many astrological/astronomical metaphors in the Bible one of the most important has to do with the ages. Throughout the scriptures there are numerous references to the age. In order to understand this, we need to be familiar with the phenomenon known as the precession of the equinoxes. The ancient Egyptians, along with cultures long before them recognized that approximately every 2150 years the sunrise of the morning of the spring equinox would occur at a different sign of the zodiac. This has to do with the slow angular wobble that the Earth maintains as it rotates on its axes. It is called a "precession" because the constellations go backwards rather than through the normal yearly cycle. The amount of time it takes for the precession to go through all 12 signs is roughly 25.765 years. This is also called the great year and ancient societies were very aware of this and they referred to each 2150 year period as an age. From 4300 BC to 2150 BC it was the age of Taurus - the Bull. From 2150 BC to 1 AD it was the age of Aries - the Ram. And from 1 AD to 2150 AD it is the age of Pisces, the age we are still in to this day. And in and around 2150 we will enter the new age, the age of Aquarius. Now, the Bible reflects broadly speaking a symbolic movement through three ages while foreshadowing a forth. In the Old Testament when Moses comes down Mount Sinai with the ten commandments he is very upset to see his people worshipping a golden bull calf. In fact, he shattered the stone tablets and instructed his people to kill each other in order to purify themselves. Most biblical scholars will tribute this anger to the fact that the Israelites were worshipping a false idol or something of that effect. The reality is, the golden bull is Taurus the Bull And Moses represents the new age of Aries the Ram. This is why Jews even today still blow the ram's horne. Moses represents the new age of Aries, and upon the new age everyone must shed the old age. Other deities mark these transitions as well, such as Mithra, a pre-Christian god who kills the bull in the same symbology. Now, Jesus is the figure who usheres in the age following Aries - the Age of Pisces or the two fish. Fish symbolism is very abundant in the New Testament. Jesus feeds 5000 people with bread and two fish. When he begins his ministry walking along Galilee he befriends two fishermen who follow him. And I think we've all seen the "Jesus fish" on the back of people's cars. Little do they know what it actually means. It is a pagan astrological symbolism for the Sun's kingdom during the age of Pisces. Also, Jesus's assumed birthday is essentially the start of this age. At Luke 22:10 when Jesus is asked by his disciples where the next Passover will be after he is gone, Jesus replies: This scripture is by far one of the most revealing of all the astrological references. The man bearing the pitcher of water is Aquarius - the Water Bearer who is always pictured as a man pouring out of the pitcher of water. He represents the age after Pisces. And when the Sun (God's Son) leaves the age of Pisces (Jesus) it will go into the house of Aquarius as Aquarius follows Pisces in the precession of the equinoxes. All Jesus is saying is that after the age of Pisces will come the age of Aquarius. Now, we've all heard about the end times, and the end of the world. The cartoonish depictions in the Book of Revelation aside, the main source of this idea comes from Matthew 28:20 where Jesus says: However, in the King's James version "world" is a mistranslation, among many mistranslations. The actual word being used is "aeon" which means age. "I will be with you even to the end of the age." Which is true, as Jesus's solar Piscian personification will end when the Sun enters the age of Aquarius. The entire concept of end times and the end of the world is a misinterpreted astrological allegory. Let's tell that to the approximately who believe the end of the world is coming. Further more, the character of Jesus, being a literary and astrological hybrid is most explicitly a plagiarisation of the Egyptian Sun-God Horus. For example, inscribed about 3500 years ago on the walls at the Temple of Luxor in Egypt are images of the Annunciation, the Immaculate Conception, the birth and the adoration of Horus. The images begin with thought announcing to the virgin Isis that she will conceive Horus, then Neith, the Holy Ghost, impregnating the virgin and then the virgin birth, and the adoration. This is exactly the story of Jesus's miracle conception. In fact, the literary similarities between the Egyptian religion and the Christian religion are staggering. And the plagiarism is continuous. The story of Noah and Noah's Ark is taken directly from the tradition. The concept of the Great Flood is ubiquitous throughout the ancient world with over 200 sided claims in different periods of time. However, one need look no further for a pre-Christian source than the Epic of Gilgamesh, written in 2600 BC. This story talks of a great flood commanded by God, an ark with saved animals upon it and even the release and return of the dove, all held in common with the biblical story among many other similarities. And then there is the plagiarized story of Moses. Upon Moses's birth it is said that he was placed in a reed basket and set adrift in a river in order to avoid infanticide. He was later rescued by a daughter of royalty and raised by her as a prince. This baby and a basket story was lifted directly from the myth of Sargon of Akkad of around 2250 BC. Sargon was born, placed in a reed basket in order to avoid infanticide and set adrift in a river. He was in turn rescued and raised by Akki, a royal midwife. Further more, Moses is known as the Law-giver, the giver of the Ten Commandments. However, the idea of a law being passed from God to a prophet up on a montain is also a very old motif. Moses is just another law-giver in a long line of law-givers in mythological history. In India Manou was the great law-giver. In Crete Minos ascended Mount Dikta where Zeus gave him the sacred laws. While in Egypt there was Mises who carried stone tablets and upon them the laws of God were written. And as far as the Ten Commandments, they are taken out right from Spell 125 in the Egyptian Book of the Dead. What the Book of the Dead phrased "I have not stolen", became "Thou shall not steal". "I have not killed" became "Thou shall not kill". "I have not told lies" became "Thou shall not bear false witness" and so forth. In fact, the Egyptian religion is likely the primary foundational basis for the Judeo-Christian theology. and many many more are all attributes of Egyptian ideas, long predating Christianity and Judaism. Justin Martyr, one of the first Christian historians and defenders wrote: In a different writing, Justin Martyr said: It's obvious that Justin and other early Christians knew how similar Christianity was to the pagan religions. However, Justin had a solution. As far as he was concerned, the devil did it. The devil had a foresight to come before Christ and create his characteristics in the pagan world. Fundamentalist Christianity. Fascinating! These people actually believe the world is 12.000 years old. I swear to God! I actually asked one of these guys. OK, dinosaur fossils! He says: "Dinosaur fossils? God put those here to test our faith." I think God put you here to test my faith, dude. The bible is nothing more than astrotheological literary hybrid just like nearly all religious myths before it. In fact, tha aspect of transference of one character's attributes to a new character can be found within the book itself. In the Old Testament there is the story of Joseph. Joseph was a prototype for Jesus. Joseph was born of a miracle birth, Jesus was born of a miracle birth. Joseph was of 12 brothers, Jesus had 12 disciples. Joseph was sold for 20 pieces of silver, Jesus was sold for 30 pieces of silver. Brother Judah suggests the sail of Joseph, disciple Judas suggests the sail of Jesus. Joseph began his work at the age of 30, Jesus began his work at the age of 30. The parallels go on and on. Further more, is there any non-biblical historical evidence of any person living with the name Jesus, the son of Mary who travel about with 12 followers, healing people, and the like? There are numerous historians who lived in and around the Mediterranean either during or soon after the assumed life of Jesus. How many of these historian document this figure? Not one. However to be fair, that doesn't mean defenders of the historical Jesus haven't claimed the contrary. Four historians are typically referenced to justified Jesus's existence. Pliny the Younger, Suetonius and Tacitus are the first three. Each one og their entries consists of only a few sentences at best and only refer to Christus or the Christ which in fact is not a name but a title. It means "the anointed one". The forth source is Josephus, and this source has been proven to be a forgery for hundereds of years. Sadly, it is still sided as truth. You'd think that a guy who rose from the dead and ascended to heaven for all eyes to see and performed a wealth of miracles that claimed him, would have made into historical record. It didn't, because once the evidence is weighed there are very high odds that the figure known as Jesus did not even exist. We don't wanna be unkind, but we wanna be factual. We don't wanna cause hurt feelings but we want to be academically correct in what we understand and know to be true. Christianity just is not based on truth. We find that Christianity was in fact nothing more than a Roman story developed politically. The reality is Jesus was the solar deity of the gnostic Christian sect. And like all other pagan gods he was a mythical figure. It was the political establishment that saw to historized the Jesus figure for social control. By 325 AD in Rome, Emperor Constantine convened the Council of Nicaea. It was during this meeting that the politically motivated Christian doctrines were established. And thus began a long history of Christian bloodshed and spiritual fraud. And for the next 1600 years the Vatican maintained the political stranglehold on all of Europe leading to such joyous periods as the Dark Ages along with enlightening events such as the Crusades and the Inquisition Christianity along with all other theistic belief systems is the fraud of the age. It serves to detach the species from the natural world and likewise each other. It supports blind submission to authority. It reduces human responsibility to the effect that "God" controls everything and in turn awful crimes can be justified in the name for divine persuit. And most importantly, it empowers those who know the truth but use the myth to manipulate and control societies. The religious myth is the most powerful device ever created and serves as the psychological soil upon which other myths can flourish. A myth is an idea that, while widely believed, is false. In a deeper sense, in the religious sense, a myth serves as an orienting and mobilizng story for people. The focus is not on the story's relation to reality but on its function. A story cannot function, unless it is believed to be true in the community or the nation. It is not a matter of debate if some people have the bad taste to raise the question of the truth of the sacred story. The keepers of the faith do not enter into the debate with them. They ignore them, or denounce them as blasphemers. It is wrong, blasphemous and sinful for you to suggest, imply or help other people to come to conclusion that the U.S. government killed 3.000 of its own citizens. It looks like one of those scenes of an old building being purposely dynamited and blown up. Anybody who ever watched a building being demolished on purpose knows that if you're going to do this you have to get the under-infrastructure of the building and bring it down. The way the structure is collapsing this was the result of something that was planned. It's not accidental that the first tower just happened to collapse and then the second tower just happened to collapse in exactly the same way. How did they accomplish this, we don't know. The building collapsed to dust. You don't find a desk, you don't find a chair, you don't find a telephone or computer. The biggest piece of a telephone I found was half of the keypad and it was about this big. The concrete was pulverized. It was dust powder, two or three inches thick. The concrete was just pulverized. ...a building was deliberately destroyed by the man-placed dynamite It's as if there were detonators, planted in the building... I heard a second explosion. There was a heavy-duty explosion. There were secondary explosions and then it subsequently all collapsed... ...explosion blow and then it knocked everybody over. To me it sounded like an explosion... It sounded like gun-fire... And then all of a sudden three big explosions. ...and we heard big explosion coming down... ...and then the entire top of the building just blew up. We saw some kind of explosion... ...by the force of the explosions... ...big explosion...it blew up back at the 8th floor... ...then we got to lobby, there was a big explosion... The lobby looked as if a bomb had exploded there. ...huge explosion, now raining debris... ...there's been a huge explosion... ...huge explosion that we all heard and felt. We just witnessed some kind of explosion... ...it was very loud...it blasted...explosion... ...smoke and secondary explosion in Tower 1... ...there is another bomb going off... he thinks that there were actually devices that were planted in the building... ...planted in the building... I don't think anybody could have predicted that they would try to use an airplane as a missile, a hijacked airplane as a missile. ...nobody in our government at least, and I don't think the prior government could have envisioned flying airplanes into the buildings. There were no warning signs that I am aware of. USA Today reports that in the two years before the attacks on September 11th NORAD conducted exercises using hijacked airliners as weapons. And one target was the World Trade Center. In confidential documents from the Philippines obtained by CNN, the plan was clear: Other buildings targeted - the Pentagon and the World Trade Center. Security in Counterterrorism was blinking red... ...that the warnings of an imminent attack was so severe that something dramatic should've been done, it was unparalleled. Instead our President went on a month-long vacation. The head of Pakistani intelligence (ISI) Mahmood Ahmed requested Omar Sheikh to wire $100.000 to Mohammed Atta who was the lead hijacker. ...hijacker Mohammed Atta received wire transfers via Pakistan. The man sending the money to Atta is believed to be Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh. Omar Sheikh admitted he was supported by the Pakistani Government's intelligence service - the ISI. Although we are told that 4 or 5 of the alleged hijackers were on each of the flights, if so their names should have been on the flight manifest. But the flight manifest that had been released contained neither the names of the alleged hijackers nor any Arab names whatsoever. We know that the men who were supposedly the hijackers had their houses, cars, credit cards paid for by the U.S. Government. They were, in truth - agents. Evidence was also apparently planted. The passport of one of the hijackers on flight 11 was allegedly found in the rubble. ...it goes through the fireball, through the side of the plane and comes down on the ground unscathed. But something happened. For 6 months they reported they had this passport. We thought if we got it, we got the proof and then the guy stood up and was alive. Several of these 19 men are still alive. Of course we're after Saddam Hussein, I mean bin Laden, he's, he's, he's... January 2001. The Bush Administration orders the FBI and intelligence agencies to back off investigations involving the bin Laden family, including two of Osama bin Laden's relatives who were living, guess where! - in Falls Church, Virginia right next to CIA headquarters. When he was already America's "most wanted criminal" he reportedly spent two weeks in the American hospital in Dubai, was treated by an American doctor and visited by the local CIA agents. We have not seen one piece of evidence that links Osama bin Laden directly to the planning stages of September 11th. This failure to provide proof was later said to be unnecessary because bin Laden in the video allegedly found in Afghanistan admitted responsibility for the attacks. This confession is now widely sided as proof. But the man in this video has darker skin, fuller cheeks and a broader nose than the Osama bin Laden of all other videos. We again seem to have the planted evidence. In 1976 Osama's older brother Saleem bin Laden hired a man in Texas by the name of Jim Bath to handle all the investments in the United States for the bin Laden family. Jim Bath also happens to be a personal, almost life-long friend and former international guard pilot, with George W. Bush. The connections between the Bushes and the bin Ladens become much more clearer when George Herbert Walker Bush made trips to Saudi Arabia in 1998 and 2000 to meet with the bin Laden family on behalf of the company called the Carlyle Group. How could anyone fly a 60 ton, 125 ft wide, The aircraft before striking the Pentagon reportedly executed a 270 degree downward spiral and yet Hani Hanjour was known as a terrible pilot who could not safely fly even a small plane. No seats, no luggage, no bodies. Nothing but bricks and limestone. The official explanation is that the intense heat from the jet fuel vaporized the entire plane. Flight 77 had two Rolls Royce engines made of steel and titanium alloy and weighed 6 tons each. It is scientifically impossible that 12 tons of steel and titanium was vaporized by jet fuel. We're also told that the bodies were able to be identified either by the fingerprints or by the DNA. So what kind of fire can vaporize aluminum and tempered steel and yet leave human bodies intact? From my close-up inspection there's no evidence of a plane having crashed anywhere near the Pentagon and as I say the only pieces left that you can see are small enough that you can pick up in your hand Shortly after the strike, government agents picked up debris and carried it off. The entire lawn was covered with dirt and gravel so that any remaining forensic evidence was literally covered up. The videos from security cameras which would show what really hit the Pentagon were immediately confiscated by agents of the FBI. And the Department of Justice has to this day refused to release them. If these videos would prove that the Pentagon was really hit by a 757 most of us would assume the Government would release them. It looks like there's nothing there except for a hole in the ground. Basically that's right. The only thing you could see from where we were a big gouge in the earth and some broken trees. You could see some people working, walking around in the area, but from where we can see there wasn't much left. Any large pieces of debris at all? No, there was nothing. Nothing, that you can distinguish that a plane had crashed there. Pancake theory according to which the fires, although not melting the steel, heated up sufficiently to cause the floors weakened by the airplane strikes to break loose from the steel columns, and this started a chain reaction. So, you would expect then from that theory, which is the official theory, to see a whole stack of floors piled up on top of each other and then a spindle of core columns standing too. The core of each of the Twin Towers consisted of 47 massive steel columns. If the floors had broken loose from them, these columns would have still been sticking up in the air a thousand feet. The plane did not cut all those core columns. We designed the buildings to take the impact of the Boeing 707 hitting the building at any location. The building probably could sustain multiple impacts of jetliners. ...that the plane flew straight into the building. Straight through, right. So you're saying that the building was actually designed to cope with a hole like that and would still survive? Yes, it was. If you would drop, say a billiard ball from the top of the World Trade Center, 110 floors up there it would have taken 8 to 10 seconds to hit the ground encountering no resistance whatsoever. The Twin Towers came down in nearly free fall speed. outwards over 500 ft. This means that floors shattered at an average rate of about ten floors per second. There is no scenario for a pancake effect of buildings falling that allows them to fall at a rate of free fall. And what can do that? What can move mass out of the way? Explosives. that are interconnected, how do you get them to fail simultaneously so the core disappeared. It looks like those core columns were cut. The way we do this is by cutting the beam out at angle. I started looking at the molten metal. All three buildings, both towers in the rubble, in the basement areas, and Building 7 there were these pools of molten metal. You get down below and you see molten steel. Molten steel running down the channel wheels. Like you were in a foundry. Like lava of a volcano. He said that molten steel was also found underneath World Trade Center 7. So I'm looking through the official reports, what do they say about the molten metal? They say nothing. Wait a minute. This is important evidence. Where they come from? Thermite is so hot that it'll just cut through steel, through the structural steel for example, like a knife through butter. The products are molten iron and aluminum oxide which goes off primarily as a dust. You know, there's enormous dust clouds you can imagine, when you assemble these chemicals on a large scale. Molten metal pools under both towers after they collapsed, and Building 7. Now, Building 7 wasn't even hit by a jet. Part of the problem is that most people simply don't know much about Building 7. due to the extraordinary secrecy surrounding its collapse. This was a 47 storey skyscraper. This building fell at 5.25 It was not hit by a plane. This building had fires on only 2 or 3 floors. ...and it was brought down by what we know was a controlled demolition. Demolitions look just like that, with that kink in the middle, and then that building just comes straight down almost at free fall speed. They first blow one of the central columns so the building falls in on itself. Building 7 had a classic crimp or wedge. Its central column was blown out first so it didn't structurally damaged buildings just a few feet away from it. Our office was on the B-1 level. As I was talking to a supervisor at 8.46 and all of a sudden we hear - BOOM! An explosion so hard that pushed us upwards. And it came from the basement, between the B-2 level and the B-3 level. And when I went to verbalize we heard - BOOM! That impact of the plane on the top. As I'm walking by the main freight car of the building in the corridor, that's when I got blown. I mean, the impact of the explosion threw me to the floor and that's when everything started happenin'. All of a sudden a big impact happened again and all the ceiling tiles were falling down, the light fixtures were falling You know, you gotta go clear across the hall from 1 to 2 World Trade Center and then all of a sudden it happened all over again. It was something else, hit us to the floor, right in the basement you felt it, the walls were caving in on everything that was going on. I mean, I know people that got killed in the basement, I know people that got broken legs in the basement, people got reconstructive surgery because the wall hit them in the face. According to standard operating procedure if an FAA flight control notices anything that suggests a possible hijacking, controllers are to contact the superior. If the problem cannot be fixed within about a minute the superior should ask NORAD (North American Aerospace Command) to send up or scramble jet fighters to find out what is going on. NORAD then issues a scramble order to the nearest air force base with fighters on alert. And although interceptions usually occur within 10 or so minutes, in this case 80 or so minutes had elapsed before the fighters were even airborne. It's a mind-bending anomaly. Not a single US Air Force interceptor turns a wheel until it's too late. There are no jets at all. What if they were so confused, and had been so deliberately confused that they couldn't respond? The reason that they didn't know where to go was because a number of conflicting and overlapping war game exercises were taking place that involved the insertion of false radar blips on the radar screens in the north-east air defence sector. There was another exercise - "Vigilant Warrior", which was in fact according to a NORAD source a live-fly hijack drill being conducted at the same time. With only 8 available fighter aircrafts, and that have to be dispatched in pairs, they were dealing with as many as 22 possible hijacks on the day of 9/11 and they couldn't separate the war game exercises from the actual hijacks. Page 172: "The US Government has not been able to determine the origin of the money used for the 9/11 attacks. Ultimately, the question is of little practical significance." The American authorities have not managed to trace the source of the funding. And then the most amazingly disingenuous statement "ultimately is it of little consequence". It is of massive consequence! Doesn't it matter who paid for 9/11? The collapse of Building 7 has been recognized as a specially difficult to explain. The 9/11 Commission Report implicitly admitted that it could not explain the collapse of this building by not even mentioning it. Mr. President, why are you and the Vice President insisting on appearing together before the 9/11 Commission? Because the 9/11 Commission wants to ask us questions, that's why we are meeting, and I look forward to meeting with them and answering their questions. The question was, why are you appearing together rather than separately, which was their request? Because it's a good chance for both of us to answer questions that the 9/11 Commission is looking forward to asking us, and I am looking forward to answering them. Do you think they should be able to stand up and speak their own words? They should go under oath. They should really? Yeah. In public. Don't you think that the families deserve to have a transcript or to be able to see witnessing? Haven't you asked me that question yesterday? I got the same answer. The final report was a unanimous report. That means that if there was a single commissioner who had any objection about anything, that fact would be dropped from the report. We have found out that he not only served on the transition team of the Bush Administration, that he was a person who wrote a draft memo for the setup of the Bush Administration's National Security Council, that he was an individual who wrote the pre-emptive war strategy that was eventually used for the war on Iraq, that he's a close friend of Condoleezza Rice's, we want him to resign. There is literally nothing in the 9/11 Report that the Bush Administration did not approve of. We can understand therefore why that commission under Zelikow leadership would have ignored all the evidence that would point to the truth that 9/11 was a false flag operation intended to authorize the doctrines and funds needed for a new level of imperial mobilization. Terrorism. The words are hypnotically repeating: and of course But, it's the so-called "War on Terrorism" that's in our faces practically 24/7 as the inescapable focus of our existence. One day our grandchildren will look back on this time and ask: "How was the War on Terror won?" The entire US ruling class, ruling elite comes to see terrorism as the preferred means, indeed the only means, to provide social cohesion, to provide an enemy image for the society, to keep it together. According to neocon theory from Carl Scmitt, you have to have an enemy image in order to have a society. A very dangerous thing because now it means that the entire social order, the political parties, intellectual life, politics in general are all based on a monstrous myth. Look what the CIA has done in this country. What they done to us is unbelievable. Look at the terrorist acts that have occurred. The CIA behind most if not all of them. We had the Marine Barracks, then embassy in Kenya. We had Pan Am 103, we had the USS Cole, we had Oklahoma City, we had the World Trade Center in 1993. ...they helped the terrorists to blow up the WTC the fist time. They built the bomb, they got the driver's license. The informer Emad A.Salem, a 43-year-old former Egyptian Army officer, he was given the assignment to put the bomb together and he went to the supervisor, that's the FBI supervisor, and he said, "we're gonna put a dummy bomb", and the FBI supervisor says "no, we're gonna put a real bomb." The FBI actually carried out the attack on the World Trade Center in 1993. They actually hired Emad Salem and paid him 1 million dollars and gave him real explosives, a detonator and told him to build a bomb and to give it to the foolish people that he was controlling to allow them to attack the World Trade Center complex. Unfortunately for them, there were only six people killed, not enough to pass the legislation. So , what happened is two years later, April 19, 1995 down comes Oklahoma City, the Murrah Building It was at half past 9 this morning. We were actually running an exercise for a company of over a thousand people in London based on simultaneous bombs going off precisely at the railway stations where it happened this morning, so I still have the hairs on the back of my neck standing up right now. To get this quite straight, you were running an exercise to see how you would cope with this and it happened while you were running the exercise? Precisely. We're supposed to believe that there were some kind of coincidence. There was also an anti-terrorist drill going on on 7/7. And again, just like on 9/11 they were talking about attacks on the same targets, the same tube stations at the exactly the same time as the actual attack happened providing some kind of cover for what must be operations orchestrating in some way by the States I am absolutely appalled about how much people in this country do not think. We are given to understand that an Arabic guy out there up in the mountains financed the most elaborate attack on this country. Do you think some people in a cave were able to have NORAD stand down? Do you think that people in the cave were able to have all of this happen? And when I think about how many Americans were killed in New York City and believing as I do that this thing was a set up job, this is a textbook operation that Nazis used and they've used it over and over again. America has been suckered in one more time. I don't have to tell you things are bad. Everybody knows things are bad. The dollar buys a nickel's worth. Banks are going bust. Shopkeepers keep a gun under the counter. Punks are running wild in the street. There's nobody anywhere who seems to know what to do, and there's no end to it. We know the air is unfit to breathe and our food is unfit to eat. We sit watching our TVs while some local newscaster tells us that today we had 15 homicides and 63 violent crimes as if that's the way it's supposed to be! We know things are bad. Worse than bad. They're crazy. It's like everything everywhere is going crazy, so we don't go out anymore. We sit in the house and slowly the world we're living in is getting smaller. And all we say is, "Please, at least leave us alone in our living rooms. Let me have my toaster and my TV, my steel-belted radials and I won't say anything. Just leave us alone." Well I'm not gonna leave you alone. I want you to get mad! I don't want you to protest, I don't want you to riot. I don't want you to write to your congressman because I wouldn't know what to tell you to write. I don't know what to do about the depression and the inflation and the Russians and the crime in the street. All I know is that first you've got to get mad! You've got to say, "I'm a human being, goddamn it! My life has value!" Ladies and Gentlemen, The very word "secrecy" is repugnant in a free and open society. And we are as a people inherently and historically opposed to secret societies, to secret oaths, and to secret proceedings. For we are opposed around the world by a monolithic and ruthless conspiracy that relies primarily on covert means for expanding its sphere of influence on infiltration instead of invasion, on subversion instead of elections, on intimidation instead of free choice, It is a system which has conscripted vast human and material resources into the building of a tightly knit, highly efficient machine that combines military, diplomatic, intelligence, economic, scientific and political operations. its preparations are concealed, not published. Its mistakes are buried, not headlined. Its dissenters are silenced, not praised. No expenditure is questioned, no secret is revealed. That is why the Athenian law-maker Solon decreed it a crime for any citizen to shrink from controversy. I am asking your help in the tremendous task of informing and alerting the American people, confident that with your help man will be what he was born to be: free and independent. as the American colonies sought to the detach from England and its oppressive monarchy. Though many reasons are sided for the revolution, one in particular sticks out as the prime cause - that King George III of England outlawed the interest-free independent currency the colonies were producing and using for themselves. In turn forcing them to borrow money from the Central Bank of England, at interest, he immediately put the colonies in the debt. And as Benjamin Franklin later wrote: In 1783 America won its independence from England. However, its battle against the Central Bank concept and the corrupt, greed filled men associated with it had just begun. So what is a central bank? A central bank is an institution that produces the currency of an entire nation. Based on historical precedent, two specific powers are inherent in central banking practice: the control of interest rates and the control of the money supply, or inflation. The central bank does not simply supply a government's economy with money, it loans it to them at interest. Then through the use of increasing and decreasing of supply of money the central bank regulates the value of the currency being issued. It is critical to understand that the entire structure of this system can only produce one thing in the long run debt. It doesn't take a lot of ingenuity to figure their scam now. For, every single dollar produced by the central bank is loaned at interest. That means every single dollar produced is actually the dollar plus a certain percent of debt based on that dollar. And since the central bank has the monopoly of the production of the currency for the entire country and they loan each dollar out with an immediate debt attached to it, where does the money that pay for the debt come from? It can only come from the central bank again. Which means the central bank has to perpetually increase its money supply to temporarily cover the outstanding debt created which in turn, since that new money is loaned out at interest as well creates even more debt. The end result of this system without fail is slavery for it is impossible for the government, and thus the public, to ever come out of the self-generating debt. The founding fathers of this country were well aware of this. By the early 20th century the US have already implemented and removed a few central banking systems, which were swindled into place by the ruthless banking interests. At this time, the dominate families in the banking and business world were: And in they early 1900's the sought to push once again legislation to create another central bank. However, they knew the Government and public were very wary of such an institution. So they needed to create an incident to affect the public opinion. So J.P.Morgan, publicly considered a financial luminary at the time, exploited his mass influence by publishing rumours about a prominent bank in New York wasn't solvent or bankrupt. Morgan new this would cause mass hysteria which would affect other banks as well. And it did. The public in fear of losing their deposits immediately began mass withdrawals. Consequently, the banks were forced to call in their loans causing their recipients to sell their property and thus the spiral of bankruptcies, repossessions and turmoil emerged. Putting the pieces together a few years later, Fredrik Allen of Life Magazine wrote: Unaware of the fraud, the panic of 1907 led to the Congressional investigation headed by Senator Nelson Aldrich, who had intimate ties to the banking cartels and later became part of the Rockefeller family through marriage. The commission led by Aldrich recommended a central bank should be implemented so a panic like 1907 could never happen again. This was the spark that international bankers needed to initiate their plan. In 1910 a secret meeting was held at the J.P.Morgan's estate on Jekyll Island off the coast of Georgia. It was there that the central banking bill called the Federal Reserve Act was written. This legislation was written by bankers, not law makers. This meeting was so secretive, so concealed from Government and public knowledge that a 10 or so figures who intended disguised their names when on route to the island. After this bill was constructed, it was then handed over to their political front man, Senator Nelson Aldrich, to push through Congress. And in 1913, with heavy political sponsorship by the bankers, Woodrow Wilson became president, having already agreed to sign the Federal Reserve Act in exchange for campaign support. And two days before Christmas, when most of Congress was at home with their families, the Federal Reserve Act was voted in and Wilson in turn made it law. Years later Woodrow Wilson wrote, in regret: Congressman Louis McFadden also expressed the truth after the passage of the bill: Now, the public was told that the Federal Reserve System was economic stabilizer and inflation and economic crises were thing of the past. Well, as history has shown, nothing was further from the truth. The fact is, the international bankers now had a streamline machine to expand their personal ambitions. For example, from 1914 to 1919 the Fed increased the money supply by nearly 100% resulting in extensive loans to small banks and the public. Then, in 1920 the Fed called in mass percentages of the outstanding money supply. Thus resulting in the supporting banks having to call in huge numbers of loans and just like 1907, bank runs, bankruptcy and collapse occurred. Over 5.400 competitive banks outside of the Federal Reserve System collapsed further consolidating the monopoly of the small group of international bankers. Privy to this crime, Congressman Lindbergh stepped up and said in 1921: However, the panic of 1920 was just a warm-up. From 1921 to 1929 the Fed again increased the money supply resulting once again in extensive loans to the public and banks. There was also a fairly new type of loan called the margin loan in the stock market. Very simply, the margin loan allowed an investor to put down only 10% of the stock's price with the other 90% being loaned from the broker. In other words, a person could own a $1000 worth of stock, with only a $100 down. This method was very popular in the roaring 1920's as everyone seemed to be making money in the market. However, there was a catch to this loan. It could be called in at any time and had to be paid within 24 hours. This is termed "a margin call", and a typical result of a margin call was the selling of the stock purchased with the loan. So, a few months before October in 1929, J.D.Rockefeller, Bernard Baruch and other insiders quietly exited the market. And on October 24th, 1929 the New York financiers who furnished the margin loans started calling them in, in mass. This sparked an instantaneous massive sell off in the market for everyone who had to cover the margin loans. It then triggered a mass bank runs for the same reason, in turn collapsing over 16.000 banks enabling the conspiring international bankers to not only buy up rival banks at the discount but to also buy up whole corporations at pennies on the dollar. It was the greatest robbery in American history. But that didn't stop there. Rather then expanding the money supply which were recovered from this economic collapse the Fed actually contracted it, fuelling one of the largest depressions in history. Once again outraged, Congressman Louis McFadden, a long time opponent of the banking cartels began bringing impeachment proceedings against the Federal Reserve Board. Saying of the crash and depression: Not surprisingly, and after two previous assassination attempts, McFadden was poisoned at a banquet before he could push for the impeachment. Now, having reduced the society of the squaller the Federal Reserve bankers decided that the gold standard should be removed. In order to do this, they needed to acquire the remaining gold in the system. So, under the pretense of "helping to end the depression", came the 1933 gold seizure. Under the threat of imprisonment for 10 years everyone in America was required to turn in all gold bullion to the Treasury, essentially robbing the public of what little wealth they had left. And at the end of 1933 the gold standard was abolished. If you look at a dollar bill from before 1933 it says it is redeemable in gold. You look at the dollar bill today, it says it is legal tender which means it is backed by absolutely nothing. It is worthless paper. The only thing that gives our money value is how much of it is in circulation. Therefore, the power to regulate the money supply is also the power to regulate its value which is also the power to bring entire economies and societies to its knees. It's important to clearly understand, the Federal Reserve is a private corporation. It is about as "federal" as Federal Express. It makes its own policies and is under virtually no regulation by the US Government. It is a private bank that loans all the currency at interest to the Government, completely consistent with the fraudulent central banking model that the country sought to escape from when it declared independence in the American revolutionary war. Now, going back to 1913 the Federal Reserve Act was not the only unconstitutional bill pushed through Congress. They also pushed the Federal Income Tax. It's worthwhile to point out that the American public's ignorance towards the Federal Income Tax is a testament to how dumbed down and oblivious the American population really is. First of all the Federal Income Tax is completely unconstitutional as it is a direct unapportioned tax. All direct taxes have to be apportioned to be legal, based on the Constitution. Secondly, the required number of states in order to ratify the amendment to allow the Income Tax was never met. And this has even been sided in modern court cases. Third, at the present day roughly 35% of the average worker's income is taken from them via this tax. That means you work 4 months out of the year to refill this tax obligation. And guess where that money goes? It goes to pay the interest on the currency being produced by the fraudulent Federal Reserve Bank, a system that does not have to exist at all. The money you make working 4 months out of the year goes almost literally into the pockets of the international bankers who own the private Federal Reserve Bank. And forth, even with the fraudulent Government claim as to the legality of the Income Tax there is literally no statute, no law in existence that requires you to pay this tax. Period. I really expected that, of course there is a law that you can point to in the law book, a code that requires you to file a tax return. Of course there is! I was at that point where I couldn't find a statute that clearly made me personally liable, at least not me and the most people I know and I had no choice in my mind except to resign. Based on the resource that I did throughout the year 2000 and that I'm still doing I have not found that law. I've asked the Congress, we've asked a lot of people, in the IRS, IRS Commissioner's helpers, they can't answer because if they answer the American people are gonna know that this whole thing is a fraud. I haven't filed a thorough income tax return since I left. I have not filed a tax return since 1999. The income tax is nothing less than the enslavement of the entire country. Now, the control of the economy and the perpetual robbery of wealth is only one side of the Rubik's cube that bankers hold in their hands. The next tool for profit and control is war. Since the inception of Federal Reserve in 1913 a number of large and small wars have commenced, With the three most pronounced - the World War I, World War II and Vietnam. In 1914 European war broke out centred around England and Germany. The American public wanted nothing to do with the war. In turn President Woodrow Wilson publicly declared neutrality. However, under the surface the US administration was looking for any excuse it could find to enter. In another observation by the Secretary of State, William Jennings: It's important to understand that the most lucrative thing that can happen for the international bankers is war. For, it forces the country to borrow even more money from the Federal Reserve Bank at interest. Woodrow Wilson's top adviser and mentor was Colonel Edward House, the man with the intimate connections with the international bankers who wanted in the war. In the documented conversation between Colonel House, Wilson's adviser and Sir Edward Grey, the Foreign Secretary of England regarding how to get America into the war, Grey inquired: House responded: So, on May 7th 1915 on essentially the suggestion of Sir Edward Grey, the ship called the Lusitania was deliberately sent into German controlled waters where German military vessels were known to be. And as expected, German U-boats torpedoed the ship, exploding stored ammunition, killing 1.200 people. To further understand the deliberate nature of this set up: the German embassy actually put advertisements in the New York Times telling people that if they board the Lusitania they did so at their own risk as such a ship sailing from America to England through the war zone would be liable to destruction. In turn, and as anticipated, the sinking of the Lusitania caused a wave of anger among the American population. And America entered the war a short time after. The First World War cost 323.000 American deaths. J.D.Rockefeller made 200 million dollars off of it. That's about 1.9 trillion by today's standards. Not to mention the war cost about Most of which was borrowed from the Federal Reserve Bank at interest furthering the profits of the international bankers. On December 7th, 1941 Japan attacked the American fleet at Pearl Harbor triggering our entry into that war. President Franklin D. Roosevelt declared the attack was "a day that will live in infamy". A day of infamy indeed, but not because of the alleged surprise attack on Pearl Harbor. After 60 years of surfacing information it is clear that not only was the attack on Pearl Harbor known weeks in advance, it was outright wanted and provoked. Roosevelt, whose family had been New York bankers since the 18th century, whose uncle Frederick was on the original Federal Reserve Board was very sympathetic to the interest of the international bankers, and the interest was to enter the war because as we've seen - nothing is more profitable for the international bankers than war. In a journal entry by Roosevelt's Secretary of War Henry Stimson dated November 25, 1941 he documented a conversation he had with Roosevelt. In the months leading up to the attack on Pearl Harbor Roosevelt had done almost everything in his power to anger the Japanese showing the posture of aggression: he halted all of Japan's imports with American petroleum, he froze all of Japanese assets in the United States, He made public loans to Nationalist China and supplied military aid to the British, both enemies of Japan in the war, which by the way is completely in violation of international war rules. And on December 4th, three days before the attack, Australian intelligence told Roosevelt about a Japanese task force moving towards Pearl Harbor. Roosevelt ignored it. So as hoped and allowed, on December 7th, 1941 Japan attacked Pearl Harbor killing 2.400 soldiers. Before Pearl Harbor 83% of the American public wanted nothing to do with the war. After Pearl Harbor - one million men volunteered for the war. It is important to know, Nazi Germany's war effort was largely supported by two organizations: one of which was called I.G.Farben. I.G.Farben produced 84% of Germany's explosives and even the Zyklon B used in concentration camps to kill millions. One of the unspoken partners of I.G.Farben was J.D.Rockefeller's Standard Oil Company in America. In fact, the German Air Force could not operate without a special additive patented by Rockefeller's Standard Oil. The drastic bombing of London by Nazi Germany, for example was made possible by a $20 million sale of fuel to I.G.Farben by the Rockefeller's Standard Oil Company. This is just one small point of the topic how American business funded both sides of World War II. One other treasonous organization worth mentioning is the Union Banking Corporation of New York City. Not only did they financed numerous aspects of Hitler's rise to power along with actual materials during the war, it was also a Nazi money-laundering bank which was eventually exposed for having millions of dollars of Nazi money in its vaults. The Union Banking Corporation of New York was eventually seized for violations of the Trading with the enemy Act. Guess who the director and vice president of the Union Bank was? Prescott Bush, our current president's grandfather and of course our former president's father. Keep that in mind when considering the moral and political dispositions of the Bush family. The United States official declaration of war with Vietnam in 1964 came after an alleged incident involving two US destroyers being attacked by the North Vietnamese PT boats in the Gulf of Tonkin. This was known as the Gulf of Tonkin Incident. This single situation was the catalystic pretext for massive troop deployment and full-fleshed warfare. One problem, however. The attack on the US destroyers by Vietnamese PT boats never happened. It was a completely staged event to have an excuse to enter the war. Former Secretary of Defence Robert McNamara stated years later that the Gulf of Tonkin Incident was a mistake, while many other insiders and officers have come forward relaying that it was a contrived farce and complete lie. Once in the war, it was business as usual. In October 1966 President Lyndon Johnson lifted trade restrictions on the Soviet block knowing full well that the Soviets were providing upwards of 80% of North Vietnam war supplies. Consequently, the Rockefeller interests financed factories in Soviet Union which the Soviets used to manufacture military equipment and send it to North Vietnam. However, the funding of both sides in this conflict was only one side of the coin. In 1985 Vietnam's Rules of Engagement were declassified. This detailed what American troops were and were not allowed to do in the war. It included absurdities like: no enemy could be pursued once they crossed the border of Laos or Cambodia, and most revealing of all - the most critical strategic targets were not allowed to be attacked unless initiated via high military officials. Apart from these imposed ludicrous limitations North Vietnam was informed of these restrictions and therefore could based entire strategies around the limitations of the American forces. This is why the war went on so long. And the bottom line is this: the Vietnam War was never meant to be won. Just sustained. This war for profit resulted in 58.000 American deaths and 3 million dead Vietnamese. So, where are we now? September 11th was the jump start for, what is now, accelerating agenda by the ruthless elite. It was a staged war pretext, no different than the sinking of the Lusitania, the provoking of Pearl Harbor and the Gulf of Tonkin lie. In fact, if 9/11 wasn't a planned war pretext, it would be an exception to the rule. It has been used to launch two unprovoked illegal wars, one against Iraq and one against Afghanistan. However, 9/11 was a pretext for another war as well. The war against you. The Patriot Act, Homeland Security, the Military Tribunals Act and other legislations are all completely and entirely designed to destroy your civil liberties and limit your ability to fight back against what is coming. Currently in the United States, unannounced and most brain-washed Americans, your home can be searched, without a warrant, without you being home, you can in turn be arrested with no charges revealed to you, detained indefinitely with no access to a lawyer and legally tortured, all under the suspicion that you might be a terrorist. If you need a painted picture of what is happening in this country, let's recognize how history repeats itself. In February 1933, Hitler staged a false flag attack burning down his own German Parliament building, the Reichstag and blamed it on communist terrorists. Within the next few weeks he passed the Enabling Act which completely eradicated the German Constitution, destroying people's liberties. He then led a series of pre-emptive wars all justified in German people as necessary to maintaining "homeland security". Our enemy is a radical network of terrorists and every government that supports them. It's time to wake up. The people in power go out of their way to make sure that you are perpetually misled and manipulated. The majority's perception of reality, especially in the political arena, is not their own. It's shrewdly imposed upon them without them even knowing it. For example, the public at large actually believes the invasion of Iraq is going badly as sectarian violence doesn't seem to stop. What the public fails to see is that the destabilization of Iraq is exactly what the people behind the government want. This war is to be sustained so the region can be divided up, domination of the oil maintained, continual profits reaped for the defence contractors and most importantly, permanent military bases established to be used as a launching pad against other oil-bearing nonconforming countries such as Iran and Syria. For further implication that the civil war and destabilization is purely intentional, in 2005 two elite British SAS officers were arrested by Iraqi police after being caught driving around in their car, shooting at civilians while dressed up as Arabs. After being arrested and taken to a jail in Basra the British Army immediately requested the release of these men. When the Basra Government refused, British tanks came in and physically broke out the men from the Basra prison. If you wish to destroy an area, how do you do it? Well there are two ways: you can go in there and bomb it and so forth, but that is not very efficient. What you do is you try to get the people in that area to kill each other and to destroy their own territory, their own farms, and that's what's been done to that area. So, the way in which you destroy the bond is get him to destroy himself by dividing his ranks against one another. And then you feed both sides, you have agents feeding both sides - inflaming both sides, and they kill each other off. And it's time that some of us woke up to this reality, to understand that will people try to maintain empires and create empires. They do it by manipulating the people they are trying to conquer. You might wanna ask yourself why the entire culture is utterly saturated with mass media entertainment from all sides while the educational system in America continues its stupefying downwards slide since the US Government decided to take over and subsidize the public school system. What your government pays for, it gets. When we understand that, then we look at government financed institutions of education and see the kind of students and the kind of education that's been turned out by these government financed schools, the logic will tell you that if what has been turned out in those schools was not in accord with what the state and the federal government wanted then it would change it. The bottom line is that the government is getting what they have ordered. They do not want your children to be educated. They do not want you to think too much. That is why our country and our world has become so proliferated with entertainments, mass media, television shows, amusement parks, drugs, alcohol and every kind of entertainment that keep the human mind entertained so that you don't get in the way of important people by doing too much thinking. You had better wake up and understand that there are people who are guiding your life and you don't even know it. We're in a lot of trouble! Because you people, and 62 million other Americans are listening to me right now. Because less than 3% of you people read books. Because less than 15% of you read newspapers. Because the only truth you know is what you get over this tube. Right now, there is a whole and entire generation that never knew anything that didn't come out of this tube! This tube is the Gospel. The ultimate revelation. This tube can make or break presidents, popes, prime ministers. This tube is the most awesome goddamn force in the whole godless world and woe is us if it ever falls into the hands of the wrong people! And when the largest company in the world controls the most awesome, goddamn propaganda force in the whole godless world who knows what shit will be peddled for truth on this network! So you listen to me. Listen to me! Television is not the truth. Television's a goddamned amusement park! Television is a circus, a carnival, a travelling troupe of acrobats, storytellers, dancers, singers, jugglers, sideshow freaks, lion tamers and football players. We're in the boredom-killing business. But you people sit there, day after day, night after night, all ages, colours, creeds. We're all you know. You're beginning to believe the illusions we're spinning here. You're beginning to think that the tube is reality and that your own lives are unreal. You do whatever the tube tells you! You dress like the tube, you eat like the tube, you raise your children like the tube, you even think like the tube. This is mass madness, you maniacs! In God's name, you people are the real thing! We are the illusion! The last thing the men behind the curtain want is a conscience, informed public capable of critical thinking. Which is why a continually fraudulent zeitgeist is output via religion, the mass media and the educational system. They seek to keep you in distracted, naive bubble. And they are doing a damn good job of it. In 2005 an arrangement between Canada, Mexico and the United States was made. This arrangement, unannounced to the public, unregulated by Congress, merges the United States, Mexico and Canada into one entity, erasing all borders. It's called the North American Union. You might wanna ask yourself why you never heard of this. In fact, there is only one mainstream reporter who's actually heard of and has had the courage to cover this issue The Bush Administration's open border policy and its decision to ignore the enforcement of this country's immigration laws is part of a broader agenda. President Bush signed a formal agreement that will end the United States as we know it. And he took this step without approval from either the US Congress or the people of the United States. It's a deal that few have even heard of. It's been done again by very few people at the very top, on behalf of the investment class. But the working class of people, political officials who cross our country from communities, from cities and so forth, they don't know anything about this. This isn't some trade agreement. It is a total removal of sovereignty from these countries which will also result in a completely new currency called the Amero. ...apart from that I think one thing, people who are dollar based need to focus on is the Amero That's the one thing that nobody is talking about, but I think it's gonna have a big impact on everybody's life in Canada, the US and Mexico and the Amero is the proposal of currency for the North American community which is being developed right now between Canada, the US and Mexico to make a borderless community much like the EU and the dollar, Canadian Dollar, US Dollar, and the Mexican Peso replaced by the Amero. By default of this agreement, the American Constitution will eventually be obsolete. You would think that a situation like this would be on the cover of every major newspaper. That is until you realize the people who are behind this movement are the same people who are behind the mainstream media and you are not told what you're not supposed to know. The North American Union is the same concept as the European Union, the African Union and the soon-to-be Asian Union. And the same people are behind all of them. And when the time is right the North American, the European Union the African Union and the Asian Union will be merged together forming the final stages of the plan these men have been working on for over 60 years - One bank, one army, one centre of power. And if we have learned anything from history it is that power corrupts. And absolute power corrupts absolutely. This is Aaron Russo, a film maker and a formal politician. To his left is Nicholas Rockefeller of the infamous Rockefeller banking and business dynasty. After maintaining the close friendship with Nicholas Rockefeller Aaron eventually ended the relationship appalled by what he had learned about the Rockefellers and their ambitions. I got a call one day from the Terry woman I knew and she said, "Would you like to meet one of the Rockefellers?" I said, "Sure, I'd love to!" And we became friends. And he began to devote a lot of things to me. So he said to me one night, "There's gonna be an event, Aaron. And out of that event you're gonna see we are going to go into Afghanistan so we can run the pipelines from the Caspian Sea, we are going to go into Iraq to take the oil and establish a base in the Middle-East, and then we are going to go into Venezuela and try to get rid off that Chavez." And the first two they've accomplished, Chavez they didn't accomplish. And so you're gonna see guys going into caves, looking for people they never gonna find. You know, he's laughing about the fact that you have this war on terror and there's no real enemy. He's talking about how by having this war on terror you can never win it 'cause it's an eternal war, so you can always keep taking people's liberties away. I said, "How you're gonna convinced people that this war is real?" He said, "By the media. The media can convince everybody it's real. You know, it's just that you keep talking about things, you keep saying it over and over and over again and eventually people believe this." You know they've created Federal Reserve in 1913 through lies, they've created 9/11 which is another lie, through 9/11 you're then fighting the war on terror and afterwards you're going to Iraq which was another lie. and then they gonna do Iran. And it's all one thing leading to another, leading to another, leading to another. And I would say, "what are you doing this for? What's the point of this thing? You have all the money in the world you'd ever want, you have all the power." I said, "You know, you're hurting people, it's not a good thing." And he would say, "What do you care about the people for? Take care of yourself, and take care of your family." And then I said to him, "What are the ultimate goals here?" He said, "The ultimate goal is to get everybody in this world chipped with an RFID chip." And to have all the money to be on those chips, and everything on those chips. And if anybody wants to protest what we do or violate what we want, we just turn off their chip." That's right. Microchipped. In 2005 Congress under the pretense of immigration control and the so-called "War on Terrorism" passed the Real ID Act, under which, it is projected, by May 2008 you will be required to carry around a federal identification card which includes on it a scannable bar code with your personal information. However, this bar code is only an intermediary step before the card is equipped with that very chip, RFID tracking module which will use radio frequencies to track your every move on the planet. If this sounds foreign to you, please know that the RFID tracking chip is already in all new American passports. And the final step is the implanted chip which many people had already been manipulated into excepting under different pretenses. We have a Florida family who are really pioneers in the brave new world. They have volunteered to be the first ever to have microchipped identification devices implanted into their bodies. After 9/11 I was really concerned about the security of my family. I wouldn't mind having something planted permanently in my arm that would identify me. In the end everybody will be locked into a monetary control grip where every single action you perform is documented. And if you get out of line, they can just turn off your chip for at that point of time every single aspect of society will revolve around interactions with the chips. This is the picture that is painted for the future if you open your eyes to see it. A centralized one world economy where everyone's moves and everyone's transactions are tracked and monitored, all rights removed. The most incredible aspect of all: these totalitarian elements will not be forced upon the people, the people will demand them. For, the social manipulation of society through the generation of fear and division has completely detached humans from their sense of power and reality. The process which has been going on for centuries, if not millennia, religion, patriotism, race, wealth, class and every other form of arbitrary separatist identification thus conceived has served to create a controlled population utterly malleable in the hands of the few. Divide and conquer is the motto. And as long as people continue to see themselves as separate from everything else they lend themselves to be completely enslaved. The men behind the curtain know this and they also know that if people ever realized the truth of their relationship to nature and the truth of their personal power, the entire manufactured zeitgeist they prey upon would collapse like a house of cards. The whole system that we live in drills into us that we're powerless, that we're weak, that our society is evil, that it's fraudulant et cetera and so forth It's all a big fat lie. We are powerful, beautiful, extraordinary. There is no reason why you cannot understand who we truly are, where are we going. There is no reason why the average individual cannot be fully empowered. We are incredibly powerful beings. I think I've spent 30 years of my life, the first 30, trying to become something. I wanted to become good at things, I wanted to become good at tennis, I wanted to become good at school and grades... and everything I kind of viewed in that perspective: I'm not OK the way I am, but if I got good at things... ...and I realized that I had the game wrong. The game was to find out what I already was. Now, in our culture we've been trained for individual differences to stand out. So, you look at each person and immediately it is brighter, dumber, older, younger, richer, poorer... and we make all these dimensional distinctions, we put them in categories and treat them that way. And we get so that we only see others as separate from ourselves in the ways in which they're separate. And one of the dramatic characteristics of experience is being with another person and suddenly seeing the ways in which they're like you, and not different from you, and experiencing the fact that which is essence in you, which is essence in me is the one, the understanding there is no other. It is all one. And I wasn't born rich and upper, I was just born as a human being and then I learned this whole business of who I am, and whether I'm good or bad or achieving or not, all that's learned along the way. The old appeals to racial, sexual and religious chauvinism, to rabid nationalist fervour are beginning not to work. A new consciousness is developing which sees the Earth as a single organism and recognizes that an organism at war with itself is doomed. Bill Hicks used to finish his shows with this: Life's like a ride in an amusement park. We go on it and think it's real 'cause that's how powerful our minds are. And the ride goes up and down and round and round. It has thrills and chills and it's very brightly coloured and it's very loud and it's fun, for a while. Some have been on the ride for a long time and they begin to question, is this real, or is this just a ride? And other people have remembered, and they come back to us, they say, "Hey, don't worry, don't be afraid, ever, because, this is just a ride..." And we kill those people. "Shut him up. I've got a lot invested in this ride. Shut him up! Look at my furrows of worry. Look at my big bank account and my family. This has to be real." It's just a ride. But we always kill those good guys who try and tell us that, you ever notice that? We let the demons run amok. But it doesn't matter because, it's just a ride. And we can change it anytime we want. It's only a choice. No effort, no work, no job, no savings and money. Just a choice, right now, between fear and love. (check docks4you.org and enlarge your grey cells)
