 

                        When lady lecturers are sitting at the next table, why do ... ...you smoke? -That is class, this is mass Why do you support high level people leaving your canteen work? Go and count coffee cups. Didn't you get your tiffin boxes today? We are fasting today for Varalakshmi Vrartam. Mr. lyer -Yes madam. Please try this for a different taste See those boys ! Causing us trouble with their smoking. They will go to bar in the evening for oozing. Can you stop? They are students in class only. We should not bother about them beyond that. Guess her age? -May be between 30-35 They are talking about you. -l'm listening. The saree has covered. See the fold above her lumbar region Who might have married her, but .. What? What are talking? Fold? Which fold? Are you talking of this fold? Didn't your mother have foldd? Didn't you see it ever? What are your comments? Dirty fellow Why do you beat me madam? This is not beating. This is smooth handling. l have a son just like you as a fat donkey. Tall and fat. lf my son knows of your comment he will beat you ... ...repeatedly leaving no empty space on your body Then your skin will get folds. l pity U when l imagine the scene. lmprove your left movements. Unless you win this you can't attend National Olympics. Continue like this. You will become Andhra Tyson ... Will you stop? Let us go. l will give you a drop, and pick up my mom. You need not trouble. l can give her a drop. Why would U go? lsn't it due to your craze about girls? You can go now. No problem, madam. We can go afterwards What? Any of you trying to woo my son? lt is not that. We wish to give you a life if he does'nt come Why didn't you say 'bye' to her when she said 'bye' to you. She is a waste, as she is becoming too fat. She is looking at you only. Excess salt is there in this. Why, pickle is like this? lsn't it good? -No taste, nothing. lt will be like that my son. This is known as Marriagaria, as similar as malaria. That means this is a disease which afflicts the youth Dissatisfaction with the menu of mother, desiring new tastes ... ... are the symptoms of this disease. So, now you've to get yourself married, my naughty son. l have no mood for marriage at present People marry at appropriate age, not at mood. Your marriage age has come and going away ... ... and you are becoming dry. When the age is barred ... ...nobody will offer a bride to you.-No problem. Your father too used to take water like this. How many times did l tell you not to pronounce his name? Just l referred your father's name only, isn't it? -No. Neither he is my father, nor your husband. He left us for our fate. He is not related to us, for that reason. He did not leave us. He had a goal in his life. He didn't want any family trouble & wanted to live at a distance. l have agreed to his proposal. We departed as friends only. As friends? Meaning? Departed after shaking your hands? l need not beat him, but you only. Don't repeat his name again with me. You need not sacrifice your food for my fasting. You can eat. l have striked. Not you. Go and eat. OK, give me food. -l can't. l am hungry. Let us go and eat. -No. Mother! Angry Lakshmi. Mother! My golden mother! Please eat. Please eat. This is your morsel. Neither of you nor mine. l am dying for food. Get mango pickle for me. Chandu, Chandu. Be silent and do your work. What is the matter? Our neighbour Mr.Dhanunjay had been to Tirupati and ... ... left the keys with us. His elder brother's daughter is ... ... coming from Madras today. You have to pick up her from Railway Station, convince her and... ... bring her here and give a drop in our neighbour's house. She got angry with these people for some reason. These people are afraid of her visit to her uncle's house. Your narration is very clear, but l could not understand You couldn't understand? Our neighbour had been to Tirupati. His elder brother's daughter is coming from Madras tomorrow. Please stop ... A girl is coming from Madras. She is naughty. l am to pick her up and drop her in neighbour's house. ls it? -Yes. What is her name? Name ... l have forgotten. But she'll come in a yellow chudidar. That is enough. S5 or S6? -Eight. Search in Charminar. Not in Palaknama. Yellow chudidar (attire). What is this? -Don't you know Telugu? Are you Tamilian? -Yes Leave my hands. Who're you to snatch my bag & go? Oh God! ls there no one to ask this? What do you think of yourself? You don't know about me. l'll kill you. Come and get on the bike No...- Let us go home. Come on... Should l invite you? -This house ... Some differences may arise with your uncle. You shouldn't feel. lt is not that... -This is also a house. Your uncle had been to Tirupati for a total shave of head. Did you wash your face? What? Brush ... brush ...! -No, not yet. No brushing! But apply lipstick early morning. Go to bathroom. Brush your teeth. Why do you see like that? Your teeth only. Eat up. You should not be so naughty. Excuse me please. ls this the house of Mr.Dhanunjay? Yes. This is the house of Mr. Dhanunjay ... But who are you? l am the daughter of his elder brother, coming from Madras. l was told that somebody will be sent to pick me up. Nobody has turned up. So l came here after a long wait. lf so, who are you? -l am saying that only. Aren't you the daughter of Dhanunjay's elder brother?-No lf so, why did you wear this yellow attire? Because this is my own dress Why did you come with me to ride on a bicycle free? You did not give me any chance to tell you anything. You have brushed your teeth and ate four idlis. l got those idlis for you. She ate all of them. Why do you wait still? Please start and go away. lf you stay for some more time, you will eat the whole house. l've been telling you that for so long. Do you have any sense? Enough, go...Auto..Take her to her destination, she will tell you. She could've told me at least. lsn't it, mother? Where have you given a chance? You told me that she is naughty, so l have changed my style. What happened mother? -Chest pain. lf l die, what will you do, my son? l'll kill you, if you say it again, Did you understand? Call that girl. He is calling you ... -Jerk Has it worked out? Who are you? You will see a girl everyday? Since you see her, she also sees you. You will smile. lf she likes your face she also smiles. After that both of you will have cool drinks and ... ... exchange ''l love you'' words. Your elders will come to know. Some annoyance etc. happens. Then you will threaten them etc. or you will shift yourselves. lt takes nearly six months for a happy end of this episode. What for will you marry? -What for? For nuptials Sir. Please see this. Without any process, this girl is ready ... ... for your nuptials. Are you a broker? Either l am a broker, or speedbreaker, don't mind. l can arrange this girl for you. ls this girl OK for you? l can pay you whatever you want. Please set this girl for me This is not a finance problem. Have you got a ration card? What for? -For address proof. Have you got passport? -Yes. -Very good Please get xerox copies of your ration card, passport, income tax .... assessment copy, health certificate, your 6 months bank .. ... balance to me and fill these papers. lf we feel OK after our verification, pay Rs. 20,000 - The nuptial marriage will be ready on the same night. Are these papers essential? To apply for a fridge loan the bank asks ninety questions ...for a small SlM card they will ask one lakh enquiries ... Do you know how many precautions we've to take ... ...to send a pure virgin girl into a room with you? You are aware sir, it is only for one night. Without knowing you, your whereabouts how can we? What would be her fate if you beat her inside the room? lf you burn with cigarettes? Or sell her for Rs.1,000/-? l am not such a man, Sir. -You know that. But l do not. ... These verifications are for that only. Don't waste the time. ... Carry on the process first. Do you want to see again? -Enough. Forgive us, God and hide this. -l'll do 108 rounds, God Come fast, all of you -See there l feel that, there is somebody here. Whoever will be here at this time? -Come on... This side. Nobody is here Sit l can't smoke. Don't know how the males smoke See there... l know, you are so great. Miss Chennai! -Come here. Come! lt is not that, Sir. These people gave me ... Do you know Telugu? -Little bit You know Telugu little. And know to smoke fully. Cigarette only? Rum, Brandy, Whisky, Gootka, Matka etc.? Don't enact plays any more. You came from Chennai, and spoil these Hyderabad girls? l fall on your feet Sir. Please excuse me. ln Chennai people fall on feet, but in Andhra they hug. Yes, hug him. Sorry sir ! We'll never smoke. -Good, very good. This is enough for this day. Let's see tomorrow. Why is this so exciting? Why has'nt he come down till now? Madam! lsn't today your birthday?-Yes. l have practised through out the night? May l tell you. -Yes. Stop. First let my son tell it. You tell after that. Do work. l will be ready within 10 minutes and then we'll leave l may forget the song - l will tell now itself. Didn't l tell you to let him greet me first. Mother, please come. -Shall we go? -Yes. Madam! She wants us to listen her new song now. Shall we listen? l am late for practice, let us listen to her in the evening. Don't sing at inappropriate times and pass time Did you forget anything? -No, nothing. -Nothing? Yes, now l remember. -l did not have my breakfast. Go and have your breakfast. l want you to eat a lot. He doesn't remember the birthday of his mother Good morning madam. -Bad morning. You, you and you you are only me l do not exist without you When this bond has formed? Our happiness is invaluable You, you and you you are only me l do not exist without you When this bond has formed? Our happiness is invaluable Chandu, Chandu. Wake up! Mother! Let me sleep for a while You appear in my dreams And l see you when l wake up My peril and pleasure are for U. My smiles and cries are you You are my companion every moment. When l can't find you, l search for you, When l cry, you console me One more ... -Don't be hasty How can eat a big one? -l will give smaller one only You are my light at every step All my pleasures are with you You, you and only you are in me l do not exist without you When this bond has formed? Our happiness is invaluable Go! Go on with your job. What happened? Just coming What happened, Sir! -An accident! lt may be OK if a lorry had hit me. An auto hit me. He says there were no brakes. What has the doctor advised Sir? He advised me to take bed rest for 6 months for complete cure. l know. Your tournament is fast approaching. This accident is a great loss to you at this crucial period Please do one thing. There is a coach in Vizag, Mr.Raghuveer. He is a better coach than me. He is the only one, who won consecutively for six times He is a living legend of Boxing in lndia. Go to him for practice. Certainly, you will be the champion this year. l won't go Sir-Why? l can't leave my mother alone. She is a heart patient. Please sit in a chair and instruct me. Get yourself discharged. But l can't go to Vizag leaving my mother alone Sir. Are you mad? Why do you stop your coaching in between? Mother! l told you not to entertain any discussion! Please go. He says that he is a good coach. Amitabh Bhachan cinema is released in town? Shall we go? Why don't you answer me? l do not like tall and obstinate people. l am waiting for you only. You wrote as A.P.Raju in Application. But here it is coming as Appalaraju. l felt shy and made it short. Do not make anything short hereafter. Let it be long. What is this? Why have your paid Rs.3,000 in Apollo Hospital What was your disease? -Not for me. For my father. What was the disease of your father? Some diseases are hereditary causes. No sir, it was for an accident. Please give a surety signature on this paper-What for sir? You see, what happens if anything happens to our girl? This is the only last thing. Get ready for nuptials. Good morning madam! You are coming to our home. We are happy for your visit. Am l came late Mr.lyer? -No madam! There is time. This is my wife, Gayatri. What is this? -Go away! Are you mad? lf my head is broken? lt is not broken yet, go - go! You come down! How dare you talk like this? U don't know me Who are they? Why do you tolerate them? ls this house yours or not? They came as tenants like good people but... ...within 10 days transformed this into a club. Why didn't you give a police report? This is not our town. There is nobody to support us. Do one thing. l will send my son. He will accompany you. Please go to Police Station and give a report. Then they will fix these rogues properly Nothing, you put vermillion l will send my son. Then you will face the consequences Sir, they drink and play cards & changed the house into a club Club!, but there is no board. Sir, does anybody run a club with a board? This matter is civil. Owner, tenant fights etc. are to be judged in civil court only. lf we enter into the scene of playing their cards, ... ... they will say that their brother-in-law, uncle and... ... brothers are playing for entertainment. Playing cards in their own home may not be a crime So also, boozing in home is also not a crime lf any crime occurs on road, it comes under our jurisdiction then Law is like that. Tell me what we can do Do you know to watch if anybody beats them? You keep watching What is the way to upstairs? Why are you here? - My friend is here.... l will come back after l play cards upstairs. Stay here Distribute the cards to me also. Three A's -Lift your hand. -l got three As. You have lost due to those three A's only. Lift your hand What is your cheating? Which are higher, 3K's or 3A's.? -3A's. Such a bang while Playing cards Which are higher, 3K's or 3A's.? -3A's. Can you hear that banging? -Yes Like that only. Beat them 3A's are only higher -No, kings are higher. Yes, Kings are higher. Then, what's your problem now? No, 3A's are higher. What are those sounds? -Sounds Why did he push him? -No sir, he simply slipped. No problem if he slips. But if he was pushed, it is a case. Please stop boss. Whatever you say, it is higher. Did he jump or fall down? -Jumped Jumping is not a problem. lf he is thrown, it is a case. Come on... -Whatever you say, it is higher. lt is not that. This place is not worthy for us. Let us shift to some other place, and play there. Come.. Take it fast and go Take your keys sir. Our people do not like this place. This is the way. Civil matters have to be solved like this. lf you call police for everything what can we do? ls'nt it-Yes Many thanks. Go man. No please.-Why? -l have no such habits, sir. Do you think that this is the only job for me? Let us try slowly. Why did you came here? lsn't it for me? l came to see upstairs -Let us see afterwards. ls this Tajmahal? Didn't you see it until now? Try to understand? -No, please. Don't you like? -No. -You may go then Hi Chennai, would you like to try once? -No - Your wish, then l doubt that ''l love her''- l am waiting for your approval You may proceed as per your wish. By the way, what is her name? -Miss. Chennai lt might be '' Chinni'' -l call her like that only She told me her name once. But l can't recollect-You are an idiot You love her but don't even bother to remember her name Why is she here? Mom, she is the one. ls she Miss.Chennai? -Yes l think l had seen her somewhere You be here. l'll talk to her. We are strangers to each other l think l have seen you somewhere! Aunty, haven't you recognised me? We have met in lyer uncle's house- You are correct Good morning aunty. -Very good morning dear Have you come here for shopping? We have come here to buy hairpins for her lt is her marriage -We came for shopping Rowdy...-Who is it? -That one He scares me. Whenever l see him, l start shivering Aunty, he is staring at us only. My God Does he trouble you? - Hello -Aunty, please don't call him Hello, l am calling out for you only. Come here Aunty, let us go from here. -Don't worry What do you think of yourself? -Aunty, let us make a move Don't worry, dear. What do you think of yourself? Do you consider yourself to be a hero? Be careful Do the girls look like dancing dolls to you? Don't ever dare to tease our child again. We'll break Ur bones We shouldn't leave the rogues like him without punishing Wait a minute! Do you have any idea about him? -No Do you know kick boxing? -No -He knows it very well He will crush you in toto. lt will be better for you to keep quiet Better be careful henceforth. Get lost now. You come aside? -l would like to have a word with you Come this side Don't be oversmart. My one kick will place you nowhere Get lost. -Aunty, please cool down Shall we launch a complaint to police? - No He is a nice ''paiyan'' -What does it mean? ''paiyan'' means a ''boy'' in Tamil language That means you like him. - l will call him then. Hello ... .... Aunty, please don't call him. l am scared in his presence but like him whenever he is apart Then you will live with him from afar only. Let us move Will you come for lunch? Will you treat me with Chicken? Will l be offered a virgin for dinner? l will offer it, if you are ready to accept Will you synergetically synchronise with me? lf you want, l will certainly do that Will you come to the mango field to offer the fruit of beauty You are welcome to enjoy it Your touch arouses me How can one feel shy for kissing in youth Just a touch of Urs is increasing the warmth of my breath The beauty has a lovely waist My heart is dancing -Shall we enjoy together This is the time to dance as we wish You are the most wanted. Will l be able to fulfil your wishes? You are my brave king. Come for a feast for asking my heart. This beauty is like the cashewnut -Your one hug fulfils my mind This blossoming youth is only for you, my king My dear beauty, let's share our happy life together You are only my gold, dear and l am yours We can enjoy the beautiful evenings together Your pre-final match will be conducted next week You will be qualified for the finals if you win in this You will soon be a national champion. Practice hard for it You should have an idea regarding your opponent You have to face last year's champion Mr. Satpaal Malik He is a very dangerous fighter Mrs. Padmavati, please whistle once. - l'm sorry, l can't Mrs. Jayanthi, please whistle once. - l'm sorry, l can't Can none of you whistle? -No Then, l will do that Get up & beat him. You are the best He is my son Come and sit here Come on Excuse me Please move a bit aside Have you come to see him? -No, l have come for my friends ls he teasing you again? He will lose the game, if you offer prayers to God He shouldn't lose Aunty, by the way whom are you giving support to? l have for that fellow with beard ls he your son? -He is my boy friend Look at his body. Doesn't he look smart? See there. Why are you clapping? -l'm very sportive Aunty, l will make a move That girl -What? -That girl -Who?- ldiot, your girl friend Sir, please take this l feel as happy as passing an l.A.S examination You feel the same before entering inside That girl is a very good artist She wanted to be like Sridevi and you got her Sir, please bless me. -Go ahead-Shall l go... Do U have any idea regarding the exams that l have passed for U? You own me for the entire day How do you want me to be? What? -Every guy does have some unfulfilled desires Shall l be like your neibouring beauty or like your girl friend ... ...or like your aunt's daughter? l prefer U to be like a girlfriend as l don't have any till today Gopi, why are you so late? -Why are you silent? Who is Gopi? -Do you know since how long am l waiting? ls this the time to come? l am sorry. Come on Every one in this park is staring at us. -So, this is a park lt's alright- We will close our eyes and make love. Come on Every one is against our marriage in my house. Who are they? -My brother He is waiting for an opportunity to thrash you How dare he?l'll kill him and Ur father and bury them together No one can separate us. Come on dear Gopi, it's enough for now. lt's getting darker. We shall make a move now So early? - Ok, just wait for only 10 minutes What are you doing? -lt's alright You also co-operate with me Gopi, what is this? We are yet to marry All the guys belong to the same category They have no respect for the girls You just need our body but not our loving heart Since l have paid Rs.20,000/-... The guys like you'll be taught a lesson for trying to buy a lady You will realise the greatness of love only then Don't show me your face till then Get lost. -My God, Bye Aunty. -Convey my regards to all Give a call as soon as you reach. -Ok Come for the wedding without fail or l'll kill you-What! l will not come for your marriage. This is that girl's house. l haven't seen her since 4 days Just go ask them regarding her whereabouts? What is her name? - l have no idea. She has come from Chennai That's enough Good morning Mr.lyer -Good morning- How are you? She has gone back to Chennai and she is already engaged l was not aware of this. l shouldn't have loved her l am not able to forget her Madam is in special class. -Will she be getting late? She has asked you to wait for some time Did she ask you to inform me all this? Don't you have any lectures to attend?-Lectures got over Then, what are you doing here instead of going back to home? We will call madam. - You please wait here. -Carry on lnform her that her son has come Why did he come here? -For his mother He comes here almost every day You unnecessarily lost the game. He has nothing. Your defeat is ... ... an absurd insult for all us l should have gone instead of U We do have certain reputation as we know that ... ... we have taken a loyal birth We can fight with each other lt's very difficult to fight with a bastard child Chandu, please cool down. -Mother, please leave me l will kill him -Stop it Do you know his words? -You go away This is college but not a street Are you the one who called my son as a '' bastard'' Yes, he is a bastard child He is an icon of our love But, people like you are born out of performing a mechanical duty Yes, he is a bastard. But, don't ever dare to call him bastard again lf you dare to do so, he will kill you Rs. 20,000 again? -Haven't you come for a visit again? But nothing has happened yet. -That depends on your talent ls it a compulsion? -of course, yes Rs. 20,000. lnform her -You can inform her on your own.- l'll see That can be discussed later on. You have to act as per my wish That's your choice Now we are in Ooty. l own this guest house lt's raining very heavily outside. You came to my guest house and knocked the door l opened the door and l saw that you are totally wet And later on, ... we are lt's raining very heavily outside You got wet in toto Please wear this Enjoy the warmth. -Thanks a lot You have provided me shelter at this hour of the night How shall l pay for your help? l already told you that a short while ago What is this? - Romance This is not at all fair. -You can't deceive an innocent like me l have a son. What can l say? My husband went away after a child is born l'm struggling day and night to earn our bread and butter He is studying in Ooty school l have come to see him and got stuck in the rain l was betrayed by the destiny. Will you betray me once again? l allowed you to come in as l was not knowing Ur life history You can stay here itself. l will go away When did you come to Ooty? What's wrong with him? What about his shirt? Tomorrow in the lunch hour .. Madam, what's wrong? Condition is very critical. All the valves got blocked This is happening for the third time. We're trying our level best Where is mother? -She is inside Don't worry Treatment is going on l want to see my mother l want to see her You move aside Are you crazy? l want to see my mother l want to know her condition l want to see her lf you want, you can go and talk to her. We are helpless Please go and talk with her l don't want to. l can't see her like that l have one last wish to be fulfilled-lt's not the last wish Please listen to me, dear -Ok mother, reveal it After my death .... .... -Mother Dear, listen atleast now -Ok mother After my death, you have to spend rest of your life with ... ...your father. -Mother, are you mad? -Please do this for me Mother, this is not at all fair. Did l ever ask you to learn kick boxing? lt is in your blood. Do you know who is your father? He is the third person in the photo which U worship everyday You denied to go to Vizag, Mr. Raghuveer... He was a National Champion for six times. He is your father, my son. Will you go? Please promise me. -Yes mother, l will go. l promise, but you don't leave me and go, mother Mother, wake up! Wake up! l have phoned to your father and informed your arrival l am going to that gentleman whom l had aversed and ... ... hated all these days. Take these house keys. Give for rental. Chandu! Come... -No problem. Come, come. l felt a lot after l received the death news of Laxmi She is a nice girl. What? For calling her as girl? She may be your mother, but for me she is my girl friend This is our home. Sit down. Shalini ! l had told you. Son of Lakshmi. l am your son too Tell her. Who is this lady? -Your aunt There is a sister for you. Where is Swapna? Chandu! This is your brother. l felt very much on the death of your mother. What will you take son, coffee, tea, bournvita? l do not want anything. -Do not want? OK. Come, let us go. -Where to? Not here, l have made some other arrangements for you. l hate you first. Since my mother advised me, l came here. l need not stay in hotels and guest houses. l also have one house, built by my mother. l'll tell you, come with me. Would you like to stay here forever? What your mother will lose? She sent you to me. Do you think her to be good for offering coffee, tea or drink? Yes, she is good for the first two days. After that it starts. Both of you will complain against each other. Oh! all the time family tensions. Since l could not manage the family tensions ... ... l left your mother This is the property l earned and my ambition too. Namaste sir! -Hi! -This boy is my son. Son? - Very tall. -Keep these inside. He'll be here. This is your lodge. Fresh air, beach. A good atmosphere. He doesn't say anything to me. What a man he is? All these boys are practising Kick Boxing, a martial art form These boys stand as future champions A great pleasure to produce these champions He is Anand. Would be the next champion He wll win surely Couldn't you understand? Sit here from tomorrow onwards. They will pay amounts, collect them. Clean the entire premises every day morning. There is no wrong in this. All this is our property. The servant will be with you. -What an ill fate for me? There is no fault in working. lt is not for my work, but for my co-existence with you. High temperament. of course, he is my son. Mr. Balaraju! -Sir. -What is this? -Tyagaraya Kalakshetram This is a dance school imparting music course. The owner sings, and his son follows him with Mridangam. She is the daughter of master. She teaches Bharatanatyam.. She loved a disciple in school He had cheated her & left There is another daughter to him. She knows, Kuchipudi, Kathak, ... Cuttack and Calcutta etc. all the dances. She might be busy inside the house. Carry on with your job Sit, sit. During my visit to Hyderabad, some funny things happened. Shall l tell you? -Please tell us. lt is a very old bungalow. He exists always there only l do not know whether he was there or not l entered to find his existence. He immediately appeared before me l warned him that l am not a good girl. He was seeing me romantically and came near me l immediately raised into air and kicked him with my two feet ls it true, sister-He fell down on his back at such a long distance Sister, do you know to kick? Yes, he was standing quite against me, l saw & kicked Miss Chennai! -Yes, he used to call me like this only. l warned that l will cut him if he calls me like this again Come here! Come here once! Why are you here? Telugu language! -We stay here itself. Are you engaged? -No Do you have any boy friend? Don't enact. -No Did you love anybody? -No So you are free -Can l try for you? l am here only. l will come for you now and then. Carry on your job. Try, try! Miss Chennai! What is your name? -Moogambiga Ammal. What? -Moogambiga Ammal lt's alright Chennai sounds better Oh Chennai Moon! l lost my heart Oh Chennai Moon! Let me reach you lf l don't reveal it, l might lose her l want your companionship Sweet heart, flower garden is inviting you with love l lost myself at this moment The signs of your lips steals my heart lt's a sweet memory Dear, please come near My dear naughty sweet heart Don't kill me with your love My heart is ambrosia lt'd dedicated to you My heart is filled with love When will he go? -Who? -Your son When will you send him? -He came to stay here only What is your problem if he stays here? When you married me you told me ... ...that you have no any relation with that family ... ... and nobody will be coming from there. Tomorrow you will introduce him as your son to the public Then everybody feels, l'm your second wife. ls it nice to U? So my life became as your ''keep'', isn't it? You know already that l was married. Now Lakshmi is no more, and he will stay here only This is unjust and cheating. -Shut up your mouth Did you listen? She points me out as a cheater. lt is true that l have cheated your mother, then... Why is she saying that l have cheated her? What she said is correct. You can cheat anybody. Take this month's collection. All this is my fate. Are you the new entrant? -Yes - Give me juice. Did you mix any thing? -Yes, l've mixed glucose. Did l tell you to mix it? Why did you mix? Who will drink it? You or l? Be careful to work here. -Boys, what is happening here? See sir! l take fresh juice every day. But he mixed glucose You could have known from him. You have to know them first. He is my son, Chandu. -Sorry sir. l did not know. lt is all right. Committed an unknown mistake unknowingly. Mr Anand! He is more than my son and my sole heir. My champion! Mr Anand! He is more than my son and my sole heir. See once again and then continue What is this? Have you lost your mind? Hey, why are you disturbing the classes? You had grown your muscles and coming from there to here? Do you export your muscles to foreign countries? You can join in military & serve our country. Military? Yes, let us sit and discuss about it. You can dismiss yourselves. There is no problem to go to military? Then there are 2 problems - whether l'll be selected or not No problem if l am not selected. Again 2 problems after selection. Whether l will be selected as an officer or Soldier There is no problem if l am selected as an officer But again there are 2 problems if l am selected as a soldier. Whether the war will come or not. There is no problem if it does not come. lf it comes again there are 2 more problems Whether l am made to stand in forefront, or backward lf l stand backward there is no problem There are again 2 more problems Whether l will die or be alive? -There is no problem if l alive. Again there are 2 more problems if l die. Whether they will bury or burn me? There is no problem if they burn me. But again there are 2 more problems if they bury me. lf they bury me, bushes and trees will grow. lf the bushes are grown there is no problem. Again there are two problems if if trees grow upon me. Furniture and Paper will be manufactured from trees There is no problem with furniture lf paper is produced again there will be 2 more problems Writing paper as well as tissue paper to clean mouth and anus. There is no problem with writing paper But again there are two more problems with tissue paper. Both males and famales can use the paper lf a female like Aishwarya Rai cleans herself it is so good, ... but the people like you clean then only a problem arises. So l won't go to military. What do you say? Military! Why do they require my welfare? Hello, brother-in-law? -How could you come here? l feel bored without you in Hyderabad, so l came to Vizag. What're these people doing? To develop muscles only? How is he here? You... -How did you come here? As the girl is interested, we came here for holidays. Has she come? -Yes, she is in the hotel. Could you improve your talent, or remained like that? Please provide me one more chance. l will show my talent. You need not show me. Show to her. l am ready. l feel very happy to see you. Get ready with Rs. 20,000 - What happened? Sir, she is with fever. l've to see her. l can come by evening You don't have to come and you can look after her. Did you take her to doctor? -No sir. -Why didn't you? No sir, no. -Keep this. -Take her to doctor at once. Why are you doing this job? Where is he? His wife is not doing well, so he could not come. His wife is not doing well, if so what is he doing? A feminist creature! -All the people can't be like U. Since she is not doing well, he applied camphor to her legs - ...and serving her. All the people cannot be negligent like us Do you want to kill me? Why're you so angry with me? Do l look like a villain to you? l am checking since your arrival, my son! l want to tell you something. -What is it?-Shall l come in Do you have to come so near to me to say that?-Yes -Tell! Please do not tell my father of my cigarette smoking. Did you have to come here this midnight to say that? There are 4 rape cases on me. Never come in midnight hours. Tell me sorry! -Sorry sir. -Not like this. Andhra style Sorry sir. l will not come like this in midnight again My sister! Did you also came to me to say sorry like this? She accompanied me. lt is alright. But never roam around midnight. lf anybody kidnaps you, your father's house will be stuck up Go away. -Good night sir - Good night. Oh, God Come, let us go. Beauty is having a sparkling shine You're a stunning beauty and you are as sweet as sugarcane Don't be in a hurry You have got butter and biesting together. Shall l enjoy? You accept the truth. l can show you the distant shores together l have come to kiss you as you are a sweet beauty like rose Come on then. l would prefer to enjoy with you l am helpless. l have to inaugurate your sweet cheeks Your thin waist is like Arabia and your beauty is like Nigeria l have come for you lt's your wish now You are my life and my life is for you l have come for you and you are my life Let me curl around you Don't stop me Chandu, my son, come down. Don't you respect your father? Come down. Let us finalise our strength ourselves Why are you angry with me. Come ... come with me. l did not beat and throw her. We just separated only. l dreamt to become a champion, for which l learnt kick boxing l was getting ready for championship, ... then l found her, your mother We have loved each other. We also married. Life was very happy. You were born. Very big companies have come forward to take me lf l am sponsored, and sent to Nationals, l was ready The finals were on the next day. Raghu. Now it is 7. We'll come at 4 AM. We'll go for match Mr.Raghu. This is a prestigious matter. You should win. Lakshmi! Where is Lakshmi? Babu is with high fever. She took him to hospital alone sir. Son is unconscious. He is inside lCU What happened, Raghu? -My son is serious. What is his present condition? -Somewhat better now sir. Now the time is 4 o'clock. You have no sleep all the night. lf you just make a phone call, isn't that we would have come ... ... and look after your son? See the face. He is almost tired. -No problem sir. l can fight. Fighting is not important, but winning. Sir, l will definitely win. We spent lacs on you. lf anything happens, what about our status? Kindly believe me sir, l will win. You can't win spending all the night without sleep We spend lacs of rupees on you. Now we should beat ourselves with our own shoes lt is not that sir? -Sir, he will come with you. Lakshmi! l have a desire. l can win this any time in future. l did not regret for my defeat, but the small reasons for it l am afraid, that l may not achieve my goal. Lakshmi! l should be a Kick Boxing Champion. l should break the records. l should not have this sort of diversions and tensions. l should devote my full attention on goal. l have entered into a wedded life by mistake. This is not a dislike on our son or you. l can't bear family tensions for some time Let us depart for some time. Please ... understand me. After l achieve my goal, let us meet again My goal is important to me. Until that time let us depart. Yes, let us depart. Your goal is important to you. Please achieve it. We will not meet again. -Lakshmi, what l mean ... l too have my goal. l have to look after my son ... ... so that he will be become a man of worth. l, with my whole heart, wish you to achieve your championship ... ... but once departed, we cannot meet again We departed like that. But after that l have won. Not only for once, but a record continuously for 6 times. Everything is OK. But where from has this aunt come? That was an obligation. When l was defeated the first time, her father only sponsored.. ...& encouraged me.- So you've encouraged her l did not love her. She only loved me. Alas! Even then, l had phoned Lakshmi & explained. She denied to meet l told this girl. She said ''no problem''. l am checked. Even then, l have phoned and informed. l'm not bad & didn't leave your mother without any support She is strong She has become a lecturer She got a job sufficent enough to bring you up with self respect All the employed women will be left by their husbands if ... ...your foot steps are followed He will never change Why are going away without listening? You can narrate infinite number of stories if somebody listens l will never trust you l can trust anyone but not you He is very adamant like his mother He will not change Girl is ready l am very impressed with your sincerity l fell some thing else for you What is it? -Let me finish the work first. l will tell you then No hi at all. l can't pay Rs.20,000 per every visit l haven't come to listen anything You have to follow my orders l'm your husband and U follow my orders. 60,000 Rs. given Why are you so late? ls this the time to come? lt's my wish. Who are you to ask me? l asked you to get milk powder for the child. Did you get? l didn't.- You have got no feelings for me. -You are right You might be involved with some other lady in your office That's my wish. l will do whatever l want to Should l act as per your wish? ls wife like a machine to you? Did l say that?-My father got me a collector's match lt's my fate that l got married to you lmpossible. l knew bad repute of your family on Wedding day What's wrong with my family? lt's useless to discuss with you They haven't even got silk clothes for my parents Everyone was laughing at this You got more than what you are worth? lnstead of giving a Hero honda, They gave a Hero cycle l can't stay with a person who have no respect for my family Even l can't be with people like you l am applying for divorce Go to hell Call the lawyer urgently. l have to apply for divorce He can never have a happy first night for sure You really dance well You may continue Who are you? She is a waste and blind. She is super. You can play with her Will you dance with me? -He can dance well Shall we dance together? Father, Father... Why did she stop? She might agree for the offer Why are you staring like that? Will you save her? Are you a hero? -Not at all l was eating maize. She came and stood beside me You may proceed with your work What are you saying? Aren't we neighbours? -So what? Please save me. ls there any rule? Am l nothing to you? Don't you like me? -Not at all Why did you hug me then? -Am l in love with you? But l love you. -Why didn't you tell me this before? But l am telling you now. -Ok, tell then Why are you discussing with her? -Please wait, it's personal Ok, tell now. l don't agree for this. Tell me in Andhra Style Are you playing drama with us? We met after a long time. Please don't interfere Do l look like a broker? -My work is to separate the couple Can't you understand? My God! l am a bit confused to fight along with you Will you please sit aside for a minute? l myself didn't hold her properly till now How dare you interfere? How dare you do like this? Aren't you ashamed? Can't you learn a lesson even after seeing your sister You have disgraced our family reputation Can't you understand? Our family is defamed because of you l will kill you -Brother, please leave her Mr. Balaraju, why have you come here? l just came to see you -Ok, come on then lndia has a population of 100 crores. Out of which, 19 crores are elders. They are of no use Remaining are 81 crores out of which 25 crores are students Out of remaining 56 crores, 22 crores are the Govt. employees They have no other work. 34 crores are the remaining Out of that 4 crores are the army people 20 crores of remaining are behind useless marshal arts 8 crores of the remaining are uselessly roaming around Out of the remaining, 1.2 crores are the diseased Out of remaining, 79,99,995 are the delinquents The remaining 5 are Mr. Vajpayee, Mr.Chandra Babu Naidu ... myself, my son and you Both the P.M. and C.M. are busy We are doing our business. But you are listening to our nonsense talk What is the use of you to the nation? Do some work, fool You disturb every one l like Vizag very much l want to get settled here lt is very absurd Very disgusting l would stay with you as your assistant. Shall l? Why are you slapping him? -Are you aware of the situation? of course, who are you to interfere? l am your brother. -How come? Are we born to the same mother? Don't try to rule me. We are in no way related We love each other. l do whatever l want to Who are you to question me about my deeds? Who is he to slap my daughter? Anand is staying with us since 4 years like a family member They are young. Can't they go to pubs? ls he not roaming with a Tamil girl? Did we ever slap our daughter? Who is he to slap her? Hold your tongue. He is my son Who are you to slap her? They are my sister, aunt and you are my father. This is my family Even then, Why did you slap her? They took my permission and went. They didn't run away You are a irresponsible father You might send your daughter but l won't send my sister He might be in love with her. -lf so, he wouldn't have done this... ...if he wanted to marry her, he wouldnt take... ...her to the washroom. You might keep quiet as a father, but l won't bear it as a brother & l'll kill him Lakshmi, you have nurtured your son in a great manner Why have you cheated my daughter? Sir, you have misinterpreted. l never wanted to cheat her l love her & married her. But my brothers were against this So, all these days l was fettered by them at my place They wanted him to marry another girl But, everything went on fine as Chandu went there Trust us atleast now. -l am sorry. Please forgive me Thanks a lot for giving a new life to my daughter That is the greatness of martial arts Songs will not workout for all this Will you get convinced at least now for our Chandu's match? You have got no time sense at all. -Actually, ... -Get lost Do you agree? l didn't get you -Dear son-in-law Means? -Will you marry our daughter? ls your daughter a good one? -Yes Will she follow the orders? -Yes Will she give a kiss whenever l ask her to? Say-Yes Both the lady and her kiss are sweet l will own her in toto Shall l come by train or bus or by flight? Time will be wasted in journey, fly with wings and come Come fast, come fast Give me a kiss in the morning. l will even if you don't want Evening kiss -is asking for help The lip to lip kiss can't be forgotten lt creates raw wounds in heart lt's a very strange feeling Hug me smoothly A kiss given to you ... -Makes me shine maore A kill on the foot ... -Awakens the feelings A gentle kiss on waist does ring wedding bells A warm kiss will touch the heart and unite us lt's a great pleasure. l will get the flowers to enjoy Welcome Mr. Reddy. -Where is Mr. Anand He is not even at home. l could not trace him. He will come. He will never come again. -Why so? -Go and ask him We had spent lakhs on him with trust with a hope to increase ... ... our company sales after his victory He will be fighting on behalf of our rival group Today his name will be announced officially Someone has misguided you -We came here after confirmation See Mr. Raghuveer, Anand should fight on our behalf at any cost What is this? Are you mad? Why are you behaving like this? ls it because, Chandu beat you? He will apologize you He will beg for your pardon. Let's move Don't disturb us. This is a company party l haven't come to create nuisance here He is my student. l have come to take him along with me He will not come. We are sponsoring him He is like my son. l have trained him for 4 years They are my sponsors. l won't come Are you mad? l will be defamed. l am your master ls it so? You are not my master any more. He is my master Am l not your master? -How can you be just for fees? ls our relation based on money? l have trained you for 4 years Take him away Kill him Anand, please listen to me Yes Aunty! -Your father hasn't yet come. lt's 3 O'clock now He might have drunk heavily and slept somewhere. He will come He never does like this. We are very scared. We waited for quite a long time and finally we came to you He always comes at sharp 9 O'clock. But today he hasn't yet Father hasn't come. l have been waiting for him since 25 years My mother waited for him for 30 years. But he never came Why are you so scared? He will not die. He will come You have no affection for your father. Your mother might be the same. That's why he left her Chandu, please open the door -What happened? Someone has injured your father. He is in hospital now Father, who did this? -Anand has cheated me What happened? Tell me the truth. Chandu, where are you taking him to? Chandu,please leave him Chandu, where are we going? Chandu, please wait Who has beaten him? Whom shall we scared of, you or your handicapped father? Chandu, please wait Yes, we did beat him. What can you do? Chandu, they will kill you He is alone. Please leave him How could you beat a person like him? One should be very lucky to get a coach like him lnform Anand, that if l happen to see him anywhere l'll crush him lnform this He is my father. He is responsible for my birth lf you ever dare to touch him again, l will chop you all How could you fight with many at once? Chandu, do you know kick boxing? Chandu, answer me Chandu dear! Please come out l am very glad. l am a fool. l failed to recognise your capability Get lost. Leave me l will train you. You should be a great champion lf you want, this bubble gum will be yours lf you come home, you will be given bread and jam My name is Jasmine and my work has to be feminine l can jam everyone l will apply Zandu Balm later on One should have stamina One should have courage to achieve success You can follow me if you want You can enjoy if you want Forget the past, don't bother about tomorrow. Enjoy the day Have the courage Hard work is the key to success Concentrate on your work Don't bother about the rest Let us share the perils and perishes together l shall convey the regards and then let you play l shall convey you the new year greetings Please come. l bought a new house yesterday l sold out everything yesterday You can buy furniture with this money You may go in l can't act like you. l have been paying Rs.20,000/- per every ... ... visit because l like you very much Please co-operate Shall l keep the light on or shall l switch it off? You should have told me this earlier You are giving contrasting answers Police station is very nearby Let us come to a conclusion there Are you a couple or doing business? We are planning to get married We were discussing about the same but you have interrupted us ls it the truth? -Yes sir He promised to marry me and l blindly trusted him What rubbish are you talking? -You may continue And now, he is not ready Don't try to be over smart -Actually, my family members ... Do you want to cheat her? l will kill you Get the sacred thread. l will get them married right now Sir, l will take permission from the family members ... ... Have you taken the permission before falling in love? Tie the three knots l will tell you the truth l didn't want to marry her. l paid the money and entered in How dare you call me a whore? You want to get rid of me ls this the price for my true love? ls this the respect that you have for ladies? Wait! No girl will be done injustice as long as l am here Are you the Pakistani Terrorist? -Do l look like? Where did you hide your boss Mr. Bin Laden? Since when are you training Al-quaida terrorists? You can't do this. l will act as per your wish Exchange the garlands Click a snap. Give a grin How will l tell this to my parents? ls everything fine? You have utterly cheated me. -Not at all Look at her face. She is not a whore. She is my daughter l was worried about her marriage as l can't afford ... ... to give dowry. Luckily l found you. -Like a fool -Not at all On my enquiry, l found that you are a gentleman So, l had planned like this -So your daughter ... l'm a virgin. l wanted none other than you But, l didn't want any one l never thought that l will be cheated like this Mother! -Dear son-in-law console yourself l will go away -Ok, dear Why are you here? Get lost Why is she crying? ls she in love with you by any chance or .... ... do you love her by any chance? Continue to love her only if you want to marry her A true lover always wants to marry his lover l am not a cheater. l will be with her till my last breath Why do you insult me again and again? Get lost He doesn't want anyone else other than his mom One lady has just come out of your shop. What did she buy? She bought a pesticide for her garden. -What? Father, l am Chandu here. -Where are you lost? Nothing, l just want to know whether we have any field ... ...near Simhachalam? -Why are you bothered about the assets Tell me the truth. l have no assets other than you and this training centre He has already disconnected. We have to follow his orders, but he never listens to anyone Aunty! What is this? -Anand has cheated her She is pregnant now and he is not ready to accept her l didn't realise your affection on that day. Kindly forgive me When l came to know this, l became helpless We have no other option than to give up our lives You are not punishing yourselves rather you are punishing us l already lost my mother but l don't want to lose you l will talk to Mr. Anand. Please don't reveal this to father Mr. Anand, l would like to have a word with you ls it regarding your sister's pregnancy? l have already asked her to get the child aborted l am sorry, please don't deceive my sister Am l responsible for your sister's pregnancy? lt could be anyone among the students of the lnstitute l will do whatever you want me to l beg you but please don't deceive my sister Look at her. She is innocent She is a whore. l don't want her l beg you. Please don't deceive her Brother, no need to beg him. He is an idiot Dear, have patience. l will talk to him. Please listen to me -Let me talk to him Anand, please listen to me. Kindly don't mind her words Dear, you don't have to beg him -Aunty,please let me talk to him No need. Let's move. Don't beg to him. He is an idiot l know, how affectionately your father trained him since 4 years Let's move. -Aunty, let me have a word with him Brother, no need to beg to him. lf needed l will get the child aborted, but l won't marry him Have faith in your energy. Energy is great. lt's infinite Tiredness doesn't last longer. New energy will be generated only if you get tired You should concentrate only on opponent's face and eyes Nothing else should be kept in your mind Forget about the rest. You have to fight rebelliously with him. You can do it Don't under estimate him. He could face 20 at once Better remember that. lf we have to win, he should be psychologically impaired This is prasadam. -For what? l went to the temple to pray for you. All of us are coming to watch the match You will definitely win Before, mother was there. But today she is no more Was your mother present on that day to watch your match? Balaraju told me that she is no more. Who is your mother? ls she your mother? -Yes -She is a very nice lady Why are you wearing the monkey cap? My mother will definitely come to watch tomorrow's match Keep an empty seat for her next to you -Ok Father, who has done this? Chandu, nothing will happen to me. You go ahead l will be here itself l want to stay here itself. You should listen to me Listen to me atleast once We spoke with the doctor. He is out of danger You please go and practice for the match Chandu, please go. -Ok, father -Let's move We will take care of him -Father, just a minute l can't leave my father here alone Why are you so obstinate? Don't you need practice? l won't be participating in tomorrow's match We spent quite a lot of money on you Lost money can be regained back. But will you get me my father back if l lose him? Don't under estimate us. lf you don't participate, we will sue you You can do whatever you want -What nonsense are you talking? Can't you understand? -Chandu, come here What is this? This is your goal. This is your dream lf you don't participate, all your hardwork will go in vain Please go. -Father, you are more important than my goal l will go That idiot should be crushed in toto l should see and enjoy that. Don't leave that bastard Beat him You should not be beaten like this. lf you can't beat him ... ... tell me. l will do that on my own. You should not leave him Listen to me. He should not be alive any further. Kill him Don't leave him Beat him That is the way l will marry your sister if you lose this game Chandu, come on Why are you losing the game? He promised that he will marry my sister What! -He promised me to marry my sister Chandu, you should not lose the game. lt doesn't matter at all even if he denies to marry your sister You have to beat him You should not leave him Brother, l don't want to marry him. Please beat him lt's alright. -Please beat him Please beat him Chandu beat him. Chandu, please beat him What can you do if l don't keep my promise? Chandu, please get up atleast now Listen to me now. l won't marry your sister at any cost Look there! She is my would be wife. Do whatever you can He is losing for his sister or else he will kill you Chandu, get up and beat him Come on. Come on, face him if you have the guts Tiredness rejuvenates your energy You should win at any cost Please Anand Please marry my sister My sister is very nice Look at her. She is leaving you and going away But my sister is not like her She is very good. l know the problems of bastard child well Please listen to me. My sister's child should not be a bastard Chandu, please forgive me l feel like touching your feet Shall we get married now? -Do you know Tamil? My mother is a Tamilian and My father is a Gujarathi But he doesn't look like that My father is a cross breed of an Anglo-lndian and Gujarathi lady He got married to a Tamilian and so l took birth l am a mixture. Do you have any problem? -Not at all ls your sister pregnant? -Yes Don't you want it? -Not like that Then? -Marry me first
