 

                        1 Raganna I am not going anywhere. In the morning come as usual Ok sir. Good evening. You forgot It is my birthday today. Oh ho! Now no more poses. Wear your glasses. At least you could have remembered this day. Anyway need not get upset. I will be back in few minutes. Just gone for shopping Wait! The coffee is in the flask The sugar is just beside You are putting on weight It is better if you control No I cant. I cannot dear. Now that you are not at home I will be lenient enough. Do you know plump people are good. Skinny people like you are never to be trusted. In this house it is difficult to make out who is husband.. ...and who is wife. I don't have the slightest.. ...of freedom in this house. What is that you are murmuring? She listens to whatever I say I am sorry I am sorry. I don't understand what to say. I don't understand what to say. I had forgotten about this I had forgotten about this I will go and get you a first class present I will go and get you a first class present Oh how is that he has added an extra word Hey Now what more I have gone for a bath and it will take 600 seconds What? 600 seconds? A very happy birthday to my only wife. Oh the electricity is gone First you wear this dress I will wear it by my self you .l will help you with it No first you go and get lit the candle The whole city is bright only by you two eyes. A very beautiful poem Beautiful thought This is written by your friend isn't it? What is his name? Abhi Abhishek Bharadwaj Who else could ever write such beautiful poem What a style. He can earn very well in such a city But he refuses to come here Why don't you go and get him here I told him but you know what he says? What Why do you call me there? Just to hammer the.. ...the dumb stones? He is absolutely right An love for two years and after marriage 9 years How these eleven years have passed away They just flew away like this H OW? Like this. And you know why? Why? Because we love each other "Tumturu there the song of waters" Heres the cool love song "Tumturu there the song of waters" Heres the cool love song "Whether day or night, How will I stay without you" "My heart is full of you It loves you full of it" My eyes long to see you "Tumturu there the song of waters" Here's the cool love song "the sun in the sky is on the top of the house" "and you my sun is on my forehead" the bird song is on the leaves and my love song is on.. "..My heart "breeze breeze cool breeze.." ...is everywhere in the town But the breeze called you.. Is in my breath Our love story will be a legend" "Your companionship is spring to me" and that will keep me eternal "Tumturu there the song of waters" Here's the cool love song oh your lovely smile. Everyday the moon beg for it your admirer admires your admiring and forgets the.. ...the cupid and longs You are my mother and father You are everything to me why do I need anyone else Enough of those loads your love load is sufficient I am ready to forget the whole world for your love "You are my sweet tune And I am your companion" "Tumturu there the song of waters" Here's the cool love song "Whether day or night, How will I stay without you" "My heart is full of you It loves you full of it" My eyes long to see you It loves you full of it My eyes long to see you Someone good looking is standing here Hey Vimala why are you standing here? My car broke What your car broke? Your car latest model EsteemBroke? Look here this is the oldest.. ...model and how well it is working Any ways you too are going to the office so let me drop you You may go I will come by auto Hey why? Because I don't like to go on this scooter Then which scooter do you like to come on Why don't you go quietly You see it is getting sunny now you may become dark.. ...and then we both may not match each other so come.. ...on sit on the scooter fast Hey listen to me you will.. ...have to come I insist I will not come Hey if you won't I will forcibly make you sit on the scooter Hey see there some one is teasing a girl from our area Auto! Vimala Why did he come to our area Come on lets ask him Hey that's not fair Auto too may break. Oh gone Hey she is already gone She doesn't agree even.. ...after scaring her what kind of a woman is she? What sir? What did you ask her? I wanted to give her lift on my scooter but she refused So you will take her away Yes how else to take her So do you take every female on the road like this Why should I call every woman on the road.. ...she is my wife so I called her Oh so is she your wife? Then what your wife We know this wife matter very much ls it? First remove your hand from my shoulders He looks like a scarecrow Why didn't you tell them that I am your wife? I told them but they did not believe me Actually they were admiring you since so long I interfered so they gave me this punishment Yes yes there All this has happened.. ...because of you Why? Was I wrong that I went by auto instead of your .. ...scooter? Are you not my wife Isn't Sta Ram's wife? Sta went to the exile with Ram How did she go? With bare foot Why daddy? Didn't she had money to buy chappals Hey just shut up there were no shops then Why do you scold her Several times I told you to.. ...change the scooter but why would you listen to me You are sentimentally attached to that scooter only.. ...because your father has given it to you Had you bought a new scooter I would have come with you This wouldn't have happened You did not come with me only because the scooter it old If we are suppose to change all the old things the first.. ...thing I would change is you This is all my fate This is all done by your and mine father Yes my father held a cigarette in his mouth like someone And your father held a cigar in his mouth like someone I don't understand on which unfortunate moment they.. ...made this plan of tying you around my neck That is why you got a doctor wife or else you would have.. ...some whore Oh so you call yourself a doctor Go and see doctor Shanta in the next lane There is a very big queue in front of her house And in the lane behind us is doctor Sushilamma She too has patients who come in cars and scooter And in our house I am the only one and the first patient .. ...who is taking treatment from you that is today and now I very well know what you deserve They throw a dead body in front of you You just tear that body in any which way and throw it there "lf I think of it, it makes me feel like vomiting" I get scare to sleep beside you at night do you understand Hey hey what did I say Why are you crying You see our parents made this plan to remain good friends.. ...so let us live happily like two good people Am I not a doctor? Yes yes definitely Who said no Now tell me who on earth is a doctor who has to deal with.. ...a dead body Come in Good morning ls this Mr. Hemant's residence Yes come on in Come please be seated Thanks This is my chair That is yours Come on give it to me Oh 100kgs Sit down I was cooking so dressed.. "..Up like this, this is his shirt Will you have coffee or tea" Oh I forgot you don't drink coffee or tea Milk? With two spoons of sugar I will get it for you within 32seconds One two three four Four and a half Five six Oh six seconds are already over when I went to listen to song of the cool breeze ?I heard your tunes and were equally distributed? When I came to see the dance of the running waters? I saw you dancing and the rhythm increased? So how is the song One of my husband's friend.. ...has written it isn't it a very good voice It is mine had there been a background music This song would have been very good Don't you know music I know it very well Milk Hemant Hemant who ? Oh my husband my only..husband Boy is MD there? Hey are you teasing me What is it Someone has come to our house to mould the.. ...rock I hope you havn't heart it No he hasn't heard What? To mould the hard rock? Yes your friend the great poet Mr. Abhishek Baradwaj Hey when did he come He has come just now I have given him a small.. ...shock treatment in my usual way and have given him.. ...142ml milk along with it He is drinking it Hey I haven't added sugar to it I have added a little sugar He is not like you he is shivering He will not be able to bear this fun of yours take good care.. ...of him I will take care of everything just tell me what time.. ...will you come Sorry I will be late today Don't let him get bored Be good Done lam Mrs. Hemant Since last seven years.. ...we have spoken about you a many times. I did not find the need for introduction the moment.. ...I saw you I recognized you the.. ...moment you came in Whatever I did was just my style Don't misunderstand me Hey come on get up The boss has ordered me to Entertain you with out.. ...letting you get bored Come on come on follow me Milk Ok so I have finished with.. ...one job What are you looking at Come on read it My work shop My factory See there? Come on read it Our Serval Hall It means place to fill our stomach. Whatever gets ready in my work shop is marketed here Not only here but everywhere there are such boards You know why? A- "..means your friend, not knowing where to go.." ...goes round and round and comes back One day he went round and round and landed up.. ...in neighbor's house. I am not lying that's the fact That is why these boards are for no confusions My room. Don't misunderstand me but I just felt like asking so asking You have decorated all the other rooms very well.. ...but this room looks empty and blank. Why so? I knew you would definitely ask this question Shall I tell you the truth. Ancd acdcda What is it? What did you say? Why don't you speak simple language? Speak in kannada Don't you want an answer.. ...to you question? Then ask me in simple words Ok so now I will tell you. You shouldn't laugh Promise? Promise! After Hemant goes to the office I become all alone. I finish all my work shop jobs by 10.30. after that there is.. "..No job left to do, so I read.." for a little while and then I sleep.. "..For sometime, in the mean time he comes in my thoughts" That very moment I come here and sit on this chair. I look at the wall. There my Hemant comes. We both talk to each other. Hari can I get one coffee? Yes sir. Hey plumpy didn't I tell you reduce drinking coffee.. ...ask him to get one lime juice. Ok? Aren't you my good honey "Hari hari hari hari, no not coffee, get me a lime juice" Very good. "More coffee, more you spoil your health." My wife is right. "See, you haven't kept your words. You said you won't.." "..laugh, and now you are laughing." No I did not laugh to tease you but just some kind of pleasure You have tremendous imaginations. No not imaginations nor mud It is just empty mind's.. "..Humors. What, am I too boring? You must be tired.." ...by the journey. You get fresh and take "rest, Hemant..will be here anytime." Are you use to taking bath? "If yes go and have bath, I will make something to eat." Hey sculpture where are you? Hemant? Hey Veerapanni can I get coffee? What a pleasant surprise. How are you man It is so long that we both have met. It is so long that we both have met. About ten years? How is your mother? How is your mother? She is fine Come on lets sit and talk. He will never change Who else is there with your mother? Somanna was there Oh that boreanna? Your mother must be aged Sixteen years Three years less than me. "However old she is, she herself looks after everything" So now what's cooking? Chicken Come on lets go to our room Or else so wont allow.. ...us to speak. Ok what are your future plans? My future plans are Hey all those things later. So long you both had a chat Now I will speak and you both listen. "Hey listen, Abhishek since so many year every day ...you have been speaking about yourself. "Now that you have come after a long time, you shouldn't.." ...talk about going back. Stay here alone on your own.. ...for some time. We will decide when to send you back means me.? Promise? Thank you. Oh just see he has agreed. Now that you have seen.. "..All the rooms, which room did you like the most." The one with the magic wall. With a magic wall? Which room is that? That is my room. Magic wall. Nice name. Shall we change the board? Tomorrow itself we will change the name. Why tomorrow change it today. Hey please be quiet. You can stay in that room But isn't that your room? That is why I am saying. Is it ok? So now come on sing one song. Song? Hey I have alreaqly praised your smgmg So now keep my words. Which song should I sing? Any one song. You have read all my songs Amongst them which one.. ...is your favorite? Which one which one which one Ok Bhale Bhale Chanda da.. Bhale.. I don't remember it so well. No problem. I remember it. I will remind you. "All the sculptures have an old story." "But this sculpture of mine has a life ahead." "you are a rare beautiful girl from the moon" you are the lightening of which the lightening.. "..Herself is shy" "you are a rare beautiful girl from the moon" "you are the lightening of which the lightening.. " ...herself is shy "The moon too praises you, And the vocabulary is.." ...insufficient The whole town is lit by.. ...brightness of your eyes. Wherever you put your feet.. "..Flowers scatter." "you are a rare beautiful girl from the moon" you are the lightening of which the lightening.. "..Herself is shy" "when I went to hear the song of the cool breeze, I heard.." "..your sweet tune "Distributed equally" "when I went to hear the song of the sizzling spring waters,.." "..l saw you dancing, and I loved the style." there is one beautiful garden where there are hundreds.. "..And tons of flowers. There is one love song too" "There are many interesting scenes here" And every scene has an alphabet of your name. "Your speechless sweet quiz is by you and all by you" "you are a rare beautiful girl from the moon" you are the lightening of which the lightening.. "..Herself is shy" if here Kaalidasa and there Ravivarma follows you. They will be unable to praise you. They will remain silent in front of you. "When Menaka and Urvashi sees your catwalk, they may.." ...forget their walk. You have a unique walk. There is one king's lane from where you have come. Here is one garden of hearts and there are different.. ...beautiful dreams in it and you are just beyond all.. ...those beautiful dreams. Though you are close to me.. ...you seem to be taller taller than everything "you are a rare beautiful girl from the moon" you are the lightening of which the lightening.. "..Herself is shy" "you are a rare beautiful girl from the moon" you are the lightening of which the lightening.. "..Herself is shy" "you are a rare beautiful girl from the moon" you are the lightening of which the lightening.. Good morning everybody! This is Abhishek Bharadwaj.. ...a very good poet and a singer too. Hello. - Hello sir. This is all my staff. You see this is not like a government.. "..Office, there is no discriminations between.." "..MDs, Managers, Asstt. Managers etc, here all are.." ...equal. They all work like a members of a family. Only one person has an designation here and i.e.. ...for an layout engineer. Hi! Hey your outfit is nice. Where did you buy it from? John! Coming sir! Sir we had ordered for a new camera. That is here sir. Good! Beautiful piece. Abhi if you click once in this camera.. Hey please I am not interested in this camera please leave.. ...me alone. But this.. I am not interested. Ok? This lens.. Hey why don't you leave me. Sir I too have a wish sir. What? I want one photograph in the pose of driving a scooter. Sir Pose? That scooter? You better go and work now. Hey what does my scooter lack? "?lt has two wheels, one handle, Hey what are you looking.." ...at me come on work. Ok only it has no paint and.. ...just head lights are missing. But I don't drive at night. Hi! There is no horn that's all but so what? My scooter itself makes so much noise. But I haven't made a single accident as yet. Do you know it sir? You must.. This is only one such camera which is motorized. Do you know what is motorized? No I don't know? I only know two motors. The one which is in the car and the other one..is water pump motor. You dumb! Motorized means.. Ranganna park the car somewhere here. Why are you parking here? Don't talk too much. Just come with me. What is all this? And what is he doing? I am sorry. This is a new motorized.. ...camera. We can have a best picture of you falling from.. "..This chair, that is what he said. It was his idea." Look he is holding the camera. Who me? no not me. Hey I don't know anything about this. He just gave it to me and asked me to press this. Like this. I know this must be his mischief. But whatever you did was wrong. Had anything happened to me? Nothing will happen to you. You are my favorite wife. Hi Veena! Hey welcome doctor. Good you are here. Or else these two would have put my dead body on.. ...your post mortem table now. Why what happened? Nothing. This is a new camera. And if we click in this.. "..It gives step by step, step by step photographs. That's all." Oh! This is Mr. Abhishek. He is a poet and a singer.. ...our friend. And this is doctor Vimla. "The layout engineer, whom I introduced you in the office,.." ...this is his wife. How did you come at this time? How is my friend Abhi? What do you feel? Hey first class photograph. Hey you haven't replied to my question. What did you say? I asked you that what do you think about Abhi? What have I to think about him? I have understood..him very well. "Abhishek, Abhishek.." ...Bharadwaj. A great poet. "Witless, lisp less.." "..moronic, impervious, In animate bag of skin and bones" Did not understand? A son of dumb I said. "You see, hours to gather, I spoke to him but there was.." ...no reaction from his side. He did not utter a single.. ...complete sentence. Only sounds came. Like this. That's all. All these poets are alike I feel. Is he a poet? Silent dumb. Only you can praise.. ...your friend that's all. Hey you have misunderstood him. Is it possible for everyone to be a chatterbox like you? It is very difficult. But he wasn't like this ever before. He was very close to one female. But that did not continue. He loved her very much. Since then he is like this. Like a silent dumb. He doesn't have many friends to share his pains. But he is a very good person and you will definitely like him But he hardly speaks anything. If he continues to be in your company he will.. ...greatly change. Ok but who was that? And now where is she? I don't know. But he doesn't like to speak about it. I very well know what this small brain is thinking about. You want to go ask him about the girl just now. Isn't it? But dare you ask him about it. No no not at all. I won't ask him that way. Why do I need it? But! I don't want any ifs and buts. "But, tell me why does he always wear a sweater?" How would I know? Just to keep himself warm. Oh! Just to feel warm? Means! Hey naughty! Isn't it? Hey you are reading paper yet? Come on make it fast.. ...we are getting late. Where? To the office? What will he do there? After a very long time I have found someone to speak to. To the office he says. You may go but Abhi you.. ...please stay over. Why do you trouble him to get rid of your boredom? Are you not coming'? OK so you are trapped now. You better suffer. All the best. "Hey Hemant, just a minute. Please post this for me." A letter for your mother? I will do it. Bye Postman! See you! Hey! ls that all? See you! See you! Bye "Take this. A knife, cutting plate and carrots." Don't you know how too? No! Then better learn it. Ok! I said ok! Do you write a letter to your mother everyday? "Not everyday but once a week, Or else she starts crying." What do you write in the letter? Beautiful! Your are a sculpture. If you artistically cut like this.. ...it will take at least a week for you to cut all these and.. ...for me to cook and feed you. Give it here. "L asked you, what do you write in the letter?" "In the letter! In the letter, I write everything." Have you written about me too? Yes! What? Just one word. What? Veena! ls that all? That one word has many meanings. Veena means goddess Saraswati. Veena means music. Veena means literature. Veena means everything. Fantastic. I could ever know that my name has so much intensity. That's great. Ok but what is that girl's name Who? That girl! Shruti! Shruti? How is she? She is like you. Yes just like this. She spoke just like this. Come! Come come come come come come sit. Shruti! Tell me about her. She! She was a whimsical type of a girl. Give me a kiss. What? Give me a kiss. What are you looking there. Here! Oh god! Now I feel that I love someone. But why didn't you do this before? For so long I was watching this stone this tree. Ok this tree. Hey shut up Don't you tease me simply. You don't know to kiss yet. Thanks! Means kiss? You may learn it before going. Yes before going.. Hey if you ask me to kiss.. "..You like this, all of a sudden?" You see I have come from a respected family. Don't you know? Then? "While giving you, if some known person passes by.." Hey you! You embarrass me. Now do you feel at ease. That was a sweet kiss. "L don't understand, why are you like this?" You too must be thinking the same. Isn't it? No I don't feel that way. I feel more than that. I feel that I will not stay alive without you. You are always there for me. In case if I die? Hey don't talk rubbish. Just joking. If I die suddenly.. ...what will you do? I too will not stay alive. Great! But do you know what will I do if you die? "L will cry for 5 minutes, No cry for 10 minutes." Then happily search someone else like you. I will definitely find one. I will love him a lot and then.. ...l will make his carrier great. How is my idea? Charismatic. Your brains! Then first you promise me. What promise? That if I die first you too will find some girl like me.. ...and get married? Don't you have any other topic to talk over? First you promise me. Come on promise me. Promise. You bloody witch. You will fulfill your goal somehow. That is Shruti's Speciality. My wishes are always fulfilled. The way I got you. "Whatever she said, I took it as a joke." But she was suffering from blood cancer. Now my Shruti is just a dream I did hurt you by being too inquisitive about Shruti. Sorry. Whatever happened was your past. Please try to forget it. "This house will give you a change, newness to your life" lam sure it will give you a new life. Please trust me. Is all set? Yes sir. The file? Ok get ready for the crane shot. Hey go and get the crane. Stella! Yes sir Go and get Mrs. Janaki. Ok ok ok come on girls. Boys take your bikes. Come on come on come on. Caroline come here That looks better. Come on take your bike. Hey why do you hold it like that? Those are banners "Hold them like banners, cross. Hey why do you come.." ...in between. Sir the boss is calling you. Hey you are the assistant director isn't it? "While coming to the cabin you carry all pen, pencils.." ...papers but you forget your brains there. Hey why do you look at me like that? Don't you know me? I am the layout engineer. What is the matter now sir? "All of them are wearing a cap, But why not you?" The boss is calling you. Please go fast. Excuse me sir did you call me? I had given you clear instructions. In the confusions you created four of them lost the head.. ...lights and two of them were injured. One two three four five I had calculated properly Shut up. "Sir I had given them clear instructions, but they.." "..confused themselves with left right, left right and so.." No no no. The date today is 29th "ln a month if you break two head lights, three mirrors.." "..half a dozen plates, cups and saucers beyond numbers" Our profit gets covered up in recovering all the damages.. ...created by you Please be careful. Ok sir. Sir but do you know one thing lam not hurt as yet. You don't but you hurt others. Now go and get things.. ...ready for the next short. Ok sir! But who else it could have been. Oh he is one. It has to be someone known. Just hold this These are the photographs.. ...which were clicked that day with that motorized camera.. "..L am looking totally dull in this, all of them out focused." All were clicked by you. Hello! Where are you? Once again thinking of Shruti? Come on forget the past.. ...and live happily. Shruti was right. You search some girl like her and get married. You are an artist. You need a partner. Search.. "..For someone who is like you, who could encourage.." ...you make you alive. But you cannot if you sit.. ...like this. You have to change. Keep smiling. Ok? Come on now smile Smile!! "Hemant, your friend has 32 teeth. Two more than you?" "This beautiful morning, In this cool varanada" "in between both of us," "This beautiful morning, In this cool varanada" "on the heart beat's tune. Your silence is the music" "your breath is emotion, Your smile is like flower.." ...in the lyrics. "This beautiful morning, In this cool varanada" "in between both of us," "every day, every moment My dear I see you dancing.." ...in my songs. This heart brings smile and want you.. ...to keep smiling My sweet heart. My sweet heart your living is my blessing for life. My sweet heart to win you is my goal of life. You are the one who has inculcated these tunes.. ...in my heart. I want to go hand in hand to capture.. ...this whole world. That is my dream. This beautiful.. "This beautiful morning, In this cool varanada" "in between both of us," "The tunes, the tunes are my first inspirations." My heart is full of fragrance Your words are mesmerizing Let this breath be your breath and make a new breath Let it name our song as Kaveri Kalarava In the company of your shadow I beg for the.. "..Beautiful voice, give your dream a new name and.." ...popularize it. "This beautiful morning, In this cool varanada" "in between both of us," "This beautiful morning, In this cool varanada" "on the heart beat's tune. Your silence is the music" "your breath is emotion, Your smile is like flower.." ...in the lyrics. Beautiful! You have sung incredibly I did not know that you had so much talent. Hey do you mean it Yes I mean it You sung incredibly I haven't heard by my ears but by my heart. That coolness of your song Hey poet poet you have started again. Please let me go. What have they written about the Kodai canal weather? Kodai canal condition is ok But Abhi's condition is not ok Why? What happened? He is leaving for his native today. Abhi? Mother is all alone so I need to go. Abhi whatever you are doing is not right. You promised me that I will decide things for you. Have you forgotten? Forgive me but I need to go I have made such a good plan. We three of us will be going.. ...to Kodai canal for some four five days "I have really persuaded him for this plan, do you know that?" Now he has agreed for it and in such a situation you say.. ...that you are going? Listen! Why don't you tell.. ...him something It is up to you both. Please leave me alone. What is this? Don't you have any responsibility? Please please listen to me. Next month I am coming.. "..Back again, then we can carry out this plan" He says that he has some important work. Let him go. What ok? Why ok? He is not going. He is coming with us "Look Abhi, among us whom do you like the most?" "Me, isn't it? I know it. Then in that case will you hurt me?" I will really feel bad if you don't come. Please promise me.. ...that you will come. Promise? Please! Please? Great! We will have a great time. Listen you said you have a friend in.. ...Kodai canal? Ask him to arrange for a cottage I will make things ready for our trip. I am very happy that you have agreed to come. She is very sensitive. She is attached to you. She hasn't said it formally. She means it. And she has said it from her heart. "Madam I am so sorry, I will not be able to come with you.." ...to Kodai canal. My daughter is getting delivered. I received her letter from Bombay so I need to go.. ...there as she is a motherless child. Please don't.. ...misunderstand me. "Yes you can definitely go, our tour is not so important." But that driver is a problem now. Madam shall I arrange for another driver? No its alright. I will take care of it. Yes. "Hey wait, let me get down first. Oh what a bag." Oh it is so cold here. Hey come on all of you.. ...get down. Kodai canal is here. Hey who the hell is the engineer? Look at the way he has constructed the hotel Sir I will go there and arrange for the rooms for all. Okay! Hey come on all of you get down and get your luggages my friend was to send his cottage man. He hasn't reached as yet. Did he know the exact time? Excuse me who is Mr. Hemant here. That's me. You are Mrs. Veena. Hemant's wife. And you are Mr. Abhishek. The singer. Can he sing well. Does he sing well? Hey is your wife deaf? Yes yes he sings well. I am peter. The cottage manager. Come on. What are you looking at me like this. Come on. Come on! Hey everybody come on follow me. Hey look don't touch the flowers here. Keep it there Where? Agreed that you are deaf But are you blind too? Cant you see? I said keep it there. Hey what is this so much luggage you are carrying. Do have the plans of shifting here forever? What is this? how much he speaks? Hey talk according to your age. These days you have to speak according to a person. Or else they will shave you off. Come on sit. Hey where is the driver? Why if I will drive will the car not move? Do you have a license? I will get it When? After five years. Will you keep talking like this? All these are too much. Hey what did you say? I just spoke to myself that's all. Look all of you. Keep this chit with you. And follow one.. ...another so that you don't get misplaced. Sir which rooms have lake view? All the rooms on this side have lake view. Ok then give us one corner room on that side. Ok the corner room. Let me check it out. From a corner room we can have the view of the lake.. ...from both the sides Sorry sir those room have been already allotted to.. ...to your people. Good god! Hey Narendra! Hey forget it. Please come What difference does it make? ls it? Ok then which other room is vacant? Sir room number twenty three. OK twenty three. Hey sweety that's your age. Ok on which floor does it come It is underground sir Hey what is this. Sir that was the only room available. You see we have come to Kodai canal to see the lake If we stay underground how will we see the lake Listen come on hold this Why don't you understand. Come lets go But how will we be able to see the lake? Please come. But I am not comfortable. This is a hotel do you know this? Yes I understand whatever you say . So have we to go upstairs? Hey under ground. Hey take off your hand Why do you push me down Come on be quick Your boss must be waiting. "Hey those looks, And those lightening lifes" "those sweet talks of those eyes" those puzzles solved Those songs of eyes. "Those revolving wishes, I am in the eyes of those.." ...giant wheels in which I will get merged singing all the time lets see the heaven and experience the pleasures here "hey those looks, And those lightening lives" "those sweet talks of those eyes" those puzzles solved the soul And teaching That is a flowery soul.. ".."The one which gives your body those tickling experience" And teaches and makes you write the lyrics That's the flowery soul The one who inspires you to write and enters your soul And penetrates your hearty wishes. In those blooming buds And in those longing hearts. "L will enter, singing all the time." lets see the heaven and experience the pleasures here The dream it seems The sky full of thoughts In the company of beautiful flowers There is a wonderful dream. Search it any where Scatter the honey everywhere "Along with the ambitions is The milky dream" Within a moment it holds the corner of your veil Within the beautiful young girls Are the springs which can.. "..Beat the songs in those lovely dreams" "lets get merged into it and sing with it" lets see the heaven and experience the pleasures here "hey those looks, And those lightening lives" those talks of your heart The lyrics written by the poet. Those songs of the dreams Those formulas which can.. ...fill your chest. I want to be in the .. ...company of this giant wheel I will merge in it and keep.. ...singing. The heaven is here and lets see it. Lets get merged and sing. The heaven is here and lets see it. Good morning! I will just go and have a stroll When you get up make the coffee ready. Get up Get up Get up Come on come on come on This Kodai canal is chilled This Kodai canal is chilled This Kodai canal is chilled This Kodai canal is chilled Hey what is this? Sir what are you doing? Hello Mr. Peter how are you? Fine How did you wake so early? If everyone demands for bed tea who will go and get milk? So I am going now By the way whose photos.. ...are you clicking? "This fog, dew drops, those beautiful flowers" Everything is beautiful. Ok in that case click the photos of those insects.. "..Caterpillars and bugs, they too are beautiful." "Beautiful, beautiful. Oh yes I forgot to tell you.. ...one thing. There is a mountain here. All the tourists definitely visit there. If you stand there see around You will be just abashed. Why is it so? The sunset view is wonderful from there. I hope you know what is sunset. "First click the sunset, Instead you keep clicking.." "..the photos of those insects, bugs, caterpillars." Now that you have told me I will definitely do it. Ok tell me how far is it? Just ahead of next turning. Only twelve kilometers. "You are a big man. Ok, What is all this?" I can only see a big coat. Where are other things. It is better to look this way If you look over size.. ...they will not spare you. Forget these clothes now Tomorrow morning go.. "..And get a very good sweater, only your size.." ...sweater you will definitely look good. This is for a sweater and this is for a good sweater. So Mr. Photographer? Did you find anything to click? Where is Abhi? He is sleeping Ok tell me. What to tell? You have come confusions in your mind. There is no confusion in my mind. It is chilled outside. Your body must shiver due to cold and not your mind. Don't get involved in your notions and morning dreams Sweetie get ready quickly we are getting late. Everyone is waiting there. Tell me how long we have been married? It is past seven years. Correct. Seven years! It makes how many seconds? You always said I am good at such calculations so let me.. "..Tell you. It is twenty two cores, seven lakes and.." ...fifty two thousand seconds. I have been living every.. ...second of my life with you. Same way as I can hear.. ...your heart beat. I immediately come to know.. ...even if you are not with me for a moment. "In the kitchen, you were not with me for almost ...200 seconds. Where did your mind go? There isn't any serious problem. We need not upset ourselves. Don't make this little mind.. ...over work by imposing such big calculations on it. By chance if I speak something romantic.. ...it sounds weird. Hey your heart beat is fast. It seems that it is struggling to tell me something. What does it want to say? Hey your heart! What does it say? It says that quietly go to the kitchen and make the.. ...breakfast ready. It is telling me something more. It is telling me that it loves me a lot lot lot. Oh god! If someone falls down this cliff? You will get one more body for postmortem. That's all. So what is it Mrs. Janaki? My wife was asking some thing and I replied some.. Hey No! What the hell are you doing? A single mistake and she will lose here life. What made you get so scared? Do you think I will lose her so easily? Hey singer! I have searched you everywhere. Why? Why? Hold my hand. Have you ever loved anyone? Why are you staring at me.. ...like this? . I haven't asked you whether you have killed.. ...someone but have you loved someone ever? I have loved a girl. I must meet her in the evening But there is one problem What is it? Your friend Mr. soda wants to go to sunset point to click.. ...some photographs. And I have agreed to take him there But I will not be able to go with him. I hope you understand my love problem Will you please do me one favor? Will you please take him there? Take these keys. OK'. Thank you. You too look out for some girl and love her. Alright. Good evening! You are sleeping like a small girl. A sweet little smile within your lips. Dreaming? I will not wake you. You are looking very beautiful.. ...today. Why is it there today. You see I am going to click some photographs of .. ...sunset. Don't wake up till I come. Sleep peacefully.. ...my sweet heart. This place is very beautiful. I liked it very much. What is wrong with your mood When are you going back? You haven't answered my.. ...question? I was to go the same day but you forced me to stay. Now you ask me to go back? I don't understand anything. There is always a place near the main door which.. ...everyone knows. One day Duryodhan's wife Bhanumati and his friend.. "..Karna, both are playing ludo In the fear of losing Bhanumati" ...leaves the game and is about to go. But Karna holds here hand and forces her to play. While doing like this the pearl garland around here waist.. ...breaks and all the pearls scatter everywhere. On that very moment Duryodhana comes there. Husband may misunderstand so the wife is scared. And friend may misunderstand so Karna is scared. "At that very moment Duryodhana, without getting.." ...mentally disturbed asks whether to pick the pearls or.. ...to put them in the thread He trusts both of them till.. ...this happens. My wife Veena is Bhanumati. And I can be her husband Duryoudhana. Will you be able to become Kama? I very well know that it is impossible for you. When I can understand your imaginations so very well.. ...how wouldn't I understand the fact. "You had decided to go back to your native, but you did not." The reason is the new but bad intentions which are born.. ...inside your heart. You are not the same Abhi.. ...l knew. Now I understand the meaning of that song.. ...which you sang that day. You sang it for Veena do you deny? Your intensions to touch Veena.. "..On the cottage door, taking care of those gloves" "That scream, thinking that I will push Veena down the cliff" I understood it very well. I cannot get angry on you. I am feeling bad about it. Enough now! This should not continue Abhi. You must go back You must go far away from us. Do you know why am l.. ...asking you to go back? Veena understands my.. ...every single movement. Yesterday she immediately.. ...and correctly asked me.. - what was the matter with me? I did not tell her anything. Somehow I managed. How will I tell her that my friend has this kind of wish. But if she asks me once again I will not be able to hide it. "L may tell it. If she knows this," How will you show your face to her? I will arrange for your journey back Abhi! Abhi! Abhi! Hello daddy. At last god bestowed his.. ...grace on me. Yes Hemant a little one is coming to our.. ...house. Do you know how happy I am? "Come, come close to me hold me tight. I want to see into.." "your eyes. I will see my little one in it. Come on come fast. That! That! Jeep! An accident occurred. Hemant! I am sorry. He is.. Buy a very good sweater. A perfect size sweater You will look good. I and Hemant had gone to the cliff to click some.. ...photographs of sunset. He was standing at the edge of the cliff. I was warning him about the danger. He said that he wanted a very good picture of the sunset.. ...so he took the jeep to the edge he tried to stop it but.. ...it did not stop. I did not understand what to do. Being very scared I ran away from there. I came to the police station and informed about this. That is what happened. "Here is a song of love" Whether it is day or night.. ...how will I stay without you. My life river is your life. You smile my heart full And never get erased from my life. Now how is she doctor. Everything will be alright. Due to the mental shock.. ...it will at least take three months to recover. But I couldn't save her child. Perhaps it must have.. ...cause damage when she fell down. Take good care of her. Don't leave here alone. There has to someone.. ...always with her. Rest everything is up to you. Now I will take your leave. Come on Abhishek there is no one here with madam. First her husband and now her child. He has totally collapsed. It will be better if you stay.. ...here till she recovers. Please! Yes if you stay with her it will be of great help to her. She needs someone who will understand her. I will be visiting her once a day. Forget about the office work. I will handle it. Please agree to it. Please! Ok! "Oh my heart, this life is for you." This breath is for you. "If my love is a lie then the whole world is a lie" Oh my heart oh my heart. You are my love river. Who ultimately unites. In these tangle of time I became a puppet. You gave a new meaning to the page of my life. Why do I need this life if I forget you. "Oh my heart! I cannot forget your love, whatever I do" Oh my heart wish oh my heart. "Oh my heart, this life is for you." This breath is for you. Abhi! Why did you get up. Had you called me I would.. ...have come. "Don't climb down the stairs, you will.." ...exert yourself. Do you need anything? I I am getting scared. Why? What is there to get scared? I feel that something is wrong with my baby. Everything is very silent. You see don't think about all that. I am scared that I may not hear my baby calling me mom Abhi is my baby alright in the stomach. You see I need to go and get your medicines. Doctor has asked you to take medicines. You haven't recovered as yet. I need to go now or else the.. ...shop may close. Abhi you just talking about my health why aren't you.. ...talking about my baby. Is something wrong with my baby? Your hands are shivering. Are you scared of telling me something? Yes if I look into your eyes I clearly understand. My baby is no more in my stomach. Isn't it? Had you been to Veena's house? - Yes. How is she now? Poor thing how long will.. ...she be all alone? If Abhi goes back? Ok did Abhi say anything about going back? He hasn't said that and it doesn't look like as if he.. ...intend to say it. Means? Since so many days I have been analyzing his.. ...behavior with Veena. It is quiet weird. Is it only friendship or something else? Why do you doubt? I don't understand the way Veena behaves. "Her speech, her looks, her thoughts are all different." How will you understand? You always deal with dead.. ...bodies. Listen to what I am saying. Abhishek loves Veena What are you saying? "Yes sweetie, what is my job? To assemble whatever is here" "When I analyze whatever you are saying, I come to a.." ...conclusion that Abhisekh loves Veena. No doubt about it. Isn't it wrong? How can it be wrong? Agreed that she loved.. ...hemant immensely but think about Veena's future. Is it possible to live your whole life only with the help of.. ...old memories? She has a very big life ahead. I am Abhishek's mother. Oh come in. Isn't Abhi at home? He has gone to the office. He should be here by now. Please be seated. You see I did not know about this. I haven't received any letter from Abhi since three four.. ...months. Yesterday all of a sudden I received his letter.. ...l felt very bad so came to see you. Though your husband was not born to me but he is.. ...like my son. What is it dear? I haven't hurt anyone in any way. Then why did this happen to me? Veena see this. These are some letters Abhi wrote It looks like he is in love with some girl. Are they letters? They are just poems. I haven't understood a single word. Just read them and see if you understand them? I feel as if I got back my Shruti. The resemblance of her.. "..Smile, mischief. The song which was Shruti's favorite.." ...is her favorite too. She is Shruti and this is the.. ...instrument which accompanies Shruti. She is the nectar to my dry and boring life. Dear could you make out who must be the girl? No I haven't. But gradually I will take to.. ...Abhi about this and get the information. But please do not tell him that you have showed me these letters.. ...he may misunderstand. Just see that phone call must be for you. That's the reason I always tell you that keep off the phone. Hello? Is it Vimla? This is Veena Speaking. Sorry I have disturbed your sleep. No not to worry. Tell me what is the matter? I want to speak to urgently Something important. Will you come and see me without fail. Sure. Abhi why are you sitting in the dark? Mother I am scared. Why? What happened? I Hemant.. I very well know that you and Hemant were very good friend Hemant was a very good person. So god called him there. We must try to forget.. ...this as early as possible my son. Yes but still I am scared. Don't worry nothing will happen. Your mother is beside you. Nothing will happen. You could have stayed for a week at least. "Yes I would have stayed, but all of a sudden I had to come.." "..leaving all the work there., Secondly there is no to.." ...look at the work over there. Whatever mother says is right. Let her go. Veena come there and stay with us for some days You have a change and will fell better too. If you continue staying in the place where he has lived.. ...then it is difficult to forget. No mother I will not be able to keep myself away from.. ...his memories. These memories have healed.. ...my wounds. Perhaps after some time I will definitely.. ...be able to come. Hello! Come Vimla. This is.. ...doctor Vimla. This is Abhishek's mother. What is it Veena why did you call me? Just wait for some time. We will talk after some time. But I have to go to the court. To the court? Yes in some murder case I have to go and clarify some.. ...things so they have called me. He has been brutally hammered on the head. Do you know who is the witness for it? A camera which was by chance lying there. Has automatically clicked some photographs while.. ...the murder was taking place. The murderer was caught. I have written in the.. ...postmortem report that the person has died out of brain.. ...hammerage. ...Now they have been investigating.. ...through those photographs. They may prove me wrong. This a big headache. Hey are you standing here quietly? Come on make it fastlf I get late I will miss my but. Veena shall I take your leave now? Keep writing to me. Come on I am going doctor. Ok mother! Good mother and a good son. Abhishek is loving me. Did he say this to you? He hasn't said it himself. I was about to tell you this. Abhishek is a good person. How long will you stay all alone. Abhishek has understood you very well. You are my friend so you are telling me this with a good.. "..Intention," I know it. You and for the whole world.. ...l am all alone I don't have a husband But for me my Heman is always with me. Always. He is all around this house. I can hear his every heart beat "While working in the kitchen, helping me." While having lunch he made me laugh While playing a piano his mischief with the fingers. While combing my hair his blowing out the air. I remember each and everything. When I walk he too walks with me. I see him and feel him everywhere. Me and my husband are very happy in this house. I am sorry. Why do you say sorry? You said it out of love. Doesn't matter. Like me Abhishek too must have told you out of love. Don't compare yourself with Abhishek. It is not the love which was born now It was since then when my husband was alive. He always looked at me that way. But we did not know about this. What are you saying? I read the letters he wrote to his mother. Then I came to know this He is a good person. Iam not angry on him. But I don't want him to stay.. ...here and have some hopes about me. Since I have known this I am not able to speak to him.. ...properly. Please send him back. That's true. You don't worry. I will talk to him. Do you know who is the witness for it? The camera which was lying there The camera was on when this happened and has recorded.. ...everything that happened there. You see I want three copies of this. Okay sir. Sir I want your signature on this. Oh Ranganna! When did you come? I am today itself. What is all this happened. He was such a good person. Will we be able to see such.. ...a boss again? What can be done. It is all destined. Did you meet madam? No sir. She always had a laughing face. Now how will I be able to see that face. I wont be able to face here sir. Don't worry from tomorrow you join the office again.. ...everything will go alright. Alright! But sir why do they print wrong things in the paper. Show me what have they written? "Sir just see this, the news about his death." They have written that he drove the jeep and out of.. So what is wrong in it. Sir look at this. He could never drive in the.. ...open ground then how will he drive on the mountiain. How can they write like this sir. You see speak slowly. Madam is recovering now.. ...now don't tell her about this or else she it may give her.. ...a great shock. You see give tis paper to me.. ...l will look into this matter. Don't tell this to anyone. From tomorrow you resume your duty. Yes sir what do you want? Do you have a camera? Yes which camera? Motorized camera? Just a minute I will show you. This is Yshica this is Minolta. How much is this for? This is for twenty four thousand sir. How to open this? Good morning madam Come be seated. Thank you ls everything alright in the office. I have come to ask you one thing What is it? We have claimed sir's insurance. But there is a.. ...some problem. What problem? The statement says that the jeep fell into the valley while.. "..Our boss was driving it, so they are asking for his.." ...driving his license. Which statement? The one which is given to the police Who gave it? Abhisekh! That day you were in a great shock. "Police enquiry, hospital and the new place, it was all a.." ...a big mess. In that situation we could not speak to you. Mr. Abhishek had handled everything. His driving license? Does he have one? Driving license! Yes he has. I will search for it and as soon as I get it I will send it.. ...to the office. Ok madam Shall I leave? Sir sir the tree the tree sir. Wait wait wait wait Oh god I am saved. This is impossible for me. I cannot do it. Ranganna that's your job Sir driving is very easy. It is Bramhavidya. "And after you learn it, it is technique." I don't want any learning You are the driver and you.. ...do the driving. Sir as said please try a bit. It is not so easy as I thought. Clutch. Accelarator. Stiring. Gear. Oh god! Hello driver! Shall I tell you the truth? The truth? I don't know driving. Who gave it? Abhishek. Have you come? The food is ready and l.. ...have been waiting for you since so long. Where had you been? Come on lets have food. This is all your favorite. Since so many days i.. ...couldn't pay attention to you. So today I thought that.. At least I can do this for the favors that you have done.. I had gone to clean your room I saw this camera beneath your bed. These things are to be kept properly so ljust kept.. ...it in a safe place. Do you want it? No. While removing it I saw that it had exposed negatives. I have developed them and have printed. Have food. These were the last photos.. ...clicked by Hemant. Each photo tells a story. Look at this. See how well the cobweb has been made by.. ...the spider to trap its pray. Isn't it good? See all the other photos too. Beautiful Very beautiful Really.. Really beautiful. Camera was his best friend. It always accompanied him. Exactly like you. You are not eating anything. Have it. Thanks. Good night. Oh you are here? I searched all over there. I want you to do a small favor. After a very long time I feel.. ...fresh and happy. I want to give a small party to.. "..The office staff, Vimala's family to share my.." ...happiness. What do you say? If you will be happy with it then definitely it could be given "I won't be able to arrange for it all alone, you too will have.." ...to help me. Ofcourse! There is a small surprise to you in the party. Good evening - Good evening madam. - Good evening madam. Hello! - Hello! Good evening. Hello. - Good evening madam Thanks to everybody. You all have a question.. ...in your mind and that is to know the reason of this party. And the answer is marriage. My marriage. I am going to get married. What exactly does this silence means? Should I take it as your affirmation or should I think.. ...that I am going against the society rules and you are.. ...surprised to hear it. First time when my friend.. ...suggested me about this I was very angry. But now I feel that whatever she said has some meaning.. I have changed my mind. After this party gets over.. ...you all will go home. "Your parents,.." "..brother, sister, husband wife son daughter any one of.." ...of them must be waiting for you. For me? For me this lonely house. I have only those memories I have become lonely. I just kept wishing. If anyone of you would have.. ...faced this situation how would you handle it? Thanks. Can we know who is the groom? A person whom I am getting married is a good person.. ...he has shared all my sorrows Mr. Abhishek Bharadwaj Congratulations. Congrats. - Thanks. "Breeze, the cool breeze is all around" "the breeze called you is in my breath" My love is an eternal history. Your separation is the last.. "..Gift, I am just waiting for you." Tunturu here is one song of water. Listen please give me some strength. Here is our love song Do you know what I feel when I see you sitting like this? You look exactly the same when you had come to our.. ...house for the first time. Same quiet face. Without consulting you I announced our marriage. Because I know that you love me. I came to know is after reading the letters you wrote to.. ...your mother. I gave it a good thought. The thought said no. But the heart said yes. I listened to my heart and.. ...l felt that was fair. I accepted the happiness of this heart. You too are happy isn't it? Yes very much Very much. I am unable to express it. So then sing a song. Which song? A lullaby. Lullaby song. Lullaby. Not the lullaby which you sing for a baby but a lullaby.. ...which a husband sings for a wife. You did not understand? Good evening. You are sleeping like a.. ...small baby. A little smile in your lips. Dreaming? I will not wake you up. Hey you look very.. ...beautiful today. How has the moon come down? I am going to click some photos of sunset. You don't wake up till I come back. Sleep peacefully. I will come and wake you up my baby. I must tell you one important thing. Shall I? I really love you very much. I love you. I love you very much. It is difficult to sing this lullaby. Never mind sing it some.. ...other time. There is ample of time. Lets talk about the marriage. But before marriage I want.. ...you to do one thing for me. Tell me. Please come. You both had same likings. He too liked nature. He loved sunset. Do you know what have l.. ...to tell you? I feel that we must go.. ...to that place where Hemant had his last breath while.. ...clicking the sunset photo. Let us now click and add.. ...it to this room. That is what I wish. This is my small.. ...contribution to rest his soul in peace. Will you please take me there before marriage? Yes definitely. When to we go? Tomorrow? Ok! Thanks! We will start early morning. Why did you stop there? Come. Please hold this. What is this? Photos? No! these are some important documents. I will tell you later about them. The sunset is very beautiful today. My husband's death is not a natural death. It is a murder. "Hey did you see there, how a sparrow flew away exactly.." ...from the front of the sun. I wish I could have clicked. I know that you have killed him. Hey look at the sun behind the clouds. Beautiful! I know the reason you killed him. I also know the way you did it. Just remove it and see. Look at them. Didn't I tell you that this camera is my husband's.. ...true friend. It has never left him alone. It that witness enough? I can give it to the police.. ...and you will be proved guilty. You will be punished too Imprisonment for fourteen years. But that is not sufficient.. ...for the sins you have done. That is too small a punishment. God had given me the most wonderful husband. I and Hemant were strangers to each other and were born.. ...in two different corners of the earth. "We grew, he has no one. I too had no one.." God brought us close. He and me become us. "And after that our life was just happiness, happiness and.." ...only happiness. We did not know anything other than that Why did you come in between us. How cruel you are. His life was just an arm away. It was struggling. The support of your one hand was.. ...sufficient. Hemant had pushed himself to it but.. ...you killed him. You haven't killed only Hemant but.. ...his baby and me too. All three of us. You must get a bigger punishment for this crime. Hold this. Your hands are shivering Were they shivering like this when they killed Hemant? Didn't they shiver when you burnt his body? How could you think that you can own me after you kill him Did you dreamt of leading a happy married life with me? You were so happy when I announced our marriage. I said it so that you must experience that happiness. That was the last happy moment of your life. After this what will remain for you is just hell. You killed my husband so that you can possess me. Isn't it? If you don't get me? Will you stay alive? You will stay alive. You will suffer every moment.. ...of your life. You will die longing for me. And that will be the right punishment for your sin. You did not get me. You will not get me. You will not get me. Tunturu here is song of water And there is a love song. Tunturu here is song of water And there is a love song. Whether it is day or night How will I stay without you? My river of life is your life. You eternally stay in my heart. Why do I forget you. "Tunturu here is song of water And there is a love song."
