 

                        This is Sigma2162 for party Alpha do you copy? Call confirmed, this is Alpha 3106 for base Sigma, go What is your 10-20 [location] now Party Alpha's heading north along Quai Branly left of the Seine Roger [understood] You, what's going on? We're monitoring you on the GPS, you're off routine Copy Charlie Fox is requesting we travel on the Alma bridge Rightbank, through the Arc de Triomphe, place Ch.de Gaulle Copy that Make sure the fox doesn't wander too far About lunch arrangements, we are eating here I gave instruction to have lunch with Cooper I'm not eating in that greasy spoon Understood, I'll make the reservation Where do we meet for dinner? Sardine galette Sardine, is that "iwashi" ? (in Japanese) No way, no way! He can't stand blue fish Minister We are back again on Route, Haussmann bd We are nearing our destination Roger Keep in mind this info could entrap Charlie Fox Please don't walk away Minister please get back inside Minister back inside Inside please Stay with the cars Stay with the cars Manuel, it's you! It's me Cooper, you don't recall? Dear Cooper, how are you? You haven't changed Dear friend Mr. Murakami? What a pleasure to see you here, sir Year ago, back in my student days, this caf was Right behind the Sorbonne, I always used to go there Then later whenever I came back to Paris I would always drop in And then one year I went by and the owner had close up shop Moved away Oh, I see Now here's the funny thing, Yesterday my secretary receives An anonymous call saying That same caf had just relocated So naturally I rushed right over Mr.Murakami This is the best galette in all Paris Oh, yes of course By the way Scr.Cooper Yes About the upcoming summit We are planning to submit a proposal To press formal restrictions on banks on money laundering I believe, if you have the approval of the US Then the European countries who are opposed, will... Aaah, I see It was you Mr.Murakami, wasn't it? I beg your pardon? That call yesterday about this caf Right? Ah Yes, as a matter of fact it was Hmm, c'est bon ! Today was a good day This is on the house Merci Your cars are blocking the way Do something I can't even go on errands Are you crazy? Who do you think you are? The lady can't walk through Move your cars Merci Move all guys Andalucia Principality of Andorra between France and Spain He has not come back yet from the skiing slopes Alright Gracias De nada Hello, is this Mr. Kawashima? I am Miss Ruka Shindo from Victor Bank Ah Please Please, let me talk to Mr. Lucas Please Mr. Lucas But Mr. Lucas is in Europe at the moment Please It cannot go on Let me talk to him "incorrect password" Night skiing is coming to an end The skiing runs are closing soon Ladies and Gentlemen We all know about so-called tax havens It refers to a preferential tax rate To attract investments from wealthy countries But when banks insist on strict confidentiality To protect assets and data for customers Linked to mafia and terrorist organizations raising funds The situation becomes illegal Through activities of money laundering See for example the secrecy in Swiss banks The Japanese government proposes new measures For the supervision of bank policy in Tax Havens Germany please According to the OECD agreement (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) Most tax havens are Committed to maintain a legal tax policy Italy This situation is under control And Money laundering is a problem of the past There is still a need for Financial measures To regulate illegal operations We, the G8 countries Should make all possible effort To backup the action of such institutions Italy If you proceed any further it will be considered Interference with national internal policy Hello? Have you heard what's going on in Andorra? In Andorra? On the Spanish border? A Japanese citizen has been killed I see Can you handle it The summit just started The victim is the son of The chief of police I got it The situation is difficult This is so sudden For my next assignment Could I really go back to Japan? Really? I got it All valuables have been stolen, cell, bank cards, watch The thieve entered through the balcony, killed the victim And robbed him Burglary turned into Murder Where's the bullet? Shot through the window toward the outside Not a chance to find it in the snow We'll have to wait for thawing in spring What the heck?! This is a police crime scene Inspector, these gentlemen are from Interpol The name is Koutari Are you in charge here? Yes sir, yes sir Tell me what you found so far? Who was first on the scene? I wanted to pay a visit to Mr. Kawashima Suddenly I heard gunshots How many shots? One, it seems It sounded several people were inside I got scared I went straight to the front desk So you entered with the receptionist You Found Kawashima was already dead We realized immediately he'd been robbed Please go on Mr. Kawashima is one of my customers At Victor Bank where I work I'm not directly in charge of his account But because he does not speak Spanish Sometimes I help with the translation So who's in charge of his account? I'm sorry I'm not in a position to disclose bank information Did you see any suspicious-looking characters? No For example the voices, what language? What country? I couldn't tell Your name's Kuroda, right? Yes This inquiry being confidential Just refrain please The point is, there is no Japanese Embassy here And I also need to understand the crime The probability of a burglary is high In any case We'll send the documents and belongings to the Embassy And speed up paperwork to send his body Really? Thank you for taking the time Are you alright? If there's anything, please contact me Goodbye This is the avalanche in Andorra Roads to France are cut off You are stuck there? Yes The summit just started I should be able to get back in time in Paris Right You should seize the opportunity to ski Why not Bank Victor of Andorra Anyway the police say it's a robbery No chance it would be terrorist related Then it's in the hands of Interpol I heard the victim is the son of the chief of police So the Metropolitan Police has been dispatched in a haste And with them around We don't need to interfere As for us we have more important matters on our hands So please hurry back to Paris This is all for transportation paperwork There is nothing we need you for anymore Please wait This is your belongings Excuse us for the bother, we are just doing our job Gracias I'll take you to your place If you please This way, please How come you're not back in Paris? An avalanche blocks the way Is there anything...? It's cold out here, could we talk inside I don't have spare time Let's go If you are so sure it's a burglary What's the sudden itch? For someone into hotel burglary Easy access is a priority The risk is too high to rob A room too hard to reach or run away from But the perpetrator Of all rooms Purposefully chose Kawashima's room He was sleeping with the light off The burglar thought the occupant was out Even this isn't sufficient explanation Why? The fog on the window The fog I saw the photo of the scene The inside surface Of the broken glass was frozen At the moment of breaking, freezing air rushed in And it froze the inside fog So there was fog on the inside of the window The burglar could see it easily From the outside So he knew there was someone A burglar does not choose such a room It is a night of festivities He could have found as many empty rooms as he wished Don't you think? I don't know anyth... You got a point But then again there is the other option The burglar targets rich people That is He had a plan to abduct Kawashima And he killed him when he resisted In any case... I'm grateful for your input Victor bank What if Interpol decided To investigate our bank Don't worry It's all a matter of money What worries me more is their witness One of our employees She talked to Interpol for a long time Pedro Close the window Nothing else is gonna happen tonight I say, we go back to our hotel and pour ourselves a drink After you finish Hey? Hey you, move your car You park here and no one can pass Sorry about that Otherwise others can get through Pedro, let's go Koutari, come on Oh! What are you running from? Let go of me Do not move Let go of me What the hell are you doing? Let her go Stop Don't move Put the gun down Put the gun down immediately Come with me Waking people at late hours! What happened? In addition that window letting the cold in I can not believe it Are you going to explain? I am sorry I don't speak Spanish This kid does not speak Spanish No good, she got away Good evening I reported her to the police Where is she? Good thing we had her GPS-tagged She's heading for Spain I will contact the border They won't stop him What? He's got a diplomatic passport Gracias De nada Border checkpoint: Spain and Andorra Tell me Where are we heading to? Barcelona consulate Barcelona? Andorra is attached to Paris Embassy's jurisdiction But Barcelona is the closest Who was your aggressor? I don't know Hot, isn't it? What? Dressed like that You were ready to go somewhere? I was ready to go out to eat Barcelona, Spain The consulate should protect her? Because of a summit in Paris, I'm too busy Is that right Well if you please But in this case I Should first contact the Andorran police They won't accept the principle of that protection What can I do? So far there are no precedents Who cares about precedents What? One of the missions of the consulate Is to protect our citizen's lives and property, right? What's got into you? We should protect her unconditionally Am I right Mr.Kuroda? You're acquainted? You're on a case right? Makes you happy I don't know what happened to you since Rome Now I've officially become a diplomat Is that right? Tell me what happened By any chance Is she involved in Andorra's murder case? I gotta go Got it As usual, not too good at sharing Please If you need anything just call She is in Barcelona? According to the police Interpol is interested in the Japanese girl If she started to talk, it would be bad for us Probably something true in that rumor about Lucas And the Spanish investment bank When you're ready, it is time Take care of her quickly Handle it your way You seem to bring trouble in your luggage again You contacting me is quite rare I read your article The collapse of a tax haven You know something about a Victor bank in Andorra? You are interested in money laundering banks? Answer my question I heard a fair amount of their transactions is illegal Now such countries are aware of the international disapproval And paradoxically, the steps taken Against their trafficking Have made them more frantically active I see By the way, lately Victor bank losses customers This is it "Dummy gas field investment" Investors were tipped by an anonymous informant Possibly those investments were laundering money So you came? I wanted to surprise you I'll see you again Again you're sure? I was not sure I could climb the human pyramid Then you did Catalonia tomorrow sunny Lerida and Gerona north Maximum temperatures will reach Barcelona and Tarragona tomorrow warm temperature The mission arrives from Roma after 23:00 Takeshi and I are in charge of the pick-up Then we rush straight to the hotel How about Dinner arrangement They'll have eaten when they arrive yet... She's on the move Quick, jump in She's heading south What? I am sorry Taxi Taxi It's got to be that taxi You sure? No diplomat The taxi is heading to Trafalgar st Get there before them OK Turn there Watch it! You bastard! Please let me through Sorry Pedro Where are you going? Tough luck I took your catch right under your nose I was only protecting her As a Japanese citizen Gimme a hand Let me first catch my breath Wait I have something to tell her Do not fight Want to be arrested for obstruction of justice? She was lying I do not have time to let you play detective That's why she's trying to escape Let's go Mr.Kuroda is right Please arrest me Catalonia police office, Interpol department When I entered Mr. Kawashima's room He was already dead This is the truth But... I set up the scene to make it look like a robbery That day I spoke with Kawashima on the phone He said In case anything happened to him to erase all evidence related to Victor Bank In case anything happened? He didn't explain to me But he sounded so desperate He said he was going to die in the snow Couldn't go on living He had lost money in hazardous transactions He said If you leave evidence around Family and friends in Japan will suffer consequences As his interpreter he said I was involved He told me to meet again at the hotel at night When I went to his room The door was ajar Mr. Kawashima was dead I did everything he asked me I was very scared I started to destroy evidence... Why did you have to set it up as a burglary Because I didn't want to be suspected of murder Tampering with evidence already constitutes a crime You also destroyed the clues to find the murderer Glasses When I entered his room There were two glasses on the table The report says there was only one I accidentally left my finger prints on it I washed it and put it in the bathroom But when I entered, there were two Before you entered he was meeting someone You had your questions now The rest belongs to the inquiry I do not want info leaked to outsiders Where did you hide the evidence? Burned in the fireplace Burned? Take him away On the forensic photos There was a wall plug adapter for a desktop Ok I got it I got it There was a phone and a computer Enough already We got rid of that one I knew it from the start, she was lying What do you mean? Simply because Interpol came all the way To close the case on a simple robbery He was the son of the chief of police Involved in dirty business So you keep an eye on her so that she won't talk Am I wrong? Gimme a break We thought she was monitored by the suspect We knew she was lying So what did Kawashima do? None of your business Don't play around here, go back to Paris Wasn't he involved in money laundering Just to protect the reputation of the police You look the other way on international crime? What do you say? Answer me How do you see this personally? Are you really just a diplomat? Just a moment Two persons Good evening This place is a witness protection house Police Security cams This man is an ex-police detective This is the key If you need companionship for the night you just have to ask I come meet you tomorrow at 8 It won't be necessary I have my orders Oyasumi! Your belongings from the consulate Tell me Am I under arrest? We hope that as an insider You'll be able to assist Interpol's investigation Your arrest will depend on your cooperation Good night The investigation is strictly formal We are just going through the motions, don't worry There is this annoying diplomat If he continue to investigate it, he'll cause us some trouble A Diplomat? Yes He has to return to Paris before the end of the summit So he should not be a problem The real problem is that woman She is very talkative Koutari This is your chance to erase the tab we've had for 2 years I understand that In any case, I won't let transaction's evidence be exposed Looks like now European banks are in fierce competition for survival Competing for customers To get the best brokers Please a glass of sangria wine I'm on holiday from noon today Would you drink some wine too Please continue Victor bank in Andorra They have come in competition with The Spanish investment bank A fierce rivalry Spanish investment bank Yes And This Ruka Shindo's file Is she by chance involved in the case? Please focus and continue Well She graduated from the University of London Came to Spain 3 years ago According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs This past year No one heard about her They did not expect she'd be in Andorra Since she graduated she didn't once go to Japan? I also noted this point and checked She seems to have no family No family? This is the article I found on the Internet Fatal car crash, only elder daughter survives The family was in a car crash Only she survived because she was throw out of the car I got it, thank you You're welcome but... Please don't hesitate to call for any help If I need your help I will contact you Alright! Mr. Kuroda You forget the check The check You're supposed to leave it on the table Here are the outgoing Email records for Kawashima In them there is only one person in Andorra Lucas Javier Garcia He is Kawashima's account manager Rumor has it he talked Kawashima into investing in gas fields Fictitious investment Kawashima lost almost 10 billion yen Is Lucas friend with Kawashima? Well I'm not suggesting anything yet Victor bank doesn't disclose employee info Look I took photos of those going in or out of the bank Leave it to me I will make the woman talk, see if the recognizes anybody Wait! Good work, thanks This one? No? Looks like Bruce Willis No How about this handsome? Ruka, look carefully So he was not among them? Or maybe you're protecting him Because you are close to him Anything special you can tell me about Lucas? Anything A White man Blue eyes Overweight His hair is greased Many bank employees look like this What else? Wearing glasses Left-handed Anything else He's always Smoking cigars Cuban made high quality cigars That was two years ago He graduated from the University of Tokyo Suspected of illegal transactions He was involved in a scandal inside the police So he was kicked and transferred here I see What's this detective doing in the Andorra case? Don't keep her waiting I could introduce you to a nice lady too See You deserve each other Really Is she that beautiful? Have fun, I'll be in touch Spanish investment bank Sorry about that Hello Miss Grace Good afternoon. I'm here to see Mr. Koutari Please go on through Thank you What's your business here? The information about her involvement with Victor bank I told you Do not interfere with this investigation There is info that is likely to interest the Embassy It might go straight to the paper basket You have such power in your hands Thank you Goodbye If you recall anything else Feel free to tell me Listen Could you bring me a glass of wine What? It works like sleeping pills on me I cannot sleep You thought I was a hotel waiter From tomorrow across the country, fine weather The temperatures This year the winter has been warm And snow in the northern mountains Is already melting Dad, Mom Yuka wake up I am sorry Would you mind closing the window? OK Miss Don't we know each other? It's you from the other day You said you were going to Andorra I was so pleased to have a long-distance passenger Then suddenly you rush out of the car Why did you want to go back to Andorra Wait I need to question her again Why do you want to return to Andorra? Hey, hey Are you OK? You alright? Can't you see the traffic lights? Koutari, duck for cover Shoot them Koutari Koutari get in the car Come back You stay in the car, you'll be fine You're OK? Quickly get on the ground I'm borrowing it Come up front Do not let him escape Hurry Get in Damn it Above all, take a good rest Gracias De nada Koutari's waiting for you, he wants to talk Shhh He needs to talk to you Don't worry about her When she wakes up I'll have someone call you when she wakes up Too early to drink, don't you think I Haven't used a gun Outside of practice range Same as him I heard there is a secret department in the Foreign Affairs, an antiterrorist cell You interfered where you had no investigation You really disrupted that case You came here working for that cell Never heard of it I inquired about your file in Paris Naturally, I had to check your credibility I'm always overcautious Since when did diplomacy get so lively? I don't think your boss ordered this investigation While you seem to work against your boss I too had to check your credibility Naturally So you blew the whistle on me And this is the result Your transfer to Interpol is not a promotion, right? I was demoted Within the organization I Look like an idiot brandishing principles of justice This is my way to thank you for before Lucas It all revolves around this character The woman said Lucas is among them I am suspicious Do not misunderstand me I'm a man of my organization till the end I won't let you do whatever you want Someone's calling you What? So you slip through my fingers again I must admit you surprise me You managed to live that long I didn't say anything to compromise the bank But you did it for Victor Bank Or for the Spanish investment bank We should negotiate Where is Kawashima's evidence on Spanish investment bank? I don't have it I destroyed it all So who are you running from? I was running away from Interpol I Cannot help you Isn't it sad to eat on your own like this It is very lonely What? The bread looks stale the meager lentil soup fish as a main dish You know some fish are poisonous I Advise you to be careful What's going on Do not touch me It's All right Let go of me All right Don't be afraid it's me You'll be alright, don't worry I will protect you You should tell me everything What? Last night she started to talk Come I'll tell you as we walk Speak inside No way There is a spy inside the police department Andalucia Andalucia Yes Victor bank manager has a villa in Andalucia Tomorrow there will be a transaction there According to what she said He meets a boss of the ARM terrorist organizations Ignatius Laro The Middleman is Lucas This is him on the photo Victor bank has been denying any ties with the ARM If we could expose that transaction They'd have to admit Excellent opportunity to denounce their money laundering I told you this is your ... All the same I need your cooperation No way Why should it be our job? You think you can take internal affair lightly? It's not you who betrayed the organization The Organization betrayed you Be careful Look what you're doing If you don't look Where you're going You don't know where justice is anymore Andaluscia, Spain You seem to have fun I haven't had a big trip in a train in a long time When I was in elementary school, probably I heard your family was killed in an accident That was not accident A Family suicide What do you mean? My father was running a small enterprise Before I entered elementary school The profits of the company had been pretty good But when the economy collapsed My father was debt-ridden and had to go bankrupt What I remember about my father A man constantly preoccupied with debts Hard to endure I think my father was a victim I'd say the victims Are the family he involved in this mess Metropolitan Police Department Andalucia, GA Ronda I keep my door opened Call me anytime Alright Miguel, National Police Koutari From interpol Sorry about the short notice Not at all It's been a while since we had action, my men are happy That one Yes It was a medieval convent Lately a number of employees have arrived They've even called the Basque chef Basque region: west of the Pyrenees Mountains, France and Spain border They seem to entertain special guests Mr. Koutari Yes Phone call For You Thanks Hello Koutari Did you take a leave To join an operation to find Lucas? What do you think you're doing? Listen, boss It doesn't stop at Kawashima But also Victor bank is ... Kuroda is with the Foreign Affairs That guy is a member of the antiterrorist cell What? Thats why You cannot go any further What do you mean? It would mean you're going against Foreign Affairs and Government I'm not saying that for the sake of the organization Your mission Is very important Think of it How many years ago did your wife die? So many years without seeing your son Takumi A father deprived of his family Hmm? On the other hand the Japanese Minister Murakami Has been able to make positive progress After making his radical proposal Regarding the money laundering issue at the beginning of the summit It seems that Murakami is now standing alone on this matter What? Sorry to disturb you so late Sorry, I don't know what I was thinking It's alright You caught a cold? Your grandmother told me Yes But I'm fine now I'm relieved Are you entering the spring competitions? What? You can tell me When I was your age I had these ambitions too I wish you success I've no particular interest in baseball I told you before Is that right Oh right, that's right I remember now Takumi I may soon be able to return to Japan I have to go to school now Takumi You have a family? Why do you ask? I feel we share the same experience Bet Raise Your words helped me My mother and daughter Were the victims I think I still can't forgive my father After the accident I wanted to run away Because I thought I had no where to be in Japan A place to feel at home Is not that easy to find You're right Raise Raise You're bold Aren't you afraid at times You have only yourself to rely on Yes I'm afraid I like that I'm relieved to hear you speak so sincerely Call Bet Nowadays I wish I had a place to call home Ah sorry Raise What should I do? Raise Excuse me for a while It's just the wind Don't worry Sorry I am... Hello Where's Kuroda? He's asleep What did you do to him? I want to make a deal A deal? You want Kawashima's secret burried, right? That's why I want a deal What's your purpose? Help me run away Even Lucas doesn't know where Kawashima's money is Only I know This is what the police wants to hide, right? As long as I keep it quiet The reputation of the police is safe Why should I believe you? Tomorrow's transaction is a lie, right? It will take place, have no doubt about it Then give me a straight answer Who killed Kawashima If you tell me this I'll believe what you say Was it Lucas? Or was it you? Kawashima committed suicide I'm telling you I was betrayed I have enough now Quickly call Lucas It's no use talking to you Lucas is on vacation You know where to reach him I'm just an interpreter There's nothing I can do for you He'll regret what he did to me Till the day he dies Is that how you want it? What? If Lucas is being sued for Fraud Your business too is going to be under investigation As a result Your close ones? They won't remain silent Once Lucas and the investment is made public You're not the only one in trouble If you think it does not matter Then contact him Don't His blood was even on the wall Burn marks on his temple The probability of suicide is high When you first arrived on the scene You wanted to conceal the truth, right? How are you going to do? Are you arresting me? I'd be charged with tampering with evidence It's rather a good deal Victor bank is getting away with their fraudulent practice Kawashima's secret remains hidden What should we do with Kuroda? He will never give up. Maestro please here Hey You are the police You can do anything Are you Mr. Ando from Foreign Affairs? Will you accompany us? The chief of police son's murder I believe you already have heard about it It is in the hands of an antiterrorist cell Minister Yoshinaga Please get straight to your point The chief of police's son was into laundering armed organizations funds But then again My accounting consultant checked this matter Of course I have nothing to feel guilty about When I heard about his involvement in money laundering I was shocked Once the matter is exposed it will be a scandal Not only for the Metropolitan Police Department But it will also shake the whole government But Chief... Ando please... For once tell me things as they are Yes Mission terminated Terminated? Kuroda please Stop interfering now If you don't stop, even I can't cover you If I refuse to terminate the mission what happens? The worst scenario can be expected The Metropolitan Police will force you to terminate Hey Kuroda Are you listening? I understand Please tell them I refused to terminate the mission Hey, Hey, wait a minute Hey Good morning Kuroda you're up? Good morning Good morning Good morning, Mr. Kuroda This jacket is for you For camouflage I'm wearing this? Sorry we'll have to search you Why? We can't afford any lose end To make sure you'll cause no trouble Will do a body check over there You come with me Yes, sir Why don't you take a sit? Carefully Hey careful You need such tricks for antiterrorist operation Let's go Looks like someone had breakfast in the toilet Will Those guys really will come? Please have a coffee Thank you They are coming The vehicles are running along the State Road Quick check license plates Target moving to V site They reach the villa Soon Report to Helicopter unit It doesn't seem they are getting out of the cars Quickly contact the Special Forces (GEO) To all units CODE RED, CODE RED Standby for orders and do not relax your attention Yes, sir There are coming out It's Victor Identify him Being analyzed It's Victor Special Forces have been contacted Who is the man next to him Being analyzed... he's Marc Trento Victor's right hand Is That Lucas? Being analyzed... Authentication failure, there is no record Add this photo to the database Our main target coming out Analyse him Being analyzed Ignatius Laro One of the bosses of the terrorist organizations ARM Great You're in charge of the line of defense We're going to storm them Monitor all frequencies and cut off their phone line You're in charge of the the backup I'll keep her here on standby So she can identify Lucas for us We want all suspects captured alive If anyone gets in the way Use force to accomplish your mission Alright? Let's go You wait here What does it mean? It means what I said Let's go Don't you move Not Even for a cup of coffee You're not moving You don't have permission to shoot If you shoot They'll hear you from the villa Do we agree? Put the gun down Put the gun down Miguel, put the gun down Fall back I knew it I knew Foreign Affairs wanted to put their nose into it Our government disapproves of this operation We don't solve such issues at our level Let him go Stop Don't shoot Miguel Stand down You'd like to know My death will not help keep your secret I wanted to see it with my own eyes Get away from the car Quick This one was a warning The next is for you You never shot outside the training range Are you OK? I was the best shot during training Let's go Let's go I'll drive It is all according to your wish As we agreed Victor bank gang arrested In exchange You must burry Kawashima's Secret for ever We agree? Interpol dragnet, Bank Victor's accomplices arrested Bank Victor's Director orders destruction of sensitive data Ignatius Laro arrested Famous investor Cedric Vila Coma admits trafficking Welcome to the Spanish investment bank Gracias I trip was a bit difficult But we are glad you finally visit us Gracias a ustedes Freeze Throw the gun away I did not expect it Your throwing the evidence from the balcony Now we can formally meet Lucas Javier Garcia How is it... Why? You have to resort to such tricks for anti-terrorist operation Wait outside, stand by I need to talk to him So you made a deal with her? Don't fret I have no intention to serve her interests I'm here to make an arrest You may be unable to return to Japan I look forward to the next assignment Wait Do what she asks What does it mean? As I said Play along with her scheme The next one is for you As long as was alive You couldn't come back here and take the evidence I started to use the alias Lucas About a year ago To deal with dirty money, a Japanese name is too noticeable As most transactions are done by fax or mail I didn't have to worry about showing up From there I became Kawashima's Account Manager I knew his money was from armed organizations He made no secret that his father was chief of police Even if it became public I have nothing to fear But leaving aside Kawashima's misfortune You came to Andorra to seek justice You pretended you were an interpreter You met his grievances with coldness Take a look at this receipt It says The Spanish investment bank covers investment in gas field You translated it Do you remember it? I translate so many documents in a day I cannot remember each... Don't worry I backup all my data I also keep all the mails Lucas sends me As long as I keep the evidence I can sue him in justice And oh, yes You can be my witness. But the transaction has been concluded Your signature is even on this contract After that The tragedy Don't If the case was closed as a suicide The Police would conduct a thorough investigation Computer data also thoroughly examined So this is why you decided to make A scene of burglary turning into murder In the end The gas field fraud that Victor had set up was finished The Spanish investment bank being his top rival Victor had been looking for weaknesses and scandals He would never allow me to go away With such a large amount of sensitive evidence So you leaked info to Interpol To place Victor Bank under investigation I'm through Arrest me now You couldn't forgive Kawashima Because he caused the death of your whole family Your father owed money to an armed organization Small enterprises money has nothing to do with armed organizations Even when they both deal with dirty money Many people rely only on dirty money for a living I'm only responding to the wish of those people There's no clean or dirty money I chose Kawashima just because he was an annoying character He used to repeat When the situation gets critical my father will rescue me But he didn't know How painful it would be if his family was involved For Kawashima as for my father Their failure is linked to their family But they were indifferent to it So this is why Wait You borrowed your sister's name Lucas in Spanish French is Luc From Saint Luke, the Gospel Like name of your sister Pronounced in Japanese Ruka or Luka So what? You acted like your father did You pursued your own path While affecting people around you, even driving them to death To that purpose you used her name I believe your sister would not approve Whether she likes it or not Ruka will not forgive me Why do you think Your sister would not forgive you? Could you open the window? I want to see it too Let me see it too Please change seat to let your little sister watch Daddy told you now No, it's my seat You're nasty Ouch! You're nasty You're nasty I hate you I want to see it too As I proposed the first day The topic of money laundering On The last day of this meeting The Japanese government once again Proposes a new treaty Minister, Minister United States please Ladies and gentlemen, The exposure of the Victor Bank case Proves that no matter what measures we take Banks involved in money laundering will not go away And while we have only a few hours Until the conclusion of this summit I firmly believe That Minister Murakami's proposal Merits further debate Mr. Murakami I am told that the Interpol investigator who uncovered this case Is a Japanese gentleman also Now doesn't it seem a little odd Is that a total coincidence? Almost as it was at the galette place Now don't you tell me this is all part of your plan Well Hmm Yes As a matter of fact it was Very surprising American approval of the Japanese proposal Complete change of positions at the summit Whatever the story, there's always a woman at the end What? Today's lunch Your father will come eat with us You want the info from my father in the police Or you' rather want me alone Hmm? Of course you Darling Hello You really had to do it I'm so sorry You caused an uproar here Son of Kawashima money laundering for armed organizations I am ready to accept the sanction You don't need to Some personality interceded for you Some personality? Minister Murakami The Minister himself called the Prime Minister's residence Requesting the annulment of your sanction And finally all ends well For you and me both We need to meet I got it So now I travel to Dubai according to plans Yes Ready to go? Come in How about you? Got fired? Very unexpectedly I was promoted in Interpol So I can quit the Metropolitan Police Your son's will miss you longer I thought I could offer him to come with me He's reluctant yet Still he could be convinced He understand I'm requested here Is that right I'll drive you to the airport I completely forgot about it I was Wearing a bulletproof vest The three bullets hit the heart Although I was aiming at your head I guess I'll just have to buy a new suit Translation: Eric Paroissien
