 

                        Always in my dream, I'm clinging to a branch, Knowing full well that death inevitably awaits me. The fear of dying without ever having Known love was greater than the fear of death itself I Know now I was not alone in the horror of this darKness. So, too, was the fear of Anna Karenina. It was then that a drop of honey sweet enough to divert my eyes from the cruel truth came into my llfe. She was the princess EKaterina ScherbatsKy. Thank you, Constantine Dmitrich. I didnt know that you were in Moscow. I arrived yesterday. I mean, today. I was going to come to see you. I didnt know you could skate so well. I'm awful. But the rumor is that you are a superlative skater. Oh, years ago. It used to be my passion. Skate with me. Must be dull in the country in the winter. Not at all. I'm very busy. Mama said that you live like a barbarian out there and wear peasant clothes. Theres a lot more to it than you think. Its very scientific. Are you here for long? I dont know. That depends on you. Mamas waiting for me. - May I call on you? - Were at home on Thursday as usual. Today, then. Au revoir! You said you wanted my advice on a delicate matter? Yes, Stiva. I think I'm in love... but I'm plain and too old. She may be able to love me as a friend, but I wouldve to be handsome and more remarkable to make her love me as a husband. Who is the lucky girl? Cant you guess? I'd be your brother-in-law. Kitty. Do you think theres any possibility? Oh, why shouldnt there be? For Gods sake, be absolutely frank with me. I'll tell you something. My wife Dolly is a most wonderful woman. - She can see through people. - What do you mean? Well, I mean, not only that she likes you, but she says Kitty is certain to be your wife. They are sisters, after all. She... she said that? Constantine Dmitrich Levin. Oh, God. Hes come early. I dont think I've come at the right time. - I'm too early. - Oh, no. This is what I wanted... to find you alone. The guests should be here in a moment. I told you that I didnt know whether I would be here long... that it depended on you. I meant... I meant do say... be my wife. I cannot be. Forgive me. It was not meant to be. Why, Constantine Dmitrich. Do stay. Have some tea. Ah, Constantine Dmitrich. Back in our corrupt Babylon. Well, is Babylon reformed, or have you been corrupted? That you remembered my words so well. They must have made an impression on you. Of course. I note down everything you say. Whats the matter with Levin today? Why doesnt he launch into one of his tirades? Please. Constantine Dmitrich. Hows it that at home in our village of Kaluga, the peasants have spent their all on drink and now pay us nothing? What is the meaning of that? Youre always so full of praise for peasants. Do let me introduce you. Constantine Dmitrich Levin, Count Alexei Kirillovich VronsKy. Constantine Dmitrich despises and hates town and us townspeople. Do you live in the country all year round? I should think it must be rather dull in winter. Not at all if one has work to do. Besides, you cant... - be dull in your own company. - I like the country. I'd be bored to tears. One simply can't live without sophisticated conversation. Countess Nordston was telling me about a demonstration of table rapping and spiritualism she attended. Oh, that would be fascinating. I've never seen anything supernatural. Do you believe in spirits, Constantine Dmitrich? Whyd you ask me that? You know perfectly well what my answer will be. But I want to hear you opinion. My opinions that table rapping merely proves that the so-called educated classes are no better than the peasants. They, too, believe in the evil eyes and spirits. But I've witnessed it myself. But dont you think theres something in it? If we admit to the existence of electricity of which we know nothing, Why shouldnt there exist some newforces yet unknown to us? Because with electricity when you rub wool and resin together, you invariably produce a recognizable phenomenon. But with this hocus-pocus... Suppose we try now. Do let us try, Princess Kitty. Ah, Stiva. Who are you meeting? My mother. - You were missed last night. - Where? The Chateau des Fleurs, of course. My God, there was this wonderful little girl doing the cancan. I went home. I felt in such an agreeable frame of mind when I left the Scherbatskys, I didnt want to go anywhere else. By the mark of your steed, I can tell your fine breed and a young man in love by his eyes.  - And who are you meeting? - I've come to meet a pretty woman. - Oh, indeed. - Shame on you. My sister Anna. Karenins wife? Yes, well, you must know her. I dont think so. I know Karenin by sight and by repute. Youve a very illustrious brother-in-law. Very high up in the Ministry. Yes, a remarkable man. But not our kind. Like your friend Levin. I met him last night, an insufferable fellow. Oh, you dont appreciate my Levin. But yesterday there was a reason for him being out of sorts. You dont mean he, uh... Levin has been in love with Kitty for so long, and I feel so very sorry for him. So thats it. Excuse me. You got my telegram? How are you? Well? - Have a good journey, mama? - Anna Arkadyevna! Cant youfind your brother? Stiva, here! Shes very charming, isnt she? Poor girl. Her husband refuses to travel with her. He says hes too busy. Well, Countess, youve met your son, I've met my brother. Pardon me for not recognizing you, but I dont think weve ever met before. Anna Arkadyevna has a little boy of 8, Seriozha. Theyve never been parted before, and shes fretting at having left him behind. Really, Anna, you cant expect never to leave him. Well, good-bye, countess. Good-bye, my dear. Very charming. Horrible. Hes dead. It is a bad omen. Nonsense. Youve come. That is the chief thing. You cannot imagine how much I'm counting on you. Stiva, I know youre to blame. Dont deny it. 9 years... my children... all to be thrown away because of a... momentary lapse. True. It was not nice that she was the childrens governess. What can I do? Drop me at your house and go bacK to the court. Is this Grisha? How hes grown! How happy and well you look. He told me. He met me at the station. Grisha, go and find Tanya. Of course shes young, and shes pretty. My youth and looks are gone, taken by him and his children. I hate him. I dont want to speak up for him, but what is the best thing to do in this dreadful situation, Dolly? Stiva is ashamed. But he made love to her. I dont excuse him, but... thats how it is. Anna's mission to heal the rift in her brother's family was not unliKe my own desire to restore the ties with my brother, so desperate were we both to feel love. Good evening. Excuse me. Is Nikolai Levin here? There is a gentleman here, Nikolai Dmitrich. Nikolai. Kostya. What is it? What do you want? I dont want anything. I came to see you. Youre my brother. This woman is my lifes companion. Maria Nikolayevna. I took her out of a brothel. But anyone who wants to know me must respect her, too. All right, then, Masha, supper for 3, then. With vodka and wine. Your brother drinks too much. Take no notice of her. Shes a whore. You are a gentleman. Nikolai, dont drink. Leave me a... Leave me alone. I'll beat you. How about supper, then? Have a drink. Tell me how you do it. Why arent you married yet? Oh, no luck. I think there must be something about me that repels people. Why? For me, everythings over. For you... Come back with me... to the country. For the sake of your health. No. Too much to do. I've become a communist. Nikolai, the police. Theyll persecute me like they do anyone whos not a scoundrel. Here. You want to fell magnanimous... feel righteous. I'll let you have that satisfaction. Don t think too badly of me, Kostya. Mama, please. Princess Kitty, may I ask you for the quadrille? I'm sorry, but I'm promised to count Vronsky, but you may have the second quadrille. An honor, princess. The master of ceremonies can never be refused. It was nice of you to come in good time. Such a bad habit to be late. - Where may I take you? - Madame Kareninas over there, I think. Will you take me to her, please? Pardon, mesdames, monsieurs, pardon. You even dance into the room. Princess Kittys one of my most faithful helpers. She adorns the ballroom and makes the ball gay. - May I have the pleasure? - No. I never dance if I can help it. Oh, but you must tonight. Well, but if its impossible not to dance, let us dance, then. Well? Nothing. Princess, you are such a delight. Is your card free for the mazurka? I should withdraw. This is turning out absurdly. Will you stay to supper? I have a wonderful cotillion in mind. No, I wont stay. I've danced more at this ball than I have in a whole winter in Petersburg. These few brief moments intoxicated Anna liKe a light pouring into the darK room that was her llfe. Weve stopped, mistress. I want a breath of air. What are you doing here? You know that I have come to be where you are. I cannot help myself. Forgive me if what I say offends you. You shouldnt say that. And I beg you, if youre a gentleman, to forget this as I willforget it. Not one word... not one gesture of yours... Shall I... could I ever forget. Stop it. Yes, as you see, here is your devoted husband burning with impatience to see you. Is Seriozha all right? Is that all the reward I get for my ardor? Yes, hes quite all right. Did you have a good night? Excellent. Thank you. Ah, weve met before, I believe. Count Vronsky. You set off with the mother and return with the son. Back from furlough, I presume. So, my dear, how was Moscow? I hope I may have the honor of calling on you. Delighted. Were at home on Mondays. I told you it was mama! I knew! Oh, my pet. Gifts from Tanya and Grisha. Tanya can read now, you know? Shes even teaching Grisha. Is she nicer than me? To me youre nicer than anyone else in the world. I know I am. On the whole, then, your visit was a success? I cannot see how a man like that can be exonerated, even if he is your brother. But I'm glad it all ended satisfactorily and that youre back again. You wouldnt believe how irksome it is to dine alone. I missed you, too. Time for bed. Betsy, - I'm beginning to lose hope. - Whatever hope could you have? None. Excuse me. I'm afraid I've become ridiculous. Oh, my dear, you're in no danger of that. A man pursuing a young girl might be ridiculous, but a man in love with a married woman, that has something fine and grand about it. It could never be ridiculous. Next you'll be telling me that young girls should be virtuous, women chaste, men virile, and children should be brought up to pay their debts and earn their bread and all the other nonsense. But look at them... Karenin, that awful Lydia lvanovna. So old-fashioned, so stuffy. They surround her. When I am old and ugly, I'll become like them. For a beautiful woman like Anna, it is too soon for her spirit to be crushed by such boredom. We must rescue her before it is too late. Come to my house on Saturday. Is it true that the younger Vlassiev girl is going to marry Topov? Yes, they say its quite settled. I am surprised at her parents. I heard it was a love match. A love match? What antediluvian ideas you have. Who talks of love nowadays? That foolish old customs not left us yet. The only happy marriages are marriages of convenience where both parties have sown their wild oats. In my young days, I was in love with a deacon. I didnt know that it did me any good. No, but joking apart. I believe that before one can know what love really is, one must have a fall and pick oneself up again. Even after marriage? Lts never too late. I've been wanting to tell you that you behaved badly, very badly, indeed. You think I dont know that I behaved badly? But who made me? How can you say that? You know why. That only shows you have no heart. I came here tonight knowing that I would meet you to make it perfectly clear this must stop. You make me feel as if I was guilty of something. What do you want me to do? I want you to go to Moscow and... You dont want that. Then do this for me. Never utter those words again. And let us be good friends. Friends we shall never be. You know that. There is only one way we can be happy. I have nothing left but you. Remember that. Nothing matters anymore... Not even life... for one moment of happiness like this. Happiness? Dont ever speak of it again. I have to warn you. Warn me? What about? That by thoughtlessness and indiscretion, you may cause yourself to be talked about in society. Youre beginning to attract attention. I'm sure theyre only rumors. You are always like that. You dont like me to be dull, and then you dont like it when I go out and enjoy myself. Stop it. You Know I cant stand it. And I would like to know what all this is about. Your feelings are the affair of your own conscience, but I am duty-bound to point out to you your duties. Our lives have been joined not by man but by God. Only a crime can sever that union. A crime of that nature brings its own heavy punishment. I dont understand a thing you are saying. And besides, I'm desperately sleepy. Anna, for Gods sake, dont speak like that. Perhaps I am mistaken. But believe me, what I say I say as much for my sake as for yours. I am your husband, and I love you, but if - there are the slightest grounds... - I have nothing to say. It is really bedtime. Here it is. Stupid miss with the right barrel. Stiva? Whens Kitty getting married? She isnt thinking about marriage. Shes very ill. The doctors have sent her abroad. Wheres Vronsky now? Hes in Petersburg. He left shortly after you did. And hes not been in Moscow once since then. Do you know, Kostya, I'll be frank with you. It was your own fault. You took fright at the sight of your rival. Why didnt youfight it out? Kitty was never serious about him. She was just attracted by his good looks. I tell you candidly that when she returns from her cure, shell be going to Yergushovo for some quiet country life. And thats not too far from here, Kostya, is it? I dont know if you know, but I dont care. I'll tell you. I did make an offer... but I was rejected. Now Kittys nothing more than a painful, humiliating memory. Its over. I was hanging down that darK well, but the one thing I held onto was worK. I clutched it and clung to it with all my might. Once I lost my temper with a bailiff and in a fit of anger tooK a scythe and began mowing. It calmed me, So I resolved to mow with them... all day long. As I mowed, I lost all count of time. I had no idea whether it was late or early. A change came about my worK, which gave me intense satisfaction. When I forgot what I was doing and mowed without effort, My line was almost as smooth and good as Titus'. More and more often now came those moments of oblivion. When it was not my arms which swung the scythe, the scythe seemed to mow by itself. Some externalforce seemed to propel me on, as though by magic... the worK did itself regularly and carefully. These were the most blessed moments. It was she. It was Kitty... on her way to Yergushovo. Quiet, sweet. Loot at her face, mama. So spirited and yet so gentle. I feel she could almost speak. A fine horse. Everybodys betting on you. Not entirely for the right reasons. What are you implying, mama? Dont be coy with me. You must know how youve become the center of gossip. An affair in the highest society puts a finishing touch to a brilliant young man. Lord knows I shouldnt preach, but there are those who are becoming displeased with you, Alexei. I want you to break it off. I will not have anyone cast doubt on the honor of my... Her honor is nonexistent. So is yours. I've been told youve refused a post in Moscow. A promotion. Mother, I would ask you respectfully not to pry. You only get one chance at a career. Why throw it all away on some passion? A brilliant, worldly liaison I would approve of, but not this desperate... Oh, if my love were some ordinary, vulgar society intrigue, you would leave me alone. You have not the remotest idea what I feel. I find the lying, the deceit, the scheming intolerable. Then give her up. I wasnt expecting you. Gracious, what cold hands. You startled me. I'm waiting for Seriozha. I... he went out for a walk. Theyll come back this way. Forgive me. I couldnt go the day without seeing you. But shouldnt you be preparing for the race? What were you thinking of? Please tell me. Anna, whats the matter? I can see that somethings wrong. I'm going to have your baby. Tell him everything and leave him. - Oh, my son. - You must be free of him! Free to become your mistress? When can I see you? When? Tonight. 1:00. Well, I must be at the races. Do you like horse racing? Good-bye. Seriozha, there is no need to be so rude. Papa told me always to be truthful. Save your strength for the finish. Fine. Watch out for the water jump. Are you riding today? Here we are! There is so much splendors here. Ones eyes are dazzled. I will be staying the night. I am sure you are glad we can be together. We can go if you like. I again offer you my arm if you want to be going. I'm obliged to tell you that your behavior... What about my behavior? Be careful. The despair you were unable to hide when one of the riders fell. Possibly I am mistaken. In that case, I beg your pardon. I listen to you, but I'm thinking of him. I love him and I'm his mistress. I cant endure you, and I'm desperately unhappy. You can do what you like with me. Is everything all right maam? What time is it? Almost midnight maam. I've told my husband everything. I must see you. Come at once to the house. Count Vronsky! Ah, General Serpuhovsky! Brooding on your misfortune? It wont do at all. Come on. Lets go and have something to drink. I heard news of your promotion. I was delighted and not a bit surprised. I heard you refused an important post. Men like you are wanted. - By whom? - By Russia. Russia needs men. - The communists are gathering force. - Therere no such things as communists. Scheming people always have to invent some dangerous, noxious party. - Its an old trick. - Oh, well, I wont fight you. Shall we go outside? I heard Therese is going to perform as lady Eve. I like to see that kind of show with a gypsy girl on my knee. - I'm afraid I've an assignation. - Assignation? No, you dont Vronsky, old boy. Karenin arrived this afternoon. Saw him at the races. I wouldnt keep that appointment. I took the liberty of ordering you some brandy and cucumbers. Drink the brandy. Oh, and, this came for you. Bad news? Shes told him everything. I must go to her. What do you want?! Sit down! I have something to say to you. I know I... I've done wrong and I'm... Whatever your conduct may have been, I dont consider myself justified in severing the ties through which a higher power has bound us. I shall ignore it as long as the world knows nothing of it, as long as my name is not disgraced. And therefore I simply warn you that our relations must remain as theyve always been. - I cant be your wife while I... - So you see nothing wrong with your infidelity yet refuse to perform the same duties for your husband! What do you want from me? I want you to never see him again! I want you to be a dutiful wife! I cant change what has happened. Well, understand this. I'll go to Moscow. I will not return to this house again. I'll divorce you on the grounds of adultery. My son will go to my sisters. No. You must leave me Seriozha. You dont love him. I've even lost affection for my son because he is associated with my loathing for you! But all the same, I shall take him. You are a whore. You have no legal rights. Alexei Alexandrovitch, leave me Seriozha. You know I cant live without him. If youll conduct yourself so that neither society nor the servants can find anything to say against you, you can enjoy all the privileges of a respectable wife without fulfilling the duties of one. And you may keep your son. Late as usual. - You have a lot of people here. - Whos here? Is Kitty here? I never did quite believe that there was anything wrong with my lungs, but the secluslon and quiet of Karlsbad were all helpful to me. I learned how to help care for the other patients, those with serious ailments, and the work suited me. I learned that there are so many more important... I saw you last summer. Oh, you didnt see me, but I saw you. Where? You were driving to Yergushovo. My estates on the way. It was very early in the morning. You were probably only just awake. You had a splendid team of horses with bells. You flashed by in a second. I saw you through the window. Your head was like this. And you were playing with the ribbons of your cap, thinKing about something very deeply. I wish I knew what you were thinKing then. Really? I dont remember. Don't go. I've a question I've been wanting to ask you for a long time. What is it? Here. Thats the first letters of the words. What is that word? - Never. - Is it something I once sald? I know what it is. When you told me it could not be... ...did that mean never... ...or then? '' I dont know. Then I could not answer differently.  Only then? He will have reached the church any moment now. Word will come. Oh! This is impossible! Dont worry. Youll just have to wear mine. Yes, well, if I was going to do that, I shouldve done it a long time ago! Everything will turn out just fine. Dont you worry. I went out to buy a new shirt. All the shops were shut... I was beginning to think that you had made up your mind to run away. What happened to me was so silly, I was... I'm ashamed to tell you. Kitty should have stepped on the mat first. Whoever does runs the household. I did. What about you, Dolly? I dont remember. Why on earth not? I was so in love. Sir, Madame Karenin miscarried last night. My God, how is she? I Very bad. The doctor is with her now. Who is here? Is... is she... She has a very high fever. Ana Arkadyevna, he has come. Has Seriozha had his dinner? I know they will all forget. I am entirely in your hands. He must be moved into the corner room... Maria told to sleep with him. I'm not afraid of you. I know I'm dying now. You ask him. I feel it already. I want only one thing... for you to forgive me. Forgive me completely... There is some hope... I must stay. She may ask for me... I've long wanted to be revenged on you and her. When I got the telegram. I came here with the same sentiments. But I saw her... and forgave her. And the happiness of forgiving her revealed to me my duty. I will not forsake her, and I will never utter a word of reproach to you. Should she want to see you, I will let you know. Now I think youd better leave. Idiot! You had the misfortune to fall in love with man whos not your husband. This is a misfortune, but this is a fact. Your husband has forgiven you. Also a fact. The question is, can you go on living with your husband? Do you want to? And what does he want? I dont know. I dont know at all. I feel I'm flying headlong over a precipice. Well catch you, and we wont let you fall. There is nothing left for me, except for it to be all over. Look at you. I hardly know you with this short hair. Youve grown so pretty, but how pale you are. I'm still very weak. Well go to Italy. Youll soon get well. Well live together as husband and wife. Youll be ruined. I resigned my commission. Now all I want is you. My dear friend, you must not give way to your grief. You will find support, but seek it not in me, though I beg you to believe in our friendship. I will set to work... I will be your housekeeper. Dont thank me. I do it not of myself. How can I help thanKing you? You must thank Him, and ask for His help. In Him alone can we find peace. My dear, dear boy. How unhappy you must be. I'm quite well, countess. Your poor father is... to distraughted to tell you himself, . So hes left it to me. He is... a saint, you know? Your mother... is dead. Letters have arrived from town, Constantine Dmitrich. You see, your ladys settled me here, told me to sit a little with her. Here. I opened your letter, too. I think its from that woman, your brothers, and this is a letter from home. Dolly took Grisha and Tanya to a childrens party at the Sarmatskys. Tanya went as a French marquise... Whats... whats the matter? My... my brother Nikolai is dying. I... I must go to him I'll leave tomorrow. Lets go. Why didnt you let me know sooner? What is so awful for me... is that I cant help... remembering him as he was when he was young. You cant imagine what a charming boy he was. But I didnt understand him then. In infinite time... in infinite matter... in infinite space... an organic cell stands out, will hold together a while... and then bursts. And that cell is me. I cannot live without knowing. What I am and why I am here, and that I cannot know. So, therefore, I have no reason to live. What? I'm pregnant. Well, dont spare me now. Its going to be perfection. - I'm not going to finish it. - Why? Why ever not? Because its defects will become more and more obvious. I cant fool myself that I am an artist. I am going to give it up. I confess I hardly miss Seriozha at all. But you do. Yes. Lets go back to Russia. Karenin will grant us a divorce. Well get married, and well be together. Oh, I was afraid youd say that. I'm so unpardonable happy here, away from all of them, all of that. I thought you were, too. Being with you is the realization of all my deepest desires, but there is nothing I can do here. I need a purpose. Thats what I like so much, having you all to myself. Seriozha needs his mother. Dear Lydia Ivanovna, Forgive me for reminding you of myself. Count Vronsky and I are returning to St. Petersburg. I am unhappy at being parted from my son. I beg to be allowed to see him. Will you send Seriozha to me, or should I come to the house at some fixed hour? You cannot conceive the yearning I have to see him and so can not conceive the gratitude your help will arouse in me. Anna. I dont think I can refuse her. My dear friend, You never see evil in anybody... Her love for her son exacts... But is it love? My friend, is it sincere? Have we the right to toy with the feelings of that little angel? He thinks shes dead, and he prays for her and besieges God have mercy on her sins, and it is... better. Madame, to remind your son of you Might lead to questions on his part which it would be impossible to answer. I beg you to interpret your husband's refusal in the spirit of Christian love. I am here to tell you that I look upon my union with Madame Karenina as marriage. If you wish to be on good terms with me then you must be on good terms with her. Our intimate friends can and must look at it in the proper light. I for one am so glad you are back. I can imagine how horrible our Petersburg must seem to you after your delightful travels. - How about the divorce? Is that all settled? - I'm only waiting for Karenin. People will throw stones at me, I know, but I shall come and see Anna. I will ignore the conventions, but other starchy people will give you the cold shoulder until you are married, and thats so simple nowadays. Of course, I cannot invite her to my home. I have daughters growing up. How can you say that... When everyone knows you were Tushkevichs mistress? How dare you make comparisons? Aliosha, darling, You hardly have the moral high ground. The doctor. Its time. Are you all right? Get out of here, Kostya! Go! Lord have mercy on us and help us. A boy too! You may ease your mind. All is well. Show him to his Papa! Thats how they are when they come out. This one is a beauty. Seriozha... my darling. They told me you were dead. You didnt believe it, my precious. I never believed it! Oh no, youd never have let her in! Ten years service and nothing but Kindness from her, and youd have got up and shown her the door. Hell get up presently and you will be out on the streets. Dont go. He wont come just yet. Seriozha, my darling, you must love him. Hes better than I am, and I have been wicked to him. When youre grown up, you will understand. Dont go. Mama! Get out! Our door is closed to you! You're not welcome here! You deserted your son! The laudanum prescribed for Ana after the loss of her child Now became the opiate used to deaden the pain of Seriozha's loss. Why shouldnt I go? You are going. Oh, of course, theres no reason whatever. Thats exactly what I say. Anna, for heavens sake, what has come over you? I dont understand what you mean. You know you cant go into the opera. Why not? I'm not going alone. I'm... I'm going with princess Varvara. Princess Varvara... Is little more than a courtesan. Shes no worse than the others. Besides, I am not ashamed of what I have done. I'm not ashamed of my love for you. And whom are you accompanying? Youve been out with your mother quite a bit lately. Anna, she is my mother. I hear your mother has taken on princess SoroKina as a companion. Why dont you make your mother happy and marry her? Anna, I have not the slightest interest in princess SoroKina. How do you think that makes me feel? What? How am I supposed to feel? You spend your evenings with a pretty young girl. What do I know? Only what you tell me. Oh, you dont trust me? Why cant I go out? I love you, and nothing else matters to me... So long as you havent changed... As long as you still love me. Oh, look at me. All we need is the divorce. I know how difficult your situation must be until then, but, please, dont make matters worse. Please, please, dont go. Oh, I'll stay, as you wish... Princess SoroKina. Your mama is asKing for you. Good evening, mama. I'm sorry to be late. Well, youre here now, and thats all that matters. You're not worthy of him. You've lost your child! You're a whore. You're a whore! You deserted him! Excuse me. You seem to be putting me in the position of defendant. I was given to understand that Anna declines a divorce if I insist on keeping the boy. I replied to her in that sense and considered the matter closed. Alexei Alexandrovich, you are a good man. Put yourself in her position for a moment. Shes moved to Moscow. Shes been there 6 months now, each day expecting your decision. I'm a believer now. I cant go against the teachings of Christianity in such a matter. Why, divorce is sanctioned, even by the church. I must think it over. I must seek guidance. What do I see? Ah, Yes. Thats right. We must go away. I long to be in the country, and theres nothing to keep you here, is there? - My one wish is to get away. - You know, it came over me like an absolute inspiration. Why should we go on waiting here for the divorce? I've made up my mind that it shant influence my life anymore. - Do you agree? - Oh, yes... Well, how was your dinner party? I Oh, the dinner was first-rate and the boat race and all that quite enjoyable. Well, when are we off? The sooner the better. We cant get off tomorrow, I'm afraid, but we could be ready the day after. Oh, no. Wait a moment. The day after tomorrow is Sunday, and I have to see mama. - You could go there tomorrow. - No, I'm going there on business to do with the power of attorney, and the money wont be ready tomorrow. In that case, then, we wont go at all. I wont go any later! Monday or not at all! Why? Theres no sense in that... You see no sense in it because... because you care nothing for me. You seem unable to see my position. How do you think I feel cooped up in these rooms? But you are free. Yes, you are free, and if you dont love me anymore, that would be better and more honest to say so. Oh, really! This is becoming unbearable! Why do you try my patience? It has it's limits. What do you mean by that? I mean... I mean, well, what do you want of me? What I want is that you should not desert me as you are thinKing of doing. No. I dont want that. What I want is your love, but it has gone, so it is all over. Wait. Wait. Wait! What is this all about? I said that me must put off our departure for a matter of 3 days, and you, Anna, sit by accusing me of lying and being dishonorable. It is a matter of complete indifference to me what your mother thinks and whom she wants to marry you to. But were not talKing about that. Precisely about that! I know all about that little princess SoroKina, and let me tell you, a heartless woman... Be she old or not old, your mother or anyone else is of no consequence to me, and I do not want to have anything to do with her. I will not have you speak disrespectfully of my mother. Theres a limit to my endurance. Why didnt I die? Mashka is going to eat your banana! Who is that telegram from? - Its from Stiva. - Can I see it? It is addressed to me. What secrets can Stiva have from me? I dont want you to see it because Stiva has a passion for wiring. Why telegraph when nothing is settled? He wires: Could get nothing out of him. Promises definite answer soon. Read it yourself. Little hope, and I'll do everything possible and impossible. I dont care about the divorce anymore, And there was not the slightest necessity to hide this from me. I just want things to be definite. I am sure your irritabliity is due to the uncertainty of your positlon. And why did princess SoroKina deliver this telegram?! She did not. This arrived earlier while you were sleeping. Princess SoroKina came with the money and the documents from my mother. I couldnt get them yesterday. I didnt want anything to delay our departure. By the way, we are definitely going tomorrow, arent we? You are... but not me. Ana, we cant go on like this. You are, but not I! This is intolerable! You will be sorry for this. God, forgive me everything. I have here... the latest dispatch... from the front! The infidel muslims have been driven back! We russians... have flown to help our Serbian Slavonic brothers, our fellow Christians! Count Vronsky. Perhaps youd rather not have seen me. If so, please dont hesitate to say. I can always find another compartment. No. Please. The Serbian war is a blessing for me. As a man I have the merit that my life is of no value to me. I'm glad theres something for which I may lay down the life which isnt simply useless, but loathsome to me. Anyone is welcome to it. I know the dreadful thing you have suffered, But I beg you not to continue on this course you are following. I am doing my duty as a Russian... and a Christian. Please, hear me out. I saw your lady only once. I wish I'd spoken up then, but I did not. Which is why I cannot remain silent now. Ever since the death of my brother, all I have been searching for are answers to questions like, what am I? , why am I here?  "What am I living for?" When, suddenly, it all became clear to me. I'd been living on spiritual truths that I'd drunk in with my mother's milk, but I'd never acknowledged them. I know what is right and wrong. I wasnt taught this... It was given to me, as it is to everyone. I discovered nothing. I merely opened my eyes to what I knew. For me it is too late. As a man, I am finished. As a weapon, I may be of some use. Dont think ill of me. I have lost too much. All I ask is to be able to remember Anna as she once was... when I first met her. I try to bring back those moments, but I cannot. I cannot see her face. I can only see her laid out in the railway shed where they took her. She was... This new feeling has not changed me. It has not made me happy and enlightened all of a sudden as I dreamed it would. Just like the way it was with my feeling for my son. - Come to the nursery at once. - Is something wrong with Mitya? There was no surprise about this, either. - Whats going on? - Mitya wants to see you. But be it faith or not. I don't know what it is. Through suffering, this feeling has crept just as imperceptibly into my heart. He knows me. And has lodged itself firmly there. I shall still be unable to understand with my reason why I pray, and I shall still go on praying. But my life now... my whole life... independent of anything that can happen to me, every minute of it is no longer meaningless as it was before, but has a positive meaning of goodness with which I have the power to invest it. Lev Tolstoy.
