 

                        My sign off was at Koch last time also Lone anchorage at Vishakapattanam for 2 months After that l requested for leave when the ship started out to Kochi That was how, for the 1st time l landed at the home port Along backwaters and the bay Along backwaters of Kochi, flags flying atop Sprouted and burgeoned companies a lot All ready and spruced up, hitching up to trade, Companies stand neck to neck Along backwaters and the bay Along backwaters of Kochi, flags flying atop Sprouted and burgeoned companies a lot All ready and spruced up, hitching up to trade, Companies stand neck to neck Along backwaters and the bay Pierce-Lesley, Aspinwall, Volkart, HM Companies from Bombay and Madura As well as the A V Thomas Company Ships docking, in Kochi yard, goods unloaded and loaded Our rubber, coir, tea, pepper, cardamom sent abroad - Where is Sathram colony? - There While in our land, hearts beating in pain, in hunger But always the same refrain...no vacancy Along backwaters and the bay Along backwaters of Kochi, flags flying atop Sprouted and burgeoned companies a lot - ls this Sathram colony? - Yes Along backwaters of Kochi, flags flying atop Sprouted and burgeoned companies a lot All ready and spruced up, hitching up to trade, Companies stand neck to neck - Where is Hyder's house? - Right up there - ls this where Hyder lives? - Yes sir - Where is he? - Gone for work - Where? - On the ferry boat - When is he back? - By night, quite late - Who are you? - Hyder's younger brother, Rasool We are here on verification duty for Hyder's passport application Let's sit inside sir - Who else lives here? - Only my brother and l What about your father and mother? Mother is no more Father is in Ponnani - How many years you've been living here? - 5 years sir - lsn't this your own house? - No sir, it's a rented place - Has Hyder been convicted anytime? - Of course not! No?! What about period he spent in a Juvenile home? - That was long back - Does that change the fact? - How is Rashid related to you? - He is my Uncle - Where can we find him? - He is in Shenoy's shop in Bazaar road - ls it nearby? - Sure! You can just walk across Walk across? Are you joking? You must also come along, dude A red scarf tied flying flamboyantly is Clayline Adorned with a silver chain is the waist of the Pier - Vasudeva, won't you clean this part? - l've just started haven't l? Make it quick Pick up is at Kochi barge lt may be a long trip He gets to drive, while l only get to clean the car First learn to clean the vehicle Hey you! Won't you clean the insides? Smoking pipes, anchored ships belching smoke Steeline, Voline and many, many more on this shore Ships docking, goods unloaded and loaded Our rubber, coir, tea, pepper, cardamom, prawns sent abroad Shipping abroad from here are frogs also While in our land, hearts beating in pain, in hunger - Hey! - Da! - Where are you going? - Office - And you? - A pick up at the port - See you tonight - Sure, tonight All ready and spruced up, hitching up to trade, Companies stand neck to neck Along backwaters and the bay There's only one story at sea Tales of loneliness Actual stories begin only on landing lt can be put here sir Where to sir? - Vypin - Vypin? You could as well as have swum across! Sir, no smoking inside the car l'm sorry l suppose you can use the mobile while driving, eh? ln deep hell, while in heaven are all dullards All the best people are only in hell A film song, eh? - Your job is in a ship right? - Yes You must have visited many countries eh? Yes l have Where in the world have you seen the most beautiful girls? Vypin Go ahead and smoke if you want to, sir Thank you - Did you go to the police station? - No da Did uncle call? He did, but how do l time off from here? They are mad Still talking about that old case Expecting a bribe, why else! - My older brother - Hello The sheer joy of this crossing from Kochi to Vypin ls incomparable to any other in this whole world! Rasool! Abu? - What is it da? - Nothing in particular What is it Colin? - We have a job to do - What is it? An lnnova Who will drive? Where to? - Shall we eat something? - No, we'll eat after coming back - My stomach's burning bro! - Very true! - What is it? - Let's eat, come on Yes sir? We are here, sir No problems sir Everything is okay sir We'll call you after finishing it sir Okay sir, bye One more chapathi - What's the color? - Color of what? - Of the car? - Maroon Maroon? A blend of yellow and red Maroon - ls it like red? - No, look there, the color of that vehicle Look, he's getting out Rasool, start that vehicle - Come on quick - Get in, fast Come on my boy, just speed up! Hey stop! Brother, please stop They took off with my car Just go straight ahead Just keep going Switch on the A/C What's that following us? A bike? Yeah, a guy following us A two wheeler Just go as fast as you can my dear boy He's gone, he's lost us - l think he's lost us - Has he really? Should we deal with him? Oh Lord! What's this? Howzzat? You! For heaven's sake! Put it away! l'm shivering Hey, why my dear? Forget the money, don't ever call me for such jobs l swear l won't talk to you guys, ever We are not doing anything wrong They have not paid up the money That's not my concern Just don't call me to join you Hello? Yes sir we got it Payment? Yes sir, thank you Just increase the A/C cooling Where the heck do they look while walking? Come on, go l don't want it We didn't rob a bank This is money for the job This is not a job l chose Give it to me l have a home and family ls that why you are carrying that knife? Aren't you ashamed? There she goes! Answer it my dear Abu What's there to eat? Sure, l have kept something special for you Why brother, not asleep yet? Rasool, give me that bucket You've been using it for so long Of course l will not You cannot! Give me that bucket Let me draw water then you can take it ls someone coming to 'see' you to propose? What are you doing man? Have you no idea of getting married Kevin, l've told you Don't touch my bike, go Go inside Hey! Brother, hold this bike Hi aunty Hello! lt's been so long! Come aunty My friends New friends, places l had not seen in my own hometown before this...people! Careful! Hold her See that she doesn't fall off Sir, l am Hyder from Sathram colony Come for Passport verification This is that guy who was in a juvenile home lt's we who get into trouble if we issue passports to people like you - There are no cases registered against me - You are not the one to decide that We have to investigate your papers some more Now you can go Move aside l say! Come on eat, take some Nice girl, good family also Mamma don't do this to me again Rarely do l get a chance to enjoy carnivals back home Francis, who started out as a financier with other shady business Made enough money and he is now 'Pranchi' and active in church He's inviting us to dine with him Enough da! Let's go home Sure! We will, right now You have to see to all this, not Chammidi now go Take Jose, help yourself there's plenty Hey! What sort of a host are you Hiding yourself after doling out local stuff! Molly'echi, come on sing a song now Chammidi! Give her what she wants, da! - Meet Francis - My cousin Colin You live at Vypin? Actually from Vypin, but now shifted to Fort Kochi Abu Aren't you having? Come on, let's make a move Over? Hey Chammidi, give these boys some more Why the heck...? Okay you carry on l'll go bring mamma Meet you at the church - l'll also come - Where are you going? Sit down Go ahead, pour, a large is okay Mamma, l want this one Take something else Kevin This is not good Why don't you take this one Mamma l want this only There is no letter K in this How can you buy this? Each one got 8 each See how good it looks - Ah! Does it smell of liquor? - No But l didn't have any What is it? What is it man? Come, come lets go Hey! What's this? What is it dude? - What are you glaring for? - Abu! Hey! Come back here! You! Move aside you...son of a...!! ! Run! Abu run! Catch him Move aside Rasool! Run for it! Ashley! l lost my way da - Where's Abu and Colin? - They ran away, are they in trouble? Can't say Those boys are trouble-makers Then they must have got it bad! Why did l take him home that day Rasool's innocence, his fear... ...l liked all that Be here, l'll lock it from outside and go Colin and Abu got their fill that night that would last them for a whole year lt was early morning before l packed them home - Will you have some tea, brother Vasu? - l already had my tea Let's go quickly Those guys will create a ruckus l was worried the boys who had picked up the fight in church, would harass Rasool... ...so decided to go with him in the boat to Ernakulum - Hasn't Anna come? - No, she hasn't Luckily nothing happened that day But something unforeseen happened! This is last month's installment You must give this month's by 15th Louis, l will pay you Let me get my pay Brother, Don't untie! Anna! Come quickly! Run! Mamma? Hey! l thought you were going to Kochi? l have some work in Ernakulum town Anna, where do you work now? - At 'Seemas' in Ernakulum - That's why we don't get to see you Have to leave early and return late night l heard you had come Okay, see you Bye mamma Boat's moving rather slowly Blows in the darkness Shouldn't l get a gap to return them? l won't forget that fellow who bashed up my nose A vagabond who is only like a feather Who is he? - He is Kunjumon - Who is that? My neighbor Joseph'ettan's son You mean that guy living in that tiled house? - lkka! (husband)here, have your medicine - Leave me alone, l don't want them You better have it or you won't be able to take any more blows Here's water and give the rest to him Poor chap! Look at his nose Which strong man turned your nose into this? Didn't you get beaten up? Of course not! l ran away, escaped My shirt tore, this belongs to Ashley - Where were you? - Understood! - Aren't you going to see your father? - l have not gone home We'll meet this evening Colin! Hey look! There! lt's coming! You go for a church carnival and pick up fights eh? And come back beaten up? My God! Look at his nose! Mamma, don't beat him any more He's already in bad shape Poor chap! Such a weakling! Where are you going back you stupid? l have told that other guy He says to be patient for 2 more days Just watch me my dear, l swear l'll get into his house and finish him off We can talk it over and compromise What is there to talk? This is not fair my boy Police have been enquiring since ages Do they think we are terrorists? Aren't you agents supposed to look after such issues? Look into it - Where are you off to? - l have a trip to make Eat and go da! One ticket to Ernakulum Sophy lt's him Hey! Bhai? l came to meet you - Where did you go? - l went for a movie Wine, its home made No thanks, it's okay l'll have only this Leave it here mamma Good night lsn't anyone staying in this house? Of course, all of them are there Who is all of them? By all of them l mean... ...Joseph'ettan His son Kunjyumon ls that middle aged woman his wife? That's a distant relative Who else? Then there is Anna - See you - Goodnight My dear, tie it a bit lower l won't be able to reach it otherwise - ls this enough? - Yes Okay, put out your clothes on it l'll put it out to dry in the sun tomorrow A pair of eyes, 2 beautiful eyes l saw Right behind the pane of the door A girl with eyes dark inky black blue So young and fresh is she for sure A pair of eyes, 2 beautiful eyes l saw A pair of eyes, 2 beautiful eyes l saw Right behind the pane of the door A girl with eyes dark inky black blue So young and fresh is she for sure A pair of eyes, 2 beautiful eyes l saw Cheeks like apples A glance, the heart to see Cheeks like apples A glance, the heart to see This darling treasure will soon entrap Her gait, like a swan grace in every step A pair of eyes, 2 beautiful eyes l saw Right behind the pane of the door A girl with eyes dark inky black blue So young and fresh is she for sure A pair of eyes, 2 beautiful eyes l saw Signaling and calling out eagerly Smiling with pearl white teeth showing Signaling and calling out eagerly Smiling with pearl white teeth showing Playful and coquettish she is all game Ensnaring the heart with little sulks and making up lovingly A pair of eyes, 2 beautiful eyes l saw Right behind the pane of the door A girl with eyes dark inky black blue So young and fresh is she for sure A pair of eyes, 2 beautiful eyes l saw Anna - Allah! A Christian girl? - So what? - lsn't she taller than you? - No! No! We are the same height l think How do you know? Did you check? - Yes we did - When was this? Everything will be alright Hyder l think my passport problem is really serious They are creating problems with that old case They are continuously calling from Kuwait lf l don't get my passport this time, my job is gone Why don't we pay them something? For what? We'll talk to the Sub-lnspector openly You think there are police who refuse to listen to reason? Just come with me Spent one year in a juvenile home when 13 years old ln the Mattancherry issue you were jailed for suspicious activities Also, rumoured to be connected to a group of activists Tell me now, can we simply hand over his passport? That's why we say that we have to investigate thoroughly You can go - Didn't you hear what he said? - Said what? They'll investigate everything about you thoroughly and then issue the passport Was it for this l brought you along here? When you explain, l feel you are right When the police argue l feel they are right My dear uncle, l have not been involved in any case for a long time l had nothing to do with that Mattancherry fight lt was Salim'kka who made me sit on the stage for that meeting And the newspapers took my photo, what was l to do? l want to escape from all this but these lunatics don't allow me lf they don't give me my passport l'll break their heads, just wait and see! Someone dear to me has sung along Said the nightingale through his song A beautiful nightingale... Wonder who you are... - Should l play it? - No Didn't you give it to her? All this is not allowed there Who is she? A family friend So that's why you are still a bachelor, eh? What can you do now? Except to forget The heck! l am unable to forget Mamma, have you finished your shopping? l just reached, okay? Aren't you coming? Will all of us fit in, Rasool? - Sure! Another 10 of you can sit - Then it's okay - What happened? - On leave for the afternoon Rasool, you're A/C is not working l'm going to open the window l just got it repaired Must be the heat outside - Where did you guys go? - We went to see a nun in a convent - A nun? - Yes Ashley, who is that nun? Annie, who is she? We'll just step in for a minute and come, okay? - Are you coming? - No - Where did you go? - Hm? - l asked you where you went? - l had to run a trip for Colin - How much do l owe you Rasool? - Nothing - Don't you want to be paid? - l'll collect it from Colin Da, l am unable to get in touch with Abu What is it? Send her a message A blank message Why? lf anyone calls from there you can always feign ignorance Morning and evening send a wish Add sweet dreams for the night Send each one at that particular time -l will go home and do it -Why are you feeling shy? Yes you do l'll tell you the spellings No What is it, da? l'll be back right now Hey, what's up? Why are standing back? Come, l say Lets drink toddy Hey team members, come Come it's there, all ready Shall we leave? Are you scared? First time Rasool, wait here - What's it? - Let's leave - Where are the others? - Let's go - Where are they? - Get going l say - What the heck have you got into? - Rush away - Tell me what is it? - Just go ls someone following? Take the red one my dear Tell me, who is it? My God! Who, that fat buffalo? Don't shout! lt's that fair beautiful one Good pick, okay - Where are you going? - Will be right back Take that one Yes that one This is okay lts good, okay? My dear, fantastic selection Superb color Just leave her alone my dear boy Firstly, she's a Christian Hyder'kka will kill you - My dearest lkka? - Yes? Did l fall in love with you because you were a Muslim? Love does not have caste or religion You go ahead and love her, my dear We'll cross the bridge when it comes What a wonderful love story Go early morning and return late night Do you attend the Sunday mass also? You don't talk about love You are in love with all girls in this world, he's not like that You love her, l give you all my support Colin? lsn't that him? - Who? - Where? Who is it? That guy who beat us up at the church - ls that him? - Yes it's him Go lkka, go and beat him up Look at the way he is standing there Go and punch him - Be quiet Fazila, the kids are here - So what if kids are here... ...you ran away like a coward, my lkkaka got all the beatings Come on go and beat him him Be quiet Fazila we are here as a family l'll do it another day Sure you will Be quiet, calm down Fazila Yes sure! l will be there when you come punched to pulp He's gone! My little one! - Hey! Our guy has come early today - Better be careful my dear girl! - Where do you live my son? - Fort Kochi - Don't you have a job? - Yes l do - l see you in the boat everyday - l come to meet a particular person - Who is this person? - A special person...! Bharath'etta, l am going to Ernakulum l want the day off for today also, please Tomorrow l'll surely be there Okay - Where do you work? - l am a driver With 'Kumar taxi'? - Yes! How do you know? - Bharath'ettan is my brother in law - Have you taken insurance? - For the vehicle? - No for yourself - No Why don't you take one? Driving a vehicle all the time lsn't it better to take one? Hey! What happened? Has the boat stopped? Hey boys, will l see my home again? Something wrong with the motor, strong undercurrents What is to be done now? Listen, the boat stopped in mid river Hey! The boat has stopped midway! My dear boy do something Anna, are you afraid? Don't worry, another boat will come Anna? l...like you My dear, show me that blue saree No, not that one, the blue one See that color My dear, not that one The blue one - This? - What is it madam? When l ask for one color she picks another Sorry - Sorry - Shalu... Please attend to it, okay? Sorry madam Anna - Anna, what happened? - Headache Go sit inside Be careful here, okay? You'll lose your job What happened dear? Heard the boat had trouble this morning? l saw, l glimpsed a man in my dream Within my heart someone l'd never seen Oh poor dream of mine, please Tell me, oh tell me who you did see Hey! Why the dot on the forehead today? lt looks really good on you You seem to have a high fever Go see a doctor - lf it's Dengue, you'll be in real trouble - This can't be that kind of a fever What other fever can you possibly suffer from? Row on and on to shores Unseen by anyone before He is also in that flowing stream Just an ordinary man, my dear dream Just an ordinary man, my dear dream Look, fill your eyes with the sight of the sea and backwaters so far beyond As l turned, drop by drop into water You flowed out like bay waters into the ocean Flowing forever grief stricken in search of shores Within, my innermost self you became the seven seas As l turned into clear sparkling waters Go! Go there Kathrina...? Oh! All of you are here Are you returning after work? When Mary told me you got a job in a cloth store, l thought it was a high post Do you really need this job my dear? lsn't that right, my son? Kathrina? What a dignified look! Give me my money and then look dignified Hey! Woman! You heard me? - Give me what you owe me, okay? - Go away! l got your message - Why aren't you saying anything? - Go away You do like me, don't you? Say something please - l will - When? - Later - Later when? - Afternoon - l'll come back in the afternoon - No! l'll give you a call - Will you surely? - What is it? - l wanted a shirt Shirts are in the lower floor Come with me Has he started following you here too? What did he say? Nothing - Hello - Hello? Terrible traffic block! - Who was it? - No one - Why are you following me around? - You didn't give me an answer Don't come to the shop again l will lose my job - All this will not work out - Not work out? But why? l don't know Say something before you go - No, this won't work out - l like you, that's why l came to the shop This will not happen the way you expect it to Why not? lt will become an issue lt cannot happen - Give me a reason why it wont - You won't understand, it just won't ls this why you asked me to come? - Boat jetty - Tell me and then go Let's go - Why won't it work out? - lt won't - l am a Christian - ls it my fault that l am a Muslim? l drive Barath'ettan's vehicle for my livelihood l have had more meals in Colin's house than my own He's a Christian, isn't he? At least tell me if you like me? l am afraid Move! Hey brother, aren't you getting off? What is it, dude? She's an intelligent girl You had to fall for a Christian girl, eh? Just go to Ponnani You'll get the most beautiful girls Why go to Ponnani? Don't we get girls in our own place? What about Nafeesa's 2nd daughter? She'll complete her 10th next year A tedious boat trip all the way there And then the return journey l know why you are at that window What is your intention? l swear, l am serious l am not the kind to play around, ask Colin l like Anna very, very much l understood that day, the depth of his feelings for Anna l also told Anna about this The meaning of love on this earth When life gives its complete meaning A realization that love is to endure l witness that to love is to accept death - Hello - Hello - Tomorrow we have a place to visit - Sure we can, but where to? l'll tell you all that later Hello - We can go by my car - No, we'll take the bus Okay, see you tomorrow Tickets What are your intentions? What? Will your family and townsfolk approve of this? l don't have a family You will ask Anna to convert to your religion Why all this unnecessary complications? Convert to my religion? Why should l? l will do no such thing and neither will she l like her and she does me lNTERVAL - What's happening to your Gulf trip? - That won't work out Do you have to go abroad to make money? Can't you work with your dad in Ponnani? All this has been told many times lf he has to prosper in life first his attitude has to change There he comes! This one with a car and the other with a Jhankar(ferry) Both of them have no brains What will they earn with such petty jobs? We can only advice isn't it? l am finding it difficult to manage on my own Come to Ponnani if possible - Here take this - No, l don't want it Keep it my boy! With those glasses you look like lmran Hashmi (actor) As long as you don't open your mouth - Are you asleep? - Heavens! lt's so dark in here Hello? Where are you? l am here Can you come outside? Look this way! Here at the window ls it? Goodness! What happened? Bhai? Were you asleep here? - Shall l go? - Just one minute more One minute over, now can l leave? Some more The manager will kick up a fuss Can l go now? Okay Oh Divine mercy of God Oh divine mercy of love - Give it to me - No l'll help you - You can go - l'll say hello to Ashley Ashley is not there Why do you have a smile today my girl? This is what l said This is where we usually come Good collection You hang around till we return lf they call me l'll leave, okay? Give it to him What is it? Get and come you pig You pig You pig... Look at me, you pig Come and hit me, you pig Kill those scoundrels Rasool run! Catch him Rasool take the vehicle Run and get in Listen to me Kunjumon You don't have to say anything How dare you hit me Leave me Rasool! Don't spare anyone Hit them all Let him go You pig Come What about the favour l asked you? Did you go to the police? Just get lost will you Tell me, will it succeed? l had to spend more fuel for these fellows of Kochi Mamma even started asking if l had come home to solve their issues What the heck did you try to achieve? Lucky you were not killed They deserve it They punched my lkka into pulp What are you poking at it for so long? Rasool, let that case alone lt won't work out, let's find someone else Although they did the attacking Rasool suffered the most from this event Anna left him He hung around Marine Drive and Menaka day and night, trying to get her sympathy But none of his efforts succeeded Don't you have any better work? Finally he came to me Do something my dear Bhai l went to the shop, Shalu drove me away She won't even pick up my calls At least ask her to answer Even l sent her my messages That fellow beat me, that's why l did it He's mad, that boy Kevin, don't touch my bike Get down Where in heaven did l find the courage to do all this? l don't know Love erases all fears was something l realized when Rasool came with me l decided to unite them Rasool? Quickly, okay? Why didn't you take my calls? l even sent messages Why did you beat him? He beat me up, didn't he? My friends and ruined my car also What kind of a boy is he? He is a brat But what's wrong with you? Aren't you ashamed to pick up a brawl on the streets? lf this is how it's going to be l don't want to see you any more What do you want me to do? Do you want me to go beg his forgiveness? Tell me Anna l can't stay without seeing you You know all about me don't you? lt's almost 20 years since father talked You met sister, didn't you? Then there is Kunjumon Hardly matters if he's there or not l really want to end my life That was when l met you Rasool, you also... Hey! Leave me Anna! Go away guys! l came to give him some broth - Are you done? - Yes Go to Ponnani, father had called Don't hang around here anymore l am not going anywhere Are you mad? Will you marry her and come here? Go try to make some money first Stand on your own 2 feet and we'll think about this Live with father for some time Make him understand, da lsn't it better you stay away for sometime at least? Why are you sitting like this? Love is not the end of the world You may feel sad and now ln a way its good Because otherwise you may have to suffer - How much? - Rs 40 - Do you have change? - Change for how much? Get going now! Come - Give me your bag - Go in my boy Have you seen her even once? Well how would you?! You and your brother never come here, right? My dear, why don't you come and eat something? How many days will you stay cooped up in here like this? Sister? - Didn't you go to school today? - No - What is this? - Chocolate Praise be the Lord Father, you can sit there Thomas? You sit here my boy Hey! l didn't know you were here my dear? Go inside and get us Praise be the Lord Father, tell him what we've come for Joseph we have come with a marriage proposal Francis likes Anna He has been saying this for some time l thought why delay it any longer Both families have their shortcomings Yet we would like to propose My son is once wedded His wife is dead and he has a child too Everyone knows it Everyone knows what is happening in this house too, right? Father tell them the rest of it Joseph, you need not worry about the dowry in gold or the wedding expenses They promise to take care of all that You just have to give your nod of assent Father! What are you saying? Of course Joseph will agree to this We must ask her opinion also, shouldn't we? She will not have any objection You don't have to interfere This is a family issue Why are you a stranger, meddling in this? Help yourself Father Thomas, Anto, give it to everyone Trying to catch fish in muddy waters! Brother, come have dinner - You know our Jamal, don't you? - Yes He'll come early in the morning You can start work tomorrow itself He's just come, isn't it? Let the hurt on his head heal first Does he use his head to work? His hands are enough Live as you wish l will go early morning tomorrow Hey! Get up The boat has come, let's go Boat? Who is your boat man to navigate? Where is your oar, as you journey into the ocean? Who is your boat man to navigate? Where is your oar, as you journey into the ocean? A journey, a voyage, a journey through ages lkka? Abu'kka? What is this? - Give it to me - What jobs are you doing? What is this? What do you do to earn? l am scared Don't try to fool me What is it you are doing l am scared What is it my girl? Why do you have to be scared? - l am afraid - Why my dear? Why my girl? Da Faizi, What is happening? lt's a month and half since verification Are you playing the fool? Where is my passport? There is no use kicking up a fuss here Go ask those policemen They have written a horrible report Try to beg and placate them Or you'll never go to gulf in this birth - Don't harass me sir - You went to the SP office, right? He has put us into trouble, sir lt is you who give us problems People of the town think we are thugs now We are not sanctioned loans from banks Police consider us terrorists Don't we also have a right to live here? Enough, come out now Come l say - Give this file to the SP - Yes sir - ls Abu in? - Yes Someone's come for you Come let's go Shall l leave my dear? As stars, their rays light up your path The shore and bay beckons you back ln darkness, without even moonlight With just a glimmer within your heart You are yourself the chosen path to journey The shores to reach are within you always Hey...journey...the voyage Hello! Are you still dreaming of that girl? Dreaming? Don't deny, lsmail'kka has told me everything l know the pain of losing the girl you love You don't be sad Whenever you feel like seeing her Just jump in and open your eyes She'll appear like a fish Where is your oar, as you journey into the ocean? A journey, a voyage, a journey through ages - Did you get your pay? - No - Here - l don't want it This is wages for your labour Accept it - lt's a windfall my son! - Sure! Did you see her? ln the name The Father, Son and the Holy Ghost Amen! Francis, are you prepared to accept Anna as your future bride? Yes l am Anna Joseph, are you prepared to accept Francis as your future husband? Yes l am Dear Lord, merciful and loving, may your children rancis and Anna Joseph... We decide upon something but God decrees something else This is what happened to me also Lily The love l had from 4th grade When we were students at Delta One way When we were college mates too l didn't tell her of my love But Jismon told her of his love l became just an onlooker When Jismon betrayed her at least then l should have told her But... ...my silence finally led her to the Convent l gave Lily away to God But l decided l won't let Anna be given away to the Devil l thought at least she would escape from that house The wedding will be held in 15 days l am thinking of cancelling my leave Otherwise l will have to see her walk out with that Francis Wrap me around, hold me close Let this phone be with you Here keep it Wrap me around, hold me close Stories Sufi told us about the wonders of love But never did they warn that love also meant death Have you brought your woman back home? My mother should allow me to, right? Keep repeating this all the time! Take up more jobs for your living Don't we get houses here? Bring them here and live together After that, puff up your chest and walk Useless fellow! Foolish fellow Love, the wide expanse of ocean The heart in constant danger of mishap The ideal wife can be found by one and all She will be purer than a gemstone The Lords teaches her to trust His gains increase She does him only good life long, and never harass She weaves hair and jute thread into linen Like a traders ship, she brings food from far Anna, where were you? - l went to the bathroom - Have some tea l don't want it Married life Man - Woman Love is most important in wedded life Equally important is the sexual life lt is a divine gift Brother, where is Cherupushpam School Hall? There, that's the one - Sir, where is the class going on? - Look, there May be as per God's will, according to your capability, your eligibly... ...more than expected, you got the best partner in life With such conviction begin your married life and lead a life with utmost bliss Sir? May l see Anna? Who is Anna? Anna, please As per the ability and eligibility of each of you... ...accept that you got someone most compatible What? - What is it? - l too have to go God is the unseen priest who conducts this wedding Thereby this session teaches us never to break this divine bond He formed Hey! Kunjumon They are going away! Da! He's taking her away What can l do? When l heard Rasool had taken her away l was the one who was overjoyed the most - Kozhikode - l must get down here You heard what they said, didn't you? l can't take a decision on this, all by myself You brought her away, l can't say l will not allow her into the house But there are 3 girls back at home too How can l ruin their future? Where are you going? Bharath'etta, what happened to my request? Did you speak to Ani? Can't you stay with me? Yes, tell me Bharath'etta Give me a pen A spreading tree alongside the path Enjoying the sun shine upon its being And a plant bereft of shade and suffering One day, unknown to anyone, came together as one One little bird sprouted wings to fly Turned to this shade, unknown to sunshine He came to roost on the branches and the breeze played a melody Brother, where is this address? l know where it is Get in Come, come Bharathaettan said you'd reach this morning You reached safely! l am relieved This place does not have many comforts You must be very tired after your long journey Anna, take rest for some time Come, let's go take a dip in the stream When they came to know of our affair Rosy's father came with a knife We just disappeared and came here, to Kurishupara Everyone here insisted that l convert What did it matter? l converted Purushothaman Kammath became Peter Oh Lord of Seven Hills! What are you worrying about? Don't worry, just shower and change into this l don't know if it will fit you We'll get you one this evening Don't worry about anything, okay? - l wish l could get a job - Bharath'ettan did tell me We'll go meet Monachan after eating our food Be careful walking around here l had asked for a house Let me see l will try and get you one Shall l serve some curry my dear? Here drink some water Go to the church and make arrangements to get married Rasool will have to convert Rasool will not agree lf Purushotaman can turn into Peter, so can he! Use this, it will be very cold at night Rasool, will you convert? Go declare it in church(sarcastically) That's what Rosy chechi also says To go to church and convert you - lf you don't convert nothing will happen - Well, then let nothing happen Anna, you tell me Should l convert? No Rosy, get some water Your eyes have reddened lf you open your eyes under water You can see the person you love l did see - When? - At Ponnani Get down Colin came and told us Abu was missing since 4-5 days Didn't you go today? - Keep this with you - l don't want it Come let's have some tea Look who has come Come in With shoots newborn and twigs so small Built a nest both of them to live together As mist bodies were touched by tender rays of sun in kisses Brightness spread and light flowed in rivulets As everything turned into brightness A spreading tree alongside the path Enjoying the sun shine upon its being And a plant bereft of shade and suffering Bye sister We have only this plant and this tree hereafter To rest every night on skies, turn into clouds Like the showers of rain on fresh earth Today, let it flow out, may it rain in bountiful showers Come both, the tree and the plant to be together Anna? Wait, Thomas l am coming too Rasool? - Are you Rasool? - Yes - Come - Where? - Come - Walk man - What is it sir? - Come man - What's the problem? - Come - What is it sir, tell me - You just come with us Anthony sir this is the guy Do you know him? Sir, he is my friend Abu - Get into the vehicle - Why? l have not done anything - Sir let me at least call my wife - Your wife my foot! - Get in l say - Sir, please listen My dear drink some water at least You! Sir what happened to Abu? He's dead Killed You, along with him and some friends committed it, didn't you? l don't know anything sir Don't try to fool me okay l'll just throw you into the ravines They went in your car that day lsn't it? Someone killed Abu An act of bravado any ordinary man of Mattancherry usually would do... ...cost Abu his life Everything was going on fine lt was that fellow who messed it up, your friend Abu...! They took care of him and put us behind bars! At the most 4 months You don't worry - Where is Anna? - What is it? Read it The news papers carry photo also See? You trusted him and walked out didn't you? Now in newspapers with a photo too l may have money and may cheat But l don't kill people l don't have a problem because she walked out with him,... ...it's my 2nd marriage too, isn't it? lf all of you are okay with it Let the marriage take place on the day we had already decided lllegal money Youth stabbed to death My divinely beautiful one, your loveliness beautifying the magnificence of moonlight The shore across celebrates your wedding On this shore, lay our love in stillness of death l have arranged an advocate You can come out without much fuss Don't worry, l'll be there Anna? Anna?! She's getting married tomorrow ln the name of the Father Son the Holy Ghost Amen - Shall l give the sweet to the bride? - Say it with conviction - Shall l give her the sweet? - Louder - Shall l give the sweet to the bride? - Give it! Why don't you sleep? Are you a bridegroom getting ready? - Let me go to the bathroom - Wait let me finish eating You want anything else? Nothing What about you Give me some milk pancake Come This time apart from mamma another person too, is awaiting my arrival l confessed to Lilly the secret l was carrying in my heart She too had wanted to hear it Colin married a nurse Now they are in the UK With Abu gone, Fazila had to take up many more responsibilities Hyder still has not got his passport He never complains about it any more And Rasool? Where was he? No one knew Wrap me around, hold me close Wrap me around, hold me close Stories Sufi told us about the wonders of love But never did they warn that love also meant death Wrap me around, hold me close Wrap me around, hold me close Days and nights in this world where Waves of danger rise up and thrash Love, the wide expanse of ocean The heart in constant danger of mishap Wrap me around, hold me close
