 

                        What's wrong? Thomas called this morning There's been an accident at home last night What happened? It's bizarre His wife was drying her hair by blower She had an electric shock That happens Then she lost her balance And hit her head when she fell She lost consciousness And never woke up This morning, the hospital told Thomas That she's gone What? She died It's weird, isn't it? Do you have any booze? Let me go in his place You? That would be better Wait. Let me consider seriously You were study in Shanghai, weren't you? Oh the devil may do what the devil may dare But the devil don't give a damn now So you can take and you can break what your money can make And you know it's gonna be alright now Mary wanna be my baby Sayin' Mary wanna be, Mary wanna be rich now Money gets in the sack Sayin Money makes the world go around and around So come on baby Show me the Money Money, Money Gimme what I want now Money, Money, Money Money, Money It's all I ever need now Money, Money, Money Get a car, get a woman, get a credit card Yeah I know what I want and I know how to get it It's a bargain The apartment is almost new Just recently bought It has never been rented out? Of course not I assure you! It's so high up Not easy for anyone to break in, right? Can the rental be lower? Are there other potential tenants? No The furniture is part of the deal So you can move in straight away Is management fee included? Yes, here is well residential management It's an upper class neighbourhood People here are refined It's peaceful and orderly here Isn't it? Yes This is the penthouse It's easier for thieves to break in from the rooftop You better reconsider! He's such ajoker Do you want a drink? You wanted a computer room, right? There is a room here that is just perfect Come. Let me show you Come with me... Take a look... - Which direction is the room facing? - Southeast That's good... Come take a look... Why are you leaving? Work What else could it be? I never know what's on your mind I say it again It's for work Let me go with you then What for? You have ajob here, you have the band I don't get it How can I ever please you? Miss Mok The Chans have decided pay the deposite Can you decide by tonight? You have never loved me I have no complaints You have been so good to me But it doesn't mean I am happy I think Your piano can go right there What do you think? Is it alright? What do you think? Do you know that when you smile Your face is lopsided? Do you know that your face is hexagonal shaped? And it becomes a trapezium when you smile You look even worse when you cry It becomes a strange irregular round shape Mr Wong highly recommends you He said the Singapore office can't do without you You were a fine arts student? You are not married at your age A bit uncommon I can start work today Miss Mok, how do you do? I'm Paul. I'm your secretary I'm also secretary to Cindy and Mr Chen Just let me know if you need anything Oh, yes I'll be on long leave from next week My duties will be covered by Team B I shall introduce them to you later You'll be in good hands I'll go on a trip on my leave I've waited three years for this Saving up! I've been planning this for a while Initially I was thinking of Eastern Europe It has a sense of mystery Then I started thinking about Western Europe For a more relaxed trip Finally I decided on three countries France, Germany, Italy Sorry I'd better get going I'll be outside if you need me Excuse me I would like to buy these photo artworks Just these two Okay Could you send them up to my office? Upstairs? Third floor Sure thing No, wait. Please send them to my hotel instead To this hotel? Yes, My room number is on the card Okay Are you paying cash? No. By credit card Please sign here Okay, thank you Thank you Aren't you on leave? NopeK Okay Show me the letter we sent to J C Thompson two days ago Not going on your trip? Trip is off Why are you alone? Where is Ouyang? Ouyang? There must be something fishy Having an affair? Keeping Ouyang in the dark? What's the matter? It's late, let's go Besides We shouldn't be bothering her It's no big deal I'll wait for you outside I'm just having a little fun And he gets jealousy Do we know each other? Sorry I must have mistaken you for someone else Excuse me Miss, this is the CD you asked for - Okay, thank you. - You're welcome - Morning - Hi Morning Morning - How are you? - Here they are, please take a look Good... Excuse me, how much is this? $9 - Is it from the rump? - Yes Okay, I'll take that Are you done? Almost there Xiao San, do your homework after piano practice Don't watch TV Alright Are you done yet? Yes I'll be playing this for the competition Hello Yes, speaking Yes, I did Delivered together? I only bought one piece Hotel? This is not a hotel Yes I think you made a mistake Okay, thank you Bye I bought a photo artwork It's a surprise for you Someone took a snapshot of you in the streets And displayed it at a gallery I saw it a few days ago It really gave me a shock But They made a mistake And delivered it to someone else Are you done yet? Can I go into the room now? By telling me now Aren't you spoiling the surprise for me? I'm not feeling well Shall we eat? Have you taken your medicine? Yes, tomorrow's dosage as well Sorry I thought they were ordered by the same person And had it delivered to the wrong address Why did they take my friend's picture? Your friend? Yes My friend Sorry What are you sorry about? You didn't take the picture Okay Can I buy that photo? But aren't you sulk? I'm not upset over the photo I'm sulk that you Sent it to me without any advance notice But another lady already bought the photo Can't you duplicate another for her? But the artist specified that There should not be any duplicates There should only be one copy Why? He said this is art So it cannot be copied Stop asking me anymore You are driving me crazy I don't care I won't returning the photo If you like You can process another copy for that lady Sorry, it was my mistake That customer Likes the artwork that you bought And she claims she knows the man in the photo Really? She would like to keep that photo I couldn't talk her out of it I think I would drive her crazy if I persist How about that You talk to her It may work as both of you are women Do we really look alike? No way You're much nicer Okay then, thank you Hello Is this Anna? Yes Are you the lady who bought that photo? I am outside your hotel Are you back at the hotel? You are outside the hotel? Where are you? I'm... The gallery staff said you know Ouyang? Are you a friend of Ouyang's? He is my husband Guess which of us he met first You or me? But it no longer matters Who should keep the photo? You take it Since you bought it When did you get to know Ouyang? We could find out then whom he met first Maybe I don't really want to know Do you want these? They are different versions of the music I'm playing. You are competing, aren't you? Yes Don't tell me you haven't listen to these before Sure I have Some of them Good I'll get going then Wait Hey Why don't you listen to them with me? You look awful I didn't sleep well last night It's bad for women to stay up late You have to be careful at your age, you know? What's the matter with you? You seem different? Me? What about me? Aren't you going on a trip? Why did you cancel that? I want to save up... I thought you saved hard for it far three years? Something must have happened Nothing happened Why are you here? What is it? What's wrong? You are real! What's real? The gallery sent your receipt to me by mistake I always know you as Anna I didn't know your Chinese name is Mok Si Yu So? My name is also Mok Si Yu What's going on? The doctor said I have a weak heart Me too We are one and the same person I remember now I almost drowned when I was eight I saw you in the waters You too? Then it must be true I grew up in an orphanage I came to Shanghai to pursue my studies when I was 18 I dropped out I met Ouyang in school But I did not marry him! Doppelganger In German, doppel means "double" An evil self emerges It is a paranormal phenomenon It is a death omen A person sees a second self It is a sign of ill fortune Not feeling well? I want to stop my medication I may give performances again But we'll see What do you think? You want to be a drama queen again, don't you? Haven't you said that before Stop the medication and give performances again You've said it over thousand times But you can't take the stress So you could never be a professional pianist You suffer from depression You need medication, don't you get it? Sometimes I wonder Are you like this because you are sick Or are you sick because of your personality You really care for me, don't you? Come in Come in I found this information on the internet last night We must have split after the abortion At eight Was our first split But we became one again There is a scientific term for this I'm not assure whether it applies to us It's called Doppelganger People on the brink of death Or under extreme stress Split to two But it's amazing that our split lasted so long It's truly unbelievable What if we become one again What would happen? What happens if we become one again? Then let me vanish I don't care Let me be with Ouyang for a few days You can be me for a few days Hello Do you really like me? If I were to vanish one day What would you do? Look for someone just like you One day my spouse went singing Seven old men were already there He starts singing And six men fainted What happened to the seventh He is the mayor Who held on to my hand And kept shaking it Madam Please get your husband home Others sing for money His singing would kill you! Wear this Why? You play the piano, don't you? Come on! This is great! Mom never lets me play ball You are clumsy This is my first game! You don't know the game either Watch me! Didn't you say We can exchange identities for a few days? Let's meet up tomorrow I'll wait for you at the hotel Okay This is the version I like best I'll be known as Anna for the next three days Are we really one and the same person? Why are you willing to swap? It's only for three days Do you miss Ouyang that much? You said you could vanish anytime It's a luxury to me Because for me My life hasn't even started I have a client I borrowed his money to invest And I lost it all One day He committed suicide He left behind a wife and three children I knew his wife But I never told her about the money Even though I knew they had become penniless Do you really want to be me? Just for three days? Just for three days Are you going out? Where to? Mom's place May I come along? Let's go Don't catch a chill - Let me help - No, leave it I can do it myself You go sit there Your father has been sick again recently He says he wants to kill himself Everytime I leave the house now I would often wonder Did I turn off the gas Fortunately, you have no kids Or this nightmare has its "descendants" I've stopped taking my medicine I feel groggy when I do And can't even play the piano Do you have to play the piano? Do you want to see me like this? Do you think we are happy? At least nothing bad happened Then I'd rather something 'bad' happens Right now I'm like a walking zombie I'm just looking for a way out Good morning, Miss Mok Miss Mok You cut your hair! Was that your twin sister? She looked just like you I would like to inform you That from tomorrow onwards I won't be making coffee for you Nor will I run your personal errands anymore I will also inform Cindy and Mr Chen You don't mind, do you? I think... These are not really duties of a secretary What do you think? I'll get going When I went to collect my air ticket the other day I met my classmate He had a lady with him I asked if that's his girlfriend? He said no That's his secretary! He then asked me what I do for living? That was it I don't want to be a secretary my whole life Excuse me then Sorry, excuse me Is there something wrong with the food? My husband is sensitive to seafood Now I can finally have a taste of it Mozart Piano Sonata K332... Going out? I'm leaving We've lost our baby There is no reason For me to stay Let's stop deceive ourselves We were over and done with What are you doing? You can't leave! Get out of the way! Get out of the way! Give me the keys Give the keys to me! Get out of the way! There's no use crying I won't let you go! - Let me leave! - Get out of the way! Don't go If you want to leave Do it some other time If you leave me now I won't be able to take it Let's drop it, okay? Now I tell you, I don't love you anymore Because you are sick, don't you know that? You are incompetent! Incompetent! You're an incompetent! Incompetent! Incompetent! Shut up! Play some more! Is Ouyang in? He asked me to come here He said he had tips for me for the competition He's not in? May I wait for him? Why isn't there a piano here? I'd better go Please stay Ouyang should be back soon I'll meet him at the competition anyway Bye bye Hello It's me I'm Anna Yes It's rented out now What? One million Singapore dollars! It's not for sale at the moment Could you run one last errand for me? Book me on a flight back to Singapore this afternoon And send the air ticket to my hotel Sure... Thank you You won't be coming back? This is Anna... Please leave a message... Hello It's me Three days' up But I'm thinking... Are you at the hotel? I can go meet you there Hello? Hello? Busy? Hello? I'm packing Going on a trip? No I'm going back to Singapore What? Coming back to Singapore? I'm leaving Shanghai Did something happen? Back in Singapore Will I see you? Ouyang? Ouyang? Are you okay? Ouyang? Hello? Yes The apartment is sold Please apologise to them for me It can't be helped Okay, I'll be back tonight Okay. Thank you Bye bye Si Yu is calling Line is busy When love runs dry Will you run away and hide? Will you find a place where nobody ever goes So you can hold your head up high? Don't you know you can go anywhere? Don't you know you can go anywhere? I have to talk to you If I were to leave Would you leave with me? Shall I make you a birthday cake? It's your birthday tomorrow Have you forgotten? Ouyang! Ouyang! Have you decided Where to go? I always wanted to go to South America What do you think? I have a friend there We can stay with him for a while And decide what to do You can paint again! Or like what you said before Open a cafe I can make pizza and cakes! I forgot my keys I think I should go to the hospital You are up? I think I should go back Your husband is fine now But he should take his medicine regularly Otherwise he will have a relapse Don't try that again You may go You are not Anna? I just look like her I'm sorry She was never that sweet to me! Ouyang is in hospital He stopped taking his medicine He's fine now So you are leaving again I just want to be honest with myself I know I can't take it eventually You were honest once before, weren't you? Amazing Nothing's ever changed I know this sounds weird But I really want to be you To be with Ouyang I don't think it's strange Because I want to be you too But we can't escape our fate, can we? Going out? I'm leaving We've lost our baby There is no reason for me to stay Let's stop deceive ourselves We were over and done with Let's drop it, okay? Do you know How much I have sacrificed for you! Then forget it No one needs your sacrifice, not me Don't touch me! Just leave... Just go... I've tried my best I just can't seem to please you Yes I'm also asking the same question How could you say that? How could you say that? How could you say that? Don't say that You shouldn't say that You shouldn't say that Don't you say that Don't you say that... Don't you say that...
