 

                        Take, take, take, Take it Jarod Give it, give it, give it, give it to me, Griff Harder! - My head will explode - Oh God! I come! What's up, guys Wake up, Nico Wake up, my baby, it was only a bad dream I came to see as it is, the little lady What happened? Where am I? Small, you had a hectic nightmare Remember me, your friend attractiveness, Andy And my, Orson Griff I'm Jarod, and do not forget my abdomen, "the unforgettable? I had a strange dream Everyone died, except me And you, you, you were there, although... ... looked a little different We all have silly dreams, Is not it, boys? And sometimes actors appear say nonsense like... ~ If you see two gay movies followed, although they're really gay ~ Imagine that Now you have many things in your hair, son It was a little different before, but I know gradually accustomed In fact, they are more beautiful from What I remember I'll be fine What the hell! Small girls, have you got enough lubricant for a change? Yes, Lord! sorry, but I will not be with you this time guys / p When you're at the beach, flashing lights placed in their asses for say "available" / p Think of me whenever they get an offer traffic / p I'll be on track to match Golf / p Well, that have a great summer sir, Muffster. / p What the hell / p Speaking of that, do not have to take the plane / p I guess not want to miss any time during their vacation / p Oh Mommy, there place as "Fort Lauderdale" / p Another sequence Gay Movie HOMOQUEER / p Adaptation; Ezekiel / p Piensen en m cada vez que tengan una oferta del trnsito Estar en camino a m partido de Golf Bien, que tenga un gran verano seor, Muffster. QUE CARAJO! Hablando de eso, no tenan que tomar el avin? Me imagino que no quieren perderse ningn momento de sus vacaciones Ay mami, no existe lugar como "Fort Lauderdale" Otra Secuencia de Pelcula Gay Los Gays Se Vuelven Salvajes! Subttulos; HOMOQUEER Adaptacin; Jess Monray Sincronizacin; Ezequiel Acknowledgments; Daniel Huerta Julia Elizabeth Visit us! - That joy - We are together again! Summers to strip gays dust and wild,... Welcome to the Transamerica Airlines I'm the hostess, Debbie In the back is found, Nancy Bibit We welcome them, all aboard... Yes Fort Lauderdale, was not our destination .. Now I will! Hello, I mean that is an honor to have you on board... - Uhhhh! - Perez - I am your big fan - Oh thanks But I have terrible news There is no pilot driving the plane! Damn, Nancy, Control yourself! Looks like they had many summer adventures Now will be active? Well, here I am like, "passive to death ' Sorry, sorry... Every group has a whore Which of you is the young lady? - Nico - I accept More than one sequence, we different experiences... Will be new adventures Perfume of the spear and public sex Salud! Griff and Jarod, "will also Florida to link? - We partner - A monogamous pair That cute, I'm just going to throw up Tell me something more important, Which of you is more talented? We... Griff, we see that member Robinsons... Forgive me father, but we are gay Coming creature confense all their sins Be right back! Oh my God! Oh Father, Hail Mary... He is your captain speaking, we have a little turbulence this morning What is going on? Oh no, where is my nails? Oh my God, we have a Snakes on a Plane! Oh Maria, I feel the power of our Lord In any event... ... Should I use any mechanism to fluctuate - Too many men - We will miss lubricant Already they are having fun? Let me introduce myself I Tyrel Tirelle... The coordinator of the activities chamber of commerce It is a pacer know Tyrel Tyrel It says "Tyrel Tirelle" It's French I just want to make sure you activities have a fabulous... What we have here, Fort Lauderdale Now, keep all our programming See all activities listed typical for summer As our competition Contact packet Including self-help seminars for the injection of botox There's Perez! May God bless you... Who is that? Those are the Jaspers I present: Jasper, Jasper and Jasper Santa erection! Jasper is our model Barbie impeccable loss... He is the leader But the other two only exist to serve the Queen I call Jasper Chan Domo-domo arigato or imbecile It is the stagehand's Jasper-Principal He learns life worldwide He already knows we're talking about them Dear, Jasper Chan knows everything That is the newcomer, I call it, the Jasper-rookie It's in the process of being also hated Look at the front, here they come We are the Jaspers A pleasure, we We are the Chers Where do they come? Born and raised in St. Torn, California But now they're on the East Coast, and this is our territory Take it as a compliment, boys students Because we shall see powers against Jaspers Since the Jaspers are last year's champions Champ?, What? "Gays Gone Wild"! (Gays become barbaric) Now in the "gay Turn wild " Miss Sandy Cove Do you have enough eggs to be ready? How about these? Thanks, sweetie. Not if I speak, or do a gap Welcome to Fort Lauderdale "But this is this summer? From tie!, Sandy Since I'm sophisticated, I prefer the term "throwing stick" In our competition, we to destroy everything! Who is the craziest of this weekend You win many of our Fabulous surprises So, Sandy Including a delicious order break for couples In Aspberry Park, New Jersey! Our paradise in the middle Construction will be fabulous Where you can find black people very interesting But that's not all. Whoever crowned Miss Gone Wild Our heroine will also win... An inscription weekend in Manhunt.net Release the idler inside you With Manhunt But Tyrell, these forgotten our... Super prize! The possibility of make our goal! The filet mignon is Italian also international and gifted, Sandy Able to stimulate their wildest fantasies But it also comes with more accessories With a dental Truz! Participants will have a letter to mark how often do It's easy: do it and check, And do check! What else? Ask yourself: Am I ready to be Miss next "Gone Wild"? This is fantastic, and this competition Even more fantastic, bitches Hey, would not we twin separately? We only have size King Size, my queen He sees the positive side, we mark our cards I hurt, .. You brute! - Sorry, are you hurt? - Yes, you hurt me... Do it again... Do the lovers want to link? Listen, Jarod and I, we are not insurance for an open relationship .. Jarod does not it? Deprecation! I mean, would be depressed, but... I admit that promiscuous sex, Is attractive and hot! But we have to check that can be linked to others, does not it? Things change Let the boys settle sex differences Privately Oh, look at that Botox Injection! - A charm? - Incredible You know what I do?, It will place around my neck for luck Are you okay? He was so hot and ruined The good thing is that I have charm me, just for me I think I'll call Kiki Kiki, the charm So, what rules will we have?, You will let you enter? Would you like to see it as it penetrates me? - Yes? - Yes, of course Wait, wait... And what about kissing? No ,.... No, your lips are mine alone - What is happening? - We also competition - Really? - And no one can separate Let the games begin! That skinny is 21cm membership Or perhaps 23 cm. The competition in fact already begun Is it that they found the bad luck charm? Perhaps you have any other The "Cher" is using it Understand what you say, Jaspers... They will be defeated! Welcome to "gays Turn wild " With this game, we end the legendary sex party, this Saturday Speaking of the sex party, here Sandy Cove is host Sandy's tits contain lubricant "to the bottom ".... To slide, use lubricant "to the bottom" Tell me guys!, Who is in the game! The winner will receive a card with extra bonuses for winning Let's jump to see who achieves more distance Stop! What Jesus think? I know rapidinhas.com site, and celebrity contests But now I was called Jesus Christ No Britney, Paris or Lindsay, Louvem Jesus, Mary and Joseph From heaven to hell We are gay and not get nowhere as perverts ~ All the perverted sex games give a bad name Gays ~ All for that bitch honey, This is unacceptable! - What do we do? - Yes, what do we do? Think of something! Last time, we have a almost legal substitution of Jasper Chan... ... by Jasper Bear My amulet? We won! He looks like someone's Internet who had contact... Are we talking about that entering website? Yes, the best in the world, in gay pornography Delicious! - Who is that speaking Latino? - Singer Do you think it active?, I think active walking as an asset, I can smell it .. Go talk - Why me? - You could have a chance Beautiful, do you want to dance? Sure, go with the Is everything okay?, Cute If Sometimes Jarod needs space Kiss Polly We started badly, I am on a mission peace, representing the Jaspers Apologies Accepted - What do I do? "Close your eyes and absorbs, cute Let's dance! You're a fool Do not worry, I am, as they say... Ambassador of the planet "Peace and Love" Luis Angel "of the cross of the holy faith Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name " Louis, in short form - That fast! - You have no idea Andy Wilson, "bobo" in short form You know, I see more gays here of which there across Cuba But we have a sentence gay "Look at that bird!" So what are you drinking? "Semen smurf"... I say, Ron, "Ron light"... - Payment for the next round - My God, super cute - Where you learn that? - I wanted to be a magician Good idea, when I was in Cuba, I wanted to be... How do you say in English? A ventriloquist Oh, my God .. Andy Wilson, the magnificent - Let - Okay Go! What is this? It's my dildo, my friend. Only thus achieving There really... Friend, you are so romantic... Lick my face, my friend What happened brother? I apologize, but I cut myself finger is bleeding. Bye # Jesus loves us, we know, So says the Bible # # Yes, Jesus loves # # Yes, Jesus loves # # We're from your garden, like you # - Are you a good dancer - I just follow your steps Let's leave that for a place appropriate sir, okay? Maybe, right now? See you tomorrow, Andy Wilson No nonsense "Griff? - You like? - Of course yes! I like it I love it! # I miss # - Andy u003d 2 caught - Active unknown u003d 1 fuck - Who ordered a Sangria? - Was a Black Orange Bellini Of course, dear - We need to find their weakness - Must be here Well, how was your night? A disaster Well mine was just a disaster That bitch! I found the most ardent, perfect, innocent boy And finish with either a spa pool How was it? Well Tell us with details Griff, where are your glasses? Broke... Did not noticed my new lenses contact? "You took so strong? Jarod, stop, just us mamamos mutually - What's up, it was your idea from the... - But I never said, do not get to sleep Let me break this awkward telling my night time Well, anyway, How was it?, Puto Just in case, I suck so much ass, you leave everything open Speaking of open or snap shut Let me ask my neck... is too intrusive? We should not continue, it seems we are not prepared It seems not! It is better to close the neckline and not becoming infected by any disease Goodbye boys Because maybe I'm a leper I hope it's contagious - What is the rasping, "Japa? - I'm Jasper Anyway I'm sorry about last night, was too drunk Apology accepted, Mr. Damn! - Captain u003d 1 fuck - Fuck Gilligan u003d 1 Defined and we are not in Cuba If, then You think about this subject promiscuity contest - Are Gays become barbaric? - That same Not ready for sex yet Do you? No. .. no I just was curious You are super adorable Hello Hello - Griff - Jarod When I came out with that kid, I was just thinking of you Your thinking of me?, Right? Clear At first He was very interested in me I will not lie, I liked to know someone thinks I'm hot - I think you're hot - What is it about you, but, It was just sex But you know you are who I love Perhaps we should add some limits, such as, Rule 1: Just do it by being together Are you sure? We can try If you do not like, we let Boys visually appealing! Ah! Lindsay Lohan. Is that Britney? Finns with Aron St Richard Cooper! "Are you leading? Bless, "finally I?, should also hint Hail Mary, Mother of Jesus! Lagrimas virgin! Stigmata! Would not it be rather a Mierdamata? It is a sign of Jesus! It was chosen It was chosen You have the bluest eyes I've seen in my life Could you repeat it in Spanish? You have the bluest eyes I've seen in my life You know, I'm hungry daddy What do you want? A sausage With lots of gravy! Will not you take me? As everyone Andy I'm a virgin I'll get something in the cafeteria - Attacks child, use that back - Dad? Andy, listen to your mother. Lus will be a good husband without malice Do not listen. How are your needs?, everything you are missing now A virgin?, Go to the club, hurry Do not say those horrible things if this was in the Cadilac But you if you are in the Cadilac, Andy But had hotdogs (hot dogs) Could we start, first with a kiss? I like you I like you too Wait!, We are naked - There are official they - Code # 69 Jasper Here are ladies Heavens! My heavens! Move back, move, Daddy Rule # 1: Only we will play together - Griff u003d 2 caught - Jarod u003d 1 fuck Rule # 2: Do not spend all night Rule # 264: None nicer than I - Hello? - Dad, am I Son, is everything okay? Will you have a minute?, Indeed I need your advice Sure, I'm only wearing, continues, tell me... I met a guy here called Louis He is great, in fact has shown What happens is that Louis is a virgin, and I see him as my boyfriend Are you circumcised? I have not seen yet, Dad Why? Alone, I'm wondering - Okay, continues - Anyway I like a lot, but I'm wrong, the reason of holiday is fun I have only 20 years, and I am somewhat attractive The idea of having something to someone virgin, he is out of control What should I do? If only I had thought only in sex had not been with your mother Over time, I refused to compromise If it were not so, I would not have had, son What I mean is that you listen to your heart or your ass You know, I think you're right - Thanks, Dad - Sure, son - Hi, Dad! - Hello son! - Dad?! - Yes? - What are you doing here? - Do not know about you, but I I hear what you say my ass I was tight Just give me a moment and put it back Usually your mother helps me with this Jesus! What a way to remove the tension, good luck Get ready, because Dad gets wild Fort Lauderdale, bravo! I think you dropped something Who are you? I'm Stan, the newt And I'm Sharon Steeks Do not believe me, look "Chicken of the Sea ' (Comercializadora seafood) That I am! What is your name? Nico Follower of the earth You look sad, Nico, Is something wrong? I feel like extraterrestrial Well, I'm not as the other boys, see? Yes, I can see - Hey little boy - No Stan, do not go Who are you talking about? Stan, the newt Oh yeah?, Let me introduce you to Jack, the snake I'm so desperate... ... yet Nico lost his amulet Kiki I'm going to save # The Feast of lice!... We have great party here # # We're in the pubis, hey # # The Feast of lice!, we are in the pubic # # The Feast of lice! # # The Feast of lice! # Cogelo! Is everyone okay? No, no .. I feel that I need... Yes, I'm more white... At least we still have the best competition scores True, Jarod. And each participant receive a Truz of Aussiebum Feel good, wear pants Aussiebum brand... I can not leave... Lus I promised that I would expect... If I did, at least as a consolation If, as not Are annoying today ... these guys? I have something to cheer them up, I brought a cake from "crab" Or perhaps an apple with parasites? Or maybe a pizza? - Bye, losers... - Peace and love, bitches... As always, Jasper, said the last word Is that what you think? Is that what you think? Thanks for the help, Tyrell My boys. I've always wanted put in place these bitches Que! This amulet is taboo things so terrible happen Let's celebrate! Operation revenge, Jaspers This night is a night full of terror As has ever seen! But those boys, sir, Would not it be better to leave them a little? I think you forgot... ... you have guts Can we do it? Are you sure? My room is occupied Hell, mine too Who cares!... May the power of God, forgive What was that? "Paris Hilton? Yes, very funny... Andy, your dad is having some problems with all these accessories It looks tight, what do you think? Who was that? My father I think it should go No, please, please... I was enjoying... All in good time, Andy We are in the summer party time is now Damn! I nervoso. I never thought would do a trio together Do we use the silver or we use the gold? The golden... Shine with your eyelashes... And with those below... Hey, shark. Did you do it with a small puppy? Scoby-dooby-doooooo! We are new to this Do not worry guys, I I am an excellent teacher You teach us! Move Again, move Hi, I'm cleaning Excuse me? Do not worry Dad, Consuelo has seen it all "SUPER GLUE" Want to play? Want to play... Good boy, good boy... Guys, what have been in a train of love? You back, while your boyfriend penetrates, and I give the back Agreed! Spend the lubricant, please - Of course - Thanks - I'm stuck - And I Me too Oh my God! I am completely claustrophobic! They should calm down, without panicking Call 911, call the Police coast... - You okay? - I ripped the skin, that son of a bitch Stop!, I'll start my rectum What do we do? Sorry, sorry Taxi Hello, my buttocks is bleeding and my index finger is stuck in his anus And I lost my piercing another with my "xeca", OK Want to play? Want to play?, We kid Do you want to get on my ass? Montame, Daddy, Montame!, Lus They call me Sparky, by the way... Oh, yeah. Sparky, gets the member in my... Oh Louis, Louis! - Andy? - Dad? Andy is not an appropriate time, But can you seal my card? - Dad? - OK, you're right, sorry Stan! Are you there? I brought you some flowers Lord Triton - I missed - I missed you too... - Can you leave the water? - Yes, I But not for long You are beautiful I know, and what would you, but I have no where... But you have a mouth .. Lustful! That was not my intention is that, I... Would you kiss me?... But if I kiss you, we could fall in love each other and we could be together Cursed, forever... We become two fish live in the water Someday, I will two legs,... .. and a penis to do and even more and I'll be able your Special wishes Excellent price someone lonely Where there is water, Think About Me Luis, please... I can explain Well... I can not explain everything I just want you to know that by I felt more alone You will always be the first guy really kissed I'm sorry about Lus And how much you like I also feel that you have not found anyone The summer is almost over and yet we are defeated... Sauna that is still 24 hours, we could still win Maybe what we need is... A great night's sleep... Okay All to win the contest Enjoy the sauna! Cogeme! Lus "Where you see water, think of me" I must be having a nightmare this can not be happening Please! Damn! - Over here - Luis What are you doing here? It's your dream, you to come with me Here they come, here they come Leave us alone, because we want being together We liabilities It worked, I think they Thank God "Fisting" (finger in the ass) We do not want fisting "Fisting" (finger in the ass) ~ Droplets, droplets fall ~ ~ Droplets, droplets fall ~ When I feel depressed ~ ~ ~ Sleep in counting the hours ~ ~ I dance in the golden shower you ~ ~ We spent the hours, and our love never ends ~ ~ When I dance in the golden shower you ~ ~ When you feel problems, breaks those walls of perception ~ ~ And let flow all in my ~ ~ ~ Free your grudges ~ And dreams of a yellow rainbow ~ ~ Relax and let your love, do pipi ~ ~ Then come with me and frees your habits ~ ~ Swimming in a sea of gold ~ Hide your taboos ~ ~ And your words shine ~ ~ ~ Be honest with you ~ For waterfalls and rivers ~ ~ ~ Remember your dreams ~ ~ And now stop all flow ~ Then follow me and be free ~ ~ ~ In the depths of the sea of gold ~ Fisting! (finger in the ass) - NO! - YES! Are you okay? If Indeed I feel great What is that smell? - What happens? - I had the worst nightmare What happened to your hand? What happened to your ass? Finally we did a trio (three way) Was with Freddy Kruger? Almost cost us the life I begin to believe that for our third of the trilogy, we must include promiscuous sex Sounds good idea Did you have something this morning? No Instead I have linked He should have died when I penetrate I've won! All that smell of penis I sucked for habrselo He suck! Odd Here we are in "The Gays Become barbaric " Sponsorship of words sujas.com Where has never chatted Help me get to our star the show, Miss Sandy Cove What about? The time has come, orgy begins Happy orgy, guys What am I doing here? Good luck, guys Let's get out of here I would like to make an announcement Nico and I'm... I'm an alien In all my life, never had any doubts about me, not for a second ... So I came to Fort Lauderdale I came for fun, as the rest of you... Being part of this cast Planetary fun... But... Finish discovering the joy Water games Thinking about the secret of life And it's not, who has greater or who is gifted... who dresses better... Or who has the best sex... Are those 5 words to remember for the rest of my life... Yo Soy Lo Que Soy ~ I am what I am ~ Always Calling to other passengers In the interstellar ship Are you listening? Last call... We received your telegram girl Tyrell Tirell, reporting We are all excited, sir What excitement!, I am the Miss sympathy I am so happy that we are out there For monogamy Andy is no longer seeking sex, do you know? No? Now, do you want? He wants you I'm the pizza I love you, man! Hell, I love you too Open your hearts, put on your clothes I cast out devil, you libero promiscuous sex Out!, No more blowjobs, no more "hunting men" Do not listen, deaf ears, still clutching... I heard, I have the power of Jesus, stop... Sorry, I no longer fun since I was 17 years old Father, no one pays attention to us, What should we do? I suggest that we join these people at their meeting Ofrat has returned Who has the lubricant? I'm happy to be on the side ... where I want to always be I did not say that I am waiting to do Can not you? Clear While in my ass Oh God - Hey, baby - Asco! Oh yes, I know you want me Be gentle It was never used before Well, then I know how to "Anothey Gay Movie," and Get this for your ass And now second Jasper "rookie" And now, the winner of the Miss Gone Wild, is .. Nico! Damn!, I want you recount the votes... Open road, silly, here Jasper is the new leader And clean my dear, you something on the lips Do I have something? What now? Stan Where is it shine this, think of me And what we learned in our new adventure in Florida? I learned that Andy, is a tremendous asset And I learned that you are the kind of life I want And we learned that the pizza, if really knows how to deliver And I learned that the third part will be in, Outer space For the upcoming return, "Another gay movie" "GAYS IN SPACE" Visit us!
