 

                        1 MAGGIE: (LAUGHING) Okay, okay, okay. NATHAN: Mom! Okay. Okay, fine. Mom! My favorite... What? Mom, this isn't funny. Seriously. Okay, my favorite thing about your father is... Ow! That hurt. Uh... Oh, that he likes to do his own laundry. That's pretty much it. NATHAN: Oh, uh, well. I don't like to do my own laundry. Seriously, Mom, please answer the question. Come on! Well, that's all I've got. That's it. That's all she... See how she treats me? Yeah. That's all I get is, "I like to do my own laundry"? Really? Yeah, what else? Don't tickle, you know I don't like that. Just like I love doing my own laundry. (LAUGHING) Okay! Okay, fine! My favorite thing, my favorite thing is that he never forgets, uh, birthdays, or anniversaries. Or anniversaries! Okay fine, I will be more profound. Okay. Uh, my favorite thing about your father is that he loves you as much as I do. (SCREAMING) (LAUGHING) (SPITS) Oh, and, uh, don't forget the caterpillar eyebrows. Oh, well, I mean, how could you forget about those? First of all, I do not have caterpillar eyebrows! Second of all, I am going... You better run! You better run! You better run! Run! (LAUGHS) I love you guys. Aw! Aw! We love you. I love you too much! I love you more than that! Look at our kid. This is Joyce Miner, WKRC in Detroit, reporting on the devastan that has hit Japan. The level of damage over such a vast area is hard to comprehend Soldiers from all over the world, including our own troops, poke their way through the wreckage of entire towns hoping for a noise or cr. In truth, it's remarkable that more people didn't. In the most difficult-to-reach places, the most badly hit by the tsunami, they're still looking for survivors. The United States military has deployed units to help with the rescue and to bring supplies to the victims. It's pretty hopeless in these freezing and miserable conditions. They have no food, water, electricity or gas. The loss is breathtaking. Thousands have died over there but 300,000 are left holding on to there as authorities struggle to deal with the magnitude of this situation. Our local troops, from all over the Detroit area, have been arriving daily to help with this grave disaster. This is Joyce Miner from WKRC, Detroit. (TOY PIANO PLAYING CLASSICAL MUSIC) Huh? Ta-da! Whoo! Aw, that was great, sweetie! I know, I keep telling him practice makes perfect. Right? I miss you, Mom. I miss you too but before you know it I'll be back to tuck you in. Nobody tucks me in like you do. Hey! Thanks a lot, buddy. No offense, Dad, but, uh, "Lights outs, soldier!" isn't exactly Mom's style. (LAUGHS) Okay, well, you know what? I'll tell you what. Tonight, after lights out, I want you to look up at the sky. You look up at the sky and you know that we are both looking at the same moon. Okay? I'll do that, Mom. Can I go play now? Hey! I saw that! Let him go, he's a kid. I think one recital is enough for the night. Mom, you're the best! Okay, you can go but I want you back by 6:00, okay? I'm making you an extra special dinner. NATHAN: You got it, Dad. GEORGE: No soldier left behind! I love you, Mom. I love you to. You spoil him too much. It's 'cause I love him too much. Hey, so what's this special dinner? I am making frozen chicken enchiladas. Oh, so you've mastered the microwave oven? Hey, nobody can nuke it like I can, huh? (CHUCKLES) How's it going over there? Oh, it's just been non-stop since we got to Tokyo. There's thousands of tsunami victims relocating to higher ground. What about the aftershocks? It's nature's best wake-up call. I woke up three times last night. Uh, we're on our way up to Iwaki City to set up refugee camps. It's just been crazy, I mean really crazy, non-stop but we're doing a really good thing for the Japanese people, so... I'm really sorry. For what? I should be the one over there, not you. If I wasn't on medical leave... No, don't, don't, don't beat yourself up. It's not your fault. Nathan needs you here, Maggie. I know. But he's lucky to have you. I don't really know about that. I mean, if we're not careful the kid's going to turn into the poster child for frozen dinners. (LAUGHS) No, I'm sure he'll be fine. He's got a great dad. Now, the frozen foods, I would do just about anything for a delicious frozen meal right now. Okay, well, I'll keep that in mind when you get back. Don't... Don't try to be a hero. Just be safe over there. I know. No man left behind. (ALARMS BLARING) (RUMBLING) Maggie? All right, here's the house. This would be us. We'll throw the rocks here. Got it? Hey, guys, can I play? I don't know, you guys, you think Nathan has what it takes to run around with us? ALL: No! I have what it takes to run around with anyone. Oh, yeah? This is your ticket to become one of us. Come on. You wanna be one of us or what? Come on, let's go. He's in the house, let's go. One, two, three. MAN: What the hell? It's those damn kids again! Get up, you wimp! (GRUNTS) (DOGS BARKING) (SIGHS) What were you thinking, kid? Why did you do that? I don't know. You broke my window. I'm sorry. Sorry? Sorry is not going to pay for my window. Now, is it? No, sir. Do the right thing, kid. Now get out of here and go home. (SIGHS) Hey, buddy! What's up? You're just in time for dinner. I'm not hungry. But I made your favorite, Chicken a la Georgie! Hey, hey, hey, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, slow down. What's wrong? Park it. Okay, somehow I feel there's a little something behind that "nothing." Spill it. Why aren't I big and strong like you? Um, because you're 10. Jimmy's ten and he's big and strong. Well, Jimmy doesn't have what you have. A heart? Yes. Duh, everyone has one of those, Dad. Yeah, I know everyone has a heart. But a heart is so much more than just that. Okay? And yours... Yours is very special. How is that? Remember when you had heart surgery? Dad, please, I was three. Yeah, okay, well, when the doctors fixed you up they said that your recovery was going to depend on the strength of your character and that is when I knew. Knew what? That you were going to be okay. See, these days, science, you can put a new heart in someone and make them get real big and strong but what they can't give you is the character that comes along with that heart. What's character? Character is something that everyone possesses but very few put to good use. A lot like common sense? Exactly like common sense. Nathan, the value of a human being is not based on their bones or how big and strong they are or how tall they are, it's based on the conviction of their character. And you, you have enough for an entire brigade, buddy. So you hungry now? Yes, but I gotta do something first. (DOORBELL RINGS) This character thing is gonna leave me broke. SOLDIER 1: Lieutenant Peters? Yeah. Come on in. (DOOR CLOSES) (SIGHS) Well, we're not sure how to say this but, uh... Your wife, she was on her way to a refugee camp in Iwaki City as they crossed the Takahama Bridge... Ten. We just talked to her this morning. But we're sending a search and rescue as we speak. SOLDIER 2: They're doing their best. You can be sure we'll do everything in our power to find her. Please don't hesitate to contact the base. (DOOR OPENS) (DOOR CLOSES) Daddy? I just wanna thank everyone for coming out tonight. We all know that Maggie was a great neighbor. We're just hoping and praying for the best. Now we'd like to ask Nathan to see if he'd like to play something on the piano for his mother. Nathan? May I sit? Hi, I'm Jesse, short for Jessica. Hi. And you are Nathan. Good guess. Nice to meet you. I'm sorry to hear about your mom. There's nothing to be sorry about. I thought she died. She's missing, not dead. Missing? Where? In Japan. In Japan? She was on a tsunami rescue mission. She was very brave. She still is. I didn't mean it that way. I'm Evelyn Strausser, I'm with the orphanage on Spring Street, and I just wanted to let you know if you need anything, we provide free counseling to the families of fallen soldiers. Thank you. Do you play the piano? I used to. You should keep playing. I'm not very good. I wish I could play the piano. Why don't you? I'm musically challenged. Not if you put your heart into it. Then you should continue to play. Wait, you tricked me into saying that. Whatever it takes. EVELYN: Jesse? That's my mom. It's nice meeting you, Nathan. Yeah. You know what? What? I believe anything is possible. Me too. Keep the faith, buddy. NATHAN: Mom! This isn't funny. Answer the question. Okay, I... I love that your father... My favorite thing about your father is that he loves to do his own laundry. Well, that's all I've got. That's it. Seriously, Mom. GEORGE: You see how you treat me? Yeah. That's all I get is, "I like to do my own laundry"? Real? (MAGGIE LAUGHING IN VIDEO) of vets in the area suffering from PTSD? The number of vets suffering from PTSD is probably a lot larger number than we really know. Here we have over 200 patients. Even though these veterans have integrated back into society, it's really not uncommon for them to relapse. PTSD is a very hard thing to understand. A lot of people have no idea what these vets have seen and been through. And what we want to do is we just want to raise awareness... ...and we need families and friends to know that they need to be there for those vets. (WHIRRING CONTINUES) MAN: IED! IED! Victor One is do. Victor One is do. Peters! (INDISTINCT SHOUTING AND EXPLOSIONS) (DOORBELL RINGS) REPORTER: Well, thank you so much, Doctor, I know it's really important for this society to understand DOCTOR: Really, all we want to do is make the public aware... Can I help you? Mr. Peters? Yes? Hi, I'm Mrs. Jones and this is Mr. Cruz. MR. CRUZ: We're with Child Care Services. According to our records, Nathan doesn't have a father or a guardian listed. He has me. His birth certificate doesn't list a father. And there aren't any adoption papers filed, which makes Nathan the responsibility of the state. Please get out of my house. MR. CRUZ: Mr. Peters. GEORGE: Now! MS. JONES: Please, Mr. Peters. Our concern is Nathan's welfare. It appears as if the child is on his own. Well, he's not, okay? And you're not taking him away to some institution. With his mother missing in action we have to make sure things are in order. Everything is in order. He is my son and that is that. Mr. Peters, we're trying to protect you and him from further legal misconduct. Legal misconduct? Are you... Are you kidding me? Doesn't being married to his mother give me some right of legal guardianship? You would think so but that's not the case here. You have to fill out proper documentation. GEORGE: She got shipped off so quickly because she speaks Japanese, okay. We never had time to do the paperwork. The sooner we take care of this, the sooner you two can be reunited again. GEORGE: Nathan doesn't even know. He doesn't know? No. She and I met when she was a single mom. And right after we got married, I got deployed to Iraq. A year later when I came back, we just kind of... Just kind of picked up where we left off. We have to make this right. I don't care what those papers say or don't say, I am the only father he's ever known. He is my son, and I'm not going to let you take him away from me. We're not the enemy here, Mr. Peters, but we have a duty, and it's to protect the child. If I... If I agree to this, where would you take him? He'd just be placed into foster care until we clear all this up. Look, Mr. Peters, this is the only legal way. (SIGHS) Nathan. Hey, Nathan. Buddy, time to get up. Buddy? Nathan? Hey, buddy? Nathan? Mosaic! Now that's what I'm talking about, Kenny. I heard about this place, Luis. You sure this food is good here? Yeah, they got the best lunch in all of Detroit. I thought you said your wife made the best lunch in Detroit. Was she there when I said it? Yeah. Well there you go! (BOTH LAUGHING) Man! You can have her lunch if you want. No, I don't want it. You like lamb chops? Yeah, I love 'em, man. (SIREN WAILING) (CAR HORN HONKING) Hey, what's going on? I'm Frankie Darcel. And I wanted to interrupt the broadcast to bring you a very urgent missing person's report. In danger of being a runaway, his name is Nathan Peters. He's ten years old. He went missing on August 14th, at about 3:00 in the afternoon. He stands at about four feet two inches tall and weighs about 65 lbs. He was last seen in the Plymouth area. Now anyone with any information please call 1-800-MISSING. That's the number to the Detroit Police Department. That's 1-800-MISSING. Now back to our regularly scheduled broadcast. (KEYBOARD PLAYING) Thank you. Thank you for the music. Thank you, young man. (RAPPING) (CRICKETS CHIRPING) We need a lot more flyers. Yeah, we're printing them right now. Could you grab me some more paper? Sure. Where's it at? They're right there. (MAN SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY OVER RADIO) Any word? We sent out an all-points bulletin. With the help of the community I'm sure we're gonna find him. I hope so. Hey, kid! (WHISTLES) Identify yourself, little soldier. I see you're a soldier. Lieutenant Peters. Oh. Yeah. At ease, soldier. Sit down. For a little kid like you to be walking around here? Where are your parents? Missing in action, sir. It looks like we're gonna have to set up camp then. What's your name? Nathan. Nathan, I'm Miles. You mean, Captain Miles. Well, the bars on your jacket gave you away. (CHUCKLES) Like every good soldier I see you know your ranks. It's a little nippy out here. Wait here. Yes, sir. Take that. What about you? Uh, my jacket will keep me warm. My mom's jacket does pretty good too. Where is she? Well, I told you, missing in action. Missing where? Well, if we knew then she wouldn't be missing in action, would she? George, everything's gonna be all right. You'll see. Shouldn't have been so careless with the adoption thing. It's okay, you just didn't know. Ignorance is no excuse though. Don't worry, we're going to make this right. (PLAYING KEYBOARD) You play? A little. Why don't you go on and play some? Captain, I'll play for you, but first, you have to help me with this. I hear it's the best in all of Detroit. Thank you, little soldier. You gonna play something? Okay. (PLAYING) Nice, kid! Good job, kid, good job. That was pretty good. We should call it a night, all right, little soldier? This is your bunk right here. Good night. Good night, Captain. I love you guys. I love you. Good night, Mom. (BIRDS CHIRPING) Rise and shine, little soldier. Why did they take everything down? We need to break camp every day, you never know when you've got to relocate. I know what you mean. Okay, soldier, what's your mission? I'm not really a soldier, Captain. Really? I ran away for a very good reason. There's never a good reason to run away from home where people love you. That is unacceptable, soldier. Then what's your excuse, Captain? I don't have a family. And besides, I'm not eight years old. I'm 10. Oh, 10, got it. I can't go back. Not now, sir. Well, you can't stay out here. I like the people here just fine. Yeah, most of them are okay but there's some danger out here too. (SIGHS) What's wrong? I just feel like... Like I'm missing but in the inside. Have you ever felt that way, Captain? I'm not gonna force you home. But I am gonna ask you to help me out with a very important mission. You name it. Come with me. We'll put this in here for now. You ready, little soldier? Yep. Let's go. Captain, I don't mean to be rude but regarding this mission, remember, I'm not really a soldier. You know what the true definition of a soldier is? No. The true definition of a soldier is an active and loyal member of a group. You commit to that, you're a soldier no matter what the cause is. Now Captain Miles' been thinking about your cause. You know what your cause is? Your cause is to find yourself. And when you find yourself you'll be able to find your family. Why are we here? We need life back there. You mean batteries. That's right, batteries. And they've got plenty of them in there. They've got so many of them they throw them away, even if there's life left in them. Why would they do that? Don't know, I never asked. I just go up to that container right there and take what I need. So you want me to go over there and just take them? There's nothing wrong with that, Nathan, they're gonna throw them away anyway. So what about you? Me? Captain Miles? Captain Miles is your lookout. Captain Miles got you covered. Captain Miles, Captain Miles. (HELICOPTER WHIRRING) (GUN SHOTS) May I help you? I'm sorry, I didn't mean to scare you. It's... It's you. Yep, and this is my home. What are you doing in our recycling bin? Oh, I was just looking for batteries. Everyone knows you don't recycle batteries. Apparently not. (GIGGLES) So, why are you here? Just, uh, passing by. You're really far from home. Are you with your dad? No, I'm with... EVELYN: Jesse, lunch is ready! I'm coming! I gotta go. Where to? Come to lunch with us. You can tell me there. No, I can't. EVELYN: Jesse! I'm coming! Come on, I can tell something's wrong. Okay, but you have to promise not to tell anyone. But... You have to promise or you won't see me again. (SIGHS) Okay, I promise. Okay, I'll tell you later. Where can I hide? There's a door on the side of the house that leads down to the basement, no one ever goes there. It's safe. I'll check on you later. Yeah. I'm coming! (DOOR OPENS) Kim, there's got to be something we can do. I mean, what are we going to do with all those children? We can't let this happen. Okay, yeah, all right. Call me later. (PHONE BEEPS) Is everything okay, Mom? Everything's fine, just eat your lunch. I'm sorry, sweetie. It's just the funding to keep the orphanage open, it wasn't approved. We don't know what to do. (PHONE RINGING) (PHONE BEEPS) Jared? Can I take the rest of my lunch up to my room? Okay, but just this one time. Yes, Jared, what's going on? (DOOR CLOSES) Nathan? Nathan? (GIGGLES) I see you're not very good at hide and seek. For your information I'm very good at hide and seek. It's just that no one counted to 20 and I had to think fast. Oh. Here, you must be starving. Thanks. (SIGHS) So what's going on? Your mom isn't gonna come down here, right? No. She's very busy right now. Okay. What's going on? How do you know where I live? I didn't. So then why are you here? I came with a friend. And where is this friend? He's out there. And is this an old friend? Met him yesterday. That doesn't qualify as a friend. Captain Miles does. We knew a Captain Miles. We haven't seen him in months. He moves a lot. So are you going to come clean and tell me what's going on with your father? I ran away. Something must have happened. They were gonna take me away. Who? I'm not sure. This man and this lady came, and they said that something about my dad not being my real dad. And what did your dad say? After arguing for a while he finally agreed, so I ran away. I didn't want to go to some institution. That's for crazy people. Not all are for crazy people. My mom works for different institutions and they do good things. I'm not taking any chances. So you prefer the streets? At least there I'm free. It's very dangerous. Come to think of it, I had fun last night. You're just lucky you ran into Captain Miles. How do you know him? He worked for my mom until one day he just stopped showing up to work. Never came back. What kind of work? He did everything, best handyman in the world. He's a fine soldier too. Nathan, if you let me tell my mom she can clear all of this up. Please, don't tell her. I have to. If you do I'll run away again. All right, I won't, for now, but eventually you're going to have to go back to your dad. You mean the dad that's not my real dad? He never told you anything? Nope. Sometimes parents don't say anything because they don't want to hurt their kids. What if they take me to another dad? They can't do that, could they? That could be a problem. Okay, you can't tell anyone until we know for sure. All right. I'll tell you what, my mom and I are leaving town for two days. Just promise me you won't go to the streets. Then where will I go? You can stay here. You can sleep... You can sleep in, oh, that thing. And there's plenty of food in the fridge, but the one upstairs, not this one. Okay, thanks. EVELYN: Jesse! I gotta go. Yes, Mother! Nothing? Okay. (PHONE BEEPS) Mr. Peters? Yeah, Jimmy. My friends and I were thinking that maybe we could help. You guys have any idea where Nathan could be? No. I thought you guys were good friends. Not lately. You've been pushing him around pretty hard, huh? Go get those flyers and pass them around, okay? WOMAN: Mr. Peters. Sorry I broke your window. Actually, his rock didn't fly too far. It was my rock that broke your window. I'm sorry. Yeah. Me too. That was a foolish thing that you did. But you know what? It takes a real man to admit when he's wrong. And thanks for apologizing. Now, let's grab some flyers, and go find Nathan. Okay? Okay. Let's go. Good, we're running late. I already locked the back door. Oh, thank you, sweetie. I'll get the alarm. Hey Jared. Hey. Everything all right? Yeah, did you talk to Kim? I called her twice but I got her voice mail. Hi Jared. Hey Jess. Oh, I forgot my sunglasses. You have to wait for it to beep twice to make sure it's on. (BEEPS) Yes, 10:00 to 3:00, just like you asked. Great, thank you. (BEEPING) (PLAYING) MAGGIE: You look up at the sky and you know that we are both looking at the same moon. I love you, too much. (PLAYING CLASSICAL MUSIC) (APPLAUDING) MAN: (OVER RADIO) That's right, it's at 9401 Washington Road. This is car 51. We're at the Strausser home. We're gonna check it out, over. MAN: It's a zone two interior sensor. It might be a false alarm. Copy that. (CAR DOOR SHUTS) This house again, second time this week. There doesn't really seem to be anything here. Just like last time. Must be the cat again. Trips the alarm all the time. MAN: (OVER RADIO) There's a five zone alarm at 451 Spring Street. Any cars in the area respond immediately. This is car 51, we're on it. Let's get outta here. You have made your way back to the park. Son, soldiers, and I mean every soldier, have three things in common. Courage, honor, and character. As I am sure you have learned these lessons from your mom and dad. So when I asked you to help with a very important mission, I was leading you to the people that could make you whole again. And remember, anything missing can be found. Captain Miles. When she plunged into the river 100 feet below. NATHAN: I love you, Mom. I love you. MS. JONES: He doesn't know? JESSE: He never told you anything? (BEEPING) How did you learn how to play the piano like that? I don't know, I just kept having thoughts of my mom and dad and then, and then my fingers took over. Are you holding out on me? No, I'm serious. I, I... I was just thinking of my mom and then, the music took over my fingers. I don't know how to explain it. But, just like that? You were the one who said anything's possible. I did say that, didn't I? Thank you for letting me use your house. You're very welcome. I hope I didn't get you in trouble with your mom. We'll see about that once your dad gets here. My dad? What is it? You know, my dad, that's not really my dad. I heard once that anyone can be a father but not everybody can be a dad. He sounds like a real dad to me. You know, you scared me. You should never run away like that. I didn't know what to do. Hi, Mr. Peters. Yeah. Hi, I'm Kimberly Jordan and I'm the chief administrator for this orphanage and this is my assistant Lysandra. I clearly told Ms. Strausser that my son is not an orphan. Well, I'm not here to dispute that. We just want to find the best resolution for your situation. Mr. Peters, this may be a good thing. This orphanage is registered with the state and your son can stay here while we process your documentation. They treat the kids very well here. And I'll be around to keep an eye on him. You all want to meet me in my office? EVELYN: We'll be right there. Okay. Can I stick around too? Why don't you show Nathan to the rec room? Come on, I'll show you the rest of the gang. It's okay, little buddy. I'll be right back, okay? Hey. I love you. Love you too. She's very fond of your son. Yeah, I can see that. I really appreciate everything you've done for him. It was all Jess and Captain Miles. Captain Miles? Your son lucked out while he was in the streets and ran into a friend of ours. Where is he? I want to thank him. We don't know where he is. He suffers from PTSD. We think he might have had a relapse. Gather around, guys. I want you all to meet Nathan. Hi, Nathan. I'm Charlie. So, are you moving in with us? Looks like I might be around for a while. Well, I have an extra bed in my room if you ever need it. That's very nice of you, Charlie. Guys, we need to talk. What's wrong, Jesse? The funding to keep the center open has been denied. We have to raise $40,000. Is that it? We should go walk to the bank. I should have that much money in my saving account. This isn't funny, Scooter. Oh, I see you guys have met Nathan. He's gonna be staying with us for a little while. Hey, is that okay, buddy? It's fine, Dad. I'm sorry about this whole mess. I'm gonna make it right though, okay? I know you will. Dad? Yeah. Have you heard anything about Mom? Nope, no new news. I'm gonna go with Ms. Jones and Ms. Kim. We're gonna fill out a bunch of paperwork and I brought you some clean clothes. Okay. And in the meantime, we have our scheduled visit to Children's Hospital to visit Jasmine! Yay! She's one of our kids who's taken ill and we like to see her at least once a week. All right, you go with them and I'll see you back here tomorrow night. And don't worry, everything's gonna be okay. Hey, hey, hey, you know if you need anything, Lysandra's here to help you, okay? Okay. I'll take good care of him. Yeah. Oh. Okay, everyone, we have one hour, so behave yourselves. (CLEARS THROAT) Scooter? Anyone else? Okay, let's go. WOMAN: (OVER PA) Dr. Forest, dial 182, please. Hi, Jasmine. Hi, bubblies. Hey, Becky. How are you feeling? Good, I feel good. Who's this? This is Nathan. He'll be staying at the center. I don't know, he's pretty cute. He might get snatched up pretty fast. He's not up for adoption. He has a father. Lucky you, Nathan. Jasmine, when are you coming home? Soon, really, really soon. That's what you said the last time. Can we go to the garden? Sure, we can go to the garden. Let's go. Look at all the TVs in here. Do you see what I see? Come on, you got this. (PLAYING HALTINGLY) (PLAYING CLASSICAL MUSIC) (APPLAUDING) Yeah! That was good, buddy. How did you do that? I'm not sure. Kids, let's wrap it up, we'll be leaving soon. Jasmine, we have a problem. What is it? Looks like they're going to be shutting down the center. They can't do that. I'm afraid they can. The owner of the building is selling out to a company that wants to build a parking lot on that location. Where are we going to go? They'll probably send us to different foster homes. You don't have to go anywhere. What did you have in mind, Becky? BECKY: Fundraising. What? Well, how do you think we can stay here without paying any money and getting treated? They raise money through the Children's Miracle Network. But we're not the Children's Miracle Network. The only thing that we have in common is that we're all children. How are we going to raise $40,000 without a miracle or a network? Well, I can't do everything for you, but... What are you looking at? Forty thousand dollars. How many 10 year olds do you know that can play the piano like you just did? I don't know any. Exactly, none. Which means that you'd be a great attraction. Yeah, like the panda exhibit at the Detroit Zoo. And how many people came to see that panda? Thousands and thousands. And why did thousands and thousands come to see that panda? Because pandas are very rare in this part of the world. You get it? I'm a rare panda? Bingo. But you forgot one thing, I would have to perform and I've never done that before. Kid, where have you been for the past hour? But this doesn't count. Well, I think it counts just fine. Me too. Me three. Me four. Okay, how many of you would go to see Nathan in concert? I guess that settles it. Okay, time to go. Bye, Becky. Bye, Jess. Bye, Becky. Nice to meet you, Nathan. Come on, guys. (LAUGHING) Do you mind getting the door? Nope, I don't mind. Looking for someone? At ease, Captain. (CHUCKLING) Good infiltration maneuver there, little soldier. We call it "sneaky" in the civilian world. I'm sure they would like to see you. Nah, I just came by to see if you were okay. I think they would like to see that you are doing okay as well. Look at me, little soldier. Well, you could use a shower, but they don't really care about that. Come on, Captain, go say hello. I'd rather not. You know someone once told me that it's not cool to run away from those who love you. They do? It's time to face the music, Captain. (CHUCKLING) EVELYN: Captain Miles. Where have you been? Here and there. Well, oh, well, look who we have here. If it isn't good ol' Captain Miles. I hope you're here to stick around because we could use all the help we can get in keeping this place open. What do you mean? We were turned down for next year's grant. What about the kids? We don't know. They may end up living on the streets if we don't think of something very soon. (CLEARS THROAT) Well, if you plan to stick around, I suggest you shower first. (CHILDREN GIGGLING) And we'll fill you in. Captain. Yes, ma'am. I contacted the mayor's office but no answer yet. Okay, well, try again, this time ask for Mark Robinson. Isn't that your ex-boyfriend? Well, desperate times call for desperate measures. He still suffers from fatal attraction. Mmm. (LAUGHING) Well, Captain Miles! Well, don't you clean up well. Thank you, Ms. Kim. And thank you for the shower and the new clothes. Well, you're welcome. We're just glad you're back on your feet. Let's save an orphanage. Okay, first, we need to get organized. We have to figure out who does what. I can draw. Okay, Jenny will be drawing. How about you, Scooter? I can spell. Great! We are going to need designers for the posters and the flyers. Well, I can help with that. In fact, we all can. Right guys? ALL: Yeah! Sit. Smile. There. I think I like this one the best. Yep, that's the best one. I like the picture there. That's one nice pic. Now what? So, I see you guys have been a little busy lately. Would you mind explaining this? It was her idea. Jess? Fundraising? You know, that thing that you do to raise money for needy people. Don't patronize me, young lady. I know what fundraising is. I just got a call from the theater asking if I wanted to book the concert that night. You can't just assume that because they have nothing scheduled that I can just go ahead and book something. Why not? Yeah, why not? You said this was an emergency. We did say that. Mm-hmm. (CELL PHONE RINGING) (STAMMERING) But, we can't, I mean... Nathan has a very special talent but I don't think he's ever performed anywhere. That's what I told them. He played in the hospital and he was awesome. Right, guys? Yeah, amazing. ALL: Yeah. Well, he was quite sensational. Well, well, we've got a bigger problem, that was the theater and they have received over 300 requests for tickets for this concert! (ALL CHEERING) Yeah. Looks like we're going to a concert. Oh, no! Whoa! ALL: Wow! Dad, she's no longer here. What? This moon, I don't feel her anymore. (SIGHS) As long as we don't let her go, she's always gonna be here. But... I want her here with us. I know, buddy, me too. We gotta keep the faith though. I'm running out of it. No, you can't say that, okay? Not now. Dad, are we ever gonna see Mom again? I knew it. Is everything all right? I, uh... I don't think he's up for it tonight. Besides, all this, I mean... Have you heard him play? Yes, he's a sensation. May I have a word with your son, Sergeant? Go ahead. You okay, little soldier? No. Anything I can do? You can find my mom. I wish I could. There's nothing you can do for me. Lot of people out there depending on you. I don't care. Your mother would be quite disappointed to hear that. Well, she's not gonna hear because she's dead. Never underestimate the heart of a soldier. Especially that of your mother. Quite some years ago, I was badly wounded when my Humvee hit a roadside bomb. I was the only survivor. I laid there for hours, unable to move. Then something got ahold of me and I began to crawl. I crawled for four days. No water, no food. Allied forces found me, brought me to base and here I am. Never underestimate the heart of a soldier. She's got a lot to live for and sometimes that's the difference between life and death. (SIGHS) Me. I didn't want to face life at all. But then, I came across a little soldier who told me it's time to face the music. That's very clever, Captain. (CHUCKLES) You've got an orphanage to save. Time to face the music. JESSE: Good evening, everybody. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for comi. I have the honor of introducing to you for the first time a young man who will rock your world. Please give it up for Nathan! (APPLAUSE) Hi, my name is Nathan Peters and, um... I'm very thankful for everyone who is coming here to save the orphanage. I have really gotten to know a lot of great people there. And, um, I'm making great friends so I would like to thank everyone for coming here to save the orphanage. Thank you. (APPLAUDING) This song reminds me of my mom. Fur Elise by Beethoven. (PLAYS) (CROWD CHEERING) Hey, Gene, I got your message. David, you made it! Yeah. Listen, this is going on right now. Okay. This is the benefit for the orphanage. Oh, okay. (SINGING) You've gotta wink And shadows find you Cold winds blow Against your back The valley's wide Stretch out forever And loneliness Is all you have Believe in yourself And anything is possible Believe in yourself Don't worry about a thing Believe in yourself And suddenly everything is magical Believe in yourself And anything Anything is possible When your heart breaks And no one hears it When clouds roll in And times get hard When you wanna fly But you're scared your wings won't hold you If you just jump You might catch a star Believe in yourself And anything is possible Believe in yourself Don't worry about a thing Believe in yourself And suddenly everything is magical Believe in yourself When your sun won't rie And your fire's just an ember Just close your eyes And remember Anything is possible Yeah! Believe in yourself (CROWD CHEERING) Believe in yourself And anything is possible Believe in yourself Don't worry about a thing Believe in yourself And suddenly everything is magical Believe in yourself And anything is possible It's really you? Yeah. Yeah, buddy.
