 

                        Presented by Epic Films (Private) Ltd APARAJITO (THE UNVANQUISHED) Based on the novel by Bibhutibhushan Banerji Cast: Karuna Banerji, Shanti Gupta Kanu Banerji, Smaran Ghosal, Pinaki Sengupta Photographed by Subrata Mitra Sound by Durgadas Mitra Film Editing by Dulal Dutta Music by Ravi Shankar Production, Script and Direction by Satyajit Ray Varanasi. Year 1327 (Bengali calendar) Have you seen the monkey? - A monkey got into the house? - I mean your precious son I boiled milk for him, but he vanished The boys in this neighbourhood... It's so crowded; how can I keep an eye on him here? Isn't there a school nearby? If he went there, I'd have a rest from worry You said it was for Khoka You'll have some, too, from now on. It's in the kitchen - Won't you go to market? - Of course. What should I get? I'll tell you, but... Thinking of money? I don't have to pay in cash He'll give you credit? Do you think I supply all those herbal medicines free? Then bring some mustard oil, some kerosene and some spices See if you can get some mung dal... mung or masoor, or whatever Apu's been asking for khichree since he had some at the ghat the other day Can you get some paan masala? - What brand? - I don't know The woman upstairs gave me some Find out the name and I'll bring it tomorrow I met a sweet-seller I knew. He says he has rheumatism I'm taking him some medicine. I could ask him for some cream from Kashi Shall I ask him for some? Let the medicine work first Aren't you going to bathe in the Ganga? If you don't, you won't get salvation They've just arrived. Let them settle in first They will bathe, pay homage to Vishwanathji-all in good time Art Direction by Bansi Chandragupta Water Apul Wait Aren't you hungry? Have you eaten anything outside? And a pedha as well - Is Ray-mashai at home? - No I've a calendar for him. I came home too late to give it to him last night Shall I put it in his room? We bring one out every year You'll find all the important holy days in it The holy festivals are marked in red, so they're easy to see O Lord of the world, those who have faith in you are the blessed ones Those who worship you are the holy ones, those who praise you... Look! She weeps with her head on Krishna's breast I'll tell my brother Then Jatila quietly takes her brother Ayan to her hiding place and says: "Look at that. See what your wife is up to "She weeps with her head on Krishna's breast" You see what has happened meanwhile? Krishna tells Radha: "Lay a flower at my feet as an offering... "...and I'll take the form of the goddess Kali, to please Ayan" Want to swing a club? Anything else? - What's the name of the man upstairs? - Nanda-babu Tell him that mother has used all the matches and father isn't home yet Ask him for just two matches I'll swing it, then Khoka, come in - What do you want? - Matches - What will you do with matches? - Mother wants them That's my medicine. I'm ill, you see. Doctor says to take it every evening Only two matches, mother said Take the whole box, I have more of them Tell your mother that Nanda-babu says she need not return it You have a fine voice It seems you are a singer, too I used to be Do you live nearby? I wondered if I could have some tea. It's chilly, my throat is sore See how I've brought tealeaves, tied to the end of my wrapper Come along, I live quite near, in Ganesh Mohalla You don't mind? My name is Kalicharan Banerji, from Satkhire Lord knows whether it's all right - I want some, too - Later. Give them this tea first Then come back and take the sweets Excellent tea Where is your son? He is a good boy On Tuesday I'll take you to a feast at the palace of Teota Will you come? Every year they have a feast at the palace... Will you mind if I take your son? My friend, I have saved about 400 rupees, starving most of the time Another hundred or so and I can get myself a bride from a decent family You can't be happy without a family of your own, can you? - You wouldn't know of any girl... - I'm afraid not The Pandeys have gone to the Ramlila performance. Can't you take Apu, too? Would you take these? You're burning with fever I went to the market, then to the sweet-seller, for the cream... ...then to the ghat for evening prayers Then as I was climbing the steps... Apu has gone out to buy fireworks Why do you need Apu? - Shouldn't we call a doctor? - Don't bother I'm not going to listen to you In that tin box there are some herbal medicines Give me a dose Mix well with juice of ginger and honey Let me try it. If I'm not better by tomorrow, then we'll see Sit with your father, he's ill Which fireworks did you buy? They're not as good as those in Nishchindipur, are they? Were you watching the fireworks from the terrace - Who is calling you? - Shambhu He lives in Kukurgali, he's not a Bengali Is he your friend? The one who teaches you English? ...and they send me an invitation What is "Apu bhalechheley" in English? - Why not invite him in? - He's going to set off fireworks now - You want to go with him? - Yes Go, then - How are you feeling now? - Much better You gave me such a fright. You must have caught a chill Take things easy, you're earning enough Sit for a while There's work to be done. I have to make Apu's bed The sweet-seller told me about a dwelling near the Man Mandir On the first floor, two rooms, facing south. The rent is seven rupees There are markets and schools nearby. Khoka won't have any problems We'll talk about it when you're better - What is the boy doing? - Can't you hear him? But for the monkeys, Kashi would be a good place - Are you going out? - Don't I have to go to the ghat? - Can't you stay, after such a fever? - I'm all right, the medicine worked You'll climb all those steps... I didn't hear anything in the night, we came back late from the performance My wife was going to the ghat when she heard he had collapsed I hope he hasn't hurt himself For one thing, he has a chest cold The room is damp. Close the door and windows, to keep the cold out Someone come with me, I'll prescribe medicines I'll come with you myself If you need anything, don't be shy to ask If you have mustard oil and camphor, rub his back and chest with them Ganga... Go to the ghat, get a pot of water and run back at once He'll be back at any moment Khoka is back Pay your respects to your great-uncle - How old is he? - He is ten now - When was he given the sacred thread? - After coming to Kashi Will you come with me? I can't make up my mind. I hadn't thought of leaving here I didn't know when you were coming I always come at this time. I did not know you were so badly off - What are your employers like? - Good people They'll be going to Dewanpur So I can't make up my mind Think it over. I am here for a few more days If you stay at my house, it gets lived in and you'll have no problems Get out at once! Bou-than, are you making paan? No, the one next to it There's a leather purse there You're coming with us, aren't you? We're going to Dewanpur next month I told you that I would take you if I liked your work I hope you'll agree. Have you any relatives here? Nor where you come from? So you might as well come with us Mokshada says you've lost your appetite. Are you well? Go and open that drawer Tell them in the other house that Thakur-mashai is back Mother! A train! I've brought firewood. Have you enough food? Yes, enough until tomorrow I'll come back tomorrow. Whenever you need anything, just tell me - You haven't told me your name - Nirupama I'm here for another week or so; will you be settled in by then? Apu, come with me tomorrow. You can learn what you have to do as a priest Place the deity on the throne and put some tulsi leaves on him No, wash them first What's the matter with you? You've been sulking since morning. Are you ill? Are you feeling sad? Are you missing Kashi, or Nishchindipur? Don't you like it here in Mansapota? Have they been rude to you? Have you been doing your job properly? They are good people here. If we keep them happy, our livelihood is secure Bear it for a few years. Then we may be able to go back to Nishchindipur Mother, I want to go to school Which school? Nearby, in Arboal. It's a good school How do you know it's good? I've seen it - What about your work? - That's mornings; school's afternoon Can you do both? Don't you need money to go to school? Haven't you any money put away, mother? Are the sweets and everything else ready? Only half an hour left I'll attend to it, sir - What is the subject now? - Bengali, sir The Foliage of Literature. What does foliage mean? Foliage means... It means green leaves, sir The Land of Bengal Where is the greenest land of all? Where on tender grass your feet must fall? It is our Bengal, our very own Bengal, the greenest land of all Where do the thrush and robin sing? In our Bengal, our very own Bengal, the greenest land of all In what land do they speak a tongue that fills your soul with yearning? Where do you hear such clear tones of a baul whose heart is singing? Where's the signature? Why isn't it done? Come and sit down. Is your mother well? The Inspector was very happy with you Not that I was any less happy I've kept an eye on your progress, I've spoken to Abinash-babu about you He is above average We expect a great deal from you On our part, we shall provide you with every facility But if you want to be a really good student, work hard. Especially... ...you'll have to improve your English Do you like reading? I don't mean textbooks Books about travel, lives of great men... ...books about science... if I give you such books, will you read them? Of course he will read them I have many such books here Where do weaverbirds nest again, where do swallows cry for rain? If you don't read such books, you cannot broaden your mind We may live in a remote corner of Bengal... ...but that does not mean that our outlook should be narrow This book is about the North Pole From this book anyone can learn about the aurora borealis or the Eskimos You can learn about Africa This is the story of inventions Here are biographies of scientists: The sun, the earth and the moon. The moon goes around the earth When the shadow falls here, that's an eclipse Come in, Apurba You've come second in the district You'll study further, won't you? You can get a scholarship of ten rupees You'll continue your studies? In Calcutta? Arts or sciences? Have you anywhere to stay there? Any relatives? Anyway, that's not a problem. Have you spoken to your mother? Not yet - Can you get her to agree? - I will try I came second in the district, there's only one above me I might even get a scholarship, money for doing well in examinations - How much? - Ten rupees a month But only if I continue my studies Do you think they'll give it just like that? I must go and study in Calcutta What is this, mother? You're going? Why not? He gave me some addresses Who's going to pay for it? The college will be half free I'll get ten rupees a month, I'll find work If you give up your job as a priest, will they take care of us then? So I must stick at being a priest? Why not? You're a priest's son. Do you want to be a governor? Yes! Must everything be as you wish? Everything! There are snakes, mosquitoes will bite you. Come back All right, you can go to Calcutta, but you must think things over first - Why hit me? - I'm sorry. I'll show you something Whose is that? When I worked in Kashi, do you know how much I saved? Thirty-two rupees I'll give you something from this, enough to last out a month The headmaster gave it to me. It's a globe, it shows our earth See, these are the countries, and the blue is the sea See where Calcutta is? - It's seven-thirty - Come and see where I've put things There's your tumbler, your bowl, sweets in the bowl, some spices... Here's some ghee I've made from cream Your shirts and vests... ...and the dhobi is in the bedding Five rupees from the purse and twenty-five from me The key, keep it safe Come home at the puja festival, if you can Have you ever tripped and hurt yourself? If not, you'll have plenty of opportunities This wonderful balm will come to your aid like a benevolent friend Akhil-babu? - I have a letter - What letter? From the headmaster of Arboal School Paresh wrote to me about this You've come here to study? Any money? I have twenty-nine rupees and six annas after paying the train fare Can I get a room here? I have only the one room, but we'll manage with it What rent? Can you work in the printing shop? At night, after classes? Go upstairs and you'll find the room; I'll be up in a moment Dear mother, I have arrived safely. Akhil-babu has arranged for my stay I won't pay rent, I'll work in the printing shop Couldn't you find a better place to sleep than CCB's class? Are you crying? Come on, we've two free periods after this. Let's go for a walk Apu, don't you wish to go abroad? Find me a job on a ship I'm serious. Let's go together, shall we? No ambitions? You'll stay like a frog in a well, even if you get the chance? Mother will never let me go She didn't even want me to come here, although it's only 3 hours by train I have ambitions, or I'd have stayed there. I even had a job there - What job? - That of a priest The family profession? You wear the sacred thread? No Brahman's pigtail? We've missed two classes today We slipped up. We should have told Pranab to answer for us at roll call No problem in PNG's class Have you grown taller? So you're thinner Did you get my letter? I'm not speaking to you You said holidays were from the 7th. What's the date today? I had some work Admit you didn't want to come to your mother Apu, you'll catch cold - What do they give you to eat there? - Everything Lentils, rice, fish, vegetables - Who does the cooking? - There's a cook A good cook? Stop reading Talk to me. What have you seen in Calcutta? - Everything - Tell me, then Victoria Memorial, Whiteway Laidlaw... ...Hogg Market, the zoo, Fort William... The temple at Kalighat? Yes, I went there the other day. And Keoratala... What's in Keoratala? When will you pass your examinations and get a job? Can I stay with you? Rubbish What if I'm seriously ill? Such things happen Every evening I feel feverish and dizzy I've no appetite at all I've often thought of telling you, but I haven't When you're able to earn money, will you arrange treatment for me? Want paan? Did you hear what Niru said? You'll go, won't you? - Why not? She's asked you many times - I've classes on Monday What does it matter if you are two days late? You have so few holidays There are no holidays until New Year There's never time for packing in the morning. I have to run for the train Sunrise is at quarter past six tomorrow. Wake me in good time I'm late - Won't you check everything? - There's no time I missed the train I'll go tomorrow Won't it upset your studies? - Would you like something to eat? - Later, mother Dear Apu, why don't you write regularly? I worry when I don't hear from you If you have a holiday during the Ganesh puja, come home I haven't seen you for two months If you haven't enough money, I'll send you some There are no Ganesh puja holiday in my college, and I have exams soon If I don't stay in Calcutta, my studies will suffer Every day I think of calling, but I never manage it Heard from Apu? Is he well? Your son is a gem. You should get him married, your worries would be over You're alone, and every day I think of visiting you, but there's never time Yesterday, my son-in-law arrived from Kalna They have a shop there. He and his father look after it But what goings-on there are Three sons, and grandchildren, too The mother died, and the father soon remarried Cremation ground What shall I do with so much? I can't stay now. I must go and prepare medicine for Kumi's cough I'll come this evening, if I can Don't be cross, but we've written to your great-uncle Why? He's an old man Have you written to Apu? Apu has a holiday today and tomorrow Is he coming? Shall I write to him? If he comes, he must come because he wants to His examinations are around the corner. It's best if he stays there You mustn't write to him Promise me you won't I'll come again, and so will the others - Shall I shut the door that's open? - I'll do it later All right, I'll leave these on the veranda I never expected to find you here Didn't you say you were leaving town for two days? To your village... Mansapota? I can't study there, I fall asleep - Won't your mother be angry? - No, I've fixed that I've sent her a money order, from the bonus Akhil-babu gave me Aren't you nervous? A little. I'm not quite ready for the chemistry paper There's a letter for you Is it from your mother? From Niri-di. Mother is ill Is it serious? Don't cry, Apu. Parents don't stay with you forever It's what had to happen Now you'd better perform the shraddha and then stay here You'll earn enough as a priest Where are you off to? - Why Calcutta? - For my examinations And your mother's shraddha? I'll take care of that in Calcutta, at Kalighat
