 

                        Thank you, sir I wish you had stayed on to take your degree I couldn't afford to But don't give up your writing I remember your stories in the college magazine about village life They were very good. You know, one can earn a living by writing Satyajit Ray Productions presents APUR SANSAR (The World of Apu) Original story by Bibhutibhusan Bandyopadhyay Apu: Soumitra Chatterji. Aparna: Sharmila Tagore Kajal: Aloke Chakravarty. Pulu: Swapan Mukerji Photography: Subrata Mitra Art direction: Bansi Chandragupta Sound recording: Durgadas Mitra Film editing: Dulal Dutta Production manager: Anil Chowdhury Music: Ravi Shankar Production, script and direction: Satyajit Ray Good morning. Sit down What use will that be? It will rest your legs I haven't come up to rest my legs You know very well why I'm here I'm going to ask a straight question, and I'd like a straight answer - What is the date? - The tenth - How many months rent do you owe me? - Three That makes twenty-one rupees Will you pay me now, or shall I return this evening? That makes three questions, not one It's not fair Many things are not fair Is it fair that I should house you for nothing? That you should use electricity all day without paying for it? You have had education. You have pictures of great men on the wall Is it fair that you don't pay the rent? It's a sign of greatness, you know I, too, could turn a pretty phrase... ...but it would not be fit for your young ears Anyway, either I get my money this evening... ...or I'll look for a new lodger This letter is for you, not me We're both Rays We are pleased to accept your short story "A Man of the Soil"... ...for publication in the next issue of Sahityik Not bad news, I hope Why do you get so few letters? Does nobody write to you? I'd like to open a love letter by mistake Perhaps it's as well I've experienced matrimonial complications HARIMATI PRIMARY SCHOOL You advertised for a teacher Qualifications? - Intermediate Science - No good, we want Matriculation But I got that before Intermediate What did the advertisement say? It did specify Matriculation Then why harp on Intermediate? What's the point? Would you work for ten rupees a month? Well? I understand you want someone in your factory. I have Matriculation Any experience of labelling? Labelling? No, but I can learn Go through that door and down the passage. Take a look first Pulu! You're a fine friend. Why didn't you tell me you'd left the student hostel? I've been searching north Calcutta for you since four o'clock I finally got your address from the people you give private lessons to What's so funny? You've put on weight I had. I lost it these last three hours Would you like tea at the cafe around the corner? All right. But I've two tickets for us to see Sadhabar Ekadashi Is this a hideout? Are you forging banknotes or something? I wish I could And you cook for yourself? I'll cook you a meal one day: Rice and potatoes What about the railway job? I thought you'd got it There was a strike on, and they wanted people as strike-breakers So you've been unemployed? I give some private lessons - How much do you make? - Fifteen rupees a month Didn't you learn to type? Yes, I thought it might be useful Good. I'll get you a job as soon as we return Where are we going? You'll come with me to my cousin Aparna's wedding on Monday - Where? - Just for a few days - But where? - Khulna. Khulna! It's a hundred miles away You'll love it there An old-world village, a lovely river with boats on it Fields of grass and paddy. Bamboo groves, mango orchards Doesn't it tempt you? Trees full of birds: Magpies, thrushes, nightingales And in the evening, fireflies and oil lamps aglow No electricity Doesn't it sound tempting? You'll come, won't you? Take me back to thy lap, O Mother Earth Take back thy son and wrap him in thine ample robe. Let me be one with the soil, and spread myself Far and wide, like the joys of spring, let me burst the heart's narrow cage reak down the stonewalls of self and the cheerless prison of the mind To rush forth in a rapture of delight And flow to the far ends of the earth, surging, billowing, rolling on A policeman Who's there? I Am Mainaak, son of the Himalayas, hiding my wings in the sea What's come over you? You sound as if you've had too much to drink I don't think I'll take that job Don't be absurd Why should I become a clerk? There is no reason why I should I'm a free man, without ties, no one to worry about Why should I become a clerk? But you can't keep pawning books to pay the rent - Things will change - Not without a job Listen, those with real talent... Needn't eat? Apurba Kumar Ray Make fun of me, but just wait and see Something up your sleeve? Some new poems? You're too prosaic You'll go abroad, become an engineer, get a fat job and settle down So I'm prosaic? That's gratitude! Who took you in hand in Calcutta? Country bumpkin scared of the traffic Who read your first short story, and what did he say about it? Don't get so worked up Do you know why I feel so elated? I've had my first good meal for months, thanks to you Well, are you writing anything? A wonderful novel Why didn't you tell me? - Do you know a good publisher? - No problem A boy A village boy. Poor, but sensitive Father, a priest. He dies The boy doesn't want to be a priest. He wants to study, he's ambitious He studies In the process, I see him struggle He sheds superstition and prejudice He takes nothing on trust He tries to be rational He has imagination, he's intrigued by little things He has greatness in him, perhaps. He has the ability to create But he doesn't Right, but that's not a tragedy He remains poor, in want But he doesn't turn from life, he doesn't want to escape He is fulfilled, he wants to live This is autobiography Partly, but there are imaginary characters, plot, love... Love? What do you know of love? You've never been within ten paces of a girl It's not that easy, you have no experience - Is imagination worth nothing? - Not where love is concerned - You're quite wrong - I'm absolutely right How much further wilt thou lead me, O Fair One? Tell me what shore thy golden boat will touch Whatever I ask thee, O thou from distant lands Thou smilest in thine own sweet way And I can never know what is in thy mind Silently, thou liftest a finger pointing to the trackless, wild sea As, far to the west, the sun goes down in the sky What lies there? What do we go to seek? Tell me, I pray thee, O stranger fair Where, at the edge of evening, glows the day... Give me your hand Wonderful. Really wonderful Look who is here! It's Pulu, and not alone I hope the journey was not too unpleasant for city people My youngest son, Murari. He's studying at Daulatpur College Take his luggage My aunt It's a pity you didn't think of him as a possible son-in-law Where have I seen him before? Lmpossible. He's never been here But I know his face so well Yes, I saw a picture of Lord Krishna looking just like him Lord Krishna... ...complete with his flute Binu, my son, come out now What's wrong? Isn't he well? It's nothing. The sun was so hot The long journey and the fasting must have upset him Bring water, and a fan This is a fine wedding That boy is insane Who says so? He is perfectly sane. The journey and the heat... If you don't stop the wedding, I will But the auspicious hour is passing Leave this room! It's you who is mad When the hour has passed, my daughter will never marry Isn't there another auspicious hour, at ten? Don't ask me. This means ruin for me Have I missed the ceremony? There's no wedding The bridegroom is mad Apu, everything depends on you now Are you joking? What is all this? If the wedding does not take place at the auspicious times... ...the bride is cursed But what can I do? We have to find another husband for her and you are the obvious choice You want me to be a substitute bridegroom? Is this a play or a novel? What do you take me for? Are you still living in the Dark Ages? Calm down and listen to me No, I won't listen to a pack of lunatics Everything depends on you It's no use, let's go Come here a moment Can you really get me that job? You'll have to lend me a shirt, and I must have a shave Your daughter didn't worship Shiva in vain. A curse became a blessing The moment I saw him, I knew he was nearer to me than my own kin Pulu has brought many of his friends here... ...but I've never felt so drawn to anyone There are a few things that I must tell you I've had no opportunity before How much do you know about me? Has Pulu told you anything? Yes What did he say? You're an orphan Yes. I lost my father when I was ten Mother died seven years later I had a sister, too What else did he tell you? You write well He told you that, did he? Can you read? Yes. Bengali I'm writing my novel in Bengali I know What else did he say? Nothing else That's not very much You know little of the man you married I have no means, no job... ...and almost no future What kind of home shall I take you to? You've been brought up in these surroundings A spacious house, servants, fine rooms This marriage was forced on me. I was against it, but... Something changed my mind, I felt I would be doing a noble thing Everything became confused Why don't you say something? I can't decide until I know your mind Aparna, will you be able to endure poverty? Can you live with a poor husband? Yes Can you really? Why not? Then I'll take you with me. If your father objects, I'll ignore him - Will you object? - I don't know - I wonder what they'll say - Who? My neighbours. I went to a wedding, but I shall return with the bride I'll come back for the luggage This is my room Sit down. I won't be long You must be very sad Really not? They want to see us downstairs Make way. Let's see the bride What a lovely bride! Why gawp? Am I new? Only after meals. You promised Do you lament your decision? What? I don't know such difficult words Will "regret" do? Yes - Do you regret it? - Regret what? - Do I have to explain that too? - Yes You missed out on a rich husband - You're laughing! - No, I'm crying You must feel sorry Of course. I could have had an easy life - I'm going. - Where? To look for a maid servant Don't be silly. Come back, please Who will pay for the servant? I'll get more private lessons Then send me back to my parents One lesson is bad enough after a hard day's work What should I do, then? I'll tell you: Give up the lesson you have And then what? Then my poor husband will come home early Then I shall lament no more God of Fire! Destroy his meditation! Are you cross with me? Yes. Why do we always take a cab? Buses are crowded. We're alone here But it costs much more Does it matter? Soon you're going to your parents, my expenses will be halved Only for two months Isn't that a long time? What about the extra expenses when we come back? Ah, yes... I wouldn't have let you go, but your mother was so insistent And I felt you'd rather be with her at such a time A relief for you, too. No one to bother you for two months One job will be done I'll have time to work on my novel. I haven't touched it since we married Is that my fault? No, it's your virtue. You know how much my novel means to me, don't you? - Well, you mean much more - Really? I shall dedicate it to you You'll what? I know what "wife" means You don't. I do I do, too - What? - The matches What is there in your eyes? Kohl We'll expect you in the holidays I'll do my best. Send a telegram when you arrive; letters take so long - Promise you'll come - Haven't I given my word? You must write twice a week - You must write, too - Not unless you do Write to my office address, or Mr. Ray will open your letters I had so many things to tell you Yes, I asked Pintu's mother to make you some cakes There's a bill to pay at the grocer's I've left some jewellery behind Please take care of yourself You'll see her in a week, so cheer up I wish I knew your secret How to be married and happy on forty-five rupees a month How do you know I'm happy? I can guess I don't know what your wife is like, but mine... I like them to be a little pert... ...a little saucy, a little naughty It adds spice to a marriage, don't you think? My wife is just the opposite Never quarrels, never complains, never answers back... ...always meek and obedient Utterly bland, tasteless Plus this You've promised to come on the 8th If you don't,never spea to you again, never, ever You should have sent me eight letters last month... ...and I only got seven I should never trust you And I feel jealous of that girl next door She sees you morning and evening, and I don't Do keep the window shut What else is there to tell? The more I write, the more you will laugh at my mistakes ut I don't care. You are the writer, not me Please take good care of yourself I am well, but my heart is sick. IT will heal when you come. If you don't, I'll never speak to you again, never, ever What is it? Aparna... In childbirth... She said: "I'm leaving him in your care, Mrs. Ganguly "He's so absent-minded, he forgets to eat sometimes" Such sweet words and such gentle ways Well, it's a good thing the baby was saved. Fate works in strange ways But a young fellow like you shouldn't give up "While Krishna has his knot of hair and flute there'll be women to serve him" Why, you could marry ten times over if you wanted Dear Pulu. You must have heard the news by now I hear you're going abroad. I Wish you success. I'm going away, too I don't know where I'm going, But I do know why: I want to be free I'm taking my novel with me. I'll send it to you if I finish it You may publish it if you like it enough. Yours, Apu What have you thrown in my food? I'll teach you a lesson, my lad! He's bitten me Wait and see what your grandfather will do You'll tell grandfather? Just wait. You need a good hiding He'll bash you if you do Who will bash me? My father. He lives in Calcutta Father! That's a good one! We haven't seen his pigtail these last five years Do fathers have pigtails? He's not shown up once, even to see his own son He's sent three money orders. Perhaps he calls that doing his duty Where is Apu? I was dead against the marriage It was you and your aunt who took my daughter... Do you know where Apu is? I'd just like to know Somewhere in Central India, working in some coal mine, the vagabond And the boy takes after him Always running around and getting up to mischief When your aunt was alive she could manage him, but it's too much for me Do you know Apu's address? Whatever is on his letter Do you think he'll come back? Not that heartless brute When did you get back? I went to my uncle, looking for you - What are you doing here? - Working - Since when? - About a year So far from home? I didn't come here for a job I arrived here in my wanderings I had to fill my stomach - Has it been filled now? - More or less How is the novel getting along? I threw it away Why throw it away? What's the use? Come along Are you going to stay here? - I'm thinking of going away - Where? Anywhere. Perhaps abroad. I'm saving up Going alone? - Who else is there? - Kajal Your son So that's what they called him - Go back home - Why? The boy needs someone to look after him There's such a thing as a father's duty, or did you throw duty away, too? Who says I don't do my duty? I've sent money - Is that all you can do? - I can't do any more Don't you love your son? No How can I love him? I've never seen him, to me he is unreal, untrue For me he doesn't exist You must have lost your senses Anyway, I've done my duty. The rest is up to you Come here for a moment My train leaves at seven Come here Please do something for the boy, put him in a home or something - Do that yourself - No, I can't - It's not possible for me - I can't understand why not There is something which I can't forget Because Kajal exists... Aparna does not I've sent money and I'll send more if necessary More than that, I cannot do I have no love for him. He is like a stranger If you think he is not being looked after... ...make some arrangement for him Shall I give you money now? I've no time. I have to start a new job on Monday Who is it? Who do you want? I'm Apurba Have you come to fetch him? I've arranged to leave him with friends in my home village I'm going away He's upstairs He's been feverish, but he's better now I'm your father What are you doing? You might have killed the boy Won't you make friends with me? I know lots of good stories Ghost stories, stories about demons... ...kings, queens, princes and winged horses Want to hear them? I'll leave this jewellery with you... ...in case you want to send him to boarding school It seems to be the only way to be relieved of his burden Can't you take him with you by force? As his father you have the right to do that No, I couldn't do that I knew it. I knew all along that you could do nothing What do you want to say, Kajal? Where are you going? Will you come with me? Are you going to Calcutta? If I did, would you come with me? Would you take me to my father? Certainly Will he be cross with me? Why should he be? He'll never leave me? Never Who are you? I'm your friend Will you come with me? Grandpa will be angry Grandpa won't know, I won't tell him
