 

                        18th Century South Tamil Nadu. God Karuppa (OUR PROTECTOR) One who is sleepy should not guard a place. One who sneezes should not set out to steal. Didn't realize, Kombudhi. Names only within our village. When we go to steal everyone is 'Karuppa' lf you hear our guarding stick's stories, even a tiger will think twice to pounce! Under Muthu Veeran's protection even a single pearl won't go amiss! Not even a tamarind seed! You won't lose even a tamarind seed?! Just wait and watch Your entire house will be stolen! Do you want your fortune told? Do you want your future shown? Do you want your future shown? Do you want your fortune told? Do you want your fortune told? Do you want your future shown? Hey! Fortune teller. - My lady is calling you. - I'm coming. Oracle Goddess Jakkamma Goddess Badrakali Prophesy prosperity Foretell favorable news Sir, do you want your future told? - No, no... thank you. Prophesy plenty Augur auspicious events Our martyr's stick has permitted us... let's go in. Just because I'm blind don't think you can fool me. Goddess Bommakka Goddess Veera Chinnamma Declare thy divine forecast for our lady with thy good heart Owl's shadow is a bad omen Means impending death. What are you saying? N which direction is God placed inside this house? South west corner. Before breaking open the lock ... check if keys are beneath the owner's pillow There's a blind lady there, forever pounding betel leaf. Where did this cat come from? Stupid cat! Spoil my sleep. Chop it's legs off! I have no teeth to chew No cloth to cover my body too No strength left in me to carry on No kith nor kin to shower affection Is she pounding betel leaf or knocking our house down? Can't you hear the racket that darn old lady is making? Stupid female! You can't sleep if you don't malign my mother! - She falls like a beam. - He's broken my hip! And she curses my mother! Karuppaaa!!!! Open the door for us, God Karuppa. Only 2 or 3 ornaments are worth it Rest of them have copper content I can give 2 kOttai (GRAIN MEASURE) of ragi I'll send it over Wait outside our village. We waited so long and staked our lives for this. The entire village will be waiting for our loot. How can 2 kOttai be enough? What can I do? Cake is tasty according to its ingredients. You bring valuables my price will be priceless! If I pay you more than this I'll have to steal like you. One of these days we should raid his house to even our account. Let it go. Pidari, none of our men have returned? Karuppaaa! Kombudhi's gang is back. Come my children Let's feast. - Where did you go to steal? - West. God Karuppaa. Nachiamma. Grand mother Did you see my wife? Who knows where she is? Why are you auctioning her? Why are you in a tearing hurry? - Oh! Yes, I am. - Everyone's looking. - Let go. - Oh my hand. You and your ill-timed sneeze! Those who have got their share, move over. God! Take care of Your children as long as this village exists. Make sure 1 share per head. Fry some liver for your invalid husband. - Sadaichi... Vembu... - Father! - Good to see you. - Hey! Chellathayi. Vembu dear! Why is he sulking? You didn't take him to loot That's why he's upset. Are you angry I didn't take you? So what? I'll take you next time. My precious children. Did Jakkama's predictions come true, brother? Not one word was wrong How do you do it? Even if the oracle is Goddess Jakkamma Oratorical speaker is Chimmiti, right? Don't brag too much Go and collect our share. You haven't done anything new! Hey! Lady from Kedaiyur Why are you so green with jealousy? What happened? What happened to Viruman? Guards of Kodangipatti hacked him during the theft. What happened? There's life in his eyes He'll survive. Veerayi, stop lamenting Your husband is alive. Run... Vembu, run. Don't fall. Run. Stop hitting. Stop. Stop it. Don't kill my man. We are here to enquire and you are driving us out?! For past 300 years we've stood in the forefront in our Madurai cavalry. Did you think you can get away stealing our Queen's necklace? Be it theft, enquiry or retrieval it should be outside our village. Why did you come into our habitat? You'll steal our Queen's necklace and should we treat you like royalty? Our people have not stepped into your domain. Go ask elsewhere. So you didn't steal? Show them the informant. Tell them your story I don't know who but a man from your village asked me for a clue. If you lie, I'll slit your throat. Must be from some other place eastward. He said Vembur That's why I gave a royal clue! He came all by himself. We never go alone. We always go in a group. We were the ones who chased him! Don't we know he was single?! We always own up to our crime We'd either return or get compensated. What do we lose? We are not cowards. Are you implying that someone used your village name and stole? I didn't. You did. If what you say is true, we won't sleep without catching the thief. If we catch the rogue we'll return your stolen ornament. If you do, you should surrender that fellow to us. What do we get by surrendering the thief to you? We'll protect your fort free of cost. What do we get in return for retrieving your royal jewelry? 100 kOttai (GRAIN MEASURE) of paddy. We'll give you 100 kOttai paddy if you return our Queen's necklace! By the next New moon, if I don't bring this fellow in front of our God l'm not the head honcho of this village. Oldie, did anyone come asking for a clue using Vembur's name? No. Did anyone come here asking for a clue using our village's name? No. Let's not go in a group I'll go all alone by myself. Come one Come all. Come and see my snakes. Sting me. Lady, keep this quail and give me some gruel. Keep this rabbit and give me some gruel. Be quick I didn't see, bro Why are you glaring at me for this? Betel leaf? My tongue's so dry. Let me take some betel leaves. They are not even fresh! To take plain betel leaf is considered inauspicious. So let me take somechunam (LIME) Good bye, bro Watch out for snakes. Hey man, I'm from the north Give me a good clue. - North? Means Vembur, right? - Yup. Just now a Vembur man came and asked for a clue. From Vembur? Yes, he's one of us Tell me your clue. - Accountant's house. - Bless you! Praise be to the sacred 5 letters! Hail, feet of our Lord Shiva! Praise be to He who not for an instant quits my heart! Praise be to the ruler of Thiruvavaduthurai Betel leafer! You can't escape now Avaiyamba! Let's go before the temple closes. Get in. Bless me, Lord Shiva. Sir, please stop I am on my way to guard a village I just now noticed this. Why is your tree grown right upto your chimney? Take care, some robber may enter that way I'll have it felled You stay back, eat and then go. Thank you, sir. Drive with care, sir. Why are you looking at me so condescendingly? You'll be pickled if you don't watch out. Give me your hand. Brother, you... here? Did you also come here to steal? Yes. Let's not steal here A lady's hung herself inside. Let's find another house. Let's go elsewhere. - Why did you tarnish Vembur... - Shhhhhhhhhhhh! Why did you use Vembur's name? Are you also doing the same? Are you being sarcastic? I belong to Vembur! Then maybe you should use some other name and steal!! Untie me, bro I'm being bitten in all odd places. Show some compassion on your little brother. Untie me I am being bitten, bro. Creepy crawlies are climbing all over me. How can you ignore my pleas? You will know only if you are bitten. Untie me I am lamenting so loudly and he's turning a deaf ear. Hey! Untie me! Copy cat weirdo of Goddess Meenakshi's hairdo. Are you being cheeky?! I have to rub crap-paste for the ant bites to heal. Can't even eat, Untie me. Where have you hidden the necklace you stole from Veerakudi? Tell me the truth. As if all stolen goods are stored under our armpits! As soon as we steal we should settle accounts. You are asking too late. Untie me. It's not an ordinary householder's necklace. It's from the royal treasury. If you had sold it, you'd be impaled Where have you hidden it? I keep telling you I don't know Come and untie me. If you don't I'll pull this tree off its roots. You don't know my true colors! COME! I've been asking you umpteen times. Snaaaaaaaaaaaaake!!! It's heading towards me. Tell me the hiding place 1 st I can give it to you only if you untie me. This snake is almost on me. Walk ahead. Don't try to act smart with me. Move on. Go ahead, take it out. Is this your treasure trove? Select whatever belongs to them and take it. Wowwwwwww! He has cleverly rolled all the stolen stuff into clay balls. How many balls! You boast of being a seasoned robber. Why didn't you let 'REM-star' guide you? Who will steal if we gape at the stars?! If you'd gone in earlier lady who hung herself would have seen you and you'd be hanging instead! You are right. This is how every time something gets screwed up. What's that 'REM-star'? Tell me and then stare. Tell me. In the 3rd part of the night this star formation will appear. That's REM sleep time When people sleep like the dead! That's the best time to steal without hassles. How naive can you be! The fellow who taught me used to stare fixedly at the sky I thought he was praying I must kill him! Did you have a hand in cutting the tree close to the chimney? Why are you spitting at your brother this way? After sharing so many tips you showed your foolishness. Crows' nest in every branch I was wondering how I'd prevent the crows from raising an alarm. Even the mighty elephant can trip and fall! I am human, after all. Being a robber why did you come out empty handed? If I steal when a lady is dead, we'll get blamed and Vembur's name will be spoilt. Then how will an informant ever give us clues? That's why I am so happy to have met you. We'll meet again some other midnight! What now? I returned all that you asked. Will you join my group? I am also eager seeing how experienced you are but I am apprehensive how your clan will react. Trust me, come with courage and conviction. That's the 'spoke in the wheel' constellation. You should be out by the time it appears in the sky. So many nuances to stealing?! For a clean haul, time, period and direction are important. Hey! Hey!! Move aside. Kombudhi! Don't think you can get away by hitting me. Come and rescue me. Let me go. You are abandoning me to these heartless murderers. Don't tie me up. Kombudhi! Karuppa, You saved our name. Show me the loot I gave up what I stole Now let me go. - Is this the Queen's necklace? - Yes. Don't think you can get away hitting me. Do you expect us to hug you? If I am a thief then who are you? Stop shouting. Kombudhi is the best! He saved our prestige. Hey! Hey!! Hurray! I returned everything Now let me go. - Just cut his limbs? - Limbs? Cut his head off. Why are you all debating? Go for his adam's apple! Are you going to do it with your 32 teeth missing?! Save me. Don't hit him. Listen to me Let him go. Even if you hunt all over north you cannot find a more skillful thief. He is very talented Seeing is believing!! He's smart. That's why I brought him here to be one of us. What do you say? Is a chimney thief a good robber? Only a man who divorces his wife will choose such a way. One who is happily married will enter through a hole, the right way. Whether chimney or proper code only I know the secrets in his treasure trove. You've accepted him as one of us Shouldn't we all agree? Let's hold a contest, if he wins then you can add him to your group. If he loses, we'll stone him and send him away in disgrace. What do you say? Let's organize the competition. Okay, go ahead. Ask the thief if he's agreeable to this. If I am the thief who are all of you?! I agree. I'm a thief!! - Untie me. - Untie him. What's the challenge? Brother has praised me sky high. You've complimented me to the highest degree I won't let you down. It's no big deal I'll give you good if you act funny with me. Tell me soon, oldie I am hungry I'm game for whatever the sport. You must run swiftly, to steal without getting caught. - Can you run? - I'll show you. Why do we need a man who runs empty handed? Let him prove his strength by running with our traditional stone. Even I can run carrying that spherical stone. Let him run with 'something that wriggles' Give me that 'something that wriggles' You are disgracing us by fumbling like this. Aren't there any buffaloes like you that I can carry?! Just you wait! We'll amputate you today I've participated in enough contests to win! We'll check your ability today. Give sticks to our men I'll smash his skull. Will he be able to run with this calf? Let's all watch I'm the best!! I won. Tell us your name, family, village, lineage and ancestry details. Varipuli is my name Don't know my native place I was orphaned very young Then I just grew up. - Which God do you pray to? - Who knows? A God who does not ask for slaughter!!! He has clarity of thought Let him be in Kombudhi's group. But an outsider can't stay with us. So let him erect a hut in that yonder hill and stay. Agreed, oldie. Help him with the thatched hut. Brother! Next new moon, let's do a 'royal' theft. Sure. Entire village was stupefied with my feat. Of course! This is your Queen's necklace? 100 kOttai paddy is all yours. Hamlet... that gave birth to me We'll eat hot rice tonight, a blessing Habitat... that gave birth to me We'll eat hot rice tonight, a blessing Chariot of Karna, son of the Sun in a dry village is a silver lining Without sacrifices or pleas to our deity Watch grain flow into our granary Without sacrifices or pleas to our deity Watch grain flow into our granary Mokkachaami's wife on a craving spree of red rice will deliver a very fair baby People rejoice this time of abundant gain Sultry summer paves the way to cool rain Check Maayaandi the boogieman's speed in his hurry forgot his loin cloth indeed! Dwelling place... that gave birth to me We'll eat hot rice tonight, a blessing Chariot of Karna, King of Anga in a parched village is a silver lining Nimble on our feet, we don't saunter House with a baby we don't enter We don't use our stick if there's draught We don't leave evidence to get caught We don't shed blood or kill where we steal We won't ogle at girls asleep, even if it's a deal Village... that gave birth to me We'll eat hot rice tonight, a blessing Chariot of Karna, son of Queen Kunti in a barren village, a silver lining Who... through thatched roof showers riches on us? Who... who is our Provider? Is Aiyanar our Providence? Karuppaa! Without spoiling a theft by slip or slide Without an owl's hoot or a sickle defiled Let our thefts survive prosper and thrive! When sleepy eyes droop we go to steal in a group Whatever our fate, maybe our families undergo misery All this tears, blood and sweat just to live with no hunger threat We die every minute every night Not worth living, it's a fatal plight Even if our deity has hazy memory Mother earth knows our history Even if around the world we toil we'll rest in peace only in our soil Our heart like rice overflows to boil Native place... that gave birth to me mixed in my life's blood, my community My birthplace... my ancestors' blessing You are our life's breath, our everything My birthplace... forefathers' blessing You are our life's breath, our everything You are our life's breath, our everything You are our life's breath, our everything - Grandma. - Who is it? Varipuli. All the young girls keep talking about you. What are you doing in the middle of the night here? I just came out for a walk. Don't loiter around, exercising your limbs. Your God might bless you with cramps and make you impotent! Is this how a respectable old lady talks?! Take care of yourself. Oi! Kombudhi. What happened, uncle? Do you know about the outsider you've brought in? When we stole near Chithoor we killed a man by mistake... he's from that village I'm not sure if he wants to take revenge on you or entire clan. Don't be silly, uncle I felt he had integrity That's why I brought him. He lied saying he's an orphan. He doesn't seem like one of us I am sleepy Don't make up stories. He'll wreck havoc on all of us soon Then you'll know why I said this. Hey! Chimney fellow! Why are you ignoring me? Queen of Vembur is bathing So I thought I'll return later. Queen has finished her ablutions. The king from faraway land can go ahead I'll gladly oblige! Varipuli? Watch out for the crocodiles! Don't you worry I'm good at guarding! Karuppu Name of my God Fire Name of my clique Back bone Our trowel Loot Our duty Fly like a pheasant to combat Hang upside down like a bat Forget rest or sleep Grab your stick and leap I'll pour hooch to numb your sense I'll also shed blood in your defense Our path is strewn with thorny nettle Protect and help us prove our mettle Goddess Jakkamma When we cross hills to deceive sprint across valleys to thieve Give us grit and guts in our hearts Theft... ransack... robbery heist... break-in... burglary Con... crime... conspiracy Plunder... pilfer... piracy Our elders are against Varipuli being accepted as one of us. Pidari uncle is maligning him I don't know what to do. Take the trowel to assist Hold the martyr stick to inspect Open the right spot to benefit Proceed with speed This is our deal to successfully steal Name of my God Karuppu Name of my clique Fire Our trowel Back bone Our duty Loot Looting Vadipatti is no skill. You are bragging as if it was a royal theft. Even we have broken into so many forts in our times. Your theft hasn't even fetched 10 gulps of hooch. Shameless scoundrels! - Kombudhi! Come here. - What, uncle? You are gloating that you are the best robber. For 6 generations no one has been able to steal from Kottaiyur. Prove your worth by stealing there I'll then accept that you are the greatest. Let's see how strong Kottaiyur is. Not even an owl can enter it ou don't have to bring gold from there Just a handful of Kottaiyur's soil will do. That'll prove, you are a man! We will do what you say Then we'll rip your grey beard?! Karuppaaa... Karupaaa... run. They got away. How do we tell our land lords that these thieves escaped? 5 of them came 4 have run away 1 of them must be here somewhere. Kottaiyur is guarded by us from Mathur. We'll lose all respect if this news leaks out. He can't escape our sharp eyes He must be here somewhere. Hit him. It's dawned now We can't save him. It's impossible now. We've lost our Kombudhi He has met his end I am not returning without Kombudhi. Whoever has skill and strength, come with me. If you are a coward, get lost. Kombudhi? Can't bear to see you like this! Say something. Thank You God for saving Your child. How can you, our head honcho lie so still? You retrieved my son from Lord Yama's jaws. May you live long! No one has ever brought home one of us after day break I spoke ill of you without realizing. Forgive me. Entire forest will tremble, when you shout with your Pongam tree stick. Caught red handed or escaping is not a matter of consequence. When those men chased us... Chinnaaaaa! They called him some name in a frenzy I saw enmity and animosity on that man's face. This boy is hiding something from us. Shut up. Being married to a lion why are you grieving? Everyone is waiting to worship my brother-in-law. He has himself digested death. And you are weeping. A lady from Kedaiyur can bleed but not shed tears! I've got rat snake's oil from Suruli hills. Rub it on my brother-in-law and he'll walk within 3 days. Are you an invalid to ask if you are well or unwell? We've come to ask for a bride from a brave man's house? Permit your sister to marry my brother. Hey! Will you marry me or not? Why are you suddenly proposing to me? You need an auspicious day for it? They've chosen a groom for me from Kedaiyur. But I don't want to leave my brother and this land. Is that the reason? You have a bevy of suitors following you ardently. Ask them Why me? You brought my brother back when everyone else abandoned him. That's why. Then assume that I didn't save him?! You buffalo, pig, corpse with Saturn's malefic effect afflicted by cholera! I like you That's why I too like you but I can't marry you. Wait. You think I'd have slept with someone since I'm friendly. Don't talk rubbish. Then what? I've blossomed well and ripe as a fruit on the tree. Is my height a drawback? I'll give you 10 sons. Don't ask me reasons Get married to that Kedaiyur fellow. As a brother, I'll conduct the wedding. You'll play hard to get if a female proposes. All men are the same. For one last time will you marry me? I can't marry you, Chimmiti. Karuppaaa! I pride myself in knowing all possible folk lore. There is 1 mystery-knot I have been unable to disentangle. What's that? Your story... really who are you? Your parents? Your lineage? I already told you I was orphaned when very young I've heard that a 100 times I can take you in my group How can you be part of my family? What are you talking of family now? Chimmiti says she will marry only you. Vari, when can I fix the wedding date? We'll celebrate in style right in front of our God Karuppa. Why? Do you think it's not a good match? Nothing of that sort, brother. She's a good girl. Don't keep harping on this. Why are you behaving like this? I should have listened to Pidari uncle I believed in you I trusted you, when everyone was against you. When that Mathur man yelled out 'Chinna' why didn't I ask you about it? You brought me on your shoulder I let you into my house Why? Don't act pricey! Tell me why? I want to know I am married I am already married. Inform all those who went to steal to be here without fail. He's the eldest in our village who has passed away. Let them not wander off to the bull taming contest. Stop it! Listen to me. Next bull in the arena belongs to Chilukaani from Chinnapalayam. This bull has to be tamed only by a Vembur resident. If he succeeds, then half his wealth will be bequeathed to the deity of Vembur. If not, all your sisters should be wedded to Chilukaani! Hey! Vembur men Where have you all disappeared to? You killed my bull 3 years back claiming you will tame it I can't forget how it suffered and died. Where are you, my brothers? I've brought a bull specially for you Try to tame it. Visumbaaa Angaaaa. Angaaaa. Are Vembur men here or not? Udumbaaa. Oi! Thieves of Vembur Do you call yourselves men or not? Why are you dodging us? Your clan's dignity is being tarnished Where are you? They must have taken flight in fright! Bro, I'll go. You don't go This is a challenge for Vembur men I'll take care You go. If you don't come for my next call it's taken for granted you have lost. - Despite this disgrace... - I can't take this I'll go, bro. You are not one of us, you savage! You are neither kith nor kin to our clan. How can you go in? Get out. Listen to me, I'll go You'll be torn to pieces. Do you think we are cowards? You have no place in my clan or community. If you come in, I'll myself kill you. Listen to me, bro. Only 1 man has come to represent Vembur? It isn't a goat-carrying contest This is taming of a bull. You will lose your life Get lost. Send the bull in 1 st I'll get the prize money I'll trample it right here. You don't even have to touch its horns Just touch its ! Send it in 1 st Check yourself before that. Send the bull in. Kill him. Don't let him win. Show your power Pierce his ribs. Very soon a Vembur man will become a corpse. Brother!! Stop the flow of blood Tie it securely I'll tame the bull. - Don't go! - Why, bro? You are an outsider You can't participate. Our clan will be disgraced. - Shut up, bro! - You can't go. Take that outsider and throw him out. Let me go Why are you grabbing me? Sissy fellows! What are you looking at? I am not an outsider I belong to Vembur I am Ochchayi's son, who from Vembur got... married and settled in Chinni Veerampatti. By matriarchal lineage I rightfully belong to Vembur I swear on this soil. Don't leave him Kill him I got the prize money. Vembur men will never lose. Bro, Vembur will never lose. Stop it. Why are you hitting him? Why are you hitting him? We will return your stolen stuff. We are not dealing with stolen goods. Do you know who he is? Chinni Veerampatti's lamb for slaughter. We've been searching for him for 9 long years. He's a Vembur resident. Whatever it is, let's discuss it in Vembur Assembly. Otherwise you'll have to face our clan's feud. Leave him. Whatever enmity I don't intend letting him go I recognized this mongrel when you robbed Kottaiyur. Now when he blabbered his lineage, his fate got sealed! Take him. Let's go I saw my father's brother in the shandy at Thiruchanam. Auspicious days for Vembur festival has been fixed. My mother's sister has invited us. She saw you when you were a baby Let's go and visit her in Vembur. Vembur? Is it close by? It'll take 4 days to reach that village. Till then who will guard our village? Already our people have disgraced the residents of Vembur. Village you were born in has such a reputation! Don't join with these riff raffs and malign my home. It's your maternal home that will protect you life always. Oh! Yes, you are my savior! I'm the son of the best sentinel ever. Don't glorify your thieving community to me. From theft is born protection! You are so arrogant because of my uncle who named you, you have his genes! That's why you are so smart and confident. If you had your father's genes you'd be a mere farmer I'll pour this all over you. Even this dialog is from Vembur only! Folks here lack this confidence. Get lost. Don't make a female run like this. Stop. Veeranan... wait. He's busy flirting with that lady from Kumapatti. That shameless hussy Valli is broadcasting this all over. What did you say? Being a big shot, naturally girls will flock around me! - And are you a big shot? - What did you ask? What did I ask? All I said was, 'Sweetie, come to the fields to gather sweet potatoes' Why won't you ask? Remember you are a husband and a father! And you are yearning for sweet(IE) potatoes! Look how she's hitting me before you. One blow for every sweetie potato! - Do you know who she is? - Who? Sister-in-law of Mosakaadhan, who flashes his sickle all the time. It is part of our custom to tease our sister-in-law. Just try doing that! Tease your sister-in-law Not mine! I don't have a sister-in-law. Then why target others' sisters-in-law?! All those who have a sister-in-law are idiots? Whole village knows that you are an idiot! If you have courage, stop I'll slaughter you I won't let you go without slicing you into 2. Mosakaadha, why are you getting angry for no reason? What are you saying? He hides and watches my wife. And pinches her here and there I can tolerate that. But if he teases my sister-in-law I'll slice him to pieces. You give me the right verdict. Come near me I'll tell you. And you call yourself a man! Palm-fruit head!!! We must safeguard our sister-in-law. In our village no one cares for his sister-in-law. You have no brains even if you are an adult. A sister-in-law is special We must protect her. Without snakes and reptiles harming us. Without spirits haunting us. Without thieves robbing us. Goddess! Sustain our profession. Goddess of Chinni Veerampatti let our profession prosper. Goddess. Go with care. We are leaving for patrolling. Oldie! We take leave. Can cotton be twisted into wick only on the thigh? Shut your gob. - Awwwwwww! - What? Look over there. It's getting late for patrolling You leave now. Go fast. Carry on but make sure no theft happens!!! Shove it...! Don't give our dear old soothsayer a nasty surprise! Magical moon Mystical moon Full moon Filigree moon Divine moon Dainty moon Moon that sails in the sky cruises without stopping by Strolls with pure elation in a glimmering procession lnto tangled trees, knoll and peak moon radiantly plays hide and seek Moon that sails in the sky cruises without stopping by Patrols in progressive illumination in a shimmering procession lnto tangled trees, knoll and peak moon impishly plays hide and seek Ecstatic moon weaves its way forgets place and time of day Spreading its petals this moon incessant tempts and casts a spell so luminescent This untouched moon as I caress makes our honeymoon luminous Silver moon Shining moon Lacy moon Lovely moon Moon that sails in the sky cruises without stopping by lnto tangled trees, knoll and peak glittering moon plays hide and seek When eyes close in deep sleep peacefully what does the moon plead so entreatingly? Loving glance and heart so shy signs her love by her soulful eye Like the moon, my lady My lady's lithe frame wanes in this silent game With an effervescent glow her waves rise to a crescendo Satiated, full moon feels complete while every breath is on red heat! Moon that sails in the sky cruises without stopping by Wanders to a new reflection in a poignant procession lnto tangled trees, knoll and peak sensuous moon plays hide and seek Love-struck moon glides happily in a daze, unaware blissfully Excited, blooms to a new venture Exalted, lures with her luster This celestial moon as I caress makes our honeymoon luminous Ethereal moon Exquisite moon Picturesque moon Passionate moon Magical moon Mystical moon Veeranna, I can hear bells of cows ringing I'll go check, bro. You go southward You go northward. You desire sweet potato?! Catch him. Why are you jealous?! Check who this is. Who is he? Doesn't look like one of us. Don't know who he is. Is he a trader or a guest? Check and tell. He looks like you with his weird hairdo. Folk artistes left at sun set. Did any traveler walk in at midnight? No. Why are you all silent? Did anyone see him at night? Who were all sleeping in the Assembly last night? - I was sleeping there. - Did you see him? He came when I went to relieve myself. Who are you? I am from the neighboring village I am feeling a little unwell I'll sleep here and go at day break I asked him to sleep and I also slept. Such an elderly man, how can you be so brainless? You talk rules and let a random stranger sleep without enquiring about him? One who walked in alive at midnight has his throat slit at day break! All of you were here Whoever killed, own up! Otherwise our village will be blamed. What do you mean? Are we jobless to slit strangers' throats?! How can our chieftain suspect his own people? Will someone fall down suddenly from the sky to slit his throat? Whether he jumped from the sky or the woods, it's not our knife! Let's 1 st collect details of the dead man. From where? Those who guard are the ones fully equipped to know. If they are unaware, what can we do? This won't do. We'll spread the news to all neighboring villages. Instead of all this search and research let's cremate him. She is right. Why should we unnecessarily drag trouble onto our shoulders? Let's bury him and go. How cruel can you be?! Move aside. What happened? You are a gypsy-nomad Can you identify him? Have you seen him before? I cannot recognize him. But he has fragrance of the forest. Must be a wanderer in the forest. If you are not to blame, I request you to inform all neighboring villages. It's a life, that's lost. Please show some compassion. Fate seems to have twisted around us like a snake. Can this dead man testify our innocence? Guardians of our village, what's happened has happened. Just spread the word around. Chieftain, should we tell Mathur also? While we were guarding Mathur, their men burnt our entire village. Let's slaugher them. There should be no life in Mathur. Let's raze them to the ground. We should not spare them. Kill them. Evacuate both settlements and become gypsies and nomads. Between you both there's only bad blood and bloodshed forever. Announce to the entire kingdom that both villages have been wiped out. Go away. Raja! Let bygones be bygones. We'll call a truce. We won't fight hereafter and ask you to arbitrate. Soothsayer, shall we inform Mathur? Tell them. Elders of Vembur, shall we tell them? Go ahead. - Mooka, what do you say? - No other option. Go in pairs. Inform them at the earliest. Does he belong to your village? No. Are you from Kombai? Chinna, did you inform Mathur? Wonder what will happen? Sit down. Why have Mathur people sent this troublemaker? As if a knife from this village could have slit our man's throat?! But my village elders don't agree I'm here Move aside. You killed my brother-in-law. Your brother-in-law? We've never seen him before. By the looks of his hair, he seems to be a forest dweller. How could you have seen him? Chinna, don't. He's the last heir to Vallaangan who ruled the forest. You've destroyed that lineage. Why are you getting angry? Let us talk this over. What use is your speech when you've killed him? I won't let you go. He came at midnight, to our Assembly and he was found dead in the morning. How is that possible? You must have lured him here, connived a plot and killed him. Now you are building a story around your deed. Run so swift that your feet don't touch the ground, Maayi. Inform our men guarding all 32 villages that our Maayan has been killed. Don't blame our village. Look how he is twisting facts! You'll re-start our old feud again. Listen to us elders I'll make this village extinct. There will only be bloodshed Both villages will suffer I can't forgive you for killing my brother-in-law. None of you will exist. Hey! Try to stop him. We'll all be destroyed. We are all talking and he walks away without respect. What do we do now? Chinna, if he returns it will be a blood bath! Go and call our king before that. Veeranan, take all our women and children to Thorana malai along with our cattle. Go fast. He won't let us live in peace. Whatever is destined to happen, let it happen. - Wait... wait. - I have to meet our king. Both sides, stop fighting. Listen to us. Move aside. Won't you listen? You gave your word you won't fight and now you are preparing for war! Disperse and stop fighting It's a royal decree. Everytime this is how we become the losers. We need to resolve this once for all. Sit down. Let's not leave without a decision. Greetings Maharaja! For 5 generations, is this the way to fight instead of bonding as brothers?! Why are you silent? How can I be quiet? They have killed my brother-in-law. We'd have destroyed the village. We are patient because we didn't want to dishonor your words. If we youngsters go to guard a village and 1 man is found dead at midnight how are we to blame? Did you kill him 'cos he splashed feces in your Assembly? If we knew that by now he'd be pecked to bits on the altar stone by the crows. We are not cowards to slit the throat of a man, asleep in our Assembly. Now come and kill me. Stop it. Why are you behaving like this in front of me? Is this how you pay your respects to your King? Sit down. Only the relatives of Thogaimayan, stand up. Tell me your side, lady. After 16 years of penance... he was my only son after 5 daughters. Seeing him dead this way my whole life is on fire! My anger will be appeased only when his death is avenged. They killed my son. As a mother naturally you will be devastated. Will this youngster know good from bad? You are instigating him? Who killed him? We ourselves are in the dark. Our Vembur men would have never done this. He's found dead in your village. If one of you didn't then who killed him? If only we knew won't we tell you, Maharaja? Your clan has to accept the blame. How can you be so calm about it? We have no choice but to accept responsibility. Our Goddess will protect us. Will the dead man come alive just because they own up? We won't move without shedding blood. We agree to your protocol, Maharaja. Sit down. For the men with sickles thirsting for blood on a killing spree will you listen to me? - We will, Maharaja. - We'll listen to you. Whenever good or bad happens in a village, to appease God's anger it's normal to make a sacrifice. Arjuna's son Aravan self sacrificed for the Pandavas to win, in Mahabharatha. Not only in our Puranas but also as part of our tradition. A sacrifice is made before building temples, ponds, forts or to pray for rain during famine. We are well aware of the many who have given up their lives. Now we have to answer for the mishap in 1 village. Prevent calamity in another village. There's only 1 option. Chinni Veerampatti must sacrifice a youngster... of the same age as the dead man to Mathur. What do you all say? We agree to your decree, Maharaja. What can we say? For generations, it has been our code of conduct to sacrifice. What else can we do but agree? Rather than fight a war this is a good decision. Select your sacrificial goat I'll come after day break. This village will never prosper. The son I gave birth to... Stop it. Why are you lamenting and sulking this way? If Mathur men had invaded us wouldn't 100s of us be dead? This is better of the 2 choices To give 1 life is minimal loss. Beginning of our settlement to dredge our lake. Karuppan of East street sacrificed his life. My father's brother gave up his life from south street to prevent cholera. Now it's the turn of those who live in the street near our Assembly. Youngsters who live here please come forward. Veeranan Brick. Chinna Pebble. Malaiyandi White stone. Kookaiyan Granite. Kaadukaathaan Gravel. Our Goddess has chosen pebble. Chinna is the committed one for the human sacrifice. My son! Sacrificing your life for our clan you become God for us, Chinna. You'll merge as God with our ancestors 3 sei land near the lake 2 gundu 'dry land' in Chozhiampottala I bequeath to Chinna as sacrificial compensation. Hey! Mathur man, come here. Salutations, Maharaja. There are 30 knots here. Tie this in your village Assembly Untie a knot per day at dawn break. Assemble, when the 30th knot is untied at Chokkampaarai for the sacrifice. Naagamalai hill has toppled down Green plant is a wilted tree Fate has doomed its decree Oracle of the sacrificing stone has claimed a young life forlorn Fate... karma... destiny Why did my sun all of a sudden submerge in darkness? Why did my moon quickly collapse in helplessness? A light without fear or tears beyond spears and years He questioned his destiny to the author of this story He is Aravaan Neither sky earmarks nor our earth asks Neither sun stakes a claim nor rain does the same Wind doesn't demand God doesn't command But man justifies human sacrifice! Birds don't persist Beasts don't insist Snakes don't enforce Lizards don't coerce Dogs don't compel Ghosts don't raise hell Only man certifies human sacrifice! He is heir to Naga dynasty None can equal his integrity He aimed the arrow back at his own eyebrow! He is Aravaan He is Son of Arjuna He is Aravaan Son of Ulipi He is Aravaan He sacrificed his life He is Aravaan He faced great strife ls this journey of death too far a distance then? Is the impending pain too much of a burden? When it's time for my life to choke will it rise as a wisp of smoke? After this life leaves the body will enmity be less bloody? World without love that's true Hell without any virtue ls this body with all its desire just funeral wood on the pyre Disease did not ask Fire did not do its task None of the village deities dictate such a practice Not ordained by God Shiva Nor by Lord of death, Yama This crusade is man-made! My breath, he is branding My pulse, he is demanding Tale of his death and turmoil is seed sown into our soil Aravaan who is immortal can fire extinguish at all? In land, wind and water he'll live ever after He is Aravaan Son of a Pandava prince He is Aravan Son of a Naga princess Lord Krishna Son of Nandha Smeared with butter, all over Giver of salvation, forever Have you seen my Lord Nandha's son, our God? Like rain clouds of midnight hue Lord Krishna is a glorious blue King who sweetens love so true Have you seen my Lord Nandha's son, our God? To cold rain and sleet he radiates heat When tender hands embrace He is epitome of love and grace To the bed of bosom so warm He springs in fresh aqua form To the bed of bosom so warm He springs in fresh aqua form With the drum He unites His flute to magical heights Have you seen my Lord Nandha's son, our God? All I'm asking is 1 mouthful of hooch. Elected Godhead! Come home for a feast tonight I'll also come Cook for me too, sister-in-law. Godhead's partner, huh? Come, brother-in-law. How is she your sister-in-law? How did he become your brother-in-law? You are my relative I am not related to you I am your enemy. You agree to cook for him He accepts your dinner invitation. We don't have horsegram or hay whatever horses and donkeys eat. Come, let's go. Why are you both interacting in sign language? Only if I tonsure your head in public will they all stop running after you! Even if I'm patient 'cos of your sister I can't cope with your romping spree! Who killed the man asleep in the Assembly? What are you implying? Ours is the biggest patrolling community. How can an outsider come here and kill him?! No - Then? Are you suspecting someone in our own clan? There's a Damocles sword over my head! It will slit my throat very soon. Don't worry Let's investigate. Why are you pestering me? Are you suspecting me? No, I need to know why my head is to be guillotined I have told all that I remember What more can I say? Tell us what happened all over again. Who are you? I am from the neighboring village I am feeling a little unwell I'll sleep here and go at day break. Was anyone else asleep in the Assembly? Where are you from? Will you play host and buy me hooch? Just roll over and sleep. Move over a little higher You'll get bitten by insects. Then if you die we'll get blamed! Snake will die, not me! I've tackled King cobras and Bronzeback tree snakes I'm fine So go to sleep. Okay 'Snake king' Don't shake your leg I won't be able to sleep. Don't know if Mosakaadhan said it playfully or purposely. At day break he was dead. Mosakaadhan was missing. It wasn't me. Tell me the truth. Don't push me. Don't kill me. Otherwise your skull will shatter to pieces I didn't kill. Tell me now I don't know I swear I didn't I said it casually that I hope you don't get bitten by a snake I didn't know it would really happen, I swear. Push him. Don't push me. Why did you wake up in the middle of the night? My sister-in-law had come for the harvest. He'll vouch for this because he keeps following her! Since she's at home, my wife doesn't let me get anywhere close to her. So that night my wife sent her to Kodikapatti. She called me in to sleep with her. That's why I got up and went away. This is what happened Come and verify if you want. Trust me I swear I didn't kill him. You are here like the men of Mathur demanding a sacrifice. Did I bring up my daughter to see her as a widow in 10 days? Don't you have daughters? Why not choose them? Don't hurt us with such harsh words. Soothsayer's tears will wipe out our village. It was your daughter who asked Ochchayi to come. That's why we are here. Forget it if you are against it. Knowing he'll die, how can I get you married to him? I won't marry Chinna. Show me a man who won't die I'll marry him, father. Who won't die? Chinna knows the date That's the only difference. You are talking with temerity because we don't know the day we'll die 30th day before you die on the altar stone l'll immolate myself at Chellathamman temple I swear on the Goddess we pray to. If you agree to this wedding, I'll beget a child and be a good mother life long. Or else I'll commit Sati. At least try to feel shy! You got what you wanted! Tie this sacred thread around her neck, Chinna. Ladies rejoice with your chorus. - Mother-in-law. - My dearest, welcome home. My precious! You got your way by being stubborn. My dearest. Shall I get pregnant right away?!! You are too much! Okay... why are you here? I've asked our neighbor to give you a place to sleep. Or go to our Assembly and sleep. Take her with you. How smart! You are a real survivor. After all I am your daughter-in-law! I've sent your mother to Mayil thaayi's house. So... then... Let's not go into Mathur Listen to me. Sshhh! Shut up. Promising me hooch you brought me into Mathur. There are only trouble-makers here. Sharpen your sickle. Head of Chinni Veerampatti resident should roll in one swish of the blade! Just follow me. Who's that with his head covered? Mosakaadha! Your Mathur friends are following us!!! All thanks to you! Get in. Hide here. Who are you? From outside, grandma. We came to condole a death. Condolence?! She's alive! Where have they disappeared? They resembled Chinni Veerampatti men. Which is Thogaimayan's house? - Who are you? - We've come for condolence. Where are you off to? You do your condolence act I'm heading back home. Random strangers are chasing us. Go and get caught! Come. Mother? Thogaimayan? My brother. Someone's come for condolence, mother. Come in. After years of prayers I gave birth to him. God knows which female cast her spell on him! Which village are you from? Were you my son's friend? Chinni Veerampatti. You killed my son. Will your clan prosper? May you suffer and die. Your people killed my son am the sacrificial scapegoat for your son. Kill me. Just kill me. What if I die in 30 days or 3 days? Kill me right now. But one thing is definite This murder is not a village feud. What are you saying? Aware of our village feud how did he come to sleep there? Mathur man has spotted us. Veera, Chinna run for your lives. Did your son have enemies? Run... run I told you I won't come. Now you are making me run on stones and thorns! Will you both prosper? Let's run for our lives I'll tackle you at the altar stone. - You brought me here. - Bro... wait. - You are the reason. - What did I do? Don't hit me I was happy with my wife Don't hit me. Come... don't stand there. Come... don't wait. Mathur man is sending a decoy to trick us. Don't go I feel there's something wrong. Keep quiet. She'll slice you with a sickle. My brother was a good man. Did he ever fight with anyone? Once... he fought with the folk artistes who came to our village. Otherwise my brother never got into trouble. Okay. They've got caught. Folk artistes came at twilight. After they left I came back from the Assembly. That boy must have followed them. They must have fought and one of them has killed him. Killer must be somewhere here. Let's hunt for him I can't keep pace with you. You devils! Why are you making me run again? Sound of hourglass drum. - Folk artistes. - Let's go. Why did you kill Mayan from Mathur? Is he dead?! Vanji! I'll kill you. Try killing me, old man! Knowing this would backfire I packed up my show in Mathur. We went to Chinni Veerampatti. Somehow this fellow followed my daughter there. Alone... In solitude... You keep following us? I'll... Father! Don't!! A strand of tiger's whisker. If I pierce your eye with it your cranial nerves will shatter to shreds. Father! Let go of him. Remember, if you follow us you'll be a dead corpse. And that very same night we left Chinni Veerampatti. You are lying to me. You are the killer. We worship Fire If I lie, I'll be burnt. Then swear you didn't. We are bound by our word. It is our gospel. Why are you sitting here at this time of the night? Come, let's go home I've prepared a gourmet meal for you Fried quail, sandgrouse and wildcat. Let's have a feast. Come, my dear. Get lost I've made your favorite fish curry. Come. Can't you take 'NO' for an answer?! All you can think of is satisfying your hunger! Go away. What did you say? I'm asking you to sleep with me?! Of course I am! Will I be living in wedded bliss with you for a 100 years?!! In 2 weeks I'll be a widow I won't have this sacred thread around my neck! I fought with my father to marry you... why? The few days that remain for us... I wish to have your head resting on my chest in happiness I deserve this and even more. Get lost. Paechi. Forgive me I should not have spoken like that to you I am sorry. Go away. Please forgive me I want to live 100 years with you I don't want to be slaughtered I won't go. I plan to kill you Showering kisses on you I plan to kill you, my beau! Covering you in my sari sharing our love-story Sprinkling kisses on you I plan to kill you, my beau! Like the sun's glance caresses the moon Like the sun's glance caresses the moon You and me just one look Me and you just one look ... just one look too soon Ten sons will be our fortune I plan to kill you Showering kisses on you I plan to kill you, my beau! Covering you in my sari sharing our love-story Sprinkling kisses on you I plan to kill you, my beau! I don't want food nor water Just thoughts of you hereafter ln this birth it's ample if we are a couple I don't need riches to multiply Just murderess Paechi will do! Even when I die my eyes will seek you When the sea drowns our homeland ... only our love will forever stand When the sword of destiny kills me ... our love will live on, eternally ln the woods, you and me ln the woods, you and me let us together become we All it takes from us, just one look 10 sons I'll beget by hook or crook! I plan to kill you I plan to kill you Showering kisses on you I plan to kill you, my beau! Like the sun's glance caresses the moon Like the sun's glance caresses the moon You and me just one look Me and you just one look ... just one look too soon Ten sons will be our fortune Speed up. We have to reach our village before day break, drive fast. Today is the 29th day. Tomorrow this time my head will be rolling on Chokkam paarai. This is the hip chain of Raja of Madurai I waited, planned, plotted and bit it off his waist!! Antique and precious. It has seen 30 hips. Look at the fox tooth pendent. Tooth of an one eyed fox. It is exclusive to the king's harem. How much will you give? Silver won't fetch that much. Maybe 2 kOttai ragi. Why did you grab it from me? You don't know the value of this hip chain 2 days later I'll sell it in Madurai, I'll get this much I'll give you 10 more goats as bonus I don't want your goat or its droppings. Porcupine! Let him go. Goat or its crap balls! Mosakaadhaa! Chinna, save me. Get lost I'll smash and disfigure your face. Who are they? Thank God you came to my rescue, Chinna. Otherwise I'd have lost all my silver! Silver?!! I meant sickle for harvesting my crops! - Nothing in my hands. - What did you hide there? I told you, it's nothing. Remember when 'Snake king' slept in our Assembly. And his throat was slit. He was clutching this in his hand and I took it. But that day you denied it I said it then I wanted this. So I didn't tell I remember very well 3rd day after I attained puberty he raped me despite my cries. The man who pushed me into this profession I'll never forget him. Chinna, you are our guardian and you are creeping in like a thief! Was the sacrificial tribute not enough? You want more? Or anything else? I was wondering where I'd misplaced it. Why did you kill Thogaimayan? You killed him and offered me sacrificial tribute as compensation?! Maharaja, weren't you worried, you didn't have any heir? God has been kind. Youngest queen is pregnant. Bigeminal pulse beat Most likely to be a son. Abort it. What are you saying? - Terminate the pregnancy. - Raja?! Midwife, you go I'll talk to the king. Not even your little finger has touched me. Are you wondering how I am pregnant? You killed the man who loved me. You killed my father and destroyed my clan. You kidnapped me. Why? For your Yali dynasty to continue. You made my people your slaves. After you, your kingdom will be ruled by a slave-heir! What's inside is not a 'Yali' Must be a fox, wild boar or tom cat?! Would you like to listen? You don't have to kill only by slaying. You can do the same by sowing a seed! Who is the culprit? Man from Mathur who came to sell perfume. Hmmmm... what an aroma. Even God of passion, Kamadeva's flower lacks this fragrance. If you rub this, everyone will fall into your lap willingly! I didn't say this. You asked me to take him to our Queen. Our queen liked the perfume and also the perfume seller! I found out that he was watching the show in Chinni Veerampatti I wanted to kill him with my bare hands. Why should I be victim for your crime? Come and own up in our Assembly. Goats and hens may be given for sacrifice. How can a Yali dynasty king be sacrificed? I should have killed you for seeing my hip chain. How will I let you go after you know the whole truth?! We can't find Chinna He isn't at home. What are you saying? Go see in his relatives' house. Search properly I searched everywhere I can't find him. He's nowhere to be found. All of you stop shouting. Where's your son? I swear I don't know He didn't come home last night. Where's your husband? I swear I don't know. What do we tell the Mathur men? Don't know Go away. He has hidden him somewhere. - Tell us where. - Get lost. Don't make up any story Tell us where he is. Where's the sacrificial lamb? Forgive us. He was here till yesterday We can't find him today. Give us 2 days grace time. Hang yourself to death. Butcher them to bits. Let 100 heads roll. Stop. Move aside. Let's hear what this village elder has to say. Did I agree to a single sacrifice for you to kill 100s of us? We'll offer you another life instead! One man was marked Another takes the blame, huh?! Let the entire village fall at my feet. Prostrate. Those 4 other boys line up. Granite Veeranan is the chosen one. AiyO! Chinna isn't a coward. He's a brave man He will come back I am proud to give my life for such a great protector. You can't escape from me now. Do you think you can catch me? God of the Yali lineage! Take me with you Water to water! Chinna has avenged this whole village. Everyone, even a toddler, has the liberty to kill him. Veeranan's son Aangan has the 1 st right. Hunt for him in all 8 directions. Only when we kill him will our village rest in peace! You will recover in 4 months time Don't worry, we will take care No one will believe this truth. Go and hide somewhere safe. As long as you are alive that's enough for me. Ochchayi's son is not a coward I'll surrender and be sacrificed. At least before you die see your child's face. You want to sacrifice your life then, surrender now. If you want to see your child come back after 10 years. Our custom is such, if you come back after 10 years, people will forgive you. Till then live in hiding. You have no death unless you blurt out the truth I'm not a soothsayer now. It's a father's plea, who can't bear to see his daughter as a widow. Go where no one will spot you. Why are you falling at my son's feet? Chinnaaa... Stop him. They are trying to get away with our 'sacrificial lamb' who escaped. Who are you? Why are you blocking our way? We are sentinels of Chinni Veerampatti. So what? Give back what rightfully belongs to us. We don't have the habit of returning what we steal! Drive away. If you don't, we'll send back all your women... who have settled by marriage in our village. You think that will scare me off?! We'll over turn your cart. Chinna, get down from there. Let's see what their problem is after so much has happened. - Chinna, get down. - Bro, let me go. Why? I don't want this life of a fugitive. Listen to me. No, I'll go, bro. Varipuli. Let go. Don't go. You could have waited 1 more year. How could you get caught now? Fate I didn't run away fearing death I went in search of evidence. Only truth exists. There's no proof I am responsible for your present state. Forgive me. Move on... AiyO!! You waited for 9 years Why didn't you wait for 1 year? Like how everyone's saying why didn't you wait 1 more year? The next bull would have killed you. You wouldn't have been alive. Glory of Vembur would have gone with the wind! My father's birth-place is dying to sacrifice me. With the satisfaction of saving the dignity of my mother's birth-place. I stumble to my death. Come close to me I am your father. My son, bro. Make him a good sentinel. You are handing him over to this thief! From theft is born protection! Entire Vembur should let go of their thieving stick and start holding the guarding staff, brother! From the fort of Madurai to the shores of Thondi. Vembur's protection should be their mainstay! GO! Call Veeranan's son Aangan. Aangan, come here. Kill the one who killed your father. Aangan. Uncle... How are you? Will you become a sentinel? He killed your father. Guillotine him. Don't stain your hand killing me. Untie me. End of 18th century British abolished human sacrifice Even now human sacrifice exists in 83 countries as death penalty Let us abolish corporal punishment - Pidari uncle. - What? Those who went for guarding haven't returned as yet. See yonder. Across the cacti plants. Are they back to the fold? Good!
