 

                        Rise and shine, let's to go. You're gonna miss the buss, get up. Will you stop acting like dad. We ain't got time for this. Get up, I'm gonna be late. Lunch is in the kitchen come on man! thats what Im talking about M4, state of the art blam! Yeah boys I wish somebody mess with us on the move cut the shit Palmer Youre devil Real tide with one of them I saved my life. yes I guess you saved yours What is up? Check this baby out, way big Ha? looks like your are compensating What you are talking about? What you are talking about? You Know what they say? Bigger the gun harder the uh... pistol [laughs] okay okay, good one, good one, good one How do you come up with that shit? Next monday, team 01357 will commence training on the new port 25x7 acts Ladys and gentlemen We are entering the modern age All new trucks will be equiped with gps This is a mandatory training, and I will accept no excuses No  [indistinct radio talking] Whats going on? I got a flagged van it circled us twice I wish they would try something [radio] oh, whats going on? whats going on? I dont know I dont know she just cut out on me check the engages okay it doesn look good. hey oh, oh oh, do you smell it? Anybody smell it? I smell it, is sugar No, No, this aint good eagle 12 to base keep hitting! keep hitting! eagle 12 to base Good damn it, where are you? eagle 12 to base holly shit! What is shit? What is shit? [laughs] we got you man [laughs] You should have seem the look on your face Ive got something Id like to say Hold on a second You know when you old man asked me to be a goodfather, it was a big moment of my life He was a great, uh, mentored me Maybe uh, my best friend I dont know how much does he hum, expressed to you how, how deeply proud he was of you joing the services And your mom would be proud of the way you steped up for your brother Jimmy, really proud And Im proud of you too. So get the moment to to Ty You passed your probation, starts tomorrow, we will go shit on security They droped the power line on the truck fried everybody inside they were luck they went fast you remember...oh man he tried demolition charge to blow the door but the fuel tanks ended up in flames they were cooked alive so the ever got jacked? Once, with a couple of cars and five men ambush how much did they get? Not one dollar the last car in the crew dropped all five One guy yes Ashcroft Ashcroft? Our Ashcroft? I got a even better one, back to october of 88 A crew making 4 million dollar cash transfer stopped in a car accident, only it wasnt an accident, it was a set up the guard guy of the truck, grabed him, put a shotgun in the back of his head The crew just gave up the money and let the guard go the guys just gave up the money it was either that or sacrifice one of their brothers the funny thing about it is, they still live with this hijacks they didnt find that money either See? not everybody is a hero, soldier boy. So when will you tell us about all the kid you got rid of in Bagdad? We would like to hear about that Ill take a leak You are out of line man You should be proud of what you did over there A lot of innocent people died out there Al right all right but you just trying to protect the guys on your unit Most guys would be proud of this Anyone would have done the same thing Thats what you think, Thats what you think We are not going to let the bank take your house I dont know... Dont bullshit me Ty You dont worry about it we are gonna think in something Ty? say hi to Jimmy Dont say you are worried! Jimmy! Jimmy! Jimmy! what you doing? ha? Your bedroom is one thing this is the kitchen right? everyday, everyday is something with you how Jimmy, how did you get those? Your are getting no money from me so where did you get it Jimmy? You be better not be stealing it from the store, where did you get them? oh man, Im not stealing from the store OK, tell me something School has a real nice supply boy! at least you are going to school look at you mamma told us all those stories there was an owl  it was an owl or two come on! What? A real owl? A real owl listen up one more thing As I was getting the collections together for Freds will Ive found these! For a good time call 5555 0125 [chuckles] Youse sick babe How did you know it was me? Did you call the number chief? I cant believe you let your sister marry this pig She always Bring him home straight Maybe she got to think in sicken animals All right all right Settle down, Tomorrow begin the ccd ..... So if you cant be here on time,be early And I expect each of you to pay extra special attention to detail half of acts will be carrying 80c priority notes Ive got a real priority note all right keep your eyes open up there hey, gotta a sec top? what is it Hackett? I was wonder if you could hum, throw a few more shifts on my way Yeh..., I know, I know theres a problem I just need some help, get rid of some bank, some real ugly letters Im sorry kid, none to go around all right, thanks top. eagle 12 to control we are code 5 in the room cap 12, next radio check in in 15 minutes eagle 12, copy I think I know what happened with that money The Avelyn Job They never cought those guys because they dont exist the crew 4 million then they just made up that story about kid jack How the money came to be in Jacks? Its classic, ... pretty good hum? the only thing is, they make one big mistake how is that? they didnt take enough this is the bank. What? They are trying to take the house You Know? the more things change, the more stay the same shh I dont know what that means well..[sighs].. Your dad worked two jobs, barely made  right? And then god bless....Someday your mother dies and may leave you with a house with two mortgages, a pile of hospital bills thats not what they wanted for you they wanted you to get out of this place and have a life that they never had And now look at you... here you are in the same old shit guys like your old man used to burst....in places like this And you go off to Iraq to serve the country and the army silver star For what? [sights] dont get me started Now lets get something to eat hey kid Id get you another one but they usually stop before thanks Joe, get me another coke? you got it You really love it dont you My father used to take me ....When I was a kid And every time we... [radio voice] Thanks Joe You be safe gonna be here forever hey joe, whats up joe two regulars, one with cheese and hum, get me another one to go For Jimmy how hes doing? [sighs] time has been crazy its hard for him you know Yeah and you You Know? I really appreciate everything you do man Are you kidding me? You do a lot You are like family, you and jimmy You will always be family to me I was talking to philly MIke the whole damn world bro Have you talked to jimmy about the situation? he knows the man wants the house, but hum,just need to figure it out Goog dog Joe Thanks Listen Lets take a walk theres something I need to talk to you about Thanks joe See you around Tomorrow its the start of the new ccd cicle only happens twice a year Yeh Ive heard it this morning cant be on time be early Yeah the banks will be looking to a ....... reserves which means we gonna be transporting something in the neighborhood of... Damn,its a lot of money Damn straight [sighs] So So, think about it! We might get judged As a matter of fact they do We gonna take that money Ty You, me, Baines, Quinn, Palmer and Dobbs What? Its gonna be just like the evelyn job Only we dont make the same mistake they did We are going big Come on!? Did you think last week was a joke? Iit was a test run thats exactlly the way this robbery is gonna play out ... alibi, stash the money,we tell we got jacked they plan to yank 42 million dollars? No we plan to yank 42 million dollars, because I need you on this Are you crazy Its gonna work.. The cops are going to be all over it mike Forget the cops, of course they gonna be all over in the beginning But we got a rock solid alibi And all we gotta do is to stick to it The trucks? mike? We gonna couch the trucks,its gonna be no evidence left We gonna couch the trucks? are you listening to me ...I dont like it, All right, Its clean! Its clean! Come on man, theres no bad guys Theres just us Nobodys gonna get hurt Think about it Someone has to think about it, Im not doing it Me and Jimmy, We gonna be all right Look, I understand, I know you are all worked up about this, I dont blame you Its all last minute, I understand I want you to go home sleep on it If you want in Be at the bus stop in the morning I wont be there Ty Wait, Where are you walking? Ill drive you Need a fresh air Ty come on promise you will think about it Ty! Come on man Look [Sighs] I know I can trust you with this Ty, this lady came to see you Shes in child wellfare So,Are you Mr Tyller Hackett? Child wellfare, Ty Wait, wait, Whats going on, Whats going on? I kept tell her, we dont know damn wellfare, but she dont want to listen And I tried to explain its not that kind of wellfare Its child supervision services, whatever lady whatever My brother got a job right? we dont need no wellfare Jimmy shut up! OK? Come in In the past ten months, during this little time he has actually appeared at school, James has had, two suspensions, four arrests All for... Hes an artist You want to tell me thats not art? Okay, come on lady hes a good kid when I was his age I was out wiring cars Your brothers school has no way to find out Hes missed more days than hes attended this year What is she talking about it jimmy? I asked you a question boy I was looking for a job so we can keep the house You are losing your house Mr. Hackett No, we are not losing the house You must understand Mr. Hackett If james dont have the proper... Didnt know he was missing school As a result the department of child wellfare is legally obligated to intervein in James behalf To determinate if hes a candidate for state funded care A foster care A foster...foster care, there must be, there must be a mistake Im Jimmys legal guardian I take care of him Okay! All right Life has been tough We lost both We Lost both our parents this year I understand mr. Hackett Why split this up, lady? Hes my brother You know what that means? hum? Im all hes got Hes all I got Nobody split us up Period. No one gets hurt right? How? There no bad guys Only good guys Jimmy needs me I cannot go to jail. Do you hear me? Dont wanna blood on my hands. Promise nobody gets hurt. Nobody gets hurt, thats a promise. Hackett, hold up a minute. It came in today. Its official kid. Now you got the intent to prove it. I want you to know that is an honor have a decorated patrol on my crew. I mean that. Come on lets go roll out. Gentlemen. Proceed transport 3489. Copy that. All right. All right gentlemen. All right well done. Lets roll out. Its time to check in. Eagle 12, control. Go ahead 12 Code 5. Situations normal Copy 12. Next checkin in 58 minutes. Copy that, Eagle 12 out. [laughs] You see what I mean? Smell it? Yes, smell like a.... Smell like ours. [Chuckles] Hey Hey, Dobbs! You want the cops spilling booze on you? Put it away! Put it away! Okay, Okay, Okay, All right, look. We got 50 more minutes to stash this money and then get jacked. Lets go! come on! I got a job for you, lets go! WoW Come on Hackett Move! Thats it! Put the money in the hole all right? Keep moving! Here it comes! Here it comes! Keep it comming! Keep it comming! Thats it ! This one is empty. Last one, lets go! Someone is here! Easy grampa. Easy! Mike! Mike! Wait ! wait! All right ! all right ! [Indistinct talking] Are you out of your mind? Mike No! Come down! right now! Oh Jesus Christ! Come down! Come down! Come on! Let him go. Ty, where are you going? Ty, hes not gonna make it. Ty, stop! I had to do it. I had no choice. I do. No you dont! Come on Ty, open up! Well figure this thing out. You just shot that...You just killed that man. He was going to die before he got into a hospital. You dont know that! Yes I do! You dont know that! Yes I do, and so do you. Look, Ty he was gonna lend us in jail anyway, dont you understand? Ty, open this door so We can figure his this out and get out .... You just want me to go out there, ha? Baines just tried to kill me! Forget Baines, Ill deal with Baines, I promise you. Your promisses mean no shit! Look I admit, Baines screwed up, you are absolute right about that. But I didnt wanna to us all go down for his mistake. We got clean this up, if you keep up cool, this thing can still work. Think about Jimmy. He needs you. Control... Control, eagle 12 this is eagle... come on, we can make this work. open the door, open this door [sirens] Youve heard that Joe? Heard what? Get out off the truck, come on! We are dead, man. Its gonna be okay. Keep it cool Dobbs, just stick to the plan bro. Stick to the plan? Shooting that guy was part of the plan Baines? Stop Dobbs Its right, maybe we should leave And go where? I dont know, you guys just seat here and wait for the cops, Im done, Im do... You are not going anywhere Dobbsright we fail to checkin with Ashcroft. This whole area will be crowed with cops What we gonna do? We just forget about the money im my truck Take 21 mil from Quiin truck and split up in 4 ways Still a lot of money A lot of money? And then what? Cats out of the bag now. It changes everything. What we gonna do mike? Get the kid out of the truck. How? Hit the Hinges. Hinges? Those hinges are tempered steel. The pins arent. you can drive the ..., the hinges will come undone and then what? And then... The cops will arrive. We tell them Ty died saving our lives. Here died a hero. All you have to do is open the door. Come on! I could protect you lets go we got 36 minutes. Request for 400,000 cto from WLA trust. Over 12 and 17. We will do in 30. Come on Kids, give it to me. Come on man, Lets go! Mike! Come on, this is taking too long. Do you have a better idea? keep going. Dobbs! Dobbs! What? Help me man. I cant ! You should have stuck with us Come on Dobbs I was nervous Just help me out man. You got to help me out No, no I dont. soldier boy? What you doing? What it looks like Im doing? Come on man, are you out of your mind? he broke my tooth! You damn moron. Could break your head. You burn the truck, you burn the money, idiot. Ill tell your sister you called me that. dispatch Dispatch Concho!! Cops!!! Cops comming!! He stopped I can take care of him Hes not here for us, Dont do anything stupid I can get rid of him. Im good guy, Im good guy. Is everything okay? What are you doing here? Im a security guard. Yeah, I also do some maintenance work as well. Yeah, Is everything okay? I thought I heard a siren. Sirens? no sirens here, not to my knowledge. Why they need security at a abadoned building for? Stealing..., Just stripping the place clean, its really terrible. I heard some banging too. Where? Can you tell me where is it from? Well Ive got to chase them out of here Everybody wants a piece of the pie. So ah, it has been over an year, so Sirens sounded like was coming from in there. I just came from in there. I didnt see anything either.. ah I dont really like in there much, you know I can show you around but you might wanna cover  How is that? An old dog died... the extension is so bad make them puke, they got these rats, the size of a big old fat cat. Come on in, I show you the dog. Ill take your word for it. You sure? Yep! Well, thanks for stopping by. If I hear anything else... Be sure Ill let you know. [Sirens] Help me get him inside We should never have trusted What was I suppose to do? What was I suppose to do? Indistinc talking He would come inside Hang on! All right! Youre going into shock. Okay! All right! Okay, All right! Just look at me! look at me! look at me! Breath! Breath! Im gonna clean this up and stop the bleeding all right? All right! I got an idea Keep pressure on the wound Can you do that? Can you hear me? All right, call it Officer down, officer down We just stop the bleeding, We can work this out Okay? We are not dieing today. You just hang in there. How long does this backup comes? I know, I know. Keep pression on it, Keep pression on it Okay? You got to breath  Breath! Come on Palmer. You watch my hands. Ty! Ty! Ty! Youre Home? Ty! Ty! Is he still alive? Hes not gonna live if we dont get out, soon Easy to get in. Its our only one way out of here Dobbs What is he doing? Come on, we are done here! this is not what we agreed to, mike. Palmer, dont let him do anything to me man, please I wont. Okay. Okay, Right! Im sorry Im sorry I cant do it I cant do it I just wanna go home Wanna go home man Just wanna to see my kid Im sorry, Im sorry. No one was supposed to get hurt. Dont leave please. What are you doing? Palmer! Palmer are you with us? Lets go, lets get back to work What are you doing? I see them, they dont know what we got it, right? Are you with me? are you with me? Hurry up! keep talking. Talk to me, talk to me! okay, Im gonna try to get a signal. You just keep pression on that thing. Ill be back. You just stay put! Yeah!! Come on! Shh! Think I heard something What? Palmer, go check it out. Lets go. Yeah... We have an officer down, officer down! I need help. Whats your location? Im at the steel, steel industry center. State a name please. Just can hear it please. [radio voice] Its done. Its over! You stupid kid Just put the gun down, Okay? Dont make, dont make it worse. Just, just put the gun down. Why couldnt you just go along? Palmer listen to me, just... Just put the gun down. Look, um! You dont wanna hurt anybody. Shut up! shut your fucking mouth! Okay! You know what? You dont, You dont wanna do this. You dont wanna do this. Just put the gun down. We both go home, we can both go home. Shut up! shut up! shut the hell up! You think God will forgive me? They are comming, I got through! I got through! Dont you touch him! Get out of the truck! I told you not to mess around. Get out of the truck. Youve got three seconds Ty, Come on soldier boy. One... Two... Are you okay? Are you okay? Come on Jimmy, Move!! Move!! Are you Okay? Are you hurt? Ill make sure cops know how to find us. Right? Ill be back. Ty! Jimmy! Jimmy! Jimmy! Ill be back. All right? Cop told what you did. Lets talk of a reward. Hey! Are we going home? Yeah!
