 

                        1 Yo, yo I remember being younger, I used to jam on that mic Rock, rock, rock, rockin' Around that clock up on a Saturday night Man, it was fly gettin' them people Do their dance on the floor See, I was never a fan of the hype More concerned with having a ball Slowly the phony balonies Would choke and go creepin' home But you could catch me with my cronies Doing the d-d-do-si-do CHALMERS: A philosopher once said, "One is not born a woman, but chooses to become one." I've always wondered if it's the same with freedom. It's real, we're real, so real Done deal Think together we're the struggle to feel All the same think to feel So why are the black people And white people Our heroes, our people? Being from town all over the place We can't stop them, but it's all about our race We gotta stand up, speak up Be a preacher with this hiccup Keep up, become a teacher Come to Aboriginal We do not choose to be born, but can we choose to be free? Is anyone really free? Run, run, run! And never ride it out Never run out when they just wanna make you stop People gonna bitch about you anyway Tell them how it is we'll sway them anyway I'm gonna go ahead and say it anyway Just to get the pity pennies made Man, it's not a lemonade stand How was training, bub? All right. Liam, fuck off! Sorry. He's useless. He's useless. Hey, babe. That's it, boy. Where's the defense? Push him. Push him. Holding the ball. (Chattering) Push him. Tackle him. He's open. Tackle him. Kick it. Yes! Goal! Hey, how'd it go? Good. Wow. Baby, did you shoot that? Yeah. That's amazing. (Shouting) Ah, sorry. It's okay. They'll be gone. It'll be finished soon, I promise. Okay? Yep. You're beautiful, and this is amazing. Thank you. Thank you. I should be... You go. Go. Got to go. What's a fella gotta do to get a feed around here? You've got two hands, haven't ya? You coming? Where to? Down the Block. Hey, Woody. Steve. You know Jacob? Came down from Moree. Hey, bud. What's up? This is my little brother, Liam. Liam. Hey. Hey, how's your old man? He's all right. Let's have a kick. What? Eyes closed and shouting right now Lights turn on and the dark turns up Side by side dream bigger, next in line it's late Now this is all me Now this is all me Lights turn on and the dark turns up Side by side dream bigger Next in line it's late, now this is all me TAMIKA: Oh, look out. Now this is all me (Siren wailing) You! TAMIKA: Hey, don't touch him. What'd he do to you? (Indistinct chattering) Steve! Liam! Years 7 and 8 English, Elective drama years 9 and 10, And 3 unit English year 11. That should keep you pretty busy. Know anything about fish? Not really. Must be some kind of a lurgy. Technically... Our year elevens should be Onto their high school certificate texts, Which this year I believe is... Revenge tragedy. Revenge tragedy. Look, the school's more likely closing Before the end of the year. And these kids would be unlikely To move over to Endeavor High, So do what you can, eh? Have some fun with them. I was thinking of having them perform one of the plays. Help them comprehend the story. Ah, well, my girl, you do what you can. If they pass on attendance alone, I'll be a happy man. These students are what the state calls "kids at risk," So don't expect too much from them. So if you've got no more questions, Margaret in the office will fix you up with the keys. Thank you, sir. Bill. Not sir, Bill. You're the teacher, remember. What brings you to Redfern? Fianc. Half your luck. Oh, shit. Hey, Uncle Rex. I'm Dino Chalmers, teaching English and drama. Thanks. What happened to you? The cops raided the Block again last night. Hey, bro. You got a stick, bro? Mm-hmm. Hey, boys, teacher! Let's split, boys. Let's go! CHALMERS: Who is that boy? Liam Wood. He and the others are supposed to be in this class, but they never come. (Bell ringing) CHALMERS: Dancing boy. I saw you dancing at Newtown yesterday. Right? You missed my class today. Not cool. Bring it to class tomorrow. A bunch of books arrived for you. I'll get those out of your way. Doesn't bother me. I must say, though, interesting choice for a play. England's most celebrated playwright. Don't you just love Hamlet? You do realize over 70% of the students In this school are indigenous, Maori and Pacific Islanders? I'm aware of the student population, yes. And the other 30% are Lebanese, Vietnamese, oh, and Caucasian. It's in the curriculum. So is Captain Cook. MALE REPORTER: (On TV) Last night's raid in the notorious Everleigh Street in Redfern has resulted in three arrests. Violent resistance is said to have taken place As police vehicles entered the area Known by locals as the Block. Two policemen are also being questioned over the incident. Did ya hear that? Mm. FEMALE REPORTER: (On TV) To sport, the Manly Sea Eagles Continued their winning streak, defeat... STEVE: Bullshit. Are we going? Get Liam, will ya? Liam! Jeez, look at your eye. Said I'm a night owl Flying above the city after lights out 'Cause my thoughts are clearest When the noise dies down So while you sleep I'm up late Working on my escape plan So take my hand 'cause we're leaving right now And you can march with me or you can move aside Whether you a true doogie or you just cruising by Forget the do or die Just loosen your suit and tie They too concerned with being cool I'm concerned with losing mine Hear the stomach rumble, it's running on empty But still I break bread with those Who trespass against me 'Cause even angels tell lies on their bad days Tryin' to navigate a world that's man made But the forementioned characters Who inhabit my shoulder blades And both claiming they know the way Fucking with my poker face But I'm feeling like a pimp so I'm gonna brush 'em off Look 'em in the eyes when I tell 'em straight Welcome overstayed, truth be told Truth be told Let no man be afraid to speak his part But let it come from the heart and the soul An alibi's just a lie in the absence of proof Above all let the truth be told Hi, how are you doing? How are youse? All right. Where's your mum? She's just signing in. She'll be here in a sec. Hey, what happened to you? Cops were down the Block again last night. You all right? Yeah. That's good. Big game on the weekend. Paper reckons Chicko might get a run with the Bunnies. Listen. I know who screwed us. What? You know how the coppers knew about that hotel room? They knew about the whole bloody job, Thanks to Barry Griffen. You serious? Your Uncle Charlie'd still be here if it wasn't for him. That dog! Hey, keep it down. Right? That was his cousin down at the Block. Who? Tamika's mate. We'll fuckin' show them! Settle down, Steven. Right? Now you don't do a fuckin' thing unless I say so. Do you understand? Do you understand me? How's your mum been? She's all right. Just give us a bit of time when she gets here, eh? That sneaky fuck. How did he think he was gonna get away with it? Is he fuckin' stupid or what? Oi, shithead! Did you ever do Hamlet at school? What the fuck has Hamlet got to do With that prick who killed Uncle Charlie? CHRISSIE: It's 20 years, Jack. Fifteen years if you stay out of trouble. If you stay out of trouble. So what are you saying? How are we supposed to survive? Steve's doing all right. Liam's a smart kid. He can get a job. No. He's finishing high school. I don't know how long I can keep doing this. You? Hey. I'm the one who's fucking stuck in here, okay? I can't see my boys, I can't see my family, I can't see... Your girlfriend. That's it, is it? You listen to me. Right? Don't you fucking turn those boys against me. I mean it. Come on. And don't say anything to Mum. CHRIS: Here's to our new regional manager. Thank you. ALL: Cheers. Congratulations. Thanks, Julie. Cheers. So Dino, Chris tells me you're teaching in Redfern. Yeah, that's right. I'm surprised the Abos turn up to school. I'm allowed to say that. I'm one-eighth Aboriginal. Is he? You really? Are you? You didn't tell me that. Well, it's not something I brag about. I guess there aren't many Aborigines in America. Oh well, actually, I grew up Next to a Navajo reservation. Dino. Oh my God, Adam! What are you doing here? I didn't know you were back. Yeah, a couple of months now. Wow. Have you seen Kate? No. She's working in the deli down the end of Queen Street. She'd love to see you. Yo. Hey. Hey, where have you been? I got some shit to sort out. Gonna be laying low for a while. No time for me? It's family business. Come to the jillawah. JASON: Hey, bro. Watch my drink, eh? We've been mates a long time, eh? Yeah. So I can trust you, eh? Yeah. I found out who screwed over the old man. Who? Barry Griffen. Fuck, I knew he was dodgy. I need someone to help me sort him out. Someone I can trust. Yeah, course, bro. I don't want no one else knowing anything until it's done, all right? Liam's the only one else. How much did you have to drink? Tobes. Hey! What's up, bro? Lookin' good? Yeah. You look like shit, cuz. Did you go out last night? Nah, I was up reading, eh. Reading? Yeah, I'm thinking of auditioning for the school play. Ah, gonna be a big movie star, Woody? Nah, it's just a school play. Like your Uncle Charlie, bruz. He was a deadly actor, hey. CHALMERS: Okay, settle down. Get into pairs and just read over the scene. Girls, some of you may have to play Hamlet, As there aren't enough boys. Don't worry, there was plenty of cross-dressing In Mr. Shakespeare's day. Take a role each, and discuss the scene In the context of the play. Just read it aloud and discuss how they were really feeling. Is Hamlet hot for Ophelia? Is she keen on him? Have you got a partner? You want to pair up? Great. No. Here you go. I already know all my lines. I was with Jonathan, but he's chickened out. Everything okay? Yes, thanks, Miss. Come on. "I have gifts of yours" That for a long time I've wanted to return. "Please receive them now." "No, not I. I never gave you them." Your line. "My honored Lord, you know right well you did." And with them you wrote such beautiful words "As made the gifts more rich, but now their beauty is lost." "Take them back, for to the noble mind," Rich gifts become poor when givers prove unkind. "There, my Lord." "Are you honest?" "My Lord?" "Are you fair?" "What do you mean, my Lord?" "That if you're honest and fair your"... "That if you're honest and fair your honesty"... This is crap. All right, great job, guys. (Bell ringing) I'll be putting a callback list on the notice board In the English block tomorrow. This will be for the roles of Hamlet, Gertrude, Claudius and Ophelia. If you don't see your name on this list, It does not mean that you won't be in the play. Also, rehearsals will start next week, So be sure to let me know If you won't be able to make them. Your book. What did you think? It's all right. I hated Shakespeare until I read Hamlet. I was drawn to his darkness. He's just messed up like the rest of us. My Uncle played Horatio once. He always wanted to play Hamlet. Reckons he was the deadliest character written by a white fella. So what's stopping him? He's dead. O, that this too, too solid flesh would melt. Thaw and resolve itself into a dew. Or that the everlasting had not fixed His canon 'gainst self-slaughter. Found out where that Griffen's livin', the dog. Where? Over the eastern suburbs there. Reckon he got himself a nice deal with them coppers. What's doin', boys? There's talk of another riot, eh. Rocco's still in a coma. Liam! Got a smoke? You coming to class this afternoon, or what? You're not worried what they'll think, are ya? I didn't peg you to be like that. I'm not. I read an article about your uncle. He was part of the Black Theater, right? Must have been an amazing time. He was deadly. He went to America too. Got a scholarship at an acting school where Robert de Niro went. I really think you should come this afternoon. I dare you. "I say we will have no more marriages." Those that are married already all but one shall live. The rest shall keep as they are. "To a nunnery, go." CHALMERS: Thank you, Matthew, Willie. All right, last up for today. Liam? Do you need a minute to look over your script? No, it's okay. "To be or not to be:" That is the question. Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings And arrows of outrageous fortune, Or to take arms against a sea of troubles And by opposing end them? To die. To sleep. No more: and by a sleep to say we end the heartache And the thousand natural shocks that flesh is here to... The heartache and the thousand natural shocks "That flesh is heir to tes..." Fuck. What's he feeling, Liam? What's he feeling? Confused. He wants to get away. CHALMERS: Away from what? Everything. Everyone. He's sad. Show me that. Show me that sadness. "To die..." Or to sleep. To sleep, perchance to dream, For in that sleep of death what dreams may come When we have shuffled off this mortal coil. Must give us pause. There's the respect that makes the calamity of so long life. For who would bear the whips and scorns of time. Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely, "With the pangs of despised love..." "And lose the name of action." "Soft you now." LIAM: Hey. Hey. You were good in there. I was shamed. You weren't shamed. You were good. Thanks. You make it look, I don't know, easy. They had drama at my old school. Who do you reckon's the best Hamlet? Mel Gibson or Ethan Hawke? Denzel Washington. I got to go. Who do you reckon's the best Hamlet? Her face when you were lookin' for a while Without a trace that we're underneath the weather And I tried to let go and she slipped away Like a little girl But I really wanna make her mine My girl would never say What I need to hear to make it all okay So we try to make nice so the kids won't know For a little while But it really doesn't make it all Find you alone a while With a heavy hand and a darkened smile Let her find time to regret But I still don't know And I really want to make her mine She wants to know just who I am She wants to know just who I am She can make you work For the worth that she has She wants to know just who I am I'm guessin' that it happens All of the time Through no fault of mine What are you so chirpy about? Nothin'. Well, I've got some good news. Guess who's got a job interview tomorrow? You? Well, you don't have to sound so surprised. Here, come and help us practice the interview, will ya? Like what? Just ask some questions. What's your name? Christina Wood. How old are you? Thirty-six. Who's your favorite singer? Oh, not those sorts of questions. I'm going for a job in sales. Have you ever had any experience in sales? Next question. Nah nah nah... I'm still working on that. Next question! (Knocking on door) Is Steven Wood here? No. Why? We're hoping he can help us with some inquiries. Has he been here at all today? I don't know. I just got back home. What's your name? Liam. Liam what? Wood. Can you get him to contact the Redfern police station when he gets home, please? So there'll be maintenance in the science block To fix the damaged roof next week. So if you all check with Margot for room relocations, Which, uh brings us to NAIDOC week. As we all know, this is likely to be The last NAIDOC week before the Endeavor merger. What's NAIDOC week? National Aboriginal and Islander Day. And once again, we have one time slot To showcase a cultural activity to the community. One time slot in case The Honorable Minister for Education Decides to show up this year. Brent, I suppose you propose The city versus country football match? Absolutely. We have a seconder for that? Every year, we host a football match To celebrate and showcase the school. Are there any other proposals? Dino? What about the year eleven play? Really? The students would love to perform in front of an audience. We host the footie match every year. Exactly. So maybe it's time for a change. Why would you change it? The community love it. All right. Let's vote. Those for the city versus country football match? And for the play? Oh. Uncle Rex? You got the deciding vote. What? The play it is, then. It's fuckin' Hamlet. Are you sure they're ready for this? I'm sure. Bit of paper in, we'll bark it up. Put some leaves on top. See that? Down here. That's it. You need a light? No, I'm all right. Better watch out, they'll have them firemen fellas down here. They've already been. You do good with that teacher lady. It's shame. No shame. That's in your blood, boy. Long line. MAN: Two dollars, mate! Who's that? Salesman. Those developers reckon they can make some money here. You think they might buy my car, too? I reckon. Catch ya later, Uncle. Ah, see ya. Hello, lady. Hi. How're you doing? I'm doing pretty well. What are you reading? It's for my year 11 drama students. We're performing Hamlet in front of a big audience for NAIDOC week. Hmm? Oh, you... What? What? Oh, it's good. It's good. It's really, it's great. What were you going to say? Ah, nothing. But just that, um, Didn't you say that your students were Aboriginal? Yeah, and Islander and Maori. Right. So how are they going to understand Shakespeare? What? What? Baby, hey, hey, hey, hey, I'm not being racist. I just... You just what? I don't want you to be disappointed, okay? And I know how hard you're going to work, baby. What? Sometimes you are so Aussie. Does that mean we're not going to have sex? Yes, that's what that means. Okay. I'll just read my book. Okay. CHALMERS: Okay, settle down. Listen up! Hey. I have some exciting news. JOSEPH: We get to watch movies all day? No. How would you guys like to perform at NAIDOC week? Are you serious? CHALMERS: Mm-hmm. Do you think we'll be good enough, Miss? Well, it's going to take a lot of work. And we're really going to have to trust each other, So it's your call. I'm willing to put in the work. What do you think? You want to do this? ALL: Yeah. Is it a custom? Ay, marry, is't, But to my mind, though I am native here. To the manor born it is a custom. Suit the action to the word, the word... CHALMERS: All right, take five. So who can tell me what subtext is? Dialogue? Close. Subtext is the meaning behind the words. It's the most important question A performer has to ask themselves. What do these words really mean? What is this character really trying to say? For example, what if I walk into the room And I say, "Good morning, class"? The subtext determines how I say good morning. So what if I say, (Glumly) "Good morning, class." What do I mean? You're sick? Right, or I don't want to be here. What if I say, "Good morning, class!" What's my subtext? You've dropped an E? That's right, Joseph, Or I'm trying to inspire you guys. We use subtext all the time. The same with artists and musicians. Who can give me an example of a musician who uses subtext? Tupac. You guys listen to Tupac? Oh, yeah. All right, well, Tupac is a perfect example. In fact, he was a lot like Shakespeare. Yeah, right. No, really, really. Think about it. He used poetry, Rhyming couplets to express himself. His rhymes were a social commentary, Just like Shakespeare's. Drew, give me a rhyme of Tupac's. Uh... "Perhaps I was addicted to the dark side, Somewhere in my childhood I missed my heart die." Okay, Liam, read the last two lines of the scene we just did. Sit still my soul. Foul deeds will rise. All the earth overwhelm them to man's eyes. CHALMERS: Drew? When my mama ask me, will I change, I tell her yeah, But it's clear I'll always be the same until the end of time. So take, these broken wings I need your hands to come and heal me once again You Steve? Who wants to know? Jimmy said you're lookin' to buy. Not here. Show some respect. Hey, Jase! This time might be the last time I fear Unless I make it all too clear I need you so Whoa oh oh Take these broken wings And learn to fly again Learn to live so free And when we hear The voices sing The book of love will open up and let us in So take these Anything else? Smile. Right. Next. Very nice, thank you. Next. Wait, one more. Thank you. All right, next. Action! That you're half of the flesh And blood that makes me whole Whoa I need you so Yeah So take these broken wings And learn to fly again Learn to live so free And when we hear The voices sing The book of love will open up And let us in So take these broken wings And learn to fly again So for Hamlet, who's still dealing With the death of the father... (Bell ringing) There's a full read-through tomorrow. We'll pick it up then. Hey. Hey. Are you doing anything this afternoon? Uh, no. Why? Got a read-through tomorrow. Just wondering if, I don't know, we could go over some stuff? Fortinbrass has my dying voice. So tell him, with the occurrents more and less. Which have solicited, The rest is silence. Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince. And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest. What happens now? You're dead. You know your lines all right. You're a freak. It's weird, eh, how much you remember from when you're little. What do you mean? Oh, I used to listen to my uncle reads his lines Over and over when he did Hamlet. They rehearsed just across the water. All that for his dad, hey? Oh, he didn't have much choice, but. What do you mean? You know, duty and stuff. Don't know if I'd do the same for my dad. I reckon you would. What? Dying for him? It's not like it's going to bring him back. Besides, he wouldn't want me to. How do you know? Because I know he loves me. I found out where Barry Griffen's living. Yeah? Eastern suburbs. I'm gonna pay him a little visit, and I need you there. There's talk of another riot coming up. That's our chance. While the cops have their hands full here... Bang. What about Dad? This is for Dad, you dickhead. Dad and Uncle Charlie. We gotta show 'em... we're still in charge. Then what do you need me for? To drive. You won't even be in the house. I don't have a license. We're gonna go shoot this fucker, And you're worried about not having a license? Jase might come too, But I don't what no one else knowing nothin', okay? You can't trust anyone. Don't have a license. You got a blackfella's license, don't ya? Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this becomes the field, But here shows much amiss. Go, bid the soldiers shoot. Okay, what do we think of the end of the play? CASEY: It sucks. It totally sucks, but that's what makes it a tragedy. And what about Hamlet's state of mind? Do you guys think he was really mad, or insane? He... he pretends to be mad so no one suspects him. Maybe. Or maybe so he doesn't have to take action at all. Wasn't it only when Laertes wanted to fight Hamlet That he was forced to respond? Liam? In Act 3, the King says, "Madness in great ones should not unwatched go." What does he mean by this? There's a reason for him being mad. And the king knows it. That's why Shakespeare has lasted all these years, Because he can be interpreted in so many ways. Like a deadly MC, Miss. Open to interpretation. CHALMERS: That's exactly right. Or any great work of art. It's through art that we can escape, That we can experience a sense of freedom. People use art to try to effect change. Shakespeare used the theater To express his view on Morality, beauty, politics. Other artists use music, Photography, painting, Even movies. Okay, today, I want each of you to write a letter To someone important in your life, A special guest that you'd like to invite To come and see our play, okay? It can be anyone, sports star, a politician, your mom, dad. I'm going to write to the Minister for Education as my special guest. If you don't know the address, You have two days to get them to me. I will be sending these letters out with invitations on Friday. CASEY: Dear Prime Minister, I am 16 years old, Of Kamilaroi and Wiradjuri tribes. I am writing to invite you To our school's production of Hamlet, Which will be performed at our NAIDOC week. DREW: I play football for the Redfern All Blacks, And I am your biggest fan. I am writing to invite you To our school's production of Hamlet. All right, when you're ready. JOSEPH: Dear Mum, I'm not sure where you are right now... But I would like to invite you as my special guest. I miss you so much. WILLIEMAI: Dear Minister Johnson, I am a descendant of the Gadigal and Arinda clans, And a student at Redfern High. We are showcasing a Hamlet performance at NAIDOC week, And I want to invite you as my special guest. (Applause) (Burps) You still looking for a house, Simo? Mm, we are mate, yeah. We can't afford anything in Sydney, though. Prices are out of control, you know, so... You should have a little look around the Block in Redfern. All the Abos keep the prices down. Chris! Dino, you'd be used to it, teaching all the Abos at school. Hey, how do you, ah, keep them from sniffing all the petrol from your car? Stop it! Shut up, Chris. Baby, he's only mucking around. Oh, and that makes it all right? Yeah, I'm allowed to. I'm one-eighth Aboriginal. Yeah, and seven-eighths asshole. Oh. You might wanna keep a little eye on your missus, Si. Think she might be rootin' a blackfella. Chris, I think... Dino! I'm so sorry, mate. I'm... Dino, baby! Hey! Why are you walking so fast? Come on. Forget it, Simon. Just leave me alone. Hey, hey hey. He's hammered. He's hammered. He didn't mean it, okay? Since when is that an excuse for becoming a racist prick? It's not, but he's my boss, so... And you can't have a mind of your own? No, it's not like that. You laughed. You laughed. Oh, I can't... I can't do this. I... What can't you do? What are you talking about? Come on, what? No, I don't... I don't want this. I don't... I don't want this life. Dino, come on, baby. No, I can't be your little missus, And go to lunches and barbecues every Sunday, And... I don't belong in your world. I'm sorry. Wish me luck! What's that sound? Step up or step down you left fronting? You're bound to be a letdown You call that killer shit? We call that killing time It's AC Kween G and the Sunshyne Dinner time for these flesh-eating MCs Shit's so tasty, fresh and tempting Hey, Miss? Just wondering if the boys can do a piece. Huh? Some paintings. Help us with the sets. Oh, yeah. Sure, come on in. You too, Uncle Rex. Come on, help out. Ah, yes, well, you got that right Everybody likes music But they've got their type, mine is good music What about you, miss? The type of music that moves and uplifts? Where you from? Where you going? What's that? Where you at? I'm right here Where you from? Where you going? What's that? Where you at? I'm right here Where you from? Where you going? What's that? Where you at? I'm right here Where you from? Where you going? What's that? Where you at? I'm right here Where you from? Where you going? What's that? Where you at? I'm right here Where you from? Where you going? What's that? Where you at? I'm right here Where you from? Where you going? What's that? You really gonna try and pull off this Shakespeare thing for NAIDOC week? Why are your expectations so low? Do you know anything about these kids? I know that it wasn't that long ago that I was in their shoes. You think you've been in their shoes? You know what? I don't have to apologize for who I am, especially not to you. If I want to help these kids By offering them another alternative, I will... What makes you think you're helping them? What am I supposed to do? Give up, like you and everyone else in this place? I can't tell you how many Gubbas have come here With a grand vision for how they're going to help. And now Shakespeare? Some of these kids are on the edge already. The fact that they turn up at school at all is a fuckin' miracle. I'm not the enemy. Really? (Engine starts) So you watching the game on Sunday? I suppose. Dad used to play for the Bunnies. You don't talk about him much. Oh, you don't talk about your family, neither. There's not much to talk about, really. Just a boring family. Mum, Dad and two-and-a-half kids. Mum's pregnant. You wouldn't even know we're blackfellas if Dad wasn't On every Aboriginal committee ever invented. I wouldn't know you're a blackfella? You know what I mean. (Car approaches) I'll see you tomorrow. In a dream I was untrue Shouted in sweats And I knew it was you All the while As I traced your spine Tearing my hair As my peace of mind CHALMERS: Double vodka, straight up. You don't mess around. Gross day. Can't be the same Where you from? California. Your virtue's my vice In the night we are one 'Til the moment is gone 'Til my race has been run And if you breathe in And I breathe in And slowly let go If you need it Then I need it Only we'll know And those sorry words Me not know my mind And they're so afraid for use And if you breathe in I'll breathe in Dino? I don't want to know how you did it, mate, but it worked. "The Minister for Education would be delighted to attend" The Redfern High School's production "Of Hamlet for NAIDOC week." That's great. My girl, there's still some fight in us yet. (Engine sputtering) Pop the bonnet. It's fine. Come on, no, it's not. Fan belt's cactus. Awesome. I can fix it till you get to the garage, if you want. Take off your pantyhose. Excuse me? Trust me. So. Are you going to tell me why you've got it in for me so bad? Well, you can't blame me for thinking you're just another idealist. We get a lot of them through here. And you're the only true savior? Well, I'm no tourist. I was born and bred in Redfern. Well, thank you for having me on your land. It's not my land. It's Gadigal land. Yes! Tell me, what's a Gubba? A Gubba? It's a whitefella. You and me, we're Gubbas. The way you said it the other day, You made it sound like a dirty word. I suppose it depends who you're talking to. So what's your story? How'd you end up in Redfern? The first time I came here for college. The second time, I came here for a guy. How'd that work out? It's complicated. I guess I'm not the relationship type. So what, you're just going to give up Like everyone else around here? You gotta practice what you preach, teacher. What do you know about Liam Wood? The Prince of Redfern? It's heavy. His old man's locked up for twenty years, so they reckon. Silly bugger tried to rob the casino. I suppose he got off easy compared To Liam's Uncle Charlie, though. He was an actor, right? Yeah, he was. Yeah, he should never have been there. You think it was really suicide? Two white cops and a dead blackfella. Who would you believe? Hey, give that a shot. Happy birthday, old man. Happy birthday, Dad. How's your mum? She's all right. She's got a job. She got a job? Mm. That's good. I'm gonna get Griffen. There's shit going down on the Block tomorrow. Especially if that copper gets off. Jase reckons... Jase? What the fuck, Steven? Who else knows about this? Jason's all right. I'm going to the toilet. Hey. Who else knows? Just Jason and Liam. I think you should wait. I can do this, Dad. Trust me. STEVE: Make sure you're around Wednesday night. I've got rehearsals. It's the last one. Rehearsals? For what? Just a play. I need you to drive. What? You heard me. We're going to Barry's. It's all sorted. All you have to do is wait in the car. When you see Jase and me run out, we take off. Couldn't be more fuckin' simple. Since when have you been into plays, anyway? Not long. Well, try acting a little more interested When we visit the old man, eh? Oh, lighten up, would ya? Fuck me dead. I'm closing up. Hey. Hi. I was wondering if we could talk. Um, I... Yeah, yeah. Just um, just give me a second. KATE: Are you still making those crazy videos? CHALMERS: Kinda. I'm teaching drama at Redfern High. I think the students have taught me More than I've taught them. We have a performance tomorrow night. You should come. What are you doing? What? Simon and I broke up. What do you want me to do? Launch into your arms? What, congratulate you? I just want you to know That I never stopped thinking about you. Doesn't matter. It was such a long time ago. You don't seriously think... Oh, Dino, we can't go back. I don't know what I thought. I just... I'm just sick of pretending to be something I'm not. What we had was real. I know that now. What we had was five years ago. Just tell me you don't feel it anymore And I'll walk away. I chose to stop feeling it. (Gun cocking) (Knocking on door) STEVE: Are you ready? You know what you gotta do? JASON: Yeah, sweet as, bra. Liam? When you hear the shot, start the engine. (Gun cocking) Stop looking so paranoid, will ya? In this day and age it seems You're either old or original Chase the dream an eager bold individual Can change the scene even roll with the pinnacle Raise the stakes allocate the cream STEVE: Stop here. All right, same as when we checked it out before. Side path to the back. JASON: No worries. Ye who creates the means leaves me to pay the fee And I ain't sold on make believe And I was told don't fake the steez I uphold My brain is free I ain't cold or cynical My soul is spiritual ain't false or critical This pulse be living proof Being a busy bee trying to keep my cool Check my stash of party hats Carton of heart attack snags for the artery fat Sorry but I'm sharper than that Pardon my rant This isn't a BBQ rant Start a revolution in the backyard With Julian Assange and a couple rap stars Tell me what the facts are, don't start with stats Unless you wanna grab a gas mask Check, check, check. One two wuddup Check, check, check, one two wuddup Check, check, check. One two wuddup Yo hey y'all You can catch me on the fly I'll be flying We ain't sitting on the fence We ain't sitting pretty Mother's crying Ask anybody type a shout Reach out wanna grab everybody You can catch me on the fly Locked. I'll be flying We ain't sitting on the fence We ain't sitting pretty Jason. Jase. Mother's crying Ask anybody type a shout Reach out Wanna grab everybody Yo yo, I can stun a disbeliever just by Writing this song The type to revitalize your vital signs While vibing along It's the eye of the storm upon this mic It's like a midnight atom bomb Bomb diggedy Despite of it all come on You can catch me on the fly I'll be flying We ain't sitting on the fence We ain't sitting pretty Mother's crying Ask anybody Type a shout reach out Wanna grab anybody Shit. (Clattering) Go. Go. Hello, Barry. Hello, Steve. Did you think we wouldn't find you, In your stuck-up new neighborhood? You know why I'm here, don't you? I've got a vague idea. A vague idea? You fucked with my family! You don't have to do this, mate. I'm not your fucking mate! GIRL: Daddy, I'm home! Now say it! Steve, wait! (Gunshot) (Screaming) Daddy! Dad! Dad! Come on, let's go. Let's go! Come on, let's go! That one's for Uncle Charlie. Dad! We're not going to hurt you! No! Dad! JASON: What the fuck was a kid doing there? STEVE: No one was supposed to be there. What happened? The whole thing fucked up. We broke the code, man. What the fuck were you thinking, Liam? Liam! REPORTER: (On TV) Aboriginal youth Continue to gather in numbers around the block in Redfern. Local authorities have closed the Everleigh Street entrance To Redfern Station and additional officers Have been called to help contain the crowds Who are throwing bottles and bricks at police. Groups are gathering in protest to violent police raids Said to have taken place on the Block Over the last three weeks. One of the raids... Riot police have been called to the Block in Redfern As the protest from the local Aboriginal community Has turned violent. Redfern railway station is on fire, And a full-scale riot has broken out As angry youths continue to throw bricks, bottles, And explosives at police. Three officers have been injured so far... (Siren wailing) UNCLE REX: You been walkabout? There's a blanket up there. (Helicopter approaching) (Humming) GRAHAM: All ready for the big night? If our Hamlet hasn't been arrested. You haven't seen him? He was supposed to meet me an hour ago. You're not thinking about going out to the Block? Have you seen my keys? Dino, you don't even know he's there. Shit. REPORTER: (On TV) A man has been shot dead At his home in Sydney's eastern suburbs last night. The execution-style shooting Was witnessed by the man's six-year-old daughter, Who is now under police protection. The man is believed to be Barry Griffen, A key player in Sydney's underground crime scene. An investigation is underway... Liam. What are you doing here? Are you okay? What time is it? Ah, almost 9:00. Where's Uncle Rex? I don't know. We just got here. Listen, don't worry about being late for school. If you want to get ready now, we can give you a ride. I'm not going back. Liam. I'm not going back, to school or the play. Take it easy, mate. Don't tell me what to do. What the fuck would you know? Listen, we just wanted to make sure you were okay. The riots have nothing to do with school Or all the hard work you've put into the play. I have to stay here. My family need me. Where's Liam? What have you done? Steven, answer me. Where's Liam? Steven. You bloody idiot. I'm gettin' out of town for a bit. You killed him, didn't you? You bloody killed him. Where the fuck is Liam? Steven. He's just a boy. He's just a boy! He's just... Where the fuck have you been? Just leave him alone! Get off me! Mum! Look, Jason's on his way. Get your shit together. We're going now. I'm not going. Oh, for fuck's sake, Liam! We don't have time for any of your bullshit! I'm not going! You are fuckin' crazy, aren't you? It's already on the news. Okay? She saw us. I don't care. I'm not going anywhere. You are mad. No, I'm not. The cops'll be here any second. Are you comin'? What happened to my boys? I'm still here, Mum. I'm still here. (Sobbing) Hey. Hey. I'm sorry for swearing at you. It's okay. I've heard worse. But thanks. Do you know about my dad? A little. You must miss him. For what it's worth, I lost my dad too when I was your age. I want to do the play. Okay. I finished my letter. Will you help me deliver it? You okay? Yeah. Do you want me to come in with you? They won't let me see him unless I'm with someone over 18. Okay. How are you, mate? Okay. What the fuck are you doing here, Liam? I wanted to see you. Where's Steven? He's gone. Jesus Christ, you shouldn't be here, Liam. I'm in a play. It's on tonight. My teacher says I'm pretty good. Have you ever read Hamlet? No. Well, I'm playing Hamlet. It's a big part. Main part. My teacher told us to write a letter, too, So we could invite someone. I wanted to invite you. I knew you couldn't come. Just read it to me. Just read it. Dear Dad... I'm writing to invite you as my special guest To our school's production of Hamlet. The story is about a young prince who has to find the man Who killed his dad and take revenge. Kind of like you, me and Steve, except we're not princes. I wanted you to come so you can see That I'm going to do something with my life. I'm not going to be like you. I'm not going to be like you. Never will. You should have said something. I guess I won't be seeing you for a while, eh? I'm not gonna be like you. Not now, not never. (Sobbing) I'm not gonna be like you. Hey. You're not like me, mate. You'll never be like me. What does it mean? Huh? The tatt. It means freedom. It's kinda old. You like it? My uncle always used to say, With freedom comes responsibility. He sounds like he was quite the existentialist, your uncle. Exer... what? Existentialist. It means someone who believes in personal freedom. You choose your own path. Sounds like my uncle, all right. What happened to your dad? What? You said you lost your dad when you were my age. Uh... He lived his life according to other people's expectations. You know, got sick of it, couldn't see a way out, So he chose to end it. Killed himself. Sorry. Oh, it's okay. It was a long time ago. You okay? Are you? Programs! Get your programs! Programs! That's Liam's mum. Oh. Excuse me. Excuse me. Hi. Hi. Ah, Christine. Chrissie. Hi. I'm Dino. I'm Liam's drama teacher. I'm so glad you could make it. Thank you. Let's get you inside. Get you a good seat. After you. Hey, Liam. This is to say "break a leg." Thanks. I didn't get you anything. Shut up. CHALMERS: All right, guys. Ten minutes to curtain. (Playing didgeridoo) Minister, distinguished guests, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to begin By acknowledging the Gadigal people, The, uh, traditional owners of the, uh, country here, And the land on which we gather today. Ah, I'd also like to, uh, Welcome you to this, uh, Very special NAIDOC week event. The play you're about to see Is probably one of the most famous in the English language, And, uh, many of the performers in the cast Are descendants of the oldest continuous living tradition Of performance on the planet. So, ladies and gentlemen, Would you please put your hands together For the year 11 students' Production of William Shakespeare's Hamlet. Who's there? Nay, answer me. Stand, and unfold yourself. My God. God. How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable. Seemed to me the uses of this world. Do not as some ungracious pastors do, Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven. To be or not to be. That is the question. Whether it is nobler in the minds To suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, Or to take arms against a sea of troubles And by opposing end them? To die, To sleep. To sleep perchance to dream. From that sleep of death what dreams may come When we have shuffled off this mortal coil. It must give us pause. There is the respect that makes calamity of so long life. For who would bear the whips and scorns of time. I fucked it up, eh. You broke the code, mate. The fucking code. No kids. I know. She wasn't supposed to be there. Just don't end up in here, all right? I don't know if I can protect you. (Siren wailing) The point envenomed too! Then venom, to thy work. Stop! Police! Drop your firearm! Put down your weapon! (Gunshot) Bear Hamlet, like a soldier to the stage. For he was likely had he been put on. To have proved most royally... And, for his passage, The soldiers' music and the rites of war Speak loudly for him. Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this becomes the field But here shows much amiss. Go, bid the soldiers shoot. (Singing in foreign language) (Cheers and applause) You were deadly. Thanks. CHALMERS: We don't choose to be born, But we choose to live. Some of us choose to love. CHRISSIE: Liam! Liam! CHALMERS: And some of us, Only some of us, choose to be free. Liam. He'll be back, bub. From where I stand Rhythm and flow Rhythm and flow in the minds And the hearts of the ones that we stifle Rhythm of life Rhythm and flow Flow into dignified death in a cycle That keeps on repeating I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow Silent and strong Rhythm and flow Telling the lives of the ancients They learnt from experienced poets Rhythm of life Rhythm and flow Hoping experienced poets can teach them About their survival I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow I hear the flow, I hear the flow I hear the rhythm and the flow
