 

                        'Chiyaan' VIKRAM in ARUL (GRACE) Jothika Vadivelu Pasupathi lntroducing Kollam Thulasi Vinu Chakravarthi, Sarath Babu, Saranraj ..and K.S.Ravikumar Choreography Brinda, Kalyan, Dinesh Hey, who is that? Where are you going? Didn't you borrow money for your daughter's marriage? If you can't repay, go and work as a pimp You are trying to outwit us Don't talk bad, I'll somehow repay before next month.. - Every month you repeat the same story - Repay by tomorrow Else we will be with the women folk at your house Arul, Rowdy Gurusamy's men have entered the mill They have ill treated Manickam and have assaulted him -Open the Gate -He has asked me to close -Who? Tresspassing into a peaceful work area is wrong Assaulting a guy, in front of 1 000 men is a greater mistake Above all talking bad to a man who is.. ..old enough to be your dad is all the more wrong Why do you talk like a big....?(CENSORED) God does not like atrocities Arul does not like dirty talks Is Arul a big....?(CENSORED) - Look at me and repeat it - Are you a big....? - Look at my eyes and say that - Are you a big....? If you lay your hands on workers I will chop your hands off How much you have to pay? Out of Rs 50000, I have repaid, 38000, balance is 1 2000 For him Rs 1 2000 is a debt For rest of us it is one day's expenditure For his sake I contribute Rs 50 Om Sakthi, Goddess Kamatchi bless us He must be the only guy in the whole world Sleeping to the invocation for wake up of Almighty That invocation is over now 'Kanda shashti kavasam' is played You blow and melt gold He watches attentively and spins yarn Although we blow and melt we are our own masters Even after marriage these boys obey me They are gems, but he alone is a scrap - He has become rusty - For us all 4 children are alike If you plead for him, Even at this age, I may drive you out Uncle, Grandma asked, whether you need.. ..'ldli' or 'Dosa' for breakfast? - Tell her 'ldli' Uncle, mom asked whether you need coconut sauce or tomato sauce - 'Tomato sauce' - Bloody tomato sauce!. What dress are you going to wear? I will iron it for you It is kept on the chair You hear the wake up invocation and sleep Your dad is shouting at me What can I do? This 'margazhi' season, I got used to it Now I can't sleep without hearing devotional songs Not only that, this will help me not to hear dad's shouts Mom I will be at Sanker's house when lunch is ready sent word - What gravy you want? -Fish gravy -yes Go with the fish net to the pond to catch fishes Only on holidays he has lunch at home What is wrong in cooking his favorite dish? Senthil, has Thangam opened his shop? No, he has gone to Peelamedu for ear boring Oh Casanova, Don't pinch my heart Slowly, with your eyes don't measure me.. -Who are you? -That doesn't matter, you dance Stop it, this is my house, who are you? - Is it house no 1 3? -Yes - Are you Paramasivam? -Yes - Wanted someone 'for ear boring'? - Yes - I am the guy -ls it so? - Tell me for whom I should do - For my girl - Is it her? What is this? Her nose and ears has already been bored Why do you want to do again? That is all old style do you know the latest style? -What is it? - That is at the navel Bondage between the mother and the child is the umbilical cord Why are you such a mean minded dad? -Did I ever say I am the dad -You said she is your girl - Did I say I am her father? - What do you mean? Today it is Karnataka, tomorrow it is Andhra - Day after? - Kerala Then it should be done for you and not her -Where? - Here Don't lock me in your soul with my anklet Oh Casanova! -Subbu send 2 fags - will send it You have breakfast at your house but want coffee of ours? Yes, because your filter coffee is superb -But seems it is not prepared by you -Might be by her dad Mind your business Shouldn't smoke in public places If the legs are out, it is public place If it is in, it is private Tomato,Brinjal, Raddish, drumstick, beans Ladies finger, snake gourd,.... What Ponni, You were not to be seen? It's nothing, Arul I had a marriage proposal Did you like the groom? When we gave snacks They asked for liquour What happened then? My dad smacked and they ran away That is why I am asking you to marry me But you don't listen at all Don't kid with me I am not going to get married I may love someone Don't spoil your life with love affairs -I won't be taken for a ride -Listen to me At the foothills of Maruthamalai Arul has incarnated Through Oppanakkara street.. ..Dream beauty goes Ponni's mind is ruined.. ..By the love in her eyes Oh pappad of Ukkadam, spinned top Ask for grace from Arul Oh Peelamedu chariot The drum adorned with a dot Love is a boredom Oh Avinashi Madam don't breach my word Looking at eyes and colour Don't believe it as Love Don't do Ponni, this love is troublesome This Arul's words will come true, listen Ponni Don't do Ponni, this love is troublesome This Arul's words will come true, listen Ponni Oh pappad of Ukkadam, spinned top Ask for grace from Arul Oh Peelamedu chariot The drum adorned with a dot Love is a boredom Even if you smile a little He will cook up stories to heights of lighthouse Even if glance at them He will concoct stories about roses blooming Will call you dear and darling Talk about marriage He will run away Will call you dear and darling Talk about marriage He will run away It is pulling If you peel off, it is nothing Love is like an onion Oh pappad of Ukkadam, spinned top Ask for grace from Arul Oh Peelamedu chariot The drum adorned with a dot Love is a boredom Because she is excited She is asking for the garland A garland After 5 comes 6 And from cotton comes yarn Oh lady, likewise, desires come from heart Among rivers it is 'Siruvani' If 'achi' it refers to Pollachi But love refers to lies, listen Don 't love a stranger Don 't trust an unclaimed land Don't love a stranger Don't trust an unclaimed land Ponni madam, love is like hot water Marry the boy suggested by parents Oh pappad of Ukkadam, spinned top -Ask for grace from Arul -Ask him Oh Peelamedu chariot The drum adorned with a dot -Love is a boredom -It is a bore -Oh Avinashi Madam don't breach my word - Tell her Looking at eyes and colour -Don't believe it as Love - Yes my dear Don't do Ponni, this love is troublesome This Arul's words will come true, listen Ponni Don't do Ponni, this love is troublesome This Arul's words will come true, listen Ponni Stop You are riding at high speed Why do you drive like a......... (CENSORED) Will you not stop instantly? come here -Arul, please don't -Hold the kerchief -Listen to me, he is a cop -Leave me Arul has invoked the grace What did you say? Why did you go and stop there? Why do you stare at me? God does not like atrocities Arul does not like dirty talks If you don't like what will you do? Look at me and repeat it You......? (CENSORED) Look at my eyes and say that You.....? (CENSORED) Are you assaulting a cop? Come Note down the number At the village we used to steal chicken by hurling wet gunny bags Your face tells me you are a chicken thief You may not last for even 3 minutes The vehicle has stopped please push the vehicle Go away, whom are you asking to... Come Only the song is loud, push with vigor Thanks a lot Thanking us! Look here How arrogant you are? Were you sitting in the car and asking us to push? Will your legs sprain if you alight from car? Ask these two to push the vehicle and start it Atleast let their flab come down Do they have any sense? Those two sit like water melon -Hello sir -Who is that? I am lame So I sat in the car while you were pushing it If I am at fault, forgive us I have done a mistake I didn't know your leg has a deformity It is alright I am a ruffian, Short tempered some times talk like this You were with me You could have informed -You may go -Yes sir Don't mistake me, careful Come here Careful Poor girl Many thanks to you Careful Poor girl Sister, why did you deceive them that you are lame? Wanted to avenge them, for they scolded us I think he lives in this area You will be trapped People normally brush their teeth That guy is brushing his hand Perhaps he is brushing his dentures Look there A beautiful woman like lyengar's bakery's bun Come let us see Customers are coming in car to our shop Welcome, What do you want? Three packets of 'Murukku' One packet of 'Kamarkattu' Does this look like a snack bar to you? Is this not a petty shop? Look behind Kamatchi Silver Sales Will you open only on Friday? OK, note down the list and 1/4 kilo ear rings Look, this contains Acid If I splashed it on your face It will be a bloodbath Who are you and what do you want? We have moved to the opposite house I am Kanmani And she is Neelaveni I am Thankam Will roar like a lion But will look ugly They deliberately pick up quarrel on arrival Mani, does it take so much time for shopping? I told you not to call me with the masculine name Mani You have pierced my nose also at an young age If you don't like it Remove the nose screw But how can I close the hole? Close it with calcium If you call me Mani again I won't mind you are my mom -I will punch you -Will you? Invite neighbours for tomorrow's house warming That we can do tomorrow morning Mom, we have moved from Tiruppur to Kovai Have you written to your husband in Rangoon? Yes I have Infact, mom and we are alike How? We are studying through correspondence Mom loves dad through correspondence Came to get a recommendation letter from the MLA For how many persons he can give? He has borrowed He has come to repay the amount Sir, here is the amount Am I your nail to scratch whenever it itches you? If you borrow from me You can repay only after an year Until then pay the interest Borrowed it for 1 0%% rate If I pay interest for a year how can I return the principal? Didn't you get the money by mortgaging your house? Sell it and go Owner of Ganapathy theatre How is your business? Saturday and Sunday it runs house full Rest of the week, it is very less What do you mean by very less? You could as well play a VCD at home Why do you run a theatre for that? -Sir? -I need that place That is our family property So what, are you going to be buried there? We are going to demolish it and build a shopping complex That's what I have planned too Assess a rate and get it Party men are waiting for you One brother is the MLA and the other is the party leader Both of them have planned to buy half of Coimbatore Gandhipuram Krishnamurthy Kinattukadavu Ramachandran, they have come together Please wait Just a moment You may go now Iyer, what are you looking at? It's Government's egg It can break stone grinder and lyer's head too No one to dare you Your savageries are too high Greetings All you have come together As if you are the guardians of mother Tamil Please be seated Block level, Taluk, executive council member General council member, district secretary Even Chenniappan is there Then, what is the matter? You are going to the assembly tomorrow So they have all come to meet you Who are they? These are the ones who complained to the Collector If you give it to me It will reach the assembly If you give it elsewhere It will reach my pocket What is your problem? There is no water supply in our area Keep it right in front of the house What is this? why are you keeping the water tank in front of my house? You complain to the collector? Face the consequences The roads are in poor condition in our area Why do you place the tar barrels at my door? Didn't you ask for roads? Next month will get stone pebbles.... Will the stork eat the fish? Or will the fish eat the stork? Man will eat both.... -What do you want now? -I want Arul now Why does the Satan riding the cycle ask for the cockroach riding the bike? I must get Arul now To get grace go to the temple Or do a fire walk -I will walk upon you -Should not talk like that I will talk like that only Won't you respect your brother? You call yourself a brother Who said you are my brother? Look at his ugly face They have named a tin as 'Gold'.... Sir, are there no female members here? -Swarnam -Yes coming What do you want? We have moved to your opposite house We are doing house warming today All of you must come I may not be able to come why don't you go and attend? Mom said a senior like you should conduct the Pooja OK we will come Why do you look through a lens? Because the stone is too small If use bigger stones you may not require lens Only ladies have come? What about the male members? He is a merchant at Rangoon He will come once in three years only Bye, visit frequently Quick, If you delay like this you will be late for school -Look there - How did he come here? Why are you standing here? This is my house We are the new tenants -ls that so? -OK, you may go Careful, leg, gently Bye Mom,you have gone there without giving me breakfast That girl insisted that I must attend the house warming Poor girl, she is one legged, bye! One legged? What is he saying? -She had both the legs, right? -Yes What do you think about yourself? Will you give us the amount demanded by us or not? Do you know who we are? If you donate funds for us you are saved, otherwise... Let us see how you run this factory You are talking over phone as we are screaming from here? Creating mischief? will tear you apart Boss, did you call me? -Greetings Sir -Greetings If I die suddenly It will be because of them What are you saying? Are they deliberately creating mischief.... I am slightly tense will be back in a minute... I will be back in a minute Sir, white and white man, I am calling you Wait for a minute I didn't see your faces inside Now I have seen clearly, you may go Just a moment Just listen to what I have to say If anything happen to our boss We will tear you apart We are the ruling party Do you know what will happen, if you oppose us? You ask for votes, We cast votes There are 5000 members in our union Along with family members it's more than 20,000 votes We could make an empty guy an MLA and make an MLA empty also You can not spin your yarn here We are already spinning a lot Leave the place This husk has gold Quick, they might come They have come.... What are you doing here? Can't you see we are scooping the husk? Was it you behind stealing the husk so far? Whom do you call a thief? Why should I steal from my own house? Don't I have rights to scoop even the husk in this house? What have you done for me? We have given you a silver shop What silver store? You have looted all gold and named me gold You have given me this useless silver shop Are you trying to cheat me? Don't talk as you like In addition we have given The ear piercing section too What a big section that is.. The total fee for piercing is Rs. 500 only Out of the 500 you take 450 and giving me only 50 -What are you up to? -What? Don't want your kinship Partition the assets now Asset? What Asset? We have got 80 acres land in Pollachi Keep 40 acres for you and give me 40 acres, I will go and for you alone 40 acres? Your dad has fathered 4 children in haste My dad has patiently fathered only me And that too a lion cub Don't abuse our dad How can you talk bad about our father?... He is talking too much... For scooping handful of husk all of you have turned against me All this is because of my dad's brother I have prepared a wedge for you Leave me, I am going Let it go if it goes... That flour mill guy gazes at us Should pluck his eyes Why do you stare? Mani doesn't like red colour Can I go nude for that? I have heard dogs can see in black & white only Is this dog an exception? Sister, come If you make noise I will break your head Stop Who are they? They are guests to our area Why do you chase them? I can understand That poor girl wore a red color dress You should not have chased a one legged girl One legged? Were you not running? Running? No, I am one legged? How can I run? Let me think about it Oh no, it seems you have come running Holding my sister I was leaping You might not have noticed the leg because of the skirt You are right, you may go She is one legged You are deceiving him as one legged.... The truth will come out one day He is going to make you one legged -Be careful -Let us see Can't find a place in Ukkadam to start the party office? Half of the city has already been acquired by us Stop Whose building is that? Belongs to Dr. Nallamuthu How is his background? Will anyone represent? A very frail man,very average background If it is a cinema theatre can be vacated easily But to vacate an operation theatre We have to throw out the patients Even outskirts will do for us... Have not they vacated yet? We have cut down water supply and electricity It seems they won't vacate unless we cut down their necks Anyway we have got - That rogue has just left - Whose property is this? If it is closed then it must be ours It is apt for party office Facing east and with direct sun light, we will reach heights After Tirupathi abode only this place has 3 perfect corners Oh my goodness How atrocious? Why are you breaking the lock? - lyer, is this your house? - This is Anantharaman's house Since he is in Delhi, he has asked me to take care Iyer's house seems more perfect than this Will vacate in 2 weeks after starting the office Make the foundation strong Make a call to the leader -Leader -Long live Leader! Opposite party Chathappan has come to join us with 30 MLAs Very glad -Leader -Long live Come Chathappa Hereafter you are my captain Long live Leader Sethupathy and brother Chathappan From today I'll be an ordinary worker and work for your party Don't say 'my' party & 'your' party Hereafter it is 'our' party With dynamic persons like you.. ..Why Tamilnadu, I can grab power, even in Delhi Were you not abusing me on every stage? How much trust Eswara Pandian had on you? You have betrayed your leader How can I be certain that you won't join another party? This is the punishment for joining our party - If you defect from us, I'll kill you - I'll be your slave till the end The press is waiting outside Wash your face & pose for photo, go - Your brother is calling - Brother - Tell Gajapathy - I have seen a place for party office in Ukkadam - I am so happy - You must inaugurate it - I will Ruling party men have encroached your house for their party office I am in a fix, don't now what to do? - I will talk in person while I come to Coimbatore - OK - Shall I do? - It is on the line - It is on the line, look there - No you are out See there - You jump and play - Get lost - Shall we play later? I will beat you - Look there - My goodness What are you looking through lens at the opposite house? Do you know how good she plays the limp game? Poor girl, she is one legged and can limp only -One legged? -Yeah - Whom are you referring? With two eyes I saw her playing with two legs! - I too saw - What happened to your family? Your brothers rage if I talk about your dad - You call a normal girl one legged - One leg only They have started Let us go and see Whatever we see doesn't belong to our eyes! Doesn't belong to our eyes! Since you have become a pupil of my eyes... You can't be separated from the eyes... And you can't be separated from me Oh God! Neelaveni, why did you stop? Dance until the pestle break Dance until the mortar rolls Dance until the house get crumbled Shut up your mouth -It's really one leg -I'll tell if it is one leg or two legs What for?... Catch her Catch Don't leave Like that - Don't leave her till evening - The right verdict - Get lost You sinners Will you prosper Your father's niece Malathi.. Can we propose her for our Arul? I have already asked them Said they will accept a self employed goldsmith only You may attend the marriage tomorrow morning at doctor's house I am going out of station and you have come like Goddess Lakshmi - Where are they going? - They are going to Calicut to buy gold -All of them are going? -Because they carry a huge sum Come inside We had water scarcity at Tiruppur We had to wander with pots daily Is that so? - Welcome Doctor - Greetings With wedding scheduled for tomorrow you have come here now - Is sir there? - No he has gone outstation What is the matter? The wedding chain was there until the pooja time Thereafter it was missing It must have been taken by some relatives We don't want to create a scene by checking them We can go ahead with the marriage using the tamarind coated thread But missing of the chain would be considered a bad omen The chain was made by sir Before dawn we want a similar one I can understand your plight But all the members have gone out of station Arul has come, let us ask him to make it Greetings doctor, why at this hour? -Come here -What mom? Why all of you are worried? You must immediately make a wedding chain Mom you know everything... I can't Don't be adamant make the wedding chain -Mom, I can't, you know I won't do it - Don't shout, they are here - It's very urgent, Will you do it or not? - I can't Will you not obey your mom? -They have come out of trust in us -Leave my hands, I am going Wedding is scheduled for tomorrow, do it -I can't - Do it for your mother's sake - I can't and that is final - If you can't, don't meet me hereafter - Mom - Don't give me reasons - Why do you ask me....? - You don't do it, right? - OK - We will collect it in the early morning - OK - Thanks a lot Does he know to make a wedding chain? Wedding chain? He knows all jobs Capable of earning thousands a day Working at a mill for Rs. 4500 per month - Adamant - Why mom? He doesn't like dirty talks Are the chains for Palakkad Ganga jewellery ready? - Yes - Parcel it and give it to him -Be careful while going -Yes dad How will it be lost? If someone can steal 2 will he leave the remaining 8 -I don't know dad -Have you sold it & frittered the money? Don't lie that you don't know about it -What can I say, if I don't know -You are capable of stealing & lying To whom have you given the money? Please don't talk dirty What self esteem is there for a thief like you? I am a thief and my hands are not clean I don't want to do this goldsmith's job Hereafter I won't touch this gold I stole the chain Had some problems at her house Father will not give assistance so easily You sinner He was blamed unnecessarily - You inform dad first - No, wait mom If I am insulted that will be limited to me If he is insulted then his whole family will be humiliated Leave it like that Don't let anyone else know about it After that incident he has touched gold only today My son lives like a guest at his own house He gives his monthly salary to me Otherwise he comes home for food and sleeping only Stay on - Mom! - What? What was the length they wanted? 7 or 8? I did not ask them Mani, come here Sit down You got 10 fingers Why only one finger is sweet? The finger that touched you is sweet to me All other fingers are starving Oh bee of the bamboo forest The crab that jerks my brain Am I the feast to contain the starvation of your 1 0 fingers Oh Bandit darling The girl who commit light murders Will I leave if you keep away? I am obliged to hide my arrogant beauty It's your ability to pluck with out unveiling the screen It's cruel to hide the beauty You got 1 0 fingers Why only one finger is sweet? The finger that touched you is sweet to me All other fingers are starving Oh man who pinches my mind Do you know Cupid's lingo? With the eyes that could penetrate the dress Stroking upto the soul All that are to be done with fingers.. ..are done with your sight By age you are so young But you are broad-minded than your age You got 1 0 fingers Why only one finger is sweet? The finger that touched you is sweet to me All other fingers are starving My shyness is missing Was it you who stole it? So far I lived in solitude like mercury.. .. which won't allow anything to stick Like a silent shadow you fell into my mind Will go much deeper inside and will take the treasure from your heart - You got 1 0 fingers - I got 1 0 fingers -Only one finger is.. -.. Sweet but why? The finger that touched you is sweet to me All other fingers are starving Oh bee of the bamboo forest The crab that jerks my brain Am I the feast to contain the starvation of your 1 0 fingers Oh Bandit darling The girl who commit light murders Will I leave if you keep away? You are obliged to hide your arrogant beauty Plucking without unveiling the screen is my ability Hiding the beauty is cruelty Don't twist our hips Go straight What a nice scene in the early morning Eyes would remain intact if I could see it daily - I will give you one slap -I will give two on your cheeks - Will you, I am leaving - Hold it - Kanmani - Mom is calling me, I will go I was holding the cycle for you to learn -Who will teach me then? -Am I not here? -You? -Yes I am - Do you know how to ride a cycle? - Are you asking me? I will give you a list of things I can ride Bike, Car, Lorry, Bus, Train, Aeroplane, Helicopter... - Do you know to ride a cycle? - Why are you so doubtful? Trusting you, if I ride and suppose if you.. ..push me on someone and run away? I won't go to jail after pushing you over someone, listen to me - You ride and show me first - Move away, see now From that day to this day The sky has not changed Man has changed Has mounted on the cycle... Go singing like this Oh God! - Oh God! - Dirty pig Were you trying to cheat me? Festival at coniamman temple Give donation You don't look like people from temple To prove that should we have a bell in hand? - Give us the money - Why do you drop 50 Rs? Drop 500 Rs I can afford 50 rupees only Aren't you making ornaments by mixing copper in it? If you Pay 500 Rs we will pour porridge at temple Else we will pour milk for your last rites - Son!! - Come out, we will smack you Then you'll spend 500 to 1 000Rs as making charges to the hospital Looks like he is the stingiest of all Come out you miser dog What is this, they use abusive language? -Brother -What? - They have abused dad -Who? -Singanallur men It is those people In the name of God, you beg... On top of it, do you behave rudely too? -Apologize now Forgive us sir Go, If seen in this area... Will you not mend yourself? When will you change your attitude? Please be quiet This dog has bitten those street dogs for they barked Why do you shout? Instead of letting the hooligans have their way He has dragged them here and fought with them Please keep quiet Mom, he must be crazy He fought them because they scolded him He drags in all the troubles that goes through the road Why do you do all these atrocities? I want to live honorably in this street See, even after all this, he is quiet and rock like Come on good sardine is available We are vegetarians, we don't eat fish and meat Don't mistake me I have seen children who don't respect parents Even when his dad admonished him like anything Your son kept quite Only your son can behave that way Your son is like a diamond It can be used as a cutting tool and also as a decoration Please ask him not to scold Arul in public It occurred to me... I keep telling, don't you have brain at all? Don't talk too much I will tear you apart I have got four brothers They won't leave you easily Did you brush your teeth this morning? Why? Why do you start so early?... Are my four brothers there as pallbearers? Was I not pampered as the only girl child? He has smacked very badly What can I do now? You prepare wedding chain in gold for all Did you prepare my wedding chain in clay? I shuttle between Tiruppur and Kovai and don't know when it will snap? Won't someone pay and send the auto? See, your sister Mom, Even here she talks like this Who knows how badly she talked there? Alright, you take her there Your brother-in-law won't listen to others Arul kumara My voice would have reached the ears of.. Lord Muruga in Maruthamalai Hasn't it reached your ears yet? Shut up your mouth My husband has become mad Is he a human being? At the drop of a hat, he smacks me He fears no one other than you You must tell him Whoever it may be, tear into two Tear apart to two in one strike, that is our style Why do you buy meals from outside? Is your wife not at home? I don't want food if I have to forego my esteem Seems sister in law has come Where will she.....? Hold it Do you want to leave your sister at home? Here is the key It was not intentional You know about your sister She has got a mouth bigger than this factory I slightly patted over her mouth and that's all I will go home at 5'o'clock Look at his face I won't touch her again Come home I will teach you You were talking like a tiger Cooled down like a wet mouse when you saw your brother-in-law Then what to do - At the age of 1 2 he made a plot to revenge me - How was it? One day I scolded his sister Keeping that in mind He made his cousin run across and on the pretext of striking him hit me with a stone Still that scar remains If you use filthy words can never escape from him Very brilliant, he will rock Kovai one day Why is she here? Near the Biriyani shop? Here is the parcel Said she is a vegetarian and is now buying biriyani? Go away It is nothing What is she carrying in the bag? Could be vegetable Why does the dog sniff, if it is vegetable? It must be meat They are pure vegetarians I have bought the milk cakes Come upstairs with the water bottle OK Sister Did you hear? It is milk cake Idiot, is milk cake available at the biriyani shop? I got the leg One leg for you and one for me Don't shout In case mom watches us we may have to enact a weeping Eat silently See they are smashing chicken thighs I told you, did you believe me? It's our house, how could you come upstairs? I will shout Let your mom come over here Let her know about the chicken biriyani secrets Will you eat only the leg piece? Is this biriyani called milk cake? When you can make idli,a rice meal and make the beer as butter milk Shouldn't they make biriyani as milk cake? I am asking you From when did you start this? When studying at 12th standard My friends fooled me by giving chicken as yam I liked the taste and continuing since then Got a story for every mischief Two packets a day If a packet costs 40 Rs If a person who draws 4500 Rs salary.. ..marries you how could he afford it? This should be a matter of concern for her fiance Why does he bother about it? I am not eating it daily Once in a week, 4 times a month It costs only 320 Rs Is spending 320 Rs a month for wife an extravagance? Give the salary to me I will show how to run the family Besides I don't eat on Saturdays and am fasting Fasting on Saturdays and on Sundays you eat like a glutton... will it not affect your health? As if you are married and begot children You two talk about income and expenditures? What is this talk while eating? Get out Peoples' party's State executive meeting welcomes all participants -Long live -leader Leader, I am 55 years old Can I change my career now? Helped the party grow by pasting posters and hosting flags But has the party helped me to grow? Talk about the party problems only This too is a party problem You are the party leader and you stay at Chennai Besides your brother is the MLA of Kovai He is the district secretary too Call from the leader Brother If you grab all the portfolios then where do we go? That's why we have given various honorifics Iike Lightning warrior, Thunderbolt, downpour Keep those honorifics with you and give us positions Throw your brother from district secretary's post Else people will talk about our party as one run by money lenders and sundry arbitrators... The party will vanish from your own constituency too When will that fellow come? Usually he comes by car He must get down at least thrice to urinate We must finish him on his way to Kovai from Erode Stop Stop Come, my leg piece Mani, come here Come Mani Do you want leg piece? That too from Anganna's shop You tell lies too If you are angry, it is the temple bell (kovil mani) You are going to draw the design on floor (kola mani) Hello agnate You are ringing the bell with bell (mani) Yes Single bell for the neck of buffalo (otha mani) Twin bells for the neck of mother-in-law(rettai mani) For the concubine give pearl (muthu mani)... If you fall flat it is the apple of throat (chanku mani) For kids it is anklet (kolusu mani) If bell rings in jail it is food time - Great actor Sivaji ganesan acted in - Alayamani I will take leave of you Thankamani Iittle cuckoo, you walk like a peacock Where is my pair? Why do you sing as cuckoo...ooo, my darling -Dear -What? Will you sing all songs? -Which song you want? - In film Guna, Kamalahasan -sings a song from a cave -Yes -Sing that song -See now Darling, your lover writes this letter with love Darling are you OK, here I am OK Stop it Poetry flows as I peep you As I try to write it, words struggle As I look at you, poetry downpours What you are yelling Mani? Will you sing songs with the words Mani? Will you sing? What is the matter? Kanmani is in marriageable age We have to accumulate jewels for her marriage Yes Her dad has sent 30,000 Rs from Rangoon Please make a coin necklace in 8 sovereign gold Sure, we can make it perfectly First time you are making jewels why do you do in 8 sovereigns? Better do it in 1 1 sovereigns of gold Add 3 sovereigns extra and make it when you have said, it is done - Look there - What is this? Why do you stay looking at? Keep quiet Beat Lift him Why do we invite trouble? In broad day light they have beaten and dragged him away Do you want me to keep quiet? -So, will you dare an MLA? -ls MLA a special creature? He is the MLA in this constituency for the last 1 2 years Has he done anything good? Atleast one voter should question him If all of you hide in front of him he will behave only like this He brutally assaults all those who question him To vacate us he has instigated Hindu -Muslim communal riots But no one did fall a prey to his designs This annoyed him and he has stopped water and electricity supplies The entire lot is against the MLA and are waiting for a chance to exhibit their anger They will subdue only if opposed If you want water, take it from the adjacent house If you want electricity take it from the opposite house Inspector Ramanathan is coming -Greetings -To hell with your greetings Leader is expected in Security measures must be foolproof Pollachi Road, Vincent Road and Town hall Road All these roads must be blocked Pollachi Road and Vincent Road are OK It's hard to block the Town hall road It's very crowded and can not be blocked Won't you obey me? I am sorry sir, public may create problems over this... Get out if you don't obey me Get out Ask him to get out from here Don't stay before me, get out What do you think of me? I am an MLA Wait,l have been waiting for you Kanmani has correspondence exam today Bharathiar university is on your enroute Please drop her there Come on She doesn't know the bus routes properly might even get lost Don't fall on the way, I can't answer your mom then Don't forget to pick me up while you return home Can I keep my hand on your shoulder? I have an esteem in this area Don't damage it No grips to hold, then how can I sit? There are no speed breakers on the way Also I am not going to drive fast -Sit 2 inches away -OK Are you in love with someone? If you do silly talking I will demand fare more than the meter reading I am loving a guy Hey bell, if someone gets you biriyani, you will go with him -Are you in love? -Start, it's getting late These days it's hard to distinguish good and bad Can't find who drinks alcohol and uses drugs Can't find who is a terrorist Don't get trapped, tell me who he is? I will find out whether he is good or bad -He is from which area? -Ukkadam -Where in Ukkadam? -Sannathi street -That's our street! Is it that corner house Pandi or neighbor Kannan? Or is it that fat ugly fellow with french beard? -No, it's the opposite house -Opposite house? -That's our house!Oh that must be Thankam Has he trapped you by showing silver anklet? It's neither gold nor brass Who will love that black man? Then, I am there in the opposite house -ls that me? -Yes I love you I won't come behind if buy me a biriyani Make me an ornamental belt I will come after you You have fallen in love! You have fallen in love! I will make an ornamental belt for you, will you come? Will you give me some place to stick on? I will make an ornamental belt for you, will you come? Will you give me some place to stick on? Why do I need an ornamental belt? Don't you have two hands to put around my waist? Darling with beautiful nose and eyes The best bet for kisses Shall I measure your chest and give a pearl necklace? One in great heights, and beau with lucky moles... While you measure the chest, touch a little Oh silver pot, golden chain turn to this 'chiyaan' side If given a chance, will come & strike This is Coimbatore mischief I will make an ornamental belt for you, will you come? Will you give me some place to stick on? Why do I need an ornamental belt? Don't you have two hands to put around my waist? Melting pure gold, placing a star stone I will get you an ornament for your forehead Will you be after me? Ornament for forehead is not necessary Blue stone too is not necessary Will you sport the 'kumkum' dot on my forehead? Shall I bore your sharp nose for pearl nose screws, will you come? Your pearl nose screw won't work out Will you come to rub nose to nose? I will give you the golden ear stud Will you come with your bod? Whisper the auspicious date in the ear that wears the stud I will make an ornamental belt for you, will you come? Will you give me some place to stick on? Why do I need an ornamental belt? Don't you have two hands to put around my waist? I will make silver toe rings and golden anklets.... will you come with me? To come along with you, no need for anklets Will you touch my toe with your toe like a crab? Hey lady, I will give bangles for your hands, will you come? Don't want bangles, will come now will you give your right hand? I will give you a golden chain, will you give a little bit? If you will give the sacred thread I will peel of myself for you I will make an ornamental belt for you, will you come? Don 't you have two hands to put around my waist? Darling with beautiful nose and eyes The best bet for kisses Shall I measure your chest and give a pearl necklace? One in great heights, and beau with lucky moles... While you measure the chest, touch a little Oh silver pot, golden chain turn to this 'chiyaan' side If given a chance, will come and strike Let us not do that mischief here I don't like love and such affairs I have not moved with you with such intentions I considered you as a friend Don't talk to me hereafter Wait a minute I can understand, if you don't like me But why do you ask me not to talk with you? Have I behaved so badly with you? No, if you had that in mind once it may not be alright Why not? You considered me as a friend You remain as a friend I will continue to love you If you feel like loving me, you can change yourself In case if I feel like become a friend I will change myself But, I will never change They drive as if this street is a high way Ruling party men will do only like that Their car procession will become a funeral procession Hi Arul, come Arul Why they have pasted the poster here? They are opening the party office from morning it is a nuisance It was whitewashed for next week's marriage See how dirty it looks Keep quiet or it may cause trouble Why do you do that? Let the cattle eat it Lighting arrangements are over From where do we take power connection? I will connect it from lyer's house Hello, who are you? You enter he house just like that Where is the main board? Why do you ask? For power should l insert it in your...........?(CENSORED) Why do you talk like that? You have assaulted my men Wait, I will show you -They have beaten me -Who? When I went to connect power They have beaten me We did not do anything wrong They have come and beaten us Those are the guys Connect the other end of the wire to the bunk shop Our government gives you the power supply Will it affect if we take little power? Are you giving electric shock? Who is Arul? That's me -Get into the vehicle -What for? Sitting on the wall, do you eve tease? Don't talk unnecessarily We have received a complaint Who gave? Should I explain it all on the road? Come, get in Get down Why do you bring me here? For us police, court, advocate, judge are all our MLA You may take me to the police station for inquiry With whom do you talk about rules? You debris eating dog -Look at me and repeat it -You debris eating dog Look at my eyes and say that -You debris eating dog Brother please don't Be a police don't be a vandal Leader is coming for opening the party office This guy belongs to that area Let us handle him once the leader's visit is over I will kill you Go Come,let us go Why did you bring here without taking him to station? Sir, the MLA... Is the MLA giving you salary? This uniform has a dignity -Long live -Leader -Long live -Leader What is this bandage? Had a fall Shouldn't you be careful? -That is Singanallur Rajavelu -How are you Rajavelu? I am fine He remembers my name too! I am not asking you not to meet friends Why do you sit on the wall and invite trouble? Please don't get perturbed unnecessarily, bye I want to talk with you What? Please don't sit on the compound wall again Will you not listen to your friend? When you were caught by police I couldn't sleep throughout night I felt like crying I cried, don't know, why? I was more concerned about your safety I said I will try to become a friend But I could not.. seems it may not be possible - Will you change instead? - Go home -When you grow up what will you study? -I'll study for prime minister Gajapathy, you are trying to bring under control Coimbatore But your daughter is trying for lndia Uncle, if sister was alive now This house would have been blessed with two more kids No,These children are there to take care of the last stages For me, my brother is everything... Bye We have negotiated the price for Ganapathy theatre The intelligence you show in buying property.. -..must be there in keeping the accounts too - OK - Leader - Long live - Tell me where is he? - Anthony street... Dear, Wait for a moment Give it You may go now Start the vehicle Coming 28th is an auspicious day The ceremony at our temple too is on that day - We have informed all our relatives - What is the function? Our family deity is in Chethumadai There is an annual festival It will be very special for 2 days All of you must come without fail - Come - Brother, going to buy clothes for marriage, you also come We are buying dress for you too You come and select it yourself You go, we will come by bike Find out where he is Where is he? Sir, why are you doing like this? What do you want? Why do they break everything? How dare he touches our men? - Are you so gutsy? - He is not here How many children have you begotten? Don't hit him He doesn't know anything Prepare the bier with green plantain tree I will send your son's corpse Come -Where are those boys? - Gone to Maharaja textiles to buy dresses Is it a marriage at your friend's home? -How is your dad? -He is fine That one is better than the blue Greetings Sir Please be seated A minor problem, have come to clear that Why the MLA is sitting in the opposite shop? The MLA is sitting in your shop What is the matter? - Has a boy named Arul, come there? - Yes, son of Balan goldsmith They are waiting to beat him up when he comes out - Please go upstairs - No, we have made our purchase No, all of you go upstairs wait for 1 0 minutes, listen, go Take them upstairs and provide them seats - Hello, is it Balan goldsmith? - Yes MLA has come to assault your son If you come now, we can pacify him Even if they beat him to death Please don't inform me -Brother, you start immediately - You asked us to go upstairs Now you want us to leave immediately What is the problem? MLA is waiting outside to beat you I called and asked your dad to come Dad... What did he say? Tell me He said no need to inform him, even if you die Senthil, What happened? The MLA and his men came and damaged the workshop They have beaten our dad too Did they beat dad? -Arul don't go -Leave me -Listen Whatever happens, none of you should come out, go - Let us not - Go in, do what I say -I will.. -Brother, you just sit here How dare you touch the MLA? Have you beaten my dad? How dare you touch my dad? How unfairly they have beaten you up? B-1 Police Station Ukkadam MLA Gajapathy came to beat me I have hit him back So I surrender The MLA is already dead - Who hit him? - Someone called Arul Kumaran INTERMlSSlON MLA's party men and the press are anxiously waiting.. ..to know his condition What can we tell them? - I will tell them - Sir what happened? Your husband is alright All of you need not worry I will give you all details after one hour Doctor, why did you lie to them? He is very bad The guy who has hit him, Arul is good If the cause of death is revealed Arul's life will be spoilt by litigations So, we must create an atmosphere for two days that he is alive All of you must co-operate for that -As a professional...? -lt is not a betrayal It is wrong to say someone alive as dead Nothing wrong in saying the dead as alive to save a good man Connect the ventilator immediately It may look as if he is breathing Start lV fluid drips Connect the ECG of some other patient to the monitor Find out his blood group and hang a bottle -What is the case? -Sir, he has beaten the MLA - Why did you beat? - He hit me, I hit him back So you have hit him for self defense, is that so? -Under what section he is booked? -Under 307, attempt to murder The beaten MLA is still alive He has beaten for self defense File it as grievous hurt under section 324 Leader, MLA beaten up on the road badly Uncle.. No one should touch him in this condition Don't cry Nothing will happen to my brother Did you see your brother, how is he? No problem for my brother He is fine Your MLA will be back soon Don't worry -Where is he? -He is in the police station Leader, he is the one How dare you touch my brother? I will kill you here itself - Open the door - No sir, keep quiet - It will be a problem if I let him out - Won't you listen to me Please be patient The Press and TV personnel are there outside They will exaggerate and defame us Please be patient You have tilted my brother who stood like a mountain You are staying alive only because he is alive now If anything happens to him I will burn you inside the prison... You went inside to meet him What did he say? You met the one who hit your brother What happened? Nothing That boy expressed his regret Don't blow this out of proportion, leave it Isn't he your son? Won't you try to release him? You can meet him at least to console Mom, why all of you are silent? No one from this house will go to see him Because they are all good Only he is bad He is bad I can't undertake this case Please leave me - If you decide to help him..... - First you go away from here - Sister, this is Senthil speaking - What is the matter? Brother is caught in a police case That is why brother in law.. Oh God! He has gone to attend a meeting in Villupuram He will be back in the morning I will bring him as soon as he comes - Senthil, What happened? - He is not in station All advocates refuse to come They are afraid They will take you to jail tomorrow morning In a fix, called Thiruppathy uncle, he is not in station Why did you inform him? We didn't inform -Kanmani & Senthil informed them -Fortunately nothing happened to MLA -Else it could have been a big problem -MLA died -What are you saying? When I dragged his body itself, his pulse stopped God is helping me in some form Nothing will happen to me You may go Tirupathi, don't worry - I will arrange for bail through our company's advocate - OK Balakrishnan, I am Ramasamy speaking Must go to Coimbatore immediately, come soon Doctor, what are you going to write in the report? In their caste do they bury or cremate? They will cremate Mourning for Gajapathy Come let's go - Greetings - Come Tirupathi I saw the FlR filed under section 324, grevious hurt With 50000 Rs & 2 ration cards we can easily bail him out by evening -Arrange for money first -Thankam, I have only 1 0000 Rs Go home and get 40000 Rs Whose money it is? Am I working as a gold smith in Coimbatore.. ..or printing counterfeit currencies? Let him stay behind bars for 1 year Let us see if he reforms Are you all dumb? Can't you tell him to give money? He is also your brother What harm has he done to you? Please take it Why do you..? It is alright, please take it Have it On condition the accused Arul Kumaran must report to the.. ..concerned police station & sign registers, I release him on bail - Uncle - Yeah Our advocate has fired the plaintiff's advocate like anything - Dr.Viswanathan only helped us.. - Get an auto Why an auto? Our vehicle is there Your job is over I will take care of the rest, you go Why do you send home now? Are you concerned about my family? Please listen to me I know you can counter But whom have you beaten this time? -Brother of the one who holds the reign of this state -You are right The proverb 'with uncle's help you can climb hill' is right, come on Come dear How did you stay for I am not worried about No one came to see me at least for one day That makes me sad what wrong I have done? If I haven't hit him, he would have killed me - Then would you all been happy? - Don't talk like that son Dad did not give money to bail me out Mom, I have given my salary You could have given from that Did I eat for the entire amount? You will never overrule your hubby There is no place in this house for those who have gone to the jail Ask him to go out Is this a family? You have some defect in your tongue But for your dad the entire body is defective If one does not help his son in distress, is he a dad? - Tell that to him - Those who have driven their wife.. ..out of home is talking about morals There is nothing wrong in a hubby beating his wife But the hubby should guard her when a third person tries to beat her Neither your dad nor these stoopers will understand Don't look down and blow all the time At times look up also, you will know whether the crow is excreting or the vulture drops the snake None of you have concern even to the extent of girl in opposite house Whenever I quarrel with him I used to tell him, I have 4 brothers.. ..and they will let you go scot free If I trust you all, I will be on the streets For my kids, there is only one maternal uncle and that is Arul only -Ask your hubby to leave for Tiruppur -Of course we are leaving Don't think we are going to stay here and dine Go and bring the kids come brother-in-law Wait He has come from jail He should not land in problems again All his bad days should be over he should have a holy shower Without doing this, all of you are firing him, you sit down My son will stay here only He will not go anywhere Come, we are waiting for you only For an ordinary ear boring ceremony You have sent a car for me You are great subbiah For whom I should do? -lt is for my mother -For your mother? -What is her age? -70 -70? She wanted to do at a very young age, but couldn't do it - Now we want to do it -You want to fulfill your mom's desire.. ..even when she is 70 years old You are not an ordinary son Great son of a mother Son who doesn't disobey mother Son who has saved the mother - Just a minute, let me also dance my part -Be quick Come before the auspicious time is over Yes, yes, come quick -What is this? -She is my mother For whom did you ask to do nose boring? - For my mother only - Did you bring me to do for a corpse? - Are you calling my mother a corpse? - What else can I say? Are you calling it a corpse? Come do it Leader -Arul has come out on bail -Even before my brother's rites are over.. How did he come out on bail? Court has said he has not died due to the hits -What are you saying? -ln the doctor certificate... What is written in doctor certificate? Because he used to drink heavily, liver failure has caused the death Oh God! He doesn't drink because of that he didn't auction any wine shop Some mistake has happened Hey, who is the doctor who made that report? Bring him Where is your chief doctor? But for you,l would have been tormented by litigation - My life would have been spoiled - Someone will help good people I might be one among them, that is all Come Ruling party men came searching for you here Now they might be on their way to your home - Be alert doctor - OK Immediately lodge a complaint with police that Sethupathy's men.. ..have damaged your property and has made an attempt on your life I will deal with the rest Come Bring stones and sticks Break everything Arul what is all this? Oh God, dear What is all this? It is all broken Commissioner, what does that inspector think about himself? Knowing pretty well, they are my men He has arrested them Ask him to release them immediately FlR is filed, public has also seen He is not an ordinary man and is equivalent to a sub collector in rank He is the Government hospital dean This government is mine, don't you know? I will produce him in court tomorrow and bail him out Please don't interfere in that doctor's matter, it'll become a big issue Send any number of persons Tomorrow morning I should get the news that Arul is dead Should we go for their family deity function? He didn't agree to your proposal He has come from jail now You only think about him always, leave him - I will leave, this world - Sister That world (Heaven) is not for those without GRACE For those with no money, this world.... I will not come to the temple My esteem has been damaged here In my native place, in front of relatives, should I get disgraced? The court has acquitted him then why does he shout like this? I will not come to a place where he is present I don't know what sin we committed My son is suffering like this By not worshipping the family deity Should we invite God's wrath again? Don't know what will happen First quit this place & reach there safely - You have begot a fantastic uncle - Was it me? Uncle, he is not coming, Let us go, come Get in, load it carefully Careful, child Wait, let everyone get in They stand like the yarn loaded on a loom Shall we weave them? Go & tell your leader 1 000 men are coming with wedges for him We will come and screw those wedges Get back with your life intact - Sethupathy - Down down Are you surprised to hear shouts against you in your own den? God will not tolerate atrocities for long Yesterday you have sent 1 0 persons Today you have sent 1 00 persons Tomorrow you send 1 000 persons In the same constituency.. ..I can make 1 lakh people assemble here Do you want to see that? You can do that only in this place I have 1 000 people in each place They are hired hands All these people have sacrificed one day's wages Look here I have no enemity with your brother He came to hit me I have hit him back That is all over Leave at this Politics, property, happiness, government, power It is all nothing before my brother for me You have killed him I will not leave you The agony I suffered must be felt by you daily I want to see you lit the funeral pyre for each member of your family Have you heard this? Heard the echo for one shout of Arul? If he does it again, all of us will enter your house and tear apart We have not come for fighting Only for peace So control yourself and go in Go in He said something about the family He might say, don't take it seriously No you get back immediately Play a good tune fit for dancing come on play it His family and entire kinship has assembled at the temple festival Send Muthumari and finish him off Come, are you coming only now? Are you fine? Heard you got into some problem And you have hit some one Enough,even if you talk more he will hit you Come, let us go and worship God How are you? who are you? Muthu's brother in law Muthu's brother in law? Nothing will happen But we must be alert You said, you won't come to the temple -But you have come - What If I come? No, you said, you will not come what if I said? No uncle What do you mean by no,uncle? -Uncle -what uncle? -Why, this to me? -What do you mean by why this to me? -No uncle -what, no uncle? -Gosh -What gosh? -Aha -what Aha? I will smack you -Worship God -What do you mean by worship God? Smart guy, has become alert Was this girl not named so long? They name her only now This is a tradition followed by us For newly married,before the family deity She will be named again, same name only After marriage, you will also be named like this Why did he come here? Has he come to defame me? Ask him to go out He said, he will not come But he has come, but how can we send him out? Will he not keep quiet? If you put stone mortar in his mouth he will keep quiet But he will not keep quiet, when he sees Arul Is it soup? How about the cooking? May I know who you are? I am Muthu's brother in law I will take care, ok What he is doing beneath the palmyra tree Tell this black chap what are you doing? We are selling palmyra sap would you like to have? Does it include lime It does not Then it is toddy, give him a mug, let him drink We have to get back to temple, don't drink If drinking is defilement Bathing is the cure for it Not only that your dad scolded you in front of all -You might bear it But we can't bear it -Then die Pour some more Even if he calls me an oilcake I don't mind Is there a dad who doesn't admonish the children? Even if he calls me a clod I don't mind After all my dad called me so, so what? Even if dad's club criticizes, never mind You can react like U.N. Kinship is always testing Your dad would have been kicked by his dad If it is said to me, looking at my eyes If it is not my dad I will thrash him Even if he calls me an oilcake I don't mind Is there a dad who doesn't admonish the children? Even if he calls me a clod I don't mind After all my dad called me so, so what? July-August wind will make even the grinding stone fly If your dad becomes nutty his eyes will feel darkness The cow will kick the calf Even if it pains the calf cries only as 'Ma' If you are ill treated it pains me Even 5 bottles have not given me any stupor If the rails are not in place, the train will derail If dad is not respected entire life will become slippery If it is said to me, looking at my eyes If it is not my dad I will thrash him Even if he calls me an oilcake I don 't mind Is there a dad who doesn 't admonish the children? Even if he calls me a clod I don't mind After all my dad called me so, so what? The best toddy is the toddy from a single tree Fathers are always like that Leave it buddy The best bow is that of Arjun The best word is that of dad The biggest tyre is that of the lorry The biggest snob is that of your dad What is between me and dad is our private affair Whoever talk ill of this will find their teeth flying If it is said to me, looking at my eyes If it is not my dad I will thrash him Even if he calls me a clod I don't mind After all my dad called me so, so what? Even if dad's club criticizes, never mind You can react like U.N. Kinship is always testing Your dad would have been kicked by his dad If it is said to me, looking at my eyes If it is not my dad I will thrash him What were you doing? I was just checking the salt level The 'pooja' is not yet over why do you taste it before that? Some guy said he is a relative He has tasted the sambar What were you doing then? What can I do? He said he is Muthu's brother in law I thought he is your relative We thought he is your cook What has happened? A guy with towel was around here He has tasted the food and polluted it He claims, he is Muth's brother in law Muthu has no brother in law Call uncle Might have done some mischief Must catch him and inquire to know details Search every where You all go this side, search We are going towards bus stand Did anyone with a towel come here? Looks like a cook He just boarded the bus -Should have caught him -Why should I catch him? Look at his explanation Don't waste time by talking Quickly intercept the bus Go fast Wait, It is said, should not move when hit by a crow Get me a mug of water Seems the crow is in agony Must have consumed something Seems it has consumed rice Can't hear the drum beats then 'pooja' is over Would have offered first food to the crow -Perhaps.... -You are right -Oh god... -He has brought water Don't eat the food Some one has poisoned the food Some party fellow might have done it Don't eat Why do you torment me like this? To kill you, they would have killed 500 people? Who asked you to come here? I don't know what sin I have committed? All sins have come in your form My honour and prestige has gone All because of him What are you talking? Any other dad would have been proud If his son saves 500 lives But you are admonishing him put the entire blame on him He has beaten the MLA, because he has hit you I have seen dad's who feel for.. ..their ward even if he is a thief But I am seeing a dad here who hates his son who is like by all Stop you young girl His siblings are quiet You talk loudly as if you have shared his bed Dad Don't cry Kanmani, don't cry Not sharing bed But going to share life with me To kill our family, he has targeted the whole village Will he keep quiet? Before he strikes us We must strike him Then only he will have a fear over us Don't worry I can bring the entire Tiruppur to coimbatore Break the boards first Break everything If you hide, will we leave you? Arul has entered the party office and is assaulting all What are you doing there? In the name of party have you not swindled public money? No one should be inside Drive them all out Thanks Arul You have got back my house for me This is the house document. Give back when I return from Delhi People's party office has been encroached by you I have received complaints to this effect We know, who has send you And why you have come See this, the agreement we have signed with the house owner Stop it He is asking us to vacate the shop And is atrociously attacking us If you extract money in the name of exorbitant interest I will kick you, your leader and party men in the streets Go away In today's circumstances, running the mill is very difficult Sethupathy's men demanded party funds, election funds And has troubled us a lot Because we didn't give money They have instigated Workmen to go on strike against the management They forced us to pay unwanted taxes Today Arul is opposing sethupathy We must rally behind him Must provide him money and support Look, the party office colour has changed Take her inside What is all this? Though the marriage was not done formally We should honour the traditional routines Sit down Though my daughter has gone for an independent house Her in law's place is this only When my son married your daughter on that day I was worried that you would block it on the grounds, that he has been imprisoned If I were to do that I should do that for my hubby also Kanmani's dad is in Rangoon jail Two years ago, in a business scuffle He attacked him and was jailed Now my brother is looking after that business Next year he will be released from jail Till date, even my daughters don't know about this Who has not done wrongs? Circumstances make them do so Auntie come, Are you fine? - I am fine We have a tradition to name the new daughter in law at our family temple What is it? Before God, you would be named again when can we go? That is for those who marry at a different place I have married her at our temple That can be done later -Not that - Dear.. Iisten to me Aunty wants us to do some naming at temple Why do you refuse? Don't you know what it is? I don't know I will smack you you were asking about it to sister in law How do you know that? I eavesdropped Naughty guy You have married me twice Do you know? -How? -One is an yellow thread And the other one a white thread Do you still keep it with you? So far nothing good has happened in our constituency After his death, now it is a good time for us People need not get loans for exorbitant interest and forego their property against the loan,hereafter We should follow whatever Arul says If Arul is contesting against Sethupathy It is good for Jeeva nagar people If Arul has a problem All of us should join together You should have weeded him out when he was a plant Now he has grown like a tree and is opposing you Ukkadam and Jeeva nagar people support him Show him what will happen If he opposes one in office Stop electricity, water, ration & everything Let them not have water for bathing drinking and even in toilets Let it stink He thinks, this will solve the problem What is this? whether is night or daytime, there is no power EB people say, if you oppose ruling party men You will have to bear the consequences Water has stopped, what to do? Grandma, is there no water here also? No water at all Sit down What is the matter? There is no water and electricity in our area And we are suffering a lot This is all because of Sethupathy You only have the courage and boldness to oppose them You can bring light to us Yes I will take care Give water Are you not ashamed to say nothing can be done At the opportune time set fire to the Jeeva nagar huts If you do like this no one will vote for us We can cast those votes All of you come quick They have set fire to huts Save my child My house is on fire save my child Fortunately she came out and saw him Otherwise entire huts would have been burnt That people's party men has set ablaze He has killed my child Party leader Sethupathy is coming to console Stop there, if you step forward I will cut off your legs You have killed the child Have you come now to console? After setting fire, have you come to console? Just because they support me, you have burnt their house If all of them unite, do you know what will happen? Did I set fire? what basis you say this? There is an eyewitness, to the incident They have seen your man setting fire You have named your party as People's Party What have you done for the people? Because you are in power and in office you are behaving like this You have killed my child You will be doomed Have you seen this child? Take it from me If your party men contest here I will kill him, whoever he may be I swear on this dead child, go away I could have shot him the other day when he has hit me But my dependent invalid, Another sister who refuses to get married When elder sister is yet to be married have tied down me I am tolerating their atrocities If they are alive, no one can live peacefully You are doing what I could not do I am very happy about it Whatever help you need I will do What is it you are thinking so seriously? Nothing, 5000Rs is missing -5000 missing, when? -Yesterday night You claim you are a union leader for 5000 people Can't you keep 5000Rs safely? Don't you have common sense? Have you found out who has taken it? I have found out Then kick him and get the money He is a relative, so I am hesitant Don't look for all this, when he is doing this Thrash him so you want me to hit him When you have said it, why should I hesitate? I have taken it why didn't you say this earlier? I was trying get away, but couldn't do it What have you done with that money? I have purchased silver for Rs 5000 I landed in a small problem What is that? How did you get this? My brother in law has send it from Singapore I will give 50,000 Rs worth silver for Rs 5000 I don't want this will get trapped in police case, go Are you worried about that? Yes I will give in writing that I have sold it You give in writing that you have purchased it That is right, you give in writing Have this Do you keep it ready? All shop keepers ask for it Do they ask for it? All shopkeepers are brilliant people Sign it Get Rs 5000 Hold it Bring it Ah! this is a brick - Useless fellow - Why this? - For being a fool If you have spent Rs 5000 usefully I can understand But you have purchased a brick for Rs 5000 Are you trying to assault me? stay there stay there, you fool He is dead I used to walk through streets with fear Never knew when a decayed egg or acid filled egg will be thrown at Now I come very peacefully All this is because of your son Like 'soorasamharam' by Lord Muruga He has thrashed the MLA You should be very proud as Arul's father -Aunty -How are you? What do I lack? Your son looks after me very well How are you uncle? You are just 4 streets away Can't you come to our house once? Seems uncle is still angry with us I will come later Ok Today I saw uncle The one in Rangoon?, has he come? I saw your parents at the temple Say Father in law Yes I should thank him really Had he not admonished you will you have dragged me married me and brought me here? Even now you have married me, because he scolded you Have you ever said to me 'l love you '? If I don't love you, will I get biriyani for you? Biriyani? I don't eat biriyani Then have you forgotten those leg pieces? That was before marriage, now I have changed -Eat for my sake - I can't I am telling you, come on eat God does not like atrocities Arul does not like dirty talks Kanmani doesn't like if you boss over What will you do? Look at me and say that What will you do? Look at my eyes and say that? What will you do? Sudaamani, you are blowing hot Don't rage, you have become red Sudaamani, you are blowing hot Don't rage, you have become red You are threatening me like a rogue Injuring my cheeks with your moushtache I will get you chicken Biriyani, come Don't eat like a glutton and sleep Don't yearn for it after dawn, you will have it Give your concurrence with fondness On a white horse I will come majestically Coimbatore girl, I will run away with you Even if you beg, I will not let you go Why do you behave arrogantly? Why do you unnecessarily wag? I will not lose the hide and seek game Even if you beg I will not give myself If I kiss you like ants Sweet sugarcane what will you do? You are showing all your skills and trying to gauge me Shall I come near shall I come near you? - Shall I contain you? - Gosh! Sudaamani, you are blowing hot Don't rage, you have become red You are threatening me like a rogue Injuring my cheeks with your moustache You are a hot betel leaf Oh my dear! Oh my dear! Has your desire not subsided? Has your moustache not drooped? Male hands are always naughty If a girl is near males will try to fondle her You are stirring my age You are churning my mind Women always talk more when they see males, talk innuendo's If housewife become adamant what will you do? Even if you do mistake will fondle you and enjoy If you are not alert, will bite your ear You are a ruffian and are trying to steal If I request you go overboard when I become tough you request Sudaamani, you are blowing hot Don't rage.. Sudaamani, you are blowing hot Don't rage, you have become red You are threatening me like a rogue Injuring my cheeks with your moustache I will get you chicken Biriyani, come Don't eat like a glutton and sleep Don't yearn for it after dawn, you will have it Give your concurrence with fondness By-election in Kovai west constituency Official announcement by Election Commission We have assembled here to decide the candidate For the ensuing by-election Why did you laugh? I thought about the scapegoat and laughed Can Arul compete with ruling party candidate? He has killed the party leader's brother in the streets and is still going strong what you couldn't do then will you do now? If all of you keep quiet what does it mean? This is my family's constituency Block secretary, you have fractured your hands for party's sake It is your cherished wish to become an MLA You can contest Do you mean me? More than me KM can get more community votes here If he contests, would defenitley win I don't have any such desires I will remain as a party worker Even the last party worker must participate in governance That is my desire KM you are the candidate This is an order by your party chief I propose his candidature I second his candidature Which party people? When election is announced, they will become busy, Look how fast they walk Stop, why do you go in a procession inside the office? - Who are you all? - We belong to opposition party -Which means? -We will sit opposite & block proceedings - Where are you going now? - To get support -After getting support? -Will become MLA We could not get that support that is why we are waiting here For your face, who will give support all of you go out -Why should we go out? -Those who have rushed in will rush out Shouldn't you give him way? Go away Like assembly, why do you strip your dhoti? In politics, it will happen everywhere So what? Will your big moustache frighten me? Don't think I will be scared Stingy fellows Once they come out, take them away, else I'll kill you If you can extend your support to us in the ensuing election We will meet your expectations and do good to the people I am not a politician and I don't know politics But I know one thing for sure For 1 2 years Sethupathy's brother As MLA has spoiled this constituency We will surely do good Believe us If they contest the election I will kill them Your party men can contest But after winning the election.. If you do wrongs, I will kill him also I am not opposing politics I am opposing bad politicians only If people have trust on you, you will definitely win, bye -What is the matter? -Greetings, commissioner wants to meet you Inform I am coming -Sit down -No thanks Did you threaten people's party Krishnamurthy? I am an ordinary person Why should I threaten him? - I have not even seen him - So you have surely not threatened him - No sir - OK you may go Sir, so far I talked officially I want to talk with you unofficially Will you switch off the tape recorder? Are you wondering, how I know that you are recording? I know the strengths of officials and the weaknesses of politicians Sir, tell me honestly were you not unhappy over the atrocities.. ..committed by Sethupathy and Gajapathy Have you not felt, they should be put behind bars even once? Even if you want, you can't do it Because you are a government official I am just fulfilling your helpless emotions It might be wrong in the eyes of your department But deep in your heart, you will feel what I do is right I don't want your support but be a silent spectator, that will do Take it from me From Sethupathy's party who ever contests, I will kill Bye Ask that Krishnamurthy to come come Arul says he has never threatened you file your nomination boldly Rest we will take care which one, my death? Will commissioner be with you for 24 hrs? Do you sleep hugging him? Even then, if the ceiling fan falls on your head, what will you do? -lt will surely fall -He is again threatening me You are alright, you have no cardiac problems I also know that But if I go out, I will be killed I will lie here for 10 days Say I have a cardiac attack This was a ruse done by me Is he showing me the same trick? No point in trusting you guys, who fear death - Call up Palayamkottai Kasilingam - Yes leader I will make him the candidate who can oppose him? Line is busy, seems his phone is engaged -Have you seen him? Follow him -I am trailing him -Tell me the location He has crossed the twin bridge I'll also join, I've crossed the twin bridge Chellapandian is going near the traffic island -Where is he going? -He is going to the right - Go fast -He is crossing the road -I have come close He is the guy, hit him -Poor fellow, untimely demise Pay the fine and come -OK Kasi, I am sethupathy here -Tell me leader -lmmediately come to Coimbatore - OK Why are you standing in hot sun dear? I was waiting for you only Were you waiting for me? What is the matter? My ear stud has fallen in the tank Will you take it out for me? Is your stud in this tank? For your sake, I will jump into the sea also, just see I will not come without the stud Is it stinking too much? this is our house septic tank Is it a septic tank? It is ok, after all it is our tank What a stink is this? This is a trade secret - Just like we sieve the gold sand I can get your stud - Take it Thank God! This is the last bucket this must be seived thoroughly Has the tank been cleaned? Many thanks Yet to get your ear stud, why do you thank me now? -You have already taken it -Which one? - The sludge - What about stud? - Here it is Don't be upset, the drain was blocked for the last 1 0 days ..the corporation guys asked for Rs 50 So I told you I have lost my ear stud But you are really fast You have cleaned it Good boy! Sinner She has made me clean this sludge Come, what do you want? Want to check the voter's list Give us your ration card We are newly married, we don't have a card for us -Come after 1 0 minutes, I'll get card from my in-law's place -OK - Brother - What? - Get ration card from our house and his house - Yes madam -Your name? - Kanmani - It is there Your husband's name? Arul Kumaran Baladhandayuthapani, Sornammal, Thirukumaran, Velkumaran, Senthil -Before that Arul Kumaran will be there - It is not there Check again I have checked, check for yourself Mom!! Mom, am I not your son? Did you not give me birth? Is that man my dad? My name is not there in ration card How come it is missing? Who gave names? Am I so unwanted? Atleast girls can have husband's name in initials after marriage But males, have to use dad's name in initials, no other go He may say I am not his son But for me, till my death he is my dad Otherwise it will be a stigma on you I don't want to defame you Go, all of you Have you heard him? No one can give troubles to one's son more than this? For some of his wrongs, in my anger I didn't give his name I have even said my son is dead But have I ever said he is not my son? Uncle.. The jewels were not stolen by Arul It was done by him Arul also knows about this But till date he has not talked a word about it.. ..and has safeguarded his esteem Safeguarding it Greetings - Greetings leader - Come Kasi I was roaming with weapons You have now called me to politics -Bless you - Bring that, all of them call me bad But you have displayed huge hoardings for me You come victoriously I can get you a ministerial berth After the public meeting, file nomination tomorrow Leave it to me I'll show my prowess in the public meeting This is not an introductory meeting This must be Arul's doom - Change the route and finish him off - Arul has come to meet you Ask him to come, check him thoroughly before you let him Why so many mobile phones? Are you running a brothel? All guys are caught with mobile phones Sit down Heard you would kill me if I contest elections How many you have killed so far? Do you know about me? You are a big rowdy and is eking out a living with a sickle You have a roaring profession why do you interfere in this? Are you counselling me? I am not counseling telling you to run away wisely -What are you saying? -You might be a big thug in Tirunelveli But as for as Coimbatore is concerned, I know I know which is 'one way', which is a no parking area.. .. and number of speed breakers and signals, do you know? I can drive blind folded and reach the target, can you? - I am from Tambiraparani river banks - I am from Siruvani river banks You have grown with sickle But I have grown amidst bomb blasts If I kick you on the run do you know to get back to your place? Do you know..........(CENSORED) God does not like atrocities I don't like abuses -What will you do? Look at me and repeat it ..................(CENSORED) Look at my eyes and say that ..................(CENSORED) Put it down Put the phone down Put it down Hey you! Do you know how many more are there? Get back to your place If you conduct a public meeting Do that and see what happens........ What is this? He has blasted bombs and is going I am not scared of these toy bombs Arrange for the meeting I am garlanding leader Kasilingam I am prepared to toil for you day in and day out Whatever may be the hurdles I will return victoriously Thanks Kasilingam is a jasmine nurtured at Nellai He is a water lily blossomed in the night He has come here hopping He will win the elections....... - You have defied me and conducting the meeting - Who are you? Just see, now there will be a power failure -Where are you? -See now, your hoarding will be blasted Now it is the turn for your leader's hoarding You......(CENSORED) Where are you? -Leave that The dias won't be there now-Escape if possible Get down & run Start the vehicle Are you running away scared? Who is scared? Right now I'll bring 5 lorry loads of men and see to it that you are finished Before you bring the lorry... ..see whether a lorry is in front of you? Is there a lorry behind you? If the lorry in front stops and the lorry behind rams into your car Do you know what will happen? - Where are you? Just turn behind You will hit men with your car But I will hit car with lorries Shall l? Driver stop the car Arul leave me, I know only about daggers and sickle I don't know about bombs I will go Ok, I will let you live Start the vehicle quickly That guy got admitted in hospital Then people went raving about Palayamkottai Kasilingam But he has also run away fearing your brother - Are you not scared? - No I am not But your eyes doesn't reveal the courage of your lips I am daily praying God for his well being Nothing will happen to him My husband is with him He will take care -What? -I want to know either of the two - What is that two? - Will you marry me or not? When did I say I will marry you? Then is your dance, songs and talks with me a farce? - You can take it that way - Sir.. Sir.. If you don't marry I will marry her and make her my wife Don't worry, I have I will transfer that to your name Why did you marry that beggar in haste? I am loving you dearly - Really - Yes - Then swear on my head - Not true Dont feel for it If we give 1 0 Rs she will give it back Have this 1 0Rs and give me the chain back Is the sacred thread so cheap to you? For each lady that is the protection I am a Tamilnadu beggar Come and live with me All of you come what happened? He is trying to decieve me after marrying me After marrying,is he deceiving? Are beggares so mean to you? Don't leave him, lift him Wait When you beg along with your wife, come to our house I will give you 4 idli's extra Kasilingam has fled without giving information CM is on the line You brought a rowdy from Palayamkottai He has run away This has spoiled the party's image I am the party chief,mind it Lot of them question us in party meetings I don't know what to do? Seems there will be inner party squabbles Today is the last day for filing nomination What have you decided? In my own soil, despite being the ruling party Couldn't find a candidate to contest I am going to contest Leader I will contest You said you will not contest the electons Why do you contest now? circumstancial compulsions Because Arul has popular support It is said you couldn't do anything You go away Go all of you Your partyman's refusal has not made you wise Are you going to contest? File the nomination and see the fun I will kill you on the spot Are you going to kill me? At 4'O'clock I am going to file the nomination Before that his family members count must come down Push him into the car Take him to the same place where they have killed my brother Senthil,my son what has happened to you? Oh my son, Senthil Who did this? Why did they kill my son? Senthil Oh God! Mother Oh God! Rowdies strike frequently Politicians wait for the right time to strike I am a politician you must cry People must die in your house That is your destiny Those with brothers need not fear any force With uncle's support you can climb any mountain You will not have that uncle also Why do you cry? Don't weep dear, Get him 2 baloons Uncle where are you? I am in the exhibition Who are all with you? Your sister and children None of our men are with you? Why,is there any problem? They have killed senthil How did it happen? Uncle Go fast What happened? why are you running? Have attacked a man Attacked?, Oh God Dear Bakkiam Dear Move Move away -Arul -Keep quiet Start the vehicle Don't leave them If you leave them, even these children will not survive It is nothing -Bakkiam -Daddy Do you know one thing? If you lose your partner,everything is lost You would have understood the next target You be here Move away Where is Kanmani? she has gone to her mother's house Dear Dear Body has not yet come from the hospital Kanmani, my life is gone My life has become like this Children have become orphans What will I do? Don't weep I only killed your husband I didn't intend to kill him But he died Do you know for his death, you only cry But the entire village is happy No one has found fault with me, why? Do you know, he has made how many women widows? Don't worry about the dead and spoil the life of your children I am arresting you for injuring Sethupathy's men Beloved Arul - Release him Beloved Arul - Release him Arul kumar'supporters indulge in agitations as cited by police, to avoid deterioration of Law and order I remand him to custody At Salem central jail for 1 5 days -Leader -Long live -Leader -Long live -Leader -Long live -Leader -Long live -Leader -Long live Stop the vehicle -Leader -Long live Why this much crowd Leader himself is contesting the elections He will have a sweeping victory Move away -Leader -Long live Move away, move Greetings Greetings Greetings collector Greetings, come be seated -Leader -Long live -Leader -Long live -Leader -Long live Normally they shout only when they see him Now they shout even after he has gone in What are you doing outside? One guy is on a chopping spree inside What are you saying sir? What is happening there? Break open What were you doing out? Ramanathan where are you? I am proceeding to Salem Jail where is Arul? He is with me sir Dont tell lies He has killed the peoples party leader here How can he come there when he is with me? Give the phone to him As per lPC I need not give he phone to an accused If you want you can meet him in person At Avinashi road our van is waiting We will go in that We have to prove Arul was not in the van to make him the accused Inform Avinashi check post Ok sir Ask highways patrol to follow the van Ok sir Inspector is on the line Arul where are you? We have crossed Karumathampatti Highway police is following me Before I reach Avinashi checkpost join me Check post is how far? Between police and you? I will somehow reach there Who has parked like this? Where is Arul? -Tell me - He is in the vehicle do you want to talk to him? AFTER 6 MONTHS
