 

                        Aryan, I think today's fight is going to be tough Why? Are you fighting in my place? - I'm not joking. I saw him practice Don't worry. Once I break him mentally, he'll forget all this practice How will you break him mentally? By boxing? Or by debate? You won't understand these technical details Such overconfidence, Aryan? This is not good Stop the sermon. Check if Neha is here. - All right Hello? - Neha, where are you? You're late Neha! Neha! Neha! Driver, let's go. - The lady is going out, baby Neha, listen.. Damn! This girl will give me a heart attack someday Aryan, I don't need to tell you.. how important this match is for us You can go to the nationals only if you win this one Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Inter College Boxing Competition The final is between Raj Khatri and Aryan Verma Aryan Verma has been the champion for the last three years If he wins again this time, he'll represent Maharashtra at the nationals You better look at me when I'm talking to you Where's she? - I phoned. Must be reaching Finals of the Inter college boxing competition. Aryan versus Raj Both the boxers checking out each other. The public is very excited. C'mon Aryan Raj and Aryan facing each other once again. Raj attacks this time Left, right.. Aryan is backing off What has happened to you? Where's the concentration, dammit? What about your combinations? Don't lose focus The competition is getting tougher. Many people have gathered. There seems to be some problem. Aryan, don't lose focus Aryan! Where the hell have you been? I've been waiting for you I'm so sorry, I'm late, baby Aryan! Go, get him, tiger. - You better pay attention.. to what I'm saying! Aryan and Raj are preparing for the final round Raj got a briefing from his coach. And the final round begins. Ladies and gentlemen, the final round of the Inter College boxing competition Raj is leading. But we have to see that it's the last chance for Aryan. Aryan and Raj face-to-face. Aryan versus Raj.. a great punch from Aryan, and Raj is down Will he get up? The referee is counting Aryan seems confident he won't get up. Let's see if this is the final shot Raj is back on his feet! Aryan still confident Raj is back again Raj facing Aryan. Aryan is still aggressive. Raj has fallen back.. Aryan seems quite aggressive in this round Raj delivers a right, Aryan ducks and is back with an upper cut One more upper cut and what a flurry of punches! And that's a right hook. Is that the final punch of this tournament? Raj is floored over there! Aryan looking very confident Will Raj get up again? Will this take Aryan Verma to the nationals? Will he represent Maharashtra.. ? And that's the end of it! Yeah! Aryan Verma has won.. ..this tournament, ladies and gentlemen. Simply sensational. What a comeback! What a comeback in the final round! This guy Aryan. "Aryan Verma's unbreakable streak continues" You say that you are hot. Come on and show me what you got. Are you worth me or not? "Look at me once, my love" "I swear, I'll hold you in my heart" "Look at me, once" "I swear, I'll hold you in my heart" "O my beautiful sweetheart, take my heart" "I want nothing else in return, just give me your heart" "Why are you far away from me, my love?" "Without you, my heart is so helpless" "I worship you for no want, " "I consider you god, you are my pride" "Why are you far away from me, my love?" "Without you, my heart is so helpless" "O my beautiful sweetheart, take my heart" "I want nothing else in return, just give me your heart" "When you are with me, " "I see hues of love everywhere" "Why should we be afraid of the world, my love.. ?" "since we love each other" "When you are with me, " "I see hues of love everywhere" "O my beautiful sweetheart, take my heart" "I want nothing else in return, just give me your heart" "Look at me once, my love" "I swear, I'll hold you in my heart" Watch your upper guard. Good, very good C'mon, move your feet Your footwork.. that's good, very good Your hands up Here comes my tiger Everybody! Listen to me This is Ranjeet. Just joined college I saw him fight in Delhi last month He is very good. Great potential And he's going to be in my team for the nationals Sir, I will not let you down. I will work hard You will have to work hard If a boxer is overconfident, he is as good as a loser Never be overconfident, okay? Come on everybody, back to work Ranjeet, the nationals are only three months away And I want your full focus only on your training No distractions at all, understand? - Yes sir By the way, you don't have an affair going, have you? No sir. Not at all Even if you have, forget her. Just imagine that.. Come in Good morning, sir Morning Where were you yesterday? I kept looking for you Me? Why were you looking for me? Yesterday's win was very important for us, and all the credit goes to you Me? No, I don't think so Aryan, I think you must bring your girlfriend to the gym everyday She will train you, you won't miss out on your romance either Am I not right? What are you saying, sir? Are you angry with me? Aryan, what you did inside the ring before the girl showed up.. made me feel ashamed of myself Before an ordinary boxer, you had lost your confidence.. ..your focus, everything Dammit! That bout should've ended in the third round itself You've made a mockery of my training and my coaching And I don't think you are interested in the nationals Sorry, sir. It won't happen again Inside the ring, you must only see your opponent's face And your punch on his face If you want to become a champion, keep your punch to yourself, not with your girlfriend I don't want to see that girl around you. Is that clear? Yes sir Now go, get back in the ring Hi Aryan. - Hi Ranjeet. I saw your fight yesterday. You are outstanding Thanks. The coach was praising you also And congratulations. You've already been selected for the national team We'll train together, I want to learn something from you Pleasure. Take care. - Take care. Bye Table number four. - Yeah I'm bored, baby. Shall we go? You ask me everyday, and everyday I tell you that.. ..I can't leave before nine Jugs is upstairs. Why don't you go upstairs? I'll join you soon Promise? - Promise Thank you. Yeah. I know. Hey Mark, someone is taking my pictures over there Well, fatso? Don't you ever take a photograph of my girlfriend again I'll smash you What's up? How're you doing? - Not bad. How're you doing? You're looking very beautiful tonight. - Thank you, Mark Take care. Bye. - Bye guys Why are you so scared? I christen you again Scared fatso I'm not scared. Look at that blackie He thinks he's Salman Khan I'll smash him Wow, Jugs! These are mind-blowing. Who took them? I took the photographs, who else? - Don't joke Who are you praising? - Jugs' photographs. Wow I've been telling him to take this professionally. He'll be a sensation If I don't become an engineer, dad will kill me I'll talk to your dad You will reason with him? - Yes. I'm your friend What will you be doing? - Boxing After college? - Boxing You will starve to death. What will you feed Neha? Boxing gloves? I'm talking about your career. - I'm also talking about my career I wish to become a boxer. - If horses could fly.. ? I'll be as great as Sehwag and Sachin. - That happens in cricket, not boxing Dhanraj Pillai, Michael Fereira, Geet Sethi, Leander Paes.. are they cricketers? - Good research But boxing won't feed you. You'll lose a few teeth, that's all Right, Neha If my teeth break, let them. But I won't shatter my own dream All I know is that if I'm sincere with my boxing, I'll earn money and fame I'm born to be a boxer I can't think beyond that, I don't want to achieve anything else Aryan, when you talk like this, I feel great Why? - Because you're a fighter Aryan, when you talk like this, I get dead scared Why? - No wonder you are scared fatso Hi Deepak. How are you? I hope you all are enjoying the party? Aren't you having anything? Waiter, serve them Manju.. - Devika How are you, sweetheart? - Thank you, darling You've organised a great party for Chirag Come on, Manju. You are my best friend And Chirag is like my son Devika aunty, where's Neha? Wait for a while, she should be on her way Kiran, I remember very well. I saw a thousand girls before marrying I used to go for the final selection and then run away An ass would never appreciate saffron At least don't call my wife an ass. - I meant you No need to laugh, your wife is coming I was saying that, Infotech is profitable scrip. I'm not joking Hello. - Hello Kiran. - Yes. Excuse me. - Excuse me. Wife calling This girl is strange. She is not here as yet. Look Kiran.. I haven't organised this party for any Manju, I don't want to do any charity All my friends' daughters are present here, while my own is absent Call up and find out where she is. Do you understand that? And do it fast. - Okay Neha, you are.. - I'm getting bored, baby Why don't you make it fast and scoot? - Get into the habit I don't have servants like your father. - Fine, we'll be shopping together then Not together, only you What will you do then? - Enjoy Male chauvinistic pig! - You're always hitting me I love you. - I love you too Oh shit! It's daddy. - Answer it If I do, I'll have to go. And I don't like to leave you I don't like to leave you too. But if you don't go, your mom will get to my house. Come on, you got to rush Okay, bye Take care. I'll see you later Sexy, isn't he? Aunt, promise me I'll find Neha here next time I come Of course, son. - Thanks a lot, aunt Bye Kailash. - Bye Bye. - Bye, Devika. - Bye. Another new car. - Bye. Bye. How much? - 19 Here. Neha! - What's up, dad? Stupid girl, where the hell were you? Didn't you know we had a party here? Chirag and his parents just left waiting for you Thank God, I'm saved! It's impossible to tolerate Mrs Chopra And her American model Chirag.. he'd either talk about new models of BMW, Oh yes, that's what he was telling me. - Always harping about America America flunkey! - I know And his mental level is.. - Found time to come home at last? Forget his mental level, fix your mom's mental level first I haven't seen an irresponsible girl like you. I strictly told you, to be present at tonight's party. I also told you that.. I had organised it especially for Manju and her son All the daughters in the world were here, and my own daughter was missing Everyone was asking only about you Because of you I had to speak lies at my own party And you had no time to even call? Mama, I had chemistry practicals Shut up If you miss one chemistry practicals, the world's chemistry won't change You've spoilt yourself going around with loafers Especially for that good-for-nothing Aryan Don't say anything about my friends. - See how she defends them? If you can't do much, at least control your dear daughter My child, control yourself. We've given you a phone, you must call You can't get a boy like Chirag under the sun And here's a careless girl who can't see him All the girls love him. And you.. ? If you lose him, you'll regret all your life I'm tired of you both. I'm just so sick of you both What have I.. ? See how mummy speaks to me? Am I a ten year old kid? I feel very insulting, you know. - My little darling Now I get it. It has hurt my daughter's ego Dad, how long have you known me? - Not that long.. about 18 years.. and three months. - Have I ever done anything wrong? No. Never. Who says? Then why does Ma finds faults in me and my friends? She even finds faults in me. So what? Dad, jokes aside. - Okay, okay You must meet Aryan He's a great boxer. He's going to be a national champ this year Really? - Yes Then I must meet him. When will you introduce me to the champ? Really, dad? - Yes Oh, no. He's not home The key to his house Listen.. - Yes Mrs Braganza? Tell the boy not to make much noise He watches TV till 2 in the night, we can't sleep I'll complain to the cops. - Okay, Mrs Braganza Listen.. - Yes? Come here Do you love him? Yes, Mrs Braganza Don't marry him He's so dirty. He stinks Yuck Oh, God. Forget love, had I known before, I wouldn't even have spoken to him He'll spray cologne, but he won't wash clothes Animal Mrs Braganza is right, he stinks You are more of a punching bag than a friend. Hi Hey guys! - Come here But Aryan, you said the maid is on leave I'll fix you now, fatty! Do I look like a maid? Sorry, Neha Hi. - Hi Neha, that's Ranjeet. - Just joined college, got into the national team rightaway. And this is Neha Aryan's.. - Maid Right. - Ranjeet, what will you have? Omelette? Scrambled? Or fruit? Scrambled eggs. - For all the exercises they do, you get hungry. - So? Anyway, sit. Be comfortable. - Okay Feel at home. - Thanks Aryan. You know what? Papa has invited you over dinner Papa invites me over dinner? Or your mom invites me for a thrashing? Sorry.. wanted some water Sure You won't have anything? - Nothing Have something at least. Eggs. Scrambled, boiled.. ? I'll leave now. See you at the practice tomorrow. Okay? Bye.. bye. - Bye Bye Jugs Bye, see you. Take care. - Bye Neha. Take care What's our programme for Valentine's today? To each his own. - Meaning? She's waiting for you to leave. - And you? He'll go with me. Now will you leave? Or shall I see you off? But I.. - Get up Aryan, look at her. She's throwing me out Bye Hello? - Hello? Hello? - Hello? Hello? - Hello? Hello? Who's that girl in your house? - No girl, sir. It's the maid I thought you are at it again Not at all, sir. No girls for another couple of months That's right. You have promised me. - Yes. Promise, sir All right. Be at the gym at 6 am tomorrow Sharp at six, sir. - Bye What the hell.. ? It was the coach Hey Neha, listen.. I've heard what I had to. You've promised not to meet your girlfriend Neha, my coach thinks that you are a distraction for me. Please Where are you going? Oh come on I love you. - Please let me go I don't wanna talk to you. - I got a gift for you Show me It's Ma's. She would've wanted you to wear it Good evening, Mrs Braganza. - No room in your house, eh? Do whatever you want to in your house. Shameless Bloody loafer! How dare he! "It's a beautiful day" "It's a beautiful day" "It's a beautiful day" "You are with me, " "It's a beautiful day" "it's special" "Your eyes say something to mine, " "in signs" "in signs" "Eyes understand only the language of the eyes" "How two hearts meet.. " "I just found out" "I just found out" "Look, a love-story has begun" "Can I kiss you tonight?" "Can I hold you so tight?" "Can I make you all mine?" "Can I make you smile?" "When I look into your eyes, get the feel you love." "Because if you look into my eyes you will know. I wanna be your lover." "I wanna be your lover." "When I look into your eyes, get the feel you love." "It's a beautiful night" "It's a moonlit night." "It's a beautiful night" "romance in the air" "The night urges us to make a promise" "Let's make it" "Take me in your arms, and whisper something to me, my love" "Intoxicate me tonight, " "says silence" "says silence" "Swear that you will never leave me" "Can I kiss you tonight?" "Can I hold you so tight?" "Can I make you all mine?" "Can I make you smile?" "Can I kiss you tonight?" "Can I hold you so tight?" "Can I make you all mine?" "Can I make you smile?" "Going to hold you, kiss you, touch you." "Come. Let me feel your body." "Oh, my." "Going to hold you, kiss you, touch you." "Come. Let me feel your body." "Oh, my honey." "Going to hold you, kiss you, touch you." "Come. Let me feel your body." What are you doing? - Nothing Coming out to eat something? - Go on, I'll join you I'm outside Dammit Come on! - I'm sorry sir I tried it for the first time. My mistake, sir Come with me. - Forgive me, sir If I forgive you, I can't be unfair to honest players Boxing is not my profession, it's my life In my career of 20 years, you're the first pupil who dared to take steroids After my report, you will never be able to box again Sir, please don't do that. I promise, I won't do this again Sir, if you complain, my career will be ruined I promise, I'll never take steroids. Please forgive me, sir Forgive me, sir I won't report you. But you will be punished for this And the punishment is, you are out of the national team No, no sir.. don't do this, sir. Please! It'll ruin my career Don't do this to me, sir. Don't do this to me, sir. Ranjeet, the coach never enters the changing room. Why this time? When you were taking steroids, did anyone see you? Someone might've squealed. - No dearth of envious people Forget it. You'll give it back What are you doing? - Nothing What have you done? Don't you have brains, duffer? Wasn't it an easy task? What are you paid for? Who told you to use your brains? Couldn't you have asked me? Bloody idiot! Stupid Neha? Come in, sit.. come on What's up? Dad.. - Go on, I'm listening, dear Dad, I've committed a grave mistake Goodness me! My daughter has committed a grave mistake Let me hear I'm sorry, dad. I made a huge mistake What happened, Neha? Neha. What's the matter? Tell me Look, if you don't tell your daddy, how will he help you? I'm feeling scared. Tell me, what is it? Speak, child. - I'm pregnant, dad Neha, whatever you have done is not good I want to meet Aryan Dad, don't meet Aryan He's not capable of taking these responsibilities right now He's very ambitious. If he finds out, he'll forsake everything for my sake If he loves you, he should do that Please dad, just try to understand I love him dearly I don't want to see him at a crossroad where he'll have to choose.. between me and his ambitions. - He is at the crossroad And he himself is responsible! He can't run away from this In fact, he should be standing by your side right now And if he doesn't, I'll think.. - Please dad Neha, I'm a father. And nothing is greater for me than your happiness Besides, marriage doesn't kill ambitions He can pursue them later. Yes, if there's a problem.. we are around. Who does all this belong to? But right now, if he's using his ambitions and dreams.. to escape from you, then he is very selfish and self-centred person No dad, he is not selfish, he's a fighter He'll never accept help from anyone, even if he breaks If it happens, I'll never be able to forgive myself Please dad, I beg of you Hey, here. What? - What? Aryan! Aryan! Aryan! Where are you going? Come back. Come back, fatso Where are you going? Forget it Why are you so glad? Just kidding It's been three days, Neha didn't call. She's not answering my calls either The two of you have got into the habit of staying stuck She must be busy. You must give each other some space Get it? Aryan! Excuse me.. Dr Chandra? - Straight Kiran, I've seen Neha's reports Your daughter is definitely pregnant But if you want, in a day or two, we can go for her operation Okay Excuse me.. can I help you? Aryan, when I found out, I thought of calling you first Then I don't know what happened.. maybe I just got scared You didn't even tell me? - I didn't want to disturb you.. You took such a big decision without asking me? Aryan, be practical. I'm doing this just for the sake of your career My career? - Hush! Speak softly Of course, Aryan. I don't want to distract your mind from boxing What the hell are you talking about? What about us? This is for us. Aryan, I just got scared So this is what you think about me? - What do you mean? Am I so selfish that for my career I'll let all this happen to you? Nothing of that sort, Aryan. I know you can't live without boxing You love it. - To hell with boxing! What have you done? You love me? - What's all this, Aryan? You love me or not? - Yes Aryan. But this is madness Do you trust me? - Yes, Aryan Then we shall get married. - But Aryan, it's.. Nothing is dearer to me than you. I love you Mama, you? I never imagined you'd humiliate me like this I had such dreams for you. You shattered them at one go Mama, please sit. I'll explain everything to you What's left to explain? It's so obvious Neha, you still have a chance to make good your mistake It's not a mistake, I have married. - Your marriage is your biggest mistake Doings things like a married woman is not marriage What does he do? What's his future? I just don't bloody understand why.. Mama, I love him. We love each other Love alone doesn't feed you for life, Neha He'll get a job soon. - Regardless, he has found a maid Stop it, Mama. Please don't say that Don't be an emotional fool. Within six months you'll forget all about love You won't even realise Look Neha, I have spoken to Dr Khanna. There is no problem Just come home with me right now Mama, please try to understand. This is my house Look, it's human to err. But he is a fool who stays with his mistakes Mama, at least meet him once. - Enough of your nonsense. Come with me I'm not coming, Mama. - We can talk at home Come on Ma, meet Aryan Aryan and I will be very happy in this house You could never be a daughter. Will you really make it with him? Do you trust me? "I had to go to my beloved's" "And I'm at my beloved's" "I had to win his heart" "And I've won his heart" "All the happiness is yours now" "Give me your sorrows, " "my love" "my love" "my love" "my love" "You had to go to your beloved's" "And you are at your beloved's" "You had to win his heart" "And you've won his heart" "All the happiness is yours now" "Give me your sorrows, " "my love" "my love" "my love" "my love" "You came into my life, as I loved you" "You came into my life, as I loved you" "May the journey of life pass in smiles" "Sweetheart, " "I could die for your love" "May my blessings bear fruit" "You are the moon, and my heart.. " "is bathed in moonlight, " "my love" "my love" "my love" "my love" What will you call our son, Aryan? Ranveer "Have mercy on this house of dreams, Lord" "Have mercy on this house of dreams, Lord" "Cast away all the evil, Lord" "With all my heart I have done the preparations" "All night, all day, I pray to ward of the evil eye" "My love is worship" "May my faith never dwindle" "My love" "My love" "My love" "In my embrace, let me play with your hair" "Let me adorn your forehead with the hues of love" "My love, why do I feel.. " "as if you personify true love?" "Now that you and I are here, " "let's unite, my love" "My love" "My love" "My love" Sir, we're ready. Only waiting for Neha Will someone call her? The star has finally arrived Samir, I'm so sorry Please forgive me. - Why? Stars are always late Hey, get a chair, coffee, juice for the lady. Anything else? Samir, there was so much traffic.. - And we fly here? Sorry Samir Do I have a choice? You're so pretty, I can't bring myself to scold you Let's get the show going. - Let's roll Let's roll Hey guys, this is Neha. Welcome to Channel V's Crazy In Love, the show where you share your feelings, solve your problems.. and play your favourite songs. So let's see who's our first caller Hello? - Hi Neha. I'm Deepu Hi Deepu. Where are you calling from? - From the phone booth I mean, from which city? Dehradun. - Wow! They say it's a beautiful place Yes. - Tell me the song you'd like to hear I'd like to hear "Kaanta Laga" It's a very romantic song. Would you like to dedicate it to someone? Yes. - Someone you love? Yes, I do Being in love is a fantastic feeling, right? But my family is not happy with this relationship Why? - Don't know. They think I'm very young How old are you? - Eighteen You are an adult. I think you are old enough to fall in love This is the age to fall in love. - Really? That's what Ramesh says Ramesh is really intelligent. Absolutely right By the way, who is Ramesh? - Ramesh is the one I love Deepu, how old did you say you are? Eighteen I think this time you should listen to your parents And this song goes out to Ramesh and Deepu. "Kaanta Laga" What happened, kid? It's your birthday, why've you pulled a long face? Papa, I told you! I want to meet Ranjeet That's all? He's coming to office tomorrow, meet him It's my birthday today, isn't he coming for the party? He's a very busy man. We'll meet up, okay? But since he's my friend, he's coming to my office just to see you Your friends must be coming, get ready for the party Amazing. From rags to riches Ranjeet Singh. Once again the favourite for the All India Boxing Competition His record for holding the title thrice in a row.. C'mon Superman, let's get ready for the party. C'mon Hello. Hi. - Hi. Superman. Superman. Papa, I'm so glad you've come. - I can't refuse your invitation Papa, my friends. Hi This is Tonal.. Preeti, that's Rohit, and that's Shalu Hi Shalu. How are you? You all are looking nice You look handsome too, uncle. - Well, obviously Papa.. Mrs Braganza. - Hello Neha Hi, Mrs Braganza. - I've heard lots about you, lady You remind me of a couplet When you bathed in the sea, you must've set water on fire We were not cared for when created, but you must be God's VIP Thank you. I'll recite a couplet now. - Sure You came, Spring came. - Wow You came, Spring came You came, Spring came Wonderful! Amazing. You're a great poet Truly, you exceed my expectations. Awesome. I loved meeting you Where's Aryan, dear? - I'll find him Yes. Quickly. Tell me something, Mrs Braganza. Is my daughter happy here? Of course, very happy. She also keeps us all happy. God bless you Really? I'm so happy Come here. Where are you running? Aryan, come out Coming Please come out for a minute. Papa is here. Come out Coming What happened? - When these two get into the mood, they forget the world. Me too. - Really? Where are you running? Come here. Neha, I hate buffet parties Please Aryan. You'll meet my friends I'm interviewing Ranjeet tomorrow. Ranveer will go with me to the office C'mon, Neha! - Coming, coming Come on Wow, wow! You're looking gorgeous Thank you. - Samir, my husband Aryan Husband? You're married? And you didn't even tell me? Shut up, Samir Samir. How are you? - Very well Guess who's playing tonight Who's your favourite D.J? He's here? - Yes. Harry I want to meet him. Please. - Come on, let's go Please Aryan, two minutes. Sure? Two minutes, promise One beer, please Harry, this is Neha. She's a big fan of yours Really nice to meet you. - You just made her day Thank you. I'm so excited to meet you. - I'm excited too See her? - Who? Neha. She's too hot. Samir is a scoundrel Wonder what magic he weaves No. Really. I mean it. But how do you do it? Aryan, where have you been? Come, I want you to meet someone. Come Harry, meet my husband Aryan. - Hi Hey man, you have a beautiful wife I'd have gone crazy if I had a wife like her Wasn't tonight's party fun? I had a blast I hope you didn't get bored? - No How do you find Samir? - Felt like you two are very close That's why our shows are so great. Shoot with is fun Neha, I'm very tired Let's talk for a while, I'm in a romantic mood I got to wake up early tomorrow and go to work I too have to go to work. - I'm not a star like you If I'm late, I might even lose my job Papa, I'm so excited I know, darling. He must be coming now Really excited to see Ranjeet, eh? Excited, eh? What'll be your first question to Ranjeet? Hello! Ranjeet is arriving. I hope you are ready? I'm ready, sir Sir, Mr Ranjeet is here Ranjeet, how are you, friend? So good to see you. You've become a great boxer No boxing for me after marriage. I work here now I'm taking your interview today. And meet my son. Come, son Ranjeet, come on champion. I've been waiting for you Two minutes Let me introduce you to Ranjeet. India's number one boxer So Ranjeet, you are champ now. How does it feel? Feels good, of course. I've got what I deserved I'm a born champ. And I've proved that I'm the best boxer in the country today There's someone behind every success. Who's that? Who's behind your success? - I don't know about others But yes, I'm the only one behind my own success My hard work, my efforts, my killer instincts, that's all A coach plays a very important life in a boxer's life How much credit do you give to your coach Ranveer Bagga? He's not my coach anymore. And I don't need a coach Because I'm the best, I'm the greatest, and I'm unbeatable So you're sure that this time too you'll be the national champion? Any doubts? I promise my fans Whoever comes inside the ring this time with me, will not go back one-piece Won't leave in one single piece Great. It was a pleasure having you with us, Mr Ranjeet. Thanks for coming That was Mr Ranjeet Singh, the three-time national champion in boxing Coming up next are highlights of the India-Pakistan cricket game Please stay with us Okay, cut Papa, he's gone. - No problem, let's go Happy? Ranjeet One minute Believe me, I support you completely.. - Ranjeet, wait. What's the hurry? Your biggest fan is in my house. Come on, give him a photograph, buddy Listen Aryan, I'm not your buddy, I'm not your friend Don't cross your limits Do you know him? - His girlfriend was amazing Had she not married, I wouldn't have spared the bitch Ranjeet. Are you all right, Ranjeet? Aryan, Ranjeet is a celebrity. Everyone will favour him Is it sensible to brawl with him and risk your job? To hell with this job! Cannot handle this anymore Mr Aryan, your credentials are quite impressive Congratulations. You can join our channel from tomorrow Thank you very much Mr Sethi, meet Mr Aryan. He'll join us from tomorrow Thank you very much, sir. - Aryan Verma from Far Sports? Right. - Vikas, he... Please wait outside, we'll call you What's up, sir? Any problems? - What kind of people do you entertain? You don't know about his reputation. - But sir, his credentials are very... He's out of his mind. He is rude with the celebrities he interviews Do you know why he was fired from Far Sports? Because he got into a brawl with Ranjeet. Jesus! This man won't even let me die peacefully If not for the fear of You, I'd have killed him long ago Who the hell...? Will you break the door? Coming What is it? - Papa wants ice For booze? You're lying Get out! Get out! Papa! The poor lady will bring it herself now Jesus I won't let you behave like a goon anymore If I don't give you ice, will you break my eardrum? You quit your job and sit at home just to harass me Look at the father and the son. One drinks while the other makes drinks Dammit! Here's the ice Mrs Braganza, when did you come? - It's been seventy years Why do you care? - Good sense of humour, no? Why did you bother? You could've called me Reduce the volume Why did you...? - Not yours, the TV's I've gone hoarse screaming my lungs out Sip? - Jesus! Will you give me liquor? Devil! You are Satan Ice-ice, baby It's you, Mrs Braganza! - I came to give ice to the blackmailer Blackmailer? - Your rascal Aryan He did not turn down the volume until I gave him ice Where's this pretty girl is trapped! - Thanks for the ice, Mrs Braganza Okay, okay Hi sweetheart, hi Ranveer. What match is going on? You had a job interview today, right? - Just missed the job Meaning? - Because of the Ranjeet incident I'm so sorry, darling May I say something, Aryan? Instead of running around, you can join the fast food's job again You quit, they did not fire you. Just have to issue an apology letter Apology? What for? Aryan, please try to understand. Searching jobs, tension, rejection, how long will you bear them? You will get frustrated sitting home Don't ever call me frustrated Come! "Aryan! Aryan" Papa! Get the ball! No run! - No run Aryan! - What happened? Come upstairs. Ranveer is weeping Hold this. What happened, son? What is it? Ranjeet will hit you, Papa. He will thrash you No, he won't Go to sleep. Papa will sleep beside you My tiger, nothing will happen to me Nothing will happen to your papa. Go to sleep, my tiger Go to sleep Jugs...? "Jaideep Malhotra. The Black And White Melange" Thank you. Thank you so much These are the fruits of my last three years' hard work It's a pleasure to have all of you here. Thank you so much for coming Enjoy yourselves, have a great evening. - Good luck to you Excellent. - Absolutely brilliant Aryan...? What a surprise! I can't believe this What a surprise! After years How are you? How is Neha? - I'm fine, she is fine too And...? - He's four now Wow! So good to see you, buddy. I'm so glad Shilpa, meet my friend Aryan. - Hi. Nice to meet you Pleasure. - This guy was god in college He was my hero, everyone's hero Forget it, it's nonsense Keep chatting, I'll see the guests You got married and you didn't even tell me? Married? Haven't done that mistake. She's my girlfriend Had I married, she'd have been my wife and someone else would be exhibiting My career has just begun. In college, you used to talk about passion, boxing, follow-your-dreams, and it'd go above my head But whatever I've achieved today, is only because of you Because of your motivation. - Mr Jaideep Hey Shirley. Your photos are fantastic. Beautiful. - Thank you so much Have a great evening, enjoy yourself. - Thank you You've grown so confident. Where's my stuttering friend? Cheers. - Cheers A bit of success gives you lots of confidence Anyway, tell me about yourself. What are you doing these days? I was with a sports channel. I quit. It was so suffocating How do you manage your household? - Neha's doing very well in Channel V May I say something, Aryan? Please don't mind It's very good when both the spouses are working But when the wife starts earning more than the man, things start changing And the man's ego hurts, and he can't take that Tell me honestly, are you happy quitting boxing? Neha is a nice girl, but you married in haste Aryan, I got lots to do today, I'll be late The food is in the kitchen, warm it before eating, okay? Are you listening, Aryan? And you have to go to school. C'mon. Bye, darling Stop shouting Listen Aryan! Back off Ranjeet will thrash you, Papa Hi. This is Neha. Sorry, I can't take your call right now But if you leave me a message, I'll get back to you. Bye. See Neha? Samir is a scoundrel You're looking gorgeous You have a beautiful wife. I'd have gone crazy if I had a wife like her Two minutes. Hi. This is Neha. I am sorry I can't take your call right now. But if you leave me a message, I'll get back to you. Bye. Thank you so much, Samir. You are too cute See you. Aryan must be waiting. - See you Bye. It's pouring so heavily. I'm completely drenched I'm going to fall ill Did you eat anything? I'll get something These channels really make you slog They really make you crazy. Where were you? - I told you, I'll be late today You told me nothing. - Of course, I told you You mustn't have heard, you were sleeping But I've woken up now. Who came to drop you? Samir. My show's director. We had been to his party But he stays in Worli. He came to Versova to drop you? Just sit quietly when I'm talking to you Ask what you want Did that man come all the way from Worli only to drop you? Only to drop me. Any gentleman would do the same in this heavy downpour Has he ever dropped you before? - Never needed Why are you asking? Because you are my wife, and I have the right to know everything. Understand? I understand What did you understand? Am I blind? Can't I see anything? Weren't you glued to him at the party? - Samir is my colleague, my director How could you even think like that? - I can't? And you can do everything? Stop it. You aren't in your senses, you don't know what you are talking I'm sleeping, we'll talk tomorrow Where are you going? Come here! - Aryan, stop it You're hurting. Let go - I know you're hiding something Hiding what? - About you and Samir I hope you haven't gone crazy? I've loved you, I've married you To hell with your love! To hell with your marriage I want to hear the truth! Are you sleeping with him? Aryan, what do you want to hear? - Are you sleeping with him? Fine, I am sleeping with him, I am having sex with him. Are you happy now? One and a half month at home has chewed up your brains That's why you're thinking like crazy Aryan, I understand you are struggling But why are you suspecting me? Neha, open the door! Open the door! What are you doing, Aryan? Ranveer will wake up I don't care! Open the door! I'm warning you! - I won't! Go to sleep, you're drunk! Bloody bitch! Who do you think you are? - What is wrong with you, Aryan? Are you trying to take undue advantage of my joblessness.. ..and have fun outside? What haven't I done for you? I sacrificed my career for you And I did not sacrifice? I fought with my parents I left home only for you. I'm doing a job just because you are jobless One of us needs to work to run the kitchen I'm doing what you should be doing And you're hibernating at home! You just need some bangles She went to her mother's Keys We're somewhat on the rocks, dad. I'm really scared Give him some time, dear When he starts thinking, he'll understand and retain his composure He can never retain his composure! I knew it from the very start, that chap was not worthy of this girl But the two of you took a lot of time to understand that The sad part is, time never comes back Relationships based on ignorance and foolishness... cannot bear the burden of reality Love, romance, amour... are so childish One has to be practical in life. - Devika, what kind of a mother are you? Are you looking for your victory in your daughter's defeat? Look Neha, life didn't give me a second chance But you will certainly have another chance After all, you are my daughter "Moments lie shattered, " "as dear ones have warred" "Before reaching our destination, " "we have lost our way" "Moments lie shattered, " "as dear ones have warred" "The hands that I made, " "have abandoned me" "Moments lie shattered, " "Moments lie shattered, " "Bound hands, " "cursed fate..." "what else can the shackles of destiny do?" "Togetherness..." "seems distant now" "You are cross, so am I! It's a dark night of sorrows" "Before dreams could come true, " "one by one they all shattered" "Moments lie shattered, " "Moments lie shattered, " Aryan. "May this silence not flare up like a storm" "May this rift not turn into separation" "I fear I might devote to grief, " "I might fall in love with loneliness" "The patrons of sorrows have robbed me of my happiness" "Moments lie shattered, " "as dear ones are cross" "The hands that I made, " "have abandoned me" "Moments lie shattered, " "Moments lie shattered, " Yes? - Is Neha in? You are...? - Tell her it's aunt Braganza From where? - What have you got to do with it? Move Goodness! Such a spacious house This is the first time I see a beautiful house like this When you are so rich, why did you marry that broke? Tell me something. Have you dumped the boy or not? Good. He's learnt a good lesson He doesn't eat, he doesn't sleep Doesn't switch on the TV either. Sheer peace I can pray and sleep peacefully now But I just can't do that I can't pray, I can't sleep either This boy had completely spoilt my habits I can't hear a sound from there I heard only once His cries He cries a lot, incessantly Like a baby I don't know about other things, but he loves you a lot The madman just loved two things in his life Boxing and you For you, he even quit boxing But if you abandon him, who will take care of him? Left, left, right, left, left, right What has happened to you? Where is your guard? Get your hands together, on the face Practice left, right and left combination. Come on What's the matter? For the last few days, I and Aryan have been living separately Problems have cropped up between us There are problems in marital life Sir, Aryan needs you Because of me, he married early But he had to forsake his dream of boxing Not just his dream, Aryan quit boxing and shattered my dream too Anyway, let bygones be bygones I can't see him as a loser. He needs to get back in the ring And he needs you. - Neha, four years of a boxer's career is like an entire lifetime And Aryan's crucial 4 years are past. His return to the ring is impossible Please don't say that, sir. If you also...! You are his inspiration. - Inspiration? Did he ever inquire about me in these four years? Did he even show me his face? - What are you saying, sir? In these 4 years, it's impossible he hasn't remembered you even for a day Mama! Come here, son Touch his feet, he is like grandfather Aryan's son? Bless you, son What's your name? - Ranveer Verma Ranveer? Come here. Are you preparing to fly, Aryan? Sir! At least you remember my face I was afraid, you must've forgotten me So tell me, how's your married life? Enjoying your married life? Not that easy, sir Nothing is easy in life, buddy I hear, you quit your job Yes. I'll find another Sure, you'll find another job But you won't find another dream, Aryan You've still to pay my fees I'm here to take it, son Sir, I can give up my life for you Not your life, Aryan, I want the nationals' trophy The nationals will begin in three months from now And you're still eligible for it. - Sir, I haven't seen a boxing ring... in three years. Forget the ring, I haven't even done a push-up Then start doing it What are you saying, sir? In these three years, my zeal, my strength, I have forgotten everything. - You'll get them back, I'm with you But I don't have confidence in myself. I've lost faith in myself But I trust you I promise you, Aryan. Whatever you have lost, you will get everything back in the next three months No, I'm scared, sir. Today I should be a practical man I should think about my son, my wife and my responsibilities And my dream holds me in good stead. I could've become a national champion! If I lose there too, my incomplete dream will also shatter Will it make any difference? Mark my words. An incomplete dream tortures you more than a shattered one Trust me, if not for me, if not for yourself, you must do it for your son. Show him what kind of a father he has Whether we achieve anything or not, a son should get his father Sir! Let's do it "Got to touch the skies" "Got to touch the skies" "Got to show the world" "Don't turn back" "Don't back off" "Got to achieve the goal" "The attitude has changed" "Got to touch the skies" "Got to show the world" "Don't turn back" "Don't back off" "Got to achieve the goal" "The attitude has changed" "My heart is not in place without you" "For you, my paths pine" "We are roses of the same garden" "Got to touch the skies" "Don't turn back" "Don't back off" "Got to achieve the goal" "The attitude has changed" "The sun has grown even more glorious" "It shall gather more fire..." "and raze everything down" "Got to touch the skies" "Don't turn back" "Don't back off" "Got to achieve the goal" "I'll create a sensation" How do you feel after reaching the nationals' finals three times in a row? I deserve it This time, your opponent Aryan, is a first timer in the nationals His luck has brought him this far. He doesn't stand a chance You seem to be very confident. - Because I'm the best He can't take me on. I'm sad for the audience Before they even take their seats, Aryan will be down on his knees Thank you. That's it. That's it. We're anxiously waiting for Mr Aryan, who will be taking on three times national champion Ranjeet Singh Mr Aryan will be here any moment... and here he comes Mr Aryan, There It's God's grace that she is here. Here you are Thank you. - Sometimes I look at her, sometimes I stare at my house Wonderful. I must say, you are a very good poet I agree with you My husband doesn't think beyond business Ask the person who has to tolerate it He doesn't think beyond shares Wonderful! Amazing You know Neha, in the States, there's no time for laughter I'm thinking of settling down in Mumbai after finishing studies But I don't have a friend here with whom I can share my feelings I really feel sorry for you. How could Aryan do this to you? Forget him. Start life afresh I'm with you. My parents are with you Manju, you are my only friend whom I can trust completely You know everything about Aryan Boxing, career, marriage... he's a failure everywhere A complete bloody loser Neha is a kid after all And that swine made a mother out of my daughter so early I feel like turning him to the cops, but... whether a person falls in the muck, or the muck falls on him, it is the person who gets dirty We're anxiously waiting for Mr Aryan, who will be taking on three times national champion Ranjeet Singh Mr Aryan will be here any moment... and here he comes Mr Aryan, you have made a huge impact. You are the dark horse Do you have a word for your fans? Fans? I don't know about others, but I had a fan, my wife Neha. But she is not with me today If she is watching this, would you like to tell her something? I'm incomplete without Neha, and my victory is also incomplete without her Neha, I really love you I'm so sorry Sit down Mama, will Papa lose this one too? Come back Dammit Kiran... Kiran! Papa, I love you, love you! - I love you too, my child Don't worry, we'll reach in time Ladies and gentlemen. Good evening and welcome to the finals of the All India Boxing Competition. Welcome to the finals. Today's final is between Ranjeet Singh and Aryan Verma Aryan Verma is a first timer at the nationals, and incredibly he's reached the finals. It's unbelievable But in the final, he's facing none other than... the three times winner in a row, champion of champions Ranjeet Singh It's the same Ranjeet before whom, no boxer has crossed three rounds The final has ten rounds, but it remains to be seen... if Aryan Verma can reach at least the third round And ladies and gentlemen, here's Ranjeet Singh It's a heavily crowded final today Aryan Verma is making a comeback after four years, it's really amazing He has reached the final, but it's not an ordinary thing to face Ranjeet Is this precedent for Aryan Verma's lucky month? You know the rules of boxing. I need a clean fight I need a clean fight. Now shake your hands Good luck to you. Now go back to your corners The referee has signalled the start Aryan Verma in the blue corner, Ranjeet Singh in the red corner From the screams of the audience you can gauge how excited they are. Aryan Verma and Ranjeet Singh both facing. Showing some good footwork. And Aryan Verma has taken the initiative to throw some jabs. And throwing a few more. Yes! Aryan Verma on the back spot. Is he going to get a good fight? Aryan Verma is moving in. Aryan Verma throwing a few more jabs. Both the boxers are getting warmed up. Aryan has moved in. Don't you think he is showing some aggressiveness? The bell is gone off. I think this round definitely goes to Aryan Verma Aryan Verma has had a good start. Aryan is showing a lot of promise. How far he goes remains to be seen That was very good, Aryan Now listen carefully. Damn this traffic Papa. Get off and run. Or, you won't reach. - Okay Careful The second round is about to start.. ..and the boxers have worn their gum-shields Ranveer Singh is giving Aryan last minute tips And here it goes. The second round begins. Aryan Verma is moving around the ring. Ranjeet Singh looking at Aryan the way a lion stares at his prey. He is not moving in yet. Aryan Verma is still throwing a few jabs. Ranjeet Singh is keeping his cool. He is waiting for the right moment. Ranjeet Singh. C'mon Ranjeet Aryan Verma is still moving in. Throwing a few more jabs. Taking Ranjeet Singh out. Keep it up Aryan is on the ropes, Ranjeet is moving in aggressively He's got him there! He's throwing a few punches left-right Aryan is in a lot of problem here. He's ducked again And he has gone back. Ranjeet is moving in aggressively. He doesn't move in very often But when he does.. Aryan Verma better watch out. He does it again. Stop, stop Go back to y our corners Aryan, listen to me carefully. You have to change the combination Left hook, right upper cut You're doing very well. Keep it up Left hook, right upper cut. Understand? You're doing it very well C'mon Aryan Get him! Go for it, champ Ladies and gentlemen, the third round is about to begin We thought the match would end before the third But Aryan Verma has shown some real good qualities as a boxer Ranjeet has shown a lot of aggression, Aryan has shown some cool Ranjeet is moving in again I don't know how far this fight will go because Aryan is showing good spirit C'mon Aryan Ranjeet Singh is still focused on his opponent. He is waiting for the opportunity to move in and get him out. Aryan Verma showing some good footwork here. Hold him! No! Stop... stop! Ladies and gentlemen, this fight has reached the fourth round Oh my God! Aryan Verma has got him down Ranjeet Singh has fallen down for the first time in this tournament. It's incredible! It might move in any direction. Nobody can say where this fight will go. Aryan Verma is showing some great expertise. Ranjeet Singh is getting aggressive here. Oh, my God! The crowd's reaction is tremendous. Here goes the bell. This round is definitely going for Aryan Verma. This is going to be a great fight here. What are you doing? Watch your footwork What happened to you? Take him out in the next round You can do it Fifth round is about to begin. God knows how many more rounds to go But Aryan's fighting spirit and Ranjeet's aggression is worth watching This is a magic treat for the audience. They are totally loving it. Let me tell you. No matter who wins. Definitely this is moving towards a grand finale. Oh, he's got a lucky punch. Oh my God! He's got a lucky punch Ranjeet is bleeding. For the first time in this tournament we see him bleed This is very humiliating for a champion He is showing some aggression here. Stop. Stop. Back in your corner. Oh, man! Stop! "Can you feel it?" "Can you feel it?" It's okay, son. Come on. Round eight is about to begin. Ranjeet is bleeding Aryan Verma has performed really well. Go, get him. Come on. Yeah! Come on. Aryan! Yeah! Go! Papa. Another one for me? Ninth round is about to begin. In this round Ranjeet Singh had knocked down Aryan Verma. This is something he should have done in the third round. But he gave him a chance. The joy of victory can be seen on Ranjeet Singh's face. Aryan Verma performed really well. Son, only two rounds to go. I know you can do it Give it your best shot. Okay? Yes! Oh, man! C'mon! Ranjeet is getting aggressive. Aryan Verma is completely gone. He is hammering Aryan Verma. The referee is stopping the boxers. Break. Break. Yes! Go! One. Two. Three. Four. "If I had to rise someday, let it be now." "Rise above my fear. My lord, show me how." "I am never far away. I am never ever far away." "Just reach out your hand." "I will be there." "I am never far away." "I am never far away." "Just reach out your hand." "I will be there." "Rise, rise, rise so high." "Together we will touch the sky." "Rise, rise, rise so high." "Together we will touch the sky." Son, we've reached so far, it's enough for us You gave your best shot, you did your best I have no regrets No matter who wins, you've given your best Oldie, move it Sir, I'll win this fight Then listen, son. This is the final round We can't win on points. You will have to tire him out If you can tire him out, only then you can knock him out Son, full blast Come on, Ranjeet. Come on. Hit me Hit me! Hit me! Hit me! Hit me! He has got him. He has done it again. This boy is back. This boy is back. Come on. Papa. - Get him. Get him, Aryan. Another one for me? Get him. Come on. Mind-blowing! Ranjeet Singh is down Oh my God! Ranjeet Singh is down Yes! For the first time in this tournament Ranjeet Singh has been knocked down But if Ranjeet Singh gets up on his feet, he can win this tournament He's leading on points. There's no way Aryan is leading on points But Aryan has shown some great skill. He is a source of inspiration The man has come back from the dead There's no way he could've come so far, but he has shown some skill, some determination, he's awe-inspiring Seven. Eight Come on! Nine Ten Yes! Aryan! You have made me happy! Neha! Neha! "I stand in your eyes." Neha! Aryan! "I stand in your eyes." Superman! - Yes. Superman! "I stand in your eyes." "All you out there." "Join me when I sing." "Get out there. Show them what you got." "All the good stuff." "You know what they say?" "Let's do that. The only thing." "If I had to rise someday, let it be now." "Rise above my fear. My lord, show me how."
