 

                        In here sir, doctor's expecting you, Thank you, Ah, Dr. Martin, Yes? You will forgive me for not rising, An accident? You might call it that, Carelessness actually, never turn your back on a patient, They teach you that at school don't they? Yes they do, Dr. Star? Doctor Rutherford, Lionel Rutherford, Oh, uh, I understood that Dr. Star was head of this institution, I'm Dr. Star's associate, Sit down, sit down, You advertised for a senior housemen, I sent along my credentials and Dr. Star asked me to come along for an interview, I've read your report but it doesn't tell me what I need to know, Your background qualifies you to set up a fashionable psychiatric practice, Hold wealthy old ladies by the hand while they tell you about their horrible husbands, But we're a long way from Harley Street, out here, This is an asylum of the incurably insane, You want to know the most useful thing here? This, the control system for the door upstairs, no keys just, uh, an electrical device, The door can't be opened from either side, unless I press that button, If you're trying to warn me that some of the inmates are potentially dangerous you needn't worry, I've dealt with disturbed patients during my training, By what methods? Kindness, understanding, insight, Exactly my ways, twenty years ago, Now I'm not so sure, Those poor devils up there can't be cured, they can only be confined and kept from being dangerous, Is that Dr. Star's outlook too? Doctor Star is upstairs now, What, with a patient? Doctor Star is a patient, Doctor Star attacked me a few days ago, suddenly, without warning, That's how I injured my leg, Yes, working with the mentally disturbed can lead to a breakdown, The nurse and orderly managed to transfer Dr. Star upstairs with the other patients, But I can't go there, The orderly giYes me reports, He says the doctor is perfectly rationale now except for one thing, A new personality seems to have taken over with its own name and its own life story, Hysterical two xxxx, Meaningless label don't you think? It describes something that exists, from time to time a man disappears and is discovered much later Living in a different town, under a different name, following a different occupation because something happened in his earlier life that made it completely intolerable, Do you believe you could recognize such a case? I'm certain of it, Very well, Well call it a test, There are several Patients upstairs With the sort of Condition you described, Go up there, Talk to them, If you can recognize Who is, or was Dr. Star, then ILL consider you qualified for the position, I will recognize him, Him? How do you know the doctor's a man? Reynolds, Yes doctor? Reynolds, Yes. I am sending a young man upstairs, Martin, Dr. Martin, Now listen to me carefully, Doctor Martin, I'm Max Reynolds, the orderly, I'm pleased to meet you, Come this way, It keeps out the draft as Dr. Star used to say, You know why I'm here? Doctor Rutherford gave me full instructions, What can you tell me about the doctor? Who, Rutherford? Star, Nothing, You're to be given full cooperation but no clues, Are all these rooms occupied? Yes, we keep them locked, of course, a security measure, And this one is my office, Are the patients free to move around at all? They're not too badly off, Youll see for yourself, first patient? Um hum, Name? She calls herself Bonnie, E, Star, That's a question for you to decide, Look Bonnie? Bonnie, come along, There's a Dr. Martin to see you, Leave me alone, I was hoping I could talk to you, Talk? That's all you people ever do is talk, Nobody listens, I listen too, You wouldn't believe me, Perhaps not but I am willing to listen, Oh, well, if it makes any difference, I hope to God we get to the airport on time. for the last time Walter, there's nothing to worry about, Did it arrive? Yes it's here, they finished installing it about an hour ago, We have nothing to worry about. That's easy enough for you to say Bonnie but supposing something goes wrong, It can't go wrong, not if you follow the plan, ILL follow it, if only I could see you first, Youll see me soon enough, Ill be waiting for you once it's over, Ill ring you. Walter, You're home early, I, uh, didn't get in to town today, But you did get into the brandy, This happens to be my first drink, Not you're last I'm sure, Can I fix you one? Yes, please, How did your class go? It's not a class, Professor Kalanga is a spiritual leader, Professor, back in Africa he'd be just another witch doctor, What do you know about it? Don't forget I lived there for years, After all, my father was... Governor General of the colony, It's a good thing he can't see his daughter now, The poor old boy would turn in his grave, taking voodoo lessons from a black charlatan, It is not voodoo, There are natural forces which are stronger than, than life or death, forces which modern civilized man has forgotten, I wish you would forget all this mumbo jumbo, What's that? It's called Anawanga, I think it's revolting, It's not supposed to be pretty, The serpent is a symbol of the life force, And the teeth Are to protect one from evil, There's no evil in your life, Oh but there is, What do you mean? Bonnie, That's all over and done with, I swear it, Only last month you came and asked me for a divorce, I haven't seen her since, you have my word on that, I'm glad you haven't because I told you then and I'm telling you now, there won't be any divorce, Oh I know you Walter, you're a weak, vain, selfish opportunist, You're content to live off my money, But you are mine and I will never let you go, never, Now you do understand that, don't you? Perfectly, Darling, I've got a present for you, Oh, what is it? Youll see, Come along with me, I don't see anything, Downstairs, In the basement? After you, careful now, mind the steps, Well, what is it? Oh, darling, it's a freezer, Do you like it? Oh you know I've always wanted one, What a lovely surprise, I have another one for you, What is it? This! Rest in pieces, Yes? It's finished. Good, are you all right? Yeah, how soon can you get here? I'm just packing, I should be there within the hour, Ill be ready, One more thing Walter, well have to take her along. Why, there's no need for that, No one's going to check up when we're away. It will be safer if there's nothing left behind, They may still suspect but theyll have no proof, Well dispose of the evidence on the way to the airport, Look we can't talk about it on the phone, well talk when you're here, But for God's sake don't let anyone see you, Ill bring my car around to the back, Now keep the kitchen door unlocked so I won't have to knock, All right but hurry, the sooner we're out of here the better, Ill be right there. Ill be waiting, Walter? Walter? Walter? Walter? They found me lying there the next morning, They said I'd strangled Walter, I tried to tell them about Ruth and the hand, but it was gone, everything was gone, But the hand was on my face, I chopped, and chopped, and chopped at it, Now do you believe me? No? Paranoid psychosis, How did she come to the asylum? She could of come as a doctor, And the wife? Youll learn the real case histories when you've made your choice, That's the service lift from the kitchen, The next patient? His name is Bruno, Bruno, this is Dr. Martin, What are you making? Whatever you like, Could it be a surgical gown? I can make whatever you wish, It could be a surgical gown or a shroud, I'm a tailor, Doctors can sew, stitch, Always been a tailor, Always, Oh Mr. Stebbins, good evening, It's the first of the month, the rent is due, Mr. Stebbins, I got a wonderful idea, Have you got the rent? Every month you come here and always you are wearing the same suit, There's nothing wrong with my suit? It gives me good wear, Ah, wear, yes, but style, no, Now listen, for one month's rent I could make for you such a suit, I don't need a suit, and if I did I wouldn't get it from you, I haven't got it, Now see here, No, no, no, you, you see here Mr. Stebbins, You see this shop, people, people, fine people used to come here for fine tailoring, Now a little pressing, a little mending, that's all I get, I will pay your rent but you must give me a little more time, ILL tell you what, today's Monday, right? ILL be back here on Saturday morning, Saturday morning? Bright and early and if you haven't got the rent, you can start packing, No tricks now, No tricks? You're supper, it's ready, I'm not hungry, Something's wrong? Not something Anna, everything, Mr. Stebbins was here, he's giving us one week, A man works hard all his life and then in one week, Where can we go? Good evening, is the proprietor in? I am the proprietor, Go have your supper, Now what can I do for you Mr. uh? Smith, Am I correct in assuming that you can tailor a garment from any material of my own selection? You want I should make you a suit? Exactly, I have a fine stock of woolens here, That will not be necessary, I brought my own material, I see, you will be wanting something special, Correct, something very special, There's enough here for a suit I believe, Unusual, Special, It will be difficult to work from such a fabric but I can promise you a suit, Now if you will just slip off my coat so I can make measure, The suit is not for me, it is for my son, Ah, yes, when will he come in for a fitting? It's to be a surprise, Oh, a present, You might call it that, I have written down all the measurements, And made various diagrams of the style, Expensive, Then Youll have to charge me accordingly, Shall we say two hundred pounds? Two hundred? I will begin immediately, No, this schedule, It is of the greatest importance that you work on the suit only during the hours listed here, But these times, they're all past midnight, I happen to believe in astrology, The stars? I take it you are not a believer? No matter, all that concerns you is following these instructions to the letter, There must be no mistake, is that clear? No mistake, Everything will be as you wish, I swear, Youll find my address written on top of the first sheet, When may I have delivery? Um, today is Monday, uh, and if I start tonight, here, so, I can bring you the suit on Friday, Excellent, I shall expect you the moment it is finished, Remember, my instructions, Oh I promise, Goodnight, Bruno, who was that man? A customer, he ordered a suit, two hundred pounds he will pay, Bruno I'm afraid, there is something not right in all this, Something that will make you trouble, I must do it, Ow! What is it? The instructions said to work to five o'clock only, I tried to work a little longer, It is finished? Hmm, I'm the one who's finished, four nights, nothing but work from midnight until just before dawn, Oh, now is done, May I see it? Um, It is strange, You're going to press it? No, no, Mr. Smith doesn't want it pressed, Then what will you do? Deliver it, just as he said, right now, At last, Did you bring it? Oh good, Come in, come in, This way, Here, now there are two steps down, In here, my study, The suit is completed? Oh yes, it was difficult working with such material and at night only, But you followed the instructions? Just as you ordered, Splendid, You have no idea how much this means to me and to my son, Ah, yes, you're son, where is he? Never mind, now if I may see the suit? Uh, Oh yes, of course, your fee, Just send me your account, and ILL take care of it, I must have the money first, I have bills to pay, You wouldn't understand, you're rich, On the contrary, I understand the situation only too well, It so happens at the moment I'm in the same financial position as yourself, You? Don't misunderstand, in a very short while I shall be in funds again, Just as soon as my son returns, You're diamond, This? It's a fake, It was real once but I had to dispose of it in order to continue my work, my studies, this book now, It's very old very rare, the only one of its kind left in the world, It cost me my fortune, You gave all your money for a book? To the penny, but I needed it because of my son, I sold everything to buy it, You're lying, See for yourself, there is nothing left, What is in that room? That room is empty too, There is nothing in there I tell you, please, So that's it, you're a murderer, No, I'm no murderer, he died a natural death, I knew a long time ago that it was inevitable, Can't you see, this is my son? Your son? He was the one I was working for, planning for, The book told me what to do, that's why I had you make the suit, it is for him, give it me, No, first the money, You can't stop me now, No one can stop me now, Give me that suit, You sold the suit? No, Mr. Stebbins phoned just after you left, He said to remind you he was coming for his rent in the morning, I told him it was all right, you were collecting money from a customer tonight, You told him, Oh, Anna I asked you not to say a word about this to anyone, Burn, burn, burn it, put it in the stove and burn it, forget about the suit, forget I ever made the suit, forget about Mr. Smith, forget everything, Burn it, A fortune he said, No fire? I don't know what we will do now but when people see how you look, perhaps they will come in, I told you to burn the suit, I put it on Otto, Otto? I made a name for him, I talk to him often when I am alone, Anna please, burn the suit, I thought... No one must ever know it existed, Mr. Smith knows, Mr. Smith is dead, Dead? I killed him, It was an accident but no one will believe that, What is that book? Mr. Smith had it, It is a book of magic, There is a spell for making the suit, The book too must be burned, No, What do you mean? Don't you see? If you have the book you can show it to the police, tell them what happened, Then they will believe you speak the truth, What do you know from the police? Bruno please, for my sake, tell them what happened, No, Then I tell them, We cannot live with murder on our souls, Anna, no, no, Oh, help, help, Anna no, Let go of me Bruno! No Anna, Otto, ahh! You must find him, Somewhere in the city, he is alive, I tell you he is alive, How did it happen? You know I can't tell you, not yet, Not until I've made my choice, Doctor Rutherford's orders, All right, who's next? A strange case, a very strange case, her name is Barbara, How good of you to come, You're the lawyer, aren't you? No, I'm sorry, I'm afraid not, I asked to see a lawyer, I told you to send for one, This is Dr. Martin, Another doctor, but I'm not ill, you can see that, A good lawyer would know that it wasn't my fault, I haven't accused you of anything, All doctors are alike, How can you be so sure about that? I happen to know a great deal about the medical profession, That's interesting, did you study medicine yourself? Oh, you ask too many questions, That's only because I want to help you, Then get me out of here, It wasn't my fault, you've got to understand that, I had nothing to do with it, It was, it was Lucy, Tell me about it, All right, All right, How do you feel Barbara? You look marvelous, Oh I feel fine, George if you only knew how wonderful it is to be coming home again, Listen, I hope you're going to be very very happy, Of course I will, don't worry, it's not going to be like the last time, That's all over with now, I'm sure of it, Good, We're nearly there now, What's the matter? I don't know, I could swear I saw someone looking out of the window, Oh? I thought for a moment it might be Lucy, Now remember what you promised in the hospital, You're not to mention her name again, Yes I know, I'm sorry, but there is someone inside, isn't there? Yes, Who is it? Youll soon see, Who is it? Ah, nurse Higgins, this is my sister, Barbara, Hello, I've heard so much about you, Nurse, I don't need a nurse, Now it's only temporary until you get settled in again, The doctor suggested it, Here, ILL take that sir, Shall we go upstairs now? Upstairs? You can pop right into bed, Bed? In the middle of the afternoon? Well you've had quite a long trip, you must rest, But I'm not in the least bit tired, Now Barbara you promised me, remember? You're to follow the doctor's instructions, This is my home, Our home, and I hope that well be together here always, You don't want to go back into hospital do you? No, you wouldn't, Well I sincerely hope it won't be necessary, Come along dear, Well aren't you going to come up? Later, I still think it's ridiculous going to bed at this hour, The doctor says you need a nap every day before tea to keep your strength up, But ILL never sleep, Here, you're to drink this, Well what is it? Only a sedative dear, to calm your nerves, I am calm, perfectly calm, If I could just have one of my pills, Now we're not to have any more of those things, That's better, now in we go, All comfy? Try to sleep now and ILL look in on you a little later on, Tonight, after dinner well have a nice chat, Youll be staying here in the evenings too? Well of course I will, and your brother's given me the room right next to yours, Hello? Oh yes, would you hold on a minute please? Uh, Nurse Higgins, it's for you, Thank you, Hello, yes? Yes speaking, Oh no, where did you say? Charring Cross Hospital, no danger? She's seventy-eight, ILL come at once, as soon as I can, Nurse Higgins is anything a matter? It's my mother, I'm afraid she's had an accident, I must go to her, Well what about my sister? I put her to bed under sedation, shell sleep for hours, Well now look there's a train in twenty minutes, Ill ride you to the station, Oh, thank you, Ill get my bag, Hello love, Lucy, How did you get in here? It wasn't easy, I've been waiting ever since you came home, Where? In the garage, that's where I phoned in from, Phoned? I had to get them out of the house, I knew he'd be gentlemen enough to drive her to the station, Well, aren't you glad to see me? Well of course I am, what if he finds you here? I know, that's why we have to work quickly, I don't understand, Obviously, What's the matter? Nothing, I just feel a little faint, Have you been taking those pills again? No, no that's all over with, He doesn't trust you does he? Shutting you up like this in a darkened room, bringing in a nurse, She's not your nurse you know, she's your guard, your keeper, But George wouldn't do a thing like that, Oh wouldn't he? Who owns this house? Why I do, When father died he let everything to me, And if something happened to you? Suppose George has you put away for good? Oh he wouldn't, oh he couldn't, All he has to do is to tell the doctors that you are too difficult to control at home, That nurse will back him up, But you know that's not true, And what good does that do? George won't listen to me, He doesn't even like you to see me, that's so, isn't it, isn't it? What am I going to do? I've got to get you away from here and we haven't got much time, But if I stay with you, he'll find me, Where could we go? I thought of that, we could take a room somewhere, Do you have any money? No, but you do, a hundred pounds you put away for a new dress, How did you know that? You told me, don't you remember? ILL get it, No hurry, we can't go now, not in broad daylight, somebody's bound to notice, Besides well need a car, tonight, when George is asleep, Now don't you worry, just leave everything to me, Barbara? Hello? Yes Nurse Higgins, she wasn't? That's very strange, but you will be back tonight? Good, Now in the day train getting in at ten o'clock, take a taxi from the station and ILL reimburse you, Splendid, well I expect you then, Goodbye, Come on love, wake up, Hurry up, get dressed, its time to go, Not so loud, he'll here you, George? I've got some of the sedative they had for you, put it in his tea, Oh, will he sleep? He didn't even feel it when I took his car keys, Nurse Higgins? Oh by the time she gets here well be gone, Come on now, there, you go and get dressed, Are you okay love? Yes, yes, just a touch of nerves, I guess I'm not used to so much excitement, Oh, I love excitement, Here we are, just the thing, What do you want with those? To cut the phone cord silly, We don't want old Miss Higgins giving the alarm, now do we? You do think of everything, Oh, I try to, Now you hurry and get dressed and Ill go down the hall and, uh... Remember, I expect to find you dressed when I get back, I say... What? It is a lark, isn't it? Just like old times, What are you doing? Give them to me, I can't, I need them, Give them to me, Please Lucy, one more, I am not going to watch you ruin yourself, One more Lucy, then I promise, I thought you said you weren't taking them, I can't help it, You mean, you don't want to help it, You always had a choice, George or the pills, me or the pills and the pills always win because deep down in side you hate George, you hate me, No, no Lucy, you're my best friend, These are your friends, your only friends, Oh I'm good enough for you when you're in trouble, but I've never been good enough for George, or anyone else you know, And now I, I can't even win out to your hand full of these, No, What I have done for you today Youll never know, and it isn't enough, I'm getting out, now! No Lucy, Do you want these? Here, take them, Lucy, Lucy? Lucy? Lucy? Lucy, come back, Miss Barbara, what are you doing out of bed? I've got to go out, At this time of night? Yes, you don't understand, it's Lucy, Lucy? Yes, she just left, I heard the car pull away, That was the cab I came in, There's no one out here, no one, Oh, Well then she's still here, Where's your brother? In the study I suppose, George? George? Barbara? Barbara? There Barbara, now you're free, free of all of them, Now do you understand why I must see a lawyer? They said I killed them, They say my fingerprints are on the shears, It was Lucy, Lucy who did it, What does Lucy have to say about that? Why don't you ask her yourself? She's here with us now, Where? There she is, don't you see her? Don't you see her? Don't you see here? Was there a George and a Miss Higgins, murdered? There may have been, No Lucy? There may not have even been a Barbara, You mean she might be Dr. Star? No, I don't think so, I don't think I've met Dr. Star yet, Maybe there is no such person, Perhaps your Dr. Rutherford is just playing a game, Doctor Rutherford never plays games, How many more are there for me to see? Just one, And then the choice? Then the choice, Tell me about this one, He calls himself Byron, Dr. Byron, Byron? Gentlemen? I brought Dr. Martin to see you, It's always a pleasure to meet a colleague, You're a doctor? Indeed I am sir, Physician, neurosurgeon and orthopedic specialist and lately I found still another vocation, even more fascinating, Do you care to see some of my recent work? Yes, I'd be happy to, If you'd be good enough to step over here, Hum, who are the subjects? former colleagues of mine, of course I had to model their faces from memory, Quite a hobby, Oh it's more than a hobby, much more, These are not ordinary figures, The eyes were made to see, Inside each skull is a perfectly proportioned brain, perfectly capable of functioning, You talk about them as though they were alive, Hum, that's the final step, from playthings to creations, living creations, I know it sounds a bit, uh, ha, ha, but you see the Bible tells us that the Lord God formed the man from the dust of the ground and he breathes into his nostrils the breathe of life, thus the man became a living creature, Do you believe that doctor? I'm afraid I put my belief in science, And so do I, If I could breathe my, uh, consciousness into one of these figures, that figure will come alive, Do you want to see what I'm working on now? Call it my, my final creation, That's your face, Um hum, my face and inside my body, correct to the smallest detail, I can turn it on and Youll say, oh yes, it operates on batteries, but how do you know what it is inside? What is it? It's me, I mean not yet but, it will be, Through the power of concentration I shall, I shall will my mind to enter its body and it will be me, Rutherford wouldn't believe I could do it, He locked me up but he let me keep my, my dolls, Occupational therapy he called it, Youll soon find out what they are, That's right, go, Run away and hide from the truth like that idiot downstairs, But it won't do any good you know, you can tell Rutherford for me, Tell him the truth will find him out! Tell him! Well, which is it? Would you mind stepping into your office and telling the doctor that I'm ready to come down? No need, Ill use the intercom, What do you want me to tell him? Just tell him I'm coming to see him, Doctor Martin is ready to come down sir, There you are, Thank you for your help, Don't mention it, it was a pleasure, And doctor, good luck, So, you've seen the patients, Well, what do you think? I think it's a disgrace, This institution, the way it's run, everything about it, Those patients, locked away by themselves, Lost in their own fantasies and no attempt made to bring them back to reality, You forget, they're incurable, Take a man like Byron, you think you could rid him of his delusions, I'd be willing to try, Then you'd fail, Byron is hopelessly insane, There's only way to remove Byron's hallucinations, With this, free frontal lobotomy? Exactly, Do you believe that surgery is a substitute for psychiatry? It's effective, Yes it's effective, in turning intelligent human beings into vegetables, And now, your choice, You'd still give me the job in spite of our differences? If you chose correctly, You might do some good here, So? Your choice? Your tea doctor, Thank you nurse, Milk and sugar? Nothing, I'm going back to London, You won't choose? No, I'm disappointed in you Martin, Why, because I refuse to play games with you? Because you admit defeat, Defeat? You can't identify Dr. Star, that's why you're leaving, isn't it? Because you failed the test, The test, I'm not a schoolboy, I'm a qualified doctor, Obviously not qualified to practice here, These patients are badly in need of proper therapy, You won't help them, you won't even let them help themselves, On the contrary, I give them every opportunity to work out their fantasies, Perhaps wrongly, Take Byron for example, His work is remarkable, Also dangerous, Dangerous? To himself, perhaps it's time I put an end to it, destroyed his figures, That may make him even worse, Or cure him, Yes I think the time has come to take Byron's toys away from him, Help! Help! Byron? I was in my office, when he cried out, By the time I got to his room it was too late, He's dead? All of his body was crushed, So that's the end of Byron Star, You recognized him then, sir? It was obvious, Where are you going? To call the police, Is there a phone in your office? Don't go in there sir, No, He's been strangled, Two days ago, There was no opportunity to dispose of it, Dispose of it, who is he? His name was Max Reynolds, The orderly? Yes, I'm afraid your guess was wrong, I am Dr. Star, Ah, good afternoon, Good afternoon, I've come about the appointment, Yes, I was expecting you, do come in, Thank you, Better keep the door closed and keep out the drafts as Dr. Star used to say, --
