 

                        Who are you? Leave me...leave me... Do you've tissues? - First settle the issues. Why did you bring me? Didn't bring but kdnapped you. Why? Why do we eat biryani? Forstrength! Why do we kdnap? Formoney! Unable to get the call through. Till the man who engaged us to kdnap you comes here, please tell yourstory to pass the time. l'll tellifyou give me phone. You want phone? Don't you want policestation address? Take it. But don't make any call. No SMS too. He came to my home 3 months ago... l thought he loves me. l elopedwith him. But now hesays he came forhis mother. Formother? Have tea. Tell clearly. This story started inMilan 3 months ago... Where is it? ltaly! Where is that? Europe! Where is that? Do you want geography of the place ormy history? Tellme. There's a superrich family known as Nandas! There's an old man known as Raghunandan in the 1 1th floor ofthat office. Did you love him? - l lovedhis grandson! ls he rich? Rs.1 lakh crores! One lakh crores?! How many zeroes? You'llsettle in life ifl sellhiswristwatch, okay? That'swhyhe's so proud. Do you remember lSF? That's investment fund, right? lt holds 7% ofshares in our company. Aman known as PraveenNalla has bought it. What does he want? That chair, father! Tellhim to buy spending 60 Euros. He's buying ourshares spending 100 millions. Threatening, those who refuse to sell. To tell the truth, he's stooping down to hooliganism. Whateverhe may do, ourfamily holds 60% shares in this company. 40% only, father. 20% belongs to your daughterSunanda. She didn't any attendboard meeting in 25 years. Didn't claim ownership. That'swhyhestarted buying ourshares. Talk to him. He owns a yacht, he lives init, neitherhe picks calls nor attends meeting. How do we catch him? How is hegetting our details? To let in fresh air, we open doors, father. Dust too enters alongwith it. Why don't you tell Gautham? So many ofus couldn't do anything, what can a lone man do? Hey, bullet is just half aninch! But it klls a six foot man! How would it be ifthe bullet is six foot tall? My grandson GauthamNanda wouldbe like that! Raghu, not... Do you think it's great to kdnap me from my boat? Do you think it's great to buy my company's shares clandestinely? You can get energy ifyou eat the apple on yourtable. But ifyou try to steal another's apple, look, you've to be brought here by force. May l ask you a question? What do you get buying my company? Happiness. This is fear! This is pain! How wouldhappiness be? Find it. ls it in money? ls it in clubswith girls? Oris it in thesoap thegirls use? Till you find it, don't ever dare look at us. There's a chance you may find happiness ifyou go searching. lfl kll you, no one can find yourbody too. Don't playwith mane oflion because it is sleeping, likewiseget yourselfphotographed with lion because it's friendly. Did you askhim, what happiness is? Do you know what my happiness is? All these chairs must be filled. With my daughter, son-in-law andgrand daughters. This room must get filled with theirlaughter. Then, my heartwouldbe filledwith happiness. ln 3 months, l wouldbe 80! l used to get you a gift for you on your every birthday. Will you get me a giftthis time? Will you bring your aunt here? Will you get up? You've been restricted to a wheel chairfor 2 years now. Will you get up fromit? You can't get up, he too can't bring them here. You sent them away, why are you shouting on us now? Yes, l got angry sinceshe married against mywishes, l sent them away, now l want them back. You've been thinkng about her for 25 years, didshe ever call you at least once? She's a woman, she'llhave pride. l'm yourson, father, l too have anger. We came here leaving motherland to make him forget about her. Where else cani take him so that she'llleave him alone? Father...father... Father, like we're facing a problem, a villagegot flooded, a manstartedswimming to otherbank with hiswife and children, unable to carry the weight, he dumpedhiswife, then dumpedhis daughter, lastly he dumpedhis son too, he reached theshore alone, but allhis life, he thought ofthe three people he dumped, andspent his life in tears. Whetherit is luck ornot, we'restill carrying him, shallwe dump him midway? Orshallwe carry the distance with difficulty andlive happily thereafter? She won't come, it's yourmadness, she'llnot come. Every yearwesend clothes, jewels and flowers on herbirthday, they come back to us withered and crumpled. Heshuts himselfin his room for 10 days. Banging his door continuously, my hands andheart have become hard. We don't needher. No need to think ofher. l got up! l'mstanding! Will you bring your aunt here? lnsearch of cloud that has migrated fromsky... Theskyitselfis going to foreign... lnsearch ofthe rain drop that fell from the peak... lt has left residence to go into exile... ls he mighty, archer, thunder or a demon? He's a man ofsteel... He's powerfullightning... ls he protector or defender or is he expert to test fire itself?. Astrange warwithout an enemy... Awoundhurt down deep in heart... Awalkng courage... An epitome ofbravery... Atough heart to take any poison... He's a six feet bullet... He's a rocket firedby courage... He's thesound ofsilence of rays offire that engulfs the world... He's the unseen hailstorm that lashes the earth... He's the fury of roughsea hiddeninside a conch... He's Ashoka to overcomesorrows... Heshows the place of origin to the branches that left roots to grow... Heshows east to theSun which changes direction to set in west... ls he Ravana or Rama or Krishna to win overhearts... ls he a soldier orworker or a man to do impossible... This is Hyderabad, sir. Traffic is too bad, Goddess Peddamma Talliis famous god. Sir, she's your aunt Sunanda. She was thin earlier but now little fat andstrong. He's youruncle Rajashekar. He had curly hair, got rich andlost the curls. They used to have a 3 starhotel, now they've a 5 starhotel, which is running into loses, youruncle is lawyerin court, your aunt is the judge in home, they have two brothers and two wives. l mean each have one wife. Tellme about my aunt not about useless things. Without knowing these details, how can you plan and take aunt home? Rama planned to build a bridge afterreaching sea, he didn't plan a bridge in forest before coming to sea. l didn't mean like that sir. -Will you please keep shut? Forgood... Why notjust put a plaster to his mouth? Sorry boss, didn't get that idea. Did you get hurt, Balu? -No problem, sir. Hesays no problem, what if anyone attacks me? That's okay, where's uncle's house? lt's inJubilee Hills, but he's no in that bus. That bus? He's returning from Chennai. Where are you going, sir? - To follow. Then? Did l write any book on 'How to bring Aunt home'? Just do whatever you feellike doing. ls there anyone to receive us ornot? Anew batch iswaiting forus, sir. - Come.- Come. l want a carurgently. - Car...? That's my car! - How much? ls it taxi to ask about fare? -What's the price? Rs.70 lakhs! Give it to him, Balu. What's this man? Take AmericanExpress cheque that's equal to cash. Would l give carifyou pay cash? Shouldwegive a warning too? What happened? l thinkhe's having an heart attack, need to take him to hospitalimmediately. Asmallsuggestion. -What? He'll die in 5 minutes, afterthat your auntwouldbecome a widow, right? lt's very easy to convince a widow and take herhome. Rajarathnam, l needlittle time to settle yourloan. Would 50 years be enough, madam? l too have eyes, l too cansee angrily. Be on the job. When you sought loan, l want 10 crores and 25 crores, you speak verywell in chasteTelugu, when l ask you to repay, you start speakng inEnglish. You build this hotelwith my money. Theywant us also to pay bill for a coffee here. They'llnot repay the loan. Madam, yourhusband is inJames Hospital. He had an heart attack. Am l narrating Benhurfilm as a ballad? Why am l talkng alone? Jesus! Why should l lend money andget hurt? When goodpeople are hurt, they cry. When badpeople like me are hurt, they'llmake others cry. l'llwait forthe timeshe has no kerchief and make her cry. There's much betterhospital 5 kms away from here, why didn't you take him there? Cemetery is just 2 kms away only. Hadhe delayedby few minutes, you'dhavegone there. He brought him here at right time. l expectedshe would thank you profoundly, butwhyis she holding collar andscolding you? lfshe's a person to pause for a moment and think, whywouldwe come this far, Balu? How are you now? The man who brought me here... Madam! Tell driverto bring my briefcase from car. Give a lakh to that man. - Okay madam. You gave up billions to live with me. But the man who is responsible formy living now, can money equate it, Nandu? Hello, madamis calling you. Keep the phone on, you'd know what l'm talkng to theminside. Don't besleepy, be alert. - Okay sir. Yourname? Siddharth...Siddu! What do you do? Call the ambulance driver. Driver, sir. What's a driver doing in airport? That is... -My fianceis in Dubai. l wasworkng in Dubai, just now came to lndia. Did you come forshort period orforgood? Actually, there was a fire accident in the place l work, actually l saved my bossSheikh, hiswife and kds. lfyou save anyone, you must get a raise in pay, whywould anyone fire you? Actually according to Dubairules, since l saw theirwomen, they saidsorry andsent me away spending as much money as possible. firing me as their driver andsend me away. Without bothering about money, send the driver away. Why are you telling this so many times? To make us understand. lfyou deliverthis suitcase, whatwould you get? What else? l'llget salary this month also as l get every month. lfyou give it to us, you'llget a 70 lakh worth car. Why are you thinkng? You're talkng but not giving the keys. Take it. Take it. Why did you bring it? What happened to the driver? He leftthe job. -Why? Hesaidhe wouldbuy a 70 lakh car but notwork for you. By the way, who are you? - Patient ofthat bed. Sir, you can't have children anymore. - l know. l thinkhe leftthe job for you. lfyou don't have any objection, you can join us as driver. l'min difficulties losing my job, whywould l've any objections, sir? lfyou're in difficulties, it's like Ambaniis begging. Appointing him without knowing his credentials... You're damn lucky! What's yoursalary expectation? To pay him, your entire family must rob a bank. Day aftertomorrow is auspicious day, join the duty. Okay sir. - Come. Bye, sir. Like waves offragrance of millions offlowerfilling the air... He movedlike breeze withsmile... To movestoneswith the wetness ofwarmth... He came down like the benevolent rain God... He's sky, a never ending void... Melting clouds are his domain... He's the one who burns down the differences... His eyes are illuminating the world... Protecting relationships andlives are his forte... Why are you watching so intently? They dance forus, right? - ls it? Bend yourhead...bend! l'llpluck out your eyes. lfyou'reso possessive, don't have daughters. lfyou do, then don't teach them to dance. lfthey show it is glamour, ifwesee it's vulgar. People are takng ourlives. -Am l? What's this? This is a home with girls, why are you takng so much liberty? Be careful. You chide like this andget her married to somesadist from llT. He'll use allhis intelligence to torture them. You'llknow then. Who is he? - He's... Why are you shakng handswith driver? Leave herhand. You come, madam. Your dance very nicely. Your eye browswere like reverse Nikesymbol, you moved it fantastically up and down! Are you really a driver? l'm... - He's returned from Dubai, comesir. You go. - Thisway...thisway... Enough ofseeing her. l'm telling you, 9 to 5 is your duty hours, Saturdays andSundays are holidays, no holidays forfestivals and no bonus too. When madam presses this bell twice, you must come immediately. lfshe presses the third time? -Another driverwill come in yourplace. Can't you see a man falling down? Why should you shake hands with a driver? You... You won't long last. Really? Let mesee! Who is he? -New driver. ls it you who took my brother to hospital? He doesn't looklike a driver. - Use him forhouseholdwork too. What's the priest doing here? Women have taken a vow to offer prayerifbrother comes homesafely. Give the list to me. lncensesticks? - Got it. Flowers? - Keeping it there. Camphor? - Got a klo! Betelleaves? - Ready. Coconuts? - lnstore room. Why are you lookng at me? Am l so handsome? No...hesaid coconuts are in room, get it. Why are you lookngperplexed? Didn't get me? Why are you stillhere? Go! Oil, ninegrains, flowergarlands, wellmade list. Don't know whatever l eat gets stockedhere! What happened? Who is he? How couldhe entermy room? Who asked you to enterherroom? You told me to get coconuts from upstairs... Coconuts are instore room. He pointed the fingerup... Pointed up? Will you go wherever l point? l wouldshow up forgod, will you go up there also? Why are you makng it a big issue? Shameless girl! He made the mistake, why should l be ashamed? Why did you do like that? You appearto be a good man. l didn't know putting zip is such a grave mistake, madam. lfl hurt you so much... l can correct it immediately. How? - How? Like this! Will you zip up and down madam's dress? ls she a mannequininshop? What happened? -What am l to tellsir? Yoursecond daughterSashi's dress, he zipped and unzipped... l can't tell that, sir. He doesn't know where the coconuts are? He knowswhere my heart is, right? There aregirls in this house, how could you behave like this? Remove him. -What's this trouble in prayers? That's it, sir. Whatever you may think, he's not right forthis home. She's the one to decide what's right orwrong to this home. Fill up the tank. lt's like bringing home a snake. What can we do? You are...? -Nurse! Nurse? l expected a lady as nurse. Ladies are becoming expecting mothers, so l'm here. Are you disappointed? -No, nothing like that. lt's like a heroine takng bath in oil and coming outwithoutwiping it. Use olive oil. Forlunch make omelettes with eggwhites only. Add milk withspinach, it's good forheart. Okay, what should l cook for you? That listwas forme. How would l know what patient's requirement is? Please askhim. Why are you givingpose like Pedarayudu? Do you consider yourself a big business magnate? Why are you acting like a billionaire? Whyis hesilent? You don't have the body language of a driver. Do you know that? Drivers used caps like this in 1960's, sir. ln 1980's caps disappeared. Now they put caps on owners and drive the cars. Are they item girls to show bodies? Where's the body language? l've planned that too, sir. NTRas driverin film'Taxi Ramudu'! Get in... l'll tell you thestory on the way, come... ANRin the film'Donga Ramudu'. Drop the kds inschool. Driveris new, show him the way. Who willpay the taxi fare? Would yourfatherpay? You're a driver, show some respect. Who is he? He's Chiranjeevi. - He's doing it verywell. He's not acting anymore, sir. -Why? His sonis acting now. What are you doing then? l'llmix all this and fix it. You get me ice pack. Any progress in aunt's matter, sir Very good. lf my uncle comes home drunk every night andbeats her, she would cry forleaving herfamily, but the matterhere isn't that, they've made hersit on a golden throne! Bloody progress! Whywould aunt oruncle come ifyou act like driver or cleaner? Theywon't come. Do you've any idea? Don't criticize without an alternative. They'llget angry. My uncle isn't keepinggoodhealth, ifhe knows the reason of my coming here, won't he kck the bucket inshock? l'msure he would. ls my relationship with aunt any good? lt'sworse! Won't she throw me out ifl tellher? She'llsurely. l must tellher at an opportune time, right? You must tell at right time. To tellher, l must be in theirhome, right? You must, sir. To stay there, otherthan as driver, what else can l do? Nobody can do anything, you've to be a driver. Tell that to him. There's no truth init. l swearsir. There's no feeling in yourpraise. - How canit be, sir? Only fearrules in situations like this, sir. lfyou pass comments on people who pay you salaries, yourlive will turn upside down, bloody idiot! Got it? - Got it, sir. Get the fool down. l'm like a knife, i can cut vegetables aswell as necks. l don't have emotions, only duty! This dialogue isn't matching this scene, sir. Does Mephistopheles beardsuit you? Are we not tolerating it? Shut yourgob andlisten. Sir, this is your daughter's Harvard application form. These are bank account statement details. This is scholarship form. l need 10 latest photos of your daughter, sir. ls it okay to give like this, father? Why are you getting tensed? l didn't commit any murder. Just got married. That's all! Father, he'sShekar, he did Master ofLaw. Hesaidhe would die ifl don't marry him. l threatenedhim that you would die ifyou marry me. He didn't get scared. He asked l'm an ordinary advocate, would yourrich family accept me as theirson-in-law? l toldhim my fathertoo came from ordinary family. My fatherloves me dearly. l toldhim my fatherwouldn't say no to me. He wouldwatch like fool whatever l do, l don't give him a damn, ifyou want, see it, did you marry to show him this? Father, that is... l hugged you when you cried, but ifyou go against, l'llrip you apart. Just got married... just got married? l'm planning to send you to Harvard. Why did you make mestandhere? l wanted to make you sit next to me in board meetings. But you tonsured my head cleanly. l'm conducting a sacrifice for yourwellbeing, and you're takng my life here. Father! Who is yourfather? l hoped you wouldn't say a word ifl marriedhim. lfyou really had trust on me, you shouldn't have come aftermarriage, you should've come to me with him before that, you should'vesought my permission, l'llnot accept, you must make a plea, it'll take a year, 2...may take 4 or 5 years also. You mustwait till then, and then marry him. That'swhat you should've done ifyou really had trust on me. Didn't you find anyone betterthan him? He can't even be an assistant to a juniorlawyerin my office. Father, look from my side. l cansee future with him, l cansee a family! l cansee yourruination! Why don't you please listen to her, Raghu? He too is advising me because ofyou. Go! Go...go...go away! What are you lookng at? Go away! Go! Go! l wanted to you to share mywealth equallywith my son, you removed me like a speck of dust, What's this, father? -Stop it. l mustn't hearherfootsteps in this house. l mustn't see hersmile on these walls. Nothing she likes orher clothes, her connection with this family, herright to be heir ofthis family, herblood relationship with this family, nothing must remain! Remove it! Sir, dust! -No problem, Balu. Looks like that male nurse has seenit, what am l to tellhim? Let's tellhim the truth. He would understand it. What's init? l can understandTelugu verywell, tellme. Nothing, l'm not a driver but Sunanda's nephew, we own many steel factories inSpain, l'm here to convince my aunt and take herto my grandfather. You like her elder daughter Premila, ifshesays yes, you'd marry hertoo, right? Am l right? That's it. - How could you? Because l'm also a billionaire like you. l sellplastics in France. l've joined as nurse there to marry their younger daughterSashi. Wow! What a coincidence! -What? l mean coincidence! That'swhy steel andplastic have mixedso well. l'llbeat you withslippers. You'dhave missed yourbus, he would'vegiven you lift, doorwould'vegot stuck, he would've opened it for you, seeing dust on yourpant, he would've dusted it. Forthatwhyto lie about steel factories inSpain andSunanda's relative. l'llget angry. l'm telling you, you own this car, you're their driver, what l say is final! Why are you dressedlike marriage band? Change it, l'm getting irritated. Why didhe brush it off as marriage band? Did you get it now? The world never believes ifyou tell the truth. Be brave, l'llgo to work. - Okay sir. Sorry, it happened unwittingly. Actually Murthy, accountant Murthy, heguided me wrongly, it happenedlike that, l'm really sorry. You? Siddu, your driver. Look Siddu! lfthat chairhurts my leg, takng a photo ofthe chair, keeping it in my bedroom, would l decide to take revenge onit? Whywouldweget angry on chairs? lsn't it? You too are like that to me. Whywould l get into trouble with chairs, sofas, drivers andservants? Go...go, mind yourbusiness. Aunty, geyserisn'tworkng. - l know. Why? No power. l want hotwater. l'min bath towel, send it up. l'm workng, l can't come now. l'llnot accept ifyou don't bring it. Yourhusbandwillget it for you. lfl hadhusband, he'llnot only bringwater, he would apply soap to me also. Send it up! Why did you come here? Bucketwas lying downstairs. lfso, would you bring it? They told me to do any job on joining day, right? That'swhy! Would you murderif asked to? What can be more comfortable than murdering in a lawyer's home? Aren't you ashamed to enter a lady's bathroom? Look at that bulb! How it is ogling at you! Would you stop takng bath because that bulb is seeing? Bulbs, insects and drivers like me, you mustn't bother about them, without bothering about them, take a goodbath. l'llwait here only, ifyou want l'llget anotherbucket. Are you daring to take on me? l'llget you thrown out from here in a week. Many makegreat effort to make others laugh with theirjokes, butwhen you get angry, you make me laugh out loud! Are you makng me laughing stock? l'm not afraid, l'll take bath. But l don't see men takng bath. How could you get a heart attack? You takegood care ofyourself. What happened really? That day after l hadlunch, l was feeling little uneasy, moreoverflightjourney, feeling chest pain, l thought it couldbegastric trouble, aftergetting down, l hadEno salt, when l was driving, there was a severe painin my left hand, l understood, l felt l'm finished, l wanted to open the door, l wanted to open the lock but... l felt ifsomeone had come to my help. But l couldn't do anything. Then, he came at the right moment. Breakng the window and takng to hospitalis like a dream to me, mywife, my children, my brothers, their children, all are very young, not one ofthemis married, only thatwas in my mind, strength of a thread is known onlywhenit snaps, value of relationships are realised onlywhen we leave, it's true, notjust forme, he came formy entire family, What else can l tell otherthan this? Had my motherbeen alive, she would've built a temple for you. Whatwould yourfamily have done in this situation? l don't have anyone, they're all dead andgone. lfyou go out, get me two cigarettes. Buy few beedies too. What? - Buy beedies, don't feelshy. Beedies? You too get cigarettes. Why are you beating me? -Should l get you cigarettes? Do you know with whom you're talkng to? You're notworth even to wipe my shoes. Should l get you cigarettes? Come...come out! Come...come... - l asked you friendly. Please listen to me. Did you see that coffeeshop? - l'veseenit. Did you see it yesterday? -No. l don't know what coffee l would've, American, filter or anything. ltwas opened formy sake only. - ls it? Forme only! How dare you ask me to get cigarettes! Will you buy beedies forme? Come here. Did you see that shop here yesterday? No! lfthey ask forvegetables or coconuts, l don't know to shop, so this shop is being run forme only. They'llkeep everything packed and ready. What did you ask me to do get now? Buy cigarettes for you. lfl get cigarettes for you, will you gift beedies to me? Come here, did you cans in his hands? Did you see? One has diesel and anotherhas petrol, l don't know what to fill in which car, when l apply the brake, they'll come and fillit up, they'll fill up the tank, what did you ask me? Should l buy cigarettes for you? Cigarettes? So many are workng forme to keep me a driver, are you telling me to work for you? Already they saywe're dead. - ls it? How would an extra largesixed man feelinsmallsize? l don't know. -Show him. Whyis coming behind me? What's hegoing to do? l'm getting suffocated! l'm also feeling thesame. Should l buy you cigarettes? Why are you beating him, sir? Ask them to beat him. Sorry, sir! l thought you were jokng. Are you my brother-in-law to joke? -No sir. Compared to my earlier days, l'm coolernow, right? You're much better compared to early, sir. You've calmed down. Right, l too noticed it. Pay andsendhim. Give it all. Sir, Rs.10 lakhs, he can't handle it. What's the number, brother? You were right, Balu. He can't handle too much money. lf anyonegive Rs.10 lakhs, break it open and take it, why are you askng the number? Hey, luck is knockng your door! But badluck is firmly locked inside yourhome. So, manage with this Rs.1000 fornow. Enjoy! -Enjoy? Bye...bye... l don'twant, mummy. Where are you going? l told you about Wednesday party, right? The line mustn't beseen. can l wipe it, mummy? l'llkll you. lfl meanshouldn't seen, wear a dress covering it. Go! Go! Playing foolwith me. Siddu, we need to go out. Where to? Oh my God! Are you going to a party? -Yes. But you promised to go by evening. Mother asked us to change the dress. Wegot late. l've been waiting here for you since long time. Madam, ifyou don't mind, can l say something? l'm finding it difficult to hold it. You'regoing to a partywith such long dresses, what a traditional family yours is! We can hardly find anyone like this. l'm really very proud, madam. To get associatedwith yourfamily, it's thegood deeds of my early life to get associatedwith a family like yours. See on the leftside! Mothergoes regularly that side to reach her club. ls it, madam? Look on the right side... Look at that coffeeshop... Sisterloves to have coffee there only. That's on my daddy's office route. -Yes madam. lfyou go that side, we'llreach ourhotel. This too. Can you the building on leftside? l learn to play piano there. Did you change dresswhile telling me address? Are you disappointed in missing it? Why are you inciting him? Siddu, have your dinner andwait forus. Go...go... Whom do you want? Sashi...somewhere here only... l'mSashi! Poorman may be here forus. He won't come in the way unless hegets ragged. TheSashi l'msearchingwill be half ofyou. Am l so fat? l was saying about height. How am l? Very good. You're beautiful too. You'resexy too. What's yourname? Didwe meet before? No...never... Promise, this is the first time. Why are you man handling me? What are you having? What's this? Have you stoppedhavingplain water? Oh my God! Oh my God! What a boy! He has filled my heartwithout leaving a millimeterplace... Like a terroristwith daggerlike eyes... Like a sorcererwith hypnotic eyes... He's troubling me... catch him...catch him... Singwhatever you can mouth... Dance whatever yourbody can... Drink whatever yourhands lay on... World is a swing, swing to yourheart... Let's rock it! Let's have the fun! Come O girl... Let's rock it... AreTatas and Birlas greaterthan us? l'm like the filament inEdison's bulb... Yourmere touch canswitch me on... l'msilent fire like microwave... lfyou give me yourheart, l'llshow you my talent... Hey boy! Are you a clone oflove code? Hey girl, so much following forjust one look... My name is Margareta, l was born like a mocktail... Stealmy beautywith your eyes... Youth is a garden offlower without a watchman... lfyou invite, l'lllandlike a dragonfly... Hey boy, shouldwe invite you? Hey girl, don't you want me to enterthe arena? My red dupatta is flying in wind... My red dupatta iswaving in air... What? Why did you stop us? l'm off duty now, right? Start the car. Have you gone mad? Have you gone mad? Who wouldbe madderthan you? Do you feel you're a great beauty? Here comes Queen Victoria! While creating Lord Brahma took lunch break andleftyou half done. That'swhy you'reso... Premila madam, please come here. Lookhow docileshe is. Look at herpatience. That cuteness. Look at those big eyes! Any man wouldlove to fall into it and take a swim. Don't look down, fans like me wouldget hurt. Why are you feeling so shy? He's scolding me. - He's not beating, be happy forit. Be happy. Moreoverhe's drunk. lndeed. Give the keys. You're offthe duty, right? Give the keys. l'llget you fired from job. Oh mother! lfilose my job, how would l eat food and take bath? l'm really scared, mother. lfhalfbuilt house like you is so proud, l'm talllike a sevenstory building, how proudshould l be? What do you say, onlookers? HeySashi, sute ofthe house! She's crying! Start the car, formy sake. Notjust car, l can take herlife for you. Come. What do you feel onseeing the eldest girl? l feel the dress is too short. l feelshe wouldbecome ourmadaminshort cut. You mean they... You...you only madam. Do you remember what you saidlast night? ltwasn't me, madam. l'll tellmy mother about last night's incident. Not only this, you'lllose job and roam onstreets. Please madam, don't hit my livelihood. l've only one job, l don't have money also. Mother! Don't hit the livelihood of a worker, madam. Don't hit his livelihood, it'swrong, madam. Mother, last night Siddu created a big scene. Callhim. Mummy is calling you. Take out the car, need to go out. Bye madam. l though hotel ownermeans very oldwoman. She's very young. Those who tookloan are young but lenderis getting old. l'm not refusing to repay the loan. How will you repay it? l'm discussing a dealwith a software company, if dealis okay, fornext 3 yearswe'll 40% occupancy. That'llnot materialise, madam. Simple, yourhotelwould raided tomorrow, we'll catch few callgirls, companywould tearthe contract andwalk out. Don't unnecessarily go against ego. Look at my face, do l looklike a egoistic man? lfl remove my beard, l'llbe like Amulbaby. She need not repay me, l'llpay 25 extra, tellherto give the hotel to me. Am l askng too much? Neverheard any better deal than this in my life. lfyou're adamant like this, my manis short tempered. Unnecessarily in angry mood he may harm yourhusband. Whywould l not get angry? When l eat salt andspice! l'llget angry. l'll do something, l'll cut something. Cutting this orsomeone's neck aren't much different. Thatwillmove when l cut and thiswillnot. That's the only difference. Go to road number 12! What you're doingwrong, sir? Keep yourhands on heart and think. l'llneverkeep hands on heart exceptwhilesleeping. Who are you man? Me? l'm a driver. Why are you discussingwith a driver? Throw him out. When anACP is here, how dare you beat my men! l'llkll you! Are you a goon? You mad man! Have l entered any exhibition? To see around. One who fearswillshout andbrave willbearit. No need to tellwhich category you belong to. Are you a great man ifyou beat fourmen? l'm old city Parameshwar! EverySunday l play cardgame with Home Minister. State or central? Callhim. He told you his name, right? Callhim. What? What's that built up? Who that manis in halfsuit? Who are you calling now? Will you settle things on phone? Shouldwe accept your phonesettlement? l'vegray my hair, l'm using dye. You'llget the call. Who is it, brother? What happened, brother? Down yourgun! l don't have any connection with him, sir. They invited me formarriage and offered chicken, so l came. Chickenisn't tasty too. What happened, brother? Askng me, what hadhappened? l'm finished. Before calling me for any settlement, know the back ground of people you're facing! Call from central Home Minister. Gave me a lesson on phone. He wants me in Delhi by tomorrow. Are you watching any film? You'll die man! He's dinosaur, run away! Sir, am l stillin the post or dismissed? You come here, sir. l'll find and tell you. lfyou give loan, should they've to sell theirhotel to you? lf notwill you kll them? lfthey sell, buy it, that's business. Don't try to usurp it. lt's grabbing! l'm here to protect her. Who is there to save you from me? Sir, he may die in fear. My angerisn't easing, what am l to do? Come here. Hey you! Where's my hand and where your cheek is? l'llnot beat you this time. lfthe torn agreement doesn't reach herhands in 30 minutes. LordJesus! Please don't finish that sentence. l'llnot give you that opportunity. Trust me. Do you've paper andpen? To respectablesisterSunanda, madam, you're like a sisterto me! Madam, you're like a sisterto me. ltwas my mistake to behave like thatwith you. Here's the agreement you singed. l'm giving it back to you. lfyou need any help in future, l'll do it as yourbrother. Forwhateverhadhappened... - l'm ashamed of. What do you say forforgive in Telugu? Please forgive me, madam. What happened? An hour ago, Satan took overme, madam. l wanted yourhotel. NowJesus is in my heart! l'm returning it to you. Why did you change dramatically? When l got herto sign by force, nobody asked me why? Now l'm reformed and returning it, why are you askng so many questions? Yes, no need of details when rogues reform. Not that... -Madam! There's a great powerbehind you, madam. Till that iswith you, nobody can dare touch you, madam. LordJesus! Whywas he lookng at you only, Siddu? Nothing like that. He did! Keep quiet, don't say like that. l'msacred, Premila. There's something magicalin you! Anyone would fall forit. She rolledher eyes like top... She rolledher curls... She made me roll overhersexywaist... Oh God! She's Bapu's girl... Oh my God, she's a jasmine twig... She took the colourfrom rubberbangles... She applied red colour on her cheeks... She flew me like a kte with herribbon... Oh God, is hersight gum? Oh God, she's an enchantress... She felled me with herrosy lips... She won overme waging a war without swords... She danced on my heart... Watching her dancesteps, l lost my sleep... Humming a songwhile drying clothes on the terrace... Shesang a song to squeeze my heart out... Whileserving me with a glass of coffee... Touching me with hergentle body... She electrified me with inciting desires with the live wire ofpassion... Sheseasoned me like they do while cookng vegetables... Wherevershe looks, it appears likeshe's seeing me... Shestitched into my heart the thread used formakng flowergarland... She imprisoned me withsari end... Shesays hello early morning... She invades my dreams as night falls... Allhermemories haunt as far as shegoes away... Shegently pushed into some magicalworld... She locked the door andlost the keys... She carried my heart to the clouds... Without makng noise, she took away the ladder... She took my heart in herhand and closed the fist... The wind ofherbeauty raised me back into life again... She imprinted many a sweet nothingswith herthoughts... She put goggles oflove to my eyes... Princess ofKosala, a beautifulgirl who raked up desires in me... She made me a garland ofbeads andwore it aroundherneck... Don't tellmy mother about eating ice cream. She fears l may put on weight. l don't likesmokng. Come closer, l'll tell you a story. Two thieves fromStuartpuram went to steal a home, both ofthem faced each other, if anyone ofthemshouts, inmateswouldwake up, they'll thrash them, so both ofthem cleverly did one thing, bothshared equally the booty, andwent away as they came. What's the moral ofthestory dear? When you have anice cream, l'll close my eyes, when l smoke cigarette, close yournose. Mind yourbusiness. lfyou want, take it. Do you know them, Premila? Why are you beating up while talkng to her? Whatwere you talkng to her? Her earringswere nice, inquiring aboutwhereshe bought it.. Mummy bought it. Who are you calling? - Hermummy. To know whereshe bought it. -No need. No? When you don't need it, whywere you askng silly things? There's a rule to telllies too. At least one ofthegang appears like buying an earring. Everyone appears like a thief!. He may get hurt, Siddu! Mad Premila! What are you saying? l hit to hurt them, right? Strongly! That'swhy people have names. lnstead ofrings andbangles, buy something useful to men. Am l right, Premila? Look afterhim! Rajesh, get the bike. What are you lookng around? Sistermust be with me in 5 minutes. Stillgot 2 more minutes in the time you gave me, Get yoursister, go. He's nearher. He doesn't have courage to kll anyone, he doesn't have commitment to die too. Get her! Go. Who are they? - l don't know, father. Can you recognise them? -No. Why didn't you go to police? We mustn't leavesuch incidents simply. lt's time forwedding invitations not court summons. Wellsaid. We mustn't go public oversuch issues. We must coversuch incidents underthe carpet. Don't arrange felicitations forSiddu onsaving her. By the way, what happened to Siddu? He beat them, how can heget hurt? He may have beat them, he brought you homesafely. Call Dr.Navin here. - Okay, brother. When he was angry, my fatherused to do just like this. Mybrotherused to tease me that l too have thesame habit. When l left home, he had a son ofthis height. He was very intelligent. When l say fill the tank, any driverwould ask formoney, he won't leave with the keys, he doesn't know that, l and yourfathergrew up togetherfor 22 years, l cansee himin you, when you speak, l can hear yourgrandfather, can't l recognise you? He can throw out his daughter from home every easily, but l can't even dismiss a car driver. That'swhy you'restillhere. Has yourgrandpa lost his grip due to old age? Didhe ask you to bring me? He didn't send me happily after l got married, hesent me awaywith my bloodiedhusband. ls that all you can do, father? When policesaid about threat from my enemies, Father, let's sit and talk it out. Father, please! l bought this gun. But my enemywas bornin my home. l raisedhermyself. -What are you doing, father? l'll cut it myself. This iswhat l can do! We didn't come here expecting you'dwelcome us, father. l thought you'd understand us. l know you'dshout at us. l thought ofpacifying you. l expected your anger, father. But l couldn't expect yourhatred. You klled me there. You diedhere. The place where my husband's blood fellis cemetery to me. Come. Please Nandu, listen to me. Don'tworry brother, l'llnot file a case on father. Come. l'm not angry on you. Because l've to remember you forthat. l don't like it. l don't lose anything ifyou stay here. lt isn't of any use to you. But one thing, Shekargot a heart attack as soon as you came. You savedhim. Hotelis in problems, you solved it. Today Premila got kdnapped, you savedher. lfthese incidents had happened naturally, it's okay. lfitwas planned andsolvedby you, impressing us andwere planning to take us to yourgrandpa, l too have a gun and license forit. But l won't miss the target like yourgrandpa. l saw everything sir. You both had a good talk. Who? You both! Who were talkng? -She talked, sir. Why did you say both then? l thought you'd convince your aunt and take herto yourgrandpa. Grandfather? She was talkng, how couldsheget convincedby it? But she knew l was Gautham. Wegot caught playing hide andseek in a floodlit stadium. Like fools! Did your aunt chide you in front of entire family, right? lfwe were just two, whywould entire family be there? Bloody idiot! You're not fit to talk anyway, you're unfit to get angrywith too. Sir, ifyou promise not to beat, l'llsay something. Cry it off!. Nobody else knows that you're her nephew otherthan your aunt, right? No, she won't tell anyone. Take advantage ofit and use it. Don't beating around the bush, come to the point directly. Tell you love herwith aunt's elder daughter Premila. Wouldshe follow me ifl say so? She's crazy about you, sir. She'll die for you, sir. On hearing yourname, she'dsay beau...beau... Balu, finish it quickly. l'm dyingwith tension to hearrest ofit. Tellme what's next? She loves you very much, sir. She'll eat you alive with her eyes, sir. Just go to her and say l love you. She'llimmediately follow you like a Pomeranian dog. Your auntwill also follow you in the next flight. Balu, you did make a valuablesuggestion. l want to kss you. l lost my confidence hearing my aunt's chiding remarks. Balu, l needlittle encouragement. What do you want son? lfPremila sees me? -She'llget tempted. lfl talk to her? -She'llmelt. lfl touch her? -She'llget connected. lfyou stay here, you'llget late. Hey! What are you doing? Stop! Why did you stop me? -Why do you want to kll yourself?. Why should l live? Will you stop askng questions and answerme? Why should l live when l don't getwhat l like? l think she knows l'm going away. Whywill you not get it? What you like is right before you! lt's yours any day. Not mine. She's feeling because l'm a driver. Premi, l'm not a driver as you think. -Yes, you're a rogue. You separated me from my lover. Lover? Who is he? - Rohit, the man you beat in mall. He kdnapped you, right? Hadhe kdnapped me, l would'veshouted, right? We love each otherfor 3 years now. We had decided to run away today and marry. You spoiled everything. Are you happy now? He's getting married tomorrow night. He's getting married night, right? l'llbring him by morning. He has been taken away by the marriage party. Where? Siddappa Naidu is village head ofthat place. One daughter and two sons. Secondsonis very violent. He cut the hand forstealing his daughter's bag. Can you bring my future husband fromsuch a house? l'llbring. -Will you leave tonight? l needlittle time to recover fromsuchshocks. l need time. Meanwhile, you take a bath in the tub. Use drierto dry yourhair. But don'tjoin both, please! lt's my responsibility to unite you both. My responsibility! l cansee the marriage canopy... The auspicious time to unite... What a situationalsong! Open thesuitcases. Continue thestay in hotel. Keep plane in parkng bay. Take me to a hospital. l want to go to Chittoor, get me a vehicle. One ofyou come with me. For courage, sir? To get scolded and beaten up when l'm angry. Someone wants to go to Chittoor, a group fell on my feet. You know, l'm very sentimental, he'll drive, l'llshow directions. This is Rohit's photo. l'llgive their address. He's not that great. Badphotography. Your choice too is bad. Please bring him carefully. She's not saying at least go carefully. Nothing. Okay...okay! l'msure they'vestolensomething. l don't have any complaint in life without you... Girls have no taste. He's like a TVtowerwearing shirt. She loves him. She's much better, the younger one willsurely select a terrorist. What are yoursweet memorieswith her? Nothing sir, recently shesaid l lost my purse, and asked did you take it? Why didn't you hit back withslippers? When l askedwhy? Shesaidpurse rhymeswith nurse, so l asked you. lfshe loses a tractor wouldshe ask a doctor? No need to think ofher, sir. Seeing heris bad omen and crossing herpath is death. Looks just like her. Do you've to travelso long to reach from there to here? Respect? You didn't get hurt, did you? ordertwo dosas, please. - Two dosas, brother. l think she would've fallen into jeep from balcony. She has lost hermind. lt's amnesia. When willshe rememberherpast? How would l know? isn't it? What happened to me? Nothing, yourparents didn't agree for ourmarriage. Add onions in pesarattu. -Why? You're mu aunt's daughter. ourfamilies are at loggerheads. That'swhywe've eloped. Don't use oil, useghee. Don't l'vesisters? You've a sister, she loves someone. Asandladen lorry hit him. lt's notwrong to add cashew nuts too forthem. Who is he? - Doctor! He prescribed medicines for you, right? lsn't it, doctor? Where's his stethoscope? l sold it to buy diesel. Don't bill them. Beau! You're my beau, right? Right! Whenshe addresses me like that l'm overcome with feelings. Beau! You're rich, right? Problem must be in yourhome, why are we facing it in my house? She has forgotten the past but not logic. Afearthe rick kds have badhabits. But you don't looklike that, beau. Actually yourgrandpa is the only one to agree for ourmarriage. ls he any less? He has left billions for you. No need to talk about that now, Padhu. Just forinformation, right? Beau! Would you like to speak to yourgrandpa on phone? You sit as it is. Grandpa! Talk to him. Give the phone to grandpa. How are you, sunny? Would you like to speak to yourgranddaughter? Wouldshespeak to me? Talk to him. Grandpa, l'mSashihere. How are you, dear? l'm fine, grandpa but my parents didn't approve it. How can they accept so easily? What has happenedwasn't a smallissue, right? Whetherit is big orsmall, it's over, right? Why shouldwe hang on to it for years? Though you're young, what you said is right. ls itwrong to marry uncle's son? Marriage? Nothing, grandpa. - Playing fun with aunt's daughter? Something like that. Shall l call you later? l felt like crying on hearinggrandpa's voice. Everythingwillbe fine. - Thank you, beau. Get up, please. He's here. What's this? Yourlovestory may be old, but this sariis new, before they finish eating that please wearthis sari. Take it. Go! My pulse rate raced onseeing you... Whyis it so? Without seeing you my eyeswent hammer and tongs on each other... Why did it do like that? Go away! Don't know what it is...what magic you spreadwith just a look... Don't know what it is...you gave me a disease with yourbody shake... Like a drowning flood, burning fire, you took my life, dear... Such a vast sky...endless blue... How could you fill all that in yourlittle fish eyes? You rocked me! lt's true that gold is hidden inside earth... But growing on earth and moving, you've re-written the history... When you break into a jig insari... Shall l follow you like an ant? When you moveswinging like a boat... May l follow you like wind? Let's be togetherlike Radha-Krishna andpain-sadness... Daughter-in-law without mother-in-law is great lady... Mother-in-law without daughter-in-law is great lady... Daughter-in-law...son'swife! You're a cream offresh milk... Moonlight ofthe night... Who so evermay have painted the picture ofMona Lisa... l'msure he hasn't seen the milkybeauty ofyou... What's the use? One who took away the Kohinoor diamond may be a King... Poorman doesn't know theshine ofthat diamond is in you... lfyou're born and brought up like this... How much can l sing in praise ofyou? l've used all the words l know in Telugu to write this song... LikeSirivennela's songs and Veturi's lyrics, you'reso sweet, my dear... Why have we come here, dear? - To take a smallparcel. Shall l wait here? Will you wait? My sweet darling, come. Whatwill you do waiting here? You promised to marry me. Will you marry me? - l do. l think you'dgo on honeymoon before that marriage happens, come. You go, l'll follow. Come. -Shall l go? Will you wait? - Come, let's go. Come...come... Dear! He'll come back, not going away. He'll come back in few minutes. Come...why are you pulling it up? Getting ready to fight Wait, l'llsettle this issue. How? Askng me how? You said you're a billionaire, did l believe it? Let me use thesame formula here. lfthey ask, let's tell them we're here to take away thegroom. They'll offersweets and send us in.- Come. Do something. Greetings sir. - Greetings. Give it. Takesweets. You are...? - l'm bride's secondbrother. He's elderbrother. You are...? -We're here to kdnap thegroom. Didn't l tell they'llnot believe the truth? Thegroom up there doesn't like yoursister, he loves anothergirl, hesought ourhelp andwe're here. Padhu, they didn't ask all that details. Truth isn't a DVD movie! To press pause button as andwhen you feel! lt's a filmin theatre! Once the titles start, curtains mustn't come down tillit is over. Where's thegroom? - Upstairs. Thisway, sir. Didn't l say sweets? They don't believe ifl tell truth also, fools. Truth is like fire. One who says my feel the burn but one who hearswill feelit'swarmth. Keep those things there! They say there's more in a marriage thatwillstop! lnfact l feelpity fortheseguys! Don't know what it is! Why are you dull? l shouldbe marrying her but l'm marrying her. How would l be otherthan dull? Stop crying like a girl and come with us. lfthey know, they'llkll us. They gave your address. Look at this long hairman, he's very good man. He offeredsweets too. Who among you is the leader? Padhu sirleads in everything! Forwhat? Why are you lookng at me furiously? Will you beat me? He appears like a good man! Elderly man! Oh my God! Onesecond delay l would've lost my head instead ofhair. Did you get it now? Truth burns both teller andlistener. Oh my God! They're following us! Oh no! They're closing in! They're closing in! Follow the vehicle! Go fast! No road, don't go! l shouldbe in home, how did l come here? Shegot backherpast! They're closing in, go fast! Where am l? Don't leave them! They're coming! - Didn't he kdnap my sister? Who changed my dress? l'm coming to kll you. What's this? Tellme who changed this? Come...come with me. -You didsomething... So many people are coming! Why are they fighting? Who are you? Who is father ofthe running away man? Who is the father offallen man? Beating up my son, how dare you come to me makng inquiries! Look, King is an old man like you in chess board, Just onestep this side orthat side. Butwhy do people callhim as kng? Because Ministeris next to him. That's his strength! Who is yourstrength? Who gives you the power to twirl yourmoustache? Whose muscles make you boast? Whose courage makes you take out a dagger? Who is he? He can bring down an elephant with one punch! He's my man! Mybull! This is my pride! lfyou touch it, it's like beating me, ifyou wearit, it's like l'm dead. Good timing! lfyou touch it, it's like beating me, ifyou wearit, it's like l'm dead. Why not add a good rhythm to it? lt couldbecome a goodsong. Hackhimin the name of Ahobhilam Lord Narasimhaswamy! Neverstep onsnake because it's resting. Are you a great man ifyou beat one man? Each one of my men play swing with live wires. But neverplaywith powerplant! You'llget blown up! One must catch their own thing! Nevertry to catch another one's, thiswillbe the result. What? Be careful! How can he take him? He must marry my daughter. Agreed it's your daughter's marriage but death to another daughter. Which is more difficult? There's clarityin my question. Would there besurety in your answer? Listen to me, Siddappa! lfuseful, use here only. Use wherever you can ifyou remember. l'm like lion. lt can't shave and l can. That's the only difference. All other characters aresame! Kick ofhaving the last laugh is terrible! Get in! Get in quickly, he may beat me. before takng such a big decision, you'veguts to discusswith driver, but don't you've thesense oftelling yourparents? No sir... -What no? Who is he? What does he do? How wouldhe look after you aftermarriage? Don't you want to know anything? lfyou love, we'llkll, ifyou marry, we'llburn you, we're not that foolish to say like this. Butwe love you. We respect yourlove. You'veso much respect for your daughter's love, that man has got no respect formy daughter's marriage. l wantedhermarriage feast to spread the delicious smell to 10 villages around. But this trouble has reached 100 villages. How embarrassing! His fathertook the dowry, he dishonoured me. Mylife has become good fornothing. lt seems you're a famous lawyer, please do justice to us. Tellme! Have it, sir. The ladywho served you buttermilk is my sister. Mybrother-in-law left herforfestival promising come back forherin 10 days, 30 festivals have passedsince then, he didn't turn up, sir. lffood is left servantswill eat it, if a girlremains in home, you can never eat a mealpeacefully. You'llstand to lose ifyou force your daughter as hiswife. Yourname... -Siddappa! Tellme what did you spend forthe marriage? l'll take it as my daughter's marriage andbearthe entire cost. What? Will you pay me? Are you such a great man to put a price onSiddappa? Who said that? Show me! How dare you raise weapon at him! Bring it down. Tellme! This is for cutting crops. Not to cut throats! lfwish to beat, hit this man. he agreed to the marriage without askng his son. Why are they after comedianin the fight between hero and villain? They'regoodpeople, that'swhy they'restill talkng to us, father. Had they been like us, theywould'vegot us thrown out! Sorry sir. lnsorrow father... l'm askng forgiveness on his behalf. ltwas his mistake to offer yourmoney. Forthe loss ofyourhonour, honour of my home, we'llgive oursecond daughter in marriage to your youngerson. Take herwith you, brother. Give her, l'll think l've another daughter. l'lllook afterherwell. Mywife too isn't here to offer you traditionally turmeric and vermillion. No problem. Give her. l don't think you're not here to take your aunt. But you're here to arrange her daughters' marriages. l didn't getwhythey fired you in Dubai aftersaving theirfamily. Why should anyonegive up good man? l'vestarted understanding it. We offerprayerto tree and callit as God, but it grows on ourhouse wall, we cut it. Marriages are happening because ofyou. But ifthat elderly man gets irritatedwith you, marriageswouldget cancelled. Siddu, you're like medicine. lt too has expiry date. l think you'dhave understood me. Father! Grandpa is notwell! BP is fluctuating rapidly forthe last two days. Since morning he's struggling to breathe. He's beinggiven oxygen. Come back, Gautham. Forget your aunt, at least be here to see your grandpa forthe last time. No use in meseeing him, he must see aunt. l'llbring her. l'llbring aunt on his birthday. l'llkeep up my promise. Tellhim to stay alive till then and keep hisword. Can you hearme? Tell this in his ears. Tellhim to stay alive till l come back. Tellhim to be alive! One opportunity! Just one! He brought me as simple as bringing a suitcase. Why are you praising himso much? As ifhe won a war against Pakstan. Why are you so jealous? Stay here forfew more minutes, yourhusbandwillgetjealous. Go! You're number one is spoiling any occasion. Sashi, please reduce your anger. Because yourfianceis little mad. So, better coolit off. Whomshould l marry then? Whomshould l marry? Should l marry one who takes me into his lap and talks? Should l marry one who feeds me fondly? Surprised to know how l remember all this! Yes. Beat that nurse andhe... Do you know what my problemis? You! The day you enteredhome, l liked you! l fellflat onsight! What do you want, Sashi? Little peace of mind. Bloody eyes! Though l don'twant, it's entering my dreams too. Can l marry a driverforthat? My sisteris marrying anMBA! Her children wouldstudy in Oakridge! Willmy childrenstudy inMunicipalschool? That'swhy l used to shout at you wantonly. Go away man! From my heart and my home! When l come near you, l'llget strange dirty thoughts! Myheart beat races! Cheeks turn warm! Legs start shivering. Now also! l'm wearing long skrt, nobody cansee it. l didn'twant to tell you. Anyway you don't have an entry into my home. There's no waywe can meet again. That'swhy l told you. l've to tell you one more thing. Close your ears! l said l want to tell. Did l say you must hearit? Go to hell! So, l want to sing this new song... Hey girl! You knocked me outwith just a slip oftongue... Hey Monsterprincess, you said l love you biting yourteeth... You laid a beautiful trap... Yourlovegunshot hit my heart... Which is right andwhich is left...? l'mintoxicatedwithout having a drink... Like using cat ball to spreadjasmine... Like a bomb blew undermy shirt pocket... l'm getting crazy ideas... You made mego bonkers... Yourlips arestrawberries... Yourwords are Cadbury's... You're a walkng nursery of flowers ofbeauty... Colourfulgallery of dreams in my eyes... Yourmischievous eyes are filledwith intoxicants... Aunt's daughterhas spread charm offragrance... Offer diamonds on your beautifulsmile... l'llhug as new foundlove is takng overme... l'min chaos likesoundblast in Goddess kali festival... l'm feeling like l've had drug laced Bengalisweet... Wearing a cowboy's dress... Riding the horse ofRayalu... Stayingput on earth... l feellikestepping one moon... Getting incoming calls in a cellwithout SlM card... Using coal ofSingareni as face powder... l'm getting such crazy ideas... Unlike me, tie yourhusband to apronstrings like yourmother. You won't sparesister-in-law evenin blessing. lsn't it little difficult to bless forsomeone who scolds always? Madam! You keep pounding! lt's meSiddappa! l called to tell you something. Tellme, brother. Bhaskar, my nephew. He's coming to yourhouse tomorrow morning. He must conduct this marriage. That's it! Baddam Bhaskar! He went to Uganda with just Rs.2 lakhs investment, he bought a 10 acre farm, he ploughed the land, he hit a diamond mine! With oneshot, he hit big time. That's all, in 5 years he made nearly Rs.50000 crores. Dry and use it! Don't lose it! Rs.2 lakhs as tip! Why are you surprised forthis? He has a wish to win the coveted Oscartoo. No way! So, he instituted Bhaskar Award andproduced a film. Film? What's the film? lnspiredby Gladiator, he made a film Radiator! He's the director and he's the hero! Ourbadluck is... ...he plays the heroine too! That dirty thing! lfl didn't have my mom and dad's blessings, l wouldn't have reached this stage, when people who watched this film, andsaid eachscene is like a diamond, Tear are rolling down from my eyes. Whywill you not cry? You had to sell 60 diamonds to finish the film, right? You must know another detail about him. Madam! Rs.2 lakh investment hestole it from this home only. He worked in yourplace only. Boss, l've news for you. Some Bhaskaris coming and people here are tensed he may cancel the marriage. Now your auntwillknow the value ofboss. Whatwouldweget ifshe's sad? She must realise and must come with us. That's ourgoal, right? Who canstop us ifwe enter aunt's house alongwith Bhaskar? Who canstop us? Nobody canstop us. That'swhy do one thing. What do you want me to do, sir? As soon as Bhaskarlands in lndia, we must buy a job with him. Difficult, sir. Difficult butwe can buy, before l could complete, why did you slap me? l'm getting irritated forgiving a pause, how dare you give an explanation forthat! Bloody fool! The place where l worked once! People who threw me out! Why are they lookng at mesurprised? Lookng at you! What are you doing here? That is... - He? He's my personal. He wasworkngwith us tillrecently. lfhe quits job with you, he'llbecome a good man like this. lfyou throw anyone out, he wouldbecome a great man like me. Have it. -Why? l got rank! - ls it? l'll throw up ifl eat this. Buy new clothes. Sir, that's Rs.2 lakhs! You stole thesame amount from this house andgot kcked out, right? lfyou kck, gate too would returnin doublespeed. That'swhy l came with this speed. l love music! - l love women! Every man has hiswish! Makng a statement forit. Have it. How come your cheeks have becomeso chubby? Using any medicine? -Yes, l'm using Homeo. Continue it. How many children? - Two! You're maintaining body verywell. Why are you struggling? What happened? lt's paining. Won't l feelpainifl hold? Says painful, don't l know that? Sir, l've understood now why people clap forhero when he beats the villain. Hairrising! How are you? l think she's coming to hug you, sir. lt's betterto put fingerin plug. lt's been years since l saw you. lfl knew you'd miss meso much, l'dhavesent my photo. Carry on with your cookng. Thank God, she's gone. She was really ugly as a littlegirlin gowns. How comeshe has grown to beso sexy! What's that? l'llgive only expressions, you must do the job. Wait, l'll clearit. Hello Bhaskar! - Greetings, madam. How do you do? - Doing fine, madam. l've little work, l'llbe back. Okay, madam. Why did you do that sir? What did l do? -You bowed to her. l did it involuntarily. Bhaskar, youruncleSiddappa told about you on phone. You must conduct the marriage. How much are you expecting from me? Little bit of civility! Civility? Goddess ofWealth wants to enterhis home, whyis he talkng about rules, regulations andsignals? He insulted you andhurt us, sir. That'swhywestop this marriage and celebrate it. Havesome water. Did you see the younger daughter? lfyou want her, you need to meet a man. Who? With a smile and blessing the devotees... Andlove his devotees... You're rockng...O Babaji.... Changing lungis and wearing it as shirt... When you bend down... Life without you is nothing but darkness... lfyou don't smile, l'min chaos... Abottle ofscent or a bottle ofliquor is nothing compared to your eyes... You're one of a knd in thisworld... Move...move...move... Plantain leafforfood... tobacco forlime... Touch Swamy's holy feet forwashing offsins... What's that tree? Baba got enlightened underthat tree. That'swhyit is known as Wisdom tree. Friends, devotees of God! People plough to raise paddy! But you ploughed to get diamonds. What else do you want, son? Just because hungeris satiated, do westop begging, Swamy? l've three wishes. -What's that? l'm here to attend a marriage. Sashi...she mustn't get married! ltwon't happen! l want her. She'llmarrywhich no one canimagine, is it okay to you, son? Since l won't imagineshe'll marry me, so she's allmine. What else? My mines and my diamonds, my currency and my arrogancy, they must always be with me. What you startedwith would always be with you, Baddam! Son Baddam! -Swamy! To make all yourwishes come true, the tree must be in yourhome. Tree? Almond tree in the backyard ofBhaskar's home! lt'llliftyou up from difficulties! car can't hold it, Swamy! - lt'll come in air. Eversince l came l'veseen only applying dot and combing hair, l'm yet to see yourface, Swamy! Show mercy on me and show yourface once... l beg you! Can you bearifl turn? l'm turning now! - Turning! Don't blame me forthe consequences. - l'llnot. l can't see anything. -Me too! New devotee has been blessed with Baba's divineglimpse! Hail Baba! - lt's yourgood fortune! You had theglimpse ofBaba on yourfirst visit. Why so many covers? lfyou lie, leaveswill fall, you'll die! Let me test it. l looklike Mahesh Babu. Leaves fell, sir. l cansee it. l'm very intelligent. Fell again. - Fell, you lied. l'm anidiot! - That's true, sir. Not a leave fell, so... - l cansee that. Why are you telling me? Why did you come here? Go away from here. l don'twant you. No...go away! May l go away? Where do you want me to go? Go away! Go away! Who is there? What? What happened? Askng me what happened? ls it respectable house orpublic garden? What happened, sir? -Askng me what has happened? Agirl about to marry is romancing servant... Why are you lookng shocked? Am l narrating any epic? They both were in each other's hug. l think people watching it would diegetting suffocated. What? What's yourproblem? You weresaying something. Yourgirlis fire! leaves didn't fall, sir. l waswrong. Did you observe one thing? -What's it? Leaves fellwithoutwindblowing. That too when you were talkng about a topic. lt didn't fell earlier and then later, did you observe this? l heard about madpeople but seeing them forthe first time in life. l thinkhesaidsomething. Nothing, yourmadamis calling. - ls it? Coming, madam. ls it false that girl and ourboywere hugging each other, sir? lt couldbe a lie. Butwhat l'm planning to do with Sashi tonight is real. Bhaskarloves arts. - ls it? Who are they? lt means fine arts not girls, sir. Since you said fine arts, l mean games like medley ofsongs and tombola... How about gilli, marbles and others! These are not arts! Theatre! lt's on the verge of extinction. We must give a new life to it. He wants to get thesecond one to bed. l too love theatre, sir. - l'llmake you performit. What's the play's name, sir? - 0Ahalya is innocent girl! Then, we must find two girls. Ahalya and innocent are not two girls. Ahalya is innocent. So much twist in title itself!. You cunning fellow! l've plenty oftwists in thestory! What's the concept, sir? Gautham and Ahalya are a couple, lndra loves Ahalya since a long time, - lsn't itwrong, sir? lfhe asks, Ahalya too would say thesame, he made a plan, before dawn breaks at 5 am, by 4 am... ...he crowedlike a rooster! Gautham as usual took the towel andleftto riverbank forbath. Takng this opportunity, lndra disguises himself as Gautham, andgoes to Ahalya, seeing Ahalya with carnal desires, he pattedsleeping Ahalya to wake herup. Enough ofseeing me, deliver your dialogue. Swamy! Didn't you go to the river? When you're in the room, whywould l go to river? saying this he pushedher on the bed, he passionately occupiedher. You went to take bath, right? Why did you comeso early? Are you blind? l took the towelbut forgot soap. l took a dip and came back. Take thesoap and have a good clean bath. What? l said take thesoap and have a good clean bath. Whatwould you do with mywife meanwhile? l'm lndra, l can do anything. Then, l'm Gautham. l too can do anything. l'llpunch...pinch...bite... Only one man beat me but why do l feellike many hands? Ahalya, where's my towel? Patting shoulder... lfyou pat as andwhere you wish, why do you need me orscript? Shegot seriouswhen l patted, whyis she laughingwhen he does it? Swamy! - Devi! Didn't you go to the river? You're in my heart, how can l go to the river? Good! We used room, right? l thinkhe has improvised it. Didn't you do it by patting on buttocks? How can you compare him with me? l'llshow what improvisationis! - Come, my dear... l'm unable to bearthis separation, dear. Please imprison me in your arms. What's this? - Please do something. What's this? Leave her! What's this? Didn't you take bath inriver? -Am l like you? No bath, l justwashed my face, that's all. Why didn't you show this intelligence before? What are you saying? You'vesuch a bigwatch on hand, if rooster cocks, ifyou leave a sleepingwife, -So what? people like me wouldget into the bedwith her, right? What are you blabbering? What's that? What's that? Why are you raising yourvoice? - l'llraise my hand also. Why are you beating me? -Notjust beat, l'llbite you. This time, l'llplay Ahalya. Fight and kll yourselves. You get up...get up... Has it dawnedso quickly? Why are you sleeping like a log, Ahalya? Where's my towel? Pat on theshoulders. Should you pat him also there? What sex appeal does he have? Didn't you go to river? When you're in room, whatwould l do in the river? Come. -You come closer. With whom you're having an affair? With whom you're having an affair? - Didn't you go to take bath? l didgo but suspected you're having an affairwithsomeone l came back. Come, this side. - Okay. Why don't you beat him? l'llbeat him but first l'llbeat you. l'llbeat him later but tellme one thing, What's it? You're mywife for 25 years, right? -Yes. lfso, can't you differentiate between husband andparamour? l mean... - Go ahead. l mean... -You're crossing limits. Do you know whatwould l do with women like you? Do you know whatwould l do? -Whatwill you do? May l tell you? - Tellme. l'll tell you... Notjust beat, l must bite you. Bite...bite... Do you need the role ofAhalya for yourbeauty? Why this dangerous desire at this age? l got it now. l'm just a spectator! Fight and kll yourselves. Please entertain me. That's all! Dawnedso quickly? Where's the towel? l'llsee how can he beat me! l'll also see, sir. She's senseless anyway! What happened to you? You know she's not yourwife, right? Will you beat hernow? -Not herbut you...you... Actually l mustn't beat you. Do you know what's happening here? - l wrote the play, right? Right? ls he herhusband? -No, he's lndra. lnsuch a scene, Ahalya, the man who has come now is not yourhusband Gautham, he's treacherous rogue lndra, instead oftelling herthe truth, pushing yourpot belly up and pushing everything else behind, what are you watching legs widespread and moving it? Will you beat me forthis point too? l'llbeat you on any point. The nationis facing so much flak because ofpeople like you. Thrash him! Katamarayudu...KadiriNarasimha... Great hunter, l trust you... O lord, you rule overme... You mauled the devilwith anger... Takng on the might... You gave the education of Brahmins to Brahmadevara... l beg you, madam, l thinkhe'llkllme. Pleasesendhim out. Why are you raising hell? Come here. l want to talk to you, please come in. What are you up to? lfBhaskargets irritated he may tellhis uncle, andstop this marriage, can you take that responsibility? You want Sunanda. But the woman here isSunanda Shekar. Shekarwouldn't get separated from my name, Sunanda willnot come to yourhome. Go away...from this home and ourlives! Did you get the entire list, Priest? -Yes, sir. Why aren't you stillready? Groom's people wouldbe here in an hour. Does she really like this marriage? You're not having any secret twists, right? Why don't you answer youruncle? Alarm failed to ring, why are you getting tensed forthis? Amulu, come here. Saris are upstairs... -Madam... Definitely. l'll come. l said l'll come. Cut it. Cut the call. Sashisisteris missing. Her clothes andjewels too are missing. What else? She would've elopedwith Siddu. How do you know? Like this, shesaid that before me. Why didn't you tellme that earlier? l thought she would forget herlove and marry the man chosen by you... Earlierhe took away future son-in-law now future daughter-in-law. You said you sent him out ofhome. Who brought him here again? l know a thing. But l don't know ifit is true orfalse. Tellme the thing, l'llgive the explanation. lfit's lie, leaveswill fall, uncle. What do you lose ifleaves fall? Tree will die. lftree dies, l too would die, uncle. What's that nonsense? Not nonsense, l and tree are one andsame. lfyou kll a birdwith it, you can at least eat it. Whatwill you get ifyou fire at me? lfkept, l'llstink and ifyou burn, just ash. lfyou don't tell what really hadhappened, people will tell tales about you. Why are you so dull? Yourmothertold me to leave home. Shallwe both go away together? -Where to? How? catch a train. They'llknow from my hotel desk ifit is flight. Can you live with a driverlike me? Any doubt? l don'twant anything. True! 4 or 5 crores is enough. - 4 or 5 crores? We need to live, right? l didn't tell any lie now, right? lt didn't fall for yourlies but Siddu used this remote control. Thimmapur Hail Lord Murugan! Hail Lord Murugan! What are you thinkng? There are many cars in Chennai for you to drive. There are many buildings forme to design. lfwe don't find any job, ifwesell this necklace, we can live recklessly for a year. You don't get tensed. Okay? Withoutwasting time, ifwe've a son or daughter, andsend theirphoto, my parentswill come forus. Sir, pleasegive me alms! Aticket to Mumbaiplease. - This train goes to Madras. Give me a ticket to some place, sir. lfyou don't l may die. Do you know to read Urdu? Afterseeing him beating ourmen, l've learnt Chinese andpainting too. Keep quiet. Hail Lord Murugan! Hail Lord Murugan! Hail Lord Murugan! Hail Lord Murugan! Hail Lord Murugan! LordJesus! l'mseeing him for the first time in my life. l made vow to visit Velankanni Mary church on my knees. These are my tickets. This is certificate ofphysically handicap. You beat me recently, right sir? l lost two tooth. Losing anythingwhich Godgave would make me handicap, right? That'swhy l got this certificate, sir. Can l board the train? Flight is ready, sir. Why flight? Waste of money forflight. No need to buy tickets, he owns flight. lt is ready on runway now. We've taken permission to bring cars on platform, sir. No need. lsn't Siddu a driver? Afterseeing us, ifyou're askng us this question, l don't know ifyou're mad orfoolish! Boss, they're here! l want this station for 15 minutes. lfyou ask suddenly now... There's a price for everything, buy it. What about the passengers? Send them by specialflights. lfthere are no airports, send them by cars. Send a message to Ministry, request thestation master. Threaten himifhe refuses, ifstillhe refuses, kllhim. This meeting is very important forme...very important. l'm giving you 5 minutes. How dare you want my daughter! Come here...come... Nobody can bridge the distance between front andback seat of a car. Aren't you ashamed of eloping with a driver? Leave her. See who is holdingwhom and thenspeak! How dare you answerme! l'llkll you! l'llkll you! You'dbe having a theorywhy a car drivershouldn't marry your daughter, why a pennyworth lawyershouldn't marry his daughter, herfathershouldn't have a theory, right? You can go to his home aftermarrying. But you can't bearto see your daughterwith a suitcase. You'll exile a family for getting shot onshoulder, but you can point a gun on my head! Yours is love and what others do is desire! lfyou do it is role model, if others do, it's haste! lfyou shout, it is affection, if my grandpa shouts, it's arrogance. lsn't it? Who are you? The lady you married, l'm hernephew. Aman who is burningwith the memories, l'm his son! Grandson of a manis fighting death. Thousands of crores, factories in 10 countries, one lakh workers, nothing ofthis gives us content, we're just poorpeople. Heir ofNandas! What has changedsince then, aunt? ltwas in grandpa's hand and now he's carrying it. That's the only difference, right? lf my grandpa waswrong then, what you did now is also wrong, leave your daughter, l'll take herwith me, ifyou're right now, then he was right that da! You come with me, l'll take you with me. l'm telling you this to convince with my intelligence, aunt. My aimis to tell you and grandpa both were wrong. lfthe price ofhis haste is losing you, the price ofyour angeris losing parents'home for 25 years. The day you left home, had you turned for a second, aunt, you'dhave heard anothershriek, had you heard that shriek, these 25 yearswould've been different, aunt. Different! You don'tworry, brother. l'llnot file any case on yourfather. Come. What has happened to me? Am l God ifl makesome money? Would l shoot my own daughter? Man like me mustn't live. l'll die! l'll die! -Stop, father! Enough ofthe disaster this house has seen today. lfl die... -No, father... Please don't stop me. No, father... - Don't stop me...don't stop me! Please father... You leftgrandpa forhurting uncle's shoulder, what should l do with grandpa who klled my mother, aunt? Why did a gun fire which was silent for 10 years? lsn't it because ofyou? Hoe much l shouldhate you and that old man? But l didn't do like that. l grew up holding his hand. Just because he asked me, l came to you as your driver and opened the doorfor you. Can't you come and open the door ofthe home, aunt? Every problemin life gives us two ways, one is filledwith love and anotherwith hatred. l chose the first and you chose thesecondway. Come to myway once, aunt. Just once! As a child l didn't know why l had no mother, didn't understandwhy you won't come, l used to be very angry, aunt, l used to wage invisible war with unseen enemy, aunt. lnvisible war! Livinggood isn't living away, live happilywith relatives! Though we earned a lot, we could never fill the voidleft by you, aunt. Stillwe keep a plate on dining table, a roomin ourhome, 25 paise of every rupee we earn, we've kept it for you, aunt. we love you so much, aunt. Just say one word, l'llstandguard against all your difficulties. For one mistake, we've beensaying sorry for 25 long years, aunt. We'resaying sorry! We can'twait anymore, aunt. Can'twait anymore. lfpossible forgive us or else punish us. But please recognise us for God's sake! Make a call, Gautham. l want to talk to my father. l'm worried. Where you winisn't great but where to bend makes you greater! He's no more a motherless child! Hegot one forhimself. Shekar, my nephew! Ourson-in-law! He's right. -No! He's great! What? What great? Willhe use my love to convince my mother? Let him use it, how did you know his history? There's internet on phone, his namegives hundreds ofpages. Why did you kdnap me? They didn't do it, l engaged them to do it. We don'twant yourjewels or yourmoney. Come. Pleasegive me yourwatch, brother. Why? -As yourmemorabilia, brother. ls it? As you wish. Take it. Bye, brother. Yourbad time will vanish andgood time will arrive. Where are you going? l'llsell a mine andsee their end. Uganda President announced that private diamond mineswouldbe nationlised. Rockng...my entirestreet was rockng... ls it anitemsong? l thought itwas a devotionalsong. Hey you fakeSwamy! Though l'm a fakeSwamy, didn't l fulfill your 3 boons? Did you? May l? - Tellme. Hermarriage must get stopped. lt got stopped, right? Marriage was cancelled. She'llmarry a man you can neverimagine. Did you imagine itwouldbe? No, right? Now! My currency, my arrogancy must always be with me. What you startedwith would be with you only. Afterlosing yourmines andspending all yourmoney, you're leftwith Rs.2 lakhs. How can you appoint yourgrandson as CEO? He's crazy. lt's not right to keep so many people's future in his hands. l own 60% ofthis company. How dare you suggest to me! 40% only sir, Sunanda who owns 20% isn't here. She'llnever come. What l'msaying is... l propose Gautham as CEO! Any objections? Lost crores but leftwith coat. Asmallspark on the edge of dark... Avictory of dream coming true... Asweet call on the edge oflip... Aturn forgood in the barrenness ofseparation... Like a breakng dawnin the east... Happiness spread aroundlike light... Weatheris spring foreverto make flowers ofhappiness bloom... Hearts have come together to make lifesweeter...
