 

                        Being the third son of a good family and not educated to any trade my head began to he filled early with thoughts of leaving England, to see the world. And thus against the will, nay the commands of my father, I broke loose and went out to sea. How true my father's prophecy of disaster for not long after being in the latitude of hound for Africa to buy Negro slaves for my fellow planters in the Brazils a violent tornado came upon us which carried us westward. Far out of the way of human commerce. (growling) My only possession, my only weapon. (thunder) I woke refreshed and half perished with hunger. Thirsty, without provisions, with little hope of survival, I set out to survey my fate. No other land in sight. I was on an island, and barren by the sea. The wreck of our ship stranded during the night. Ay! Ay! Sam! She might slip from the rock. I must contrive a raft and try to save her precious supplies. I plundered from the wreck many chests with all manner of clothes, tallow, gunpowder, the carpenter tools and scores of useful articles, not to forget that fellow survivor, Sam. Gold. Yet, what use to me. However, on second thoughts. Tinder, steel, flint, fire. Fire! Worth more to me, than all the gold in the world. How often had I seen my servants do this, Yet I a master of servants couldn't even build my own fire Rex! Ah Rex. You are alive, you are alive too. Rex. (loud crashing sound) What was that, Rex? What is it? She was gone. That fearful sound had been the death cry of our poor ship I regretted all the iron work, cable and lead that had gone down with her. Rats! The only things from the ship that I did not want ashore. No ship will sail by without my knowledge. I kept dry branches ready to flame into a mighty beacon. My days were hurried, crowded with all manners of urgent tasks. Most urgent of all was to secure myself from wild beasts and savages. Meanwhile the rains approached and needing a store room for all the supplies I found a place where the earth was easiest and started to dig up a cave. I had never before so much as handled an ax and, or for that matter any kind of tool. I was but a very sorry workman and all this cost me a great deal of time. I became a pleasant good shot and with good cause, for my constant hard manual labor gave me a most voracious appetite. The green coconut and its milk I found to be most wholesome, cool and refreshing. My eleventh month. Days passed in hunting wild foul, preparing food, trips to my lookout hill to search for sight of ships. One day much like another. Uneventful and, I am sick, chills. Fever. Getting worse. Ah... help... help me. In this second sleep I had this terrible dream. You here father? Yes here, Here, here, here, here, here, here. Not there, but here. Where else would I be? Are you not here? How did you get here? My boy you should not leave your native country At my house, with your dear mother and me, you had the very best of all possible worlds Yes, yes, I remember all you told me You're right Give me water. At home you are well off. Saved the miseries of labor and hardships of man kinds lower state. Though yet embarrassed by the pride, envy, luxury, and ambition of its upper state. Water, father, give me water. Ours is the middle station of life my boy, the middle station Even kings would have envied you. Admit that now. Will you not help me? I want water. Why did you fling yourself into this stupid adventure? Did you not know, that your mother and I were praying that God would not separate us from you? But you were always wayward. Water, bring me water. Your mother and I will forgive you. Remember, But God will not forgive you. Heh, heh, heh. He will not forgive you. You will die like a dog I will die. I will die. I woke weak, yet clear of head. Whether I had slept for one whole day or more, I could never be certain. My first thought was for water. Did not Brazilians have some physic to prevent recurrence of fevers? Of course! Tobacco, mixed in rum. In that chest, I found a cure for both the body and soul. Come to me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee. And thou shall glorify me. Yes It's true Only He can deliver me out of this place. I now respect the Sabbath and so, I mark this day differently from all others. The last of it Rex. Now live been denied the staff of life. I recalled a grass I had observed to sprout and start to grow. Grain, that which in England we call corn, and in the new world, we call wheat. Some few seeds must have come ashore with me from the ship. With the Lord's help, I could try to raise a crop. Meanwhile I set out to make a more perfect discover of my domain. I found great amounts of cocoa, orange, and lemon trees, sugar cane, tobacco, and banana. I discovered the turtle, which furnishes an abundance of savory flesh. Great quantities of most useful shell. And even turtle eggs. Also that other sea beast, the octopus, Which they say some people lack the fortitude to eat. Parrots, which were known to me. And other birds, which were foreign. Animals I did not recognize, And those I did, goats. It was a most unusual clear day. Land! Could I not hack out a canoe to sail to it? I hewed out a tiny sailing canoe, and was swept out to sea by some great current. Thanks only a sudden wind, was I even fortunate to get back to shore. In other ventures I was more successful. Pretty Polly Here Polly, here Polly. On my finger Polly. Call Rex Polly Here Rex. Come here, Rex. Come. Tell me only this. Where did you find their father? Do you know? The one mystery of the island I never solved. Due to sowing during dry season, first half of seed complete loss. Second half now in ground, hope for the best. Just as it may seem the best would come to pass and that I might triumph over the sun, the rain, I was threatened by a new enemy. The birds! They came down on my field like a plague. A ruthless devouring army. I fought for wheat as if it were my life. Used every weapon to frighten and kill. Hungry Rex? You can wave you r tall, but you cannot talk to me. Five years. The fifth anniversary of the day I landed. Time to celebrate. (singing) I care not I for nobody, and nobody cares for me. Do you or do you not? You don't? Well I do. I did. This is a day, a day, what a day this is. I have nothing further to say. (singing) My friends! My old friends I care not I for nobody, and nobody cares for me. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. I remember you all! Hooray for friendship. Hip Hip Hooray! Hip Hip Hooray! Hip Hip Hooray! Here the lowly Keg is dead. May It keep us together Stuck, one to another. Until the resurrection. Tom, (unintelligible) Mark to you, And to you Campbell. (crying) At last! A full harvest. Now it could be truly said, I worked for my bread. Patty cake, patty cake, baker's man bake me a cake as fast as you can. Be patient, Rex Sing for your supper, Poll. Coarse, burnt, and most delicious meal of my life. I built a bower, so that I fancied now, I was Lord of the whole manor. I had my country house, and my seacoast house too. I perfected myself in all tasks. And was forced to learn new ones. In short, I learned to master everything in my island except myself. Sometimes in the midst of my work, the anguish of my soul and my loneliness I would break out upon me like a storm. Escape. No matter the dangers, I must do something to escape this tomb, this prison. My heart died within me. Alone. Alone. Forever alone. I was a prisoner, locked up by the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean. Days became weeks, weeks became months, months became years. I quite gave up looking to see for ships, in time my linen clothes rotted, my cats all ran wild. My faithful dog weaken by age could no longer keep up with the hunt he so dearly loved. Rex. Rex. Whats wrong? Rex. Come on boy. Eat Rex eat. Poor Rex Poor boy Would you like a tasty? A dove? A pigeons egg? Now you just wait there for me. (Parrot talking) Here Rex, here Rex Now truly alone, starved for the sound of another voice, any voice. I would rush to the valley of my echo. The Lord is my shepherd I shall not want, He makes me to lie down in green pastures, he leads me besides still waters, he restores my soul, my soul! Dreadful fantasies possess my mind. I fought to save my sanity. Lie down in green pastures He leads me besides still waters, he restores my soul. Green pastures. Green pastures. The scriptures came meaningless to my eyes. The world seemed but a whirling ball. Its oceans and continents, a green scum, and myself. With no purpose. And no meaning. Help! Help! Help, help! Had anyone in England met such an odd creature as I was in my it must either have frightened them or cause a great deal of laughter. Ah, my little friends. Yes I dont know what to call you but you are my little friends arent you? Yeah? Eh? Just you wait there in your homes and I will feed you. You hungry too, aren't you? Yes Heres a morsel for you? Eh. There. Go on, get him. Get him! Well, good bye. Good bye. Condemned, to all those years of loneliness, now trembling in the apprehension of seeing another human. How mad men are possessed by fear. I even scattered my 10 cattle so it won't betray my presence. (parrot talking) Hello Robin, hello. Shh, shh, shh, quiet. Men eaters. From that very land I had once thought to sail to. I bolted horrified all that night I observed the cannibals at their ghastly entertainment. They left on the morning tide. But how soon a tide would bring them back? How many times have they come and gone? While I unknowing, was on my side of the island. I was in a murdering humor, I even thought to lure them into my castle and from the ambush, slaughter 20 or 30, of the naked wretches. I knew no peace for months and months. A 100 times, I was just about to let fly at them in my sleep. I contrived what I called my bomb. Now I had my bomb. I had a vision. I imagined how easy I might set a trap, and these monsters might be destroyed. After passion, hatred. I realized I had no heaven sent right to be judge and executor, on these people who had done me no injury. I would leave them to God's justice. I would not interfere with them unless they attack me first. I moved about my island with the greatest of caution, never knowing when their attack might come. They had 2 victims. While they strung one up for slaughter, I saw that the second tried to make his escape. Here, here. No, no, no, no. Here, here, here. (gunshot) Up, up, up now. Up, up, I shall not harm you. (not in english) (not in english) Here, up, up. Here, up, up. Him, him, you. Underground, underground. Out of sight, come on. Him, him. Him. Him, under. Yeah (not in english) (not in english) Up, up, up, up. What is your name? What is your name? You r name? Name? Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Come here. Come here. Come here! You, Friday You Friday, Friday Friday. No! Friday. Fri day. Master Mas-ter Mas-ter Friday, Master, friends. Friends. Friends! Eat. Eat! No, no eat man, wrong. Friday, this good, eat. I dare not sleep. If the cannibals fail to come for me before morning, he might. The cannibals had departed, fortunately for me. Without so much as a search for their missing companions. I would not let him handle any weapon. I used my musket to ensure his continued fear and respect of me. (not in english) I put a strong door to my cave so he could not take me unaware at night. How reassuring it was to see him eat the flesh of animals, knowing the only source for that other meat he so relished would be myself. Master! (not in english) Someday, if you are good, l will teach you to smoke. How pleasant it was, once more to have a servant. Friday, what is this? Milk And this? Bread No Friday, use the fork. Friday, whats this? Plate This Friday? Meat Good Friday, very good! What do you see? Inside, black line. It is your land. Your nation Inside? No, there! But, with this, It appears near Theres your nation, your people. Oh happy, there see my nation, my people. Why do you always come here, to this island? God says, only good place after kill here. And you would like to go back to your nation? Yes, oh yes Like go back Friday Friday happy go there see my people. I understand. Suppose a whole lot of his countrymen were to visit the island. Would he not, forgetting all obligation to me. Either return with them to his native country or worse still, lead them to plunder my precious possessions. And even join in a feast upon myself. Friday! Why are you here Friday, what do you want? Smoke. Good for Master, Good for Friday. Go. If you want something again, ask me, first. Had he truly remembered my promise that he might smoke? No, I could not trust him through another night. Go to bed now. Not finished work. Do you hear me, go to bed! So long ago, I had intended these for slaves. Sit up! Give me your ankles. You r legs? Why you tie Friday? I am your Master, I shall do as pleases me. You forced me to this Now at least, I can sleep. Take off quickly. Friday foot hurts. You had decided Did you not tell me the other day you wanted to go away, go back to your own nation? That you wanted to go to your people. Yes! Go with you, only with you. Well, they would kill me. I tell you save life. You friend Theyd still kill me. No, no kill. My people obey Friday Friday love Master always. Friday, sit down. If I cannot hold you here by choice, perhaps it would be better if you go back. You take, kill Friday! What must I kill you for? Take. Kill Friday No send Friday away. Friday. Friday. Forgive me, Friday forgive me. I want you to be my friend. I will never leave you. If you want to go, do so. (not in english) Friday, over there! Wild pig! How wrong I had been. Friday was as loyal a friend as any man could want. With his many different skills he enriched my life on the island. We had found that the two working together could do much more than the two working separately. Friday, you like? You know what It Is? Beautiful Beautiful present from God Better said from the devil Huh? No, no you would not understand, Friday. Will Master give Friday 1, 2, 3? You take them all, amuse yourself. If you get tired of them, throw them into the sea. Master Look at Friday Beautiful coat for war Take that off. These were the happiest years of all the years I had in my island. Sit down Friday. You understand Friday The devil is Gods enemy in the hearts of men. He uses all his malice and skill to destroy the kingdom of Christ. But Master say God Is so strong so great is God not much strong than devil? Yes, yes Friday, God is stronger than the devil. Hews above the devil, therefore we pray to God. But If God Is much strong than devil, why God no kill devil, so make him no more wicked. Whats that Friday? If God the most strong, why he no kill devil. Well you see Friday without the devil, there would be no temptation and no sin. The devil must be there for us to have a chance to choose sin or resist it. Is God let devil tempt us? Yes Then, why God mad when sin? Huh, ha, ha, ha. You understand, don't you Poll? Friday cant get these things into his head. You understand, don't you? The desire to escape still burns within me. And now counting on Friday's skill and knowledge, I contemplated the manufacture of a craft Large enough to carry us to the Spanish country which Friday told me lay to the north. We devoted weeks to selecting a proper tree, this would be my last chance to see my native England before I died. (gunshot) Where did he come from? There. Better get out of sight, there must be others. (not in english) Master shh, Look! Come on! Now, rehearsal for the last time. There they are, here we are behind the trees. Now, well see. Boom Boom Boom Boom No, no, no, tinder, tinder. There! (gunshots) (gunshots) White man like Master. Friends? Shh! Come on! Move nowl Tie them to those trees. Well come back for you, when we have water for the ship. White men eat prisoners too? Eat them no, Friday. But murder them, yes! Move now! Rope Master, the rope! In spite of my appearance, Im not something that lives in trees, Im a man. Captain Oberzo. Now we can talk. But to whom do I speak? Who are you? Where have you come from? What is your case? Tell me. Mutiny, sir Engineered by my mate, aided by those you saw him lead ashore. My bosen here, and most of those aboard are loyal Its the mutineers who control the firearms, sir. And your ship? As fine as ever bore sail, beyond the reef, waiting only for the next tide. They anchored here to take on water and abandon us when they surprised and killed the savages. Fernandez! Should they return to the ship we are lost! If we prevent their return, you think it possible, armed, of course, to reassert your command? Nothing could prevent me. On 2 conditions then. Agreed! First, while you are upon this island you will be governed by my orders Accepted, second. If we recover your ship, you will carry me and my man, to England, passage free. Or your home in China, India, three times around the world! Ha, ha, ha, ha. Fernandez! Fernandez! Mate? Yes, leader of the mutiny Fernandez! Theyre going to escape! Unless Ive forgotten the ways of civilization Captain, They will not be putting back yet. Hey! Whats that? Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. Kill him! Ill cut his throat! Wait! Gold! Where did you find this? There? Let's get it, take your arms! Which way? Come on! You, take a look! Nobody here. Over we go! Over here! Drop arms! In the name of the governor of this island, drop your arms! Drop arms, or I blow your head off! No, was I that young? Master The boat arrived, the Captain is waiting. Thank you, Friday. I didnt expect it yet. The proof of the pudding, so the people cannot say that Crusoes mad. These are presents for our friends outside. You commanded the Captain to punish us harshly for our sins, did you not, Governor? Nothing of the sort, I asked the Captain to grant your request to remain here, rather than return to the gallows. You started, but youll live to regret your sacrilegious waste. Well I have here instructions for you, time of planting, care of livestock, places of concealment of weapons and powder. Information, also, as to the savages who do, on occasion, visit this place. Whether or not you learn the lessons I have learned and survive I cannot foresee. But you have something which, I for years did not have, Something for which I wept, For which my soul shriveled and starved! You'll have others of you r own kind, You'll have companions, You have man You can sever the ropes that blend you, it should cost you an hour of painful work, by then we shall have set sail. From what you saw today Friday, are you not a little afraid of coming back with me to civilization? If Master is not, Friday is not. And thus, I left the island after I had been on it Eight and twenty years, two months and Nineteen days.
