 

                        Give the I want to commit suicide and you together ascend heaven be like in the rose park of rose the knight is so jump the house to take over strike bell the hour zero: we will be in Shui li the whole body drench, deep in two meters part forever crew member the death banzai! Let pass me, Sir come I only beg you do not hurt me crouch down then come, I love you then come, I love you also want, I love you also want, I love you we are lovers you do not walk order your tongue elongation I help you to grasp return he I won, I won this is my, this is mine is this your? Are you what is the row? Encore. We encore how are you? I introduce for you once, this is my wife and daught are you newly arrivedly? You good how are you? Live good, eat good? I am the host of the zoo, this is my zoo my wife, my child's zoo this is my zoo you grow the true haleness but I hear your here... However I follow the others also is from the first floor at the time that I sta because usually just start ising all thus, you want then then can rise the posi tion of the higher layer at eight years, nine years are after, who know, will say the director for example you want to be hard fi I am not to say dissatisfied with other people, they have no active, they have no active we must have the active, I am not to say active, wh I start also is to do from first floor, pull up wee such work let me be tired of very much, but I imagi the mankind are to create the family property thus I like the animal, then want to be to the animal, g change the food to them, change the living environme then the gradually one step one step go toward the end, I owned this zoo, this is my zoo in fine, this is my, this is my wife, my child's z is thus, the matter does since the childhood, end I like to be thus, this is an advantage the person talks with animal but the animal does no I like the animal, they are all my animals, I am no as long as is to have relation with animal, is all is really thus my felling to person is very strong I feel you... I feel... Thus I want the small lamb the small lamb is very good not greasy at all small lamb of my important point and... horse the horse is also very good the horse is also very good slowly in the passage of time present a kind of gra the young knoll sheep will become the old goat in this age... I like I like the small lamb understand? But I want to be Austria of Austria of very good Austrian true stupid, you see these animals, their body come, see, like like and see arrive you do you want to pull out? Can be subjected to? Beat I is it is it like, like crouch down I am the to reach, pleasing the message our 100,000 euros! At your home prohibit to notify the public security, prohibit to prohibit to seek the employee... otherwise we killed it! Tomorrow! Cash,100,000! How, beautiful? Beautiful? Beautiful? Beautiful? Not beautiful? Beautiful? Beautiful? Very beautiful, you see. Beautiful? Very beautiful I work hard very much to do of very beautiful very beautiful. Not is? Not beautiful? We arrived we stop here caution point! Beware of my shoes prepare to let go, put here have no matter continue caution point, the young mans password, password don't arrive the summit of hill, don't give money! I want to go to the dead, understand? I go to die! Understand? I will die you good the weather is very hot three days, leave the sea here very near but have not rain for a long time O.K., I want to go home now the car that I sit is out of order have no another way I want to continue to walk can you help me are you O.K.? The next time see again you take these to do what how I want that you help you at dry what release me, you have to go to where put down me quickly go away, go away, not you are what is the row exactly do not touch me, careful my walking stick the brush off violence we discuss etc., we discuss is really to make a mess of put down me thus can you hurry to go home? You have to lift do I turn over you fuck off for me big statures, I wanted to go home then see, then see your colleague at which? See again not, you came again you pulled me again return the slice of to me your se small rats! Here, here on getting hold of money, I buy all things of light what do you want to do? Is this matter be over behi I know a lot of places have a lot of different thin I want to all buy down these things my don't care these, I am wait putrefied you can beware of, toing beware of wait putrefied seek the dead is a business of fool practical abilit why seek the dead is the business of the fool practi your brains has fever and would do this kind of matt that is why why the originator of a loan association brain have calculate, you what all not understand my second husband grasp to rise me very with ease beat me he is very strong he is an Australia and is a soft Taoist someone at? To say with boon of that not want the pole of th because the owners all seek the place to hide the to not let the person discover them only have they would like to of time for such matter I feels that this is the good idea say that the big store opens the time of door for be after they openned a door be them to not close the door but pass door hour they will arrive to the outside to the person otherwise they will call police, is thus ever since that time my 29 years old beginning lives we all find out to hide the body ownly here my right here have no house here, have no roof but this will not hinder I continue living we want to evade those stupid people so just run this top of hill to come, because they but I arrived this top of hill to come for avoiding them, evade some affair for to take pl thank you, mother the affair that I read to take place I want to discuss my viewpoint first, the your body lost the calories your head and your necks are stiff you become to be like the wooden board similar and hence they came their mother is in each hole living to lay egg gentle and softly they return the not edible skin they like very much no one like, but they like what I mean to say is a fat you even within hearing they are eat the became your swimming trunks very disgusted your brains is from the your ear in gush I think the dead in fact, I think the disappearance certainly can also cremate but hear that I would appear the muscle reaction your body at the time of burn will play this is a kind of very strange signal also have the way on the ecology chase the your body with the nitrogen change the stem then cover up you under a tree you became mankind's fertilizer imagine once a dog to urinate in my body stay forever its smell at me I think the dead... But... I think only of the sleeping now do not worry he be just at take a rest I guarantee don't go, come to a stop I do not go what problem? I can walk part forever, the companions thank you the that time waited to end now not, I want to die I want to die very beautiful
