 

                        Spice for the front page, isn't it? - All you can think of are... headlines for the front page. - Oh, drop it! Here comes Judge Raghunath Such a gentleman! Why on earth did that goon want to kill him? Here comes your friend Is the jury in place? Yes, my Lord. Present Is the accused present? - Present, my Lord Who is the counsel for the accused? Who is the counsel for the accused? Have you no lawyer to defend your case? In that case, the government... My Lord I'm the counsel for the accused I do not wish to defend myself I promised to defend you, if you're ever arraigned. Remember? Does the accused give his consent? Yes Raj, you have been accused of a murderous attack on Judge Raghunath You may plead your case I swear to speak the truth Judge Raghunath, can you tell us why the accused tried to kill you? Did he have any enmity with you? Yes. The grudge that a born felon bears against the judge... who sentences him and grants no reprieve Could there be no other reason for such animosity? None. How else could I relate to him? I have no further questions Defense may proceed with cross-questioning Judge, you are senior to me If in the course of questioning, I happen to affront you... do forgive me. Someone's life is at stake. And you have taught me... to ignore all relationships for the dispensation of justice This is my first interrogation. Please give me your blessings What do you mean when you call the accused a born felon? He has been a tramp and a hoodlum... ever since he was a child. His record says it This penchant for crime has surely been transmitted congenitally Judge, do you have any children? No But how is this question relevant to this case? Most relevant. Think again. Are you certain that you have no children? No. But I reiterate. This question... - Can you recount the circumstance... when you threw your wife out of your house? My Lord, am I to be forced to reply to such meaningless questions? Ms Rita, you may ask questions relevant only to the case We wish to know whether or not, the accused attempted murder If yes, then why? Enough! Stop it! I'm a murderer! Hang me if you will! Proceed with your questioning The accused does not deny having assaulted Judge Raghunath But, as you said just now, the question is why he did it This interrogation is meant to reveal the answer... if you my Lord, and Judge Raghunath repose your trust in me for a while You may proceed I repeat my question. Can you recount the circumstance... when you threw your wife out of your house? I beg your pardon, Judge Raghunath, but this question is very important And not only for the accused. For you too The cause of whatever is happening today, lies rooted in your past Remember...? Can you tell us? Why, when and under what circumstance... did you throw your wife out of your house? I was practicing law in Lucknow I was the black sheep of the family, because I opposed social norm... and I had married a widow. My father was a big gun and was away in Bombay most of the time. He was unhappy with me But under no circumstance, was I willing to leave Leela She was so good to me. She was such a good woman And I was in love with her But once, on our way from Kanpur to Allahabad... little did I realize that like a boat in midstream... my life too was to be caught in cross currents "Cross currents in the midstream" "Beware" "In the current you will sink or sail" "Beware" "The open skies" "Careful sailor" "Your boat is headed into a storm" "Restless flow the deep waters" "Beware" "Twigs are carried away" "Steel sinks" "So what do you think?" "Beware" Aren't you feeling sleepy? What are you thinking about? - Why do they sing "Beware"? They say, these parts are dangerous. Jagga the bandit. He's from these parts Bandits...? - Yes, but don't worry As of now, he must be fast asleep in some prison Go to bed. I'm feeling sleepy In case you're afraid, I can come over - No No! The lady is with them! Leave me! You heartless bandits! Where's your chief? What right have you to terrorize women from good families? Aren't you ashamed? - Ashamed? Shame is for good folks, not for bandits and robbers As for me, my grandfather was a bandit, my father was a bandit! But I wasn't And your husband went and made me one! - My husband...? Who are you? - Jagga. And I was innocent But without a shard of evidence, your husband framed me... just because my father, my grandfather were bandits He framed me for rape and he sent me to jail So I've decided to prove your husband right Coward! See what's wrong with her Has she come to her senses? No, she's still in a swoon Let her go, Chief. She's pregnant. She's going to become a mother Touch her, and you go to hell Pregnant? With a baby? Her husband said that children born of good folks turn out good And children born of bandits... turn out to be bandits. Always Now let's see what the lawyer's son turns out to be Send her back once she recovers Good are those born of good folks! And of bandits are bandits born You should make me a gift. - What's the occasion? Not any occasion. The lady is back What did you say? The lady? Why is it dark in here? Lights! Tonight we celebrate! It is you who lights up my life Now that you're back, even the lights seem so bright! Give me the wick But Leela, how did you escape? I hope you weren't in danger? Your love was with me. How could anyone even look up at me? You are tired. Change. I'll bring you your dressing grown These last four days The last four days were like a lifetime I took the police and I looked everywhere for you All the while, I feared... I feared you were in grave danger! But how did you escape? And who was this bandit? Some Jagga. He said that you had convicted him So he escaped to get even with me! If he has done anything to you... I'll see to it that he hangs! - At heart, he's a devil But God saved me at the last moment. Thank God! Tell me something Ask Does a bandit's son necessarily become a bandit? Yes, it's bound to happen But why do you ask? Just like that Let's see what comes first. Your becoming a magistrate, or... Why? Is someone expected? A new guest Now I don't have any chances of becoming a magistrate Why? What happened? Whatever... let's talk of something else How do you like this? Nice Listen... Are you annoyed with me? Annoyed? No Why should I be annoyed with you? Have my lunch sent over What's the matter? Where are the servants? God knows! Maybe they're all dead! I have to do all the chores Let me help you. - You'd rather tell her all this She's sitting around like a queen! Not to be cross with Leela. I told her not to strain herself You know the condition she is in. And in a few days from now... She's going to bear the fruit of her sins! What are you saying?! - What everyone else is saying! For four days, she lived with a bandit! And Jagga at that! Don't you remember what he was convicted for? Do you enjoy making someone unhappy? The jaundiced eye sees all yellow Do you think you're beyond scrutiny? Don't you forget... women have had to stand the test of chastity. Because society asks for it Bhabhi! (Sister-in-law) Forgive me Bhabhi, your pot is broken It's only an earthen pot. But remember, a woman's honor is far more fragile Once disgraced, her honor can never be redeemed Did you not know that your wife was seeing her lover on the sly? The villagers used to say that. But I didn't heed what they said You haven't yet told the court why your wife deserted you You know it! Women are adulterous! I know what that means! Raghu, how can you lose your cool in court? I'm afraid your chances of magistrate ship may be clouded Chances of a magistrate ship? That's out of question now Can a lawyer whose wife is under suspicion ever become a magistrate? The whole town is agog! - What are you saying? Aren't you ashamed to talk like this about your wife? I'm just saying what everyone is saying Let them say what they want You're right. That's what I decided. Let them say what they want But how do I get rid of the suspicion? It's like a leech sucking on... some dark corner of my mind! - What now...? Where's everyone? Send Bhabhi over to me Oh, I'm so afraid! Why isn't someone coming to me? That's my husband. Please, send him over to me Look Raghu... I'm telling you again! That baby isn't going to be born in this house If she wants to have her bastard, let her go elsewhere I'm not going to let the honor of my family be tainted I'm going to throw this wanton woman out! No! I'm not going anywhere! No one can take me away from here! He knows that I'm innocent! He trusts me, he trusts me! You're here! Now I'm afraid of no one! Have you heard? They want to throw me out! They say I'm a wanton woman! They say, I've no right to be here! But now you're here. No one will dare anymore Tell them I'm untainted! Tell them you trust me Tell them I'm mothering your child Why are you so quiet? Have you fallen for what they say? You're the one who told me... "I don't care for the baying dogs" If you desert me, who else in this world can I turn to? Tell me... tell me that you trust me! "Do you think you're above scrutiny? Don't you forget..." "women have had to stand the test of chastity" Why are you quiet? Speak... speak! You can see the state I'm in. I'm afraid... afraid! I'm going to become a mother ...the mother of your child Have mercy! This is your baby. This baby is yours! Get out! Get out of here! "The most chaste of women" "Were banished" "Why is not the earth rent asunder in sorrow?" "Why are not the skies torn apart?" "So suffers the girl her father raised lovingly" "Her father raised her lovingly; her husband loved her once" "Now she goes from door to door" "Oh such games The Lord above plays" "Oh such games The Lord above plays" "In the oyster He makes the pearl blossom" "In murky waters He makes the lotus bloom" "Strange are your ways, Lord" Congratulations, Lawyer! A son has born to you. Son of a decent family! Born in a filthy gutter! Do you not know what your wife and your son went through... after you shut your doors on them? - No Nor did you try to find out But I can tell you To get out of your way, your wife left Lucknow And your innocent son grew up in a Bombay slum One day... Police! Scram! Hey Nathu... Hello, Constable What are you up there like a monkey? Why don't you go to school? At school, the master asks for fees My father hasn't the money to send me to school Look at Leela's son, Raj. He lives in this slum too His mother is worse off. Yet she sends her boy to such a big school What did you say? He isn't a boy. He's a sissy! Ma, why do you put oil in my hair? - Oil keeps the hair soft But why do boys in the neighborhood call me sissy? So what? How do they compare with you? You're a good boy who goes to school You'll grow up to become an educated man And those wayward boys will go to jail Ma, what's wayward? The ones who just tramp around Those who think that whatever belongs to others, belongs to them Those who gamble and drink instead of going to school And they have fun! Ma, when I grow up, I'll become wayward too Nonsense! You'll become a lawyer Then a magistrate And then, a judge You're sitting here? Everyone's out there buying chocolates I don't have money Why, doesn't your mother give you money? Daddy gives me a whole Rupee every day! You're rich. And I'm poor. Eat this No, Ma says never ask for anything to eat If she told you not to ask, go ahead and snatch it No! You're coming to my place this evening, aren't you? Why, what's happening? - My birthday party! You must come! It's going to be fun! You know, Daddy has ordered such a huge cake! Let's go and eat ice cream Raj, aren't you giving me a gift? I didn't have money to buy anything. I'll give you some other time Must you only buy something to make a gift? You can give me a flower Really? Here you are Someday, I'm going to make lots of money And I'll buy a gift for you. Something better than all this Do that But can anything be better than this flower? Come on Raj, meet my father Ritu, say hello to the Judge Hello, Judge Bless you You've grown up in these four years You must've forgotten me. Happy birthday I've just arrived from Lucknow. I owe you a present As of now, I can give you a flower Here you are Let me put it on your hair Someone has already put a flower over there Raj has given me this flower Daddy, this is Raj. He's in my class I see - Hello Hello Hello God bless you, son Raj says that he will become a judge when he grows up Very good! Your father must be a real gentleman What does your father do? I don't have my father. I have only my mother Has he passed away? - No! Don't say that! My mother says he is alive. But... He doesn't live with you ...and you haven't seen him either? Your father is a strange man. - Not a word about my father Else... else... How can you let your daughter play with boys like him? Go to play, Ritu Why, what's wrong with the boy? I like him He doesn't even know his father's name, and you like him? I'd say he's just a wastrel - Forget it. Must you hang on to those rotten old ideas? What was the Bandit's name? Yes, Jagga I remember you saying the same at his trial That a bandit's son always becomes a bandit I still stand by that principle Principles, principles and principles! It's because of these blind dogmas... that you lost someone as precious as Leela And because of your principles, you never married again The dry parched desert that your life is, is your own doing So much so that you would rather destroy a friendship... between two innocent children? Why, what has the poor child done... to bring you to harm? Not this boy. But it was... someone like him who destroyed my life ...and brought me to disgrace Maybe today, he too says what this boy just said... "I'm only my mother's son ...I have no father" In every urchin I see him... the one whom my wife bore, the one who isn't mine My wife's, yet not mine Rita looks good in that photo, doesn't she? But Ma, why do you work so hard? This is why you fall ill I'm not going to let you work anymore, you understand? You mad boy! If I don't work, how are we going to eat? I'm a man. I'm the one who is going to work From tomorrow, no going to school! You won't go to school? Won't you? How will you become a gentleman, unless you educate yourself? Wayward imp! Without schooling, how can you become a lawyer, a magistrate, a judge? If you say so, I'll go to school ...and I'll work too But I won't become a judge. At Rita's I met a judge I didn't like him "Are you out for a good time?" "Hey Mister, Hey Babu, Hey Mr. White, Mr. Black" "Out on the streets we're waiting for you" "We, the merry boot-polish boys" Good morning, teacher. Sorry, I'm late I work, you know. I work What's all this? Brush, wax... I give you a good polish Your name has been struck from the rolls What? - You can't study here anymore. But I've brought the fees too! If you say so, I'll stop polishing boots So I can't study here any longer, can I? No For a minute, can I talk to Rita? I have a gift for her Rita's father has transferred her out of this school. They have moved Why did you kick my ball? Forgive me, I stepped on it by mistake How dare a boot-polish-boy? - Hit him! You're just a boot-polish boy. You dare take me on? Hit him! His coat... strip him! Hit him! My Ma is ill. Let me go to my Ma You can hit me some other time. My Ma is ill. Let me go to my Ma Your Ma is ill? - Yes His Ma is ill! Run! Uncle Jagga is here! Run! Get up. Come with me Where to? Wherever I go. From now on, you go wherever I go That's what your father wanted You know my father? - Yes I knew him Whatever I am today, is all thanks to him I owe your Dad an old debt Then you'll surely help me find a job somewhere? Job? What job? - Whatever! I'll do anything! My Ma is sick! We haven't anything to eat! Give me any job! I'll clean the dishes, sweep floors, carry luggage... I'll do anything! Just give me a job! Give me a job! You fool! Only fools work You're a smart boy. And you talk of working? Unless I work, how will I eat? How will I feed my mother? Steal Steal? Stealing... no! Yes, yes, yes! Steal! Steal! Steal! Pick pockets, locks, rob, kill You took so long, son You've been hungry all day. Go on, eat food Food? Have you cooked? - Yes, why not? It's over there, under the plate The bread is warm. I even cooked potatoes Take some. It's on the shelf Have you found it? Yes Ma, I found it The bread, and potatoes too The potatoes are delicious Eat it then. Give me a bread too. I'm very hungry Very hungry Bread...? Yes, Ma. I'll get it right now Right now "Yes, yes, yes! Steal! Steal! Steal!" "Pick pockets, locks, rob, kill" You thief! Stealing bread? - Excuse me, my Ma is hungry She hasn't had anything to eat in three days Son of a gun! Off you go to the cops! What's your name? I asked you what's your name Father's name? Ma has never told me my father's name Where does your mother live? I asked you where your mother lives I won't tell you. I won't If you don't, who pays for your bail? You'll go to jail. You know that? Where are you running? - Don't send me to jail! My Ma is hungry. Don't send me to jail! Afraid, son? Don't be. This is just your first step The road ahead is very long Hey, are you mad? Why are you laughing at your bread? This bread... you know this bread? She makes you dance What do you mean? - She made me dance! Outside the jail twelve years ago, had I found her... would I be here time and again, for her sake? You've had enough for free. Come on, the jailer is calling you Your time's up. Find yourself some other hotel Time up? - Yes I don't think I like the food here anyway. From now on... it's Hotel Taj Mahal for me If you want to eat at the Taj Mahal Hotel, stop thieving Stop picking pockets And do some honest work - Sure. I'm going on a pilgrimage. "I'm a tramp" "Whether I'm rising or falling, I'm always a star" "I have no family, no home" "I have no one who loves me" "I don't have a lover waiting for me across some river" "For me the city is empty city The unknown path is all I love" "I'm a tramp" "I'm not rich" "I'd rather stay a pauper" "But the songs I sing are merry songs" "My heart is full of wounds" "But my eyes are always full of smiles" "Oh this world" "In this world, maybe I'm doomed" "I'm a tramp" "But whether I'm rising or I'm falling, I'm always a star" Raj! You had me scared Come on, give me a hug Hey, are you talking English? - This time in jail... I came across one of the politicos. I thought I'd make the most of it And got to talk some English. I could use it Tell me, what news of Ma? You told her, didn't you? Yes, a long time ago. She thinks you're away on a long business trip... with your boss. When you go home, you must go home in style I have it all fixed. - First, tell me... have you been sending money to Ma? - Of course! On the 1st of every month! Say, you'd need some money, wouldn't you? Keep this Looking for this thing? I guessed it was for me. So why not take it for myself? Want a ten or a twenty? No...? Bravo, my boy! You'll make your guru proud someday And someday, I'll ask your father what the gentleman's son grows up to be Raj, I've been dying to see you! This time, it has been a whole year! Where has this boss of yours been taking you to? This time, I've been to London and more London? On my way back, I even stopped at Arthur Road My boss is into import and export. - What's that? You don't know import-export? You're so naive Your son is about to become a big businessman, and you don't know... what import-export is? Listen to this, Ma import-export means moving the money between here and there But mostly, it comes in this way How would I know? You've even started talking English Sit, I'll get tea for you What are you looking at? I'm a thief A lying thief I've sinned Why did you turn that photo over? Whenever I look at it, she seems to be staring at me She brings back childhood memories. Why don't you admit that? Where could she be now? Why don't you try to locate her? Childhood days, and childhood friends ...do they ever come back, Ma? I'm going out - But your tea? Forget it. I've got to see a friend My son he is! Silly boy! "This is a colorful season" "Men think it's exciting to see me tonight on the sly" "Exciting!" "This youth is so exciting" "Your girl is mad about you" "Why do you refuse me?" "Why do you look away from me?" "Look here, the world is yours" "Why are you afraid of love?" How much did you make today? - Ten thousand five hundred Why only fifty-fifty? You can have many times more How? - Tomorrow morning... a bank is being inaugurated. Say, haws the opportunity? A sleight of hand, and there's a hundred thousand or so going All you need is a car. - Car? A good car. - For me, that's a sleight of hand Eleven tomorrow. I'll tell you where Good! Someday, you'll surely make me proud It's late You have to make it by eleven First class car! Car? Where? Out there Who's driving it? - No idea A girl just got down and walked into that shop Keys? - With her, maybe That one? Can't you see? No keys here Return the bag. - What for? It will make things easier. We'll make it work. How will you return it? What happened? - I've been robbed! Who did it? - I didn't notice He was with you! I had it a moment ago - You didn't notice who robbed you? Had I noticed, I would've caught him! You... Yes you! - Who me? Look, there goes the thief! Stop! Thief! He jumped over the wall! Wait here Come on, help me There you are! Hiding! Aren't you ashamed? Give it to me. Else, I'll beat you to pulp I'm going to kill you! Give me! You dare stare at me like that? Hey... knife! Are you running away? Coward! Coward! He ran away Anyway, here's your purse Keep it You've been through so much trouble for my sake No trouble. I've taken more I should apologize. You risked your life to get my purse back And I suspected you Not your fault It's just my looks Sometimes even the police are mistaken Bye How was the show? - No use We'll find a car. Why worry? Get over to the place I'll join you after a change of clothes Hey Romeo! You tear your clothes no sooner than you see a girl! Get lost Get going Stop! Thief! Where are you going? Inside Inside? What do you want? - Strange question Your boss is the one who called me. And you ask me what I want? The boss, or the lady? Who called you? Yes, the lady So you're the one who fixes the piano? Yes! The piano fixer! Is the piano in there? - Are pianos kept outside? No! Inside. Come on in, else I'll get into trouble Looks like a billionaire's palace! The mantle! What a lovely mantle! What a grand mansion! What kind of a joke is this? Here's the piano This piano is in bad shape. Badly damaged Rotten! Itll take me time to fix it. Go on, get back to work I'll fix it Who's playing my piano? You...? - You...! I'm mistaken, once again I thought it must be a thief That's what I am. - What? I mean, who else but a thief would come in uninvited? No, it's good of you to have come You did me a favor. I should've called you over But I didn't know your address. How did you find out my address? No, don't ask me that. It's a secret Let's say, it's luck that has led me to your doorstep Please be seated No, thanks Matches Madam, he's the piano-fixer... - Piano fixer? Your servant thinks I'm here to fix the piano But you said... Never mind, take the call. Go on Strange fellow. He took you for a piano mechanic Not his fault. It's just my looks Inspector sahib, no thief came in here Please wait here What brings the police here? Excuse me, I'll be back A car thief has sneaked into one of the houses in this neighborhood Have you seen anyone? - No, no one came in here She's wrong about no one coming in here I happen to be a visitor. Would you be looking for me? No... how could this be? Come Grand house Yes. It belongs to the Judge Judge...? - Yes, he's my guardian Like the guard on the train ...signaling red and green? No. After my father passed away, I have been his ward For the sake of my education, he left Lucknow and he came to Bombay I am much obliged to him Do judges sport such grand houses? He must be making a pile on the side What a thing to say! The judge is very principled He never spares criminals I hope God spares him! Not to worry. If you're ever arraigned in his court, let me defend your case You... lawyer? - Yes I took you for a schoolgirl That was a nice one. A couple of months, and I'll be an advocate Would you like to see my degree? A judge lives here. And a lawyer too. Leaves only one to make a full court! Yours truly. And here I am. - And what are you up to? Thievery Stealing, picking pockets, locks, ladies' purses, like yours... that's what I'm up to. - You're joking again. Be seated You don't think I'm a thief? - No, I think you're a gentleman This is the new world order! The thieves, the hoodwinkers... they all dress in first class suits like I'm wearing, and we take them... for gentlemen. But those who work hard for an honest living and dress shabbily ...are labeled tramps and wastrels. The capitalists, the black marketers... the profiteers, the usurers... who are they? Thieves, like I am! You sound like a stock broker or a banker You might say that give and take of money is what I'm concerned with As far as banks are concerned, I visit banks regularly Be seated Tell me your name Tell me, whose photo is this? - Mine You...? Yes, when I was young It's a birthday photo Your name? Rita. Why? Ms Rita, would you like to come to my house? I'd like to show you something unique My mother would be very pleased to meet you. Come You...? After twelve years You've changed! You haven't changed at all Where have you been, Raj? Looking for you And at last, I've found you - And when I saw you... I took you for a thief Not your fault. It's in my looks "Ever since my lover has come home..." "my heart leaps with joy" "His heart said something to mine" "And the old days returned" "Our days have returned again" "He brings so much of happiness..." "my heart leaps with joy" "My heart he could win through my eyes" "I could lay the stars at his feet" "My hopes soar... my heart leaps with joy" "Ever since my beloved has come home..." "my heart leaps with joy" "We are young and we are in love" "He is the one who makes my world" "My heart leads him to me... my heart leaps with joy" "Ever since my hero has returned, my heart springs to life" The Judge is here So here you are. And you're late The doctor has told you to come home and rest for at least an hour But you won't listen. You look so tired Just sit here. I'll get you your dressing gown Tell me, where have you been all this time? I had a lecture in the law college. I went there directly from the court All that jabbering is giving me a headache That's bound to happen. The doctor told you to eat before eight It's nine thirty now Listen to that! Even the clock is angry with you Come on Tell me about yourself. What have you been up to all evening? You look as if you've found a treasure You could say that. A long-lost friend is no less than a treasure You'll be glad when you meet Raj. You're certain to like him! Who is this Mr. Raj? Where does he live? What does he do? What's his family name? He's a childhood friend. We were in school together I'm seeing him after twelve years! After twelve years? After so many years, most people change Raj has changed too. At school, he used to be very quiet Now he has great sense of humor. When I asked him what he's up to... he said he's a thief Maybe that wasn't a joke? I don't follow you Never mind You know what young men are like, these days Who knows, they might steal something valuable The water is deep. You might drown Not without you Is that so? Try that Is that so? Hey lady, haven't you finished dressing yet? Where are you headed? Gentlemen don't barge in... when ladies are changing dresses. Don't you know that? How would I know? I'm no gentleman Savage I'm not about to give in to your type Where are you running away? Let go of my hand. What kind of a stupid joke is this? You savage! Am I...? - Yes! You're a savage! - Savage? I'm a penniless, uneducated tramp! I don't fit into high society! How dare I maul your fragile body with my beastly hands I told Ma that childhood friends, like childhood days are gone... never to return Good of you to have told me my class It was a joke. Don't get angry You want to hit me? Go ahead Whom will I hit? You...? Or myself...? Are you happy? Where are you lost? Up there Come back Where to? Beside me Why? No reason Aren't you ashamed? What are you looking at? The Moon? No Clouds What's your problem? You don't see the Moon... and you see the dark clouds? Won't you tell me? Who else can I tell? We're seeing each other after twelve years A lot changes in twelve years. - The Judge said that too! But I don't agree. Look at us. We're still friends The Judge is right. You know nothing about me Who I am... my circumstances... my family background... what I have been doing... what I am doing You know nothing about me Nor do I want to know All I know is that you are the one I... Rita, you are so nice. But so naive And you're such a fool A savage I'm not talking to you Look The clouds? They are moving away from my Moon You know, today's my birthday Which? Tenth? Eleventh? You don't ask a lady that All right, I'll whisper it to you Twenty one No! It's looking at us What? - That! "I wish the Moon would look away for a while..." "while I make love to him" "I'd say a thousand sweet nothings" "I pray with all my heart..." "I pray for my love" "The Moon watches me and my beloved for the first time" "On our first night together" "Hide behind those clouds, O Moon..." "while I make love to him" "While I say a thousand sweet nothings to him" "I wish the Moon would look this way for while..." "I'd make love to her" "I'd look deep into her eyes" "I'm a thief; I steal" "I have a bad reputation" "I have always stolen hearts; that's just what I have done" "You must bear witness, O Moon" "While I make love to her" "When I look into her eyes" "You have stolen my heart; do not go away" "Do not forget the path that leads to me" "Do not trample upon the rose that is my heart" "Tell him this much, O Moon..." "I'll make love to him" "I'll whisper a thousand sweet nothings to him" "If only you look this way, O Moon..." "I'd make love to her; I'd look deep into her eyes" "If only you looked away for a while, O Moon..." One step more, and the boat will turn over and sink Say what...? Let the boat sink I don't want it - But the doctor says... I should eat by eight Tonight, it's my turn to be admonished by the clock You are angry with me, aren't you? Today I was... With Raj? - Raj is no stranger He's a childhood friend I made a promise to your dying father To take care of you as long as I live You must make a promise If someone likes you, if you like someone... you will not give your consent without telling me I know, I am much obliged to you. But it doesn't mean that you can, time and again... Boss...? Recognize me? Thank you very much! You haven't much time nowadays Well son, are you falling in love? Or, have you given up your profession for fear of going to jail? You don't know the size of the scam I've planned for you She's an heiress. Just wait for a few days I'm angling for a diamond necklace. - Bravo! I knew it! You aren't the type to waste your time But remember! If you try to cheat Jagga... "Nor do I want to know. All I know is that you are the one I..." Really...? "Remember! If you try to cheat Jagga..." "Without you, even Moonlight is a scorching fire..." "Come to me" "Like a flute bereft of melody..." "without you, my life is a misery" "Come to me" "This is no life... no, this isn't" "In the pyre that is my life, I burn alive" "Like red-hot arrows tears of anguish rip me apart" "I want not this hell..." "I seek only roses, I seek only love" "A season of Spring, I seek" "My lover has come home" "My thirsting eyes are sated" "You are the pearl deep inside my heart" "You are the light of my eyes" "You are all my childhood fantasies were about" "And now you are back" "Don't break my heart now; don't go away" "Don't leave me in tears" "I beseech you" Ma! Help me, Ma! Ma, I want to be good! I promise, I won't have anything to do with Jagga and those others! I'd rather starve than steal. I will be good People will say I'm honest! Let's go back to our slum I'll work hard for a living. I won't steal! Ma, I won't steal! I want nothing but peace of mind, and my mother's blessings I won't steal, Ma. I'll become honest Yes, sir? - You're fired. We won't need you We don't employ thieves May I ask something, sir? You say you don't want to employ thieves? Would you rather that they keep thieving all their lives? Fired? Come on, the boss is calling you Raj, what reply do I carry back to the boss? This He will either steal or he will starve And how long will he not steal? He has no way out of crime Let me see how far he goes Where are you going? To see Rita. - You can't go in. The Judge's orders The Judge's orders? Then go and tell her that Raj is waiting out here to see her I have much to tell her. - She can't see anyone. Get going Get going...? Where to? Come friend Let me talk to you Strange coincidence, isn't it? You're a tramp, I'm a tramp too You have no name, I have no name either You are homeless, I have no home either Like me, you too crave for love Difference being only that you are an animal, and I'm human Human I have nothing to give you I can only give love Why don't you watch your step? Are you blind? Mind your tongue. Bloody savage Savage... am I a savage? Am I a mongrel on the streets? To be kicked at will or whim? "Piano-fixer?" "Your servant thinks I'm here to fix the piano" "Come to me, I pine for you" "The night is about to pass" "I pine here; you long there" "So come... the night is about to pass" "Even the Moon is waning" "The stars are disappearing" "A painful, restless hour; the night passes" "Carried away with the Moon..." "I see the bride-like night disappearing" "Call out to me... where are you?" "The night is passing" "I fear and I lose hope" "Even my fate is tiring of me" "If you won't come..." "where do I go?" "The night is about to pass" The invitations have been printed The day after tomorrow is your birthday, isn't it? Send them to the friends you want to invite All my friends? Yes, all friends. All, who are worthy of being your friends Your birthday "Raj, aren't you giving me a gift?" "I didn't have money to buy anything. I'll give you some other time" "Must you only buy something to make a gift?" "You can give me a flower" "Someday, I'm going to make lots of money" "And I'll buy a gift for you. Something better than all this" Back? I knew someday, you'd surely come back For you, this is the only door open I need a thousand. A loan I'll return it after I've earned it Loan? What do you think I am, a money-lender? Today is Rita's birthday. Look, she has invited me She takes me for a gentleman. - So you must dress like a gentleman And to prove yourself, you must also make a gift to the lady So gentlemanliness is for sale, and you intend buying some? But to become a gentleman, you need money. One thousand Rupees For that thousand, you have to steal, rob, or maybe even kill someone for me Do you accept? - No No! I won't rob! I won't commit crimes! What other way out have you? Once a criminal, you can never become a gentleman again! No matter how many times you change your clothes Crime is written all over your face! You even tried working Not for you, the bread in the sweat of thy face For you, the only resort is thieving, crime Same as mine! All thanks to your father Watch your step, son I try. But what to do? Out on the streets... there are those big guns like you. - Sharp, are you? Have you seen Rita? Tell me something #NAME? Who are you looking for? Want me to tell you? Look, over there So you came Happy twenty-first Your gift - Why did you have to do this? Why did you have to buy such an expensive necklace? For you, nothing is too expensive. Besides, I stole it You stole it? - I stole it from the stars You're such a... - A savage? What else? You are a savage You buy this expensive gift... but you won't spend for a velvet case Case? Rita, the Judge is calling you. Hurry up What's on your mind? Let me introduce you to the Judge Come on Rita, I've been waiting for you First, my present See if you like it Why, don't you like it? Today's a strange day. Someone gives me a necklace sans a case And someone give me a case sans the necklace "The man I'm in love with is full of deceit" "But I've fallen in love with him?" "Oh, what have I done?" "He looked so innocent" "But he turns out to be a crook" "The innocent-looking crook that he is..." "he's a blackheart with a sunny smile" "I have given him my heart I'm driving myself crazy" "Oh, what am I doing?" "Those blue eyes have deceived me" "There's an emptiness inside my heart and tears come to my eyes" "I trusted him I promised him my love" "Oh, what have I done?" What have I done? I've fallen in love with a thief! And Raju, you...? Is it some gift you don't like? I'm going to return his gift Bring him over. I'd like to meet him Raj isn't a bad boy. He has just gone astray All he needs is someone to love him, to support him, to bring him around He respects you. If you want it, Raj can be saved Is Raj not at home? - No. He went out early in the morning He isn't back yet "Falling in love with you, my love" "I have cried, and I have laughed" "Happily I have borne the pangs of love" "I have cried, and I have laughed" "What do you know of the pangs of love?" "The pain is so acute" "I'm transfixed" "I stood silent" "I stood in silence, I swear" "I cried, and I laughed" "My heart burns, as if on fire" "My tears flow, as it rains" "Like the clouds" "Like a cloud, I was a tramp" "I have cried, and I have laughed" "Falling in love with you, my love" "I have cried, and I have laughed" There you are Haven't you brought the police along? That bitterness is of no use Your mother has told me everything So you know I'm wayward ...Ive been to jail... and my name is on the police rolls. Is that what you've come to tell me? Try to understand me, Raj. I still consider you my friend Friend? A lawyer's daughter, a judge's ward takes a tramp for a friend? What's your society going to say? What will your people say? If you recant, society will forgive your past Raj, you can make a new life for yourself... you can! A new life? On what will I build a new life? Can you give me back my childhood ...the education I never had? Everyone says that I have no father to name... I have no honor! Can you bring my father back? Can you give me my name? Can you give me my honor? Tell me... tell me Rita! Rita, I've kept you in the dark. I've kept myself in the dark Forget me Rita. Leave me to myself I am not worthy of you You realize fully well, yet you want to live in this hell I never imagined you'd be so weak Rita, don't you think I never tried to get out of this hell But tell me, what do I do? For twelve years, the world has chased me towards crime Alone, I cannot face it Alone, I cannot You aren't alone, Raj Your mother is with you I'm with you You? With me? With a criminal? Yes Raj. With you, forever Good or not, guilty or not, whatever you are, you're mine This is a matter of the heart. And the scales of justice cannot judge it But this guilt I carry with me forever...? For me, as your wife, it will be the bride's vermillion Really? Come with me - Where? The Judge wants to meet you The Judge...? Sit Name? Only Raj? Yes Your father's name? I don't know I see What do you do? As of now, unemployed. Like millions of others Any other source of income? Property? Nothing Do you remember polishing boots when you were a boy? I still do And you want to marry Rita? Yes. If you allow me And you've been to jail too? - Rita must've told you that... You've recanted...? Have you found another source of making money? No - But there's still hope, isn't it? If some silly rich girl marries you... - Did you call me here to insult me? We are in love We want to marry - All that I've heard Love! Sit And let's talk it over with a cool head What do you mean? - I mean that though I don't know... how you managed to seduce a naive girl, it's clear why you played this trick I want to know what price you'll take to let her go Till today, I thought I was the worst scoundrel on earth But you turn out to be one up on me! You scum! How dare you use your filthy colloquy? You think I'm going to let Rita marry a tramp like you? She'd rather stay a spinster for life. Better by far that she dies! Why not say that you'd rather she married some rich big-shot? Or maybe, some judge? Out of here Before I leave, I'd like to ask you a question What if it was your son in my place? And because he's poor... because he was brought up in the slums and was forced into crime... what if it was he who was being denied his love, his life...? How would you have felt? Jagga has called you There's a big heist A bank is to be looted Open the door! Open up - Who is it? Open up! Who are you? Don't you know me? I'm Jagga The bandit? - You could say so What do you want here? Silence! The police are after me. Where's Raj? Get out of my house! I will do nothing to help someone like you! I had you once, and I let you go Remember the day? For twelve years, I cared for your son. I made his life! For this day? Made my son's life? You forced him into crime Get out of my house. I don't want your cursed shadow upon my son! Get out! Get out of my house! Go on! Call the police! Let me see who saves you! Scream! Will you challenge your boss? You're no boss. You're Satan! Let's hear what you have to say now No! No! Mercy! No! Enough! What have you done Raj? For my sins, this is atonement! The accused may be presented What's the name of the accused? Sir, his name is Raj Father's name? - Not known, sir. Maybe he has none Raj, you have been accused of killing Jagga Do you have anything to say in your defense? Have you not appointed a lawyer to defend yourself? The case is adjourned. The government will appoint a counsel for the defense I know the law. Raj killed in self-defense. That's no crime Please save my Raj, somehow Your deposition is very important. The whole case hinges on it Come to the court tomorrow - All right Is she dead? - She has been hurt on the head And Raj killed Jagga to save my life Please sign here. This deposition will surely save Raj If Raj is saved, I will be able to die in peace I should be leaving now My son! - What happened to you, Ma? That heartless judge has killed you! What is his enmity with us? You mustn't blame him, son. - Why not? He has always been trying to make us miserable No son! He is your father My father? What are you saying, Ma? What has come over you? I'm not out of my mind, son. What I'm saying is the truth I could not bring myself to tell you this until now But if not today, once I'm gone who else could tell you? This can't be, Ma! This can never be! This is a long story. But I don't have the time Keep this. I'm leaving He will surely recognize you when you show him this He has never forgiven me. But he will surely forgive his son I won't seek mercy from the one who tortured my mother all her life... the one who made her beg from door to door. Ma, I won't have his mercy! If I could see him for once before I died... But why would he come here Come - I'm leaving Ma I'll avenge you, I will - No! I'll surely avenge you, I will - No, son! The Judge is here to see you Which Judge? - The one whose car ran you over So he has come... before I'm dead Alas, I cannot see Nurse, give him my greetings I am ashamed about the accident. Please forgive me Forgive you...? You didn't die! You were killed! That heartless judge has killed you! To make sure that he isn't exposed! Have you decided the verdict about the case? Case? Raj's case You are going mad! What are you doing to yourself? You are a mature, educated woman In a few days, you'll start going to court as a lawyer You might even make a judge. If you get emotional over every case... you will never be able to dispense justice This is not a lawsuit. It's my life! Do you not understand as much? - Irrespective, it won't alter the law Nor should you let your emotions come in the way of justice Justice is all I seek. Raj is completely innocent He killed Jagga trying to save his mother You can read his mother's dying declaration In this particular case, Raj might merit pardon But his whole life is a long story of involvement with crime and sin I cannot comprehend how you can sympathize with such a person How can you love him? You have studied the law But my heart has not read the laws Heart... and the laws The laws... and the heart What a strange concoction But you are right The heart heeds no laws No laws at all Not even mine No! - Get out, Rita I'm in a murderous rage! - Have you gone mad? So you have escaped? - Yes To settle the score with you Then you will be happy to know that your lawyer... had just convinced me about your innocence I was inclined to let you off tomorrow I want no mercy from you I don't want your justice, your law, nothing! All I want... Lost your nerve? You need guts to kill someone You should be thanking the one who has just saved your life What if I were to use this very knife to rip your heart out? Judge Raghunath was compelled to kill a criminal to save his own life What else can the verdict of the courts be? Have you gone out of your mind too? - I was. For a second For the scum that he is, the hangman's noose will be better This is the story of Raj's life and crimes Now you know why and how he took to crime My Lord, the one who is guilty is his father... who drove an innocent woman from his house, and denied his own son He is the one who forced them to go begging from door to door And in the company of criminals, he went astray My Lord and members of the Jury... if Raj is to be punished for his crime, then his father should be punished too My Lord, I would like to say something Emotion has got the better of the counsel for defense In her anxiety to save the accused, the counsel has presented... an interesting story, however incongruous it might be... to try and prove that some criminal happens to be my son! But I ask, what evidence does the counsel have? No evidence on earth will convince you that Raj is your son... not unless you are willing to accept him as your son If there be proof, it lies deep in your heart and in Raj's eyes Look at him. The same eyes, the same high brow He even speaks like you speak. He's just as adamant as you are Are you still not willing to accept him as your son? Ms Rita, the law heeds no emotion Nor my Lord, does the heart heed any law I have no more to say If the accused has anything to say in his defense, he may proceed Yes. At last, after being branded a murderer, I hold your attention Had I been heard earlier, perhaps I would never have had to stand here Ms Rita has tried her best to save me from being hanged And not only in this particular case; in my personal life too In my defense, I wish to say nothing. I am evil I've been a vagabond ever since I was a child I'm a murderer, a criminal You may punish me as you please. But sin, crime, hatred and violence... this vicious circle that holds your society in a vice-grip... do you think it can be broken by hanging me? I don't want to tell you the story of my life But all I want to say is, I did not inherit crime from my parents From that gutter full of filth that flows beside my shanty... I picked up crime. That gutter is still flowing over And the virus still breeds And countless children who live in those slums... are falling prey to the virus every day Do not think of me. Those children are the ones you must care for You must care for your children Lest come the day when... yours... and yours... and yours... and your son too stands in these docks to reiterate... that it's an honest father's blood that flows in my veins Time was when I was an innocent boy, just like your sons Like all mothers, my mother too wove a golden dream for me She would say, "My son will grow up to become a lawyer" "Then he will become a magistrate. And then, a judge... like his father" I know the verdict that this court is about to give And I'm willing to suffer any sentence. For my sins, this is atonement But I await the decision from yet another quarter I want to know Judge Raghunath, what says your heart? What says your heart? Has the Judge come to see his convict? A father... who is guilty Guilty? You? Yes. Tomorrow, the law might pronounce you guilty But in the eyes of God, I am the one who is guilty Are you weeping? Yes, for the father who found his son, and yet he has lost him For the husband who forced his wife to become a widow For society, where poverty breeds crime For the son who is orphaned though his father is alive For the child who goes through life looking for someone... who will call him "Son" Son Raj, son of Judge Raghunath, you have been proved guilty... of trying to assassinate your father, Judge Raghunath But in the light of the strange and unfortunate circumstances your life... which your counsel Ms Rita has presented... you are sentenced to only three years of rigorous imprisonment Crying? You silly girl Silly girls never cry At this rate, how are you going to practice? What use is the practice, Raj? I wasn't able to save you No Rita, this penance is very important for me Only after I've been through this, will I be worthy of you With you beside me, I can go through anything I will become an honest man Everyone will say I'm a good man I will read, I will write And just like Ma used to say, first I'll become a lawyer... then a magistrate And then, a judge Last night I saw a judge. I'll become a judge You won't call me a savage anymore, will you? I will. You savage! Time up Come on Keep this It's your gift Don't worry. I didn't steal it I just smuggled it in Not your fault, Rita. It's just the way I look Three years isn't too long, Raj. I'll wait for you I'll wait for you! - Don't cry Number 308... move it I should be leaving
