 

                        Ueto Aya Ishigaki Yuma Kuriyama Chisaki Oguri Kaneko Syusuke They've increased in number Five from the west Five from the south Who the hell are these persistent guys? We're assassins who've killed many people It's obvious that we're marked That's true Let's go! They're coming... You're rats caught in our fangs Prepare yourselves Kill them! Huh...!? I'm sure I sliced him - Let's fall back for now! - Don't lose them! These guys are wearing steel armor Is that Kanbei? I'll get revenge for Lord Kato Shoot them! - Damn! - They jumped off We lost them They couldn't be unharmed from this height You still don't know them well Azumi Let go of my hand! Everyone died... Now it's just the two of us left We have to kill Sanada and complete the mission You can't die a meaningless death in a place like this I'm going Azumi 2 Death or Love Kanbei, why have you come such a long way? Lord Kato whom I served... ...fell victim to assassins Their last target is you, Sir The only one who may wield the power of the Toyotomi... ...is you, Sir I traveled this far... ...to ask what you intend to do - My intentions... - Yes, Sir You want to know my intentions? When Kato fell right before your eyes... ...what the hell did you do? This pain... ...is Kato's price It is my suffering as well Endure the suffering Then you will naturally know my intentions If you do not... ...explain your intentions to this lowly servant... How could he fathom the deeper meaning? I was driven out by the Tokugawa For 10 years since the attack at Kudo mountain... ...I have never lost in a battle against the Tokugawa! But... the war between the Tokugawa and the Toyotomi... ...is not over The Toyotomi's defeat is imminent Wasn't it you who said... ...that in a war with no chance for victory... ...you couldn't let your followers die, Father? Even my son doubts my strength You are deluded by something, Father The Uenokogashu's ninja, Kunio The girl called the demon of war Young Master Yukimura is unsatisfied with us I just don't want a hopeless war What are your personal reasons for assisting Father? Watch your words, Yukimura! Kunio You're really something If those are truly your intentions... ...then I will go right now to Osaka... ...and consult the opinion of the Toyotomi Well then Nagara, are you all right? Ouch! Get a hold of yourself This is where Master waited for secret messengers If we wait, someone will come for sure Good job, Azumi! Azumi Azumi Nachi Nachi, watch You're doing well You've really become strong Azumi There's something I really wanted to say I really like you The mission ahead of you... ...will be infinitely brutal You must harden yourself with a steel resolve That is the path of an assassin The partner you are matched with... Azumi Kill him! I want to complete the mission Nachi Azumi This is our destiny Nachi... No! What's the matter? I'm hungry I'll go get something to eat You're invulnerable - Azumi - Yeah? Thanks Please give me something to eat - OK, here you go - Thank you Your change Nobody move! D~don't misunderstand We're noble robbers who help others We work for the sake of the world If you want to do something good, you have to be alive first So let's all get along and share We need your help Give us all your money Don't hesitate Hurry up and fork it over Give it up You too I don't have any money to give to a bandit the likes of you Then why don't you leave your sword You won't have another occasion to use it anyway You insolent fool Put out your worries and just hand over your money Hurry up and fork it over - Where are you going? - Please move aside It's a girl with a lot of guts She's cute Such a pretty face - Ginkaku - Yeah? What are you doing? Ginkaku, take a look... Nachi?! What do you think? Pretty, right? Let's take her with us You agreed to work for the sake of the world If we had a girl... ...she couldn't become one of us W~well, how about an assistant? - Hey hey hey - Stop it Son of a bitch, the effect of your blood was awesome! Fooled them all in an instant Man, you really looked like a warrior K~Ginkaku Why did you drive away a hot girl like that? - That girl is strong - What? Clumsy awkward guys like us would take the fall - R~really? - Yeah Azumi, stop! They're on our side I am Hanjo of Iga We came because Lord Tenkai sent us I heard many rumors about you They were incredible Asano Nagamasa Kato Kiyamasa Thanks to you killing those two... We were able to avoid a blameless war You fulfilled your mission successfully That is sufficient There is still one man left Sanada Masayuki We are too inadequate to take Sanada down Pardon? He has hired a killer ninja squad They're called the Uenokogashu They're a gruesome bunch that don't belong to any ninja school... ...who make assassination their business We may even have to mobilize the army We're here so that we can avoid a war We will deal with Sanada Masayuki As our master commanded, we will complete the mission We will finish it for sure for the sake of our fallen comrades You will not come back alive Master commanded us to kill our own comrades For the sake of making me a cool-headed assassin... I killed my partner who was like a brother to me with my own hand I don't have any expectations of coming back alive Fine Complete the mission I want to go too Allow me to guide you through the lay of Kudo mountain Hanjo sent spies to Kudo mountain They're watching Sanada's every move The movements of Tenkai who regulates the Tokugawa... ...from behind the scenes are suspicious The pigeons are crying out The assassins of the Tokugawa... ...came to cut the head off this old man You smell like blood Isn't it your favorite scent? When I was young... ...this was my happiest moment And now? With this old body... ...what craving could be left... ...except to verify that I... ...still have the strength to live The day those who make attempts at your life... ...fall into the hands of our ninjas... We've come to a major road Gozue is really excited Let's go What are you doing? What's the matter? I met a guy who looked just like Nachi Nachi? He's a bandit who goes by the name Ginkaku Hey! You want a fight? What did you say? - Sorry! - You assholes How pathetic, running away If we catch you one more time you're dead You have all gathered below the banner of General Sanada You're a sad lonely lot... ...who don't have homes... ...or family to lean on But there's no need to worry Starting today, you are servants of General Sanada Hold up the banner of General Sanada and follow him You will kill the assassins who seek the life... ...of our ever vigilant Lord and fight the Tokugawa If you do that, then the Lord Sanada Masayuki... ...will grant you a reward Wow~! Those who want to become a soldier for General Sanada... ...come to this side Yeah! - K~Ginkaku - Ginkaku Pick out the skilled ones Yes, Sir! What do you think those assassins are like? You're really going to become a soldier for Sanada? I took the money All we have to do is kill the assassins, right? I don't like slicing people with swords Ginkaku will take care of it, right? Who's the guy who went on about how he killed 100 people? When did I? If you don't want to then we can just run away B~but you know, that girl from before... If I keep thinking about her as I look at the stars... I'll meet her again, right? - Hey man - What? Want to meet her? I'm talking about that girl You're the one who really wants to meet her, right? Me? Maybe it's because of the war but the atmosphere is really dreary - Ginkaku - Nachi?! Are they the assassins who are trying to claim Sanada's life? There's no mistake What should we do? Hold on a moment Don't get in the way Attack! What are you doing? Didn't you hear me tell you to wait? I changed my mind These guys are the enemy Huh? All right! Do as your told Kill them! Traitor! You can't trust anything in this world Run Are you a demon? You bastard... Hey everybody, Big Brother's back! Ginkaku Have you all been well? These are children who lost their parents because of the war I brought them here You've grown a lot This guy's gotten fat Don't cry Come over here You're good right? Don't cry Want to play with Big Brother? Let's play - Saburo - Yeah? - How about elder brother? - He died Ginkaku, who's this? These are my friends These gentle people are your friends? They may look like that but they're assassins They kill people without even blinking Is that true? With a pretty face like this, you commit murder? We kill the people who start the war The war won't go away As long as people are here, it will continue The people who get used as tools... ...are the most foolish Are you saying that to us? Nagara Be patient You heard him just now This bastard didn't just insult us... ...he insulted our fallen comrades as well I'm sorry if I was disagreeable Ginkaku Give me the money you raised You didn't do anything bad, right? Chiyo, there's no good or bad with money If a good person spends it, then it's good money - Grandma Yone - What? Look at this There's so much You were up to no good again You won't die in peace If you are healthy and eat well... ...and if the children grow up well, that's enough for me Chiyo, leave him be He'll sleep when he gets worn out Chiyo, I'll help That's fine Please just sleep and leave quickly Did we do something wrong? Assassins who kill people are abominable What's the use of cultivating love and devotion? It's obvious that we'll just fall victim to people like you We want to get rid of the war So there won't be children with no parents You chat well for a murderer What about the children of the people you killed? That's... Gozue, get up Azumi, let's go We live in a different world than these people Nagara The enemy is at their base We're finally moving out If Lord Sanada attacks Tenkai... ...then the feudal lords siding with the Toyotomi will be furious If we get wrapped up in a violent battle again... War would probably break out again While Young Master Yukimura is gone... ...this is the time to make our move The Black Spider is getting amused The Black Spider will be the opponent... ...of the assassins aiming for the Lord's life You are strong One of their spies is on our side Don't leave out a single person Annhilate everyone Show them clearly the strength of the Uenokogashu It's Sanada's soldiers Who are they? It must be a war Let's go Can I ask one question? Yeah? What's the secret to dodging arrows? What? Both of you have never been hit by an arrow Let the master of running teach you something Take an arrow and stand here One two three... Eight up to here In my experience, it's eight steps If you have this much distance, you can dodge them Azumi only needs six All right, try shooting me From here? Shoot for real? Don't worry Just shoot me Wow! You're amazing Arrows are surprisingly slow If the distance is enough, you can dodge them - Let's go - Sure There's none left What you see over there is Kudo mountain That's where Sanada Masayuki is We've arrived at our destination Nagara... You like Azumi, right? What?! Has anything happened while the two of you have always been together? Azumi is just like a little sister to me You really don't have any feelings for her? Well, I like her Our fallen comrades liked Azumi too That's why I'm going to protect her in their stead It looks like she likes that Ginkaku guy Azumi's true intentions are probably... ...to disappear to somewhere far away with Ginkaku It can't be You saw it too, haven't you? Actually, that guy... ...looks exactly like Nachi who died That Nachi guy... Did Azumi like him? Let's send Azumi to Ginkaku To us, the mission... If you really want to protect Azumi... ...then let her get away from a dangerous mission Let's kill Sanada ourselves Ginkaku Sanada left Kudo mountain What? Now Kudo mountain is just an empty shell Scrap I'll have to verify with my own eyes Trust us Is the mission that important? You stay out of this Did someone say they'd recognize you for risking your life to fight? That's right In any case, the war won't go away That's right! More than that... ...why don't we think about a way to live happily? Just like Chiyo What do you think about living with the children? Let's do that, Azumi I want to do that but... I can't - Why? Why can't you? - Wait Come on everyone, persuade her Azumi, hold on! Azumi! There's no reason you can't Follow Ginkaku Why are you even doing this? Mission? Don't make me laugh Gozue and I are going on a vacation Listen up, I'm sick of following the mission I've endured it up to now but I finally understand In a vain ideal, we lost our comrades I felt the attacks of our enemies as we stood before them There wasn't a single day when my mind was at ease Do you really mean that? Of course I mean it You should live happily with Ginkaku too Forget about completing the mission Nagara, get a grip Why are you doing this? You get a grip! I'm finished living for the sake of the mission We're leaving Take care Please, I'm begging you Don't do this Ginkaku, take care of Azumi And don't show up in front of me again Nagara, wait! He's right Look at us Though we don't have anything... ...we live with freedom and happiness - Isn't that true? - Yup I... I'm different from you guys Everything I've seen, touched, and perceived So don't interfere We're not interfering! - Right? - That's right - Right? - That's right - Right? - That's right D~don't go What are you doing not trying to stop her? Don't go, Azumi! Live with us It's for the best If it's Ginkaku, you can relax Azumi will be happy now too If Ginkaku's words are right... ...then Sanada has already left Kudo mountain After Azumi and the rest... ...have gone away... ...let's take this chance and hit Sanada Sure Let's chase Sanada I know all the roads - Is this the right way? - There's no mistaking it We've been going in circles If we go a little more, there'll be a major road Then let's hurry Nagara What the hell is this? Did you say to shoot within eight steps? You taught me Gozue, you... We're on the same side I'm the spy the Uenokogashu sent I trained under ninja ever since I was young I built up trust... ...and waited only for a day like this Burying Tenkai's gang... ...is my first priority mission Mission? Don't be careless and try to pretend Dammit! This can't be happening Azumi Let Azumi... ...live Azumi~! Of all times, why do people come to interfere now? Next time, I will definitely cut your throat I told you that Sanada isn't here He already left with his soldiers It can't be He isn't intending to attack Lord Tenkai, is he? Their target is you, Lord Tenkai Are you saying that Sanada has left Kudo mountain? We have received word We do not have a moment to lose If we flee from here... ...we have to abandon Azumi's party We don't have time to take care of our assassins I must protect you, Lord Tenkai - You're telling me to throw them away - Lord Tenkai Azumi is... It can't be helped I'll do what you say I was right, wasn't I? Sanada's henchmen are spread out everywhere There's a temple beyond that mountain over there We're completely trapped in It'll be hell from here on Hurry and go back you guys A~are you worrying about us right now? We've already come this far so let's go to the end I like it! Guys... Let's go crazy for once Kill anyone who comes close The blood's gonna break out Let's have a helluva fight Your mouths are lively so you can talk a lot I had a friend who was a lot like you Was that guy also an assassin? Yeah He was a guy named Nachi Nachi... There are many people who look similar So what happened to him? He died I... killed him - What? - Let's go The ranks to the west are in position The ranks to the east are in position We have blockaded the road to their base Tenkai is a cornered rat They have no holes to run away Instead of wasting precious soldiers... ...allow us handle this You must not lose him Yes, Sir! Stop You're one step behind Uenokogashu! Scatter! Lord Tenkai, please escape This way Sir Hanjo! Take care Azumi! Itkaku! You assholes! Boss! Die! Kijimaru! Move aside Everyone is dead Ginkaku Thanks for looking out for this dim-witted big brother Don't say that Azumi... I feel good K~Ginkaku Bro! Open your eyes Boss~! - Mistress Kunio - Why are you coming now? We lost them What?! What happened? They're not average assassins Rokpa also has fallen Rokpa was beaten? The Matchless Rokpa? I can't believe it We must bring them into the spider web Are you saying we should lure them? If they get caught in a web loaded with poison Their bodies will become paralyzed and they won't budge The slightest mistake and you'll be in the same situation Mistress Kunio, please throw the bait These are the only soldiers who survived This is too horrible They all died trying to protect you You know that?! - Ginkaku - It's OK You're right Gozue Where's Nagara? While fighting enemies to protect me... ...we got split up He'll be all right He was the most agile of all of us Surely... - Why are you looking at me like that? - I just... It's nothing There is a shortcut to the Tokugawa temple grounds I'll guide you Lord Tenkai, please wait here for a moment Mission... The mission... It was a mistake! We're surrounded by enemies What did you say? You bitch! Gozue Nagara... Where's Nagara? The mission... I asked you Where's Nagara? I killed him What did you say? To the end, he only pleaded that I let you live Of course that's a promise I can't keep Lies I couldn't should you from here, could I? Gozue Tell me that's a lie That's... ...the mission I was given Nagara is dead To think he'd fall to someone like you Don't follow me! I'll deal with Sanada Are you Azumi? I sent Gozue to hell already What? I also lost my only companion I'll tear you to shreds! I'll repay you... ...for the words you just spoke Gotcha Has the poison spread? You... How dare you... Rokpa and Gozue weren't enough So even the Black Spider? You've dried up the seeds of the Uenokogashu You insolent bitch! What a man is... What life is... Even what the world is... You're an inexperienced girl who knows none of these I can't forgive you Has the poison spread? This is the end Drop into hell for me Prepare yourself! General... Lord Sanada... Azumi Are you all right? Azumi Get a hold of yourself Azumi Is the mission that important? I'm going to complete the mission There are many people who look similar Isn't that true? Nachi The mission... Nachi Nachi I... - You know who I am, don't you? - Nachi... Nachi It's OK The poison only spread a little You have to live Azumi... You can't die - Kunio - General Mistress Kunio! General I couldn't kill the assassin What do you mean? How did you get these wounds? Your dreams of war... ...cannot end here Everything was for your sake I only wanted to see you smile General Kunio Kunio! Ginkaku? Ginkaku Wake up Ginkaku! Why did you... Instead of me... Why did you die in place of me? Why dammit, why?! The people I love around me... Why do they all die? Listen up This is an all out attack on Tenkai Move out! And the prey comes walking up to our feet Get her! Prepare to fire! Call off the attack General! You must not! Get out of my way To think such a young girl is an assassin What reason do you have for seeking my life It is to get rid of the war Nonsense! Yukimura Father! Gather up the troops Not only the Toyotomi... ...but now no one is on our side This is not your place to interfere! Go back to Kudo mountain There is no hope in taking action like this These are all the consequences of my actions You be quiet Priest Tenkai General Sanada Do you intend to face all of these soldiers My defeat is imminent anyway If we are to die here... ...the Tokugawa will not sit tight If I let you live the result will be the same It is time to make a decisive decision That despicable girl... ...took away what I treasured most Leave that young assassin and go Then I, Sanada Masayuki, will return to Kudo mountain I will not resist the Tokugawa again H~hold on You want us to leave Azumi? No way No way... I am an assassin I am always prepared to die All of my comrades... ...died feeling the same If you believe a world of peace will come... Even if we were just used... Even if that's the case... Today will be the end of everything If I eliminate Sanada You will be hated I willingly comply - General - Stop! - No one interfere - Father Even if you don't interfere this is enough I brought this all upon myself I will get revenge for Kunio Prepare yourself Father~! Don't shoot Lower your guns Stand back You wench... Kanbei Sheathe your sword She killed every one of our most skilled warriors And she cut the sprouts of the Toyotomi This was my father's last wish I want to protect what little honor remains Nobody interfere I must get revenge for Lord Kato How could I not know your rage? However, the promise of a warrior... ...must be kept even at the risk of life Do you think the war has really ended? The mission is over Our affiliation is only up to here as well Where are you saying you must go now? Facing what...
