 

                        It is said that in every age, there is one singular event... ...that forever changes the world around us. A nexus, if you will. It is said that the future is always born in pain. The history of war is the history of pain. If we are wise, what is born of that pain... ...matures into the promise of a better world... ...because we learn that we can no longer afford... ...the mistakes of the past. But in the pain of that war, the future was born. A future that would one day... ...have a name whispered on a hundred worlds. A final refuge for dreams... ...and our last best hope for peace: Babylon 5. [Children laughing and squealing] LUC: Can't catch me. Boo! CENTAURI WOMAN: Luc? Lyssa? Where are you? No. You shouldn't be here. You can't play here. Luc, Lyssa. LUC: What happened to the buildings? They fell down. Some bad people made them fall down. That's why all the windows in the palace are covered so you can't see. If they find out you've been looking... Then why is the window here if you're not supposed to look? CENTAURI WOMAN: This is the Emperor's window, Luc. He's the only one who can look out of the palace. That's why we can't stay. We have to go before... LONDO: No, it's all right. It's been a long time since I heard the sound of laughter in this room. A very long time. Let me see them. LONDO: And what are your names? Luco Deradi. And this is my sister, Lyssa. LONDO: She doesn't talk much, does she? No, she's always quiet. We think maybe there's something wrong with her. Yes. Or something very right. The quiet ones are the ones that change the universe, Luc Deradi. The loud ones only take the credit. [Coughing] Are you really the Emperor? I sometimes ask myself the same thing. Yes, I am the Emperor. Here, you see... This is the seal of the Centauri Republic. Only the Emperor can wear it. So, either I am the Emperor, or I am in a great deal of trouble. Or both. Come here, you. For the next five minutes... ...you are the Emperor of what was once the vast Centauri Republic. You may give one order. Any order you desire. Make it a good one. What do you want? - Tell me a story. - Luc... LONDO: No, no. It's all right. He did far better with that question than I did. What kind of story would you like to hear? I want a story about great battles and wars and bravery and heroes and villains! I see. And what does your sister want? Nothing. She says she wants to hear a true story. LONDO: Very well. Then I will give you both what you want. A story about great deeds... ...about armies of light and soldiers of darkness. About the places where they lived and fought... ...and loved and died. About great empires, terrible mistakes. A true story. You see, I was there at the dawn of the Third Age. It began with the Humans. They are the quiet ones I mentioned before. They changed the universe... ...but in doing so paid a terrible price. It began 35 of their years ago. Their homeworld is a place called Earth... ...located in a fairly uninteresting part of the galaxy. We had never bothered much with that area before. It had little military or strategic value. But as a culture grows decadent... ...it becomes intrigued by art... ...by trinkets, by eccentricity. And the Humans had art and trinkets... ...and eccentricity to spare. But it was none of those traits... ...that would cause so much death and pain. They have an expression: "Pride goeth before a fall." And their pride was their undoing. I know. I was there. Mollari, good. I'd like you to meet General Lefcourt. Londo Mollari, liaison to the Centauri delegation. - Pleasure to meet you, sir. - Likewise. Please, sit. - How is your president? Well, I hope. - Much better. I just saw her in the red room. She's starting to get some of the color back in her cheeks. LEFCOURT: This damn flu's got half of my staff down sick. I suggest you give her a little of this before she eats. I brought it from Centauri Prime when I heard she was ill. It will completely eliminate her symptoms in two, three hours at most. Thank you. I'm sure she'll appreciate it. LONDO: My pleasure. Now, gentlemen, perhaps you will tell me why you have arranged for this meeting. AIDE: Of course. General? Following our victory against the Dilgar, we've taken advantage of the good will... ...of other worlds to expand our sphere of influence. We've made trade deals and mutual defense treaties... ...with the League of Non-Aligned Worlds. Most of the races have been very receptive to our advances. Others, downright hostile. And a few are still a mystery to us. What do you know about a race called Minbari? We have had some dealings with them in the past... ...but nothing in recent years. Why? We'll send an expedition to their border... ...to see if they threaten our program to expand our sphere of influence. LEFCOURT: We understand that a third of their population is dedicated to warfare. They have a warrior caste. Not exactly the same thing? Semantics. We need to know all we can about them. Then send one ship. One ship only. Anything more could be perceived as a threat. And if that were to happen... ...I assure you they would never return home. My people can handle themselves. We took care of the Dilgar, we can take care of the Minbari. Arrogance and stupidity all in the same package. How efficient of you. AIDE: Just a minute... LONDO: Listen to me. The Minbari are one of the oldest spacefaring races. Even at the height of the Centauri Republic when we were expanding in all directions... ...we never opposed the Minbari. If you do not bother them, they will not bother you. Perhaps. But that decision's already been made. All we're asking is that you give us whatever you've got... ...on the location of their military forces so we can avoid contact. LONDO: No, this is foolish. LEFCOURT: Excuse me for saying so... ...but it sounds like you're concerned with keeping your monopoly on our business. Minbari have no interest in alien affairs or alien business. And I resent your implication. I've tried to help you. You've refused to listen. There you are. I will get you the information you ask for, and that is the end. Good luck with your mission, gentlemen. I only hope that in your stumbling around... ...you do not wake the dragon. Good day. LONDO: They didn't listen, of course. Arrogant men never do. Sadly, arrogance has never been... ...exclusively a Human trait. It travels between the stars like solar winds. CALLIER: I never tire of this view, Lenonn. It amazes me to think that Valen himself stood where I am standing... ...so many years ago. Yes. I often feel his presence here. Thank you for coming, Callier. I'm honored that you should travel so far. It is the least I can do for the honored leader of the Anla-Shok. I'm not certain about the "honored" part. I know what they say about me. [Chuckles] You've been listening to rumors again. Rangers specialize in reports from distant places. Rumors are at the core of what we do. I've learned that the more vehemently a rumor is denied... ...the more often it tends to be true. So, did you pass on my request for more support? I did. It was considered and rejected. They promised! CALLIER: Lenonn, be sensible. We have carried the Rangers as part of our cultural identity... ...our debt to Valen, for 1,000 years. How much more can you ask of us? But now is when the prophecies said that we would be needed most. - We must begin to move. - I'm sorry, Lenonn. The Caste Elders have made their decision. Then I demand to speak with the Grey Council. CALLIER: Lenonn... It is my right as leader of the Anla-Shok. I demand to see them and make my case personally. If you go over the heads of the Elders, you risk offending them. Then let them be offended. CALLIER: You operate here at our sufferance, Lenonn. If you force the issue, the Rangers may pay the price. Ignore my request, and we shall all pay the price for their stupidity. [Faint tinkling] [Louder tinkling] Have you come from the Grey Council? Wait. I want to speak with you. LENONN: Where are you going? Why won't you answer me? [Soft howling] DUKHAT: Well, Lenonn? You said you wished to speak with us. Step into the circle and speak. LUC: You said there was going to be a battle. Excuse me? You said there was going to be a great battle in your story. CENTAURI WOMAN: Be quiet. LONDO: No, it's all right. The young do not understand that in war there is death. You want a battle? Would it help to tell you that these two isolated incidents... ...would lead to the greatest war in Human history? Yes. Many Minbari would die in the war, but before its end... ...Earth herself would stand on the very edge of complete destruction. And the irony is... ...the terrible... ...the terrible truth that no one knows, but that I will tell you... ...is that the blood of many who died in that war is on my hands. My fault. My fault. Majesty, I know it is not my place to speak... ...but you have endured so much these last few years. You cannot bear the blame for the war between the Humans and the Minbari. We had nothing to do with it. Thank you, but I know my sins, dear woman. And the price I will eventually pay for them. Now, young Emperor. I was telling you about how Lenonn, head of the Anla-Shok... ...what the Humans would one day call the Rangers... ...was brought before the Grey Council. LENONN: Long ago... ...Valen led our people to victory... ...in the Great War against the Shadows. Before he went away... ...he gave us the prophecy that they would return again in 1,000 years. That time is almost upon us. And the Rangers... ...who were created to be our eyes and ears on the frontier... ...to watch for the return of the great darkness, are not ready. There are only a few of us. And most of those are old and tired from years of watching, waiting. Weary of being mocked... ...by certain members of this Council... ...and by the Warrior Caste... ...who think of us as an embarrassment... ...and who do not believe in the prophecy of Valen. This prophecy also said that the Anla-Shok will arise. They will be ready and they will be instrumental in the next great war. So, why not wait until there's proof? Valen created the Grey Council from members of every caste... ...warrior, worker and religious... ...so that no one caste would have undue influence over the others. Prophecy falls under the category of religion, Lenonn. The workers need to know why they should stop building bridges... ...and start building ships, guns and weapons. And the warriors need to know why they may be called upon to serve... ...and to die. What do you say to them? All I can say is that I believe. What more is there to say? We need money, resources, people. And we must attempt a rapprochement with the Vorlons. [Dukhat laughs sarcastically] Coplann... ...what does the Warrior Caste find so amusing? Over the last 100 years, we've sent a dozen ships into Vorlon space. None has returned. To send more would be a waste of time and effort and lives. The Vorlons know the prophecy as well as you. Yet they have not come forth to contact us. Because they know that we have fallen from grace... ...and that we no longer believe. Then let them appear to give us something to believe in. If the Vorlons do not see the danger, then perhaps the danger does not exist. DELENN: Master... If I may... There may be a way to give the others the proof they require. COPLANN: Delenn is not formally a part of this Council. Though she stands in for Satai Kadroni, she has not yet undergone the ritual. It is inappropriate for her to speak. I have never yet known the truth or Delenn to speak only when it is appropriate. Go on, Delenn. Valen said the Shadows... ...would first return to their homeworld of Z'ha'dum before moving against us. So, why not send an expedition to Z'ha'dum... ...to determine if they have indeed returned. The Warrior Caste will be no part of this. Our forces are needed here to protect homeworld. Besides, the journey is long and difficult. Other expeditions have found that the area around Z'ha'dum is mined... ...with traps and ancient defense systems. Other races have moved in, claimed it as their own. DUKHAT: So, you believe it too dangerous for the Warrior Caste to go. The Warrior Caste fears nothing. But it is a waste of our time. Further, if the Council endorses such an expedition... ...it would cause unnecessary panic among our people. I agree. So, they will not have to go. Thank you. We will go. What? But, Master... DUKHAT: We are the ones who must decide... ...how much support to give the Rangers. We can rely on the reports of others, or see for ourselves. My whole life... ...I have heard of Z'ha'dum in whispers and legends. I think I'd like to see it once before I die. Wouldn't you, Delenn? Yes, Master. Then we will go. We will take only a few support vessels... ...sworn to secrecy to avoid the panic Coplann fears. And we'll travel indirectly... ...stopping at various outposts until we are ready for the final jump. It is an elegant and simple solution, Coplann. Thank you for giving it to me. DUKHAT: You have something on your mind, Delenn. I recognize that expression. DELENN: I was only thinking... I believe that Lenonn is correct, and that we must begin to prepare. But Coplann is also correct. The Vorlons should have contacted us by now. Yes, they should. But if the legends surrounding the Vorlons are correct... ...remember that they do not reveal themselves quickly and never all at once. What are you saying? I'm not saying anything. I didn't say anything then, and I am not saying anything now. It's been a long day and I must go to my sanctum... ...and meditate on this in private. Good day, Delenn. Now, it starts. KOSH: Yes. SHERIDAN: You wanted to see me, sir? Yes. Come in, Commander. Have a seat. How's your father? He's fine, sir. He sends his regards. He asked me to remind you, respectfully... ...that you still owe him 40 credits from last week. Yes, yes. I'll get it to him eventually. It's a sad state of affairs when a fine diplomat has to resort to cheating... ...at poker. I can't think of any other way the man could've beat me. I have an opportunity for you, Commander, and I suggest you take it. We're sending out a mission to the border of Minbari space. The ships involved will survey the disposition of their forces... ...and determine if the Minbari have any hostile intentions towards us. I want you on that ship as first officer. I'm already assigned to the Lexington. LEFCOURT: The Lexington is an old patrol ship that'll never fight again... ...if Captain Sterns has anything to say about it. He wants to finish his tour and retire with his parts and pieces still in working order. He's a good man and a fine officer. He's loyal to his crew. I feel I have an obligation to return that loyalty. I appreciate that. But career advancement depends upon high visibility assignments. This is an important mission. When it's over, you'll be that much closer to your own command. Can I ask what ship is leading the expedition? The Prometheus. Captain Jankowski lost his X O to the Churchill two weeks ago... ...and has been looking for a replacement. You would fit in perfectly. I know some of the officers who have served under him. He doesn't handle first contact situations as well as others. Ever since the Omega incident... The military tribunal cleared him of all responsibility for what happened. Yes, I understand that. But if I can speak frankly... The men under his command consider him a loose cannon. I'd rather not walk into a situation... ...where I might have to go up against my own CO if things got hot. Don't misunderstand me. I appreciate the effort, General. And you're right. This is a plum assignment and a fast-track to promotion. I can't leave Captain Sterns in the lurch. And I don't really feel comfortable with the situation on the Prometheus. Sheridan, you are the most stubborn man I have ever seen. And mainly at your own expense. All right. If you want to shoot your career in the foot who am I to stand in the way? Dismissed. Yes, sir. DELENN: Excuse me. Did you just pilot in that transport? Yes. It is dangerous to deliver cargo while in hyperspace. Why did your crew take such an unusual risk? I do not ask questions, I only follow orders. Whose orders? I'm told they came from Dukhat himself. The deliveries must not attract undue attention from outsiders. But why the secrecy? I don't know. Once each week we are given a different rendezvous point. We wait, and a ship arrives. They transfer cargo to our ship, and we bring it here. That's all I know. You must have some information about your cargo. Something to do with life-support systems, alternate atmospheres, that's all I know. What kind of alternate atmosphere? DUKHAT: Delenn! It is almost time for the ceremony. You're not prepared. Are you reconsidering the invitation to join the Grey Council? No, of course not. How could you even ask such a... Because a member of the Grey Council wouldn't bother herself... ...with such trivial details as cargo shipments and transports. No, Master, of course not. Except when it may involve larger issues. You see, only an alien life form would require an alternate atmosphere. What of it? DELENN: I was only thinking of what you said earlier... ...and remembering that from time to time... ...aliens have come to us pretending to be Vorlons. Since no one alive has ever seen them, it's easy to be deceived. Are you saying I'm being deceived? I'm not saying anything. I did not say anything then, and I'm not saying anything now. Unless you are saying you've seen a Vorlon. I am saying even less than you. Except for this: When the darkness comes, if you ever have doubt about your actions... ...all you need to do is look into the face of a Vorlon. Once you see that, all doubt is erased forever. Now we must hurry, or you'll be late for your own ceremony. [Scanner beeping] FIRST OFFICER: Approaching next rendezvous point. Very good. Prepare to jump to normal space. FIRST OFFICER: Navigation, prepare to jump. NAVIGATION: Roger that, Bridge. Jump engines standing by at your command. Jump. DUKHAT: Why do you come here, Delenn? I come to serve. Who do you serve? I serve the truth. What is the truth? That we are one people, one voice. Will you follow me to fire? Will you follow me to darkness? Will you follow me to death? I will. Then follow. [Scanner beeping] Sir, we're picking up a silhouette at the edge of scanner range. JANKOWSKI: I thought this area was supposed to be... ...well outside the Minbari transfer points. FIRST OFFICER: Aye, sir. It is. There's no reason they should be here. Unless they're looking for us. FIRST OFFICER: Should we jump back to hyperspace? Negative. We just jumped in. I don't want to put more strain on the engines than we have to. Besides, if it is them, I want to see if we can get a look at them. Captain, our orders were to avoid any first contact situation... ...unless authorized to do so. JANKOWSKI: I'm well aware of our orders, Commander. Now take us in at oblique angle, keep the scanners on the maximum. If we do this right, they're not even going to know we're here. Aye, sir. DELENN: I am become Grey. I stand between the darkness and the light. Between the candle and the star. Scanners confirm target is unknown vessel. We read two primary vessels and several support ships. Let me see it. [Dramatic instrumental music] That's all we've got so far? Just a silhouette? FIRST OFFICER: Scanners are having a hard time locking on. They may be using some sort of stealth technology. Is there any hostile action yet? FIRST OFFICER: Negative, sir. They still may not have noticed us yet. Bring us in closer. I want as much information as we can get. Sir, our orders are to avoid... They are to bring back information on the Minbari and that's what we'll do. If we bring back a profile on a warship... ...they'll be handing out medals by the bucket. We handled the Dilgar, and we can handle a few stray ships. Now, bring us in closer. FIRST OFFICER: Aye, sir. The sensors have detected an echo which seems to be following our course. They may be alien ships on approach. I've told them to go to maximum power on the scanners so we can verify. There's no reason to concern Dukhat with it until we know more. [Scanner beeping] FIRST OFFICER: Sir, alien ships are changing course. Moving in our direction. I'm picking up scanners. Extremely powerful. I've never seen anything like them. They've seen us! All right, let's get out of here. Prepare to jump. - Jump engines not responding. - What? FIRST OFFICER: Alien scanner arrays interfering with our electrical systems. Tremendous EMP output. Trying to reroute. They drew us in deliberately. Wanted us in range of their scanners, so they could shut us down. You said you wanted to get as much information on their ships as possible. What if they want to capture our ships for the exact same reason? Then we want to make sure that does not happen, Commander. Go to red alert. Try to open up a channel. Tell them we mean no harm. DUKHAT: What is it? We detected these alien ships approaching our space. DUKHAT: I've never seen those markings before. Who are they? I believe they are the Humans. MORANN: They've tried to contact us, but we do not understand their language. As is our custom, we are approaching with gun ports open. By whose order? Sir! Alien ships have opened gun ports. - Are they prepared to fire? - I don't know. I can't tell. Talk to me. Are they locked on us? Scanners are too powerful. I couldn't tell even if they were. They have opened all gun ports. Master, that is the tradition of the Warrior Caste... ...a gesture of strength and respect. They see our weapons, and we approach them open-handed. FIRST OFFICER: Enemy presumed to be hostile. Weapons hot! All batteries, all forward guns... ...fire at will. I repeat. Fire! Fire! [Yells] Somebody, help me! Help me! [Sobs] We have hit their scanner arrays! We can jump now. All right, get us the hell out of here! Delenn, we need to strike back, but the Council is divided. Do we follow them back to their base and take revenge... ...or do we wait, try to find out what happened? Yours is the deciding vote, Delenn. He was the best of us. They struck without provocation. There was no reason. Animals! Brutal! They deserve no mercy! Strike them down! Follow them to their base and kill them! All of them! All of them! No mercy! With the death of their leader, Dukhat, the Minbari went mad. They swore revenge and began a holy war... ...that could only end in the complete extermination of mankind. LEFCOURT: The incident you have just seen has been repeated at half a dozen bases... ...in just the last few days. Where the Minbari strike, nothing is left alive. Even ships no longer capable of fighting are targeted and destroyed. So, surrender on any scale is not an option. Every attempt we've made to communicate with them has been rebuffed. FONTAINE: They are moving methodically through the outer colonies... ...wiping out our defense structures and leaving the colonies vulnerable. Civilian structures are being left alone for now. Now we know the Minbari use a caste system... ...including a warrior caste. And we think they're fighting in a way consistent with that structure... ...taking out our warriors first, and coming back for the rest later. They intend to eliminate our defensive capability all the way to Earth. Then, with no one to stop them, they'll head back out again... ...and finish the job of wiping out every last man... ...woman and child of the Human race. FONTAINE: Since the first engagement... ...we haven't won one battle from the enemy. Their ships are immensely superior to our own. And they use stealth technology we have not been able to beat yet. We called you here because we wanted you to see the situation for yourselves. We want you to go back to your units and make them understand two things: One, we need a victory against these forces, any victory, to increase morale. Two, that unless we find a way to defeat the Minbari... ...the Human race ends with the current generation. Dismissed. There's got to be a way to beat them, John. But you saw those records. Any ship that comes up against them loses. I've never believed in the idea of an undefeatable enemy, sir. Any ship can be destroyed. I hope to hell you're right. It'll be a few more days before the Lexington is fully outfitted... ...the engines recharged. You can see your folks. But you're going to need me here, sir. - They'll understand. - Are you sure? If you were in my position, would you go? Under normal circumstances, no. But after what I saw... ...yeah... ...I'd go. PA VOICE: Attention. Attention on deck. Ganya Ivanov, you've got a visitor in Room 7. You've got five minutes. Get to it. We've got to launch. GANYA: Susan, what are you doing here? You're supposed to be at the university. SUSAN: You know me, never where I'm supposed to be. I just wanted to see you before you left. I thought big brothers were supposed to take care of their little sisters. Not the other way around. So, sue me. I will. Later. When I get back. SUSAN: I was just worried, that's all. I've heard many terrible stories about what's going on out there. It's not as bad as everyone says. I'll be fine. The military takes care of its own. Then you'll back me up when I decide to sign up in a few months. - Susan Ivanova, you can't... - I'll be old enough by then. Father won't stand for it. It's my choice, not his. PA VOICE: Ivanov Ganya, report to Bay 9 for immediate launch. I have to go. I love you, little sister. I love you, too. SUSAN: Ganya, wait. Remember when we were camping and we got lost? And then I lost my earring, and then we were found. I never found the earring. You made me feel better... ...by telling me that it was lucky? I remember, but... Here, take this for good luck. I won't wear it again until you come back. Until you give it back to me. That way, we know you'll come back. See you soon. LONDO: I'm sorry, but there's nothing I can do. AIDE: We're not asking the Centauri government to intervene militarily. We know that won't happen. We're talking tactical and strategic support. LONDO: Yes, and weapons. AIDE: You and the Minbari are two of the older races. Your technology is far above our own. With access to some of your weapons, we'd at least stand a fighting chance. LONDO: It is not our policy to supply advanced weapons to developing worlds. - We'll pay any price. - Yes. And then we will pay the price... ...when the Minbari come after us for helping you. No, I'm sorry. There's not enough money in your entire planet... ...to justify that risk. - Londo, if you'd just listen... - To what? The voice of a race that is about to become extinct? No, I'm sorry. I have always been very fond of Humans, but we cannot risk angering the Minbari. There is nothing I can do. I'm sorry. AIDE: He refused to help, just as you said he would. G'KAR: The Centauri care for no one but themselves. They would sooner see your world in flames than lift a finger to help. So it would seem. All right, G'Kar, what help can we expect from the Narns? When we drove the Centauri from our world after 100 years of occupation... ...we seized many of their weapons. We took them apart, studied them, learned to turn their own weapons... ...against them, and we are willing to sell them to you. Aren't you worried about the Minbari? G'KAR: If they capture any of the equipment... ...they will assume it came from the Centauri... ...attack them, and we win by default. And if they should learn that the weapons came from us... ...we endured slavery for 100 years. A slave is immune to the fear of dying... ...because to die is simply to end the cycle of pain. How much can you sell us? As much as you can afford. But the price will be high. Human currency has been devalued on the interstellar market... ...so it will take a great deal to convince the Kha'Ri to sell you arms... ...and provide support, but I believe it can be done. Assuming we have a deal. We have a deal, G'Kar. [Chuckles triumphantly] Good evening, Delenn. The latest reports from the front. Three more of the Humans' deep range colonies have fallen. DELENN: Leave it on the table. I should think you would be more pleased by the progress of the war. DELENN: What pleasure can be found in beating an enemy... ...that never had the slightest chance of defeating us? Is that sympathy I hear in your voice, Delenn? I'm surprised. You were the chosen of Dukhat, after all. Dukhat would have never approved of this slaughter! This is simple retribution. This has gone beyond retribution, Morann. This is madness. It is genocide. Yes, it is. And you're quite right, Delenn. The Humans cannot oppose us. So, one can only wonder why the Warrior Caste... ...has embraced this war so enthusiastically. Do you want to hear what I suspect? I'm breathless with anticipation. The Warrior Caste loves to win... ...and hates to lose. It is easier to fight a weaker opponent and be guaranteed victory... ...than to oppose a far more dangerous enemy. Are we back on the Shadows again? They will come. And soon. MORANN: Legends. Nothing more. The Humans are a real enemy... ...an enemy I can touch, see and kill. Sometimes I wonder where your loyalty really is. You dare? Or is it simpler just to be a coward? Morann, get out. MORANN: I was simply... DELENN: I said "get out"! I'm sorry, Delenn. I was your guest and I acted poorly. No apologies are required. When you arrived, you said you had information for me. I made arrangements to transfer all of Dukhat's belongings to this ship. I brought everything that was his, Delenn. I even recreated his sanctum. Only you and I have access for now. I think you should go there, Delenn. I think you should go very soon. [Breathing] [Gasps] Are you a Vorlon? KOSH: Yes. Yes. What... What is your name? Kosh. What do you want? What are you doing here? Creating the future. DUKHAT: If you are seeing this message, it is because I am dead. I leave this in trust of the Vorlons... ...to give it to the right person, at the right time. I ask you to trust them as I have. They have come to us in secret, to prepare for the coming war. They say... ...we'll need allies... ...in particular, a race that is so far unknown to us called Humans. If we have not already done so by now... ...I hope that you will work with the Vorlons... ...to find these Humans and bring them into the battle on our side. The allies of the Shadows are gathering at Z'ha'dum. Their masters cannot be far behind. They must be stopped. Finish the work I began. Finish it. The Humans? KOSH: Yes. They are the key. He didn't know. He couldn't know that we are at war with them. And that is why it must be stopped. We have lost too much valuable time already due to this... ...distraction. If we do not end it soon, more time will be lost. This great war must be stopped before it starts... ...or millions of lives will be lost. FRANKLIN: The worst cases of radiation poisoning... ...will be brought here for treatment. When this goes on-line, it will be the best facility of its kind anywhere. We still don't know what kind of enhanced... ...energy weapons the Minbari use. But when we do... What the hell is wrong with you, Franklin? Get out. This is private. I just got this report about your activities before you rejoined Earthforce. You spent three years hitchhiking on starships, trading services... ...as ship's doctor for free passage. - That's right. - You encountered a group of Minbari. One of their ships went down. There was no one else around. I did what I could do to save them. We didn't know what we were up against. They all died. - It's in the report. - The hell it is! I see statements about their language, physiology, culture. I know you, Franklin. You weren't out there sightseeing. You were gathering medical data. - Was there an autopsy? - Yes. Did you, or did you not, collect detailed information about their DNA... ...their biology, that has vital importance to the biogenetic warfare division? FRANKLIN: Yes, I did. FONTAINE: And where are those notes? Sir, I am a doctor. My job is to save lives. - In my opinion... - I don't give a rat's ass about your opinion! - I want those notes! - I can't do that. Excuse me? I don't think I heard that. I can't allow my notes to be used to create a biogenetic plague... ...that could wipe out an entire race. That's what they're doing to us. Have you not been following the news? If we do the same, how are we any different? - Damn it, mister... - I'm sorry, General. I am a doctor. I cannot allow my notes to be used in the production of weapons of war. Under the military code of justice... Don't talk to me about codes! You cannot force me to go against my conscience! Security! Dr. Franklin's under arrest. He will be held until he produces the information I have requested. I want his office and house searched, every data crystal. I want all reports and records confiscated by 16:00. And God help you, son. From now on, the blood of every soldier that dies in this war is on your hands. Get him out of here! SHERIDAN: Commander's personal log, update. We lost two more ships to hit-and-run attacks today. My guess is they're softening us up for a major offensive. Captain Sterns hasn't slept in two days. Word is there's some kind of... ...ace cruiser out there that's killed two dozen... ...of our ships in the last three weeks. No one's survived an attack yet to confirm that. Picking up Minbari-style transmissions. Target bearing mark: "9-9-7-2-1." - Should be in visual range. - Let me see. Silhouette confirmed. Looks like a short-range transport. MALE VOICE 1: All batteries, go to ready status. MALE VOICE 2: Roger that, batteries are ready. SHERIDAN: Could be a scout or... ...a straggler that got separated from a larger fleet. Could be a decoy drawing us into an ambush. SHERIDAN Should we pursue? STERNS: Negative. I won't risk the fleet. She'll be leaving visual range any moment, and the scanners can't lock on. - Launch bay, this is the Captain. - Launch bay, aye. Launch solo fighter. I want that transport followed. LAUNCH BAY: She's got a big head start on you, Eagle 7. Roger that. Maximum thrust. Eagle 7 to Lexington... ...she's flamed out. STERNS: Stand by, Eagle 7. Move us in. Any further radio chatter? Negative. She's running silent. Keep moving us in. Sir, I don't like it. Just before the transport flamed out, it fired its forward thrusters... ...cutting acceleration down to almost nothing. Now, if I were running from the enemy, engines failing... ...I'd try to keep my inertia going on the off-chance I'd get away. Not just lying there waiting to get caught. Or maybe he wants to be captured alive... ...rather than risking getting killed in that asteroid field. Or maybe they want us in a precise, predetermined location. Captain, their jump engines are more precise than ours. They can target an area of less than 100 yards. SHERIDAN: If they jump into the middle... STERNS: Holy... This is fleet command. All ships, break off. No! Primary systems hit. Weapons and jump engines are down. Only navigational thrusters functioning. Orders? [Alarm beeping] Captain? Order... [Background commotion] DELENN: The situation is getting out of control, Lenonn. So far, we have hit only the outer colonies. They're sparsely populated with minimal defenses. Soon we will hit colonies and stations closer to the homeworld of the Humans. Every day that passes sees more death... ...and every death will make it that much harder to intervene. Then... ...what do you suggest? We have to find a way to open negotiations... ...give us time to find a solution. That's why I need you, Lenonn. I cannot contact the Humans directly... ...or ask any other member of the Grey Council to do so. We cannot act alone. But someone else... ...might be able to contact them unofficially. Someone the others would respect... ...with a history of service and unchallenged loyalty. Someone like you, Lenonn. I appreciate the compliment, Delenn, but... ...how do I do this? If I attempt to contact them directly... ...the Grey Council will hear of it and interfere. And the Humans will almost certainly consider it a trap. Our intelligence reports indicate the Humans have made a deal with the Narns... ...to buy weapons. Through the Narns, we can arrange a meeting in neutral territory. But the danger is great. To live is to risk. I'll instruct my Rangers to make contact... ...with the Narn government and set things in motion. With luck, the meeting could take place in three weeks. Perhaps four. It will have to do. I've been gathering information on their language and culture. I'll make a copy for you this afternoon. It may prove helpful. Thank you, Lenonn. LENONN: No. Thank you. At my age... ...I feared that I would never again have the chance to serve my people... ...as one of my order should. Thank you... ...for giving me the opportunity. I will meet... ...whatever comes with joy. [Asteroids thud against ship] Bridge to engine room. Do we have any power yet? ENGINE ROOM: Negative, sir. - Communications... - Sir. Can we contact Earth, send a distress signal? It's possible. But, sir... ...that Minbari cruiser only left because it figured we were dead. If we send a distress signal... ...it'll come back and finish us off. If we sit here and do nothing, we're just as dead. Roger that, sir. Firing control... ...do we have any tactical nukes left? FIRING CONTROL: Affirmative. Three two-megaton warheads with proximity fuses. All right. I'm authorizing use of tactical nukes. Firing control, remove their warheads... ...get them down to Launching Bay 9, ASAP. Communications, stand by to broadcast distress signal, but not till I give the order. Aye, sir. Now... ...I would be... ...less than honest if I said I was sure this was going to work. It might. And it might not. We could very well blow up right alongside the enemy. At least we'll have a fighting chance of taking them out with us. Unless anyone else has a better idea. Nuts. All right, then we'll stick with my plan. Hell, I didn't want to live forever anyway. EVA TEAM: Okay. We got the nukes in place. EVA TEAM: Heading back to the barn. SHERIDAN: Roger that. [Asteroid thuds against ship] All right, send the distress signal. Hope we don't have to wait too long. I don't know how much more we can take. COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER: Commander... ...I think your wish may be coming true. We have an echo on vector approach, might be them. Coming into range... ...now. Bridge to navigation. The enemy has a clear shot. Fire docking thrusters. Get us behind one of those asteroids, let them think we're trying to evade. If they want to finish the job, let them come to us. Here we go. CREW MEMBER: She's locking on, sir. A little more. CREW MEMBER: Confirmed weapons lock. Energy spike! She's ready to fire! Now! CREW MEMBER: She's out of range of nuke two. Only one left. See you in hell. [Cheering and clapping] We plan on broadcasting this... ...to every major planetary network for the next three days. The Black Star was their flagship. We've shown that we can outthink it and outfight it. And if any member of the press corps asks... ...about the morality of sending out a distress signal and hitting the enemy... ...remind them the Minbari do not take survivors. They were on a mission to murder the surviving crew of the Lexington. They paid the price. Dismissed. That was quick thinking, Commander. - You're to be commended. - Thank you, sir. You were right to stay where you were. Thanks for arguing with me. Now, I have another job for you. - But my ship... - It will take a while for it to be repaired. I need you for this immediately. LEFCOURT: Commander Sheridan, this is G'Kar... ...of the Narn Regime which has agreed to sell us weapons to equalize the battle. He's also here to make arrangements for a covert mission. - Commander. - Sir. A Narn cruiser will transport you to an abandoned listening post... ...in Sector 919... ...where, in theory... ...you will rendezvous with a representative of the Minbari. Note: I said, "in theory." We've heard that elements of their government want a meeting... ...to discuss a way of ending the war without the annihilation of Earth. Most progressive of them. It could also be a trick. We want you to make contact... ...since you've shown you can handle yourself against them if things get hot. Your record on first contact protocol is outstanding. And I'm expendable. Once we know it's safe and they're serious, we'll send in the negotiators. Anyone else on my team? Just one. LEFCOURT: Commander Sheridan, Dr. Stephen Franklin. He's had a fair amount of physical contact with the Minbari before the war. He can verify these individuals are who they say they are... ...and be on hand in case things go badly. You volunteered? Well, I didn't have that much of a choice. The only way I could get out of the stockade. Long story. Tell you later. What about a translator? We've heard that your contact has studied your language. Just in case, I will go along, since I am fluent in Minbari and English. I don't have to tell you how important this mission is, Commander. It's been only a few months... ...but there are millions of lives at risk in the inner colonies. More here in the home system. This has to go well, John. There's no other choice. And if the only way out is for Earth to surrender? LEFCOURT: Officially, that's up to the negotiators. Those are my orders. Unofficially... ...we're losing this war, John. And if the only way the Human race can survive is to surrender... ...then we will surrender. LONDO: Orders. We all have our orders. That is something you don't understand yet. You think to go to bed early is an order... ...to clean your room is an order. The hard orders... ...those are the ones you discover later. The order to leave your friends on the battlefield. The order to... ...fire upon the weak, the powerless. My orders... My orders were to prevent the Narns from using the war... ...to establish closer ties with the Humans. My spies learned of the Narn mission to the Epsilon system. We assumed it was an arms shipment. We didn't know... ...we couldn't know that it was an attempt to end the war. And so, I gave the order to intercept them. Great Maker, forgive me. SHERIDAN: Just a sec. We need to find the power supply. I just hope the solar batteries are still working. Dr. Franklin, check the perimeters. See if we can secure this place. All right. You know, Commander... ...if we are unable to resolve this war of yours... ...there is always a place for someone like you among our people. We could arrange a safe haven for you and a few others. Thanks... ...but if my world goes, I'm going with it. A waste of material. Most unfortunate. Good, Doctor, I was just telling your... Precaution... ...only. You, Sheridan? Yes. I didn't know you'd been told who was coming. We know more than you think. I also know what you did to the... ...Drali Fi. The Black Star. We did exactly what you would have done to us. We just did it first. I know. It was necessary. I also know that many of my people... ...will not forget. I speak to you... ...for them. We must find a way to resolve this... ...so that many more of your people not get killed. We... [Beeping] G'KAR: Yes? N'FAL: G'Kar, a ship is coming through the jump gate! G'KAR: Do you have a reading on it? N'Fal? N'Fal, can you hear me? Hit the deck! LENONN: [Coughing] They never knew... ...who had attacked them. Each side assumed it was a renegade arm of their own government. But it was us. And it was my order that destroyed... ...their last chance for peace. [Coughing] FRANKLIN: Help me. SHERIDAN: How is he? Not good. We need him alive. That may not be... ...possible. I am sorry... ...I made things worse. Try not to talk. No, you must listen. They will come looking for me. And they will blame you... ...for me. And the war... ...will grow worse. LENONN: Listen... ...carefully. And repeat exactly. - Did you get it? - Yeah. LONDO: As Lenonn had promised... ...the Minbari came quickly. [Struggling] SHERIDAN: Wait. I have a message. I said, "I have a message!" I know what's in Dukhat's sacred place. I know what's in Dukhat's... I know what's in Dukhat's sacred place! Stop! What is in Dukhat's sacred place? Isil-zha. Isil-zha. Let them go. - Satai... - I said, "Let them go." There has been enough death today. Isil-zha. What does that mean? The future. Is that the end of the story? The end? No. No, not the end. At the point that I am describing... ...50,000, maybe 60,000 Humans had died in the Minbari War. With their one chance for peace ruined and Lenonn dead... ...the war escalated. The end of the story? SINCLAIR: Break off! I'm hit! No. Not the end at all. The greatest slaughter of all... ...still waits for us. And it changed everything. Everything. It's ironic, isn't it? I had every window in the palace blocked off because I was afraid... ...that if I came around a corner and saw this, unprepared... ...that I would break down and cry. And yet I spend all of my time here in this room... ...looking at it. In my life, I had four wives. I cared for them all deeply. But I loved Centauri Prime. Loved every street, every tower... ...every inch of our world. Everything I did, I did for her. And look what we have done to her. But... There is hope. But it will be hard. It will be so very hard. Well... Where was I? Yes. The war. The Humans, I think, knew they were doomed. But where another race would surrender to despair... ...the Humans fought back with even greater strength. They made the Minbari fight... ...for every inch of space. In my life, I have never seen anything like it. They would weep... ...they would pray, they would say goodbye to their loved ones... ...then throw themselves... ...without fear or hesitation... ...at the very face of death itself. Never surrendering. No one who saw them fighting against... ...the inevitable could help but be moved to tears... ...by their courage. Their stubborn nobility. When they ran out of ships, they used guns. When they ran out of guns they used knives... ...and sticks and bare hands. They were magnificent. I only hope... ...that when it is my time... ...I may die with half as much dignity... ...as I saw in their eyes at the end. They did this for two years. They never ran out of courage. But in the end... ...they ran out of time. PRESIDENT: Are we on? This is... This is the President. I've just been informed that our midrange military bases... ...at Beta Durani and Proxima 3... ...have fallen to the Minbari advance. We've lost contact with lo... ...and must conclude that they too have fallen to an advanced force. Our military intelligence believes... ...that the Minbari intend to bypass Mars and hit Earth directly... ...and the attack may come at any time. We have continued to broadcast our surrender... ...and a plea for mercy. And they have not responded. We therefore can only conclude... ...that we stand at the twilight... ...of the Human race. In order to buy more time... ...for our evacuation transports to leave Earth... ...we ask for the support of every ship... ...capable of fighting... ...to take part in a last defense of our homeworld. We will not lie to you. We do not believe that survival is a possibility. We believe that anyone who joins this battle... ...will never come home. But for every ten minutes... ...we can delay the military advance... ...several hundred civilians... ...may have a chance to escape to neutral territory. Though Earth may fall... ...the Human race must have a chance... ...to continue elsewhere. No greater sacrifice has ever been asked... ...of a people that I ask you now... ...to step forward one last time... ...one last battle... ...to hold the line against the night. May God... ...go with you all. We are almost within range of the homeworld of the Humans. The Grey Council should be assembled... ...to see the end of our great campaign. What glory is there in eliminating an entire race, Coplann? Not as much as in the beginning. It's been a long road, Delenn. But we are nearly at the end of our... ...holy war. But are we any longer holy? Why is it, whenever I see you, you never speak... ...other than to ask questions? Because questions are all I have left. And after today... ...I think they're all I will ever have. Then at least bring your questions to the Council. We must all be there at the end. DELENN: Are you still here? KOSH: We have always been here. I've failed. In a little while... ...the final slaughter will begin. I know the others do not want it. Even Morann is tired of war, tired of blood. But the war has taken on... ...a life of its own. And it will continue to its bloody end... ...no matter our feelings. I think... I think the others only need a reason to delay. Or reconsider. But there is no such reason. And we are out of time. I don't know what to do. Tell me... Tell me what to do. KOSH: The truth points to itself. What? KOSH: The truth points to itself. I do not understand. SECOND VORLON: You will. But... SECOND VORLON: Go now. KOSH: Go. Before it's too late. ALPHA 7: Alpha 7 to base. I'm picking up energy emissions on the horizon. FLEET COMMAND: Alpha 7, scout ahead, see what's out there. Affirmative. Any bogeys on screen? FLEET COMMAND: Negative, Alpha 7. All other squadrons, maintain radio silence... ...until Alpha 7 checks this out. Closing in on trace emissions. So far, nothing. It might be just an echo or... Oh, hell. We've got a scouting party. Repeat. We've got a scouting party. Hostiles on approach. Locking on. SINCLAIR: Hold on. Hold on. Alpha 7! PILOT: He's gone. Picking up enemy transmissions. SINCLAIR: Stay in formation! Hold the line! No one gets through no matter what! MITCHELL: Understood. Alpha Leader, you have a Minbari on your tail. It is time. Tell the others to jump. I'm on him. Targeting fighter, no! Mitchell, stay in formation. It might be a... SINCLAIR: Oh, my God. WOMAN: They're everywhere. MAN 1: We can't stop them. MAN 2: They're locking on! It's a trap. Mitchell! MITCHELL: I've got a clear shot. I can take them. SINCLAIR: Mitchell, break off, break off. They fight bravely. They cannot harm our ships... ...but they continue to try. Fighting or not... ...they know they will die, so really... ...is this bravery... ...or simple desperation? COMPUTER: Aft stabilizers hit. Weapons systems at zero. Defensive grid at zero. Power plant near critical mass. Minbari targeting systems locking on. If I'm going out, I'm taking you bastards with me! Target main cruiser. Set for full velocity ram. Afterburners on my mark! Mark! We should bring one of them aboard for questioning. If our next step is the final assault on their world... ...we must know their defenses. Very well, Delenn. Choose. But quickly. We are fast running out of candidates. KOSH: The truth points to itself. DELENN: That one. I'll see to the interrogation. Why are you... ...doing this? [Dramatic instrumental music] Report me if you wish. But I've seen more death than anyone should ever have to see. - I'll see no more. - Delenn. If you wish to finally destroy Earth... ...I will not watch, I... - Delenn... ...we were using the Triluminary... ...to probe the Human. You should come and see. I'll get the others. You should... ...all come and see. The Triluminary confirms it. The Human has a Minbari soul. And not just a Minbari soul... ...the soul of Valen. I still can't believe it. But the Triluminary is our most holy relic. It cannot be questioned. Minbari do not kill Minbari. It is our greatest law. Valen must have been reborn into this form... ...to tell us that the Humans are important. Important to the next phase... ...the coming Shadow War. We cannot destroy them. In the name of Valen... ...and the one who is Valen's shadow in this life, we cannot kill them. Tell the ships to stop firing. Tell them, Coplann. Tell them now. What about the Human? He knows what we have found. We cannot kill him. And we cannot let him tell anyone else. If our people find out about this... ...before we can prepare them, it could be disastrous. Send for a telepath. We will remove this memory from his mind. He will have to be watched to ensure that he does not remember. Leave that to me. We will keep him close to us one way or another. LONDO: For the next 10 years... ...one question would obsess 100 worlds: Why did the Minbari surrender at the Battle of the Line... ...on the very eve of victory? The answer to that question... ...would change the galaxy forever. What happened when they found out? That... ...is another story... ...for another time. You cannot expect to hear all of the stories at once, you know. But shortly after the war ended... ...the Earth President made a decision. The Senate has approved funding to construct on the Babylon Station... ...located in neutral space between several governments. Together, we stood on the eve of destruction... ...as a result of a terrible, terrible mistake. A mistake which none of us can afford to make again. The Babylon Station is a place to work out our problems peacefully. It is, we believe... ...our last best hope for peace. LONDO: But like all good things... ...it took them a while to work it all out. There. You have your story. You must go now. I have things to do. I hope they were not an inconvenience, Majesty. No. Thank you... ...for allowing me to see joy one more time... ...before it gets... ...too dark for me to see anything... ...anymore. Dear lady... ...I would love to walk with you... ...on a beach. Somewhere. For just five minutes. How strange... ...to have come so far... ...and to want so little. Children... ...will you remember this story? Will you remember me? All my life, Majesty. Very well. Go. What about Sheridan and Delenn? What about the end of the story? Sheridan became president of a great alliance... ...Delenn ever at his side. The story... ...is not over yet. The story is never over. Now go. Did they live happily ever after? CENTAURI WOMAN: Lyssa. Did they live happily ever after? That remains to be seen. [Bell tinkles] I need another bottle. I will need several more bottles. And then... ...wait one hour... ...and bring the prisoners here. DELENN: They are allowing us one last moment together before... It's all right, John. I accepted this fate a long time ago. They cannot touch me. They cannot harm me. I'm not afraid. Not if you are with me. Our son is safe. That's all that matters. John... ...I love you. To the future. My old friends.
