 

                        ''Baghban - the one that tends to his garden'' ''And a father, who starts a family'' ''Both sweat and toil to make their roses and wards thrive'' ''The gardener loves not just the trees in his garden...'' ''he loves their shadow too'' ''For he hopes, that one day...'' ''when he's tired of life...'' ''it is this very shade that will prove useful for him'' ''To the thirsting earth, the clouds bring rains...'' ''seasons come and go...'' ''the fragrance of every season...'' ''the gardener gifts to his Eden'' ''Every flower in the garden is dear to the gardener...'' ''he stands guard every moment, on every leaf, every branch'' ''ln the gardener lives God'' Time for the morning walk... c'mon! Good morning! Where are the others? Fast asleep ''Wake up, O traveller. Dawn has...'' l've been shouting and shouting. Can't you walk a bit slowly? ''How are you, Ram Avtar...?'' But you said you weren't in the habit of waking up early ''Yes, l did. But how can l help it...?'' The way you shout up early in the morning... you wake up the whole neighbourbood. And l live right behind your house ''Oh yes, you do'' You are the one who has given me the house on rent The landlord. You can evict me any time you wish to ''l'll vacate the house, if you insist. - Now look...'' don't ruin my mood early in the day. You call yourself my brother... and now you play with my emotions? Like hell you'll vacate the house! ''Of course! One day, l'll vacate your house'' Let's see! Sat Sri Akal! - Sat Sri Akal lt's time you found another excuse to start a fight l've been listening to it for 25 years and l'm bored stiff ''Am l wrong, Tito?'' Why do you take the donkey out for a walk everyday? What rubbish! Tito's not a donkey. lt's a dog! lt was your dog l put the question to! There! He had the last word! ''Never mind, Ram Avtar. l'll fix our friend tomorrow'' So you're up! - What can l do? When you leave for the walk... ''l'm in such a deep sleep, that l just can't open my eyes'' ''Come here, Pooja'' Guess why l go for a walk. - For good health Not at all. l go for a walk so that when l return... l can see your smiling face when l return. Sit down ''ln that case, you needn't worry. This story shall forever continue'' So let's sweeten our tongue! - l haven't brushed my teeth yet As if tigresses brush their teeth! Eat it up No... - Eat! Jalebis from Jhanguram! You will never improve. - Never! Here you are. - What am l going to do with it? Tie it. - Do l know how to tie it? You're a grown up man. Why don't you learn it? ''lf l learn to tie it, what happens of you?'' You will never improve! - Why must l? Listen... l keep it right in front of your eyes. And you still forget it every day l don't forget it. l deliberately leave it there Why? - Money from the Goddess of Wealth... is always useful. May l go now? ''Come back soon. - l'll stay back, if you insist'' You will never improve! ''Hello, Ram Sharan! Has your grandson's fever subsided?'' ''Yes, sir. - Good'' He can just play with words to flatter me Couldn't he take a day off from the office? ''But no, sir. He can't see beyond his work'' ''What's up, mister? You look worried'' l've got to rush to the hospital once l withdraw the money here l've had my daughter-in-law admitted in the labour ward But no one here understands! - Why must that upset you? We have an ATM machine here. You'll get the money immediately Really? - Yes ''To my loving husband'' ''Who am l writing the ''loving'' for?'' lt's okay if he forgot it in the morning But he could've called from the office Let him return this evening. l won't even talk to him Our branch in Nainital can send a bankers' cheque to the child's school ''Wow, Mr Malhotra!'' Everyone has it. But you are the one who puts his brains to use Take my advise and start a business of your own ''Not a bad idea, sir. But my problem is...'' l've got into the habit of having a boss over me You're the boss here. And it's the wife at home You! A magician! ''Before l can ring the bell, you know it's me!'' Whether you ring the bell or not... your footsteps ring a bell in my heart ''Really? So let's... - No, nothing today'' Why not? - l'm angry with you ''Really? ln that case, l'm angry with you too'' Why you? - You tell me first ''lt's evening already, and you haven't even wished me yet!'' Did you wish me then? How could you forget this day? ''l forgot it...? - Yes, you did'' l forgot it...? And what's that? ''l've been cleaning up the house, baking a cake for you and...'' So you haven't forgotten? Does anyone forget to breathe? ''Without you, Pooja... l was just a living being'' My heart started beating only after you come into my life And this was the day you came into my life ''And this day, l shall remember forever'' Congratulations on our fortieth wedding anniversary Fortieth! Don't be funny! l haven't even looked at you properly yet! Let me take a good look... Wow! So beautiful! Why don't you and l go out for a candlelight dinner tonight? ''Champagne, roses... you and l'' How about us? - Hey! How did you get here? What could we do? You've forgotten... that you have four sons and three daughters-in-law A grandson and a granddaughter too But Mr and Mrs Raj Malhotra have set out... for a candlelight dinner Are you going to stand there and talk? Come here When did you arrive...? We didn't even get to know You there... come here! ''How could we miss your 40th anniversary, dad?'' Who else is left...? Karan! Come here l'm the youngest. l was waiting for my turn ''Wrong, Uncle! l'm the youngest in the family'' Come here! Where's Payal...? She's growing up to be just like her mother! Ajju bhaiyya got married early like you. And he stands to gain How? His daughter has grown up before his hair has started graying! Don't cast an evil eye on our little girl You kids have made us happy by giving us a surprise today ''Your turn to make us happy by giving us a small party, dad'' ''Mr Bedi, they are...?'' They're the roses in Mr Malhotra's garden ''This is Mr Rawal, our boss'' ''That's son number one, Ajay. Son number two Sanjay'' ''Son number three Rohit, and son number four...'' That was a wrong introduction ''Whatever their names, these sons are like Ram, Laxman, Bharat and Shatrughan'' That's very well said! ''But where's their father, the King Dashrath ?'' What are you staring at? Come and fasten it Oh sure ''l was right, you know. - What?'' You are indeed a magician You know how to hold time in your fist Which is why you're still 20 and l'm already 60 lt isn't time. lt's your love l have held in my fist Love is the magic that keeps you forever young ''ln that case, we're going to be young all our lives'' ''Ajay, go and see if the bride and the bridegroom are ready'' ''The newly-weds haven't left for their honeymoon already, have they?'' Look at those smiles! Congratulations ''To you too, sister-in-law'' lf we can follow the traditions of the British... ''in honeymoons, birthdays and anniversaries...'' why don't we remember a lovely little custom of theirs? What custom? ln which the bridegroom carries his bride in his arms... and crosses the threshold of his house! ''That's a nice idea! - That's a great idea, Rawal-saheb!'' ''So carry your wife, Raj!'' Are you out of your mind...? Look at Raj's age at least What's wrong with my age? ''Raj, if you strain your waist, you'll land in serious trouble'' You think l've grown old? l've gone senile? l'm still young enough. Want me to carry her to prove it? ''C'mon, lady...'' where to? Hey beautiful one... ''well, all right. Plan number two'' C'mon! ''My butterball, my pretty lady...'' ''my moonbeam'' ''Your gait is so enticing...'' ''you are amazing, O beautiful one'' ''My pretty lady, my beautiful one...'' ''without you, l would surely die'' ''My handsome beloved...'' ''yours is an amazing dance'' ''My butterball, my beautiful lady...'' ''my moonbeam'' ''A picture as lovely as the Moon...'' ''you are the most beautiful one'' ''You are the one l could die for...'' ''you are the one l need oh so much'' ''You are my dream, you are my destiny...'' ''you are the Moon among the stars'' ''You are the one who puts the stars to shade...'' ''you are the most beautiful of them all'' ''O beloved...'' ''Your gait is so enticing...'' ''you are beyond compare, O beautiful one'' ''My handsome beloved...'' ''yours is an amazing dance'' ''My butterball, my beautiful lady...'' ''my moonbeam'' ''My heart l lost in finding my beloved'' ''l was lost to myself so l could have you'' ''Your beauty it is that lights up...'' ''my humble abode'' ''You are the one l continue to breathe for'' ''lt's you that keeps me young'' ''ln your thick tresses...'' ''l find my heaven, my life'' ''O beloved...'' ''Your gait is so enticing...'' ''you are amazing, O beautiful one'' ''My butterball, my beautiful lady...'' ''without you, l'd die'' ''My handsome beloved...'' ''yours is an amazing dance'' ''You are my father, you are my mother...'' ''you are my friend, you are my confidante'' Alok! My son! Alok! ''My respects, father. - May you live a hundred years'' Talk to your mother. She badly wants to talk to you ''Hello, mother. My respects'' l pray to God that you keep smiling forever... and forever be together Your studies are over now. When are you coming to lndia? We miss you so much. - l miss you all too ''With your blessings, l've found a very nice job here'' l'm trying to get a transfer to lndia in a month or two That's wonderful! Come back soon We'll find a pretty girl and get you married to her Why're you laughing? - l've found the girl already Found her...? lt's for you to decide whether she's pretty or not So send us a photo quickly. What's her name? l've sent the photographs. You could receive it tomorrow ''Her name is Arpita, mother - Lovely name'' ''Thanks, mother.'' ''Good bye, mother'' l could at least muster the courage to talk to mother and father And what if your parents don't approve of me? Will you still marry me? They are the folks who picked up an orphan from the streets... and took him to the stage where l stand today ''They're my Gods, Arpita'' lt's true that if they had turned down this marriage... l wouldn't have gone ahead with it. lt's also true... that l wouldn't ever have married all my life But l'd love you all my life. l promise you lt's just this trait of yours that makes me love you so much ''Whether we get married or not, l will always belong to you'' The kids' arrival really livened up things You have given me very lovable children ''l gave you the children, yes. But it's you who made them lovable'' Have they gone to bed? - Yes... Anju and Karan are sleeping in our room Sanjay and Rohit? - ln the room downstairs Where's the poor bachelor Karan? Karan's sleeping in the hall with Rahul and Payal That's all right... but where are we going to sleep? We...? Come with me We're going to sleep here. - Here...? ''Why? lsn't it good enough? - Oh no, it's first-class'' ''People unnecessarily go to places like London, Paris...'' New York and so on for their honeymoon This is a great place And where is your pillow? - Mine? Here it is You will never improve either ''We must leave now, dad. We had a great time'' When are you coming again? On Diwali? But Holi's coming up before Diwali. - Oh yes! For Holi! Don't forget to call once you get home ''ln just 24 hours, the house appears to be so lonely again'' ''True, but these 24 hours gave us so much of joy'' Sanju wasn't to be seen. ls he staying over for a few days? There's still time for his train. - l see And he... - He...? ''He needs 50,000 rupees. - 50,000 rupees?'' He wants to take a loan to buy a car And what do you call one's own initial contribution...? ''The down payment. - Yes, right'' He's hesitating to tell you. - Hesitating to tell me? Yes ''What happened, dad?'' l'm very angry with you. - Angry? What... What you have done is very bad ''Dad, l was only... - Sit down'' ''Now tell me, since when has your Mummy been coming between you and me?'' ''lf there's anything you need, you must tell me...'' why hesitate in telling me? ''Dad, l thought maybe you will...'' ''My son, l am your father. And as long as l live...'' my children need not worry about anything Go to Delhi without a worry. The money will follow you there ''Don't you want to have breakfast? - Sure, dad'' ''lt's this loan of 50,000 that you've sought against your gratuity'' ''Do you realise, there will be nothing left in your account after this?'' There's no question of turning down a sincere employee like you But you're a friend too And you have always encouraged people to invest wisely for the future But you haven't thought of your own future ''Whatever you have earned, you have spent in meeting your children's needs'' The truth is that after one retires... one's savings is his greatest strength ''My strength is the smile on my children's faces, sir'' What good is the money that is of no use to my children? ''ln any case, l'm just not worried about what will happen after my retirement'' ''By God's grace, l have four sons. Four priceless fixed deposits'' ''Four fixed deposits, eight able hands...'' are more than enough for my support ''Documents for you, sir'' My dear lady! The flight might be delayed in a take off... but you will never be late in opening the door! Why're you messing with the teapot? Let that be and give me your hand... your hand Wow! So quickly? ''As a father, one has to do his sons' bidding'' Our children mustn't be held up for the sake of money Whose letter is it? - Alok's lt must be the girl's pictures! You're still such a kid! ''Let me see. - Lovely girl, isn't she?'' Yes. Beautiful couple l'm glad Alok will settle down too But you left no stone unturned in making him what he is today ''No, Pooja. l have done nothing'' This kid always had the spirit to reach out for the skies l have only encouraged his spirit ''lt seemed as if it happened only yesterday, isn't it?'' On my mother's death anniversary... the two of us were coming out of the orphanage... when a sweet little voice made us freeze in our trail ''Sir! Want a shoeshine, sir?'' ''Please, sir. l'll give it a great shine for just one rupee'' ''ls that your book, son?'' ''Yes, sir. l want to study. And study a lot too'' People say it's very necessary to study to achieve something in life ''So l shine shoes. Please let me do it, sir'' What is your name? - They call me Chhotu at the orphanage ''But when l join a school, l'll register myself as Alok'' Do you know what Alok means? - Yes ''The manager says, Alok means light'' ''Who are you talking to, Chhotu?'' ''You're still here, sir? - Yes'' ''This child shall henceforth be called Alok, not Chhotu'' He wants to study and do something in life... and l'm sure he will do it ''Alok, come here'' ''l'll have you admitted to a school, son'' You can study there. As much as you want to ''To do that, you won't need this'' Enough. Be happy lt wasn't my feet. The child had touched my heart that day True. And he did what he wanted to With his sincerity and your loving support... Alok has even gone abroad for studies. And now... Mother? - Alok? You'll live a hundred years! We were talking about you Set it down. Let me also listen. - Mother... ''Ask her about the photographs. - Yes, l will'' Mother... - Ask her! Ask her is she has received the envelope! ''Mother, that envelope...?'' ''Young man, are you asking us about the photographs or the envelope?'' ''Hello, father'' ''l must tell you, we've received both'' So what do you think? ''She's okay. Although the nose is a bit small, she's plump...'' ''and the eyes, Pooja...? - Why're you teasing him?'' ''Alok, he's only joking'' ''Arpita is very sweet. - Thanks, mother'' Don't delay the good deed. Get married immediately Without your presence? ''My son, think we are with you. You have our blessings...'' but it's impossible for us to be there with you We'll wait for the day when you will come home with our daughter-in-law ''Very well, father. As you wish'' Bless you. May you be happy What happened? What did they say? Why do you look so worried? Why the sad face? Tell me what they said ''They said, you appear to be a snob'' lf only your lips were... it would be so good Who said that? Mummy said something about being the snob... and father spoke about your lips. As for the eyes... As for the eyes...? They said... - What? They can see your heart in your eyes... with my picture etched on it. - Who said that? Both. Orders are to get married at the earliest ''With whom...? - You, of course'' ''Never before...'' ''was l in such a state'' ''l've lost my sleep, l'm losing my peace...'' ''something surely is happening to me'' ''Never before...'' ''was l in such a state'' ''l've lost my sleep, l'm losing my peace...'' ''something surely is happening to me'' ''lt's the first ever feeling of love...'' ''how will l tell you what my thirst is all about?'' ''lt's restless, it beats wildly...'' ''my heart has found someone...'' ''something surely is happening to me'' ''My beloved, l have found on the path of love...'' ''every desire of my heart has been fulfilled'' ''Let there be no distances between us anymore'' ''ln the shade of your tresses, l'm going to sleep...'' ''something surely is happening to me'' ''Never before...'' ''was l in such a state'' ''l've lost my sleep, l'm losing my peace...'' ''something surely is happening to me'' Today's not a holiday... so why's the bank so deserted? What's all this? ''Mr Malhotra, today is your last day at the office'' And everyone here says that it'll be very lonely without you ''Raj, you are the one who shared everyone's joys and sorrows...'' ''you lent a ear to everyone. But today, everyone will listen...'' and you will do the talking. - What will l say? lt's been 30 years. 365 days of a year... and eight hours of the day... l've spent a major part of my life here with you folks With your love and affection l'm feeling sad about leaving But that's the rule of life One goes away and another comes to take his place ''When l leave, someone else will come here...'' ''with a new name, a new face and a new spirit'' ''And l'll go away elsewhere, take up another job'' There's my new boss She's looking at me angrily with the expression... You'll never improve! - Never Raj Malhotra isn't one who'll improve ''Malhotra saheb, we're all very sad that you're retiring'' Why don't you take an extension of another 2 years and continue with us? Absolutely! ''Rawal saheb, in the mad rush of our work...'' we treat life like a morsel of food had in haste ''The rest of my life, l want to take it easy and enjoy myself'' With my wife and kids ''Should you ever have the need, do please remember...'' that the doors of this office and our hearts are forever open to you Pooja... ''What happened? - You ask, what happened?'' ''Will you fix this tie, please? - Where will you go then?'' ''Mr Malhotra, maybe you're forgetting...'' that l have retired? So what if l've retired? ''A tie, l will wear every day. And that too...'' as usual Actually you're right Where will we go? What will we do? ''l've read the newspaper four times over, watched TV...'' ''had my breakfast, but things are so boring'' ''l think l must visit Mr Rawal tomorrow and say, l'm joining duty'' You're going back on your word now. - Why? You're the one who told Mr Rawal that you will live with your children Didn't you say that? ''Oh yes, l did'' ''Dear son. Lots of love to all of you'' ''Your Mummy and l miss you all very much'' ''l miss you a bit too much. Because l have all the time now'' ''l have retired and want to take some decisions for the future'' ''We want you to help us take the decision'' ''Holi is coming up next week. lf you could come over...'' ''it would not only brighten the festival, we could have a chat too'' ''Lots of love. Your Papa'' ''Hello, brother. Sanjay here. - Yes, Sanjay?'' ''Have you received Papa's letter? - Yes, l have'' So what have you decided? - Your sister-in-law says... we must all go there. Dad has retired... he must have received the money of his gratuity and provident fund We must talk to him about what needs to be done with such a huge amount We'll even celebrate Holi there ''When music is made...'' ''the drum beat rents the air'' ''When heart meets heart...'' ''one colour blends into another'' ''So play with the colours, O valiant heroes'' ''The valiant heroes of Avadh play with the colours...'' ''they play with the colours'' ''Here come swaying the folks and the wives...'' ''with gay abandon, play the valiant heroes of Avadh'' ''So let's play with the colours'' ''He feels no shame...'' ''he forgets how old he is'' ''At 60, he flirts with me'' ''He applies the colour on my face. My beloved is indeed a colourful one'' ''He sprays the colours on my scarf...'' ''the valiant hero of Avadh plays with the colours'' ''This season, do not douse the colours on me'' ''l have sworn to stay off you'' ''She sizes me up from head to toe...'' ''my beloved won't look in my heart'' ''Although l'm old, l'm young at heart...'' ''take me in your arms. Let your anklets chime'' ''lt's so truly said, the valiant heroes of Avadh play with the colours'' ''Let's play with the colours'' Dinner's about to be served ''Grandpa, why do you always sit on that chair?'' Because this chair is meant for the head of the family... and l'm the head of this family. - How come? How come? This dining table is like a huge tree ''Your grandma, who's about to sit there...'' is the root of the tree. She holds the tree together And your grandpa is the strong stem... ''who keeps a watch over everyone. - How about Mummy, Papa...'' uncle and aunt? All the others? They... they're the branches of this mighty tree ''And before you ask me what you and Payal are, let me tell you...'' you are the sweet fruit this tree has borne! Here comes the food! Wow! Almond halwa! This bowl is for me! No one else is getting it ''Forget it, Rohit. Everyone knows...'' ''that the chief of the Branch, Ajju, is Mom's favourite blue-eyed boy'' Make do with the water ''Wow, Mom! Phirni!'' Don't worry. l've made something special for each one of you How about me? You can eat what we leave. - Really? ''Come on, children'' ''C'mon, girls'' You won't hurt your hand if you put it in my mouth ''After ages, we've enjoyed Holi so much. lsn't it?'' ''Yes, father. this is the best Holi l've had since my marriage'' And this is my first Holi. - Don't tell me! ''When the family's together, every day's Holi and Deepawali. Right, father?'' ''Yes, my son. l must accept it before the whole family...'' that l'm indeed very fortunate to have got so much of happiness There were only the two of us to begin with ''And gradually, with your arrival, our joys knew no bounds'' ''Dad, there was something you wanted to say?'' ''Yes, there was something l wanted to say'' ''But before l say it, there's something l also want to ask you'' ''Go ahead, dad'' l have always believed that l have very good sons What l want to know is whether our children... consider their Mummy and Papa to be any good too? ''Dad, you're the limit'' ''l don't think anyone in the world has as good parents we have, dad'' ''We are very lucky, dad, to have loving and caring parents like you'' Good. Now l can say what l want to lt's just this much lf we had to account for whatever we had collected over the last 40 years... we would come to the conclusion that in the struggle of life... ''we never could be together, despite wanting to'' We didn't even get to know when you had grown up and gone your ways The joy that was in living together... came to us in small moments And we always kept looking forward to these small moments... when we would meet and get together But now l have retired And l have all the time in the world ''And now, l want to make good what l have lost in the last 40 years'' ''By giving you our love, by having your love...'' by staying with you ''Till now, we made a lot of decisions for you'' ''But now, we want you to take this decision in our lives'' Your Mummy and Papa... don't want to stay away from you anymore. They want to live with you You must now decide... ''when, how and whom we are going to stay with'' That's all l had to say You want to discuss it among yourselves? Go ahead. We'll go out ''Come on, Pooja. Let the kids get to work'' What? Why's everyone looking at me? The two of us have a lot of problems anyway To live in a city that's so expensive... you know how it is And we have to get our daughter married in a couple of years What happens of that? - Absolutely. lt's just not possible l'd definitely have taken Mom and Dad with me But Reena goes to work and... No way! To work in the office all day... and put up with the arrogance of my in-laws at home! That's not happening l've just started a new life. l'm in a bad way l've got to change residence every eleven months ''Karan, why don't you take them along? You'll be looked after and so will they'' ''Wow, sister-in-law! Thanks but no thanks!'' l can barely look after myself. How will l take care of them? The kids are taking a lot of time in taking a decision They must be having a fight about who will take us home first ''Oh yes, that's quite possible'' Think of something. What are we going to do? ''What else, Kiran? We'll have to take Mom and Dad with us'' They have no one here ''For years, we have lived as we wanted to, Ajay'' ''lt's not a joke to suddenly start all over again, is it?'' One minute Can't Mummy and Daddy continue to live here? ''Whatever help they need, we... - What are you saying, sister-in-law?'' Help... and Dad...? He'll never accept it! l have an idea ''Brother, you take Mummy with you. And l'll take Papa to my house'' ''Three months later, Papa will go to Rohit's place...'' and Mummy will go to Karan's. They'll get to live with all of us And that won't burden anyone either. Well? What do you say? ''That's a flop idea, brother'' You know very well that Mom and Dad will never agree to part from each other That's the main punch of my husband's idea Neither will Mummy and Papa agree to live apart from each other... nor will they come to live with us. End of the problem They'll be happy where they are and we'll be happy in our homes Here they are ''Sorry to have kept the two of you waiting, dad'' ''Actually, we couldn't decide which one of us will take you along first'' ''Karan said, if Mummy and Papa live with everyone in turns...'' his turn would come after 2 years Why must l wait for so long? - Hey Karan... l come before you l wish l could have Mummy and Papa with me. Forever We thought about everybody's feelings and decided that... Papa will live with us and Mummy will stay with Kiran ''After six months, Papa can move to Rohit's...'' and Mummy can go to Karan's ''ln that way, all of us will have your love'' What do you think? - Great idea lmpossible! They don't want to share our love... they want to split the two of us! - Will you listen...? l'm not listening and l can't part with you. And that's it ''Now look, you are mistaking your own flesh and blood'' ''That's just what l regret, Pooja! Despite being our flesh and blood...'' ''and a part of us, they can't see that their parents are one'' God has united us as one... and they think of separating us? - That's not how it is l don't want to listen to anything. Go and tell your children... that we are happy where we are l never needed their support in the past. Nor will l in the future How can you say such things? What mistake have they made? They have yearned for our love for so many years ''To have that, they have found a way. So why are you so angry?'' ''Look, please don't suspect our children's intentions'' Please don't break their heart l place you under oath You know how your tears and oaths weaken me All right. Go ahead. And tell your children what you want to We agree with your decision Let us know when and where we are going ''And you guys were rejoicing at your idea, weren't you?'' See what happened? How were we to know that they so badly want to come to our houses... that they'd even agree to live separately? ''O Sun, who has spread this gloomy sunshine in my rosegarden?'' ''Why the darkness of loneliness...?'' ''What did you seek? And what did you get...?'' ''think hard, O Guardian'' ''God is our Guardian...'' ''only God is our Protector'' ''You're still here, Karan? Who'll get a cab? Go on'' Will you hurry up a bit? - l can't shut the bag ''l can't understand why you travel with so much of luggage, Priya'' Don't fight. Go on. l'll see Want me to fix the tie? l'm not going to wear the tie. Never again Listen... come here l won't be there with you Take your medicines on time You have an allergy to frozen foods Don't forget Ram Avtar says... if the rudraksh remains near your heart... your blood pressure will be normal ''You are the one who's closest to my heart, Pooja'' There's no room for a rudraksh or anything else You will never improve ''Yes, l will never improve. Never'' ''Where are Mom and Dad? - lnside, romancing'' Mom and Dad! Hurry up! We're getting late ''Who has lit the fire of sorrow...?'' ''my fields are rendered wastelands'' ''From a thriving garden of life...'' ''rises a sandstorm'' ''What did you sow? What did you reap...?'' ''think about it, Caretaker'' ''Only God is our Protector today'' ''He's our only Caretaker'' ''Must say, Raju'' Nice way you're repaid me for a friendship and love of 40 years What had you said to me? ''That we're friends as youngsters, we will not part even as old men'' ''So what happened now? Where is your friendship, love...'' ''affection and loyalty...? - Ram Avtar, listen to me...'' l don't want to listen to anything. You're a cheat of the first order ''Without even a word to me, you're breaking all relationships?'' Breaking relations? With you and this house? This is the house where l brought my wife This is where my children were born and brought up Will l break relations with it? No way l have very fond memories with you and this house How can l severe ties with them? Tell me Here you are What will l do with it? What will l do with the keys? Must l erase your memories and find a new tenant? No tenant is ever going to live here. This is your house And yours it will always be ''l must leave now, brother'' l'll take the dogs with me. l can't see them stay apart and suffer ''Stay with Karan. And don't bother him, okay?'' Mama... our taxi's over there How much? - 80 bucks ''What will l say? When we got there, we were told...'' that Sanju's father has retired. He has neither a place to stay... nor any money. What could l do? l had to bring him along Tell me about yourself ''Please don't suspect our children's intentions'' ''Please don't break their heart'' ''l place you under oath'' Let's go to our room! - Our room? ''Yes, your room and mine. C'mon!'' ''Hello, sir. - Hello, Lalita bai'' ''Come on in, Mom'' l'll be right back ''Hello, madam. - Hello. ls everything okay?'' ''Lalita-bai, take Mom's luggage to Payal's room'' l can't share my room with anyone ''Payal, she's your grandmother. - So what?'' l don't want to compromise my privacy at any cost ''This girl won't even let me into her room for a long time, Mummy'' What are you getting at? ls Mom going to live in the hall? ''Don't be upset, son. l'll manage anywhere'' Just find a place to keep my luggage ''Lalita, keep her luggage in your room'' And spread a new bedsheet on the bed ln my room? - Yes. You can sleep in the kitchen ''Who does she think she is? With the luggage in my room, where will l go?'' ''At this rate, l'm going to move out soon'' ''Where do l keep your glasses, grandpa? - Oh yes, give that to me'' And what is this? - lt's a typewriter Why've you brought the typewriter? You can type on my computer instead ''This is the typewriter your grandma gifted to me, my son'' She asked me to write to her. But l never had the opportunity ''Neither was l separated from her, nor did l ever write to her'' ''But now, l'm going to type out a letter to your grandma'' ''Grandpa, you love grandma very much, don't you?'' ''Sure, l do. - And she loves you a lot too?'' She loves me just too much ''l'll give you so much of love, you will never miss grandma!'' ''Yes, son. l can only think of your grandma now'' ''Dinner is served, Sanju'' ''Papa-ji, that's Sanju's place. Please sit on the other chair'' ''Mummy, that chair is for the head of the family'' ''And grandpa is the head! - That's true, my son'' But the one who sits there has a lot of work to do ''Passing around the dishes, looking into everyone's plate'' ''Let your Papa do that, not me'' ''Where were you, Reena? l called your office'' l was very busy. Was it something important? Nothing important. l thought we'd have a Chinese meal together ''Tomorrow. Right now, eat what l've made'' ''Stop it now, Sanju. You've done enough work'' ''A bit more, darling. - No'' l've got to wake up early. Come on Come on! Let's go You want me to come running to you? Listen son... The telephone...? could l... use it...? to talk to your mother ''And where is your pillow? - Mine?'' ''Here it is'' l've been waiting for your call. Did you reach home safely? This is the first time l'm not with you... l can't go to sleep without you. l'm missing you very much How are you? ''Why don't you speak? Say something, please'' ''You and l are separated...'' ''what has life come to?'' ''You and l are separated...'' ''what has life come to?'' ''You are the only one l see everywhere l cast a glance, my love'' ''l get no sleep... l miss you badly'' ''l can't live without you anymore'' ''You and l are separated...'' ''what has life come to?'' ''lt's as if Time has come to a standstill'' ''There's gloom everywhere'' ''l pine for you...'' ''l'm lonely in body, thirsting in soul'' ''Not even for a moment...'' ''why won't your face fade away from my eyes?'' ''Days and nights do go by...'' ''a lonely life, just won't go by'' ''l can't say a word to you, even if l wish to...'' ''what anguish do l suffer?'' ''You and l are separated...'' ''what has life come to?'' Okay then... bye Don't forget to write ''Whenever l hear footsteps...'' ''l feel as if you have arrived'' ''Like a whiff of fresh air...'' ''you have lent fragrance to my breath'' ''Those were the days when we were always together...'' ''and there is so much of distance between us now'' ''You and l are separated...'' ''what has life come to?'' ''Good dogs don't bite good folks, son'' ''l'm glad you stopped him, mota bhai... He kept chasing me like mad'' But why was it chasing you? - He was making me jog That dog came in my wife's dowry. lt's from my in-laws' place And l thought it wanted to bite you. - That's my wife's job He only makes me run But l'm surprised he stopped at your voice ''Yes, l have two dogs too. Tiger and Pinky'' l also take them for a stroll. - l see. You've just arrived in Delhi? ''Yes, l came only yesterday to stay with my son'' See that building there...? Urvashi...? That's the one Whose flat in Urvashi? - Sanjay... Sanjay Malhotra ''Third floor? So you're Sanjay's father? - Yes, do you know him?'' ''Of course. He has a son, Rahul'' Very sweet kid. He comes to my music cafe Music cafe...? - Behind Urvashi... Archie's Music Cafe. lt's mine. - l see ''lt's two in one. Listen to the music and drink coffee, if you wish to'' ''Actually, it's three in one. - Three in one?'' ''ln the ''hole'' inside, there's a library. Read whatever book you want to'' ''You mean, one has to get into a hole to read?'' ''No! Not ''hole''... a big ''hole''. 20 by 20'' Hall! l see! So you're a Gujarati? ''But my wife's Hindi speaking. - Two in one again, l see'' ''Mota bhai... comic punch, eh?'' Why do you call me Mota bhai. Do l look mota (mota=fat) ? ''Not fat... in Gujarati, mota bhai means elder brother. Out of respect'' What is your name? - Hemantbhai Patel ''Yes, l'm leaving. He's going to make me run'' You must come to my music cafe and drink the coffee my wife makes First class coffee l only drink the tea my wife brews... l mean... l used to ''For the first time, l am not serving you tea today'' Here you are with the newspaper and Sanju's been screaming for it You'll remain at home all day. You can read it later Kiran... where are you? What is the matter? - Am l not getting any tea? l knew this was coming. - What is coming? ''You know, the maid has run away after Mummy arrived?'' She has run away? What has Mama to do with the maid running away? You don't know how spoilt the servants are nowadays She refused to sleep in the kitchen! Why are you quiet? l'm not getting up early to make tea for everybody ''Let her make the tea for herself. - Don't be upset, Kiran'' l'm here l'm in the habit of working l used to make the tea for your Papa. Now l'll make it for my children Reena! Hurry up! l'll be delayed again because of you! - What can l do? There's an extra man's work to do l've got to cook for your father... ''iron his clothes, get Rahul ready, and there's no one to help'' ''Bye, my child'' ''Mummy, l'm leaving for the kitty party. Cook whatever you want to for yourself'' But Payal... - She has already left She'll return only in the evening after her dance classes. Bye Mota bhai! Come on! ''Welcome, mota bhai! This is my music cafe'' Come on inside The music cafe... see? Shanti... take care of your dowry l'm coming... and you're always picking on him What is it? Why've you been yelling? - The dog's been barking... and she says l'm yelling! This is Rahul's grandpa ''l told you that l met him in the garden. Mota-bhai, this is my wife'' Namaste. - Namaste ''Forgive me, you dropped your lemons because of me'' You speak very good Hindi. - Please don't embarrass me ''Things will fall, mota bhai. But she broke some eggs the other day'' ''She's not just my wife, she's my life! My better-half'' Please be seated. l'll get some great coffee for you Could l have some tea instead? At least try the coffee l make He wants tea. So get him tea. And make it nicely ''The other day you made tea and the customer said, ''Wonderful soup'' How would a monkey know the stage is bent? ''God! lf you must use proverbs in Hindi, at least get them properly'' ''Why do you mix them up? - No, l always use single terms'' ''Lies! You decide this, mota bhai. You are Hindi speaking, aren't you?'' ''The one he used just now, wasn't it a mix of two proverbs?'' Two. - Two? How? ''How would a monkey know the taste of ginger'' ''The one who can't dance blames the dance floor'' l mixed up ginger and dance floor. - Hear that? Okay? l'll get you some nice tea now The lemons! She left them here! Great! You have indeed a cheerful place here lsn't it? Earlier we pined for a child And now there are so many boys and girls around ''We don't have a child, you see'' Hey kids... come here This is the kid party. And this is Mr Raj Malhotra He's like my elder brother. Please be seated ''This is Kapil. ln London, his father...'' has a publication. And that's Nili She's fair of skin but calls herself nili (blue) ''Kiran... - She has gone out somewhere, son'' She must've told you where she's going? - No She must be coming ''May l say something, son?'' You must keep a track of these things... ''where your wife is, where your daughter is'' Your Papa always took care of these things ''That was interference on his part, Mom. lt was his dominating nature'' Every human being must have the right to lead the life he wants to But there's need for order in the family lt's your job. Your Papa always kept the family under control He maintained a certain amount of discipline He kept the family together. - Not so much discipline... as to start interfering in each other's lives and ruining their freedom Whatever he did was for our own well-being lt was only his love ''When love crosses its limits, it becomes suffocating, Mom'' ''You mean, our love for you was stifling you?'' Why're you getting into this argument? You're here as a guest for a few days So behave like a guest l came here because l thought it was my house But you have turned your mother into a guest Haven't you gone to sleep? ''l couldn't go to sleep, but what are you upto? lt's 2 in the morning'' ''l have a presentation of a new project at the office tomorrow, dad'' ''So l'll have to complete my work, won't l?'' ''Not your cup of tea, dad'' Why not? This is what l've been doing for the last forty years How can you compare your petty 9 to 5 job... with the workload of a multinational like ours? ''ln your days, there wasn't any competition nor any tension'' But we've got to keep up all nights to survive So you think things were very easy for us? ''That we had no tension in our lives? Of course, there was the tension'' ''But despite that, we gave the best of our output to our work...'' ''we worked hard for a living, earned respect...'' l brought up four sons to lead a life with their heads held high ''Yes, dad. But you will have to admit, dad...'' ''that your sons had the ability, the skill and the talent...'' with which they paved a way for themselves and achieved their goals ''And built this house. That's not all, dad'' ''With my presence, l have also secured my future...'' so that l don't have to beg before anyone when l grow old ''What happened, dad? Why're you looking at me like that?'' ''You have to agree, whatever we are today, it's on our own steam'' ''ln any case, what have you done for us?'' ''that your sons had the ability, the skill and the talent...'' ''with which they paved a way for themselves and achieved their goals'' ''And built this house. That's not all, dad'' ''With my presence, l have also secured my future...'' ''so that l don't have to beg before anyone when l grow old'' True... what have we done for them? lf we have fed you children... and ourselves gone to bed on a hungry stomach... what have we done for you? lf we have killed every little desire we had... to fulfill all your... ''to fulfill all your needs, what have we done for you?'' lf we have sacrificed our present for your future... what have we... still done for you? We have done nothing for anyone Nothing at all ''Walking in your footsteps when we were taking the vows, l thought...'' ''l was your shadow'' ''But you took my hand and said...'' ''you are not my shadow, you are my better half...'' ''my companion for life'' ''Separated from you, l feel so incomplete'' ''Neither is it the same 7 in the morning anymore...'' ''nor is it 5:30 of the old times'' ''Nor even do l find the tea any sweet without you'' What happened? - ls everything all right? Oh yes. l received a letter from my wife and couldn't stop my tears ''For the first time in 40 years, we have been separated from each other'' See? He's missing sister-in-law See how he misses his wife. And look at you! ''That's not true, darling. l shed tears too, when l'm separated from you'' Really? - Tears of joy! Stop joking and learn something from him Uncle Raj can miss his wife and cry even after 40 years of marriage Will you also miss me like this? ''Now look, children. lf your love is true...'' it remains fresh and attractive till you breathe your very last ''After listening to you, the kids have forgotten about Romeo Juliet...'' and become your fans. - Oh yes. And they must too All the legendary lovers died pining for their beloveds But our mota bhai has been living with his beloved for 40 years The world ought to know about this love story ''You ought to write, Uncle. - Yes! Why don't you write?'' ''Write about it, mota bhai... - But l'm not a writer. l can't write!'' At least try... try! ''The world ought to know about this love story'' ''You ought to write, Uncle. - Yes! Why don't you write?'' ''Write about it, mota bhai... - You must! You must'' ''Times of the past, l think of...'' ''whenever l'm alone'' ''Silence speaks to me...'' ''and l cry, away from prying eyes'' ''lt's ages since l have smiled'' ''Tears are now my lot'' ''You and l are separated...'' ''what has life come to?'' ''You are the only one l see, everywhere l cast a glance, my love'' ''Sleep eludes me, l can't stop thinking about you'' ''Without you, l cannot live anymore'' THE CARETAKER ''Payal, you're late again today?'' What happened? Why're you yelling? ''Make it clear to your mother, daddy. Ask her not to play mummy with me!'' She keeps taunting me and intruding... ''Payal, my child... - Please be quiet'' And please stop interfering in my personal life. Okay? Why're you targetting my poor daughter? Payal is my daughter too... - Mama! We have enough troubles in our lives already Why're you creating more problems? l say it because there ought not to be anymore problems Payal is a girl... - Times have changed There's no difference between men and women Times never change for a woman ''lt was my duty to caution you, and l did'' We know our duties! l beg you... don't say anything to Payal again! ''Sanju... wake up, please'' What happened? - You can drink and go to sleep But what about me? Papa has hit upon a new ruse to disturb me ''Go and ask him to stop making that noise, please'' l've got to get up early and do the chores. l need to sleep Dad... what are you doing in the middle of the night? l couldn't go to sleep. So l thought... ''You get less sleep at this age anyway, dad'' But that doesn't mean you won't let the others sleep At least think about Reena. She's the first to wake up... get Rahul ready and cook for all of us Please... it would be nice if you could think about her God! He's going to get me killed someday! ''Preetam! - Yes, brother-in-law?'' ''Come here, pipsqueak! - Coming'' Didn't l ask you to write the accounts? - That's what l have done ls this the accounts or a love-letter? l will write just as much as l can! - You know nothing... nothing! Why're you yelling at him? ''Look at him. He's scolding me! - Why're you scolding my Jittu, Hemant?'' Your Jittu's going to drive me bankrupt some day! ls this the accounts or the will of a pauper? Where does he find the time? The poor chap is busy all day How will he find the time? He keeps hovering around the girls' tables! See? Wasn't he flying? Who'll write the accounts now? - Let me write it l will! Mota bhai will You will keep the accounts? - Why? Can't l ? ''l'm your mota bhai, after all. - True... but on one condition'' You will quietly accept whatever l put in your pocket ''No, that's not happening. lmpossible. - No...?'' So this is not happening either. Let me go to prison Makes no difference. - All right. You win. l lose A typewriter? - Yes l started writing at the children's behest the other day But l can't bring about the mood at home. lf you don't mind the noise... How can you say such a thing? Do you think l call you mota bhai only for effect? lt comes from the depths of my heart. Sit wherever you want to ''ls that place okay? - Sure, go ahead'' Anywhere you wish to. - lt's all yours Keep punching away at the typewriter. lt's as melodious as our music anyway l'll get you some tea. - Please add a dash of ginger Wow! That's one step worse! lt isn't worse... it's for the better! ''She doesn't know, l deliberately make mistakes in the proverbs'' ''Whenever she corrects me, there's a lovely glow on her face'' ''For that glow, l can make mistakes all my life, mota bhai'' Coming... l'll be back ''You're lucky, Hemant bhai...'' your wife is with you to correct you ''Pooja, l think of your smiling face...'' ''even as l try to get on with my live'' ''But your letter has made me cry'' ''l do miss you...'' ''but God has given me some very good friends here'' ''The husband and wife run a cafe'' ''l spend the day with them'' ''But when it's time to go home, my feet refuse to move'' ''My heart just doesn't feel like going there'' ''After all, home is where the heart is'' ''And my heart is with you... thousands of miles away'' ''What else will l write to you? We wanted to have our children's love...'' ''but we have lost our own love'' ''Papa, buy me a new pair of shoes. This pair is so old'' ''All right, l'll buy a pair for you. - Today!'' ''Hurry up, Rahul'' ''Reena, l've given Rahul 1500 rupees for a pair of shoes. Check the size'' Your Mummy's love-letter. - From grandma! Grandma's letter! Trouble-time ''The glasses have broken. - Sorry, grandpa'' ''lt's okay, son. l'll tell your Papa and he'll have it fixed'' ''Sanju, my glasses have broken. Will you have it fixed please?'' ''l want to read your Mother's letter. - lt isn't possible this month, dad'' ''End of the month, you see. We're short of cash'' ''But next month, l'll surely have it fixed. l promise'' ''Rahul, hurry up. We're getting late'' Shanti darling! What have you cooked? That's a lovely aroma ''You needn't be so happy. lt's not for you, lt's for mota bhai'' Welcome... how are you? - l'm okay ''l have a bit of a bother for you, Hemant-bhai'' Yes? - l've received a letter from Pooja My glasses broke today and they can't be fixed immediately ''But l must read this letter at once Will you read it for me, please?'' What's the big deal ? Come on What happened? - lt's in Hindi But never mind. When will my wife help? lt's in Hindi! - Coming lt's a letter from his wife. How can l read it? Stop acting funny. Mota bhai's so restless... read it Now tell me something. Will you also read my letter as...? ''No, may God never separate you... He mustn't ever do this to you'' Read it ''You always say that l make you cry with my letters'' ''But you made me cry this time'' ''Why did you write that you have lost your love?'' ''As long as you and l are alive, how can our love ever be lost?'' ''Never'' ''Know what? l hope you won't laugh'' ''Earlier, whenever l used to get ready before the mirror...'' ''l always felt as if you were watching me...'' ''saying, ''The kohl looks very nice in your eyes, Pooja'' ''A blue-coloured sari looks lovely on you'' ''To be honest, l don't feel like dressing up anymore'' ''Whom will l dress for?'' ''Who will look at me?'' ''No, mota bhai... l can't read anymore'' ''When your glasses are fixed, you can read it on your own'' ''Hey! Who brought this? Daddy? - No, l brought it'' Where did you get the money from? Dad had given me money for a pair of shoes But l can manage with these for another two months ''You've got to read grandma's letter, isn't it?'' So go ahead. Don't feel shy! ''Away from you, l feel as if l'm standing at a place...'' ...that is plunged in darkness ''There was neither a soothing voice, Nor your comforting arms...'' Nor even sleep... There was only anticipation You are lying to me? You're trying to cheat me? One slap and you'll straighten out! ''ls this what you have learnt? Next time you do this, l'll break your legs!'' ''What happened, daughter-in-law? - Please don't interfere'' He has got spoilt because of you. He has started lying and cheating He spent the money of his shoes on your glasses today ''Soon, he'll sell household stuff for some need of yours'' Come with me! ''l have a small problem, brother. - What happened?'' l brought those dogs here... and they've run away today So what should l do? Must l inform mom and dad or...? Why make an issue out of something so trivial? And where will they go anyway? They've got to come back home What's all this for? ''Today's a special day, Uncle. lt's Valentine's Day'' ''What's that? - Let me explain, mota bhai'' ''On Valentine's Day, boys lie to girls that ''l love you'' What rubbish! - Why're you getting angry? You're not my girlfriend. You're my wife already The boy sinks with the life! ''That life is saved, means millions are earned...'' ''and the mole sinks the ship'' You ought to call aunty today. - No ''Oh yes, you must!'' ''What's Pooja, Pooja...? Say something more'' What...? - Anything! ''Look at you! For 40 years, l've been only your Valentine'' ''That's not happening. l asked you in English, so reply to me in English'' ''They're blowing again...'' ''the winds of love are blowing again'' ''They're blowing again...'' ''the winds of love are blowing again'' ''l have a crazy heart...'' ''it looks for my beloved in every lane and street'' ''They're blowing again...'' ''the winds of love are blowing again'' ''Shirins, Lailas...'' ''Majnus and Chhailas...'' ''be he a lover or king...'' ''the excitement of love grips every heart'' ''They're blowing again...'' ''the winds of love are blowing again'' ''l shall forever love you...'' ''not for a moment can l forget you'' ''ln love with you, l have spent my days...'' ''my heart has longed for you'' ''They're blowing again...'' ''the winds of love are blowing again'' What's the venue? Resort or Retreat? ''Where are you going all alone? That too, dressed like this?'' So you've taunted me again? You'll never give up your stunts! You've ruined my mood! ''There's mischief, there's charm...'' ''there is the high of youthfulness'' ''Come into my arms...'' ''and see how l have been pining'' ''They're blowing again...'' ''the winds of love are blowing again'' ''My crazy heart...'' ''looks for my beloved in every lane and street'' First you set my blood on fire by wearing those skimpy dresses... you keep giving me those inviting looks... and then you pretend to be the touch-me-nots Old hag! What did you think? She's a tramp? There's no one to take care of her? You think you can get her into your clutches... by giving her a ride in your car? You think you can do anything to her? lf l see you around our house ever again or see you looking at Payal... l'll gorge your eyes out! l'll have you sent to jail! She's my daughter This is the limit! lt's 3 and Payal hasn't returned yet She's never so late ''Did you try her mobile? - l did, it's switched off'' There she is ''Mummy, you...?'' And Payal... - Actually Kiran... l had heard about Valentine's Day. But since l am in Bombay... l thought l'd check what it's really all about l told Payal to take me out ''But you should've looked at the time, Payal'' ''lt's not her mistake, son. She wanted to return early'' But l insisted that we enjoy for a little while more ''Hear that? - This is amazing, Mama!'' You're worried about enjoyment and it has ruined our sleep! l told Kiran to go to bed. But how could she get any sleep? ''She's a mother, after all. - Why would your mother worry about us?'' She has only her fun to pursue And you were lecturing me to keep my family under control! So where's your discipline? Neither is your mom worried about her age nor the respect of this family ''Come on, grandma'' Grandma... l'm a very bad girl. l'm terrible ''l always nursed contempt for you, But you gave me only love.'' ''My child, you don't keep track of what you give and take in love'' Love is to be given and l... l love you very dearly Here you are to enjoy the early dawn meal! ''l've explained to you several times that this fast of ''Karva Chauth''...'' is meant for women and you... - Listen... listen... Why do you women observe this fast? So that we can have our husbands for seven births All right. And l observe this fast... so that you will meet me every time l am born ''l won't improve, l know'' ''Here you are, mota bhai. Tea with a dash of ginger'' ''No, sis. l'm fasting today'' l'll have something only after l've seen the Moon Today's my fast too. Karva Chauth. - Mine too Yours...? You too...? - Yes For sister-in-law...? Hemant... ''l'm dying of hunger, Sanju'' ''Don't talk of dying, love... let's go and eat'' But you said we were going out! l haven't cooked anything Don't be angry. Let's go out What will grandpa eat? ''Whenever he returns after nine, he already eats at the cafe'' ''The Moon is out, mota-bhai. l've done my ritual...'' so take a look at the Moon and l'll serve the dinner ''No, Shanti-behn. Pooja must be trying to telephone me at home'' Let me first talk to her. l'll eat later My respects! - May we always be there for each other ''You saw the Moon? - Yes, l did'' Did you drink some water? What are you looking at? ''You look at your Moon, l'll look at mine'' ''And hurry up, please. My throat's drying of thirst'' How can l drink any water unless l've seen my Moon? ''This year, l just didn't get to see my Moon'' Will you only keep talking? lmagine l'm with you Go on. Have some water All right. Hold on l've had water l've had some too Now have something to eat Wait What a plate-full of food! What has your daughter-in-law prepared today? ''What's this...? Potatoes. Cauliflower, peas and cottage cheese'' And this is yogurt raita and laddoos There are jalebis and puris too! Let me break a piece of puri and put it in my mouth Fantastic! Excellent food! You can't even tell a lie You will never improve Never ''Excuse me, sir... - Yes?'' Your mother is here. May l send her in? ''No, serve her some tea. l'll be coming out'' How often have l told you not to bring family fights into my office? And that's just what has happened. What's Mama doing here? l'm sick of all this! ''l'll have a word with her, okay?'' l know it. There must be something cooking between mother and son They must be badmouthing me ''Kiran, l had not gone there to badmouth you'' Don't try to act innocent What do you want...? Why're you bent on ruining the peace and happiness of my family? ''That's just what l come to ask, leaving all my work in the office'' ''lf you had any doubts, couldn't you have waited for me to come back home?'' Where was the need to come to my office? l've asked you a question. Answer me Why don't you speak? lt was the mother in me that took me there This almond halwa... you have always loved it ''On every birthday of yours, l have prepared it for you'' And today is your birthday ''l prepared the halwa this morning, but you left early for the office'' l thought l'd go after you How was l to know that my love would prove to be my crime? So you want to prove that only you remember his birthday? l had made all the arrangements to give him a surprise But you've ruined all my efforts! ''You've made her cry, haven't you? Are you happy now?'' You can see her crying... ''but your mother's tears, her love and affection...?'' can't you see anything of that at all? There's no point in asking you this question Because you have forgotten that you are my son But l will always remember that l am your mother ''Sister-in-law, Karan here. - Yes, Karan?'' ''ls Rohit there? - Yes, one moment'' lt's a call from Karan ''Yes, Karan? What's up?'' ''What else, brother? l called to remind you that six months are up'' lt's our turn now to welcome mom and dad ''Karan, what are you reminding me for?'' This is just what is causing fights in my family every day Pooja...? - You? My respects How are you? You've called after so many days ''You're keeping well, l hope? - Yes, l'm okay...'' ''l was a bit ill for a few days, but l'm all right now'' l know why you must've taken ill. You must've had something cold to drink... and not taken care. You mustn't have taken your medicines l've told you so often... - Won't you let me say something? Now listen... What's the day after tomorrow? - Our wedding anniversary ''Yes, our wedding anniversary. Wouldn't you like to meet me?'' Now listen carefully. l'll explain You and l are leaving our respective places tomorrow ''ln a matter of five minutes, our trains will cross the Vijaynagar Station'' Whoever gets there first will get down and wait for the other But... - No buts! ''We're meeting the day after. Just wait for me, okay?'' Grandpa... May l say something? ''Sure, go ahead, son'' Don't come back here ever again What's this? - A small gift for you ''l must leave now, Hemant-bhai'' ''lf it wasn't for you, what would l do with my loneliness?'' Thank you... thank you very much Don't say that You're the one who says such things You don't realise what you have given me. l found an elder brother You know what that means? lt means shelter ''And only he who does not have shelter, realises what it means'' Here you are... What...? - No way! l know you're a proud man who will not accept any charity... but this is your hard-earned money. You have maintained our accounts... and this is the payment. Go away now... ''or l won't let you go, if you stay another minute'' People are watching... - Let them watch What will they say? ''They'll say, although we're old, our love is still going strong'' ''Pooja, these six months without you were spent like six lifetimes'' l had forgotten what it means to breathe See? One look at you and my heart is beating again You could teach them a lesson or two in playing with words ''Not just words, about love too'' Congratulations on our wedding anniversary To you too But l have nothing to give you today ''You do, Pooja. Only you have it'' Take back the oath that compelled us to live away from each other ''Tied in the oath, we have suffered for six months. Release me of the oath'' There you are C'mon Over there. The waiting room. - What will we do in the waiting room? ''We'll leave our luggage there, go out for a walk...'' and celebrate. - Celebrate? You forget...? What does the sign say? - Vijaynagar This is the city here we had started our lives together. C'mon But our trains...? - We'll think about it later. Come This has grown into such a big hotel! lt used to be a 2-storeyed building l wonder whether another hotel has come up in its place ''lt still has the same name. Come, let's take a look'' There's a party this evening. Look into the arrangements lt's the same hotel See? That painting was there even then ''lt wasn't there, it was over here'' There used to be a staircase here. Your son went missing... and we found him here. l hope you remember our room number? How can l forget that? This is my wife Actually we were just passing by and it occurred to us... ''that 41 years ago, on this very day, we had come to this hotel'' That was the beginning of our married life And that was the day this hotel was born So why don't we get together and celebrate this special day? ''No, we'd rather... - Please stay. lt's my request'' lt's an expensive hotel... lt's our good fortune that we have in our midst its oldest guests Your presence will add to the hotel's glory. Please don't refuse me But... - No ifs and buts lt's an honour to have you with us Please come This is your room ''lf there is anything you need, please call me directly'' The two of you are the guests of honour at tonight's special dinner l will wait for you ''Karan, where have you been? l've been trying to reach you since this morning'' But there was no trace of you! Has Mummy reached there? Where has she come? l've been to the station thrice already l don't know where she has gone. But has dad come there? No. And that is why l'm so upset l called Ajay and Sanjay's place. The two of them have left l wonder where they've gone. They are really... Forget it. Trouble avoided in my house for at least a day Sit ''You've really wilted, Pooja'' Our children are not ours anymore. They're strangers now Perhaps there was something lacking in my upbringing You mustn't say such things ''What's all this, mister?'' The owner has sent dresses for you. You may keep whichever ''Today you will wear a tie, won't you?'' ''No, l will have it put on'' ''For this very moment, l...'' ''To the gardens you have brought the Spring...'' ''the climes are no longer deprived'' ''My search of many lifetimes ends here'' ''Moments of separation are past'' ''The Caretaker dreams dreams that were once shattered'' ''God is the Caretaker...'' ''Shanti, come on...'' ''You're crying? - Yes, l'm crying'' ''When you read this, you will also cry'' What's written in that? ''lt isn't written, Hemant. He has poured his heart out'' ''To be honest, only a man who can starve for his wife, can write this...'' a man who can fall ill thinking about her Only he can write it ''When you expect, you don't find love'' When you get so much of it at a place you least expect it from... you don't know how to handle it. - l must say something One must never pin hopes on anyone ''When hopes are dashed, it causes a lot of agony'' True. So what now? ''Let's go to the station, pick up our luggage and head for our destination'' ''Yes, that's what we will do'' ''Go to the station, pick up our luggage...'' and head not for two different destinations. Only one ''Except death, no power can separate us now'' We will live together But where will we go? Wherever life takes us ''Over there, right now'' To have an ice-cream? - l've worn a tie after months So let me sweeten my tongue l have a nice round cone What are you looking at? lt's a dream that was never fulfilled When we had just got married... l had dreams of owning a car. That l'd return from the office... ''honking away at the gate, and you'd come running down...'' ''l'd take you by the hand and we'd go on a long, long drive'' That we'd stop somewhere and have some snacks and ice-creams... but our dreams remained unfulfilled in trying to fulfill our childrens' But never mind What do you think of the car? - We don't want to buy it We were only taking a look. - Sir. l'll give you its catalogue... ''with the features. Please come. - l told you, mister'' We don't want to buy a car. - Why not take a test drive? ''Try it, sir. - How about it?'' ''So what you think about the car, sir? - lt's a wonderful car'' lt's really very nice. - So let's go inside l'll give you more information... - l have already told you ''We don't wish to buy the car. Honestly, l can't buy it'' ''A car is no big deal nowadays, sir. Think about it, and you have the keys'' l'll try and arrange a loan for you... - You're forcing yourself on us! ''l told you, we don't want the car. We don't have the money to buy it'' ''ln that case, why did you sit in such an expensive car?'' Get going... get lost! - Hey... what are you doing...? ''What misbehaviour is this, mister...? - Father...'' My son! You...? - My respects When did you arrive? One second ''Alok, listen to me...'' You know whom you just pushed? ''lt was my father! - Let him go, my son'' Where have the two of you been? ''Ever since l've arrived in lndia, l made so many phone calls...'' but they were not answered. l couldn't take it ''So l went to your house, but l found it locked'' Even Uncle's house was locked. l got terribly scared l used to make a call every morning and evening... and pray to God to take me to my father and my mother God has listened to my prayers. You must come home with me Someone's waiting for you - All right. Let's go l'm coming... what is it? The gods you worship every day... l've brought them with me My respects. - May you be happy forever You took so much of time to give me your blessings We had everything here... but it still felt so incomplete You have given me everything today. My family is complete What? - The customary gift ''Here you are, dear...'' it's a customary gift. Keep it Take it. lt's God's gift Our parents are so irresponsible We're worried sick and he's just not bothered about us What is it with him...? He has nothing to do anyway But we're employees. How long can we take days off like this? Enough now. How long can we wait? They'll come back when they want to ''Mother, father... dinner is ready'' ''You ought to have called me, dear. l was doing nothing'' Why must you work when your daughter-in-law is around? Please sit down ''Here, father. Please sit here'' ''But that chair is meant for the head of the family, son'' ''That's you, father'' ''Papa, that's Sanju's chair. Please sit in the other chair'' You are the pride of this family This house and this chair have been waiting for you for four months ''And you will sit here, mother'' Because l can't bear to see the two of you sitting apart ''No, Shanti. They haven't come to ask us where their parents are'' They've only come to find out whether they're alive or dead! ''lf they're dead, who will have them cremated?'' ''And if they're unfortunately alive, who will have them treated!'' Hemant-bhai... - Please! Please don't call me bhai (brother ). Don't try to forge a relation with me ''The one you shared a blood relation with, you drove to shed tears of blood'' That poor man used to hide there and weep in misery Listen to us... - Please go away ''lf you weren't mota bhai's sons, l'd have had you thrown out'' You have committed a sin by separating your parents at this age ''Maybe God will forgive you for that, but Hemant never will'' Remember... you have made your parents cry ''One day, your children will make you weep'' ''How they harassed mota bhai, Shanti'' lf this is how children are... l'm glad we don't have any children. We don't want any... we don't Let all that be. We must set out immediately to look for mota bhai ''That's all right, but where will we go?'' One minute... maybe he has gone to his house ''His house? - Yes, his old house'' l saw the address in his file. - So where is the file? Kapil and Nili took the file away to read the manuscripts So ring them up and send for the file. - That isn't just a file anymore Who's that? lt's about to become a beautiful book ''Uncle, this is my Papa. - Oh... hello'' ''You are our father, our mother...'' ''who else will l seek shelter in?'' ''There is no one except You, Lord...'' ''on whom l pin my hopes'' ''Glory be to You, Lord'' Father...? Mother...? ''Are the two of you going out somewhere? - No, Arpita'' lt's an old habit with father ''He bathes and gets ready every morning. Right, father?'' ''Yes, son. But it has to do with necessity today, not with my habit'' ''lt's time for our train, son. - Train...?'' ''Where are you going, father?'' ''We're going home, son. - But this is your house too, father'' ''Yes, father. l've always had a dream'' Of a small house... where my parents are with me l want to live the dream l could never fulfill till today ''That will surely happen, son. But we've got to leave now'' We've got to pick up the threads in life ''Father... for a few days, please. Mother, please tell him'' ''For a few days more, please?'' ''l promise, l will be back'' ''l too wish to stay with a son, who takes his father to be his god'' lt isn't make believe. You are really my God... who has come into my life as my father You held the hand of a child no one in the world needed Who neither had a name nor an identity... he was like a lifeless stone on the streets He would have been rendered to dust under trampling feet... had you not kept a protective hand on his head ''This life of mine is a gift from you, father'' The life l lead today... is indebted to you in every breath ''Arpita, even in a hundred births, l will not be able...'' to repay their debt ''Enough, son... enough'' No father. l know nothing else You can't leave me and go away ''l'm not leaving you, my son. lt's only for a few days'' ''All right, father. l will not turn down anything you say'' But you will have to listen to something l have to say ''You will, won't you? - All right... what is it?'' Your daughter-in-law and l have bought a small gift for you... ''no, you will not refuse it, father'' ''You promised you won't turn me down. Come with me... come, mother'' Father... what do you think of the gift? My son... what have you done? ''lt's nothing, father'' ''May you live long, my son'' Raju...? They're here...? Come to me! Brother Raju! - Ram Avtar! lt's months since l've been waiting for you! They've recognised me! - l knew it... the king had to come back here from his exile Go inside and take a look... l've preserved your house and your memories as they were All right. Look who's here - Sister-in-law! How have you been? ''God is kind, brother. - Recognise me, Uncle...? Alok'' My respects But you were staying abroad! - He's here now... ''and he has become a very big man! Touch his feet, daughter-in-law'' My respects ''Bless you, daughter-in-law'' ''Go and rest, sister-in-law. l'll bring some tea for you'' ''Come with me, my child. l'll show you your in-laws' house'' ''You know what's the best part, Uncle? You haven't changed...'' ''nor has this house, nor even the atmosphere in this house'' ''And where have you changed, son? Though you're a bit taller'' A bit We're home at last ''We are, but how are we going to manage it?'' Do you trust me? - More than l trust myself You love me? - More than you do yourself So what's there to worry about? ''When you're with me, l can win over the whole world'' ''Come, let's step into the house. - Mota bhai...!'' ''Hello, Shanti-behn. - Pooja, come here...'' Hemant-bhai... my companion in lonely times Now l know why mota bhai was so sad in your absence ''The moment l saw her, l knew she was Pooja'' ''ln ''Baghban'' he has so often spoken about her beauty that...'' ''How would you know about ''Baghban''?'' l see! So l left it at your place? Wasn't it a nice thing that you forgot it there? ''London's New Wave Publications had decided to publish it, mota-bhai!'' What are you talking about? - Here's the advance A cheque of a million rupees. - A million A million...? A million...? - Yes Pooja! lt's a million! - A million What's that about a million...? - My book is getting published! Don't tell me! - Oh yes! Have you read the news? Dad's book has been acclaimed as a bestseller in the international market Dad's rolling in millions! We aren't getting a penny All thanks to our elder brothers Why? What wrong have we done to them? The two of you must've done something Which is why they went away instead of coming to us This is no time to fight between ourselves! This is the time to placate them. - We must go to Papa and placate him Makes no difference They won't agree. - Why not? We're their children And no parents can be angry with their wards forever We'll ask for their forgiveness if we have to ''Yes, we'll fall at their feet, grovel before them...'' let's see how they don't agree. - Right We mustn't delay it anymore. We must go to them Payal and Rahul! Get ready quickly. We're going to meet grandpa and grandma You are all so disgusting! You're not going to them to apologise... you're going to them for the money! We've seen them being put to enough trouble. Not anymore We are not going. Come Rahul ''See the magic of your brimming rosegarden, Mr Malhotra?'' ''lt's all thanks to the kids and you, Mr Varma'' l didn't ever expect such a tremendous response Response? The first edition has sold like hot cakes The second one is in press. And this is all yours What's this...? - Just keep collecting it ''There's no saying how much more ''Baghban'' will make'' We're holding a function next week in your honour Do please attend. And bring your family along too Over there? ''Ladies and gentlemen, ''Baghban'' needs no introduction'' That its author has been honoured with the Bookers' Prize... speaks volume for its success ''Before l ask Mr Malhotra to throw some light on ''Baghban''...'' l would like his son to say a few words about his father l therefore request to the stage... Mr Alok Raj Alok-ji... You must've often heard people saying that no one has seen God ''That it's a matter of devotion, faith and one's belief'' But l can tell you that l have seen God ''ln flesh and blood, smiling and laughing...'' ''in every joy, in every sorrow, in every test and every situation'' lt's none else... than my father l was an orphan. l had never seen my parents Neither did l ever have their love ''But l can tell you with confidence, that had they been here today...'' they couldn't have given me so much of love and affection... as l got from my father l have got so much from my father... that l can't ask him for anything more But of God l seek one thing ''ln His world, he must continue to make people like my father'' That's it. l have nothing more to say ''Please come here, father'' Ladies and gentlemen... l hope you won't believe all that you heard about me just now Alok praises me so much only because he loves me very much And he doesn't love me because l'm a very good human being... or because l have several virtues. He loves me because... he himself is a very nice boy ''Actually, l am not a writer'' Writers are those that plunge deep into the oceans of knowledge... and come up with rare gems of literature l have only written what life has taught me ''Baghban'' is not about me or any other individual'' lt's a book of the conflict arising between the days gone by... and the days to come lt's a book about the broken relations between two generations lt's a book about the drooping shoulders... on which some children had once sat to see the world lt's a book about the trembling hands... ''that once had held the hands of their children, as they taught them to walk'' lt's a book about the parched lips... that once sang lullabies But which have now been silenced Times have changed Life has changed lf people of my generation will recall... we were always caught up ties and in relations that yielded nothing Our father was God At our mother's feet lay our heaven And now... now people have become very sensible The new generation is very clever and practical ''For them, every relation is like a ladder...'' on which they will step to rise further in life But when they have no use for the ladder anymore... with the rest of the broken furniture in the house... ''old vessels, old clothes and newspapers...'' they are dumped in the attic ''However, life does not take you up like a ladder'' Life grows like a tree Parents are not the steps on a ladder Parents are the soul of one's life ''However big the tree is, however green and filled it is...'' ''it can't stand on its own, once its roots are hacked'' ''With all humility and respect, l ask today...'' the children for whose happiness... a father spends every penny of his hard earned money with a smile... ''those very children, when the father's eye-sight weakens...'' why do they hesitate in giving them light ? lf a father can help his son to take the first step in his life... why can't the son... give his father support when he's taking the last few steps of his life? What crime is it of the parents who have devoted all their lives... ''to their children, that they are given tears and loneliness?'' lf they can't give us any love... who gives them the right to snatch our love from us? What do these children think? The parents God has united in love... can they separate and force them to lead a life of misery and despair? ls it for a day like this that man seeks children? Children perhaps forget... ''what is our present today, will be their present tomorrow'' ''lf we are old today, they will also grow old someday'' ''The questions we ask today, they will ask tomorrow'' As for me... please don't worry about me Because if l am capable of bringing up my children... helping them become able and independent... l am capable of taking care of myself too l feel no need to expect anything from anyone Because l am very fortunate l am fortunate... because life has given me a companion... walking with whom has made my path easier Walking with whom my hardships were always blown away And that companion is my wife People often fall in love. However... they don't express it as often as they should l wouldn't want to make a mistake like that Pooja... l love you very much Very much ''Because you are, l am'' And there's everything if we are together ''Else, there's nothing. Nothing'' That's all l had to say Sorry... please forgive us ''Please forgive us, dad'' ''Sir, how would you react had ''Baghban'' ''been your personal experience?'' ''Those children, who don't love their parents...'' who don't give them shelter... who don't respect them... l'd never forgive them l'd rather punish them l'd disown them A mother always forgives her children Won't you forgive us? ''Yes, as a mother l may perhaps forgive you'' But as a wife... l cannot forget the tears my husband has shed And all of you are the ones who made them shed tears l can't say anything about. But l have nothing to give you today Not even forgiveness
