 

                        "Dearest dream which is inflicted with violence in soul" "On one's lap it is carried, that is life" "Confronted with dense woods as proceeded forward" "Challenging great paths of destiny" "My beloved is on the march to succeed for a cherished victory" Parameshwara! (Lord Shiva!) For the sins that I've committed, if death is the solution, you may take it. But he should remain alive! He should remain alive for the sake of his mother, who is waiting for him! To adorn the throne of 'Mahishmathi' he should remain alive! 'Mahendra Bahubali' must be alive! My God! Cheera, without just watching you go and save that child. Hey fellow, you go fast, make it fast! Give the baby, give. Hey fellow, who is this? Don't know, on seeing the bangle in the mother's hand... ...looks like she is a princess. During the moment of death, the finger was pointed towards mountain! My God, two corpses are lying here. Fellow, you are these people? Looks like they had come to kill her. It seems, that lady had killed these people. Hey chief! My heavens! A cave, was not aware of such a thing over here. Hey chief! They are steps inside this one to climb up. That lady after giving the baby and pointing to mountains. Does it mean that he will be taken towards sky? Are you out of your mind? Has send men to slain a new born baby. Saying sending towards sky. Ganga, it's not like that. I... He is my son. As I was in deep pain for not being able to bear children. He is a blessing that this 'mother river' has given to me. If at all anyone's talks opposing I'll pluck out that tongue and throw! Hey you fellow! What are you gawking at? Close that cave! Shiva... Boy what are you doing here? Mother, what is there on top? Out there, there is ghosts and devils, all sort of things like that. If you go there, you will be torn into pieces! I'm going to climb on top. - My God, always saying the same thing, come! How many times have I told, not to climb that mountain? Why are you repeatedly climbing that mountain? Aren't you my dear son, again you must not climb, did you hear? Hey man, it seems this time he'll climb. - Where to climb! Did you see that 'neermala' (mountain)? It's somewhere in the sky. While climbing on that how many times he had fallen? Hundred times! Then what? Just like before he'll fall down for sure. Hey man, Shiva, over there your mother is doing something. Shiva, Shiva! (Salutations to Lord Shiva) Shiva, Shiva! Only fifteen! If you pour thousand and one times, may be your prayers will bear results. Swamy! (tutor) If I do this does my son listen to what I say? Will he stop climbing that mountain? By all means, what have you thought of Lord Shiva? You surrender your soul to Shiva and cool that deity. Perhaps your son may come to right path. All right Swamy. Mother, do you think that you are young? - Move away boy! Always if you climb up and down won't you be ill? My dear mother, just listen to what I say. Go man, have you ever listened to my words? Father, you may advise her something. Ganga! What is it? Where did you keep that 'Vibhuti'? (sacred ash) where and all I searched. Leave me boy! - Mother, then I'll go instead of mother. Did you agree? That's not possible. Shiva won't accept that. One who has prayed, they themselves should fulfill it. Boy, give it! Swamy, you may do only your job! Nama Shivaya! My mother, mother. What is it? I'll carry you like this and go, mother you yourself can pour water on idol. Agreed? That's not possible, Shiva won't accept that. One who has prayed, they themselves should fulfill it. For mother's hunger, is it possible when son feeds? Swamy! You and your Shiva will slain my mother! Who knows? What is there in Shiva's mind, how'll I know that? Hey girl Ganga! Come and see what your son is doing, over there. (Shiva!) Shiva! Stop it, stop it I say! Stop it, boy stop it! This is Lord, this is Lord! Shiva! Hey you, Shiva, stop it! (The hymn in praise of Lord Shiva) "Who is he, who is he? One who lifts the deity and goes" "One who carries you on the shoulders, just like a child" "No one has seen nor no one has heard" "By searching for Ganga, one carries oneself' "Shiva Linga (symbol) Moves by walking" (The hymn in praise of Lord Shiva) Mother, for your Shiva it is not thousand times. Here after every minute the idol of Shiva will get cooled. Take a look! Swamy! Things took place just the way you predicted. Ever since last 'Amavasi'(new moon) - - my son has not paid attention to that 'Neermala'(mountain) Then what? What have you thought of Shiva? However, he is always talking to that mask, which fell from 'Shiva Linga' Why is that? Who knows? How can I know what Shiva may offer? That should be asked to Shiva, is it? Swamy, I've a doubt. Our Shiva has poured water on top of 'Linga'(symbol) So, will Parameshwaran (Shiva) Hear his prayers or her prayers? This tongue will be struck by a thunder bolt! My son has done it for me, no? Swamy, will my prayers be fulfilled? What Shiva has intended, that will take place. What is he saying? Hey Shiva, how long can you look at this wooden face? There is someone on top. Let it be there, mother is calling. Come, lets go. You go, I'll come. Come man. Who are you? Why did you come to me? "As a moonlight in the sky, I have called you" "I'm the beauty in the assembly of Indra, I'm born for you" "Are you in slumber or in playfulness? Come to my lap, I'll sing" "On your paths to lead you, I'll become a companion" "I'm coming by destroying hurdles I come by crumbling mountains" "For you, I caress this speeding Brooke, like the hair knot of Shiva" "I'll posses your beautiful face to see that I'll tear apart this earth into two" "Sprout out to grow high, will you grant me the boon that you will come?" "Pierce the spear and come, I'll set gaze on paths for you" "Brave will conquer this world In life, strength of heart is your own" Kashi! We are betrayed, attack! My mother! How did you get this? One person among you was caught when he trespassed to our country. Our men had killed him, this was... This was on his neck. I'm not the one who killed him. No, don't kill me. Upon mercy, please leave me. Bury the corpses, without leaving behind any clues. Chief, Dileepan has also succumbed to victorious death. Stop it. From the eyes a drop of tears shouldn't fall. That demon in his country. Our 'beacon of clan' is locked up in iron chains. Our queen 'Devasena' is tied up like slaughter cows. Our respect is belittled and humiliated. It is being hanged with the head down. It is not tears on our eyes the fire should burn. What have you forgotten the pledge that is done? Chief, won't forget that till the life ends. Even if thunder bolt strikes on paths of our goal. Never will desist from the path, the absolute truth! Even if the body splits into two... ...Never will there be fear! Even if the life is taken... ...Only one aim, the release of Devasena. How to attain the goal? No time for smiles and laughter. There is no place for relationships and love. The body is for the nation. The life is for Devasena. My goodness, my mother! Chief, we've heard several tales of great warrior Kattappa of Mahishmathi. What I have come to know is, he is a good person. Why don't we approach him? 'Karikala Kattapanakar' is a very generous person. He owns a high spirit. But he will not do it. Kattappa, is a slave of the throne. Kattappa! From the North, the arms trader has come to meet you. The iron taken from Bagdad tunnel. Purified at Turkey. Designed by Persian experts. Double headed sword. If this sword is swinged by a kid even the palm tree will be chopped off. Very impressive sword! But kindly pardon dear Aslam, this sword can't replace our swiftness. Kattappa, when blood and word falls out, it can't be taken back. If your swiftness is higher than my sword. Prove and show! Now, did you understand, Kattappa? I've traveled a lot to countries like China, Persia, Mongolia. But I've never seen a warrior like you, anywhere. It is a pride for this Aslam to dine with you. Come Kattappa! Pardon Aslamji. Slaves sitting along with royal family is never acceptable. Slave! The head of this army. You, a slave? Yes Aslamji. Before the war, weapons should be made ready. During the time of war, to save the king's life must sacrifice life. After the war must lie down under the feet of the king. Tell, to release you ask your king how much gold he wants? Ask and tell. Higher than that in 10, 50,100 times, tell him Aslam will free you. Aslamji, this slave doesn't posses a price. Everybody who is born in my caste. Shall be the slaves of Mahishmathi throne. My ancestors at some point of time, had already promised. On a promise that is given by dead people at some point of time. Do you still have to? - Let the people who gave the promise die. But the promised word doesn't die! In this birth, my life and soul is dedicated to Mahishmathi. If the trust has a form, that is you Kattappa Whenever you need any help at any time Don't forget this dear friend is always there to help you Vyshali! Where are you going? Aren't you sleeping? I'll come now. We've received a golden opportunity to fulfill our goal. On the forth coming day of 'Chathurthi' Preparations had started to celebrate the Palvaldeva's birthday - - on a grand scale through out the country All the people in the country will arrive to participate in the function This is the right time to bring queen Devasena, the pride in it Send me, send me! I'm ready. This time I give chance to Avanthika Avanthika, what is this? How did this appear? Your heart forgot the goal and went in search of beauty, that is why. A girl who loves her own beauty, how can she fight for the goal? You are not deserving for this title. I say you go! Do not find this tear drop as a symbol of weakness! It has not sprouted out of timidness. The revenge in my heart gets boiled and becomes vapor. They are the fire balls ejected out through the eyes. If the heat of that has touched you. Please permit me for the journey of my goal. Now within two days you should get ready to start. You must execute the things in utmost attention. If you execute it carelessly, you may end up in danger. That Bhalvaldevan will tear you apart and kill you! Highness, that she-buffalo was brought from woods, two days back only Still now it is not calm. Kindly be careful Hey great minister, to defeat Bhalvaldeva not one... ...not one she-buffalo, may require ten wild she-buffalos You just come here Kill Bhalva... Grandpa. Long live great king! Long live Bhalvaldevan! Hey father, has killed it. Did you see the courage of my father, did you see? When I see your trust, I always feel amazed, Kattappa. Within your inner soul, I can find the fire burning to kill me. But still you gave your life and saved me. How is it Kattappa, how could you do this? Well, you may ask whatever boon you want. Will give anything you want. Highness, I've got only one request. End that punishment which that mother is suffering for 25 years. Kindly free Devasena Well, I here by give my word Go and kill Devasena and free her! Kattappa, is there higher liberation than death? Go! Does it mean no? If so let her suffer! Should suffer till the last breath! What lady? Are you sleeping? Hey get up! Get up I say! Aren't you done with sleeping? Why are sleeping un-conscious? Get up. Get up and come out. Devasena, is there any short falls in torture? Says doesn't want me. Only wants him. Now where is he? Where is he? Let me hear. Devasena, if I ask one thing you must tell the truth. During these past years, does anyone from any where... ...at any time, have you heard telling about him? In any one of the nights, in any one of the loneliness. On the tickle of this chain, that lives with you. Have you heard his name? Shucks! No! Devasena, Mahishmathi has forgotten it His name not only from the lips of citizens... ...have vanished from their thoughts Now in this country there are only two people who thinking about him You... And me! For you, in this birth longs to see one more time For me, I want to slain him one more time till my anger vents out! Both are unfulfilled wishes Mother Devasena! Kindly agree this time, if you order I'm ready to free you from these chains Have you decided to be in this imprisonment through out the life? No Kattappa, my son will come here To free me How can the son come back, who is dead? My son is alive He'll return for me For a son who is not alive, still now you are waiting Also undergoing a punishment that was not at all required I don't know when I'll get a chance like this Before the night guards reach here, kindly accept princess Please allow I'm only asking a permission for the liberation At that time how is it possible, when you pick up the twigs like this! Kattappa, did you think that I'm a mere lunatic that picks up twigs? I'm preparing a 'fire bed' To burn that Bhalvaldeva's blood, body and soul I'm preparing a fire bed for that My son will come here, he will come and drag Bhalvaldeva into this fire bed Will give that animal into my hands to burn Out of fear of death, Bhalvaldeva's withering cry of pain... ...that will be echoed in the walls of the fort of Mahishmathi My son will come back for me Avanthika, what had happened? On that day while I was sleeping, drew on my hands Again if I sleep here, he'll come again Avanthika, what is this on your shoulders? Avanthi! - You go I'll come. Did you see what I've drawn on the shoulders? Isn't it good? Why is always your face scorn? Can't you just smile? Hey why are you shooting arrows on me? Are you trying to kill me? Who are you? It's nice to hear you talk like this. I'm Shiva. I hail from Ambili village, I've come to top climbing mountain to see you This is what I said, should obey to words Now did you see unnecessarily fell into the hole How is it? Avanthika! Now tell, who are you? What I told is true, I climbed that mountain and... - Stop it! Only Paramashivan can climb that That is it, I'm Shivan is it? Oh, no, no! Enough, I'll tell everything I'll tell everything but before that I need to know one thing What do you want to know? Who are you? Who are you? Knife in the hand, shields in the body, red eyes, a face glowing in anger Not you what is seen outside. Inner to that, at the bottom of the mind Truly, who are you? Shall I say? You are a female and I'm a male I've come, liking you Yes, how blissful is this pain This is mine. It was lost in the mountain Brooke You... Have you actually climbed the mountains and come on top? - Yes This far? I've come here to see the smile of this masked girl But still now I was not able to see it "You are a raw fire, I'm a 'The chipoo' (lxora flower)" "While seeing each other, became one very soon" "Out of burning rock, haven't you craved a heavenly beauty?" "You are the star in the sky and earth" "You are the flower casket that came to my hands" "While we join hands, it transforms into wings, new world will emerge" "You are a raw fire, I'm a 'Thechipoo'(lxora flower)" "While seeing each other, became one very soon" "I've seen petals in stag eyes I've conquered mountains and reached here" "Upon your arrival, I came to realize that I have a heart" "Heart is throbbing, telling your name" "You are a star of my land, you are a virgin who leans on my shoulders" "As our shoulders join meet each other, peacock flowers within me" "You are a raw fire, I'm a 'Thechipoo'(lxora flower)" "While seeing each other, became one very soon" "Out of burning rock, haven't you craved a heavenly beauty?" Such a thing has never happened in history 120 feet golden statue A luck which even God has not achieved Yes, yes After installation of this, the fame of our king not only here... ...that will be spread all over the universe Is all the arrangements over? Highness, everything is completed Tomorrow, the statue will be installed At the very moment, our team of percussionist will break the sky Examine her. Catch him! Bahubali! Bahubali, highness don't kill me Pardon me, don't kill me Please leave me Shiva! Shiva, kindly pardon me. I didn't know what else to do Can't deny you For you my goal also... You are mine Avanthika Whatever you own, that belongs to me Even your goal is also mine I don't know who that Devasena is But it is her liberation that you wish I'll liberate her and bring This is my promise "Burning ember as breath, due to wounds in heart" "Eyes remain dried and they remain waiting" "To show one single sight these chains stand as witness" "Hey nation, wake up and come" Mahishmathi calm down, my son has come! Bahubali has conquered death Fast, make it fast Fast! While installing king's statue, all must praise him While installing king's statue, all must praise him Nothing is going to happen It's a hundred feet statue, no? At least should sacrifice hundred heads, no? Bahubali! Bahubali? Bahubali Bahubali! Bahubali! Bahubali! Bahubali! Bahubali! Who is that? Bahubali! Bahubali! Bahubali! Chinna, you also come and pull It has been 15 days since my son has left, why is he not coming yet? He is the one who lifts the Shiva Lingam, nothing will happen to him If nothing has happened, why is he not coming here? - Don't know... ...Whether he has seen his parents Don't know whether he came to know we are not his parents Won't my Shiva come back to here? Ganga! - Here after won't he call me mother? Hey fellows, open that cave fast Come man On that day trusted me on seeing the fire burning in my eyes Today on those same eyes, trust on the determination that glares My Shiva will liberate queen Devasena Come with me Okay Who has told that custodian of righteousness Bahubali is not alive? All though I'm alive I'm dead long back And you, still keeps on living in the minds of the people Bahubali! Bahubali! On hearing the sound of Bahubali still echoing in the breeze again Not mine, it feels like his statue is rising up Is it because what that is suppressed in the mind of people, has it come out? Or is it because what is seen in reality, has it come out? Shucks! No chance at all Will call all the guards Grandpa, will enquire who has started it first Hey what are you doing here, king is calling, come Today who has pronounced the sound Bahubali among the crowd? The question is asked to you people Why are you all silent? Your tongue, should it be chopped off? Your highness, we do not know who he is Stop it! Bunch of donkeys, are you saying none among you has seen? I've seen It seems like I've seen those eyes some where Badhra, I want him alive All of you come Hey! Who are you man? He is over here! Catch him! Catch him! Blow the danger siren! Mother, I've come to liberate you Kattappa, one stranger has entered inside the king's palace He had escaped by setting fire to kingdom You all go to the East I want him alive, doesn't matter if legs and hands are broken - As you wish Somehow, want him alive Come Heard the danger siren! Did you think that you had escaped? You old lady! After all these years of punishment aren't you done with sexual desire? At the moment on seeing a male, longs to flirt without shame isn't it? Kattappa, save me, he is going to kill me Young prince, indeed that is my duty If he wants to touch you, before that he should defeat me Kattappa! Devasena! They are coming to catch Devasena, attack together Bahubali! Thinking that he is dead, you had raised him Made him into a great warrior, presented to us and strengthened our trust Towards you, this Mahishmathi is always indebted My mother's eyes which should gaze at me with love She looks at me with a sorrowed face Those eyes which I had not seen so far now looks at me as if I'm God Not knowing who she is, on seeing those un-healed wounds on that mother My anger is burning! Why is that? Who am I? You are the blood of our God Amarendra Bahubali You are blessing as a result of your mother Devasena 25 years of penance You are a tree which is sprouted out of seeds of 'sacrifice' - ...of mother princess Shivagamidevi Mahendra, the history which you should... ...know has started half a century back The throne of Mahishmathi was adorned by your grand father... ...Veerendra Vikrama Devan King's brother Pingaladeva, was denied with the throne... ...due to his handicap in his own mind Moreover he misunderstood that it was because of his defect on his arm He glazed out of anger! By disdaining the citizen's of Mahishmathi whom he loved so much Disdaining his wife who was six months pregnant One day great king Veerendra Vikrama Devan passed away For three months, the Mahishmathi was drenched in sorrow Sister of king as well as wife of Pingala... ...Shivagamidevi undertook the great task of ruling on her own shoulders With her knowledge and dexterity, Mahishmathi... ...was awarded with a good governance However the throne without a king... ...she soon realized it was a breeding ground for cheaters Wicked people's cunning moves echoed on her ears During the full moon at 'Karkidakam' (July-August) The princess withered out of labor pain Couldn't save the great princess The baby is a boy Bahubali! While seeing this throne, it seems like it's a widow's forehead, isn't it? I'm going to take over this throne Bringing light to Mahishmathi, which is remaining in darkness Indeed an apt decision You had taken pledge will remain with Mahishmathi at all times, didn't you? At the times of a danger it is not fair to be against country's interest... ...that is not the symbol of a 'Kshatriya'(Warrior), Marthanda Great minister, sign of a 'Kshatriya' is to conquer the throne Shivagamidevi! Believers of royal family come and stand on my side Hey Shivagamidevi, who is going to align behind a lady? Kattappa! Because of them, honor of Mahishmathi is tinged with shame Purify it with blood! Hey! Did you all see, he is attacking our men? Go, slain that slave and this Shivagami! Kill Kattappa! With my own men, stabbing on my back is it? What a wild strategy of war? Marthanda, this is not a wild strategy of war This is the war strategy of the nation Mother, have seen your knowledge and courage face to face You must head this throne and rule the nation No, great minister that is not my place Who else is it? - Great minister, that is an unwanted question My son, Bhallaladeva is born for this throne Shivagami, kindly order the decree Both my children has got the equal rights to head the throne When they grow up, out of them one who is stronger in combat... ...one who understands the feelings of subjects more. He'll be the king of Mahishmathi This is my order and this is the decree of the country also "On the sky as darkness spreads" "She is the ray of light" "On this lap..." "Bahubali was born here" "Churns on this sea of milk" "Is it the poison or the nectar?" "To heir the Mahishmathi which leaps to skies" "Bahubali is that sun" "Adorns arms and garland Bahubali is winning hero" Feed me some Why standing? Kindly sit Now, you may feed me Prince, your visit to here itself is wrong And sitting beside us, that is a bigger offence To quench hunger asked some food, for that why telling all this rules? Over there at the palace, royal feast is waiting for you Let it be, what'll happen if I eat this? The very smell of it, makes me long to eat it Prince, even now haven't you understood what the mistake is? You hail from royal family We are from lower caste If so, I being the prince of Mahishmathi orders it Uncle, kindly feed me Great! Great! When I become the king, you'll be my army chief Complete training on education and war techniques are over Both of your children are equally skilled, princess In such a situation how to decide who'll be the future king? I'm putting my children to a test On the contrary, both of them are equally blessed and Lord tests me Chief minister, let the next round of tests be more severe than this Before deciding who'll become the king Princess, had to confront a new problem In the form of Shahithan, who was one of the most trusted one of princess Princess, a robber killed our guards and stole our war strategies Inform the news to two young prince As your order Both young princes, rode outside the borders of Mahishmathi Kingdom. Traveled to various countries in search of insurgent At last came to know that he is hiding in a place called 'Shringapuram' That place was the hiding place for robbers and terrorists If at all any strangers enters to that place, impossible to return alive You are not seen here before I'm new to this place Why do you want a knife in the waist, are you an informer? No, no Check everyone and only then let them inside If our men had guarded like this... We wouldn't be able to see these countries Is it strength or intelligence? Will use whichever is sharp Take the spirits This is not enough This is also not enough Do you have the money? Give as much as my brothers need Not only this there are several more "Veins gets heated up" "Body drenched in sugarcane juice" "Night has lured, melted and has casted it" "Has tamed, tightened, compressed the bosom" "Hey beauty! Hey beauty!" "Hey naughty, has kept you inside golden casket, I had given myself to you" "Today I've come whirling your tender body..." "...Im a snake which came in search of it" "Longing for the treasure that is hidden, the search is on, is on" "Veins gets heated up" "Body drenched in sugarcane juice" "Haven't we made flowers out of clouds?" "Why searching for other ones?" "Why not pluck the flowers and tickle it?" "Magical charm of him" "Indulging in pleasure with him" "Come beside to extinguish it" "Hey beauty! Hey beauty!" "Entire body was numbed out of desire, heart throbbed out of lust" "Longing for the treasure that is hidden, the search is on, is on" "Veins gets heated up" "Body drenched in sugarcane juice" Better than being severely tortured in your hands... Kattappa! Tell! To whom have you send the secrets? Come on tell Kalakeya Kalakeyar, they are like hunters Once they trespass inside a city... ...they will come and search for crying babies and squeeze their necks They rape females without any distinction on youth and old Will kill whatever that has got life Whatever that shines will be possessed by them And the rest will be put to flames Small countries might be scared of Kalakeyan Why should we get scared, as we've 25,000 soldiers? What is the strength of the Kalakeya army? 100,000! Woods where herd of locust flies land where Kalakeya army moves That will be converted into a burial ground On one side we should protect the country and on other side... ...we must continue the war What is our war strategy? 'Trident military array' That strategy is only in the books No one has tried it Do you mean to say with philosophy can go for war? If no one knows it, then Kalakeyar also won't know it Because of that we should use that one That is my opinion I agree to it To come inside our country this is the only entrance Kattappa, to keep off the enemies... ...not entering how many soldiers do you want? 5000 soldiers, with spears and shields will create an iron fort A big wall made up of soldiers I'll take the charge of the army at the North I'll undertake the army at the South From the information what we have received Kalakeya army head will deploy only half of his army to forefront With our military array and with other weapons... ...any big army can be detained for ten hours But before that Kalakeya head must be killed When the army head is killed, the army will get scattered and run At the middle of the war, at the right time Both the princes, along with horse army battalion... ...will attack Kalakeya head On understanding this military array and to counter... ...attack they might need two hours Mother, that is enough for me to succeed and return For me, just one hour will be enough to chop his head and return Great! One who wins in this will get the throne In the war who kills the Kalakeya head, he'll get Mahishmathi throne That is true highness Yes For both of the princes, divide the army and give Bhalva, Bahu time has given a good opportunity... ...to show your love towards your country Make use of it Long live Mahishmathi Kingdom! Bahu, what your uncle has done towards you is injustice You are given with only weapons to destroy the wall of the fort On a wide war front what is the use of that? All weapons on arrow shooting is delegated to Bhalvaldevan Shucks! You could have denied that initially Giving the arrow shooting tools to our prince that was big cheating What cheating? I need this much soldiers, these many weapons... ...one who is not capable of demanding by asking, over here What is he going to do at the war field? A strong person is provided with more strength This is not cheating, this is the strategy of war in the country Hey who is that? Kindly excuse Prince has told to dismantle the tents and come Bhalvaldeva, welcome! Bahubali welcome! Bahubali! Bahubali! No need! Bahu, this is a ritual that is followed by us for centuries When the sacrifice is not conducted the soldiers will get frightened Their confidence will get swinged The blood must be spilled! Yes prince, if sacrifice is not done before the war... ...will become a victim of Kali's wrath To quench the thirst of Kali... ...why an animal sacrifice, that doesn't know anything? Let my blood be spilled, which is boiling Long live Mahishmathi Kingdom! There is a limit to Mahishmathi's patience Giving you a chance for the last and final time Leave your weapons in the battle field and return... ...you can be spared from killing Among the two children of yours, one who kills me You had informed that he is the king Perhaps if they die in my hands Along with the country I'll also attack you I'm ready to give you a son! You make him the king! He should be there, alive! Today before sun set, legs and hands chopped off... ...on the battle field, with blood flowing he should be alive! For the vultures to pluck out his eyes, eagles to dig out his intestines... ...he should very much remain alive! Kattappa! As per your order Let the war sirens blow! Long live Bahubali! Start trident military array Bhalvaldevan! Young prince! Young prince! Soldiers! Our military array is destroyed For the first time, in the soil of Mahishmathi enemy flag is flying This is the sign of death Truly, it's death! Death! Death! Death! Death! Brave men! What is death? More than our strength, thinking that number of enemies are more... ...that's death In the battle field, it's better to die than living in fear, that is death! After insulting mother and person laughs before the eyes, on seeing it... In stead of chopping his head, fleeing out of fright, that is death! To win that death, I'm going to start my journey My mother as well as my mother land, no one who is born to a scoundrel... ...cant just touch them! I'll prove this by killing enemies Who is going to come with me? I'm the one! Who is ready to die with me? I'm the one! Who is going to succeed death and live with me? I'm the one! I'm the one! Long live Mahishmathi! Long live Mahishmathi! Long live Mahishmathi! Long live Mahishmathi! Vultures must pluck out his eyes! Eagles must dig out his intestines With legs and hands chopped off A river of blood should flow! Yes, my son, mine! Let Bhalvaldeva rule! My son! My blood! My son killed Kalakeyan! Won the battle! From now on the king of Mahishmathi is Bhalvaldevan Long live Bhalvaldevan The courage of Bhalvaldevan... ...should be written in golden letters in history This success epic should be scripted on our temple walls After thousands of years, let his tale of success sung by this soil! Today, my son Bhalvaldevan great warrior... ...is appointed as army chief of Mahishmathi And I hereby inform, Bahubali as your future king! Hey Shivagami, what a decision is this? My son! Our son! It was our son, no? Who killed Kalakeyan And haven't you seen that? Why is he not appointed as king? Why? The qualification to become the king is not on account... ...of how many enemies he killed It is based on how many citizens he had saved In the battle field Bhalvaldeva's focus was on killing foes On the other hand, Bahubali, has strained enemies with one hand With the other hand he saved our citizens That is the difference between a warrior and a king One who kills hundred enemies is indeed a courageous warrior Being able to save one life He is equal to God If anyone saves lower castes, that to become a king... Bahubali, will become the king of Mahishmathi... ...on an auspicious time, he'll adorn the crown! This is my final order! This is my order and my proclamation for the country Bahubali! Bahubali! Bahubali! Bahubali! Immortal Bahubali! Immortal Bahubali! Was my Shivan's father, such a great valiant? On hearing about him I get goosebumps! Can I see him once? No mother That God demised No weapons can touch, no foe can come near! Can you tell how that brave warrior died? There is a deadly weapon than ordinary weapons Treacherous killing! Bahubali, was stabbed from back Who is that? Who is that cheat? That cheater... ...Im the one! "Dearest dream which is inflicted with violence in soul..." "...on one's lap it is carried, that is life" "Confronted with dense woods as proceeded forward" "Challenging great paths of destiny" "My beloved is on the march to succeed for a cherished victory"
