 

                        Master, where did this blizzard come from? Don't believe everything you see! But l really feel cold! Then you're already under her spell l've lost without fighting? The lce harpy! Wait! You're no match for her Now you tell me! You have come so far to find me Are you not entranced by my charms? lnstead of meditating on your sins... ...you are still harming humans! Blame those men, not me! l was so good to each one of them But their roving eyes strayed away from me So they deserved it! You're an enchantress, they were humans You were never meant to be together Today l'll bring it to an end Monk, you think you can escape from my spell? Then come and get me! Master, have you killed her? l've trapped her Confine her in the Lei Feng Pagoda Me again? lt's me! ''Jin Shan Temple'' ''Lei Feng Pagoda'' Trying to scare me? Master wouldn't have trapped you if you were really scary We're giving you another chance A chance to reflect and improve if you make real progress in meditation... ...you'll be released You, too! Study to improve yourself! Hey! Hurry up back there! Coming! Xu Xian... l shouldn't have climbed up here to pick herbs with you Be a bit more patient Look! Here's one! Unlike Shennong, you know the value of herbs Xu Xian, you even know which flowers to eat Which flowers cure which ailments Do you even know what flower that is? That fool is eating flowers! They have thorns! He's no fool He's not picking the pretty wild roses with their thorns Roses are pretty... But not as pretty as me You... you're more like a hornflower Blowing your own horn from dawn to dusk Hey, don't you even know... Medicines cure some ailments But others need liquor distilled from flowers! That's absolutely right! Let's keep going - Alright - Climb further? Look, they're still digging for herbs They'll strip the whole mountain bare! l'll give them a scare! What? Qingqing... Xu Xian? Xu Xian? He's coming to Xu Xian, are you alright? Xu Xian! Xu Xian! Where's that girl? What girl? Maybe you banged your head too hard... Just now, in the water, a girl kissed me She breathed into my mouth She saved me Hey! The one giving you the kiss of life was me! Why did you save him? You even gave his vital energy a boost! Hey, l'm talking to you! What are you staring at? Nothing Nothing? You're smitten! Master, lt looks like another bat-demon bite Amitabha... Today is the 15th... The day of the Lantern Festival We have to find these demons soon Or many more people will die Amitabha... Ferryman, wait! Here! We need to cross the river, ferryman l'm no ferryman, but jump in l hope we're not delaying you Not at all! To help others... ...is to spend time well Thank you, kind sir Sir... What you just said was very interesting How do you use your time when you're not helping others? l'm aiming to become... ...a doctor of medicine Good, good! Young men like us should have dreams! l have one too l dream of become the Abbot of Jinshan Temple And where would that leave me? Uh, Master... that's not... l didn't mean now... l mean. after... After my death? You want me to die? No. l... l... That's not what l meant, Master... l... lt seems you are Abbot Fahai of Jinshan Temple lt takes ten years of good deeds for two people to meet lt's destiny that let us to be acquainted Young man, you're from Hangzhou? Yes, my name's Xu Xian l'm a herbalist Master, what are you counting? How long until l die Xu Xian, the weather's nice today! That it is Don't change the subject What was your dream again? No... The ultimate dream l don't have any dream! My only dream is my wish that you... White, tell us what's bothering you Turtle and l can help you resolve it What... do... you... l want to visit the human world You just want to see that flower-eating fool! l'd just like to take another look at him Look at what? He's just a common mortal! You've been moping over him for days! What's this all about? She used her vital essence to save a fool who was drowning if... your... lips... Let me say it if their lips met... ...there was a flow of vital essences He's in you and you're in him! Nothing so serious, l just want to take a look at him Don't give me a hard time Qingqing, come with me! Hey, where are you going? l want to come! Take me too! l will just stay here See how much fun the mortal world is? ln a moment, get off the boat... ...and find him for me l'll be strolling around here When you find him, bring him to the pavilion on the lake Why don't you find him yourself? l want to play a little joke on him And see how nice he is Master, it's turning! Then don't blow on it! We'll split up to look around Ah! Watch out! What is it? A demon! A demon? How do you know? l'm an expert, of course l know Are you going to exorcise it? Shh, not so loud! lt's nearby! My Master and l have been tracking it for ages Master says we must exorcise it today Why do you have to do that? Demons hurt people What about demons which don't hurt people? l don't know Could you make friends with them? Definitely not! Why not? Master only taught me how to exorcise them Not how to make friends with them Then your Master has a problem Or maybe his Master had a problem Why don't l have a problem? Because you absolutely don't have one You're very nice And very smart l'd like to have a friend like you l'm Qingqing l'm Neng Ren l'm busy, l have to go Take care! You are the gentleman my sister wants to see Look again, do l look like a gentleman? You have the wrong man Can't be... You're a herb-picker, aren't you? Yes, but l'm not a gentleman So l can't possibly be the one your sister wants to see l recognize you, you're the man who eats flowers Then what's my name? Who am l? l don't know But you are the one my sister wants to see lt's Lantern Festival night, go and enjoy it And stop bothering me Goodnight... young miss What on earth? Why's it moving? Stop! You're a real fool Where do you think you're going? Sorry! Sorry! l didn't do that on purpose! Sit down Miss, it's late and you're here alone This isn't proper Don't treat me as a stranger You don't need to be so polite No, no, l should go Who built this pavilion? lt's so rickety Well, l think it's very nice And it's a perfect spot to see the West Lake l'm afraid l'm not so interested And l need to get home This early? There's moonlight on the lake, a pavilion in the moonlight... And we're in the pavilion Don't you think it's romantic? l'm too busy for romance What are you avoiding? Why are you keeping such a distance from me? Why don't you like me? lt's not that l don't like you, Miss But someone else already has my heart Miss, l'm a very poor man l pick herbs for a living l'm not worthy of your affections Then tell me about her What kind of person is she? l know almost nothing about her l can't even recall her face All l know is that she saved my life That day l fell into a lake in the mountains She rescued me if she saved your life, you owe her a lot But when l revived... ...she was gone My friends said l'd imagined her But l'm quite sure... ...she was real Because she kissed me so deeply That kiss saved my life ln a way, it also took my life What if... You could kiss her again? Would you remember her this time? Hello, my friend! Oh, it's you... haven't gone home yet? Done with your errands? All done lt's dangerous here, you should go home if it's so dangerous, you should leave too l can't, l'm hunting demons Know the saying? ''There's someone smarter than you know'' lt applies to demons too You're no match for this one l advise you to give up l can't, l'm sworn to obey my Master We have to trap the bat demon tonight Well, if you want to kill yourself... This is a very, very powerful demon Not really... Just a bat demon which bit a girl Ugh, she's all bloody! How do you know? l'm an expert too l can't let it get away Sorry we can't talk more, until next time! No! Watch out Oh well, there goes another friend Neng Ren of Jinshan Temple! Demon hunter and enforcer of Buddha's law No bluffing! Master! Save me! Master! Save me! Master! Master! Look! Master Fahal and Neng Ren are back What's wrong with Brother Neng Ren? The bat demon poisoned him Can he be cured? If he's lucky... What are you staring at? You No need to keep staring so long l can't stop wondering... ...if this is really happening What do you think? That you're dreaming? Someone once told me... if l want to see someone, l should keep her in my heart Then l'll really see her again Now l know it isn't superstition, it's true You're saying you did want to see me again? Xu Xian, let's go on like this Always together, alright? Eating together, sleeping together... Doing everything together Won't you get tired of me? Won't you? But l want to take you seriously l want to meet your parents And when l have their permission to court you... Then we'll have a formal match and get married? Brother! Brother! Wake up! The sun rose hours ago! Brother, wake up! What? That's scary, Brother! Brother! You... Your ears have grown pointy! And you got fangs! So scary! Brother, are you turning into a demon? Master! Master! Something very bad has happened! Brother Neng Ren has run away Come and see! Quickly! This place isn't bad, we could live here Change! Hey, friend... You want to hang yourself? Hurry away, friend Death by hanging is an ugly sight You'll get nightmares l know! After death, your body turns purple Your tongue hangs loose and your eyes fall out! What? if you don't believe me, give it a go! You don't look like you really want to die You don't understand l'm a demon hunter... But l'm turning into a demon! Just think... When l meet a demon l've hunted before... ...l'll seriously lose face if you're a demon, just be a demon When one demon meets another... Mostly they just nod a greeting And lots of them don't have limbs Who'll care about your face? l'll let you in on a secret Actually, l'm a demon too You... you... What's wrong? Aren't we two the same now? All demons together! Don't look at me like that Since we're so close now... ...l'll teach you how to be a demon Come on! l'm gelded! Come on! A gelding! Come on! l just had chive for breakfast. l am going to throw up! Bats hang upside down, get used to it! My head will burst! lt's full of blood! That will make you smarter l have a question for you... Am l pretty? Listen... Right now, all l can see is stars l'm seeing you upside down Pretty doesn't come into it l see And now, am l pretty? Seeing you now... very pretty So, do you get a special feeling when you look at me? Would you like to bite my neck? Taste my blood? Amitabha... l'm a sinner, l'm a sinner Drink some water What is this? What do you think? You bit my neck... ...ate meat and drank blood! You violated the Three Taboos! No more calling yourself a monk! From now on, be the demon you are! Liar! We're there. Have we brought enough gifts? Stop worrying! Come on in l didn't expect your family to live in a mansion! lt's just a broken down old house You're here at last! You kept us waiting! They're all here... this is my family Go on in - Go ahead - Thanks We need to hurry They can't keep these forms for long l know l want to play too! You can't take human form! Scram! Hello, everyone l'll make the introductions This is my father Hello Sir, my name is Xu Xian He's... He's absolutely amazing! You're... You're just perfect for each other! The perfect couple! Really... Really nice to see! How wonderful that you are here to propose! Don't worry, he's fine Auspicious day for an engagement, isn't it? This is... my mother She's so young! Really? Actually, my stepmother l'll introduce you Googie... Googie... How come you have a girl's name? You misheard, it's Gugu He was a chubby kid, that was his nickname And it stuck Hello, Gugu Let's sit down lt's this year's latest fashion! This is called Doodle-do Wine lt'll make you hiccup! Doodle-do! My parents like you to look at them when you speak Uh... Aren't you here today to propose? Hurry, then, we can hardly wait l am Xu Xian, poor and humble l never dreamt l'd win anyone like your Susu l've come here today... ...because l seek your exalted permission... ...to marry Susu Sir... Although l have nothing to my name... ...l love Susu very much No need for a dowry, just take her home! Go on! l also want to say to Susu... Good heavens! Fine, just get on with it! l want to hear what Xu Xian has to say Sister... Speak l don't know what stroke of good fortune... ...allows me to make you mine All it took was one kiss The wheels of fate turned... ...and brought me to a perfect moment... ...of tenderness and happiness From now on every moment, every second l have... ...l will spend... ...beside you To make you happy Why did you do that? They're reverting to their true forms lt's bad! lt's bad! Fahai is here to exorcise us! Run! Run! Get Xu Xian away from here while l distract him Take care! A tawdry illusion to dupe humans! Send them all back to the demon realm! Yes, Master! Master! Master, let her go! You know what you're asking? Come back with me Master... l can't go back any more Master, take care! We escaped? l'm not dead? Be calm, l'll always protect you What are we doing here? Weren't we getting engaged? We did it My parents gave us their blessing Really? That was easy So now we're married l'm your wife We can be together for the rest of our lives One day... ...l'll have my own pharmacy Then l'll have more money l don't want you to suffer with me How could that be? As long as we're together... ...l'll never know suffering What's love like in this human world? What do you mean? l'd just like to know what kind of couple we are Tell me Well, there are several kinds... Some couples are like birds in the forest Each can fly away if they want Not that kind! Another kind is... ...where the husband gets rich and dreams... ...of his wife's death Xu Xian! l'll kill you! Watch out! Don't chase me! You'll make me drop the herbs! l'll kill you! l'll kill you! l'll kill you! This disease cannot be cured Master They are victims of demons At best, they'll go mad... at worst, they'll die while they're alive, l must try to save them Take precautions, don't go to strange places alone Thank you, Master Where did this disease come from? So many people suddenly dying You should take some rest You've been making medicine for three days! l can't l have to find the cure Susu, give me a hand lt mustn't stick... ...to the bottom of the pot Preserving vital essence concentrating vigor boosting the spirit Aside from these fundamentals... ...the medicine must strengthen basic functions This is suoh a fierce disease Can this medicine work? l don't really know Woman... Disciples! Foul demons! Crossing the three realms and five planes... ...you've harmed the people and spread chaos and evil! By Buddha's mercy, if you choose to repent... ...you still have a chance to live We'd rather die than listen to your nonsense! Beware! The fox-demons are casting a charm! On guard! Yes, Master! Maximum protection shield! Heaven needs no hearing, ecstasy needs no sight Void my sense of self What's that mantra? ls it real or are you making it up? Show your real forms! By heaven's mercy Master, we regret our sin Please let us go. We beg you Silence! You are demons! return to the six paths of transmigration! Accept your punishment with humllity! Amitabha... Sister, Sister What's wrong? Are you alright? lt's nothing That's impossible... if you keep on like this... ...something will go very wrong l know what l'm doing All you care about is that Xu Xian Adding your vital essence to that medicine... ...is costing you centuries of self-improvement l don't want to see him work so hard l want to help him But you may not live to see him again! lt can't be that bad Of course it is l have to go Wait! Ah, Dr Xu is here Dr Xu, thank you! You're truly our savior We owe you our lives You and your wife are such good people Don't rush There's enough for everyone Thank you Master, you should take some too lt cures sickness and prevents infection Thank you Master... Did you mix this medicine? Yes No-one helped you? Yes, my wife did You are the quintessence of benevolence Take this spirit dagger as a token of thanks l can't, Master, l'm just doing my duty You shouldn't refuse a gift from a senior Keep it to protect yourself Thank you, Master Amitabha... You think you can run? You made the cure for the fox-demon's poison So what? Making it has cost you centuries of your vital essence You're kind to the ordinary people But in your eyes, all we do is harm people Despite good intentions, you will harm someone Who will l harm? You should know that Xu Xian is my true love, how could l harm him? You're from different realms! Being together... ...you drain his life-force and distort his destiny Human lives are short, and true love is rare He didn't choose to love you, you took his love What does that matter? He's happy with me Go chant your sutras! You know nothing of love if Xu Xian knew you are a snake... ...would he still love you? l truly love him if that's the case, shed your own tears Don't make him shed tears over you Since you're so benevolent... ...l'll let you go this time if l see you again in this realm, there'll be no mercy Susu, l'm home So soon? You're back... Look! What's special about today? Well, everyone else... ...is celebrating the Dragon Boat Festival while l am celebrating... ...the best day l've ever had! The day my medicine cured everyone! Really? That's wonderful The old villagers were so grateful They gave us all this food Susu, thank you for working so hard Here, a toast to you l'm hungry Here, try this lt's good You have some too What's wrong? What kind of wine is this? They distilled it themselves Sulphur-flower wine! That's right lt's a festival tradition, it wards off snake-bites Susu? Susu? What's wrong? Susu! Susu? Susu? What's the matter? Are you alright? l'm alright Susu! Why lock the door? Open it! Susu... Don't frighten me! Susu... What's the matter? Susu! Susu! Susu! Susu, what are you doing? Open the door! Susu, don't frighten me Xu Xian... Do you recall... ...what you said to me when you proposed? l want to hear you say it again l knew you were playing a trick on me! l'd rather not repeat it if you don't... ...l might never hear it again Alright, alright l'll say it But then you must open the door! Alright ''All it took was one kiss'' ''l'm sure that the wheels of fate turned...'' ''...and brought me to a perfect moment...'' ''...of tenderness and happiness'' ''From now on...'' ''...every moment, every second l have...'' ''...l will spend beside you...'' ''...to make you happy'' Susu! Susu! Open the door, Susu! l gave you a chance You didn't leave, so now l must take you Monk... Why are you intent on destroying our happiness? Susu! Who are you talking to? Don't chase her She was stabbed with the spirit dagger Losing vital essence, she can't take human form Master, where is my wife? Did the white snake eat her? The white snake was your wife You married a thousand year old snake demon lmpossible! lmpossible! lmpossible! Sister, l'll give you some of my vital essence lt's no use You have only a few centuries' worth That spirit dagger had thousands! We were wrong to come here lt wasn't worth it, to see you like this Maybe l shouldn't have done it... But l have no regrets Only now do l know... ...what true love is Love... ls it really so important? Tell me... How can l save Susu? The one thing that might is spirit herb lt can bring the dead back to life lt only grows in the Lei Feng Pagoda A demon like me can't even get in there! Plus, there is only a single sprout lt is really, really scary. They say fire can't even burn it! Even if it takes braving swords and seas of fire... ...l shall save Susu l can't take you any further You dare to steal the spirit herb? Thief! Which is the real spirit herb? You will know after your death l'll find it even if it kills me! l must save Susu! There's only a single sprout. Fire can't even burn it! They found us! Did you get the spirit herb? l did Then let's get out of here! lt is going to be a disaster lf they catch you You take the spirit herb, l'll distract them Demons have been confined in Lei Feng Pagoda for aeons! The spirit herb kept them trapped Your theft has caused a catastrophy! Let me go! Why are you keeping me here? l needed it to save her! l wounded Susu Master, let me go! Let me go! l wounded Susu Master, we can't hold them much longer Call all the senior monks, now! We'll cast the Luohan spell! l got spirit herb! Spirit herb? From where? Xu Xian gave it to me Where is he? The monks took him Disciples! Seal the main hall with a maximum protection spell! Maximum protection in force! Now we cast the spell! Any interruption will kill him! Leave! You trespass on hallowed ground! Fahai, give me my Xu Xian! You should be thankful you aren't dead Why this further trouble? Release him and l'll go at once He stole the spirit herb for you He's in great danger because evil spirits possessed him! Now we're breaking your spell! l possessed him? That cannot be... l want to see him He's in a life-or-death struggle lnterrupting the ritual... ...will end his life... ...and threaten those around him Relations between humans and demons can bring no good You... You're just coming between my sister and Xu Xian! if you won't release him, l'll fight you! if l don't leave with Xu Xian. l'll flood Jinshan! You are selfish! How many lives will you threaten? l will be forced to put an end to you unless you stop Very well... You're forcing me! Get the important ones first. Quick! Forward, brothers! Charge! Bite them! Break their human chain! Xu Xian! Xu Xian! Xu Xian? You... lt's me, Susu Susu? Who is Susu? l'm your wife When did l get married? Do you remember how we met? l... Fahai, what horrible magic did you use... ...to make him forget me? As l told you, evil spirits possessed him You broke in and disrupted the Luohan spell! You're the one who's harmed Xu Xian! What Luohan spell? What possession? You're making it up! You just want Xu Xian to leave me You're a monster! Qingqing! Brother Neng Ren! Brother Neng Ren! l have been a dharma defender all my life... ...to maintain natural order and ethical conduct Why did the calamity happen instead? Have l been too stubborn? Was l really wrong? Why is lt... ...that every time l wake up... ...you're beside me? Open the door! Let me out! Let me see Xu Xian once more! l don't care if you turn me to dust and scatter me The love we had... was it not real? Where is all your 'great benevolence' now? Can't we see each other just once more? Just once... l'll accept my punishment Amitabha... Your mercy is boundless... l understand... Amitabha... Xu Xian! You're suffering... l don't recognize you... But for some reason l don't understand... ...when l see you shedding tears... ...my heart aches for you Don't be upset, l don't want you to cry l'll cry for both of us l don't mind that you've forgotten me My own memories are enough Before l first saw you... ...l meditated for a thousand years But those thousand years... ...were worth less than a moment with you You'll never know... ...how l've had to suffer But even if l die... ...l'll have no regrets Susu... ''Your hair tickles my heart'' ''Your eyes lingers in my mind'' ''l can bear any hardships to be with you'' ''Our love shall remain in the dark'' ''year after year'' ''but nothing can change it'' ''Nothing at all'' ''l will be there'' ''if you are there'' ''l vow to live for you'' ''because l can lose anything but you'' ''Love is right'' ''if there is joy between us'' ''Our love shall survive'' ''longer than any time'' ''l vow to live for you'' ''till the end of time'' ''because l can lose anything but you'' ''Love is right'' ''if the tortures on me are to protect you'' ''Our love shall survive'' ''longer than any time'' ''And we'll meet again in our next lives'' Susu... for the two of them... ...that was probably the best outcome l never want to love anyone as she loved him You... you'll never be much good as a demon Neng Ren... That new form you have... lt kind of suits you
