 

                        1 As incomplete as the sun without rays... And fragrance without breeze... Is a ruler without his Prime Minister. The demise of our Prime Minister, Peshwa Balaji Vishwanath... Leaves us with a pressing question. Who here considers himself worthy enough to be the next Peshwa? I would accept the post of Peshwa with great honour, Your Majesty. Your proposal pleases me, Panth Pratinidhi. Does the court approve? Your Majesty... The only man that can protect... the Maratha empire and preserve the honour of the Peshwa's post... is Bajirao! Forgive me, Your Majesty but this statement mocks the court. You appear to be the only one laughing, Minister. Every man has the right to prove his merit. A son does not inherit his father's wisdom simply by wearing his turban. Even a sandalwood tree needs time to age before it produces fragrance. But even the youngest thorn can prick. What say? Never doubt the cheetah's speed, the hawk's vision and Bajirao's sword... They could outwit you at any moment! I, Bajirao Ballad... Son of Late Balaji Vishwanath, consider myself fit for this post. And for that, I am willing to pass any test. A test there shall be, Bajirao. But I shall allow Panth Pratinidhi to decide it. Prove your marksmanship by splitting that peacock feather into two, Bajirao. Let your weapons speak of your wisdom. Now let's see some of that cheetah's speed and hawk's vision... Your Majesty, the challenge was to split the peacock feather into two halves... And the court witnesses that the feather is still intact. But shorter than before. Sift through the mud and you will find the other half there. That was proof of my marksmanship... Now for the thought behind it. That soil is India and that peacock feather is the tree... of the Mughal kingdom with its roots in Delhi... The arrow is... The Maratha empire. Strike at the root and even the biggest tree will fall. You have a brilliant mind, Peshwa! Behold the pride of the Maratha empire... The righteous and dutiful... Peshwa Bajirao Ballad! Behold! This story belongs to an era in history... When King Shahu Maharaj held the reins of the Maratha empire. And his Prime Minister was Bajirao Ballad. A sword as swift as lightening... A will as immovable as the himalayas. The radiance of his clan on his face... And only one dream in his eyes... To see the Maratha flag paint the skies in Delhi, saffron with victory. In ten years, Bajirao had captured half of India with his leadership... political prowess and unmatched battle skills. Stories of Bajirao's valour made headlines... from the Nizam in South, to the Mughals in the north. We shall fulfil King Shivaji's dream... Defeat the Mughals and make India a hindu state. Unlike the enemy's jewels and wealth... our treasury is rich with blood, ready for sacrifice. We owe our every breath to the Maratha empire. We are the thunder in the face of any storm... And we are a sea of fire in the face of thunder! Bajirao Ballad shall break away all shackles of defeat... and unfurl the saffron flag in victory. (War Cry) While Bajirao was weilding his sword to change the map of India... A magnificent palace, Shaniwar Wada, was being constructed in Pune, in his honour. (Chants) Kashi, where are you going in the middle of prayers? Bhanu has come! Bhanu who? A dear childhood friend... I'll be right back with her. Be back soon! Yes, right away. When will Kashi ever learn! Bhanu, when did you arrive? And why are you out here, you should've come into the prayer service. That's alright. It's been a while since we last met. All well, Kashi? Bhanu, when did this happen? What happened to your husband? He was murdered. By whom? By the Peshwa. Tread carefully Bhanu! You are accusing the Peshwa of murder! He was accused of being a spy... The Peshwa would never do such injustice. What's in this? The Peshwa's justice... My husband's ashes. Today you sanctify your home... While mine burns to ashes. I ache for my husband, Kashi. As will you! My Lord, a soldier has come from Bundelkhand. He has a message from King Chatrasal. The soldier wishes to meet you. Does the King wish to offer me his daughter's hand? He says Mohammad Bangash's troops have surrounded his fort... And he needs our assistance. Are we to fight our own battles or help the king, Tukoji? We must reach Siraunja. Send the soldier away. But Sir, the soldier is insisting on meeting the Peshwa. Tukoji, leave! Certainly. If we take this valley, we will reach quicker. You cannot meet the Peshwa. Stop him! No one must go inside... Panth, please send her away respectfully. Bundelkhand is in danger. The Rajput queens and princesses are poised to self-immolate. We need your help. When Bundelkhand has a weapon like you, what help should I be? I cannot help you right now, please leave. You may lose your life over this! It hardly matters. I swore while leaving Bundelkhand that... I would return only with Peshwa Bajirao, or not at all. I put forth a plea believing you to be God, but you aren't even human. What is your name? Mastani. I like your courage and your approach... Decamp, Panth. We ride to Bundelkhand! But Sir, what will we tell His Majesty? His Majesty will be happy to know that... one Hindu monarch is going to help another. How far is Bundelkhand from here? It's a five day march. We shall get there in two... That's impossible. Let the enemy think that way... Bajirao's fame is carried by his speed, Mastani... Let's go! Final warning... "surrender by daybreak or face dire consequences" - Mohammad Bangash. No word of help from the Peshwa. That leaves us only two choices... Surrender or martyrdom! MARTYRDOM!! Ruhani Begum! What's going on? My king, if enemy breaches the fort walls... The women shall surrender to this fire, to safeguard our dignity! My king! I see torchlights coming in from the East!! That must be Mastani arriving with help. General! An army approaches from beyond those hills. Swerve the cannons! We've been tricked! About-face... Head back! There is no army here... It's just cattle! We have managed to trick them! Their cannons have been swerved. Mastani, reach inside the fort through the secret tunnel... And signal me once inside. We'll be ready for attack. Mastani! The Maratha army is here, father. Bundelkhand is forever indebted to you... There is no debt in duty, father. Go ahead and declare war, I'll signal the Peshwa. (War Cry) Attack! Congratulations on your victory, Peshwa. I wish you and Mastani the same. How is she now? Wounded, yet grateful. I don't know how I can repay this debt. I seek no reward, dear King... All I ask for, is the permission to bid farewell. I must reach Siraunja. I won't hear of it! You must celebrate this Holi (festival of colours) with us! My lady, it appears you've truly been playing Holi... And with none other than the Peshwa. He carried you here in his arms, wounded and unconscious... But even in that state you were entwined with him as though one body. Congratulations on this victorious morning, My Lady. I would like a few moments alone with Mastani Saheba. Leave us... These are my personal chambers, Peshwa... Not your battleground. One needs my permission to leave. I said... No one leaves without my permission. Besides, it could be dangerous being alone with you. Is that so! Do you not trust me, My Lady? I'm afraid it's myself I don't trust. My Rajput blood could make me avenge your assault. You have every right. I owe you my life. I owe you my homeland. I would give even my life for you, Mastani. It appears this account must be settled in private after all! You deserve to be praised, Mastani Saheba... My sword has never spared a foe on the battlefield... but somehow you escaped its wrath. I believe your wound is deep. Let me see it. Rajputs do not make a show of their wounds. To others, this may be a battle scar... But for me, you are the moon bathed in colour. The poison had to be stopped from spreading. I've seen your wounds, Mastani... You are no longer a Rajput. What you see is merely the mark of your sword. But it is my heart that bleeds. Even the Peshwa has a heart! "On this festival of colours." Paint me red in the colour of love. Oh you playful one, like Lord Krishna. I'm mesmerised looking at you... Hold me close, instead of looking from afar... Playfully you twist my arm... Like Lord Krishna with Radha. And when I protest, you embrace me... You refuse to let go of me... "Blushing I turn red... The colour of love." Fortune favours the brave, My Lady... And fortunate you are, indeed! The Peshwa has asked for a paan (after meal delicacy). Here, it is your excuse to see him. I no longer need excuses. This dagger? The Peshwa gave it to me! Dear God! And you accepted it? Don't you know that as per the custom in Bundelkhand... A girl is married to a man by accepting his dagger! Did you accept it? I accepted it. And he? Your paan. And if I weren't awake? I would will the night to go on for eternity... And gaze upon you forever. But that is impossible. Time and destiny cannot be controlled by mortals. What cannot be controlled by mortals can be swayed by the power of love. So can love stop the sun from rising? It just did. Do have your paan, or my hospitality might be questioned. Mastani, I shall be gone tomorrow. What of it? Perhaps we may never meet again. You are in my heart, like a prayer. The mention of your name shall be my worship... My Lady, the Peshwa is leaving! Entire Bundelkhand has gathered for his farewell, except you. Come, My Lady! Such arrogance does not become you, My Lady. You mistake love for arrogance. What sort of love is this? He is leaving, and you... Watching him go will be the death of me. God forbid! But this meeting will be left incomplete. An incomplete meeting leaves the promise of another. And what if destiny doesn't allow it? Mastani writes her own destiny. We may be greatly indebted to the Peshwa... But I refuse to send our daughter to Pune as an obligation, My King. I understand that our marriage has never been valid in the society... Because I am Muslim and you're Hindu. It is my own decision to go to Pune... I am wed to the Peshwa's dagger. This is a custom in Bundelkhand, not Pune. And do not forget that the Peshwa is Hindu Brahmin and you are Muslim. Mastani has Hindu Rajput blood too. She worships Allah and Krishna alike. Jodha and Akbar put aside religious differences in the name of politics. Mastani is doing the same, but for love. Let her go. Even so! He will never accept her as his legitimate wife. Radha was never Lord Krishna's wife... But their names are inseparable. Yes, but they are Gods! And love is worship... For which one needs no permission. May God fulfill your wishes! Stay blessed! My beautiful love has returned... Praise the Lord! A moment, My Lady... You have not taken my name this time. (Marathi tradition) Why, brother! It's a new era! New palace, new customs. Why must the lady always take the man's name? You take her name this time, or else no entering your new chambers! But it is a custom for women to say their husbands' name... No diamond can match the Kohinoor's sparkle and grace. And no name but Bajirao's lights up Kashi's face. Very good! This way, Peshwa Saheb. My Lady... You are entering your new chambers for the first time. What childishness is this! You swore on me... So don't open your eyes until I say so! Don't you trust me? Trust a warrior? You never know when he may attack! Now, open your eyes. What do you think? Beautiful!! This is nothing compared to the rest of Shanivaar Wada. Tell me something, My Lady... What? How come I still see it in your eyes? What? Longing! Because it keeps me company in your long absences. Oh dear... Where is it? What? Your mistress!! Your dagger? Just as well you've forgotten it. It will no longer come between us. Have I offended you by calling your dagger a mistress? I talk too much! King Chatrasaal has showered us with gifts. I am pleased! The timing couldn't have been better... Expenses had been piling up. So helping Bundelkhand has proved profitable for us. What is this? Who are you? This is King Chatrasaal's daughter. I wasn't aware he had such a beautiful daughter. I'm very pleased to make your acquaintance. As am I, thank you! What is your name? Mastani. Mastani... Beautiful name. Your father has many wives, whose daughter are you? Ruhani Begum's. I see, you are a Muslim. King Chatrasaal needn't have sent his daughter... all the way here simply to deliver gifts! What say, Chimaji? This dagger belongs to Bajirao! In Bundelkhand we observe a custom where girls are wed to daggers. Perhaps amongst Muslims and Rajputs. In the Peshwa regime, we do not accept such political ties. But I am already married to him! Chimaji, please make arrangements for her stay elsewhere. Do meet me before you return to Bundelkhand. My dear... If you stare any longer, you will cast an evil eye on me. I am trying to remove it. Going to war? I have decided... Next time, I shall accompany you to war. No matter what anyone says. But you cannot ride a horse. How do you expect to come? I'll go to the stable, mount my horse, crack the whip... And be off like the wind. Here comes Kashi!! We haven't even reached the battlefield yet and you've started. What else does this warrior need? A bit of land, two square meals, a piece of open sky, a steed, a sword... And my Kashi. Altogether, twenty-seven. How so? Twenty-seven wounds! And this time you let the enemy get too close... And now to avoid the twenty-eighth wound... This ring will protect you from both the evil eye... and the enemy's sword. My Lady, I do not trust the intentions of those people. These are no guests' chambers! It's a strategy to demean you. If they can put you up amonst courtesans... they can ask you to dance at their court next! My Lady! Well, well... Look at the butterfly! My lady, it was unwise to send our soldiers home. We are in a strange land, surrounded by strangers. You never know what problems might arise. What kind of people would house a guest amongst courtesans. And that too the daughter of King Chatrasaal. Swords would be raised in Bundelkhand if they caught wind of this. Yet you sit here silently... I know you feel humiliated, My Lady. Let us return home rather than be insulted here. If he truly loves you, the Peshwa will come after you, to Bundelkhand. One more thing, no matter your efforts... They will never let him learn you are here. And I will never let them forget my love for him. My Lord, you are now witnessing the most beautiful section of Shanivaar Wada... The Palace of Mirrors. Whoa, Chimaji... It's unreal! While you have been busy fighting our enemies for years... Your brother has been building this. Chimaji, you have brought the Taj Mahal to Pune. And you shall witness the true splendour of this place tonight... When we celebrate the New Year. Truly this is a dreamworld, brother. The true magic of this dreamworld lies in the wonder at your feet. How do you mean? At this very moment Bajirao, if Kashi desires... she can see you and Nana from her chambers. Are you saying Kashi can see both father and son from the comfort of her room? Therein lies the magic! That lotus has a mechanism that makes... your reflection shine from these mirrors... Straight onto the little window in Kashi's room. My Lady!! There's a beam coming through the window. Really! Yes, really, come on, come quickly! Then traveling through the glass on the water... it reflects onto the curtain in her chambers. Quickly, My Lady, quickly! Wait a moment! Oh! We can see Bajirao here although he's in the Palace of Mirrors. It's magic! Just look at how handsome our Bajirao is. Hey! Stop casting the evil eye on him. A sister can never cast an evil eye on her brother. But I've heard the Nawab's wives yearn to set eyes on him. I've heard they would gladly pay his weight in gold for a glimpse of him. Let them pay his weight in diamonds if they want... My Bajirao has never so much as looked at another woman. Understood! Like an angel descended from heaven... Her tresses exuding a divine fragrance... Here she comes... A vision in gold. I am intoxicated by your love. My love is no secret. The world tried to stop me, but look where love brought me... They say Mastani is intoxicated by your love... First, you wounded my heart... Then, you healed it with your love... "Your love has become my identity..." And loving you is my purpose. Every corner is illuminated by your beauty... You are indeed intoxicated by love, Mastani... Your soul is pure and your love, divine... You have been aptly named Mastani, one who dances to her own tune. I'm surprised but happy to see you here in Pune. This paan... A token of my hospitality. We shall meet tomorrow. Your capabilities greatly exceed my expectations. You are a talented dancer. Thank you. Please pay me a further compliment, accept my alliance. Of course I have. You are now allied with the kingdom as a court dancer. Very soon you will dance at the king's court in the capital. Do you not like my offering? I cherish your every offering, be it an anklet or a son... The more you try to distance him from me, the closer I shall get to him. Then keep trying endlessly. A dancer's place is always below the throne, on the court's floor. I have always been complimented on my beauty... Today watching a woman of... your standing threatened by it, makes me proud. Prepare to leave for the Capital. It appears no one has sobered from last night's performance. Look around, not a soul wishes to work! What is a warrior before whom a beauty is not compelled to lower her gaze... What is a beauty before whom a warrior is not compelled to lower his sword? Bravo, Peshwa! Well said! The brave Chimaji is here! Chimaji your presence indicates our campaigns have been audited. What is the outcome? Discounting endowments from Bundelkhand... none of the three campaigns have enriched our treasury. This is where you are wrong, brother. How have we not been enriched? First - the glory of victory. Second - shaming Bangash with defeat. Third - tolling the Maratha bell in Delhi. Fourth - the saffron flag once again stands strong against the blue sky. Praise the lord! And fifth - a lifetime's bond with Bundelkhand. And sixth, My Lord, you forget! A splendid dancer like Mastani to entertain us! Chimaji, see to it our hospitality towards Mastani Saheba is in no way lacking. Of course... Rest assured I will. She's lodged at Hirabagh Palace. Send a messenger to tell her I shall visit this evening. That won't be possible. Why? Because you must leave for the capital today, My Lord. I can do that tomorrow. His Majesty awaits you, you must present yourself there on time. You... Fool! Reign in your tongue... Understood? To the capital! Welcome, Bajirao. You were impatiently awaited. You summoned and here I am, Your Majesty. Congratulations on Bundelkhand! I had this sword of Afghan iron forged in your honour. I am honoured. My King, now permit me to use this sword to bring Delhi to its knees before you. This is not the right time to attack Delhi, politically speaking - My instincts say now is the time, your Majesty. Delhi is submerged in a haze of debauchery. The Mughal emperor's court has lost his faith. We have to appease the Nizam in the South, to get to Delhi, in the north. There is such a thing as political diplomacy. Minister has a point, Peshwa. That step must be taken after much forethought. We shall discuss other matters after this evening's soire. This sword is best left in its sheath, Peshwa. Since you won't be going to Delhi, what enemy's neck would you place it on? The Peshwa doesn't lack enemies. Don't move. Your neck is very valuable... and more delicate than this string of pearls around it. As you already know... Never doubt the cheetah's speed... the hawk's vision and Bajirao's sword... They can outwit you any time. Why is Mastani Saheba here? Your mother has sent her as tonight's entertainment. Let the entertainment begin. You are a court dancer, here to entertain. Instead you are dishonouring the court. I am not dishonouring the court, but upholding my own honour. Who are you? Mastani. She is a gift from Bundelkhand. She lit up the Peshwa's palace with her performance during New Year. That was a valid occasion... This is but a soire. She is no court dancer but King... Chatrasaal's daughter and a guest of the Peshwa realm. A rather special guest, it appears. Yes she is, Minister! Thanks to her the Peshwa is alive... and thanks to the Peshwa the Maratha realm is alive! Your Majesty... She does not belong in this court. Allow her to leave. The Peshwa is right. You have saved his life... How can I repay you? You will not be able to fulfill my wish, Your Majesty. What wish is this, that a king cannot fulfill? The Peshwa! I salute your courage in asking for what the Maratha kingdom values most. But you could be punished for this demand. I lay my life, at the sword of thee. If love is a crime, punish me! And yet, if thee hold me wrong, Erase my name like an untold song. Well spoken! You may leave, Mastani. Don't anchor the boat, I need to cross the river! My Lord, the water levels have risen alarmingly. I'd have to bear huge losses in taking the boat out in this weather!! That should suffice. Looks like the storm won't abate, My Lady. Let's return to Bundelkhand. Our coming here has been in vain. In Pune, they kept us amongst courtesans... And here in the capital, across the river, amongst these ruins! It frightens me to think... The man whose dagger you wed is unaware of this tradition. What if he refuses to accept your relationship? Let me test the power of my love. You needn't... Anymore! You had demanded the Peshwa before the whole court... Here he is! I must say... You have sacrificed everything over a marriage I was not even aware of! What justifies this madness? Love... That battles stormy waters. Love, that bows down before no one. Love, that worships its beloved above all else. This society will never accept you! Loving me will be like walking on hot embers. I accept. My wife's name is Kashi. She will always be my first wife. I can never belong only to you. I accept. Insisting on adding my name to yours will bring you nothing but shame. I accept. By the fire of the earth, the sky and my being, I take you to be my wife. Even if this society shuns us, the world will always remember us as one... Bajirao Mastani. Mapping out your meeting with the Nizam? Ensure you wear this when you go. Bajirao, this ring has cost us dearly. We have paid for it twice. First to the jeweller and then to the boatman. My Lord, the snake seems prepared to strike us. The Nizam comes with twenty-thousand soldiers. We are heavily outnumbered. But he doesn't know that. Not all battles are fought with weapons... Sometimes a sharp mind is enough. Welcome, King Bajirao! Have a seat! Namaste! You mistake me for royalty when I am but a humble servant to King Shahu. Perhaps... But it is well known, you are the mind that runs the empire. Some sherbet? Thank you. I am more interested in your sweet talk. I often tell people that in the Maratha empire... After the great King Shivaji and King Shambhu... There is only Bajirao... Rest are all fools! I'm also of the opinion that Nizam is the strongest in all of South... Rest are all weak and meek! I'm impressed... Your tongue is as sharp as your sword. And your intentions are as shrewd as your eyes. My intention is to capture you. Even the youngest child in Pune knows that. Yet here you are a willing hostage. I am under oath to retaliate if you breach the terms of this meeting. Are you threatening me under my own roof? Cautioning, not threatening... One wrong turn and your kingdom will burn. Arrest him! I said, arrest him! I'm amazed you would order my own men to capture me! The men you sent to escort me here preferred our living quarters. They decided to stay back. Peshwa, do not forget... That your army of 20,000 men... Horses and elephants, stands guard outside. But what you do not know is that 40,000 Maratha soldiers stand behind them... Awaiting my signal to decimate you. What do you want? All of India. But for now, your silence. When I march on Delhi, you will not utter a word. I accept. Secondly... You shall return all captured Maratha estates to our King. I accept. And thirdly... When I welcome you with open arms... you shall forget past animosity and accept my friendship. Here! Let the drums roll... Victory is ours! "We unbeatable warriors..." Have crushed the enemy! The sparks of victory are ablaze. Our hearts are overflowing with pride. Even the night sky is full of rainbows! Our camp is bursting with energy! Our celebration knows no bounds. This victory... Our victory... This victory of ours is like no other! Mother! Bajirao's message! What does it say, Chimaji? His meeting with the Nizam... was successful! Praise the Lord! Stop crying, Kashi! My son has not seen defeat since she walked into this house. Your unborn child is destined for great things too, Kashi. Mother, there should be a feast for the Brahmins to celebrate! Agreed. Send out an invitation to Krishna Bhatt... That we shall host the Brahmins this afternoon. Start the preparations! Chimaji... Send a message to Mastani as well. Eid Mubarak in this new house, My Lady! Where is my gift? What's there? I thought the Peshwa called my name. How is that possible, My Lady! He will first go to Shaniwar Wada to celebrate his victory over the Nizam. Mastani Saheba! What is this Bajirao! The power of your love Mastani! I wish you on your victory. And I wish you a happy Eid. Your face is glowing Mastani. Because you have returned. It's like the glow in the sky, just before sunrise... We'll have to think of a name for our to-be born child! My Lady! There's a message for you from the Peshwa's mother... What is it? There shall be a celebration tonight in honour of the Peshwa's victory... On this occasion, Mastani is ordered to present her dance... Your Ladyship, the food is served and the Brahmins are waiting... Why is the Peshwa not here? He is on his way, please begin the feast. But how can we begin without the host? My Lady! Did you send the message? Yes, but... But what? Mastani Saheba will no longer perform as a court dancer. Says who? Mastani? No, My Lady... The Peshwa. He also said that he shall return after the Eid feast... You need not wait for him. Dear God... Krishnaji... We cannot eat in this house anymore!! Krishna Bhatt, you disrespect the Peshwa by doing so! And hasn't the Peshwa disrespected us? Charity is doled out at mosques as well. Let's go! Welcome home, Bajirao. Congratulations on your win over the Nizam. I wish you the same. Live long! Forgive me, I am late. While you were celebrating Eid at Kothrud Palace... The brahmins left without eating a morsel. Never mind, we can invite them back tomorrow and celebrate twice over. Why twice? Mastani is about to become the mother of my child. If the Brahmins walked out because you chose to celebrate Eid with her... What'll they do when this news gets out, Bajirao? Mother... Don't interrupt me! I suggest, we don't tell Kashi. What is there to hide mother? The truth is, what it is! Kashi... I have been looking for you all over and here you are. I was looking at the moon... I want to tell you something important. That you have already eaten. Here's your paan. No, that's not it. Kashi, there's someone else... So the rumours are true. What rumours? That the Peshwa's caught the evil eye. Never mind the rumours... I don't believe in superstitions. But I do... Here... Dear Mastani... Fighting in the battlefield is far easier than fighting to keep your relationships intact. My heart wishes to be with you every single moment. But I cannot meet you till I, myself, don't inform Kashi of our relationship. Kashi is not just my first wife... She is my friend and confidant too. Until then, please take care of yourself. Jhumri... My Lady! What news have you brought, Veer Singh? I couldn't deliver your message to the Peshwa even today... News is that he is very ill and unable to meet anyone. Get the palanquin ready. I shall go to meet him right away. This news could be false, My Lady... It could be true! Going to Shaniwar Wada at this hour could be dangerous for you. Mahipat Rao... Veer Singh, what are you doing here? Mastani Saheba is here to meet the Peshwa. He is in his office. Who is there? Ambaji Panth's daughter-in-law. Shalubai! Shalubai! Yes. See who that is. Yes. Shalubai... Who is it? It is Ambaji Panth's daughter-in-law. So where is Gopikabai's palanquin... They had left together. Shall I find out? No, I'll go myself. Mastani Saheba, please wait at the Palace of Mirrors... I shall inform the Peshwa. Mastani, what brings you here at this hour? Bajirao. You shouldn't have risked your life by coming here. There's no bigger risk to my life than spending a moment without you. You never got my letter... These fort walls have become too high to scale. Yet here you are, Mastani. It's true that nothing can come in the way of love. Lady Kashi's palanquin is here... Has the crib reached her quarters? Dear God! It slipped my mind! I'll check right away. The Peshwa must be arriving any minute now! My Lady... I stand to welcome you like you always do... You have brought back light to this lifeless... palace by returning from your maternal home. Let me see our youngest warrior! It's a boy! Here, Here! Strong lad! You will be a warrior even greater than Bajirao. You have your mother's beautiful eyes... Stop! Let me in! You cannot! I must meet My Lord! It is not possible at this hour. My Lord! Make haste My Lord, Mastani Saheba is in great pain. No midwife or doctor is willing to attend to her. What if - She will be fine. A tigress needs no doctors or midwives... Isn't it Chimaji? My Lady is truly suffering, Sir... And no one is ready to help! Mastani, breathe... Giving birth to a warrior is never easy. Look! Krishna. Krishna. Krishna. Upon my return from the north... I'll organise a naming ceremony for both my sons. Don't toy with our patience anymore... Aunt Bhiu, tell us what name you have chosen. Tell us. Well, what will it be? Raghunath! Raghunath! When Bajirao is back, he will be happy to hear the name. My Raghoba. What a lovely name, My Lady. Welcome, Mastani. Welcome! You have come at an opportune moment. Glad you could come. Mother... How can someone lose all shame... and keep returning to your doorstep to be insulted? What offence can come at your own doorstep? No insult can come by your own people. I am here to bless Bajirao's child. Are you here to bless relations or to beg acceptance? I am here with gifts on Bajirao's behalf in his absence. If you had to please your way into our family... Then you should've got saffron clothes and not this green coloured poison. People have associated each religion with color, but colour has no religion... It is when the heart turns black that you start differentiating on such grounds. Leave it, Chimaji... She has forgotten the difference... between durga(a Hindu goddess) and dargah(Muslim shrine). Perhaps you forget that idols in temples are often adorned in green... And saffron sheets cover the purest Sufi tombs. Where is the thought of colour and religion then? Bajirao merely holds your hand and your tongue begins to cut like a sword. A warrior's instinct is to reach for her sword even when struck by a pebble. Krishna Bhatt... This year when we pray for the deceased, add a prayer for her too... So that she is dead for us. Leave us now! Those prayers are not for strangers, Mother... I'm grateful you thought of me as your own. Welcome! I want you to organise my son's naming ceremony. That's already been done, My Lord. He has a blessed birth chart. No, not Raghunath... I am talking about my other son, Krishna. He is my son too. My Lord, traditions do not permit that. Why? As per our tradition, a son inherits his father's religion... Isn't that right? How can you be wrong, My Lord. But it is imperative for the child's parents to be... married under the Hindu law. I shall marry Mastani as per the Hindu law. Begin the preparations. I'm afraid it still won't be possible. Why not? Krishna was born out of wedlock and he shall always remain... illegitimate! Am I right? Yes, yes... Your thinking is illegitimate, Krishna Bhatt. Religion is bigger than anything, My Lord... Even you! We cannot be a part of such blasphemy! Your thoughts do not matter to me. If you cannot initiate him into my faith... Then he shall follow his mother's. And from today he will not be called Krishna, but Shamsher Bahadur! Leave. We need to speed up tax collections. Send a message to the collectors. Why are these sweets being distributed? What is the occasion? Who are these from? These are from me. Please have. Chimaji, it's your favourite. What is the occasion, brother? I had a naming ceremony for Krishna and changed his name. And what have you named him, My Lord? Shamsher Bahadur. The name of Peshwa's Muslim lineage. You all may leave. Panth, look at his face! Read it. The Peshwa decrees two estates to be gifted to Mastani Bajirao Ballad. Impossible, Bajirao! We do not entertain such practices. From this day on, we shall. What say, Panth? I fail to understand, why does she need estates when you are here? Don't you see, Panth? If they can throw her out of my house while I'm alive... Imagine how they'd treat her when I'm gone. You have to safeguard the future of your loved ones. Today it's an estate, tomorrow you'll gift her the entire Peshwa kingdom. You cannot gift away territory at whim. But you can put up a woman in a brothel at whim? That is my understanding. Make me understand as well. A dagger deserves a sheath... A wife deserves a home... And a mistress deserves a hovel! You missed your aim, My Lord. No... Our relationship came in the way. That's why I say... You must end all relations that become a hindrance. Sometimes your relations themselves finish you. Seal the orders! Bajirao fought with his brother today in front of the entire court... stripping his relationship of dignity, all for that mistress. It's wrong! I do not understand right or wrong anymore mother. I lived my entire life as his shadow... And one day he just walked into darkness... Not once thinking that this shadow will fade away. No one can understand your pain like me... The status of the lady of this house may be as grand as a mango orchard... Whose fruit is longed for by all... But to acquire the fruit, one must stone the trees... And that is the orchard's destiny. Kashi... We should've sewn the flag green, to the mistress's liking! Oh Lord! (Chants) Come, Krishna Bhatt. Hello, Mother. How did you know, My Lord? A warrior must always be alert. Enemy can strike at any moment. Raghav, greet your grandmother. Shamsher, you too. Krishna Bhatt wanted to know, when you will perform the repentance prayers. Repentance? You used to perform it every year... For the gratification of martyrs' souls. You haven't performed it in two years. Yes, and it won't happen again. You are refusing it being a brahmin? I am brahmin only by birth, but a warrior by destiny. This ritual is mandatory for the purification of our soul. Alright, let's purify our souls... I shall bring Mastani to Shaniwar Wada and give her the rights of being my wife... That can be my only atonement. I am proud to have a son like you... Who knows how to respect a woman... But what you ask for is impossible. Never, my son! On Saptami (auspicious day)... I shall bring Mastani to Shaniwar Wada. The Brahmins shall ostracize the entire Peshwa clan if that were to happen. Welcome home... It shall be known to all as Mastani Mahal. Panth... Brother... Chimaji... Everyone seems to be welcoming you with their absence! Chimaji and Ambaji have gone out to inspect lands. Mother has gone on a pilgrimage. So as the lady of this house... I welcome you and your guest. Come. Don't touch my feet! (A Hindu tradition of giving blessings) Thank you for keeping my honour, My Lady. It lightens my mind. Don't forget My Lord... This welcome stops at the threshold, it doesn't extend to the heart. Nana! When did you arrive? You didn't write or send a message from the capital. Had I known you were coming, I would've welcomed you in style. Namaste. Stay blessed! You've grown so tall. Your moustache has started showing too. I hope you are learning politics from the king. Yes. I wish you learnt some politics as well, Mother. Meaning? The man for whom you hold this flame, doesn't deserve it. What have you done? What did you do, Nana? Do you know who you are talking about? Yes, Mother. The man who is the talk of every town from Pune to the capital... For burning his own home with Bundelkhand's torch. Yet you sit here praying for him! Nana! Don't worry about me so much, my son. My Lady! Shiva Bhatt, you startled me! The prayers are about to start. My Lady, a grave disaster is about to happen tonight. What disaster? While we pray, Mastani Mahal will be attacked. She will be murdered. Please save her if you can! Hail Lord Ganesha (Hindu God of obstacles). How shall you atone for this crime, Krishna Bhatt? What proof exists that Krishna Bhatt has murdered Shiva Bhatt? Mother... How shall you atone for this crime? What atonement, what punishment? Whoever opposes religion will meet such an end. It was your mistress's good fortune, else she would've been cut to pieces as well. My Lord, your mother is here. Why have we been summoned like criminals, despite sharing the same roof? When walls come up between hearts, they no longer hold a house together. Yes, we get it! Why have you summoned us? What's our crime? Krishna Bhatt! Protecting a criminal is your crime. How dare you talk to mother in this manner! And you? How dare you talk to the Peshwa in this manner. My Lord! Remind him, I won't miss my aim every time. Bajirao, this isn't you... But the influence of Bundelkhand's gift. She has gotten to your head. Bundelkhand's gifts are on your head too... These jewels on your head, around your neck; Are all Bundelkhand's gifts... You can't accept these gifts? Then take them off! Bundelkhand's gifts are accepted, not their daughter. Mastani as my mistress is accepted, not as my wife... But remember mother, Bajirao's love for Mastani is unconditional. Where do you find such hatred for her, mother? Peshwa blood cannot be adulterated by an outsider, it's that simple! That's been done... Now? That's what! You fight Muslims and yet fell in love with one of them? I fight the Mughal dynasty, not their religion. I ask you one last time... Bajirao shall remain Peshwa only if Mastani is accepted... Agreed? No. It's yours! Bajirao. Kashi! I've been looking for you all over. I've wished everyone except you. Where are you going? I'll be back soon. But where are you going? Mastani Mahal I'm happy to see you, sister. My Lady'... Not sister. I'm the Peshwa's legally wedded wife. Kashi Bajirao Ballad. We've been related for years - What relation? Say? The man you are married to, is my husband as well. Maybe so. But as far as I know, when a married man... takes another wife, she's known as a concubine... It is such a heavy word... There is a simpler term for it... Mistress. Such mockery is unbecoming of you. Really! But who understands mockery better than you! Leaving your people behind in Bundelkhand... to run after a man all the way to Pune... That, Mastani Saheba, is mockery. Do matters of the heart have no meaning? What heart do you talk of? A heart that flitters from one to another? There is no place for such purposeless matters... Then your visit must have purpose too. Of course. We have a festival today. Married women come together to celebrate this day for their husbands' long lives... They adorn their foreheads with vermilion. I can't demean you any further... But you will have to face a lot of humiliation here... Don't take it to heart. Rao's happiness lies with you and mine with his... That's my purpose. Here, put. This is the hand he holds... He prefers holding his sword to my hand... But he holds your hand dearer than any sword. He has held my hand without letting go of yours... He has loved me, but not broken ties with you. He may call me his inspiration, but you remain his strength... His love for you has not withered. I may be illegitimate, but your coming here... has validated my presence amongst you all. Here... This sari will look good on you. I'll take your leave. Let us celebrate the sanctity of marriage. Let us pray for our husbands' long lives. Here she comes, looking like Radha. My love's innocent beloved... She appears at my door, like a full moon. Today on this occasion, together we shall dance... Your love has caused me pain, like a dagger through my heart. You may accuse me of anything, but I'm just a soul lost in love. Maybe that's our destiny... To love a man who can never belong completely to either one of us. My Lord, Nizam's son, Nasirjung has revolted against us. So? He has crossed the river Godavri and is approaching Shahgarh. So? It appears My Lord is intoxicated. So? Who is not? Everyone is intoxicated. By wealth, religion, power... Pratinidhi, Krishna Bhatt are all intoxicated. So am I... I am intoxicated by love! You are unsteady, My Lord! My feet may be unsteady but my grip is firm. What say, Malhar Rao? Look! That is why we need you to win this battle for us, Peshwa. I am no longer the Peshwa! But you are our Commander. I am not a Commander either. When you first learnt to ride, we ran alongside your horse. We put in as much sweat as your steed. Malhar Rao fought battles beside you, suffered injuries to uphold your honour. Tukoji nursed you despite being wounded himself. Commanders aren't made overnight, My Lord! And when the enemy stands at our gates, you are abdicating your duties. Bajirao's heart may belong to Mastani, but his life belongs to his homeland... A thousand Bajiraos and Mastanis will be happily... sacrificed for one more Maratha victory. Let it be known... Bajirao will leave for battle on New Year's eve. Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! It's a day to light lamps, not extinguish them. You didn't send word of your arrival. The Peshwa doesn't inform of his plans. You haven't been here for a while. Those who wander can be found... But ones who lose themselves within their own house are hard to trace. Ok! As the first lady of this house, won't you see me off to war? If clothes and jewels alone make me Lady of this house... (Calls out to Chambermaid) Bring the pooja thaali (A prayer plate). Here, sit. I have left you alone, Kashi. I am never alone, My Lord. The entire day passes in household chores... And evenings are spent with my Raghoba, listening to sermons. The Priest told us a nice story yesterday... Sit with me, I shall tell you. The priest was saying... Lord Krishna and his wife Rukmani were having a dialogue... Rukmani said, I have loved you too... Yet I wish I was your beloved and not your wife. Why? Lord Krishna also asked, 'Why'? Rukmani said however deep a matrimonial bond may be... The world always remembers the beloved. Radhe Krishna, Radhe Krishna! (Famous devotional chant) Kashi, you are as dear to me as Mastani. Lord Krishna also said the same. I have never compared you two. There can be no comparison between us! I didn't perform the Rasa Leela (divine dance of passion) with you. Your complaints against Mastani and I are justified. What complaints can one have against strangers. The wounds inflicted by one's own hurt most. Had you asked for my life, My Lord... I would have sacrificed it with a smile. But you've stripped me of my pride. I shall happily accept your punishments for the hurt I've caused you. Punishments? No, I shall give you good news. What do you mean? You shall never enter these chambers again. Do you know what you ask for? I took a vow to keep you happy when I set foot in this house... I'm only trying to uphold it. Here! Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord! It's time to bid farewell, Mastani. I shall await your return. We shall meet when the setting sun and rising moon appear together in the sky. The sky will change colour, and all will be bathed in an orange glow. Winds of desire will blow, And thundering clouds will fill the skies. Dry leaves will murmur and untimely rains will wash the earth. There will be no shackles of religion or relationships to tear us apart. All that will remain will be the fire of love in our hearts... On that day... We will become one for eternity. You called for me, grandmother? It's time to erase the dishonour brought to our family, Nana. Arrest Mastani. What shall we tell the Peshwa? Don't be scared. When it comes to protecting the kingdom... Even the closest relations must be sacrificed. You are in my heart, like a prayer. The mention of your name shall be my worship... We have surrounded Nasirjung from all sides, Bajirao. Malhar Rao is in the north with his troops... Vaman Rao and Ambaji Panth are in the south. How shall we strategise the attack? Head-on. Like life does... You don't know when it hits you! My Lord! What are you doing here, Veer Singh? Nana Saheb has arrested Mastani Saheba! Bajirao! Go with Bajirao. Prepare for attack! (War Cry) It's your last chance to return to Bundelkhand. I wouldn't have allowed these shackles if I planned to return. My hatred for you goes beyond its very essence, Mastani. Your hatred only immortalises my love, Nana. Carry her child away! No need for that. Bajirao's son shall walk out on his own feet. Shamsher Bahadur. Who is a warrior? He, who fears none. What is self belief? Sign of victory. Fear? Another name for defeat. Who shall be your ideal? Peshwa Bajirao Ballad. Goodbye. Goodbye, Mother. There's only one warrior in all of India to have won forty consecutive battles. Peshwa Bajirao! Nasirjung has surrendered... Here's to one more Maratha victory! And my loss. I don't understand... Declare war... I shall attack Pune next. I shall release Mastani. You will fight against your own family? You will turn against us for Mastani? And who will you kill? Mother, Kashi or your son... Bajirao... I take your leave. We must certify this victory before Nasirjung can change his mind... I'll be back soon. Please come inside, My Lord. This breeze could aggravate your fever. I am waiting for someone... Mastani, you have run out of options, so name your last wish... How would you like to die? With Peshwa Bajirao! This ailment is beyond my understanding, Sir. The fever shows no sign of subsiding. It is time to call Kashi and Mother. Being with family might improve his health. The king's orders are against us, Grandmother. Are you listening? He says he cannot lose a warrior like Bajirao... And hence we must release Mastani. I shall travel to the capital tomorrow. I shall speak to the king. I shall travel to Ravelkhedi tomorrow... Bajirao is unwell. And nothing can happen till I return with him. Are you scared, Grandmother? You all may bow down before Mastani... But I shall not! I shall not! Look who is here, My Lord. Mastani. Is Shamsher well? Yes, he is. He's learning to ride. Kashi? She's well too... Busy pretending that her heart has turned to stone. I need your stamp on this. Later. This can't wait. What is so urgent? Mastani's release orders. Have you lost your mind, Kashi? Only she can save Bajirao. I cannot approve this. I cannot see Bajirao losing himself. The man who never lost a battle is losing to his own family. I cannot approve that! Stamp this! She has no rights in the Peshwa family. But I do... And I'm demanding it. As the lady of this house. Stamp this. Take this to Nana Saheb right away. What is the news from Ravelkhedi? How is the Peshwa? I too await news of him. Until then, pray for him. (Prayers) What is the message? Grandmother has ordered Mastani's release. Where are you going, Bajirao? Look, Shaniwar Wada is on fire! No, it isn't... Bajirao, this isn't Pune... We are in Ravelkhedi. You are burning up! Mastani! She is on her way, Bajirao. You've been advised bed rest. Bajirao! The enemy... No one's there! Enemy with black flags! Which enemy? Destiny... God... Can't take Mastani away. Bajirao... We shall meet when the setting sun and rising moon appear together in the sky. The sky will change colour, and all will be bathed in an orange glow. Winds of desire will blow, And thundering clouds will fill the skies. Dry leaves will murmur and untimely rains will wash the earth. There will be no shackles of religion or relationships to tear us apart. All that will remain will be the fire of love in our hearts... On that day... We will become one for eternity. Our hearts beat together, Mastani. And cease together, too. On a day when fate and time stood witness... Two star crossed lovers breathed their last. They say witnessing a falling star fulfills any wish... But these two stars fell to earth wishing only to belong to each other. They stand testament to eternal love... Love, that knows no religion. Love that is a gift from God... Love that in itself is Supreme.
