 

                        In the moment when I say the number 3... ...you will enter the state of deep relaxation All the stresses and worries of the day... ...will fall away, and you will feel complete relaxed As you fall towards the states of tremendous well being Deeper and deeper... One... Deeper... Two... Deeper... Three... Good Morning, Melville. Hey, here you go HOW TO CHANGE YOUR LIFE IN 10 DAYS What did you want to be when you grow up? - When you were a boy, I mean - Rich? - Well, I say this mission is accomplished - What do you want? What do I want was anybody want Happiness, love, world peace... ...it is the 6 million dollar question, isn't it? - You want 6 million dollars - No. But these things take time, it's all tight up... Shut up - Please, don't kill me I am not going to You gonna disappear. You change your name, you take nothing with you... ...you tell no one and you'll never, this important bit... ...you never, ever come back - I heard Brazil is nice - Very nice If you offend any of these conditions... - ...I will find you - Thank you Don't thank me, just do it No, really, thank you I haven't clear for a week What are you doing here? Bjorn, This is my job Your ass is mine now, Milo. When management hears about this I have your head on the plate What make your mind? if my head is my ass you want A bit of both Why not do now then? I don't want people accusing me acting unprofessionally I wait for the paperworks When I have this, no one was able to say, not even Leo I was waiting for this since I was in Amsterdam. Hi, my name is Milo... ...I am 33 Hi, my name is Milo... ...I am 33 I like... go into restaurants.. I like into cinema... I like clapping ...reading, writing, Shit. My name is Milo... I am a professional hitman And I have been it too long What I am looking for? Someone to...someone to share of things, with A life without secrets A new beginning I suppose If it's possible I have no idea, what I am looking for I know when I find it - Hello I don't think I can go through with this What are you doing Leo, with my... Have you seen what happens to people when they retired? Leo, we've been through this I don't see this end, I see this new begin Life step has to taking What have you been doing for last 20 years I was...quiet when we met Did you say that you're sitting what I am now? And where is that? I am in my future I am in the Autumn Sun Retirement Village With Stanley. Anyway... You are in deep trouble, Milo I feel the same Are you having a nervous breakdown? Leo... can we... talking about it some other time? It's not...it's not really convenient right now You have to acknowledge you have a problem before you can fix it, Milo. In the mean time, get out of town... ...use the biscuit tin Go to my place in the country... Melville! And there went out another horse ... ... and the power was given to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth and they should kill one and another And I heard the voice in the mid of 4 beasts says... ...a measure of a wheat for a penny 3 measures of the barley for a penny ...and see that hurt not the oil and the wine And I looked and behold the pale horse... and him who sat on him was death... and hell followed with him You got that? How are you feeling? Come on Lucky, off the bed - Who are you? - I am gonna ask you the same question - Where am I - In my house - How did I get here - My car Can I get my arm now? A ship's been exploded, did they normally do that? The question is what were you doing up there? - Why is that question? - Ship don't do themselves up You think I did that? I got better things to do with my time - Is that right? - Yes Yes, it is Where do you think you're going? Thank you for your assistant I don't want take any more of your time You are not going anywhere I am sorry Not until I know for sure it wasn't you - You're serious? - Deadly Just look me in the eyes saying it wasn't you then you free to go Did you always guest like this? Not guest, you are suspect Go on, how hard it can be to look someone in the eyes and tell the truth It wasn't me That wasn't too hard, was it? - You can go now - Thank you - I give you a lift you like - That won't be necessary I know, come on It's Glock 17. It made almost entirely of plastic Making it's... Un...de...tec...table by metal detectors for this reason alone, it is the hand gun of choice for professional assassin. for professional assassins Thanks again Take this, pain killers It's for dogs, so if you get nervous, call Craig Anposton, where aware of Welcome to Gwynfyd. What I am looking for? Someone to share things, with Oh... Milo. Hello, nice hat Boy, she's a beauty isn't she - Will you on the mot? - Alright... ...Give long shanks so I can kick it Start with what you learnt from Edmond Society - Long shanks - Edwards the 1st, King of England, 1272 to 1307 I can see you are not historical gentlemen - I am afraid not It's you, isn't it? What's me? I thought so I think, I think you might made some sort of mistake Oh, no, no, not at all, not at all we've being expecting you - Yeah? - Yes, I know it - You're the baker - The baker? The baker... Yes of course I... I know, I tell you what, I know at the moment you walked through that door there There's all the fresh bread about you You know, pies, cakes, wondful I often thought myself, there's no noble craft than baking bread Well, after all, will it be... load the humble loaf Of course Bryn Morgan Bring you legitimate liquids - Milo. - Milo... Never trust the one just give you full name? - Milo Shakespeare. - Shakespeare. "The smell of blood still. "All the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand" Oh, Macbeth - Any relation? - to Macbeth? - Shakespeare. - Not that I know of It was pity, great mind, wonderful writer As they say Never trust baldness Rhys... get your ass up here now. This is Milo, Milo Shakespeare No relation Rhys Edwards, I own a "chop chip" "ship shop""shop chip""ship shi" What do you call it "Cod Almighty" I own "Cod Almighty" Freshest fish in the valley... or fish cakes or any fish...related...products, really What a pleasure to meet you, Rhys. Nothing better than the smell of fish fish is that brilliant except the smell of fresh bread of course - What I can do for you, Milo - I was just looking for a telephone I can't stay here forever they think I am the baker, Leo. Why don't you tell me there's bakery here for Chris sake I would thought it's obvious from the photo What photo With the rest of information - There was no photo, Leo - That's strange Does it matter if there is a bakery? Eh.. it just might What's the name of the plastic surgeon? The one did Victor after Sao Paulo fiasco? Forget the plastic surgery, Milo I am working on it As we speak in fact But it could take some time - Just sit tight - Hello.. ...Hello Thanks for the drink, Henry. Be lucky Cod Almighty - He is not the baker - Who's not the baker? The baker! The baker is not a baker It's a cover - I see - I don't know why he is here yet ...I'm guessing it's a big job Could be a sleeper Yes, someone who goes in months, years before the job Establish themselves in the community Thereby, you know, avoid suspicious when the day comes - What day is that? - for the hit The hit? He is a hitman - You're fired - Eh? I cannot take a dangerous, delusional employee to serve my customer You put them on fish Take my advice, stay off the drugs This you your answer to everything He is a hitman, I am telling you The bakery is a front Well, my commander will be very interested in this - Your commander? - Mum hum. Of the alien mother ship I came from, see This shop is just a front And I am really an alien, come here... ...to study the brain activity of imbeciles. That's why I employed you, Eggs. I can prove it. Guest what I get in my trousers? Oh, God, Eggs, don't, please... Bloody hell - Is it what I am thinking is? - Yes Is it.. is it real? Eggs, give it to me Smells good one of my patients You win some and you lose some - So you work here too? - Just on the evenings Life on the fast lane, lady Life is hard Great Yes, it is great Which lane you are driving? Well...slow lane, mostly Sometimes on a crazy lane, I wonder... ...it is middle lane So, Milo... What are you running away from What do you mean? You don't know place like Gwynfyd, unless you running from something Well, I want to change - From what? - From what I was doing - What is that? - That's baking of course But you still a baker Yeah, but I am in a different place now Do you have to stop ask questions? Once they were answered Does that bother you? So, why are you here Are you running from something? What make you think I'm not from here? - Are you? - No. So - Have you always been a baker? - Not always Is it true that the vet just don't like people ...is that why you came here to be with animals? I have quite a few animals when I lived in the city Why do you choose Gwynfyd? I heard there was shortage of bake goods. - Is that right? - That's right. So, when can I first taste the fresh bread? Oh, you know, soon Don't leave it too long when people start to talk - About what? - About a baker doesn't bake - Will you be bake donuts? - Donuts? There's jam in the middle There's nothing better than biting jamful donut when the jam squirt all over your chin Don't you think? - How is your head? - I will live. Good to hear it. Enjoy your meal Do some baking, are you? Woo, I think it passed to you, doesn't it? Shop some spoon, they often are useful Spoons, can be very useful. But this time, the female often set... ...such extend, that the weak male can be fatally crushed [How to make Fertilizer bomb] What can I get you? Oh... that's priceless It's look good with others You, go too far... Oh.. I go all the way, boy You ask your wife if you know where she is I will see you in the grave, Robert Richards. I will see you there first, Allen Thomas. It's Glock 17. 9 mm. A favorite with hitman It was made almost entirely out of plastic It can be dismantled for transportation through airports... ...although the air was high security - This must go no further, Bryn - No, no, of course not - What's the baker doing with the gun? He is not a baker - Rhys. - Yes, dear. I want a word with you. - Well, I am a bit busy... - Now! Of course I will be right back. Maybe, he's just here on holiday While he is opening a bakery? Is he on a baking holiday? Yeah, god, whoever did a baking holiday? Luckily, he is just a baker with weapon enthusiast Well, you'll never know We think, he is a sleeper Are you gone completely mad? I am but mad north-north-west when the wind is southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw. ... - What bloody are you talking about? - Hamlet - I am talking about Shakespeare. - That's real then... - What - Shakespeare. - That's it... - For god's sake, I'm talking about the baker - Yes, yes, the baker - There must be secret I know, I know, there's nothing I can talk in another way gets around this place? I was only gone for 10 minutes It's enough Do you think he is a sleeper, Rhys? He is here to establish a cover until the big day comes When he has to... assassinate someone Assassinate Well, who precisely around here qualify for that term? Could be anyone of us Who knows who is paying for his kills Sounds, not to ask for whom the bell tolls. - It tolls for the end - For me? What did I do? No, no.. not you specifically it's not... I mean more generally... ...you know... The presidential election is coming up I don't think the president of local... ...golf club becomes a potential target, Simon It is the oldest cover in the book like mafia guys own pizza restaurants Except when someone comes in... ...and order a meat feast he's not asking for the pizza if you know what I mean It's so hot. you go to the bakery... ...ask for chocolate span, before we know it... ...your neighbor's pushing up daisies Or... wife Or.. Todd. Oh.. anyone at all the baker... ...is his code name probably it's brilliant! What is he doing here Whatever the reason... ...professional assassin in our midst The baker - You work in the "chip shop" - Afternoons Two jobs? not many people could handle that I can And a secret identity if I have to Checking on the competition? Something like that Nothing to worry about, they are terrible So, what people do here in evenings When they're sitting on the hot-chot, you know, for fun Ahh.. for fun! you know, the usual? The usual? You know, playing scrabble... ...Dining, soccers, appetizing the video collection The usual. Occasionally on dates Great, with the other... village people? He wants to know if she's gonna date to him but he doesn't know how to ask She isn't sure if that is such a good idea I mean, you know ... Whatever How about sometime this week Could that suitable to do think? I suppose so. Great, check you diary and get back to him He can't wait 5.35 pounds, please Thanks - Guess I'll let you know - Great Who says the romance was dead? Good morning, How can I help you? Bread, Certainly White, brown, grand grain? A donut? of course Anything else I can help you with? God, what are you thinking of? - Hey, do you have the chip shipped? - Yes, I'm about to I wonder how much he charges. Whom do you want him Hypothetically is what I meant A samurai never sell them cheaply. Samurai? Yeah, samurai, assassin, hitman problem solver, cleaner... - terminator, liquidator, mutilator... - You don't get the picture Annihilator Exterminator. Think of any work to do yet? Or you just going to stare at your glass board like a gold fish? Bring them some fish for you tea I haven't got times to go to shop today Yes, dear. Fine you... some job is probably cheaper than others I hope he does apple tart. An apple tart might be just the thing to stoke my Evan's fire Take bloody blow torch to spart anything in my Dylan Uhh... His buns certainly look nice Assistant wanted Assistant wanted I am your man You better come in Excuse me dear, I just have to... ...go out for a minute Hello, is anybody there Ahh... Mr. Rhys. Please, please I huh... - ...I want to talk to you with something - Yes? Is it good moment? Well, actually... It is rather a...delegate mater It's my wife, She's.. ... how can I put this She squeezes life out of me Right, I have to... It's just sometimes, I huh.. ...you know I want to do the same to her but I can't... ...do it The thing is I am weak I don't mean physically, though it might be a problem It's a mental thing. I thought you might be able to ... ... do something for me. You know. ...bake her a cake - Bake her a cake? - heh. You want be bake your wife a cake? What kind of cake? Chocolate? Of course I can bake her a cake. Really? Cake is what I do. So it's true You are the "baker" Yes, I am Is there a... small amount of payment? No, no, consider this as a sample of my work An introductive effort if you like Oh, thank you. I can't tell you how much it means to me You save me from... ...thank you, thank you Maybe we just have to look out for each other Oh, you're right So, right Please, no, no. Rhys! You see my magazine? Have you be smoking? You are Stanger everyday You really are poor excuse for the man, aren't you Not a day goes past that I don't wish to listened to my sister. I'll be off, dear Have a nice day So, hum... Eggs. It's an unusual name Is it you're found in a chicken farm or... No.. because it's wank When can I get start some real work the longest journey begins from first step Right The path to enlightment... ...is lit with their bodies What? Wax on... Wax off My love ...gone forever - I am so sorry - Thank you I will offer a song that will forever remind us of Martha A song that was a personal favorite of hers A song that she would play over and over and over on our juke-box Looking good, boss? You don't think the tie is to formal or... Tire is a symbol of potency I think I am ready Have you got date then? A date with destiny I am sure you're not go dead - Aim - Aim? It's Bob Richard, right? Oh.. great! I am really happy for you. - Well, wish me luck then - You don't need luck, you are the man Can I help you? I'd like a pickled egg. Ah, very good choice Finest pickled egg in the valley If I say so myself I am looking for someone And I believe he might have come this way - If you can help me - I can certainly try What is the gloves for? Is it a tie in your pocket just please to see me? It's a tie, but I'm pleased to see you Come in Wow, what are they Donuts Of course, they are, how silly am I. now that you say, it's obvious Well - Really? - Really It's really... ...different. Rhiannon There is something I need to tell you. What is it? I am not a baker I mean, I just start baking very recently Really I feel like I've be doing for my whole life Well, at least, I should have been... ...all these.. yes When I bake, I am free. Being free is important you've got... a little bit of jam ...on your... Where? Just, en... Where is it, if I got them? No, it's, it's more... What's the problem, do you like it No, I like it I love it Rhiannon, please - What is that? - Not what, who Eggs, what are you doing here? I only did it, I only bloody did it One of you know, Did what, Eggs? Who saw you make so much mass Eggs, what are you talking about? You're talking to me? I can't see anyone else around here I'd better get him back It is my responsible Eggs... Come on, come on I think he should be alright there - I think so - Thank you for your help I'd better get going Oh Milo, what have you done. What have you done Feel embarrassed now, Milo? Eggs... Eggs... You are drunk, go back to your caravan Go back to caravan? There's no going back anywhere for Eggs. Forward me onto the next victim What do you mean about "Next Victim"? - What? - I think I killed Bob. I killed Bob, I killed Bob I killed Bob Tell me what happened Well, he was in the kitchen Cocking or something ...I went down to rare window the on in the garden... ...so no one could see me, right? Like a ninja. I just pull out the gun and shot him? Shot him? Why? I had a date with destiny What do you have quarrel with him, Love is painful Eh? Did he try to make you do things you don't want to do? It's alright, you can tell me. What? Come on, Eggs, why did you shoot Bob in his garden? I know, I know I should got inside to do it.. ...I lost my gut, ok? I couldn't do it face to face Not professional like you What did you say? I just want to get out of this village Live a exiting life... Kill important people Be a himan, like you It was horrible. His chest just into explode Eggs, I am a baker You are THE BAKER Here... you'd better have this back Eggs, why did you kill Bob? He was first in the list What list? This list I just wanted to be like you Who else knows? - Everyone - I see Well, except a few Rhiannon doesn't know obviously Actually she'd have... That's alright, thanks Eggs - And the list? - Clients. - Do you want cake? - No. - Bread? - No. Is there anybody in this village who doesn't want someone dead Possibly Mr. Pritchard. You didn't know? Well... let's say it then Oh, no... Rhiannon, please... - What do you want? - I want to talk to you I've nothing to say with you I can explain You can explain? Come on then Everyone... has got few skeleton in their closet That suppose to be a figure of speech You lied to me, what else you want to say? I didn't lie to you I just didn't tell you everything I treat the fact of you used to be a professional assassin... ...is more than a detail in your past, wouldn't you? What have I got wrong? Just talk to me now, Milo And telling the truth That's what I asked, It's not too hard, is it? - Have I got wrong? - No. I really thought you are different. Rhiannon, give me a chance. A man can change, I am not the person anymore I am a baker now You know what? I don't want to hear it Goodbye, Milo. Have a nice life Actually, I don't even care what kind of life have to... ...have with someone else I was very happy on a hard shoulder Rhiannon, please. I can't justify what I did, or... ...what I used to be All I know is what the future could be... ...and it... could be great No, it could have been great, Milo. It could be Don't leave here - I don't expect you understand this - I do! Time for the gunman to ride into the sunset All alone, no one to worry about you. No ties to any community ...no one to morn you when you finally meet your match Take me with you I know I am not capable for the killing part... ...but you about to need assistants Someone to book your jobs Take your shirt to dry cleaners Wipe, clean the crime scene It's attempting offer But I have to pass A blond man with rubber glove, he... ...he did things, it was horrible. but that was not the worst part What can be worst than... I know, the worst... Gentlemen and lady Bob? Bob...You are alive? He is alive, you're... Gorgeous, I know. Don't widget yourself... Come on, I am saying the worst part is... - But how? - Must someone have it, Eggs. Last night... Please, it's important Get off Bob, what happened? Happened last night? Bloody puree was everywhere What the hell do you... Quiet! He's got Rhiannon. - Where is he? - At the castle. It's you he wants. Then it's me he'll get Why does he want him? He is a baker No, he is THE baker You know what? He is right, I am just a baker And I did really think you were ordering cakes. I just want to start again I though this is big place to do it I thought you were good people Please don't go around blow people's wife Why do you think I've something to do with Martha's death? - I, I, I... - What do you play? Whatever happened, I had nothing to do with it Didn't you? You know... There's list of orders... ...for cakes The details percisely who want what kind of cake... ...and for whom Everyone deserve second chance. Milo What happened to you all? How do you get like this? If it was anyone out there. Milo will do something about it You know why? Because he is our friend Eggs is right, Milo is our friend He's one of us If we can't tell put up of our own... ...what's hope of anyone of us? I've learned something for our baker Apart from obvious not he get someone to killed ...that's everybody deserves... ...second chance Milo, he deserves second chance Come on. What do you say Why do we... Why do we do something together for once? Why don't we show some Gwynfyd spirits We got kick some ass! Let's go and rescure our baker! Well, it's nearly the next. Let her go, Bjorn! Oh, the baker is here She's nothing to do with this But she is What you gonna do, boy Bake a cake? I'm not coming back, Bjorn. See, you can run out and tell the company Ah, yes, the company But they asked me to do something for you What was it...Errn... Something about taking care of you That's thoughtful This isn't for the company, Milo. This is for me What do you mean it is for you? Do you know long I waited for you on that bridge in Amsterdam in the pouring rain Watching the boats pass through the channels. Hours I thought that I finally find something good Something real I find this crazy worls makes some kind of sense It just I thought was Dark, cruel... Absurd Bjorn, we've been through this I think you're a interesting guy with alot of really fine instincts... ...but what you want is not possible for so many reasons I was in Amsterdam, but not really sure.. Forget it It's all under the bridge now Under that lonely, lonely bridge She means nothing to me I was just had fun Oh, lucky girl Oscar Wilde once said "We always kill ones we loved... that's right... "by so many things" Wait Let's do this properly Milo.. you never sees to amaze me... ...this time, I feel you've, but more than enough you can chew. I want to make this painless and fair... ...Oscar Wilde once said "We alway play fairly... "when you holding the winning cards" Milo! I will miss you, Milo. He's got a gun Release the baker Very boring, Milo. Tell you little friends just stay out of this It's nothing to do with them Yes, it has He's our baker You take him out, you take us all out I just want to live a normal life, Bjorn. Doing...something I love Possibly with someone I love Is it too many to ask? I don't think so I don't think you think so either. You call this normal It's closest to normal life I can get You love her Maybe she loves you you might be happy together Well, again... ...there's chance that she break your heart And you'll feel what I felt and that will be worse that death You know what? I want you take that chance What's the hold-up? Everyone is waiting You're getting there Come on I will be right there You've been busy? Leo, what are you doing here? I might ask you the same question Make yourself quieter, how would I know I would say you should blend in but this goes bit far, don't you think? How's your retirement? Retirment is never going to do with me, Milo. I need some work to make my hands dirty So you instigated to take of a bit Hostile, of course. And I'm pleased to say, it was completely successful New management team, with me on the top - You can come back - Thanks But, no thanks It's entirely safe Any employee loyal to the old management have been removed So, there is no reason for you to stay here any longer, isn't it? Actually there is, Leo. They need a baker What are you trying to tell me You're going to be a baker? I'm saying that I already am a baker, Leo. So, unless it's a baker that the company needs... ...I don't think I'll be of any use to you Milo, please tell me you're joking Milo! I suppose this is the punchline I've seen many good men go like this Very disastrous And this? Well, I'll give a fair price You are serious Milo. Hey, sorry, I just... - Are you alright? - Yeah, fine Fine, I was just getting some... You know, when I remember the... Nervous - Is that so? - Not at all Good Rhiannon... This is... This is what? This is happiest day in my life I can't hold them much longer I now anounce... what do you call it? Shakespeare's Cake Officially... open
