 

                        Hi Dad! Youre finally home. How was the hospital? As usual, you know. Let me rest five minutes, then get your things and come in the office. No clearly, you havent understood the main point. When one cant figure the antiderivativa of an integral function, one uses the integration by parts. Here, for example. Now We dont know how to calculate the antiderivative of xcos(x). But since we know the product, we can try the calculation of the integration by parts. Suppose that u'(x)=cosx and v(x)=x. Then u(x)=sinx et v'(x)=1. Thus: "Idle Youth By all things enslaved Through sensitivity Ive wasted my days. Ah! Let the moment come When hearts love as one. I told myself: wait And let no one see: And without the promise Of true ecstasy. Let nothing delay This hiding away. Ive been patient so long Ive forgotten even The terror and suffering Flown up to heaven, A sick thirst again Darkens my veins. So the meadow Freed by neglect, Flowered, overgrown With weeds and incense, To the buzzing nearby Of a hundred foul flies. Ah! Thousand widowhoods Of a soul so poor It bears only the image Of our Lady before! Does one then pray" Lucille? to the Virgin today? Idle Youth By all things enslaved" Lucille! Lucille! It is 8:05! Excuse me, I didnt hear. I was reading. If you wish to read, do so in the evening, after supper Yes father. Next time you go without supper if you insist on arriving late. Such a storm this morning! The weather is crazy. When I was young it never rained this time of year. Human beings consume too much. Were suffocating the planet. Can they prove it scientifically, dad? Yes naturally If yould like to learn more, i could get you an advanced text on meteorology. For your 18th birthday. For my birthday? That would be a good practical present. Yes, but Practical and educational. A far cry from our advertising TV culture. What Ild really like to do is to go to college that would be educational to study poetry. Poetry? Yeah Oscar Wilde, Rimbaud, Baudelaire... and literature too. What good is studying literature and poetry? You can read yourself and thats sufficient. Oscar Wilde doesnt deserve all the attention you give him. The man was a pervert and its just as well that he was imprisoned. And if youd like to write poetry you can do it to your hearts content right here at home. But Id learn more if I went away to college. Not really One doesnt learn as effectively in a group setting. But since you really dont like teaching me poetry Youd be better off with the sciences. You could help me here. Before you wanted to be a doctor, like me. Ive changed my mind. And thats just the problem. You never stick with anything. Remember what happened when you were twelve? You wanted to go away to boarding school, but you were back home three months later. You told me that you couldnt make any friends and that you cried yourself to sleep each night. Isnt that right? When your mother was sick those two long years What good is studying literature and poetry? your father asked me  You can read yourself and thats sufficient. to come and take care of you The man was a pervert and its just as well that he was imprisoned. but I couldnt come then. Now, clearly, you havent understood the main point. Youd be better off with the sciences. And if you wish to write poetry you can do it to your hearts content right here at home. I hate you! Let me out! Let me out! Youre all that he has. Thank you. Goodbye. I am Lucilles great aunt. Im so glad that youve come to help with her care. Joan Genova. Yes. Im thankful for the opportunity to be here. I hope it wasnt too hard to get out here. Oh no no. I managed to find a driver who knew the way from the main station. So, you are from Italy? Yes, from Calabria, the mountains. When I was 15 my parents sent me to my uncles in Boston. I imagine you must resemble your mother? Yes. In our family too, the girls all resemble their mother. Let me show you to Arthurs. Im sorry, Doctor Baerts office. Thank you. Come in. Please be seated, Miss Genova. You are later than we expected you. Yes, Im so sorry. I shall explain the situation. One week ago my daughter had an accident. She suffered third degree burns on her face and tissue loss around the left cheek and nose. After first making an incision, I treated the most serious wounds with a series of allografts through which I have avoided any serious hydro-electrical complications. She shows no respiratory complications, but you must nonetheless observe closely to forestall any hypermetabolisation, guard against infection, and help her maintain nutritional levels. I would like her watched twenty-four hours day. I shall remain with her as much as is necessary. In this house I do not wish to hear any mention of the hospital. Yes, of course. I will show you to your room. Those are Italian shoes, right? Yes. Very good. "Pharmaceutical Formulary for Surgeons and Nurses." Lucille, your nurse has arrived. Come in. Good morning, Lucille. She remains in a state of shock. Mutism and paralysis of the extremities. Bandages, compresses, disinfection, sodium chloride solution cortisone, everything you need is right here. Very good. You will give her six of these and two capsules four times a day. I must leave now. Ill be back at 6:30 sharp if I have no emergencies. "Flowers of Evil." Baudelaire. Lucille has not had any problems? She refused to eat. You may leave us now. Lucille, my dear you know that today is your birthday Ill heal you quickly, I promise you. Just look at your present. Your mother made me promise that I give them to you on your 18th birthday. I keep them for you just for now Soon everything will be just as it was. Im sure of it Is something hurting? That itches Is that it? That doesnt itch anymore look at me Breath deeply now Zygomaticus major: zygomaticus minor: levator anguli oris: Masseter: Got it? You will apply this cream twice a day. It will regenerate the tissue underneath the bandage. Really now, be careful! Always the same scarring. Look at this. These idiots. Incompetents! Lucille will have no scars not like Anna. It began with a tissue sample, followed by an ablation. They were never sure of anything so they cut. In the end, they gave her back to me covered with scars without ever having healed her. My poor Arthur I should have kept her at home. You would have taken good care of her. She has developed a strong fever. Ill be back. Above all, dont put this one back in the cage with the others Poor Lucille, I should make her one of her favorite dinners. Here, give her this injection. Above all, keep an eye on her breathing. Grandma are you sure this is really what you want? I cant possibly take it from you. But she really wants you to have it. Let me go! A pervert imprisoned you cant make friends... idiot its fearful outside... hes right yes, you see I cant nothing nothing nothing Id rather die Im better off dead. Here, take this book on reconstructive plastic surgery. Its incomplete, of course Thank you. like all the other books, they havent included my new research so theyre a bit outdated Yes Im sure. Im thinking that you must be up to date Lucille Yes that is, how so? because of her attempted suicide. You have too much imagination! I know that it cant be easy for a father to understand Foolishness! But shes the one who told me Enough! How can you be so That will do! I do not require a lecture from you Do I make myself clear? Yes. Oh no No no no! I have no more use for you! You slow me down more than you help me. Here, take a sip. Thank you. Feel better? It was one thing we didnt need Dear God, help us! Above all, you have to take care of yourself. Your pulse is low. If that continues you have to talk to Lucilles father anyway, you can get him to listen to you. And I never saw it coming  My God! You have to promise not to worry yourself for Lucille. What happened was in the past. Im here to help her now. Yes, but poor Arthur You must not hold it against him. I never expected that reaction. He adores his daughter. He doesnt want to see any harm come to her. Yes, I never doubted that And Lucille is the same as him. She cant forgive herself for causing him pain. Will you be OK? Yes. Im going to go and comfort her. No. This is my job; Im the one who should be doing it. And besides that its not good for you. What is this ointment made from? Growth proteins. Antihistamines as well. It makes it easier for the graft to take by accelerating the uniform budding of the skin. Come see! Ill explain it to you. What you see here is much more than a simple culture of keratinocytes on a bed of fibroblasts. You will find all the different strata of the skin: the epidermis here, the basal layer of course, collagen that attaches the epidermis to the dermis, as you know, melanocytes and above all the different proteins and cells. Why not use the skin youve taken from other parts of her body? To end up with a leopards skin, blemishes and scars everywhere? Youve seen the terrible results they end up with at the hospital. Yes, unfortunately. Ive uncovered all the properties of the skin... Resilience, flexibility, regeneration. The sensitivity to touch, pigmentation, nutrition. Its all there. Perfectly reconstituted skin. Very impressive! Tomorrow will be our day. Sleep well tonight. Are you alright? You think you can stand? My legs are weak. "Quercetin/Nettle Plus." Please, do it like you did yesterday. You may leave us. No, stay. Help her to sit on the edge please. 70 by 110. A little bit low. You will give her these in addition to the others. She needs to regain muscle mass. Surely there are other ways than the medication She is getting enough nourishment now. Yeah, I cant stand swallowing these pills. Very well Since youre doing so much better Im sure you can do without them. Any more problems with the pulse rate? Im sorry. I got a little bit carried away before Only three minutes left Are you baking a cake? In the kitchen at least Im still useful. Well, I dont know how they got by around here before you came. Poor things frozen dinners and canned food They would never survive without you. Im old now tired Id like to be with Jan. Its time that he calls me back to him. No no, dont say that... Hmmm, that smells good Here, for Lucille. No. You go and surprise her. Ah, Mussels! I missed them so much. Do you like it? It smells delicious. I have to learn how to cook so I can make them myself. Ill show you. That might come in handy. Dad, when will you take off the last bandages? In three days, Ive got to check the results and reduce the bandage once more. In one more week you will feel the fresh air on your face. And youll be finally able to see what I look like. I can imagine. You will have some micro-scars, theyll only be noticeable to the touch and they will be all but indistinguishable before you know it. Youre the best, Dad. I knew yould succeed. I didnt know what to do with myself, you know, before you came. I mean I felt so alone. I never got to see anybody else. Just him and her. Im really glad that youre here. I think Parker has learned his lesson... after what happened to him this time. What happened to him? Accident in the car. A bad one. He was drunk! He barely got out alive so many broken bones but he hung on to life and he rediscovered his faith. And all the carrying on with the married women, its all over? Yes, he realized he was on the slippery slope Too bad. Dont you think he was sexier before? No... now its Betty who has the problems. Well anyway, its their lives and they should do what they want. Where is Joan? Shes in the lab. I thought youd hired her to take care of me. Since you dont need her anymore shes going to help me. Its just like with the other baby-sitters. Each year you found a new one and they were never good enough for you. Stop it. I need her as an assistant. Lucille! Lucille! Oh God, are you alright? Hold on me. It will all have to be removed. It was not irrigated. But she still can be healed? Of course but I need living skin this time. It will all have to be removed. It was not irrigated But she still can be healed? Of course but I need living skin this time. I want to stay like this forever. I know Your skin is so soft, so sweet You smell so good your skin melts in the mouth like chocolate. Your face should be in a Michelangelo, or something. I cant believe how soft and white your breasts are Such compliments, youll spoil me I want to know everything about you. Theres not so much to know. Well, like Have you ever been in love before? Yes, once Who was it? A schoolmate, in Italy. And did you let her touch you like that? No... never like that. Was it better than with me? No... No never this intense. and... ah... were you together a long time? Until my mother caught us What? She sent me away, to Boston. She separated you from your love? So mean! Um hum, she never told anyone about this. She was too ashamed. She banished me like I had the plague. So she made up an excuse that I was going to marry my cousin, in Boston. Did you marry him? Of course not. I refused. After? Nothing you. You were waiting for me? Yes, I was waiting for you. Me too, I was waiting for you. I have never been in love for real. The girls in my age, one or two I met, they all seemed so stupid. Maybe you didn't meet a lot of them I like older women. That means if I were younger, you wouldn't have fallen in love with me? Yes, I would have as soon as I saw you, I fell in love with you. "And then by common accord they glide towards each other underwater. The female shark using its fins, and Maldoror cleaving the waves with his arms; and they hold their breath in deep veneration, each one wishing to gaze for the first time upon the other, his living portrait. You should show me some of your poems. Do you really want to see them? Yes. Of course. I might want to. Later, after my face is healed, and were far away from here. How do you feel? Still tired... and you? I feel fine. Dad says Im recovering fast. Good. Its always taken me a long time to heal from anything. The Guiding Light. Presented by Dash. The soap that does everything in your washing machine. And Ivory soap. The most famous soap in the world. Looking from left to right, Harriet and Gwendolyn. Dont you think Harriet has an outstanding complexion? Well, Ivory is her beauty soap. Now, dont be hurt Gwendolyn. You can have that ivory look yourself And now a little snack! Somethings got you worried. Pretty soon your fathers going to ask me to leave. But we will leave together as soon as youre better. Cause I might be jealous if you touch somebody else! Dad! Come quick! Are you in pain? I saw them I hate you! Let me out! Let me out! Miss Genova, If yould like, I have a job for you. You must help me... my daughter needs a private nurse I dont want to admit her to the hospital I cant take anymore I dont have any spare time. Listen, you must be careful. Some colleagues are already suspicious of what has happened with your patients. So... you better leave before they find out. You must never do that again. I could crush you like a worm. Just let her leave. it will be the best for everyone. It is you who are going to leave, and right away and dont think about working in any hospital of this country Ill scour each and every personnel department, and Ill see to it that you are cut out like a cancer! And you, doctor, did you have the approval of the families before taking off the precious skin grafts? Who would believe you? On the other hand, Ive taken the trouble of keeping an autopsy report of each patient you euthanized. I have all the proof and need only call the police. Hello. Yes, please send a taxi out here to me to Rockhill, The Baert Estate. Thank. What did she mean with that story about skin grafts? Nothing. You have taken the skin of the dead!? What is it, you want it to be like with Anna, that we lose Lucille, too? Give me that. Now all we need is for you to break a leg. Just take it easy. Lucille, Lucille its me. All this will pass. Pretty soon you wont resent me anymore. Lucille? Lucille, do you hear me? Give me the key! No. Ingrid, please, give me the key! No. Give me the key! Now give me that key! This time, I saw Woman in the city, and I spoke to her, and she spoke to me. I was in the bedroom, in the darkness. They came to tell me that she there at my house; and I saw her in my bed all mine, in darkness!
