 

                        Have you ever had this feeling? when you saw someone happily together yet you are all alone by yourself walking on the street....in the car....or on a boat or wherever you are I always think this world is far too lonely, too sad my life is just like a drifting cloud without destination just floating around my job....is to be employed by someone doing thing nobody else wants to do killing people becomes a very normal affair to survive, I have to do it Maek(Cloud)----is my name How you doing? about your sickness.... gradually it got better How about mum? same as before sleeping in brother's room She stays in there from the day you moved out Mhok, please don't tell mum that I dropped by Brother, do you remember? You said, you want to bring me here wait till I finished this job We will bring mum along Brother, you swear Take this Bangkok Love Story You are late again! Traffic jam traffic jam? hum Iht...Iht!!! Lock up Who is your boss? What can you do if you know? Just want to know... Lock yourself up I said lock yourself up! want to die? Doctor said that I have Aids... you are the one.. who passed it to me! It was you! you! What are you doing? leave my room Dad Misses you What are you doing? Get out! get out of my room!!! get lost! Ah, here you are, I've been waiting for you This is the guy I wanted you to capture? rather good looking You haven't told me why you wanted him alive Later he will be dead! You don't have to know so much Just do whatever you were told to do, don't you want the money? Sir, here he comes So? Are you ok? Why you do this to me? Because you know too much about me? Tell me, who else knows about this? You really think the matter will end after I told you? you destroyed the evidence for the sake of yourself You think it is correct to do so? No matter what....It ends as I wanted it to be You are the only one who doesn't want it to end Why did you tell me that he is the bad guy? Who told you? me? stupid Sir, what we do now? kill him? Kill him I said I want you to kill him No, I won't do it You know that I don't kill innocent people I kill only bad guy, like this old bastard Well, if you don't do it, I will Kill both of them, I pay more Kill him, kill him. what are you waiting for? what are you waiting for? Kill them, kill them! Kill them! You still haven't told me, why didn't you kill me? Don't ask, stop the car right in front there Are you hurt? How are you able drive the car? Not your problem, stop here You can go now I said go! You are injured, how can you make it to go away? I said go, you must go! You.... Get lost, you want to die? eh, you.... You are still bleeding Where you want to go? I send you Tell me, where you intend to go? send me to....my mum and my brother where ? Go straight and I will lead you the way Hi Is Mhok? Maek wanted me to tell that he is going to stay away for sometime he asked you to take care of mum...and yourself eh.... Mhok Maek asked me to give this to you In case anyone ask about Maek Just tell them that Maek has not been back since long time Maek.....Maek Maek....my son....you are back -Mum I missed you -I am not Maek I have to go Mhok Sha don't worry Iht should be ok, I have told friend about this case Iht is very capable, he should be able to escape are you alright? Don't rush.... Take a sit restraint yourself bear the pain what are you doing? why are you still here? ....becasue I am worry about you You can go now Mum, where are you going? To get the medicine Let me get it for you NIlaman clinic Hei, that guy is back you still want to eat? Remember, don't let me see you again! Mum! hi! food is ready You have been out? I told you, is not safe outside Don't go out again If I don't go out, where can we get food? where is the rice? Have you found the two bastards? More or less I know where they are Should be able to get them this time Have to find them! because that guy knows too much about me What have you done to let him knows about you? just because I trusted that group of people and let them killed the general but then that guy started to investigate on the case Don't worry, these two guys will be dead! Sha? Is me, Iht Iht, how are you now? Where are you now? Sha, don't worry about me I am fine What happened to you? Iht, where exactly are you now? Sha...if the minister asks about me, just tell him that I have lost contact Why? Something must has happened! Iht, I am very worry about you! How are you now? Sha, please don't ask me now I will contact you later Iht! Iht! You are the one? Hit me??? Ah!!! pain? want to shoot me? I will show you some colors! Are you afraid? Ah?? Asshole! Let me go! Bastard! let me go...let me go... dead? I asked you to finish him but they finished you now Seems to you just like nothing has happened Good, kill them both Be neat, just do it Maek, I apology for what happened last night I never thought that this would happened Please don't be angry with me I trust you next time Forgive me, Maek Please forgive me! Ok? Maek, have you ever thought of running away? You think I can get rid of them? At least, better than sitting around waiting to die Shut up! Um How many people have you killed? If I have the choice, I won't kill anyone Because of money? Is money so important? Money? Never important to me But I have to Have you ever thought of quitting? You think that is easy to do so? If I dont kill him, he will kill me Maek, do you believe? Dressed up in attractive clothings doesn't mean he is a good person Heart is the most important Start to smoke? Time for medicine Let me rub your back Maek, I am sorry If it is about what happened today -I upset you... -Shut up!! Get out of my room Maek, if you want to kill me, do it now Then I can die together with our relationship I asked you to shut up Get out! You can get lost Maek, don't lie to yourself ask yourself, what exactly you want? Get lost! Get lost! Get lost! Get lost... Maek, are you ok? Someone....tried to hurt you? Don't ask me now...I am tired Iht, Iht Eat Faster, lets go to Wansalong to look for MB Very cheap, just 500 baht Real or fake? The one I saw last time was only 300 The price of petrol has increased. the price of MB increased too ah, 40 bahts Put the money there Eat faster, too late there won't be anyone there Fuck,! fucking Aids carrier! What are you looking at? Thank for your 1000 baht the other 1000 baht you can keep for your aids treatment, thanks wait... [My love] Please don't tell anyone I am back Don't forget, thanks! Please pick up the call Please pick up the call, Iht Pick up Why don't you pick up the call? Maek, Maek Maek, I know that you are here Why are you hiding from me? Maek, have you ever think of someone? till the point of not able to describe the feeling with words Have you? Maek, I miss you! I miss you, Maek Maek, I miss you! Maek Maek...Maek...I miss you!! Don't hide from me Maek!! I miss you!!! What's wrong with you? Why you treated me this way? Don't treat me this way ever again, ok? Don't hide from me Maek I love you! Maek, actually I don't understand myself Why I have to love you Loving someone don't have to have a reason You know? I love you so much That's why I hate myself Maek, you? have you ever love me? Maek, don't go If you love me, put this ring on But...if you don't love me, just throw it away Maek! Maek! Maek.... Don't go, don't go! I told you to stay home Don't go around and harm people! remember! Mhok, eat more Don't worry, my treat eh....you always get bullied by them? Why don't you react? I don't know why I have to react Get beaten too if I react This is my fate You know what sickness I have, do you? I know They should know it too This isn't sickness that can be transmitted easily right but they still hate it afraid, dare not to let us get near Just my bad luck Don't you afraid? Mhok Has Maek back yet? You were not with him? Mhok, if you need my help call me If you see Maek, give this to him for me Maek Why don't you want to see me? You know? I miss you! Mum I am here to take you and Mhok We are going to stay together Um Are you happy, Mum? Um So...lets pack Mhok? Where is he? I go upstair and get him Why stay under the rain? you will get cold Go, go and pack You still worry about me and Mum? Why you said that? Where did you get the money for the clothings and the fishes? I sold myself What do you know? Me and Mum, how much we have suffered? Each time, I went out to buy food for Mum The people on this street.... they bullied me Why you do that? Why you wanted to pass the disease to others? Who? Who is the one who made me into this? It was that fucking foster father... who made me into this... what have I done wrong?? Mum Mum Mum...Mum Mum I am here to take you to stay with me....Mum Mum...MUm... Mum...Mum... Iht The future of us can't go on together you go the way you want to do whatever you want to do As for me.... I will go on my way About our marriage.... just forget it.... -But... -Enough Iht? I am Mhok I am going to ''MayHongSun'' with Maek I waited for Maek at the station He said he have to go by the boss to settle something I have been waiting for him since long Iht, do you know where Maek is now? The train is departing at 10 o'clock I am worry that Maek.... ah...Maek...ah... Ah.... newspaper? Newspaper? Newspaper? Get lost! kid Hello? Guo? Do you know where that scarface lives? Wrong....you know that you are wrong? I let you kill Maek Is he dead? -No -You bastard you said you are the best? Here he is He is alive and is coming to kill me You get down and kill him now -He is here -Who? Maek, he is here! -What you want? -I want gun Don't....shoot....shoot... Didn't you hate killing good guys? Shoot! you shoot! Fuck...don't move... You shoot! fuck Maek, any problem in there? No, from the day I started to kill.... I have prepared to get caught Maek, I am worry about you And, about Mhok, you don't have to worry I will take good care of him I will see him later Don't you like to tell him anything? Iht What happened to your eyes? Nothing, don't worry I asked what happened to your eyes? You remember the day you went to kill your boss? I wanted to stop you But when I reached there, you had already gone Started from that day, I can't see anymore Maek, you don't have to worry about me The doctor said it can be cured I just have to wait for the donor I don't think I have to wait long Someone will donate his eyes to me Maek, did you bring the ring I gave you? meaning....you... I placed it here nearest to my heart Maek, you have to keep it well Maek, I love you! Mhok, how are you? Why put the fighting fishes in the same tank? I like to see them fight the strongest one is the winner the weakest one.....the loser just like me In this case, you have to be stronger ah....is you, Iht Please Thanks! How you doing, Mhok? I thought you won't come and see me anymore I will, I promised that I will come I won't leave you alone Mhok! Mhok! Sir, Mhok is gone.... Before he left, he asked me to pass this letter to someone named Maek I give it to you, please pass it to Maek Maek, I feel that I am lucky to be your brother even though we can't be together but I have many wonderful memories of you Maek, you always worry about me always protecting me but happiness is too short I never thought that the sad thing.... will come upon to our family The thing foster father did to me on that day let me and Mum suffered a lot if not because of that damn foster father we would had a very happy life together Our family wouldn't ended this way Starting from that day, my life had already came to the end To be able to come till here, I have to endure the pain that foster father placed on me endure the discrimination from others Maek, now I know It is really hard I have decided I will go to Mum we will wait for you there wait for you at the place far far away here we can live together please tell Iht I am very thankful of the help he had given me Maek, Iht love you very much Iht is a good man Don't worry about me, don't be angry with me I am going.... Maek, I am going first.... Lovely yours, Mhok year 2032 I thought no one will come and pick me up There is always me Lets go Come, Iht From now on, I am your eyes Still decided to stay oversea? lets first stay a while in bangkok, then we will see in the meantime you can stay in my house you want to be my eyes And you? Don't you come with me to oversea? Why not? didn't your swear .... to be my eyes for the rest of your life? deal to be together.... Wherever you are, I will be with you in whichever places you are Maek, how you feeling? Do you....love me now? You love me, do you? Maek! Maek! Maek... Maek.... Where are you, Maek? Maek...Maek... Maek...you promised.... you will stay with me forever Maek....Maek.... I love you I love you! Iht, i don't know... if you can see this handphone film but if you see it you will know in my heart I love you very much love you...till the moment my breath stops
