 

                        Na, run! Run! Quick! Chase them! Quick! Chase! BANGKOK KUNG FU Who is it? Wan-eng I have somewhere else to go Do you think you can? Of course! Pong Pong, go outside Pong! I told you to go outside I've got work to do! Go! Kid.. Do you live nearby? Yes I've picked up a ball. Is it yours? Do you want to have a look? Hey, come over here for a minute Is this the one? How many rules are there here? Three rules Rule number one Don't talk back Rule number two Do not talk to strangers Now say it out loud What is rule number 2? Do not talk to strangers Rule number three Do not run away Loudly! Do not run away! To break rule number 3 is useless Does anyone know... Running away will get what punishment? I know What do you know? I forgot... What tricks are you up to? Loyna Yes, sir Tell him Damn it! How many times have I told you to act like an idiot Why can't you do it well! EErrrr... not bad not bad The next time you will have to act like this Ka, you too! Whatever anyone tell you to do, just do what they told you You don't have any choice Ka! You can wait for your punishment Ka! Don't think of ever running away You started all this Because of you, they are in this state now What are you staring at? Are you afraid you might forget how I look? Then look at my face closely because from now on you will never be able to see my face again Help me! Help me! Help me! Pet! Keep him quiet! Help me! Help! Help! Hey! Why are you shouting? Help me! Are you keeping quiet? No, let me go now Or else I'll ask my mother to call the police to catch you -Save me! -I'm really curious... If you don't have a tongue, how are you going to tell others? BANGKOK There are two rules here Don't talk to anybody on the streets Who did you just talk to? Isn't blindnes enough for you? Pet! Here! Cut his tongue off! You want to become dumb too? You deaf idiot! What are you doing? You guys are going to get it! Damn it! He's got a knife Be careful You want to get a beating? Shit! What happen? Something hit my hand What wrong did the kids do? Got into the wrong path [Teochew Dialect] Kaoya, go over there and hide I do not like to meddle in people's affair Fucking old man! You better leave You've better put your gun down Kill him Wow! Fantastic Eh? Where did he go? He can fly! He can fly! Hey! Look up there! Using flying technique? Let me see you fall Give me the gun Where did he go? Quick! Let's get out of here! FIFTEEN YEARS LATER I've never have this feeling before... I want to be with you I want to be with you. I want to tell you... Always want to be close to you Your smile makes me so happy But when you left me I felt so sad I'm very sure... But it's very hard to say clearly I need your help I know I like him... But was tongue-tied But if you could help me untie then it won't be so hard Enough! Is it ok? Of course Why did you chose this song? Because I like rap Yo! Yo! Your vocals are pretty normal but your dance is not too bad That's right.... Your leg...... That's it Hmm... that's it.....dog food Here it's written that what you do best is high jump. Is that right? Levitation, just like Chinese kung fu? Yes Did you see those bulbs? Can you use your kung fu and touch those bulbs? Of course I can Oh! I just ask you to touch them Touch and not break? Touch I'm sorry Hey! Where are the chopsticks? Just give it to me Eat quickly! Those who didn't beg more than 500 baht prepare to get starve! Hey, where are you going? I am looking for someone called Oar He's looking for someone called Oar There isn't anyone here by the name of Oar Ask him to leave Anyone by the name of Kernnu? Kernnu? I don't know him Anyone called Loyna? He's looking for someone called Loyna Do you think this is a fruit market? We don't sell fruits here Hmm, really? What do you sell here? Why did you have to kidnap so many kids? Why do you want to go against us? He is blind I don't want to beat up a cripple. Ask him to get out Blind idiot! If you don't want to get beaten up, then leave! Do you really want to get beaten up? Errr... This is called, "Heaven's Touch". This is called, "Hands of Hell". How are you feeling? I am really curious If you can't see, how are you going to work? We've been looking for them for 10 years If we don't give up Sooner or later we'll find them If we can't? Do we have to spend the rest of our lives looking for them? If you can't see like me, you wouldn't ask all these questions I know But we don't have the right to keep on killing They don't have the right to treat others in that manner too Furthermore, if we don't kill them They will kill us This is just logic But this is not a normal lifestyle Then what is normal? I don't even know who my parents are I have to ran away from the orphanage when I was young Living like a stray dog on the street Until we met these societies' scum You've been beaten till you are deaf and I am blind When will our lives be normal? Welcome Uncle Mor Your hands are too high, bring them down Call Uncle Mor Mor Speak slowly. Mor... Mor Where is your master? Master is upstairs Do you know Bangkok's "Suriyang" gang? How did you know this? Someone in the gang came and ask about you How did they know I am hiding in Thailand? The gang's leader was killed by a chopstick Is he one of your disciple? There are disciples who have learned the chopstick's killing method You've better be careful If the triad boss is dead I think the new Suriyang boss will be in Thailand soon Doctor, thank you for letting me know this Good Luck, Uncle Mor Master What is it? When are you going to teach me martial arts? Why do you want to learn martial arts? You taught them but why didn't you teach me? Did you hear them talking about your kick? Yes They didn't choose you because of the way you kick No. My voice must be really horrible But don't worry Next week I'm going to participate in another singing contest You still want to go? Hmm... I know that next week there is an audition and this time I won't say I can do high jump again I would say that I really love hiphop dancing Weird Mike is here I know Hi Hi Mike, you're here to see me? I'm here to see your friend What do you want? I've been coming to see you for almost a year and? When will you be free for dinner? I've told you, when I'm not busy I will call you You've said you will call but it's almost a year Do you know that to wait for someone feels so terrible? I know Forget it! I don't think you know Whatever it is. I'll wait until the day comes Really straightforward Pong is the greatest Has it been 3 years? It felt more like 10 years Now you know to wait for someone really feels terrible Now you know how Mike feels I wish that Mike and I are really on a date He's kind of cute How many can wait for so long? Don't forget, there is a limit to everyone's patience. I know. Me too Really? Why don't you tell me these? If you can't find Pong this year What will your plans be? I will go on a date with Mike Really? THREE YEARS AGO Hey What is it? Do you really love Kaoya? Why did you ask me this? I just want to know if you really love her Yes But I've seen you with other women Kaoya is just like your younger sister If you don't really love her Why did you keep looking her up? What really is your problem? You want to fight? Enough! Err... my dancing is no good? I know that sooner or later you will be successful Do you really think so? Hmm Where is Chi? Chit's at home. He ask me to buy groceries Any news of Pong? No Kaoya Hmmm? Why do you like Pong? Why did you ask? I like to know You really want to know? Maybe it's silly I've never got a present when I was young Only Pong gave me a present Maybe Pong don't mean anything by it But back then we're only kids I don't know where he is now Pong's been missing 3 years Where are you going? We still need to buy some goods I'm leaving first Bye Kaoya What is it? Pong... If he calls me, I will tell you Thank you "Amor Laga" Who is it? Wan-eng Your old customer Are you resting? No Are you sure you can? Of course Pong Pong! Go outside Go! Go! You are Pong? I am Bibi Are you hungry? Pong, you can't speak? I've just pulled a tooth Haa... How old are you? Wa-ooh You once said Loving each other would be the best Yes I'm not very sure now Why aren't you sure? Love will bring happiness, right? Yes If I choose the one I don't love just because he loves me Then where is the happiness? Happiness; because someone wants you If you love someone and he doesn't loves you Do you know how terrible it feels? What did I do wrong? Why? You're just 17 You are afraid being arrested? Lies So what if I lied? I hate liars I hate liars Yes You lied to me you've got your tooth pulled but you're a mute What do you say about that? I'm not a mute Yes you are Where are you going? Running off after using me? Damn mute! Bibi, what happened? Here are all the documents Can you give the keys to my brother? Give the keys to your brother? He's blind. How can he drive? What? Blind people can't drive? -No -Impossible, blind people can't drive If he can drive, I will strike lottery Of course he can drive Chit Aiya! Hey, look at this An accident is going to happen soon! -Chit -What is it? -Where are you going? -I'm going to the car Hey! That's my car Chit, our car is this way. Damn! Why didn't you tell me? Make me feel so awkward Is this the third grade insurance? Yes, but I think your brother should buy first grade Hey, let's discuss this -He is deaf -His brother is blind These two are very dangerous Go straight Err... wait, wait Hey, hey... Stop, stop That's the gear that goes backwards Hey, hey.. He is deaf. It's useless to talk to him Damn! They're crazy! Stop the car What is it? You nearly hit something I've better call the insurance company now No. We should call the ambulance immediately Turn left Step on it. Go, go All your money is in there Are you thinking of making more money? What makes you learn levitation? I didn't choose. Master said I am most suitable to learn levitation I don't know when I can use it I can't be a doctor. I can't be a singer Being a singer I can't use levitation Have you thought of basketball or some other sports that you can use levitation? I've thought about it before but I don't like it I want to be a singer but Master didn't understand me I understand Waited long? No This is my friend, Wa-ooh She's going with us -Hi -Hi Let me take your bags Smart? Ok Did you say he is deaf? He is but he can read lips Hi Chit Hi, Kaoya Chit, this is my good friend Wa-ooh Hi Chit Hi Wa-ooh You know how to drive? Yes I thought he can't see? Don't worry, my brother can guide the way Trust me Go straight Ok, I remember now Be careful the side of the road, going into the side of the road. Hey, wrong! Left, left Which left? This left! Right, right... Ok, go straight Be careful the car. Don't drive too fast Hey, I want to overtake No, no, no... Don't overtake Look Idiot Can you overtake successfully? Head in the direction of the opposite car Where? On the right. Just in front of us Hello, hello? Hello? Do you really want to learn kung fu? I want to learn But you must promise me not to use this kung fu for the wrong purpose I promise Promise what? I promise I won't use kung fu for the wrong purpose Say it one more time. Slowly I promise I won't use kung fu for the wrong purpose Master, guests Go away Master, where do I go? Over there Master, you are great! Are you car-sick? No but I am scared to die Don't worry, we've reached How many steps are there? How many more steps to go? About 200 more Can't stay long here It's not safe here any more Suriyang's poison is lethal There is only one way I need to transfer Moon energy into Na's body But Na will lose all his memory What do you decide? It's okay if Na forget us You two? I agree with Kaoya Chit, you guard the entrance Ka will be responsible for the surrounding area During this period, no one is to enter Are you okay? We have to keep guard here the whole night Who is it? It's me Still haven't sleep? I can't sleep Chit What? Are you in contact with Pong? He called me once and after that we lost contact Didn't leave any phone numbers He didn't want to come back and see Master? He said he will come Really? But if he comes back how does he know we are here? Hey! It's me Do you want to change shift? It's okay. You keep Wa-ooh company Wa-ooh is asleep I'm going down to take some things Kaoya Where did you go? For a walk Kaoya You haven't sleep? Where did you go? I went to the temple Did you see...? See what? See the person you wish to see No You just know how to play this? Pong! How did you know we are here? Who are you? Chit! Go protect Master! Master! Master! Master... Master! Na! Na is still alive Do you still work for Uncle Kao No Did you know Master died because of you Why me? Master ask me to give up I gave up But you didn't give it up I have to work for Uncle Kao You forgot? I ask you to go but I didn't force you Master death is all because of you It's your fault. You blind idiot It's your fault. You mute! Blind idiot! Useless mute! Enough! It's all my fault! If I didn't leave the letter Master wouldn't have died You see! It's not my fault Have you said enough? Do you want to be like me? Blind idiot How did master treat you? You want to be like me? Hello Come back at once! If not I'll kill myself! I'll cut my wrist Pong! What is happening? Ok! I'm going to cut my wrist now Pong! What is it? You've got a girl friend? Did you know... When you left 3 years ago I feel so terrible Take this back This is not mine What do you mean? It's not yours? Didn't you gave this to me? No This marble belongs to 'Hka' Ka? No. It's Na. Na! Na Hmmm I'm cutting my wrist right now I'm rushing back right now What happened? It's just hard to believe that a monkey can kill a Moon Master I did it, sir And you? We found the lost monk Very good Go now. Get me those Dragon's Tears I'm inside Mom, he's here! I'm coming down Hello Koaya You stay here and watch over Na Where are you going? I'll tell you later Dragon's Tears? Who are you? Uncle Mor and Uncle Hui ask us to find you Hui Puay Lin Angel Doctor He is still not dead? He's going to die soon That's why he wants my Dragon's Tears Uncle Mor is fine The one that is dying is a friend of mine Your friend is dying soon Why must I give you the Dragon's Tears? Tell me Because my friend shouldn't die Then who should die? And who are you? Who are you to say, who's to die and who's not to die? We give you an easy way but you chose the hard way Don't blame me for being rude What more have you got to amuse me? How did you tangle up with Chaithuan gang? They've got the Dragon's Tear before the monkey got there Who? The men of the Moon Tell the monkey... Find them If they can't get me the Dragon's Tear Don't come back Chit, have some water Unlce Mor is still inside? Water Uncle Mor, how is it? Na has stopped breathing But you said that if we got the Dragon's Tear we can save Na The transfer process is not completed Maybe his body isn't ready to let the Dragon's Tear to work on Is Na dead, Uncle Mor? I've done my best I'm very sorry Na Nar... How can you die like that? Don't you want to learn kung fu? Get up! Get up! I'll teach you Chit felt that Na should be buried beside Master in the mountain Ok, let's do it Na should be happy Pong, Na is dead We are all be responsible We must find Suriyang Gang We must take revenge for Master and for the death of Na They kidnap people and sell off their organs? Yes They are monster from hell Are they together? Except one Who? The guy that blinded you Porn Oar? Now what? Should we call the police? Are you crazy? If the police can help us You won't be deaf and I won't be blind and me, mute! Right. Mute The police can't do anything It's between them and us Little devils! Come out All of you, come out Quickly leave My money is gone What is it? All the kids have escaped How can they escape? Where are the guards? All the guards are dead Pet, go inside and have a look Who are you? The kid that you once kidnapped You forgot? Chit!? Good memory But you still haven't change your bad habits Damn you! What is your name? Kernnu Kernnu Where is Porn Oar? I don't know Pong Do you remember my brother? I can't remember You made him deaf You can't remember? Ka, what do you want to do to him? Let him go Let him go? You forgot how they've treated you? I remember Killing them won't change anything I'm not killing them to change anything but I want you to kill him then he would know the pain that you've felt I've suffered enough and I don't want my soul to suffer too Ha, ha, ha! Your brother is very generous My soul have suffered long enough This man has the Dragon's Tear in his body? Yes And she is a virgin girl? Yes His heart will make you immortal and her heart wil make you the strongest man But I will have to eat it Yes Take the hearts and keep them fresh Bring them to me at my hotel After you, doctor Damn! Where is Porn Oar? Maybe he is dead Dead? Hmm I thought scums are very hard to die? Can we take revenge for Master? You've seen too much Chinese kung fu movies Too much Chinese kung fu movies? Hmm The coffin is gone Quick make a call Did you hear crying? Help! Hey! Take the heart, not the tape Monkeys? Yes. A group of them A group of monkeys? They ran off? No, they are still here Kaoya, are you okay? I'm okay Why did they capture you? The master of Suriyang is here He wants to eat the hearts of Na and me Animals Pong Coins, coins! Coins? Yes, coins! Quick! Ka, give him coins There's one more coin here It's finished Chit, where is your car? Pong. You and Na carry the coffin Damn! Monkey Bring me the girl I'll spare your lives Bring it on... Chit! Chit! Chit! Chit! Pong! Come. Let's see what powers your teacher has taught you Pong You're the punk who killed my brother I see your teacher did not teach you the Moon secret So, as a parting gift I will show you my secret Before you die Pong Na Out of my way "United Hands", the highest level Not bad Not bad at all Not bad enough Long time no see, Chit You are staying in the temple? Hmm Master have always wanted someone to take care of the temple So, do you remember Kaoya now? Na Whenever you remember you can take this back How much is it for this overseas trip? Going for how many days? Pong, is that really you? Pong, my son Why didn't you tell me that day? Sorry! Sorry! My son... I thought you ran away from home and didn't want to stay with me anymore Since the day you left I've been missing you That's why I've adopt a child That child is Bibi Pong, do you want to stay with me? Pong... Are you trying to cover your identity? Or are you cheating your client? Remember. If you do not have any customer tonight I will beat you up You are worst than a beast What did you say? I didn't say it My brother did Really? Why do you repeat one more time? You scums are worst than a beast Chit used all the money to rent this place He wants to change the place before he rents it out But it's not completed Why don't you complete it? That's what Chit wants but not me What do you want to do? I want to travel. I want to leave this place You want to leave this place? Why? There is nothing to keep me here Not even a memory? When will you come back? I don't know Have you told Kaoya? Not yet Good luck Speak! Speak it out! ONE YEAR LATER Kaoya, Kaoya Do you remember me now? I sorry. I'm just having some memory now Wa-Ooh, let's leave Why? The movie is about to end What happen to the marble? Marble? I've return it to Ka You've return it to Ka? Pong says it's yours It is but I've given to Ka a long time ago Who are you looking for? I'm looking for Ka. He lives here Is he your friend? Yes Ka have shifted from this place Then, do you know where he is? I don't know I didn't ask But I'm glad you came Wait a while America? For work or to study? Or for leisure? I found these in Ka's room He forgot to take it away I'm giving you this Ka is very smart. You will like him If he is smart? Why didn't you like him? He's not interested in me I've known him for 10 years. He seldom talk Because he's deaf? But he is not mute That's why you like a mute because it's fun? No, not that But you've never told me that both must be in love which would be best You forgot something? I've lost something I didn't see anything. Is it in your bag? It's at home Can you drive me back to take? Would you be in time for your flight? If we are to make the trip, you would miss your flight Is it very important? It's very important
