 

                        An I VISION ENTERTAINMEN production Yang Donggeun Hirayama Aya Kato Masaya Jeong Taewoo Jeong Duhong Park Seongmin I am afraid of fighting I am afraid of being beaten and losing But I am more afraid of surviving as a cripple than dying while I am fighting! I hear the wind howl I hear the fear inside of me Directed by Yang Yunho FIGHTER IN THE WIND 1939 SEOUL Oh, an airplane! WANTED - YOUNG AIR FORCE PILOTS 1942 - SHIMONOSEKI HARBOR JAPAN You stowed away, didn't you? Are you from Korea? Don't you know how long stowaways go to jail? I like it that you're honest! I'm the one who finds rats like you A de detective? Give me everything you've got! You want to go to jail or what? Ow! You bastard! You're Korean? Uh, it's essential for a detective to speak Korean Essential! Hey! You hit a detective? You want to go to jail? OK, my name's Chunbae I'm Korean, too! You bastard! That's him! Yes! He went that way! That way! The bastard should be dead! Stop there! Stop! Shit! How come that bastard's fists are faster than his words? Chunbae! Get him! Chunbae, you bastard! You'll be dead when I get you! Chunbae! What are you doing there? Are you selling anything interesting today? I've got money! Come here Chunbae! What's that? Chunbae! Where is that bastard? Like some kind of rabbit Aviation school? You want to go there? What for? To be a pilot Well, well You have no idea what the world is like It's no use being a pilot or whatever You'll just die in the war I don't care about dying or living Oh, well, whatever So... when are you going to get off? I won't A VIATION SCHOOL You'll get hurt Better than dying you bastard! There he is Help! Chunbae You'll be dead when I get you Hey, why do you keep beating me? I'm not your punching bag END OF THE PACIFIC WAR - 1945 A Stop! That's how I began to dream of being a pilot But the end of the Pacific War ended my dream Stop! You'll be dead The end of the war was driving people mad Who are they? They're Koreans who refused to fly in the Kamikaze Let them go! But Yes, sir! The Kamikaze is a sacred ceremony We can't stain it with the blood of Koreans You bastards! You're just using us as human shields When did you teach us how to fly? Shit! Who the hell are you? What insolence you Korean! How dare you defy His Majesty's rule? Fine, shoot me Pilot? Aviation school? I don't give a damn anymore Go ahead, you bastards! Stop it Not bad for a greenhorn What's that silly skill? It's called Taekkyeon a Korean martial art Korean martial arts? Let me make an offer If you defeat me in a fight, I'll let you and your friends live But if you lose, I'll only kill you Gruesomely What do you think? It seems you care about your life indeed Baedal! Are you scared? Showing your back in a fight you certainly are Korean You don't have enough honor to learn martial arts Baedal, Baedal! Wake up! And so that year passed... Japan surrendered unconditionally because of the atomic bomb And my country was liberated However, only devastation was left after the war ended Similarly, my courage was left in ruins after that defeat Give me a chocolate Give me a chocolate Give me a chocolate IKEBUKURO NIGHT MARKET - TOKYO Ladies and gentlemen it's called a pachinko machine You, too, might win an unbelievable fortune Spend 1 yen, win 10 Even 100 yen if you're really lucky it's called a pachinko machine Make a fortune and have fun Come to the pachinko parlor! Wow, congratulations you won! This gentleman put in 5 yen and earned 50! Come on everybody! 5 will get you 50! Pachinko! Pachinko! Pachinko! Pachinko! Pachinko! Get out of my way! Pachinko! Pachinko! Come to the pachinko parlor! Come on everybody! Go away! Get out of here Oh, hello, sir! How are you? I was just about to pay my tax to you You've already been working here for days without permission You want to pay your taxes now? That machine, the 'pachinko' or whatever, is very interesting Give it to me! Oh please, not my machine! No! My pachinko! Oh, that guy, he's Korean Kill him! - Chunbae! - Baedal! Look at him I'm going to kill you! Is that urine? The bed-wetter of Ikebukuro The bed-wetter of Ikebukuro! The bed-wetter of Ikebukuro! You should pay with your life You eat what you spilt Then crawl between my legs saying I'm the bed-wetter of Ikebukuro' If you don't... Baedal! No, don't do that! Shut up! No! Don't! Please don't, Baedal! You want to die? I, Choi Baedal am the bed-wetter of Ikebukuro Louder, you Korean! Look at that HAHA I, Choi Baedal am the bed-wetter of Ikebukuro Baedal What you did was very wrong Well, well, look who's here You still have the habit of getting into people's business You want to lose your other hand, too? Bastard! Bumsoo Baedal Bumsoo, I'm sorry to show myself to you like this greatest circus! Can you have ti see it Man on the fly beautiful women on the swing A man walking on the rope Here, have some soup Oh, kimchi Great! It's been quite long By the way, those yakuzas do you know them? You cannot avoid dealing with them when you're the guard for a circus They're extra trouble for a troupe like ours, with lots of Koreans Aren't those ration tickets? They're as good as money Why don't you use them instead of just collecting them? We are planning to build a school for the Korean kids in this area They shouldn't forget our language even though they've left Korea I see Baedal, how are your parents? Bumsoo! Teach me how to be a fighter Bumsoo wouldn't give up his will Baedal must be very cold You, poor thing! Baedal! Bumsoo! Baedal, if you make a fist you can't grasp anything not friends, not earth nor sky But if you unclench your fist you can hold the whole world Baedal, practice martial arts hard to protect yourself Bumsoo, why are you saying that? You understand what I mean? Get him! Follow him! Get him! Shoot! Get him! Little master, use your abilities to protect yourself and others Live fairly, and protect the things you care about What's he doing? I remember he said he would never teach the martial arts as they can be as deadly as poison Well, he must be different from someone Damn What? How rude you are to an old lady like me! Bastard! BOOK OF FIVE RINGS BY MIYAMOTO MUSASHI Justice without power is empty but power without justice is only violence A warrior always keeps his sword sharp but he never draws it without a cause Miyamoto Musashi the best swordsman ever will be a good teacher for you Pachinko! Pachinko! I'm sorry You stupid bastards! Go away! You bastard! What's happening? Ahem, it's your fault Don't be rude Apologize now I'm sorry Japan Karate Association The bed-wetter of Ikebukuro! That's what people call you these days Is that why you begged for your life? To live like that? You are shameless! What made Miyamoto Musashi different from other warriors as that he dreamed of being the best fighter in the world The best, the strongest man in the world! That is what you should dream of to be as strong as your name Baedal, 'the Korean people' If you practice for a thousand days you're still a beginner But if you practice for ten thousand days you can become a master This is kyokushin or 'pure truth' The spirit of kyokushin means to do your best, until the last moment Today, I'm still walking aimlessly Help our lady! Please help! Stop it! Let's go! We shouldn't have seen it - What the fuck up bitch - Help, please help the lady! Officer! Help! Those bastards are worse than the police or yakuzas! Let's go, hurry! Please, help! Please! Please, don't do this! Somebody help! The Japs don't protect their own girls Why are you getting involved? Shit! Help please help Help! Somebody help! Do you speak Korean? No? How about Gyeongsang dialect? Bastards Baedal! What are you doing? Let's go Baedal, Baedal Hey, you stupid fool Are you crazy? You have no idea what kind of bastards they are My goodness you idiot And why are you smiling like? You got a crush on her? What? You want me to teach you something nice? Catch birds at once That girl Oh, well, what am I doing now What is it? What is it? It's getting cold Hey, what are you waiting for? Go out and work You came here to sightsee? Why? Too embarrassing? You're a rickshaw-man what do you worry about? Wear a hat then no one will recognize you Hey! What? Is that what you meant by something nice? Why, you don't like? Idiot it Crazy bastard don't complain Go! Youko! You've got a crush on him, don't you? Setsu! Setsu! Have you heard of the brave tiger? The brave tiger? The mythical hero? No, I mean, recently Ah, the man who saves girls from American soldiers? That's just a story That man who helped me maybe he was the brave tiger? Heck, no! I'm sure he was the brave tiger If not, how come he would risk his life to save me? Then you think the guy who saved you is a hero? The brave tiger? A hero is protecting girls in this neighborhood? WANTED Youko Somebody to see you Go outside What are you doing? Get off! Get off! Hurry! Don't move! They're after you, aren't they? Don't worry I won't tell the police You saved me the other day didn't you? The brave tiger? Oh, well, that is This scar it's from that day It must've been very painful Thank you, Miss Youko Thank you for your kind help Oh? How do you know my name, Baedal? Oh, I could ask the same of you You seem about my age Baedal! Let's be friends! Friends? Get on Thank you Let's go Thank you Youko, Youko wait a minute Here Thank you Oh, Baedal I'll give some of my noodles Thank you Baedal, slow down Are you Ok? Follow me Long time no see, brave tiger? I don't understand Don't you know what we did to Korean women? Why are you helping Japanese women? Is that why you called me here? I have been practicing karate since I was five and I have never been beaten by anyone in a fight You're the first one to hit me In that sense, I acknowledge your fighting spirit But that's all Don't ever talk of the brave tiger or pretend to have a noble samurai spirit! Next time I see you you'll be dead! Have some fun here! It's pachinko! Get out of my lane Pachinko! Louder! Louder! Go away! Find the rationing tickets! Find them! Check everywhere! Pachinko, ah, I'm hungry Hey, why so glum? Why are you so happy? The yakuzas came here a while ago so I was really worried But they just passed by They seemed to be going somewhere else Where? Over there, near the railway that way Where? Where are the ration tickets? Here! Come this way! Are the ration tickets more important than your life? Baedal, Baedal! Wake up! Baedal, Baedal! Justice without power is empty but power without justice is only violence Be strong to protect yourself and others Baedal! Youko Justice without power is empty but power without justice is only violence Be strong to protect yourself and others Baedal! Take care Kyoto NIJO DOJO I'm Choi Baedal I'm studying karate I'm the master here, Sattani I heard that the Nijo dojo is a wonderful place with an old tradition Would you please help me to have a match with someone here? According to the rules it is not permitted to have fights with outsiders What if you got hurt in the fight? The one who fights me won't get hurt if he wears this protector I'm the one asking for this fight I don't mind dying How dare you the bed-wetter of Ikebukuro pretends to be a great warrior Let's teach him a lesson Please Breaking news! Hot news! A LONELY BEAST: CHOI BAEDAL BEATS 10 NIJO HEROES A BOMBSHELL DECLARATION A REAL FIGHTER! How dare this Korean greenhorn pretend to be a great warrior like Miyamoto Musashi THE POLICE CHOSE KARATE FOR THEIR TRAINING KARATE MASTER KATO ESTABLISHES JAPAN MARTIAL ARTS UNION He's amazing! Like a karate version of Miyamoto Musashi Like the wind! Yes, yes! No kidding He's thrown down a challenge to the Japanese martial arts world Who could do that kind of thing? People say that he called Japanese traditional karate a kind of dance Then how about my karate? It's a mask dance A mask dance is a dance too you idiot! His name is Choi! Bae! Dal! Actually he's my nephew You say everyone who's famous is your nephew Don't lie! SAPPORO KUSANAGI DOJO SAKAHARA - LEVEL 5 NARA INUTAMA SHINBUKAN MORI - LEVEL 6 WADA DOJO ISHIKAGE DOJO JOTO DOJO HIMAGE There he comes Mr Choi Baedal say something How are you feeling? MIWA - LEVEL 7 BLACK BEL He's on top of the castle He's going to start fighting What's happening? Why's he not coming? Who do you think is going to win? Dan Miwa? It's Choi Baedal! Choi Baedal won! Choi Baedal won! He won again! Mr Choi Baedal! Sir! Say something Mr Choi Baedal! You remind people of swordsman- saint Miyamoto Musashi Where are you heading now? Wherever a strong man is I will go Who's next? Wait a moment! One more question Baedal? You're Baedal, aren't you? Does it hurt? No Are you sure it doesn't hurt? I know it hurts Why do you ask? Why do you keep fighting when it hurts? It doesn't It really doesn't Are you going to leave again? FENCING, OKAMOTO LEVEL BLACK BEL JUDO, HIRANO - LEVEL 4 JUDO, KOBA YASHI - LEVEL 7 CHOI BAEDAL BEATS JAPAN A MAN OF MYTH, CHOI BAEDAL LEARN ALL ABOUT HIM THE BEAST ENDS HIS MARCH NO MORE MARTIAL ARTS EXPERTS THE BEST! A REAL FIGHTER! He's a hero He's a big star! He's so popular that people are beginning to imitate him I've seen it, young kids Wearing shredded uniforms With long, messy hair Wander around to pretend to be a great warrior! It's Choi's story! He won again No one can defeat him - There is someone! - Who? The only one Japanese martial artist who can do it! - The one we should never forget - Who? Kato! The 7 level black belt! Right, Kato's a level! We have Kato left He's the honor of Japanese martial arts He will never lose KENDO, KARATE, AND NOW JUDO JOIN MARTIAL ARTS UNION KATO, 7 LEVEL, ELECTED PRESIDENT OF JAPAN MARTIAL ARTS UNION KATO, MARTIAL ARTS PRESIDEN TO HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE KATO, MARTIAL ARTS PRESIDEN TO HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE President President Kato! What do you think of Choi Baedal's recent actions? What do you think of all the martial art schools being defeated by his karate? People say Choi Baedal faces discrimination because he's Korean Martial arts are They consist of courtesy loyalty and promises It is a philosophy, ideology and all the principles of human psychology That Korean bastard dishonors the Japanese martial arts pretending to be Musashi! Choi Baedal's karate has none of these things It is not a martial art We should've killed him earlier Then what is his karate? It is not karate It's just fighting Choi Baedal is just a common thug He will realize how trivial he is when he sees his last moment Oh, Baedal! Look at them! Mr Choi Baedal Can I get your autograph Please Please Mr Choi Baedal Get in line Thank you Sign, please Baedal Get in line! Baedal what's wrong with you? You were very lucky It was really dangerous this time, you bastard Let him rest Did you see his face? I guess you're a real famous person now getting stabbed in the street! How about going into business together? I'll prepare a dojo for you And we get 8 to 2 Me 8, you 2 It's quite a good deal Chunbae! Why, what's wrong? Leave, please! What's wrong with her? Is she having her period now? She has it everyday No, I'm ok Youko? Are you out of your mind? What will you do if your patron find out? He's my guest Treat him well Leave him before it's too late Ending it would be good for you and good for him, too Remember, a geisha is a flower blossoming only for her patron! Some guy in the ally gave me this CHALLENGE - HAHURIDA SHRINE RYOMA Surprise Why don't you sleep? Have you ever thought of death? Not really I'm scared When I take a bath before a fight I think I shouldn't look dirty even if I die in the fight I don't want anyone to see my dirty underwear even if I get crippled in the fight So I wash and wash again I thought that it isn't bad to die in a real fight But now I'm scared of death I don't want to die or be crippled and never see your face again Youko! A message for you I'm sorry I have to go now I'm sorry Don't go! What would you do if there's someone who hates to see you get hurt worse than her own death? I'm the one who's really scared I thought you were going to die I was really scared You're Korean and you are a fighter Both things are too hard for me However, I was trying to stop being a geisha I don't want anything! I just want you to stay with me and be healthy! Don't get hurt don't be sick Like now Promise me! Promise me that you'll never fight again Please! Please! You must be hungry Wait a little Baedal a phone call for you Hello Chunbae? Where are you? Baedal! See you soon! HAHURIDA SHRINE HAHURIDA SHRINE Chunbae! Chunbae! Baedal, they said next time Youko Is this Kato's will? My will MEJIRO POLICE - TOKYO He doesn't want to see you Will you tell him that I'll be waiting for him? I knew there were some crazy old men in the association but I didn't expect Ryoma would draw his sword on the bed-wetter If you really want to conquer the martial arts of Japan don't you think you should confront me? What do you think? I won't fight! I broke a promise with someone I care about and I even killed a man because of my fear That's your weak point Listen to me The ultimate truth in all martial arts is victory! Come out and fight with me Prove yourself with a real fight! If it's your duty to prove yourself mine is to protect the martial arts of Japan I'll be waiting for you at Musashino Come on out! Hey, didn't you hear? You've been released! Not guilty by self-defense Of course we should take revenge for Ryoma and for the heads of the schools We must prove that Baedal is not the best that he's just trash I will execute him in public! It's a fight for death Mom! Who are you? Ma'am! I'm Choi Baedal I killed your husband Murderer! You came here to kill my mother? Ma'am Take this uniform I'll never fight again Give me a hoe and shovel I'll help as much as I can Get lost! I never want to see your face again! You want to fight with me now? What are you going to do? You have no father You've never been to the top of the mountain, stupid? I don't think he has You can't go there alone My father will take me there Bastard say something The bastard with no father What a poor thing Miserable thing You're dead next time I want to go to the top of the mountain What? Where are we going? Hey, Baedal Is he Ryoma's son? FROM CHOI BEADAL CHOI BAEDAL DISHONORS RYOMA'S WIFE They're saying all kinds of silly things because you're staying quiet I don't fight anymore Why do you keep running away? Why? You really don't know what you have to do? You really don't? I've been reading the newspapers I'm sorry No, it's okay Newspapers can't tell all the truth People will see the truth as time goes by However I hope you do something for my son, Tomoya What do you mean? Be a good man for Tomoya Be the strongest man in Japan Then he will be able to grow up a good man, without a father I don't understand Go out and fight them Please, beat them! For Tomoya Ma'am! I think you'd better leave before he wakes up Stop! Better than I expected You dreamed of too much greenhorn! You're just one more mountain I have to climb After you die what shall I do with your body? Any place under the sky I am afraid of fighting I am afraid of being beaten and losing But I am more afraid of surviving as a cripple than dying in fight However, I always try to find a new enemy Choi Baedal defeated hundreds of martial arts experts from Japan and around the world He left behind mythical stories of his prowess such as his ability to break a bull's horns with his bare hands Choi Baedal was named one of the greatest heroes by Japanese teenagers He established Kyokushin Karate in the home to his unique form of karate Today, Kyokushin Karate boasts over million students in countries In April, he died in Japan missing his mother country This movie is in memoriam of him A man can be poor As long as he a goal and endeavor fot it He beautiful From the saying's Choi Baedal
