 

                        Ladies and Gentlemen, the President-elect of the United States, Barack H. Obama! I've to say the applause on our rooftop there, just near the Capitol, is deafning. That is a crowd of millions, applauding their new leader, and this is the realization of that dream that M. Luther King spoke about in the holy 1960's. Notice also that the announcer's announcement is Barack H. Obama, H of course stands for Hussein. When he takes the earth of office, he would say Barack Hussein Obama, that middle-name has been very controversial throughout the campaign, but it sends an enormously important signal too, many people around the world, and especially in the middle-east. That signal that precedes today's speech that precedes any policy, to consume this White House. Ladies and Gentlemen, the chairman of the Joy Congrationnal Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies, the honorable Dianne Feinstein. Mr. President and Vice-President, Mr. President-elect, and Vice-President-elect, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the inauguration of the 44th President of the United States of America. The world is watching today, as our great democracy engages in this peaceful transition of power. Here, on the National Mall, where we remember the founders of our nation, and those who fought to make it free, we gather to etch another line in the solid stone of history. The freedom of a people to choose its leaders is the root of liberty. In a world where political strike is too often selled with violence, we come here every four years to bestow the power of the presidency. Upon our democratically elected leader, Those who doubt the supremacy of the ballot over the bullet can never diminish the power engedered by non-violence struggles for justice and equality like the one that made this day possible. No triumph, tainted by brutality, could ever match the sweet victory of this hour and what it means to whose who marched and died to make it a reality. Our work is not yet finished, but future generations will mark this morning as the turning-point for real and necessary changes in our nation. The will look back, and remember that this was the moment when the dream that once echoed a cross history, from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, finally reaches the walls of the White House. In that spirit, we today not only inaugurate a new administration, we pledge ourselves to the hope, the vision, the unity, and a renewed call to greatness, inspired by the 44th President of the United States, Barack Obama. Thank you. And God bless America. At this time, I call upon Dr. Rick Warren, Pastor of the Celibate Church in Lake Forest, California, to provide the invocation. Let us pray... Almighty God, our Father, Everything we see, and everything we can't see, exists because of you alone. It all comes from you. It all belongs to you. It all exists for your glory. History is your story. The Scripture tells us: "Hear, Oh Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is one." And you are the compassionate and merciful one. And you are loving to everyone you have made. Now today, we rejoice not only in America's peaceful transfer of power for the 44th time, we celebrate a hinge-point of history with the inauguration of our first African-American President of the United States. We are so grateful to live in this land, a land of unequaled possibility, where the son of an African immigrant can rise to the highest level of our leadership. And we know today that Dr. King, and a great cloud of witnesses, are shouting in heaven. Give to our new President, Barack Obama, the wisdom to lead us with humility, the courage to lead us with integrity, the compassion to lead us with generosity. Bless and protect him, his family, Vice-President Biden, the cabinet, and every one of our freely elected leaders. Help us, oh God, to remember that we are Americans, united not by race, or religion, or blood, but to our commitment to freedom, and justice for all. When we focus on ourselves, when we fight each other, when we forget you, forgive us. When we presume that our greatness and our prosperity is ours alone, forgive us. When we fail to treat our fellow human beings and all the earth with the respect that they deserve, forgive us. And as we face these difficult days ahead, may we have a new birth of clarity in our aims, responsibility in our actions, humility in our approaches, and civility in our attitudes even when we differ. Help us to share, to serve, and to seek the common good of all. May all people of good will today join together to work for a more just, a more healthy, and a more prosperous nation, and a peaceful planet. And may we never forget that one day, all nations and all people will stand accountable before you. We now commit our new president, and his wife Michelle, and his daughters, Malia and Sasha, into your loving care. I humbly ask this in the name of the one who changed my life, Yeshua, Isa, Jess, Jesus, who taught us to pray: Our father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever. Amen. Pastor Rick Warren of California; conservative, even evengelical Minister seems to be a controversial choice by Barack Obama. overtstate rather the importance of what he's just done here, ???? of the Nation in this inaugural pray, but this is a man who is very to gay marriage, very much opposed to abortion and therefore very controversial, and the ranking file of the movement that helped to get Barack Obama elected. The first test of his commitments to his base. Here we have Aretha Franklin now singing the National anthem. My country,'tis of thee, Sweet land... ... of liberty, Of thee... ... I sing; Land where... ... my fathers died, Land of the... ... pilgrims' pride, From every every mountainside Let free... freedom... freedom ring! Our father's God to Thee, Author... Author of liberty, To Thee we sing. Long may our... ... land be bright, With freedom's... ... holy light, - Protect... Protect ! - Protect ! Protect ! Protect us by Thy might, Oh, Free... Freedom ring... Let it ring! Let it ring! Let it ring! Let it ring! - Let it ring! Let it ring! - Ring... Ring... Ring Let it ring... Let it ring... The queen of soul Aretha Franklin The lighting ???? of Dianne Feinstein moving the ceremony along as we move towards the inauguration of Vice-President Biden. Also ???? on that; she, I mean, Aretha Franklin, an African-American woman singing on the autel of democracy on a building, the Capitol, that was built by African-American slaves. African-Americans have had so many roads in American History, but never the road of President. I, Joseph Robinette Biden Junior, do solemnly swear... I, Joseph Robinette Biden Junior, do solemnly swear... that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States... that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States... against all enemies, foreign and domestic... against all enemies, foreign and domestic... that I will be a true faith and allegiance to the same... that I will be a true faith and allegiance to the same... that I take this obligation freely... that I take this obligation freely... without any mental reservation, or purpose of evasion... without any mental reservation, or purpose of evasion... and that I will and faithfully discharge... and that I will and faithfully discharge... the duties of the office in which I am about to enter. the duties of the office in which I am about to enter. - So help me God. - So help me God. Thank you, Mr. Justice! The oath of Minister by associate-justice John Paul Stevens who's 88. A long and serving member of the supreme court. Joe Biden is now Vice-President of the United States. And of course that have been too many times in American History when the Vice-President... and his oath, then became the presidential oath at some stage in a time ???? because of assassinations or resignation. We hope that never has to come and pass, but it has passed too many times in the history of this nation. And that is because of that that Barack Obama's had an unprecedent event of security, even in the very beginning of this presidential campaign, he received secret-service agents of secret-service security detail whether the other candidates had not. It gives you some idea of the worries that surround the office, and also especially this man. Anthony McGill, clarinet. Yo-Yo Ma, cellist. And Gabriela Montero, pianist. Performing "Air and Simple Gifts", composition arranged for this occasion by John Williams. So the special compostion by John Williams with four of the most-gifted musicians in the world, and all of this of course part of a program that has been approved by Mr. Obama himself, and we'll enjoy the music in a second, just a little frontier about Barack Obama himself, now that Joe Biden's been sworned, and he's minutes away of this winning-applause of the presidency. He's indeed... this will happen just after transfer, he will be running ???? of course of these proceedings. Then, he will have lunch on Capitol Hill with members of Congress and then we'll have the beginning of the parade. In-between all that, that all-important presidential speech, A little bit of history; the longest speech ever given by a new president; President Harrison's in the 1841 was so long and he was wearing no hat. He decided to oate all the inaugural ???? and he could have ???? he could ???? and then he died a month later. And it's not going to happen this time. But what will happen is that the world and America will listen to every single word this man has to say. And to see whether he can turn his words into the kind of music that we're hearing right now. Cellist Yo-Yo Ma, Itzhak Perlman, Gabriela Montero, Anthony McGill, performing this piece by John Williams. A piece specially commissionned and composed by John Williams. As we approach the moment when The President Inauguration will take place very unusually It just turned noon here in Washington DC. The Inauguration... The chief Justice will be called up in a second ???? just a minut before noon. But now everyone is standing for what I think will be that keymoment. Swearing of the 44th President of the United States. Barack Hussein Obama. There he is. This is a moment that even he and his greatest auditions cannot... Are you prepared to take the oath, Senator? - I am. - I, Barack Hussein Obama, - I, Barack... - do solemnly swear I, Barack Hussein Obama, do solemnly swear that I will execute the office of the President of the US faithfully. That I will execute... The off... Faithfully the pres... The office of President of the US, and I will to the best of my ability And will, to best of my ability preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. Preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. - So help you God? - So help me God. Congratuations, Mr. President. All best wishes. It is my greatest honor to present the 44th president of these United States. Barack Obama. Thank you. My fellow citizens: I stand here today humbled by the task before us grateful for the trust you have bestowed mindful of the sacrifices borne by our ancestors I thank President Bush for his service to our nation as well as the generosity and cooperation he has shown throughout this transition. Forty-four Americans have now taken the presidential oath. The words have been spoken during rising tides of prosperity and the still waters of peace. Yet, every so often, the oath is taken amidst gathering clouds and raging storms. At these moments America has carried on not simply because of the skill or vision of those in high office, but because, We, The People, have remained faithful to the ideals of our forbearers, and true to our founding documents. So it has been. So it must be with this generation of Americans. That we are in the midst of crisis is now well understood. Our nation is at war against a far-reaching network of violence and hatred. Our economy is badly weakened, a consequence of greed and irresponsibility on the part of some, but also our collective failure to make hard choices and prepare the nation for a new age. Homes have been lost; jobs shed; businesses shuttered. Our health care is too costly; our schools fail too many; and each day brings further evidence that the ways we use energy strengthen our adversaries and threaten our planet. These are the indicators of crisis, subject to data and statistics. Less measurable, but no less profound, is a sapping of confidence across our land. A nagging fear that America's decline is inevitable, and that the next generation must lower its sights. Today I say to you that the challenges we face are real. They are serious and they are many. They will not be met easily or in a short span of time. But know this, America - they will be met. On this day, we gather because we have chosen hope over fear, unity of purpose over conflict and discord. On this day, we come to proclaim an end to the petty grievances and false promises, the recriminations and worn out dogmas that for far too long have strangled our politics. We remain a young nation, but in the words of Scripture, the time has come to set aside childish things. The time has come to reaffirm our enduring spirit, to choose our better history, to carry forward that precious gift that noble idea passed on from generation to generation: the God-given promise that all are equal, all are free, and all deserve a chance to pursue their full measure of happiness. In reaffirming the greatness of our nation, we understand that greatness is never a given. It must be earned. Our journey has never been one of short-cuts or settling for less. It has not been the path for the faint-hearted, for those who prefer leisure over work, or seek only the pleasures of riches and fame. Rather, it has been the risk-takers, the doers, the makers of things; some celebrated, but more often men and women obscure in their labor who have carried us up the long, rugged path towards prosperity and freedom. For us, they packed up their few worldly possessions and traveled across oceans in search of a new life. For us, they toiled in sweatshops and settled the West, endured the lash of the whip and plowed the hard earth. For us, they fought and died in places like Concord and Gettysburg, Normandy and Khe Sanh. Time and again, these men and women struggled and sacrificed and worked till their hands were raw so that we might live a better life. They saw America as bigger than the sum of our individual ambitions, greater than all the differences of birth or wealth or faction. This is the journey we continue today. We remain the most prosperous, powerful nation on Earth. Our workers are no less productive than when this crisis began. Our minds are no less inventive, our goods and services no less needed than they were last week or last month or last year. Our capacity remains undiminished. But our time of standing pat, of protecting narrow interests and putting off unpleasant decisions, that time has surely passed. Starting today, we must pick ourselves up, dust ourselves off, and begin again the work of remaking America. For everywhere we look, there is work to be done. The state of the economy calls for action bold and swift, and we will act, not only to create new jobs, but to lay a new foundation for growth. We will build the roads and bridges, the electric grids and digital lines that feed our commerce and bind us together. We will restore science to its rightful place, and wield technology's wonders to raise health care's quality and lower its cost. We will harness the sun, and the winds, and the soil, to fuel our cars and run our factories. And we will transform our schools, and colleges, and universities to meet the demands of a new age. All this we can do. And all this we will do. Now, there are some who question the scale of our ambitions, who suggest that our system cannot tolerate too many big plans. Their memories are short. For they have forgotten what this country has already done, what free men and women can achieve when imagination is joined to common purpose, and necessity to courage. What the cynics fail to understand is that the ground has shifted beneath them, that the stale political arguments that have consumed us for so long no longer apply. The question we ask today is not whether our government is too big or too small, but whether it works, whether it helps families find jobs at a decent wage, care they can afford a retirement that is dignified. Where the answer is yes: we intend to move forward Where the answer is no: programs will end. And those of us who manage the public's dollars will be held to account, to spend wisely, reform bad habits, and do our business in the light of day, because only then can we restore the vital trust between a people and their government. Nor is the question before us whether the market is a force for good or ill. Its power to generate wealth and expand freedom is unmatched, but this crisis has reminded us that without a watchful eye, the market can spin out of control, and that a nation cannot prosper long when it favors only the prosperous. The success of our economy has always depended not just on the size of our Gross Domestic Product, but on the reach of our prosperity, on our ability to extend opportunity to every willing heart. Not out of charity, but because it is the surest route to our common good. As for our common defense, we reject as false the choice between our safety and our ideals. Our Founding Fathers... Our Founding Fathers faced with perils we can scarcely imagine, drafted a charter to assure the rule of law and the rights of man. A charter expanded by the blood of generations. Those ideals still light the world, and we will not give them up for expedience's sake. And so... to all other peoples and governments who are watching today, from the grandest capitals to the small village where my father was born, know that America is a friend of each nation and every man, woman, and child who seeks a future of peace and dignity, and that we are ready to lead once more. Recall that earlier generations faced down fascism and communism not just with missiles and tanks, but with sturdy alliances and enduring convictions. They understood that our power alone cannot protect us, nor does it entitle us to do as we please. Instead, they knew that our power grows through its prudent use, our security emanates from the justness of our cause, the force of our example, the tempering qualities of humility and restraint. We are the keepers of this legacy. Guided by these principles once more, we can meet those new threats that demand even greater effort, even greater cooperation and understanding between nations. We will begin to responsibly leave Iraq to its people, and forge a hard-earned peace in Afghanistan. With old friends and former foes, we will work tirelessly to lessen the nuclear threat, and roll back the specter of a warming planet. We will not apologize for our way of life, nor will we waver in its defense, and for those who seek to advance their aims by inducing terror and slaughtering innocents, we say to you now that our spirit is stronger and cannot be broken; you cannot outlast us, and we will defeat you. For we know, that our patchwork heritage is a strength, not a weakness. We are a nation of Christians and Muslims, Jews and Hindus, and non-believers. We are shaped by every language and culture drawn from every end of this Earth, and because we have tasted the bitter swill of civil war and segregation, and emerged from that dark chapter stronger and more united, we cannot help but believe that the old hatreds shall someday pass, that the lines of tribe shall soon dissolve, that as the world grows smaller, our common humanity shall reveal itself; and that America must play its role in ushering in a new era of peace. To the Muslim world, we seek a new way forward, based on mutual interest and mutual respect. To those leaders around the globe who seek to sow conflict, or blame their society's ills on the West, know that your people will judge you on what you can build, not what you destroy. To those... To those who cling to power through corruption and deceit and the silencing of dissent, know that you are on the wrong side of history, but that we will extend a hand if you are willing to unclench your fist. To the people of poor nations, we pledge to work alongside you to make your farms flourish and let clean waters flow, to nourish starved bodies and feed hungry minds. And to those nations like ours that enjoy relative plenty, we say we can no longer afford indifference to suffering outside our borders, nor can we consume the world's resources without regard to effect. For the world has changed, and we must change with it. As we consider the road that unfolds before us, we remember with humble gratitude those brave Americans who, at this very hour, patrol far-off deserts and distant mountains. They have something to tell us, this is the fallen heroes who lie in Arlington whisper through the ages. We honor them not only because they are guardians of our liberty, but because they embody the spirit of service; a willingness to find meaning in something greater than themselves. And yet, at this moment, a moment that will define a generation, it is precisely this spirit that must inhabit us all. For as much as government can do and must do, it is ultimately the faith and determination of the American people upon which this nation relies. It is the kindness to take in a stranger when the levees break, the selflessness of workers who would rather cut their hours than see a friend lose their job which sees us through our darkest hours. It is the firefighter's courage to storm a stairway filled with smoke, but also a parent's willingness to nurture a child, that finally decides our fate. Our challenges may be new. The instruments with which we meet them may be new. But those values upon which our success depends: honesty and hard work, courage and fair play, tolerance and curiosity, loyalty and patriotism; these things are old, these things are true. They have been the quiet force of progress throughout our history. What is demanded then is a return to these truths. What is required of us now is a new era of responsibility, a recognition on the part of every American that we have duties to ourselves, our nation, and the world. Duties that we do not grudgingly accept, but rather seize gladly firm in the knowledge that there is nothing so satisfying to the spirit so defining of our character than giving our all to a difficult task. This is the price and the promise of citizenship. This is the source of our confidence, the knowledge that God calls on us to shape an uncertain destiny. This is the meaning of our liberty and our creed, why men and women and children of every race and every faith can join in celebration across this magnificent mall, and why a man whose father less than sixty years ago might not have been served at a local restaurant can now stand before you, to take a most sacred oath. So let us mark this day with remembrance, of who we are, and how far we have traveled. In the year of America's birth, in the coldest of months, a small band of patriots huddled by dying campfires on the shores of an icy river. The capital was abandoned. The enemy was advancing. The snow was stained with blood. At a moment when the outcome of our revolution was most in doubt, the father of our nation ordered these words be read to the people: "Let it be told to the future world... that in the depth of winter, when nothing but hope and virtue could survive... that the city and the country, Alarmed at one common danger came forth to meet it." America. In the face of our common dangers, in this winter of our hardship, let us remember these timeless words. With hope and virtue, let us brave once more the icy currents and endure what storms may come. Let it be said by our children's children that when we were tested, we refused to let this journey end. That we did not turn back nor did we falter. And with eyes fixed on the horizon, and God's grace upon us, we carried forth that great gift of freedom and delivered it safely future generations. Thank you. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America. The enhanced crowd so leads to applause the 44th President, Barack Obama, at the inaugural address on the West front of the Capitol. Of course, it was full of the souring arches that you expected from this man, but I think most crushly sure he'd struck an enormous business-like tone. This is a man who takes office, has taken office, who'd be sitting in the Oval Office tomorrow morning with an enormous entry of problems, and I think what he wants to do, what he's trying to do first, is to get away from this impression that he's just very very good with words, he also has to be very very good at vending this country, and what he basically told us here is that we'd take this crisis and turn it into an opportunity, all the time all the wild remindingless that 60 years ago, someone like him wouldn't have been served in a restaurant, in many states of this country, how many said that in their speech he got the biggest front of applause, of the day so far. The ceremony is not over; after he's greeted his vice-president, and all the members there, there would be the traditionnal poetry reading, after which the ceremony would draw to close. ...of introducing an American poet, Elizabeth Alexander. Praise song for the day. Each day we go about our business, walking past each other, catching each others' eyes or not, about to speak or speaking All about us is noise. All about us is noise and bramble, thorn and din, each one of our ancestors on our tongues. Someone is stitching up a hem, darning a hole in a uniform, patching a tire, repairing the things in need of repair. Someone is trying to make music somewhere with a pair of wooden spoons on an oil drum with cello, boom box, harmonica, voice. A woman and her son wait for the bus. A farmer considers the changing sky; A teacher says: "Take out your pencils. Begin." We encounter each other in words, words spiny or smooth, whispered or declaimed; words to consider, reconsider. We cross dirt roads and highways that mark the will of someone and then others who said, "I need to see what's on the other side; I know there's something better down the road." We need to find a place where we are safe; We walk into that which we cannot yet see. Say it plain, that many have died for this day. Sing the names of the dead who brought us here, who laid the train tracks, raised the bridges, picked the cotton and the lettuce, built brick by brick the glittering edifices they would then keep clean and work inside of. Praise song for struggle; praise song for the day. Praise song for every hand-lettered sign; The figuring it out at kitchen tables. Some live by "Love thy neighbor as thy self." Others by first do no harm, or take no more than you need. What if the mightiest word is love, love beyond marital, filial, national. Love that casts a widening pool of light. Love with no need to preempt grievance. In today's sharp sparkle, this winter air, anything can be made, any sentence begun. On the brink, on the brim, on the cusp praise song for walking forward in that light. And now it's my privilege to introduce the Reverend Dr. Joseph E. Lowery to deliver "The Benediction." God of our weary years, God of our silent tears, thou who has brought us thus far along the way, thou who has by thy might led us into the light, keep us forever in the path, we pray, lest our feet stray from the places, our God, where we met thee, lest our hearts, drunk with the wine of the world, we forget thee. Shadowed beneath thy hand may we forever stand true to thee, O God, and true to our native land. We truly give thanks for the glorious experience we've shared this day. We pray now, O Lord, for your blessing upon thy servant, Barack Obama, the 44th president of these United States, his family and his administration. He has come to this high office at a low moment in the national and, indeed, the global fiscal climate. But because we know you got the whole world in your hand, we pray for not only our nation, but for the community of nations. Our faith does not shrink, though pressed by the flood of mortal ills. For we know that, Lord, you're able and you're willing to work through faithful leadership to restore stability, mend our brokenness, heal our wounds and deliver us from the exploitation of the poor or the least of these and from favoritism toward the rich, the elite of these. We thank you for the empowering of thy servant, our 44th president, to inspire our nation to believe that, yes, we can work together to achieve a more perfect union. And while we have sown the seeds of greed the wind of greed and corruption, and even as we reap the whirlwind of social and economic disruption, we seek forgiveness and we come in a spirit of unity and solidarity to commit our support to our president by our willingness to make sacrifices, to respect your creation, to turn to each other and not on each other. And now, Lord, in the complex arena of human relations, help us to make choices on the side of love, not hate; on the side of inclusion, not exclusion; tolerance, not intolerance. And as we leave this mountaintop, help us to hold on to the spirit of fellowship and the oneness of our family. Let us take that power back to our homes, our workplaces, our churches, our temples, our mosques, or wherever we seek your will. Bless President Barack, First Lady Michelle. Look over our little angelic Sasha and Malia. We go now to walk together, children, pledging that we won't get weary in the difficult days ahead. We know you will not leave us alone, with your hands of power and your heart of love. Help us then, now, Lord, to work for that day when nation shall not lift up sword against nation, when tanks will be beaten into tractors, when every man and every woman shall sit under his or her own vine and fig tree and none shall be afraid; when justice will roll down like waters and righteousness as a mighty stream. Lord, in the memory of all the saints who from their labors rest, and in the joy of a new beginning, we ask you to help us work for that day when black will not be asked to get back, when brown can stick around when yellow will be mellow when the red man can get ahead, man and when white will embrace what is right. Let all those who do justice and love mercy say amen. Amen! - Say amen! - Amen! - ... and Amen! - Amen! An inspiring Benediction there by the Reverend Joseph Lowery, one of the greatest figures of the Civil Rights movement. As we appraoch the end of this inaugural ceremony, there will be the national anthem and then... President Obama and the First Lady will depart the stage. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise for the singing of our national anthem by the United States Navy Sea Chanters Chorus. Following the anthem, please remain in place while the presidential party exits the platform. Thank you very much. Oh, say, can you see, by the dawn's early light, What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars, thro' the perilous fight' O'er the ramparts we watched, were so gallantly streaming And the rockets red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. Oh, say, does that star-spangled banner yet wave... O'er the land of the free and the home... of the brave? = [ BenJoji Team ] = benji1000, Jojimoreau
