 

                        We're almost there, Princess. Thank you, Phillip. Quite the adventure awaits, wouldn't you say, your highness? Just think of it. A whole two weeks at Camp Royalty, the great outdoors, mingling with other royals your own age. No stuffy ceremonies to attend. The chance to kick off my glass slippers? Try some new things. Maybe even have a little fun? A novel concept, indeed. When lining up on the dock, Pop Campers, please stay on the right, royals, to the left. I'm walking over here! Hey, Sloane! Hey! That's great. Just a few more things. Thank you so much! Aubray! Genevieve, it's so good to see you! Hello, Edmund! Genevieve! Selfie! Right? ...like high quality. Hey, Marcus, don't drop those! What? Ugh. Uncultured show-offs. Hey, check it out. Spoiled brats. Where do you want this luggage? Has anyone seen a pink hat box? Whoa! Princess Courtney, I must take my leave. But I shall see you back here in two weeks. If I need anything, though, I can call you, right? I'm sure that won't be necessary. Because I'll be having too good of a time. That's the spirit! Eddie, can you pick up the pace? I was supposed to be there, like, five minutes ago. I'm not gonna get a speeding ticket just because one of us hasn't met an alarm she couldn't sleep through. You're hilarious. And the slowest driver ever. Relax, Erika. I'll get you to the dock in time, okay? But why'd you cancel your tour to go to this Camp Pop anyway? Having the spotlight to yourself can get kinda lonely. You're surrounded by tons of people, but no one really feels like your friend. Sorry, kid. I didn't realize things were that tough. Don't get me wrong, I'm not complaining, I love performing. I don't know, maybe things will be different at camp. Princes, princesses, let's keep things orderly, shall we? Ugh. Ugh. Oh, dear. We're almost behind schedule. Who do we have here? Oh! Princess Aubray of Allanbrook! Princess Olivia of Bellmere! Erika of... Oh, that's odd, there's no kingdom listed. Uh, I'm sorry, but could you... Are you Erika? No, but... If you would be so kind as to wait your turn. - Erika! - Here! I'm here! Sorry I'm... Whoa! Oh, gracious me! Oh, careful! Oh, sorry! Let me get that... Oh, thank you. You're a princess? That's what my mom keeps telling me. Lady Anne's going to love you. All right, let's move it along, shall we? It's time to depart! Well, see ya! Thank you! Oh, good. No! Wait, you forgot a name! I'm... Courtney. Did you say Courtney? Whoa! Mmm-hmm. Hmm. Isn't it hard to perform in that ball-gown? Perform? Anyway, come with me! Watch your step! Whoa! How's it going? Hello. How do you do? Look at that. Wow! It's so beautiful! Cool! Awesome! Can't wait! Can't wait! Can't wait! Can't wait! Can't wait to see everyone Can't wait to sing in the sun You know I'm ready for fun All right Gotta, gotta, gotta get to camp Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Gotta, gotta, gotta get to camp Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Horseback riding, fine arts every day Hot beats, cool riffs New tunes I'll get to play Feels so magical everywhere you go Gonna rock and roll now Got my ball gowns High heels, tiara case High tops, star shades Speakers, electric bass Every year it's just like coming home Oh, yeah! Can't wait to see everyone Can't wait to sing in the sun You know I'm ready for fun All right Gotta, gotta, gotta get to camp Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Gotta, gotta, gotta get to camp Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Now we'll get to be Singin' our own song Poised and confident Nothing can go wrong Finally get to be Somewhere we belong It's my favorite day It's my favorite place Guaranteed to be great Yeah! Gotta, gotta, gotta get to camp Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Gotta, gotta, gotta get to camp Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Can't wait to see everyone Can't wait to sing in the sun You know I'm ready for fun All right Can't wait to jam by the lake So many memories to make Bet we'll be staying awake All night Gotta, gotta, gotta get to camp Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Gotta, gotta, gotta get to camp Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Gotta, gotta, gotta get to camp! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah! Hey, gang! I'm Finn Oxford, your fearless leader here at Camp Pop. Yeah! Yeah! Greetings to all. I am Lady Anne, headmistress and owner of Camp Royalty. Yeah! Yeah! I hope you superstars are stoked, 'cause the next two weeks are all about finding your own individual sound. Here, you will hone the skills necessary to serve your kingdoms with style and elegance. For being a proper royal is about more than merely possessing a title. Whether you're into pop, punk, metal or country, you'll learn how to shred a guitar solo, swagger like Jagger and dress like a diva, darlings. From equestrian training and fine art to a cappella and dance. A magical experience awaits! And most of all, you're gonna have fun! Now, who's ready to rock the house? Yeah! Yeah! Excuse me, could you... Um... Oh! Pardon me, but I think I'm... Okay. Ugh. Watch where you're going. Sorry. I'm just a little lost. No kidding. Looks like Cinderella took a wrong turn on her way to the ball. Don't worry about Sloane. She's super talented and super grumpy! I'll try to remember that. Wait, are you a... Princess? Yes, I am. Whoa, I've never met one in person. Me neither. What're you doing here? Sticking out like a sore thumb for the most part. Would you mind pointing me towards the office? Oh. Thank you, so very much! You're welcome! Her hair! It's so blue! Who does she look just like? Erika Juno? What would she be doing at Camp Royalty? Shh! I think she heard us. This really is going to be the best year ever. Yoo-hoo! Prince Chadwick! Whoa! Whoa! Could you please remove whatever that is? It's completely in my way! Sorry about that. Ugh. What kind of kingdom allows its royalty to dress like that? Ugh. Sweetheart, how many times do I have to say this? I don't care if you offer me triple what it's worth, I am not selling my camp! In fact, I'm branching out. That's absurd. Darling, this lake isn't big enough for both of us to expand. And let's be honest, music is a fickle business. One day you're on top, the next, you're a has-been. Perhaps you should cut your losses now and get out! Oh, at least I'm developing real talent over here, while you're doing... What exactly, eh? Running an outdated charm school. How dare you? We have a situation. We have a situation. This conversation is over! Nope. Not a princess. Duchess? Nah. Uh-uh. Not even a countess by marriage? I'm only a teenager, so, no. You don't know who I am, do you? Not a clue. Hmm. Cool! Exactly how did this happen? Oh! Uh... Her name was on the list. And when I was called, I just went where I was told. Yeah, well, it looks like there's been some sort of system glitch. I knew we shouldn't have switched to the same data-sharing network. Ugh! Typical of the royals. Always trying to make my life difficult. Sorry for the mix-up, Princess. But clearly, you're at the wrong camp. So, what do I do now? First, we'll need to verify your enrollment status, then correct the administrative error in order to process your transfer. Trouble is, it's getting kind of late. So, there's nothing we can do right now. You mean, I have to stay here? Clive here will find you some accommodations for the evening. Off you go now! We'll take care of this as soon as we possibly can. High five? Here... Stevie will take care of your lodging, okay? Okay. And don't look so worried. It's probably just for one night. Two at the most! Whoa! Adorable! This is going to be interesting. Huh? Hello? Well... Whoa! What're you waiting for? Come on in already. Make yourself at home. Nothing's ever locked at Camp Pop. Yeah! Everybody knows that! I didn't know. Sorry. Whoa! Listen, I hope you don't mind me saying this, but... Uh, I'm sorry, what's your name? Courtney. I'm Rayna and this is Zia. Hello! Pleased to meet you. Anyway. No offense, Courtney, but aren't you a little over-dressed for camp? Well, I... And trust me, that's coming from somebody who wears ruffles and fringe... She's like a parade float. So, what kind of music do you do? You know, what's your style? I don't really have one. I'm a princess. Who isn't around here, am I right? Wait, you're not kidding. She's not kidding! No. I'm not. So, are we supposed to bow in your presence or something? Oh, that won't be necessary. Do you have any evil stepsisters? Well, one is a little bossy. Have you ever yelled, "Off with their head"? No. Royal life isn't nearly as exciting as that, trust me. Do you live in a castle? Are you cursed by a witch? Have you ever turned a frog into a handsome prince? Zia, come on now, that's just in fairy tales. Wait, have you? A royal tree house? Whoa, check it out! Hello? Anyone here? Wow. Fancy-schmancy. May I help you? Oh! Hi... Well, I'm... Ooh! You must be here to give us our manis! What do you think, Genevieve? I was thinking about French tips, but maybe I should go with something more daring. Aubray, unless our guest has a giant emery board in there, I don't think that's why she's here. Do you? Well, that's disappointing because these cuticles are a mess. My name's Erika. Lady Anne said I could stay here. But don't worry, it won't be for long. I'm moving to the other side of the lake. Wait, you're a pop star? Wait a second... You're Erika Juno! Oh. Yeah, I am. I wanted you to play at my sweet 16. Daddy said, "No." You're not going to trash our room, are you? What? No! Sign my magazine? Um, sure. Blare loud music all night long? Uh... I brought headphones. Is it true you get to fly in a private jet and go all over the world? Sometimes. And what about an entourage? I'd love my own entourage! You're a princess, Aubray, you already have an entourage. Oh. Right. Have you ever smashed a guitar on stage? I saw that in a movie once. It looked so much like fun. I can't find it, Zia! You sure you packed it? Of course, I'm sure! I never go anywhere without it! We're gonna be late! Uh... Got it! So, what do you think? Very, uh, colorful. It's just that you already have such amazing hair. Hmm. I guess you're right. Besides, we have to stop by wardrobe later anyway. Maybe I'll find something better. You mean, you can wear whatever you want? Nobody picks your clothes for you? Not since I was three. No. Anyway, sorry to bolt, but band practice starts in, like, five minutes. And then we've got a "strut your stuff" dance class after that. And this year, we get to learn special effects. Lasers, lighting, sparkles, you name it! Come on, Zia. I'm guessing that's probably not her kind of thing. Unless you wanna check it out? I mean, as long as you're here. Uh... I don't know. No worries. I just thought it'd be fun. Hmm. Fun. Yes! I mean, that sounds lovely! I don't know, Genevieve. Are you certain we don't have "tea party etiquette" first? Positive. Hold on, how did you do that? With my scepter, of course. All royals have one. Whoa! Scepter training starts at 10:00, after that, it's tea time. Oh! And then we get to groom the unicorns! Yeah, right. And when do we get to ride the centaurs? Wait, does Camp Pop have centaurs? That is so unfair! Right. Unicorns. I suppose we could bring you along to meet them. Wait, what? They're really beautiful. Unless you have to get going. Yeah, I probably should. Okay. Hey, wait up! The size of his ego is nothing short of astounding! I mean, honestly, who in their right mind thinks teaching a bunch of misfits how to bang on a cowbell is more important than cultivating the finest royal traditions, hmm? The man is delusional, Lady Anne. What you provide to these budding monarchs is truly a gift. It is, isn't it? Think, Clive. Think! Hmm. There must be a way to acquire his property, and teach him a lesson at the same time. Does it have to be legal? How lovely. One of our new campers, perhaps? Shall we? See? I told you it was her! I can't believe it! Wow. Why, I have never heard such a powerful voice! Pity it will go to waste under Finn's mediocre guidance. Lady Anne, don't you know who that is? That's Erika Juno! She's the coolest thing ever! Look! Are you thinking what I'm thinking? A romantic dinner followed by a walk by the lake? Oh, Clive, you are a cutup! Whoa! Boss, phone call. Hmm? It's the "Royal Pain." About time. Calling me back so soon? I mean, I've only left you five messages about this camper mix-up. But, who's counting, eh? Oh, charming as always, Finn. But, unfortunately, rectifying our little situation will have to wait, as I've been informed that our computer system has mysteriously gone dead. Much like your career, I suspect. How nice. You just think that up? At least we have a skill the world actually needs! So, in other words, your protgs are more deserving than mine, is that it? Then why not prove it? And how do you suggest we do that? Well, let me think... Perhaps a sing-off? Camp Royalty versus Camp Pop. My kids against yours? You can't be serious? Perfectly. The winning camp shall be awarded all of the property surrounding the lake. The losing camp shall close its doors for good. Why do I get the feeling that you're up to something? Eh? After all, you've got one of my pop kids over there. Please. And you have an entire camp full of them! So, why worry? Unless you're not up for the challenge. Lady A, you're on! Excellent. Clive will be in touch to work out the details. How it is possible that you and that man were ever romantically involved, I will never know. Oh. It was a long time ago, Clive. Before I realized that rock and royalty do not mix. You're not serious, Courtney! No, really. And then, when she unveiled her portrait, it was a donkey in a dress. You pranked the Duchess? Did she ever find out? Nope! I've never told anyone that before. Well, we're truly honored. To Courtney, Princess of Pranks. And so, long story short, that's when I got to sing my very first solo! At the Paris Palladium? When you were five? I could barely dress myself at that age. You're not that great at it now, Edmund. Greetings, everyone, I have a thrilling announcement. At the conclusion of this year's session, we shall participate in what promises to be another glorious moment in our storied history. We're talking about the biggest challenge ever to hit this lake! A competition to end all competitions! A sing-off between Camp Pop and Camp Royalty! - Yeah! - Yeah... And check out who's agreed to be our judges. Rock legend Allegra James. Yeah! Prince Reginald of Thistlebrook! And Svetlana Petranova, head of Camp Arabesque. I don't know who that is. I feel like I should know who that is. Rehearsals shall commence first thing in the morning. So, get ready to rock! And may the best camp win! Is there a word for something that's more awesome than just regular awesome? 'Cause that's what this sing-off's gonna be! Those snooty little royals aren't gonna know what hit 'em! Sorry, Courtney. I forgot those are your people. Please. I'm not offended. I've never been to Camp Royalty or know anyone there. And Camp Pop is so different than I expected. Whatever happens, you're going to be amazing. Don't you mean "we"? Long as you're here, Princess, you're one of us. You're part of the band! Thank you. But, I'm not sure what I would have to offer. Girl, you need to loosen up and have some fun! Everyone's got a talent, you just need to let it out! I know. You're right. I'm working on it. And while you're at it, maybe you should work on your wardrobe, too. Wait, what's wrong with my dress? Well, it's... Nothing a little restyling won't fix. No, wait! That was so cool! Wasn't that cool? How's this for a start? Now that's a dress! What else can you do with that? Can I try? Wow. It feels so, so tingly. That's how you know it's working. Genevieve, where have you been? You're late for beauty night. Olivia cornered me after dinner to talk about the competition. Her tiara's in a twist over song selection. You guys must be psyched about going head-to-head with Camp Pop. Of course! Absolutely! Actually, no. Not really. We're good, but not that good. We're really not. Guys, don't underestimate yourselves. Listen, whenever I get nervous in front of a large crowd... You picture everyone in their underwear? No. Gross. I just close my eyes and imagine I'm singing all by myself. Then I'm fine. You can do this. And while I'm here, I'll help how I can. Really? You would do that for us? Totally! Oh. That's what friends do. Okay, gang, take five! Hey, Courtney. Uh, yeah. Listen, I'm sorry for the holdup, but I haven't been able to make any headway with Camp Royalty about your transfer. It's fine, really. Uh, really? I'm actually having a good time. Everyone is really nice. It's just so different here. Being around so many creative people is inspiring! Oh, that's great. I'd love to stay. You got it, Princess. High five? Let's go, superstars. From the top! That looks perfect I don't know... Trust me, it looks brilliant! Huh? Okay, if you say so. Erika. I almost didn't recognize you. Yeah, it's not exactly my style, but my roomies here thought I needed a new look. It was long overdue. And it totally suits you! It does. You look amazing! Thanks. Erika. May I have a word? See you later, guys. Bye. See you later. Bye. As you must have surmised by now, your transfer to Camp Pop has hit a slight snag. A complete lack of organization on their part. But I trust you've been made to feel welcome here. Absolutely. It's been cool. I've made some great friends. Lovely. And speaking of that, I had the absolute pleasure of hearing you sing yesterday. We are all huge, huge fans of your work. Thanks. No, thank you. A talent like yours is a rare find indeed. In fact, I only wish you could remain here and compete in the sing-off as a member of Camp Royalty's a cappella group. As our featured vocalist? What an honor that would be! Wow, I don't know what to say. I mean, I guess I could. Splendid! Run along now, our star! Ta-ta. Bye. Hello? Is anyone here? Hmm. I must be early. I spend too much time thinking about Who I'm supposed to be I play by everybody's rules That don't seem right to me I'm cool and polite on the outside But when I get a chance I run and I hide If your eyes are closed It's hard to see What if I back down now 'Cause I'm afraid of what might happen What if they turn away When I show them who I truly am? What if I lose my breath When I throw those big doors open? Or tonight Just tonight What if I shine? Should I even care They're all sitting there And everyone's staring at me If I step out in the spotlight Maybe I'll be set free What if I back down now 'Cause I'm afraid of what might happen What if they turn away When I show them who I truly am? What if I lose my breath When I throw those big doors open? Or tonight Just tonight What if I shine? I... Shine... I've spent too much time thinking about Who I'm supposed to be But what if I sing out loud Because anything can happen What if I stand up proud And show them who I truly am They're gonna call my name And I'll throw these big doors open 'Cause tonight Just tonight I'm gonna shine I... Shine... Whoa! What was that? Where did you learn that? I, kind of, wrote it. You wrote that? That was off the hook. I'm not really allowed to play it at the castle. It's kind of a "classical music only" zone. Do you have any more? More? But you guys are so good. Why would you want to play my music? My thoughts exactly. As our friend Marcus here said, "What was that?" I think it's called making music, Sloane. It's a little something we do around here. And it was slamming! Who knew Courtney could sing like that? Hello? We have a competition coming up. So maybe you should skip the sappy sing-alongs, and practice the actual number we're going to perform. Okay with you, Princess? Or would you rather go across the lake where you belong? Courtney, don't listen to Sloane. You were awesome. So good! Thanks. I appreciate it. Sorry, I just need some fresh air. We are at camp. Isn't all the air fresh? Zia! It is the role of a princess To hold her head up high An honor, a privilege Today and days gone by A princess is loyal A smile upon her face Wherever she may travel The world's a better place When you're a princess It's all up to you When you're a princess The good that you do And now we're together For summer in the sun We're dancing and singing The day is never done Tea parties, tiaras The finest lines of lace Whenever we're together The world's a better place When you're a princess Ooh It's all up to you When you're a princess The good that you do When you're a princess The way that you live When you're a princess You get what you give Attend the royal ball Be kind to one and all Make sure to set your sights Higher Strive to be true, to be true This is our responsibility When you're a princess It's all up to you You're a leader When you're a princess The good that you do When you're a princess The way that you live You're in charge When you're a princess You're in charge, yes, you are You're in charge You get what you give When you're a princess Cut! What, may I ask, was that? Just a little improv. I thought the song could use more edge. Oh, I see. And you just decided that all on your own, did you? Yeah. I did. You can solo all you want at Camp Pop, but at Camp Royalty, we do things as an ensemble. The whole point is to blend in, not stand out. Olivia, maybe Erika has a point. Updating our material might not be a bad thing. After all, we're competing with Camp Pop. And we're going to lose! Sorry, did I say that out loud? The song is perfect the way it is! We don't need to change a thing. Are we clear? Crystal. Maybe you might be more comfortable across the lake. Erika! Ugh. I can't work with these people! Erika? Not now, Clive! No! Lady Anne cannot lose because of some unpredictable pop star. Okay, Clive, it's hero time! What if I sing out loud Because anything can happen What if I stand up proud And show them who I truly am They're gonna call my... That's really beautiful. I'm sorry. I didn't see you there. Happens to me all the time, getting lost in a song. Hey, I know you. We met on the dock. Right, when I was trying to make the boat. The wrong boat, by the way... Wait, you're the one who's supposed to be at Camp Pop. 'Cause you're the one who's supposed to be at Camp Royalty. I'm Erika. Pleasure to meet you. I'm Courtney. Princess Courtney? Just Courtney. Should I call you Princess Erika? Nice ball gown. Oh, right. No, I... I was just trying to royal it up, I guess. That's a cool outfit, too. Thanks. It was a nice change. I mean, I was just trying to liven up the song. But Olivia wasn't having any of it. I'm sorry to hear that. Tradition can be really important to royals. Change is scary. So are angry princesses! I know what you mean, though. Some of the Pop kids didn't take kindly to me singing one of my songs. Music can be really competitive. She probably feels threatened by you. You're good! Thanks. I guess we were just fooling ourselves thinking we could fit in. So, it's a plan? We just do it. Switch camps right now? I don't see why we can't. Okay, let's do this. Just follow the lakeshore till you reach a bunch of castles. You, too. But stop at the big piano. That sounds cool! It is, you're going to love Camp Pop. It's so much fun! And I think you'll really like Camp Royalty. I mean, I thought it was gonna be awful. But some of the people I've met are really awesome. The friends I made at Camp Pop are really nice, too. That's what I'll miss, the friends. Well now I feel worse than before. You know, we could always not switch camps. Keep things the way they are. And make the best of it. After all, there's only a week left. See you at the sing-off? Wouldn't miss it. So as I was saying, Miss Petranova, Allegra James will most likely side with Camp Pop, while Prince Reginald will undoubtedly remain loyal to Camp Royalty. Which leaves one vote still in play. So, we have a deal? Ugh! Because it's a waste of our time, that's why! But how do you know if you won't even listen to it? Listen to what? Nothing, Lady Anne. Just an artistic difference of opinion. It's just a new song I've been playing around with. May I see? I thought it might give us a fresher sound. But as I was just explaining to our "guest," Camp Royalty's performance piece has already been selected. And given what little rehearsal time we have left... I say you do it. I'm sorry, do what now? Perform Erika's song. She's absolutely right, it's fresh. It's original! It's got pizzazz! And it will provide the perfect spotlight for her superstar talent, which is our key to victory over Camp Pop! Thanks, Lady Anne. My pleasure. Now get to work and make Camp Royalty proud. No, no, no! Are you serious? That's the best you can do? Rayna, you missed the key change on the bridge. Zia, you missed the bridge entirely! And you guys were flatter than a pancake! Unbelievable. You don't have to be so mean about it. I'm sorry, did you say something? I said you don't have to be so mean. Everybody's just trying to do their best. Yeah? And what would you know about it, Princess? Sloane, nobody's feeling this number. Maybe we should try one of Courtney's songs instead. Are you kidding me? A princess can't write songs! Says who? A good song can come from anywhere. And from anyone. You write songs? She sure does. They're really good! Well, let's hear one, Princess. Oh, I don't know. Come on, Courtney. But which one? - The one we played this morning. - Yeah. You have got to be kidding me. Creativity should always be encouraged, Sloane. Judgment can wait. I want to turn it up so don't you turn me down 'Cause when we get together We got a rockin' sound Don't need to follow In somebody else's steps We make our own moves I think you know the rest Just look around now Look what you got now Find yourself in the song Bring out the beat and the melody, melody Find yourself in the song When we're together it's meant to be All it takes is one big dream You better find yourself in the song When we're together it's meant to be Yeah This is insane! If you think we're going to play a song by a princess... I'd say you'd win the competition. You want to win, don't you, Sloane? Yes. Great! Rock on, everybody! Yes. Yeah. Everybody's got a voice So use it loud and clear Loud and clear Loud and clear Raise it up to the sky And tell 'em that we're here That we're here Gettin' ready for the ride Gettin' ready Show them what we've got inside Yeah Oh, tonight Nothing is what it seems No Tonight Finding out what it means Yeah Life is a song We got the key Be who you are Unlock your dreams Tonight We're showing you what it means To unlock your dreams Unlock them You've got the key Unlock them Unlock them You've got the key Unlock them Tonight Nothing is what it seems No Okay, that was better. But your harmonies have got to be way tighter. Perhaps we're not the problem. Meaning what? There's something wrong with the song? That and the fact that you've given yourself every single solo, reducing the rest of us into back-up singers. I'm sorry, Olivia, but did you not hear what Lady Anne said? Camp Royalty needs my voice to win the competition. It's a sing-off, not a tea party. So maybe you should stick to what you know and leave the music to a professional? Perhaps it's slipped your mind, but this camp is for royalty, and we don't need some one-hit wonder telling us what to do or how to do it! Fine. You wanna go down in flames, be my guest! Oh, no! Come, quickly. Erika! Please don't walk away! Don't go! Erika, come back! Let's figure something out. Guys, Olivia's never gonna listen. We'll talk to her. Although to be honest, she does have a point. What! This sing-off isn't just about you. I... I have to get out of here. Hello? Anyone here? Come on, Eddie, pick up, pick up! Hey, rock 'n' roll is here to stay, but I am out! Oh, no, no. Thank you, Lady Anne. I'm sure I'm not the smartest man in the world. Top five maybe. You're too kind. Oh, poor Finn Oxford. What will you do when you lose the sing-off and have to close Camp Pop for good? Don't care! After all, a bet's a bet! And Camp Royalty has this in the bag! Of course, Lady Anne, I'd love to have dinner with you tonight. Or may I call you Anne? Love is in the air Erika! Ooh! I knew you'd come to your senses. Can't breathe. Sorry. Okay. First, you were right. I let that stuff Lady Anne said go to my head and made everything all about me. So I'm really sorry about that. But second, you guys are not gonna believe what I just found out! Camp Pop really does have centaurs? Uh, no. Oh. Lady Anne made some kind of bet with Camp Pop, and the loser has to shut down, for good! Oh, no. What if we lose? We can't let that happen. For either camp! So what do we do? We can't both win. I have an idea. But if it's gonna work, we'll need help. Look, there's the big piano. Cute. Come on. This way. - This is so exciting! - Shh! It's like we're secret agents. Whoa! Hello. Hi. Erika, what are you doing here? Long story, but the future of Camp Royalty and Camp Pop is on the line. Ugh. Well, where is she? Hey, everybody, I have some news. This is Princess Aubray, Princess Genevieve and... Erika Juno! How do they know... I'll tell you later. Hey, everybody. Everyone, your attention, please! Since Erika is notably absent, I have decided to continue with our original number. Hold on, Olivia. We have something to tell you. If we lose this sing-off, Camp Royalty will close forever. What? What can we do? And the only one who can save it... Is all of us. Together, as a group. I see how important that is now. But we'll need your royal touch, Olivia. Truce? Okay. So, what's going on? Well, I went to Lady Anne's office to call my manager and Clive came in... So what do you think? Can we do this? Yeah! For sure! I'm in! Yeah, we can. Can I play lead guitar? Was there ever a doubt? Yeah, all right. So, let's get to work. Is that the best you've got? Come on, let's hear it! Welcome, one and all, to the first ever sing-off between Camp Royalty and Camp Pop. Lady Anne, lovely as always, although that glare off those veneers is blinding. Wish I'd worn my extra dark sunglasses. So sweet. Can you believe he's single? You know, I hear opposites attract. Maybe you should find someone funny. Well then, let's introduce the judges, shall we? The reigning queen of pop music, Allegra James! Prince Reginald of Thistlebrook. And Svetlana Petranova, headmistress of Camp Arabesque. Whoo! Love you, Svetlana! Now what do you say we get this party started! May I present to you the Camp Royalty a cappella singers! Everybody wants to find out who they are for real Looking for a way to show it Tell you how I feel A melody needs harmony You've shown me what a friend can be Tonight Nothing is what it seems Clive. Where is my pizzazz? I'm sure it's coming, Lady Anne. Good thing there's Plan B. Life is a song We got the key Be who you are Unlock your dreams Tonight We're showing you what it means To unlock your dreams I want to turn it up So don't you turn me down 'Cause when we get together We've got a rockin' sound Don't need to follow in Somebody else's steps We make our own rules I think you know the rest Just look around now Look what you got now Find yourself in the song Bring out the beat and the melody, melody Find yourself in the song When we're together it's meant to be All it takes is one big dream You better find yourself in the song When we're together it's meant to be Yeah Bring out the beat and the melody, melody When we're together it's meant to be Unlock your dreams How dare they! Melody, melody When we're together it's meant to be Yeah Just look around now Look what you got now Tonight Find yourself in the song Nothing is what it seems Bring out the beat and the melody, melody Tonight Find yourself in the song We're finding out what it means When we're together it's meant to be Life is a song, we got the key All it takes is one big dream Be who you are Unlock your dreams You better find yourself in the song Tonight We're finding out what it means Sweet rock 'n' roll! Tonight Find yourself in the song Nothing is what it seems Bring out the beat and the melody, melody Find a way to stop this at once! How? I don't care! Just do it! Meant to be Life is a song, we got the key All it takes is one big dream Be who you are Unlock your dreams Tonight Find yourself in the song Finding out what it means When we're together it's meant to be Unlock your dreams You and me Yeah, you and me Unlock our dreams No! No, no, no, no. Oh, sorry. You were amazing! We were amazing. That was spectacular, but what're we supposed to do now? How can we pick a winner if both camps competed together? My dear, I am equally flummoxed. Surely there must be some sort of protocol to follow in the event of such a predicament. The entire point of any competition is to declare a winner and a loser! Am I right, Miss Petranova? By the way, love the necklace. It's absolutely stunning. No, we must vote! Never in my life have I witnessed such a travesty! Judges, I must insist you disqualify Camp Pop immediately and declare Camp Royalty the victor. Disqualify? On what grounds? Vocal sabotage. No doubt orchestrated by Finn Oxford himself. You are out of your mind! I had nothing to do with this! Awkward. Please, we both know you'd do anything to get back at me for ending our courtship! Trust me, I call that a favor. My only regret was not sending a thank you note! Clive? Clive! Wow. That was a bold move, Princess. Thanks! Now what? Lady Anne? Lady Anne! Lady Anne? Never fear! I'll get you out of there! Must you make that racket? Oh, I'm sorry, is my trying to break us out of here bothering you? Oh, I hate to tell you, darling, but you're not strong enough to open a jar of jam, let alone break out of anything! What is taking them so long? Not a clue. Y'all don't think they're actually gonna vote? Out of the question. They can't! Can they? No way. They couldn't possibly. Why am I not surprised, eh? You never did believe in me! That's not true! I always had faith in your talent. If you thought I was so great, then why'd you dump me? Because I knew when you hit it big, you would have run off and left me behind! Wait. You knew I'd hit it big? Yes. And that I'd never fit into that life. Rock and royalty don't mix, Finn. There was always room for you in my life, Annie. There always has been. Oh. May we have everyone's attention! The judges have made their decision. After your somewhat unorthodox but amazing performance, I've decided that I can't possibly pick a winner. Nor can I. I, however, can. Camp Royalty is the victor! We won! We won, we won! Well, we tried our best. It totally stinks that we couldn't save both camps. I suppose we should let them out of there. Oh. That's not right... Ew. Aw. You're just saying that. Am not. Are too! What happened? This magic is more powerful than I thought. Lady Anne, did you hear? Victory is ours! Camp Royalty has won! And Camp Pop is through! Done! In your face! Actually, Clive, that's where you're wrong. I'm sorry, what now? The situation has changed. Uh... Lady Anne, perhaps you're disoriented, maybe even a bit "woozy" from your ordeal? Because the judges have made their decision. I understand that, Clive. But Finn and I are overruling that decision. What? No, you can't! We can. As a result, we have a tie! "Tie"? It means there's no winner. And no loser. So both camps are saved! How could you do this to me? To us? And why are you holding his hand? It turns out rock and royalty can mix. We let assumptions about each other keep us from having something special, and we pushed you guys to take sides. But those days are over. Therefore, starting next summer, our two camps will merge into one, creating a place that will celebrate rock and royalty alike. No! We were supposed to win! Now, Clive. I bribed a judge for you! You! You! What? Nothing. Which judge? Oh, Clive. You might want to make yourself scarce about now. No, no, no. I... No, no. The thing is, I mean... No, you don't understand... Lady Anne, I did it all for... So, any plans for next summer? Going on tour? Actually I think I'm done with the whole pop star solo act thing. Really? Maybe you should start a band. Maybe I should. Know anyone? I sure do. Yes! Yes, I am in! Oh. That was fun. Yes, well, anyway. I knew it. Now all we need is a killer name. How about "Rock 'n Royals"? That's a great name. Brilliant! Love it! Can't wait. Can't wait. Can't wait! One, two, three, four! Can't wait to jam by the lake So many memories to make Bet we'll be staying awake You will be staying awake All night Gotta, gotta, gotta get to camp Oh Gotta, gotta, gotta get to camp Gotta, gotta, gotta get to camp Okay Now Sometimes you gotta shine I spend too much time thinking about Who I'm supposed to be I play by everybody else's rules That don't seem right to me 'Cause I'm cool and polite on the outside But when I get the chance I just run and hide But if your eyes are closed Then it gets too hard to see What if I get afraid Don't be afraid What if I just turn away Don't just turn away What if I hide my face Don't you hide your face What if I lose my breath, my breath But then I think, "Wait" What if I shine, shine, shine, shine, shine Shine, shine, shine What if I shine, shine, shine, shine, shine Shine, shine, shine What if I Should I even care They're all sitting there And everybody's staring at me At me Maybe if I step into the spotlight I can be set free 'Cause I'm cool and polite on the outside Outside But when I get the chance I just run and hide But if you never try Then I guess you'll never see What if I get afraid Don't be afraid What if I just turn away Don't just turn away What if I hide my face Don't you hide your face What if I lose my breath, my breath But then I think, "Wait" What if I shine, shine, shine, shine, shine Shine, shine, shine What if I shine, shine, shine, shine, shine Shine, shine, shine
