 

                        1 Behold - The Castle of Cachtice. An unconquerable stronghold that time will turn into stones and dust. The last witness to the mysterious story... of Hungarys wealthiest noble woman Countess Erzsebet Bathory. Here, as the legend says, she tortured and killed innocent virgins... and bathed in their blood to stay young and beautiful forever. The fewer the facts, the plentiful the legends. The truth will remain forgotten in this forgotten dungeon, from where the countesses' desperate wailing and sobbing could be heard night after night. Until the devil himself took pity on her and setting her on his firey steed carried her away, to the darkest depths of hell. Or was it an angel? And was the story rather different perhaps? I trust my daughter Erzsebet Bathory, in marriage to Ferenc Nadasdy. That our families may be united! This union will be the most powerful in Hungary. Erzsebet! Erzsebet! Look! I have my own horse! Now I am a man. Marriage is a duty and love a sin. Ferenc will increase the family fortune, your job is to manage and preserve it. And look after the servants. The can't work if they are ill. Erzsebet! Viva young couples! Dear Countess, we have a duty to our families, to conceive a son. How are we going to accomplish this? My uncle told me, do not worry, my dear. For centuries, the Turks and Tatars devastated and plundered the kingdom of Hungary. Killing and destroying everything that Hungarians held sacred. Erzsebet. Finally, the Protestant lord set aside their dispute with the Catholics, and together rows to wage war against the Muslims. The fate of this vast land, which people spoke 13 different languages, fell into the hands of some powerful, led by Ferenc Nadasdy. Look at the Habsburgs. Always the first to flee. I like to see the infidels kicking Catholics. I told you will not be bored for long. For God and Hungary! Guide your people to victory! Hungary! The Turks. Count Nadasdy... fearless warrior and commander, always stood in the front of the brave son of Hungary. The bleeding Hungarian kingdom, became the last bastion protecting Christian Europe against the infidels. History is written by winners, and the Chronicles, by fools like me a humble monk named Peter. My testimony is not a legend about heroes like Ferenc but about life and death of his beautiful wife Erzsebet. The three dragon teeth from her family crest represent the three names that marked his life and, ultimately, fulfilled her destiny. BATHORY Part I: FERENC Cachtice - Countess. - Thurzo? Where is Ferenc? - Don't worry, he is safe. It was a great victory. Here sends a list of war trophies. He sends you a gift. Look out the window. The best gift would be to have Ferenc home. My little fairy. he is an Italian painter we stole from the Turks. Come. He should be painting roses shutters to the Pasha of Budin, but in exchange for this portrait, Ferenc promised him freedom. - Move, miserable! - Let me go! I'm a protege of Cardinal Del Monte. Move! Maybe he can capture your beauty. Come on, Maria. Faster! You so sweet. Ferenc, my beloved black horse. Perhaps you could stop by after the Sunday service to sign your agreement for the next half year. Don't worry, pastor, I'll sign it in Ferences name. - Wait! - Yes, Istvan? Our painter hast ordered half the forest for his paints. And he still wants more. What else does he need, Istvan? What kind of rose is this? a Venetian. Blue as a Venetian sky. Three days mourning our dead comrades. We have been living close to death. Ferenc... you are drunk. Tomorrow, I am conquering the Fortress near the Eger. Tonight, I am conquering you. - Ferenc. Ferenc. Ferenc, no! Ferenc, no! - I beg you. My baby! - Love can not hurt the baby. Ferenc! No! My baby! This war without end, turned me into a brute. Even when I am with you, I act like a barbarians. Erzsebet Honey, forgive me the pain that I caused you. I never forgive myself the loss of our unborn son. My... Damn. That was close. See Nadasdy, cannon balls, arrows, everything mises him. Is the luck of the devil. God gave Nadasdy courage and strength. That's all. Yes, Bathany. And wealth... And a beautiful woman. - You envy him? - Of course. Beautiful women are hard to find. When the master get drunk, they become as strong as horses, and then they just go and hunt a defenceless orphan, like me. We'll be out here if we get pregnant and the Countess finds out. But you're sweet. No! You can have me for nothing. Come on, Merisi! Possess me as does the master! Leave me alone! Get out! - Open the door, Merisi. - Who? By God... Why is it locked? I'm mixing paints. See that red... as our blood. Symbolizes life and love. Erika I was drawing from memory. See? Tomorrow you'll begin painting me and my daughters. You preserve what I have left. Praise God! Our Countess is well again. Countess is taking their young man to the manor house. Now she's gonna have all the fun she wants. - Yes! - Shut up! It's the only thing you think of. Do you know how many children her herbs have saved? I can't capture the curves of your body. I need a naked model. An honest woman shows her body to no one. Not even her husband.
