 

                        1 First position. Second position. Third position. Fourth position, open. Fourth position, closed. Very good, dick. You'll be doing multiple double tours in no time. Gosh, Bruce, kids don't ballet dance. I mean, I feel ridiculous in these tights. The discipline of ballet promotes balance, flexibility and strength, all useful things in our never-ending fight against crime. Gee Willikers, I never thought of it that way. Now, that's enough practice for one night. Gotham palace is on, and even crime fighters need mindless entertainment sometimes. Gosh, yes! It's my favorite show. Welcome to everyone's favorite variety show, the Gotham palace. And here's your host, that international starlet of stage and screen, Miranda Monroe. Thank you. Thank you. On tonight's show, we have those singing sensations, the mop tops with the mostest, Hector and the ho daddies. Those aren't the ho daddies. No, it's that mocking mountebank of malice, the joker. Oh, sorry, kitties, but the ho daddies have decided to play a smaller venue, the broom closet backstage. Bruce, look! It's that black-hearted bearer of a billion bumbershoots, the penguin. Careful, you pre-pubescent pipsqueaks, or I'll give you a taste of my penguin umbrella. And the prince of perverted puzzles, the Riddler. Riddle me this. What kind of band doesn't play music? Answer. A band of thieves. And of course, that dominatrix of deviltry... Catwoman needs no introduction. Holy unholy alliance. Our greatest foes have reunited. Quick, gang, we have to hold these creepy crooks for the cops. I do love a captive audience, but we must be going. Let us away, let us away. It's the bat-signal, sir. Yes, Alfred, no doubt the commissioner is already calling. Oh! Mercy alive. Why, you'd think you were Batman and Robin, rushing out like that. We were just going fishing, aunt Harriet. At this hour? Land's sake! You two sure do fish a lot. We find it's a great way to relax from the pressures of being a millionaire playboy and his teenage ward. Indeed. Now, if you'll excuse us, aunt Harriet. Can you believe the lengths those two go to keep their little secret? - Secret, ma'am? - Why, Alfred! You really don't see it? No, I do not. Now, if you'll excuse me, I believe the upstairs doorknobs need polishing. Good day, madam. No need to explain, commissioner. We saw the whole sordid affair. Those criminals will be brought to justice, or I'll know the reason why. We're on our way. Hurry, caped crusader. Whoever you may be under that cowl of yours, you paladin of virtue, you're our only hope. To the Batcave. "Poor people have it, rich people need it, if you eat it, you die." - What is it? - Nothing. I can't come up with anything either, Batman. No, chief, the answer is "nothing." How can "nothing" be a clue, when it's not even a thing? In this case, "nothing" is certainly something. - Robin? - Let's see... Zero. Zilch. Goose egg. Precisely. Farmer Jones delivered a shipment of his prizewinning goose eggs to the local market just last week. They're after eggs? It's not what was delivered, commissioner, rather when. Last Tuesday, which was also the night of the total lunar eclipse. You see, it's really quite simple. The atomic energy laboratory, headed by our old friend, professor Nichols, just opened a new wing dedicated to the science of total lunar eclipses. And I'll bet my cowl the laboratory is where those felonious fiends are going to strike next. Of course, how could I not see it myself? Come on, Robin, there's a bad moon on the rise. To the Batmobile! What would we do without him, commissioner? I shudder to even consider it, O'Hara. Not so fast, old chum. But we're in a hurry, Batman. Jaywalking is extremely hazardous, especially at night. As duly deputized officers of the law, it is imperative we follow the rules. Gosh, yes, you're right, Batman. No one's above the law, even when you're trying to enforce it. Quickly, Robin, to the crosswalk! The replica ray has the ability to scan an object and create an identical version. Observe. As you might imagine, the applications are endless. Does anyone have any questions? I do... Riddle me this. What is black and blue and red all over? Answer. You, if you don't hand over the ray. You heard him, knave. Never! It's too important to give to filthy criminal types such as yourselves. Oh! You dare defy us? You must be insane. And here's the proof! Why, you're practically certifiable. Scientists, head for cover. The only things these fiends will be multiplying with that device is their prison sentences. Great quivering jellyfish, the dynamic dunderheads! Into the fray, my fitness finks. Oh, Batman, give up this life of excessive do-gooding and join us. A man of your skills could be quite useful to me. Us... When heck freezes over, you shameless Bathsheba. Let the grownups talk, boy bird-brain. Tag! You're it! We could have a lot of fun. What do you say? I say, renounce your evil ways, Catwoman. Cease this infernal flirting. Three Catwomen! - Is that so bad? - Of course it is! Now he has to pick just one. Perhaps not! Batman, they're getting away with the replica ray. Ironic, since I'm seeing triple. They won't get far. To the Batmobile. Holy crumbling infrastructure! Robin, time to use our trusty Batzooka! Holy trench warfare! Tin foil? What does it mean, Batman? We were foiled, Robin. A taunt from our arrogant adversaries. But in their hubris, they may have left a clue to the location of their lair. This machine contains the information of two sets of encyclopedias. It'll be able to collect and analyze data in mere seconds. Holy Einstein! That's a lot of brain power. Amorphous semi-crystalline layers. Starch. More precisely, gravy. So what does it mean? Take all the clues together, the foil, the gravy... Holy Salisbury steak! - That could only mean... - Right again, old chum. The Fitzsimmons TV dinner factory is where they're holed up. Let's go. I say! It is patently preposterous, you pretentious poser! With this ray we can multiply money, diamonds, females... heh... I wouldn't expect you to understand, you boorish bird. Only those who view crime as an art form have true vision. Right, joker? Oh, don't drag me into your tedious tete-a-tete. As long as the punch line is funny, I don't care. Enough caterwauling. None of it will matter if Batman stops us, like he always does. Oh, dear me. Someone's being a touchy tatty. Ooh! Why the bad humor, Catwoman? I'm just saying we need Batman on our side if we want to truly thrive. My greatest joy as a super crook is confounding that cowled clod! Still, you do have a point. But how do you turn a bat into a rat? I call it Batnip. One scratch, and mass muscles will be mine to manipulate. That's been tried before, by better crooks than you. Watch your tongue. No one challenges the Princess of plunder. It will work, I guarantee it. Now, quickly... No doubt he's already on his way. Feisty feline. Soon you'll be a diva declawed. With those four felons possibly hiding in wait for us, we don't dare use the front door. Really feeling the burn in the legs, Batman. That ballet practice took a lot out of me. Thus supporting my suspicion you've been focusing too much on your upper-body strength during workouts. Gee whiz, I have been spending a lot of time on my biceps. A frozen TV dinner factory. Appropriate, as you'll all soon be put on ice in Gotham state penitentiary. Show yourselves. Oh, stop me if you've heard this one, Batman. Why don't eggs tell jokes? Because they crack each other up. You need new material. Fools! Get them. One last time, Catwoman, I implore you to turn yourself in without a fight. You will be gentle with me, Batman? You have my assurance I will handle you... Personally. That sounds divine. I'd like that very much. Shall we go, then? But first, may I fix my hair? I always like to look good for the judge. A woman as beauteous as yourself should be allowed to look her best. You've earned that much for doing the right thing. Holy noxious gas! Goodnight, sweet prince. Rise and shine, my winged warriors. It doesn't have to be this way, Batman. You're right. It's not too late to renounce your evil ways, Catwoman. You are the one who will renounce his ways, my dutiful do-gooder. Granted, you've been known to cloud the minds of men, but I live by a set of immalleable principles. Oh, that's where this comes in. After a dose, I think you'll find your principles less rigid. What did you do to him, you sinful succubus? Observe. Kiss me, Batman. I... - I... - Batman, no! Don't do it. - Will... - Don't do it. Will... Not! Don't worry, old chum. My moral fiber is stronger than any substance this she-devil might concoct. Oh, well, no use crying over spilled milk. Ah! I told you it wouldn't work. Never mind, Pengi... Magic potions may not affect Batman, but I'm sure good old-fashioned fire does. Our most hated foes are about to become a human TV dinner. Huzzah! Huzzah! Fiends! I swear by all that is just, you will rue this day. The only roux here is in the gravy. Come, my capricious cronies in criminality. It's starting to heat up, Batman. But, we do smell delicious. The smell of death, Robin, I'm afraid. Guess this is our last meal, Batman. Then this is one time I would advocate starting with dessert. I suppose it doesn't matter if we ruin our appetites now. No, Robin. The dessert is a lemon tart. Holy citric enzymes! Lemons are acidic. Correct, Robin. Now if I can just cover my ropes with this lemon filling, the acidic content might be enough to weaken my bonds. Hurry, Batman! Holy entree, Batman! We were almost done for. Well done, to be precise. Though I find it quite distasteful they got away. At least Catwoman's play to turn you evil didn't work. True. Now we still have to uncover what those malicious miscreants have planned for the replica ray. Can you believe it? Those Bolsheviks in Belgravia have launched another manned space flight. Shameful indeed, chief. It seems when it comes to the space race, we've fallen even further behind. Watching television while on the job? I certainly don't condone that, commissioner. Oh, uh, of course, Batman. So sorry. We were just... It's not me you need to apologize to. It's the law-abiding taxpayers of Gotham city. You're quite right, caped crusader. Begorra! I've never been so ashamed. Enough sniveling, gentlemen. We're here on more pressing matters. The joker and his crooked cohorts got away. We're sure they're causing mayhem to Gotham city. But where? Strangely enough, we haven't heard a peep from them, boy wonder. Not a peep? How unlike those fiends. Harriet Cooper, you know this is Bruce's hallowed and forbidden no woman's land. Oh! But I just know he's hiding something. A red phone. My, how unique. Mustn't touch, aunt Harriet. The oil from your fingers can ruin the finish. Bruce! I... - I was just... - Leaving? Yes. Of course. Land's sakes! How did I end up in here? Wayne manor is so big, it's easy to get turned around. Toodle-oo boys! Gosh, that was close. Too close, I'm afraid. - Alfred! - Sir. -Aunt Harriet almost uncovered our most intimate of secrets, our true identities as crime fighters. It's your job to keep her away from this study. Deepest apologies, sir. It won't happen again. No, it won't. You're dismissed. For the night? Forever. Bruce, surely you don't mean it. It's quite all right, master dick. Master Bruce, it has been an honor to serve you. Goodbye, Alfred. I'm sure you'll continue to make me proud, master dick. Goodbye. Gosh, Bruce, he's been with you since you were a boy. It wasn't that big of a deal. An entire city depends on us. Clearly, Alfred had gotten too comfortable here. I suspect a change would be best for both of us. Now, enough sentimentality. There's much work yet to do. To the Batcave! Now! Holy dragnet! We've looked everywhere, Batman. Downtown, uptown, in the bay... It doesn't make any sense. Maybe they've given up. I mean it's either that or they're not on this planet. Great Scott, that's it, Robin! Lex Parsimoniae. Latin for "law of parsimony"? Good job. Your grasp of the dead languages has improved. No language can be dead if it lives in your heart. Quite true. Law of parsimony. Also known as Occam's razor. When you have two competing theories, the simplest one tends to be true. So I ask you, did the most depraved, evil, cold-hearted individuals throw in the towel? Or is it something simpler? We can't find them because they're no longer on this planet. - Holy Trojan horse! - Yes, Robin. I contend those thieves hitched a ride on that Belgravian rocket that was just launched into space. Approaching space station, comrade. Prepare to dock. Oh, pardon me, boys, but could you direct me to the powder room in this tin can? No? Then I'm afraid you'll have to take a powder. Pengi? Sweet dreams, my comatose cosmonauts. To the Batrocket! Gosh, Batman. I never thought we'd need the Batrocket on one of our cases. An intergalactic spaceship is just another tool in a crime fighter's arsenal. Now, Robin, space travel is the most dangerous endeavor man has ever embarked upon. I need to know if you have the right stuff. If brave men weren't willing to take bold risks, we wouldn't be able to move forward as a society. Then we take a bold risk now, for Gotham city. Initiate bat-countdown. - T-minus 10 seconds. Fire booster rockets. Adjust bat-radar dish. Open launch doors. T-minus five... Four... three... Two... one! Ignition. Ready to move out. How delicious! I've always wanted to rule from the stars. This will go down in history as the greatest caper in the universe. And when we three are done, there'll be no one to stop us. There are four cats in this litter, you pudgy peon! Yes. But one runt which must get tossed out. Treachery! But why? You're soft on Batman. And we all know how fickle cats can be. Who's to say you won't turn on us... For him? Ha! The cat's got her own tongue. Ah, well... Just think of it as one small step for mankind, and you'll be able to swim back to earth. Oh... get her boys! That's some space station, Batman. A top secret joint venture between our government and the government of Belgravia. Ultimately our two countries couldn't figure out a way to work together and it was abandoned. - What a waste! - Yes. From up here it becomes clear that we're all one people. I hate to the core of my being when diplomacy is destroyed by myopic pride. Engage bat-gravity boots. Holy helium! Bat-climbs would be much easier this way. Easier, but eventually your muscles would atrophy, your bones would lose density. You see, Robin, there are consequences to doing things the easy way, something villains rarely take into consideration when choosing a life of crime. Golly. Right again, Batman the only thing a cat hates more than water is the vacuum of space. Then I hope you can hold your breath, pussycat. Looks like the cat will go splat. And now, it's time to put you out for the night. Off you go! May I assume your twisted teammates turned the tables on you? Where's your chivalry, Batman? It's impolite to rub your masculine superiority in a woman's face. Serves you right, you depraved creature. Are you sure we can't kill him? When you're older, you'll come to appreciate the pungent allure of the feminine mystique, old chum. But now it's time to dish out some well-deserved fisticuffs. Up with your flippers, you unholy three! And hope that I leave enough of you to put behind prison bars. Curses! It's Batman. Ha, the cat came back. Oh! How did he find us this time? Why, you quizzical creep! It wasn't me! I resisted the urge. He's Batman, you moronic muttonheads, that's how. Of course! You probably left a trail of breadcrumbs for your little loverboy. No, penguin. I deduced where you were, but not why. Then riddle me this, Batman. How do you hold a party in space? Answer, you "plan-et." Only we want to make three. You diabolical devils! Yes, then there can be a Gotham city for each of us to control without interference from the caped clodpoles. Of all the world-creating arrogance! Don't worry, Batman, they'll soon be where they belong. Behind prison bars. Actually, Robin, I'm thinking of sending them out of the airlock. Yeah! Let's see how they like it. Ah! By the marquess of Queensberry, you have to follow the rules! Do I? Of course, Batman! As duly deputized officers, we are honor-bound to follow the tenets of the law. Technically, we're outside of the jurisdiction of Gotham pd. Here, I play by my own rules. Egad! Batman's flipped his cowl. If not, we should do it for him. Ah, time to lighten the mood. Holy zero gs! You were getting so heavy on us, Batman. Who says penguins can't fly? Ow! Huh? Why are your punches like a bodybuilder without a gym? Answer, because they're weightless. You fiends! Let's do this. You wanna get nuts? Let's get nuts. - Riddler, this is the operating table. - No, no! Not the face, Batman. And I'm the surgeon. Gee, Batman, will they be okay? They may forever walk with slight limps but they'll live. Look! Catwoman got away! That tricky temptress. She won't escape my grasp the next time we cross paths. But I'll enjoy her trying. Thanks to you, caped crusader, their plan of planetary proliferation was prevented. I'll just store the replica ray in the Batcave. It's too dangerous to fall into the wrong hands. Once again we owe a debt of gratitude we can never fully repay. But know that you will forever be... Batman? Where did Batman go? Begorra! He just disappeared. Like a bat in the night. Very dramatic indeed. And not like Batman at all. You'll have to forgive him. He's been a little out of sorts. Now, if you'll excuse me. Batman, wait for me! Batman? Holy hitchhiker! Now, how am I going to get back home? Now, give a hand for our next group, those manic minstrels from Manchester, -the bed bugs! Sorry, dick. I just couldn't bear having to listen to the commissioner prattle on anymore. Luckily, a citizen loaned me their bicycle. This Gotham palace show is top drawer, old chum. And that host, Miranda Monroe, Va-Va-voom. Groovy, man, groovy. Mercy, you two are back from your "fishing trip" already? Something wrong with that, aunt Harriet? Oh, don't mind me. Please, tell me exactly what's so amusing. It's just... Out with it, you silly old woman! Heavens! Well, I never... I can't take this anymore, Bruce! So, you think I should get rid of the broad too? No. I'm talking about you. You've completely changed. Now, now, old chum. You're overreacting. Aren't you even worried about Alfred? Well, Dickie, if you're so concerned about Alfred, you're free to join him. On skid row. A-ha! Any progress on that shoplifting case, O'Hara? Well, you know, the witness, uh, and, uh, the, er... Say no more, chief. You don't have to explain to me how difficult police work can be. Have you tried... You know who? Every 20 minutes. No answer. Maybe we should try again? My thoughts exactly. How about you clean up your own mess for once? Yes, but every available officer is already dispatched. We'll send someone to you as soon as we can. No, we don't know where Batman is any more than you do. The city is in chaos. Absolute chaos. Greetings, commissioner. Chief. It the caped crusader himself! I must say, you are a sight for sore eyes. Saints preserve us, all those rosaries I've been saying have finally paid off. Where have you been, Batman? Thinking, commissioner. I've been trying to figure out why you two are in charge of anything. Surely you jest, Batman. It's you two who jest by calling yourselves police officers. I take a little time off and look at the state of Gotham city. Now, please remove your uniforms. Excuse me, Batman? I said, take off your uniforms. But why would we do that? Because you two don't deserve to wear them. Surely, you understand the city cannot run without a commissioner and chief of police. No need to worry. I've already found your replacements. I think you'll find they're very qualified. The replica ray! What are you going to do with that? Three batmen! Allow me to introduce Gotham's new chief of police and commissioner. Ready to run Gotham with a firm glove, Batman. Begorra. Have you gone mad, Batman? You've always said there never was enough of me to go around. That's no longer a problem. Chief, commissioner, please escort the former chief and commissioner off the premises. From now on, Batman will be running this town. And eventually, the world. Mr. mayor, the city no longer requires your ineffective management. - You're relieved from office. Semple vs Strozier states any judge can be replaced by a citizen. Baking is as much a science as an art. The city deserves a Boulanger who understands that. First position. Second position. Holy plie. How am I supposed to focus on my progressions when Batman progresses down a road of darkness? Progresses. How did I not see it before? Catwoman's Batnip did work! It's just been working slowly. If I'm going to save Batman, I need to go to the source. Sarsaparilla on the rocks. Please. Oh! Ow! I hope you're proud of what you've done to Batman, you hateful hussy! I wanted him to be bad, but not that bad. You do know the difference, don't you? Give me the antidote, you licentious Lucrezia! There is an antidote, isn't there? Of course there's an antidote. We just have to get him to take it. - We? -You know how fond I am of Batman. Were it not for his unfortunate devotion to good, we'd be an item. Besides, the way he saved me from those double crossers, I suppose I owe him. Can I trust you? Cross my heart. I promise not to kill you. For now. Then let's go. To the Catmobile! Holy faster, pussycat! Kill! Kill! Are you old enough to drive one of these? Gosh, yes. I have my learner's permit, which means I can drive if another adult is in the vehicle. Remember, I'll be watching your every move, Catwoman. Kid, I always suspected you did. - Where to? - The Batcave. But your gonna have to take a catnap for this trip. Very well. But I expect you to keep your hands to yourself. Well, if it isn't the bachelor pad to end all bachelor pads. Should we hide before Batman finds us? He already knows we're here. Quite right, boy genius. It was just a matter of time before you returned. I'm just surprised you brought such a lovely guest. Batman, from the look of things, you're happy to see me. You know I am, doll. Listen, Batman. Catwoman's Batnip worked, only very slowly. That's the reason you're acting this way. Then it's her I have to thank. I much prefer the new me. I'm finally doing everything my old virtuous self wouldn't let me do. Your ego is out of control. You've taken over the city! And that's only the beginning. What about you, baby? You want to join me? Isn't that what you wanted all along? But what about Robin? Hmm. I know. We'll kill him. Purr-fect. I'll probably regret this, but a deal is a deal. That's the antidote, Batman. You'll soon be back to your old self. Wrong, old chum. I anticipated this move and took the bat-anti-antidote. Yup, I knew I'd regret it. You must be stopped! Then why don't you try, old chum? I know every move you'll make, because I taught you every move you know. An old-fashioned tool, Robin. A utility belt showdown. I accept. Bat-knockout gas! Bat-wake-up gas! Bat-cuffs! Bat-lockpick. Bat-bomb! Bat-shield! Enough of this frivolous folderol. Sweet dreams, fools. Comfy, my tenacious twosome? Holy hydrogen! The nuclear silo. When I pull this lever, you'll be lowered into the silo at the exact moment it releases its radioactive steam. Any last requests? How 'bout a kiss, masked muscles? Sure thing, pussycat. You'll never get away with this, Batman. Boy, bird-brain, can't you see we're in the middle of something? Sorry. I'm afraid our time's run out. Perhaps we'll meet again in your next life, Catwoman. Now, if you excuse me, I have a city to rule. Drat, drat and double drat! My claws have no effect. Batman uses a special bat-cable that doesn't fray. Perhaps we can swing ourselves to the railing. He raised it three inches, just enough to prevent us from clearing the rail. Then how the heck do we get outta here? I don't think we can. Brace yourself. How are we alive? While you were out on the drive here, I sprayed us both with a dose of bat-anti-isotope spray to guard us against any radioactivity. I knew Batman would probably get the best of us and that our most likely fate would be the silo. Most impressive, boy wonder. I just hope we haven't lost Batman forever. We'll need muscle to stop him. No one's crazy enough to take on all those batmen. You're wrong, Catwoman. There's a whole prison of them. We're Gotham state prison inspectors. I've never heard of prison inspectors before. Why wasn't I informed of this? It's a new position, warden. You do want to ensure the safety of the prisoners and all that garbage, don't you? Madame, I assure you, we go by the book. Oh, is that so? Those pickaxes aren't up to code! They must be replaced. Lucky for you, warden, we brought the newest model. Oh! Look at that! These are not regulation ball and chains. Replace them. Now! And to lift prisoner morale, the state has required us to give the prisoners these care packages of toiletries and wholesome magazines. What about us? Sorry, but we're all out. If I weren't already in jail, I... Ah! The indignity of it all. Passed over for these larcenous lowlifes. Remember, any more violations and you'll be the ones wearing prison chains. Whoa! Where do you think you're going? Hey! Come on, fellas. Huzzah! Everyone's gotten away! Except for these three. Don't take your eyes off them. We can't lose them, too. I won't let them out of my sight. Welcome to another edition of Gotham palace, with your host... Batman? Hello, Gotham city. Your regular host, Miranda Monroe, is a bit tied up at the moment. So, I thought this could be another job for Batman. Since taking over Gotham, I've created the perfect city, and yet I'm still not sated. I used to think I dress like a bat to instill fear into Gotham's super criminals, but recently I've come to realize that, actually, I just crave attention. So, what better place to get that than Gotham palace? And to ensure you don't miss a minute, my batmen have attached bat-vhf detonators to every TV aerial in Gotham city. If you turn the channel, or worse, turn off the TV, your sets will explode! Holy shrapnel! Boy genius? Catwoman? Alive? Annoying, but not entirely surprising. We're here to stop you, Batman. And just how do you two plan on doing that? With a little help from our friends. Then as the milkmaid said when she kissed her cow, "the show must go on." You poor, delinquent child. Those villains are all going back to Gotham penitentiary. But I'll deal with you and Catwoman personally. But there will be no death trap. And I won't be conveniently stepping away. This time I do it with my own two hands. Special delivery for a Mr. Batman. That's me. "To Gotham's newest pop star." I'll drink to that. Refreshing. Now, time to deal with you. Great Scott! I've been slipped a Mickey. Batman, are you okay? Back to... to normal. Old chum, spell broken. It seems someone delivered me an antidote that could neutralize the bat-anti-antidote. Holy counter-acting potions! But who? I'd be more concerned with them. Quick! Both of you, get behind me. Holy spontaneous combustion! Yes, Robin, the duplicates were always molecularly unstable. Batman, you've saved the day again! - From yourself. - I don't know how you did it. The credit must really go to Robin and Catwoman. She proves that even the most vile, depraved and amoral villain is capable of redemption. Gee, thanks, Batman. While all of Gotham is grateful for her help, she must still serve her time. Understood. Catwoman, thank you for all your help. I promise to act as a character witness on your behalf. With good behavior, you'll most likely get an early parole. After 15 years or so. Perhaps there's a better way to show your gratitude. And what would that be? That'll keep me warm on those cold nights doing hard time. You'll have to come with us now, ma'am. It seems everything is back the way it should be. I still want to know who gave you the antidote. I'm glad you received the package, sir. Alfred? The bond Alfred and I have is unbreakable, which is why we've had a long-standing arrangement that if I were ever to fire him, it would only be because I was under some evil mind control. And should that happen, I was to prepare an antidote according to Batman's precise instructions and list of ingredients. I hope it wasn't too difficult, Alfred. It got a bit messy at times, but went exactly as planned. Always one step ahead, Batman. One step ahead. One step ahead. And I've been one step behind since the very beginning. How could I not see it? What is it, Batman? This has all been a well-thought-out distraction by joker, penguin and Riddler. They knew the replica ray was unstable the whole time, which means they never planned to duplicate earth. But we sent them up the river. No, Robin. Don't you see? We put their duplicates in jail. They've been free the whole time. Holy triple-cross! And if my guess is right, they knew Catwoman's Batnip would work, because the joker spiked it with his own laughing-gas formula, making it more potent. Those devilish tricksters needed me as a distraction. But from what? Knowing those fiends, it's a crime spree targeting Gotham's most priceless treasures and irreplaceable artworks. Well done, Robin. Exactly what I was thinking. - The perfect crime. - Almost. Let's go! Holy stowaway! My feline pride won't allow me to let those traitors go unpunished. I want to help. Please, Catwoman. Those venal villains are committing the biggest heist Gotham city has ever seen. You'd be in danger. You do remember they tried to shoot me into space. Yes? Very well. After all you've done, you've earned the right to join us. Ah. We did it. Our most perfect plan ever. Look at our haul. Priceless treasures and irreplaceable artwork! The first puzzle ever created. Four thousand years old, and worth a king's ransom. Ah! That rock's nothing compared to my little nest egg, encrusted with a million bucks worth of diamonds and emeralds. Whoo! And at last, I finally got my hands on this beauty. A clown painting? That's worthless. Oh, Pengi, the value in art isn't in how much it costs, it's in how it makes you feel. Besides, it will be worth lots once I bump off the artist. You filthy criminals! And to think you almost got away with it. But no one can outsmart Batman for very long. Egad! He's back to his old, obnoxiously good self. If we can't outsmart him, then we'd better outrun him. Hurry, men, or it's curtains! The prodigal penguin always comes prepared. Quickly! To the whirly-bat! Look, Batman, it's their getaway vehicle. A blimp. Unorthodox, but diabolical. Whose idea was it to get such a slow-moving getaway car? Patience, my quizzical quipster. Observe. Robin, time to use our exploding Batterangs on those engines. Holy Hindenburg! If we miss the mark, it'll go up in flames. Which is why our aim must be true. Ready? One, two, three! They've blown our engines, you beaked boob! Silence! Then we must move the fray to where this bird of prey has the advantage. They're gone. Wrong. They've just gone up. Hand over those priceless treasures and irreplaceable artworks. You fiends! You'll be abstract art once you splat onto the pavement, Batman. Huh? I can't believe I'm doing this. Thanks? End of the line, joker. Whoa! Oh! Ah! Ah! Uh. Well done, old chum. We saved Gotham's priceless treasures and irreplaceable artworks. Yes. Saved them from me. Ta-ta, my stalwart stooges. This cat's ready to walk on the wild side again. Catwoman, consider the consequences of your actions. You know a tiger can't change her stripes, Batman. Please. By all that's decent, I beg of you. I'll give myself up on one condition. What's that? We run away to Europe together, sip tea in a cafe, and live happily ever after. Holy unsatisfying ending. And, of course, we kill Robin. Catwoman, you know I can't. Oh! - Give me your hand. - I'm sorry, Batman, but I won't be put in a cage again. No. Catwoman. Loving you was wrong, but I had to do right. Oh, land's sake, what a wonderful birthday you've thrown for me, boys. Did we surprise you, aunt Harriet? Did you? I knew you two were trying to keep a secret from me. But I never suspected it was this. There's not much we could keep from you. The lengths you went to. And I was beginning to think you kept me around only for appearances. Appearances, aunt Harriet? How so? Oh, simply that the famous Bruce Wayne didn't have room for his ward's old aunt. But now I know I'm a valued part of the family, and I needn't be so insecure. And you can put an end to the fishing ruse. - I promise I won't... - Sir. Uh, you'll have to excuse us, aunt Harriet. Where are you two going? The party's just started. Why, skeet shooting of course. See you later, aunt Harriet. Oh, yes, of course. What?
