 

                        1664, Ming Dynasty was overthrowned On May 2nd the same year The Manchurian captured Beijing Norhtern China was occupied by Qing Dynasty On October first Emperor Shunzi was crowned at Forbidden City He ordered all Chinese to shave their scalps to show their loyalty to the Qing Emperor The Qings continued to invade the Southern Ming Do the next one! Our skin and hair are gifts from our parents! Shaving one's head shows disrespect to ancestors! I refuse to shave it! You can't shave my head! They don't come in peace Halt! You can only pass with a shaved head Either head or hair goes! Nonsense Stop! Don't you see the army? Who are you? I am Lin Kun the Ming's Vice-Commander of Fujian Province I am Li Wei, Military Governor Li Wei, don't kill him My father is... The Commanding General of the Ming Dynasty's Fujian Province Don't forget... We will never allow our heads shaved! My son I'm glad to see you've finally come back I know the road was difficult Father On the road from Nanjing, Li Wai, Lin Kun and I saw the Qing Army beheading all wearing the Ming uniform And the roads were flooded with the troops of the Qing They will attack Fujian within the next few days Mountains surround Fujian... Creating a natural barrier I have in my command a quarter of a million men And the emperor is by my side I am not worried about the Manchus from the north temporarily what distresses me is not only Qing Army but also Taiwan Fujian and Taiwan have always been united Now Holland has taken possession of Taiwan for 21 years I face Qing army's attack from the North I also fight against the Dutch fleet in sea The Ming Dynasty would be finished soon But the Ming Emperor does not understand the situation He still issue an edict to ask me to vanguish the Qing Army directly I have braved the rough seas for many years and now Zheng family is well known The honor to the Zheng family would be kept by you later My teach told me that country is more important than family My teacher, the great scholar Qianqian Yishi Instructed me... That high officials... Must have loyalty for the emperor and the country He said... Only loyalty to the emperor and country can guarantee national peace Therefore, since the emperor has issued An edict to vanquish the Qing and reinstate the Ming Dynasty The situation of Zheng family should not be consider in first priority I ask that you dispatch me to command the front line I promise to wipe out the enemy to revenge the Ming Talk about it later Father My son The emperor often speaks of you He intends to summon you The emperor? He wishes... To make a conferral upon you My son I also want to tell you... Your mother will come from Japan soon My mother? Mistress, someone is drowning Rescue them quickly Hurry! My girl, where are you trying to go? I want to go home I want to go home Mother I finally see my son once again You must be my daughter-in-law Mother, her name is Dong Yougu I'm honored to meet you My husband You arrive from Hirado at last Are your parents well? They are fine. They miss you We shall meet the Emperor later Don't say anything Let's go We are forever indebted to you Fuzhou The Southern Ming Emperor Longwu's Palace Presenting Fujian Province's Commanding General Zheng Zhilong I, Zheng Zhilong along with wife and son Zheng Sen Have come to pay our respects to the Emperor Please rise Let me see So you are Zheng Sen Yes I heard of you long ago When you were eleven You expressed your loyalty to the country... By expounding upon the virtues... Of the rulers of former dynasties It is no wonder that within one year at the imperial academy The entire city of Nanjing all knew The greatness of Zheng Sen Thank you your majesty The Ming dynasty Emperor Longwu confers upon Zheng Sen... The emperor's surname Zhu the first name Chenggong... And the title Earl of Loyalty Zheng Chenggong, the Imperial Namekeeper! Your father is already the Commanding General of Fujian Province I appoint you in charge of military governors... Commanding the lmperial Army We kowtow to our benevolent majesty! On your feet Zheng Zhilong... I have seen today's report from Shaanxi Province The Qing troops have taken the cities Nanking... As well as Zhengjiang Shaoxing and Hangzhou Now They're encamped at the border between Zhejiang and Fujian Provinces War is now at our doorstep Your majesty dispatching Li Wai to strengthen the front line My imperial army is at your command... Why do you only hold recuse but not attack Qing Army? Your majesty The Qing Army comes from the north In Fujian, mountains surround us on three sides... The ocean surrounds the fourth side Fujian is difficult to attack and easy to defend Fujian's prosperity depends entirely on maritime trade with the world During the reign of Emperor Chongzhen... According to the imperial ban on maritime trade Only Fujian was permitted to continue trading with the world I believe... Our most urgent task is to protect our home province guarantee the continuation of maritime trade Father Zheng Zhilong... I could not have become emperor without your support... Now, most of China is not under my rule Why should you remain in my service? I promise to hold secure Fujian Province Are you only concerned about Fujian? We can only reclaim Taiwan if Fujian is secured And by reclaiming Taiwan we will strengthen our maritime trade Only when our court is prosperous... Can we have sufficient power to drive the Qing out of China You don't know the military affairs Reporting from frontline Military Governor Gan Hui! Two Dutch warships fired upon Fujian's trading vessels They engaged in battle all the way from the Taiwan Straits to Mazu I have a treaty with the Dutch Viceroy Kuye in Taiwan They are not permitted to interfere with the Fujian trading vessels How could he break the treaty! We must retaliate Inform the batteries to fire the canons! Yes, sir! My highness Please don't watch what my father says Fire! Over there Father My son, never forget... You must always protect Fujian Province and our home Yes, sir Attack! Bravo! Nice job Have some tea Mother, please go ahead Mother Forget the sadness arising from your argument about Father's mauner of anti-Qing Father selected this dish Buddha jumping the wall. Just for you The story is that. This dish is so fragrant... Even when monks catch whiff of it... They jump over the monestary wall just to steal a few bites That is why this dish is called Buddha jumping the wall I can already smell its wonderful fragrance Mother Mother, this is hibiscus and swallow nest soup The tide of a thousand years; the tears of ten thousand people Form this bitter ocean water The wind blows south; the clouds move north But neither can carry my grief away Searching for one's home on horizon far away Reuniting with parents only in dreams My wish always pushes me on! I ask the plum blossom in the old courtyard: When can I return? Pipa is my voice but fails to relieve my worries Who understands the feelings of these strings... And the meaning of this song My lady I would like to express my gratitude again for saving my life You're the girl who was drowning at sea Your song expresses heartfelt sorrow My son says your singing expresses longing for your parents Can you tell me why? My lady I am from Taiwan During Emperor Tianqi's rule The Taiwanese revolted against the Dutch... But unexpectedly, it did not succeed My parents were both killed Many of us fled to Fuzhou Please, my girl Come with me I shall be your mother lmperial Namekeeper! lmperial Namekeeper! lmperial Namekeeper! My respected elders Zheng Chenggong is at your service... And await your instructions I see two people down below Lower the drawbridge! It is Officer Zhang from the Commanding General's headquarters... But I don't recognize the others Officer Zhang, who are those among you? These three are here to see the Commanding General Lower the bridge Adpted sister, you are looking about your home Please return, otherwise mother will be worried The gracious commander Zheng! Why the long journey? What is it that you want? The Qing Emperor has sent this imperial decree He offers you the post of Viceroy of Fujian and Guangdong Provinces Viceroy of Fujian and Guangdong Province? Yes, in addition to Fujian Province... Guangdong Province will also be under your command This is a very important decision Please allow me to think it over The Qing Emperor is also very concerned about Taiwan If Dutch is defeated and Taiwan is returned to China According to the rule established by the Ming... Taiwan will also be placed under your command Thank you lmperial Namekeeper! lmperial Namekeeper! Your father has instructed... Not to allow anyone to enter What affairs can be so confidential as to be kept a secret from me I don't know Your father has ordered the area cordoned off As you can see... Guards are positioned throughout the compound Your majesty. Please rise Only you can be Anasted I have received the latest intelligence report Not only are there traitors among the Ming troops at Xianxia Pass... But they are also colluding with the Dutch imperialists This is very serious You must go to Xianxia Pass and supervise the military Obtain the general's seal and take over command Yes, your majesty If necessary, behead the general Yes, your majesty You are a loyalist This is strictly confidential. Be on guard! That's right, look straight ahead You still haven't hit the bull's eye Try again Let's see about this time Excuse us miss Please let us pass It seems like there is trouble Something is certainly up... Otherwise the palace eunuch... Would not be so frantic What has happened? The Emperor dispatched Chenggong to the military front As commander of the imperial army... Of course, he must obey the emperor's orders You don't understand He has only taken twenty men with him This is very serious Not even you have been informed The imperial army only obeys the emperor's orders But you are the Commanding General Aren't the daily movements of the imperial army Also reported to you? Don't make wild guesses about the army Of course the army is not any concern of mine... But Sen'er, my son, means the world to me I beg you to have him return home safely General The imperial guards have cordoned off the compound The Emperor is a fool. How dare he watch me? Xueliang, you are the only one who can sneak into town Remember... After leaving the city gate, follow the shoal Hurry along the footpath and catch up to Sen'er I know I took all the footpaths before when I was homeless Xuelaing, when you see Sen'er... Tell him that his father and mother want him to come back immediately He must not go to Xianxia Pass Do you understand? I know What if Sen'er refused to come back... And insists on going to Xianxia Pass? Xueliang Li Wei fights with a sword in both his left and right hands Sen'er is aware of this If he insists on going to Xianxia Pass... You must have him put on this leather armor vest before he can go If Li Wei behaves recklessly then he must be killed Is that a scout? Let's seize him and find out Isn't this Xueliang? Xueliang lmperial Namekeeper Why are you here? lmperial Namekeeper your father sent me to tell you... You must immediately return to Fuzhou This mission is top secret How does my father know? Tell my father... I must go to Xianxia Pass You mustn't! You mother insists you return to Fuzhou I must obey the emperor In that case, your father said if you must go... I should give you this What is going on? I don't know Your father said... I must give this to you My father wore this armored vest for thirty years More years than I have been alive My father must be sending a message Your father said... If Li Wei behaves recklessly... You must kill him I will have someone escort you back to Fuzhou I want to go with you to Xianxia Pass This is a very dangerous mission You're a girl, you can't go You father also mentioned... Li Wei is a master swordsman... And very cunning Wait, it's Zheng Chenggong Why has he come? I must report to General Li by a faster footpath Remember, you must keep your queues hidden from view Yes, sir General, Zheng Chenggong is coming Stop! Don't shave him. Clean this up! Hurry! Conceal your queues! Quickly put on your helmets! Hurry! Zheng Chenggong is coming! Hurry! Put on your helmets! Tuck in your queues! Attention all officers... Zheng Chenggong is coming. Hurry! Keep calm! General Li please excuse this sudden interruption Taiwan's Viceroy Kuiyi would like to present these gifts to General Li What is this? General Li, please also accept... This bank check for 3,000 pounds of silver We know General Li is a brave warrior Viceroy Kuiyi holds you in high esteem I'm still not used to wearing a queue upon my head Right, tell me why you have come? We would like to ask you... To serve as a mediator... Between the Dutch East India Company in Taiwan and Zheng Zhilong Regardless of whether you are under the Ming or Qing Emperor... We request the right to freely enter Fujian Province... And enter China's interior I will certainly pass this on to General Zheng Missus, please this way Let's eat and drink Everyone let's drink Hurry This drink will warm us up Let's take off our caps Wanli, you also take of your caps lmperial Namekeeper only the Emperor has the authority... To patrol the military front How can you say this! The Qing has 150,000 soldiers in the Fujian-Zhejiang border region You must know this The Qing Army is divided into eight divisions Each banner is its own division Their flags flutter all around us... And we see their armor shining in the sunlight With such few men We will not be able to defend Fujian Province When I was seven... I recall reading in our teacher's garden At that time, we were fellow students The class bullies frequently picked on me You were always willing to fight back... Coming to my rescue You... You are a hero in my heart Li Wei That is only fourteen years ago Are you no longer that same Li Wei? Things are different today When I went to Nanjing to meet you... I passed through the cities... Zhengjiang, Shaoxing, Hangzhou, and Yuhua The Ming troops faced defeat everywhere How could this not raise doubts? We have both received the Ming emperor's favor We must loyally serve him! The emperor's favor? How have you served your country? The Ming emperor has given you a name... To have you risk your life for his sake You are doing just as told Li Wei! The Ming court... Has fled in defeat all the way from Beijing to Fujian After Fujian is lost in battle where will the court go next? What use is there in defending Fujian? Li Wei, watch what you say! Your life is at stake! I will say what I want! What are you doing! Sit down! Sit back down! I've had too much of this strong drink Bring more! lmperial namekeeper Please forgive me Who is that playing? Xue Liang, my adopted sister What noisy racket! It is the masterpiece Ambush Guards! Yes, sir! What are you doing? I want to invite your adopted sister to join us Such a masterpiece... Should be better appreciated Let me go! lmperial Namekeeper, you are surrounded! Look out for the arrows! Xueliang! Stop! Step back! Take them off Zheng Chenggong... I recall our past friendship as schoolmates I must reveal the truth to you At midnight, my troops will surrender to the Qing According the the Qing imperial decree... Ming officials are to keep their titles under the Qing If you come with me... You will also keep your title The Ming imperial army... Will not so easily surrender! Even if you kill me... You can not escape My troops surround you I will fight to the end for my country! To live for loyalty Even if it means my death... I will never shave my head and surrender to the Qing Bringing scorn upon myself! We from Fujian will never... Surrender to the Qing! lmperial Namekeeper lmperial Namekeeper! Li Wei, I will take your life! It is better than becoming a traitor! Wait, wait! I am not the one. It is your father! Shut up! Viceroy of Fujian and Guangdong... Have you made up your mind? lmperial Namekeeper! Throughout my life I have always detested traitors Although Li Wei is my friend He had to come to this end From today All officers will be under the command of Wan Li I shall let the past be past The devoted will be rewarded! Xueliang will remain with you while she recovers You must give her your best care Please rest assured Go, go Mr. Zhang My husband Mr. Zhang, where are they going? Master... Your father is going to Beijing Father, mother My son, you have come back Father, I have killed Li Wei What! Li Wei told me... You had given him the order Of course, he is under my command To surrender? I am not surrendering But Li Wei's troops have already shaved their heads Perhaps you have not yet heard Hunan and Jiangxi Provinces have all been taken by the Qing troops Even your teacher Qian Xianyi now pays allegiance to the Qing No, he could never have surrendered to the Qing There must be a mistake How could there be a mistake... In informing me... About such an important matter? My son I know you don't want to think it possible... But the Ming dynasty is coming to an end In China's 2,700 year history... From the Zhou dynasty until the present... Only during the rule of the Ming... Has Taiwan come under the rule of foreigners There is no use in serving a court... Which has decayed to this point Father the emperor has given me the imperial surname And the first name Chenggong (Victory) It is my duty to restrengthen the Ming and reclaim Taiwan Since times ancient fathers have always taught their sons to be loyal I have never heard of a father teaching his son to be a traitor How dare you declare yourself a traitor... In front of your son and wife? Insolence! My son Your father is not surrendering The Qing Emperor has appointed me Viceroy of Fujian and Guangdong Only Hero understands and handles the situation It is an either for hero It is hopness for Ming frighting against Qing Every emperior only devotes to internal struggle even he is being destroyed You can keep your loyalty For the goodness of Zheng family Separtion is our best choice Master, everything is set to go Father if you go, you will be in grave danger You can never return I must express my appreciation to the emperor Father! Sen'er! Father! No Father! Take care of your mother You really must leave us? Father Be careful! If anything happens to you... I will be filled with grief and take revenge! Zheng's Father never again returned to Fujian Qing Emperor finally decapitated him in 1662 Attack! lmperial Namekeeper, are you hurt? lmperial Namekeeper the western part of the city has been taken Attack! Yun'er Mother Mother Protect the lifeline of the Zheng family Take the child! Hope of Millions! In August, 1946 Qing Dynasty captured Fuzhou's lmperial Court Zheng's mother died in the battle Ming's last Emperor was captured and Passed away in prison at Fuzhou Mommy Come here. My son It's an eagle It's flying so high! In the next 14 years Zheng kept fighting Qing Dynasty After defeated in Nanjing He retreated to Xiaman in Fuijian Province He faced The Netherlands Sea force's invasion Holland's attack take away these tables Quickly make room for the injured! The sea is becoming more and more perilous It's best for you to move into the official residence and live with us I am only an adopted daughter... And my mother who adopted me is no longer with us It's not appropriate for me to stay in the official residence In addition, while you look after the canons... I see to the teahouse This way we can help each other Chenggong is still attending the canons Please deliver this food to him I known you take care lmperial Namekeeper Chengong's arrow wound from the past become even more painful by the wind and cold I am busy take this medicine to him as well We would like to give you this medicine You are worried about the situation today Today Many of my fellow soldiers... Have been buried at sea Xueliang The first time I saw you... Your music brought tears to my mother's eyes I swear this even after ten years To bring you back to your home in Taiwan Everytime I set eyes upon the Hope of Millions I am overcome with grief Protection of Xiamen is not forever If we plan to fight against Dutch we have to take care Qing Army's attrack We have to face enemies I hesitate what to do next lmperial Namekeeper has good planning If you can defeat Dutch... Taiwan is good for military traning anti-Qing and reinstate the Ming Dynasty And we would not be suppressed by the Dutch Taiwan! General, Chengong has arrived lmperial Namekeeper Wanli, how many canons can fit... On the newly built vessel? Thirty-six canons Thirty-six! That many? That's right. Even in your father's prime... The war vessels he built... Could hold only twelve canons The Dutch canons may be more powerful Quickly build more small warship to defeat them Mistress Get yourself ready to enter the official residence Xuelian Xuelian, please come in Chengong is preparing to wage war He has put this Hope of Millions... On the wall of his bedroom From the morning bells to the evening drums... He pledges to serve his country against all hardships. He has decided to reclaim Taiwan This is the reason why I invited you today Xuelian, after you When my father was at sea... He had sent a man by the name of He Bin... To go to Taiwan as a liaison with the Dutch Xuelian, please sit Chenggong says the first step in reclaimingTaiwan is to find He Bin This is strictly confidential I have decided to go to Taiwan The one thing... Holding me back is Chenggong These ten years his body has become covered with wounds Both his body and spirit... Are much weaker than in the past After going to Taiwan this time most likely I will not return I will entrust my husband in your care You must take the best care of him Agree? Chenggong I have made arrangements for the household Make sure you take care of your health... After I have left lmperial Namekeeper I beg you to let me go to Taiwan in your wife's place Xueliang You can't do this! Get up quickly You have been protected within the compounds for many years You are different from us commoners I grew up in Taiwan... I am the right person to go But Xueliang... Xueliang Have you forgotten about yesterday? Didn't you agree? Xueliang! Xueliang! Please get up More than ten years ago... Your mother saved me from drowning in the ocean My life belongs to the Zheng family Only until after you defent the Dutch and recapture Taiwan... Will I not feel as if my body is torn in pieces... And be of no regrets Xueliang This is a military... Xueliang! lmperial Namekeeper! Take this with you This was given to my father by the Ming emperor Thank you, lmperial Namekeeper Chikan Castle Taiwan The East India Company insignias... On the top of your staffs... Indicate that we have granted you the authority to collect tax During this meeting of the Taiwan village elders We shall punish... The following village elders... For their unsatisfactory tax collection We punish the Sumer tribe of Taibei's Danshui Taizhong's Fawolan tribe... Taidong's Xibiyin tribe and Langqiao's Shiba tribe Go ahead Colonel, they are the village elders Let's continue Do not be frightened What are you doing! This is for my uncle Give it back to me! It's for my uncle! Where are you from? Fujian What are you doing here? I'm looking for my uncle He is here as a liaison His name is He Bin. Give it back to me! What is his name? He Bin He Bin, come here Do you recognize her? No Take her away Colonel, wait I recognize this sword Sword? Yes This is my brother's sword It was given to my brother by the Ming emperor Your brother? The emperor? Who is your brother? He is a high-ranking officer But you don't recognize her? Colonel, I have been away from my home for nearly thirty years That is enough time for a woman to grow up and give birth to a child This sword indicates this girl is my niece Uncle My child, let's go Your brother is gravely ill You may return immediately When you come back... Bring your wife and child with you Thank you I will come back as quickly as possible You will be let out when your uncle returns You are? I'm Zheng Chenggong. He Bin? At your service, lmperial Namekeeper Please get up. Sit here What about Xueliang? Why didn't she come back with you? She has been taken hostage by the Dutch Excuse me, please A map of the sea! lmperial Namekeeper The waterways in Taiwan are complexly interconnected Departing from Jinmen... There is only one route... In which large vessels can enter Taiwan's interior Namely, Anpingkou The Dutch are aware of this Heavy artillery guards this location And they have blocked off overland routes I presumed this as well I have been studying the island's geography since my arrival I discovered Lu'ermen Lu'ermen? Lu'ermen is located betwen the Lu'er archipelago And the Beixianwei Island From here it is possible to reach the city of Chikan I have investigated these islands There are many coral reefs and the waterways are windy The water is also too shallow for large vessels But every year Lu'ermen experiences two high tides... And this is when the route is passable for large vessels Can you guarantee this? Yes There are only two high tides each year When is the first high tide? The first of April The first of April Lu'ermen lmperial Namekeeper, look! The hightide has come Defet Dutch and Reclaim Taiwan... And you will be rewarded! Order the vessels to raise their sails! My god! We are being attacked! Attack! Captain the Ming troops are attacking the fortress Turn the ship around and prepare for battle Yes, sir lmperial Namekeeper the Dutch vessels are coming from behind lmperial Namekeeper what can we do? The Dutch cannons are more powerful than us Use the warship to sink it! He Bin, come back! He Bin! Stay back! He Bin! lmperial Namekeeper! General, I beg you to let the girl go She is innocent Take me instead He Bin! General He Bin! lmperial Namekeeper! Get the canons! Bring up the canons! lmperial Namekeeper! Xueliang! Fire In 23 December, 1661 The Dutch Viceroy in Taiwan decided to surrending and return to Batavia After Zheng liberated Taiwan he established the township in Taiwan Anping, Tianxing and Wanpian I have finally proven my loyalty Zheng said In 1662 Zheng died of illness at the age of 39 at Anping In 1683 Zheng's grandson surrendered to Qing Dynasty Taiwan returned to his Motherland again
