 

                        While this movie is based on facts real, the characters are fictitious. 1947... Near the end of World War II. 23 nations signed the general agreement of tariffs and trade. The GATT. Its purpose... Legalize and expand the trade in the world. Stability... the sense of global community was the key. In five decades the GATT grew and more members have joined creating the World Trade Organization. We're writing the Constitution for a single global economy. With 151 nations, the WTO monitors 90% of world trade. Unlike the GATT to WTO can impose, and achieve punish countries with its law. With the expansion of free trade to WTO seeks to help countries with the benefit of the system global trade. It has very little to do with TRADE and certainly that is NOT FREE. It is a global system of government where nothing is done and nothing is controlled. It is simply used to open country borders. Large corporations are free to operate anywhere. Without being affected by the government or by the people of the United Nations And they say that the value of money should govern human rights. And the environment must be tied the needs of commerce. The WTO must be for governments. Of clean air rules were for the sewer. Cases of asthma increases. GM foods, are sold to consumers. Banana growers crushed by large corporations. Despite the problems, the power of WTO continues to grow. At the last meeting in Seattle, new WTO rules have been edited. It is the tight control of most areas of our lives! For many, this meeting has become a battle. For the future. Take this, man. Jay, she turned up. Wait. Okay, you can shoot. I will now get you. All right, I got you. You do not have much material to replace. No, should have looked better. Do not start with ideas. It had been three times, This never happened to me. You have to be a bit crazy to do this. Wait for my signal fire, right? By the way, my name is Lou. Jay. - It is better than free coffee in prison. - I will not under arrest at least until tomorrow. - That was close? - Yes, very close. "BATTLE IN SEATTLE" Tomorrow, the WTO will meet in Seattle. It will be the largest trade meeting Overall, already done. Jimmy Hoffa, the union along with the environmentalists and people of Human Rights will meet in Memorial Stadium with 45 thousand people. More than 50 thousand demonstrators are in the streets protesting against the WTO. Since 1968, democratic conventions and the police have been faced. They fear the oppression this week in Seattle, due to WTO connection with the USA, in trade in oil. We have files that identify the most of individuals civilians, with their photos. And the reality makes us think. We have a team of lawyers which will be along with us over this event. - Very well, Jay! The first, Django Mills, arrested on 4 different countries for damage caused. Louis Philips. According to the investigation, accused of involvement in events. Engaged in racial demonstrations black with violence. Samanta Clayton, has no criminal sheet. Apparently, he studied law. She was involved in a case legal party in 1998. And, finally, I know Jay Aliguon. We here in the lower part of from the city center. And each group will be one of those areas. How are we doing? - No violence. - All right, and with conscience. The brother of Jay died in a demonstration in the forest. My brother! You killed him! You killed him! An ambulance. Since then involved in most the demonstrations through the country Including in the prisons of 1998. Raise your hand all those who are willing to be arrested me. Do not feel bad about what the others out there can say. The ceremony will begin within 24 hours, prepare yourselves because we shoot these sons of bitches down! All right! All right! We have that for two barricades around the Paramount Theater. We believe that all protests are going to focus there. Typically up with the coaches and those who pass will be arrested. I do not want prisons, but as president, I want the city clean. How many Protestants expect? 7 thousand, maybe 10 grand. We are prepared for that. - Sure. The opening ceremony of the WTO will be the Paramount Theater in the center. Demonstrators human rights, the representatives of trade unions and environmental advocates, are already prepared for the meeting in Seattle, where 20 thousand demonstrators against CMO combine the march. - What happens to you? - Still looking for a good story. Nothing out of the ordinary. Everything looks great. It seems that baby will have a very healthy, at least until now. Have chosen the name? No, not yet. But a few like that, right? She has some like that. - I gotta go, baby - Oh, do not go now. I have things to do. Good luck. These protests call me crazy. Come on! I call you. Doctor, talking and this woman because it makes me very happy. Of course they raise. - I see you later. It took two years to bring the WTO to Seattle. And succeeded. Hello, how are you? Can I make one of our most tough negotiators in the southern hemisphere. I bet you did not tell the cause of all this success. The next cities are Detroit, Denver, Dallas, San Diego and Honolulu... - I make him Dr. Alex of Boston. - Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you, too. Vai talk about the costs of some medicines. I hope he has more luck in his speech than I do. I invite them to be more productive and have a week of success. - When success! - Thanks! Thank you all. I invite them to the cocktail of Feast of the WTO. From where will come much better, but the music will not be so good. As president was in protest against the war in Vietnam. So I am happy that there may be demonstrations of protests here. And promised humanitarian organizations that there would be no violence. I think that plan remains that the order shall prevail. What I am saying is that hard with their procedures. But be gentle with my city. Thank you. Well.. Six months to plan... Here we go. Tuesday, November 30. - What time is it? - I do not know. Having spent the night? Let me pass. What? Not much in the first morning. Catch! - In the event of chemical attack. - What the fuck chemical attack? I do not think there will be chemical attack. We will have more than, a couple of guys out there. - How is the baby? - Good. We did ultrasound yesterday, and you you can see his body. Even the little finger. And to hear the beats of the heart. Very fast. As if saying: Oh, Dad... Oh, Dad... Oh father... How are you involved in this? - What are you, a cop? - I am, please reply to my question. How am an activist joined me for a week. When I thought, we could all be equal. - And now? - I do not know. Only after observing the enemy. And you, sir? How do we put the stick in the wet? I put the stick in the sauce because I wanted to make sure that no one is weighed. Of course, nobody is hurt. Why does it? You are strong, huh? The protests thrills me and depress me at the same time. I do not know because it moves me. Yeah, here we go for 15 minutes, we will not wait for you. No, sir! Good luck out there. Lucky? They do not need of luck, if there is confusion. Give me your arm. Their number? A lawyer to help her If you go to the prison. I thought you would the number on my arm. I think a number is sufficient. Okay, kids, talk less, come, we have to go. Come on. - How was it yesterday? - You gotta see this. Look at this! My God, we have to go shopping for the baby, immediately. We do not know the sex yet. Look, the baby is already almost being born. We're just waiting, you know. - So, it is boy or girl? - We do not want to know. - It is a police officer? - Very funny. Either way, I need you behind the drum. Here everything. - That speaks another language. - Congratulations. You guys are beautiful! You are the people! You are the power! And we will show today, who we are. We are here today, to protest. We do not agree. We are here today, to divide them. All right, bring. Come, come, fast, fast. They are on top of the fence. Move, move. Bring. Protect your car, protect the car. - Jay, we installed here. - Watch. Nobody comes... No one leaves... Nobody comes... No one leaves. We have already closed the Paramount. How is it there? I'm going now. Okay, see you later. Go, go, go. Blocked. Jane. What is happening? - Do you close the Paramount. - What? Okay, we go there. I need to go, please. Go back to the hotel. I am not the WTO. The WTO can help us. Sorry man, but we can not. No one leaves, no one enters. This could not happen. - Sir, we have a delicate situation. - What is happening out there? Look at this place. Delegates can not pass the is protesters on the other side. - And the police did not stop? - No, sir. And why not? He gave no orders to arrest Nobody outside the area of the barricades. The police are to achieve passage of delegates, but the demonstrators are united. What? They made circles with his hands and can not separate their arms. Lord, the chief of police is on line 1. Gordon, I told not to leave anyone passing by barricades. We could not do anything. Today the whole center is a full one. You tell them not arresting, even if we wanted to. - My thought was no violence. - There has been experiencing violence. - What do we do? - I called the forces of the state. By calling for firefighters to stop the protest. But they refused it. - What options left, then? - Only one option left. Gordon. I will not hurt people, hear? I gave them my word. Oh Jim, I think we have no choice. Mr. The White House on line 2. Okay, okay. Okay, do you have to do and do it fast. - Nervous, Johnson? - Nervous? Are you kidding me, man? - With this shit I feel invincible. - I used to feel that way. We have new orders, listen up. Are close to the theater and the order is to use all the techniques. No arrest is made, realized? So stick to the Protestants suspend the law and we watch? All right, Johnson, come on up. Therefore, we in groups of five, are ready. - You can tell because they are here today? - Well, basically to defend the species in danger of extinction that require mechanisms to maintain them. The WTO is using these mechanisms for illegal manner. Well, love of turtles but we believe that there are problems most important in the world that must address. Do you think the rules of maintenance of species are the same for employment, and quality of the environment or our food getting worse. They just want to get their brands. You think you can sign a trade agreement, valid. There is no problem in having trade that respects human rights. The interests of the WTO are illegal. - Thanks, it was great. Michael, is broken, we will repair. Louis? Louis? Louis. - You are on fire. - Turn back, come, come. Open your eyes, open your eyes. Okay, everybody, listen up I have heard. The protests are happening the boulevard in the city center. and the police is already in the middle of the protest. So relax. Make a snack. 207, please. ...must do everything to happen... Can you give me water? And whiskey. Certainly. - What? - Sir, the governor on the line. Governor? Yes, I have good news. The White House has offered to negotiate, with the demonstrators in the center. - I have the secret service on top, something must be done quickly, Call the National Guard. The protest is not violent, if the National Guard, the whole community is going to be alarmed. - Jim, I have the secretary of state in hotel and the White House to pressing urgently. I understand, but not now can do anything. The police is already in charge of the march. We can not call the National Guard. You can handle it? Because we have a potential disaster. John, please listen, okay? Take some time to the police. They are able. - Give me just a few more hours. - Okay, I give you two hours, that's all. Lord, the ceremony of the CMO should be canceled. Okay. It worked! It worked! Showed where we came from. We throw them to the ground. One of the biggest protest in history! Do the neighbors joined us? - It seems so, all the neighbors. Come on.. Do not go there, I need you in the city center. Say what you want and we do. Not so, come down this path. We are together for same reason. This is the strength of the union! This is the strength of the union! This is the strength of the union! This is the strength of the union! This is the strength of the union! This is the strength of the union! Gordon, what is happening? We made some progress out there? The residents are marching, with the demonstrators in the center. Residents also the march? How this happened? - We do not know. - How do we know? You said you did not come the Memorial Stadium. I know! Then find out what is happen, right? Fuck you! The TV is to cover all on the protest. I am that I am pregnant, let's get this too. I will find something. - Better be quick, I am ahead. I am thinking in something different. Lambada? It is a dance. - I met her in Brazil. - Do not tell me that. Was it three days walking. Let the work, we travel rather than do books. Two weeks later, I discovered I was pregnant. Took me a promotion. And never talked about it. It is better to wait, you know? - You do not wait, you have to try. I feel like my life has changed, and I am not ready for it. Think you can find something in this magazine? You can win their rights in law. It can be great. - At least considered themselves the most. - They have to do that. It would be better. What are you doing? This woman is pregnant! Vai have a child? Think they will like you, at this store to buy clothes for babies? Of course not. - So do not buy here! What is happening out there? What the hell are you doing? I do not promise anything. - Good stop, you lose your head. Are you going to get us arrested. Are you kidding me? You gonna throw out everything we planned. Now, stop it! And tomorrow? Want me to say peace, love, and that use flowers against weapons? The streets of Seattle, in the midst of chaos. Several violent demonstrations. Get out of my way. - What the hell are we waiting for? - This is not a violent protest. I am not being violent. Did you see someone being hurt? I am the attack on America? That is not the point. The meeting is to be avoided. Exactly, that is us let's make it famous. Are you blind? Want call it anarchy? Calm down, if you do not want to call the most attention, sweetie. Stop. Without violence, huh? Fuck you! Wake up! Get away from me. What do you know, huh? Is trying to show? Give them a hand, Jay. You know nothing about me. - I do not care for no man like you, in my whole life. You are a fucking coward, Jay. - Lou!.. Lou! - Fuck you! Excuse me. Why do you think that violence is best means this move? You want to know my message? I want you to stop passing information, of corporations controllers for the world, and begin to inform that this world is being violated for these guys to a million years, to see if the world begins to fight. Put it on the news. Cut.. - Keep the tape? - What do you think? We will have to move us upwards of civilians. We have to use the gas to rout the groups. With groups or not, that is a bad image to be amended. Give me a reason not to use the gas. You will have to be like this guy! You can leave and move to civilian clothes. We have to walk and walk fast. Come, come. - Asked me a few hours and I gave. - But there has been no violence. There is no violence because is not heard the news. If he had called the National Guard, as I said, Seattle did not run, All newspapers in the world. We are trapped by surprise, Jim. Time to terms the control again. The National Guard does not will be here until tomorrow. And we can not expect that this is an emergency situation. There is only one option. Are you crazy? We can not do center, an area of war. This is the opinion Beirut. It is 12 hours the president the USA, is to land here. Are already talking about canceling, and this can not happen. Understand? So what is given back to normal, is it not? We agree? The window broke and I was terrified. I am still shaking. Have you seen this? - Yes, it does not seem normal. - Can you feel? - Yes - What is happening? - Hello dear, where are you? - At work. - I want to go home now. - You are a crazy at the center? - You are. You okay? Due to protests are to close immediately. We apologize to all customers. Thank you. Close everything. We have to think in another submission. Nobody came because the protestors. Sorry. Good afternoon. It is my duty to inform you that I am calling the National Guard. We are declaring a state of emergency at Seattle from this moment. All measures will be imposed, from 19 hours of today until 7:30 hours of tomorrow at the heart of Seattle. These actions are to prevent greater destruction. It seems that were not prepared for this event? We have all the names of the demonstrators. And decided to continue with the speech and continue with the event. Mr. President, why the guard National was not called before? We thought that it was not need to use the force until the situation worsened. We did not want to make Seattle as an army camp. But the WTO has to work. We saw the police violence on television. - Yes, we have been protests. The police have to answer appropriately. Thank you. Mr. President, is to declare martial law is not to violate human rights? Wait. Said that disperse, or be victims of application of chemical. Comply immediately to order. We have the right to speak. Immediately comply with the order, there is no negotiation. This is a totally passive protest. Please meet the set. Go ahead for me. There are no buses on the streets. How will I go home? Gabi, it is that I get in your home for now? Pinch me. Prepare the gas. Disperse. Are you ready? - Yes Here, thanks. Put this on. - Do you have one? - I have to do something. All right, everybody, this is it. Run, run, do not stop. Run, run, Power, power to the people! Power, power to the people! Power, power to the people! Power, power to the people! Launch. - Shit.. - Michael, come on. Come on! Crap. Are you ready? We see a violent attack Police in central Seattle. Help me. My God! What happened? My baby! Michael! Michael! What about boys! I'm on duty. I'm on duty. Guys, let go. Where were we are wait for hours. - What happened to your face? - It's a long story. - What the hell is that? - We had to use, had no place. Oh, that's great. Crap! Without rest, without food. Sick. Is coming! Cheers demand! Dale, his wife is in the hospital. Let's put the two. The groups continue to destroy property. The police can not control. An hour later, the group is still in action. We had to close all shops in the Christmas season. It's really an injustice. The Battle in Seattle has become in a war. Jesus Christ. Battle in Seattle? Sounds like a show. Dangerous acts of violence. - And what do you expect? - What do I expect? Eight corporations waiting the meeting, you know it. For we doing this? Sorry. Jay, please. - If you want to go again, then go. - It is not fair. It is hard for me. We're on the floor, see what made us. - We failed, Jay. - Only if you drop failed. Fuck. I always wanted justice for his brother, as you do. I could not win this case. - How do you know? You do not get. - I knew that it had a chance. Like now. Okay, perhaps rightly, perhaps have a chance now. I understand if you do not want to do, Part of the protest. You could be the prescription. I know I can make a difference. I do. We have to stop those, or does not stop anything. Do not stop. My wife? - There it is. You brought my wife, Ella? What happened? Was attacked by the police. Thank you. Ella. Yes How are you? What happened? Okay. Okay. Get off me. I am darling, it's me. Get off me. - Honey. - No, no. Wednesday, December 1. Yesterday I thought that the protests came from unions, particularly against the WTO. But when the march of unions was over, the fighting in the streets were on the increase and the message of trade unions so that everything was over. - Last night... - ... more arrests were made. Many demonstrators incurred in civil disobedience to be arrested. The chief of police in Seattle said at night, that he felt proud of his men and defended their actions. Our policemen under my command, have a job extraordinary today, against all predictions. Something tells me that no will be as friendly as yesterday. - Looks like going somewhere. - You too. - Jay. - Yes - Did? - This will let you enter. Not bad, huh? - OK - It is a bad time. - See you when I get back. - Good luck. I need more material, to just 4 hours, no? I do not care what say the center, right? - Lieutenant, you have a minute? - Yes, of course, Dale. Lord, I need permission to go home. I need to stay with my wife. - Today. - Yes, I heard what happened. Sorry, I know that is a bad moment for you. But I need you in the streets. Sir, I am not prepared to leave today. No, every man is important out there. Look, when this is over I will give him any time you like, right? ...not that their diseases are incurable, but because we have customers who do not provide a viable market for pharmaceuticals I think the WTO should review its trade agreements so that the public health risks before commercial interest. It is vital for the survival of million people. Thank you. I am sure we all agree that doctors without borders have done much good. However, this issue of the agreement, think that is a little cheated. - Who is this man? - Is Mark Terrington Member of a large group the pharmaceutical industry. Many of these nations are surrounded in bloody civil wars. They have no basic infrastructure as treated water, and sewage treatment. And this inevitably leads to a health crisis. no matter how much medicine is available to them. Doctor, your industry is equal to ours. It is dedicated to maintaining and to preserve health. Thank you. Descul... Descul.. Excuse me! I just wanted to congratulate the WTO and particularly to Mr. Lowe. For the effort of Mr. Lowe and WTO not to remove the trees. Producers loggers destroyed 2 million hectares of forest. Trees were irreplaceable converted into greed. I just want you to know that the blood of my brother is on his head. On its head, son of a bitch! Fucking killer! No! My brother was injured! My brother was injured! Murdered my brother! Call an ambulance. Call an ambulance. Have you ever imagined how these horses must feel, stopped there? I could ask. No, but how you, is always optimistic. Animals, working with animals instead of humans. Much healthier. The next time you are saving Turtles should come with you. - I think like that. - Really? Why turtles? When I was a kid my grandfather told me a beautiful story. About all the animals were taken by a turtle. What was different, you know? Could not defend, and then everyone enjoyed it. But the turtle was smart. Then developed a hard shell. And that enfureceu the other animals, so caught, and lances to the river and broke the hull in a dozen to pieces. - Poor turtle. But she was right. It was strong, you know? She got up, calmed, even knowing that the hull was cracked. Was stronger than ever. That is why the turtles are these beautiful designs in the hull. And what happened? Well, because the WTO, the hull has become an ashtray. Fuck you, Django. It is a world fucked. Let me understand this. Yesterday we should not arrest anyone. And today we should arrest everyone. Johnson, give order to disperse. If you do not disperse, arrest them Got it? Stay in line, come on. Honey, I am. I just wanted to say... I do not know what it meant. Dale, we are going in front. Come on, come on. Gotta go. Try to connect later. I love you, baby. The story is larger than some few people dressed in black, from the windows. Eric, the news is right here, I am telling you. Eric listen to me, listen to me. No, you listen Jane. Clinton in an hour, will give a press conference. Vai speak live. If this gozares with us we have major problems. - Understand? - Yes - Cu great. - What do we do? We will stay here a little more. Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! This is the last warning! I need you to disperse! Get out, or we will force them to go out. I will not repeat again. I need to rise and leave. Get ready! Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! Peaceful protest! - Peaceful protest! - Up! Get up! Take the knee of my neck, I can not stand. Shut up! This is a peaceful protest! Fuck you! The whole world is watching! The whole world is watching! The whole world is watching! The whole world is watching! Why continue? What? I do not understand why continue to risk that. For a cause that can not win. Because they believe that can win. Stop the van. Jean, the conference of the Clinton is in 5 minutes. - Michael, I need you to forget the Clinton administration. - Forget the live transmission? No, let's go live. You know what that means, right? President Clinton came to Seattle, the middle of the night. We now know that the secret service, thought to cancel the trip to be sure that the president would be safe. Already in a row with Jane Asbury to report live the conference's chairman. We are ready to enter. Are you sure you want do this? They do not want to know the truth? So will it be. Now the battle to live in Seattle. By Jane live. What the hell do you think it, are you doing? Cut the transmission and passes for the studio. - What, now? - Now! Well, this was the Jane Asbury live from Seattle, to show the tactics that demonstrators are to use. Back in five, after a pause. I just wanted to say... Thank you. She will call you. The creation of the African group is essential, if we are to maintain a united voice against industrialized nations. What is happening? - Where do you go? - Sorry, Mr. Abassi, but because of a meeting scheduled with the unions, we need all interpreters available. A meeting with the union, is more important than us? As hosts reserve the right to determine, as our resources will be distributed. We can get to are here in another hour. ...much criticism on the WTO and how we can improve what we do. One criticism is that we will not accept: That somehow not We are democratic. We have ministers of all parts of the world. Ministers who were chosen by their chairmen. Or elected to power. 90% of all deaths and suffering by infectious diseases occur in the 3rd world. 14 million people die each year. Many could be saved if the drugs were cheaper. But they are too expensive, so that the nations in the development custeiem due to the laws of protection, due to other laws... Stop, please! Stop! You do not have children. How would feel if your child were sick? Knowing that there is a cure, but can not pay it. Then, they must be stopped to see your son die? You, right here. You have the power to make a difference. It is no longer time for people have more value than the profit? It's the same music corrupt. All sing note for note. Do not worry. Be happy. Do not worry, be happy now. Come on! That is, is still the same world, we're just stuck. At least the world is still the same. What is wrong with you? Something wrong between you and Jay, right? - What do you mean? - Oh, you know, Django knows. I realize me everything. - I saw how he looked at you, baby. - What looked? That look, you know. In other words, had not seen the look a girl so long ago. - I did not see any look! - Okay, so I have not seen. Maybe it was the teargas and those things that affect your eyes. About the arrested trying to save you and Sam. Good, because he can not be arrested. - God, was close. - Yes, love. If it were arrested had gone. What do you mean, gone? He already has two cases against him. One more and is out of here. I mean, life. It is not funny! Do not you say? - No, he did not tell me. - Oh, it's true. 1998, 1997. In the forest. Almost ran out of the balls. Even balls that are organic. San balls! Come on! The police were in center again, mixed with the demonstrators and residents on Broadway and Pine streets. Finally the patience Police eventually. And the battle begins on Capitol Hill. Police recover Capitol Hill. And some say it was with Tear gas, and rubber bullets that have lost their credibility. For many of the violent climate battle on Capitol Hill, was the strongest. Get ready for long vacations. The latter group was pushed from the Paramount Theater Pine on the street, even outside of Capitol Hill. Fuck you, boy! What the hell! Son of a bitch! Crap! He was mijado. - What the fuck! - Go upstairs! Go upstairs! - Get out! Go! - Son of a bitch! Get back! Where the hell is all staff? You started the violence! This was a peaceful protest! - Come on! - Back off! They are proud of yourselves? Come on, damn cowards! They think they are very brave? Dale, what are you doing, man? What do you have? - I do my job. - Come on, he is a child! You threw in his own son? You shoot on your child or use a knife? - Get this. - What? Dale, who the hell are you doing? Hold on! - I'm not working. - What? Open the door! Son of a bitch! Get up! Let him go! Let him go! Let him go! Let him go! Look at me! Let him go! You okay? Look at me, Look at me. Rest a little. I do not gift, I am not present. Can you walk? I do not gift, I am not present. Get up, come on. Turn your back. From back, please. Open your arms. Thursday, December 2 Where will all the staff? There are hundreds of our prisoners, not believe them? This is not done yet! We can not leave them there, but are to rot. What do you think we can do? Look, I will ask for a hamburger! - Lawyers are here? - It was what I heard. Who will take us from here? Anybody here know Jay? Nobody saw him. So let us talk, with someone from outside we will not have idea with what we're dealing with. Its portfolio. I need for cigarettes and phone too. All personal items to be delivered, we will. Stop on your right. What the fuck are you looking at? Excuse me, can do a phone call? - No, sit down. - I got the number right here. You know what 'no' mean? A call? When you decide to say your name then give their rights. Jay? Jay! Jay! What the fuck did he? His damned pigs! Ms. Clayton, the president will see you now. Take a chair. It has a great responsibility dealing with... how many? - 600 people? - 600 innocent people, Mr. President. I am the first to admit who make mistakes. But these demonstrators are in prison because they broke through the law. We know they are arrested people without trial. This is an archive of demonstrators, who are in prison. If you agree, for 2 years, not participate in the demonstrations, will be released immediately. Never agree to take, civil liberties acquired. Not me, Mr. President. I think I should give them an option, considering the consequences. - What exactly are? Its customers are in a precarious situation, especially those with criminal chips. First of all, the rules of the country were raped, not giving access to prisoners to their lawyers. Second, access to lawyer is not subject, to meet with the police questions as: What is your name? And finally, you do not have resources to achieve a jury and public defender for each them in that prison. Therefore, we will not do more bluff. I want my clients be released without fines; no orders for compensation, and without charges. It's hard to help their customers if they do not speak. Their voices must have been taken and took their rights. You're kidding. I want to see the prisoners now. I suggest you go back in two days when more calm. Thank you. Do not think that will It was very calm. Especially for you, Mr. President. Thank you. Ella, Dale on the phone again. Say that again and within 2 days. Jay, are you okay? Looks like it was worth it, after all. It is true. - Sorry. - Everything is fine. I did not know. What? Everything is fine. I did not know you were in you too. - What? - That voice. That you do not stay and fight. All that is beautiful is caught you. I just wanted to escape. I feel so much. Give me your hand. - Are you okay? - Yes, I'm fine. Crying like a baby. Come on, girl hard. - You are not alone! - You are not alone. The people are protesting with us! The people are protesting with us! - In 30 cities in the world in contact. - In 30 cities in the world in contact. All we are with you! Until they are released! The people united will never be defeated! The people united will never be defeated! There they are! The people united will never be defeated! The people united will never be defeated! The people united will never be defeated! Friday, December 3 Sorry Mr. I think I would like to connect the TV. Channel 7 And increasing the protests in prison. How are you going? I came to apologize to me. I passed the line. My wife and I lost our baby. I know that is no excuse, but it's just... Really sorry. Really, really, sorry. Sorry. I do not blame you. I mean, I blame, but... This is not the problem. You just was doing his work, I suppose. Many people were trying to fight. You know, there are many who like to destroy. They touch so many lives. Not only one, but millions. And nobody Ihes pointing a gun. They seem so unbelievable. Untouchables. We screwed, you and me is that we must fight ...thousands of protesters still in front of the prison... Mr. The lawyer of the unions is to threaten a general strike if the demonstrators did not are released. - Greve general? - Yes, sir. ...the demonstrators demanding the release of the 500 people arrested... Tell me that I see evil. You are not here. You okay? Let's get out of here. Do not worry, we'll leave. What? What? - What Django always says? - I do not know. Come on! What Django always say? No. Slow and steady wins the race, ever. What the fuck you want, Django? Look around you, man. I know it's tough now. But you have to remain strong, man. His brothers out there fighting for you. Fighting for us all. Come on, man. Moreover, to a week ago nobody knew what the WTO was. Now... still do not know what the WTO is, but... At least you know who is bad, you know? How long we are trying to save this planet? - Not so long ago. - It is still a mess, eh? Oh, yeah. I love you. Earlier this week, came here with the hope in our hearts to try find better solutions for our country. Promised that this meeting would be different from last time. That our concerns would be heard. We will not be treated like animals. The manipulation of the countries the 3rd World is simply another way of colonialism! They may try to silence me, but I have to continue to say: Let the demonstrators outside are heard! We have been blind and marginalized, on matters of vital importance. Honesty and openness does not exist here. So we have reached a consensus required to meet the target this conference. We will not be doing nothing while our countries are abused and exploited! The people united will never be defeated! The people united will never be defeated! - All from within! - All from within! - We have two messages for you! - We have two messages for you! - And we think will like! - And we think will like! - The first message says: - The first message says: - An incredible collapse! - An incredible collapse! - The WTO talks! - The WTO talks! Did you hear that? Did you hear that? Little by little! I told you! World Trade Organization. We are back to 18 hours with more breaking news. - Second message: - Second message: - You will like this, Jay - You will like this, Jay - All prisoners will be released! - All prisoners will be released! Oh, good! Where you going in such a hurry? Gotta go. Do you run? See you in the coming year. April 16. All right! Drink for me! What the hell are you doing here? I am happy to see you too. A below and a million ahead. Governments will never be caught up with the defense low. Two miles of areas excluded return to international meetings as the WTO and the G8, giving people oppressed, the right to disagree. The WTO recognizes that access to essential medicines should precedence over commercial interests. The WTO agrees that they should meet the needs of the poorest countries. Developing countries emerged, after it has become clear, that the real program is expand the model broke the WTO. Lee Hyung Kae, leader Federation of Korean Association's Advanced Farmers, sacrificed for itself in protest. While the WTO floods, local markets with imports, 40,000 Indian farmers committed suicide to escape their debts. Over 36 million people in contact in the world are part of largest protest in history against war in Iraq. By 2007, little progress has been made regarding the promises in Doha, including access to essential medicines. Market in poor countries, have not been met. Millions of jobs of the U.S.A. are abroad, wages fall, and imports of food contaminated climb. But that has not stopped the people, to try make another world possible. Everywhere The battle continues...
