 

                        What are you doing, Charlie Brown? I'm waiting for valentines. - Oh, well, good luck. - Thank you. You'll need it. You didn't have to say that! [SIGHS] [UNINTELLIGlBLE] She said my name. Did you hear that? Did you hear how she said my name? Of course she said your name. She was calling the roll. But it's more than that. I feel that Miss Othmar really likes me. Don't be ridiculous. To her, you're just another student. On the contrary, I have the feeling I'm somebody special. [UNINTELLIGlBLE] Yes, ma'am? [UNINTELLIGlBLE] You want me to pound the erasers? Yes, Miss Othmar. I'd be glad to. Thrillville. See? I told you. Miss Othmar must like me. It's a privilege to be selected to pound erasers. Some privilege. This is a privilege and an honor. [COUGHING] [IN STRAINED VOICE] I could die from all this honor. I think I could spend my whole life here, and still never get a valentine. Valentine? That's it! I'll get Miss Othmar the biggest valentine there is! That'll show her how I feel about her. [PLAYING BEETHO VEN'S PIANO SONATA NO. 20 IN G MAJOR] It says here that it is probable... ...that the valentine was the first of all greeting cards. The paper valentine dates from the 16th century. By 1800, hand-plated copper plates were produced to meet the large demand. Get it, Schroeder? To make the large demand for valentine? Originally, Valentine's Day was set aside as a lovers' festival. Oh, Schroeder, isn't that romantic? A lovers' festival. Sometimes I think you don't realize that you could lose me. Are you sure you want to suffer the tortures of a memory of a lost love? Do you know the tortures of the memory of a lost love? It's awful! It will haunt you night and day! You'll wake up at night screaming! You can't eat! You can't sleep! You'll wanna smash things! You'll hate yourself and the world and everybody in it! Ohhhhh. Are you sure you want to risk losing me? Wow, a heart-shaped box of candy. I'm buying a valentine for Miss Othmar, my teacher. It's kind of expensive, isn't it? The amount of money that you spend on a present should be in direct proportion... ...to the amount of affection that you have for that person. You'd better be careful, Linus. It's not a good idea to fall in love with your teacher. I didn't say I was in love with her. I merely said I'm very fond of the ground on which she walks. Well, I have a problem too. What do you give a man teacher for Valentine's Day? How about shaving lotion? Do you have any heart-shaped shaving lotion? - Did you see that? - What? Did you see what Linus bought for me for a Valentine's Day present? Fantastic! I'll have to get him a good present too. What can a girl get a young man that would be appropriate? How about a bottle of heart-shaped shaving lotion? [SNORING] - One ticket, please. - Ahhhh. One ticket, please. Popcorn, please. No, I said popcorn, please. Would you please just give me some popcorn? [SQUEAKING] [GROWLING] [CRANKING] [DRAMATIC TUNE PLAYING, SKIPPING] Today's drama is a love story. Theirs was a true love. The adventure began when they set off for the castle in their horse-drawn carriage. Wrapped in great coats, and warm furs, the lovers held hands. Have you ever been to one of these shows before? No, I can't say that I have. Then perhaps I should warn you about this first scene. What first scene? When the carriage crosses the swollen river. Through the forest raced the lovers in their carriage. - How do you like the show so far? - It's pretty good, I guess. Across the bridge and up the muddy road. Muddy road? [COUGHING] Down the road and through the canyon. Suddenly the earth rumbled. It was an avalanche! Avalanche? [RUMBLING] Are you sure you want to see the rest of the show? What can happen that is worse? Suddenly the lovers in their carriage are attacked by bandits. As the lovers fled inside the castle, thunder rolled overhead... [THUNDER CRASHING] - ... and it began to rain. - Oh, no. The lovers embraced. True love has conquered. Hey, there's another performance this evening. Remind me not to come. Each pupil will bring the valentines that he wants to give... ...and will drop them in this box. I have a question. Do they have to be store-bought or can they be homemade? If you think you can make your own, by all means, please feel free to do so. [UNINTELLIGlBLE] I agree. Sometimes if you really like someone... ...a homemade valentine is very special. Boy, here's my chance to get a valentine. In this big class, somebody is sure to give me a valentine. I can't do it, I just can't do it! I can't fold anything, I can't cut anything, I don't know how to paste! - What's the trouble, Sally? - I'm trying to make Linus a valentine. You should see the big box of candy that he bought me. I've gotta give him something that's just as good. Why don't you make him a valentine with your own hands? What do you think I've been trying to do? I can't even draw a good heart. Here, let me show you. You get a piece of paper, fold it... ...and cut out a heart like this: Try again, Sally. [MUSIC BO X MUSIC PLAYING] Well, that is something you can do too, Sally. Let me try. You take some paper, fold it, like this: Then you cut some diamonds, hearts, moons... Then when you open it, you'll have something very nice. [SNICKERS] [THUD] [BOTH CACKLING] [SIGHS] Okay. Everybody put your valentines in the box. Then we'll have our party and refreshments. Did you see my name on any of those valentines? No. I haven't been paying any attention. - What's that briefcase for? - Well, in case I get a lot of valentines... ...I want to have something to carry them in. I can't get my valentine in the box. Is it all right if I give it personally? Miss Othmar, is it okay if Linus presents his valentine personally? [UNINTELLIGlBLE] She says it would be delightful. She said it would be delightful! This is gonna be better than I expected. [WHISPERS] Psst. Linus. I made it especially for you. Oh, thanks. What happened? He forgot to give me my box of candy. He's bashful. Ooh, I'll get him later with a big smooch. I wonder if one briefcase will be enough. Maybe I should have brought another one. Okay, okay. If you all sit down, we'll start passing out the valentines. SCHROEDER: One for Lucy and one for Violet. One for Pigpen, one for Laura, and one for Phil. Hey! SCHROEDER: Where's old Tom? One big one for Tom. Here. One for Monty. Where's Monty? One for Sally and one for Frieda. SCHROEDER: One for Lee and one for Joanne. Joanne Lansing. Where is she? What does it say? "Sweet baby"?! [READING SLOWLY] How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. I love thee to the depth and breadth and height My soul can reach, when feeling out of sight For the ends of being and ideal grace. I love thee to the level of every day's Most quiet need, by sun and candle-light. I love thee freely, as men strive for right I love thee purely, as they turn from praise. I love thee with passion put to use In my old griefs, and with my childhood's faith. I love thee with a love I seemed to lose With my lost saints I love thee with the breath Smiles, tears, of all my life. And, if God choose, I shall love thee better after death. [KISSES NOISlLY] SCHROEDER: One for Evelyn, one for Pat. Where is Pat? - Let's see. Here's one for Franklin. - Hey. How about one for Charlie Brown? No, Charlie Brown, not yet. I haven't seen your name yet. One for Amy, and one for Jill. Where's Jill? One for Linda and Sam. Where's Sam? - Has there been a mistake? - No, Charlie Brown. When I get one with your name, I'll let you know. [SIGHS] Look at that. Charlie Brown still hasn't received a valentine. Did anyone send Charlie Brown a valentine? Who would waste a valentine on stupid old Charlie Brown? Well, that's it. Happy Valentine's Day, everybody. Refreshments will be served in the back. Are you sure there's none for me? Yup, none. [BO X CLATTERS] Here's my chance. I'd better give Miss Othmar her Valentine's present. If you're looking for Miss Othmar, she's gone. - Gone? - She left a minute ago for the parking lot. Here comes Linus and the candy box. This is the big moment. My lover-boy approaches with my valentine. I think I'll pucker up. What happened? Where is he? Perhaps he didn't see me. I had my eyes closed and he didn't see me. And my box of candy. He still has my box of candy! Where's he going with it? Hey, you know that shaving lotion you advised me to buy for my teacher? I forgot he wears a beard. [PANTING] Excuse me, pardon me please. Hey, where are you going with your box of candy? I can't talk now, Miss Othmar's leaving. There he goes after Miss Othmar. I just saw her go by with her boyfriend. Look at him, he's running to the parking lot. To Miss Othmar's car. With my box of candy. And there's Miss Othmar with her boyfriend. Boy, what will he do now? He's just a crazy mixed-up kid. [FOOTSTEPS APPRO ACHING] [CAR DOOR OPENS] [CAR DOOR CLOSES] [CAR DOOR OPENS THEN CLOSES] [ENGINE STARTS] [CHILDREN CHATTERING, SHOUTING] I spent all my money. I made a fool of myself. This one is for love! And this one is for valentines! This one is for romance! This one is for Elizabeth Barrett Browning! This is for "How Do I Love Thee?" This is for...! [GULP] [THROWING] [GULPS] [GULPS] Ow! Ooh, ooh! Ow! Whew! Pshew! [LAUGHING] Oh. Ah! [THUDS, GRUNTS] Well, another Valentine's Day has come and gone. I'd give anything if that Little Red-Haired Girl had sent me a valentine. Hey, maybe she did send me one. Maybe she did send me a valentine and it didn't get here till today! Maybe it's in our mailbox right now! I'm afraid to look. If I look, and there's nothing there, I'll be crushed. On the other hand, if she did send me a valentine... I've got to look! [LOUD KISS] I hate Valentine's Day. Charlie Brown, we've been feeling awfully guilty about... ...not giving you a valentine this year. Here. I've erased my name from this one. - I'd like you to have it. - Hold on, there. What do you think you're doing? Who do you think you are? Where were you yesterday when everyone else was giving out valentines? Is kindness and thoughtfulness something you can make retroactive? Don't you think he has any feelings? You and your friends are the most thoughtless bunch I've ever known. You don't care anything about Charlie Brown. You just hate to feel guilty! And now you have the nerve to come around one day later... ...and offer him a used valentine just to ease your conscience. Well, let me tell you something. Charlie Brown doesn't need your... Don't listen to him. I'll take it. I guess I let Schroeder down, but it was my first valentine, you know. I didn't do too well, either. Miss Othmar went off with her boyfriend. She never even knew I had a valentine's gift for her. Well, maybe it wasn't a total flop for me. At least they were showing a little thought for me. Even if it was a used valentine. At least they care a little bit about me. Hey, maybe this is the start of a trend. Maybe this is a whole new trend for old Charlie Brown. Maybe this is the start of something big. Maybe next year I'll get a whole bunch of valentines. Maybe next year I'll need three briefcases instead of two. - Maybe next year I'll even... - Happy Valentine's Day, Charlie Brown.
