 

                        "Hong Kong - Shenzhen Border" Hoi Hoi Hi, Daddy HEY - Hello, you're here - Qing Let's go home Oh, right Here is your pay for the month Sorry I'm late Thank you When's your wife coming back? Not so soon Still another few months Okay Has she behaved well? She has been good My Mummy went to visit grandma in her village Sweetie, you say that only to people who ask about Mummy Otherwise, don't talk about her to anyone, okay? Okay Ting Ting Ting Ting You should go back inside, I can finish this Pass me the hanger What if the neighbours saw you? That wouldn't be good No one can see me in the dark Pass the hanger What are you scared of? I'm scared the neighbours will see you No one can see me now See? Let's go inside Can you hear it? Fai I can see you have eighty-five eyes Only eighty-five? I can see ninety eyes from here Okay, we gotta go now Don't forget to buy rice Hoi Hoi, behave well, okay? - How much is this milk powder? - It's three hundred dollars each - So expensive - I bought them from a supermarket in Hong Kong What are you looking for? I think I forgot the Hong Kong Hospital Authorization Letter - Are you sure? - Why don't you see if it's in your bag - I got it, it's here - Don't scare me One thirty-two I'd like to book a hospital bed for my wife's delivery We are fully booked. Can't you see the sign? "This hospital STOPPED taking maternity" "patients from Mainland China" But I'm a Hong Kong citizen What about your wife? Mainland Chinese We don't have a bed for her then Where else can I look? You can register at the health care centre I've already registered You need to wait then One thirty-three Fai, after you drop me off, pick up a box of wine from the country club Okay I'm honoured to be hosting this event tonight All the proceeds will be donated to the China Better Tomorrow Children Fund I truly believe every child deserves a dream and a future - What do you guys think? - Very good Do you think I should say "deserve" or "need"? - I like "deserve", it sounds more meaningful - More serious Rima Yes, Ma'am Where is the blue jacket? Blue jacket... l found it - Mail this to Kate - Yes, Ma'am Hello, it's your mother again If you don't call soon, I will leave more messages to annoy you Max, come here Say hello, say hello to Kate Hello Kate, we miss you... - Like this, okay? - Yes, Ma'am Oh, Rima, you put the champagne into the fridge - And make sure it is very cold - Yes, Ma'am How is everyone? Hi honey! - Have you had dinner yet? - Yes, thanks - Have a seat - I'm okay, you sit How was the wine? Great! We've already ordered ten boxes You have good taste Come have a chat with me downstairs Let me think about it You take your time I'm gonna call George Lo He doesn't need to think about it Okay. Fine I am in Why can't you be more decisive You're such a woman sometimes Let's go sign the deal Leaving already? Can't you use a napkin, please? All wiped Bye-bye Every day she spreads newspaper all over the dining table To use as a table cloth The other day, my daughter asked me while having breakfast "Mommy, where is the newspaper? I can't eat without my newspaper." What am I going to do? What if they pick up these disgusting habits of her? Don't worry, your daughter won't turn into your mother-in-law I am worried But sending them to boarding school is also a good option Look at me, I'm so free The damn horse won the last race My boss bet a lot of money on it this time Of course I went for it My wife is going to kill me I'm never gonna listen to your lousy tips again Hey, will you lend me five hundred dollars So I don't have to tell my wife I lost again You do this every time Hello Okay, okay. Bye It's really late, why aren't you home? Excuse me, Mrs Li, your card didn't go through. Should I try again or do you have another card? Let me give you another card Thank you Excuse me, Mrs Li, but this one didn't go through either That's strange How much is it? Two thousand dollars please - Let me pay cash then - Sure Thank you Lulu What the hell are you doing here? I need to talk to you Go outside Hi How are you? You came all the way here to ask me how I am? Well, how are you? I'm good I've been promoted But I still work like a dog That's good You've always wanted to be the head nurse What is it? I wanted to ask you for a favour? What favour? I need a hospital letter Are you sick? I need it for Ting to cross the border and give birth in Hong Kong The girl in Shenzhen? No dinner tonight? Mommy, look what Daddy got me today What's wrong? Go play in your room What's going on? Have you been crying? What's wrong? I can't stand being in here alone any more How much longer do I have to hide? I'm going to cook some dinner It's okay Mrs Li - Did Mr Li come to work today? - I don't think so What about yesterday? Yesterday was my day off Should I ask my colleague? No need. Thank you Jason Are you out fishing? Is your brother with you? I couldn't reach him Oh, right. I forgot. Whenever you're free let's have dinner Sorry to bother you Bye-bye Ma'am... Ma'am, are you okay? Ma'am, I brought you some tea - Have you seen sir - No Maybe they had a fight Five cents, please. Thanks Say thank you to auntie Bye-bye Mr and Mrs Chan You are looking good Thank you I've prepared everything for you It's the best hospital in Hong Kong Where will we stay in Hong Kong? We provide the full service A car will drive you across the border straight to the hotel The hospital is only 5 minutes away from the hotel We'll arrange transport for you What about the birth certificate Will there be any problems? You don't have to worry about that Our colleagues in Hong Kong will handle it for you You're going to be a big brother soon. Happy? He'll be the only one at school who has a brother He doesn't realize that yet I don't care Have you prepared the payment? - Two hundred thousand - That's right Mrs Li Mrs Li I'm sorry to bother you, I wanted to ask you something My wife is about to give birth to our second child That's great. Congratulations! I'm applying for her to come to Hong Kong to give birth Your wife is a Mainlander? Yes So... I wanted to ask you If it's convenient for you, could you pay me a few months salary in advance? I'd have to ask Mr Li if that's alright I'll let you know soon This fountain shouldn't be here Where should it be? In the middle of the room to absorb more energy and wealth Rima You come Move the tank over there Please be careful, don't break it You need to have some gold by the entrance - What kind of gold? - Gold elephants would be good Around how big? About this big This side facing east is better You should move your bed here for better result I see Remember to wear more purple clothes It is good for both you and your husband Thank you Thank you very much Rima, push more to that side Ma'am, where do I put the elephants? Put them over here. Be careful Don't stop at the entrance, go further up Fai I'm writing you a cheque, go to the bank and cash it for me please Okay Once you get the money call me straight away Hey, I thought you weren't coming I felt better, so I decided to come - Great. Are you alright now? - Yes, I am fine Come on How old is the swimming instructor? My daughter is fourteen He shouldn't take photos like that with her Did you add your daughter on Facebook? Of course she wouldn't let me add her Even if she did she'd delete me or dislike me And then post on her wall "My mom added me on Facebook but I deleted her" Excuse me, I need to use the washroom Fai, did you get the money yet? Still waiting in line? Call me as soon as you get it Thanks I can redo the stones on the dance shoes in time for the charity event I have to get this call Where are you going to get the shoes done Anywhere, it's easy ls she alright? She said she was a bit ill but she's fine now ls her husband okay? Why wouldn't he be? My husband said he can't reach him lately He's a busy man He's not that busy He'd normally call my husband for anything But he seems to have disappeared Fai How are the desserts? They're really good Are you okay? I'm fine It was my daughter on the phone She's not coming back to Hong Kong for the summer holidays My husband is furious at her Kids her age just want to stay away from us That's true The cake is good Should we get the bill? Sure Can we have the bill please? - Thanks - Thank you What's going on? What's going on? I think I had a false labor Have some tea Watch out, it's hot Maybe we should have the baby here in Shenzhen That way it would be less difficult for you But we can't afford the second child fine I'm fine Look, I'm okay I can do it We don't want our child to be an illegal citizen, right? I'll be fine Trust me Okay Don't bother with the exhaust pipes they're worth nothing The tires aren't that new you wouldn't get much out of them The stereo is quite good you can consider selling it Don't touch the disc brake it can only be changed with computer Your best bet is the wheels Are you sure it will be okay? Sure, I couldn't even tell the fake ones from the real ones Think about it Let me know what you decide Mrs Li, you can come in now Thanks Since Mr Li's account has been suspended We cannot issue a new card for you, I'm afraid We can process it next time when you come with Mr Li What about my own account? Let me take a look Your money is mainly in stocks and some cash Can I sell all the stocks? I wouldn't recommend that you'd lose a lot of money How about I introduce another investment plan for you to consider? - I want all my cash out - Okay I'll do that for you now Ma'am... I'm leaving What? I'm going home Sorry Leo? Leo? Sorry Make that two Does your friend really look like me? Why don't you give him a call? He doesn't answer You sure tapped some luck back into my game Shall we play? If we win, it's yours Help me out Here is your month's salary Thank you, Mrs Li Hello Maybe Dad forgot to go to the bank I'll remind him How are you? Have you had dinner yet? Don't stay out too late Take care of yourself Okay. Bye-DYE Here's a tip for you Tonight race 6, number 5 a sure win I overheard my boss talking to the horse trainer on the phone This elephant has been blessed by a monk in Thailand It's really worth it I should hope so It's pretty expensive I'm not making any money off you Trust me I'm not suggesting that By the way, where should I put it? You should consult Master Chu he's very accurate He'll find the best place for it Great. Can you text me his number? Sure Fai Could you put the gold elephant in Mrs. Lau's car? I heard if you have been blessed by the Buddha You must visit the temple in Thailand every year Only for three years, it's not that bad If it works I guess it's worth going every year Do you consult other Feng Shui masters? My husband doesn't believe in it I can't let him know about this Hi Lulu Lulu Lulu What do you want? I'm only missing the hospital letter You have to help me You have to help me You will make me lose my job Don't do this to me Couldn't you just help me out Why won't you help me? Why won't you help me? Hi, Qing Let's go home - We're leaving now - Bye Fai, it's really late already, come have dinner Since when do you smoke at home? Mummy, I can't open the door! Hoi Hoi Listen to me You see the lock? Try pushing it and then turn it to the right Where is the key? Fai, where did you put the key? Hoi Hoi, stop crying Go sit on the bed Are you sitting on the bed? Fai, can you turn up the air-conditioning? Okay, no problem ls it better now? There's no air coming out at all Should I get it checked tomorrow? No need He said he'll take the disc brake as well Okay All good Go ahead with it How long will you be staying at my place? Ten days Okay Did you manage to book a hospital bed? I heard they are all booked up here in Hong Kong Yup, I got it What's that for? For helping me out Don't be stupid Take it back Try this one Let me find something else Hey, Ping Can I borrow a jacket from you? What for? My mother just arrived from Hunan and her luggage got lost I'll return it tomorrow Can I borrow this one? This one I will return it soon Thank you I am worried that the baby will be late Can we still stay in Hong Kong then? Don't worry. My friend said we could stay for as long as we need When the baby is ready we just rush to the emergency room The border's so crowded at this time No one will notice you're pregnant Don't be scared Fai, I think the officer is coming towards us What should we do? Let's go before we get caught I knew we would fail to cross the border I should've aborted this baby Hi, Mum Hey, what a surprise What is this place? I had this made for the neighbours So we can hang out in an air-conditioned place I'm stealing electricity from over there You're quite something Come sit Let me do that How's your little business? A bit quieter but more free time for myself Oh yeah I'm going to Cambodia next month Who are you going with? Just by myself By yourself? That's really dangerous I'm used to going around on my own How about I come with you? It's not really your thing I'm going to walk and hike everywhere I can hike I know you can But your hair will get messed up Where's Leo? He's at work ls there anything wrong? Everything's fine You staying for dinner? I got fresh fish for tonight No thanks I'm having dinner with Leo Hello, Mrs Li we're here to look at the flat Here's my business card I think you got the wrong address Wait, it is Mr Li who told us to come look at the flat No one's selling any flat here How much are these turtles? These are one hundred each The ones used for releasing into the wild are over there Thanks I'll take that one You should release one as well That one please - How much are they? - One hundred for both I'll go by myself Let me get the turtle Do you know which one's mine? Careful The rocks are slippery I feel like driving What? Let me drive home Mrs Li Are you alright? Mrs Li You are going to be fine You are going to be fine Are you sure you want to do this? Yes, don't worry It's next to the Luohu Mall in Shenzhen. You know where it is, right? Sure This is a nice vase It really is a rare piece But the market demand for these pieces is declining ls that so Right Around how much is it worth Fai, Why don't you go for lunch Hoi Hoi Say goodbye to your teacher first Daddy, is this your car? No, this is my boss' car Where are we going? - Where do you think? - I don't know We are going home Where did you acquire this painting? My husband bought it at a Christie's auction As a wedding gift to me when we got married The market price for this is around eight hundred thousand Can you offer a bit more? It's a fair price Why don't you take a look at everything and give me your best offer Hi, Qing Let me give you this month's pay in advance Thank you Please take good care of her I will come back soon Okay, no problem Behave yourself and listen to Qing, okay? Don't cry Give me another kiss How about I take you to McDonald's? No, I want to go to Hong Kong Let me do it I'll do that Let me do it Mrs Li Are we going home now? Mrs Li Have you had lunch yet? Yes I want to eat something What do you want to eat? You decide What? Just take me to where you'd normally eat Okay Take a seat first I'll order food for you Let me see your driving license ls there a problem? No problem at all you can go Great. Thanks - Something wrong? - Nothing's wrong - What's going on? - Oh shit! - The baby is coming - Let's go to the emergency room Taxi! Taxi! Thank You, Mrs Li To a hospital
