 

                        (Kita) 90 feet! Your best yet. I know I can do better. One more time. Hello, I think lack of oxygen is affecting your brain. (Rasca chirping) (Alyssa) Hey! I thought you're supposed to be on my side. (Alyssa sighs) Alright, alright, we'll go back. (Dolphin whistling) (Dolphin whistling) (Daniel) lf Hawk only knew what was going on around here. (Kita) Well, how would he? Unless you tell him. (Daniel) A father ought to know that his daughter is trying to drown herself. (Alyssa) Oh, come on, Daniel, you know I know my own limits. Besides, you know you're not gonna tell him. You said you were only gonna go down 50 feet! She's fine. Look at her! Better than fine, I'd say. Mwah! All the voodoo word play. (Alyssa and Kita laughing) (Daniel) Let's get out of here. (Dolphin whining) (Dolphin whistling) (Jet skis droning) (Kita) Get a load of that. (Alyssa laughs) Ah yeah, judging by the hottie he's with, I'd say that one's been claimed. Mmm, I'm not above a little claim jumping, time to time. Oh, you're shameless. (Craig) That wouldn't be the famous Rasca, would it? (Styles) Everyone on the island is talking about her. We heard her owner takes her out around here. (Alyssa) Yeah, that's Rasca, but she doesn't have an owner. (Rasca chirping) (Rasca whistling) (Craig) Anyway you can get her to, uh, stay still? Tryin' to get a shot. Um, I'm sorry, I think she's a little excited right now. (Jet skis humming) We gotta go so, uh, enjoy your stay in the beautiful Bahamas. (Boat propellers churning) (lnstrumental music) (Dolphins whistling) (Liz) Mmm hmm. Hey there, little fellas. I see you. I see you looking at me looking at you. Mmm hmm. (Phone ringing) Lab. (Man on phone) Duvey, have you heard anything about another stranding? No. (Man on phone) Well, I'm looking at one right now. How many? (Man on phone) Looks like 15 dolphins, at least. Make sure Hawk knows about it. It's gonna be all over the media soon. Hawk, I need you in here, please. Hawk? (Man on phone) Listen, Noah is sending out a pathologist from Woods Hole to do necropsies on the bodies. We're gonna find out what happened here. (Liz) Okay, and where were they found? (Man on phone) Providence Channel. (Liz) All right. And they're all bottlenose dolphins? (Man on phone) Maybe a half a dozen pilot whales and three pygmy sperms. (Liz) Okay, thank you. (Hawk) Yeah, what? (Liz) It's another stranding. (Hawk sighs) Where? Providence Channel. How many? Fifteen! And they all dead! That's like, what, 50 dead dolphins in three weeks? Something going on, man. (Hawk) Hmm. But as soon as we get the necropsy reports back, we-- You don't need a necropsy report to know what's goin' on. You know who's doin' this, Liz, well as I do. I mean, we talkin' about the U.S. Navy here, And they say they don't do sonar testing in the Caribbean. No, I just sayin'! I just sayin', that's what they say, I ain't sayin' that's what they do. And anything else is up for discussion. I don't even understand it. (Typing) Where is Rasca? (Whistling) (Dolphin whistling) (Female computer voice) Rasca almost home. (Hawk) There's my girl. (Tamika) Hmm, I hear there's been another stranding. Tell me you got some good news in there. Another threat. I don't have time for this. (Liz reading flyer) "Return your captured dolphins to the wild, or we'll do it for you. This is your last warning. Wildlife Liberation Front." (Tamika) I found some information online. They claim to free animals used for medical and corporate research and then burn down the labs. Well you can't burn this one down. It's underwater. (Liz) So what? They don't know you is the good guy. These dolphins free to come and go as they please. They ain't in cages. Well maybe I should contact them, talk to them about our program. (Hawk) It won't do any good. Doesn't matter to them that our dolphins aren't captive. They're against any kind of interaction whatsoever. To them, I'm not a good guy. I'll call the police again. That's all we can do. Mmm hmm. See what I can find out about them. Okay, thanks. I can check the surveillance camera feeds again. And make sure those camera feeds are stored on the main drive, okay? (Liz) Alright. (Hawk) Lookee there. (lnstrumental music) (Gull cries out) (Rasca whistles) (Dolphins whistling) (Female computer voice) Alyssa home. (Dolphins whistling) (Alyssa) Hey guys, missed you, too! (Dolphins chattering) Hey Alyssa. Get a rope. Yes, sir. Hey Dad. How many? (Alyssa sighs) Not a single pod. You go diving again? Dad, you really think I'd have my fun before I do my job? How deep? I'm gonna go take a shower, and then we're gonna go to the Fish Fry. And we're gonna find our man, too. You wouldn't know anything about that, would ya? Mmm. We'll see you there. (Tamika) There's Alyssa. Hi. Hey. Hey! (Alyssa) Hi baby. (Baby blows raspberries) (Women laugh) Oh. You going down to the Fish Fry? Yeah. You gonna be there later? Yeah, we'll come later. See you, bye. Say "bye." Bye. (Tamika) Okay, bye. (Alyssa) Bye. Bye. (Hawk) So, she was divin' again, huh? (Daniel) Rasca was with her. You know she wouldn't let anything happen. She just pushes the envelope too hard. Chip off the old block. Tell me about it. Let's go to the Fish Fry; I'm a little bit hungry. (Hawk) Hmm, when are you not? (Children laughing) (Boy shouting) Rasca! Rasca! (Children shouting) Jump! (Children shouting) Here, because this is my room. (Liz) Oh, look at the lovely comin' on by! Wow, you actually look like you're-- Like a girl, yeah. (Kita) Yeah. (Liz) Sexy Momma! And oh, if I could just put some-- No, no thank you. Okay, you already got me in the dress, let's just make one mistake at a time, okay? Oh, okay. (Alyssa) You ready? Yeah. Let's go. (Kita) lf I just add a little bit. (Alyssa) No. No! (Liz) You stop putting yourself down. You gotta learn how to work it out, sweet girl. Yeah, I mean you're in your prime time, gotta get that groove grinding. Ah ha! I know you like dolphins. They might be smooth and silky, but he ain't no substitute for a strong, strapping, earth-bound, fur-bearing man. Did you say "fur-bearing man"? Yes, yes, I did. Well, well-waxed maybe. No, man. Hairy. (Alyssa) I give up, you guys are-- (Boys) Alyssa! We saw Rasca. Yeah, did you say hi? (Boy) Yeah, but now she's gone. Oh, well, don't worry, she'll be back tomorrow, around in the centre. Can I give her some fish? Well, Rasca catches her own fish. You come see tomorrow. If you promise not to bite. Okay. Alright guys, see ya! (Women laugh) (Distant music) (Woman singing) ? Hey Bombay ? Hey ? She's a bright girl ? She knows nothing of the world ? She's a bright girl ? (Girl) Hey, Alyssa. (Alyssa) Hey. (Liz) Oh huh, I see you! I'll check you out. Look at you, little flirt! I have no idea what you're talking about. Whatever. Oh God, they caught us ogling. Okay, you were ogling, I was merely staring intently. Well, I prefer ogling. (Liz) Well, what's the difference? Well, ladies stare, and - and... You know what, never mind, you two are hopeless. Whatever. (Craig) Hey, excuse me, um, I saw you guys on the water today, right? I was on a jet ski. Jet ski? Um. Kita, do you remember a jet ski? Not even two of them. I didn't see no jet skis. Ah, I'm Craig. Ah, Alyssa. And this is Kita. Hi, you're more than welcome to know me as much as you like to. Oh. She's kidding, I think. Ah, this is Liz. (Kita) Nice to meet you. (Craig) Nice to meet you. Well, I just - I wanted to apologize for crashing your party earlier. Oh yeah, no, don't worry about it, It happens all the time. So, what's up with your girlfriend? Oh, Gwen? Oh no, no, she's not my, uh, my girlfriend. She's my sister. (Kita) Oh? And she has a dive scheduled in the morning, so she went back to the hotel early. Alright, so we'll just have to look after you while she's gone. Oh yeah, we'll take care of you real good. (Women laugh) That works for me. Cheers. (Kita) Cheers. (Craig) Cheers. (Kita) Cheers. Hey. She's got a new friend. (Hawk) Mmm hmm. (Alyssa laughs) So, is there anything else to do on this island besides jet skies and ah, diving? (Alyssa) Not really. Um, we actually spend most of our time at the Research Center with the dolphins. That sounds fun. Yeah, it is. Um, my Dad actually founded the Research Center. Ah, we're studying how dolphins communicate with each other, as well as how to better communicate with them. Ah, so you're proving Carl Sagan wrong? Carl who? The genius scientist whose name you should know? Now, now shush, let's go get something to drink. Yes, thanks. You know that, ah - that famous quote of his, "It is of interest to note that while some Dolphins have learned up to 50 words in English, no human being has been..." (Both) "...has ever been reported to be able to speak Dolphinese." (Craig) Right, so my question to you is: Do you speak Dolphinese? (Alyssa chuckles) No, that's actually physically impossible. A lot of their sounds are in frequencies that we can't even hear. Right, so how do you do it? Um well, what we've done - I guess what my Dad's done is come up with an artificial whistle language that both humans and dolphins can use, um, and we're teaching it to dolphins using a model rival training. Oh, so it's like, um, lrene Pepperberg and Alice Gray Perret, and all that? Exactly. How do you know all this? I am a Discovery Channel junkie. I can't help myself. I watch it all the time. Well, actually my Dad worked with lrene Pepperberg. Really? And ah, the model rival training is-- (Kita) Hey, ah, Craig, did you know that sex is the glue of dolphin society? Really? No, I didn't - I didn't, uh, know that. Yeah, ask Alyssa. Ah, it sounds kind of crazy, but, um, dolphins are very social creatures, and sex-- (Kita) Hey, I've got a better idea. Why don't you actually come down to the Research Center tomorrow and find out for yourself? (Liz) Unfortunately, standards dictate that we have to keep the fishy porn to a minimum. (Kita) Yes. Please ignore them; they are demented. (Liz) No, seriously, you should stop by. I bet you'll learn something. Okay, well, as long as I'm getting a good education. I'm in. Alright, um, cool, I'll see you then. Great. Um, and it was, ah - it was really nice meeting you guys. (Liz) Same. (Craig) Okay, cool. Yup. Yeah, not as nice as it could have been, though. What - what are you talking about? I mean, you have another chance tomorrow. Oh, I didn't invite him for me, I invited him for you. Despite all attempts at inappropriate innuendo, he looked at you the whole time. (Liz) His eyes was all over you, girl. (Kita) Mmm hmm. Really? Wait, how one girl could be so smart and so dumb at the same time. (Kita) I know. (Liz) I don't get it. I don't either. I don't get it. You're serious? You're not messing with me? Yes, yes, he was looking at you. He likes you. (Liz) Yeah, come on. (Sonar echoing underwater) (Alyssa) Our goal here is to communicate with dolphins, but that's hard because they aren't suited for making human sounds, and half their sounds they make are at frequencies we can't even hear. So, the sound you hear is a recall pinger. Um, it's what we use to call the dolphin's home. Do they always come home? (Alyssa) Well, not always. It's their choice, but most of the time they do. (Dolphins whistling) (Recall pinger) (Girl) Look! (Dolphins whistling) (Alyssa) That's Bogie on the left and Bacall on the right. They are called bottlenose dolphins, or Tursiops truncatus. So, if we want to communicate with them, but we can't make their sounds, and they can't make ours, we have a problem, don't we? So, we had to come up with another kind of sound we could both use in order to communicate. Does anybody know what that might be? (Girl) Whistling? (Alyssa) Exactly! So, we use a made up whistle language in order to communicate with them. And this is our current vocabulary. And, as we teach a new word, it's added to our dictionary. (Dolphin whistling) (Alyssa) Oh, oh, it looks like Bacall went away. Let's ask Bogie where he went. Bogie, where is Bacall? (Computer whistling) (Bogie whistling) (Female computer voice) Bacall is catching fish. This kind of fish? (Computer whistling) (Bogie whistling) (Female computer voice) No. Dangerous. (Group chuckles) (Man) Come on, you can't expect us to believe you're actually having a conversation with a fish? Did you hear that, he called you a fish, and doesn't believe we can communicate with you. (Bogie makes farting noise) (Group laughs) (Teenage girl) What's he saying? Um, I don't know. We haven't really been able to translate dolphin swearing yet. (Man) Oh, come on, I mean-- So where does this all lead? I mean, what are you guys hoping to accomplish? Well, they're intelligent, we know that, and very self-aware. So, by communicating with them, we can see how they perceive the world and it may add for further understanding of the consciousness in other animals. Are saying that dolphins are as smart as humans? No, of course not. I'm saying they are much, much smarter. (Group chuckles) Okay, Bogie, go find Bacall. See you tomorrow. (Bogie whistling) Okay guys, follow me and I'll take you down to the pool and you can see the dolphins up close, okay? (Alyssa) Thanks. For what? For helping out with that guy. Does that happen often? Well, not too often, but somehow we manage. (Craig) So, Rasca never takes part in these shows? No, we use her just for research. She's not used to it like Bogie and Bacall. Actually, she spends most of her time off base. Um, so you know, if you got to go back to the hotel-- No, no, no, I actually - I have nowhere to go, nowhere to be. Ah, my sister is still on her dive, and, ah, she may have even met a really hot diving master, so she might not be back for awhile. (Officer Michael) Hi, Alyssa. Oh hey, Officer Michael. (Officer Michael) I'm looking for your Dad and Tami. They're at the house, is anything wrong? (Officer Michael) Everything's okay, thank you. Okay. (Officer Michael) Make sure you let us know of any further threats. I'll inform the town committee. Thanks, Thomas. Is there anything else? No, we'll be fine. Okay. Hi, Alyssa. Hi. Hi, Dad. Um, this is Craig. Craig, this is my Dad. Hi, nice to meet you, sir. You, too. But don't call me sir, it makes me nervous. (Craig chuckles) Alright. And this is my Step mom, Tamika. (Craig) Hi, how are ya? Nice to meet you. Is everything okay? Yeah, yeah, it's fine. Alright, well, we'll see you guys later. (Tamika) Bye. (Craig) See ya. What? You think you know what I'm thinking. (Tamika laughs) I know exactly what you're thinking. (Hawk) You have no idea. (Tamika) Of course I know what you think, I always know. (Craig) Wow. This is beautiful. I mean it - this is your backyard. This is what you wake up to every single day, right? Yeah well, my Dad says it's the closest thing on Earth to Heaven. I'd say he was right. So, does Rasca swim around here? Yeah, um, but actually, I think we're gonna call her into the Research Center tomorrow around 1 1 :00, if you, uh - if you want to come, too? Yeah. Unless you have, you know, other plans or whatever. No, of course, I'd love to. Really? Yeah, absolutely. (Styles) Mmm hmm. (Ominous music) No, not yet. Right, of course, I understand. Clear, identifying photos. He's here, I'll call you back. I saw the presentation they put on for the tourists, but they don't use her for that. They use different dolphins. She's research only. I managed to get some audio, but not enough. Going back for more tomorrow. Mmm, good. Does your friend like you? Gettin' it done. Very good. (Typing) (Dolphin whistling) (Sonar pinging underwater) There's my girl. (Rasca chirping and clicking) All right, you ladies ready to get started? (Rasca chirping) What session number is this? (Liz) (Hawk) Okay, Rasca, session 367. Alyssa, you're on. What's the same? (Whistling) (Rasca whistles) (Female computer voice) Colour. What's different? (Whistling) (Rasca whistles) (Female computer voice) Shape. (Rasca whistling) Alright, let's try numbers. You see, the dolphins get bored real easy, and since we don't use food to control them, it helps to have Alyssa in the water. Start with four. (Rasca whistling) (Rasca whistling) (Female computer voice) Four. Seven. (Rasca whistling) (Female computer voice) Seven. What's the shape? (Rasca whistling) (Female computer voice) Black. (Rasca whistling) What shape? (Rasca whistling) (Female computer voice) White. She knows the answer, trust me. She's just not being challenged enough. Like a teenage girl, they get bored easily. Ah, no pictures in here. (Craig) Oh, sorry. Just wanted a memento. (Hawk) All right, she's had enough. Rasca, swim with Alyssa. (Computer whistling) (Rasca whistling) (Female computer voice) Rasca happy! (Phone ringing) Lab. And the results? You might wanna take this. Hawk. What? You're sure? All right, I'm on the way. All right, I'll take you up. (Craig) Okay. (Soft instrumental music) (Rasca whistling) (Alyssa) Hey guys! (Kita) Hey. (Alyssa) Where did my Dad go? (Kita) I don't know. He got a call and ran out of here like a tornado was like chasing him or something. Rasca. (Kita) Here you go. (Alyssa) Thank you. I've got some things to do, (Rasca whistling) Ah, so you do know something about dolphins. (Craig) Yeah, I told you I'm a, uh-- Discovery Channel junkie, mmm hmm. Do you believe that, Rasca? (Rasca makes farting sound) I see. (Kita) Come on you two, coffee's ready. Come on. Same thing again? (Dr. Waters) I'm afraid so. How solid's the evidence? Well, they all show identical damage that's consistent with the upper strandings after naval exercises. And by the way, the earlier stranding's cranial MRIs are back. Can I get a copy of that? This is your copy. Oh, thanks. Looks like you are hungry. Well, after a week of having conch fritters and conch salad, and grilled conch, it's good to finally have some home cooking. What is this? This is delicious. Cracked conch. (Everyone chuckles) (Craig) Seriously? (Tamika and Alyssa) Yeah. You're an amazing cook. Well, my Momma always used to say the best compliment to a woman's cooking is an empty plate, so. Boy, you should have seen what her mother used to prepare for me. Peas and rice with plantain on the side, and the snapper I used to catch in the bay. (Craig) So, she was a good cook, too? Yeah, she used to satisfy me in other ways, too. (Kita groans) Oh. Oh. Come on. So, how did it go? How did what go? The first date? Mmm hmm. Yeah. Well, it wasn't a date. Yeah, no, I assure you, my intentions are purely scientific. What, biological sciences, eh? (Kita laughs) (Alyssa) Please ignore them. So, how about dinner? What? Here? No, Port Lucaya, just you two. Is she - wait, is she asking us out on a date? Well, somebody have to. Yeah, it's never gonna happen if we don't. Well, how can I refuse an invitation like that? This is the part where you say, "Yes." Yes, um, yeah, that'll be great, why not? Okay. (Tamika sighs) You two are too much. Don't worry, we ain't got no shame. And we get results. (Dramatic music) (Naval officer on air horn) These are restricted naval waters. Turn your boat around immediately. (Hawk on air horn) I'm here to see Captain Liath Blaine. (Naval officer) Turn your boat around or you'll be arrested. (Hawk on air horn) Cut the crap! You tell Blaine that James Harker is here to see him. (Naval officer) Stand by. (Sailors) Left! (Sailor) Left, right, left. Left, left, left, right, left. (Voice fading) Left, left, left, right, left. (Blaine) Ah. Dr. Harker. I've heard quite a bit about you and your daughter. These are the necropsy results of two separate groups of dolphins and beaked whales, washed up in your area of operation in the last two weeks. Doctor, you and I both know that there's more than one reason why marine mammals become stranded. There's disease, parasites, viruses. Bullshit. This is collateral damage from your sonar testing. And look at this. Massive haemorrhaging of the inner ear. Look at this. That's the cochlea. It's a part of the inner ear that controls balance. It's broken down completely, crushed. So, don't you hand me that crap about viruses. All right. Let's say, for argument's sake, that what you're saying is right. That Navy sonar is unfortunately damaging some dolphins. But, it's minuscule compared to commercial fishing, which is responsible for over 600,000 deaths a year. You're responsible for what you do, Captain. This is a dangerous world, Doctor. The sonar saves lives, it saves American lives. Now, the loss of some wildlife is regrettable, but unavoidable. California courts held that it's not unavoidable. They've ruled that you not only have the means, but the responsibility to clear any waters of marine mammals before you start testing. But you just can't be bothered, can ya? The California ruling is on appeal to the Supreme Court, and we're expecting a much more favourable ruling. And meanwhile, you just brought your little circus to the Bahamas. I'm gonna stop you, Blaine. You can count on it. (Blaine) Your concerns are duly noted. But, the U.S. Navy will defend its right to protect American lives. (Hawk) Hmm. Sounds like I've just been threatened by the U.S. Navy. But Doctor, you're the one that's been threatening. That wasn't a threat. That was a promise. (Door closing) (Styles) Well? (Craig) Audio is complete. Everything you need is on there. And the photos? Still working on it. You're gonna make me say it? Don't get involved. (Craig snorts) What are you talking about? (Styles) You gotta understand something. This work is like being a surgeon. You operate, you do your best, but you keep your distance from the patient because it doesn't always end well. Sometimes the patient dies. And if that happens, you still go home, you pour yourself a drink and have dinner. You know you did your job well and that's the best you can do. Life goes on. Understood? Absolutely. Good. I'm gonna head back to the hotel. Get some rest. Tomorrow's a big day. (Styles) Good idea. (Whistling) (Dolphin whistling) (Dance music) (Woman singing) ? Together as one ? We're together as one for his honey buns ? Under we're here again ? Here we go, here we go ? (Lyrics unclear) ...all my friends ? (Crowd cheering) (Girl) Alyssa. (Alyssa) Hey, guys. (Craig) You come here a lot? You know, occasionally. (Woman singing) ? We're together as one for his honey buns ? We bumpin' as one ? We livin' as one ? We're together as one for his honey buns ? I owe you. Want a drink? Yes, thank you. Thank you very much. (Bartender) See you later. What? I really admire what you're doing with Rasca, and with the other dolphins. I think it's - I think it's amazing. I envy you. I'm, uh - I'm a much different person. Yeah, um, so was I. I mean, you know, before I came here. Before I met Rasca. I think you're great. I really do. I want you to know that. (Soft music) (Hawk) They're killing dolphins, damn it. We gotta shut 'em down. Hawk, this is the U.S. Navy. They fund the foundations that are funding your research. lf someone makes a few well-placed phone calls, everything you've worked for could disappear. I'm not saying you're wrong. I'm saying protect what we have, 'cause what we have is precious. (Hawk) Okay. Oh, hey guys, get a room. Oh. Where have you been? Um, I was on a date. A date? Yeah, with uh Craig. You met him yesterday? He seems like a nice guy. Yeah, he is, he's really nice. Good night. Come on. Well, I just thought l-- Come on, it's late. You're sneaky. (Tamika laughs) Manipulative. Maybe I like being manipulated. Come on, before I get sleepy. I love you. I love you, too. (Alyssa) Hey Daniel. Thought I'd find you here. (Hawk) What's up, Sugar? (Alyssa sighs) It was a nice date. Had a good time? It was fun. I don't know, I mean, I really like this guy. I don't know how long he's gonna really be there, you know? See that ship? (Alyssa) Mmm hmm. (Daniel) It travels hundreds and hundreds of miles in the night. Without a headlight. And all the Captain has is a course, the pole star, and a compass. lf the course isn't right, he corrects it. That's like life. We all have challenges. We all have a compass. All we have to do is to find it... and trust it. (Rasca whistling) (Rasca whistling) (Camera beeping) (Camera beeping) (Rasca whistling) (Guitar music) So um, when are you going home? Like you said, it doesn't bother you? I'm just curious, that's all. I don't know. You don't give out much, do you? (Craig) What do you mean? I mean, you know all about me and my family, and I know nothing about yours. What do you wanna know? Um, where did you grow up? Are your parents still living? Um, what was your first dog's name? Favourite condiments. Um... favourite Spice Girl, and don't tell me you didn't think they were cool when you were eight? Boxers or briefs? Uh, what's your job? I mean, I don't know... the usual. Oh, wow, okay. Um, okay, well, let's see. Uh, Central Oregon coast. Yes, they are both still alive, but no longer speak to one another. Uh, Tabasco mixed with mayonnaise. You know, it's sounds kind of weird, but it's actually really good. Uh, you should try it. Um, it was a cat, his name was George, and I still to this day carry the guilt about the time I tried to teach him how to body surf. (Alyssa laughs) Not a good idea. Um, favourite Spice Girl, man, I don't know. Scary Spice is the only Spice Girl's name I can remember, I swear to God. I know you probably don't believe me, but it's true. Um, and I'm a boxer briefs kind of guy. And as far as my job, um, I'm on vacation, so ah, let's not talk about that. Let's just enjoy this, fair enough? All right, fair enough. (Rasca whistles) When I go under, start the clock. Alright. (Rasca whistling) (Rasca whistling) (Rasca whistles loudly) (Dramatic music) (Rasca whistles loudly) (Rasca whistles) (Craig pants) (Rasca chirps) Come on, come on, come on. Come on, cough it up. Come on. Come on, cough it up. All right, all right. Come on, cough it up. (Rasca whistles) Come on, come on. Come on, cough it up. (Craig grunts) Come on, cough it up. Come on. (Alyssa coughs) You're okay, you're okay. You're okay. Just breathe, just breathe. (Dramatic music) (Whispering) Okay. (Craig) This the harbour master? Yeah, I've an emergency. I'm ah - I'm ah, two miles south of Smith Point. I'm on a boat called the Delphinus. It's an emergency, send a boat now. Okay. You're alright, you're okay. Just breathe. (Rasca whistling) (Rasca chirping) (Rasca whistling) (Motor starting up) (Rasca whistling) (Soft music) (Doctor) James. I'm going to have to keep her for a night or two for observation. She's suffered a cerebral hypoxia. That's a deep water black out. I've given her a sedative, so she'll be drowsy for awhile. Good thing this fellow was around. Another 30 seconds and we'd be having a different conversation. Thanks, Wenson. Dumb kid. Ah, it was my fault. She was telling me about her free diving and I asked her to show me. Nah, she doesn't listen to anybody. Nice try, though. (Gull crying) (Rasca whistling) Don't worry, girl. Alyssa's gonna be alright, alright? She's coming back any time soon. I'll be up there if you need me, okay? (Jet ski approaching) (Soft music) (Styles) As you can see, it's the same animal, sir. The markings match. The dolphin they called Rasca is our Kate. She was an integral part of our marine mammal program. After the training incident, she probably got confused and lost her bearings. Training incident? What training incident? Operational details are restricted to Marine Mammal Command personnel, if you'd like, I can call Admiral Black in San Diego. That won't be necessary. I've already talked to Admiral Black about you. Told me all about the court martial proceedings that ended your career in submarine command. Now they've got you chasing animals. Dolphins, sir. Ah. Oh, did it ever occur to you to just ask for the animal back? You've dealt with Harker. Do you seriously think he would voluntarily cooperate with the Navy? What's so special about this dolphin? With all due respect, sir, this is no ordinary dolphin. She's a major investment in United States security. Millions of dollars have been spent training her, and quite frankly, a dolphin trained like this is a threat to civilians. So really, we'd be doing everyone a favour. Shall I call Admiral Black, Sir? (Blaine) No. Just keep me informed. And no surprises. No surprises, sir. Dismissed. (Styles) Thank you. (Rasca whistling) (Rasca whistling) (Ominous music) (Whistling) (Rasca whistles) (Whistling) (Rasca whistling) (Rasca whistling) (Rasca sounds distressed) (Rasca whistling) (Faint whistling) (Boat motor humming) (Rasca sounding distressed) (Alyssa) Please, can I go home? I'm feeling much better. (Doctor) There can be delayed reactions after something like this. I need to keep you overnight. lf all goes well, you can go home in the morning. Now, I'll have to ask you please to all say your good-byes. (Nurse) Dr. Harker, you have a phone call. Elizabeth Duvey? (Doctor) Alyssa, I'll see you in the morning. (Kita) Well, get well, okay? I will, see ya. (Tamika) Good night, Alyssa. Good night. (Craig) See you in the morning. (Alyssa sighs) (Footsteps approaching) (Hawk) So, you get some rest now, okay? Is everything okay? Sure, it's fine. She just called to check on ya. Alright, see you tomorrow. Good night, Dad. Good night. What is it? Rasca. (Footsteps approaching) (Nurse) Honey, are you alright? Yeah, I - I'm okay. You should be sleeping. My Dad was really upset about that phone call. Oh, it's so sad. And I wonder who could do that to an animal? Well, get some rest and I'll see you in a couple of hours. Okay, thanks. (Alyssa sighs) (Alyssa) Dad? Is she gone? (Hawk sighs) Looks like it, yeah. Wh - Why didn't you tell me? I wanted to be sure. You gotta be strong, girl. (Alyssa sobs) (Christina Thompson) Rasca, the dolphin that captured the imagination of the Caribbean, has disappeared, and is believed to have been forcibly taken. A letter has been received from an organization claiming responsibility for what it terms the liberation of the animal. I spoke earlier with Dr. James Harker, head of the International Dolphin Research Center. (Hawk) There were some threatening letters and we took extra precautions, but, uh, I guess they weren't enough. (Thompson) Asked what action he plans to take to recover the dolphin, Dr. Harker had this to say: I wanna promise you this, whoever you are, we're gonna find you. No brag, just fact. (Thompson) This is Christina Thompson reporting. Back to you in the studio. ? (Footsteps approaching) ? Admiral Black sends his congratulations. Everything's going smoothly. We just need you to stick around here for a little while, 'til things quiet down. Okay. What about you? My job is done here. We'll retrain the dolphin and transport it out of the area. I'll deal with that, you deal with this. Right? Then return to base. Craig. Yeah. This operation is a success. Do your job and make sure it stays that way. lf something goes wrong now, youre gonna take the fall. Court martials can be quite messy, I'd hate to see your career end like that. (Footsteps receding) (Knocking on door) (Alyssa) Hey. (Craig) Hey. How are you feeling? I've been better. Heard about what happened on the news. Yeah. The police just left and they are completely useless. What I don't understand is if these people wanted to release her in the wild like they claimed, she would have just come back home. Doesn't make any sense. Organizations like this... what they do, doesn't always make sense. What kind of people would do something like this? (Craig sighs heavily) Really sorry you're, uh... you're going through this right now. I know it's hard, but try not to think about it. Try and get some rest, and, uh, I'll check up on you first thing in the morning, okay? (Whispering) Okay. Okay. Good night. Night. And thanks, Craig. (Door opening and closing) (Hawk sighs) (Computer chimes) (WLF man) Dr. Harker, I'm a representative of the Wildlife Liberation Front. I know you've been attempting to contact us. We're aware of a dolphin in your care that was abducted. We deny any involvement with the abduction. Go on. We're both victims here. It's obvious that someone is trying to damage both of our causes. Any idea who? I'm sure you know that there's a marine mammal holding facility at AUTEC, the U.S. Naval base on Andros Island. Yeah. Lately, it's been abnormally active. I'm sending you a document that'll shed light on this whole area. We have no quarrel with you. Good luck. (Suspenseful music) (Liz) Hawk! Hawk, come here. Pull it back. Yeah, right there. Damn! (Rasca whining) Come on, Kate. (Rasca whining) Morning. Coffee? Thank you. Island brewed, shake the cobwebs out. (Hawk) Alyssa really seems to like you. I feel the same way. So, you guys, uh, having any luck in finding Rasca? Matter of fact, we just got a lead last night, I'm gonna run it down this morning. I'm sure Alyssa would like it if you came along. Yeah, of course. Good. I'll go wake her. (Propellers churning) We're going to Andros? Yup. Isn't there a naval base out there? A-U-T-E-C or something? That's right, AUTEC. So, that would mean that these are restricted waters. You would be right. I don't understand, I thought we were gonna look for Rasca? We are. Why are we here? (Boat engines slowing) (Hawk) Up ahead in that Naval base is a dolphin training facility. Why don't you tell us about it, Craig? Better yet, tell Alyssa. What's the matter, cat got your tongue? It wasn't an activist organization that stole Rasca. It was the U.S. Navy. Craig here is in the Navy. I'd guess an Ensign. Alyssa, it's not like that. (Hawk) Computers were on the night Rasca was taken. They show Alyssa's whistles were used to lure Rasca out of the pen. The other day at the lab did you have a tape recorder in your pocket? What, you recorded me? You used me? (Hawk) Tell the truth, boy. (Naval officer on air horn) You're in restricted naval waters. Turn your boat around immediately. I didn't have a choice. (Craig sputtering) Let's go home, darlin'. (Boat engines revving up) (Alyssa sobbing) He was lying to me the whole time, and I was such an idiot that I - I - I fell for it. (Daniel) Hey, there's your challenge right there. And I know you can overcome it. (Alyssa whispering) Yeah. (Alyssa sniffing) What are we gonna do? Well, taking on the entire U.S. Navy, that can get messy. These people came into our home. They took a member of our family. They crossed a line, and we can't allow it to stand. We fight this together. As a family. (Ominous music) (Craig) Rasca! Come on, girl. Rasca! Rasca. Come here, girl. Up, up, up! That's a good boy. See Kate? That's how it's done. lf you put on a camera vest, you get one of these. Good boy, Oscar. (Craig) Her name's not Kate, and I don't think she's gonna respond very well to reward training, either. The Navy says her name is Kate, her name is Kate. Get the vest on her. (Craig sighs) Rasca! Come here, girl! Come on, girl, there you go. Good girl, good girl. Come on, girl. Put this on you, okay? I know, I know, come on. Come here, girl. Rasca! Just get it on her. Rasca. Come here, girl. (Sad music) (Hawk) It's official U.S. Navy document. Talks about a dolphin you folks had in your training program named Kate. Went missing about three years ago. And how your researchers believed this other dolphin named Rasca might be the same dolphin. lf they can prove it, well then it's, uh, how does it say, " Recovery of the animal is authorized." Where did you get this? I can't tell you that, I'd have to kill ya. Blaine, you got 48 hours to return my dolphin, or I go to CNN. I don't need that. Got plenty of copies. Come here, girl. Rasca! (Sailor) Ensign Morrison, Lieutenant Styles? Yes? Captain Blaine wants to see you. (Craig sighs) Harker was just in here with a 48-hour ultimatum and he gave me these. Do either of you have any idea how he got his hands on them? No, sir. You jokers aren't under my command, but you are now my problem. (Dialing phone) Ensign, give me San Diego, Admiral Black. Sir, please. Ensign, hold that call. Sir, we can have the dolphin out of here before Harker goes to the media. Then all he'll have is documents. Documents can be forged. It'll blow over. Let me clean this up, then call Admiral Black. (Ominous music) So, you want to solve the problem before you present it to your boss. You're trying to protect your career, aren't you? I can have her out tomorrow. ? We're gonna resume sonar testing tomorrow. Nothing in and out of the harbour while the testing is going on. I will not reschedule to accommodate you. But if you can have that animal out of here by tomorrow night... We can, sir. (Blaine) Don't you dare screw up. ? Dismissed. ? There's something going on here, and I don't think you're telling me. I don't know what you're talking about. Yeah, you do. Do you wanna know what I think? I think that this is your personal operation. I don't think that Admiral Black knows anything about this. You're in this with me whether you like it or not. Your fingerprints are all over it. I go down, you go down. Yeah, I'm calling San Diego. Craig, a dolphin like Kate is worth more than you'll see in a decade. The training, the capabilities-- Wait, wait, wait, hold on a second. You do this for the money? You're crazy. (Styles) I already have a buyer, Craig. ? Two million dollars. And all you have to do is be quiet and let it happen, and you get a cut. Well, I don't want your money. I think you're insane. Am I? Who's getting hurt by this? Your little friend and her family? They'll get over it, and so what if I'm boosting another country's capabilities, it doesn't matter. Tomorrow when Rasca disappears, so do I. ? And it'll be clear when the dust settles, that this was my op, not yours, and you were just following orders from a superior officer. Me. On the other hand, if you report this, I'll make sure that everyone understands that you were in on it from the beginning. ln fact, that it was your idea to start with and then you just lost your nerve in the end. You'll be finished. Dishonourable discharge, five years in the military prison, is that what you want, Craig? Think about it. You're smart, that's why I picked you. (Receding footsteps) ? (Hawk) I should have never given them 48 hours. Should have gone to CNN right off the bat. You don't have to give them the 48 hours, Hawk. Well, we know where she is. We just need to figure out a way to break in and get her back. (Craig) That would never work. (Daniel) What the hell are you doing here? Alright, listen to me. You wouldn't get within a half a mile of the base before you got spotted, alright? There's only one way that you're gonna get Rasca back and you need my help. No, I don't trust him. Yeah, me neither. Alright, you got one minute. Navy is doing sonar testing tomorrow. It means another group of dead dolphins, and they're never tagged. I'm following ya. It means we gotta kill Rasca. (Tamika) What?! And we need a diversion. I'll take care of that. (Ominous music) (Hawk) Okay Daniel, we're in position. Stand by. (Sonar pulsing) (Rasca whistling excitedly) (Sonar pulsing) I wouldn't do that. Get out of the water, Craig. Looks like your meal ticket just swam away. (Sonar pulsing) (Dramatic music) (Sonar pulsing) (Sonar pulsing) (Rasca whistling) (Boat engine) (Alyssa and hawk laughing) (Rasca chattering excitedly) (Hawk laughing) (Hawk) She looks alright. (Alyssa) Yeah. (Boat engine revving) (Dramatic music) You are in possession of Navy property, I order you to return it to base immediately, Harker! She's not property, she's a dolphin. This is pointless, Harker, you know we'll get her back. I don't think so. Rasca knows how to live in the wild. Once I get her to a thermocline, you're never gonna track her down. (Sailor) They're testing out there today, Ma'am. I know that! I order you to stop your vessel! (Jet skis buzzing) (Muttering) I don't believe this. Do not slow down. Make way! (Sailor) We're gonna hit them! I don't care, go around them. Make way! (Drone of jet ski) (Crack of flare gun) Red, let her through. (Boat engine starting) (Boat engine chugging) (Boat engine chugging) (Boat engine speeding up) (Suspenseful music) STOP - YOUR - VESSEL! Alright, alright, you got me. (Styles) Where's the dolphin? Well, she's around here, somewhere. Alright, girl, time to give yourself up. (Alyssa) Hey, Dad. Whoa! I surrender! (Hawk laughs) (Sailor) Lieutenant Styles, put down the weapon. Put it down now! (Rasca whistling) (Loud sonic blast) (Ominous music) (Rumbling aftershock) (Alyssa) Anything wrong? No, let's go home. (Reporter) Unfortunate news from the Bahamas where it has been determined that a dolphin missing from the International Dolphin Research Center was among a group which beached themselves two days ago. Earlier I spoke with marine forensic scientist, Mitchell Waters, about this development. (Dr. Waters) Death occurred due to active sonar tests. The necropsy was conclusive in that regard. Navy Lieutenant, Gwen Styles, has been arrested in connection with the abduction. Documents found in her possession confirmed that she had planned to sell the highly-trained dolphin, which is said to have been worth as much as two million dollars. (Daniel) Hey Hawk... Somebody out front wanna see you. Funny thing about those necropsies... Seems that all the carcasses were destroyed before the Navy got a chance to examine them. Hmm, were they? A shame. lf I were a detective, I'd think you pulled a fast one on us. But, if the Navy says the dolphin is dead, then the dolphin is dead. Thanks. Classified documents. I think you've earned the right to see them. They're gonna be on the news in a couple of hours. The Supreme Court ruled against us. We're not gonna test here again. We're probably on our way back to California. Where you'll just keep on testing. With increased safeguards. Harker, you moved the needle. And you got an old sailor to think twice, and I think that's something. Well? Daniel, everybody's got to have something to believe in. Right now, I believe I'll have a beer. (Daniel laughs) (Woman singing) ? So wherever I'm to settle in ? ? It's gonna be up to the winds ? ? Of New Orleans or Mexico ? She seems happy. Yeah. Listen, uh... I know that you'll never be able to forgive me. I want you to know that I'm not expecting that of you. What about you? I mean, are - are you in trouble? Yeah, I'm in some trouble, but I have an attorney, and he thinks that, uh, I'll be able to get off with a, uh, simple discharge. Maybe even an honourable one. Chance for me to start over, you know? So, what are you gonna do now? I don't know what I'll do, but, uh, I do know where I'd like to be. Here. That is, of course, as along you don't think I'll be run off the island by the locals. (Alyssa laughs) Well, I think you're okay on that. You know, there might even be a position for you at the, uh, Dolphin Research Center. I'd like that. (Rasca whistling) (Water splashing) Hey guys. The whole family is up there. Why don't you come up and join us? Wanna go?
