 

                        So many yesterdays Haunting my soul today Now time is standing still In the tears and rain I'll find another spring No doubt the birds will sing But I will never shine So very bright again Okay, stand by. Tell Mary Beth we're coming up. - Ten seconds. - Ten seconds, Mary Beth. Jack, I need a minute. Take a commercial. Can't. We're at six seconds. Count it. Four, three, two, cue her. Less than 24 hours ago, I reported to you from the shooting location... of a new movie being filmed here in Oregon. It was a happy report because it featured one of America's... most huggable heroes, the cuddly canine superstar, Benji. Tonight Benji is missing at sea. He was with his trainer, Frank Inn, in a small, open fishing boat... just off the coast when the boat capsized. Mr. Inn was rescued. He was taken here... to the Coast Guard station in Newport... where he apparently is in good condition. But Benji is still missing. Mr. Inn, I know this is a terrible time for you. - But can you tell us what happened - I don"t know. It happened so fast. One moment it was sunny and calm... and the next was... At what point did you lose sight of Benji? I never saw Benji after the boat turned over. We searched for him for a while. I wanted to stay longer, but the captain said... that I had to get in for medical attention. Benji likes to bark at the fish when I catch 'em. They flop around the boat, you know, and he barks. We had this big snapper. He'd never seen a fish that big before. It was his first time on the ocean. Is there any chance that Benji could make it to shore on his own? It was so rough. All of a sudden, it was so rough! He's a good swimmer, but it was so rough. Thank you, Mr. Inn. We'll all be hoping for the best. Benji's producer told us a few moments ago... that he has definitely not given up hope that the floppy-eared star... might have made it back to shore on his own. He plans to begin a helicopter search... first thing in the morning, weather permitting. In 1906,Joseph Conrad wrote... "The sea has no generosity. "For all the celebrations it has been the object of in prose and song... the sea has never been friendly to man." Nor, it seems tonight, to man's best friend. This is Mary Beth McLaulin for Channel Eight News. Hey! Get outta here! Hold it, pal. Thought so. You know, they got a reward out for you. It won't be long now. Now you stay put. Hey! Sure don't wanna turn you loose in the house. You wanna show me how you did this? Now you stay put till I get this mess sorted out. You better be still, or that whole thing's gonna collapse with you. Hey! Benji! Benji! Benji, Benji!
