 

                        This is the main street of the town of Loyalton in Wisconsin. It looks like Sunday, doesn't it? Everything empty, the street deserted... But it can't be Sunday, not with the saw mill running. The sawmill is the pulse and heartbeat of the town of Loyalton. The people wake to the scream of the whistle... Go to work by it, eat lunch by it, and start home by it. And at night if their bedrooms face the mill, they have to sleep with the shades down to close out the hot flow of the sawdust that comes from the incinerator lighting the sky... Burning its way through closed eyelids, through sleep itself. Even the picture theater's closed. Today they have a drama being enacted in their own town. Yes, everything's empty. That is, most everything. There's a horse tied here to Sven Godford's blacksmith shop, but horses don't mind waiting... If people do. And in the second story of the bank building is the doctor's office, the only doctor in Loyalton. But his door's locked. And even if it were open, there'd be no patients. Not today. And here's the train that passes through twice a day, to and from Chicago. And each day Rosa used to walk down to the station, moving easily, freely, every man's admiring eye upon her. Rosa Moline. She'd stand looking at the train, which seemed to say to her: "Come, Rosa...come away before it's too late... "Chicago...Chicago...Chicago..." And at the very end of the street, as far away from the town as she can get, is her house, the finest house in Loyalton. If you knew Rosa, you'd know she'd have the best house in town, and as far away from the screech of the saw mill as she could get. She has a maid, too. Only an Indian girl, but that's more than any of the other women have. There she is now, coming out the back door. If Rosa were home, Jenny'd be in uniform. But Rosa isn't home. Rosa's in the courthouse facing a coroner's inquest. A man has been killed by Rosa Moline. Even the kids of the town don't want to miss anything. They all know Rosa. By sight anyway. Now they're hoping to hear spoken aloud what was only whispered before. Housework has been left undone, dishes still in the sink. Children unwashed and men unfed. The women of the town, friendly and unfriendly, are all here, all wondering if at last they're going to learn the secret of Rose's life. What made her different from the rest of them? And the men on the jury, they wonder too. The coroner is solemnly addressing them with these words: "You do solemnly swear that you will "diligently inquire on behalf of this state "when and in what manner and by what means "the person who is now dead came to his death. "That you will return a true inquest theron, "according to your knowledge and such evidence "as shall be laid before you". Why should I kill him? Someone tell me that! Why should I want to? It was an accident! Accident? Well, what led up to it happened five months ago... That one is too small, Lewis! Throw him back! Guess he is at that. Down, boy fishy! Get the going while the going's good. While you've still got the pep to get somewhere. I wish they put this air up in bottles! The trouble with you Lou is you don't get up here often enough! He doesn't do anything enough! Except work! You better ease up. A sick doctor isn't much good. I'm as strong as a horse! Horses get sick. I oughta know...my first patient was a horse! What'd he pay you with...Oats? Well...we'd better push off if we're gonna get to my cabin by sundown. Yes, let's get moving. Latimer Lodge! You know every time I see a place like that it puzzles me. Why? Man wants to get out in the woods where he can be alone so... he builds 20 bedrooms to be alone in. 18 baths. That's right, isn't it Moose? It was the last count! I suppose there is some sort of majesty in 18 baths... only you can only take one at a time. The number of anything is impressive, even 18 lawnmovers! It's a soft job for me, anyhow! I think I'll go and wash up. What's the matter with your foot? I think I twisted it or something! No wonder with those things you've got on your feet! Catch, Moose! Wouldn't rob you of the pleasure of cleaning these. Let me have a look at that foot. - That hurt? - Uh-huh. You probably pulled a muscle. I think you'll live. You know, Moose was right. We don't get up here often enough. Oh Lewis, I forgot. Here's a message for you. I've got to go back. What's the matter? Mildred Sorren. She's having a baby. You should have known. Well, I can't keep track of all the babies born in Loyalton. She's going to have a tough time. I wanted her to go to Ashford, but her husband couldn't afford the hospital. If he can't afford a hospital, he can't afford 8 kids. It's quite a hike back to the car. With that ankle... I'll make better time without you. Moose! Yeah? I've got to go back to town. Rosa's got a bad ankle. You'll have to put her up here tonight. I wouldn't be a doctor for anything on earth! Moose'll bring you down tomorrow. I just thought one of the kids had measles or something! It's not your fault. She wasn't due for another month. Take good care of her, Moose. Remember, no firewater! Why, I've been sober for three months! That's what worries me! Here you go. Thanks. So long, Lou! Bacon and fried potatoes all right for supper? And some trout? And coffee, good and strong! A fat lot of good that did you. I don't like porcies, they irritate me. You don't like life! Life in Loyalton is like sitting in a funeral parlor and waiting for the funeral to begin. No, not sitting. Lying in a coffin... and waiting for them to carry you out! You've had a drink? Just one. Found a bottle that I thought I'd finished. You know how it is with you. One drink leads to another. Besides, you've got a lady in your care. Meaning you? Meaning me. You're something for the birds, Rosa. Something for the birds! I remember the look in her eye. She was standing on the porch when I went out through the gate. Who are you trying to forget? I'll tell you when I've forgotten! All you shackers get cracked. What did you do that made you run away? Kill a man? No! No, I didn't kill anybody. I left them alone. Absolutely alone. I could have made something of all our lives. I could have saved mine. Words can't explain. Words are just sounds. Sounds are not what I feel. Moose? You in here? How did you know I was coming? Sending a telegram to Moose isn't exactly the best way of keeping a secret... in a small town. How'd you get here? It started on a fishing trip with the Doctor and Moose... sent the Doctor back to town on an emergency call... And Moose? Well, Moose had kind of an emergency too. A bottle of whiskey just happened to be in my knapsack... and Moose just happened to find it! You're terrific! You said that the first time, too. Mind if I ask a few questions? How do you sign those big fat checks you make out? "Neil K. Latimer". Oh? You can write then? What are you getting at? When you told me you stopped going to school when you were 9... I thought maybe you'd never learned. That's the excuse I made to myself for those letters I didn't get! Anything I had to say to you, I wouldn't put on paper! Say it now. I don't need words! Get up. Mrs. West! You've got another fine boy, Sorren. Better go get some coffee. You've been up all night. It's funny. No matter how often this happens, and I got a house full of kids... it's always a big moment. You know, I was wishing the little guy dead an hour ago. Now that everything's all right... everything is all right, isn't it? Well...she had a bad time. She needs blood plasma. That costs money. If there's any work you need done over at your place... like painting or cutting wood, I can come Sundays... We'll talk about that some other time. Better go get some breakfast. Go ahead. You tried to take the baby, didn't you? No gloves, just your hands? I didn't have no gloves. You weren't here. Someone had to do something. Keep her drinking liquids and give her one of those every three hours. If you know any more prayers, say them. You've got to give me credit, and I've got to have the plasma and penicillin right away! Well, send it C.O.D. and I'll get the cash somehow. Well, you don't expect me to let a woman die because I owe you 187 dollars, do you? All right, all right... I'll drive over and pick it up myself. You'd get that same exercise if you were a lumberjack! Yeah, but would I get you? You haven't got me! You're here. Here today and gone tomorrow. Gone today if I have any sense before Moose sobers up. What about that time before? What did your husband say when you turned up? He believed what I told him, that I'd been lost in the storm. That's what you told me, when you wanted in the lodge that time! You believed it, too! Wait a minute! You knew I was snowed in here alone? And that Moose had a bad knee... and that Lewis was taking care of it. Only a few hundred yards away? I'm glad I didn't know it then! I knew it. Thought you might be worth it. Was I? I'm back... What's your game, Rosa? What do you want? You. You're a married woman! You didn't make those millions by having scruples! I just don't want your husband taking a pot-shot at me. Lewis? He couldn't hit the side of a barn! I'm the shot of the family. Besides, I don't owe him anything for keeping me in this town. I wish this bag had Loyalton printed all over it... I'd punch the daylights out of it! Why didn't you get out on your own? What as? A telephone girl? A stenographer, a waitress? You could get me out! Sure I could, but why should I? Because I'm the kind of woman you need! Rosa, you're a scream. Don't you know that half of the society dames in Chicago trot their daughters out for my inspection? Like fillies at a racetrack! Girls with beauty, breeding, accomplishments. Girls who've been places, speak languages. Not yours! Maybe I want to learn theirs. You can't teach an old dog new tricks. I want you to marry me! Take a deep breath, Mildred. There. You can feel it, can't you? Like warm rare blood. It's beginning to work. I knew you'd do it. I knew you'd pull her through. She pulled herself through. It's her own will to live. And prayer! Blood. Rosa! Anybody home? Jenny? Rosa! You got back all right. I got back. How's your foot? Fine. What a dump. Don't start hating it till it's paid for! To some men, 3000 dollars is just peanuts. I suppose so. Where's Jenny? I let her go home. Didn't know when you'd be back. I haven't had anything to eat all day. She probably left something in the icebox for you. The thing you remembered about Mildred Sorren... half the town was worried about her. You know, that's one of the nice things about living in a small place like this. You're not just a number over the door. People are interested, they like you. Oh, write yourself a book, Lewis! I don't want people to like me. Nothing pleases me more than when they don't like me. It means I don't belong. I know you're not interested in my work, but I just saved a woman's life. Saved her for what? Because it's my business to save lives! When I can. There's only one person in this town who does anybody a real favor, that's the undertaker. He carries them out. Rosa, why do you torment yourself like this? - Because it makes me feel alive! - To hate everything so? It keeps me from getting soft and forgetting about all the things I really want. There's no use talking to you when you're like this. I'm going to bed. That's big news! Where else could you go? Coming up? No, I'm going to lie here awhile. Cool off. Number 86. Hello, Steve? This is Frank down at the station. There's a lady here wants to go up to the Latimer Lodge. Cost you 10 bucks and another 5 to take you across the lake. That's all right. She says that's all right. Sure. It'll just be a few minutes. You can wait inside. Oh no thanks. I guess it's as cool here as anywhere. Hello. I don't know why I brought this with me. It's nearly as hot here as Chicago. It sounds like New Year's Eve! Does that happen very often? Four times a day. It's rather an exciting sound. Are you staying long? Yes. We'll probably meet again. Hello, Rosa! Oh hello, Mildred. You certainly go in for mass production, don't you? Well, you remember when this one was born! My, but Lewis was worried. He never let on though. Kept right on the job. - Good for him. Now that's what I call a sweet-smelling geranium! The funny thing, even when we were in high school, Rosa was always different from everybody else. Even the way she walked. Like she was someone special. It's hard on Rosa being tied to a town like this. Hmph! It's hard on the town. Come on, kids. Jenny! Jenny! Yeah? Well, why didn't you answer me, you lazy... What do you mean, being dressed like that? You know I won't stand for it. I'd think you'd be glad to have people teach you things. I was just cleaning house. No sense getting a uniform dirty for that. How would you call this clean? You can write your name in the dust! Mrs. Moline, let's not start calling each other names. I got some fancy ones saved up, just aching to be used! You get out of this house! No red indian's going to talk to me like that in my own house. - The Doctor hired me. - And I'm firing you! There's dishes in the sink. The Doctor's dirty shirts, they're in the laundry tub. Oh, go ahead and finish your work! I'll talk to you later. If I don't get out of here, I'll die. If I don't get out of here, I hope I die. And burn! Oh hello, Lewis. Who do you think this is? Hello! We meet again! My name's Carol. - Moose's daughter. Moose's daughter? Carol Lawson. Well this is something! Something pretty wonderful, I think! Why did you keep her a secret so long, Moose? It's no secret. I always knew I had a real father somewhere. I ran away and left her. Imagine that. And by the time he started to look for us again, My mother had divorced him and remarried. And now that I've found him, that's all that matters. What about staying for supper? This calls for a celebraton. - What do you say, Carol? - I'd love to stay! I'll tell Jenny. I'll put this inside for you. - Should we have a drink? - That would be fine. - A nice, tall Tom Collins! - Well...count me out, Lew! Thank you! Sit here. We've got a lot of lost time to make up. Oh...better make a fruit salad, it's so hot. You want that Chicken la King business served on toast? But I showed you the picture in the magazine, didn't I? How can I see if there's toast under all that goo? It's fun being a horse-and-buggy doctor! Forgetting I wanted to be a specialist... You know, the sort of fellow who says, "No, no, no, not the entire throat, "tonsils exclusively, only the left one!" Then one semester an old Austrian professor came to lecture. I think I remember almost every word he said: "My children, never despise a General Practitioner. He's like a farmer who takes care of the seed, the soil, and the crops, the food of Man. The specialist is like a horticulturist who nurses hothouse flowers for ladies' corsages. I decided then and there I was a farmer. Sure, a hick doctor! There's a big trend now, back to General Practice. Even in the cities. People seem to feel that the good old family doctor was able to combine Medicine with a bit of Psychiatry. That's right. You not only know what they get, but why they get it. Like the other day, when I saw that young Mrs. Reynolds with a rash on her face. I said to myself, "I bet that girl's mother-in-law's in town for a visit. "She doesn't dare rebel openly, so she gets a rash on her face!" Step up, ladies and gents, and listen to Dr. Moline: The people's friend, the town's do-gooder. It's all free. Thanks Rosa. I guess I have been spouting. Lew, I haven't heard you sound off like that for years. We all kid ourselves. I suppose I build a lot of big theories about how good it is to be a country doctor, because I'm not good enough for anything else. Well, if we're all through, let's get away from these dirty dishes. Suppose you let me help you clear the table. Jenny will do it. Jenny! Oh, Carole...Have you got that picture you showed me? The one with us all together? Right in my pocket! There you go stacking them again! Lewis, you forgot to pull down the shade! What's the matter? I tried to pull down the shade and it flew out of my hand and it's all tangled up! I'll fix it. I don't know how you can sleep with that light in your eyes! I didn't want those cheap old shades anyway! I wanted venetian blinds. All the houses in magazines have venetian blinds! Well, maybe next year you can have venetian blinds. This year we're lucky to have the house! I don't want them next year. I might be dead next year! Lewis...Lewis I've just got to get away for awhile! I want to go to Chicago and buy some clothes. Some decent clothes and have some fun! But why all of a sudden in the middle of the night? Why Chicago? Why not? It's the nearest big city! Lewis, I've just got to have 300 or 400 dollars! Rosa, you know if I had 300 or 400 dollars you'd be welcome to it. You have that much owing you from those chiselling patients of yours! - They can't pay! They pay their mortgages, don't they? They pay the grocer cash. And the mail order houses don't send things on credit! Rosa, I have to expect that. If they thought they had to lay out the money cash on the line, they wouldn't call me! Always a stall. Wait, wait, wait. When I think of the things I want, it's like how your stomach feels when it hasn't any food in it! Rosa... You mustn't work yourself up like this. Tonight at supper I was talking about that old professor of mine. Remember how a doctor has to be sort of a gardener? Well, the patient has to be sort of one too. Know what to destroy and what to cultivate. I'm afraid you're not a very good gardener. You seem bent on destroying the flowers and cultivating the weeds! Give yourself a chance, Rosa! If a man whipped a dog the way you whip yourself, he'd land in jail. Lewis, I was thinking. Maybe I could manage on 200. - Good morning, boys! - Morning, Doc. I see where they're putting up a new ball park in Ashwood. You know that's something we've been needing for a long time? Rosa! Here's the money you went begging for. If you take it, don't come back! "Neil K. Latimer". Michigan 3126... Operator... Michigan 3126. Hello? I want to speak to Mr. Latimer, Mr. Neil Latimer. I'll give you his secretary. No, I don't want to speak to his secretary... I'm sorry, it's routine. Mr. Latimer's secretary... I want to speak to Mr. Latimer. Who's calling? Mrs. Moline, Rosa Moline. May I have your number, please? Lakewater Hotel. He can't be disturbed now. I'll have to call you back. I'll wait right here until he calls. Operator... This is Mrs. Moline again in 806. Are you sure there hasn't been a call for me? Sorry. There hasn't been any call for you. 342 LaSalle... Thank you. Look, I made a special trip to Chicago. - Yes, I understand. - Would you take care of these, please. Oh Miss Elliott...This lady says she wants to see Mr. Latimer. Oh, you're Neil's secretary. I'm Mrs. Moline, remember? I left a message with you. Mr. Latimer's been very busy. He hasn't asked for any of his calls. I've quite a list of them. Well now I'm here, I want to see him. I'm afraid that would be rather difficult without an appointment. If you tell him I'm here, he'll see me. - Oh Miss Elliott... - Yes. I brought those photographs. The ones Mr. Latimer asked about yesterday? I'm afraid I can't send them into him right now, but I think I know the ones he wants. If you'll just come in here we'll run through them. Good afternoon, Latimer Enterprises... Yes sir, one moment please. Latimer Enterprises. One moment. Latimer Enterprises? No sir, this is the operator. Just one moment, I'll connect you with Miss Elliott. - She must think I'm dead! - Thank you very much. I was wondering if you thought I was dead... Oh Mrs. Moline, I was just coming to tell you that Mr. Latimer is gone for the day. Gone? I don't believe it! I'm terribly sorry. But I've been sitting out there all afternoon. I would have seen him go. He left by his private entrance. I didn't know it myself until just a few minutes ago. Oh. "He can't be that busy, it's just a stall!" "He's harder to see than the President!" "Private Entrance!" "He's got to see me. I'm sick of life pushing me around." "I'm not just a small-town girl. I'm Rosa Moline!" Rosa Moline? "I'm Rosa Moline." Calling Rosa Moline? Calling Rosa Moline? Someone's calling my name. What do they want? Probably they want you on the telephone. It's that way! Hello? Hello? Yes? This is Rosa Moline! I'm sorry, but your party hung up. Who was it? Did you get the number? I'm sorry, but there wasn't any message. Hello? This is the operator. Do you wish to place a call? Hello? Yes? Is that you Rosa? Oh Neil, yes! Yes it is! Too bad I couldn't see you this afternoon. I know...I began to think you were trying to avoid me. As a matter of fact, I was sitting here writing you a letter. Oh Neil, that's not like you! What about? Well, as long as you're here I'll tell you in person. I'll pick you up at 7:30. I'll be downstairs waiting! Fine. Goodbye, Rosa. Bye. Hello? I want to order a drink. I'll give you room service. Room service. This is Room 806. I want to order a cocktail. A martini. Make it double. Thank you. Well hello, Neil. You're looking swell, Rosa. I want you to be proud of me when you take me out! Cigarette? What's the big news? Oh, I suppose I've always seemed a pretty tough customer. But there comes a time in a man's life when he sees things a bit differently. I know...Ever since I met you I've been seeing things a bit different too. I worked hard all my life, Rosa. I've worked for everything I've got. Not always clean fighting either, but I got there. But it's not enough. I've missed things along the line, important things. I've got a chance now to pick some of them up. We've never pulled any punches, have we? No. Okay, I'm going to lay it right on the line. I've met a girl. I'm going to marry her. Why? Because I've fallen in love. Go on and laugh. I don't blame you. If anyone had told me this six weeks ago, I'd have laughed my head off. It's the truth! I didn't know girls like that existed. She's like a book with all the pages uncut. And nothing on them! She's beautiful, I suppose. - No, just pretty. And young. Sneaking out on me without a word! That's what you meant to do if I hadn't come to Chicago. After all the things you said! You had me in such a spin I'd have said anything. I'm sorry. - You're sorry? What good does that do me? I've left Lewis for good. You just walked out without knowing how things were with me? I know how things were when you left! They were like that. I can't go back, Neil! If you turn me down I got nothing left, nothing! Rosa, let me give you some money. What are you trying to do? I want to get out of here! Now look Rosa, I've always tried to be on the up and up with you, tried to tell you just how I felt. When it comes down to it, I didn't owe you any explanation at all. The time we spent together, I wasn't double-crossing anyone. And I didn't break up your home or break up your marriage, so don't pin that on me. If you don't stop this car, I'll jump out! Pull up here, Baker. Rosa, have some sense! I came here, dragged myself on my hands and knees, with no pride...Me, Rosa Moline! And you don't want me, I'm not good enough! You taught me my place, all right... I told him all right! I walked out on him! Him and his millions! Any other woman would have taken the money! But I'm not just any woman, I'm Rosa Moline! You waiting for someone? You can't stay here without an escort. Buy you a beer, sister? Come on, I've got a couple of bucks. Paper, lady? Taxi! Taxi! Wait... I'll put some brandy in it. Drink. All of it. I want you to kiss me. If you want to. Funny, isn't it? All these trees standing here feeling so tall and so strong... and then someone comes along and says, "it's your turn". And they get the mark of death on them. I wonder if they know? People don't, at least most people don't. It's not always death, though. Sometimes it's a disability or an ordeal of some sort. See any mark on me? Rosa... Of course not! Don't you see it, Lewis? No. Why? I always thought that you were a rotten doctor. I'm going to have a baby. Aren't you glad? Not glad and not not glad. I should think a baby would make you happy. - Will it, Lewis? - It ought to. Why should you be different from any other woman? I always thought I was. And now I'm like all the rest. Maybe that's not so bad. Rosa... Take me home, Lewis. I'm tired. Rosa... I wish you'd start going about a little and seeing people. You know when you had that cold, everybody in town asked about you. The first thing they'd say was, "How's Rosa?" It's you they like. You could make them like you. Why don't you want to go to that party that Carol's giving for Moose? It seems so silly...squaredancing and a birthday cake. Oh no... Birthday parties aren't silly. Wish you and Carol could be friends. She'd be good for you. I'm afraid I've never had much luck being friends with women. Thanks. This is quite a party! I'm so glad Rosa could come after all. So am I. I took everything! I don't often get the chance to fill up on food that isn't my own cooking! It's fun, isn't it? I think you'll like all of this, Rosa. - Oh! Pickled peaches! Rosa, did Carol put these out? I don't know. I guess probably she did. Psst...Psst! Now! For he's a jolly good fellow For he's a jolly good fellow For he's a jolly good fellow Which nobody can deny Which nobody can deny Which nobody can deny Hello, Moose! I heard you were having a surprise party, and I thought I'd be another surprise. Congratulations, you old buzzard! - Well... How many candles are there on that cake? Now, don't bring that up! Oh Mrs. Moline, may I present Mr. Neil Latimer... of Chicago. - How do you do. - And Dr. Lewis. - Hello, Doctor. Nice to know you. Mrs. Carmody...and Mrs. Williams... Mr. Latimer. That's a beautiful cake. Well, count them if you want to! You think I can count that high? An awful lot of candles there! First and third Balance and swing, Down the center Divide the ring The ladies go "gee" and The gents go "haw" Swing when you meet Both heads and feet And always swing! Do-si-do your corners all Do-si-do your partners all All-a-man left with The old left hand It's back to your partner Go right and left grand Hand over hand Till you come round Hand over hand Till you come down Meet your partner Promenade eight Now round the old track Till you come straight Promenade two by two Promenade as you used to do Second and fourth Balance and swing Down the center Divide the ring The ladies go "gee" And the gents go "haw" And you come back home And you all eight whirl Swing all Swing that pretty girl Do-si-do your corners all Do-si-do your partners all - Nice of you to let us use the lodge - Forget it! I've always wanted to do something for Moose. Meet your partner Promenade eight And round the old track And you'll come straight Here we go With the old met swag And the hind wheel broke And the axle drag Four ladies chain To the cent and back Four ladies chain On a figure-8 track I only came up here to see you. Slip away to the gun room. Glad you came? It was a swell idea. All join hands In a circle down south Let a little sunshine In your mouth Honor your corners And partners all Then two step clear Around the hall Did Rosa ever know Neil Latimer before? Not that I know of. Why? I don't know. It's just an idea. How does it feel to be a birthday boy? As if I'd just been born! I think I'll go and powder my nose. Oh Doc...I want you to meet a friend of mine. Say, Moose! How about getting up a hunting party tomorrow? I haven't had deer meat since last year! I could do with a little of that myself. Good. Invite anyone along who wants to come. I'm not going to get married. I'll called it off, washed it up. It's you and me now, Rosa. That's the way it's gonna be. I must have been crazy that time in Chicago. But I know where I stand now. I want you to marry me. And that's what you always wanted, isn't it? How soon can you get away? - Right now! - Rosa, you're terrific! I'm crazy about you! You had my number all along. You're what I do need: Someone I can always be myself with. Not putting on an act... A society act like that dame I was soft in the head about. You remember what you said about her? A book with nothing on her pages? Well, there was something on them, all right. Lies! Nice, ladylike lies. But I'll show them! I'll doll you up, Rosa! Hang diamonds on you like a Christmas tree... and then I'm going to trot you out and say, "Look! This is the kind of a woman I want! A woman with guts!" And you can wipe your feet on them all. What about Reno? You can get a divorce there in six weeks. Six weeks... Mexico's even quicker! Mexico! Oh, excuse me! I was just picking out a rifle for the hunt tomorrow. For Mrs. Moline. - This is a nice light one. It feels good. Let's make an early start in the morning, Moose. I've got to fly back to Chicago. Why? You didn't come up for very long? I just got hungry for the taste of venison. How about 5:00? - Okay... Now, has everyone got their positions clear? Now stay with them! You heard him! Moose is the boss! Good morning, Mrs. Moline! Good morning, Mr. Latimer! Better have some coffee before we start. I'll meet you back here in an hour. We'll be on our way before they miss us. I'll be here. Here's to you, Rosa Moline! Here's to you, Mrs. Neil Latimer! You're not going to get away with it. I'm on to you and Latimer. You mind your own business. You're something for the birds, Rosa. Something for the birds! And you're something to make the corn grow tall! - It won't work. - You bet it'll work! I'll leave you and Lewis and everything in this town behind me! What about the baby? I don't think Latimer will be quite so interested... when he finds out. What are you talking about? Lewis was so proud he had to tell me. You're not going to get away with it. What makes you think you can play God? I'm not playing God exactly... But I'm on his side. - You wouldn't dare. - Oh yes I would! You tell Latimer or I will. Moose gave us our positions and told us to stay in them. So when I saw something move, I thought it was a deer. Anyone would! Ask anyone here who goes hunting what they do when they see something move in the brush. They shoot. And that's what I did. Mr. Foreman, have you reached a verdict? As a result of our deliberation, after listening carefully to the testimony, we have agreed upon a verdict of Death by Accident. Rosa? "Ashes and ashes, dust to dust, "Ensure us through the hope of the Resurrection "Of the Eternal Life, through Jesus Christ Our Lord, Amen." Hold this. Rosa! We better change our plans. Wait a little while till all of this dies down. But I got off! It was an accident! I know, but you can't just up and leave now... Not while it's all still fresh. We better wait a month or so. You never was so conventional before. I never planned on marrying you before. That makes a difference. I don't want any dirt hanging to us. I can't, I just simply can't! What's a couple of months? It's November now. Stay till some time after Christmas. Then you can tell people you're going on a trip. What's the matter, Lewis? Carol fainted. She's all right now. Wish this rain would let up. I'm pushing off tonight. Not very good weather for flying. Well you can't tell. It might be clear up higher. Well goodbye, Dr. Moline. - Bye. Mrs. Moline. I'll make you some coffee. I can't go through with it! I can't! I just can't! You can't go through with what? I've killed a man. It'll be on my mind all these months to come. No telling what it'll do to the child! It wouldn't be right, it wouldn't be fair! Rosa, whatever you've done has nothing to do with your child. You've had a bad time, but you must put it all behind you. It's very difficult to tell you how much this means to me, but as time goes on it will mean just as much to you. I've seen it happen... - You won't see it happen to me! When I think of the things I could have! After I've told you a few things, you may not want me or my child. I've known Latimer for over a year now! He's crazy about me. It all started back at that time when you thought I was lost, snowed in somewhere. Well, I was, with Neil Latimer! Then that time up at Moose's cabin when you'd thought I'd hurt my ankle. After you left I got Moose drunk so I could be with him again. And then that time when I went to Chicago... Go on. Well, he thought he was going to marry someone else... But he changed his mind! Why did you think he turned up at the lodge that night? Just to see me! Just to tell me he wanted to marry me! You thought you could keep me tied to this town, didn't you? Make another Mildred Sorren out of me with 8 kids. He turned you down, and when he whistled you went crawling back to him. Running back! I don't want to hear any more! All I care about is my baby and you're going to go through with it. I never knew what hate really was until this minute. That is unimportant. Is it? Is it! Wait till you hear what else I've got to say! I've got more brains in my little finger than you've got in that whole stupid head of yours. More brains than anyone in this town! And that goes for all the hicks that sat on the inquest. An accident! And you believed it too! You murdered Moose? Yes I did. I've been hunting all my life. Did you ever know me to miss? Did you ever see me when I didn't hit what I aimed at? Did you ever know me to mistake a man for a deer? "I killed Moose, I couldn't help it! "Why should I want to, someone tell me that! "Why should I want to?" Why should I want to! You can go where you please and you can do what you like! After you've had the baby! I'll kill myself first! Let's have a look at your chart. And then there are those dizzy spells. They're what's worrying me the most. I'm afraid I might topple over sometime when I have one of the children in my arms, or... I'm standing near the stove or something. Is it something serious, Lewis? No, you've got nothing to worry about. Lewis, I'm cold. I think there's a steamer rug in the trunk. Rosa! Alright, alright. Good morning. Look at this, thick with dust! You're better... Well, dust it! Hand me my sweater. Is the window down? Will I be up in a few days, Lewis? I've just got to be. I won't hold back your recovery. I want Jenny to take your temperature. At noon and again at 6:00. Keep her on these. - Jenny! - Yes, Ma'am? What is the matter with this coffee? It tastes awful! Take it away, it makes me sick. What do you want now? I'm burning up! Come and get this pitcher. I want some more water. Why are you home so early? I came as soon as Jenny called me. What about? I told her to, in case your temperature went up. You did this to me, I know you did! You want me to die, don't you? You're trying to punish me for all the things I've done. I'm gonna fool you, I'm gonna live! Remember your first patient was a horse? There's nothing wrong with me that a good doctor couldn't cure. Why should I lie here in this dump when I could have the best of everything... the best that money could buy, everything deluxe! All this is just a stall... to keep me here! You really hate me, don't you? You finally got the guts to hate me! Well congratulations, it'll make a new man of you! Jenny, I've got to drive over to the hospital in Ashford for some more medicine. Don't you leave the house until I get back. Mrs. Moline, you get back in bed! I'm catching the 10:00 train. The choo-choo that's gonna carry me away! I better get a move on... Move on! At last I'm moving on! The Doctor said I was to take care of you until he got back. Well take care of me then! Get out my sandals. Excitement. Ever hear of excitement, Jenny? It's like fire running through you! Chicago, Chicago... the toddling town... The toddling town... Chicago, Chicago... What's the matter? Got molasses on your fingers? Get me a coat! You wear that yourself. No more dead cat for me! It's getting dark. That mill sucks all the juice out of this town! Do you have to stand there like a cigar store Indian? Can't you help me? The zipper's jammed! You clumsy fool! You want me to miss that train. Get out of here! Get out! Mrs. Neil K. Latimer. Hello? Hello? Operator? I want to talk to the hospital in Ashford! November 2010
