 

                        I pronounce this man dead. Score another one for Thompson. You don't think much of the district attorney, do you, Austin? On the contrary... He's an extremely able man. Then why are you always attacking him on your editorial page? Because I think he's trying to reach the governor's chair Over the bodies of executed men. I'm fighting against capital punishment. That's why I wanted you to witness that execution. Thanks. After you've seen one, you... Did you ever meet Thompson? No. He just came in. Well-- Guess I'd better go over And say hello to Austin Spencer. You looking for trouble? Why wait for tomorrow's editorial? Might as well hear it now. Join me? No, thanks. I'll read about it in tomorrow's paper. Hello, Roy. It's good to see you, Austin. I'd like you to meet Tom Garrett. This is our district attorney Roy Thompson. How do you do, sir? Join us for a moment? Thanks. Care for a drink? No, not now. I enjoyed your novel very much, Mr. Garrett. Congratulations. Thank you. I guess you're very pleased with yourself. Not particularly. Why should I be? Oh. Peters committed a murder. And it doesn't bother you to send him to the electric chair? I presented certain facts to a jury. They decided, Beyond a reasonable doubt, That Peters was guilty. Under the law, he must be executed. There were no eyewitnesses, No direct testimony establishing his guilt. Only circumstantial evidence, Which you handled masterfully. You don't mean you think Peters was innocent, do you? He might be. The jury didn't think so. Look, Roy, I've sat in too many courtrooms Not to know that an able and persuasive prosecutor like you Can make a jury believe that a thing is a fact when it isn't, Especially if the defense attorney Is not as capable as you are. Would you have Mr. Thompson ignore circumstantial evidence? No, not at all. I just don't think the state should take a man's life In such a case. In fact, I'm not sure his life should be taken in any event. There are six states in this country That don't have capital punishment. But this state does, And I'm sworn to uphold the laws of this state. It's good to see you, Austin. I'm very happy to have met you, Mr. Garrett. My pleasure, sir. He seems friendly enough. And why not? I've always been fair to him personally in the paper. We just don't agree on capital punishment, that's all. Well, let's face it, Austin. That's an argument that's been going on for centuries, And I doubt very much that you or Mr. Thompson are going to settle it. Oh, I think I can, But not just by talking about it. I'll have to be getting back to the office. Joe? Can I drop you anywhere? No. Susan promised to meet me here. Oh. You two are beginning to sound serious. Any objections? If I had, I wouldn't have let you leave the paper When you wanted to write that novel. What has that got to do with it? My daughter has expensive tastes. I don't think you'd have made much progress On the salary I was paying you. [Chuckles] Hello. Hi. I couldn't reach the top of his head. You didn't try very hard. Well, if you two can spare me... We'll manage. See you later. Sit down. Thank you. Would you like a drink? Mmm...no, thanks. Thanks. Well... What would you like to do? Oh, I feel like dancing. At 5:00 in the afternoon? I'll take you dancing tonight. Mmm...but I feel like dancing now. All right. Where? I've never seen your apartment. Aren't we a little mixed up? That's supposed to be my line. But you've never used it. It all began the day I looked At you You were just like The girl I dreamed of... Next month, we'll make you a June bride. [Telephone rings] Let it ring. Oh, go ahead and answer it. I have to go home and change anyway. I'll get rid of this and drive you. Never mind. I'll take a cab. Hold on a second, will you? What time shall I pick you up tonight? About 8:00. And tell her you're spoken for. I never thought that I could feel this way Your love is all I want to sing about... Hello. Yes. And spring will last forever and a day... It works, too. I couldn't go through the rest of my life Watching you search for matches. It's beautiful... And so are you. I'm glad you two finally set a date. Uh... I'm afraid we might have to postpone it for a while. Oh? That telephone call in the apartment was my publisher. He hit the ceiling when he found out How much progress I haven't made. What's that got to do with your being married? He wants the new book right away, So I'll just have to buckle down and get it written. Might surprise you to know That there are successful writers who are married. But I'm not a successful writer yet, Sue. One book doesn't prove anything. That's why the second one is so important. I'll just have to concentrate on it. You can understand that, can't you, Austin? Yes. You can't afford a letdown after your first book. I hope you understand, Susan. Of course I understand, And I wouldn't dream of forcing you To do anything you obviously don't want. Susan. Yes? Darling, I love you very much, And I just want our marriage to start right. And the only way is to finish the book first. I couldn't write if I were distracted, And being married to you Should certainly be distracting. Are you trying to tell me That if you were married to me, You'd be too distracted to write? I certainly hope so. I'll try to get used to it, though. All I'm asking is that we postpone it for a little while. I'll finish the book, And then we can start out together With nothing on our minds But ourselves. Write fast, will you? I've been thinking about what you said at the club today-- About capital punishment. You get engaged to my daughter, And all you can think about is capital punishment? No, really. I'm serious, Austin. I haven't been able to get it out of my mind. You mean, then, that you agree with me about capital punishment? Oh, I'm not sure about that, But the idea that an innocent man could be executed... Kind of bothers me. It might be a good subject for a book. Oh, a book. A fictitious story wouldn't prove anything. It can only be proven By a fact that no one could deny. How? By having someone whose innocence I knew and could prove... Arrested, tried, and convicted For a murder he didn't commit. Yeah, but it wouldn't be possible If the police had any real suspects. In a large city like this, Homicides occur quite frequently. Sometimes the police are completely baffled. They have no clues, No suspects, Nothing to go on. I believe, in such a case, It would be possible For an innocent man to plant evidence That would lead To his arrest, trial, and conviction. A case like that doesn't come up once in 10 years. You said a case like this Doesn't happen once in 10 years, yet here it is. A burlesque dancer found strangled with a stocking In a ravine just outside of town. Now, the police apparently have no clues. And you think we could have someone who is innocent Arrested, convicted, and sentenced for this? Don't you? I don't know. But I'll admit, if we could pull it off, It would make a great story. Who can we get for a guinea pig? You. Me? Well, why not? It requires someone with imagination, Ingenuity, Someone who would be believable As the unwitting victim of circumstances. You could do it. That's a weird, crazy idea, But maybe that's the reason it intrigues me. What about the risks? There wouldn't be any. Of course, you might be acquitted, But if we're lucky, you'll get the chair. That's the part that bothers me. And that is where I would come in. After you were convicted and sentenced, I would reveal the details of our plan. I have some standing in this community. You would be pardoned automatically. You make it all sound very simple. Oh, it would be. Everyone knows that I have been trying for years To have this law on capital punishment changed. Of course, we might be criticized for the way we do it, But that wouldn't bother me If we accomplish something. How can we be sure the police have no suspects? Mmm. That's easy. [Ring] Charlie Miller. Uh, yes, sir. Just a moment. Yes. The Patty Gray case. Lieutenant Kennedy's handling it. Looks like a good story. Do you think you can find out What they really have on it, if anything? I think so, but Kennedy may want it off the record for the time being. That's all right. We'll cooperate. But I want to know, step by step, what they're doing. Yes, sir. If they haven't got a suspect, We'll give them one. We've got 50 suspects. That gal kept pretty busy. Guy at the stage door couldn't keep track of them. Huh. Any prospects among them? Ah, doesn't look too good. We've got a few descriptions we're checking out now. The only thing we really know Is that she lived alone at a rooming house. Strange thing about that. Why? Well, after her body was found, We went over her room. It obviously had been ransacked. We couldn't find a thing. No letters, no papers, No address book, No fingerprints. Nothing. Those girls from the club are here, lieutenant. Send in... Joan Williams first. Miss Williams. Sit down, Miss Williams. According to this, At one time you lived with Patty Gray. Is that correct? For a little while. You two were pretty good friends. I hardly knew her. Then how did you come to be living with her? When I, uh, came to town to work at the club A few weeks ago, I didn't have anyplace to stay. Patty offered to let me live with her If paid her $15 a week. I think she needed the money. I understand that you moved out A few days before she was murdered. Why? You two have a fight? Oh, no. She just came home one night And told me to get out, just like that, For no reason. I thought she needed the money. That's what I thought, too. And I asked her about it. But she just laughed And said she didn't need my, uh, uh... My lousy 15 bucks anymore. She had an awful lot of money with her that night. Did she, uh... Did she say where she got it? She didn't say anything. Just told me to get out. Is there anything you can tell me That might help us find out who murdered her? Aw, gee, I wish I could, But I'm afraid I can't help. Like I say, I only been here a couple of weeks. This is only my first job. Thank you for coming in, Miss Williams. [Presses intercom button] Send in those two other girls. What do you want with us? Well, I'd like to ask you girls a few questions. In the middle of the night? It's a quarter of 3:00. We're artists. We need our sleep. Yeah, we got to keep in shape. You're doing a very good job. Gee, thanks. What about some breakfast? Yes. How about some coffee? What, no doughnuts? No doughnuts. Huh. Ucchh! You girls shared a dressing room with Patty Gray. What sort of a girl was she? All right, I guess. All right? She was a creep. What do you mean, a creep? A creep. A conniver. A tramp. What about her private life? Nobody knew much about that. But she wouldn't have won any popularity contests. If nobody knew much about her private life, Why was she so unpopular? Well, it's like this. She was one of those kind of people When you knew her a little bit, you didn't like her. You had to know her real good to despise her. We're trying to find out who killed Patty Gray. If there's any cooperation you can give us... For pete's sake, tell him! I can't stay here and drink any more of this coffee. There's nothing to tell. I never even got a good look at him. Who? The guy who picked her up The night she was bumped off. Somebody picked her up that night? Yeah. Patty and me left the club together that night. There was a fella waiting for her in the car. They drove off together. What did he look like? Well, he was sort of average build. He had a gray tweed topcoat And a brown hat, And he was smoking a pipe. You see his face? Uh-uh. They drove off too quick. What kind of a car was he driving? It was a sort of a... Dark, new sedan. I don't know what kind. Did you get the license number? What for? Well, it's six days, And the police apparently don't have any more now Than when they started. Only a vague description Of the man who picked her up that night. Think they'll be able to develop anything from that? I doubt it. That's not very much of a lead to work on. Well, I think I'm ready to risk it now. What about you? Well, I can easily make myself The man in the gray coat and the brown hat. I even drive a dark, late model car. Now, we must remember this. Any evidence we plant Must be things that could happen To any innocent, unwitting suspect. What about Susan? Do we let her in on this? Oh, I'd rather not. If you're arrested, the police are certain to question her. Under pressure, she might let something slip. Seems like an awful thing to do to her. She loves you, Tom. She'd never believe that you did it. I hope you're right. If I know Susan, she'd even try to help. Just you see that she doesn't try to help too much. If she starts to fight for me, We might have a little difficulty in getting me convicted. Well...what's the next move? What about an evening of cultural entertainment? Didn't a couple of these girls Share a dressing room with Patty Gray? Yes, this one, Terri Larue, And this blonde, Dolly Moore. How do you know? Charlie Miller said so. Oh. [Whistling and cheering inside] May I take your things? Anytime. The hat. Oh. [Lounge combo plays] Hubba hubba! Awooo! [Laughter] What impression did you get about this girl From Charlie? Oh, so-so. No genius, but not too stupid, either. [Whistling] What'll you have? Do you have any suggestions How I might go about meeting Miss Moore? The artists don't date with the customers. But the artists eat in the joint across the street. Scotch and soda, please. [Inserts coin] [Big band music plays] Oh, I-- Drunken crumb! I'm terribly sorry. Having a good time? Uh--uh, really, I'm sorry. I--I was only trying to help. Who, you or me? Well, uh, could I pay For the damage I've done? Well, that's the least you can do. This is very embarrassing. I don't seem to have much money with me. Huh! Wouldn't you know? Ah-choo! I'm sorry. Well, could I get in touch with you? You've touched enough already. I apologize for the trouble I've caused you. I think he's a doll. Crumb. Gray tweed looks particularly well on you, sir. Well, that's fine. I'll take it. How much is it? That'll be 39.50. I'll just wear it. There you are. Thank you, sir. I'll have your change and receipt in a moment. O.K. Wait a minute. Why don't you get yourself in the picture? In the mirror. That's a good idea. This ought to be about right. Can you direct me to Miss Dolly Moore's room, please? Room 2. Thank you. [Burlesque music plays] [Man] all right, girls, on you go. Hi. I'll be back in a couple of minutes. I'm looking for Dolly Moore. Oh. You again. Get lost. Why, I hate to bother you, But I told you last night I want to pay you for that outfit I ruined. [Spits] So, uh, if you'd tell me how much it costs... Well, I don't remember, But it was a very expensive outfit, of course. Of course. Would, uh... Say, 100 cover it? Well, it, uh, probably cost more, But I'm not greedy like some girls. I'm, uh, sorry I lost my temper, but, uh... My performances are very tiring. I can imagine. Just to show there are no hard feelings, Would you let me buy you dinner? Well--I mean, I don't usually... I understand. Have you ever been to the continental? Hey. I hear that's a real classy place. It's very nice. Would you like to go there tomorrow night After you're through work? Say, you're all right. So are you, Dolly, And I'll pick you up after the show tomorrow. Good night. Goodbye. Cheers. Hello, darling. Hello. Darling, you look absolutely wonderful. Oh, you've been neglecting me, So I want to show you What you've been missing. What can I fix you to drink? Oh...sherry? How's the book progressing? Oh, it's coming along, But there's an awful lot of research involved. Well, I'll try to take your mind off it. What would you like to do after dinner? I know what I'd like to do, But unfortunately, I've got to get back to work. You asked me to write fast, remember? Oh, I wish it were finished. So do I, darling. I don't enjoy this any more than you. Do you believe that, father? I would hate to think He was having a good time. [Band playing] Hello. Well, hi. All right if I wait in here for Dolly? If you're in a hurry, I'm ready to leave. Thanks for the offer. Anytime. Cigarette? No, thanks. What's this? Body makeup. Do you all use the same kind? Mm-hmm. Why? I just wondered. Did Patty Gray use this kind? Yeah. Did you know Patty? No. I was just curious about it. Her hair wasn't the same color as yours and Dolly's. How do you know it wasn't? Her picture was all over the papers. A lot of good the publicity does her now. [Band finishes] [Crowd applauds] Give me a hand, will you, honey? Sure. Have more trouble getting into this Than getting out of it, huh? Ain't it the truth? Hello, Dolly. You two having a good time? I was just entertaining him while you were gone. I can do my own entertaining. Can't I? Quote, "a rising young author, whose initials are Tom Garrett, "Has been seen lately in several spots with a dazzling blonde. "They were at the continental the other night. "We wonder what Susan Spencer thinks about this." Unquote. Is this your idea of research? It's nothing for you to get upset about, believe me. Oh, no. It's perfectly natural For you to be celebrating our engagement With a dazzling blonde. Did you two have a good time? I'm trying to write a book. About...women? Well, actually, that is part of my work. Oh, Tom, I'm hardly a prude, And I think I'm reasonably modern. If you're giving your ego a workout having a fling-- Hmm--Have fun, but dishonesty? Not with me. Susan, this is something I have to do. All right. Give me one good reason why. Why-- I can't explain it now, But you'll understand later. Just trust me. You were on page four three weeks ago, And you're on page four now. You're not a slow writer. You just don't write. Susan, you've got to listen to me. There's a point to all this. Oh, and I've just gotten it. You're obviously distracted enough without me, So I'll make things easy for you. You wanted a postponement? Oh, dear boy, You've got one. She was pretty sore. It was no fit of temper. She means it. I know. What could I do? We agreed not to tell her about this. True, but I don't want to see Your happiness or hers jeopardized. Neither do I. I think it'll be all right When we tell her what we're doing. You're sure this is where they found her? Oh, yes. There were enough pictures of it In the newspapers. They found the girl's body down there. I hope the police find this. I'm sentimental about it. Can you get the date of the newspaper in? If I get close enough. Well, let's see... They ought to find it in there. When are we going to start to work on the car? Tonight, after I have dinner with Dolly. Has she seen you in the coat and the hat yet? She will tonight. There you are. Pretty good. Thanks for dinner. Sorry I don't have more time. How about later? It's a nice night. We could go for a drive. Sounds great. Hey, you two, break it up. We're going to be late. O.K., you run along. I'll pick you up later. Good night, Terri. Night. Want a candy? Uh-uh. [Car door closes] [Engine starts] Hey, Terri, Quit digging the scenery. I thought we were late. How much do you know about that guy? He's the best score I've made in a long time. Maybe-- Maybe you shouldn't get so... So chummy with him. Yeah, and give you a chance to move in? No kidding. Maybe you ought to be a little more careful. Remember what happened to Patty. Oh, come on! Notice what he was wearing? Gray tweed topcoat... Brown hat, And how about that new black car he drives? Ah, your head's drafty. This guy's got a lot of class. If he's got so much class, what's he doing with you? There's something wrong with me? Oh, I don't mean it like that, Dolly. No? Aw, honey, you figure it out. A guy shows up out of nowhere, Goes on the make. With his looks and his dough, What's he shopping around in the basement for? Why, you got-- Here's the two aspirin I owe you. I like to keep my credit good. Huh. Is this kid for real? He did ask me to go for a ride later. Yeah. Well, just remember That last ride Patty took. Well... I guess it won't hurt to play safe. But if you try to move in, I'll put you in bandages. I'll call that lieutenant Kennedy. The police will naturally be looking For Patty Gray's fingerprints. Since we can't give them hers, It should make them suspicious If they can't find any fingerprints at all. It'll give them something to think about, anyway. Well, I bought this body makeup today. Here's a dated sales slip. You better keep it with the pictures. You ready? Just a second. O.K. I'll rub most of this stuff off. I'm sure enough of it will stick in the seams. All through? Not quite. Hey. Looks pretty good. This is a very important little item. I hope it's the right size. Now hold it. Well... That should do it. Oh, Austin, you better take That bottle of makeup and that rag And those gloves when you go. I can't have those found around here. O.K. Tom... Are you sure you want to go through with this? Oh, we're into it too far. I couldn't back out now if I wanted to. [Water running] Gee, lieutenant, if the guy's o.K., I don't want him to get sore at me. Well, we'll be as discreet as possible. You just act normal, and don't be afraid. We'll be watching you every minute. [Sigh] What are we doing here? It's a nice view from up here. I thought you might like it. Yeah, I-It's very pretty. Let's go back. What's your hurry? I'm--I'm tired. Now, just relax. You'll feel better. I don't want to. You will. Stop it! Let me go! Let me out of here! All right, unwind. What do you want? Lieutenant Kennedy, homicide. You've been asking me questions for four hours now. We're investigating a homicide, Mr. Garrett. And I've been telling you I never knew that girl or anything about her. What were you doing wednesday evening, The ninth of this month? That was almost three weeks ago. Not a very long time. Can you remember what you were doing that night? I am asking the questions, Mr. Garrett. I can't recall what I was doing. Try. [Long sigh] Yeah, I think I went to the movies. At what time? Well, I went to the late show. It was about 11:00. Then I went home and went to bed. What's that got to do with all this? Did you go alone? Yes. Can you substantiate this? I told you I went alone. How can I substantiate it? You'll just have to take my word for it, that's all. Thank you, Mr. Garrett. Please wait outside. Are you through with Dolly Moore, Roy? You can send her home. Watch your step on this case, Roy. Meaning what? Garrett's Spencer's future son-in-law, And everybody knows Spencer's been opposing you On capital punishment. If the idea ever gets started That you're prosecuting rrett To get back at Spencer... This case can be the biggest step I've ever made, If I handle it right. And I will. I'll send out for coffee if you want some. Thanks. I don't expect to be here that long. Take him downstairs, joe. Pete's waiting to book him. You're booking me, Thompson? That's right, Mr. Garrett. For what? Suspicion of murder. I wear a gray topcoat, Drive a black car, And a burlesque dancer Gets suspicious, And for this you're booking me for murder. There's more to it than that. What more could there be? I'm not going to try the case here, Mr. Garrett. I'll do that in court. Let's go, Garrett. You know as well as I do Tom had nothing to do with this. If you're going to be honest, You'll insist the police find the real murderer. No newspaper can do that. Once a case starts, we can't take sides. We just report. I cannot understand your attitude. It's quite simple. I don't want to prejudge this case. That's what trials are for. Did you run down his background? Yeah. Went to college in Michigan. Good record. Apparently ran out of money and had to quit. Worked on a newspaper in Chicago for a while Before he worked for Spencer. Quit to write a novel, hit big with it, But none of this helps us much. Maybe you'd better have a talk With Austin Spencer and his daughter. I, uh, I wish you'd ask someone else To do that, Roy. Why? Well, I used to know Susan Spencer. We went together for a while. Oh... What happened? Nothing happened. I guess she just wasn't interested. Were you? And still? Well, then, she'll understand. You're just doing your job. Sure. This is very difficult for all of us, But if you can shed any light on this case... Did you know, or did you have any reason to suspect Garrett's relationship with Patty Gray? Certainly not. I knew nothing about it, Bob. Oh, I know you think I'm trying to protect Tom, But I've no reason to do that. You're engaged to him. No, we broke it off long before this happened. Can you tell me why? Well... Nothing to do with the case, But I just realized he wasn't the man for me. What reason could he possibly have for such a crime? Well, Thompson believes that Garrett Had some sort of clandestine affair with this girl. She resisted him, or he couldn't get rid of her, And he strangled her. That's ridiculous. I admit that I'm disillusioned about Tom For personal reasons, But he's certainly no murderer. Then I have to tell you That a gold cigarette lighter With the inscription "to Tom from Susan" Has been found by the police Near the ravine where the girl's body was discovered. Do you know anything about this lighter? I gave that lighter to Tom. Now will you help me if you can? Neither Susan nor I have any information That would substantiate Tom Garrett's guilt. Forgive me for troubling you. I'm sorry, Susan. Goodbye. Murder, after all, can be committed by anyone-- Rich or poor, Successful or unsuccessful, Famous or unknown, And I will demonstrate to you that Tom Garrett, Successful author, is in fact a murderer. That beneath his intellectual and cultured exterior, He was moved by brutal impulses Which induced him to commit, Deliberately and premeditatedly, A particularly vicious murder. I shall prove it, as the law requires, Beyond a reasonable doubt. Before Patty Gray was murdered, she told you She didn't want you to room with her anymore. You also testified that she had Quite a bit of money with her. Is that correct? Yes, sir. She took it out of her purse And sort of flashed it around in front of me. How much money would you say she had? I couldn't say for sure, But there must've been at least 2 or $3,000. Did she say where she got the money? No. I asked her, but all she said was, "Wouldn't you like to know?" [Laughter] I told her I would, But she still didn't tell me. [Laughter] There you are, my dear. Well, things didn't go too badly today. Particularly when I made it clear that Tom's gray topcoat Is a popular, ready-made model Worn by thousands of other men. And those two dancers didn't help Thompson's case, either. Ha ha. I tried to point out That Terri Larue's description of the man Who picked up Patty Gray that night Could apply to a lot of men. I hope I succeeded. I think you made your point. Well, they're showing highlights of the trial every evening. Let's see how it looked today. Following the testimony of Terri Larue, The last person to see Patty Gray alive, District attorney Thompson put john higgins, A police laboratory technician, on the stand. I ask you, As an expert of the subject of fingerprints, If it is likely That in the ordinary cleaning of a car, All fingerprints would be removed From the interior and exterior surfaces? I think that would be very unusual. In other words, Cleaning a car in such a manner Would indicate a desire to remove fingerprints Rather than any passion for cleanliness. Is that correct? I object, your honor. This is not proper examination. The district attorney's attempting to draw a conclusion From the witness. I withdraw the question, your honor. This is a conclusion which should be made by the jury. Thompson has a great talent For making minor points seem important. Later in the day, Thompson recalled Dolly Moore to the stand. The laboratory technician of the police department Has testified that traces of makeup Were found in the seams of the upholstery Of the defendant's car. This makeup has been identified as foster's makeup number nine. Do you know what brand of makeup Miss Gray used? Foster's number nine. To your knowledge, did she ever use any other kind? No, sir. We have presented highlights of today's session Of the Garrett trial. Be with-- Seems to me that Thompson Didn't make very much of the body makeup. Yes. That worries me. Having brought it up, I didn't expect him to make so little of it. He must have something up his sleeve. And when did you give this lighter to the defendant, Miss Spencer? May 7th. Well, only two days before the murder of Patty Gray. Mm-hmm. What did the lighter cost? $275. Do you recall when you last saw this lighter In the possession of the defendant? Miss Spencer, I ask you again, When did you last see this lighter in the defendant's possession? I... I don't remember. Well, I don't know how it got up there. I'd lost the lighter. Whoever found it must have dropped it up there. Now, it has been testified That Patty Gray wore a brand of makeup, Particles of which were found in the upholstery of your car. Was Patty Gray ever in your car? She was not. I never met her in my life. Dolly Moore has been in my car several times. She's a performer, wears body makeup. I guess the makeup must have rubbed off her. I'm sure that explains it. Now, it has also been testified That the man seen driving off with Patty Gray The night she was murdered was smoking a pipe. Do you now or have you ever smoked a pipe? I have never smoked a pipe at any time. Then you want us to believe That you lost this gold cigarette lighter Between the time Miss Spencer gave it to you And the time Patty Gray was murdered, The space of only two days? It's true. And am I right that you and Susan Spencer Became engaged two days before the murder of Patty Gray? I don't see what one thing has to do with the other. Oh, might there not be a connection, If, for instance, you had to get rid of Patty Gray In order to fulfill your commitment to Miss Spencer? Your honor, I object strongly to this-- All right, Mr. Wilson. I withdraw the question. Did you file a claim with the insurance company For the loss of this valuable lighter, Which you now allege to have lost so innocently? Uh... No, I guess not. Oh, uh, yesterday's transcript. Mr. Garrett... Yesterday, in attempting to explain The absence of fingerprints in your car, You testified, and I quote... "What is so unusual about that? "I am very fussy about my car, And I keep it clean at all times." Unquote. That's true. Well, Mr. Garrett, with such a fetish for neatness, How do you explain the fact that a woman's stocking-- One stocking--was found in the glove compartment of your car? Well, some time ago, a lady friend of mine Got a bad run in her stocking. She took it off and put it in the glove compartment. Who was the lady? I don't remember. I believe it was someone I met at a party. I merely drove her home. I didn't really know her. You've testified, Mr. Garrett, That you never smoked a pipe. That's right. You sure? You may have forgotten. I'd certainly remember whether or not I'd ever smoked a pipe. Really? Perhaps not. You can't even remember What you were doing the night Patty Gray was murdered. I told you what I was doing. I went to the movies. Oh, of course. You went to the movies, alone. That's your claim, isn't it? That's the truth. Is there a pipe smoker among the gentlemen of the jury? Will you please fill and light your pipe for us, And stand up so they can all see. Oh, one moment, please. May I? You'll recall it's been testified That the man last seen with Patty Gray On the night she was murdered was smoking a pipe. Now, please note the circular brown stain On the back of this match cover Just used by your fellow juror here. You'll also notice similar stains on these match covers, Which were found by the police In the home and the garage of the defendant after his arrest. [Crowd murmurs] And you have never smoked a pipe, Mr. Garrett? I told you that. I do have visitors occasionally, however. Some of them smoke pipes. I guess that would explain how the match covers became stained. I doubt it, Mr. Garrett. I doubt it very much. Now, Mr. Garrett, Miss Joan Williams has testified That Patty Gray had a considerable sum of money with her, Perhaps as much as $3,000, Two days before she was murdered. Have you any idea how she might have obtained it? How would I know? I've told you a hundred times, I don't know anything about Patty Gray. But our investigation of your bank records Discloses that two days before Patty Gray was murdered, You withdrew the sum of $3,000 from your account. Did you give that money to Patty Gray? I certainly did not. Then why did you withdraw the money? Not that it's any concern of yours, But I withdrew the money to purchase an engagement ring. Well, how do you explain the fact that three days later, You redeposited $2,800? Did you purchase an engagement ring for $200? I didn't purchase an engagement ring. My engagement was... postponed. Are you sure you didn't withdraw that money To give to Miss Gray, And after murdering her, ransack her apartment, Reclaim what was left of the money, and redeposit it? That's absolutely untrue. It was just an awful coincidence that I happened-- Another coincidence, Mr. Garrett? Apparently, that's your explanation for all the evidence in this case. Well, now, let's move on to another, uh, coincidence. Other than Patty Gray and Dolly Moore, Can you tell us what other female theatrical performers Have recently been in your car with you? Patty Gray was never in my car. I told you, I never even met her. Ah, yes, yes, you did say that, didn't you? Well, other than Dolly Moore, What other female performers have recently been in your car? There were no others. With the court's permission, I would like to excuse this witness temporarily And recall Miss Moore to the stand. You may do so. Miss Moore, please. You realize, Miss Moore, that you're still testifying under oath. Yes, sir. Miss Moore, the defendant has testified That the particles of body makeup Which were found in his car Must have rubbed off you. Don't you believe it. I always take my body makeup off before I leave the club. I see. Uh, tell me, was this Miss Patty Gray's habit also? No, just the opposite. She always waited till she got home to take it off. [Laughter] The body makeup, I mean. Thank you, Miss Moore. The jury has been out since early yesterday. After being locked up for the night, They resumed their deliberations early this morning. Although there has been no indication When they will be ready to render their verdict, It is the feeling of most observers Who have followed the trial closely That a decision may be expected some time this morning. Court sessions usually open at 10:00, But before 9 a.M., spectators and members of the press Had already begun to congregate at the courthouse. The trial of Tom Garrett has attracted increasingly wide attention. [Radio] at the time of his arrest, Garrett was at work on his second novel. Aah! And so, the fate of Tom Garrett today Rests solely in the hearts and minds of 12 jurors. Hello, Jonathan. Hello, Tom. Don't get up. The jury still out? Yes. Relax, Jonathan, you're not on trial. Getting upset's not going to help at all. They've been out two days now, almost. I'm worried. Well, so am I, but I can't do anything about it. Neither can you, so take it easy. What's the trouble, Jonathan? I've never seen you like this before. You've got enough troubles. Come on, something's on your mind. What is it? I didn't want to burden you with this now, But you'll have to know sooner or later. Something terrible has happened. Austin Spencer was killed this morning in an automobile accident. That's impossible. It's a great shock to me, too, Tom. He's got to be alive. Well, I wish he were, but we just have to face it. He can't be dead, Jonathan! Everything depends on him. I don't understand. Austin's the only one who knows I didn't kill that girl. He knows the whole story. What are you talking about? He was in on the whole thing from the beginning. We planted all the evidence together After the girl was killed-- The lighter, the makeup, the stocking, everything. It was all part of a plan we had to prove... And in view of this extraordinary revelation by Mr. Garrett, I respectfully move that this case be reopened For the submission of new evidence. Your honor, This is obviously the frantic effort of a desperate man. It is highly significant that the defendant comes up with this incredible, Fantastic story of an alleged plan now, after Mr. Spencer's death. To reopen the case at this point On the grounds presented by Mr. Wilson Would be a travesty of our judicial process. The state vigorously opposes such a motion. I'm inclined to agree with the district attorney, Mr. Wilson. However, the court is deeply cognizant of the fact That a man's life is at stake here. I'll give the defense an opportunity To present tangible, corroborative evidence in support of this motion. The verdict of the jury will be withheld Until I make final ruling on this motion tomorrow. He said the pictures would be here. There's certainly no reason for him to mislead us. Are you sure he said they were in the safe? He was positive. Said he'd seen your father put them there. But Austin may have taken them to the office. We'd better check there, too. Lg Let's check his desk first. Rise. This court is now in session. Be seated. The defense has failed to indicate to the court That it is able to present any further testimony Which could properly be considered new evidence. The motion to reopen is denied. Bring the jury in. Have you reached a verdict? We have, your honor. What is your verdict? We find the defendant guilty of murder in the first degree. Tom, I've got to know the truth. I can't take any more lies. I'm not lying, Susan. There were pictures. Your father even wrote dates and places On the back of the pictures. Well, this plan, whose idea was it? I believe he mentioned it first, And then the idea began to intrigue me. Don't you believe me, Susan? I don't know what to believe now. Do you think I could have killed that girl? No, I--I never thought so, but... Perhaps I can't face the possibility That someone who had been so close to me Might have done such a thing. I've never done anything to make you doubt me. There were pictures. Find them, and then you'll know I'm telling the truth. I hope so. [Door opens and closes] Come to think of it, Father did behave rather strangely at the time of Tom's arrest. He was very fond of Tom, And--and yet he... He didn't seem as surprised or disturbed as he should have been. If was almost as if... As if he were confident, as if he knew something. If what Tom says is true, That could explain it. Might be. But if it is true and there were pictures, What could have happened to them? You've searched the house, the office. Father would never destroy the pictures. Unless... Unless he had them with him in the car At the time of the accident. They were photographs, all right, But they're charred beyond recognition. The lab couldn't determine what was on them. But there must be negatives. My father always used one of those self-developing cameras, And there are no negatives. But, surely, isn't this enough? No, they're just remnants of photographs. But now we know he's telling the truth. They could be pictures of anything. Oh, Tom's always been insisting that there were photographs, But he couldn't possibly have known About the pictures in the car. Oh, that's more than just a coincidence, Bob. You might be right. But, officially, the situation hasn't changed. You still don't have any real evidence to back up his story. If you love someone, you must believe in him. I understand how you feel, Susan, But these charred photographs Do not prove Garrett's innocence legally. They do for me, and I'll start from there. I must see him, Bob. I'm afraid you can't now. He's being transferred to the state prison. But that's less than an hour from here. A new prisoner in...death row Can't have visitors the first week. You didn't run much of a story On the denial of Mr. Garrett's appeal. What was there to say? We can only report that they denied it. Oh, but I want more than that. Use the newspaper in every way you can-- Editorials, feature series, Anything to arouse public opinion in support of Mr. Garrett. Miss Spencer, your father told us to handle this case The way we would normally. I don't know how he would have felt about our taking sides. I own this newspaper now. Not that I'm qualified to run it. I don't intend to. My father made provision in his will For a committee to run it. But the executor is in europe and won't return for some time. Meanwhile, the will can't be probated. That leaves things pretty much in my own hands. I'm willing to take the responsibility, But I must insist you do as I say. Well, that's quite an editorial. Even Austin Spencer never went that far, And that's the girl you were once interested in? I still am. After this? Don't you have any doubts about Garrett's guilt? None at all. I've never doubted it, neither did the jury. They do now. Oh, I read those interviews with the jurors. I know all about the petitions and telegrams Pouring in for Garrett. But that's because that girl Has used the paper to arouse everyone's emotions. And she's even got you all steamed up. What's more important, she may even get under the governor's skin. I understand he's been following the case quite closely. That's why I can't let myself be swayed emotionally. Whatever happens in this case Has got to be based on facts and the law, Not on how people feel. Yeah, that might be, But it might also be that you're hanging yourself politically. You could end up as popular as poison ivy at a picnic. I can't help that. If I retreat now just because of public pressure, I'm dead. Wounded, maybe. You're not dead till the governor pardons him. We've still got another week before the execution. I want to know more about Patty Gray. Her last job was in kansas city. Start there and work back to her first job in Miami If you have to. Why? If we could find any possible connection Between Garrett and Patty Gray in the past, The governor couldn't possibly pardon him, In spite of all the artificial emotion Susan Spencer's stirring up. You're beating a dead horse, Roy. Nothing about this case will be dead until Garrett's executed. Get started. I've tried everything. I talked to the governor personally. He wouldn't do anything? He'd like to, but... He says he can't without new evidence Or some other valid reason for him to step into the case. I even tried to get him to postpone it To give us more time. But he won't do it without a recommendation from Thompson. Thompson. He wouldn't lift his little finger to help me. Maybe Susan can do something through the paper. I'm afraid not. Allen Kirk, her father's executor, Has just returned from europe. He's in charge now. Tomorrow night. What time? 11:00. [Piano plays] A little out of your territory in Miami, ain't you? Yeah, a little. You remember a girl by the name of Patty Gray? There are lots of girls. Why expect me to remember their names? Well, this one worked here for you some time ago. What did this mouse look like? [Director] all right, girls. Oh, yeah. Her. + Six, seven years ago. Some dish. She sure could throw it around. What did she do? She was a waitress. But with a build like hers, I told her she was wasting her time waiting on tables. Gave her a chance to show what she had. Worked out great. Guys were drooling all over the place. Yeah, Patty Gray. Then this was her first dancing job, huh? Sure. I gave her her start. I even named her. You mean her name wasn't Patty Gray? You kidding? You know what this cookie's real name was? Emma Blucher. How about that? Burlie queen named Emma Blucher. She have any family? Nah, she was an orphan or something. What about her friends? Friends? Emma? She was out to take everybody. She didn't Miss an angle. She even tried to put the squeeze on me. I gave her a fast brush. Served her right, getting mixed up with Mike Robinson. Robinson? Who is he? Played the drums in a band I had working here. Emma tried to play him for a sucker. But he was too much for her to handle. He gave her a real rough time. In what way? Oh, if he didn't like something, he'd rough her up. Sometimes he'd rough her up for nothing, Just to keep in practice. She finally beat it out of here one night, Just to get away from him. Leave it to Emma. She took off with all of his dough. Mike was really fried. Said he'd get her if it was the last thing he did. Uh, rum and coke? No, just coke, thanks. Did he ever find her? Don't know. Never heard from him again. Is this Robinson? Nah. Mike was kind of blond. Little skinny guy. But real rough. Do you ever remember seeing this man at any time? Nope, never seen him. Say, what's this all about? Oh, just curious about Patty. Is the kid in trouble? Not anymore. And as far as Garrett's concerned, I couldn't find any possible connection Between him and this girl, Either when she was Patty Gray or Emma Blucher. Then does this mean the governor might postpone the execution? If Thompson recommends it, he will. After all, this is the first possible suspect We've had with a motive. But that doesn't mean Tom will be set free. No, but it'll give us time to run the thing down. Thompson started a tracer on Robinson yesterday, Just as soon as I phoned him from Miami. You know, it's strange. I never thought I'd be leaning on you, Relying on you like this. I'm not sure I deserve it. I'm very grateful to you. Forget it. [Intercom buzzes] Yes? Are you alone, Bob? No, Roy. Susan Spencer's here. What is it? Mike Robinson died four years ago in Chicago. I'm sorry, Miss Spencer. Excuse me, Mr. Thompson, But Jonathan Wilson is very anxious to see you. You must forgive me, Roy, for barging in. Allen? Oh, Susan. I'm glad you're here. This is Allen Kirk, Austin Spencer's executor. He's preparing the will for probate, and-- Well, Allen, maybe you'd better tell him about it. Mr. Spencer's personal and business affairs Were quite considerable and involved, as you may imagine. We had to get court orders To open his various deposit vaults. In one of them, we found this envelope. It's addressed to you. "This document is hand-written by me "For delivery to you in the event "That Tom Garrett shall have been convicted "For the murder of Patty Gray, Subsequent to my death." [Skimming aloud] "...Under oath." Is there any question about this being The handwriting of Austin Spencer? Absolutely none. It's definitely his. Well, it's all here-- The dates, the places, the explanations. He kept a written and photographic record Of everything he and Garrett did. Garrett has been telling the truth. He sent a recommendation to the governor For pardon immediately and notified the press. Trying to save face at the last minute? Oh, no, I'm sure he was sincere. He even made arrangements for us To meet here in the warden's office So I could tell you about the party. Very big of him. Oh, don't be bitter. Don't be bitter? If Thompson had had his way, He would have kept this thing pinned on me, and you know it. But it's all over now. Be grateful, darling. I told him from the start I'd never even met this girl. If Thompson hadn't been trying so hard To make a name for himself, over my dead body, He would've admitted he was wrong a long time ago. He should've been trying to find out who really killed Emma, Instead of putting me through all this. I don't have anything to be grateful to him for. How did you know the girl's name was...Emma? I read it in the newspaper. It hasn't been in the newspaper. Oh, I--I must've heard it from someone. You killed that girl, didn't you? You did, didn't you? Look, this girl... A long time ago-- I was just a kid-- We... I had to marry her. I found out later that it was just a trap. I never lived with her. I gave her all the money I could raise, And she promised to go to mexico and get a divorce. I never saw or heard of her again... Until she came back, after my book was published. And then I found out she hadn't divorced me at all. But all you could think of was murder? I didn't, at first. I didn't even think about it. And then... your father started talking about capital punishment, And all of a sudden, I realized He was showing me a way I could get rid of her Without any risk. We had our whole lives ahead of us. That's what I was trying to save... And I did. I thought you were innocent. You would've fought for me anyway, If you'd known why I did it. I--I don't know what I would've done. Darling... I know what you've done for me, What you've been through. Please. Please let me go. I--I can't think. Please let me go. I called the prison, but they said you'd left. I thought you'd want to know-- The governor has called a press conference at 9:00. He'll officially announce and sign the pardon then. In less than an hour, it'll all be over. How did he take it? I'm glad you're here, Bob. You've done a lot for me. Well, I wanted to help if I could. Why? I guess for the same reason That you wanted to help Garrett. You know how I feel about you. If I were accused of a crime And you thought that I might be guilty, That I wasn't the same person you thought I was, Would you still help me? How could I love you and not do anything I could? Anything? Even if you believed that...I committed murder? What is it, Susan? What's wrong? You've helped save the man you love. He'll be free soon. This should be a very happy moment for you. The man I saw in prison wasn't the man I loved. He was a stranger, someone I never knew. What happened at the prison, Susan? If something happened, something important, You can't keep it to yourself. Oh, please, Bob, please. In half an hour, Garrett will be free. If he's pardoned, He can never be tried again, nor punished. If you know something, you must speak now, No matter how much it hurts. State prison. I can't. I--I can't. I can't do it. I can't do it. State prison. Hello. [Sobbing] Hello. This is the state prison. Nice smile, governor. Are you going to resume with your writing, Mr. Garrett? Well, I suppose so. That's the way I make my living. What about you and Miss Spencer? [Ring] Hello? Yes. Who is this talking? Just a moment. It's for you, governor. Hello? Are you quite sure about this? Is Miss Spencer with you now? I see. Thank you. Warden, have Mr. Garrett taken back to his cell. There will be no pardon. Guard, take Garrett back to his cell.
