 

                        1 'World over, football, cricket, hockey, badminton, chess, carom...' '...are sports well appreciated But people still love to watch' '...boxing as a sport in which men stake their lives to fight!' 'For the past 100 years, boxing has been part of Tamil Nadu's culture' 'Over to the person who has done extensive research on boxing' 'Professor Chandrashekhar' In 1931 Charles Buck, a white man from England... ...was the 1st to train strong men of Chennai to become boxers These trained boxers then split into different groups Natural medicine master's lineage Iron man Rasamanickam's family ...were 2 such clans Even though all these descendants co existed... ...most popular were Rasamanickam's and Natural medicine master's clans When British granted freedom to India... ...presided by earl Jackson ...in the Farewell Freedom India boxing competition ...Rasamanickam clan and Natural medicine clan fought A boxer played a foul game And the fight turned into a major feud If you are part of that rotten Natural medicine master's clan... ...then you are also my enemy Iron man group is our enemy for generations now and ever From now on it is permanent enmity 'After this, the fight for the cup resulted in riots' From 1948 -1990 when the riots happened... ...Rasamanickam's clan won 20 times continuously But in 1991- Natural medicine master is my famous ancestor We were ashamed and angry we had lost repeatedly With the same fury on the day Lord Shiva converged with Shakthi... ...Munusamy challenged his rival from Natural medicine master's clan According to our boxing tradition... ...he swirled a chain and called for a duel I, Black Tiger Munusamy challenge anyone from Rasamanickam's clan ...to fight English or Tamil boxing whichever In Tamil boxing, you can hit only on the face In English boxing, you can hit anywhere above the belly button Our guru, after analyzing the right rival for Munusamy... ...chose Mariappan In order to protect our clan's dignity... ...our whole area supported Munusamy The butcher gave chicken and mutton Sait (financier) got him shoes and gloves They were both training at night... ...so that they don't divulge each other's techniques Goddess Angalamma! Only my father should win For Munusamy to win his son Boologham... ...took a vow, with austerity during 'Mayana kollai' festival More than the fighters, the sons Boologham and Arumugam... ...rooted for their respective dads Until the 7th round, our man took the punches The match took a turn for the worse after that Faaather! Finally when Mariappan was announced the winner, it was end of the world After hearing about Munusamy's death... ...we all went to Mariappan's area and destroyed everything! Commercial boxing held in Tamil Nadu is no longer a sport But an outlet for violence and enmity This court orders a ban on boxing tournaments in our state 'Not wanting this traditional sport to be wiped out totally...' '...Independence Boxing contest will be telecast' '...in your Future Sports channel' 'Representing Tamil Nadu is Iron Man Rasamanickam's heir Arumugam' 'And Boologham is the heir of Natural medicine master's clan' 'They are the sons of the boxers who fought...' '...20 years ago which culminated in riots' 'Arumugam is son of Mariappan who won' 'This is Boologham, son of boxer Munusamy...' '...who committed suicide after losing to Mariappan' 'This is Boologham's father-' Hey, who gave you permission to film my father's grave? Will you trespass into my space by showing it to the whole world? That too wearing shoes Turn off the camera 'The winner of this match has to box with the current Indian champion, Guru Dayal' 'Indian champion has to then face the World champion' 'Who is that world boxer?' 'Battling for power boxing championship...' ...on your 'Future Sports channel' In 5 years, this has to become India's #1 channel, that's for sure! One of the prominent channels in the world, that's our goal This tournament is a toddler step to achieve it But it is too local, sir Already amateur boxing has spread all over the world But without much viewership This is not a show fight like you're thinking When boxing is conducted anywhere in the world... ...1 opponent wants to knock out the other to become the winner Whereas here, the second they enter the ring... ...Boologham, with a frenzy wants to kill Arumugam And Arumugam with the same fury wants to kill Boologham Because it's a family feud A killer-rage! We must turn this heated killer rage into hard cash But when we spoke with the agencies... ...they claim the marketing scope is very limited Only local products get sponsors They believe it's impossible to approach multinational products You're talking without understanding the world market Walmart itself has come to our country to sell betel leaf! Instead of selling 100 cars per day,... ...selling 1000000 shampoo packets is more profitable To take the sachet market to the slum level... ...they are the heroes For example, Tamil Nadu has 15 million families Among them, 10 million families buy a bundle of spinach per day 1 bundle spinach costs only Rs 5 But per day spinach business is Rs 50 million Per month Rs 1500 million Yearly it is Rs 18000 million So if you grab the business from the old lady selling spinach... ...and sell it to a corporate, calculate the profit you'll make! Today, all huts can afford television sets So ditch the bungalows and focus only on the huts Get the most from these huts But it's not easy to handle the goons Right, it's not like Tendulkar and Sania Mirza We are not equipped for it This can't be done by you and me who are educated We can't do it even if we try This can be carried out only by those who understand them And who move with them This is Mr Thiruvengadam He's our boxing coordinator Thiruvengadam, tell us how you intend handling... ...Arumugam and Boologham Boologham and Arumugam are decent and professional individuals They both exercise daily for 6 hours and follow a strict diet -I'm responsible for them -Now we understand, sir We'll start promotion and marketing now 20 years ago Munusamy Boologham's father... ...ashamed about losing the match committed suicide This fight will also be held on the same Maha Sivarathri night Spray water Why did you spray water? He only said if you sweat, it will appeal more You want sweat, right? I belong to the working class I believe in real sweat Will you click the photo properly? He's not an actor He'll split you into pieces He worked out So he's sweating Why are you sweating when you only gaped at him? Come on, click If he's little angry, it'll be perfect Boologham, he wants you to be a little angry, to be realistic Little more Some more anger it seems Boologham, think about your opponent this Saturday Why is he running like he saw a ghost? His name is also Arumugam! Change the background to the strike of lightning I want a volcanic eruption Lion roaring -Looks good, huh? -Real good! This is okay I wanted a punch dialog to deride Arumugam Got any idea? Anticipating your need, I got an assistant director Give it to him In the film Aayirathil Oruvan... ...actor Nambiar's dialog 'I am a terrible person' Actor MGR's rejoinder 'I can never be terrified' This was written by my grandfather In the film Baasha for Rajini sir... ...'if I say it once holds good a 100 times' This was written by my father, sir Next in the film Pokkiri hero Vijay's dialog... 'Once I take a decision, even I won't listen to my own words' This punch was given by my elder brother Tell me a punch for this first If blood is sucked a leech at play If Boologham hits a log of wood in sway Come up with something better, you wooden head Mint, cilantro, curry leaves bunch Bet on Boologham's punch I promise, you won't be paid even a single rupee Dude, no greens punch Think of something else Sir, I've got a punch for actor Suriya The best charity is being steady Fight against Boologham find yourself in the cemetery Is it really good? Boologham, honestly it's good! Suriya won't be upset, right? We go to the same gym Don't worry He'll take care by giving Arya's punch dialogs to Suriya Make it real big Separate the posters into 10 posters each Stick them in every alley, nook and corner Seeing it, Arumugam must tremble in his shoes Hey Boologham! How's the multicolor poster? It looks better than his face! I'll sponsor it Ask them to do a 6 sheet poster They said 4 sheet poster is enough Trusting you, I've bravely lent money for interest But I haven't got interest or principal Let the fight get over, Sait I'll collect the entire amount for you in 1 night! If you say so, fine Paste this in Wall tax Road This in Amman koil street And the rest- Paste all the posters in Arumugam's area There shouldn't be any space left in his house! Wherever he looks, he should only see my face! Dispute should start right from this poster Get going Pick it...pick it up Look over there They've entered our area and stuck Boologham's poster everywhere How did they enter? They've just pasted it The glue is still wet! Hey Tamizh, they've pasted his face all over the town Hey! There's a vehicle outside our house Hey! Arumugam's men are here...escape Run fast...run Don't get caught Start your bike This side Run...run...run Keep going They are closing in Arumugam, Boologham's men have stuck his posters here They've stuck posters throughout our area We shouldn't leave him alone He's scared to face me in the ring So this is his gimmick We'll show our strength in the ring, not here Listen, he and his men came to our door steps today What's the guarantee, tomorrow they won't step into the house? His father used to act smart in this same way Then we just have to show him who is stronger This is sports No rowdiness here He's right, let's not create any problems Go...go Let's go Go...go home Hey, all this won't work We'll handle Boologham the way he should be! -Hey...get up -Boologham...? Today is Saturday Master will pour different oils down our throats and nostrils Let's scoot before it's too late "Good day, namaste, namaskar To all siddha doctors bonjour" "To this natural medicine daily we owe our strength, you see" "White turmeric, Veldt grape, pepper long pepper and dry ginger powder" "One look at the brew, what a fuss You rolled and created a ruckus!" "Ice house Babu's slinking trick Grab his throat pour the tonic" "Show off Balu is on the run Give him a dose, extra one" "Long pepper in hot water Gargle to feel better" "Shalom, greetings, aloha To traditional healers hola" "To this concoction daily we owe our power, duly" "Rub salt to a wound, add fuel to fire Like piercing a spear on to a blister" "Add slaked lime to the eye infected All 9 orifices of body now affected" "If drenched in a downpour body temperature rises higher" "If not back to 37 degrees C fear will sweep in speedily" "If tablets taken mistakenly mouth will froth to R.I.P" "Trust natural medicine totally To be like Hercules truly" "Tom, Dick, Annadorai, yov! Open your mouth some more" "Master is a master at torture His mixture makes many a rupture" "Our fate, we're destined to suffer That's why in liquor we shower" "Konnichiwa, ni hao, asalam alaikkum To all medicine men, vanakkam" "To this home made mixture we owe our strength, mister!" "To man sex is an urging need Score, or else it's a shame indeed" "There's a long list of aphrodisiac Doubtful...ask master, he's no quack" "Drumstick seed to exalt our need To breed a brood, marsh barbel seed" "Master, pamper us with your drugs We'd love to plunge without shrugs" "Shall we pair up within the ring? In this game we're now the king" He is the one! Girls like us will fall for stars Hritik Roshan, Sharukh Or cricket players Dhoni, Yuvraj Singh But you're saying Kasimedu and Vyasarpadi And claim he has a boxer lineage I can't express my love in words Boologham is a real hero He'll become more famous as a sports man... ...than the film stars and cricketers you listed! Dancing Boologham Sindhu, where were you? Got yourself tattooed? -Where...here? -Come to eat Take everything to the college Don't stop anywhere en route -Is this 'kurma'? -Yes, bro How will 2 tubs of gravy be enough for 100 parottas? Those college students drink 2 tubs of gravy for 2 parottas! He claims it isn't enough, dear? Bro, he's lying through his teeth My friend says he sells the 'kurma' on the way and mixes water instead Dai, get going Why, yellow color? Today is Thursday, right? Aalayamani has specified only yellow -Black underwear is okay? -You need to ask him In future come earlier to eat I'm late to college daily, thanks to you! Did you get yourself tattooed again today? -Yes -Where? Show me You guess right Then I'll show you Until now, 8 times I've guessed it right Not even once have you shown it This won't work Hey! For me to look at my face, do I need your permission? Did you ask me before getting tattooed? I'll take a look at it myself...quiet Let go of me Hey, I can see only the gloves Where's the remaining body? On your back too? And down under, huh?! -Sindhu, what's that noise? -We're talking, brother-in-law He's asking as if he doesn't know Why are you acting pricey? When your bro isn't here I'll peel you head to toe -Then you'll toe the line -Why wait? Marry me now Admire my tattos night and day Golden mascot of Rasamanickam's clan Lion, who will win Boologham My dear boxing fans Our candidate Arumugam is Chennai's Mohammad Ali Boologham is the mouse to be sacrificed in the ring easily Boologham is a broken plastic bucket With Arumugamam as his opponent to the graveyard he'll get a ticket Go fast...go fast Hey, stop that auto Turn, this way Go left, grab him He's driving fast Make him turn this way If you hit me you had it! Tear the poster Break the mike Stop it Don't break the microphone They entered my area and derided me! Until they cross this area, they must keep praising me Boologham, I have a doubt Arumugam is out Mangoes, Banganapalli, Malgova, Rumani If he fights in the ring, he's a sleazebag pig Repeat after me If cell phone rings, it is a call If Boologham hits it's your funeral That sounds neat Repeat it If cell phone rings- Announce it in this mike Give him the mike You go inside Do you want to be told specially! Keep praising me till you cross this area If cell phone rings, it is a call If Boologham hits it's your funeral If cell phone rings, it is a call If Boologham hits it's your funeral If cell phone rings, it is a call If Boologham hits it's your funeral If you're from Natural medicine clan, are you the cat's whiskers? (brawl) If you consider yourself man enough, don't run Boologham gave Arumugam's boys a bitter taste of their own medicine (scuffle) Arumugam's boys are coming after us Let's go and get them Arumugam's men are beating up our Aalayam Boologham's men are here Take your hands off me Let's take him to Boologham He's just a small fry Only if I smash Arumugam, these pipsqueaks will pipe down Auto...get in Hey, if Arumugam is a legitimate son... ...ask him to be ready "If Boologham hits, it's a knock out Don't fight, you'll lose without a doubt" "You can't take his punch, even in 1 round" "In Chennai his name echoes in every ground" He says he can't wait till the end of the contest He wants to confront you in the middle of the road If you're a legitimate heir he wants you to wait here If I give him an inch he's taking a yard! I'll defeat him in his own ground "With his left, right, lower, upper punch rib and slap, he'll pounce and plunge" "To Boologham's dance if you're in non-sync stance" "His punches in boxing will send you bouncing" "He's champion of state, nation and of international reputation" Hey, why should TV chaps conduct this fight? Let's sort out our enmity now Doesn't matter where we go, you'll get knocked out Your area has to see the bravery of Natural medicine master's clan Tie the ring All of you gather Be entertained seeing Arumugam taking the beating of his life! Goddess Angalama, in this ring... ...Arumugam will be your sacred offering I belong to the clan that has won 20 times Let's see who wins today Follow me Catch both the scoundrels Under the pretext of training boxers are you encouraging rowdyism? As if men from our department don't come to the gym to be trained? Sir, are we sticking posters only now? It's an age old practice Hey, I thought I'll introduce you to TV channels and make you big You're humiliating me Won't you control yourselves? Every now and then I get you money on interest for you I send you as bouncers to hotels I send you as body guards for VIPs You are being respected as a boxer thanks to me Listen to me Channel guys have selected totally 200 boxers from Tamil Nadu I was the one who recommended these 2 guys But if you both continue to behave this way... ...I'll inform them and choose someone else, be warned Thank God, you put these goons behind bars Or else they'd have hit each other out in the open Trusting these 2 chaps, a channel is investing millions on a tournament As soon as you announced the tournament... ...placing bets, taking bribes, sticking posters, real pain! Even now there are 4 or 5 cases inside In future whatever happens, I take full responsibility The channel is well connected If you want to be promoted, I'll talk to them I'll be much obliged, sir Whenever you need to put them behind bars... ...get their signatures and release them Bro, we'll return the money within 2 days Ask them to return the auto There's no one in the store Brother has gone up to Koyambedu -Look after the store -Okay, I'll be here In future, due has to be paid by the 5th Otherwise I'll confiscate the auto Take the auto from the go down Thanks, Sait Hey, why did you close the shutter? When your bro isn't around didn't I tell you I'll peel you? You got caught, dear -Let go of me -I won't Just a minute Shouldn't hit me -Look at this, superb -Bro is back -Bro is here -Wait...! Now come and touch me Why are you pointing that knife at me now? Hey, watch out Don't play with it Leave me Listen to me I won't listen to you Are you stripping me? Wait, I'll get you Hey, wait for me Don't...go away Will you open or shall I break open the door? However long it takes, I' won't go without seeing Okay, stay away I'll open the door and show you Now you're talking! Wait They were both at loggerheads Instead of shooting it you are lamenting here What hype! You missed a great trailer Sorry, sir, it was most unexpected Get them dressed in boxing gear And arrange a press meet -Why press meet, sir? -That's the point Ask them 5 questions to irritate them If they fight, get 10 guys to stop them If not, arrange 10 guys to provoke them What happened to the foreign boxer matter? We spoke to the agency Any boxer from a foreign country... ...we need to spend minimum Rs 150 million Estimate for this project is 5000 million So no harm if we pay a boxer 150 million I want the history of all the boxers on my table Can we conduct an SMS contest in USA to 'guess the boxer'? Do that Also...we need glamour for this program Like in cricket, organize cheer girls It would be great, if you can rope in sought after heroines See how aggressive Boologham is even in a practice session Why this murderous rage? Let's hear what his master Mr Rathnam has to say This killer rage is the ingredient which will make him win When you hit, blood should splatter on the opponent's face Sir, are you following this diet for the contest? I don't know about all that, ask her Boologham, come here Channel has prepared an agreement for the match you're preparing for For participating in this contest... ...you'll be paid Rs 100000 If you win it will be doubled Next, wherever you go, whatever you do... ...it has to be only with our permission Why all these conditions? How will people like us understand any of this? Just let me know where I should sign Boologham, hold on -Don't sign -Why? Now you can, Boologham Had I not come in time... ...you'd have signed your death warrant Whenever I sign, I'll be Lord of Death for Arumugam Don't be too sure Arumugam is in the same murderous rage to kill you He says you are a good-for-nothing lout First get his signature He might run away from this town My dear, think before you sign How can you hesitate, Arumgam? Boologham claims you might run away for fear of losing He wanted me to get your signature first Here you are having second thoughts -Wait, dear -Stella...! 'Family feud for 100 years' 'Arumugam's victorious wave' 'Boologham's revenge-rage' 'Who is Mr Strong in Tamil Nadu?' 'Inside the ring, a death-duel' I invite Arumugam of Iron Man Rasamanickam clan to the stage Next I invite onto the stage... ...Natural medicine master clan's Dancing Boologham You rock! Friends from the press and media can ask questions to the boxers Arumugam, it seems the custom in your clan is... ...to use stones inside the gloves to punch? No...no Before the match begins, referee will check the gloves Boologham, if the opponent is close to winning... ...it seems your clan will stop the game by ringing the bell? It can't be done, sir A timer stands in the ring He'll ring the bell after 3 minutes Are you scared you may lose to Boologham? I'm a boxer Boologham is a fighter A fighter cannot beat a boxer Are you implying I'm not a boxer but a rowdy? The boxing blood runs in my veins for generations Reporters, both the boxers will now pose as friends Bro, stand there Please go In the bazaar you can get soap and hair brush by threatening But same tactics won't work for this cup This fight is not for a mere trophy It is for my father's dignity Let's fight it out here Boologham, what are you doing? Press is watching you Behave decently Not in this local manner Hey, how dare you insult me on stage?! Your death will be in the ring for sure I'll kill him today I won't spare you Tomorrow if you don't come to fight me... ...I'll barge into your house, mind you! You hit my teacher I'll not leave you alone Your death is in the ring Better get the hearse, funeral items ready Be quiet What's the difference between him and us? Listen everybody At 10:00 a.m today... Boologham is taking a vow at the cemetery... ...to sacrifice Arumagam as offering to the Goddess "On new moon day, in the cemetery watch Boologham ravage his enemy" "His family feud to end, in utter fury he'll show his true color in all its glory" "He'll damage nerves nastily He can crush bones to bits easily" "He'll yank his intestines with vigor He'll drink blood like a blood sucker" "Today on track Time to payback" "In the graveyard, on new moon day watch Boologham plunder his prey" "Goddess gave you the challenge your enemy for you to avenge" "As Kali, Neeli and Sooli She embraced you warmly" "Don't come near me" "You'll be sacrificed surely" "Folk and funeral drums appeased" "Hasn't Your anger decreased?" "Rooster, goat,liquor, cigars too" "Are these offerings not enough for you?" "Disgraced feeling not disappearing" "Let your father's dream be in your heart too" "Now my boy, make it come true" "This is future-story to become history" "Goddess Angali Protect me" "Goddess who dances nonstop on vales, dales and hill-top" "Open Your eyes and galvanize" "With a death knell yell You destroy men evil" "We'll burn camphor as thanks giving offer" "Only you can finish decisively what's in your mind definitely" "Take the spear in your hand Pierce it into the brave man" "Don't be kind or meek" "He's known for his evil streak" "Give him a whipping with beads of fear dripping" "Spear and slice him into two Wear the garland of victory due" "Goddess Angali...Parvathi" "The ever powerful Shakthi!" -I'm Stella -I know Why did you come here? Until now the 2 groups got into the ring to win But you are stepping in only to kill my husband Yes I must win Arumugam has to die Wanting to kill is not a goal, Boologham -It's fury -Yes, it is Fury fuelled by people deriding me as a loser's son for 20 years My father-in-law defeated your father in boxing Do you want to kill my husband for this? You won't be killing only one man You'll be destroying a whole family Stella, go now I'm keeping quiet because you are a woman Beg your husband not to fight with me? Because you've been orphaned do you want to orphan a family? It was your family which made me an orphan He's sending his wife to plead for him, shameless! You think I'll change my mind hearing your soulful cry for help? No...be a boxer Don't be a killer Shut up Leave right now Sir, there's only 1 hour left for the match to begin But business hasn't been finalized as yet This whole fight is for business only Until it is finalized the match can't begin That's it, ask them to postpone it by an hour I'll say Boologham will surely win He'll of course root only for Arumugam Natural for any coach to want his student to win Hello? Cut the intro Telecast commercials now Ask Swetha to talk to me -Tell me, sir -What is this interview? What are you doing with those old men? You must talk to youngsters That's the pulse for warm up Boologham's fiance, Sindhu is here Let's talk to her Tell us, madam Who will rock today? Boologham or Arumugam? National champion Guru Dayal has finally arrived! We welcome you, Mr Guru Dayal Who do you think will win today? Whoever wins, he won't be an equal match to me Boologham looks half baked and a little over enthusiastic But Arumugam is calmer So I think Arumugam will win Switch off the TV "Vyasarpadi, Kasimedu, Royapuram Boologham will win, be calm" "In the ring he'll stretch a hearse To Tyson he has a strong resemblance" To wish both our boxers let's welcome Mr Guru Dayal Hi Boologham Am I half-baked?! Am I over enthusiastic? You won't go back alive! You and your sissy hair style! Boologham, calm down Being the Indian champion makes him a Top Cat, huh?! Finish this fight first Take care of him later Stop getting angry for nothing Finish him in this fight Otherwise I'll kill him in the next fight I won't leave the ring until he dies -I'll take care of it -We'll deal with him Sir, it's getting late These 20 companies have been finalized If you sign this we can start Two people want naming rights They want to buy it cheap So don't settle it now Let them sweat it out Come and get me Stop...stop Boologham, don't be tensed Be alert Punch him Death punch! Oh my God! You wretched fellow! May you rot in hell You killed my husband You will die in this same ring You'll never prosper Someone will come to get you for sure In this same ring you'll die at his hands Father! Faaather! Arumugam, just now your son took a sacred vow for you to win But I've lost you forever Keep him under observation He might have trouble breathing He has been hit real hard He is critical I can't believe just a punch did this Blood has drained in the vein from the neck to the brain So all his organs are shutting down one by one He can't even move his hands We'll treat him with medicine Otherwise, we'll go for surgery immediately, okay? Cash please, sir Looks like we'll need a lot of money to get Arumugam treated We better hustle our 'cuts' as much as we can today Stop! We won't be able to save Arumugam Before Arumugam dies we must kill Boologham Follow me Future Sports channel's Independent boxing cup... ...tournament's auction is about to commence The naming rights auction begins now First bid is 5 million Followed by 10 million Murmur chips 15 million Come one and all Eggs and chicken This victory is an ode to our blood line Revel and rejoice IBC Naming Rights goes to Imperipure food from America He's not here Let's go Master, so long we digested your home made mixtures Your turn now to gulp our English medicine down, master This is no big deal Boologham will clash with the white man And win the world cup Then you host a party I'll drink a full bottle Where's Boologham? Where is he? He's the reason for this victory -Where is he? -We don't know, sir You're having a bash without him Bring him here Let's go and find him 'Details of those who bid for the winner Boologham in the IBC contest by FSC' Brand ambassador -Where's Boologham? -Sir, I've been searching for him His phone is switched off So what? Go in person and bring him Who are you? What do you want? We'r looking for our friend Boologham He is one of us -Where's Boologham? -We are also looking for him My foot! Where is he? This is damn serious He's not even at the party hosted by the TV channel Where is he? The auction is half way through We need his signature No one's here Get up Where's Boologham? How will I know where anyone is?! Master, it looks like Boologham has come here Start the vehicle They're all drunk Master...! Arumugam's men are looking for Boologham... ...in our area to kill him What is this? I've decided not to box again, master I stayed a bachelor just to make you a famous boxer I'm living to make your dream come true You wanted me to be a famous boxer one day But today I became a heartless murderer You're shaping up boxers Boxers are creating orphans Those orphans are growing up to become killers What you did today was not murder It was a knockout Same punch outside the ring, would've been termed murder Both are the same, master We deal with outside conflict inside the ring unashamed And vice versa without a conscience I don't know who started this but let it end with me You came to kill me, right? Kill me What do I do with the money you won? Should I donate it to the temple or throw it in the trash can? Keep it Use this money And somehow save Arumugam Take it Forgive me Thiruvengadam, has Boologham agreed to a match of 8 rounds? Sir...I don't think he'll come on stage even for the 1st round What are you blabbering? He feels bad for what he did to Arumugam He has sworn in a temple that he'll never fight again Is he kidding? We've sold rights for 5 billion Who will answer the sponsors? If this fight doesn't happen... ...I'll have to close down the channel Let's file a case against him and claim damages He isn't worth 10 paisa Money pours in for the act Not for the monkey! I think he's putting up a drama for more money Even as an ordinary man, he was least inclined towards money Now he's taken a sacred vow Money can't lure him -Who does he hang out with? -He has a few rowdy friends His girl friend That Malayalee girl And then master -Who will he listen to? -Nobody -What's his weakness? -His stubbornness Then do something Send him more sacred beads and saffron dhotis Go to the press about his vow before he does Midway, Boologham took a sacred vow to defeat Dayal 'For 48 days, I'm on a vow so that my family deity...' '...Angalamman favors me as All India champion' ...swears Boologham Even if we convince the press, I'm not sure he'll fight, sir Be sure Believe it! Do you think I'll run behind Boologham... ...singing hymns because he's a seer now? If he's a scumbag I can be a sleazebag If he's a boxer with gloves I'm a boxer without gloves For the bumpkins who applied soap nut powder... ...I've rubbed shampoo that was unsold in the shops Is he trying to take me for a ride? This match will happen as I planned it Start a new fight between Boologham and Dayal Keep making promos for this fight If I incur any loss, I will kill Boologham Who the hell are you? Is this the way to load a rice bag? I'm new I'm just learning Shanmugam Why did you hit me? You can't lift rice bags in this market again Who are you to tell me? Why are you both fighting? Am I fighting? He's giving me a job and I'm working Are they paying you and giving you All India publicity... ...to lift rice bags? You can't do this anymore You can only box with Dayal Who said so? He did Close Chettiyar's shop Who are you? Why are you hitting me? Boologham, you hit me on stage and created such a drama And here you're pretending to be a hard working simpleton I won't go back to North India without punching your face If that's what you want hit me right here, Dayal What's the big deal? What I did was wrong Forgive me Whole of Tamil Nadu saw you hit me on stage Whole of India should see me punch you on stage That's why I'm letting you go This is for all your ears I closed down Chettiyar's shop because this guy was given a job Nobody can give Boologham a job here Not even 10 rupees as a coolie! I'll close down the whole market the moment I hear of this Start the jeep 'Defeated his enemy in just one punch' 'Slapped Indian champion in just 1 shot and made him flounder' 'The North Indian who aches for revenge' 'The South Indian who takes a sacred vow for success' 'Who is the strongest boxer in India?' 'Don't miss it on your FSC channel' '24th August' It's not safe for you to stay here You'll be hassled constantly by Dayal and the channel Go and stay in our college canteen It's in the outskirts of Chennai It's a calm place You don't need to do anything Just sit at the cash counter Who's disturbing us? Aunt and saint are hand in hand! He's Bhoopathi Undergrad student Real rowdy Has political power too The entire college is terrified of him College sports day is coming so we are re-opening the canteen There aren't enough hands So we've recruited him He makes the best fritters Really? Sarath, we don't have to go out to buy side dish anymore This saint will do it Saint, what's your name? -Boologham -Boogolam? Not Boogolam as in geography Boogambam the earth quake Not Boogambam but fireworks Not fireworks but damp squib Bhusss! From now on your name is Bhusss Where do such weirdos land up from! Which wine shop shall we go to, dude? As if there's shortage of wine shops! Dude, super hot chick at the bar last night Yeah? Laid? Will do, she is in my 'things to do'! Dude, I've seen this saint guy somewhere I think he's a boxer He's on TV too Eashwar, parotta hasn't been delivered as yet, call and find out He's busy cleaning tea glasses and you are glorifying him Let's needle him and find out Bhusss Come here You need anything else? Are you a boxer? You're on TV it seems No...that's what everyone thinks Where did you work before this? I had a flower shop in a temple in Royapuram Sindhu wanted an extra hand because of sports day- Come, sir Clean this up quick and serve Why are you teasing him? I swear I saw him on TV What is this? You're sitting and cleaning dirty glasses and wiping tables I feel so bad when I see this Why did you come here? He's a manager in an advertising company He wants you to act in a medicine commercial Yes, sir All you have to do is wear gloves, strike a pose And say 'The reason for my power is this medicine' Secret of my power is only the natural medicine... ...my master gave me Not your medicine I don't box anymore You don't need to You just need to act I won't wear gloves even for fun Please leave No one here knows I'm a boxer Please go Sir...come We'll talk later Such a big promotion and I can't believe he said no His mind is a little screwed up Hey oldie! I'll talk to him and convince him Give me 2 days- Get me that ash tray -I didn't come here to work -Then...came to study? You don't look like a student? Neither do you look like you came here to study! Whom are you trying to hit? -Let him go -Hit him I'll kill you right here Why are you causing a problem, master? I told you to leave Take him, sir I'll apologize on his behalf We didn't study and so we ended up as rowdies You are educated and behaving like rowdies I'll kill you Bhoopathi, you became Bhusss now, damp squib! Get out...out Close the shutters Who's Bhusss? Hey Tamizh! Why are you here? You are already here? It seems someone caused a problem for Bhoopathi Boologham's here, no? Why did you call us? 'Let's take a look at Boologham's practice session' Let's look at how Dayal is preparing himself... ...to face Boologham Hey! What's the issue? You can tell me directly if you have any problem Govind, open the shutters If you think Boologham will win the semi finals of IBC... ...SMS to IBC 5454 How is Arumugam? Is he walking? He's not improving one bit He deteriorating further Twice a week he needs shock treatment That's 50,000 They wanted us to hit some chap called Bhusss ...for 50,000 bucks That's why we came I'm that Bhusss! If I'd known this earlier, I'd have let you beat me And you could've taken that money! He's better off dead than struggling like this Friendship tugs our heart We'll do our best till we can In the end we'll just bury him Why are you talking like this? Aren't we here to pitch in? I'm here I'll save him You guys leave now I'll come with the money Adyar and Besant Nagar are your areas, Rahul Stick posters here properly Ambedkar bridge and Mylapore is yours Don't leave a single spot Sir, 1 moment I need to talk to Dayal -Where are you from? -A R C College, Pottheri Why do you want to see him? I need to talk about Boologham You're seeing Stella again now after Arumugam has been hurt If she says anything, don't get angry I won't mind at all Come, Boologham You gave us money to save his life though you hit him But I was mad at them for taking the money and not your head! Forgive me I didn't understand your good heart Don't cry, ma Come in What, Boologham? You could've killed me in 1 shot on the stage Why make me suffer like this? Left fightin- You changed from boxer to saint, no? He doesn't like that He wants you to fight till the finals You haven't left yet? We need to put the oxygen cylinder Clean the room The next patient has come The doctor will yell at us Why are you asking them to leave? They haven't paid yet They have been asked to leave Ask them to pay You can't get treated at hospitals like this One day's treatment costs Rs 25,000 They can't pay even that Where will they get 5 lakhs for surgery? Here's 50,000 Pay it now I'll get you the balance within 2 days Let him go ahead with the surgery -Tell me, Boologham -I need 1 lakh urgently I'd appeciate it if you can lend me the cash How can you be so dense, Boologham? I don't run a business to do favors! Leave, Boologham Hindering business hours Not as if we don't want to help You don't understand the Union's situation Jayaram Give him 5,000 Don't even worry I'll sacrifice my life to save Arumugam I won this in 1960 and got the medal from MGR Sell this and give Arumugam whatever you get from it Why didn't you tell me yesterday? I placed all my money on a bet on you Placed a bet? So many place bets on the next Prime Minister Will I not bet on my friend Boologham? Take my car 4 installments due Refinance, pay the dues and take the rest for Arumugam's surgery From 4 lakhs you need to pay 40,000 to clear 4 months' due 12,000 for documentation You'll get 348000 in hand Why are you breaking it? Stop Why did you break the glass? I told you no one should help this fellow In spite of my warning how dare you lend him money Darasingh asked us to take the car I'll talk to the financier I'm his henchman You can't leave this town without fighting me I won't spare you wherever you may hide Your screams should be heard all the way in Bombay What's the problem here? I'm trying to sort it out amicably but they're fighting I know about you only too well You and your friends are responsible... ...for Arumugam's critical condition I'm arresting you on an 'attempt to murder' case What is this? I'll myself come in 2 days, sir Listen to me, sir You leave now I've asked for a conditional bail The magistrate will give it But you have to sign in the local station I am granting you conditional bail You can't leave Chennai You must sign every day Sir, I work in Pottheri near Chengalpet To come all the way- Do I have to listen to you? Okay, fine Sign at Tambaram station I don't want to buy trouble with you signing once a week Come daily and sign It's almost time to pay for Arumugam's surgery What will you do? You have no choice Put on gloves and pose I'll get you 5 lakhs Okay, master But don't call him anywhere Ask them to come to college and shoot it What? I need to be paid before the shoot I'll get an auto and come as soon as I can What is it? The hospital wants the money immediately Otherwise, we have to get discharged You'll get the cash now What is it? Those people to shoot the commercial aren't here Stella is waiting They must be in college by now Take the money and do what they say Will they give the money first? They've agreed Don't worry Hello, sir He's our director What should I do? Wear this dress and wait I'll get everything organized and call Here, sir Is the stage ready? Check if the boards are fixed for the background You go and get ready I'll be with you now I'll get you the money now Sir, the shot is ready Come, sir Shankar, take sir and- Sir, I asked for the money I'll give it to you -Give him Rs 500000 -Full amount? We already agreed upon this amount -Give it -Okay, sir Here, take it immediately and prepare for the surgery I'll come in the evening You'll be okay going alone? I'll take care of it Be careful with the cash What should I do? Hold this bottle Act like you're punching To knock out your enemy 80 Not Out capsules Cut...cut Sir, brighter! Give the money to me Let me go Boologham! Hey! Come here Grab her Boologham is coming Run...run Stella! Get up -My money...! -Take care of her Come to the ground He saw us Come Come fast Don't get caught He's here Split up Give it to me Give it here Ram, catch Ganesh! Here...run He's coming Run...run Here...take, run Move aside Give it to me Siva, take it Let go Dude! Over here He has come Throw it here Get the arena ready Quick Fix the hooks Tighten it Hey, Sindhu Boologham and Dayalan are fighting in the ground Knock him out Dayal, here take it Hit him proper Hit him in the head Come on Let's see who wins Only 1 of us should live Come and hit me You witnessed a furious face-off Before we find out the Indian champion... ...a small commercial break Even though Boologham knocked out Guru Dayal... ...Dayal has more points and hence he is the winner What is happening here? Where is my money? I don't know all that They asked me to get in the ring and hit you Who? Your master 'What is happening here? Where is my money?' 'I don't know all that' 'They asked me to get in the ring and hit you' 'Who?' 'Your master' Boologham? Master! I regarded you as my father I never thought you'd betray me! Is this why you took me under your care? You might as well have poisoned me that day- Master...! "In the year 1960..." "Near St George Fort in our Chennai city" "Born in a family, really poor" "Became a famous boxing teacher" "Why did he impulsively..." "...end his life suddenly?" "Sir...Rathnam master, our dear guide..." "...whom did you call just before you died?" "The garland we bought scented Farewell to your life you executed" "The garland we bought floral Now decorates your funeral" "You trained me as boxer Like dad and son we were, master" "Why make us stick, your obituary poster all over?" "True to his name, a gem, Rathnam master Hand in glove with us, our problem solver" "The garland we bought in grief to pay our respects, dear chief" Is it enough if we pay our respects by just garlanding him? Don't we need to ask for justice? Why are you barging in here? You gave the TV fellows V.I.P treatment You found them a man to fight And now they killed our master Be patient It's not like we won't ask for justice at all We won't let you take the body without you settling our grouse Don't let them in All of you be quiet, please Rathnam is the senior member of our union Let's pay him our respects first Then we can all ask for justice Go and garland him Move aside You go first "In the market in Thiruvallikeni when you stride with dignity..." "...even the unruliest rowdy saluted you ever so readily" "With your sportsman quota without complaint, even an iota" "...for the student lot many Govt. jobs you got" Pour for me too I blabbered in a drunken stupor Forgive me, boss "But none can hold a match to you in skills you made us muscle into" What have you come here for? Please understand We aren't from that channel "Hand and glove with us, our peacemaker-boss" Use this money for the funeral expenses Union money Write down accounts "The garland we got now rests on you as a wreath, God bless" "The boy you took in as your own is plaiting your hearse forlorn" Cutting bamboo for the ritual He's preparing for the funeral "For the last journey restful a palanquin festooned colorful" "Stifling his sobs painfully he decorates painstakingly" "Bathed, garlanded, scented Turmeric and vermilion anointed" "One rupee coin superstitiously on your forehead as travel fee" "Erected a stage for all to see Connected a mike for audibility" "Boologham asked me, dutifully to sing in praise of you beautifully" "Debit and credit eventually in this game ruled by destiny" "If we add, subtract, divide or multiply the numbers don't comply or justify" "Without kith or kin and family he lived a solitary life voluntarily" "Who will continue this tradition?" "Boologham must occupy his position" We are from the boxing union to meet the channel owner Do you have an appointment? Otherwise leave without making a fuss Will you open the door or shall I climb over? You'll make money using us and you won't let us in, huh? Scoundrel! Come out What is this? Didn't I tell you if you mess with Boologham... ...we'll be in a soup To avoid this commotion we should've paid them Won't you quieten down? Ask just 4 of them to come inside Sir, there's a problem People from the union have come in Boologham's defense ...and creating a scene here Why are you calling me? By the time I arrive... ...not a single soul should be there What we say here goes If Boologham suddenly decides not to fight... ...will our CEO camp outside his house? It's a boxer's right to fight or not It's our right to decide who wins Even in TV serials if an actor refuses to co-operate... ...we change the story and kill his character As if we will spare him? Forget your reel life serials You've killed a teacher in real life! Change the decision as per boxing rules We can't change our decision You can go to court if you want Why go to the court? As per the agreement, union and channel are in this together Go inside, sir We won't go without an answer What audacity to disobey our orders? How dare you hit our boss! You are using your union as excuse and behaving like rowdies here Why did you come here? Don't push us Get inside (general commotion) You're calling me for silly reasons Sir, today we must declare the results for the SMS poll... ...on which international boxer is coming to India What is the public opinion? We've got 5 lakh entries for this contest 3 lakhs voted for Vladimir 1 lakh voted for Alexander Close to 10,000 people have even voted for... ...Mike Tyson and Mohamed Ali! A school boy Balaji has voted for a banned American boxer... ...called Stephen George That boy is mistaken, sir No...that boy has selected correctly Even I selected George George will play his 1st match after the ban is lifted in India Sir, he's a psycho He'll do anything to win Weren't you scared when I selected him? This is sensation Vladimir or Alexander will limit it to just another fight But this is...fire I expected a death in this tournament It didn't happen in the first 2 matches But in this match we shouldn't miss it Mr George is waiting on a conference call 'World heavy weight champion George is coming to India' 'End of this month, he will be participating in the IBC contest' 'So far Steven George has killed 6 boxers in the ring' 'In the boxing match in Cuba...' '...since he flouted rules and killed a boxer in the ring' '...he was banned from boxing for a year' 'Since this is his first match after the ban, it has created...' '...a huge stir and interest amongst boxing fans all over the world' Your Honor, boxing is causing violent tendencies... ...in young minds these days For an independent channel to benefit monetarily... ...this is channelizing as a dangerous trend So I call for a stay in the IBC championship 'Today's shocking headlines' 'Will Dayal and George be allowed to box or not?' 'The doubt has risen due to the stay filed by lawyer Natarajan in the court' 'Let us ask Dr Chandrasekhar if George is mentally afflicted' Tell me, sir Yes, it's a mental illness Usually boxers fight with fury in a match But George will attack with the same fury... ...even his own man in a practice session He was even arrested once for raping his wife while on drugs Even rehab- I can't fight that animal Is this why they made me win? Doctors have certified George as being in a sound state of mind So the court permits this match to be played as scheduled Hello? Sir, I'm Dayal speaking I must go to Mumbai urgently Why this sudden trip? There's still 10 days for the next fight, sir I'll go and see my wife and son before that Have you booked a flight ticket or shall I? I've booked it myself Who? The CEO? Surprise...! Papa...! Is your wife there? Are you shocked? I knew you'd want to see your wife and son If you plan on leaving before this fight is over... ...I'll bury you alive with your family Aren't you aware of Boologham's chapter? 'Tamil Nadu Boxers Union' Look how this girl has been tortured We have to take action immediately We can't spare this TV fellow Pass a resolution to stop this fight Write down the resolution Since Guru Dayal has been forced to... ...fight this match against his wishes ...we unanimously condone this fight and do not sanction it All in favor raise your hands -We accept -We agree I do not accept Don't stop the fight I'll go back to boxing Is it your whims and fancy to go in and out of the ring? What's the use of this union then? Are you brainless? Your master died because you lost that fight That's not the reason for my master's death This is the letter he wrote before he died Read it 'Boologham' 'When you stopped fighting...' '...the channel owner sent for me specifically' 'I went to meet him' -Come in, welcome -Good day, sir Can you wait outside? Thank you for coming as soon as I called I've seen many capable men But even if I sift and sieve Boologham is a rare breed I want to make him an International boxer And start an academy I need you as the coach Ask Boologham to fight I've spoken to him many times He just won't listen to me Then listen to this, I will suggest an advertisement We'll make him act in it And turn that into a fight and make him win Struggling for so long to hone his skills is no big deal Your next step is what will make history Don't stop his story from becoming history We're all Tamilians We must fend for each other No, sir That will end up as betrayal He thinks of me as his father What are you saying? Will any father turn his son into a sage? You don't care for him as much as even I do? If you want to be true to your role as father and teacher... ...then make him wear his gloves 'I agreed to their plan in order to make you a renowned boxer' You've declared Boologham as the loser I'll make whomever I want a hero or a zero Raising my hopes you betrayed me, sir Who asked you to trust me? I'm a business man I found you to be a nitwit and I utilized you You have a natural medicine lineage and you are supposedly the master Look here, I do world wide business Business signed on just air How egoistic will I be if I can mint money out of air? You said I betrayed him? The shoe is on your foot! As a father and a master, you are the backstabber Get lost 'Boologham, like he said I couldn't look at you as a loser' 'Neither could I live as a backstabber' Within our boxing clan, today we'll fight and make up tomorrow I had a family feud with Arumugam He wanted to kill me And I wanted to kill him There was some honesty in our enmity This random TV fellow barged in and used me He lined his pocket and made me lose I now understand who the real enemy is We should fight this enemy So...do you want to put your life at stake for this? This isn't a fight It's a revolution How many punches we'd have given and got? He's turned each punch into currency We must get cash back for every punch given and taken Deepak snatched away our bread and butter All of us should teach him a lesson Don't think of stopping this fight Let it happen It's pay back time How will you? Channel wants Dayal and George to fight I'll take care of that I'll make George insist on fighting me instead of Dayal He's talking through his hat Don't agree to his crazy plan I'm not young enough, I'd get into the ring if only I was What are you saying? You might as well fight Tyson himself Rather than this psycho Isn't this disgusting? No one in India has the guts to face him, only that's disgusting This fight is risky But it must happen And we must support Boologham in this mission Whoever agrees, please raise your hand We agree We accept (unanimous vote) Boologham, you've taken a decision emotionally to fight against George? No...it was a calm well thought decision When have you ever taken a decision calmly? You fought Arumugam because of your family feud When he was hurt and admitted in the hospital... ...you went into sacred dress mode! This fight with George is also an emotional trigger I agree with everything you've said before this But I made this decision clear headed and calm This isn't like any of your previous fights This is very risky What do you mean? Think I can't defeat him? I didn't say so You could win George could lose George could win and you cou- Are you predicting my defeat? Listen to me I didn't come here to discuss this Then what are you trying to say? All this while I was a mere spectator when you boxed I want to watch your fight against George as your wife I'm asking you to marry me before you fight George Why all of a sudden? Let the match get over Then I'll marry you -Why are you postponing it? -Why are you hurrying it?! You must win as Sindhu's husband Why? Are you scared I'll lose? Or that I'll die? You are scared George will kill me If you win or lose it has to be as my husband Even if you die in the ring, I must be your widow Make me your wife You love me too much That's why you're scared to marry me before the match The same fear runs in your veins I agree I'm scared But you aren't scared? Then marry me Okay When do we get married? Garland him Wait...wait We'll hold a press meet later Ask your questions then George...down down! Ask them to move Constantly bothering us Move it! 'Mister White fellow why land here now?' '1 punch from Boologham you'll froth in your mouth' What is this? So embarrassing What pains I take to promote this sport They'll stoop to any level for money, huh? Boxer George has landed from America I need to talk to him Someone called Boologham is on the line -He wants to talk to George -Cut the call right now No one should talk to him Other than the room boy Press, fans, nobody! Hey! Get inside Why are they running? Wait, I'll come Boologham waiting there Wear this boxing shoe Boologham waiting Here, trousers Go over there Here's the mouthguard He's waiting in that street Go that side I didn't get my omelet Come, Hollywood Boologham fights against men only Not with women Wear the gloves and enter the ring as a man You've met your match Think you can scare us with your gun-throat?! You won't be able to take our punches Future channel which was telecasting only in Asia so far... ...will telecast its programs in 47 countries in Europe And 107 countries all over the world Our own satellite, direct uplink and a separate server Future of the people lies in our hands The following companies sponsored the boxers' attire Sponsors for drinks are... They have joined us to telecast our IBC match in their countries Get legal rights for us to telecast their programs... ...in our channel as well In another year, I should be 1 of the top 10 millionaires Why did you leave Cuba and Brazil to come here? What is your opinion of India? Dance Why burn this with such fury and show your dissent? I'm challenging George to a fight But these TV chaps didn't allow me to see him But you lost against Dayal You are journalists You'll play fair, right? Ask even this white chap about boxing rules Channel judged it right Only Dayal is qualified to fight George as per our rules Because of this screwed up eligibility, India doesn't win... ...even a bronze medal in Asian games or Olympics Come to our area You'll know how many Tendulkars and Dhonis... ...Mohammad Ali and Tysons exist If George isn't ready to fight against you... ...what will you do? George will fight some chap who isn't even qualified And then go around the world saying he beat an Indian hollow I won't accept it I'll see how he leaves India without fighting me When the whole world is scared to death of him... ...why do you want to fight him? Why should I be scared of him? He should be terrified of me He's a boxer for his livelihood I'm a boxer by lineage Don't ask any more questions Put that down and stamp it Beat the drums Dance on it George, answer us This man- George says he'll only fight with Boologham Get another agreement from him Sir, if you sudde- Do as I tell you Boologham, there are no longer 2 boxing clans in Tamil Nadu Only one Tamil bloodline We must all get together and kick out the foreigner And also chase the local fraudster Come You rocked the press meet The news is all about you So sad your master isn't alive to see it Here, just sign it Hey! Squealer Are you the owner? Ask the owner to come Boologham, Mr Deepak is a business tycoon How can you expect him to step into this slum? He'll make money off us But he won't come into our area, huh? If he wants to conduct the match... ...ask him to come to our union office Get lost Thank God, my coolers covered my tears! Sir, it was a free channel so long and now you want it to be a paid one? How can the public afford it? They can't be without watching our channel They'll pay for it So go and grab the money from them So not fair and he changes his mind like his shirts We've even rented out the parking lot in the auditorium The tickets are printed Good...sell it at all the malls like Spencers, Landmark, Skywalk Car and 2 wheeler parking lots have been auctioned, sir Cycle parking has been given to- -The contracts are ready? -Only need your signature, sir Got Boologham's signature? What happened? Boologham wants the agreement signed at his place instead of here That's nothing to worry about I think he feels sentimental about signing near a temple- He says he'll sign it at the boxing union What does it matter... ...if it is signed in a temple or at the boxing union Work is worship It'll be history even if we sign there -Yes, sir -Come -What time? -Now is fine -Or any time -No...no...no We have to go at exactly the time he specifies Or Mr Boologham will be angry And you'll also feel bad Good day to you all Tulasi Read out the agreement If Mr Boologham wants any changes... ...correct it, retype and get his signature Give him the advance and it'll be a job well done Agreement for the boxing match conducted by Future Sports Channel This agreement between 1st party S.P Deepak Shah... ...and 2nd party Mr Boologham residing at 6, Sivashakthi- We know our own address Who asked you for all that? Read the terms Clause 1, Boologham has to participate for the next 3 years... ...on behalf of the channel in all programs whenever called Clause 2, Boologham must drink... ...only what is served by us in the premises Without our permission, under no circumstance whatsoever... ...is he allowed to change his appearance He has to acquire a NOC from the first party even to shave What agreement is this? Downright degrading conditions I'll 1st fight this match You can't lease me out for 3 years like a slave And I can't drink whatever you want me to My master has taught us what to drink after each round We can even accept he'll fight only once, sir But we just can't agree about the drinks clause, sir With so many leading soft drinks manufacturers... ...we've auctioned and signed agreements worth 1300 million, sir Those drinks are like bathroom cleaning acid And I should drink that? You'll make me apply some cream And vouch I've become fair! Why should I be fair? I'm dark and so are my people Rub it on a buffalo's back... ...for a month to see if it becomes fair You'll make me endorse alcohol and cigarette commercials I can't do all that You seem to be speaking like MGR all of a sudden? You're acting like Nambiar the ever popular villain? I'm asking you to hygienically drink cola You're insisting on some home-made brew I lose Rs 1300 million because of you The channel is giving you 2 million to take part in this To stake our life in a fight, this offer is peanuts! Ask them to add just one more 0 to that That's 20 million Boologham, are you asking me this... ...with your status and senses intact? Deepak, I'm talking to you... ...only after knowing my situation and yours I know how many boxers and their wives you contacted! You even spoke to the Army Boxing club No one from the Army came forward... ...knowing George is a psycho And here you are pleading with me now With an intent to cheat, you are taking advantage of my plight... ...quoting a rate beyond your eligibility History of a family feud handed over for 100 years Duel of death inside a ring! Will the son avenge his father's death? Will he sustain his glory? With petty stuff like who is whose son... ...you'll make commercials to fill up your bank lockers And you'll grab money from the public to watch that trash You'll get Arumugam kicked out and kill my master I'm asking for what I deserve for all this exploitation What Arumugam rightfully deserves And for my fight against George as well And it's bare minimum because we are not strangers Sir, he doesn't know math He might just keep increasing the zeroes This won't work, boss Boologham, why are you angry? You get tensed and we'll al- You say anything and I'll kick your butt Ask him to talk Type out what he wants Who are we giving it to? Only to our Boologham sir Read the next clause All proceeds and profits from telecast... ...re-telecast, promotions ...internet, Youtube, Facebook, cell phone ...video games, posters, stickers and profit through these applications ...will go to Mr Deepak and his successive heirs To his descendants It'll belong to his heirs and their bloodline And their successive heirs till the end of time! While Boologham and his family must be happy... ...sucking an ice lollipop stuck in their mouths forever 1st of all this deal is not between you and me Agreement is between the Union and the channel This fight and its video rights belong to our Union The profit should go to our Union as well You can telecast this fight only once After that it is not the channel's property But belongs to the Union Re-telecast or highlights will be decided by us Oh no...sir Sir, please...sir! He's a moron But we'll only suffer huge loss, sir Whatever the loss we must conduct this match Don't force him to stay Let him leave if he wants If his channel doesn't telecast there are 20 others in queue How will you telecast it? This is our baby Then you go and fight with George Only if George and I fight you can even telecast this match And show it to the world to become a millionaire The fight is ours Only the TV to telecast is yours Quote a fair price and take it gladly Don't think you can gobble up the whole gourmet meal! I'm the man who rescued you You were a scumbag fighting in the streets not worth a rupee I staged you in a ring as a boxer made you world famous on TV And you have the gall to stand in front of me and dictate terms? Who asked you to make me famous? You could have made your own son famous Which millionaire makes his son a boxer? Our fathers resorted to physical labor... ...shedding their blood, sweat and tears for us And we stake our lives to fight as boxers You'll hand our pain on a platter and walk away with your gain If I'm a scumbag, you're a sleazebag! (babble of voices) If anyone utters a single word against me here... ...you'll get bruised black and blue! It shouldn't be a paid channel The public should watch it free And no tickets should be sold Plus only an international referee should be in the ring If you agree to all this, fine Or else tata, bye bye, see you Just add in the agreement, in case you die in the ring,... ...the name of the person who can claim your body I'll sign it right away Union will take care of that You can give my body to them -I have an idea -What is it? You really want a wide reach, right? Yes, Deepak If the reach is extensive sky is the limit for expenses To make it reach all over India in 1 day I have a sensational idea I want this match to be sensational So I've decided to make it a fight till death He'll kill him in the 1st round He's so goddamn mad at him The frenzy I am in now I'll kill him right away His death should also serve as business for me I want to get back what I lost from him All those who sponsored trusting me should get the promotion they deserve Even if it's a foul hit He has already been banned for a whole year for playing foul If he does it again, that's it His career goes for a toss How many matches can he play in a lifetime? 10? -How much will he earn? -500 million He can make million in the market as a model -How much? -2000 million I will pay you that 2000 million Try to kill him in 3 rounds Otherwise, in the 4th round you commit a foul and kill him Is that okay? They say India is a poor country But you're offering a king's ransom?! India is poor But the market is big Arumugam, see you after your surgery 100 % fit Boologham, don't write me off... ...because you are fighting a foreigner After my surgery, you and I have a score to settle This is an age old practice If you tie sand bags to your legs... ...and jump around, you'll dodge faster -28...29...30 -Boologham? Let master give you traditional training Through scientific training we can program anyone to win Our team can program you to beat George George has fought 42 times He has won all 42 times 12 knockouts And 6 of those were in the ring corner So never get stuck in the ring corner 4 knockouts were in the 3rd round 8 knockouts were in the 4th round So be on your guard in the 3rd and 4th rounds Hit 1, 2 Boologham, practice with black gloves The fight is at night If it's white gloves, punch will be seen But black is harder to spot Change Keep your body straight Change Don't loosen up Keep your body stiff Faster Faster! Floyd Mayweather used to dance the salsa with his wife... ...to improve his footwork Let's workout that way "Love explored in all ways Savored in life always" "Be intoxicated to wine and dine Till 'enough' exceeds the line" "Let's garnish variety daily Pair up new to make it spicy" "Come and ignite my inner fire Let's spark our hearts with desire" Hit this doll Sensors in your hand will detect the force of your punches And will be displayed on the computer That must be 200 pounds, my dear You can't knockout George with this power even in the 12th round Give your best shot No Not enough No, try harder Power hasn't increased Punch faster Faster Not enough! How can I increase power by hitting a silly doll? Boologham...? Don't think your power didn't increase... ...even though you hit so hard In just 5 seconds you've punched 26 times That means you can punch 5 hits per second That speed is your greatest power "Be blessed by our bro He dances like a pro" "Accept he is cheetah of whole of south India" "By the jungle grazes a goat single..." "Only if we slaughter it will be our dinner" "I can scratch or growl I can stealthily prowl" "Be blessed by our bro He dances like a pro" "Accept he is cheetah for whole of south India" If Boologham dies in this corner then this product should focus Push it in Whichever angle he falls in, cover a product behind him There are 8 cameras on the whole Not 1 product should be missed If it misses then along with the announcement of his death... ...product also should be focused 'Future Sports channel welcomes the viewers of the final round...' '...of the International Boxing Championship' Don't get tensed He's trying to rattle you Focus Be calm You get in there and 'in fight' You start on the offensive mode Boologham, don't get up Till the count of 8 Steady yourself and then stand up If you get hit 1 more time... ...you'll be 'knock out' In this round just miss his punches His stamina will decrease And he'll lose energy Even if you can hit him, don't Maintain your distance You've snatched away his stamina in the 2nd round Best example of the saying 'giving him a run for his money' Boologham, don't get hit I'm able to take his punches Get out! He's playing foul Stop the game, Boologham Is this the way to play if he knows he'll lose? We can't let this go Surrender that white pig to us We know what to do with him Take a deep breath and exhale Relax You survived because of your abdomen guard Come what may, he wants to defeat you by playing foul Let us stop the fight -He has played foul -We'll teach him a lesson Stop it! Even if you want to fight, the people won't let you Listen to me, Boologham I'll address the public Calm down Calm down Silence! For my sake be calm for just 1 hour I can still beat this white chap Go back to your seats Boologham, listen to me Keep hitting his rib cage When his ribs break he won't be able to breathe It'll hurt him when he breathes His power will decrease Best way to knock him out Boologham, break his ribs by locking him in a corner Come...come and get me My Goddess will protect me 500 smses free for this punch This is Boologham's full talk time offer 1 commercial break after this punch You brought him to his knees Just 3 more minutes to put him to rest Come What do we gain by this enmity? Why are we sacrificing our lives by beating each other senseless? You don't know? Do you all know? Just because I beat you does it make an Indian... ...the strongest man in the world? Or if you win... ...is the strongest man in the world an American? The strongest are the ones who mint money out of us You and I aren't boxers We are salesmen who pile up these products on consumers' heads This isn't a boxing ring It's a marketing gimmick Do you realize now the power of marketing? Money kills, it betrays and it confesses too! Stoop to any level See for yourself Are any of these products what we make? All foreign goods Trade is international It crosses borders into our slums to exploit us But if we go across the sea border to fish then we get shot down All the countries will just watch Can't our country with so much tradition and tecnology make... ...a soda to drink and a soap to use? Advertisements are tools to brainwash us Don't trust anything Be suspicious If there's community clash at the end of your street... ...be suspicious of who is making a profit behind it If there's a religious riot in your city, be suspicious Profit line runs through that too When 2 nations are at war look for the hidden agenda Even that will be a tool by business men Don't be fooled from now on There has to be a change It has to be today It has to be now Deepak Shah who resorted to murder in this boxing contest... ...and his employees who were his accomplices ...were arrested by the police Indian Govt banned Future Sports Channel from telecasting forever In this Independent boxing championship... ...no one has won or lost All 4 of us are winners
