 

                        enough enough enough That's it Billy Billy that's it Billy... Good work Billy Wait a minute Hold it Now let's have some quiet Hold it Now let's have some quiet That was a good gimmick Morgan that kiss of death gag Oh, that's not a gimmick gentlemen I mean Billy Kiss is sincerely interested in his fellow men These are just sudden impulses of love that take hold of him I'm glad it's taken hold of him rather than him take hold of me Was it one of those sudden impulses of love That killed that man in Atlanta last year? Oh, no... That was just an accident gentlemen I mean Billy Kiss just squeezed a little too hard The man was just too brittle What about you Kiss what do you think? All I can say is, I'll be the last man standing when it's all over in that town in Texas What about the... Another time, another time And that was the killer you will enter into the Battle Creek brawl You save me the trouble Count it Maxim You needn't Good day I told you we shouldn't have stacked them up against Kiss We learned something And it cost us 25 "g's" Just make your rounds David Do your job Show off Hey, Batman! Come on We have to go see your brother about the money It's time In a minute Ten more of those and you won't be able to go tonight Hey! Is your brother still gonna marry that girl from China? Pretty soon Even though they've never met? That's not unusual... for Chinese But they've only written to each other Ten thousand times Well it's a pretty strange way to fall in love Licking stamps! Protect me from what? What you say I need, I do not need There's not enough money to pay my wages Sometimes they work hard for nothing I hate 'Chinks' that whine You are playing it too poor Kwan Go, go Get out of here Right here John Put his hand right here Count Count your fingers 1... 2... 3... 4... 5 Good You're doing really good with English Maybe next time you won't have five fingers to count When you pickup a meat cleaver you'd better be ready to use it They beat your father Dad, are you okay? Take care of him Nancy No... Hey! This place is my father's You hurt him Yeah, well he's okay Maybe just a little bit smart Jerry Jerry, you must not fight Jerry, you must not fight You must not hit anybody You promised me Jerry You promised your dead mother Jerry, you are fighting What is this? Jerry 'Chink' bastard Are you all together? One piece Was it the same bunch? Yeah Take care, Dad's pretty upset One day they will get tired of coming here Maybe It is my will against theirs You go up and take a nap I'll wash the dishes Will you be here this evening? I'm going to the race tonight A cash prize, $25 Yes you need it for car payments Nancy Don't let Jerry go down the street to his uncle's place It is very bad for him You can stop him He will listen to you All that fighting Training Dad Training for what? And my brother has never been worthy He's a fine chiropractor Your brother is the doctor Your uncle is a bone cracker And you could have been a doctor too Two years Such a waste It just didn't happen fast enough for me Dad But you have time for all these things There's plenty of 'wonton' Get something hot in the stomach And take a clean handkerchief Hey, I know a way you can double your money... on every dollar You need money to enter that roller race Four bucks Double my money back? We'll chew'em up Oh! thank you Oh! I feel relieved Marvelous You have such marvelous hands such strength Jerry On the square Get up Get up Sometimes you make me tremble with disgust I'm sorry uncle I have but one pupil Because there is no one else worth teaching except you You have a chance Yes, a chance Does your father know that you are here? I told him that I was going to the race Are you? Yes, but later To your father May he have toothache for every grain of rice he sold today Ah, you cannot accept that even in fun You love him despite his foolish demands May his tea hold the sweetest leaves It will be interesting to hear David's story When a man has no sons and only one nephew He has to do the best he can I told your foolish sister not to marry that Leggetti Now, now Mum At least David has the ambition I'm going to have to make a decision by myself Well John We heard Not important I admire you John wants to kill him Him, the old Chinese No, the young one. The son Why would you want to do that? I want that 'chink' He don't fight right Are you saying there was only one man? We assumed there was a gang of Chinese But you David I would think that you'd be anxious to break the young man's head I was on the corner I can still find him if you want You couldn't find a whore on Rush Street Now, now Grandmamma Don't Grandmamma me you lazy fart I think you'd better find him David He beat three of your men Including John here and John isn't that easy Go out of your way to stop him Test him severely John, I don't want that boy killed Right David! You should have written it down for him Now Mum, you never know We may have found somebody Two minutes and counting Hey Hey, let's just skate. Hey, Jerry Hey, no harm, no fun What I want you to do is take care of my friend Jerry there Alright, alright Give us the lead I'm gonna skate the crap out of this place Get out of my way Throw it Creep Get out of the way What are you doing? Hey don't push me Come on, come on We have 'em breaking bones over here There's a fight over here Hold this 25 bucks I love you Thanks Jug Hey Jug, we can drive you home? Nah, I'm too excited to sit But you can take my stuff home Okay Okay See you later Listen don't do anything I wouldn't do John To be superior One must be pure Body, as well as mind This is essential to gain harmony with one's soul It's about time you start meditation Hi kid Just a minute Here, sit down How'd the race go? I won $25 Great, congratulations I double your money Nice Doctor, Doctor Hurry He's alive Christ! They look like razor cuts I'll get my car We'll take him to the clinic They're here You stupid fool Why did you hire those big guys that kill? You're a slow learner How many times did I get you out of jail? How many times? New clothes, new cars I gave you responsibility You don't know how to handle it All you know is the one thing Somebody outta take your wand out and step on it It's okay I took his wallet It had $25 in The police will think it's a robbery Get out I don't want to see you for a while I don't know what I'd do if I see you too soon You stay here John This Kwan kid handles himself very well Actually he don't fight right He fights foreign I want to see him myself How about the Woo brothers? Those little yellow bastards fight like a pack of foreign devils Mama's right Set it up, will you John? Oh look! Here's that fight thing Here's that Pittsburg fighter He's going to Texas Yes, and his boss Morgan is a gangster Hello Kwan Are you the son, Jerry? Kwan Are you the son, Jerry? Yes For a few bucks I can tell you about your friend Jug How he got beat up It wasn't no robbery What do I do? I'll meet you at the Outdoor Theatre in two hours Oh yeah Don't bring anybody with you Okay, I... Who was that? Hi Dad I know what you have been doing Fighting I will bet you have not eaten Don't move What All I felt was a little wind You're very quick And accurate Indeed amazing What can you do with that? Kicking? Depends on myself Is there a great need for that? Sometimes It's an art too After your done with this training How do you support yourself with this skill? How do you charge to defend yourself? You don't believe that it has value I'm only trying to understand what you do with this Maybe I'll be a teacher This will be yours It is something real And paying gangsters to keep your doors open? I will not pay them and you will not either Jug? Still the same Jerry Well Mae's arriving two days early The steam ship company notified me the pier number Oh my! I won't be able to go meet her Can you go Jerry? When? Today Today! I've got rail tickets waiting for you and Mae at the Chicago North Western There's nothing to stop you You're the only one who has nothing to do Okay When does it leave? In an hour In an hour! Jerry The name of the boat and pier number is in there Also where to pick up the train tickets Get a taxi There's one out on the street Call Nancy Tell her what is going on Take a clean handkerchief I have to get to the railroad station Straight away Chicago Western? Yep It just so happens I know just where that is Go, go, go, go Keep the change Thanks The city of San Francisco is about half way through the station on your left Good luck with that girl coming in from China Ah, that smells wonderful Yes Hello You wouldn't believe it I didn't even have to follow him He jumped right in the cab I got everything except his morning mark Like what? Like he's going to San Francisco to pick up some girl That's gonna marry his brother Got her name, everything Good Come on in and tell me all about it I'll catch a plane to the coast get there one day ahead of them That's very interesting about the girl Could be useful So, you are Jerry Robert wrote a great deal about you You hit people, is that not true? I'm so happy It is wonderful to be in America Stop that thief! You could have stopped him You saw that girl Where did she go? Yeah I did Jerry, but we'll need to talk Sit down She's safe But we still have to talk Beautiful day A bottle of Chablis, Harry And some of those wonderful finger sandwiches that you make Yes Sir I've looked forward to meeting you Jerry Now, I can see that you're worried And to that end, let me reassure you the young lady is just fine She is having lunch at the moment and eating heartily What are you after? I like that Straight away no nonsense Alright, you know the way Uncle Sam sticks his finger out of the poster And says, 'I want you' Well, that's me Jerry I want you You're a great fighter Great Did you ever hear of Battle Creek Texas? There is going to be a fight there A very large and expensive fight I wanted a man of mine to participate But unfortunately he was severely beaten recently I am not a man of yours Have you forgotten the young lady so soon? Now my proposal is simple The fight is three weeks away We'll pay your entry fee and take care of the expenses The young lady remains in my possession until the winner is announced I'm betting it'll be you You'll have to return to Chicago immediately to begin training There is no way I can go back without the girl I couldn't face my family, my brother It's a disgrace that I've lost her I recognize that and I want to help I don't want your concentration diminished After all, the thought that your brother is waiting your return must be maddening And then having to come home empty handed Now Mae and I have been talking It appears that she and your brother have never actually met They've just exchanged pictures Hi guys We brought Miss Wong in from one of our businesses here in San Francisco You mean fake this girl for Mae? Why not? It will relieve the pressure on you and your brother A hoax, yes, but a humanitarian gesture to ease the pain He will never buy it Mae is an educated classy girl She's even a trained nurse Miss Wong took first aid in high school and she's studied life saving techniques Under a life guard last summer Mouth to mouth and all that She's been briefed on the situation It's a terrible disgrace If you don't go home soon your family will have the police looking for you If I win, I keep the $15,000 Absolutely And if I win you keep your men away from my father's restaurant Or any place in the neighborhood How's that for a gentleman! Beautiful You've got it Forever Forever Here we go I'll wait here Get rid of the gum Dad, they're here Jerry, hi I think we'll never see the girl again Gee, we were starting to get worried Mae Your bride to be Finally, my god finally Mae, this is my father Hi Dad Mae Chan welcome to our home We are very happy You two have a lot to talk over I'll see you later What do you think Uncle? I could make a guess Robert's fiance is here in Chicago Dominici would not let her get far from his side He has a big place in Lake Forest I guess it's stupid to suggest the police Stupid? No Wise? Yes If it is known that Jerry has gone to the police I think we'll never see the girl again I have to try for her We 'We' meaning the three of us That would be unwise and stupid Just keep on walking the way you are going Hold it Wait a second Get 'em Try to get inside Behind you! I know Hey! Come on, come on Wonderful Jerry, Wonderful Come on into the living room Oh yes! Beautiful I knew you'd come here You'd have disappointed if you hadn't tried I know she's here I want to see her I honestly believed that we'd reached an agreement And here you are trying to change everything My nephew doesn't know if she's dead or alive He's very upset Well that's terrible Jerry shouldn't have to worry like this His mind should be free to train His opponents are going to be quite formidable Billy Kiss from Pittsburg has entered and another fellow from Morocco We're putting a lot of faith not to say money In Jerry's ability to win this thing in Texas I'm sorry Gentlemen I can't grant your request But let me tell you this The young lady is quite well And in very good spirits A wonderful lively girl We have a fine gym if you care to use it Completely equipped No!... you sure? Well if you need anything please allow us to help It is best that you stay with me during your training I will set up a cot Senor Leggetti, Mr. Morgan Come on kid, sit down How are you doing? Fine You know David Pittsburg's not so far away We hear things, rumors Like what? A 'Chinaman' Lot's of 'Chinks' Which one? My boy Billy Kiss is very, very good But we've heard good things about this 'Chinaman' that your uncle found He's alright Your uncle picks a lot of winners I don't like that It worries me And worry puts wrinkles in my forehead I could take him Straight up or in an alley? Anywhere Yeah, I understand that your uncle's been picking on you That he's been pushing you off to one side I am family That's right and you don't treat family like dirt I mean the Leggetti side of the family is as legitimate as the Dominici side What is right, is right I'd be lying if I said I haven't been thinking about that I mean what the hell You're the rightful heir You help us, and I help you Pittsburg, Chicago, together I could like that That's fine, fine to everything We'll talk some more It stinks Let's get out of here Ah, you must want to hate this So, everything is not as it seems Your training has begun Every time you make a mistake this brute will sleep with you in your small cot You are ready for Texas At the conclusion of the National Anthem and at the sound of the siren You may do battle with anyone you wish When the bell tolls up there in the courthouse Those of you who are still fit will be paired off for the individual finals You know they can't use no guns knives or hardware like that Stop 'em I say right now. Stop the fight We're still in it Which is more than can be said for most of them Don't walk Jerry, come, run with me Cool off by warming up The first bout will be between Billy Kiss of the United States and Buster Murphy of Jamaica Jerry looks very good doesn't he? Mr. Leggetti Across the street there We don't want Morgan to surprise us do we? David! Hey, you can't do that! "Kiss, Kiss, Kiss, Kiss, Kiss" I'm gonna kiss you goodbye tonight Next on the agenda Ladies and Gentlemen Is a contest between Les Harris, and from the city of Chicago, Jerry Kwan I mean Kwan Jerry Beautiful Hey! Where's Leggetti? Ah, I saw him go sneaking Left without a word Ah, it doesn't matter Morgan must be one worried bastard David Leggetti Yeah, yeah let him in We have to talk over here My uncle can see us from his room Yeah well I'm getting creases in my forehead Your gonna have to drop a bomb on that Chinaman... I can put a stop around the 'Chink' All I need is a little help a few of your men Also I need someone to tell the uncle Sure Davy Boy I mean that's what partners are for, right The next match is between Aaron Johnson of Liberia and Kyro Atashi of Japan Jerry... Jerry, you're a guy who's new to this Battle Creek Brawl Nobody knows much about you What do you think your chances are? I believe in myself Some others believe in me $15,000 is a lot of money these days So what do you plan to do with it if you win? I'm going to give it to my brother in Chicago He has a clinic and he needs equipment and all of that No one can argue with that Let's get back to action Thank you Jerry Kwan The Jamaican fellow is dead Kiss killed him An accident? Maybe Johnson is resourceful Vicious Then there's Billy Kiss I love it Come on let's run to the hotel Next fight at eight tonight Aaron Johnson versus Jerry Kwan Come on Jerry Tomorrow the final bout between Billy Kiss the man mountain of Pittsburg Against that amazing young man from Chicago, Jerry Kwan It should be a derby, the man mountain Kiss Against the little guy with the windmill like moves How do you describe it? I'm in full view Coast to Coast, tomorrow here from Battle Creek All right, we, we did it Jerry Herbert Nancy, what are you doing in there? I'm playing nurse Jerry's in the shower Let me in I can't, Jerry said nobody could come in But nobody He must get to bed He must sleep Don't worry that's exactly what he's going to do As soon as I put some bandages on him I will wait Sit here This won't take long Hey! You need to get some sleep We'll do some 'nice nice' Remember Billy Kiss Hey! Jerry, I can't get you ready this way I am ready this way Ah, no... Jerry... Waiting by a locked door while an open door beckons is most foolish and futile Honest, you hear me 22 percent less efficient Folks it's fifteen minutes until the final bout between Billy Kiss & Jerry Kwan Uncle Herbert, he's an hour late Jerry... Somebody showed this in my hand Herbert's been kidnapped What! It must be a joke But this is his hat and it says he won't be hurt if you lose But I must win I know We'll look, try to stall okay and I'll see if I can find him Everything's fine Go easy, there's cops outside How about a little kiss, Kwan a little kiss won't hurt you now You got no right up here I'm in charge You're gonna have to get down Identify yourself Just a minute... Hey, Jerry... I'm okay I'm okay Get him into the movie house I've found David and good riddance Go and claim your prize Kiss They'll find Kwan here You're the one who beat up Jug Your friend? Maybe Be quiet... Be quiet now Come up and verify your opponent can't continue Quiet please There he is There he is
