 

                        Billa.. this we can buy from anyone and anywhere.. but your life only can be taken from you, thats why i brought you here dont wish everytime everyone must listen to you, thats bad any last words you want to say it, say it a important criminal wanted by many countries... Billa and his group member : Ranjith, CJ, Mark Ricky, Shana murders, smuggling, bomb blast and many other activities we have tried many time to catch but failed and he escapes Billa is responsible for this 6 murders. total 50 cases. because of him, 100's , 200's and also this 6 people are dead i left my family and countries for the past 1 and half year, and tried to find out more about his total network, the same time he know more about us. The bloody fellow is smart. Malaysian police will give you full co-operation but don't forget one thing, our side also we lost some of our people's life. yes, we give our life to catch them. one of these day, he will answer for the life he took l like that billa a lot, i don't understand sir, look at his life, born for a poor family in Tamil Nadu, Parents suicide without a reason, however today he become a big man. David Billa, we don't even know that is his real name or not, he deals every of his case very perfectly l'm his first fan in the world and his first enemy in the morld. i'm waiting for the day to catch him, he's played a lot we must be careful because he's dangerous Sir, Andy here , yes , tell me you want to meet anywhere No, now i can't come, ok tell me Sir, in this group there is someone above Billa ... Who .... Jagdishl... we don't have that name in our list, how does he look like ? l don't know , no one saw hin before but everytime he speaks to Ranjith and Billa on phone. ln Billa's room there a computer which have all the information, contact of his group. can u go in and get it ... no, the computer has a password only Billa and Ranjith know the password. but i found some information and saved in a memory card l'll pass it to you, we'll talk later. why, 2 reason.. 1 : l don't like the way he play and 2 : l don't like his shoes l don't understand.. Rajesh check his left side shoe.. heel Sir , Danny's body was found below a bridge in a car, he was very strong imformer , Billa killed him ..Damn it Billa. how did Billa know about Danny ? Definitely someone informed him. Hey Anil, nice watch... thank you sir, its a rolex , given as a gift Billa, do you know how much i like you, i'm willing to give my life for you, show me how much you like me. sorry , i forgot to load it. scared ? No, if i was scared i would do something like this. death is comes for everyone but when how is a suspence no suspence, if i decide to kill you now? l'm happy to die from you hand Billa, if i planned to kill you ? before you could plan to kill , you'll be dead. Don't you trust anyone ? l'll trust, i'll trust everyone but i ownt trust the animal inside the human's mind. Ria, this is our passport and tickets, you keep mind also just come before 1 hour to the airport, 12.30am flight .. ok ? why, we can go together. its not possible Ria, you know about Billa, it;s a problem if he know i'm leaving him, even we meet each other its a risk, one more important thing, dont call me ok.. i'll meet you later Rajesh wait.. don't worry Ria , i'll be there. Billa, a small problem one of our men left us. Rajesh Let him go ... what Billa, l dont understand Rajesh took his own desicion is not wrong, its his right and he know what is right and wrong for him in this world, there's a language that everyone know ... Good decision, you have the right to do what is good for you, this is totally your decision what you're looking at, they're here for you l thought so even you dance too much, anyway you dance well shut up, why do you think i came with you ? do you think i like you ? Rajesh... do you remember how could you remember, you kill poeple everyday Rajesh was working for you only. l wanted to live with me. before that you killed him you dont' take it personal, come there's no bullets inside, i've taken them, you can't escape now... this has bullets here only you and i know's it, but the police don't know it. you done a small mistake, shouldn't kept the gun too Billa, you can't escape now, surrender you self you are a public disturbence, that's why i'm here let go of the girl and surrender your self or else i'll shoot if u want to shoot shoot DSP Billa don't like you showing the gun but not shooting what time Ricky said he's coming ? ln half an hour there's a lot of police around... where? there, talking in the phone undercover here, black T-shirt blue jeans at the bus-stop two people how do you know that ? We know all about police call Ricky not to come here why the police was chasing you ? they don't like me what you doing up there..? l have to kill you to tell you why , is that ok ? don't tell, you came to the right place, why ? police don't like us too. l like for braveness, Billa don't think, you came to the right place you've done the right thing this time, i'm very happy now i don't know i'm taking the right desicion or not my brother always makes the good desicion. listening to you he's behaving properly, the two of you all go somewhere and be happy Bila, Steve called, good's arrive and need to confirm the location to meet one small thing, this time he asking for more how much two times more looks a bit hard, should we come with you ? tell him i'll be there in time when ? Steve, all your men are new, old men's can't be trusted how much you brought ? how much you ask , that much i have Steve , what is all this, what you talk are all recorded. you're caught red-handedly, you're under-arrest there's no difference between you and them, you have joined with them or they have joined with you ? you're gonna shoot me ? try an run .. Billa, all the mistake you've have turned around and hit back at you. its not wrong DSP, try understanding the history.. it thought us one thing... Killing a lot of people for us to survive is not wrong. if we dont exist, you wont have job at all you're talking too much , i've seen a lot a deal between us... look at all these weapon's, keep it in your collection or sell it.. dollar's, euro's, rupee's, ringgit's however can... thats your work.. you're a criminal , i'm a police officer but a small difference.... you need be alive but i don't need you. don't stop the car... Jai.. give me your gun give me.... give me give me did you notice this Jai.. your gun targeting you, this is why Billa .. no one knows first time you confronting me , you want to surrender ? i'm escaping Jai i knew that if a bullet hit this Billa, its only from you only you have the knowledge to catch this Billa .. Jai do one thing Jai .. join with me ... what do you say ? then who will catch us... Jai .. try to understand, we can rule the world, No... give me the gun and surrender yourself, you can't escape now...look look at yourself.... i'm feeling very nice you're driving the car infront, i'm sitting behind the car, we are talking to each other... you're frighten now... frighten .. me ? you're the one frighten now.. Jai.. who's have the gun is and who is afraid ? leave it Billa..its all over its now the beginning you should know something Jai.. every day and every minute in my life even every tick in my life , i've ever been this position.... good morning sir, good morning sir, what happen ? we still have no information yet and still searching.. did u sleep ? no sir one more thing, someone came to meet you, i have an important work to do, i'll finish that and come no sir, this is more important than that you speak tamil ? yes, i'm from tamil nadu i've heard a lot about you, anyway i'll get to the point where Billa ? why ? Billa's case you are handling it and you've done a good job but a bit out of control that's why i'm here i did ask for any help.. i'm asking all my paper about Billa i have settle, nothing to worry i need to see Billa's files, Anil, what for a while, family matter look here Mr.Gokulnath, this is my case and i've done a lot from the start till now i been handling it correctly Billa is a criminal, you must understand that ok , i agree but rather than saying you, us is more powerful trust me... now tell me in briefly, what happen ? Billa escaped. l'll catch him about the most wanted criminal is Billa for more information we have here Mr.Jai and also Mr.Gokulnath yesterday we had a information that Billa was going to sell thousands for weapons we tried to catch there but Billa ecsaped but we've seize all the weapons that worth atleast 10 million american dollars if we have any information about Billa, we will inform you sir , is Billa alive or dead ? not dead. when you're gonna catch him ? soon we will catch Billa but we need the public support any information you got about Billa, please inform to the nearest police station Velu, nowdays we cant steal at the temple, why ? eveyone tie with string at the body, can't get through. please change the location now what happen ? take one ''bida'' and you will feel very energatic from inside the stomach to the vein to the bones totally makes you knockout... no.. its nice try one... no... hiccups hey.. its not police , security our people nowdays i'm afraid to see anyone in uniform.. why ? someone aks me my passport for 10,000 ringgit .. i sold it what ! you sold your passport ? why you're getting shocked.. its with me for nothing so let it be used for few poeple. for that they are chasing me around you definitely will get caught, what did you to with the money ? dancing with you made my body feel very tired so i went to Thai massage and they remove my pant .... hey ... talk slowly oh sorry we're in the temple Karan, pray that you should be happy, that's why you're here then pray that i'll be happy, ok i'll try.. i've pray to that Velu(Murugan) only one thing .... what ? by next Thaipusam, he should get a nice school and study very hard. and also a good job for you. oh .. you singing ''velu velu velu'' was for my job not for the vel in His hand.... what you pray for you ? i have a big house, below we 4 worker's, below them 40 worker's when i gave them order's what to do, i'll very hyper joy ... hey... you ask for this one .. ? its small wish ... murugan cant' take if he hears for wish .. He will run away from malaysia. Velu sir .. i didn't do anything wrong this time you have to do me a favour now, you came late , if u came early we could have gave him the tiger costume, keep quiet... oh .. should gave him ''Pillayar'' costume he's DSP.. haiyo .. big police, big big police... Karan, take your cycle and go one round, cannot . please go , please go ... wait i'm going... acting ... sir, police asking me for acting like someone else, don't you think its wrong ? i must act like another person i can't do it , let me go. what was him name sir ? Billa ... what kind of torture is this, why should i act like Billa ? is this isue goes to that Velu(Murugan), then this Velu will get it.. sure Velu, the god ur praying is also acting in a lot of disguise for fight evil .. He's six head, i'm one head do one thing, why dont you act as Billa .. that can't be.. look at this.... what is this look... sir, you're showing my photo and asking me to see.. its graphic's right ? he's Billa , an international criminal murders, smuggling, bomb blast, wanted by many countries look at him, now you understand why i ask you to act like Billa.. its wrong sir, asking you to act like Billa very wrong you've get caught. sir, when you take his photo, you catch him and take any pose you want right ? cannot... why ? he's dead. he's dead then why i should act like him.. above Billa, there's some other group, we can catch them if you act like him i can't do it , let me go. i'm asking you to act and you have to act .. lf i'm alone , i'm willing to do any good deeds but i have this boy with me, he's father gave me a job in a hotel. he's parents died in a car accident, since then i'm the only one for him the parents request was to send him to a good school and take care of him that's why i don't want to act .. sir try to understand .. he act like Billa like you wanted, i'll send him to a nice boarding school and give a good life for him its my responsibility and i'll pay for all the expences ok .. l'll act like billa, like you there's more worst poeple in that group, they find out i'm not Billa, then what's the guarantee for my life i'm there for you. ok. if you suddenly died ? you are acting as Billa .. ok. Velu, this is St.John school, one of the best school in Malaysia, see there Karan, you like these school , a lot you must study hard and become like this sir .. more bigger person then this sir .. ok. ok... go and play , hugging. sir, you've kept your word, gentleman tell me , i'm ready good... sir , you're meeting anyone.. you carry one, i'll wait in the car. i'm going to change you to Billa here, sir, stop joking, wearing a coat and suit and standing here is very funny i wasn't talking about you sir, i said overall can you tell how many iron bars here ? want to sell it ? how many irons they are, let me count .. 84 iron bars, 7 entrance , 6 windows if this was Billa, he'd know everything here. sir , you came here earlier and counted ? most important thing is you must know how to cheat and catch a person cheating, know to kill with getting caught, if get caught, try to escape.. you must forget you're Velu, u have to one and don't listen to anyone you have a voice inside of you, instinct only listen to your instinct, you only think about you only you... you're Billa you must know every thing about computers how to get and erase information. you must know about weapons, and use it against your enemies all this is for you, drink ans smoke how much you want until you hate it because Billa wont drink or smoke and you won't get caught pickles ? l'll kill you.. now we have to do one thing balance... you must get caught with the police, where, when you saw who is this .. hello ... hello... Mr.Jai... we found Billa he's fine but he's suffering from memory lost.. this is a important case, when he will be cured maybe 2 weeks, 1 week even 5 min from now he can remember congrats on catching Billa, thanks i would like to thanks the public first, they gave me the information first. when he will be discharged for the hospital, doctor says he lost his memories due to the hit on the head.. anyway tomorrow morning we are transfering him to Penjara Sungai Buloh with tight security, after he is cured, we will investigate more and keep you updated .. excuse me.. they can't do anything to Billa but Billa can't be there also.. i'll bring him and come i'll bring Billa and come how ? how did they managed to kidnap him with this tight security.. they planned carefully and kidnap him don't talk like this Mr.Jai, you should be more careful not me but us they couldn't have kidnap him without information for us how long you know Anil since i came here and taken the case be careful ... trust me this is your place think nicely and try to remember C.J. , Sasha, first time you saw her u like her braveness, do you remember , how are you ? normal be careful and don't do any business how is your acting as Billa ? super but sir, in Billa's group got 2 dangerous women one is C.J. , thinking i'm Billa she comes near my ears and blowing in it, i'm worried anytime i'll get caught, other one Sasha, she's the only one in silence come to the point i've learn all the details about the group more importantly , i spoke to Jagdish when did you see ? did see him. i talked in the phone only sir, this is the right time for to gain my memories back.. what do you think correct, i'll arrange that but let me know when you are going out you must change to the old Billa and they must believe that i'll create that opportunity for you now you can go how will you go out from here? the same way i came but suddenly anyone comes in and see you ....... suddenly disappeared where did he go ? here we are meeting John, he won't talk to anyone except Bila that's why i brought you here and he doesn't know you lost your memory, don't tell him anything about your memory lost issue how are you ? fine that's all ? you've changed, you've changed where my goods , where i remember, i remember everything good excellent match, C.J. , what is all this .. Bila, we have to talk Sasha come with me tomorrow morning 1 1am , we have a meeting with Mike a small dealing , the details about Mike is in the computer when i'm not around who touch the computer.. no one then who changed the password ? you must have typed wrongly.. this is our last meeting with Mike i'll go with Billa no need to come i'll come together just to drop you what are you doing , as usual filling up the car with petrol and roaming around .. just send me 2 DVD's of new movies, very bored here i wont tell anybody DSP gave me .. tell what is it ? i'm copying all details about Billa's group and network for you, when you will give me ? now , come straight to Billa's house and i will give you just tell me when you will give me ? i'll call you when i'm going to pass you the details , just continue roaming around , ok bye why you are doing like this ? you've changed Bila you are not like old times, its because of her right ? who ? Sasha Sasha , what are you doing ? how does it look .. are you checking i'm the old Billa ? i know you are the old Billa thats why i'm pointing the gun stop playing , remove the gun i'm noy joking , i'm serious .. why i've been with you all these time ? i wont get like these kind of opportunity again .. Sasha , you are doing a mistake it's not wrong to kill someone like you listen to me .. i could have killed to earlier but without you knowing the past will be a shame, you wont know why you are dying .. now know why you're gonna die Ria , my brother Rajesh, i don't know anybody named Ria, Rajesh habe you forgotten , if u didn't kill them that day .. wait , don't rush .. let me tell yo the truth io'll the a truth , Billa is going to die now Billa is dead, i'm not Billa i'm Velu i'm not going to listen anyting you say... sir , is this a time to introduce .. first ask her to drop the gun, drop the gun, who you are ? why you want to kil Billa ? Sir, first tell her i'm not Billa Ria, Rajesh died because of me thats why she tried to kill me, luckily she had a flashback, if not i would have been dead by now Sasha , Billa is dead while i was chasing him Velu is acting as Billa to catch Jagdish and terminate the entire network Velu , acting as Billa atleast now believe me .. drop the gun sir, the entire details and contact is in this pendrive did u see ? i didn't. you see, you catch them because my job is done and i'm leaving, where are you doing ? untill you find out who is Jagdish, you're Billa sir , stop playing around Sasha, keep this secret between the three of us only .. ok ? what work i have when Billa is dead .. they will suspect you if you leave suddenly, be there for while, i'll arrange something, a important thing , 12th April remember ? thats the day all our contacts around the world meet together, you forgotten.? Jagdish called to remain you .. 12th April ,Agara Belantara, is it ok or need to change ? no problem , can can ok .. we will meet there Hello , DSP sir... what is it ? tomorrow night i'll declare myself, all Billa's gang and network are meeting tomorrow night.. and Jagdish will be there, how did you know this ? Jagdish arranged this meeting. what time ? 9 pm. where ? No.5, Alkara Belantar , don't forget... i was waiting for this to happen , Velu listen to me carefully .. tomorrow mustn'e have mistakes, when i come, Sasha must not be there, why Sasha must not be there , thats not all , whatever happen there, you must surrender to me only then i'll take care the rest ok but you arrest everybody, not even one person should escape but as usual Billa will escape.. hey, what are you blabbering ? sir, let me be Billa .. i feel very enjoying one more important thing .... planning .. don't come from the front , come form the back silently understand ? shut up, you just surrender to me Billa, we are not going to Alkara Belandar , we are going to Australian Condo why ? due to information , there's police around them how did you know ? we know what is going there in the police station who changed it ? Jagdish. Why didn't tell me ? Thats what i'm doing now .. where are you ? going to Alkara Belandar don't go there the place have been changed, where ? Australian Condo why ? they found out that you are coming there i think Jagdish's informer is among your people, find out who is that .. i'll make sure nothing happen's here i heard what you talked turn right who are you ? i thought so , when i came near to you and you avoided me, i suspected that you are not Billa who are you ? don't come near ! C.J. listen to me, don't shout please .. C.J. don't ... listen to me .. C.J. ... C.J. , this accidently happen i'm sorry where's Billa ? Billa , what happen ? DSP sir .. drop you gun sir, i'm not Billa i'm Velu trust me, DSP ask me to act as Billa. No you killed DSP. don't make stories , agree that you are Billa i'm Velu, i came to this country to work, DSP ask me to act as Billa. only DSP know's i'm acting as Billa, why should i kill him ? how should i believe that ? how did u came there and how did you know about the group activities ? i called DSP and inform him, believe me sir please ... how you know the police plan, the same way the police know your plan i don't need to explain to you tell me one thing that can make me believe you are not Billa .. sir, a pendrive all the details, contact and activities about the group i gave to DSP in a pendrive please check for me... where is the pendrive now ? must be with DSP. please search for me sir, please there's no pendrive and there's no proof that you are Velu .. anything else Mr.Anil, Mr.Sali send all of them to central prison, you've done the biggest mistake in your life acting as Billa, you made a fool of us you all are fools, you think you're a gang by having few people behind you just look at these faces, look at him where did u cut your hair, torn head look at him, using a car side mirror as a glasses monyet Mark looks like Billa's uncle son hey uncle, what you are looking at ? have you ever smile in your life before? you have only seen Billa but you havent seen Velu... come , come sit down. if we hit you now then they know you are not Billa and you'll escaped, you'll die as Billa because of acting like him, this time you can't escaped Velu .. Velu ... torturing us a lot, i'll make him come what happen they know i'm not Billa i know, Ranijth is looking for you, i know come first i must find out who killed DSP, police is looking for me thinking i'm Billa, Jagdish people is chasing because i'm not Billa i must be outside to do something, Sasha, are they suspecting you ? they trust me, Velu, can i tell to the police that you're not Bila ? no, you should not have any problem because of me, now you must be with them for me ok.. what you going to do next ? i'm going to call Gokulnath, Gokulnath ... who ? why after DSP died, he's the only one believe's me, hello, officer Gokulnath, Velu speaking Billa ... talk .. how many times i told, i'm not Billa.. then why are you running, come and surrender, i'll take care the rest i have no problem to surrender but beside you, no one else believe's me if i'm inside , i can't prove that i'm not Billa i need to talk to you talk .. not in the phone but, face to face tomorrow afternoon, 1 pm aero brigde.. come alone thanks for coming how long you want to run like this until i prove i'm not Billa DSP Jai Prakash ask to me act like Billa, now he's dead after DSP died, you are the only one believe's me, that's why i ask you to come alone how i gave DSP Jai Prakash information about the group, the same way someone from the police is giving information the them ok , where's the pendrive that you gave to DSP i gave to him only sir look here, that is the only prove that you are not Billa.. if this was Billa , he wouldn't give so stop playing and give me the pendrive sir, i'm not playing i swear i have to him .... Ranjith's coming where's the pendrive ? Jagdish i know you are not Billa because no one knows Billa better than me.. so the person who killed DSP Jai... DSP Jai know i'm Jagdish, now you know... what are we doing , a big criminal always escapes from the police i need that guy and with shoot at sight order i think there's no need for shoot at sight order, we can't do this without consulting the indian embassy, its my responsiblity to get and paper's from indian embassy, you just have to approve it , that's all i can't believe this.. Gokulnath joined with DSP not to catch Billa, but to know what happen to him, Gokulnath killed DSP he won't let me go until he get that pendrive not only me but anyone with me also Velu, then Karan ? don't send Karan to the school, keep him with you and be careful Velu, police ... sorry , its ok, hey Krishna , hey Velu .... what is this, you went on thaipusam and coming back on deepavalli who is this baleilekka ? come, let's sit and talk come in who is this, did she running away from home or the father chased her out ? no, police is chasing us you know more about police , give me some idea .. Velu, let's go nothing to be afraid of, relax nothing to be afraid of, relax that's what i said, give me some idea why you talking secretly ... Seth marriage function just finish, all free drinks, first take one round.. then i'll give you an idea why you asking like you don't know, your favourite.. little water .. a lot of liquor Velu ...no, sister, for you a raw one coming, today i will definitely drink this, Velu, don't don't stop me Velu don't you have a bit of pityness at all ? i'm so tired and exhausted... its been so long, cheer's ..... cheer's .. hey, how was our friendship before , you left without giving a holiday letter, Velu (Murugan) why, why, Velu (Murugan) must give the letter what did i pray for thaipusam, for me to get a job ... not you , me that is a very big list, u have a bungalow house, you have 4 worker's below you , below the 4 worker's, another 40 people then you will feel very nice relax . did He give ? He gave , everything he gave, including a big problem all because of that DSP, who that fat police, i have a doubt on his face, he will fix you and leave the country, he didn't leave the country, he left forever above , from that day i started running, until now still running.. you're running alone ? with her if you run to China border atleast you can meet Jackie Chan... i don't care what ever happens now, give me the cup.. no more cup , only hand how much will Seth spend .. total package 120, 420, 650 .. specially made for you.. will get hiccups, no.. will get kick ups... Velu .. don't don't turn .. officer, doesn't mean you have the gun in your hand you can point it anywhere, ok .... i'm Billa do what ever you want. you're changing from Velu to Billa then from Bila to Velu , all i know only i know you are not Billa. how many people will tell the same story everytime, you think only Jai know's all this, trust me i totally lost my hope on police you must trust me now, why ? because you're still alive there's a shoot at sight order for you, you know i'm not Billa, why you still chasing me... to catch Jagdish, why search for a person who is already next to you .. Senior lnterpol Officer Gokulnath is Jagdish. he likked DSP Jai Prakash now i'm running because of him.. how did you know this ? now , you must trust me. Karan .. i don't know where is that pendrive, i gave it to DSP only.. its safe where ? you should have told that i'm not Billa... what ? enjoying watching me run, its my life in jeopardy, not yours ... i can tell you are not Billa then DSP died without any reason.. no one will know who is Jagdish, now you know who is Jagdish, after this i'm not running anymore.. you must run now you must keep on running because he will definitely look for you, he have to save his network and no one will believe if i said Gokulnath is Jagdish i need you to catch him, we need your help man, if its not for us, atleast do it for DSP, trust me no one should see us together, you go now, hello i know the pendrive is not with you, you must find it and bring it to me Karan and Sasha is with me, sir i need the pendrive why Jagdish is holding Karan and Sasha give me the pendrive i'll take care of this but now i can't give you the pendrive give me the pendrive no, Velu.. deal is deal sir, for so long only my life was in danger, now he captued Karan and Sasha, give me the pendrive i'm sorry, i can't give... give me the pendrive i'll give but in one condition come pendrive first let Karan and Sasha go, pendrive let me check first Jagdish no one will believe you if you say i'm Jagdish, but if i say you're Billa, they will believe if you want to tell to anyone else, still have to go through me, i was waiting for these pendrive go ans see the system, freeze, one more step and i will shoot, back.... slowly ... no, don't shoot.. don't shoot come on , arrest him .. Billa we've been trying to catch him for so long , come on arrest him.. Anil , what is this..? i'm sorry sir, you are under sarrest, what nonsense.. pointing a gun at a senior officer is wrong against the law come on arrest him the law is for everybody, we know you are Jagdish, we know he's not Billa, he's Velu bullshit .... i'm not Jagdish, i'm lnterpol Officer Gokulnath, i'm sorry , i'm wired what we talked is all recorded, no one will believe you, i will sue you all, put the gun's down... come on Anil, there are a lot of rules and regulation to arrest a senior officer, do you understand that .. don't move, Velu, Karan and Sasha is on top... all put the gun's down no one can catch this Jagdish, Jagdish fire !! pendrive Velu
