 

                        Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Bill Cosby ! Hello! All right. Happy to have all of you here. And " you'll know the meaning of this by end of the show " When I said to some people "I'm coming to cerritos," they said : "Ooh, good." I said : "We're gonna tape for a TV show." So they said : "Oh, yeah? What... what... a special for...?" I said : "Yeah." So they said : "Well, which one?" I said : "Comedy Central." So they said.......... " you?" I said : "Yeah." "Is this... is this a new Comedy Central?" I said : "No, it's the one that you see all the time." So, like, one of the guys started crying. So I said : "What's the matter?" He said... "Mr. Cosby's gonna curse." And they walked away. So then, another couple, they said : "We... we hear you're... you're gonna do a special." I said : "Yeah." So they said : "On Comedy Central?" They went like this... I said :"Yeah." They said... "Then uh, we can expect to see some, uh..." I said : "Not really." "Well, what are you gonna do?" I said : "I'm gonna almost talk, that way." They said : "What do you mean?" I said : "You know, you aim at it, and you hit it, but nobody heard you firing ! " As you grow, you find people in your way. Old people. Two of 'em, you lived with. So you become... A person who, now managing your life, you fall in love. And you see the person that you want to spend the rest of your life with. And you ask that person to be with you when you die. I mean... I mean, that's essentially what I said. I didn't realize what I was saying, but I said that. I , I thought I was being romantic. I said to her, "I would like to spend the rest of my life with you." Well, if you... see, love... When... there used to be a time when songwriters wrote words, and they... They had... "I lov... I'm crazy about you. I love you. I just can't think right. I'm going mad." And all of that. And... and... And it's true ! You're not making any sense. You want somebody to be with you until you die. That's not love. You know, I don't know what you can call it, but it's not romantic either. I mean, you think about it, you know, she's there, and you say, "I would like to spend the rest of my life with you." Oh, whoops. Wait a minute. Whoops. Wait a minute. Let's go back and listen to your grandmother. After your grandfather died... And ten years later, somebody says : "Grandma, don't you want to meet somebody, a man?" "I don't want to take care of another old man." See, she's not in love anymore. Grandma goes : "Oh, no, you don't. You don't get me one of those old things, man." When you fall in love, you accept craziness. See... Here she is. Right there. She's called the "girlfriend." Girlfriend. Now, this person is wonderful for you. She will even drink beer... With you and lay up in your ar... She will watch sports... With you, and... and even know your friends by name... And say the names like she really likes the person. She's a wonderful person. This is the girlfriend. Friend Girl... Okay? Loving you! Pick you up anywhere. "Come and get me." Zoom. Right there. You can say to her, "Do you have any money?" She will... she will say, "I'm sorry, I don't." Well, you can't get everything. There she is. But... After 49 years of experience, she is the lure. You ever do fishing? The lure is something very beautiful, and it bobs in the water. And it draws you... Yeah. So nice, this person. So wonderful. You... you leave her, and she'll call three minutes later. "I miss you." Yeah. You can call her. Any hour Any hour She's... "Yes, oh, yes. I miss you so much. When are you..." "Yes." The girl... ....Friend Thank you very much. So you want her... So badly that you... Want to spend the rest of your life with the girl... ... Friend That's who you're proposing to. So now you have to go get a diamond... Because a diamond is A Girl's... ... Best Friend Hey Love... love is not... you're not clear. You're not thinking... you're not saying to yourself, "Wait a minute, she's my girlfriend. "But if I want her to spend the rest of my life, I have to go get her ,her friend And maybe more Now, everything I'm telling you is not anti You know, none of it is anti I'm just trying to make it clear for the males, because somebody keeps telling us that we are... "You're the man. You're..." No. What we are is not paying attention. You got to pay attention. There are people... there are paradigms of what is coming. Your own father. See, you think you can use him because he's quiet. And who helped him to become that? See, it doesn't register with you that his wife... "Don't say that about my mother..." Hey... your mother... You know, I can't say "wore him down" or "beat him down." It's his choice to be a quiet man. A man who used to love to talk. A man who took you out places, came back with you, and then she said : "What did you do?" And you told her what you and dad did. And then she told him not to do that anymore. I'm jumping ahead, 'cause I'm not talking about the girlfriend. I'm talking about where we're going. Yeah, here she is "" The wife "" See, when you... there's... the game of chess. Supposedly, men made it up, and it's about war and men and the savageness and the bravery and the genius of commanding and moving pieces and... No. It's marriage. The queen... Moves anywhere she wants... Picking off people. And what happens to the king? He's moving one square. look at mother's day look at mother's day oh , ma... it's so woderful.... and this is .... parades and presents why is it that nobody forgets mother's day ? because your mother tells you when it's coming she also tells you : "you better not forget" and mothers are not truthful people and the proof of it, is : every year , your birth the labor gets longer by the time you are 30 she was in there for 7 month in labor ! and she kept saying : oh my god shoulders ! cut it in half so ... here she is the girl friend you want her for the rest of your life. so that means you have to get married keep in mind that's what you moving to "" the wife "" the different person now , they're not evil they're not evil but they have a different mindset first we will start with the loss of power which's you never had these things were written about in books called fairy tails where the man was on horse and all of that and the woman ... ho.. throw down your hair you know , and all of that and he is a swash man and swinging and flying in and saving her when nobody was really bothering her she can take care of herself she took care of you I don't want to take care of another oldman as long as I live so now here we go , You get the ring. Then... Then you're most humble. You begin to think what she will mean to you. And you become humbled, and you realize, as you are mad... as you are mad that you are really... You put yourself in such a low self-esteem position. "I am nothing. But if I have her, I will conquer the world." And you begin to want her and need her, because without her by your side, you can't do it. And then you have the nerve, after you give her her friend, to tell her how worthless you are. "I am nothing. And... and if you will join me..." Now, this is getting stupid now... But it is the lure of her friend. She's not paying attention to what you're saying. She's looking at the diamond. She thinks you're saying, "Please, marry me," 'cause that's all they ever say. You say, "What did he say?" "He asked me to marry him." But you were babbling away about being nobody and nothing and your heart and that you're gonna die before her and you want her there to see this death. Later on, thousands of years, a woman says, "I don't want to see that again as long as I live." So here we go. You ask any woman in this audience who's married. "Did he ask you to marry him?" "Yes, he proposed." "What did he say?" He said : "Will you marry me?" And that's because she never paid attention. Now, the two men... The two men in the wedding... important... are told what to do. The father of the bride is told. "You walk her down here, "give her to him, "and then you come over and sit beside me. "And stay sober. "And don't go around asking strangers how much they think all of this cost." So much for the power of the father of the bride. The groom has no power. He's given an opportunity to invite all of his best buddies. They come, and they are called the... - Groomsmen. - The groomsmen. And the reason why he's given that privilege is because this is the last time he will ever see them... Except maybe as pallbearers. Now, I don't know if you're planning to get married for the first time. All you fellas, now just listen to me carefully. I... If you can swing it, I think it'll be very nice. Take... take the father of the bride out. Let him sit next to the bride's mother. In his place, while you're standing and waiting for her, you will put your mother. The groom's mother... think about it... is bringing her. You see? You can now see your whole life. Here comes the woman who brought you into this world, now bringing to you the woman who is going to... No, let me say it ! Take you out ! Thank you. So now, you men pass up certain things. You don't recognize... When you're married, you don't recognize certain things that... Pardon me... that she's doing. She's not an evil person. I don't think that she is like a person... "Uh, give me that big, red one. I'm gonna ride 'em till he can't breathe anymore." No, I don't think that. But I do know... That... that they... they... Things belong to them... And you don't know that. You think this is yours... That it belongs to the two of you. "My wife and I." See, it's not true. The first time I ever talked out loud to myself... I was married seven months. I came in, and I took my shoes off, put 'em there, and I , I went back to get something to drink, came back, and they were gone. They were gone because a part of my mind said... Because the eyes told him, "What happened to your shoes?" So I answered myself. I said : "I don't know." So... so my brain said : "Well, they were here." I said : "Yeah, I took 'em off." And then my brain said : "Yeah, we saw you do that. We saw you... you put 'em right there." So things started... to move. And the reason is, they are not... Yours. And where they... - Belong. - Belong! Said many of the wives sitting in the back. Yeah, not... they're not where they belong. And you will find out, when you ask very nicely, "Dear..." you have to. "Dear, have you seen my..." And then, as you stay married longer, they... They get to sound like judge Judy. "I'm talking now. I put it where it belongs." And then you're scared. You say... You're scared to say, "Well, where is that?" things start to move... you could be sitting , I'm telling you these things belong to her it's not evil ... it's just that... you don't know that she gave me a room ! she said : come here I want to show you, your room I said : am I being punished ? no bill , I fixed the room for you I didn't ask her to , nor she did ask me what I like she said : I put everything in there that you like so ther was a big TV like this... like this... and it was about this far from my face but it's not bad because when you you know , you take the remote once you learn how to do that specially when you turn it on , and move because the thing will suck so ... she...she.. she showed me the room and now I sit in it because this is my room and I ... I sit... and I and sometimes she will come by and peek in and she says ... one time she said : oh... there you are ! and then she walked away ! so.. so ..I went after her and said : yes dear? she said : what ? I said : yes...yes.. what do you want ? she said : I don't want anything . I said : but called me ! she said : no I didn't . I said : yes you did there she said : when did I called you bill ? I said : you stopped back at the room and you said : There you are ! she said : that's right I wasn't calling you I said : oh... there you are . because you where there ,Bill so I said : yeah , but why did you have to tell me that I'm ... and guess what ? I knew I was gonna win this one cause she said : I don't wanna talk about this All you husbands know this : People will say, "Is your wife your friend?" You say, "My best friend." "My best friend." Because they better say it. I-I know that's not a good understanding of a friendship, that you better say it, but that's the way it is with your wife. Because she's not your friend, so you better say she's your friend. No, she's not your friend. That's your wife. Way above a friend. See, this was your friend, and you wanted to die with somebody. Here she is. You see? So now, this is your wife. So you could get a friend just being a regular, you know, nice person or something. But a wife is special. But they want you to say, "She's my friend." let me give you an example Excuse me ... .... Dear ... why did you moved this ? when ... I.. when.. I had it this way ? see ... that's my wife I got no answer. she just ... she just walked out and they know ... they know that they're not your friend because you could do like this after she did like this you could call her back and say : love , do me a favor don't ever do this again ! no ... I'm just making up something I didn't say... so ... so ..so so , don't ever do this again because when I have something set on my table I want it on the table the way I want it isn't this fun ? some guy , an idiot ... in the audience , one night said to me : Is your wife here ? stupid ... dose it sound like she's here ? I don't want you moving my stuff again ! I don't care for put it upside down or lay it like that leave my stuff alone ! ... Dear ! who do you think you're talking to ? - my friend No you're not either Buster ! keep it up , you will die by yourself so you have to just understand that things are gonna move, let them move , But she's not your friend. No, no, no, no, no. Let me give you an example. I fly into Massachusetts. Get in my car. 2:30 in the morning. I'm driving, hour, 15-minute drive, going home. All of a sudden, I smell a wire burning. 15 minutes out, wire burning, smell smoke, the lights are dimming. All of a sudden, the car... vroo... And I negotiate over, I put it in park, turn off the key. I go around, I lift the hood. This ends my knowledge of how to fix the car. I come back round, and I... 2:45 A.M... I dial my friend. His name is Ed. He's around my age. So I said... phone's ringing... You know. So Ed... he picks up the phone. Now, he's asleep. 2:45. He says... you know, he tried to talk. I said : "Ed." He said : "Cos." That's my friend! Ed! That's my friend Ed! All I said was "Ed." He said : "Cos." He said : "Are you all right?" My friend Ed wanted to know... He was asleep, and all I said was "Ed." "Cos, are you all right?" I said : "Ed, I'm fine. "I'm driving my car, Ed. I'm I-91 North. "I'm an hour out from my house. "I smell wire burning. "There's smoke, engine lights go out, Ed, "and, Ed, my car is gone. "It's just stopped, and I'm wondering, Ed, if you'll come and get me." My friend Ed said : "Cos... "Let me get dressed. I'll be there." My friend... - Ed. - No, say it! Ed! There you go. My friend! Ed ! Ed....nah, I didn't ask you to say it again. When I do like that, that's when you say it . My friend Ed is coming to get me. He gave me a choice. He said : "Cos, let me get dressed." I could've said : "Don't get dressed, Ed. Come and get me." My friend Ed is coming. Now, let's... let's go to this other person. I'm not naming any names. Just going to another person. What time is it? 2:45. - 2:45 in the morning. Dial the number. - She picked up the phone. - She said... I said : "Yes, my darling." She said : "Oh, Billy." I said : "Yes, dear." She said : "Oh, how are you? What are you doing?" I said : "Dear, I'm about an hour out." She said : "Oh, wonderful. You'll be home shortly." I said : "I don't think so." She said : "Oh, what's the matter?" I said : "Well, dear, I'm driving my car, "and smoke starts coming, and the engine cut out, and I had to maneuver over..." And she said : "Bill." I said : "I-It just won't run, dear." She said : "Bill." I said : "Yes, dear?" She said : "How many times... "Have I told you... to get that car fixed?" I said : "Many times." She said : "No, Bill. How many times?" I said : "Over a hundred." She said : "So why are you calling me?" I said : "Dear, I was hoping..." She said : "Well, you got that right." "I was hoping that you would come and get me." She said : "Bill... "Do you expect me to get out of this bed, "drive an hour out to wherever you are, because you don't listen to me?" She said : "I'm gonna call the AAA. When they bring you home, Bill, don't make a lot of noise." I said : "Dear, the reason why I make a lot of noise "is because you won't let me turn the lights on and you keep changing the furniture around." She said : "Well, you could fall quieter than that." Now, that's my wife. My friend... ... Ed! Is coming to get me, because "Ed" is... ....your friend. No, no. He's single. yes...because if Ed is married you can hear Ed's wife in the background I know you better not get out this bed no ... all you men you can go ahead as long as you've been married I'm telling you now... I'm not afraid to say it... I lost... My key that was given to me. I lost my key to the house. That was 48 years ago. I don't have a key. I don't know any codes. Nothing. I-I get off the plane, and... and someone who works for us will pick me up, bring me home. That person has a key. That's if my wife is not there. And then that person will lock me in. There are instructions written in the house what I cannot touch. Because that's another thing when you get married. You get up... you been sleeping... You get up, and she wakes up too. "Where are you going?" "I'm just going downstairs." "No, you stay up here. You stay here with me." "Why?" "Because you're just gonna be walking all around." "And what's wrong with that?" "I don't want you touching anything! You don't know how to lock up." "What do you mean?" They don't trust you. So she had to go visit her mother, and she... she left. I waited and waited until she was gone long enough, you know, to be at her mother's house, and thenI , I got up, and I went to bed. She won't let me go to sleep early, but if she's not there, she can't see where I am. So I put the pajamas on. I got in the bed. So the phone rang, and I got out on my side and walked over to her side, where the phone is. I don't have a phone on my side because my phone wakes her up. So... You thought it was only happening to you, didn't you? So I said : "Hello." It's a woman. So she says, "I represent the so-and-so security company." She says, "Who am I talking to?" I said : "Well, I'm half-owner of... of the house." So she says... she says, "Well, do you know "that there's an alarm going off... going off?" I said : "I don't hear anything." She said : "Well, it's going... it's going... "It's showing up that there's a malfunction in the front door of the building." So I said : "Okay. Well, just a minute." I put the phone down, I went to the front door, and there's bolts and keys. So you unbolt and turn the key, open, slam it, bolt, turn it. Unbolt, unlock, open, slam it, jiggle it, bang it, bolt it back. Turn the key. I went back up. I said : "How's it look?" She said : "It still shows there's a malfunction." She says, "And who... what is your name?" I said : "Cosby." She said : "What is your code name?" I said : "I don't have a code name." She said : "Yes, you do." I said : "Ma'am, I have to tell you... "I don't drink, and I don't do drugs or anything. "I know for sure I don't have a code name. "I just have my regular name, which my mother gave me, and my wife even calls me by that name." She said : "Well, sir, I'm gonna have to call the police, because you don't know your code..." I said : "Ma'am, they're not gonna do anything because I have a code face." I said : "Just one second, please." So I put her on hold, and it's blinking, and I punch down another line, and I dial my mother-in-law's house. The phone is ringing, and my wife picked up. She said : "Hello." I said : "Oh, I'm so happy to reach you." She said : "Hi, honey. How are you?" "I'm home." She said : "I'm at mom's." I said : "Yeah. Just a minute, dear." She said : "What's the matter? What's the matter?" I said : "There's nothing wrong, but the lady from the security company..." She said : "What did you do?" I said : "I didn't do anything, dear. Just one second." So, uh... Conference. So I punch down the conference, and I punch down my wife. I said : "Hello?" My wife said : "Hello?" And the woman said : "Hello!" I said : "All right!" So I said : "Ma'am?" The lady said : "Yes." I said : "This is my wife." So the woman said : "Yes, how are you?" My wife says, "I'm fine." So my wife says, "What is the problem?" So the woman said : "Well, there's a malfunction "on the front door of the building that this gentleman is in." So my wife said : "Did you touch that front door?" I said : "No, I didn't." The woman said : "Yes, he did." I said : "Now, look, lady. You gotta... "You know, there is a timeline here. "I touched the door after you told me there was something wrong." She said : "Oh, yeah. Okay." So the woman said : "And what is your name, ma'am?" She said : "Mrs. Cosby." And the woman said : "That is correct." She said... She said : "And what is your code name?" My wife said : "Pearl." She said : "That's correct." She said : "And I just want to tell you, Mrs. Cosby, "how wonderful it is to speak to someone who has a code name "that makes some sense and not a bunch of pervert things going out that you have to hear and say." My wife said : "Thank you, but you know, "I was in the andes, and we were all around, "and I saw the pearls and the people, and I said : 'oh, my God, I've got the name.'" and the woman said : "Oh, yes, I plan to go there, "and we're going to do all of this and that, and they're the same colors, and so you don't mind if I..." "Oh, yes, it's a wonderful place, and you should see the thing..." She said : "By the way, your... this man is your husband?" My wife said : "Yes." She said : "He doesn't... he says he doesn't have a code name." So my wife said : "Yes, he does." I said : "No, I don't." My wife said : "You do have a code name." She said : "And I told you your code name." I said : "You never told me anything. You never said..." She said : "I told you your code name twice, "as a matter of fact, and then I told you to write it down." I said : "Well, I don't know anything about a code name." So the woman said : "And what is his code name?" My wife said : "Bill." I was going to have this woman reported, because... No, you can't do that. But I didn't report her because I didn't know how to spell... See, that's the sound she made to keep from laughing. My wife said : "Bill," and this woman went... And then she said to my wife, "Mrs. Cosby, please don't be dismayed. I have one of these at home too." So I said : "Well... "If you told me twice my code name, "and if... and I'm talking to both of you... "If you told me to write it down, why is it I don't remember what you said?" And both of them said simultaneously, "Because you don't..." Listen. No, no, I'm not talking to you. You weren't there. but it's gonna happen you'll be ... you'll be married and see things man ! see the power power of the wife we were going out with an elderly couple in their late 50s and my wife locked up and first of all you get to a certain point in your marriage specially after the children move out they're not gone they just move out ! but their bills come to your house so I open the car door for her she got in and she is sitting behind her girlfriend and I go around , I open the door and I sit behind her girlfriend's husband he's not my friend I have to like him but I , you know ... anyway they just ... but when women greet each other they just ... oh my god you just look so gorgeous and so do you , you look so wonderful and where did you get those earrings ? I could just kill you for those earrings oh yes, do you like them ? yes , they pick up your eyes they pick up your dress , they pick up the dashboard , they pick up everything and just so cutee ... and ... men , men are different man , you say : How you doing Roy ? good to see you Bill keep in touch man ! so he takes off now , they have a GPS the GPS the GPS : 2/5 of a mile , make a left turn . his wife says : 2/5 of a mile , make a left turn . this continues for anotther 20 minutes every time the machine spoke she said the same thing ! and he never said anything ! so another 20 min .... I and I couldn't take it anymore so said to my wife : another 10 minutes and I can't take it anymore I said to my wife : Shut Up now , we get to the venue the woman goes to inner sanctum and I pulled the guy over I said : hey man doesn't it bother you that your wife repeats whatever the machine says ? He said : what machine ? see .... after a while man when the children leave you become her oldest child ! so you don't need a brain anymore you don't need a brain don't ask any questions just do what I tell you to do cause she ... she looked at me she said : I've laid your clothes out for you so I went up and I put them on ! she said : where you going ? I said : you told me to put on my clothes she said : I laid them out for you I said : well , where am I going ? she said : tomorrow. so I took them off and I laid them back out again she said : why are you doing ? I said : I'm playing them out for tomorrow she said : they're dirty so now it's time to go out with her wherever she's going , I don't ask married long enough , I don't ask Do I care ? Yes ! But I don't want trouble. so I sit there and she drives sometimes we go to the mall here's the rule , that I know I'm supposed to do if she want's me to go when she gets out the lock will go up if..if..if if she wants me to stay it stays down . and thats when I talk to the dog oh ... yeah , people have dogs in the cars and I sit there sometimes she's very nice she'll leave a little crack in the window then they pull away and another car comes in then sometimes she'll say : ok , lets go and then I go and then she walks me so then .... hey I'm telling you man ! you don't know what you in for boy , then she comes and then she walked me over to a place that there is about 12 other men old men and they're all sitting there like this now , you sit down here and I'm telling you right now you stay where I put you you don't go wondering all over here because when I come back and you're not here I'm leaving you ! and there are men sitting there oldmen and some of them have peed on themselves what happend to you ? I'm not leaving man ! I don't care , I'm not leaving but the smartest man of all of us is Reggie , see... he's got a ziploc bag but he won't share there was one fellow , he just passed out no ... he just got passed out and his wife got mad at him what are you doing down there ? and he just ......I have no idea..... I know you must have done something , now , you get up and he did so one of the old guys said : he was faking ! I've done that before , I couldn't get up I don't know if anybody could come up but man .... when she said get up he just got right up ! my...., I fell off and my wife came said get up I was so happy I couldn't move that's the way it is. go down there ... you sit ... ... do what I tell you ... she blamed me for her menopause ! we were sitting there talking and all of a sudden , water just shout out and her blouse just turned to another color and she looked at me and said: stop it ! I said : stop what ? you know what you're doing. I want you to stop it right now and then she went and put her head in freezer ! as soon as I cool off, I'm gonna get you the rule of the house is or ought to be then when a married couple come upstairs.... if the hisband.... gets the remote or let me put it in fair sense whoever gets the remote first turns on their program they sould be allowed to finish the program they turned on . without , I'm not naming any names A certain person going around ... well , what is this you got on now ? then they lay in the bed and you trying to watch your program and they go : ah.... what is then ? ah.... I don't know what is this but its a marathon gonna be on for another seven weeks , dear and I got the remote first ..... ha..ha..ha see , there's gonna be a husband museum I don't kknow if I'd bee alive or not I know that the statue out front be of a husband sitting in the chair and he'll be looking like this : and then on the exit , there is a moving statue and the husband's going : and they walk around the house and that's how you can tell it's not your house , they walk , they walk all over you see'em going by , here back around and you hear'em over head and you say : dear , come sit I'm busy ! don't you see I have things to do around so... ok she said to me , she said to me : you know , like Bela Lugosi (Dracula) Come ! she said : come sit with me we never talk so , she took me in her office ! and she sat me down then she sat on her sofa and then she took out a book and started to read so , I'm sitting and she's reading and ...um... see , wives have a wide pripheral vision they can see like a alpro corner back I'm telling you , pay attention I'm gonna show you what I did she's reading and I did like this she said : where you going ? I said : I don't know , and she said : but you moved to stand .. and I said : Yes she said : ok you were moving to get up I said : Right ! she said where were you going ? I said : I don't know she said : Bill , how could you move to stand and not know where you're going , I said : because the voices ! ... told me to stand up ! and then , they heard you ! and then they ran away ! oh yes one of the worst things that could happen to you is when your wife gets your medical you know , exam and you see RBC and white blood count and then the cholesterol triglycerides and they're not pretty and my doctor made that decis.... he's no longer my doctor he sent it to the wrong fax number and...um... the reason she shut mine off ! but he wanted .... he sent it to her she shut mine off , because I wasn't using mine I said but I leav it on I don't want it on I never said , but thats my machine I already know the answer so ..... I'm up I'm up and try glycerides and ... ... and then I get the wife we want you around a long time and this is unhealthy and I keep telling you over and over and instead , it's like listening to your mother you know , at least with your mother like when your mother ... and then sometimes you just say : Mum , just stop talking beat me , beat me ! you can't do that with your wife they hit to hard ! so , I behaved because she kept watching me and we go to a resaurant and she will ask the person for the menu and just tell them : he dosen't get one and people in restaurants are used to wives just taking the thing and tell that husband misbehaved . So we went to this one restaurant in New York City, and he has a bakery next door... next door. So it's like the bakery, and then you go in, and there's curtain, curtain, and a door to the bakery. And then there's a curtain, and then there's a door and a curtain to the restaurant. So when we got out of the car, I'm walking, and we get out far enough back that I could see the cookies. And I noticed that they had chocolate chip cookies this size. Bigger than famous amos, smaller than Mrs. fields. So listen, this is where you can put two in. So the bad boys up here, they're... "Oh, man, we gonna party!" "Yeah, but how do we get there? How do we get there?" "Don't worry, he'll figure it out. He's smart." You know. So we go... she did not look like she saw it. And we went in and so... "Oh, Mr. and Mrs. Cosby. How do you do? Sit there," and people sitting. And I'm... so he pulls... So my back is to the door, and she's there. Fella says, "And there's the menu for you, and will your husband be having a menu?" "No, I'll select something for him." She says, "Oh, I see you have the poached breast of chicken foot ! And she started laughing. "Ha, ha, ha, ha. I got you. I got you." "No, you scared me." So she ordered something for me that was poached, uh... With nothing, you know? Just... you will taste the flavor of how it died ! So... She ordered some kind of salmon from rangoon, which has been buried for 12 years and then was wrapped in fig leaves from a village where only virgins... Male... male virgins... Come and sing to the trees and the leaves. It was wonderful. She just swooned, listening... "I don't know how chef thinks of these things." And so she ordered that with, uh, with prunes. No, it wasn't "ew." She... she's... prunes. And they bring a small tree, and you pick your own prunes. Put 'em on your plate. So I said to her... Now, this is the part of marriage where you... I mean, you're both good. You both know each other very well. "Soon I will get you, lady Cosby. "I bleed not. "This is but a scar. Aah!" I said to her, "If you will excuse me, I will go to the bathroom." She said : "All right." So I got up, and I went... The lady at the desk... "May I help you, Mr. Cosby?" "Uh, no, I'm going straight ahead." Door, curtain, bakery. So there's a-a couple and a little child. I go up, and I'm in... you know, in a hurry. So there's a lady waiting on them. So there's another lady that didn't look like she was doing anything. You know, New York City. And, uh, I said : "Pardon me." She said : "I'm very busy right now." I said : "Oh, yes, ma'am, but I just need t-two things, please, if you don't..." "Oh, hello, what do you need? What do you need?" I said : "Just give me two chocolate chip cookies, please." "Well, you just can't have two. You have to buy a dozen." "Well, good, I will buy a dozen, "but give me two now, please. Just give me two." "First, I have to put the gloves on." "All right, put on one glove. Give me two cookies. "Please, hurry, 'cause I have to get out of here. So give me..." What! I put 'em in... Chew the thing, and now she's putting 'em... I said : "Here, keep the change. It's all right. Don't worry." "No, you will get the change. You got to..." I said : "I don't have time! I'm sorry." And I went through a bunch of curtains, then the door. Stood there with the curtain blocking. She's sitting there. I sit down. She draws the sword. "Where did you go?" "I told you... Where I went." She said : "I know... "What you told me... But that's not what I asked you." I said : "I went... To the bathroom." She said : "No, you didn't." She said : "You went... "That way. The bathroom is that way." I said : "Yes. "This is true. "But... "The bathroom for the regular people... "is there. "For the stars... "It's that way. Ha!" She said : "You went into that bakery... "and you ate a chocolate chip cookie!" And I said : "Ha, ha, ha! "That's where you are wrong! "I did not have... A ... Chocolate chip cookie!" She said : "You did." She said : "Let me smell your breath." I said : "You'll smell nothing. "You think I'm one of your children. "Going around smelling people! Apologize!" The woman from the bakery... It was not a pretty scene. The woman from the bakery came with the bag with the ten chocolate chip cookies. It was piling on like I've never seen before. "Mr. Cosby! What is wrong with you? "You forgot your ten other cookies, and you ate the other two so fast in there." I said : "I don't know you, lady." She said : "And here's your change." And then my wife stuck her sword through my neck. Oh, you liked that part, didn't you? And said : "Chew on that." Yes, but getting back... And then, the other dream: the children. These children... we will have these children, and they will go on. We will give them love, and they will go on. We will give them care and go on in health and go on, and these are our children, and they will love us and everything. And I'm... I'm driving them. There's three of them. It's my turn to drive 'em to school. Block and a half from school... "Dad, dad, wait, wait, stop. Stop the car." "What's the matter?" "Can... can you let us out here?" "No, your mother said to take you straight to the front of the school." "No, no, dad. No, she didn't mean that. She means to let..." "No, don't tell me what she means. "I know what your mother said. "Your mother said drop you off in front of the... "I don't know what you guys are trying to pull, but you're getting off in front of the school." "Dad, please. Please, don't do that. Please, don't... dad, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't." "Okay, 'don't, don't, don't, don't, don't.' What is the problem?" "Dad, there's no problem. We just want to walk from here to the school." "But your mother said to drop you..." "Dad, please, if you let us off here, we will never say anything." "Oh, don't lie to me about that. Now, you're gonna tell me what the problem is." So I turned around, and I looked at 'em. And when you're an experienced parent, you pick out the weak one. "Judas... "Come on, talk to me. Talk to me. "Come on, you can. You can. Say it. Don't be afraid of the others." So finally, the old one said : "The reason why we want to walk "is because our friends make fun of us." "About what?" "Um, they say that, um, we think we're rich." "Why didn't you tell me that? "Why didn't you say that? "I can clear it up for you right away. "Listen, your mother and I are rich. "You guys have nothing. "I mean, think about it. "Every time you want something, you ask us, don't you? "That means you have nothing. "Defend yourself! "People say, 'oh, you guys think you're rich.' "You say, 'no, we don't! "'That's my father's car. "It's my mother's house. "We have nothing!' "Say that to them. "And I'll prove it. Just... I'll prove it. "The state is making us do these things. "If we don't do it, we go to jail. "Another thing, you have no money. "You're homeless also. "Your name's not on the mortgage or anything. Tell your friends that. Defend yourself!" "Well, we just wanna get out of here, and we just wanna walk, and..." "Besides, they're not your friends, "'cause if they were your friends, "they would like you for who you are, period, regardless." "Well..." "Evin," I say, "Look, okay? I've had enough of this." Made a u-turn. I went all the way back about 1/2 mile. Made another u-turn. I said : "Get out." "Get out? But... get out?" "Yes, get out." "But, dad, this is a long..." "Yes! "Think of how your friends will love you even more. "Come on. You... You can do it. You can do it. Get out." "But, dad, we don't wanna get out." "No, no, you're gonna prove this to your friends." I close the door, and I made a u-turn, going home. I'm driving. I look through the rearview. They're fighting mad with each other, man. Not throwing any punches, but it's getting close. So I make another u-turn, and I come back. "What's the problem?" "We don't... we don't wanna walk." "Okay, get in the car." I drive all the way up to the front of the school. In front of us... I told 'em. I said : "Look at that. "Your friends talking about being rich. "They just drove up here in a $300,000 bus. Go ahead." So they got out. They're walking, and then they go on the grass, and they're meeting with their friends outside, and all of a sudden, I put it in park, opened the door, and I walked over to 'em. And I looked at 'em, with their friends around them, and I said : "Kiss me." It was wonderful. but all those dreams that you have of what they're going to be I remember my wife... Our first one was ten years old... And I think my wife had some dreams of this first-born being a friend and the two of them growing together. "Which one is the mother?" oooh .... na .... Not once she turned ten. My wife called me. "Bill! May I see you?" And I have this habit... If I can't see her, I don't answer. Then I heard her coming, and I answered, "Yes, dear?" She said : "Come with me, please." And she took me up to the daughter's bedroom. The daughter's standing there... Letting us know she can't stand us. I stopped at the doorway. My wife came over here. My wife addressed me. "Have you ever seen such filth in all your life?" I said : "No, I haven't, your honor My wife said : "Go to your bathroom, "pick up the bathroom scale... yours. "It's on the floor. "With two hands. "Bring it in here. Set it down face up." Daughter came back with it. My wife said : "Now, bring that sock over here. "Put it on the scale. How much does it weigh?" "The needle hardly moved." "Then why can't you pick it up?" Then the daughter said : "I didn't ask to be born!" And I just got so mad. I thought of three things to say, but none of them would allow me entry into heaven. And my wife, in... Time, said something that made me jealous of her intelligence and quickness, 'cause the daughter said : "I didn't ask to be born!" And my wife said : "And you're not what we asked for." getting to here getting to here sitting in a robe quiet she stalked her head in she said : isn't it hot in here ? and before I could respond , she turned the thermostat ! and then left . so I sat and after a while I started to get cold and I... I I started thinking to myself you know I'm a Man ... get up you know , change the thermostat .... but but ... I ...I wasn't afraid I don't know what it was , but I didn't want to the thing I was doing this routine one night and a woman yelled at me : why didn't you get a sweater ? so then I began to just think ... I'm a man ... I'm a husband I'm ... I'm cold get up change that thermostat change it you're a man ... you have to sit here freezing so I did I got up I went over , and I turned the thermostat came and sat down felt much better cause I'm a Man ... that's what's important get up , change it then started to get warm then she came back stalk her head and... and she said : .. augh.. the children heard her because I heard them say : dive ... dive ! she looked at me and she said : Did you.... ... change the thermostat ? and I just stared at her because I wasn't afraid and she said : I'm talking ..... .... to you ! and knowing that I'm a man and what the strength of being a man I said to her without fear : I have not left this chair cause I'm a man ... but they know that they own us ... oh yes I was asleep having a nightmare a snake was crawling... on my left heel and it's gonna bite me I'm gonna die and the nightmare I was afraid and I wanted to reach down grab it and kill it but my arms are paralyzed and I couldn't move and my subconscious I guess said : wake up , and you'd be able to move and I did and I woke and I saw my wife she's holding my left heel and then in her right hand ... is a dead-skin scraper ! she kept yelling Hold still ... ... I'm sick of this ... ... cutting my legs to shred another time I was asleep not a nightmare just sleeping and all of a sudden I feel a shark pain in my right nostril I open my eyes and there is my wife with face right there she's holding six hairs why can't you see these ? I am sick of looking at these things ... hanging out of your nose why can't you see these ? you breath out and they go out like this Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Now , you know why
