 

                        - Everyone has a story. I'm Heather, and this is mine. - The lot is pretty much where the truckers kinda tend to hang out, you know, it's a place where they can stop over, and they sleep when they're on their long-night ride and all that. - Hey lady. I saw you earlier today. You still working commercial companies? - I'm walkin'. - Walkin'? Woah, woah, woah, come here, come here, come here. Look, look, look, look. Wanna party? Come on in. Atta girl, that's my girl. That's my girl. Think I'm some kinda faggot or somethin', huh? You're gonna fuck me, God dammit. That's what I'm just fuckin' that asshole, huh? That's it. Fuckin' that asshole. That's what you like. That's what I like, isn't it? I'm gonna come, fuck it. Fuckin' bitch, I'm gonna come in your fuckin' asshole. I don't know what time it is And I Don't even know the day My eyes Fill up with tears for you darlin' You know I still love you today If, if If only dreams came true Then I Would be back in your arms again Yeah If this were Guessed it'd be too much for you baby You know - They don't care that I'm not beautiful. I don't even think they look at me. That's not what I'm there for. Most times, they don't even want me to be fuckin' naked. Just hike up the skirt and bend at the waist. And they sure don't want me to look at them. Facin' them, or facin' away, as long as I'm on my knees and not meetin' their eyes, it's money well-spent. There's a poetry to pain. It's in all the storybooks, songs, movies. I've always fuckin' hated that. Pain is just somethin' that happens while you live your life. It doesn't make you special. You do what you have to do to survive, and if what you have to do sucks, well, then it sucks. There are no Prince Charmin's, 'cause at the end of the day, every guy wants the same thing. Property. Something to show off to people, to hang on his arm at parties and say, look what the fuck I have. Something he won, or earned, or paid for. Property isn't supposed to feel or think. It's just supposed to lay there and be walked on. The world is the world and there's no point fuckin' hatin' it. Wasted energy. Same with dreaming. But still, it would be nice to once, just once, know that I could look at someone, and them at me, and not still feel lonely. - Yeah she was kind of a mystery, and maybe that's part of what intrigued me about her in the first place, 'cause she was so different than everybody else in town. Where did she come from? And I knew, I knew she had a rough life, I knew that she was probably runnin' from somethin'. I know somethin' real bad happened, and I never talked about it, I never asked. I think, because, I didn't wanna have to ask. Funny thing to say. You know, 'cause she's a woman and all, but the thing that women usually say about men, like that they feel protected and they feel safe, there was somethin' about Charlie that made me feel safe with her, and made me feel protected. - I'm here. Yeah. Long haul, yeah. - So the last load is in. - I dropped it at the back lot. Yeah, back row. Back row, yeah. Lizard row, it's there. - You know where you are, right? Keep a low profile and don't, don't do that shit that you always do and start fuckin' shit up. - I'm not gonna fuck it up, God. - You know how you fuck shit up. Just don't do it. - I know, I know, lay low. Got it, I got it. Look, I'll do the best I can. - On more haul tomorrow, all right? - Right. I know, I'm doing a turnaround in the morning. I'm just layin' low tonight, and tomorrow I'm off. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, that's my last one. - The feds are bucklin' down, so we're gonna, we're gonna start runnin' light after this one. Don't bring any attention to the operation. - I just want my debt paid off, that's it. Then I wanna be done. We made the deal. - Yeah. I know. - So you glad I'm back? - Stupid bitch. - Charlie. - Hey! - Where the fuck you been? - Hangin' out with my lower companions, you know, the usual. - Oh you mean, like truckers? They're havin' a party down the street, wanna go? - I don't know, are you going? - Of course. I'll be there in some incapacity. - All right. Fuck yeah, all right, I'll go. I'll see you thee. - Okay. - Hey, so a lot's happened since I saw you last. - Oh my God, I know. - Yeah, totally well, after I found out he was bisexual, I had him ride the Harley and get the divorce papers. Right? - Right, I guess, yeah. - What can I do, man? Wanna ride? Wanna ride on Sunday? - Yeah, I gotta go to Texas. - Okay. - Next time. - Okay, sure. - Yeah, did you see the tits on that bitch? - Hey. What kind of Halloween costume is this? What the hell is that anyway? What the hell you supposed to be, anyway? - Oh come on, that's the best you've got? - Oh, I can do a lot better than that. I got lots better. - Good, I'm sure you do. - I do. Come on, let's have some fun. Let's party. - All right. All right, I'll be right back. - Oh, sorry. - Hey. Dude, I've been looking for you. - I figured soon. What are you looking for? - Got Shiva? - Yeah, I got your black, how much do you want? - Half piece? - I got a half piece, 350? - 320. - Fuck. Yeah, I'll do it tonight. But that's it for that. Be careful, it's strong. - All right. All right, good seein' ya. - I'm just gonna go. - Oh, what's wrong, buttercup? - I don't feel good. - You're okay, you just need to walk it off, that's all. Come on. - But I just had that one. - You're gonna be all right. I got your hair. That's all right. You're all right. - I feel better. - Yeah, you feel real good right now. - No, I feel good, I'm going. - Hey, where are you goin'? Hey, hey, come here. You're not going anywhere. - What? No, no, no. - The party is just beginning, honey. Now you hold still. - What are you doing? Get off. Don't! - We're gonna have a little fun right now. - Get the fuck off of me! Stop it! - You bitch! You hit me? You dare hit me? You dare to hit me? I'm gonna tear you up. Woah, woah, woah. All right now. Hold on, take your finger off the trigger. - Fuck you. - Come on, now. - Yeah. What now? - I shot someone. Ducky, I don't know what to do. - You shot someone? - What do I do? - You know what? This is how you don't bring attention to the operation. - Should I come over there? - No, you cannot come here. - I'll do the last haul. - Yeah, you will do the last haul. - Okay, well what do I do? - You'll get the money, and you'll send it here, but don't call me ever again. And you can start over wherever you want. But do not contact me again. - Okay, I'm hanging up. - Charlie, she had this dark spirit about her, you know, it's like when I think of a color, I guess I'd think of black. And she liked to wear black all the time, and she had black hair and black eyeliner, black pants, black tank tops, black shirts, you know. I always said, you know, maybe she'd throw in a little color here and there, but I don't know, I guess maybe I was her color, you know. And she was that neutral tone. Along with that there was always somethin' she was hidin'. Maybe she had a non-interference pact with herself or some fuckin' thing. A promise to not open up and let anyone in her mind or her heart. But that's good. That's protection. It's like cellophane-covered. Seran-wrapped up tight so nothin' gets in or out. We were all just the walking wounded, anyway. Inhaling lungs full of fucking hash. Life is short, or life is long. Who even knows? Charlie was hardly a saint. On the other hand, maybe she was. - There's your map, directions to get there. Hook up your rig and get outta here. Get down, get in her face My bad reputation got me the best place Gotta have it, gotta have it, they say Should no longer 'til we got up in your case - I have to say, Charlie came into town like a lightning storm, or a hurricane or somethin'. Suddenly, she was just there. Yeah, she could knock down anyone's world. She said she like livin' in isolation and that, bein' a loner is better than bein' lonely. I think she was lonely, though. Funny thing is that nothing ever changes, and Charlie knew that, and it worked for her. Even in the Bible it says, there's nothin' new under the sun. I used to read the Bible. 17 days on the road and I'm as high as a kite - This place is dead. - Yeah? Just the way I like it. - What's the matter, you don't like people? She made it out on Sunday mornin' - I've never been the saint, and I've been doing the sinner since I was a kid. Nothin' here in this shit town. We just started chattin' a little bit, and it was kinda funny, kinda nice, I don't know, she just seemed like she paid attention to me, you know? She's gonna see the way She's gonna find another way She's got a lifetime to remember Nothin' more to say when you feel alone - Got a ciggy? - Smoking kills. - I'm no quitter. - Yeah, you got ambition. - Look, I don't need new friends, I just need to bum a fuckin' ciggy. - Give me a lighter. Busy lot here, yeah? - Yeah, busy as a dead bee. Or a cricket. Just about every day I think I'm gonna stick out my thumb and bail on this place. Make it as far as the Eiffel Tower, or Mexico. Maybe even Pasadena. Pasadena, gonna go see that Golden Gate Bridge they got out there. - Pasadena, yeah, it's a bad idea to hang around bridges. - I seem to be good at bad ideas. - Well if you hate it so much, why don't you just ditch on out of here? - And jeopardize my career? - Yeah, you're really movin' up the ladder here, huh? - I don't want your ciggies. I got my own all by myself. - I really don't think a girl like you should be by herself. - Spider well you just get in here and shut the door. - Itchy fur and like a porcupine or somethin'. - You know, I once scene porcupines humpin'. - Like two cactuses in love, shit. - I bet you didn't see anything. - I did too. - I saw a bat once, but it flew away. It would have been romantic if it bit me. - Bit like a porcupine. - Spider. Spider. Spider. - What's up? - Do I look okay? - You don't look as hot as you did in high school, but you look okay, yeah. - Just get out of here, just go. I used to be beautiful. At least that's what people say. - You know, there's someone new in town. Yeah, I saw her, she saw me, and I know maybe nobody wants to hang around me anymore like they did in high school, but she did talk to me. I don't know, maybe she'll talk to me again. Maybe I could talk to her, and she could listen. Whatever. Maybe we could party together. And that's the world out there, grandma. Hard to keep up. Try it? All right. We need it to phase out. We needed more drugs, and she knew just how to find them. You scared the shit out of me! You're late, you look like shit. - Yeah, but do I look good? - Do I look good? Oh, well, get in the car. - What, you expected the Boogie Man or somethin'? - Scary like the friggin' Bogie Man. So where the hell we goin'? - Wasn't sure you'd really meet me. This lady, she died of cancer. I circled and organized all the obituaries, like in order of how they died, what they died from, and so I can know what kind of prescription drugs they took. - Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I get it. So she'd have pain from the cancer, right? So she's take pain prescriptions! - Right! - Oh yeah, okay. So, but we need an address. - I called the mortuary, and told them I was family. - And they just gave it to you? - I played the cousin callin' to send flowers card. You know, everybody's got a cousin. - I see like, these fleas jumpin'. Did you see anything? Look at that. - You're fine. - I see, like, fleas, I see them jumpin' all over the place. Can't sleep. Can't ever sleep. - Yeah, me either. Don't worry, I've done this before. Follow my lead. Put this on. - Followin' your lead. - How do I look? - Thank you. - Hi, Mr. Tabernacle? We're so sorry for your loss. - We're not the Jehovah's Witnesses, or Mormons, or Avon, anything like that. - Who are you? - We're here from the hospital, and we're here to pick up all of your late wife's prescription medications. - Yeah, so you don't have to throw them away, you know, toxic waste and stuff is not good for society. - I'm sorry, this is not a good time. - You're in love. I love love. - You do? - Well, I love the thought of it, yeah, you know, it's. - You're from the hospital? - Yeah, yeah, yes, can we come in? - Okay, come into the living room and I'll get the prescriptions. Don't touch anything. - It's like a real home here. Really homey and shit. We should have brought flowers. - I got her prescriptions. Which ones do you want? - All of them. - All of them, everything, we need all of those. Yeah! - You are fucking crazy, girl! - Yeah! - Give me a swig of that shit. - Where we goin'? - I wanna show you somethin'. Woo. Yeah it was really excitin', you know, something woke up in me that I had never experienced before with men. - Look. These say take in anticipation of pain. All right. - Life is pain. Oh. Is that you rockin' the boat? - Woah! - Don't rock the boat. Oh, I just chipped my tooth. Everything I have ever known is right here in the middle of nowhere like nothin'. It all adds up to nothin'. - Yeah, well I'd rather be nowhere than somewhere that I'm not wanted, right? Right? - When I was a kid, my grandma used to bring me here when my mama drank too much Boone's. - Boone's? Boone's, like Strawberry Hill? Oh my god. What's your mom like? - Oh, no mom now. Never knew of the dad. - Yeah. Do you know anybody who's got a dad? - No. Shit. - No? - Sorry I blew smoke right in your face. - You're makin' me have ugly face again. - Where are you takin' me, Charlie? - Come on. We're just exploring. Stand right here. - Why? - Just stand there and relax. - Why? - Do you trust me? - Trust is... - Sh, close your eyes. - Okay. - Close, stay, keep them closed. - They're closed. - Okay. My beauty queen. - My trophy crown. Miss Dairy Chill, 1998. - Close your eyes! - What? - They told me at the bar this used to be yours, so I stole it. Okay, I borrowed it. Stole it. - Can I open my eyes, you shit? - Okay. Open your eyes. God, you're beautiful. - Charlie, I'm not a gay, I'm not a dyke like you. - Are you sure? - Um. No. - Okay, look, look, look, just don't put anything in a box, okay? We don't need to be like checked off or something, okay? I just, I just wanna know you, okay? All of you. - It's just that... It's just, I, I never kissed someone like you. - Like me? - Someone who matters. - Okay, Charlie. - Yeah? - I just wanted to be with her. It wasn't about who she was, or what she did, or what she looked like, or any of that. It was just, I don't know, as pure as can be, and just bein' with someone who cared about you, and who accepted you. I mean, accepted me for everything I was, you know? It didn't matter to her that I was a hooker or a drug addict, you know? None of that shit mattered. She'd just look in my eyes, and I'd look in her eyes, and we'd just forget about all that shit, you know? So I guess maybe, in a way, it's another kind of addiction, in a way, 'cause you know, we kind of became addicted to each other. I never kissed someone like you. Someone who matters. I guess what's funny about it, when I think about it now, is that a lot of that was a cover, you know, that I didn't really realize at first, I was kinda attracted to this tough exterior, but it was that sort of soft interior that I fell in love with. - Hey. What, what, what's in that red box over there? - I got you somethin'. - Aw. Oh, these, aw, these are real pretty. I don't wanna ruin these. I'm gonna save them for somethin' special. - Yeah, I want you to wear 'em when you go to work, that way whenever somebody like, pulls your panties down, or rips 'em off or somethin', you can think about me. - Yeah. Okay. - Where'd you get these flowers? - Well, I kinda took 'em from the graveyard. - You stole somebody's flowers from a, you stole from a dead person. - No, well you know, you can't really steal from a dead person. - You kiddin' me? - A dead person's already dead. - You stole flowers from a dead person. - No, no, no, they were already dead. Somebody else bought 'em for a dead person, but they were dyin' anyways, so I take the flowers that are gonna die, and I bring 'em here and I try to plant 'em and give 'em some new life. - Why don't you just plant them at the graveyard then, you know, by the grave, instead of bringing them here to your tub? - 'Cause, I don't know, it's like a special place, you know, that I used to come here with my grandma, so I like to have the flowers here, but they don't seem to grow very well, actually. Most of the time they die. - Well, there's a few that are dying. - I'm thinking that eventually they'll take root, maybe. - Maybe. - So I think this is a good one. - I can't even take care of myself, much less some flowers. - I don't know, you seem to do pretty well. It's just you in that big old truck, right? - I can drive a rig. I can drive the fuck out of a rig. - You ever get lonely, Charlie? - What kind of question is that? You and your questions. - What do you mean, what kind of question is that? - You know, I heard about those programs that they have for some of my trucks that you can adopt a dog and take it out on the road with you. They do that, and then they have their road dog with 'em all the time, and then they're never lonely. - Oh, that sounds good. - Yeah, I don't know if I could keep a dog alive, you know, I would have to do the plant first. Keep the plant first, and then you get a dog, and then you get a soul mate. Or you could just skip right ahead. - Do you ever have one of those? - A plant? - No. You know, ah, you don't like those questions, never mind. So Charlie was really kinda different from regular people in town, and I think she really freaked people out because she walked through like, you know, she was somethin' special, but in a good way. So people didn't really fuck with her. It was like they knew there was something there just not to fuck with. - All right, Jay, we'll catch you next week, all right? - Folks, would you like a little more coffee over here? So you think you can just pretty much do anything you want in here, huh? - Hey, we're just celebrating. - It's just fun, like a game. - Yup, she lost a bet. - Well I don't know what they do in places away from here, but here we don't allow clitty-lickers. Now get out. - I'm sorry. We didn't mean... - Listen to me, you lesbo butch, macho-Mary, you get your tails out of here, you grab your dyke friend and get the hell out of here right now. - Who the fuck do you think you're talking to? You don't fuckin' talk to me like that. Fuck you. - Get out! - Whatever. - Get on out of here! - Fuck you! Fuck you! - I'll be prayin' for you. - Fuck off! - Charlie. - What? - Come over here. Oh, does this mean I'm gay? Such as I am. Maybe I do believe you. - Pull these down. - Always askin' me to pull my pans down, my God. - Your pants look better down. - Here, come up here for a second. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. It's a lot of responsibility. I got my own space, you know. - Yeah? - Yeah. Then life became days passin'. One after another, and the memories began while we had no idea we were livin' in the middle of 'em. As they spun, spun, spun by. - George Bush dressed like a woman. It's okay, I nod off sometimes, too. - She stayed at home with Grandma while I worked, just like real families do when they love one another. - I'm crashing my fucking brains out here. No backup fucking plan, no forward plan, no path, no future, no left, no right. - You ever made love to a man? - Why do you wanna know that? - I just wanna know. - Maybe. Nothin' before this matters. I bet your grandma's really glad when you're here. - Yeah. I can't always be here though, you know? Sometimes I just, I need to get some air. Get some candy corn, or get a drink. - You know, if you could see the beauty that I see in you, you wouldn't even have to go out there on the lot and do what you do and... - Charlie, you can never ask me to stop workin' the lot. You gotta promise me. I want you to fuckin' promise me. See, I'm, I'm, I'm sick and tired of bein' alone, and fuck, so you and me, and we, we need each other in some way. - Yeah, you wanna be your own boss, just like me. Oh ho. - Oh, woop! - Ah. Don't push me now. - You fuckin' bitch. - Do I look glamorous? I just threw my ashes in the water. Here. I hate doin' dishes. Nothin' worse than doin' dishes. Okay, maybe I can think of a few things that are worse, but not many. - I can't stop smellin' dick. And thinkin' about this town and the jobs and the men. I think about the lake. About how when you came here it's like a came out of a trance or somethin'. Like swimmin', I was washed. - Me too. You know, it's kind of like I just woke the fuck up or somethin'. I have never felt more alive than I feel right here right now, doin' dishes with you. - Well, you know, I mean, I've been doin' drugs since I was probably 12. I mean, I just started early. My mom's always been kind of been doin' speed, meth, you know, I got into the cocaine probably more than anything. Meth was a little too much for me. A little too jittery, you know, but the cocaine, boy that just made me feel good, and it just made me feel like I could do no wrong, and I guess I needed something to get my brain off of what was going on constantly in my life, and when I was on cocaine, it was, I was, you don't even have to think about that. You just feel like you're on top of the world. - You hear helicopters? - Gotta to do that. Fuckin fun to do. - Get up. - Here? There? - There. There. - I think I'm gonna be strangled by this tension. I am dry ice. Oh Charlie, let's talk. Let's talk about something, you know? Paper airplanes, and I'm gonna send to you, and then you read it, and then I'll talk, and then I'll write that down, but you can't read it until I say, okay? Okay. And then you can talk like, about history like Germany, or like Russia, you know, Russia, it's got bombs, it's like Bam! Okay, so just talk. Just talk, talk about, about everything. I wanna know, I wanna know about you, Charlie, like, your life and things. Oh my gosh, that was perfect. Tell me what was before me. - I fucked girls who didn't give a fuck. - Where the fuck'd you get a gun, Charlie? - Don't touch that, it's loaded. - I love you, Charlie. I know I love you. - Give me that. - I'm gonna blow your fucking brains out! - You're fucked up. You're fucked up. - Just chill out, baby. Just talk to me. Tell me anything. Tell me about yourself. - What the fuck do you want me to tell you? - I don't know who you are, Charlie. Just talk. - Come here... - So, um, I have a story. There's a story I have about a spider. There was this spider, and it uh, it went up this water cell, no it went up a water spout, like, you do it with your hands kind of, like this. And then, but, it's not like a church steeple or anything, it's not a steeple, it's just like a spider. But it goes up the water spout, and then there's this, um, there's some rain, and the rain comes down. And then after the rain comes and washes the spider away or something, and then, I don't know, the spider's gone, but then it's not like a sad story. I don't know. The spider. The spider and the water spout, and then rain, and then it washes it away. I don't know why it's not bad that the spider gets washed away, but I guess it's just washed away, but I don't think it killed the spider, or else they wouldn't kept tellin' that story. Huh. - And then she would disappear, jut like a mirage. There, then gone, then back again. I never knew where she went or why, but I missed her every moment she wasn't near. Don't cry baby I ain't gonna change my mind Some day, maybe You will be okay in time 'Cause everybody knows it's how the story goes Bound to leave you in the end Now baby's got new shoes But it won't take away those blues So you listen to the message I sent Don't cry baby You don't want the neighbors to see - I know I, I stashed a bag in here somewhere. I can't find it. I can't find it, I don't have anything left. I hid it in one of these pockets so that no one could find it, and now I can't. - Fuck. - Trucker got me. - My veins are fucked. Pull this shit. - You're just gonna leave me just like everybody else? Is that it? One more, fuckin' one more! One more fuckin' fuckers leave me. - Guess what? Fuckin' what. I wonder, too, okay. I mean, where the fuck is everyone always goin'? Huh? Where's everyone goin' all the time? Think I don't care? I fuckin' do. - Charlie. - What? - I want everythin' you have in you to be put in me. What were you like before here? - You don't wanna know. - Charlie, I need you right now. - This doesn't last forever. - I know. I just thought that maybe you could stay with me. - This thing that I am, the person that I am, I'm not gonna change. I'm not gonna change this. - It's too late. - Too late for what? - Too late for you. - Hey lady, I saw you earlier today. Still working commercial companies? - I'm walkin'. - Walkin? Woah, woah, woah. Come here, come here, come here. Look, look, look, look. Wanna party? Come on in. Atta girl, that's my girl. That's my girl. Jealous dream, chapters close Nothin' happens, nothin' smoked, yeah You saw a body bag Wishes and dreams don't always last Things arise from the inside So mad, don't smile, it's okay, it's all right All right It's a guillotine You know, you're killin' me, yeah You're so messed up, hold on too tight Too tight Now I can barely breathe You're fuckin' killin' me, yeah You kill me - It's like the more tricks you do, the more drugs you take, the more sex you have, the more got somebody pou-poun-poundin' you, the more you don't think about how fucked up your life really is. When I dream Just rise from the inside So mad, don't smile, it's okay, it's all right All right Like a guillotine You know you're killin' me, yeah You're so messed up, hold on too tight Too tight Now I can barely breathe You're fuckin' killin' me, yeah - Hey, hey there's a Sizzler in Houston, I think. We should go sometime. - Yeah. I usually go to Taco Bell when I eat hot food. - Look, look, look. Right there, that black. That black right there. - There's nothing there. - It moved, it moved, it jumped. - There's nothin' there. - It just jumped, it just moved. - There's nothin' there. - Anxiety, it brings it to the surface. Just when you, you think you can stop, when you really wanna stop, it's just usin', you can't, it's... - See? Anybody can stop with enough will power. I choose not to stop. I'm no quitter. - It doesn't matter really, I love her. You know, no matter what she did, I always loved her. I don't know, I really thought she wanted to get clean. And she really did. She really did, I know, fuck. - So what the fuck do you want me to do? - Hang in there. - I'm gonna die. - No, hang in there. It's okay, it's okay. - That was the baptism. Demanding the evil be gone. Get the darkness out. We got it out, amen. You know what I like? Or what I always wanted to like? - What? - That I know who I am again. And people don't expect much. It's like my grandmother used to take me to these dance lessons and I was too young to even know where I was, or too young to even understand, and she had these hopes and these dreams, and you know, they're all gone now, but at least I know who I am. I never found pain to be poetic, that's true. But there is something cleansing about it. If you can swim through the pain, and if you walk through the rain, then maybe, just maybe, you deserve at least some time in the sun. Clean and forgiven. Maybe it's my fault, that she just looked so... She just wanted to do it one more time, you know. Just one more. She was gonna be fine, and I wanted to make her happy. I tried. I tried to wake her up, you know, I just sat there with her and I just held her and just shook her. I never got a chance to say goodbye to her, and tell her, I mean, I told her I loved her, I did, many times, but I just wonder if she ever really understood what that meant to me. She changed my life. I mean, I was nowhere, I was nothin'. I couldn't do anything. I couldn't think of anythin', and then she came into my life, this one little bright spot. She just held me in my arms and made me feel so special and so loved, that I... In spite all of this, it's the best thing that ever happened to me, I mean, it sounds absurd that I'm even fuckin' sayin' this, because it's horrible for this to happen, but you know, I mean, I felt somethin' I had ever felt before. Love is a gift And this I give to you Love is the truth In which I live for you My heart is twisted inside my chest I bring your head down Gently upon my breasts And I cry For you And I die For you Would you die for me too Walkin' down the lonely street, I Find myself beneath the ground Things ain't like they used to be, baby Everything's been turned around Again I know what you miss me, brother A penny saved is a penny earned It burned Always been so sweet to one another Another fucking lesson learned And I cry For you And I die For you And I cry For you And I cry For you Would you cry for me
