 

                        Da-eun, take a step That's yucky Please get up Da-eun Da-eun Here's a butterfly That's my beautiful baby girl Do you love daddy? My heart Da-eun Da-eun Da-eun Da-eun Da-eun Da-eun, Da-eun I'm sorry Have you seen Da-eun? Daddy Da-eun I'm sorry I'm so late Daddy's really sorry I can't breathe Let go Why are you wet? I was looking for you You know how anxious I get when I can't find you I'm not a baby By the way, where did you get this umbrella? This man and woman gave it to me I told you never to take things from a stranger It's a crazy world out there Don't worry I'm never going anywhere You can't live without me I really can't - What did daddy say that you're to daddy? - I forgot I'm daddy's heart Daddy's heart Sweetie, are you sure you're ready? Give me a tough one today One with tough spelling and spacing All right You must get it right Next to the Ahyeon-dong overpass, in front of bakery, a trashcan Miss Jung Da-eun, is once again being careless You see? You're so smart, but you get clumsy and give up too early Say this to yourself in your head It ain't over 'til it's over It ain't over 'til it's over It ain't over 'til it's over It ain't over 'til it's over Daddy, I love you the best in the world I'm gonna marry you Blood and Ties June 2013, Seoul D-15 before statute of limitations expires Until the murderer is caught, the story isn't over The Devil's Whisper The true story of the Han Chae-jin abduction I'll be there in an hour Yes, sir Thank you and have a good day Be real This is a big social issue You know about the Han Chae-jin abduction case? The statute of limitations on that case is quickly running out What do you think about the statute of limitations in criminal law? For felonies including murder and kidnapping committed against women and children the statute of limitations should be abolished I'd like to quote Numbers 32:23 from the Old Testament "You may be sure that your sin will find you out" A child abductor and murderer must receive the maximum penalty The statute of limitations must be abolished so that those criminals can be punished That's quite extreme Does that mean they should receive the death penalty? Currently, the death penalty is being abolished in most international jurisdictions Korea has not carried out a single execution since 1997 In reality, it's no longer practiced Yes. I still think they should get the death penalty This is just a hunch, but I think you'll pass this time I have to I must Even if you pass the interview round You'll still need to know someone who can help you By any chance, does your dad have any friends there? Da-eun? Daddy? Hey, Da-eun Daddy, did you not see me? I'm surprised to see you here I think our eyes met earlier No Daddy, I told you not to do that No, I really didn't see you It's hot outside Have a cold drink before you go I'm all right Hello, sir Hello, sir Bo-ra, you've gotten prettier Right? Daddy This is my RoboCop, Kim Jane-kyung RoboCop? Oh, your friend who's studying for the police entrance exam It's an honor to meet you, sir Da-eun talked so much about you How you're so young, handsome and cool From here on, I'll protect Da-eun No thanks I'll protect Da-eun Pardon? I'm joking Mister Move the boxes over there, please Yes, ma'am It was nice seeing you Please take good care of my Da-eun Yes, sir Were you surprised? That's very clean Da-eun, it's time Give them a call okay Please enter your applicant ID number I'm sorry You did not pass this time Please try again next time What did they say? Hello. This is applicant ID 144, Jung Da-eun I'd like to find out the reasons for failing the interview I didn't make any mistakes during the final interview Pardon? Shouldn't the company be clear and open about the evaluation process? Hello? Hello? Da-eun, stop Give it back Just stop It's not your fault If you pass the interview round, they look at your personal information I don't have a decent job What about your job? It's not because of that I didn't like this company anyway I got one more to go You know? Mr. Soon-man How about we compete for one week's dish-washing? You always lose but still dare to challenge me Hush It'll be different this time Spicy hot seafood noodles that will fire you up Go I quit How would you have lived without your daughter? I couldn't have She's my whole heart You see, my Da-eun has a TOEIC score of 930 - and level 1 grade for Korean Language Test - With a pretty face and a great body She's a good daughter and has graduated with honors from her grad school Whew I can memorize them all now My Da-eun is going to be a reporter Killed by a neighbor Do you know what you have clone? Grotesque serial killing Millionaire killed by his wife The Devil's Whisper The true story of the Han Chae-jin abduction Fish stew? I'll eat tomorrow Yes. Interviewers always ask this type of stuff This movie is a big issue because of the statute of limitations How did it go? Our baby, Min-sew He's not coming back Honey Honey Don't you do this to me - I can't live on like this - Honey - Min-sew won't come back - I can'! live Let's all die together Honey, please This is the actual voice of Han Chae-jin's abductor from 1998 This is the actual voice of Han Chae-jin's abductor from 1998 Hello The kid has a stomachache He's asking for his mom Are you getting mad at me? Shut up What are you doing? Don't you care what happens to your son? You want Chae-jin to die? Shut up You're hurting my ears From now on, until I get the money The boy will starve Have you given up already? What did I tell you? It ain't over 'til it's over It ain't over 'til it's over Hurry and come if you want to save your son The movie is over but I still feel terrible The kidnapper is the devil himself His voice is really creepy Why can't the police just catch him? I know If he thought about his own family, he couldn't have done it I'm getting goose bumps Bo-ra, I was thinking The kidnapper's voice is public yet he's still on the loose He must've skipped the country or gotten vocal cord surgery The kidnapper's family would certainly recognize his voice What do you all think? Do you think he's still alive? I don't know But that voice is so familiar - I just can't remember whose it is - Who is it? Think very hard - Do you know how much the reward is? - Wait a second Holy cow Da-eun, I'm sorry - Doesn't Da-eun's dad sound like the killer? - What are you saying? You're insane Bo-ra, that's absurd What? Don't get so mad - I didn't say that your dad did it - Stop it Great job Da-eun Han Chae-jin abduction The Devil's Whisper Can you hear me? Hello? The kid has a stomachache He's asking for his mom - I must be insane - Are you getting mad at me? - What was I thinking? - Shut up What are you doing? Sweetie What? What are you doing up? I was surfing the net Why are you lying? What do you mean? You want Chae-jin to die? Hurry and move What's wrong? Is it no good? I stayed up all night and don't have any appetite I'm going back to bed What did I tell you? It ain't over 'til it's over It ain't over 'til it's over 15 years ago, the tragic death of a boy saddened the entire nation D-10 15 years ago, the tragic death of a boy saddened the entire nation D-10 After the release of The Devil's Whisper, the kidnapper's voice went public and many reports have been made The police have set up a special (ask force trying to close in on the kidnapper's whereabouts We're trying to focus on finding the culprit However, after the film's release, many people called in with false reports, which are actually causing confusion for the investigation We please ask that everyone think carefully before making a call I was thinking last night And I think I was crazy yesterday You know when I get like that sometimes I should rip my mouth off I'm sorry It's okay I was overly sensitive too I'm sorry that I got angry This isn't the time to fool around You've got dark circles down to your chin Eat up This looks delicious The truth is there's no better father than your dad He's so sweet to you We were so crazy But I understand Remember my dad's affair? The moment I started doubting that my dad was unfaithful, I went insane So what happened? I looked through his cell phone first My Heart He had so many business cards of bar hostesses He even had loyalty cards for motels He's over 50 and he has Facebook He was so busy meeting those young girls from Facebook My precious It's okay I understand I didn't do it Are you sure you didn't download it? Maybe it was already on the computer when we bought it Are you serious? It's true Your dad is a man He's still young at heart I know he has his male needs Have you followed him before? You said he goes fishing on weekends and come home empty-handed Girls, get in Please wait I think you've had a lot to drink Do you have a designated driver? No thanks I can drive myself No, it's dangerous You should call someone What do you care? I have a daughter your age and I'm worried Worry about your own daughter Give me my car keys Hurry Give them to me Give them to me Why are you fucking pissing me off? What? What? HEY Who are you? That's my father So you two work in pairs Apologize to him right now Bitch, are you crazy? Da-eun, don't do this Daddy is fine Da-eun - Stop this - Da-eun, what are you doing? Don't drink and drive next time And you, don't get hot-headed I never curse, but she suddenly took my keys and hit me I can file a motion for summary judgment You wanna go to jail? Can't you just punish her and send me home? I'm sorry I'm sorry This is all my fault My daughter is innocent I'm sorry I'm sorry Lean on me Does this feel good? Yeah When did you get so much gray hair? I guess you don't see yourself in the mirror often Why should I? Don't just rely on your good looks I want to be a 16 year old boy again And do what? You want to get remarried? What free time do I have? You alone take up most of my time If it's hard, then don't do it No way You're my reason for living Daddy, your lies sound so genuine I'm not lying Da-eun, let's practice your interview No thanks It's embarrassing Ms. Jung, why do you want to become a reporter? Jung Soon-man's Daughter, Da-eun 26 years old Finished grad school Who are you? Who should I say that I am? I'm just a person who knows a bit about things I'm not a scary person The real scary person is somewhere else Who are you? Me? I'm Shim Please give this to your dad It's Shim As in the Chinese character for heart Shim? I'm not sure Can you text me the number? Don't worry General Long time no see Why did you come back? I moved back to Korea for good My sister is dying She's got pancreatic cancer But I don't have any money to pay for the hospital bill You promised never to show up again I've given you enough Really? I don't remember Anyway, your daughter has grown up beautifully How shocked would she be to hear about her dead mother? If you come near Da-eun again Are you getting mad at me? Are you fucking crazy? You know I've got temper If you don't send the money by tomorrow, it's over We need wine Dad, I'll be upstairs okay 3 clays have passed. Aren't you afraid? - Shim Joan-young Just wait Let's start Should we light the candles starting this year? You always ask the same thing I feel sorry to mom I don't want to I don't deserve it You're so stubborn Just do as we've always done it I'm gonna blow them out Jung Soon-man Jung Soon-man Come out here right now Before I set the house on fire I know you're in there Come crawling out You think I'm joking? Is that little money worth losing your daughter over? It's him, Shim Isn't it? - Should I reveal who you really are? - What's wrong with him? Does he have something on you? - Let's all go down together - He's got nothing on me Go to your room Jung Soon-man, open up Da-eun! What are you doing? Excuse me Are you gonna be stubborn like that? I'll do as you wish Hey sweetie, I'll tell you a funny story about the real Jung Soon-man Do you know what your dad did to your mom? Your dad's nickname is fucking Mr. Three-star Man Mr. Three-star General Let's talk outside Fucking let go What are all these? Is this a memorial service for your wife? Get inside Your dad must have a guilty fucking conscience Stop right now Let go of me Is this fun? Is this fun living like this? I'll fucking make your life a living hell For money or not, I'll tell all If you come around here again, you could die The pretty daughter seems shocked Be good to me You know it ain't over 'til it's over Maternity Notes Dr. Han Sang-soc Ob/Gyn Clinic Maternity Record Father: Jung Soon-man, Mother: Shim Mi-ok What's this? Is this allowance money? Take it back and buy cookies for Da-eun This is all I have Take it or leave it That's fucking brave Wait a second If Da-eun finds out about her mom, do you think she'll be happy for the rest of her life? You know what I have in my possession Girlfriend, don't you want to wipe my forehead? - In movies, girls usually have a handkerchief... - I have a favor to ask Can you find criminal records for this man and a death certificate for this woman? How do I do that? I'm sure there's someone from your study group who became a police officer I can't do it right now but I'll give you the money somehow So wait D-'l Hey, Kwang-min Did you check all the tips? Yes okay There's no one with a criminal record, and all the information is just useless Shit We only have a week left Maybe the bastard fixed his whole face and skipped the country or died I know, sir All eyes are on this case by now Han Abduction Report Anything from National Forensic Service? There's no voice match in the criminal database You want Chae-jin to die? Shut up You're hurting my ears The kid has a stomachache His asking for his mom From now on, until I get the money The boy will starve Are you getting mad at me? It ain't over til' it's over - Jane-kyung, I'm sorry - Hi, Kwang-min - I'm so busy, wrapped up in this case - It's okay Were you talking about the Han Chae-jin abduction case just now? It's hard How can we find a kidnapper from 15 years ago? Many people called in after they saw the film, but they're no good I think the kidnapper's family is hiding him Da-eun How did it go? It was really difficult to find out - But you have a great boyfriend - Tell me okay First, Jung Soon-man He's got a long rap sheet Various types of crimes too Larceny, assault, fraud He's a three-star We usually call this type of criminal, a common criminal Is there anything else? Seeing that he doesn't have anything after 1985, I'm sure he's doing what he does best somewhere else These criminals don't change They continue to live this way until they die They can never be rehabilitated From my police instinct, the moment you asked me to do this, I had this gut feeling Are you leaving already? Don't you want to hear about Shim Mi-ok? She's not dead She's still alive This is her address Are you sure that she's not someone with the same name? Dearest Daddy 12 Missed Calls June 15th, 1985 I got the whole world in my hands I think someone's here What's wrong? Do you know him? Do you wanna go in? Wait He came out Be careful Hurry Hurry and follow him Where did he go? Hey, brother Your pretty daughter came to see my sister But she's really angry right now I'm scared of her Please come and take her What? Of course I didn't fucking tell her We're on the same side now Get over here right now My mom's still alive, isn't she? You found out? Fuck, how am I gonna make money now? And you know why my dad hid it from me I don't know Maybe he's got a guilty conscience Let me see my mom Just keep on believing that she's dead and go on with your life I want to see her Shim Mi-ok What are you doing? Come inside I thought you wanted to see her Don't you have to go home? Is there something else? What? The kid has a stomachache - He's asking for his mom - What's this? Are you getting mad at me? You know who this is Shut up What are you doing? Is that Soon-man? Don't you care what happens to your son? You want Chae-jin to die? Shut up - You're hurting my ears - Wait a second Maybe it's not him Let's go Let's go Listen to me Let go of me She abandoned her own child She doesn't deserve to be a mom Is that why you've killed this living person from my memory? Those terrifying eyes It must've been hard to hide them all these years Da-eun Da-eun Da-eun Da-eun Da-eun I thought you'd be happier if you didn't know I wanted to show you only the beautiful things I did it all for you I know But I'm scared What are you doing? Don't you care what happens to your son? Hurry and come if you want to save your son His laugh is exactly like yours Is it? Maybe You know the phrase you always tell me It ain't over 'til it's over It ain't over 'til it's over You don't think... IS it 'you? Yogi Berra said that You know that I'm sorry for doubting you But I want to hear from you And don't lie to me this time How could you do this to me? Even if you say you did it, I can't report you So relax and tell me the truth IS it 'you? No, it's not Why are you doing this to me? Are you telling the truth? You really didn't do it? No I don't think you are either I hope you're not D-4 Who got this call about Jung Soon-man? D-4 I did Who called him in? Why? He's got three convictions and he's got medical records at Dr. Han's clinic His wife miscarried at the clinic Who called him in? What about his voice? There's no more Don't do this to me Show me your talent like in the past You brought me $100,000 really fast before If you can't, then fucking sell your house Hey, you haven't seen this in a while You bastard What? Why did I turn out this way? Why is my sister dying in pain? All right Move her to a new hospital first I've always hated losing, ever since I was a kid But there was one thing that I had no control over Mom The kids always made fun of me But that day, I couldn't hold back any longer So I beat them, badly But my dad believed me and said my daughter would never do such thing He told those kids who hit me to come out I was so embarrassed So when I came home, I cried, yelling at him I told him never to come to my school Never Then my dad said he was sorry He said he was sorry That's the kind of person my dad is 4 clays remain before the statute of limitations expires on the Han abduction case We met the father at his child's murder scene He put my baby Chae-jin in this bag and tossed it in the river Han Sang-sew Han Chae-jin's father This was where my baby was found I can spot right away when I hear someone's voice If I recognize the voice, he's the killer There's no doubt Maternity Notes Dr. Han Sang-soc Ob/Gyn Clinic Can you hear me? Hello Are you getting mad at me? Kwang-min Dr. Han Sang-sew Ob/Gyn Clinic You said you were Jung Da-eun a reporter from the Goryeo Daily News? Yes By any chance Do you remember Mr. Jung Soon-man? Pardon? He's my father and he talked a lot about you I was also born in this clinic Really? That's interesting that we've already met But I can't recall a patient by just a name Here I remember now But you weren't born here The mother had pre-eclampsia and miscarried It's great that they succeeded in the end He earnestly wished for a child He must be happy now Because he has a beautiful daughter like you Who's Jung Soon-man? The real killer is? Han abduction case Who is Jung Soon-man? Who is he to you? I don't know him How about his voice? Is it similar? I really don't know I was doing someone else a favor So who is the person who asked for a favor? You'd better tell me straight Harboring a criminal is a crime I thought you wanted to be a police officer not a criminal Oh man Do you have anything else other than the voice? I do have something else He sent me a note with instructions But he didn't write it Then who wrote it? I had the handwriting analyzed at the time, and it was a primary school student's It could've been his own child or a neighborhood kid He made someone else do it He made an innocent child his accomplice He's the devil himself Please take this note and put it on your paper It was a primary school student's His own child or a neighborhood kid He made someone else do it "Next to the Ahyeon-dong overpass" Let's practice spelling at home Sweetie, are you sure you're ready? Give me a tough one today One with tough spelling and spacing Next to the Ahyeon-dong overpass in from of bakery a trashcan Da-eun Da-eun, what's wrong? Da-eun Da-eun, what's wrong? How could you make your own daughter do this? Do you call yourself a human? What's wrong with you? Look at this They're exactly the same Are you still going to play innocent? This is my handwriting What is? What's wrong with you? What's this? You don't know? You always tested me on spelling I was so clueless and I wrote down what you called out I never knew you would use it for your filthy doing Why didn't you do it alone? Why did you make me your accomplice? What are you talking about? This was just spelling practice Look at it closely Many children have similar handwriting Calm down And look at it closely This is not your handwriting Okay Let's be cool Stay cool I'm going to take this note to the police and report you It's too bad You only had a few more days left Let's go to the hospital first Your hand is bleeding badly It's you, isn't it? 0-3 (Night) Where's everyone? We have a prime suspect I think the name was Jung Soon-man Jung Soon-man? Who is it? What can I help you with? We're the police What can I do to help? You know me You know me, don't you? Dr. Han Sang-soc Ob/Gyn Clinic Don't you remember me? Answer me You're the killer, aren't you? What are you doing? Mr. Han, please don't - Please come out - You can't do this Hold him back He's the guy I've heard his voice hundreds of times a day I can tell just by listening to him breathing You You know everything That's why you came to see me - Get him out of here - You're not a reporter She wrote the note I'm certain of it Hurry and investigate Hurry up Don't let him lose consciousness His brain and nervous system are okay He'll survive When do you think he'll wake up? It differs from patient to patient He'll be unconscious for at least a day up to a few days I'm counting on you How did they know? Me? Oh that? When we looked up your father's criminal records, apparently, it was reported to the task force team I was questioned by the police today Bo-ra will soon be questioned too I'm sorry that you guys have to do this It's okay That's not what's important right now Is there something else? I'm certain that he's the guy For the past 15 years, I've heard his voice every day and every night, even in my dreams There's something called the presumption of innocence Even if we get lucky and test his voice It's been 15 years so it might be hard to get a 100% match What do you mean? My ear is more accurate than a machine. It's him I feel the same way, which is why we needed to test his voice first This is a fight against time If you only would've held back Let's go We'll go search for the girl's handwriting from the past Please don't go in Please don't take photos Stand back Hey, take that computer Yes, sir Don't you have any notes or letters from primary school? Please cooperate with us Ms. Jung, this must be hard on you We don't believe your dad is the killer We're just trying to find Chae-jin's killer Please help us Guys, look everywhere very thoroughly Who's Jung Soon-man? The real killer is? I don't know Han Chae-jin abduction case Did you get anything? I think she's suspected something for a while But seeing that she hasn't reported anything yet, she might've decided to keep quiet This is too clean She doesn't even have an old diary - Detective Son - Yes, sir We don't know where she might go You stay here and watch her Yes, sir Daddy, I love you the best in the world I'm gonna marry you Last night, police have arrested the prime suspect of the Han abduction D-2 Last night, police have arrested the prime suspect of the Han abduction With only 2 clays left, the suspect remains unconscious Police wait restlessly to analyze the suspect's voice The suspect's daughter was suspicious of he! father Did you see the news? They got the suspect of "The Devil's Whisper" Really? Is he really the kidnapper? I don't know But he should be hanged It's a scary world for parents We didn't do anything wrong By the way What did the police say? I don't know This is so annoying They're treating me like a criminal They said if I don't tell the truth, withholding information is also a crime This really sucks So what did you tell them? I told them that I got the goose bumps, watching the film because the voice was so similar but because it was a friend's dad, it was difficult to say anything You didn't have to tell them everything What if... Da-eun? I'm sorry about everything you guys Da-eun I'm a bit confused right now We shouldn't see each other for a while I'll go get my things tonight It's okay I left them at the professor's office The professor is also worried about the recommendation letter that he wrote for you Right? He didn't do it No, he didn't You see a recommendation letter is like a letter of guarantee I have my reputation on the line Luckily, Goryeo Daily News isn't aware of your situation So don't be distracted Do your best at the interview Yes, sir And your dad stopped by my office a few days ago while I was out I don't think I should receive this I shouldn't take dietary supplements like red ginseng anyway Just tell him I said thank you If the police ask, let's just say that your father never came here It's true that I didn't actually see him I don't think it'll be good for you either I trust you, Da-eun Dear Professor Kim This is Da-eun's father Da-eun is having a hard time with reporter interviews Professor Kim Jung-yup office Da-eun is having a hard time with reporter interviews I don't have anything to give her! But I heard that you help her very much I should thank you in person but I'm sorry that! have to leave a letter Thank you so much for everything Don't wake up It's better this way Don't wake up I don't care why you did it I don't want or care to know I'll believe what you said that you didn't do it So just Don't wake up Don't wake up But How will I go on from here? You are all I've had I'm so scared What am I supposed to do now? Han abduction reports D-1 June 24th Han Chae-jin statute of limitations expires You probably wrote this after watching the movie This is probably from when you asked for Jung's police records from Jane-kyung You've suspected it for a while, haven't you? He got busted because Jane-kyung asked one of my men for Jung's police records That's just unfortunate Then you ran away from home By this time, you became certain that your father was the kidnapper, correct? I didn't run away from home I just spent the night at a friend's house When Dr. Han handed you the old note, you remembered what happened, correct? No I heard that you recalled some things Me? How did they know? When we looked up your father's criminal records, apparently it was reported to the task force team I was questioned by the police today Bo-ra will soon be questioned too I'm sorry that you guys have to do this Is there something else? There is something, isn't there? Is your father really the kidnapper? And you didn't deny it I didn't confirm it either His voice is similar That's all You've already made up your mind to protect your dad, haven't you? Am I right? I'm telling you the truth Do you know where this is? The kidnapper shoved Chae-jin into this bag alive and threw it in the river You take a good look at this He strangled this little boy for over a minute but when the little boy didn't die, this tiny boy who was struggling for his life, he shoved him into a bag and tossed it in the river Poor boy must've been so scared inside the bag Doesn't the thought of it just make you cringe? How could a human do this? Could you forgive him? Let's catch this guy Your father is the killer, isn't he? No Detective Jang Jung woke up The bastard got up? You smell like alcohol Chae-jin's helping the case Now it's just a matter of time What about her? She denies till the end If my Chae-jin was alive, he would've been your age Don't you pity my baby? I'm alive but not living I'm broken into a million pieces My poor baby Chae-jin I feel so sorry That bastard is no human Wake up If you have a soul If you pity Chae-jin, you can't do this Your dad is the kidnapper, isn't he? You remember it all, don't you? You wrote that note When we test his voice, it'll be all over Just tell the truth No My dad didn't do it My dad didn't He doesn't deserve to be a father You two deserve each other You can't do this Please step out Let me go - Tell them - Let's go and catch that kidnapper Da-eun Da-eun, please listen to me Da-eun Da-eun Police Hospital You can't go in The investigation is in progress Isn't this going too far? You can question him after he's discharged We don't have much time You know the statute of limitations expires at midnight tomorrow It's a very tight schedule to test his voice and get the results You want Chae-jin to die? Are you getting mad at me? Please speak louder Are you getting mad at me? - What are you doing? - What are you doing? Don't you care what happens to your son? Don't you care what happens to your son? Hey, it's the kidnapper's daughter So you've made up your mind? To conceal the guilt and live as an accomplice for the rest of your life? That's fucking beautiful You'll hold his hand and live happily together? Stop it Are you gonna be okay? It's fucking hell like what my sister went through I'm a scumbag myself but you're pretty tough Stop it Just stop Everybody, just stop Your mom has maybe a day or two left to live Come to the hospital She says she wants to tell you something Come prepared He strangled this little boy for over a minute but when the little boy didn't die, this tiny boy who was struggling for his life, he shoved him into a bag and tossed it in the river Poor boy must've been so scared inside the bag 15 hours till Hello I'm applicant ID 15, Jung Da-eun Hello I'm applicant ID 15, Jung Da-eun Ms. Jung, why do you want to become a reporter? Miss Jung? Momentarily, National Forensic Service will announce the result of voice analysis - 4 hours till - Suspect Jung denies the accusation How do you feel right now? What will you do if your father is the kidnapper? Da-eun Sweetie, don't worry Daddy didn't do it Can't he go home now? Yes, after the results come out, we'll decide whether he goes home or to the police station My mom is very ill She might not live to see tomorrow Please let him go The result will be out any minute Please wait 55 minutes till Are you getting mad at me? What are you doing? Don't you care what happens to your son? It's ain't over til' it's over You may go home Do you have anything to say to the victim's family? Please give us something Excuse me Please make way How do you feel right now? Excuse me Please make way Please make way Officer Lee, make way - 30 minutes till - Give me the key I'll drive Where are you going? I don't trust you Chae-jin I'm sorry Why did you do it? What? Why did you do it? Da-eun What's wrong with you? - The truth is out - Why did you kidnap him? I remember every little thing The words you called out to me Next to the Ahyeon-dong overpass, in front of the bakery I remember your voice that day Even how you braided my hair I remember everything Da-eun, I didn't do it You saw that I was found innocent I really didn't do it I want you to be honest with me You know where we are? Answer me Where are we? Don't do this to me I don't care what kind of person you are So be honest with me Tell me the truth It's all over anyway I told you It ain't over 'til it's over It was you My baby My baby Da-eun, it's been tough on you It's all over From now on, I'll be better We'll have a great life Just trust daddy How? How could you? Ask for forgiveness Hey! If you're a human, ask for forgiveness Ask forgiveness for your sins Come out and ask forgiveness You put him in a bag and strangled him You tossed him in the river here Ask that little boy for forgiveness Or let's all die here together I don't want to go on with my life anymore So let's all die here together Da-eun... Da-eun... Da-eun Who cares about the dead boy? I did it all for you I did it to protect you Because of Joon-young I did it all for you - I did it all for you - For me? To protect me? You and I will burn in hell Heaven is on our side It's all over It's all over Yes Let's end this From now on I don't know you I'm not Jung Soon-man's daughter anymore What's wrong with you? Don't you know how much I love you? Let's go home Da-eun, it's all over Now, it's over Midnight last night, a truck and a sedan crashed and fell into the river At 12 A.M., when the statute of limitations on the Han abduction expired, one of the drivers, is the father of kidnapped Han Chae-jin, has suspected Jung of being his child's abductor What about intentionality? There's no evidence indicating the car crash to be accidental nor intentional out of revenge Is it possible that the dead driver Jung could be Han Chae-jin's abductor? Are you going to continue the investigation? We failed to find the kidnapper and the statute of limitations has run out But I believe God will punish him somehow When will she wake up? They don't say Even if she wakes up, she's likely to be physically disabled for life Really? Seeing her like this I feel sorry for her Whatever She's paying the price for forgiving and hiding a criminal like her father Am I right? In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit May the Lord be in your heart and help you to confess your sins with true sorrow I've been silent about a horrendous secret for a very long time The man I once loved has kidnapped a child Soon Mi-sun and he has raised that child as his own I'd like to report the kidnapping of Soon Mi-sun 26 years ago Mi-sun is still alive Jung Da-eun Soon Mi-sun My baby girl Do you know what I've sacrificed to have you? You're mine Daddy's gonna live the rest of his life only for you Look She looks just like me Just like me Hey, you know that I have Mi-sun's hospital ID wristband Should I fucking report you and all go down together? You and Mi-sun I meant Da-eun should be happy I only want $100,000 You kidnapped a child for your own good You've got talent for you know what Can't you just do it again? Kidnapping I'll help you
