 

                        Traves Tokyo is really far away Very far away We will be there soon Traves We will be late if you don't wake up now I forget to wake up We are already late What do we do? Let's take a rest today No please Please don't do this during daytime No please You have to do the part-time job today I just need to do the job in the afternoon So I will go now Traves There is some curry in the pot You can eat it I know Very noisy How can I sleep Miss There is no marble here Please wait Please don't do it Cherry Can we meet after work Let's go for dinner No way Let's gamble for this If I can gain 10 boxes of marbles, then you go with me As you wish No 401, you won the big prize Attention I am coming Sorry for keep you waiting Traves Why don't you go for the part-time job today? The store is off today The manager went out for sex Really? Yes Go and get the box for me now The number of my machine is 401 Don't write it wrong It is annoying You are a nice couple Don't say that Don't deny it Are we as good as you think? Great No one with bother me playing today Damn it I have spent all of my money today The machine should be out of order No way There should be some tricks Or else, I will not lose 6 boxes of marbles Cherry I decided not to play marble games anymore You said it for many times Please lend some money to me No way I beg you Lend me some money so I can got work tomorrow You should have your monthly bus ticket How about my lunch? I will prepare a lunch box for you tomorrow Zon How are you? You came at the right time Come in Sit down Money? What are you talking about? I don't have money either Don't lie I didn't have dinner last night So you come here tonight? Not like this Damn it I lost 5 times continuously So I lost all the money I am so unlucky You must be careful Don't be unlucky as me I have to tell you something Traves You should try your best to be a more hard working guy You are as coward as before You will save some money each time It is not bad to be like this I can save a big sum of money at last This is my life No more nonsense Don't be indulge in playing marble games Okay I will not play the marble games anymore Great Did you forget your dream to be a musician? Don't touch it Let's sing I will sing for you You will see me on the TV soon I will earn a living with my music talent Don't bull shit We shall not give up our dreams Right? Three of us were born in a small town around Saga Where we were in elementary school Traves and Zon joined the baseball club And I was your manager But when we entered high school Traves gave up baseball And became a riot at last Zon, after repeat for one school year joined the riot group of Traves And I went on studying in a girls college I was worry about both of you So after a while I became a riot at last Our group is violent and rebellious And it was smooth for a long time After I graduated from high school Traves went to work in a food factory there And I worked in a super market Once Traves discovered some food are expired And my boss wanted to cover it Traves was angry and resigned It was one year ago I decided to quit my job in the supermarket And I went away with Traves to Tokyo When Zon discovered this case He quit his job and ran away with us Traves and Zon had their dreams to become a successful musician Although there was no progress until then I always support them Because I am in love with Traves Cherry Sorry What's up? I am useless Don't say it I never blame you I promise you to bring you happiness Please give me some time I will find a job tomorrow Great Traves Did you tell Cherry that you quit your job? Of course I didn't tell her It was me who hit the shop manager Why did you hit him with no reason? I hate him for his arrogance A shop manager should be like this You are troublesome You quit your job also It is because the shop manager is hostile to me I was working very hard in the shop Really? Tokyo is a hard place to live in When can we get away from this situation What are you talking about? If we are successful in this interview We can be singers then It will be great But I didn't play very well Have more confidence Besides asking for talent, they are asking for passion to music Cherry Let's go out and date today He is a student of Tokyo University Shall we? I'd better not going Sorry What is it? You have wasted your talent and beauty A pretty girl like you is deserved to have much more besides love Not like this Is it the purpose for you to come to Tokyo? This is not my purpose to come to Tokyo Okay I need to prepare for the dating today My purpose to be here is... And their purpose is... I'm here because of Traves... What's up? Nothing I will work harder tomorrow to be with him... I'm very happy Why didn't you wake me up earlier? Don't put it out on me Okay, let's go We will be late if we don't leave now I go now Wait a moment It is an amulet Work hard I will pray for you Hurry up, Traves Work hard, Work hard, Traves It is noisy Forget it Your guitar is not good enough Really? Try to change it Next is couple chorus Sorry I didn't change the string as I have no money You don't have to say sorry Work harder next time I made some food Let's eat together But I didn't play very well But I encumbered Zon this time It was me who encumbered you Don't say it anymore You too I don't want to be like this Sorry, Zon He didn't mean to do this I was useless Sorry I will clean it right away About this... What's up? Can I stand up? Please stand up Stand up straight Can I speak with you? This is my name card Didn't you use your eyes to see when walking? Dude, do you want to fight? You want to die? Sorry Are you Traves? Do you remember me? Oh, it's Jackson You are really in Tokyo Great It was a coincidence to see you Jane, he is my friend Traves How are you? I am Jane Nice to meet you Don't be too bashful Come on, have a drink Don't worry, it is my shop Fantastic The business is not bad here What are you doing now? I am jobless What's up? How can you live in Tokyo without a job? Come to help me if you have time Do you mean you can employ me? Take it easy It is a legal business I will not trick you here The market of finance is popular now A small shop like us will have some side business So we can earn more money Can you put it clearly? Isn't it enough? Great Don't reveal it They are out of control again Sorry Not at all Because the finance of Japan is good So they have time to play here Our business is good because of them Not bad People without a job is useless Yes, I know How is it? Do you want to work with me? But... You don't have to be too serious Go home and consider it Okay, let's drink Okay, let's drink I am home You are home Do you want to eat something? What are you hiding? Nothing Let me see It is that female manager I saw her in today Really? She wants to employ you? I am not interested I just want to support you I don't know how to perform Cherry, you can perform well Don't say that Don't lie I know you want to be a singer when you was young What did you write in your writing I forgot it You are drunk Yes, I am drunk Very bad? Traves Cherry What's up? You don't need to care about me anymore You can do something you want You don't to care about anyone Nonsense Why do you say that? What's up today? It is a good day You really want to find that guy He doesn't seem to be a reliable guy In fact, he is coward Jane, pay the bill Are you going home now? Yes, this is it Is it the bill? 800 thousand yen? Are you kidding? Anything not clear? In fact... Pay the bill now Yes I don't have enough money Are you alright? This is a bad side of the society He comes here every day You'd better break up with her Don't care about me Today, there is a dating gathering The guys are wealthy and university student He is a doctor student of Tokyo University I will not go It is a waste. This is a precious chance Cherry Give me a box I am in a great status today If I can win 10 boxes today Will you date with me? I have never promised you for this You really hate me? Or you want to date with other guys? You can't touch her like this Who are you? I keep on calling you Sorry Let's go I talked to the manager today I have something to discuss with you Don't let other people wait for us Wait a moment Are you Jackson? About this... Sorry for that I call you so urgently We can play until the shop open I don't have money It is not a problem Of course I know you don't have money Great I win, I am lucky today You are really great I don't want to play anymore You are good at this I only have talent in play Ma Jong You are arrogant Not bad Smile more Right, it is right Are you nervous? Give me a hand I know You are too slow Sorry Excuse me To be more concentrated Give more gesture Cute Not bad She has high potential So you need to shoot well Then, the sales will be great I know More gestures Smile more Think of the guy you love Yes, it is great At the beginning, we will only be taking photos Of course I will let you do the advertisement And I know that there are many TV advertising would like to employ new faces for them How is it? But... What do you want? Nothing I will let you know later A pretty girl like you ...is a pity to be with a guy like him You boyfriend... I think you'd better leave him Why? I investigated you before I know your information very well If you want became famous Maybe you can help your 2 friends Really? I am famous in the music field Damn it Your luck only visit you from the beginning It is out of my imagination Your ability is only like this You lost 16 points That means you lost 16,000 yen I don't have enough money You are wrong It is 1.6 million yen Right Are we playing that much? Of course This is a common sense Right Jackson, what are you saying? Pay the money now Are you kidding me? I ask you to pay now! Do you hear me? Yes, you lost the game, understand? I have no money Then, you have to work for us And you can pay the money for us I am helping you now Sorry This is the way he works Can't you sleep now? Why are you awake? I can't sleep Traves What's the matter? I have something to discuss with you Talk to me tomorrow Sorry There are so many poor people That's why we are so busy Yes It seems that you get used to this job already She is a pretty girl Very sexy I am familiar with her Who is she? Isn't she the girl who was always with you? Right? She looks like her Really? I don't think so Yes, she is not as pretty as her I see, I will handle this Are you tired? I am fine You are so busy recently You should be very tired I would like to treat you a dinner tonight I am not available tonight Fine Sorry Forget it Are you still living with him? Are you going to marry him? He is working is a bad business I know He is really as good as you think? I understand your feeling I am also a woman You'd better beware of the paparazzo Excuse me I want you to meet someone next time He is a famous director You should come next time I understand I am watching TV now I want to talk to you when we are eating Let's move out this house asap Not bad You go to find a property agency tomorrow No, I can't I have to get work tomorrow Sorry It will not be a big problem even if don't move out I like to live here Really? What do you want to say? I should know it For the sake of her, please leave her You want her to have good future, right? You cannot give her happiness I think you should know it What do you want me to do? She can be a super star It will be a hard road to walk in the entertainment field She works very hard She will meet an very important person in the hotel This is the road she choose You should support her Let's support her together Do you want to eat? I don't eat this You eat this Really? Yes, eat it Thank you I saw your performance It is great It seems that you are not so happy What's up? Are you unhappy? No Don't lie to me No, I didn't Understand Can I see your hand? Your hand is not bad I believe you will have a happy life Really? Just kidding You need to work hard for happiness You should know it About this... Your manager had promised me Stop it This is a job What are you doing? Are you alright? Stop it You are not a kid anymore It is no big deal to do this for money Understand Sorry It is all my fault Sorry Forget it You don't need to work for me anymore Have you slept? You should be hungry. I will cook for you Traves I will go back to work in the marble game store That job is more suitable for me Don't look at me like this Come on Dead No way You bought it to me when we are at hometown You treat me very well when we were young We were very happy I remembered you bought it with 2,000 yen Though you only bought one I feel very happy at that time Really? I remembered when we were young I was crazy for making love with you We always make love in the temple I still remember that Really? But I still feel happy with you But I am not We can't go on living like this Really? I am not happy with this kind of living Really? I want to leave Then I will leave It is my fault Cherry It is you Did you quarrel with Traves? Peace to each other This time, it is different There is nothing left this time If you like here, you can stay Great What are you doing here, movie star? I am a past tense star I am just a common girl I don't understand you Will you join the dating party today? All the guys there are rich I heard that the Arabian oil king will come, too This is really a great party Cherry I am finished Long time no see Don't be like this Welcome, you are back I am happy, too You handicraft is great Try this Don't be like this Enough Sorry You are going too far Do we need to save some for Traves Sorry It's fine, I will make it Traves Thank you this time It is not hard to do You can handle this on your own Do a good job I am not busy You'd better hide the gun Men like to be caressed like this Don't be too violent You will break my clothes Zon Do you hear it? Look this way I can't sleep as I am lonely No, we can't Why? Because... I like you Touch my body I said no already It is my fault Forget it Sorry You are still the same Long time no see Your clothes are beautiful It costs about 200 thousand yen I envy you My clothes cost only 500 yen Do you want me to introduce a job for you? So you can afford these clothes by yourself But I am afraid you won't do it Do you play guitar as before? This is the only thing I know So you better play hard No kidding I don't have that talent Have you found a girlfriend? I had put my information on an advertisement But there was no answer No one is interested in me You are so simple Right Tokyo is like this You are right Tokyo is like this This is the first time I write to you After staying in Tokyo for one year I can see your performance at last In fact, I always envy you To be a great musician is a gorgeous dream I don't have any plan But I discovered something recently In fact, staying with Traves... ...is a very happy thing So my dream is to stay with you No matter what are we doing And I know that you quit your job But it is fine As you are pursuing your dream I won't mind it I like you very much Go away No way You can't keep it on like this See, you have lost a big deal No way What should I do? What's up? What's up? About this... Traves I am back Where have you been? I went to buy something in the supermarket I will cook something for you now
