 

                        Jesus says someone has Z sons the elder is good while the younger is not the younger even runs away but soon regrets he returns and his father is better to him than to his elder brother This story tells us Though you committed a sin God will not discriminate as long as you correct yourself and will love you even more OK, l'II now ask the 1347, the oi with the highest attendence to tell us his own experience Now we'Il see if you're loyal or not If the officer takes you as friend then it will be fixed Sure! l'm pretty loyal Have you been to Temple Street? Yes, about 3 times To find hookers? Last 2 months in Temple Street, there was a robbery and a rape case, were you responsible for them? Of course not! Now we'Il see if you're really loyal enough Want to make friends with the officers? Yeah You want to? Now, we're charging you of illegal gambling and you'll get the same sentence if you confess of those two cases as welI as all sentences will be simutaneous OK! It's fine with me You shall decide for me Am l loyal now? Take his testimony please Yes When did you come to HK? Approximtely 2 years What? What do you mean? On 31st December of last year And today is 7th of January You've come only 7 days? You said you'd confess the You bastard! Dare you fool me? But you fooled me first! So l played in return! What do you mean? You want to fool? Fight back? Dame you! you hurt me You bastard police! You beat me hard You bastard police! You beat me hard What are you doing? You beat again? Head, this guy committed the cases in Temple Street Did he only commit illegal gambling? You mustn't iust frame anyone Uncuff him - Head! - Uncuff him Go out now Yes. sir Where in Shatow are you from? Lohin of Shatow Seeing we're folk of the same place, I'Il help you once I'Il try my best for you Take your own things and go away Thanks Iet him go Hey, homeland folk May I know your name? Hey, come out Ho How is it. Ho? How is it? Need to be sent back? Need to go to iail? You're nut! You know from the way l am now l even meet a inspector, who is our homeland folk l was flattered he even offered me a meaI He's so good to you - and make friend with an inspector - Yeah Why are you always so lucky? And they arrested only you? Why? Li! You have a date off on Friday? Go and play with me if so Hey, look at her eyes She wants me to do her Money is utmost important in HK Women will follow you round with money You must be powerful if you want money What must l do if I'm not powerful now? Well, stick to powerful people Who are powerful men? Those policemen and drug traffickers and these lousy jobs are not our cups of tea We were born to do big jobs! OId bag Are you blind? You put this in it too? I-:: :,,:;:,c,::: :,:,:,:i I m:::,::::';:I c-:: i'i ::::;:',', Boss, say if you are so sly Give me this left over with phlagm? You let us eat this? Shit, iust wipe it off Why so panic? Now it's fixed What do you mean? You lousy peasants forget the provety up there? During famine, even if there were turds in it crowds rushed to eat it You are lousy Are you two nuts? You make the dumpling so big? You're making super ones? You eat 6 bowls of rice each meaI and then go to toilet many times so often that there is no more toilet paper l've caught you now Stealing and excreting Charge you 10 cent each sheet Why don't you rob? Why can't l? - But you steal - Ho Hey, l'm scolding you! Where are you going? How much paper are you hiding? We've found the address I'Il count 3 and you must hand it out or l'll dismiss you But I'm quitting you damn thing now! Let's go, something big is going on Hey There's nose water? I'm quitting, damn you! Are we in the wrong house? No, this is our dog LUCKY! Oh, our jewels! Very nice lt's precious what is this? i:; ;,, :,,':,,,,1,:,,;.,,:,: '',,,:,!::,;;, ',,::,, ': You're always so selfish You don't care about others! You tried hard to move it, take the whole box now Foreign food is still foreign it's still tastier with our homeland food Brother, look carefully for the dog logo we shall buy some for mom when we go homeland Man! What is it written? Scotland dog feed Food for dogs! Don't know? You're quite clever! You have such avant-garde idea? When l was in homeland You saw it all dogs used to eat shit and turd Yeah, it's fussy to make food specially for dogs! Even Chairman Mao didn't think of this You're too stupid But why is it called dog feed? lt's the brand name lt's called Scotland Dog In Tientsin, there's a Dog-lgnor buns You mean even dogs won't eat? l say you're nut Man, try it We shall all try Come on, try it Ho, try it give me back Ming, you're really giving it to me? Yes, is it nice? I'Il bet 20 on that with one eye Ho, l'II follow you with $2O Why bet on the one eye cock? Sure, that is a cock from Ching Yuen and the one eye cock is from Shatow of couse we'll bet on things from our folkland that Shatow cock is thin, l say it'Il lose We won't know until it fights even if it'Il lose, I must still bet on it Don't say so, shit! Dumm, what are you saying! Ming? He said we robbed several times in his area that we took him as transparent now he's giving us three days to take a pig and 3000 for their boss, Ping those Haken in Shek Kip Mei They're strong, how can we face it? Let's look for Cool Kwan Cool Kwan? Who is he? There're 4 big Chiuchow families in HK Ngan Shing Kwan, the one who runs bus company the banking, Liu Cheong Hing and policeman, Boss Lui and the drug trafficker, Cool Kwan Hey, are you listening to me? Oh, since we're from the same place, he should help Have you finished flirting? We men are discussing business and you suck fingers? Shall l have you tongue cut out? Master Kwan Master Kwan Long to meet you I'm Ho from Shatow Uncle Biu has informed you that l'd call on you A nice sanpan Very nice Are you? l've said if any folk looks for me he shall give $10 to each of you Master Kwan I don't come for money l come to discuss business with you What about cooperating on business? You shall get half of whatever I make? For betting I have many gambling stalls And for whorehouses, l control most of them and for drug, I am the boss of it Say? What business will you work with me? Mom gave birth to me with a gut You'll pay and l'll work l iust talk business with you with my life the drug stalls in Shek Kip Mei belong to Haken people l know you long to get involved in them but with your high position today you shouldn't fight yourself so we people will be your men Are you interested now? Boss Cham Why are you so forgetful? You said you'd bring the Chiuchow man here? He is in Shik Kip Mei now Why don't you take him to apologize to me? You must tell him lf he doesn't arrive before 4 l'll have his head cut off I must go down and say, boss Damn you bloody head Are you suck? He'Il opening a stall down there What stall? Drug stalI What? Boss Ho That way! Boss Damn you! So you're Ho? So you're Ping? Damn you! You bastard! It's bad Don't panic, it's Cool Kwan's guy Our own people, l'm eased off Don't kill him This is good guy, Spare him Ho is coming. Master Kwan, good work! We shall make the world Each of you shall get one My dear brothers, my dear guests there's good news this time we get the silver plate Master Kwan is very happy so he'II consoling you alI he's hired from the famous Ballroom more than 40 hostesses to this occasion, you'll each get one Brothers, you've fought hard But try hard again now You're counted in, go now - Go ahead - Go! Go! i:; ;:,, :,,:', :;,::: :;,,,,,,1:: !:,; ',:;,;, Brothers, how about me? Take that I don't like her, she's ugly Where are all the pretty ones? Don't say l don't care for you I've keptup one pretty for you #NAME?NAME? - Sit here,,. - This is Master Ho Master Ho Tell you, Master Ho is very strong See if you can excite him You're lousy Shit. Master Kwan runs a woman soccer team Ho, her breasts are nice You can enioy yourself then Why are you here? She's the only pretty in my eyes Ho, those guys take awayall the pretty ones What if we act? Yeah, seize some! take it easy l'll let you have mine This is good, l'll take her you're the boss of l'm the boss? Don't rush You're to fix them two tonight They're so strong! How did Master Kwan say to you? Are you loyaI You're to choose one from them Be good i:; ;,, :;,,':,m;;:r I;:;!,,:,::!;:;,:,i,::,; ,,,,i .::,:' !;.:,,:,,,,,:,:::,; Is he very mighty? Why have l never heard of him? He takes up all dirty money in Kowloon he decides how each constable gets and they have no objection even the CP has to respect him it's said he's more powerful than HK Governor Kwan You got the champion this year l must get all this year We must win every time My men are so fightfuI take them all for a travel, charge my account - How can we7 - Chief Inspector Lui long to see you l'm Ho, of your homeland the Ho from Shek Kip Mei hope we will work together will and make money together Boss, he's the new guy l get he has sweet tongue OK, boss will remember you Go back to your seat Go back to your own seat, this is not yours Yeah boss, why are you so late? Chi May has been waiting for you Why are you so late? l don't care, l must punish No, you are to be punished Master Hung! Keung, get Master Hung some tea Be quick Master Hung, your tea Shit! What bird is this? It sings so badly Yours? Throw it away as it sings oddly Why? Don't recognize? Yes Why don't you look for me? l've given you the money to your men Shit! How much do you pay? ,?';c?., j'Ig Urdg,, !?'njCj gI ?\code(0144)JgI,C,,? I pay as much as Ping does When Ping goes to hell, will you lt was 10 pre-war I set up the new rules 500 a day This is not market, no bargain Close your stall if you pay a dollar less When l am in market I won't bargain either l'll give the dollar to beggars rather than you What can you do? Master Ho, they are all policemen What shall we do? Shall we look for Master Kwan? No, this is our own affairs You must break up with them? Ask my men here Ask his boss It's for you Hello Hello, Mad B, we've broken up Raid his stall and have his men arrested Damn you! Bastard! l get news that you've arranged to have 300 a day and you said 200 more as you want it yourself, you're in deep debts l'll give you a choice Ask your men to retreat, I'Il still pay 30O and you shall get $2000 extra from me then we'Il be in good terms or you must kill me, then you're our foe Whether be our friend of foe, choose it Hung, have you arranged? How much must l pay to get a positon of inspetor? USS25,OOO The CP will share 1000O and the three members of the Board will each get $500O OK, l'll try to get the money Master Lung lt's Lantern Festival now We miss our family in this occasion You are all alone in HK and you've done so much to me Forget all this You've much changed without seeing for a while What are you doing now? ':::.;l:,,;,, '':,,:,:1 ::,::.:;;:,,,, ,,,1r, I make a little money, this is homestyle mooncake Do you like it? What do you mean? It's little l know Don't refuse it! I'Ilcount you in for whatever I make But l hate crime most l'll forget what you iust did I must remind you You'd better be good and not commit a crime or l'll not give face to you, take it back Ho, this reporter is poor and wants to hand in his ID for heroin Master Ho It's hard to be reporter? lt's hard to work day and night Kun, if ever you're short of money just say it to Ming ,,,,,.t,,:,; ',,,I,,,,:,, '',,:,, i,t,,, ,,,;;,,,,,;ti,, it ,.,,,,,,, ,,,.,, How can l do this, Master Ho? l iust love friends from your field Let's keep to touch Chi's family is here Take them there Man, the woman comes for the stuff? She's to take Chi Chi's sister? No, Chi's sister-in-law, why? Nothing but she's been widow for 3 years, with two children Has she? Yeah, do you want to go too? OK, l want to see Chi Why, you like her too? Mind you'll get VD as you likes any women Damn you! Watch out! This is Ho, Tse Yuen Ying Hi, Miss Tse Let's get a taxi No. I have a car So you have a car? No, l am a van driver You're pretty smart You can drive such a big truck Few women drive a truck Few men sell heroin Please come in From the present situation he'Il recover within a little period Doctor, you must take care of him until he recovers We'll pay for his expenses Good He says he knows nothing but fighting, and will fight for you Mom, look Uncle Ho bought us many toys Yes Mom, look, a water gun Be quick l want to ride a cow Though l like fish, you needn't cook all fish AIl dishes are fishes ';;,; ':;,,1.;m:9 ;::!:m;, ,;';;:,;! U ;:,:!;;;i ,;,::,;.:,,: ,;. ,,!.:, Seeing they're not stale, l picked them back You've made them like fresh fish You're pretty smart You're used to it? When I was in China the first time l tasted pork was on my 13th birthday Ying, it's not convenient to bring up 2 children alone It's a pity no one takes good care of them Have you thought about finding a man? No l'll tell you frankly For me, my home is not a home without a woman Halu, do you like palying with uncle? Yeah, mom shall we letuncle Ho ioin us? Eat on and keep quiet Uncle Ho, mom says no No! Come On - Mom - Ming Why so late? We met Chinese arm-boat on the way, but for the waves - Am l dreaming? - No Ho, l said you'd be smart when you were smalI Everybody in our village knows you've made a fortune and you made us here tool I'Il carry it for you You're lovely Where's your wife? This is Ma'am Ng Ma'am Ng Good, l'II give you pocket money Where's your wife? Mom, this is my wife's car Ming, why are you so daring as to drive leader's car? Have you asked the leader? Mon, this is HK, you can have a car if you have money We needn't approval from leaders Yeah Brother Man, you can drive? Have you another woman? Selling noodles makes big money, I may as well sell it No Why not? l did sell noodles up there I can do the same )ob here Look, you misplace it, make it up or it won't take sharp pictures, got it? Go.,. you two stand behind Sit and don't move Hey.,. buy 3 or 4 from me - Thanks - Why so late7 You're too good to make big money your wife is heplfuI But women must be obedient What if someone seduces your wife? Who dares to? Just in case, it might happen, right? Absolutely no way, what are you talking about, Kwan7 Your brother Ming is seducing my girl Do you think you should hand them both to me? I'm so convinced We bosses should talk only business and shouldn't talk about girls May is only your girl, not wife As she's not your wife we can share her This is it? You're impotent as not to keep her, just take it Dare you say so to me? OK, l know what to do You like May as she's big breasted l'll find a bigger one for you , OK Master Ho, Master Kwan, go to play mahjong l never believe you,.. can find a bigger girl Get it, 3 plys Why? You make it every time? Why? l can never get one l need? Where they are all now? You cheat? You ruin all my games, why must you spoil mine? Big Hak, you inform him? Hey, you shouldn't say such remarks to me? I don't come here to be scolded by you! Sure you are not to sit, you're to lie down l'll have you raped, bastard! Damn you, are you playing or shouting? Anything you like - You are finding fault in me - Hey, keep quiet And be peace Ho, don't lose your temper, Kwan is joking Can l Say sorry after killing someone? Joking? Can l joke that your mom seduced a man and gave birth to you? Who are you to speak here? Stop, l'll teach my own men When you beat him, you're beating me dare you slap me? Shut up! We're all men from the same field lt's OK Take it easy l was wrong, l must apologize to you We are both hot-tempered, iust lost and it's OK Let's go on playing Let's go Hey, Thank you ,,,,,.t,I,; ;,,,,:,,,,,,1 ,,,,,,,,,,'',w,,,, i,,,,?, ,.,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,.,,,:,,; # ,,,,::,, That bastard thinks he's important but he forgets the past But for me, would he have today? l've said already l won't care whatever he does in future Keung, we'll soon eat Get in the room first - Who is it? - Get in You've come all the way here? l've made some dumplings, get you some Why are you so quiet as not to go out? No, I'm listening to radio You're learning now? Learning English Why don't you ask May out? Sister Ho had a row with Kwan for you two Don't know what Kwan has in mind Ming, you must be careful when you're out ':,,,,;:;': ii, 'r ,:;':,,.,',,,:C?:,:',:,,,''j Don't get around 'I;; I:;;;:;,:,, ; ''I;: '. i;:,l,:n;;; We are Chinese Liberal Army You're to stop now :;:: ,:,::-,:: :,,,,:,II ''i ::; We are Chinese Liberal Army You're to stop now or we shall fire, did you hear? Stand well Come out Stand still, all of you Whoever speaks Mandarin stands out I speak a little Who is the owner? Officer, we're Thai fishermen We come for fishing, we have fishing licence We don't recognize Capitalist treaty According to Chinese rules, this is Chinese Sea Report, Captain, we found nothing Can't find the dog. Take off their clothes ,,,,,,,,,,!,,,;,,,,, ,,,,,,,,i', ,,,,,,,,,,,,,;,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,1,;,,.,,,,,,,,c,,,,,,,,,, r"ggII,3 5i;II ,,C,??j3I?,?i' 5?,I,?,h'I3ig?n,, I?j j9MjI Why are you not tanned? Why are you not tanned? Are you Thai fishman? Why are they tanned but not you? Take your hands out Take your hands out Take them out, now Why there's no mark? Being fishman with no marks? Why there's no? Say, why there isn't Are you Thai fishman? Shit! Are you Thai fishman? Take your hands out Take your hands out l ask you take your hands out, did you hear? Take your hand out I must kill you Help made a fortune Long live Chairman Mao, Long live Lu Feng Everything fine? l can do whatever your plan is You're daring while I'm talented We fool take actions Who is it? Stop! Don't run Get him up Master Kong, this is really our opium Go over Who gave you the opium? I don't know Don't know No. don't Are you saying or not? I'Il say Master Ho gave it to me Master Ho - Master Ho took it here - Dare he touch my opium7 Yeah You shit! Test your fortune, sir? Thanks Kuen, this restaurant,.. is the place of Shatow people Yeah,.. draw a tortoise after meal and you can leave Yeah We needn't pay? This is rich men's way They settle the bills every 3 months l want shark's fin Sure Hey, boy Boy Get a bowl of shark's fin for my girlfriend Thanks We can help ourselves Sure Help yourself, Master Ho Sister Sister Sit down Master Ho Master Ho Enjoy yourselves Get in the car Master Ho, the baby is lovely It looks like you but more like sister It's good to look like her, she's so pretty ',,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,.I,, Sister is pretty while Master Ho is brave When they're grown, they both look like Ho Exactly like him Why? You're blind? He's not the father of the eldest two Master Ho, l'II open the wine for you Wife, did it piss? It's wet ';':;:! i',; ''.' I':,,;,!,:,i;-,, ,;!I: Did you order the cold crabs? I'Il order them for you now there're crab8 You know l fear pimples, you offer me crabs? You kill me! l am to blame, don't get angry l'll order something else for you Mom Why is dad so late? Dad is parking the car, soon be here Aak him to take you to expose later, be good Have 8ome crabs You look though me? Ming, you must feed me Test your fortune, sir? Hold it It's opening tomorrow Want a polish? Ho Stop Who sent you here? Ho, how are you? Don't run Don't run Whatch the cars, and don't cause me trouble Excuse me Thanks Sister, will you talk frankly to me? You must be lying to me still Why do they try to kill if he sells noodles? Sister, Ho is under operation Stop bothering sister Why is my husband missing? He went to park the car, but he's nowhere now? We've sent men to find him Don't worry He's been kidnapped or murdered? Just tell me, and stop me worrying I know, you must have done evil deeds and caused my husband dead, Man is dead, l know My God.., my husband has left our family Ho caused the death of my husband, give me back my husband Take it easy Take it easy OK, you're in ease now I won't blame you as we've in panic Now go home and wait for my news You mustn't come to hospital again without my consent, got it7 Take her away Sister, I'Il see you home He's here Man How are you, are you OK? Man. don't scare me. We're expectiong you at home! Help him in the car They didn't kill me as they wanted me to come back to tell you If you don't give them back the stuff within 3 days We'll all die, he said Uncle Chi revealed all this that we took his stuff away Master Ho l've said you women cause trouble l've told you not to have it refined so soon and you wouldn't listen, now this What shall we do with this trouble? We're married And you know me well I've never taken any stuff to Uncle Chi I checked the stuff only this money and it is all properly sealed Besides us, Fat Kwan always has some Has Fat Kwan been here? He's in Taiwan and called back 4 times Are you convinced now? Shit, every time something happens, he's not in HK He's a prophet, I say He's hoth helper and ruiner He wants to frame me and have Kwong killed me That Fat Kwan is so daring Man, tell Kwong I'Il pay him back Ying Call Up Kun and have him published an article that l'm crippled and disabled Sub-Editor, your call My Call? Hello, speak loudly Speaking, I know Hello Ming, you're still here? We've arranged we shall go for shelter in Macau at 1 1 You forget what Master Ho said? I'm setting out.,. l'm still packing You're making love I say, you'll die on women one day OK, I'Il go out at once Bing, Kueng, take the things down and wait for me in a car Yes, boss Ming, Ming Why don't you make on as you're enjoying, go on Go on making it Harder No. don't No Master Ming, it's we, get in the car Start Master Kwan gives you 3 days to think You'll die if you kon't go back in 3 days What is in the doctor's report? Fine, except a minor injured on the left leg Can it be cured? ls there a chance for recovery? Maybe a little cripple in future Damn you! Master Kwan Come over Master Kwan, l Know l'm wrong ',,t,,;:;, ;:,,:,,! ;,.;I;;J::, ::,,'''' Why lousy brests ',,t,,;:;, ;:,,:,,! ;,.;I;;J::, ::,,'''' Not elastic at alI Kneel down I dare not anymore I'Il follow you again, Master Kwan Good, but you must pass the test first Come on Do the blow job for me to see if you have made any progress See how eager you are! Wait after l take a bath and clean myself first ',,,,,.t,,,::,; ,,,,,'' ,,,,,,,,,,;;,!,,, ,,,,,,,,,,',,,I,,,,;!,,,; ,;,.:,,;, ,,,,,;, I must check if it is loosen or not OK. shit Bitch. even your bottoms are bigger than before it's nearly bigger than my head So flirty? I must do you once to teach you a lesson I suspect there's heroin here Search! Why, lezve your hands off me! Get away What do you suspect? l do suspect you have something for sale Haven't you seen bras? What is this? Loud Hung The thing inside the bras isn't mine They belong to the bitch You mustn't bullshit Mine is here 'i,; ,,;,:,;\:;, ,,,::;,,,,,1 ;,:,;;,,!,. i;q i;;,,::,,,, ;:,,,,:,,, ;,:; ;:,; Sir. she asked me here as she said there's heroin that I must traffic for her l said l wouldn't You stink bitch You'redisloyal to me. What do you want? Want to frame me up? You bastard8 I must call Mr Lui up Kwan, it's too late You bastards, who among you has never received money from me? Leave me alone No photos Shut up! No photos You bastards, l recognize you l'll kill whoever takes my photos No photos Damn you! No Photos Boss, please tell us about the Case of Ng Shing Kwan Have any other tycoons been arrested? Is there any conspirator? You know l've been against crime we've planned much time and efforts for this action before we can arrest Ng Shing Kwan It's said you and Fat Kwan are buddies? Is this true? People are passing this around, is it true? There is a saying Rumours are rumorus Anyone who likes rumours here,.. Please go out! As I only talk to wise people Boss You should understand what Boss means How come it's like this? It's very trouble. - How can we do - Boss Boss, cigaret Everyone understands Fat Kwan used to be under my protection Now that Ho and Loud Hung did this they are indeed challenge me openly That bastard! Have Loud Hung and his men transferred to the border Yes Sir Within three days I want all Ho's places swept out I must get rid of that bastard What is it? Are you blind? Don't you see l'm sleeping? Master Ho Why? You come here for hiking? Master Hung, this is a pig,.. kept by villagers l didn't care if it is as long as it's not yours Master Ho, have a drink first I have eaten all animals in this village See how fat I am You're so good as to see us up in this remote place Just look at me I'm even darker than a negro Look how fat he is on the face He's as fat as a pig A few days age he was chased by swarms of bees You must figure out a way to transfer me out or l'll go mad How is it outside now? How? AIl our places have been swept And you go buy something with Ying and we'll cook Come for barbecue if you have time Sure Boss Lui won't take your letter lnspector Ho, does he know l've waited many days? Yes, he said if you come to bother him anymore he'Il have you all arrested You'd better leave now What are you looking at? Anything on my face? Shit! What now? Have some bread Hey, will you stop eating here? This is police station l not only eat here l've even brought a quilt with me so as to sleep here What then? He's not here, maybe he's left! Lui Ko Tin So l've seen you at last Want to avoid me? Don't go, where do you want to go? I'm going to meeting Meeting? Can you take me there too? No What are you doing? No, you say no now but you used to say yes when you wooed me I've brought up your son for you and now you want to desert me? My son Take off your hands from him Why do you tie up my son? Damn you! What do you want? He's my son l must die with him - Draw her apart - What do you want7 r"g)I,i3 C ',3h;,,,,?, 4?,,G? M, Leave me,.. Lui Ko Tin, l must die with you Lui's wife found him to have a mistress outside his wife's getting mad this woman is suffering from mental disease so Lui wants to.., desert her Does Lui want his son back? Absolutely yes As his wife gave birth only to girls for him Master Ho Pimp, don't let hey die but find her a good husband but the sooner the better be it in farther part of China! Boss, Crippled Ho is here Lock him up and detain him for 48 hours He's holding your son l'll go out now Boss Lui, I come with a big present for you today Son Your woman will bother you no more and thi8 is her ID card lt's like this We found that she's married in China so we asked her husband to HK Once seeing her husband, she laughs and cries she told me she loves her husband most she wants a reunion and must leave you now and that you needn't miss her Here is a letter from her husband in Harbin He says he's living happily with her in Harbin Very happy indeed Fat Kwan is short-sighted He doesn't let you help you though you're so smart Everyone knows Fat Kwan used to be protected by me But you didn't inform me before you acted What do you think l am? Damn you! I warn you now You must improve yourself from now on You shall have the places of Fat Kwan and you are to pay his family monthly, remember When l can help you up, l can fuin you too Do you hear? Yes Sir l shall remember the teaching from Boss Lui l'll learn a lot from you Master Kong Be good and play over there Dad will play with you soon Great sorry, have some now for the time being cover that up now Damn it! you're like a gow! No photo? Take one then l said l wouldn't What are you taking? Come and take a photo, come on Look at the camera, 1. Z, 3 Master Kwan Master Kwan Master Kwan Congratulations on your coming out Thanks Okay Since everyone is supporting on this all the places will be divided like this From now on you four companies will have your own piers You are to make your own money and have peace Still one more thing Ho, Kwan You must make compromise Take up as this is a tie and all your private disputes before must be forgotton from now on Now it's all over Boss Lui, I've always tried to be fair l never will argue with,.. women and disabled as I fear people will complain of my bullying them! Sister, any money here? Give me some for settling the bill first Hung, you've borrowed 250,OOO so far Stop for a while if you keep losing Forget if if you won't lend me Ho. ask him to the table Fatty, Crippled Ho loves you much All pretty girls are waiting for you tonight There're singers, models and air-hostesses you haven't made love for long Choose two of them and make it double tonight But most important is to tell Crippled Ho Crippled Ho! Damn it! I must damn it Master Kwan, l'Il drink with you OK, Mary, you've made the right choice What now? What, l've forgotton my cheque book today l'll owe you that money Can't I pay you back tomorrow? You mustn't talk so loudly You owe us altogether 8180,OOO Stop betting if you can't afford I have boss to face Quarrl for this trivial? This is our rule8 Hey, this is 40,OOO Take it first ,,i:: il, ;i!I ,:::'::i::.:i I;,, It's your luck Boss Fung, please Master Fung, Hung is our man, he shouldn't take your money But we are like the same family We needn't take it so serious, sister No. it's not so whoever has lost money shall divide this money Thanks Fung, you are so good To table please Crippled Ho, drink with Fat Kwan We guys need gut, strength and kung fu but l am wrong now Look at the lousy you so a crippled guy like you do make money It's not fair at alI So a crippled becomes rich, isn't it unfair? ,,,:::,:;;,,:,::,, :m:,:,:,:ilm:::: :::::': ;:,,;;! is to show I'm trying to be in good terms with him during the past few years l've made much efforts with Sham Shui Po and Wanchai and l've just handed them over to Fat Kwan when I get in return is the deserted region of Kung Tong and Chai Wan but l have no ob)ection as this is idea of Boss Lui Boss in my whole life he's the only who can convince me if he says so it's good with me But in my whole life, there's one thing I regret lt's my leg and pepole outside give me a nicked name of Crippled Ho it was invented by Fat Kwan and spread out when he was in Stanley Prison Since I fetched him out until now he's mentioned that 13 times I'Il definitely outrage if he says that once more and no one can stop me! Yes, l'm to be blamed! l'm too bad to say so You will all be witnesses Starting this minute if l ever call you Crippled Ho again you can punish me anything even have me sodomited! l'm giving you back this cup Good, Master Kwan is gentleman OK. Sit down Pour the wine, to the fulI Miss Ho Please Why do you come? Why you here? Aren't you coming for me? Can l enter only if l know you? Why are you so thin? Why don't you have your hair cut? Master Kwan, why are you staring at me angrily? Still angry with me? Who asked her to come? Who asked her to come here? Who? Husband Protect me now, someone wants to kill me l'm scared Don't panic Don't be afraid Hey, drink this Whoever inited this pretty girl here must be a super-powerful guy Boss, I've guessed it's you! Now, take a look Pretty girl with a handsome guy, two of a kind, right? l must drink with you two Boss, l drink to show my respect OK, let's drink with them too Come on, everybody cheers, bottom up! Boss, we want to drink with you, come on Don't drink so much if you can't! Shit! I've been bullied I've lost my face, I can't let it go I must get May back Master Ho I really love May l'd rather die if l must go without her l want to die Die? Go and die if you must Damn you! You're not a man? I'Il help you get May back Can you? You deserve it You're impotent How many times have l asked you to quit that? Have you listened once? How have you helped me for all these years? You've spoilt whatever you laid a hand on! Bastard, but for our friendship l would have cast you away and let you die in toilet! Damn you! l've been facing pressure and made to take early retirement ln two weeks time I'Il emigrate to Canada Shit! Is it so serious? People think Kitter is lousr but I tell you the anti-corruption action of ICAC is severe and everyone is on the nerve During this period you and Fat Kwan still do all the killing and fighting you want the senioors to step on you? l order that you stop now ,,:::',:;:: ::m:;::::::: I:,:,:,,:::; l'll arrange you to sit together and try to have peace Where to? You assure me they will not kill me? At my villa in Tsuen Wan They can each take a body guard while you can take two No one is to take weapons along and for security my men will see to it then it's very safe! I can consider it Who dare to start dispute in your area? Right, Loud Hung wants us to back him for boss's position What do you think? Shit! The Seniors made it claer they want a clean guy and Loud Hung's file is full of bad remarks he can never get a promotion He can bribe someone Anything can be do with money It's different now Not everything can be done with bribery Ho! You'd better think about stopping now it'Il be too bad if you get arrested! Loud Hung, you are to hide the gun under the coffee table Before 8 o'clock you're to get controlled of Lui's people At 8:05 Hak, you people are to get the gun from the coffee table and kill his three body guards Simutaneously Man, Ming you're to bring help in l estimate we can open champagne at 8:1O Why don't you laugh? lsn't it funny? As we do killing in Lui's villa how can we tell Lui? Shit! I don't care how to He's on the run himself A retired inspector is a disabled like a tiger without teeth! Take him as paper-tiger I hear that ICAC is a mighty organisation if we start these killings l fear it will bring us trouble This is woman's opinion All officer corrupt, my dear 'i::: 1,:,:;;m,:i;;,,,,!; ,;,,'': ' insisted to get rid of all crimes the Anti-Corruption unit set up in 1969 achieved what? Nothing They indeed set that up to make more dirty money l keep sober myself all the time I know what ICAC is About this department it was called to set up by HK Governor himself as he wants dirty money himself then the dirty money needn't pass through,.., inspectiors or whoever else Shit! I'Il prepare 5 millio dollars to talk with him You might have a suit made and HK Governor will invite me to party next year and the year after l'll get a reward Master Ho, Master Hak, your wife calls you tell her I'm too busy in meeting Ho, we can never spend,.. our money for all our life Why must do try hard for this business? Master Ho, I agree with sister We've worked hard so long it's time we enjoyed ourselves Ming! Master Ho, I'm not addicted, l have a cold A cold? Hak, do you have opinion? Brother, what do you think? No, I have no opinion I've always listened to Master Ho and won't take offence l didn't mean playing mahjong l mean to fight! Brother, where was I? You have no opinion Oh, yes But I have just thought of something Even if we don't think for men we still must think for our wives and children Am l correct? It's pretty correct Excuse me, Master Ho, Master Hak Your wife insists you go home for dinner within 15 minutes Get out! Yes Stop eating! Dad! What again? Nothing, want to read my report card? Take it to me is there red? Yes Have many subject did you fail? Five You've made much progress then Now go out first l'll give you 500 later Thanks dad, I go out now, mom! How did you teach her? What about the tutors? She failed in so many subiects? Damn it! I can't imagine you end like this You have good house now and now you are important persons? You must remember when we were in coolie house we had hard lives then the five of us killed hundreds of Ping's men we were so brave but now you complain Do you know chances don't often come This is a real good chance for us Just 5 minutes and the four families will disappear forever and only we left! Ok, let's do it then we can enjoy peace Master Ho, it's right to take action I must applaud for your decision Hey, why do you do that when l'm speaking? I have natural call, l want to go to toilet Damn you! l've asked you not to take heroin but you must take on You! l've asked you to watch him, how did you do it7 You! You know nothing but gambling Do you know how much you have lost? The spelling of our family's name are all in here Mr Chan lt's cheaper to buy return tickets to Toronto No, just single will do l'm Tse Yun Ying, hope you bless Ho to fulfill his ambition we will come and thank you again if we succeed We'll build paths and bridges Mrs Ng Dad Good Pay attention in class, OK? Fire the tutor! Master Ho Boss Are you all here? Sorry, l must search every of you to ease you up Sorry, Master Kwan Take a seat Sorry, please stay behind Let's play cards Even after l leave l'll still watch closely l'll teach him a lesson if anyone eats words Do you remember 1966? Kan and Hok were fighting for areas? l asked them to settle dispute but they refused so l arrested all 300 of them Hey, where to? To toilet l say you go take heroin Knowing we're working, l have taken it already Don't get away, it's nearly time You're hopeless! Hak, shall we play Throwing Coins? Throwing Coins? You're still a kid? I love Throwing Coins, come on I keep getting lusy cards, shit! Come on Why complain? Why? What good is there? Why? You're playing with coins? Hak Brothers, are you men? You don't call hookers, don't bet, and now play coins? He dare not, as his wife is tigress! Go on Hey, start the car Drive away or I'Il give you a ticket Which station do you belong? l'm man of Ho l'm Chan Tai Man Go away if you have duty, Sergeant This is not your business ',,,,,,,!,,,::,,, ',,,,i,,:,, '',,,,: ,,,,,,,,:,,I,,, :,;; You're Chan Tai Man? Ho's guy? We are Master Kwan's men It's bad Arrest them all, and retain for 12 hours Yes. sir Shit, double cards Hoo, come down a while OK, l'm coming Go on playing without me Where are they? What are you doing? Sorry, this is for the good sake of you Pretend you see nothing if anything happens Master Ho will give you,.., ggj?ju Sj 'Sj?n?ii?Uj?ji mgj,qv;?cm,,Ir9?4 and l'll tell you a news l'll be promoted to the Chiep Inspector's position Take it Hey don't find It's all fixed You've got the wrong number, bitch! Master, no bullets here? Be quick, help him up Bother, inform Master Ho What is it? Master Ho, Loud Hung betrays us, no bullets in the gun Why? Stop! You want to rebel? Are you nut? Do you take me as your boss? Don't fight Master Ho, be quick Run away, Master Ho Master Ho, get in the car, Hak, go now Let's go Chi - Chi, Let's go - Go r"ggII,3 ?,po)r'3 ,7 ,,jC,f?;!I,',;YgS(3111'r Chi With medical term. he's a 'Plant' is spine is broken and bleeding in the brain it means he never thinks or feels then we must try to keep him alive he'Il lose weight, until he is 60 Ibs He may survive for 10 years Little Hak Little Hak Answer me, Little Hak You mustn't scare me! I'm Big Hak Little Hak Little Hak, Mom is waiting for us in homeland Mom wants to see our family as she's never met them I'Il take you back to see her I'Il take you back to mom I'Il take you back Big Hak, take it easy Stop this Little Hak won't survive anymore We are Hak brother8 l must live with you No way Little Hak Master Hung, why do you suddenly have a leave? How can we find you during your leave? You won't find me Nobody will Master Hung, the car won't start lt's too unlucky with all these Come over, we'll give you a lift Thanks Thanks a lot - Stop! - What you want Don't fool with me Master Ho I'm wrong, l' didn't mean to Kan, what have I done wrong to you? What have l done to make you betray me? Master Ho, give me a chance Answer me We've been fighting together all these years we made an oath we said we would share both luck and unluck but you have billions of dollars but what l get is debts with loan sharks! You get in luck while l'm unlucky ls this the sharing? I've always asked you not to gamble and keep money aside, did you listen to me? but now you complain I didn't share my money with you7 When we were nobody important you said you'd help me to be Chief Inspector, did you do it? rfl\code(01f9), Ir'#,fl\code(01f9)I9, ?"egIi,I I C,??,,I?3i lo3 ?4il,')C;7 Ir)?2ii' and Master Kwan helped me settle the debts even outsiders helped me, Master Ho, did you take me as buddy? l can swear before God l've always supported you to be Chief Inspector until Lui told me you can never be as the Seniors must desert you You bastard still day-dream and got controlled by others? You're as lousy as Ming, both are gamblers! You don't know who yu are while gambling You will do whatever as long as you're paid! Damn you! Master Ho. no, don't! Master Ho lt will dirt my hands if I kill you Go and kill yourself now No. Master Ho, no don't! Master Ho, l don't want to die You fucking bastard! Master Ho. don't! Master Ho I'Il give you an alternative Hand Kwan and Tin over to me if you can, l'll send you to Taiwan but you must never come back to HK as I don't ever want to meet you again! Master Hung Master Hung Hey, Loud Hung Who is this? I'm Chuen I've just been transferred from Mongkok, this is Master Shea Master Shea Sit down Boss is sleeping, wake up soon It's OK, l came too early Will you play? No, l've given it up Sit Dear Inspector, Master Ho is coming soon, please wait What does he want us for? Diamond! Hung, boss wants you! Master Shea Master Tin Master Ho Sit down Years ago, l spent much to support you all and you all feel grateful I believe you're all righteous guys and will keep your words l want you all to pay me back today l urge that today, you will unite and get rid of all areas of the other three units within 3 days 'Ii,,' Keung, Master Kwan is leaving Master Kwan, got it? Master Kwan You're flirting Master Kwan, when will you see me? Day after tomorrow No, it's too long Master Kwan, l have something to tell you Master Kwan Here is 3 million dollars take it and divide it but remember we police duty is to assure heroin be sold safely and all drug families have paid us regularly Master Ho, we have good relations with all of you, it's too hard for us Master Ho l dare not take this money l am always loyaI since Master Ho helps me all this I don't care about Kwan or Sze However, the only serious problem we must consider is the four letters lCAC Hok, your calI l'll go at once Excuse me. In my area, there's been a lift explosion Four dead and an injured, and that is Fat Kwan Master Kwan got blown up! For the money, since it won't convince you Will this bag do? lt's dilemna for us What shall we do? Master Ho, sorry, l must get to work but l must make myself clear As l've said, l won't take this money Master Ho, since you have helped me much Just when you need help utmostly l'll do whatever you want me to If l take your money l will be a bea8t! Master Ho, l'll be blushed! OK, you may leave now OK, l'll come whenever you want me Dear fellows, we must back Master Ho up l don't agree We take money and do the )ob Anyone who takes the money,.. is really loyal to Master Ho and who refuses is bullshit l'm taking now Who will divide the money with me? l back up Since you suspect of me, I'Il take action r"ggII,3 n'k q,' ,C,?',nC h!3,nfifii9G?fk I?,I"ggIg?3ji ILi,,3 No, don't,,.Master Ho Can we give Ming a chance? That bastard is too lousy but l believe he didn't betray me Call up Ma'am Ng and take Ming to see me That is a lousy bastard Just give me a salary from anywhere you like Apologize to Master Ho when you see him You must give up heroin and start a new life, OK? May I take a look at your newspaper? Sure Ming, are you feeling unwell? You want drug again? Do you? Master Ho Mr Ng is over there This way. Ming What is it? Passengers of Flight 106 to London Please proceed to gate 9 for boarding Passengers of Flight 106 to London Please proceed to gate 9 for boarding Don't worry! Hand me over HK side Sure Goodbye.., General has iust said yes you can mail the two tons at once I'Il remit the money Master Ho j,9 !,, ,;. ,,1,I,;;,,;!; -',,,,,,;;,;iI,;,,, :,,:'' ;;,,, L'.,;;:,,,,,.,i;,/,,,,,,,,, a present for your GeneraI And this, a present for you Thanks Master Ho Didn't your whole family move away? You thought l knew nothing? You've been with me long What have l done wrong to you? Some of you died or betrayed me or ran away! You wouldn't make that money without me! Master Ho You should stop all this now No it's time we started We will die in police hand one day Master Ho, no one in this field has ended well As they were not me they were not Ho so they didn't end well You bastard, you're the most timid guy of all You're never righteous You left without leaving a word! Why do you come back? Why? I can't leave you at this moment As nobody is around you l've talked to my wife I'Il meet them later l must thank you l must thank you Come here Come here Master Ho Look What special is today? What is the date? l can't hear, louder l still can't hear. Iouder Remember this date, you bastard I have nobody around? all 30 area heads of HK will come for a meeting! Nobody around? You won't leave here now? You won't leave even if l point a gun at you? Nobody around? Believe if l shoot at you? Shoot at you! Master Ho, no! l must shoot you bastard to dead Damn you.,,Dare you run away? Run away and don't come back.., l must shoot you Damn you! Master Ho, you must be careful on all sides Go away, and don't ever come back Dare you run away? I must shoot you to dead Bastard, betray me? Bastard, damn you! Betray me? Congratulations l've received news you got a promotion to be the Chief Inspector Big Hak Go and get the case of money so as to celebrate Lung I must thank God for all these even the position of Chief Inspector has got an ideal person for it Lung, you must remember others You helped me when l was in trouble Don't worry It's easy as we're both here lf we become partners l assure you within 1 year you will have enough money to go to USA, let's drink Can you show that to me? Lung, you know about that? lt's a precious gold-plated This is for you As we are buddie8 Ho, l come for duty This is a warrant We must search your house This is a warrant to arrest We suspect you of involving in several murders and being the head of a drug trafficking gang Big Hak, he's wants more Get two cases more down here Want to fool? Dare you fool on Fool! You're too smart Your man, Ng Ming, went to 15th floor Shit! He's mentally ill Why did he go there for? To get protection from Police l've said I'd let him off I've said l wouldn't touch him You bastard! Where is he now? l'll talk to him lt'll be alright once l've talked to him - l'll be all right - Ho, it's too late he's already given his testimony and revealed everything about you guys and is now under the strictest protection ever My fellows Yes Sir What is it? They're all Marine Police? Lung, you are head of Marine Police too? Ordinary policemen has most of them related to you ln order to be in top secret so they assign all Marine police you fear l will drown myself? You're very talented, Lung You'll sooner make big money Damn you! Master Lung won't have meeting today No meeting? Why? Don't touch me Don't touch me You were nothing,.. when l controlled Kwun Tong Get going! l'll get in myself You said you'd leave? Big Hak, am I dreaming? Start the car!
