 

                        by Psyklax Hey! Now you know that this world really has heaven! You could say that again! Listen, repeat after me Suffo Suffo! Cate Cate! Right, so get out! I'm suffocating! We don't have to go up together! Bunch of idiots! When will you ever get smart? This way, please, on the left But don't go behind there! That's the washroom! Hi there - Would you like a drink? - No, thanks Hi, Boss Wang! Long time no see How've you been? Take a seat Sit! Sit! Right now, I'm telling you, I'm not drunk Hey, how'd you hurt your head? I think that kids are really nasty these days, huh? Him, you see him? - Who? - That guy who's smiling Got that? Here's a gun Take it! Quick! First, let me see the goods - Number 3! - Yes? Let Boss Wang see the goods I think I trust Boss Wang's reputation I wasn't likely to sell But now it looks really straightforward I've had many people buy from me before I've not sold to them all, though There's no picture Number 3, why didn't you turn it on so Boss Wang could see? Didn't you know that Boss Wang can't use this thing? Come on, kid! You're embarrassing Boss Wang! Here, let me help What do you think? Looks good, yeah? I'll go with you! You know how to use the gun? Are you kidding? Me and my dad used to go hunting all the time That's good Look over there See that guy? I'll take him out and go inside Remember that, okay? Then, when I nod my head, you open fire, okay? Hey, get the money I don't have it Well, get it from whoever, right now! You're as stupid as a pig! Do you turn this to the left? Uh, no You sure you know how to use this? Are you kidding? You think I can't? Put the bullet in the top Aim it, then pull the trigger Why put the bullet in first? Once you've put it in, it'll shoot out! Take the safety off first, though, okay? The safety...? You really have no clue, do you? Are you kidding? I hunted every day as a kid Fine Don't let anyone see you Keep an eye on what's going on inside Kid, you ain't comin' in, get outta here! Nobody move! Hey, what're the cops doing here? I dunno! I don't get it! Maybe he's your friend! You playing a prank on me? Bullet in top, safety off... I'm an honest businessman, see If I was dishonest I'd already be dead! Oh crap, I'd better get up there! Quick! Kill him! Is that cop really your friend? Idiot, what do you think?! Look where you shoot first! You're all over the place! You bunch of idiots! Quickly, quickly! This way! Bullet in top, safety off... Why won't it work? Weird... - Sin! - Ah, it's you What're you doing? Sitting down I know! Where'd they go? They went that way I've fired it twice... (OR: I've used two guns...) But I still can't work it properly! "Don't be sad..." Quickly, quickly! Is that a bird? So small... It's the Malaysian Import bird! I've never seen that before. Except with small kids It's just arrived in Thailand! From far away, eh? It's lost its plumage It must've hit something If I hit it it'll fly away No, don't! Boss, this way Boss, go quick To have served... for you... I die... with no... regret... "Go quick" He was truly a good man I should give you a medal for your wisdom and bravery This is the basement You pressed the button, moron! If I die, will you give me a medal too? I'll give you a fart instead! You wanna sacrifice yourself for me, right? Didn't you hear the shooting?! Come on! You stay here The rest, come with me Kill him! Jesus, you idiots! How the hell did you miss?! He got away! Idiots! Who are you shooting at?!! Don't just fire at random!! You've got a gun too? I thought you didn't, but I think you might do Please, have my bike. Take it That way! Quick, follow him! I drive in a straight line, you turn and hit my lamp! You knew I wanted to turn, why didn't you slow down? You what? Hey, do you know what the biggest fish in the world is? Catfish? No, whale What's the grey thing up above? That's a motorcycle Damn it, why's it taking so long? Hey, what's that noise? Ah, they're making a movie, it was like this last week Didn't you know? They've closed the road off, too See? They're filming them shooting that motorcycle Don't worry The ambulance will be here soon Go through them! I'm not dead... My day is not done... You can't kill me! I cannot die! This game's getting on my nerves Buddha blesses me! Come with me, I've got a great car to show you This way, sir This car's only 300,000 baht And may I say that sir looks like a man of quality From your clothing, I can see you like quality This car suits you best We have a four-year payment plan Plus big-name insurance It also has a loud horn A very loud one, see? Scared you, didn't it? What do you think, are you interested? Would you like a test drive? If sir would like a test drive, I'll just go and get the key I'll be back in a moment Okay, let me stop the car Yeah... no problem... Listen to me, baby... I don't want you dead You're always on my mind Don't worry, I've just been really busy I had a bad dream last night I dreamt I'd lost you Never mind, don't worry It was just a dream Sir, I've got the key, shall we go for a test drive? I see you're really keen on getting going, huh? Don't worry, sir I always said this car suited you beeesst!! Must you cross the street like that?! Do you want to die? I've driven for 20 years and never hit anyone I've crossed this street for 60 years, and I've never been hit by anyone I like to go slowly How about you? Jesus, how come you've got a gun?! You never give up! Are you a killer? You can't hit me, Buddha blesses me! Hey, the car's on its side! Do something! Hey! I'm dying here! Jesus, you're following me too much, just like a dog! Where's the gas? Hey, could you get the gas on? Be brave, we'll share either life or death I'm with the Thai Police Anti-Terror Department What do we do about the car? Get it repaired Oh Get up, get up Don't turn round, or I'll gouge your eyes out You're tough to catch Get up, let's go Why'd you arrest me? I've done nothing You think I'm a big boss, do I look like a bad guy? Would a bad guy look this nice? My family are very important, you know My father is a big jewel dealer My mother works in the national bank My brother is in the Department of Commercial Affairs You're in big trouble! You'll die for this! I've told you before Anything you do must be within reason What was your reason for this? Were you thinking clearly? Yeah, yeah I'm at work. I'll be back at about 6 Okay, see you later The reputation of the police is completely gone because of this You did so many stupid things Do you have any idea how much the compensation will be? Your family's pretty rich, huh? Well, my family isn't! You... Hi, darling. I miss you No, I'll eat on the way home after work Okay, no problem, back at 6, definitely Oh, you want food too? Yeah? I'll get some more Great, no problem. See you at 6 I don't know if your head is screwed on If that guy's brother files a complaint against us you and me are finished! We'll be out of a job, you understand? Do you understand me? I'll NOT be back at 6! I haven't eaten yet! Get out, just get out! I said get out now! My family background is marvelous My whole family works for the government I must tell all of you Especially you! You'll be put in prison! People like you deserve to die! I must warn every one of you Except myself, I really must warn every single one of you Every one of you will be put in prison! You've got to warn us, right? Huh?! My husband makes me angry He suffocated me Comes and goes when he likes He already went away ages ago He's still not come home I don't know what he might be doing while he's away I thought he was off doing his job But he's been gone a month, and still hasn't come back At one time he was a salesman I don't know what happened with that job, either How much money does he make these days? Keep the change Keep what change? You gave me exactly 200... Weirdo... This hairstyle is so now, it's very pretty Guess who? It's an asshole! Can't you see I'm working? And where have you been? All these clothes haven't been washed Get down to the laundry to wash them You need to get a job Where do I wash? Why are you asking me? Do it yourself! Come back, take that bag Get on with it You want me to do it for you? Just look at you, idiot What did I ever see in him? I must've been feeling funny You saw my husband, right? Such an idiot isn't he? It's terrible to have a husband like this It's better to not get married these days I work these days, regardless of what you do You've got to learn how to be patient Don't be so impulsive Sometimes you've got to compromise Understand? Only then can you keep a steady job I mean, these days you don't know what money is coming in I need money for a house, a car... Hey, before you go to sleep, let me remind you You should remember when important people speak to you How long does it take you to remember anything? Wongkam I want to go to Bangkok to worship Buddha Buddha seems pretty effective over there We should go together to worship Buddha He can bless you in your job, get you promoted all the way Understand? Hey, Khamlao... We haven't done anything in a few weeks How about it? I would, but I'm very tired What? That's what you always say I never know if you're making it up Come here Mmm, you're a big girl... You must know how to take care of your husband You must care about him You know? Let me have that I'll give you some bee feces (honey) to smear on your lips Give it two or three days to take effect Boi Get the bee feces Your husband will be back before the week's out Master, we're out of bee feces Oh Never mind Just use horse feces instead Get some horse feces It's imported, yeah? Good shit Better than from our own common horses You take it away and smear it on your lips You have a lovely smile Here, master Good, thank you Don't lower your head, lift it up Yeah... nice... Your husband'll be back, no doubt about it Is this guy for real? Of course! Can't you see? All these people have come to see the master - Ah, Chun! - Master! What can I do for you? My grandson would like master to look at his leg Okay, sit over here What's wrong with his leg? It doesn't work It doesn't work? In what way? He's not fully grown You're a funny guy I'll bet you watch a lot of funny TV shows Watch them every evening, right? Come here, kid How do you do Master, can you make me better? Both legs look the same After I've done this you'll definitely be able to stand up Now listen carefully, kid Yeah? - Repeat after me - Okay - Amitabha Buddha - Amitabha Buddha - Buddha Amitabha - Buddha Amitabha - Amidala Bubba - Amid... Hey, kid, what are you talking about? You follow me, yes? Good, kid, now try walking Walk, walk Great, now come back, come back Great, kid, take a seat Chun, come over here Take your grandson to a hospital and get a bone doctor to examine him Okay, see you later Lao Here Who have you come with today? My man Ah, I see... Well, come over here Get over there How dare you act like this in front of me Don't hit me You can have him Come, sit over here. He's your man, right? Yes, master Have you been hit by anyone else? You certainly have a very sad face It comes from his childhood, master Come here, let me get a good look at you Let me see... The Five Elements in your face look alright Lao can look for other men She looks okay, too Your eyebrows are okay A man with these eyebrows can make a great fortune Both left and right are fine Hey, don't look at me like that Give me a wink, go on Sniff it... go on... You'll have to sniff a lot to make the big money Your mouth's a bit small I'm sure we can save the rest of your face Okay, now I'm going to speak a blessing, listen good Ta da! You look a little tense Just relax, have a laugh Great, just one more blessing Come back tomorrow at three! I have an important mission for you! You all must be aware of the purpose of today's meeting That is, to ensure the prosperity of our nation Understood? We have read about these two dangerous individuals The most important one is this man His name is Suchin The one on the right is called Surachai He is our second priority We know that these two are now in the country They run a music company as a cover for their operations This company... ...besides producing music... ...also secretly smuggle arms These two are threatening the prosperity of our nation, understood? It is up to one department The KGB and CIA have found evidence enough to arrest them We need to catch them and bring them to justice Which department is willing to take this task on? Sir, I think I've got someone Are you deaf? The phone's been ringing for ages, pick it up You're just like a pig It's always for you, anyway That's Lao, my wife I know She's embarrassing, I'll just answer the phone Hello? Right Okay, no problem You're in charge of this case This is a real chance to prove yourself There's two suspects involved They pose a serious threat to the nation Can I use any methods to get the right results? That's your business Why not give this job to anyone else? That's my business Well, how do I explain to my wife that I'm going undercover? That's your business Your phone's ringing I know Darling, I haven't forgotten Get going, I'm sure you'll do the job fine Get going That's my business You're going to be a French teacher?! Heavens! You can't speak your own language very well Going, going... going where? Coming and going... You'll be off again as soon as you're back I thought you were the type to wait for death in old age Just think about me My heart feels ba-a-a-d Actually I hate to go, but it must be do-o-o-ne Go! Being a smartass again I'll put you straight Here we go again Again, we've underachieved Mr Lah To make music, you really have to use your head Take a look at 4SO Such a small company, but they're very successful Their music sells like wildfire Looks at us, we're a big company But our records just don't sell Yes, boss You want to sell records But understand that this business is just like buying a lottery ticket Sometimes you get a hit, sometimes you don't I'm a businessman I don't play the lottery I don't want to have to say this Surachai, you agree with me, right? Tell him how angry we are I'm so worked up, I need a sit down Mr Lah You know my company is continuously losing money You've been in charge of seven or eight records They've not sold very well Seriously I really ought to reprimand you But I'm not that kind of guy I don't want to repeat his harsh language Is the coffee too hot? You took so long, are you telling me you don't know? Mr Lah I'll give you three months If you don't get results, I'll have to let you go Or, if you wish, you can let yourself go But right now... I'd like your ass off my sofa right away Hello? It's me I've had some bad luck My record sales haven't been good recently I didn't think so I'm sure things will improve Wait for me to get back to you I'm hanging up Buddy, it'd be better to shit in there Eh? My ass is sticky... Oh man, that stinks really bad Mr Lah, there are three to audition for you today - Three? - Yes Good I'll call them over Number one, please Name? Moi Full name? Little Sister Moi - Little Sister Moi? - Correct What'll you sing? To Be Loved It's a movie theme song I know, it's a dark movie You seen it? Three times You've got a lot of spare time None of your business Okay, sing We're carried away to a far off place Holding hands in the busy city streets Our love flies above a thousand mountains, ten thousand rivers Do you feel the same way too? Enough, enough Get out To be honest, your singing is awful I've not reached the best bit I think you've gone far enough Out, out Next Thank you How do you do Name? Long Sai What'll you sing? Tears Of A Woman That's by [singer I don't know] Yes Go ahead You once had pledged your love to me But as flowers bloom, they also fall You went far away and left me here Tears fall from my eyes That you still chose to leave Your eyes betrayed your heart's desires I feel such a fool, crying tears because of you Have you seen a doctor? Why? You need your upper lip looked at Get out Little Sister Moi left a minute ago, why not join him? How do you do My bag Yes, I see Name? Khamlao Can you sing? Very well, sir My friends call me "The God of Song" Can you dance? I'm at the top level My friends call me "The Immortal Dancer" Follow me Do you think you've got a winning artist here? - Yes - Mr Lah... Where did you find him? You just found him walking down the street? This guy can be a star too? Wait, wait... Mr Lah... Are you asking me to help him? How come his face looks like that? You're very fond of him, Mr Lah This is your last chance Go and do what you like, okay? I don't want to see you. You'll be gone in a few months anyway Every time I see you... ...I don't know how I get so angry Just get out of here Hey, Lah! Hello, Dai! You're always in those rivers I come out dry, though You and your boss need me This is Khamlao Khamlao How do you do Hah! Same to you! He's my new top man Is that so? Is he gonna be a comedian? No, a singer A singer? That's right. What do you think? Look at his appearance Makes me feel handsome Muscles ain't bad, though You must do shadow-boxing He's not a boxer, he's a singer Does that tickle? He looks okay The feng shui on his face needs work Alright If we can make this work, he'll be huge! Hah! Smile, give me a smiling face Alright, count on me What shall I do? Basically... ...help him with his dancing - You sure? - Yeah I have full confidence in you Starting right away? Right now, this minute This exact second?! - Hey, Khamsao - Khamlao - Come here - Okay - What's your name? - Khamlao Have you danced before? A little You know the basics? Like what, exactly? Dancing basics! Don't you understand? Uh, no What can you do? Whistle? Yeah Repeat after me You must try hard, Khamlao. Okay? Okay You'll be big, you just need confidence Fine I'll have soup noodles, you have what you like Two soup noodles, please Okay Thanks Is there a toilet nearby? A toilet Toilet... I need to go I don't think so You can go against that wall Go, it doesn't matter Okay 'Pissing Place' Is that Mr Lah? Hi, Mr Lah How've you been? Not too good Well, it's bad luck for you to have me run into you here You bought some balls off me Three Three! And you've still not paid me Get me the money, quick, quick I don't have it Oh really? Where's my elephant? Your elephant...? Stop looking for trouble Get outta here Do you know how to spell 'death'? Well, do you know how?! - I said, where's my elephant? - God damn it, that's it! Enough of this elephant crap! Get your sweet longan fruit! What would you like? Do you have mangosteen? Sold out I've got longan fruit I'd like some cherries Stop messing me about, buy something or forget it Longan fruit, then How many? One kilo Yes I'll carry them Hey! No need to be so angry I'm not I thought you were getting angry Don't fight in my cafe! Stop fighting! Don't hit me! Don't hit me! Don't hit me! Where's my elephant?! It's in the car! You can have the damn thing! He really can fight... Not my lucky day For the motherland, eat longan fruit! You're mental What happened? That was just to teach you kids a lesson Next time it'll be serious Khamlao, let's go Hey, you remember me? It's me! I called you for ages!! Mr Lah! I see that other guy's wife, she's nicer than my wife I go home as soon as I see her Why are everyone else's wives so much prettier? This is simply human nature My wife is such an old witch So I'm so fond of other guy's wives My own wife gets worse and worse She gets even fatter, she loses her shape It's the feeling inside anyone You don't realise what a treasure you have It's a sin, It's despicable My better half Some days I get drunk And think she looks prettier But when I get sober, the effect of alcohol is clear It numbed my own eyesight More and more I think other guy's wives are prettier I used to regret it Arguing with the wife was the norm in my house Yet more and more, I think other guy's wives are prettier More and more I regret my decision I don't know what I was thinking This is unbelievable We welcome Mummy Lao to the show His new song's all the rage It's his debut song, and on the cover... ...is a picture of the very handsome Mummy Lao Go and buy it now It's been selling well in all VCD shops I recommend that everyone gives it a listen It's very interesting music Some people who've bought it can attach it to elephant's tails And when they walk, their tails flick around Then other people will notice it - Hello! - Hello. So, Mummy Lao... First off, congratulations on a top-selling album How do you feel? I feel great And when I see such a beautiful woman as you, I feel even better My heart's really pounding What do you think of the album? I think it's not bad Can I have your phone number? Let's talk about the album It's your first one It's really great music How do you do it? My coach gets it out of me. You know, you and me... ...could make sweet music together, too Oh! Thank you! Your album has sold one million copies already How do you feel about this great achievement? At first I didn't believe it'd do so well But it's starting to sink in. Now I can believe it My music is good music He talks a lot And says nothing I thank Mr Lah's training Mr Lah's here too I'll let him speak I'll always remember... ...the first time I saw him I thought "he's talented, I can't miss him" He's no average person I then slowly discovered... Beyond the sky, there is more sky Beyond the mountains, there are more mountains He can sing and dance I don't think I've heard what he's really capable of yet But I believe my own eyes He has a gift for song and dance Thanks everyone Thanks Bye Ah, Miss Lan Congratulations Haven't you wondered how you've been so successful? I haven't thought about it If I knew how, I would have made it better Ah. Well, I've got to go See you later Miss Lan What is it? Could we have lunch sometime? Is this appropriate? Of course When's good for you? Any time's good, so long as it's not your time of the month In that case, not now I'll ask again next month You don't know whether to stay or go She's just that kind of person I heard she's someone else's wife Everybody says that - Really? - Really! That big woman's always causing trouble Hey, it's that really popular singer - Who? - On the TV, see? I see that other guy's wife, she's nicer than my wife I go home as soon as I see her - Why are everyone else's wives... - That bastard! Don't be naughty, children - They yours? - Yes Their father's a drunkard Every day he gets drunk and doesn't look after them Kids, go play over there Go over there Come on! Hurry up Get moving! Grr! I haven't eaten children in a while! I haven't eaten feet in a while Let go! Let go! Take that! Bam! In yer face! Left! Right again! No pain! Idiots! Put them away! I'm dead... Hold it! Can't you remember what he looked like? You know, I've just remembered who he was Lightning? No, a footballer Boss, I've got him Where? Mummy Lao?! It doesn't matter who He dared to pull the wool over my eyes Doing this was a big surprise I hope you know what I mean If you let him slip... ...don't come back and see me Understand? We're unlikely to come back and see you Good Now you know Go quickly Get out of my sight Boss, is it really Mummy Lao? I'll tell you once more It's him Where did you find him? He came to my office, he found me I took him to you at once You know the rest Surachai, I'll take care of everything I don't want to talk to you, waste of time Ah! You came! I'm sorry, I'm late Never mind, I don't mind waiting for you Did you bring your ass? If so, plant it down here Thanks Would you like a drink? Or perhaps something stronger? Hah, I don't use that, I'm a good boy It's not really my thing You're looking very pretty Men always like to start like that At first I feel embarrassed But I'm pretty hot right now so I just accept it Yeah, I agree You really know how to have fun Sometimes I get high to have fun! You're kidding, right? You're a really funny girl I was joking! Do you come here often? Sometimes - The atmosphere's great - You're right You want to go and sing? Woo, what a blast We should come together next time So what were you doing in the basement? Hey, don't look at me like that CIA CIA We've been investigating Surachai for ages Sorry about grabbing you back there You went green! It doesn't matter Here we are Whose room is this? Yours You have your key? In here? Let me do it Why is the key like that? The key's normally smaller than that Well, it's the right size to open the door Ah! You're right Your place looks very nice A beautiful woman needs a beautiful place Oh, is that so? Baby... She's got light skin... ...a thin waist... ...leaves little to the imagination No way, I'm a good family man I need to find my husband, why can't I go in? My husband's inside! Let me go! You're not allowed in! See? That's my husband, Khamlao No, that's Mummy Lao They're the same person! Hey! Hey! Hello! Help me! Help me! Hey! You asshole! I put a curse on you! Yes, I see We've got a fan causing trouble Okay Why won't you let me go in?! Hey! How do you do! Hi, you guys! How do you do! You can get me upstairs, right? I don't have a ticket, see you later Hi everybody! How are you doing? How about you just perform? You can have love in marriage My heart is forever young My young heart is reborn with love For this, you need great courage Yesterday, you married my sister The wedding car came through my house door The wedding music came through my heart door My heart sheds tears, sheds tears You just came Already I want to win your heart How can I do it? A man can't be greedy like that - You can have love in marriage... - Snipers in 12 positions My heart is forever young My young heart is reborn with love For this, you need great courage Damn fly! My heart should not be held back We must live for ourselves, follow our heart's desires Hi everyone How do you do - Been on stage yet? - Not yet We should've been by now Well, I've got stuff to do, I'm going Well, go! Go on! I don't get why everyone likes you anyway How'd it go? It all went well, Boss Make sure nothing goes wrong Yes, Boss Be careful with that Check! Nah, I'm telling you... I told you to go here But you didn't, so you lost Not good enough Both of you suck at this Very smart, my husband's just as stupid as you Stop taking so long, get on with it! Oh no! What's she doing here? Don't move! Khamlao! Here at last They dragged me here Have you done something illegal? You killed someone? Are you angry at me? If you don't want to die, be quiet I see Come with me Where? Just come with me Hey, he avoided our bullets Well done, Mummy Lao Sorry about last time, I didn't have time to play Kill him Don't move! Put down your weapons! Now! Miss Lan! So you and Khamlao are working together? I'm on nobody's side I belong to me So why's she coming for us? I don't know Miss Lan Could you put the gun down? No way Miss Lan, you've got the advantage I'm down here, you have the high ground Could you put the gun down? Huh? No way I'll give you three seconds Hey, who's this? Looks Japanese Looks pretty stupid Japanese people must be more stupid than pigs He deserves to burn to death Turn it on! Of course, dear Hah, whose husband is this? So talented and handsome Go Wait I want a flower as a gift Wait for Spring Go inside Stay with me! You want to die? Go! Go, quickly! - Was I good? - Very You're the best, now go! - Honey - Yeah? Get going No, if you die, we die together Fine Go to my right Stand further away Bit further - Okay? - Yeah Dear friend, please come with me I'll take you to find your love Come, come, come with me Hey, shoot! You know how to fire a gun, right? Do you want to die? Shoot, now! Nice one, now you know how tough we are Let's go Damn, I forgot to eat breakfast this morning Come on! Hold it! I've got a gun in my belt I haven't got one I said MY belt! Everybody back off! Or I'll kill him! He's right! Back off! Otherwise I'll die! Get back! Are you putting on an act? An act?! Hey, Surachai! What's your problem? You really shot me! What's my problem? I'm out of ideas Don't come closer! Get back! Get off the boat! Get back! Agh, my little man! Oh God! Agh! The pain's killing me! Now we're just like a couple of water dogs Surachai Can we escape now? - Surachai? - Yeah? We've finished our act Now call the train to pick us up Are you saying your dad is a train? Crazy guy Help... Mixed-up fella Miss Lan These two are my prisoners Come again, Mummy Lao? You've got a nerve No he hasn't I've been on this case for over a year You want to meddle in this case? Hello? Yeah, okay Darling, I didn't eat lunch today Okay, I'll have chicken, fine I'll eat the skin too, no problem Fine, okay darling Great, don't worry, I'll be back later, okay? Oh, can I have hot soup too, darling? Bring him here Everybody come with me Talk to your wife Where are you? Are you dead? Where are you? You must have died He was going to die a moment ago I always wondered how someone like him could die If you died... ...the Gods would not approve You saw that he isn't I grabbed a submachine gun when those guys were after you I've helped you so much "I see that other guy's wife, she's nicer than my wife" "Why are everyone else's wives so much prettier?" I don't like those lyrics! You're so dishonest! Hey, look me in the eye! Ladies and gentlemen Good evening Thank you very much for coming tonight Tonight I shall specially commend... ...an especially brave police officer Nobody else can compare to him We should all learn something from him We conduct this special assembly... ...to commend this especially brave police officer He fully deserves this honour I also would like to congratulate him Now I shall announce that receiving the award... ...is the special anti-terror officer... Officer Khamlao That's my husband! My husband! Here, this is your new assignment Inside is a man who... ...has made a significant contribution to the country Have a good read of it Learn all you can about him You can see him later Good luck Petchtai Wongkamlao Ready? And, action I'm not signing. Go You're useless, I'm not signing Hey, you've cheated me again! You've cheated me again, right? You've done this to me twice, you bastard I didn't argue last time This time, you called me I got 2 lines and died again You've made a mistake now You rely on me Why'd you do this to me? I lend my talent to assist you And you make a fool of me, asshole Two lines then die! You've made a mistake You've gone too far now Come on, we're going We're leaving! Don't just sit there! God damn it Take the mat with you That's my mother's treasure She'd hate for me to lose it What're you looking at? I'm the lead in almost everything I'm in Have you seen my last film? Have you? Huh? They specially asked me to play the lead Not a supporting role, you see Hey! Have you seen it? A big director wanted me for the lead too I made the entire show It was full of stars I'm telling you Since then Sahamongkol Films wanted me to do stuff I'm not being in any of your films I'm going to work with a real director I came at 5am with my whole family, asshole Your other actors came at 3pm Get that camera away from me! I'm serious, you prick I'm no ordinary person Don't you know I'm a big movie star? I was famous when you were a kid The whole country loves my films, you know Remember this, I'm not doing any more of your films If I'm in a movie of yours, I'm a son of a bitch Don't, son! Leave it! My son's a boxer, trained by a champion Don't bother, son, let's go You wouldn't know if you're hitting him or a dog You're not dead because I'm letting you off You'll die sooner or later I'm telling you, you're going to get killed Think about it You saying nothing? You chicken Nothing to say. Asshole Get in the car, we're going You dare to treat me like this Guys like you deserve to die You hear me?! Look at me! Every time you ask me to do your films I get no lines and you kill me You're not a real man I hope you crash your car and die You get your boss to come out and talk to me Get them to speak to me We're going now Don't try and call me up later I won't listen I'm not being in any of your films Everyone wants me in their films You bastard! Asshole! Little square-faced prick! We're going son, ignore them Never ask me to make a film again That's enough, son You complete asshole Bastard! Cut At last
