 

                        The story is loosely based upon a real event. The plot of the film, characters, time, and place identical to it. DIAMANT FILM PRAHA CESKA TELEVIZE (Czech TV) Story and screenplay Producer Director and camera BOLERO The person you are calling is not available, please call later. Good morning. - Good morning. - Are you Marika's father? - Yes. - I am Lucie Medek. Hello. - Cihan. - But Marika has left. - To see Patrik? Yeah, last night. We had a farewell disco and she didn't even stay till the end - so that she could catch the train. You know, the buses from here to the station go only three times an hour during the night. - Did anybody go with her or was she on her own? - Well... she went alone to her room, but after that - I don't know. Excuse me, I have to go, otherwise I'll miss the train, so... - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - See you then! Hrazdira speaking! - Hi, it's Paul. - Hi! - I am just passing. - How can I help? - Marika vanished. Can I drop by? Lunatic! Hang on, this is a job of the local police, where she lives. Have you been there? - I don't even know where it is. That's why I am here. - Paul, majority of the missing persons disappear simply because they want to. I don't know, she could have met somebody, visited somebody... - Hi, Martin! - Hi, hi! - I've found it. It's on your desk, ok? - Ok, thanks. Shall we go for a swim today? - Sorry. Definitely. At eight. - Ok. I shall call for you. - You don't have to, I'll come over. - Bye. - Ok. - I... I know Marika. She wouldn't tell her boyfriend she was coming over and then leave him waiting at the station. At one in the morning. No, no, no! Even if she had something else on, she would have rung him. She is not answering her mobile. Not even my calls. - We'll wait till the morning shall we? - I don't think so... - Would you like some coffee? No, thank you. She didn't have any reason to tell her girlfriend that she is going to see her boyfriend of one year and then not go. No! No way! Something must have happened! Please... Hey, don't you remember few years ago at the excursion to... Well, what was her name? Hanka! She disappeared and two days later... - But... But Marika is no Hanka! - Paul, please! - No, something must have happened to her! But you know I only deal with murders. Ok, come on then, somebody will have a look at it, let's go. Sorry, the traffic was terrible. Have you got her photo with you? Pretty. Really very pretty. Wow, what a beautiful day! Shall we go for a swim? Come on! On our way back. Lubos, last night after ten the duty officers had a report. Some old biddy rang that she heard a woman's scream. Something like "let me go! Leave me alone!" Yeah, but they ignored it and nobody went over to investigate, because they were too busy and thought that some girl was only playing hard to get to be a bit more interesting. - Where did it happen? - Exactly! At the bus stop by the students halls of residence. So we'll go and have a look, shall we? Ok, so what did you really hear that night, Mrs Ljubka? - Right, wait a minute, wait a minute, where is it. I must put my other pair of eyes on! Oh, here! Here we go! Let me go, what are you doing?! Leave me alone! She was also calling for help. Help! Heeeeelp! You see, I can't sleep so I make preserves and all of a sudden I hear this scream. - And this happened when the disco finished? - No. Before. I made a note of the time. Right, the time... Ah, here it is please. Have a look, 22:15. Here you are! You are a real detective, Also, I saw the car. It was leaving the bus stop and the lights were very dimmed. Like only those... those... ... side lights. That's strange, isn't it? What do you think? That's really strange! Could you see any people? - At the bus stop? - Yeah, or nearby. - No, no, only before. - When before? Who? Who! A girl and a boy. They were arguing. He wanted to take her bag. Could you describe them? - Right, I haven't noticed the colour of the eyes. You know, at night and all that distance... But slim, firm breasts, hair all the way down here... She had a big bag over her shoulder and he was tall, slim and I think they had serious row. I think he was really angry. But the car and that scream, that happened after. Did he go back to the student halls? Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Which direction did the car come from? - Registration! Colour! Type. Of the car! - Jesus Christ! I reported it to the police the same night and you only turn up now! And then you want to find something or sort something out! I don't know! Some big light coloured car. Big saloon type. Massive, foreign and seriously expensive. Osvald! Osvald! You know what, sod your Artur! All the food and booze is gone and serious mess! Oh this is gross! Somebody puked in the bathroom! - You are seriously reminding me of my wife - that's not why you're here. So no comment please! You can be vile! Disco, she said. That can be at least hundred interviews! Or maybe at least few hundred! Or maybe few thousand! Right now, when I was trying to take a holiday! - You know what Renda? Take a car and time the distance from the bus stop to the halls of residence. I shall do the same walking, ok? - From the bus stop to the halls? - From the bus stop to the halls. You bastard! What's the matter? - There is something here. But it is not mine. I shall return it then... So I think, that it could be over here on this side. Wait! Here, look - But... - Yeah? - Hang on! But they are all odd. - Well, they are all odd, aren't they? - Well, odd. - Yeah. And we are going to...? - We are going to...? - Oh! To number twenty four! - Number twenty four! - Well, that's over there! Come in. My husband isn't in. He took some time off driving around to find her. Please sit down. Thank you. He went to see a medium. Marika is somewhere near Prague. Somewhere about 20 kilometres away, but she cannot get out. It is good you put in on TV. At least you find her quicker, won't you? You usually find the missing persons, don't you? She is in an ensemble. She dances samba, flamenco, bolero. We went to see her. Here she is five years old. That was at my sister's wedding. - Pretty. - Even then she could dance beautifully. Mrs Cihan, how did she get on with her boyfriend? - With Patrik? They love each other very much. He is a medical student too, but in Brno. They don't see much of each other. Well, he is in Brno, and she in Prague. But they write a lot. Mrs Ljubka. - And we shall need some contact for that dance ensemble too. Where is Artur? - Him and Zhaneta took the last minute trip to Ibiza. By the way, he was asking about the car. Well of course he was! Did you have a good time? Yeah, and you? I am always having a good time. Osvald, you should buy him a car for his graduation. This situation is simply impossible! THE POLICE ARE SEARCHING IN VAIN FOR A LOST STUDEN It's terrible, isn't it? - Oh Beata, you shouldn't read this stuff now. Baby boy? Baby girl? ...is 187cm high, medium frame. He has brown eyes and brown/black hair. Police are still searching for this girl. Her name is Marika Cihan, she is twenty years old and studying first year at the medical faculty of university in Prague. Witnesses last saw her on Thursday at a disco party and later, after 10 pm, at the bus stop by the Prague student halls of residence called Doliny. - Edo? Did you have the apricot dumplings? - There she was seen having an argument with un-known men and possibly left in big saloon car... - Mr Fetka from the garage rang. Apparently you left the job. I couldn't stand it there anymore. - But why? Are you listening to me? What are you going to do now? Good job your granny isn't alive to see this! - Mum... - ... and brown shoulder length hair. Any information about missing Marika Cihan - Poor girl. - or light coloured saloon car can be given at any police station. - Who knows where these missing people end up... - Mum for goodness sake, please leave me alone! ...witnesses last saw her on Thursday by the university student's halls called V Dolinach. There she was seen having an argument with unknown men and leaving in a light coloured saloon car. The car's lights were dimmed, only side lights were on. - Hang on, that's about that girl - Police are investigating - from the first year. - if she left willingly - Maybe they found her! - or was forced. All information about the saloon car or missing Marika Cihan should be given at any police station or you can call 158. I don't want to listen to the radio. Good morning. Yes, that's ok, this way please. Yeah, the bike is his. Come in please. - Good morning! - Good morning. Good morning. Right, what did you come to tell us, Mr Docekal? - I heard everything on the news in the pub today. - Could you describe the evening please? Who was interested in her? - Exactly! There was this guy who was after Marika. He called her Darling. We nearly had a fight. When and where did it happen? - At the hall's gate. Marika went to her room to pick up her stuff. I was following her. And they blocked my way. There were more of them there. Would you recognize them? Him definitely. - In Prague we shall make an identikit picture with you. - But to the bus stop, it was you who went with her. - I didn't want her to go to that Brno boy. Why didn't you? - She is with him only out of the pity, so why prolong it. - So you went back to the halls to pick up a car and returned to the bus stop. - I don't have a car. - On your way to the halls - did you see by any chance a light coloured big saloon car? It had only side lights on. No. - And that guy- you didn't see him at the disco when you went back there? - I didn't go back there. I went straight to the bar. - And you didn't see him in the bar either. No. He definitely wasn't there. Good morning. - Good morning. Good morning. - I only want to inform you, that we were not here. We were attending a week's training course at the campsite at the Luznice river. The whole fourth year. Weren't we, Rosta? - Yeah. Ok, one by one please. How about you. Come on! llona Fetka. - We were attending the massage course. - Hm. You can check the attendance record. OK. - Well, we didn't learn any erotic massages, you can learn those from life experience if you have any talent! - And you don't know who was at the club that night? Do you think I am a clairvoyant? What room number are you? Here you are. But I shall not go back till after the holidays. That's fine. Please sign here. - Good bye! - Good bye! Good bye! Well and what was that about? A dream of a sole survivor on the desert island. It looks they found her. Only a few questions, please... - No, no, please. Thank you. We shall take you home. Paul... I've got a car here. I'd rather we took you back. I shall get in touch. I need to talk to Magda anyway. Paul... I pro... I promise... According to the biopsy the body has been lying in the water for six to eight days. The victim died undoubtedly as a result of foul play. Cause of death drowning. I do apologise. I was... Thank you. So: initial stage of decay has taken place and it is impossible to determine any signs of sexual abuse. The dead girl was wearing a blue jumper, bottom part of her body was exposed. Her father has identified her. He also recognised her jumper and jewellery. One earring was missing. - Have a look at the archive for murders of young women in the last three years. What have we got? - So the dancer Jakub Docekal had a fight with the Darling. - That is a nickname for the bloke who was bothering Marika. - We tried to create his portrait with Jakub Docekal. He is adamant that he would recognise him in real life. - Who did Marika share the room with at the halls? With Lucie Medek. She is currently abroad. - We interviewed some students. But apart from a few, we only managed to speak to those who were at the one week training course at the Luznice river camp at the time of the disco. - At least we could eliminate those who did not attend the disco. Well, so what now? Hm, we don't have much. Lovely tan - where have you been? We've been to Ibiza. It was amazing! Take it to the door for her, please. - Yes, of course. So, bye darling. - Ciao, caio. - Here you are. - Thanks, bye! Have a good time! So, young man, where to now? - Take me to Jevany, please. No, you are wrong, it was not her. Hi Dad, aren't you at work? - So how was it? I am not asking about the holiday! - I wanted to go back to tidy up, but you took the car. Did you take Izabela there? She went mad didn't she? - How many were there this time for Christ sake? - Is it so important? It never bothered you before. You keep telling me to have a good time while I can, before I marry some bird... - But this time you've gone a bit too far. You left a filthy carpet in the car, covered in sand, washing lines on the terrace broken! What did you need the washing lines for? Calm down, please. Dany wanted the girls to tie him up. Oh, to tie him up! - And then we went for a swim so we needed the carpet. You don't want the sand everywhere while you're at it. You take Izabela there too, don't you? Artik, hi! - Hi! - Hi, big man, Artur, so how was it? What about Zhaneta? Come on, I made beef in dill sauce. Let's have a chat. So hot here... Couldn't they buy you some better place to live? As long as they are sitting on their arses in the posh villa! What are you moaning about, you...? Come here, come here! It's all their fault! The baby should have some peace, hm, come on... Hello? Hi Mum. No. I am a bit emotional. The baby's kicking! Bit alert, isn't it! Two weeks after the wedding and it is kicking already! And what about your son? - Danny? Imagine, he is only in the second year of the university and already he has his own exhibition. This is his last masterpiece. - Hm... And what about Beata? - That husband of hers, Turek, if only he tried a little bit harder like our son, he wouldn't have been chucked out of the faculty. What with all our contacts... - Yeah. I must show you something. Danny... Mummy- beautiful, isn't it... - Hm. - That's beautiful! ...140 million for the preparations of the summit. - Mum, Mum, don't show the photos damn it! Give it here! - Oh you... Be careful, you'll spoil them! - They found the girl! Come and have a look! - ... from Prague university student halls V dolinach. Police have been searching for her since Friday 16th June 2000 when she didn't reach her home address. Last time she was seen at a disco at the named student halls V dolinach. Missing student Marika Cihan from Prague university student halls V dolinach was found by Police of Czech Republic unfortunately drowned. She was wearing a blue jumper with a hood and in her right ear one earring with white stone. Any information which could... - Pretty, what a shame. Further information is not to be released by the investigation team. It is clear however that... - I don't know what is worse... to be a mother of the victim or of the murderer. Have you heard it? - Yeah, I've heard. Wait! Hey, I've got the photos, but I bet you don't want them now do you? - Destroy them! And the negatives, immediately! - But wait, it...! - I know you. If the photos are any good, you will start boasting how wonderful you are. - Why would I do that... - Oh shut up! Is that clear, do you understand? Yeah, cool. - Ciao. - Ciao. Edo, don't slam the door please! - I know, Mum. Mum is overdoing it a bit, isn't she? Who was that woman? Fetka mentioned her to Mum. Her boy, I think, is washing the cars at his place. Single mother, looking for anything that goes. You know our Mum. - You gonna put an end to this aren't you? Just because of her stupid charity we don't have to put up with any old plebs! God knows what she saw here! - You're right. What a shit! We cannot rule out a casual kidnapping. Pretty girl, on her own at the bus stop. - Should we call somebody from the vice squad? I don't think so. But the kidnappers - there must have been at least two of them. Hi everybody! - Hi! I found the papers, Martin. Here you can see similar signs everywhere. I shall explain later. - Yeah, fine. Help yourself! Neither can we rule out the possibility that it was Docekal who instigated the kidnapping and your "Darling" is not involved at all. - According to our calculations Jakub Docekal could have easily returned to the Halls, take the car and go back to the bus stop. - And what reason would he have? - He loved the girl. They were not an item but... - But he didn't want Cihan to leave. And then something could have happened, what do I know. I certainly wouldn't dismiss this possibility. - But he came over here on his own accord. - He must have known that we would have found him anyway. Yes? Yeah, Hrazdira speaking. Both? Ok, we are on our way. My dear colleague, we are going to have a peep at that Brno boy and you, Renata, will look at Bolero, will you? See who was Cihan seeing, who was keen on her apart from Docekal etc. Oh, and please show that identikit picture even to those you spoke to already, will you? Right! Do you remember, how we had a bet on a thousand interviews? - Well, that was a very optimistic prognosis. Oh, Martin, in the canteen they have those red apples you like to buy for the kids. - That's good of you but I must go and see the boss. Yeah. Is he nervous? - I don't know, we shall see. Excuse me, please. Jakub! Lucia! Uno! Left i dos, uno i dos! Up and dos... Why didn't you answer our appeal, Miss Medek? - Oh please, I really don't know anything! I've only been in Prague since yesterday, because we were invited to the Festival. Otherwise we are free during the summer time. So... - But you were at the disco at the time of... - Yeah, that's true. - ... at the time, when Marika vanished. - She saw me taking Marika to the bus stop. Hm. And did you also see him come back? - But I didn't go back there! Why would I? I told you I went straight to the bar. - Ok, that's all for now, we've heard all this before. Lucie, did you happen to notice if Marika was wearing both earrings at the disco? - Hm, she did because one of them kept undoing and I helped her fix it. OK. And did you happen to notice if anybody was bothering her or watching her? I don't know, maybe a group of lads? I honestly don't know. I was with the other girls in a totally different place. She was dancing mainly with Jakub. I thought you two were friends. - Please, leave me alone, I really don't know anything. I feel absolutely terrible. I know nothing at all. Please leave me alone! - Ok. Fine. You can go. Thank you. She didn't mention somebody bothering her lately did she? Patrik, we are investigating a murder! - No, she didn't mention anything like that. Only that she was coming over. - Did you feel she was seeing somebody else in Prague? Hm. Apparently one of the boys from the ensemble was a bit of a pain. Jakub. Lucka told me, her room mate. She was originally going out with Jakub but he dumped her. For Marika. And you were jealous, weren't you? - She called and said she was coming straight after the disco. She was crazy about dancing. It meant more to her than anything else in the world. Does your family own a car? Registration and colour, please. We have a white Skoda Felicia. Can you drive? So you decided to go to Prague and check on the guy from Bolero, didn't you? - Hmh! You are totally crazy! My girlfriend just got murdered and you, instead of... Calm down, calm down! - My parents had the car and they went with my sister to see our granny. - And what about a friend - couldn't somebody lend you his car or give you a lift? - No. I was waiting for her on the midnight train. Did anybody see you? - I asked a railwayman when was the next express train from Prague. - Would you be able to describe him? How did he look? Small, old, in the uniform. - When we found Marika, she was wearing only one earring. You don't have the other one, do you? What's going on? You - at home? They cancelled the meeting. We found on Cihan's jumper light hair, most probably dog's hair and some longish coarse hair. And the water which was found in her lungs is not the same as the water of the place where she was found. Therefore her body must have floated downstream. - So she was alive when they dumped her in the water. Yeah. The current could have carried her body from about here, not from any further, because there is only very little water up there, the whole area is a recreational ground. I think they brought her somewhere here. Oh, what about Patrik? I think we can forget him. - We have a statement from the night express railwayman. - And his folks really had the car that evening. So this is all we have in half a year! - Could it be some kind of a shrine? - Everything points to that damn disco. - We can practically eliminate casual kidnapping, as well as personal motive like jealousy. - According to the psychologist neither deviants nor ritual murder. They killed her to shut her up. - They must have been young otherwise they would have been noticed in the club. Yeah, definitely the driver. Boys from better families. All witnesses are describing the big saloon car as a very posh one. Of course, they could have nicked it. - Maybe they left the country or stopped seeing each other. Sorry. Yes? No, not now... I can't now. I'll ring you in a minute, ok? Definitely. - Sorry, Martin, but I need the young ones at the criminal squad. I am not removing them completely, when they have a minute they can help you. Ok? What? - And on top of everything Cihan rang, if we have any news. Shit! Sorry. - It's ok. Thanks. - Don't talk about Marika as if she was dead. But... She still brings her sandwiches. Marika used to call in when she went to Prague. It was on her way. Magda, I need to know, who were Marika's friends, what she liked to do, where she liked to go. Where she likes to go. Well dancing of course! Hm, yeah. She prefers dancing to anything. Does a name Jakub Docekal ring a bell? And going to the lake. She loves swimming, since she was a little girl. Last time she rang she said she was going swimming to the lake with her girlfriend. But even there she took her books to study. They have so much work. - I used to take scripts to the lake in the old days. This is for Marika for Christmas. In Bolero you didn't tell my colleague that you used to go swimming with Marika. She didn't ask. We have witnesses. Did anybody try to get friendly with her there? I would have noticed. Lucie, please concentrate. Have you noticed some familiar faces from the lake at the disco. Izabela found this in the sofa. What can you tell me about it? Dad please understand, she was an unbelievable bitch! She kept shouting that she will report us. She would have done it! She would have destroyed us all, even you! All that is ahead of us, all you have worked for... You big-headed dickheads! Dickheads! If you can't figure out a girl who is up for it! She could have enjoyed it. Not one of them was making such a fuss. They liked it and kept quiet. Yeah! She had no fear! Even you say: failure is a problem of the weak individuals. Please...! And I fight with all my guns. It was her fault. We gave her a chance. - Is there anything that can give you away? Or anybody? Or that, that arsehole? That... - Not a chance. They can't find anything. We stopped seeing each other. This time we didn't take any pictures or used the video camera. And even if we did, we are not mental, we would have got rid of it. Basically, there is no evidence. - You will change your lifestyle from scratch! I asked Zhaneta to marry me. Yeah, and right there I was sitting till the very morning, till about two or four in the morning in that archive. Crazy! You'd have to be there! Stop! Hey! That's a new... - What is it? ...company car! - That's great! - Yeah! - Renda, you are incredible! - Yeah! You are so incredible! Wait, don't fit it yet, I am taking you for a coffee. Let's go! - Super. - Thanks. Hi! - Hi! You made my day! Tell Igor to come over here. I am selling the car. You'll take it to Fetka. I spoke to him. - Such a nice car. Isn't it a pity? - Shut your mouth! You will bring a new 4 x 4. And then give me a ring! For Saturday you will organize a barbecue in our country cottage. Make a list. Dipl. eng. Aksman with his wife,... You must have gone mad! ...and his son, Mr and Mrs Patucek,... The Patuceks? They need me. ...Zhaneta Langr, Izabela Belus,... - So what am I supposed to tell your wife: Good evening, Mrs Regina, what splendid jewels you are wearing tonight!? The bigger the sin... - I was thinking she looked like a Christmas Tree. - Put Igor on the list too. - I can't stand him. That's your problem. Osvald? Why don't you knock this on the head? Sometimes it is a bit difficult. We have almost nothing. Student halls, Bolero, disco, lake, lots of people everywhere but nobody has been anywhere, seen anything, nothing to go on. And that Darling, he probably doesn't even exist. The boys have been running with identikit picture around all the student halls and discos and nothing. The gang is unknown. - Most probably they have been to that club only once. Never before and certainly never after. Maybe they went there because of Cihan. Martin, what about your wife? Has she changed her mind? No. Good job she left the kids with me. Luckily the boys were twelve so they are quite independent and my daughter is quite a help. So you think that they picked out Marika beforehand? A PICNIC AT THE AKSMANS' A PICNIC AT THE AKSMANS', ARTUR'S ENGAGEMENT PARTY, COTTAGE AT ORLIK Excuse me, excuse me, please, do you happen to be Mr Cihan? Yes I do. I shall never forget your faces. I remember you from TV, when they did the interview before they found your little girl. I heard her scream when she was waiting at the bus stop. Well, they did ask me the details, you know, they did. But Marika hasn't got a grave. How come? - Well, we just come here every All Saint's Day. - Paul! - Excuse me, please. Postulka speaking. I don't know, really don't know... - Ok, thanks then. Hi Renda, please do you remember... No. Stefan! Stefan! Is it you? It's happened a long time ago. No! I pray for her. I forgave her. Because Jesus said: "Love your enemies and pray for those who trespass against us. ". I have never ever experienced anything so disgusting! I haven't either, you ass! Forget I exist, is that clear! It's for my belly button, is it? Artur! Beauty, very good, beauty! That's it, that's it, great! That's sensational! Look at me properly, that's it. You don't love me, that's what it is! You don't love me at all, that's it, wonderful, let's try it! That's the way, great! Let's try and hold it. Great, wonderful. Look at me! Properly! What a nice little bitch you are, yeah! Keep looking at me, straight at me and try to put the torch between your breasts. Right. A bit lower... That's it. And lift yourself! Stretch that arm, that's it. - Hey, that's a good trick. Who taught you that? One old witch did. But that is a long time ago, you can forget it now, ok? Right, shall we continue? Misho, what a great look, that's it! And gentlemen, slowly you are approaching like wild beasts, ok? That's it. Give me a nice smile, smile! Great! And turn her around. I like it, nicely, nicely. Misho, you stretch your whole body, right, nicely, rub your knees together. And now pull her down! Hold her down, you hold her legs, that's it. And pull her arms apart, boys slowly! More vertically! Come on, get on with it, that's it, that's it! That's it, that's it, that's it, that's it! I like that! I like that! Ok, enough gentlemen, enough. Enough, guys! Christ I said enough didn't I?! Hi! - Hi! Thanks for your time. You won't regret it. I found something. It seems llona Fetka was lying. Here. We asked everybody who's been at the disco who they saw there. Fetka said she wasn't there, in the club. But! We have a statement from October the same year from a medical student Jana Donat. "Fetka was sitting at the table with three or four guys. Well, she was sitting on their knees, changing from one to another. There was lots of alcohol, drugs. " Which one was Fetka? - At that time a student of the fourth year. Basic medicine. Couldn't she make a mistake? - No way. No way. You were interviewing her six days after the kidnapping. Fetka said, that she was at the Luznice training massage course at that time. - Ah, Fetka! Do you remember? She was inviting you to her room. But they were all just coming back! Even giving each other alibi about attending the course. - You think, that this course was some kind of a kindergarten, do you? It ends and bye-bye, they are free! Yeah, she could have left and come back in the morning. Somebody could have given her a lift... ... hitch-hiking... May I, inspector? - Sorry but if she was lying, which she was, she had a reason. Damn! We should have thought of it earlier! - Martin, we have two and half thousand statements here. Don't be silly, let's continue. What if she knows the kidnappers? - Her name is Haiker. She got married two years ago. She practises medicine in Hradec in the same house where her father has a car showroom. Ok, we'll invite her in. Nice official invitation? - Let's give her something to worry about, shall we? So this is the reason you are inviting me as a witness? A witness to what by the way? I thought you wanted some more details about the accident. Some idiot bumped into my car. I was at the camp. I told this to that young sucker of yours. There are about hundred and twenty witnesses to support my statement. - You were staying on your own. You arranged for that. Every night there was a light in your room. - I like doing it with the lights on, don't you? - And that particular night, didn't you like it? - What night? - That night of a disco at the halls. - What do I know? Maybe my batteries ran out. One of your schoolmates was missing you. Mrs Haiker, that particular night nobody saw you in the camp. But indeed you were seen on the 15th ofJune in the disco club, it was you for sure! All right then, it was dead in the camp. Is it so important after all those years? - So why didn't you tell us then that you went to the disco? Because... Because I was going out with one boy who was there with me when I was being interviewed. Can't you understand that? How on earth did you get to Prague? - Oh, one wally took me. He was cleaning cars at Dad's carwash. What was his name? - Why are you so interested in everything? How am I supposed to remember? - Mrs Haiker, what is the name of that little wally, who worked in the carwash? - I don't know. Honest, I don't know. Renda, check the car showrooms and carwashes. Boss, police are looking for Lohnik. He must have done something. - Lohnik? Who is Lohnik, I don't know anybody called Lohnik. You won't remember him. He hasn't worked here for more then three years. He was a bit dull and worked here only for a short time. Can I use my phone? - Of course you can, but later. We have plenty of time. So, you agreed he was going to give you a lift and as he was already there, he was not could take you to the disco. And well, you couldn't send him home straight afterwards, could you? - If I should keep up all my promises... Anyway, you agreed that he was going to take you back to the camp didn't you? Eh, what? Hello? - DC Postulka speaking. Could I speak to Eduard Lohnik? - He is not in. - Do you know when he'll be back? Around six. He is working - delivering Coca-Cola. Did anything happen? You know what, could I ring you later? - Ok, ok, ring after six. He'll be definitely back. - Fine. Thank you. - But, but, hang on, hang on, Eddi would never do anything bad! Listen, inspector, I am a bit fed up. I came to Prague to sort other things out. I only dropped by. So what? Really? Fine. Go on. She had friends in that club. They chose the girl. Yeah, I thought it was all just a big talk. llona told me that we shall continue at some cottage. So we went there. They had the girl with them. She begged them to take her back, that she needed to get on the train to see her boyfriend. I got terribly drunk. I remember somebody coming to the terrace and telling me to cut the washing lines. Then I collapsed and fell asleep, I am not sure. I simply didn't want llona anymore, she made me sick. Lohnik doesn't remember anything after that. He woke up at night at some Prague car park, where apparently Stefan took him in his car. And he also managed to tell him that if he ever remembered anything from that night, they would do him in. The next day Lohnik gave Fetka his notice. - How many were they? Does he know their full names? No, only the first ones. Apart from him and Fetka there was Stefan, Dany and Artur. - Also something is not quite right with that room-mate of hers, Lucie Medek. - What? - I have a funny feeling reading her statement. As if she was hiding something. Hello! - It's me, llona. About time! - Well it wasn't because of the accident. What? - They don't want to let me go. I shall have to stay here. - What? They are keeping you there? That's outrageous. - What about George? - What about George... - Can I speak to him - He is going bonkers. - Can I have a word, please. - Pass him onto me. - llonka, what on earth is going on? - George, I don't know what to do. - Get Penaz! - Who? - Penaz. She is the best lawyer around. Quick! - George! - Please, llonka... - Yeah? - Stay calm. - It's looking bad Dad. You must do something. - It's being sorted. - But quickly! - Ok. - I love you. - Me too, me too. - Big kiss! - And to you. Detective inspector, Mrs Penaz. - Come in please. - I am demanding access to the documents so that I can propose my client's release on bail. The amount of bail isn't important. Will you testify? - Would you like any advice? - As a person with limited rights you are entitled to take advice from your defence lawyer without the third party. I am sure your lawyer will explain to you if you were an accomplice to the murder or if your crime is only that of not reporting the murder. And she will also tell you, how the court values the truth of your additional statement in comparison to the others. You should know that we have a statement of Lohnik and also many others. So you will tell me quickly what really happened and I shall tell you what you should say. Aren't you at all keen to find the murderer? - You were seeing Jakub Docekal before you brought Marika to Bolero. So you could have perhaps noticed if she was dancing with somebody else. So - was she dancing with somebody else at the disco? With somebody who could have - let's say- been bothering her? With Art... With Artur. He was at the lake before the disco and invited Marika on a date. And then? There was also his friend Dany, but... Artur was interested in Marika and she just snubbed him off, she said we had too much work to do, but Dany was pretending he was interested in me so I told him about the disco in the evening. But then he didn't want to know me there. Did they bring anybody else? After they found Marika I met one student girl who was drinking with them that night. So I asked her... ...about Artur and Dany and she warned me that they were dangerous, to be careful, that she finished with them. - But Luci... Lucie, why didn't you tell us this straight away? I was terrified. Wouldn't you be if you were me? And it couldn't help Marika anyway. Can you imagine what progress we could have made if... We shall call you to attend the identity parade. Don't worry, they won't see you. Hey, I think it would be better if we could go through it together. - Yes. - They found some dog hair on the jumper of the victim. - Who is on the phone? - It's Penaz. What did they find? - Dog hair. - Dog hair? - Yeah, dog hair on the jumper. - What jumper? The victim's jumper. - That's no proof, they can't put two and two together. Who is working on it? - Detective Inspector Hrazdira. - Ah. - And somebody called Necas. - Ok. I'll see you in the evening. Good evening, madam. - Good evening. May I help you please? This way. Basically they haven't got any proof. Some circumstantial evidence but sod it - it's not enough. - Marta, I shall not allow some police fabricators to destroy my boy's family. I shan't. Dany is graduating in a month's time. They are decent talented children. Incredibly intelligent people. This country needs people like them! - They have their statements from the preliminary hearing. - So what - they were interviewed under duress. That's it, where's the problem? Don't forget we have our contacts! Oh, and here is the membership card. - Well, I hope this has nothing to do with all that trouble with your boy. - Please! But without it you couldn't get into the club. And with regards to Artur, it all looks very absurd. They interviewed hundreds, thousands! They just need to frame somebody. Sorry. But Artur has an alibi and so many girlfriends, that we could both envy him. - Hm. Somebody is trying to influence our witnesses. Our investigators are getting some anonymous threats. Two men in balaclavas were trying to beat one of them. - You can't be serious... Liborek! - I shall have a look at it, but if that boy of yours is involved... No, definitely not. Hundred per cent. No, definitely not. - ... then it's his bad luck. Can I offer you anything? - No thank you. - Thanks. Good morning gentlemen! You know very well that if you came here to talk about my son, I don't have to say anything. That's your prerogative. - Many thanks then. Good bye! What did they want? - Well, I showed them the notes about Artur's engagement party on 15th June. The truth is, they were a little surprised that we keep the notes for so long but... Was I good? What else did they want to know? If you have a dog. What did you say? Well, that you do. You stupid cow! Because of you I killed an innocent creature, do you understand? The only one in this family who loved me! You bastard! You fucking bastard! Osvald! We must sort this out! Penaz speaking. Hi! - At last! Right then, listen to me please! I think that in this particular situation the best choice for llonka would be to tell the truth. Ok? llonka! If you need anything, give me a ring, will you? Dany went with her first. They were laughing, a bit of a rape won't do her any harm. We weren't thinking of it like that. We thought she was going to be ok. And then Stefan. Artur. I don't know how many times. And then they drew the straws, who will... ...who will sort her out. Dany said: "And here she goes swimming. ". Are you Stefan Turek? - Police! Stay where you are! - Leave me alone! I am innocent! I didn't do anything! Leave me alone! Leave me...! - We are arresting you on suspicion of murder of Marika Cihan. - You really screwed up here! And nicely! I am innocent! Absolutely innocent! Ouch! I am innocent! Right son, I drink to your graduation! - And ours too! Mummy! Won't you pour a drink for the little one, too?! He was a leach, that Turek! Ok, I'll go in there. We shall wait for you! - Well, what about the little one? Give him a drink, will you? - Don't be silly! - Why not? - Police! Stay where you are! Don't move! Artur! - Do something! Jesus Christ, you won't get away with this! Osvald! Shut up, please, shut up! We didn't want to. She is to blame. It was her fault. She wanted to report us. Damn it, I didn't do it, I didn't do it! They did! You are mistaken. I wasn't there. - Weren't you now... - I just wasn't there! I haven't got a clue who you are talking about! Don't think you gonna get me! I was not there. I don't know these people! - You don't know them? - No! No! Absolutely not! Marika Cihan caught the eye of Aksman and Kusmic several days before the crime. They found out from her friend when she was going to be at the disco party at the university club. - Apart from Lohnik all of them changed their statements several times. The date of the engagement party in Aksman's father's company computer was stated on the day of the murder. Aksman's wife has since divorced him and has now given evidence that he proposed to her when they were on holiday in Ibiza which was after Cihan was kidnapped. The respective engagement party went ahead after they came back. - In their country cottage we found the hair of golden retriever which coincide with the hair found on the victims jumper. Aksman's dog has apparently run away at the time of our investigation. - Defendant Turek has never admitted he was at the disco or participated at the kidnapping. The rest of them confirmed his presence. DNA test showed that the samples of the hair found on the victim's jumper are identical with his hair. Aksman, Kusmic and Fetka separately identified the scene of the crime. We never found the missing earring of Cihan. During the investigation we were experiencing unusual pressure on our witnesses and investigators. There were some attempts of blackmail and corruption. It almost seemed that the victim was not Marika but those who murdered her. They won't get away with this!
