 

                        XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Lam, the victim, age 18 The kidnappers called his sister, yeung, to meet at the theatre she performs... at 17:00, half way through the third act The kidnappers may change location We have 3 surveillance teams Most plotters are people you knew They could come from the academy Our mission is to rescue the victim Nobody do anything stupid Until we find the victim Chi, you're saying madam's bit What's she supposed to say? Forget tonight's football pool I want yeung's brother back! yes, Madam! Madam, will the puppy turn up? Just hold your position Tail him? Go How is my brother? He is fine Just put the money in the box When will you release him? Hurry if you want to see him again Thank you Ten, nine, eight... you got 10 seconds Got it Six, five, four, three, two... One! Madam The puppy is heading towards 9 o'clock Copy! Take stairway 4 and cover Chi Copy! Chi, is he waiting for someone? How do you know? He's just a puppy. No sign of the bitch yet He just helped yeung handle the money He had the nerve! yes Not much of an actor, though The bitch is approaching the roof Stay low, don't alert him Why so late? Chill! Take it easy We'd better hide this elsewhere What if people stumble upon it? Relax! Don't be silly you'll be dead meat... lf the cops see you with this bag I'm leaving with my share Hey! Hey... Are you out of your mind? - Give it back! - Let go... Let me go! Darn! you're crazy... Give me... - Trust me! - Give me! I'm Sergeant Ho from Organized Crime & Triad Bureau Stand back, you hear me? Sure I was only the driver. I'm innocent Shut up! I know you're not a kidnapper And you still have a chance Abduction is no big deal Surrender and lead me to the victim I will mitigate on your behalf Why should I trust you? you don't have to So what if I let you go? Who will look after your mom? Will you abandon her like your dad? Lung... Where's the victim? He's in... Lung... you said it'd be fine if we pay you told me to trust cops Tell me now... How can I find my brother? THREE yEARS LATER... Stop! Where's your fix point? Start again! Go Stop! Why did you move? One more! Go Well done! That's it! Remember Free your mind, don't over act No unwanted expressions Kitty, play music, carry on Why still rehearsing this play? She considers this a challenge you said that all things must pass lf I don't face it, how would I know? lf you'd gotten over it you wouldn't be so harsh you wouldn't be happy either I always play the bad guy to his good guy lt's your idea to change the music We have to try something new We went to Nepal two months ago... And heard this at a cafe She had great fun that night Come Why? A surprise! your husband suffers from relapse lt could get worse So the Swiss found new treatment? But operation must be followed... By lengthy observation lt costs millions I must try if this is the only way Okay now. Back to rehearsal Run out of steam already? I'm an idiot when it comes to music We're all have musical sense Don't be modest Qian says he's gotten over it But he's always deep in thought lf you hadn't come... He'd have been driven crazy Businessman strikes gold in 3 years We've got to talk The Swiss have found new treatment The doctor has recommended you When are we leaving? Soon, maybe next week Why so sudden? I've planed for a while, Just haven't told you Fine with me Anyway, I'm at your disposal you haven't consulted Dr yeung lately? Psychologists just bring peace of mind lf I needed consultation... I rather play chess with you I'm a bachelor I can't give treatment lf not because of your care yeung & me have separated already you tell her to face reality She's slowly getting over it We're just casual friends That's exactly what we need Baby, have you decided on dinner yet? Sorry, wrong number you can buy virtual weapons with 10 coins Bidding starts with 5 coins I'll buy... lt costs me less to buy online lt was sold for 6 yesterday Teacher's coming! Get back to class now Hurry up! - My coins... - Idiot! Leave him alone! lt's wrong to fight Even worse for you to be their accomplice Mom, this is for boys! lt's okay, the ladies is on third floor This is wrong, and you want me be your accomplice? I'm your mother. It's different Keep an eye for me She's my old friend? Just tell her I'm out of town Dad, why did you lie? Everybody claims to know me They're only after your Dad's money lt's still lying you can't survive unless you lie Be careful when choosing your friends Avoid those who may sell you out Where's the toilet? Here... Mom, hurry up! Ho-yin! Be careful when choosing your friends Avoid those who may sell you out My Mom Jiaming, let's go Don't you want to use the toilet? Let's go home. lt's filthy here I told you not to use boy's room Did I scare your friend? you know him well? Be careful, his dad is a bad guy But you hardly know him Didn't you see him smirked? I think he has bad intentions Evil persons all smirk Understood? Jiaming never smiles. He must be good Okay, you can continue to be friend him This is what I call ''bad intention''! Okay, stop it... Spam is Pasta's archenemy... So he beats up Pasta every time they meet One day, Spam sees a pile of Flour And he beats up Flour, too. Why? Because Spam slips on Flour Certainly not! Spam screams at Flour... Don't fool me by turning to dust! you knew it? you wicked boy... you must be Ho-yin Say hello to Auntie Shirley you smirk. you must be bad! How can you be so rude? Go and apologise! He has no manner when you're around lt's not my fault Wait! ls this my problem, or hers... Or your own problem? I have no problem I just want a proper home for my boy Not just any woman will do Ho-yin wants a real mom Wait I'm leaving A real mother will never divorce We divorced because of our continued row But why did we quarrel? you gave up your maternal responsibility I didn't. you just got lucky you're granted custodial rights lt wasn't luck. I spent time with him I know the responsibility! Would responsibility make him happier? I hope you don't mind me coming here If you want to continue be Ho-yin's mother... We don't have conflict There was no conflict How's it now? Let's go! Wait Another 5 minutes, okay? She loves to chat here everyday Keep saying how boring life is... Tell her to hurry up I want to play at your place I've an idea. Come with me I received this e-mail They want the ransom be ready by sunset I've already called my bank Mr. Wang, calm down. Don't rush Don't tell this to anyone around you They could all be prime suspects Madam, be honest... Can you guarantee my son's safety?! Our mission is the same as yours lt's to free your son But what should I do now? Have faith in us. We're coming over If the office is unsafe, you should go home The first step towards saving your son is simple Just be yourself What do you mean? Continue to disguise Why can't the ClB boys put on better disguises? These are all Wang's house staff Looks like they've been dismissed Have we found the maid yet? No. She has switched off her phone you're wrong. He's not one of us Hello? Okay! The ClB has done Sergeant Ho Found anything? None I'm lnspector Ho from OCTB Mr. Wang, I have some questions Have you made any enemy lately? Any friend or relative acting suspiciously? I came from China more than 10 years ago I don't have many friends or relatives Since my wife passed away Jiaming is all that I'm left with Didn't an old friend want to borrow money recently? Many people come and ask for loans She was my secretary Only that? That's none of your business For sure it's not Mr. Wang, we are not being nosy But if you don't cooperate... you could easily kill your child But I also have an analytical mind This woman is now dying of cancer How could she kidnap my son? I don't want to see her As I can't do anything to save her Prolong the dialogue as much as possible Hello ls the ransom ready? Ransom is not a problem I want to hear my son first Jiaming! Jiaming He hung up too soon! Hello I'll ask you again: ls the ransom ready? Don't do anything to my son Answer my question! I accept every condition Provided that my son is unhurt. Got it? Understood Understood? ls the ransom ready? Okay! Okay? Hello? What's his problem? I've agreed to everything. Why did he... Mr. Wang, calm down He will call again Just answer directly Hello Since you need to be prompted... Just pass the phone to the officer I'm not mad if you've called the cops Locate the sound! But I hate tricks you don't trust me if you don't answer Then I have to cut off your son's ear On the count to three! One, two... This is lnspector Ho This is not a rookie Call Criminal Records Bureau Check all kidnap case records yes I am lnspector Ho. your name is? lnspector, There's no point tracing my call Next Station is Admiralty Tracing? We won't Let's be open. How about showing our hands? Can you see me? you seem to know our every move... Am I talking to a colleague? As we get on so well with each other Please do me a flavor Drop off the ransom at 17:00 We'll wait for your call I want to go too Sure But besides the two of you lf I see someone else... I will kill the boy I'm warning you... no more food for you! Quiet! Don't worry. Everything's fine. you should go now lf my husband comes out... Tell him that I'd come back later He has to be observed overnight you can come back tomorrow Thanks Hello? Great We got the maid What did she say? She didn't know about the kidnap She thinks she has lost him She's still looking for him Together with your home staffs Chaiwan in I0 minutes Where exactly? I don't want my son to know... I've another woman besides his mom We don't meddle with people's private affairs Helplessness can be painful But sometimes, we have to face it we're doing it for someone else Police don't meddle with private affairs? Bo Fa Laundry in 5 minutes Bo Fa Laundry lnspector, take off your clothes... Wash them with all the money Then tumble dry everything... And I do mean everything! But there are people here... This will cause commotion They will help to keep an eye on you To stop you from playing tricks - I... - And... wash your phone too Take this and go! No choice if you want your son back This is outrageous! Sit tight! you're supposed to be her back-up Shit! No littering! Hello? Get the stripper on the phone your call Figured out how many of us now? Turn right. A car's waiting outside DZ-902. Key's in the glove box Where are we going? Henry located the target vehicle Crossing the viaduct and heading towards town Coco and Gigi, approach Henry to provide cover This is a one-way street! Stop dithering, just drive straight through Move away your car! Be snappy! Move! Find the nearest vantage point Turn left on the fourth junction So what? I'll complain you! Get Lost! Just go! Then first on your right Get out when you see a path Send reinforcement to Blake's Path We're running out of time! Stop using walkie-talkie from now on Wait for my call in the phone booth Hey! Madam, we've no time! What's next? Madam, you must be tired Take a rest, put Wang on the phone Hello To guarantee your son's safety... Drop-off in i0 minutes at the Torpedo Hall One more thing... Sure, anything you want What did he say? He said, from now on... you have to play dumb. Not a single word We'll meet at the Torpedo Hall Chi That's an expensive marker! Two tickets? Over here! What exactly did he say to you? lf I want to ensure my son's safety I have to move quick But alone by myself! you said it before; I have no choice Where's madam? Ho yuen-chun, please come to the box office! Everyone proceed to the Torpedo Hall Hello! OK Give me the bag! What's up? Where's my son? This is him! Are you crazy? Where's my boy? Come on! Hand over the money! Tell me where my son is! Where's my son? Let go of him! you're crazy! Calm down! Or you'll kill your son! But this is not my son! ls this a conspiracy? Where have you taken my son? Calm down! Cool it! your son wasn't kidnapped. He was just lost A cop found him and took him home Sure? Jiaming? Are you alright? Where's the kid? Tell us! I don't know! I'm innocent! They abducted my girlfriend. Told me to get the bag... And throw it over the breakwater I'm really innocent! Come here! Where's the guy? How would I know? Tell the truth! Don't play tricks I really don't know! We found his girlfriend in a public toilet We got the wrong kid. What's the deal? lt's both of your responsibility! I've already given you the photo Do you think this is over? We come all the way from Nepal lt's going to cost you! I didn't call to quit! How? She doesn't look rich... How much can you get from a cop? lt's not about how much money she has lt's about how much she loves her son! Don't worry. you'll get your money in two days Kid! Don't die! We kidnap for the money, not life Otherwise, there's no turning back! Got it? Mr. Chow, tell me... Where were you from two to 5:30pm? But my son is the victim Sorry, we just want more details When will Madam Ho be back? I can't remember... Anything odd? What about their accent? He grabbed me from behind. How would I know... Leave Madam alone Speak up! Stop playing dumb! you won't fool me by turning to dust Leave your message after the beep Chi, briefing in 5 minutes Madam! The kidnapper lnspector Ho What do you want? I haven't given up The ransom for your son is $10M I don't have that kind of money Don't you think your son is worth it? I'm just a police officer Exactly! So you must be resourceful you have 48 hours Get up! Get up! - Are you lying to me? - I'm not... Why you couldn't see him? you're nuts! - you know these kidnappers? - Of course not... lt's impossible Did he grab you like this? Let go of her! Calm down! you think you're a cop? No. Cops do things by the book But what have you done? I'm sorry lnspector, my son has been kidnapped That's my son, too lnspector... yuen-chun Come to my office Superintendent... I know what you're about to say I am a relative of the victim So I can no longer handle this case But, as the mother of my boy... Can I just sit on the fence? I understand how you feel But I've assigned the case to lnspector Lo Superintendent lnspector, don't worry We'll do our very best Let me know if you need any help The kidnapper just demanded $10M Can you really help? Leave my son's stuff alone Relax, Mr. Chow I'm sure we can rescue him I have a million in the bank I can borrow another $2M from friends And these lottery tickets... Are you now counting on a miracle? Here's one more I'm Leaving Home He refused to come out yesterday after our row So I let him play with Wang Jiaming I ended up hurting him... Ho-yin was mad at me He wants me to spend more time with him We are both responsible Remember why we divorced? I was fed up with our daily row No... you think you could handle everything you don't need me I still remember one morning at three... you sneaked back to work at the station Came home at six to take Ho-yin to school you kept quiet about it But I knew That's what you're like Nothing but the best Never admit to be tired Am I really? This time, I won't leave you on your own I'm not doubting your ability But even both of us... may not save him But you're right We stand more chances in making miracles Let's check the lottery - 3, 4... - 2 more We got 2 numbers Oh, my mistake Even though we have sponsors But daily life will still be tough you're my responsibility Only that? Don't over react Nothing wrong with that Better than turning numb Like your turning love into responsibility I thought you've gotten over it No matter, we leave in two days Things will be different Always look on the bright side Don't tell anyone about the trip I forgot Qian is here for check-up today Don't worry. I'm still alive I'm working on a case nearby I know you're indifferent That looks serious y eah, I slashed my wrist Maybe she's having an affair! That's none of my business I've got to go Get an approval to check this hospital! you don't need to come if you're busy Between Qian and me... Things have been awkward But this is between you two Don't get me wrong Lately Qian's mood is unstable Not too serious? Typical of someone suffering from chronic illness I said this because I treat you as one of us Call me if you need help How do you know I'm busy? No bullshit! Why so careless? Ho-yin! you've to be independent One day, I won't be around you've frightened him Let's eat Copy Someone is coming up Don't let her in Hi, I've brought you breakfast Shirley... Ho-yin, it's your favourite... What's the matter? you said you want to be his mom you said there's no conflict... you can decide for yourself you're the one who is confused lf you think you've rekindled his love He wouldn't have spent yesterday with me Shirley, let's go out for breakfast Hang on! He took me to the garage and the market And stayed with me all the way And then we... you had your fun. But that was yesterday For now, I am still his wife I'm sorry you're right in apologising Not to me, but to our son He's kidnapped because of you lnspector, I know how you feel But home is safer for you you really think this is a safe world? Policemen have to follow procedures you have cooperated well We followed procedures three years ago But we failed to save the victim lf police can't prevent accidents What chance do I have now? lf I have to carry on wearing two hats I don't think I can manage I'm going out to clear my head This's for you Hello? lnspector Ho How's my son? I just want to remind you lf you cooperate with the police your son will die I never understood... Why victims refuse to seek police help Now I know Don't worry. I won't take any chance Since you love your son so much... $10M shouldn't be a problem I will find a way But you must promise me... Free my son once you get the ransom I beg you To show your sincerity... Re-deploy all the cops I'm no longer in charge of this case you said you won't take any chance I can only remove those from my home But you must prove my son's safety Sure Use the cell phone for communication But only for both of us! Hello Sir, Madam Ho is back at office Okay Madam Have you seen lnspector Ho? She's in her office Madam, working on your off day? Have to check some exhibits for my last case Please wait Madam? Exhibit Storage I've got a tummy ache Deliver them to your office? I can't. I'm the only person on duty Oh, alright Superintendent Have you seen lnspector Ho? Madam, you... I must have eaten something bad I'm sorry Thanks I want to focus on next week's court case I understand how you feel, but... I don't want others to know you should stay home and wait I'll re-assign your work We're family. We'll do all we can The kidnapper gave me this you must have checked already So... what did you find out? We've no success at all But rest assured... We won't abandon one of our own Sitting on the fence isn't bad lf you really want to help... Remove all officers from my home Surely the kidnappers expect police presence I want them to feel that I'm cooperating But we have the responsibility Of protecting the victim's family We can't be rash Try different surveillance methods Shirley? Sir, Madam Ho is going home, normal Be careful of any suspects tailing her Superintendent, where are your men? Don't worry. I'm in the neighborhood I'll go home after shopping Don't mention it Relax, I won't be a problem Talk later I'm not your boss, will you still help me? Madam, you're still my superior Help me find some money I'm still at Wang's house I can grab a couple of antiques for you Does Wang still cooperate? Bet he's surrounded with bodyguards you're right, he hired one He's leaving Hong Kong tomorrow He's telling us to leave No chance to grab a thing! Here's a more direct way Can you really help? How direct? Kidnap his son! l was kidding But I've just arrived at his residence The kidnappers were targeting Wang... l feel he is hiding something from us He probably won't see you I'll wait here until he shows up Madam, calm down I'm coming over. Wait for me... Don't scare Want to help your friend Ho-yin? I don't know him well Wang Jiaming Ho-yin's home already. I mean no harm He's waiting to play games with you you lied. you've bad intention! Madam you'll get yourself into trouble Why don't you let me do this? I'll accept sole responsibility Superintendent I'm with Madam Ho She was on her way home I need to talk so I brought her over She said I should've informed you yes, Sir We're not suppose to steal But we can borrow I won't object if you wish to complain, And I accept if I was disciplined I'd hit you. Now we are even But please vanish from my sight Mr. Wang, can you lend me $10M? you must be mad? you tried to abduct my son. Now you want a loan? Can you give me a reason... Why I have to help? you helped me out at the laundry I believe you're a good Samaritan you're so naive! Know you... Because only you could save my son Her son is your son's scapegoat you think this is my problem? I told my son to be careful with friends For a start, don't you ever realise... Why your son befriended Jiaming? lt wasn't Ho-yin's fault! you're selfish. you know no friends I'm selfish I'd only give money to my family Why should I help? Understood? you'd better go Mr. Wang, I'm begging you... I apologise for what I just said Have mercy, lend me the money I really need to save my son Mr. Wang, I'll pay you back you'd better leave My answer is no. Don't frighten my son Let me take you home! Whatever. I'm totally lost anyway you're lost because of fear I'm afraid because of desperation No. you won't scare... lf you've nothing to lose Assume your son's dead Then you'll have no fear you should go home and... I'll go after the kidnappers without worrying you. your husband seems impetuous But he's actually reliable I'm not counting on him Do you know that... you treat your colleagues better? I can talk and reason with them But I can't even talk to my husband Family will always be forgiving So you can be outrageous Anyway, he's no longer my husband But Ho-yin is always your son There are times when one needs help Why do men all talk alike? Because we're all dependable lf that is the case... Write this down lt's the kidnappers' contact number you're the only one I trust Even I can tell that this is fake They'll call our bluff! Do we have a surveillance team... On duty in the opposite car park None at all? Thanks... Chi, what a coincidence! What are you doing here? I need to shop for Qian I spot you as soon as I drove in Let me give you a lift Thanks Plate number KT-39ii A white Toyota CalI when you've news Need some fresh air? No hurry. Take it easy Don't want to blow our cover No hurry. Take it easy Are you poking fun at me? No I've once read a comic book The detective loves air typing lt helps to refresh his memory I wonder, are you now inputting data... Or recalling memory? This is just reflex action... That's nervous yes, Miss! Don't over act, no unwanted expressions Sorry, occupational habits... For those who always lives on the edge... Over-acting is dangerous yes, less is better When confronting danger... Always leave room for an exit Otherwise, you'll never know... When people would lose control you can take over now The car is heading for North Point We'll blow our cover if we don't switch Am I a good citizen? Hello? yes! Thanks Want a garage to fix your air-con? No, I prefer fresh-air I hate air-con - Goodbye - Bye Jiaming, Jiaming... Dad, please help Ho-yin! Will that do? She will take you for me I'll give her a fright from behind Great... Then you go first Are you Wang Jiaming? I'm not Wang Jiaming... I'm not... No... - Jiaming - Let go of me... Let me go! Jiaming I'm not Wang Jiaming, I'm not a Wang! That's all I can muster... you can tell Jiaming... We'll save his pal That rescue is not important lt's our family that needs rescuing lf my son continues to disown himself Not even knowing his dad's surname Do I have to change name? I wouldn't admit defeat by a crook! you can help us with one more thing With the money, we can have a good time We can stay here, or go home! What's up? What did you see? lf you don't stop doing pee-ka-boo your parents will be very worried When did we last sleep together? you know what I mean lnspector, this is none of our business I've moved all the cops I kept my words. your son is unharmed Are you crazy? Trying to frighten me? I'm scared! Happy now? SMS are not for blackmailing lf I meet you in a dark alley I'll beat the hell out of you! I'm sorry I wanted to vent too I'll skin him alive if I catch him The money is ready. Now what? Madam, you're very professional Forget that I'm a cop I want to save my son as his mother We set off at 08:30 sharp Go and check it out Hey, look! lt's okay Why didn't you answer our call? Why? That's private Calm down, Mr. Chow For your child, there's no privacy We have every right to know Okay, if you really must know... lt was a couple's most inconvenient time We have fallen in love again... We're shagging, making love Happy now? Madam Want to know why I didn't take the call? Not interested Don't ask me why I got the money According to Jiaming's testimony... The kidnappers speak with an accent I will contact the lnterpol To see if we can unearth any lead The kidnapper has called lnspector Ho Set off at 12 am tomorrow Okay Madam, am I perverting the course ofjustice? The station will call soon you can give in voluntarily lnspector Lo We'll come and set up in the morning Call us if you need anything Thanks Just got these from lmmigration Department They came from Nepal two days ago We went to Nepal two months ago... And overheard this at a cafe ls your car here? - yes - Follow me lf I suspect you just because... you have holidayed in Nepal ls it insane? Not if... you were lnspector Ho Why? Madam always relies on instinct But you rely on evidence ls there a difference? No, but sometimes... No instinct, no evidence Need some fresh air? Chi, what a coincidence! I need to shop for Qian I spot you as soon as I drove in I prefer fresh-air, I hate air-con Chi, this is late... I thought you understood my point I'm not here visiting I come to investigate... A case of kidnap! We think the kidnappers were using here... As an observation point I've once been a victim This hospital has many floors and windows Have I become one of your suspects? Hello? Speaking... What did you find out? The suspects are Nepalese Arrived two days ago... Good I need to go I've thought about it I can't turn a blind eye Do you still love me or not? Tell me... you want to pick a fight this early I couldn't just sit and watch What do you want? Have I broken any law? I am just warning you... you're not welcome here, and... Stop disturbing us! I love... seducing other husbands! Leave or I'll slap again! No one can stop me taking back what's mine! So bitchy! Madam surprised me! I didn't think she would help us I promised to live with her afterwards Does she believe you? Probably... But I'm not so sure after her slap... Madam, 9 am Rendezvous on the Western Promenade Give me the bag Use the walkie-talkie in emergency Channel 3 is more secured Remember, press this to talk... We don't need walkie-talkies I won't stay behind Ho-yin! Chi Why don't you just drop off the ransom? Why do people always have to get hurt? That's my question I thought I knew you well But now we've turned into strangers We were strangers you befriended us... lt's only redemption No, I treated you as my family! Not me! Qian is my only relative We need money now. you can help? Of course! you quit now. I let you go. I can't! I shouldn't have trusted you 3 years ago Now I only trust myself Quit if you believe in yourself! Or I'll turn you in Where are you going to get the money? Please... calm down... madam lnspector Lo! Superintendent! Ho Chi Chi yuen-chun, where are you? When did you switch your cell phone? Only last night No need to check on me so early Let's cut the crap Did you know yeung is behind this? Chi has found their hideaway, Regrettably, he has been killed Suspect and hostage have gone yuen-chun, listen! Stop messing about! yuen-chun! Why? Why did yeung kill Chi? Why did you kill Chi... you've crossed the line... There's no turning back! you've killed Chi... And you will kill my son Ho-yin will be fine I'm sure of that! I won't play into your hand Stop scaring yourself you won't get a dime No, calm down! Stop scaring yourself! She can't be trusted anymore I won't pay a ransom... She won't get a dime you listen to me We can't give up on Ho-yin He must still be alive! She wouldn't spare Ho-yin Our son could already be dead Ho-yin is still alive! Trust me What's up? Trust me? yes! yuen-chan, come back! you come back here! Come back! Any problem with checking out? Of course not! The orderly found me a cab I'm on my way lt takes 20 minutes to airport The flight leaves at one. No hurry Hello? Been waiting long? Wrong number! you are waiting for the ransom? yes, but l didn't think you'd be late I didn't think you would be Lam Hiu-yeung Who I am is not important Giving up on your son already? I didn't give up Except that the rules have changed I know this game better than you Oh? I thought you'd forgotten... the experience of... having a relative kidnapped Kidnappers want ransom My ransom is my son! - Meet in 3 minutes behind the toilet - I... Kidnappers hate bargaining Mom! Shoot! Shoot me! you'll never see your son again lf I never see him again you'll pay with your husband's life! you're a responsible cop I don't believe you'd hurt him lf not, you wouldn't have come you've changed the place I only wanted money I won't give you a dime! To be honest... I assume my son is dead I only want his body your last chance I accept Qian... Qian! Qian... I didn't ask you to come Hiu-yeung, quit! Or there is no return! lf one can abandon one's dearest... There's no point in kidnapping I'm running out of patience lf you don't free my boy, you'll watch him suffer! Don't touch him Where's my son? Leave him alone! Where? He's dead! I want his body! lt's you... you've killed your son Get an ambulance you're right I gave up on our son I'm sorry Where are you? I'm so sorry Don't do anything stupid This is what I call ''bad intention''! you've frightened him Get out! Mom Thank God! XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
