 

                        1 - Eh! That's a gun asshole. What the fuck are you doing here, huh? This can't be no coincidence. Who sent you? Who sent you? Nobody in this town crosses Lorenzo, no one. You're a dead man! - Hey! Hey! Hey! You, you! Motherfucker! - Hello? - Roy? - Jimmy, what's up? - Things went bad man, really bad. - Hey hold on. What happened, now do you have the car? - Yea I got the car, but what the fuck did you get me into? - Hey, now take it easy. Now, tell me what happened. - I did exactly what you said! I was there within the window. And then some guys show's up, puts a gun in my face, and you guaranteed me that time! - But you got away? - Yea I got away but I had to stab the dude in the neck! I boost cars, I don't stab motherfuckers in the neck! - Okay, now listen. We can fix this. But, you got to bring the car to the location. I'll meet you there. - Who's Lorenzo? - How do you know that name? - Who is he? Roy, you fucked me man! - Now Jimmy, you knew this was going to be risky. Now trust me. You don't want to fuck with these people. If you bring us the car right now, I can fix this. - Fuck you! Who's us? You fucked me man, you knew those guys were going to be there. You set me up! - Think about this Jimmy. This is going to be the most important move of your life. It's bad enough you have one gangster out to kill you. Jimmy. Jimmy! - Detroit's a single mother living in a trailer park with a baby on her hip. And L.A.'s a porn star with fake tits, deep pockets, and a coke problem. Everybody comes out here to find something. Or run away from something. I'm doing both. Figured it was my environment that was making me who I was. When you fuck around like this, doesn't matter what city you live in. Sooner of later, things are bound to get bloody. Rule number one. Stay away from cars less than five years old. I usually go for toyota's or honda's. The Jap's know how to make cars. Rule number two, stay away from any high-end luxury sports cars, Mercedes, BMW, Audi. Sure, the payout might be higher, but then so is the risk. Rule number three. Mental focus, it's all about the breath. Keeping your head clear, and being present is of Paramount importance when a boost is going down. I started this when I was young and desperate and bored, but I had a talent for it. On my best days, I would say it's a calling. Not like the other fuckos who joyride around and abuse it. And yes, if you aren't a moron, being a thief ain't so dangerous. But this is my practice, this is my discipline. Rule number four, perception is reality. You'd be amazing with what you can get away with if you look like you're working. But I am working. Rule number five, you pick the day in advance, but not the car. Picking the car is like deciding if you're going to go talk to a girl at the bar. It's a frequency you tune into. You can call it a gut instinct, for me, it's been like a wave at the back of my spine. And I don't know if it's the excitement of the unknown, or the adrenaline, but it's never wrong. I guess deep down, it's the part I like best. I've stolen 336 cars in the last 10 years, and this whooptie maked it 337. Rule six, you never trust anyone in the game. Ever. And one last thing, always know your price. My name is Jimmy Greco. And this is the story of the day I died. Good morning. - Good morning. - Surprise. - Do all guys from the east coast put it down like you? - I'm from Detroit baby. - That's basically the east coast. - Not really. - Well it's closer to new York than it is to California. - True. But the answer's no. - No what? - No, not all guys from the east are like me. Want to know the reason it feels so good? - Why? - 'Cause I love you. - Careful Jimmy. - You're the one that needs to be careful. I'm fine expressing my emotions. I know what it means. - Is that a fact? - I could die tomorrow, and then what? Think any of this is going to matter? We're dust baby. - We're not just dust Jimmy. We're human beings. - But it's our human minds that assign meaning to our lives. I fucking love you, so what? What are you going to do about it? - How romantic. I'll think about that while I make your breakfast. - Brew the coffee strong please. - I know how you like it. - Shit is fucking good! - Yea, it's not bad. - Not bad? It's way better then anything else out there right now. - So? Doesn't make it amazing just 'cause it's better than all the other shit out there. - Babe, this negativity is really off putting. I mean yea, we finally get some good shit, and you're over there. I totally forgot this fucking monkey was sitting here. What's up man? Hmm, you got the money? Maybe I'll just bleed you out instead. - It's okay Gevorg. Baby, nobody's getting cut today. Too messy, I'm in no mood. - Fine. Why the fuck are you still sitting here? - Hola! - Yo, what the fuck man? - Como estas? - Yo, I told you not to come out here without calling me first. - Hey you think I give a shit about your Chavalos and your powder pushing? - Do all you fucking beaners got maize in your ears? Or is it just you, huh? - Let me tell you something, loco. You keep pushing me, you're not going to like what happens. - Fuck you going to do? - How about, I call some of my cartel boys down here, to rape your little slut, gouge your eyes out, watch you peck around like a fucking blind chicken. Hey, come on, lighten up, loco! Shit, I called you, I left a message, read? You never got back to me. So I came down here in person, to discuss some time-sensitive business. - Fucking blow got me all jumpy. What the fuck do you want? Make it quick. - How would you like to expand your business? - Well you know I would love to, but Lorenzo runs the show. I'm already at capacity, in accordance with our agreement. - What if Lorenzo's not around anymore? - What if, what if? What if? - Some shit's getting ready to go down. - I'm listening. - The question is, how much would you be willing to pay to get in on it? - Huh. Since you seem to be the man with the plan, why don't you save us both the time and let me know how much it's going to cost me? - I'm not sure. I'm going to have to talk to my best guy. And then double it. - Yea, why do we need the best? - Word is, Lorenzo's dying, amigo. He needs a kidney. - Yea, how do you know this? - Because birdies talk, and birdies sing. And then big Tommy pays me a visit. Yea, well well. - Don't start with me bro, I'd prefer to make this as painless as possible, alright? - Good to see you old friend. - We're not friends anymore, are we Roy? - Well, since your little accident. - I'm here to talk business. - Okay, well, how about a little drink for old time's sake? - No. I need you to move something for me. - You know what they say about forgiveness? To forgive is to set a prisoner free. Then you find you that prisoner's you. - It's time sensitive. And extremely valuable, and that's why I came to you. - He wants me to courier a package from Mexico. Tells me that there's a kidney inside that box. - Yea, makes sense I guess. Nobody's seen Lorenzo in months. - Big Tommy was very, very serious about the time frame. - Won't they know it was you? - They'll suspect. With all the connections I got, I got diplomatic immunity. - And what if they come after you anyway? - You let me worry about that. Lorenzo's got way too many enemies down south. - And little birdie's do talk. - When you're alone, it's hard to be present with your thoughts. And that's our innate fear of death manifesting around the things we can't control. - No, man. It's 'cause I've got regrets. - But you can't change the past. - Yea, but at least if I'm going to get clipped, I know it's going to fucking happen fast. What I'm most terrified of, is the thought of a slow painful death, not actually dying. Especially after what I saw my dad go through, you know? - God rest his soul. - Yep. Cheers to that, man. What's up with the lotus ink bro? - Take the boy out the hood. - Is that a gang tattoo? - No man, we just got pride from where we're from. Those guys had my back and I had theirs. We weren't a gang in the traditional sense, but we protected each other. - So why'd you leave, man? - Honestly? Too cold. - Uh huh. So is that really why you left? The weather? - Me and my boys got in a fight outside the derby. One of them got shot. Did you know Rick Mckeeum? - Nah, man. - After that, things just kind of slowed down. Felt like I was waiting around for something bad to happen. Figured if I came out here, give me a chance to start fresh. - How's it working out for you? - It's working. 'Cause I'm sitting here, with Clyde, drinking beers and getting a tan. What about you, why'd you leave? - Do you remember Mike, my cousin? - I never knew him, I remember he got killed. - Yea, well after... My father died, and Mike, I kind of realized I was going down the wrong path. - I'm sorry, I know you guys were close. - I wasn't ever really that close to my dad, man. Not like you. - I was talking about Michael. - Right, right. - Jimmy! - Mr. slick! - Come on to the office. - Nah man, I got to get going. I just got to go. - I got some Tequila, and I want to talk to you anyway, come on. - There's an extra 1,000 bucks here. - I thought you deserved a little bonus. - No thanks. - Jimmy, don't be rude. - I don't mean to be rude, but I like our arrangement just fine the way it is. And I know what it means if I take that. - What are you talking about? - It means I work for you. - And what do you do now? - Now I work with you, there's a big difference. - How's that? - Simple. I bring you cars for $2,500 a pop. And you know as well as I do, I can go anywhere in town and get that same price. What makes us special, is that we're both consistent. - Is that a fact? - Damn straight. - You know? This Tequila's made from a cactus. Meant to be sipped, and enjoyed. To power and money. You know, but sometimes Jimmy, you got to just say, "fuck it." - What's this about Roy? - I got a special job for you. - I don't do special jobs. - Not even for big money? - How much we talking? - 20 grand. - I just told you I don't do special jobs. - 50 then. - You're just going to throw numbers at me now? - Yea, I'm serious. - Well then again, respectfully Roy, I'm going to have to decline. - Well how about a respectable... 100 grand? - Thanks for the drink. - 200 grand. Ah, now I've got your attention. - Are you serious? - I don't fuck around Jimmy. - What kind of job we talking? - Just another boost. You got five minutes to steal a car, containing some really valuable cargo. It's going down in broad daylight. All you got to do, bring me the car. Don't ask any questions, and that's it. - That's it? - Yep, that's it. - Two fifty. - I got to make a call. - What for? - Now I know your price. - Tommy, you mind? You know who I am? - You must be Lorenzo. But you don't look sick to me. - That's because I'm not. At least not in the body. Maybe in the mind. - I thought this was all about you needing a kidney. - What's your name kid? - Jimmy. - What do you do Jimmy? What's your thing? - I boost cars. - And how did you wind up working for Austin? - I don't work for nobody. - And yet, here we are. It's amazing isn't it? How crystal clear a situation becomes when you're looking at it from the outside? - It's a matter of point of view. - Exactly. We're animals. That's part of our conundrum. Greed serves us very well in nature, but in the human world, we have our intellect to tell us otherwise. - If you were me, you would have done the same thing. - Hard to say. You know I have to kill you, right? - You don't have to do anything. - I didn't get to be in this position by being merciful. - Mercy? Is that what we're talking about? - If you were in my position, you'd do the same thing. - Hard to say. - How old are you kid? - 26. - Jesus. When I was 26, I lived in Chelsea. - Why'd you come here? - Because I knew that I would have to burn some people if I wanted to get where I wanted to go. Or, move somewhere else, and take what was mine. I chose the latter. - Makes sense, but why L.A.? It's the weather, right? I'm from Detroit, you ever been to Midwest? It's fucking cold. - First I went to New York. But the guineas run that town. Also, cold. After a few years, I came out to L.A., and I knew right away, I'd hit it. - How'd you know? - Back then, my main thing was blow, and this bitch ran all the coke from Mexico. Ruthless cunt named Graciela. Bat shit crazy, that broad. And good looking too, huge titties. But if she even thought you'd crossed her, she'd have you burned alive, cut out your eyes, and chop off your dick. That's the funny thing about people, you can deify them, but that the end of the day, their flesh is just as soft and fragile as a baby girl's. - Something tells me things didn't end well for Graciela. - She fell victim to her vanity. And then I put a gun under her chin and blew her fucking head off. Men get a bad wrap, but it never ceases to surprise me, how stupid a woman becomes when she sees a big dick. Just like that, pow, no more Graciela, and I'm running the coke from Mexico. You think the wetbacks give a fuck who's running the shit? They don't, trust me, as long as you're consistent. You ever been in love? - What? - You ever been in love? - Sure I have. - Tell me about it. - First time was Sarah Madson. She was a couple of years older than me. She lived up the street. When I was 16, we hooked up. Spent the summer together. Used to pick her up in my truck, and we'd sleep under that stars at this lake near my home town. - Was she beautiful? - Yea. - So that's it? Just Sarah? - And my girl Sherry. - Sherry? - Yea, my girl Shereen. - Tell me about her. - She's different. She's special. I can't figure it out. She never asks me for much. She maintains this, distance. I tell her I love her all the time 'cause honestly I do, but. - But what? - I don't know, nothing man, it's hard to explain. What do you care anyway? - All my life, I've spent avoiding love. I've had a few meaningful relationships, but when it comes to women, friends, family, in our line of work, it's best to keep it lean. Loved ones become... Like blind spots. I have a daughter, Jimmy. Sierra. She's seven. Never loved her mother, but, the moment I laid eyes on my little girl, my world flipped. Except for Tommy, I kept her a secret from my entire organization. The only reason I'm telling you, is that she's the one who's dying, not me. And I need your help to save her life. - This whole thing's about a little girl? A little girl, and a blood disease. It's ironic really. All the energy I expended trying to keep her a secret, and now, apparently, it's the very same thing that's brought us to this unfortunate and somewhat impossible situation. - Why should I believe you? - You said it yourself, look at me. I'm as healthy as a horse. Now I'm going to level with you Jimmy. Because we're running fucking short on time, and we could chat here all night. Even if the kidney is intact, she still has only a 70% chance of it taking. I'm not going to sit here and make up some elaborate lie about how if you help me, I will let you go. You fucked me, Jimmy. And I know you didn't mean it, but you did it anyway. And now you have to pay the price. So, this is going to go down one of either two ways. One, you're going to tell me where the kidney is, and when I have it, Tommy here, is going to put a bullet through your heart. Or, you don't tell me where it is, and I have one of my less civilized guys go to work on you. - What if I set everything right? - Jimmy, I have my reputation. - So that's it? - That's it. - Although I myself am not a violent man, Lorenzo, I understand people like you. So before I agree to anything, here are my terms. I need two things. One, I want 150k. For my girl Shereen. Put her brother through college, take care of her for a while. And two, you got to let me go for a couple hours. I'll bring you back the kidney, that's a promise. But I need some time. - You know I can't do that Jimmy. - Just hear me out. Like I said, I understand people like you. I know that you'll find the thing that I love most and destroy it if I try to skip town or do anything stupid. And I don't value my life that much, I never have. But just so we're clear, I'm not asking you. I'm telling you. I need a little time. - Jimmy, what the fuck man? - I need your help, I'm in deep. - This is bad. This is really bad. - I know. I got caught up in this shit and it's all fucked up. - What shit? Buy, sell organs on the black market shit? - No, it's not my thing, it's. - Then what is your thing? - I boost cars! - I always knew you were into some shady shit man, but this is serious. - I know! - That kidney belongs to somebody and they're going to die if they don't get it. - I know. - Then what the fuck? - I was hired to steal this car for big money. I didn't know it was in the trunk, I knew it was valuable, I figured it was drugs. - And? - And during the boost some guy shows up and puts a gun in my face and I stab him man, I stab him in the neck with a screwdriver. - Wait, wait, wait, wait, you stabbed a guy? - It was self defense! - Look, Jimmy, that's murder. - What are you doing? - I'm a cop man. I know that we got a history, but I got to take you in. - Take me in? I called you 'cause I need you help! - Put your hands on your head. - Are you serious right now? Friendship, loyalty, does that mean anything to you? We're practically family! - I know Jimmy. But I'm not one of your lotus brothers and I certainly won't be an accessory to murder. Now put your hands behind your head! - No. Come on. You made me do it man, I'm not going to shoot you. I called you 'cause I need your help and no one in this fucking town's got my back. These guys want to kill me, bad guys want to kill me. So you can either help me survive the next 24 hours, and be part of the solution, or not, and then you're just another part of the problem. - Jimmy I'm a cop man. This could cost me my badge. This is my career. - Then forget I ever called you. - Jimmy I'm sorry man. - Fuck you Clyde. - Jimmy wait! - Boys! - Shut the fuck up Roy. Roy? Roy? Roy? - The fuck? - Roy listen to me. One of my guys got stabbed in the neck today, with a screwdriver, during your pickup. - You mean your pickup! - Listen, our personal stuff aside Roy, I trusted you again and you have fucked me. So you got about 30 seconds to start talking, or I am going to make your life miserable, huh? - I don't know anything! - Sledge. You like to talk Roy, everybody in town knows that you like to talk, so talk to me. Huh? - Hey, I don't know what you're talking... - goddammit I don't get people like you! You know what, you just keep digging deeper and deeper right? You just won't look, grab his hand. You know what infuriates me? Is that think you're so smart, but you're not Roy, and on top of that, you're a horrible liar, so all that ends up happening, is you waste important people's valuable time, with all of your bullshit, huh? - Wait, wait, wait, what's he doing? - Every time you lie to me, I'm going to rip out one of your fucking fingernails, okay? So start talking! - Okay I'll tell you everything I know! Wait, wait, wait! Okay, I'll tell you, I'll tell you everything I know. Okay, word is, this coked up kid, Austin. He found out about the package. He must have thought that it was like, a load of blow, because that's his deal. Hey, hey, he lives in Vernon. - I know who Austin is Roy. But what that doesn't account for is how Austin knew about the package, unless you told him! - I swear to god, I didn't say a thing! He deals to the Armenians, and he knows all the real border borther's! They must have fond out something! I didn't say a thing. I swear. - That is a great story Roy. That is a great story. You know? I guess a half truth is better than no truth at all, so. I'm going to pay you for that info, thank you. But you still owe me one. I'm going to call you. Get your money for you, okay? - God dammit! - Listen, I'm going to need you to start from the beginning. I'm all ears. But if you want my help, I need to know everything, okay? - I don't know where to begin. - What about the guy that put a gun up to your head in the parking lot? Did he say anything? - He asked me who I was working for. He mentioned Lorenzo. - He said "Lorenzo?" Oh shit. He must be talking about Lorenzo champs. - Who's that? - He's a big time gangster. Runs a lot of operations in and out of L.A. He's our west coast kingpin, man. You know, we've been trying to nail him down for years, but. - But what? - He's good Jimmy. He's real good. All of his businesses are legit now. Except for the coke. - So what's he want a kidney for? - Who knows man? People pay a lot of money for the shit. - I just keep thinking about that guy in the parking lot man. I didn't have a choice, you got to believe me. - Oh I believe you. Now I need you to tell me exactly what it is that you want me to do. - You must be Jimmy. Come on in, have seat. You don't need that pistol, cowboy. - I'll be the judge of that. - We're on the same side. So where's this box? I want to see this thing. - It ain't far. Where's my money? - You'll get your money when you deliver the package. So if there's someone you need to call, now would be a good time. - No, we'll wait 'till Roy gets here, then I make that call, and I decide how this is going to work together. - Okie dokie. I'm crystal by the way. Your services are much appreciated. Roy spoke very highly of you. - That a fact? - So you thirsty? Care for a tasty beverage? Or maybe a bump? - No thanks, I had a pretty rough morning. - Yea, I heard about that. Sorry. Could you please stop pointing that at me? I'm a girl, it's rude. - So how do you know Roy? Everyone knows Roy. - Wasn't he supposed to be here by now? - Dude, relax, you're tense. You're kind of cute though. Where you from? - Detroit. - Yea, I can see that. You kind of got that whole trashy urban guy thing going. - Yea, where you from? - The hills. Oh, do you want one? Mellow the fuck out! You just made a shit ton of money, and as soon as you deliver your package, all's going to end well for you. How about that drink? - I don't like this, you're stalling! - Excuse me? - Where's my fucking money? - I don't like your tone Jimmy from Detroit. - Well I almost got killed earlier, so don't really give a shit what you think. Now where's my fucking money? - Alright, you left me no choice. - What are you doing? - Helping you relax. You really are new at this, aren't you? Now take one more step, and I'll shoot. Baby! You can come out now! - What? - Nothing. - Have a soft spot for the kid? - Yea, I guess so. - What was I supposed to do? Let him go? - No, I don't know. It just, this doesn't feel right, you know? - It happens. - Yea, but not like this, and when the kid did the right thing Lorenzo. - Maybe in the end, he got mixed up with the wrong people. Roy, that weirdo coke head. - Austin. - Nobody with half a brain would work for that guy. - Yea, I don't think he was working with Austin. I mean, Roy maybe, but he didn't know Austin from a hole in the wall, I mean that guy was cutting his face up when we went in there. - Jesus Christ. - It's you. - What the fuck is the matter with you Austin? - Are you really going to lecture me old man? - Look, what's up with the sense of entitlement? Huh? I mean, didn't we talk about this? One day I'm going to be too old and too tired to deal with this bullshit? And then it was going to be Austin's time. Right, but you couldn't wait, huh? You just insist on disrespecting me over and over and over again. - Disrespecting you? I'm just trying to expand my business. If you were in my shoes, you would be doing the exact same thing. - Fair enough. However, if I want someone dead, I get them dead, and I make damn well sure they know it was me, that wanted them that way. You idiots, you get involved in shit without any concept of cause and effect. - Wow, you... Do realize we're talking about drug trafficking? Transporting human organs on the black market and murder? This isn't Sicily circa 1940. We're not in the godfather. Some stupid gangster movie. Okay, I saw an opportunity. It's that simple. And when Lorenzo's body is drained and cold in the earth, no one is going to gove a shit how it happened. - I guess you didn't see all the guys in nice suits with huge guns. Okay. I'm going to explain it to you. There's a Gulf here, there's a divide. A great divide, if you will. On the one side you got classy gentlemen, that get nice things, cars, houses. Beautiful women, big bank accounts. Fillet Mignon. Manicured lawns, and we get to have those things because well, we live by a creed. A sense of civility, right? And then on the other side, there's you. You're a fuck up, man. You're a psychopath. You make bad decisions, both personally, and businesswise, that affect other people. You have no reverence for the game and you played it wrong. You're lost in the woods without a compass Austin, and do you know where that gets you? - Lorenzo doesn't have the kidney. Okay, and time's running out, right, huh? Jimmy here is working with a cop. And he's the one who has the package, so. - Is that right? - That's right. Ask him. - Is that true kid? - You really going to shoot me Tommy? Wouldn't Lorenzo rather whack the guy who sold him out? That would make sense to me. - Austin, you are a tragic character in this play of fools, brother. - How's that? - Because you played it wrong. - Killing me, would be bad for business. I move too much product. - That's true. However, that's why these guys are here. Sledge. - No, no! No! You don't have to do this! Tommy, no! Baby! No! - You were just too eager. Will you untie the kid? Let's get the fuck out of here. - So, no more Austin. - Yea, good riddance. Wish I'd taken care of the whacko a long time ago. - These things play out Tommy, that's just the way it is. - No, I know, but I don't like it. I mean Roy's the one that made this mess. - He wanted the guy whacked, just think of this as part of the payment process. - But even if that's true, what, we're just happy to have the Armenians do Roy's dirty work? - Doesn't matter now. - Alright, so let me get this straight. Even thought you and I both know that it was Roy that sold us out, you're not thinking what I'm thinking? - No Tommy. You know we can't touch him. This'll blow the lid off the whole thing. Got a lot of things on my mind, the last thing I need is some bigger problem south of the border. - Come on. - This isn't open for discussion! - Alright. How's she doing? - We'll see. - Jimmy. What the fuck happened to your face man? - Where is it? - It's in the kitchen. - If I'm not back later, you need to give this to my girl Shereen, okay? Here's her address. Promise me you'll give it to her! - Jesus. - Promise me! - Jesus, I promise man, I promise! - Take care of this. - What would you do with a few hundred grand, baby? - What? - What would you do with a few hundred grand, if you go it today? Or tomorrow? - I don't know. Put it down on a house, I guess. I have no idea, why? - Just wondering. - I would put some money away for Mickey's college, I would definitely do that. - I would start a lot. - What, like a parking lot? - No, like a used car lot. I would buy and sell cars. Maybe I'd take you on a trip. I hear Pontiac, Michigan's beautiful this time of year. - Let's go to the east coast. - Let's go. Mm, this bacon's so good baby. - You like it? - I'm in love with it. Almost as much as you. - You don't need money when bacon makes you so happy. - Damn right. I was going down to Alvera street, and I saw it and I thought of you. You like it? - I love it. - What? - Nothing. - Then what's the problem? - It makes me feel uncomfortable when you look at me like that. - You're going to have to explain that to me. - I love you Jimmy. I do. I just. - Just what? - Let me tell you a story. When I was a little girl, I went to visit my family in Mexico. And that summer they had this goat. On the farm. I loved little Billy more than anything. He was black and white, and used to follow me everywhere. I was only five years old, and I'd never been on a farm before. So I didn't understand that they would raise a goat once a year, to be harvested in the fall, for the festival to make Berria. One day, I was called to the corral, as everyone else in the family. We gather around, and, we watched as my grandfather slaughtered him. Being so young, I had no idea this was going to happen, so... I was... Desperate and I started to cry. As my grandfather cut his throat. When he heard my cries, the poor Billy became distressed and started to panic, and struggle for his life. - He was being slaughtered. - No. That wasn't it. Everyone else, including the goat, up to that point, were extremely calm. It was actually me who scared him. My Tia grabbed my hand and said, "let him go." "Your fears are scaring him." "His life was not meant for you, "he doesn't belong to you." "His life was meant for a different purpose." "He gives his body and blood to us, "and we thank him by honoring him "for his sacrifice." At first I was confused. But then I understood. And my empathy evaporated, and I realized she was right. It was me who was keeping him here. - So what did you do? - I let him go. Thank you. - Hey man, I got to ask you something. - Hm? - You consider pizza hut a pizzeria? - I don't know. - I'm asking you a question. Yes or no? - No, I don't think pizza hut is a pizzeria. - No? They serve fucking pizza. - Okay. You know, I went there the other day and got in an argument with the waitress. I asked for two slices. She says, "no." - I don't think they do slices at pizza hut. - That's not the point. The point is, I asked for two slices, she goes, "what do we look like, a pizzeria?" Now tell me that wouldn't piss you off. - Got to work on your anger management. - Yea, anger management. - Breathe. - Take it in, let it out. Pop her in the face. What's the plan here, man? - Keri's going to pull up, drop the car off, he's going to be under the wheel well, package is in the back. - Under the wheel well, or on the wheel well? - It's under the wheel well in like a, little hide-a-key thing. - The fuck's a hide-a-key? - Know what a hide-a-key is? Little fucking black box, got magnets on it? Slidey door, key goes in there, your stick it under the car, in case you leave. - A fucking hide-a-key. - I'll find it. - Got those hide-a-keys that got those little fake rocks, you never seen those shits? - Dude, I'm from Brooklyn, we got no fake rocks. I'll find it though. - Can't see anything. - Just give it a minute. Alright, go. Fucking hide-a-key, don't know what a fucking hide-a key is. The fuck? No, no! No, no, no! Oh fuck, no! Hey! You, you! Motherfucker! - Hello? - Who is this? - Who's this? - This is the guy that knows that you're speaking on a dead man's cell phone, that's who. Some stunt you pulled back there kid. - What do you want? Big Tommy? - Alright, listen. Before you and I get off on the wrong foot, I'm going to give you an opportunity to set this right. Under normal circumstances, that wouldn't exist for someone in your predicament. Right, but this shit is personal. Keep in mind that the man that I work for, he's not going to stop until you are cut into little tiny pieces. - You think I don't know that already? - Well then what's it going to take for you to bring me back the car? - Don't you mean kidney? That's not going to happen until I have my money. - How much did they offer you? - 250 grand. - I'll match it. - Go on. - I want to know who hired you. - I'm not saying anything until I have my insurance policy. - Well, you're going to need more than that kid. - What do you mean? - It's going to take more than a simple trade to set this straight, you killed one of our guys. Alright? That being said, there's going to be a price on your head, people are going to die. If you want to get this straight, you and I, we're going to have to work together so that means that we will have to establish some trust. Alright? I want to know who hired you. - I'll call you back in a half an hour. In the mean time, you can talk to Roy. - Now I need you to tell me exactly what it is that you want me to do. - Nothing yet. I just need the package. Some place safe for my protection. Just go home and hang tight, and I'll call you. - Okay, but I thought you wanted my help with these guys. - The only thing I need now is for the package to be some place safe with someone I can trust. Can you do that for me Clyde? - Yea. Yea, I can do that. - Then I need to make a phone call. - I'm gonna call you, get your money for you, okay? Bye. That motherfucker. - Yea. What are you going to to about it? - I'm a lead the kid there, and let him handle it. That's the plan. Here he is. You want your money, don't you? - Yea. - Then you're going to have to go in there, and you're going to have to get it. Alright, that's the deal we're making. Look, we'll be right behind you. Okay, as soon as the Armenians get here, we're going to swoop in. - Baby? You can come out now. - You'll only make it worse! Is it the pain? Or the horror of being maimed that's worse? - You're a monster! - I'm an artist. You know why I'm an artist? It's because the lines you can draw. The layers of a person you can peel away. Like an onion. If it's enough, you see steam rising off of them. All that heat. All that life. Literally. Evaporating. I feel its fever. - Help me! Help, help me! - You can scream all you want, nobody can hear you! Ready? Huh? - Wait! Wait, wait, wait, wait! Wait, wait, wait, wait! - Baby, baby! This is my favorite part. - Baby? - Gevorg, what the fuck? - What the fuck, where were you guys? - We had to wait for the cavalry to show up Jimmy. - So what's next, what are we doing? - You're going to take the money to Roy's. Look, I promised him the money for the info. Then we ripped his fingernail out. Then I guess you could say that I needed an insurance policy too. Thank you. I appreciate it. I'll call you later okay? Thanks. You alright with this, huh? - So basically I have to convince this guy that I'm going to give up my life, and give him the kidney? - Yea. Basically. - What if he doesn't buy it? - Look Jimmy, just play it like we talked about, okay? Assure him, reassure him. Convince him. - He's just going to give me 150 grand? - Yea, if you can convince him that you're willing to die. I think he will, yes. You can do this Jimmy. - And I don't value my life that much, I never have. But just so we're clear, I'm not asking you, I'm telling you. I need a little time. - He needs a little money, and you're going to drive him. - And we'll just meet back here? - Yea. - Okay. We're going to let him keep it? - What do you think? - I don't know, he seems alright to me. And if he brings us the package. - Shame it had to go down like this. - Yea. Could have been any of us back in the day, huh? - But it wasn't. - Alright, well I should go. - If the kid, so much as hints that he's going to book, do him. - Okay. - You got two hours. I'll go get the money. - So you talked to your guy, he knows what to do? - I told him exactly what to do. - But I mean, you're confident? I mean you trust him that he can do this, right? - He said he would. - Alright, but, you know, this has got to look real Jimmy. If this is going to work, you know, for both of us, okay? - Don't worry, this guy's a perfectionist. - He better be. - Here's her address. Promise me you'll give it to her. - Jesus. - Promise me! - Jesus, I promise man, I promise! - I don't have much time. - Yo Jimmy, wait man! I got something I got to say before you go. After my mother died, my father and I were never really the same, you know? And I know that he saw you as more of a son than he ever saw me. And that was hard. I never got to say goodbye to my father, man. And I know you did right by him when he was sick. And I never got a chance to thank you for that. So in case for some reason, I don't ever see you again, I love you man. You sure you're going to be alright? You sure? - Yea, I'm sure. - Take care of this. - It's alright. You alright? You did good, come on. Come on! Come on, walk it off. Woo. Alright. Ready? Hey. You alright? You did good. - So that's it? - Unless she dies Jimmy, and then I'm going to come find you. - She won't. - Yea. But if she does. Oh my goodness. You know Jimmy, you and I actually made a pretty good team. - Can I ask you something? - Sure. - Why'd you want to work with me? - I didn't. Jimmy, I did this for Sierra. - Lorenzo's little girl? - Yea, Lorenzo's her father, you know, but... She's my little girl. - I see. - He wasn't lying, you know? He would have killed you Jimmy, he would have killed you. He wouldn't have thought twice about it. You know? But then we would have lost the package and I... I just, I... I couldn't have that. And I'm sure he gave you a great performance when he was interrogating you, but... Truth is, he is a horrible father. - So you love her? - Can't have kids of my own. And it's not her fault, you know? It's not her fault that her father's a gangster, and mom was a whore. And she can say, you know? It's not her fault. I don't know Jimmy. There's no playbook for this type of shit. I didn't like letting you walk, after what you did to Lou. Like I said, there's no playbook. All I know is that, in this line of work, you... You make the guy that's got the thing you want, you make him an ally. Not an enemy. That's how I played it. - Well I hope you know that I never would have taken this job if I had known what the package was for. - Doesn't matter now. Here. - Time to cash in that insurance policy? - Yea. I want you to call me when it's done. Okay? Hey Jimmy. You asked me, but... Why'd you do it? - It was the ultimate boost. - You disappear kid. - Back the fuck up! Take a seat! - Jimmy, Jimmy, take it easy man! - Take it easy? - Please, have a seat Jimmy. - I'm not sitting anymore today. I don't want to talk, I just want my money. Pick it up! Open it up! Shut it! - Please. Now, come on, Jimmy. - Fuck you. - Do you mind? - Do it slow! - You know I lied Jimmy. - No shit! - About the Tequila. It's really cheap. - All tastes like shit to me. - Okay, one last request, amigo. How did we end up this way? - I guess I got lucky. - I don't believe in luck. - You could use some by now. - Hey you don't have to do this man, you got your money. - And you almost got me killed, twice! - Hey, it wasn't personal! - How's that? - Lorenzo. Killed my cousin Graciela. This was my first chance to get even. - Why me, why the bullshit story? - I wanted to get rid of Austin. I figured Lorenzo's guys would kill him. And I was hoping you'd get away, and you did! - You're a terrible liar. But it doesn't matter now. I'm not killing you for Lorenzo. He already thinks I'm dead. - So Tommy gets his wish. At the hands of a dead man. - These things play out. - That's why I like you Jimmy. 'Cause you're smarter than the average bear. But let me give you a word of advice. For the future. You wear your heart on you sleeve. And that makes you weak. - So my life was worth 500 grand? And now I'm buying it back for a lot more. - You would have done the same thing in my position. - Hard to say. - Salut Jimmy. - Salut Roy. - Hello? - It's done. - No, sorry, you got the wrong number, bud.
