 

                        [projector whirring] [film reel clicking] - I am Violet Hilton. This is my prospective bridegroom, Maurice Lambert. We tried very hard to procure a marriage license, both in the states of New York and New Jersey, but were refused in both places. I feel very, very unhappy about it because I love Maurice very, very dearly, and he loves me. And I don't see any reason in the world why we should be denied the pleasure of being happy. [rock music] - The eyes of the curious world have been focused on us almost from the moment of our birth. - They were born on a February night in 1 908... - In Brighton, England. Their mother was unwed. - Kate Skinner, a grocery clerk and also a barmaid. Kate worked for Mary Hilton, who operated a pub and also worked as a midwife, along with her husband, Henry. Usually got the service of their barmaids free because they promised the young women that she would be there to attend to the births. She had a very difficult labor, started early in the morning. They lived in row houses, and because she was tormented, people were pounding on the walls on either side of her, telling her to shut up. Twins actually ran in Kate's family, so it wasn't a great surprise when the delivery took place that twins were born. Mary Hilton, of course, detected immediately that something was peculiar here. They were joined back-to-back. And then when Kate discovered it moments later, she was absolutely horrified, you know, that she had brought into the world "freaks." She would not even hold the children, much less suckle the children. She thought that this was a punishment from God. She had these children out of wedlock. Dr. Rooth came, and while the babies appeared vigorous and healthy, he said the twins would die in a very short period. At that point in history, the mortality rate for conjoined twins was probably something like 1,000 deaths per 1 survival. There had never been any successful separations. Kate was probably somewhat cheered, knowing that her babies were going to die and prayed that they would pass overnight. But in the morning, they were always there, always squirming. Mary Hilton visited Kate every day to bathe the babies and feed the babies, and the twins seemed to be getting ever stronger. - She sold the girls to Mary Hilton. - Initially, she just kind of took possession of them. Ultimately, they were legally adopted, yes. - Did she have genuine affection for these little girls, or, you know, was she always thinking that perhaps there was the opportunity to display them, to promote them? - She was a poorly educated woman but a savvy woman at the same time. She saw from the beginning that these two little things were cash cows. Kate did ultimately name them Daisy and Violet. They both had entirely separate organs with this kind of little ribbon of flesh through which the bloods and fluids would circulate from one to another. Initially, they were rather tightly fastened to one another, but as they grew older, that ribbon of flesh became more and more elasticized, just from their movements. - We seem to move without much effort because we've propelled each other. - Mary was a real promoter. She had a real knack for how to sort of sell the story, and she would have these little photo postcards... - and you could buy one of these little postcards as a souvenir... - and would set them up in one of the family rooms of the home, and you could go off, and, you know, for a small fee, you could go into the home, see the little girls, and if you wanted a souvenir, you would buy one of these little postcards and see The Brighton United Twins. - Her pub was called the Queen's Arms. She displayed the children, now a month old or so, in a back room of the pub, and people could come in and, for a couple of pence, have the opportunity to view the children. So there was this constant stream of people now coming to the bar. - One of their first memories is being little girls in the tavern and having people lift up their dresses and testing the connection between them to prove that they were really conjoined. - The little ribbon of flesh was sensitive to touch, so if somebody touched it, you know, it might bring about a movement. Brighton, England, at this time, was a popular seaside resort. There were wax museums, boardwalks, a great variety of entertainment. It was a very glitzy place on the sea. - One of the things that they did very, very early when they were quite small was appear in pit shows, which were popular among lower-class communities. - When you would come in, the performers would be on little stages that were only 6 inches above the ground. And there would be a railing almost the length of the tent and the width of the tent that enclosed these stages. And the people then would come in and lean on the railing. - As babies, they weren't doing much other than being in this space with people looking down on them. It must not have been a very enjoyable experience. - Our earliest memories center about a doctor pleading with Auntie to permit him to cut us apart. - Doctors always wanted to poke and prod and talk openly in front of them about separating them. - Maybe it was primitive enough that one of them would've died. I don't know. - After she had been in the original pub and they had made some money off of displaying the girls, they invested in a larger property. But that was really kind of small potatoes. - Mary Hilton, ever the opportunist, decided after some several months to actually take them on the road. - When they decide that they're going to leave England and travel to other parts of Europe, they're making appearances more in sort of theaters and more established sorts of places. - There was a speech repeated to us daily, over and over again like a phonograph record. It was spoken by a big, curly-haired woman who bathed, dressed, and fed us. She never petted or kissed us or even smiled. She just talked. "Your mother gave you to me. You are not my children. " - She would remind them that their mother didn't want them, that their mother had given them up and that they should be grateful for anything that she gave them. - Mary was sort of a controlling, demanding person and, of course, wouldn't allow the twins any freedoms at all. - We were taught to call her "Auntie, " and each of her five husbands was "Sir. " - They were afraid of her. But love her? No. - They ran afoul of an assortment of "Sirs," as they were calling them, usually who were promoters. And they were simply used for their drawing power. - The woman who cared for them really drilled into them, I think, that, you know, they were going to be performers; they're gonna be exhibitioned. They're gonna be on the road to make her money. There was a lot of brutality that was involved with it just to, so-called, keep them in line. - Mary would get angry, tell them that they were so repellent. - Her temper was something that her daughter or her husband could not control. And when we displeased her, she whipped our backs and shoulders with the buckle end of a wide belt. - They started showing elsewhere. - On circuses and sideshows, they became very, very big attractions, but the girls never saw any of the money. - At an early age, we were taught to recite, read, and sing. - They studied violin and piano, saxophones, clarinets. - It was amazing how much training was crammed into our early lives. In preparation for our debut in Berlin, our first appearance in a theater, l, Violet, played The Princess Waltz 2 1 /2 hours without a mistake. - They became multitalented by the time they were six, seven, and eight. Wax museums were all over at that time. Wax museums usually offered a variety of entertainment that changed periodically. So they might bring in magicians; they might bring in various "freaks." Houdini had seen the twins at this wax museum and was absolutely fascinated with people with unusual and extreme anomalies. He was particularly drawn to Daisy and Violet. Not only did they have this curious anomaly... - very rare for conjoined twins in that period to even have reached the ripe old age of six or seven or eight... - but they were also such fetching things to look at, like one of Raphael's paintings of cherubs. They were that lovely. - If you go back to the turn of the century, to the '20s and '30s, if someone had a deformity, normally you did not see that person out on the street. The parents would maybe raise the child but would not take them out in public. But here are two girls that are absolutely gorgeous... - I mean, just marvelous... - and, you know, if anybody saw them, they would just fall in love with those girls. - Those old dime museums that they performed in as kids, the audience could be tough. I mean, here you are, gorgeous young girls out there onstage, appealing to not only the fancy of all the young men in the audience for legitimate reasons but also for pretty freaky reasons. - Ike Rose was the operator of Rose's Midgets, a troupe of performing midgets. - Ike Rose visited Mary and asked for an opportunity to represent the Hilton twins, and Mary agreed to that. At this point, they were called The Brighton United Twins. They played in some quite impressive venues... - concert halls, musical theaters. And lke Rose, at the same time, was representing the Blazek sisters, who were also conjoined twins. The Blazeks were grotesque, almost, they way they were joined together. Sometimes lke would show both Daisy and Violet and the Blazek sisters in the same venues. Ike Rose prevailed on Mary Hilton to take the pair to Australia. - They had initially been brought down to a pier at Luna Park in Australia. And when that venture failed and it looked like they weren't going to make the money that they had been promised... - Ike Rose dropped from the picture. - They hooked up with another show, and they started traveling across Australia. - Traveling was just horrendous. The interior of Australia, frying-pan heat, traveling by train and by horse-drawn wagon, and it was while they were out in the outback that they met Myer Myers, who was essentially a balloon salesman. He was instantly enamored of the twins. Myer Myers, another person that was very savvy, asked Mary Hilton, you know, if he could begin trouping with them. Mary would have been well into her 50s. - Mary wasn't very happy traveling across the outback. There were certain troubles that, you know, she wasn't quite prepared for. - She was there in this desolate country with her daughter, Edith, and herself, so she needed somebody else. - He kind of takes on this sort of protection role for Mary. He met Edith, Mary Hilton's daughter, and really pursued that as a relationship. - We thought that even when he begged Auntie to let him marry Edith, his eyes were cruel. - Edith was very much a maternal figure to the girls. - The twins were much fonder of her than they were of Mary Hilton. - Daisy had a twisted limb. One leg was bent or something, and she was kind of half-crippled, and she talked about how she would rub it nightly with liniment and, you know, have the... - have her exercise, and finally the limb straightened out. - Edith was in her middle to late 20s. She had about as many curves as a cornstalk. He himself was pneumatically enlarged because he was just this kind of, like, round man... - very short but very stout. - And once he's married to Edith, he really starts to assert his influence over how they're managed. - They started showing in country fairs. - What we would now call the state fair and the county fair... - all those fairs that we think about now as being principally about carnivals and rides. But in their day, in their birth, they were all about farm folk getting together at the time of harvest and creating the fair not only to sell their produce but also to compete and were entertained thereby, because it was the perfect excuse for the carnival folk, who were looking for a place to make their money, to be attracted to those state and county fairs. - Myer was a big reason why they actually came to the United States. - About 1 91 5, they landed in San Francisco. They got to Angel Island. Angel Island, of course, is like Ellis Island. They'd have to pass through customs to get into the country. When the twins got off the boat, the authorities initially refused to permit them to enter the country. So they were held there for several days. Mary, again, very sharp woman, went into San Francisco and started talking to the newspaper people there, and it became a bit of a cause celebre that these poor little children were being held in confinement. Ultimately, the authorities agreed to let the two into the country. - Once they were in and were booking gigs, you really see Myer and Mary working jointly to try to promote the girls. - They began receiving offers, and one of them came from a traveling carnival, Clarence Wortham's World of Wonder. - C.A. Wortham, Clarence A. Wortham, was the king of the carnivals. And by 1 91 0 to 1 920, he had the most-recognized, largest carnival in the United States. The Wortham show was a Midwestern show... - north and south, on up to Canada to Toronto. Carnivals were an outgrowth of the Columbian World's Exposition in Chicago in 1 893, '94. - They called the White City "The Columbia Exposition." - They had lots and lots of shows. They had two rides. One was a water ride. One was the original Ferris wheel. The rest were all shows. They were all independently owned. And they had been booking affairs in other places. - When all those assorted dime museum operators, which were premiere forms of entertainment in the 1 9th century, circuses which traveled and dime museums, which cost a dime to get in... - think Ripley's Believe It or Not! and roadside attractions... - that's the kind of thing that were dime museums... - smashed together with the Smithsonian, because you saw items of natural wonder and items of freakish wonder and live performance. - When they all were together for those two years... - they got together; they got acquainted with one another... - and they decided, "Instead of us splitting up, going our separate ways, let's stay organized." - If they could clump together and move like circuses and create carnival... - "Oh, we can make money off of this, because rural America has no other form of entertainment." It's before movies. It's before radio. It's before TV. It's before any of that stuff. It's before most towns even have a theater. - And this was the start of carnivals as we know them. - When your circus came to town, that drew thousands of people from the community. Now carnival comes into the mix, and the carnival is drawing thousands of people. - There was an area that was midway between one part of the fair and the other. That's where all these sideshows and the big wheel sat. - The circus created the midway, because from that big top to the marquee out front to the front door... - that's the midway to the big show. Of course, what carnival did was realize, "You know, we could make an entire life off of the midway." - I remember the sideshow very well because, of course, you know, the sword swallower, who used to get drunk and burn his throat, and the fat ladies, fish and humans... - mermaids, which were not, of course. It was very interesting. - Sideshow is seen as this amazingly American institution, but in fact, of course, its roots are ancient. I mean, any time, prehistorically, somebody said, "Hey, come here; I got something really weird to show you," that's the birth of sideshow, especially if they're gonna charge you money to look... - the performance of such weird things as sword swallowing and eating horrible things to prove to people that you can do it. But really, the sideshow is only about 1 00 years old in the United States. - So every carnival had a sideshow. Every fair had a sideshow. Every circus... - and there were 30 circuses in operation in those years... - every circus had a sideshow. Most of them had some freaks. If you were lucky and you had four or five legitimate freaks, those were your stars, but you filled it in because you had to have entertainment. - You always hard-sell the freak on the front of the show. You want people to think that they're gonna come in and see 80 turtle boys, 1 4 pairs of Siamese twins... - I mean, you got to do that because, whether people like to admit it or not, freakery sells. 'Cause you once you get 'em inside, it's 50 cents to get in and $50 to get out, because every act is selling you something. Every... - The Hilton sisters... - they're selling that autobiography. What you principally see in a sideshow is not freak acts at all. What you see are what they call working acts... - you know, an accordion player, Hawaiian bands, glassblowers. I mean, all this wacky stuff was in sideshows because those things were exotic. They're amazing acts. Some would argue they're the most entertaining thing in the sideshow. The freak performers didn't do all that the Hilton sisters could do. - And a lot of the freaks, they just stood up and said, "Look at me. Here I am." - They did one thing because their act is supposed to take five minutes, and then you go to the next guy and you get five minutes, and you go to the next performer and you get five minutes. - The freaks would be seated on a stage throughout the show. - And you walk down through that show. Usually you're led by that inside talker or the inside lecturer, usually the magician because he's the most disposable commodity on the sideshow. People drank, and people got uppity. Percilla the monkey girl and her husband, Emmitt the alligator-skinned man, literally had a sign that they kept right in front of the platform that says, "If you will be quiet and behave, we will give you a good show." The born freaks were the royalty in those shows. - Those were the people that drew the customers to the carnival. - They got the lion's share of the money. The two highest-paid people on the show were always the born freak and the guy who owned the show. And sometimes the guy who owned that show might take a hit on the money to make sure that the born freak stayed loyal to the show, because if you couldn't pay 'em, they're leaving. They're out of there. Because they know they can get big money from any sideshow. And, of course, the Hilton sisters certainly could. The old line from the born freaks, all the ones I ever interviewed who'd been in the business in the heyday between World War I and World War Il, all of them told me... - every last one of them... - A, if they could still do it and it was still like it was, they'd still be doing it, and, B, "I got paid to be up there. They had to pay money to look at me." Given the alternatives to working in the sideshow business for a lot of those performers, there wasn't much else other than hoping the government or your family would take care of you. It's just, the Hilton sisters, over their long careers, trained to be many, many different things, with the hook being, "Look. We're conjoined." - There were freaks who had to perform to show what they could do. Armless wonders... - it was really just doing things they normally would do in their everyday lives. I ran freak shows for many years, and I always preferred that the people did some kind of an act to entertain. Handicapped people, if you want to call them that, on the sideshows, certainly were never mistreated. They were our stars. You don't mistreat your stars. They were the ones who were making you a living, and in change, you made them a living. - The people who were in those sideshows found community and camaraderie with other people that had to go through the same challenges in life that they did. Daisy and Violet, very early on, were still set apart from other sideshow performers. They weren't allowed to really interact with them in the same way when they were children in large part because of Myer Myers. He didn't want them to have that stigma of being freaks. "Yes, we're going to display the girls, "and, yes, we're going to make money off of them, but they're not freaks." And so they always sort of had a division between them. - I felt a kind of sorrow at this whole thing. They were very sad people. Most of them drank too much, or they... - they just... - they had problems, which you can imagine, being exploited. It was a very debasing... - it was a very nasty way to make money. But these were very miserable, unhappy people. I don't know a happy freak. - In Birmingham, Alabama, Auntie died, and as we looked at her, our first corpse, the cunning and shrewdness seemed out of her face. l, Daisy, did not care that she was dead. "Why cry?" I asked Violet. "We hated her forever. " - "I'm afraid without her, " l, Violet, answered, "Now Sir will boss us. " - Let's run away. - Their existences then were almost Dickensian in the sense that they were so fully controlled by Myer Myers. He was really a quite hateful man. - After Mary Hilton's death, he had total control at that point over what was happening with their careers. - He thought he was inheriting them. - Willed as an old ring or a chair? It couldn't bel - See, Auntie left you to us. You and her jewelry and her furniture are ours. Do you understand? - They anticipated that, as hellish as their lives had been, things were going to get even worse. - He had a terrible temper, and that was something that even his wife admitted. - If they didn't do things right, they got punished. They got hit. They got slapped. - We had to work as hard, and the only privacy we were to have was in our minds. The new owners slept in the same room with us. We were never out of their sight. - They always had to live with him and Edith, and when they were traveling, they would stay in the same hotel room. He was very protective, that he didn't want anybody to see them when they weren't performing. He wanted them to pay to come and see the girls and to keep this aura of mystery around them. - Other freaks were so troubled by the treatment that Daisy and Violet were receiving from Myer Myers that, in effect, they rebelled. They refused to work. It was sort of like a sit-down strike by the freaks. And they made the decision that the midway was closed to the general public, and the whole joint was Daisy and Violet's. They were sort of princesses for the day. - Most of the time, they were working, and if they weren't working and spending time with Edith and Myer, they were honing their craft. They were taking dance lessons. They were taking music lessons and singing lessons, and everything that they did was about the show, about the performance, to make more money for Edith and Myer. When they were onstage, they had this really sort of witty repartee with each other. That's... - That's inborn. I think even if they hadn't been conjoined twins, that they might have been drawn to show business in some way, shape, or form. - Every time you see a child star, there's likely someone behind that child star who maybe is helping the kid accomplish what the kid wanted to do but is probably, in 1 0 or 1 5 years, going to come up on the wrong end of a lawsuit that gets filed. They were simply used for their money and given, in a sense, a pittance in return. - They were really cash cows for the Myers. And they were loath to let go of them, and they kept them very, very confined. My mother and Dorothy, my aunt, and a few other people were the only ones allowed close to them. - They were working with the Wortham carnivals, and they came to do a stand in San Antonio as part of... - we call it fiesta now. Back then it was called the spring carnival. - San Antonio was a great wintering place for both circuses and carnivals. - Myer really liked San Antonio, and when they ended their run with Wortham and come back to San Antonio in the off-season, he has this dream that he's going to become a wealthy Texas rancher. He certainly made quite a bit of money off of managing Daisy and Violet. Though he did not become a rancher, by any means, he certainly invested in a lot of properties around the area, and while he was here in San Antonio, he built a very large mansion. - It would have been about a $5-million or $6-million house now. - Sort of Japanese-influenced brick home. Great circular driveway. Greenhouses, fountains. - We could never enjoy the magnificent, splendid estate, let alone call it our own home. During periods, the servants were fired, and we did the cleaning. "You need the exercise, " we were told coldly. - When I was a little boy, riding in the car with my mother down Vance Jackson Road, she... - when we would pass this breathtakingly beautiful house, mansion, she would say, "That's where the Siamese twins used to live." - People were paying to see the twins, maybe 1 5 cents or so. Great streams of them were going into the town. So, yeah, he was making an enormous amount of money. - I never saw them with other people. They never went to school, for one thing. - Myer Myers takes the girls to New York to try to get them in vaudeville. - This would have been in the mid-'20s. The twins now would have been 1 6, 1 7. - They'd gotten quite a few rejections. Nobody could see where a Siamese twin act would fit into the vaudeville scene. Myer Myers had staged this little showcase to kind of try and get interest in them, and, unfortunately, they got out on the stage, and they kind of froze up. They didn't really have the projection and the charisma that they would later really embody. Despite all of that, they did find somebody who really took interest in them and thought that they had potential. - Terry Turner was a big force in the world of entertainment. He would promote flagpole sitters and all kinds of crazy stuff like that. He was smitten when he saw the girls perform and took over the agenting of the twins. - He really was instrumental in shaping how they would be presented to vaudeville, and he was the one who really kind of came up with their costume of the ringlets in the hair and the big bows that were sort of outsized to their tiny little bodies and the little, white, frilly dresses. If they were just these sweet little girls, like your little girls at home, it didn't matter so much that they were conjoined twins. You know, that was just sort of a bonus. They couldn't be The, you know, Brighton United Twins anymore. They needed to be American. When they hit vaudeville, they became the San Antonio Siamese Twins. - Theatrical lights soon blazed with our names. Our work as musicians, dancers, and singers stood out. - The initial thing that got people in to see Daisy and Violet was the fact that they were conjoined twins. - It was pretty poignant, you know, because people go to the theater with some cares of their own; then when they would see Daisy and Violet, who were carrying a cross that was far, far heavier than any others... - Once they saw the talent and putting on a very entertaining, high-quality show, they really drew a wider audience after that. - They had this joie de vivre. They radiated that to the audience. They earned $1,000 a week, which was, in the mid-'20s, a staggering sum of money. - We were big-time. 46 weeks on the Marcus Loew circuit at $2,500 a week. Our salary jumped then to $3,000, then followed 44 weeks on the Orpheum circuit at $3,850 a week. - They were hugely popular, and at one point, they were earning $5,000 a week. - They were one of the highest-grossing acts in vaudeville. - They were inimitable. I mean, there was not anything else like them. They would conclude their turn on the stage with a four-part dance, and there would be two young men who would come out from the left and right wings of the stage and join with the twins, and then the four of them would glide around the stage. It never failed to bring down the house. And one of the dancers was Lester Townsend. In fact, Lester Townsend was Bob Hope. - They were right up there with the big stars of their day, and, you know, they had every right to be there. - They were appearing on the same bills with George Burns and Gracie Allen, Fanny Brice, Sophie Tucker, Charlie Chaplin. On and on and on, the people who really shaped much of popular amusement in America. And there would be after-show soirees, and they would go out to dinner with them and all that, so all of these people became their friends. They appeared in advertisements, newspaper advertisements. They made records, and a lot of sheet music was produced, and the twins would appear on the covers. - We signed contracts, which Sir never read to us. All our activities were in his hands. And we learned that he had himself named as our legal guardian. What's more, we understood that if we ever ran out on him, if we ever refused to perform at his command, we would be put in an institution. - We had learned, you see, to put our worries aside as we danced, played, and sang, : only pleasure and the feeling of well-being ever was projected by us over the footlights of the theaters. - You see this crafted persona of who they presented to the world, as opposed to who they might have been. - It wasn't easy to laugh while our hearts ached and yearned for freedom and love. - They were optimistic, sweet, totally innocent. - They were these bubbly, vivacious girls that had everything going for them in life. - But at 1 8, with the world at our feet, we'd never had a date, never held hands with a man or been kissedl - Myer Myers was able to legally gain control of them at the age of 1 8. They would have been legally adults and able to exercise their rights, but he had gone to a lawyer to say that they weren't capable of taking care of themselves in that way, and they didn't realize what had been going on or that they had any legal rights until, I guess, they were almost 22, at the time of the trial. - They did not even know what money was. They didn't have pocket money or anything. - "Read all the newspapers you can, " Harry Houdini whispered to me, Daisy, one night as he passed me in the wings, as if he knew we had never been permitted to read a newspaper. - They saw the fabulous income that they were producing. - He would always say, "I'm gonna give you an allowance," or, "I'm putting some money in the bank for you," but it doesn't really ever materialize. If they ever wanted to spend any money, they had to ask permission. - The Myers did not let anyone near them who might have interfered with their money-making ability. And they were not allowed to have guys around. - In my country, all you need to make a hit with the ladies is to sing to them. - Stage fame did not answer the wish in our hearts. l, Daisy, was in love. - Daisy had fallen in love with Don Galvan. He was a singer. - That's the story of That's the glory of love - Myer Myers absolutely prohibited any kind of contact. - Why can't we go out and have some fun? Other girls our age do. We've never smoked a cigarette, tasted a cocktail, had our hair cut. - You are not other girlsl You are Siamese twins. - Don Galvan, at one point, bought a vase of flowers and placed it outside Daisy and Violet's room at a theater. Myer Myers happened to spot that vase, and there was this note of endearment. He kicked that vase, and Daisy was so upset, she and Violet ganged up on Myers and put their foot down and say, you know, "From here on, "things are going to be somewhat different. We want our own room. We want our own money." And he started loosening his reins on the twins a little bit and turning over some of the responsibilities for promoting them and traveling with them to others, and one of them was Bill Oliver, who had been primarily a promoter of professional wrestlers. He looked after the twins. Bill Oliver was married but a relationship developed. He would somehow carry on this romance with both twins simultaneously. Yeah, it absolutely caused friction between the sisters. There were, you know, times when they wouldn't speak to one another. I mean, they're inches apart, but they wouldn't speak to one another. They would go onstage and, you know, perform as effervescently as always, but then when they got offstage, they would not speak to one another. The twins bought Bill Oliver all kinds of things, including a new car. He wasn't content just to have Daisy and Violet, but apparently he had some other women out there as well. His wife found out... - And was suing them for alienation of affection. - And that became a great cause celebre in the papers. Bill Oliver, in the eyes of some men, I guess, became sort of a heroic figure. Everybody was speculating about what his nights were like. Here's this 40-some-year-old guy being able to service two 25-year-old women. That's pretty great. - And so when Myer found out about this lawsuit, I mean, he really, you know, blew up. - Sir put us in the car and drove us to the office of the lawyer Martin J. Arnold. - Martin Arnold, who was primarily the lawyer with my father, who got them liberated from the Myers, was a friend, and he was a really fine man. - Bill Oliver and his wife lived in Kansas City, far away from San Antonio, so it wasn't even in the same jurisdiction. Arnold said, "Don't worry about ever having to appear in that." - L, Daisy, seem to have found courage in the kindly appearance and soft voice of the Texas lawyer, who I felt would give us protection. - He whispers, you know, kind of behind the scenes about what the real situation is, and he steps in to try and say, "Is there anything else that you need to talk to me about?" - After learning about how hateful Myers' treatment of the twins was, he told the twins that he would represent them in an emancipation suit. A trial was held in San Antonio, and it received national publicity. - We wanted freedom, an accounting of our money, and a receiver appointed to manage our property. - Isn't it a fact that they signed... - During my, Violet's, time on the witness stand, I looked at Sir and said, "The contracts we signed were always covered, except for the dotted line. " When we hesitated to sign, Sir would rave and ask us if we thought he was a thief and if we didn't trust him and if we were afraid, so we always signed. - Myer Myers was forced to testify. - I'm asking you again, did the girls get that money? - I don't know. They were paid through my bookkeeper in New York. - Did you ever strike them or threaten to strike them? - No. - So it was just a family affair? - Yes, and a happy family too. Until you stepped in and corrupted it. - All this property was bought with the money earned by these little girls... - People would be waiting outside the courthouse every day for the trial to start. When the courthouse opened in the morning, there was a flood of people, you know, racing through the corridors. Some of them almost got stomped to death. - W.W. McCrory was the judge on that. He and his children were close friends of my parents and of the Arnolds, so the judge on that case was very close to the twins. That's why they picked him. - All contracts existing between him and us were dissolved. - The court awarded them something approaching $1 00,000. - The judge ordered Sir never to interfere with our lives again. Our new life began almost immediately. We went to shows, nightclubs, dinner parties. - We drank wine and smoked. - And that was the beginning of the end, because under the Myers, they were taken care of, but they had absolutely no chance of any kind of freedom that would have enabled them to handle fame on their own. - We looked forward to a future promising real happiness. - Be careful what you wish for. You may get it. - They're gonna try to sample and do all the things that they had never been able to do. They could cut their hair, buy their own clothes... - I am gonna have yellow hair just like... - Could drink champagne and explore what life was gonna be like on their own. - Their freedoms now were completely unchecked. They were out all of the time, every night. - I think it was probably sexual freedom. - One of the great stories is that during the trial, they were living at the St. Anthony Hotel, and for the first time, they could really have gentlemen callers. - They had boyfriends, and I would see one of them fall asleep while the other one was doing something else. Not... [laughs] having relationships. They could remove themselves... - almost, it was a psychic thing... - one from the other. Never from each other as performers or sisters. - "I can get rid of you, " l, Daisy, would say to my sister. I could, mentally. Just as she could dismiss me. - We had to do, as Harry Houdini once said to us, "Live in your minds, girls. " He told us that as we stood beside him in the wings one night in a Detroit theater. "It is your only hope for private lives. Just recognize no handicap. " - They knew they were individuals, actually. You could tell Daisy from Violet or Violet from Daisy. But they were making the best of their world after they got free, but they could not cope. - They tried to have some sense of normalcy. At one point, they had a small apartment here in San Antonio, and here was a place that they could call their own, that they could, you know, get their own groceries, and, you know, they could fix it up just the way they wanted, and that it was kind of playing house. - Tod Browning, the great film director, who had done Dracula movies, wanted to do this film that was based on a short story that involved a lot of sideshow freaks. He wanted the real thing. The twins were not in the circus. They were in vaudeville now. I mean, they were, you know, sort of the elite of the "freaks." Initially, they bridled at the idea of appearing with other freaks. I mean, they did it for the money, but I think they thought that appearing in a movie might be a first step for them to move to bigger and better things. Tod Browning was, at that time, a very prominent director. He didn't want the makeup department to create his freaks. He, again, wanted the real thing. So he hired all of these freaks from various circuses. - We'll make her one of us! - When the film came out, it was banned in Boston and was banned in a lot of other places. - Gooble-gobble! - Gooble-gobble! - [laughs] - They were physically better off with the Myers than they were when they were out on their own with the predators... In the theater and on Broadway and on the stage. - They had the right to hire and fire the people who worked with them. - They had a series of managers who, some were okay but inadequate, and the others were downright evil. - Because they'd been so sheltered, they didn't necessarily make the best choices for managing their own careers or managing their own finances. But the mistakes were theirs to make. - They were malleable and passive in a way... - Daisy more than Violet. They couldn't tell a real scam or a con man from a good person. They had no ability to judge anybody or anything. Remember, in the Depression, everybody was starving. These managers of acts were vociferous in their approach. They were hungry. - Unfortunately, they're right at the point where vaudeville isn't at its heyday anymore. You're starting to fight with motion pictures for people's attention. While they had a winning performance, it wasn't the same. They didn't know how to necessarily fight and stay quite as relevant. - It was in the '30s, I believe, sometime just before the second World War, when sideshows or performance shows became kind of declasse, and people just quit going. That's when people who were managing them got more greedy, and they had less gigs, so to speak. - They left San Antonio and moved to New York. In their apartment in New York, they had constructed in their living quarters and old-time phone booth, the kind with the sliding door. You put your money in and, you know, make a call. Well, they had one of those in their apartment. Sisters could go into the phone booth, whisper sweet nothings, and then the other sister would be sitting right outside the phone booth but unable to hear the goings-on. And then it became really interesting because when one sister or another had a man over, things started heating up; the other sister was always there. - Oh, Violet... - When sparks were beginning to move from a man and one of the sisters, the other sister might just pick up a magazine and start reading or eat an apple or something like that. When one of the sisters took a male companion to bed, that other sister was always inches away. - Close your eyes, Violet. Go ahead. Close 'em! - What did I do? - Pinched Daisy's arm. - Had to be so intimidating for the man, because he knows that his performance is always being graded by that non-participating sister. They frequently had romances with musicians and with band leaders. - Both had been engaged on more than one occasion. Apparently their relationships didn't tend to last. - An orchestra leader named Blue Steel, a big RCA recording artist, who also had a coast-to-coast live radio program, his signature song was one called Darling, and he would frequently dedicate it to Violet. And he was married as well. They returned to England. They were hoping to see their mother, Kate Skinner. They had no contact with her over the years, so they went back to Brighton and did find their mother, but she was, by then, in a cemetery, had died giving birth to another child. It was believed that the father of that child was the same father to Daisy and Violet, who came to a prominent family, the Andresses. His father was a newspaper publisher. If it's true that he was the father, his father did everything to keep that suppressed. It was during that time that they met Harry Mason, and Harry Mason was a pugilist, a boxer. He was a welterweight champion, and Violet developed a romance. Violet was a boxing enthusiast. They returned to the States then. They were in this troupe, The Hilton Sisters' Revue. Violet and a band leader that the twins had, Maurice Lambert, became romantically involved. Maurice Lambert proposed, and Violet ecstatically said yes. They would go from one state to another, giving performances. And they tried everywhere to get a marriage license. They were rebuffed everywhere because marriage clerks concluded that it was illegal. - 27 different states have denied you the right to marry. - But why? - The way it was viewed most places was that this would constitute bigamy. - And I don't see any reason in the world why we should be denied the pleasure of being happy. My sister, Daisy, feels the same way about it, as she, too, wants me to be happy. - I think my sister's marriage will be a wonderful thing, because I am very sure that they love each other and will be married as soon as possible. - Maurice, who was pretty shy, he was absolutely desolated and became the butt of jokes. - Their romance died of frustration. - One day, he just wasn't there anymore. He couldn't take it another day. - There was a kind of... Desperate... "I'm okay"-ness about them that was admirable. - The twins were traveling with their own revue. Daisy became with child by one member of the show band. Ultimately, they had to disband. Just wasn't generating enough money. - When they were little girls, they were the... - you know, the top of the pile. And I don't think when they were independent that they had the same sort of knowledge of how the audience and the market was changing. - In 1 936, which was the year of the Texas Centennial Exposition at the Cotton Bowl in Dallas... - it celebrated the 1 00 years of Texas' statehood. Terry Turner was managing them. He had this crazy idea to have one twin or the other marry at the fair. - It's just a little publicity stunt. This is an engagement. We're gonna get married! - Just a little publicity stunt? - Nothing serious, eh? I've heard enough. - Thought this would be a great promotion, that it would attract great, great crowds. Daisy, of course, was visibly pregnant, so ultimately it was left to Violet to assume this role. - Maybe he's right after all. This is show business. - I knew you'd come up with some crazy idea, but this one might have possibilities. - By the way, who's the groom? - Jim Moore, who was this song-and-dance man who appeared in their shows... - Terry Turner told him that he was going to be the husband. Jim Moore was absolutely horrified. - But he was gay as a grig. - He said, "If I can get the license, will you do it?" And they said okay. - A part of them really wanted to have that wedding, and Violet, in particular, I think that was something that she had always desired. - I hope you're not falling for that sharpshooter. - Even though it was arranged for the event, I don't think it mattered so much that it may not have been, you know, a marriage for love. - There were billboards all over Dallas, you know, promoting this wedding. Terry Turner was anticipating this huge, huge crowd, for which people had to pay an admission. - How many people are there? - Well, I would judge about 5,000 people. - Jim Moore, who towered over 6 foot, almost pencil-thin guy, and Violet, who was maybe 4 1/2 feet tall. - When were you married, Mr. Moore? - Well, we were married at the Cotton Bowl at the Dallas Centennial, Dallas, Texas, on July the 1 8th. - One report had Daisy giggling throughout the ceremony. - Hold it! Still! - Following which, people from the audience were able to stream down on the field and congratulate the newlyweds. - When they got through with the ceremony and got out of the range of the cameras and everything, everybody kind of retired backstage, and they all had a glass of champagne and a laugh. - They tried to leave as inconspicuously as possible and go to the hotel. Camping outside the honeymoon suite were all these damn reporters who camped there every night, and they would be putting their ears against the door, try to hear a squeaking bed. - And nobody came out of the closet in those days, believe me. - So there was no real honeymoon night. - The newspapermen wanted to get a picture of the three of them, and he messes up his hair to look like all kinds of things happened in an interesting way the night before. But nothing happened, I can assure you. - He was a young man. He thought it was just a, you know, crazy part of his job. - Jim Moore loved Violet but not that way. No, that was not Jim Moore's predilection at all, sexually. - Daisy, her sister, was pregnant at the time. And I always thought, "Well, why didn't Daisy "take the opportunity to get married and to try to legitimize this child?" - This did bring about a certain rise in the marketability of the twins. You know, they became a little more interesting now that one of them was married. - Well, I first consulted an attorney about ten days ago, and he told us that the nicest way to get out of this was to sign a joint petition. And, actually, to get an annulment, you have to never have lived together as man and wife. - Jim Moore... Ended up... - and I didn't know this until... - there is a theater in San Antonio called the Aztec. Below it was a restaurant. - As we started talking in his restaurant called El Matador... - this was 30, 40 years later... - he casually mentioned that he had been in vaudeville and knew the Hilton sisters. He said, "In fact, I married one of them, kind of." - I think their fans felt duped. They did turn on them, yeah. - We understand it was all a publicity stunt. - Yes, that's right. The office that we worked for made all the arrangements for us before we even arrived in Dallas, and it was advertised several days before we were even consulted or asked if we would go through with it. - Our marriage was just a publicity stunt. Publicity stunt. - It was all a publicity stunt. - Jimmy and I are the very, very best of friends. He sure is a swell guy. - I think the world of the girls, and they still think the same of me. - In spite of the annulment, Jimmy and I and my sister are still going to continue as partners and travel through all the nightclubs and theaters. - Well, wait a minute. Turn the thing off. - It was the start of their hard times. Daisy gave birth to a child... - and it was a boy... - in Minnesota, probably in one of the Twin Cities, Minneapolis or St. Paul... - but gave it up for adoption immediately. - There was no way that they would have been able to continue their careers, and I don't think there was any other way that they really could have supported themselves. At this point, they were so far down the road of being performers that I think that was really the only thing that they ever foresaw in their lives. Having a child just wasn't part of the picture. - The whole show business thing was changing drastically. It was a totally different business. - It became unseemly to pay money to see freaks. Motion pictures then started pushing out vaudeville off the stage, and it became more and more difficult for live entertainers to find work. The twins were 28. Now, that is not ancient by any means. They were no longer these dewy-faced ingenues anymore. Everything was beginning to slip away in the entertainment world... - not just for them but for all live entertainers. - Burlesque, in its day, prided itself on being a little sleazy but a little bit big-time but not too big-time that everybody couldn't sort of show up and get a little raucous and a little wild. - So they went into burlesque, and it was pretty demeaning. Stripping, yeah. - I worked with them at a theater in Steubenville, Ohio. Their dressing room was right next to mine. They did a nice little act. They played ukuleles, and they did harmony. And they had perfect little Barbie-doll bodies. But I used to get a kick out of them 'cause one would always scream at the other one to shut up. [laughs] - The Hilton sisters were a vaudeville act. Vaudeville didn't exist in the '40s, and these people still needed a job, and I guess maybe they were a draw. both: Never say you'll be the kind To ever keep one sweetheart on your mind - I don't know if they danced. I mean, they couldn't be, like, separating them on either side of the stage. They had to stay together. both: Love [applause] - All I know is that my father said they stayed drunk the whole time they were here. - They were not great dancers. I mean, well, how do you dance when you got somebody attached to you? And they were not great musicians, but I think they were great entertainers. - It's hard to know how the Hilton sisters saw burlesque when they started doing more of that than what wasn't around anymore. - It was heart-wrenching for them, because these lonely men sitting out in the darkened seats of the striptease houses really weren't too interested in, you know, seeing these Siamese twins. They wanted to see Evelyn West and her $1-million chest, and that's the kind of freak they wanted to see. I think they were kind of, like, hooted off the stage sometimes and booed, and, you know, "Hey, let's get on with the real babes here." - I don't think they had the skills to do anything else. And besides, they had had a reputation that was deeply entrenched of what you see in the pictures of Daisy and Violet, Siamese twins. So their skills and their talents were not such that they would have stood out. Sometimes they were grateful that it made them a living, and sometimes they were tired of being exploited. They didn't know what the word "exploited" meant, but they knew the feeling. They were used by guys who took their money and who did mistreat them and worked them too hard. - I think they started to drink to excess at that point. They both drank. - I'm sure one of those boyfriends or husbands along the line encouraged them to drink. - If one sister drank to excess and became woozy or intoxicated, ultimately, the other sister would get in that same state. They used to fight about that. - They really could not understand why it was that they could no longer draw thousands of people into the theaters. - They're watching the death of vaudeville. Burlesque is slowly but surely guttering out as a place where they can really perform. The carnival midway, despite the fact that it still could have been bigger money for them, is grueling. It's exhausting. You're on the road. You're sleeping in your car. You got... - Maybe you got a little trailer, but you're living in a trailer nine months out of the year. It's a horrible life. But when you got to do it, you got to do it. Well, the Hilton sisters had made a lot of money in their day. They'd lost a lot; they'd wasted a lot; they'd frittered a lot of it away. They got in some bad business ventures. But they still made a lot more money than most of that sideshow talent. - They were doing, you know, whatever they could to survive. Sideshows were disappearing at that point, but they made some appearances even into the '40s. - When they go back to that a little later in life, I think they realized the degree to which they'd been sheltered from some of the reality of that. And I don't think it was a pleasant experience in their life. - It's hard to separate fact from fiction with the marriages of the Hilton sisters, and I say that plural because I couldn't tell you how many were actually reported on, were really recorded in court documents... - Who knows? And then there's the old apocryphal and not-so-apocryphal carnival marriages, which I don't know that they ever got into, which basically is, "I love you, honey, but the season's over." - When they were in Atlanta playing a nightclub, they said to the magician, "Would you like to become the most famous magician in the world?" And he said, "Well, how would I do that?" And they said, "Marry one of us." [laughs] - Can I imagine a courthouse or a judge saying, "We can't have that"? Yeah. Depending on where you go. I can also imagine promoters and the Hilton sisters themselves going... "Where is it most likely that we're gonna get told no?" And showing up there. And then parlaying that into what you really need, which is money, because ultimately, when you're in the sideshow business, it's not just what I can perform as onstage... - sword swallower, fire-breather. Fine. You're a working act. But when you're a freak attraction, what you see is what you are. They're going to always be aware, as they've been aware since they were infants, "What people see is what I am, and what I am has to be about making money, because this is it." - L, Daisy, fell in love with the singing, dancing master of ceremonies of our act. His name was Harold Estep, known professionally as Buddy Sawyer. He was eight years younger than I. - Little guy with hair the color of corn on the cob. Buddy Sawyer was pretty much wired the same way that Jim Moore was wired. - They were attracted to gay men. There is some advantage to that. - The marriage was just totally and simple a publicity stunt. And they only remained married for... maybe a month, two months. - There would be these streams of people after the theater closed, would go to the motel and be out in the streets, crying up to their room, asking, "Hey, Buddy, are you in bed yet?" And that sort of thing. He was married to freaks, but then he was a freak himself, he thought, and he just couldn't handle it. - Then one morning we looked across the twin bed where Buddy had been, but he had disappeared. - I don't know how many years it took them to find the difference between gay and straight, but I guess eventually they... - they knew nothing about sex. - All these people were approaching them all of the time with these... - what they insisted were can't-fail money schemes. - Chained For Life, their autobiographical film... - somewhat autobiographical... - inarguably one of the scariest and worst films ever made. - That was not their best film. - We've always been the headliners. The Hamilton sisters. I thought you'd given up your, uh, career. I guess there's nothing left. - The picture was that one of the girls had accidentally or intentionally killed someone, and so, could that person then... - could she be executed? - They tried to exert some control over how they were being portrayed in the movie, and by all accounts, their interference with the people who were the professionals certainly showed. - People that approached them about doing this film really didn't have any money to do it. It was up to the twins to not only act in it but pay all the bills. It came out, and mostly it was screened in tiny little theaters. Sometimes they weren't even theaters. It was like some little venue somewhere where, you know, somebody put up a bedsheet, or at drive-in theaters. - And they're there; they're gonna answer questions from who? The people getting out of their cars? - They made the movie; they had high hopes that this was gonna make them movie stars, and it never did. And it became one of those things, sort of like Freaks, that they weren't very proud of but were stuck promoting. - They were so out of it by that point in time in their lives, in terms of what the business had become, they were trying to go from town to town to screen that film. They were trying to take trains from town to town. Trains hadn't been the principal means of transportation in the U.S. since probably the '30s. Nobody really cared about their film. People couldn't have cared less that they were actually showing up with it. - They would do a little show before the screening. Sometimes the drive-ins were better known for showing, uh, other types of movies. They would come in, and all of a sudden, you'd have this movie, and it would be a change of fare, but you would have your regular patrons. - They would appear on little stages or inside the concession stands. Put on their little dances. It was pathetic, really. both: You stole the silver moonlight And left all heaven dry - It was awful. Their greatest audience was probably made up of the mosquitoes in the air. - It was a big step down from where they had been. You really see them starting to age more rapidly. Some of the spirit wasn't there anymore. - They weren't taking care of themselves well. They weren't eating well. They drank. They smoked. They were wearing costumes that were out of date in fashion but were also kind of moldering and, you know, not very fresh-looking. But they were trying to stay alive. They were trying to survive. They made these appearances at a few nightclubs in Miami. When they left, the owners of these clubs were, "Oh, thank God," you know, "They're gone." - When you end up in the age when everybody wants to consider you sort of a dowager and an old-timer, and, you know, "Shouldn't you be playing a role right now that reflects your increasing age?" That must have been fairly brutal for them. In their heyday, there was probably nothing any bigger a draw than the Hilton sisters. - How's it all going, girls? - Just too good for words. - Holding on to that money is very tough in a business where you always have to keep up the front; you always have to be mounting the next big thing. And the Hilton sisters, in their career, fetched up on the bad end of that. The huge money, the huge success you are today, you're not quite that tomorrow. The Hilton sisters were not prepared for the tomorrow that they ended up confronting. And nobody likes to go onstage and die. And that's pretty much what they were doing in their last days. They got out of the business. They pulled out and got into a number of failed business ventures. - They would do this sort of thing for a while. They would bubble back up again into show business. They ran a snack bar in Miami. - The girls, bless their hearts, really did not understand business. - I don't think that I've ever had as bad a case of nerves onstage, opening or production, or doing pictures, as I did as serving a hamburger. I actually had stage fright serving hamburgers. I was so scared, I didn't know what to do. Of course, the cooking and the cleaning was no problem because we learned that years ago when we were children. - Initially, the snack bar attracted some attention. Merchants in the same area thought it was just bad for business. They thought most people were gonna be grossed out by seeing conjoined twins serving food. - When Daisy and I were seven years old, we shook hands on a promise that after putting a set number of years in this world, we would get out of it. - In 1 962, I owned a theatrical agency. We would book shows in theaters and for television and traveling shows, and my secretary said, "I have a call for you," and it was Violet Hilton. She said, "Well, do you know who I am?" And I said, "Absolutely. "You were the highest-paid act in vaudeville. "You were the sensation of the show business world for many, many years." She said, "Well, my sister and I "have decided to go back on the road "and are wondering if you would be kind enough to book our act." I said, "Well, certainly, "but, now, it would take me some time to set this up. I'll call you back in a couple weeks." Two days later, this gentleman walks into my office and said that he was a taxi driver. I walked down the steps with him, and there in the backseat of the cab were the two Hilton sisters. And he would like me to pay for their cab fare from the train station. And they said, "Well, we're ready to work." And I said, "Well, I told you it was gonna be a month or so." I said, "It would be better for you to go back home." She said, "We do not have a home to go to." And one of the girls said, "Well, is there a theatrical hotel in town? You think they would check us in on the cuff?" Meaning, they didn't have any money to check into the hotel. These girls were a tremendous success in show business. Now, as I started to call the different theater circuits and say, "Could you book some dates for the girls?" I began to feel some resistance. I said to them, "Listen, "maybe you would book just a trial date "so that we can put them in as an engagement "and let's see how they do... - "an engagement here, an engagement there. "We'll try it in different-size theaters "and different-size towns. "I'll even book them in some of the drive-in theaters, and we'll see how it goes." I said, "Now, incidentally, girls, after we book the dates, how do you plan on traveling from town to town?" They said, "Well, we'll take a train." "But it would be almost impossible to book a route for you to travel by train." Then it came time for the engagements. I had several television shows. And Uncle Zeke hung around the television station and would want to help me carry bags in or do this and do that. [chuckles] And poor old Uncle Zeke. He... - He was an alcoholic. [laughs] And this was a children's show I'm doing. And so finally the director came over to me one day, and he said, "Listen," he said, "We've had some comments about his breath." I said, "Uncle Zeke, you can't drink and come here and be on these television shows." He was a person who was driving their car and taking them from town to town. They were willing to do... - if you had a project and say, "Here's what we're gonna do. I want you to do this publicity," or whatever... - "Oh, yeah. Oh, absolutely." The girls did not like the drive-in theaters, but I felt that the picture, Chained For Life and Freaks, which we played a double feature with them when they appeared in the theaters, would go better with a drive-in theater crowd. The only thing was that nobody cared. Nobody showed up. I says, "I think their personal appearance days are almost over, Zeke." I said, "Girls, we need to do something here. "Tell me, do either of you have any skills? Like, office skills?" She said, "Well, yeah. We play musical instruments, and we dance." I said, "No, no, that's not what I'm talking about. "I know that. "Have either one of you ever had a job where you worked at a store or you worked in an office?" "Oh, no. Oh, absolutely not." I had booked them in a grocery store here in town, making a personal appearance. It was this place called Park-N-Shop, operated by a fellow by the name of Charlie Reid, very fine person, who had three stores in total in Charlotte. - They were at the front of the store, and they were advertising twin-pack potato chips. Now, that's a good sport. The twin-pack potato chips came put together. - They became more cynical, but it didn't seem to teach them anything about handling money or to acknowledge that those around them had used them. They got robbed. They got taken by almost every male in their life. And I can remember where they asked my father for money, and they were always somewhere near where they ended up. They were in the Carolinas, and they would wire him for money, and he would always send it. - They were promoting the movie Freaks. And they came to Monroe, which is a little town east of here. - They were abandoned after one of their gigs. They had had a manager that was less than honest, and they were going to do a performance at a drive-in, and he took off with all their earnings and left them with nothing. - These Siamese twins were basically dumped out, and my father, Clay Keziah, owned the motel and the restaurant next door. And he allowed the twins to come and stay here for free of charge and allowed them to eat at the Bonfire restaurant. And they stayed in this end unit. They were here several months... - two little tiny, tiny twins and very delightful, were just thrilled to know they had a roof over their head and somewhere to eat. - A church in Gastonia, Belmont, heard about them, and they moved them to Tanzy's Trailer Park. - My dad had about 20, 25 trailers. A lot of them were rented week to week. Some were rented month to month, and we had people that stayed there for years and years. I would say they weren't unfriendly, but they were a little more standoffish. - [sighs] And it was hard for them, like it's hard for a lot of entertainers. You know, a day comes when it just is over. - They had been in the spotlight most of their lives, and to be honest, the spotlight had not treated them all that well. - I think the first reaction that everybody had was to feel sorry for 'em a little bit by the time they got here, because they were really down on their luck. They were basically broke. They were looking for work. They had been sort of left behind. They didn't have family. And so people in that situation, I think it was natural for people here to feel sorry for them and to reach out a little bit. - My dad and mom, independent grocers, came to Charlotte and built a pretty good size store on Wilkinson Boulevard out by the airport. And my dad loved produce. - They were known for their service, and he was known for his kind of big promotions. - If you bought groceries, you could get a piece of Alaska when Alaska became a state. We had Buffalo barbecue. Watermelons, 1 0 cents each. If you came in your pajamas, they were 5 cents. One day, they came in the store. Now, they were showgirls still. They had the long fingernails... - red long fingernails, orange hair and the makeup and caused quite a stir. And they went over to the office, and they said, "We want to see Mr. Reid. We want a job." Well, my aunt was on the receiving thing, and she's like, "Oh, my gosh. "These people can't work here. What are they thinking?" I mean, they were destitute. They... - I mean, they had nothing. And their life was taken away. They sat down on one chair. You know, they kind of cuddled. And they said, "Mr. Reid, we need a job." They said, "You only has to pay one... - One people." And Daddy's looking at them. He said, "Well, I got to think about it. You know, let me get back to you." And he prayed and prayed. He was a quiet man and quite Christian. It came to him... - the produce. They could work in the produce. 'Cause they couldn't bag groceries. And Dad was smart. He was gonna use four hands. - Back in those days, every cash register did not have its own scale to weigh produce on. So you would go down a produce aisle, and there would be a set of scales and a person there, and they would weigh them and price them, and then they would ring it up at the end. Well, what he did is, he set up a double aisle; then the twins could sit each on a stool and work a set of scales. - Coming toward them, you couldn't tell that they were connected. And people would go on out this way, and unless they turned back, they would see the connection here. - My little nephew would go, and he'd try to stand behind them and see where they were connected at. - My mother's job was to clean them up. [laughs] - You can't show up in your stage makeup and your old stage costumes. - They cut their hair and dyed it a little more normal color. They had two separate shirts and two separate skirts, but it was split, see, to go around both of them. - Certainly people did come to the store to see the Hilton sisters. - It was an asset to the store, I'm sure. - And a lot of people, I guess, come to see them, you know, just to see Siamese twins. They were nice. They would speak to you and talk to you while they was working on it. - Kind of interesting, because their mother, way, way, way back also worked in a grocery store. - There was a break room at the store, and they loved to go back there and then start telling stories among the employees. I don't know how many were really true, or they were just trying to see... - but they would smoke those cigarettes and just talk and laugh, and they'd always say, "Yeah, I had a husband for a while." The way we remember it is, they had one... - each one had one at a different time. They just liked to entertain. They were still entertaining, and that's what I remember about the break room. That was their kind of stage, 'cause they had to be good on the floor, you know? They knew my mother would get them. I think they enjoyed startling people, to a degree. I mean, well, they startled people just with their appearance, to a degree, you know? But I can still see them walk. It was very interesting. They walked together, and they never stumbled. But they had to have a rhythm, you know, to walk. They rode the taxi a lot, and they always had dollar bills in their purses to pay cab fare to get from their house to the store. - And after they died, when they looking through their things, they came across a dresser, and inside the dresser was, like, a big stack of purses. And in each purse, there were maybe $3 or $4. When they wanted to go out the door, they could just grab a purse, and they knew there would be cab fare in there. - The bread man, he became friends with them, and he lived close to them, and so he'd take them home in the bread truck a lot of times. - He came through their neighborhood and kind of kept watch over them and gave their dogs toys. When they were living here in Charlotte, there was a doctor who came to town, who... - supposedly his specialty was separating conjoined twins. And he came to diagnose them, and his conclusion was that they could be successfully separated. They didn't share any organs or anything. So, he said, you know, "If you want this, we can do this, and it'll be successful," and they chose not to. - They were too dependent on each other, not just because they were cojoined but because there were so many things they did as one. - They were a little... - apparently a little difficult to become friends with. - When a lot of what you are as a talent isn't your act, however much the Hiltons would have argued, "It is our act"...- it's what you are; it's what you appear to be. It's hard to let people in, and it's hard to let people pass the front, because that's what you are. I mean, you're putting up the front. You know, "I'm putting up a good front." - There was a house that the church bought. Dad, in his wisdom, again, figured a way that they could rent the house. - It was the site of an old World War I camp where a lot of soldiers stayed during that time. - They did join the church. They kind of had to in order to use the church property. - When they went to Sunday school, it would be with the men's class. The men's class was on the ground level. The women's class was in the basement. There was one theory that it was just a physical thing, that it was hard for them to get down the stairs to the basement. The other theory was that they were more talkative and more comfortable among the men. They were here six-plus years. They sort of became just more of a regular part of the community, even though they were loners, in a sense. - I think they had a good life toward the end. I feel in my heart, you know, that they did. - Until their final days, they probably never had friends as strong and as important and as legitimate as the friends they had in their final days. I'd say they were as well-loved in that small town as they had probably ever felt in their whole lives. - They had not been seen for several days. - It was close to Christmas, and they always gave gifts to all their friends, even though they were not in really great circumstances. - One of the twins caught the Hong Kong flu. - Hong Kong came through Charlotte very, very hard. That was mean stuff. I mean, I... You had it, and then you just felt so bad. - Daisy had become ill. - And it got worse and worse. - They went to a doctor. He gave her some prescription. She continued to deteriorate. She actually called Rue Reid, the owner of the Park-N-Shop, said things were not going well. She began to suspect that she was imminently dying. She pleaded with Rue not to call any authorities or medical people, 'cause she didn't want any intervention, nor did Violet. It was always their fear, you know, from the time they were reckoning children, that some doctor would try to separate them. - We've always been together. And we'll be that way forever. - So Daisy died. - Violet, after her sister died, had made the choice to refuse medical intervention, to, you know, just say, "It's okay. You know, we made a pact that we would go together," and to know that your sister's gone and to wait for the inevitable to happen. - I don't think she would have wanted to live without her sister at that point. I don't think they could have. - Daisy was with her every second. And, you know, how could you imagine a life without her? But the fact that she had to, you know, witness her sister's death is heart-wrenching. - The house was one of those that had a heat grate in the floor. And I believe it was in the hallway. And they were found dead on the heat grate. Because of this flu, they had gotten really cold, and they were trying to stay warm. - Daisy's decomposition was greater than Violet's, so those last couple of days must have been nightmarish for Violet with her sister there. I think, you know, she drank a lot, smoked a lot, and then ultimately just... slipped away. - They found that they had already wrapped all of their Christmas presents and marked them to go to their friends. - And they felt that, you know, "We came into this world together. Let's go out together," you know? They had that kind of a pact they had made, and so it was. - It was not a huge funeral. Mostly people from around town who knew them and came to see them. They were buried in one grave, obviously one coffin and one grave. It, I believe, had to be specially built. They're buried out in Forest Lawn Cemetery here in Charlotte, which is probably one of the prettier, you know, of two or three nicest cemeteries in town. - My uncle, J.C. Carrel, got to know them over the years, became friends. He was a guy with a... - hard-drinking truck driver with a tender heart. He did a lot for people. And when they died abruptly, he had an extra plot in the cemetery, and they needed a place to be buried, so he was gonna give them the plot next to his son. - They knew no other life. The tragedy in the life was that their life changed. The life around them changed. The world changed. That band of tissue is what made them special. - If you separate the two girls, there no longer would have been the Hilton sisters. - Sometimes when life is bad and you're broke or your, you know... - your manager's left you or whatever, you know, what else do they have to hold on to that made them special? That was it. - I don't know that they ever had that fairy-tale happy ending. I think there was always, you know, complications that got in the way, and I think that frustrated them. But I don't think they ever gave up. I think they were always... - you know, I think they believed in the dream. I think they believed that they could have that happily ever after. They just didn't find it. - Our physical bond was not going to be our cross. - There were many rules we were forced to follow. But we had learned that most of our problems could be settled inwardly... - sleeping, eating, living together. There were no adjustments in our relationship we couldn't make. We've always said we were like other people... yet different. From the moment we started to crawl, when the leg of the table got between us and we couldn't pass, but we decided that our physical bond would never be our cross. But we've been successful. We've reached the top in show business, and there isn't a thing we can't have, except happiness. We've fooled ourselves that by entertaining others, we were making ourselves happy.
