 

                        1 Do you believe in witches? That they'll give up being a witch for love? Meet Barbra, the witch of every man's dreams But that was eight years ago Since dating kidult Sam, she has lost her powers Now, her life is dedicated to taking care of him I've been waiting for half an hour I'm ready Thank you Thank you Thank you Here's your oyster congee Enjoy your meal Sir The scallions? I'll take them off Their love story isn't epic Shared showers, removing scallions, wiping bottles Butthafslove What more do you want? Towel, please Get it yourself Hurry. It stinks! I can't reach it Hurry I can't go over there. Hurry While dating Barbra is a champion of a sport... Called "Mixed Breakup Singles" Is it good? Yes How is this different from yesterday's? The bacon... is too fatty And the bread? The bread? It's okay OK! Do you know where I bought the bread? Do you know how much I spent? How long I spent waiting in line? I went at dawn It cost $45 And it's just okay? Get off that thing! Just so you know, we've broken up I just came to see if you're still alive Quit the wet puppy look I'll take you to the doctor's then I'm going Let me remind you: we've broken up I'm ready to go Which do you think is better? Spin around This one Let's go What's wrong with this one? It's fine, too But I like this colour Maybe we should just shower and go to bed I can't stand your attitude! Let's break up Every time they break up Sam has to give in on... everything before Barbra will agree to make up This makes Barbra sound evil But when Sam said he wanted to open this cafe... Barbra quit her job and found a space even though she had told him off And who am I? I'm the cafe My name is LA... LA... Sorry, I don't read French It means "I love you" As to why I look like this on my first day... it's all because of these bad influences Last night, they had too good a time Hurry and pack A dead body! Over there Thanks to our coffee-maker, we can open for business To work! You're open already? Today is our first day Thanks May I sit here? Sure What is the name of this cafe? It's called LA Je t'aime A French place Yes Then I'd like a French toast and a latte What's wrong? The shop's coffee machine broke This is from home The Four Boys are MIA How can we do business? I'll talk to him Calm down It's our first day; why turn down business? Make his coffee. It'll be fine I'll handle this I got an idea. Go make his coffee Priscilla's Eatery Yes One very French French toast; anything else? Address, please? Po Hing Fong That's close by, about ten minutes The back entrance? Okay, thank you! Uncle Three, French toast takeout Who orders French toast in the morning? We're busy. Tell him to call back at tea-time Yeah! Who orders French toast so early? So I'll make it myself Uncle Tam Delivery to Po Hing Fong. Thanks I'm busy Fine. I'll deliver it myself. Here it is You ordered French toast? Yes, how much? $20, please Here's $25. Thanks What a cute place! - Come by soon - Did you just open? Yes All the best to you Thank you This is hideous It needs some garnish Put this on top What do you think? No Let me fix it Excuse me Cookies won't work. - Take them off - Who is she - Deliveryman - Give me some fruit. Do you have fruit? I need a napkin for my hands, please. Thanks There! it's beautiful! Your French toast Thank you This is me, Priscilla. Hello Call me Brother P Barbra Hello, Barbra It's like eating a custard So tender and soft You must have made it the classic way And this coffee Clear layers, luscious foam... Fragrant and smooth Who knew coffee could be such a joy? I give you four stars Thanks It's better than Priscilla's What is this place called? LA Je t'aime It's mine and my girlfriend's The name is her idea How romantic! But you have misspelled it In French, the "LA" Should go after "Cafe" Now, it's just LA Cafe And "je t'aime" is missing an apostrophe and an "m" Now, it's "jetaie" And "taie" is French for "pillowcase" And what does that make it? The Pillowcase of LA Cafe Pillowcase Correct it: add the apostrophe and the "m" The light is about to change It's red! You keep jaywalking you'll get killed See? We've crossed. We're still alive It's critical: the coffee beans must be fresh The coarseness of grind - must match the degree of roast - I want to order something Take her order Don't bother me. I'm busy I want to order food Thanks, please come again M-may... I... help... you...? Corning I'm getting it. I can balance, look... - That looks like fun - a latte, thanks - May I see the menu? - Yes, right away Thanks The grind is too fine Let me try again Let me play One look and you know they are winners, right? Yes, they are the stars of our show, the Four Boys In the beginning, we had someone else in mind I can brew coffee I can make latte art I can bake pastries I can't do anything, but... I have 60,000 online fans: that's free publicity Great! When can you start? Don't call us; we'll call you Water temperature is very important Perfection is 90 degrees on the dot So... Can you three make coffee? Make latte art? Bake pastries? We can learn But do we get paid extra? Don't call us; we'll call you You start next week But the prize for Most Perfectly Matched Couple... Goes to Lorraine and Roy They're gorgeous, stylish and healthy Most importantly, they're generous tippers Who wants cake? This wonderful baker who lets everyone taste... her food is Priscilla, daughter of the... owner of Priscilla's Eatery down the street Since we became good friends... In addition to supplying us with French toast... she'd often come to give us her shop's business What a great friend Look, a new cafe Let's see how long it lasts Look! See how amazing I am Perfect balance Sorry Can you be serious for a second? I am. I'm practicing balance Right now, I have a psychological imbalance How do you decide who to buy from? He's over 10% more expensive than everyone else The thing with business is... they profit from us and we profit from others That's what trade is all about Do you understand trade? All you have are friends who "be-trade" you Freewin and Man Kit never pay for their coffees Just $10,000 and they think they are major shareholders What's a few drinks between friends? It's my treat; count it against my account Your treat? Do you know what that means? Do you know your cafe is losing money? "Our" cafe. It's yours too I know So I do the books, brew coffee, make sandwiches... purchase supplies, sweep the floor And you? What do you do? I'm Management! What? I said, I'm Management! Why are you shouting at me? Management can read. Can you? If so... you would have corrected our sign by now Do you know how to spell "shame"? Shall I tell you? It starts with an Management! Where are you going? Starts with an "s"! To change the sign Don't come back until it's done If I come back, I'm an asshole Open up, Brother Barbra! I'm freezing There's no one here by that name Pretty Lady, open the door And who might you be? A-Hole. What does that mean? Asshole Come in Start work... Let's go Who should we fire first? Four-eyes Delivery! Boobie There's no one here by that name Barbie then. Cheer up I come bearing gifts! Where do you want this? Put it against the wall The... Fab Four? Four Boys, help move the tables and chairs Move those tables. Put this against the wall All right What are you trying to do? This wall is too colourful. That's bad feng-shui It will cause conflict between you two This shelving unit will help your relationship So I brought it over just for you It's hideous; it's plain white This is a feng-shui issue Thank you You're welcome Mom always taught me... to be generous yet thrifty Even if that bitch divorces me for another man... I will sincerely give them my blessing Even if I don't want something... I should donate it to the less fortunate, right? Boss Thank you very much What are you doing? - Thank you, Boss - Thanks for your hard work Thank you Thank you What's this? The bitch didn't take it with her I don't want to see it at home, so I brought it over This is a great spot. You four, move these away Hurry bring it here Freeze Is this your storage unit? You can't put your stuff here I have a share in this cafe Just $10,000 makes you a major shareholder? I'm going to the restroom now When I come back... this man, this shelf and this chair had better be gone She doesn't want to see you You went too far Left Right What are you doing? Where's Sam? He... went... out... Sam Wong Here! Bird's nest in almond syrup My boyfriend's favourite No How did you get here? I came in from the back door Don't let it go to waste Four Boys! Corning Take it away; eat it up Careful, it's hot What's wrong this time? He's never done anything right he's like a child, and I have to clean up after him Look at you. You're always ticked off If I were him, I couldn't stand you either Be honest Aren't you afraid Boobie will be upset you snuck out? The problem is not the sneaking out The big deal is that I'm with you two OK He is sand, which is trash I'm cement, also trash Together, we become concrete, which is precious That's right I take you for a bottle of '87 Chateau Lafite. Precious? I also take Boobie for cat-poop coffee. Precious? But together, you will become trash If you have balls, tell that to her face Sure - Sure, you think I wouldn't dare? - You tell her if you have balls - Tell her later - I will If he grew up a bit, I wouldn't be so upset You know, women shouldn't get upset It's so bad for your skin Your skin is a bit dry, but not from being upset Then what is it from? You guys haven't... done "it" in a while, right? Wow, you're direct Then let me beat around the bush In anything Both parties must work hard to run it, Am I right? Yes See? It's clear you haven't "run it" in a while Your skin is so dry it will turn crispy Drama queen It's not I haven't worked hard to run it I work hard to run the cafe But Sam only thinks about how to run me I don't want that, so I shut down That would be awful Slow down! You haven't done the deed in so long You're ruining the bike Wait for me No His requests are very strange Tell me He always wants to do it in other places $0? That's it? Don't you find it strange? I wouldn't want to do it just in bed Where else would you? Guess The kitchen The world is so big; it doesn't have to be at home Public toilet Too stinky The park Too many mosquitoes; so, too itchy Where, then? Give you a hint It's still my place Not at Priscilla's? Yes, we did Where in Priscilla's? That's not important. We cleaned it up really well That's gross It is a little But so good for my skin Try it sometime No, thanks Who called? Boobie? Who else? You're brave to hang up on her She will tell me off again when I get back anyway So I'll just combine it into one session A relationship needs constant work It's a picture? What is it? It's out of focus Lucky bastard It's Boobie's cleavage Don't, wait I'll keep it for you Let me see How can you tell? Not like this! It's Barbra without a bra: just Bar You're right You're right It's much deeper now "Come home and work really hard on it with me?" I'll reply for you Why? Tell her "I'm ready for the long haul" "Long haul". Can you do it? Let me do it Hurry You're in my way You rode too hard; I worry you'll go soft tonight Here's soft for you - Hard for you - Clearly Brother Barbra Hey! Phone, wallet, keys All here Let's go Where? Are you okay? I'm fine You sure? Wait "Just worked hard on it at the cafe 3 times!" "ThX" "Sorry, not tonight. Rain check. Lok" What's wrong with the floor? What is it? I keep tripping here You buffed the whole floor last night It's fine Didn't I tell you to dump that shelf? Didn't Priscilla tell you to clean everything up? Please don't. It's not like we get out often If not today, we'll go tomorrow. No big deal. Here Forget it! We get out so seldom; must you cause a scene? Is that always my fault? Never yours? Don't you dare walk away from me I hate men like you Let's break up Are you crazy? You're so spoiled I really can't take it anymore, you know? You bought me these. I'm giving them back Really! I'm giving these back You bought these last time in Italy. Here Shoes, birthday gift I'm even giving back these pants You're nuts Don't... Sorry Stop, you! They left something - What? - Don't - What? - Don't do that Rings Yes It fits me Take it off now. They'll come back for them What is this? A picture of them This was taken at Ladies Market How can you tell? It's obvious Don't touch their stuff; wait till they come back Let's grab a muffin at Sam's cafe A muffin? No, let's just have tea. I need to lose weight Why do you suddenly need to lose weight? I need to keep fit; I'm marrying Daisy at the end of the year You're getting married? Really? - Yes - When did you decide on this? I proposed last time we were in London London That was a month ago. Why didn't you tell me? I'm telling you now It's taken you this long to tell your best friend? Are you upset? Upset? No why would I be? I'm starving. I'm going to grab a bite at Sam's Come here Wh... what did I mess up now? Nothing. Put it down first Two lovers came by today. The man was screaming at the woman Never mind Come over here. You step back You step back You pretend to be the guy Such a gossip hound The man screamed at the woman "What do you mean!" They hadn't ordered food yet, Then she said something about seldom getting out No, they had finished their coffees by then Whatever. Something about seldom getting out Step away now. Away bag was here. Take it "Nuts!" We're not there yet He first said something like "What's wrong?" but in another language And they came over here Who cares what they said? Then he said, "Here" No, what did she say before that? "I'm giving this back to you" "I'm giving this back to you" Then they guy started taking off his clothes. Do it What? Who took off their clothes? You should have been here earlier Let's start over Again? Rewind. Quickly "I never thought this would happen on one trip" What... don't go "Stop!" that's it Right, "Stop!" and then "I give this back", just like that "Give it back", Then the guy started to take off his clothes Taking of his clothes; first his jacket "You're nuts!" "You bought me this; I give it back" Then,hen. She loves this next part Who's taking off their clothes and pants? You are, right? Boobie, you took off your clothes and pants? That was it? I'm done. You finish the story Why did you tell her to take off her clothes? Is this going to happen? Two lovers I think from Hunan, were sitting there No, they're not from Hunan Lovers speaking in Mandarin were sitting there They started to argue - He... - No, they were very sweet Why don't you tell it Why don't you tell it No You should tell it No,you You started Please go ahead So I can tell it now They sat there and didn't even drink their coffees Due to the language I didn't know what they fought about Then they went over there and left OK I don't care who said what The woman who took off her clothes how was her figure? Was it this woman? She looks so common That's right No The woman didn't take off her clothes I say this one last time A couple fought, then broke up He took off his clothes She left. He chased The end $0? $0? What's the point? What's the point? Here's the point. Don't ask. Come see for yourself "I am a pair of rings" "A symbol of the expectations many have about love" "By buying me, a couple thinks they can own a lifetime of love" "But love is not an ideal" "it is getting along every moment, maintaining it every day" That's right What? Thafslove - Yes - You're amazing Thank you - He is right - You have good taste He hit the nail on the head Thank you He copied it What? I composed it You copied? It came to me on the spot You copied Do I look like I'm lying? Where did you copy it from? Why would I copy? the line about... "a lifetime of love" came from my heart A true friend of The Scholar of North Point Public School and his Sidekick We're so proud Thank you - Hey... - What? What is it? It's like this What is it? - We all know... - What are you looking at you still kept every tissue used by your first love Quit joking; he's so embarrassed Write something for him Then you may reclaim the title of Scholar of North Point Public School Come on, write something I said no You just don't know what to copy? Write I'll show you right now - Okay - Write I got it "Youthful loves are all perfect regrets" Buddy leave them here OK I have something, too Hi, Honey What happened to your hair? I shaved it off; you said you've never seen me bald. Do you like it? What do you want? Let's start over You know I have a boyfriend now If you want me to be happy, give us your blessing I give you my blessing Honey. This was your first gift to me I cannot bear to part with this cigarette case. Even now, I carry it on me Throw it away I know my wife still loves me As soon as she saw me She noticed my new hairstyle Enough! I think you should give up, okay? When I took out the cigarette case Her eyes got red She told you to throw it away. Let me help you My cigarette case. Don't throw it! Over here - Don't throw it! Give it back to me - Catch Here you go, Hag Why did you throw my cigarette case away? Give it back to me. My case... You really dived in! Where is my cigarette case? - How long have you known me? - Cigarette case Cigarette case Let's go all the way! Here Damn Damn Let's go See you later You bastards! Damn "Some pain cannot be Verbalized" "Some love cannot be understood" Excuse me I want to put the stuff my ex and I had here How much does it cost? How much? We weren't together long I've drawn everything about him Now I don't want it anymore May I put it here? How much does it cost? I'll pay anything! Please write a touching story for me "Breakup Mini Storage: Lay to rest your memories of love" "Rent More, Save More: 30% off for 4 or more spaces" "Weekly - Monthly - Yearly Pre-pay and get 10% off" This is Big Head. He's my son But his Daddy ran away from home two months ago But that's okay I'd found him a new Daddy But I worry my present boyfriend will be jealous Please take good care of him Give him love Will you give him love? If you would like that But at $1,000 a month You wouldn't He may not, but I will All right Deal. $600 By and by, we shall find a brand new heart And forget the heartbeat that was never ours When he said he'd leave me I attempted suicide with this I held this knife, planning to stab myself like this I thought he would stop me as he usually did But he didn't, and called me bluff I couldn't let him win, so I stabbed in I just managed to cut my skin Please put it in the second space on the third row That was his seat in school Thank you so much! Because... Not there, down below! "In the face of death, we know the value of life;" "in the face of loss, we know the value of having had" You broke up with the fat girl? No You're the third wheel? This is a picture of me No way This is you? I used to look like that Back then, in order to keep him... I borrowed money for plastic surgery in Korea, and dieted In the end, he left me anyway I don't blame him I was a fool But I really miss the old me Love is great A man like that is not worth it But which plastic surgeon did you go to in Korea? Where do you want surgery on? Her buttocks My girlfriend and I loved Eason Now she doesn't like him anymore She likes someone named G-Dragon You know what a dragon is, right? Those fire-spitting dinosaurs Can you make me a cup of coffee? Because I'm a bit... dry from talking Your coffee Thanks You're welcome The bitterest thing I've tasted! Is it really coffee? Don't say anything This bitterness... matches my present mood so well! Thank you You're welcome Thank you May I have a cookie? Please take care of Cloudy. Feed him 5 times a day A goldfish! Do we accept it? Sure, take everything How about a dog? Sir, your Breakup Coffee It's so bitter He gave me this bow. I've just played... my last song with it I don't need it anymore He's about to get married. I hate him. My ex-girlfriend gave me this cell phone Next time, you might try our Breakup Coffee It's still here. It's crowded. I hear there's a breakup mini storage More like a columbarium I loved him But arrested him with my own hands Look at this... How cute! You can display all these? La... La... Here's to Roy's wedding Cheers Cheers Cheers Cheers I thought you two were in love - With him? - With her?? I wouldn't choose him We're just good friends More than that, we're like brothers Cheers! HEY Try my sticky rice with preserved meat My boyfriend ate so much of this Bring some plates There are scallions Not a problem I like scallions; they taste good I'll serve; come on, eat up Is she taller than Lorraine? I'd rather not say Here's one for each of you Eat up! Do you like it Yes? Then eat more Which of you is Miss Priscilla Yu? I am You are a suspect in a vandalism case Please come to the precinct to assist in our investigation This must be a mistake My friend won't do that There is no mistake Miss Priscilla Yu We suspect you used sticky rice with preserved meat... to intentionally damage Mr Chin Ka L0k's car Please come with us to assist in our investigation Why don't we take you home? We can't be seen together even at the movies So I long to travel where people don't know him Then we can date openly But even then we can't take pictures together We went to Tokyo with some friends One of them took a picture of the two of us Everyone else was in shock He deleted it in front of me That had been our only picture together He carried on as if nothing happened I was heartbroken He could have treated it as a picture with a fan Every remnant of a breakup represents... the most unforgettable moment of a relationship It could be a vow of everlasting love... or a last-ditch effort to save the relationship Our Breakup Mini Storage lets everyone... who's been in love show the most touching, heart-breaking moments of their love stories "Everyone can be defined by a poem, but in yours I am only a typo" What are you doing here? Why don't you go in? We'd... like to... go... inside but... no... no-one's there That's right Hello Where are you? What? Are you crazy? What a great shop space! Yes Both floors are spacious and don't need renovation Yes, and the landlord is a nice guy He's very supportive of the dreams of young... - entrepreneurs like you - Really? You're mistaken. We've created our business Now we're expanding by opening a branch Congratulations Opening what branch? It's Boobie Hello, Boob-Boobie I'm Paul Thanks Come here Why do you suddenly want a branch? It's not sudden We've discussed it in a group chat for a while The agent had time, so we came to look around At least you're just looking We're more than "just looking". We're quite firm on this Our Breakup Mini Storage and coffee are popular So we want to open a branch, We've discussed this We've decided to register the trademark in English or French Then issue member pre-paid cards... So they can easily buy coffee and rent space Really It sounds real Yes But count me out. I'm going to open the cafe How can we count you out? If we open a branch, you're the Lady Boss Sam Wong, why do you always get carried away? You guys talk and if it sounds fun you want in This isn't for fun It was my suggestion That's even worse. Shouldn't you have discussed it with me first? I'm discussing with you now OK I say no. End of discussion Don't say no yet; hear me out Freewin and I planned this out in great detail Him? Is he that intelligent? But, Boobie, We really have a great idea It will work for sure Let me hear it Actually, some details can be refined Freewin, Man Kit, I've known you so long I know you guys well You may talk too much and be slightly misogynistic but you are loyal friends But because of that, whenever... Sam gets an idea, you support him without thinking But isn't that the same as hurting him? Really, I had my doubts in the beginning Barbra is right. We must look at it from all angles Sam, you're also to blame You should have discussed this major decision with her Are you done? Sam, I got your back I hope you still remember, before your divorce... You were sure you saw her cheating on you We supported you and went to catch them in the act... But ended up crashing her belly dance group lesson So your support of Sam here is questionable to me I hope you understand Of course We completely understand It's just a misunderstanding Just say you're sorry Why? I didn't do anything wrong He's in the wrong But you can still choose Yet a great space like this comes once in a great while Let me show you the upstairs You'll be happier then Sam I heard the Four Boys say you often break up You've done it at least 99 times Is that true? I've never asked for a breakup. She's always the one Do you follow Premier League soccer? One team, Arsenal, was undefeated for 49 matches But Barbra is undefeated, period Every time she mentions breaking up, I surrender Have you tried to... reason it out with her peacefully? That is when she's at her most unreasonable Whenever I try to reason with her She'll suddenly say... "Why are you pointing at my face? It's disrespectful" Then I'll give in and she'll say... "Why is your tone so mean when you talk to me?" "Do you respect me? You don't love me at all" I have no answer to that So she always ends up the winner and I the loser Do you think... the Breakup Mini Storage works? It's great! You can open several branches I agree I plan to apply for a patent I got your back Thank you Next Saturday, then OK Stay in touch Bye Goodbye, Donnie Bye Bye Where did you want to open your branch? Show me Now? Are you tired? Do you need to rest? No It's just ahead, around the corner turn here? Yes, it's about right - Hello - Sorry, Mr Wong Paul is showing another property to a client May I show you around? Sure, I've seen it already See, the layout is good, and there's a loft upstairs Excuse me, I have to take this. Make yourselves at home - No problem - OK Come, look at this I plan to set the Breakup Mini Storage here - This whole wall - Right here? From here, here, all the way to the show window Anyone walking by can see it. Looks good, right? Not bad Now come here. Look, The sofa goes here When things are slow I can look outside, like this Put a table here Not the sofa but a table, right? Yes. Should we use redwood or oak for the table? The service area starts here, Here is the bar The Italian cups and dishes go here The coffee machines go here And I will brew coffee here Here's your coffee, thanks. Here Thank you There's an island here I put my coffee here and talk like this It smells great Whoa, hey! Look out! I want to order - Ying, give this to the customer - Watch where you're going! Sorry Lady Boss, I messed up She wanted a Latte, not a regular coffee Bring these two to Table 3 - The customer is chasing the order that just came in - What a waste! Can't you see we're busy? Yes, I'm helping Really? Yes And yet you're still playing What are your orders? What do you want me to do? Nothing. Just play And you want to open a branch Fine, then we won't. Just stop talking about it Am I wrong? Look at your attitude What are you unhappy with? Let's clarify that today I'm fine You're fine Yes There's nothing you want to say Nothing I have something to say Every day, you sit there like a bump on a log What have you done besides playing? Look at yourself. You don't think you've gone too far? I'm fine. How have I gone too far? I did a lot of work. Can't you see? Please come here The soul of the cafe The Mini Storage, is my design The idea of Breakup Coffee is also mine Please look carefully All this is what I've done Yes, only you can come up with these ideas - But they are all gimmicks - Of course How long can they last? Six months, tops Please don't keep doing these silly things Wait Aren't they successful? Don't dismiss my creativity. They're my ideas Have you ever succeeded? Aren't we successful now? Can't you see? Can you please not be like this? Be like what? Like a child Every time I point out anything Ask yourself how old you are. You're in your 40's. All you think about is playing When you say it, it sounds great You say you opened the cafe for our future But actually it's because you like to play Yet you supported me - That's the only reason I did this - Yes I supported you. Do you know why? I said I wanted to open a branch It's because I can see our future here But the longer we're open, the less I see it I can't see it any more You can't see it because you don't identify with me You nix everything I say Can you try supporting me? It's you Can you stop treating me like a child? You think I want to treat you like a child? You think I want to babysit a child? To babysit you? Right now, you lam your girlfriend, not your maid - You are my boyfriend - You're more like my morn Do you think I want to be your mom? I don't know; you just don't identify with me You know, everyone else knows I've matured I'm creative Stand in my shoes for once, okay? So it's my problem? Let's break up There you go again Who said once the cafe is open we won't say that again? Who said it? You're right So this time I'm serious You refuse to grow up And I don't want to babysit. It disgusts me I can't take care of you Let's break up You two can't be serious You're kidding, right? Sam, get her back She must be heartbroken We don't know where Lady Boss went The business is being run to the ground Boss is very depressed I know, why don't you sing the blues? Welcome. Please feel free to look around Yes, this is the cafe There are so many things here - That's ours - Our rings Nuts! You still remember us? Of course... Of course... Of course... didn't you... break up? Last time, I... After we argued here We did break up for a while A friend sent us an article on your cafe We saw our rings in the picture You wrote about them in such a touching way I decided to win her back And we're together again What did I write? This This is it "I am a pair of rings, a symbol of the expectations many have about love." "By buying me, a couple thinks they can own a lifetime of love." "But love is not an ideal. It is getting along every moment," "maintaining it every day." You refused to go on a diet; it may not fit you now Let's put them on Boss, what are you doing up there? Correcting our sign Why are you suddenly doing that? I should have corrected it long 89 That's not the best way to change it, huh? If you change even that nothing will be the same anymore! Enjoy the spa. Try to relax Why do you keep looking at your cell phone? The Four Boys and Freewin are texting me All the more reason to ignore them Please, just correct what's wrong and that's it "ls Barbra still angry? Where are you?" Normally, he would have apologized during our massage It's been taking him quite some time Nevermind If he doesn't apologize, we'll stay a few more days I'm not in any hurry What if he doesn't apologize? He's good at that He always apologizes Once we were in a worse fight than this I was so mad I flew to Australia on my own He followed me to Australia but didn't know where I went He waited at the airport for a week Isn't that silly? Then he's really good to you He really is Look at that smile! Why fight? Why does it matter who apologizes first? Give in once and you lose forever Plus, I'm right Yes, you're completely right Of course Let's order rice noodles with beef Too greasy It looks good. It will give me energy to go on a diet I have to go What's wrong? I have to go Come here Hello, Chin Ka Lok Hello, Angela She's a fan, Will you take a picture with her? It's her birthday. I don't like pictures Sure, go ahead Here, I'll take it Put your hand on the birthday girl's shoulder Look at me One Two Three Thank you She's so nervous Yes She looks familiar; do you know her? I'm glad you don't Where are you going? Why did you have to do that? I had forgotten... Everything that happened Now it all came back If you really forgot you wouldn't have reacted that way You're better off without a guy like that You're crying your eyes out and where is he? What has he given you besides pain? We had happy times I knew it would end I just wanted to delay it Come on What are you doing? You've grown up Delete your past with him Atta girl Please keep this picture for me for a while Thanks Come on Taste my new concoction It's full of intelligent truth about love It's great Come on Taste it Is it sweet And bitter? Is it cold and hot? Then you get it Tell me what it means Love is like an affogato Sweet, bitter, hot and cold You missed the point It's telling you to switch to tea... And nothing bad will happen Come here Since the bitch took over, how has he changed? It's not all bad, actually He quit drinking, smoking and cursing Not just him. I've cut down on cursing too That's much worse than before You've both changed What have you become? Aren't you scared when you get up every morning? The guy in the mirror is just not you I know what you mean Being with Barbra Puts a lot of pressure on me As your friends, we're under even more pressure Since she's around You keep getting dumped Then we need to console and support you So we support you But Why? We hope you can be a man And stand up for yourself But once we turn around you grovel back to her I'm sorry, 9W5 I know you think Barbra ls all tough, all the time I get very frustrated every time we break up I've thought about getting another girl I know I can But I'd remember things from the past Together we've gone through so much Like, you know I don't get along with my dad She'd have dim sum with my parents every week Even though we're still not friends... At least I'm willing to see them for a meal and a chat And our flat You say she's forcing me to marry her But the flat is a good buy It is my future Our cafe idea She was the first to disagree with our cafe idea But she has worked the hardest on it Sometimes I wonder If I am immature No You've changed The bitch is the problem Give her an inch And she'll take a mile Right? There will not be a 101st time So I've decided... To let her win it all I will marry her I praised you just now because your life is a tragedy... And I didn't want you to be overcome by sadness You haven't become that mature, right? You're not ready, Wake up Don't do such stupid things We've been talking all night, But you don't care how we feel You've made up your mind Just don't come back to me Where are you going? We're like brothers, man! What more is there to say? As buddies we have to back each other up We just want him to be happy Try to understand Freewin and I want the best for you It's a tough road You gotta think it through Where is she? Taking a shower Thanks - Sorry - I'm going to scream Sorry, don't be mad. I won't open a branch I'm not mad about that I'm mad because you don't know why you're wrong Your attention span is around three minutes So I've decided, l. You always interrupt. Can you let me finish? It's like I never let you do anything I'm the only one managing the cafe now Can you take some responsibility? What did you just decide? So I've decided I've decided to change all my bad habits But promise me never to say "break up" again, okay? I'm serious All right, I won't say "break up", okay? Go out, let me finish my shower Who told you I was here? Must be Priscilla She's always playing with her phone This is a nice place The room is big and there's a pool outside If you're not opening a branch let's invest here What's wrong with you? I turn my back and you mess up You're... okay? You're nuts. What could have happened? Hi, Melody You begged her to come back? Shame on you You are truly a man among men Awesome Here Stop talking and hand them over $100 each I told you so Back to work Back to work "Breaking up broke your heart" "But the world did not end" "instead of dying" "You grew stronger" Hello Hello, it's been a long time It really has This is good. Did you write it? No, my boyfriend did Really? Sam - Hello - Hello It's been a while This is good I copied it Then you copied well And your penmanship is good French toast and coffee Latte Go make him a latte He makes really good coffee now Really? Yes Let me take you to your table Your latte Thank you You're welcome So I want to make a suggestion. I hope you don't mind I suggested you correct the spelling on your sign... which I see you did, although quite haphazardly But I think the old way looked better Don't you agree? But we've changed it. Some things you can't change back Come on You just pinned it on Hi Hello, Sam Can you please make me one of those coffees? What coffee? The really bitter one from last time The one that was crazy bitter You mean Breakup Coffee? Yes We don't make it anymore How can that be? Of course you can make it Please make it for me one last time I'll even pay for the cookie. Please Don't... I'll make you a latte latte? I didn't come hereto drink a latte I can make that at home Take some powder, add some water and that's it I drink it, I'm happy, and don't need to come here I came here to drink that very, very bitter... Coffee and matches my mood right now Do you understand? I want the really bitter one Haven't you grown up? And come to your senses Forget about Breakup Coffee I'll make you a latte, okay? Sorry, what does "come to your senses" mean? I'll make you a latte What's wrong, Officer? I feel something has changed there Changed where? Come here, you four Whose idea was it to change the sign like that? The Boss's Do you think it works? No Why didn't you tell him? I... told... But he's the boss So of course we respect his opinion So what if he's the boss? Tell him if something is wrong What, you don't dare? L. What, another meeting? Nothing, we're fine Lady Boss says... the sign... lS good! You finally saw it Yes, it's quite cute As long as you like it So... go back to work Back to work Back to work Let me help you Thanks She hated it a minute ago now it's fine What's going on? She complained we didn't have the guts, but... damn! Of course she wouldn't dare They've just made up maybe she's worried he'll run off Don't... talk... behind... people's... backs Let's go out to dinner after work tonight I have to go to class What class? A coffee-making course. Three times a week I've never heard you mention it It's supposed to be a surprise I'm going. Turn off the lights and lock up "Are you still in class?" "Yes, don't wait up. Go to sleep" "The sun on the horizon" "Slowly slips away" "The tears inside my eyes" "Are falling down my face" "You said "I'll always love you "My heart'll never change" "I'll always stay the same" "But it's always just the same" "You say our love is over" "You feel so far away" "But we'll fall in love again" "My heart it breaks a hundred times" "When you leave our love behind" "But I'll keep on holding on" "I'll never leave your side" "I'll stay awake a hundred nights" "Just to hold you when you cry" "So I'll keep on holding on still" "if you say goodbye" "A hundred times" "The sun on the horizon" "Slowly slips away" "The tears inside my eyes" "Are falling down my face" "You said "I'll always love you "My heart'll never change" "I'll always stay the same" "But it's always just the same" "You say our love is over" "You feel so far away" "But we'll fall in love again" "My heart it breaks a hundred times" "When you leave our love behind" "But I'll keep on holding on" "I'll never leave your side" "I'll stay awake a hundred nights" "Just to hold you when you cry" "So I'll keep on holding on still" "if you say goodbye" "A hundred times" "You said "I'll always love you "My heart'll never change" "I'll always stay the same" "But it's always just the same" You're awake? Then let's talk You've been grinding your teeth in your sleep lately Are you under a lot of pressure? Because of the cafe? The Four Boys? Or me'? It's the class Something just doesn't feel right I thought so I see you feeling anxious and tired at the cafe Don't stress yourself out. I got you some stuff Bee pollen twice a day. It helps you sleep. Luohan Fruit capsules once a day Take them now I'll take them tomorrow Take them now No, tomorrow I'll get you some water I said tomorrow! Boobie ls Sam seeing someone else? All our friends know... Sam Wong has died a martyr's death Why? Because you have sucked him dry He listens to your beck and call but to what end? Now you're accusing him of being unfaithful. What's wrong with you? But he's become a different person altogether What had you told him when I was gone? It doesn't matter what we had told him He never listens He only cares about you I think you should reflect on... what you've said or done to him Boobie It's time you looked at it though his point of view Boobie, nice of you to visit us Congratulations Sorry, we have a meeting, to talk about something We'll see you another time What happened? Haven't Sam proposed already? - Just shut up - How would I know What you talked about? "Congratulations"? Come on I didn't You think you're a billionaire or what? Always buying this useless stuff Happy birthday from a billionaire That hurts! What's wrong? Your fingernails are digging into me Then trim them for me No, trim them yourself "Take your time. I'm going to work" Do you think I'm a good girlfriend? You're okay Then why couldn't I notice his misery? And I don't understand why he's miserable I want to make him happy but I don't know how I'm so scared... He'll discover He doesn't love me that much I wouldn't know what to do Maybe the way You love him is not what he wants? So what does he want Only you can know that He wants to win, just once I don't think it has to do with winning or losing You're right It shouldn't I get it I get it Let's go Where are we going? I want to show you something Come on Congratulations, Sir Invite me to your opening party Sure Sorry, Miss Kong. You came too late This gentleman just signed the agreement How can that be? I wanted it first I know, and I'm so sorry But he loved it at first sight and paid the deposit I tried my best to talk to the landlord, but it didn't work This is ridiculous! What can we do now? I remember... I have a few other spaces just like this one You really won't feel the difference, The nearest one is a block away I'll bring you there now; you'll love it Let's go What do you mean? You didn't tell me you rented it out You think I'm chopped liver? We don't need to tell each other anything anymore? Sam Wong Stay! Come clean with all your grievances You're upset I vetoed the branch, so I brought you here And that wasn't just my fault - it was yours, too - Just stop, okay Sam Wong, are you trying to break... "Shop for rent" "Lorraine" Hello? Sure HEY you... Take me home Star Street It's Roy's wedding. You're leaving so soon? Get some rest. I'll see you Can you stay with me for a while That's not a good idea. Bye "I already have you. I wouldn't want anything better" "I thought it was worst when you left me; but it broke my heart to realize... I don't know how to love anymore" Good morning Good morning When you're done, let's go to work "How long has this coffee been lying about?" "This cup is bitter beyond a single doubt." "How often" "have we tried to break up, I cannot work out." "I thought all predicaments could be bailed out." "Suddenly, you no longer care to cop out." "Honestly, I'm sick of this endless timeout." "Time has turned the riddle of love inside out." "For long we've stopped holding hands when we go out." "I try to leave but you don't deign to keep me." "Since when have we lost the will to disagree?" "I can't turn back, wine has replaced your coffee." "Sobering up might add to our misery." "At least we won't say breakup repeatedly." "Speechlessly, we come to an intersection." "I linger but you would not stop your motion." "Time has already become our spokesperson." "Parted hands can't be put back in unison." "I try to leave but you don't deign to keep me." "Since when have we lost the will to disagree?" "I can't turn back, wine has replaced your coffee." "Sobering up might add to our misery." "At least we won't say breakup repeatedly." "How long will this coffee continue to stay?" "Drink up this cup and we shall call it a day." "You are so close and yet seem so far away." "For our final breakup" "Who's the first to say?" "Relationships are not predestined" "They cannot be guaranteed" "So if you meet someone willing to grasp your hand tightly" "Please try not to let go lightly"
