 

                        (Man)Allright, men, time to go wolfhuntin'. How's it look? ( Both Chattering ) - (Fiddle ) - (Man Singing, Indistinct ) This is the song theysing Hey, get along Get alongJosey Hey, get along Jim alongJoe Hey, get along Get alongJosey Hey, get along Jim alongJoe Watch your turns. ( Continues ) Ladies, bow. Gents, you know how. Do-si-do and aroundyou go. Sure was nice ofyou and your father to come over tonight, Miss Webb. Oh, It was nice ofyou asking us. We been intendin'to-- Ma has, I mean-- to come visiting, you bein'new folks here. Well, we've been wishing you would. (Skillet Scraping) ( Continues ) Looks like the Kents are merrymaking. Let's see ifwe can't help 'em celebrate. ( Continues ) ( Caller) Oh,yeah! - Stop the music. - (Music Stops ) ( WolfHowling) ( Growls ) That's what we've been told not to do. Now put that back... and get your mother and the otherwomen and children down into the storm cellar. - (People Chattering) - Dad, what is it?. - Mr. Webb, would you go to the barn and let the horses out?. - Certainly. ( All Shouting, Indistinct ) - Ma! - ( All Talking At Once ) ( Chattering ) Be careful now. Don't-- - ( Ma ) Be careful ofthose steps. - What is it?. - It's a raid. - But why?. - They hate us. We're Mormons. Go on. Hurry now. - Mormons?. Hey! Here's one! - Come on out, Mormon. - Get out here and find out... what the state of Illinois thinks ofyou. Come on, come on. - (DoorSlams ) - (Footsteps ) Cut me some firewood. Has-Has anything like this ever happened before?. Fiveyears ago in Missouri. Just becauseyou people are Mormons?. Just because we're Mormons. - ( Crying ) - No. (Gunshot) (Gunshots ) I got one oftheir Mormon bibles. Let's make 'em spit on it. - Make him spit on it. - Spit on it. - Stuffit down his throat. - Go on! Spit on it! ""Blessed beye when men revile you and say all manner of evil things aboutyou for my sake." Don't ""blessed" us! Come on out ofthere! - Ma, they set the house on fire. - Oh! Now hide in the fields until they're gone. Hurry! Quick! This is whatyou can expect ifyou don't clear outta here. Why areyou doing this?. We onlywant to live in peace with everyone. ( Grunts ) ( Ma ) Oh! Caleb! Oh, Caleb. Dad! Dad! ( Crying ) ( Screams ) My father, Caleb Kent. - How?. - Beaten to death. (Man ) JasperPalmer. - How?. - Beaten. Well, what are you gonna do about it, stand back and pray... while they drive us out of another state?. The Lord works in strange ways. Sure, but that didn't prevent him turning Samson loose... on those Philistines with the jawbone of an ass, did it?. What those fellas need is a little lead in their bellies. - Ifyou saytheword, I'll-- - Tearthem limb from limb. I know. - That's what they're itching for. - Our people have had enough troublewithout that. They can't stand much more, Joseph. They can't stand to pull up stakes and move again. Let's settle this the wise way then. Give them the political power theywant. Vote the way they say to vote. (Man ) Yeah. Let them use that powerto destroyus. The authorities will protect us ifwe do as they say. I wouldn't trust them any further than I can chuck a mule. We can't take any more chances, start all over. We've got the biggest city in Illinois to protect. Promise them anything theywant, only let's have peace. What doyou say, Hyrum?. A man has a right to fight for his own life. And you, Heber?. Seems like we'll have to. Otherwise they'll drive us clear out ofthe United States. All my life, I've asked only one thing of my neighbors-- to be left alone in peace. We've stuck to that in every state we've been in. - But I guess it won't work. - What?. You may be right, Angus, but perhaps it's time... for us to show a different kind of courage... and do something besides be killed forwhat we believe. Tell the people I said to arm themselves. - That's treason. - That ifthere's anymore raiding... we're going to fight back. Tell them I'm going to lead them myself. Ifthey haven't got guns, get guns for them. Tell them we're through turning the other cheek. Hallelujah! What's the difference between a white man and a Mormon?. - Blamed ifl know. - About 50 wives. ( All Laughing ) (Man ) There he is... the man thatsays he talks to God. A man so eaten with pride andambition... that even the word "treason'" holds no horror for him. A prophet and sai nt who wal ks up to God... anytime he feels like it, whispers in his ear... and gets talked back to-- Joseph Smith. Now, gentlemen, you've heard the evidence. Ofall that, I needsayno more. However... I would hold myself no better than a skunk... if I did not bring up a matter... which is the very heart and core ofthis case-- to wit, the teachings ofJoseph Smith. ( All Shouting, Indistinct) Quiet down! Quiet! Quiet! Order! Go ahead, Pete. Joseph Smith, a half-educated boy just likeyou or me... brought up in a two-by-four town called Palmyra... in New York state... has the unmitigated nerve to stand up and say... God told him to rewrite the Holy Bible... because it's full of errors-- errors, mindyou-- and to go out andpreach... that all churches are an abomination in the sight ofthe Lord... except this one... that God told hi m personally... to go out and get an army to run. Give him a trumpet, and I bet he'd say he's Gabriel hisself. - ( Shouting, Indistinct ) - Oh, wait a minute! Go on and sit down. And remember, this is a court oflaw and justice. The self-respectin' people ofthree states-- New York, Ohio and Missouri-- God bless 'em... have already told Joseph Smith to pack up and git. But has that stopped him?. Oh, no! He's come all the way here to Illinois to save us. And what does he do?. He buys himselfa swamp hole for almost nothing... and builds himself a town called Nauvoo... and sends his missionaries all overtheworld to tell people... God set our land aside as their inheritance. Before long, they'll own every stick and stone in Illinois... fill every public office, run every church and school... unless we get rid ofthem! Your Honor, the prosecution rests. ( All Cheering ) Order in the court! - ( Crowd Chattering) - Has the defense anything further to offer?. Your Honor, if there's no objection, I'd like to say something. - ( Shouting, Indistinct ) - (Bell Clanging) I saywe all let him say what he's got to say! Letyourself go, Brigham. Your Honor, my name is Brigham Young. - I'm not a lawyer, but-- - Never mind that. Go ahead, talk. All right. Go ahead. Gentlemen, it looks to me like there's been a little mistake made here. The lawyer for the other side has been so busy... trying to pin every crime on the calendar on Joseph Smith... he clean forgot to mention that us folks was the victims of all those outrages... he was talking about, not the ones that were doing them. Sure, we finally got around trying to protect ourselves. You push even a coyote up in a corner, and he'll snap back atyou. That's the first time I everheard it called treason though. I n other words, the whole point is... whetherJoseph Smith or any other American citizen... has a right to worship God as he chooses. So that's why I figured I'd like to tell you a little bit aboutJoseph Smith. Now, me, I'mjust an ordinaryeverydayfellow. I used to farm a little, do a little carpentrywork... painting-- anything to make a living. But all that time, I was trying to find the right church... for me and for my family, and I was willing to give them all a try. But somehow none ofthem hit mejust right. I'm not saying, gentlemen, therewas anything wrong with them for other people. I'm just saying they didn't suit me. One day I picked up The Book of Mormon... and Isaid to myfriend HeberKimball... ""Heber, let's go out to Ohio and see this prophet. Let's see what he's got to say for himself." I remember it was about noon we came up to Joseph Smith's house... and his wife Emma came to the door. and his wife Emma came to the door. Excuse me, ma'am, is this whereJoseph Smith lives?. - Yes. - We'd like to talk to him, please. You'll find him outyonder, the other side ofthe lake, chopping wood. Thankyou, ma'am. That sounds kind offunny for a prophet to be out swinging an ax. - Don't seem just right. - Prophet ought to act like a prophet. Can't expect to build a church ifhe acts like a farmhand. Good morning. How doyou do, sir?. I'm Brigham Young. - This is my friend Heber Kimball. - I'm glad to meetyou. We've come a long ways to seeyou. Wewant to askyou some questions aboutyour church. Gladly. I'd like to tell you about it. Won'tyou sit down?. What's this aboutyou folks calling yourselves saints?. Well, we believe that any man, dead or alive... who keeps the Ten Commandments is a saint. You don't pretend to be the Lord himself, doyou?. No. I'm just a mortal man, same as you oryour friend here. Well, this plan ofyours you call the United Order, what's that?. It's not my plan. It's the Lord's. Well, whose ever it is, what is it?. Well, I-- I suppose you'd call it the law of nature. You see, it's his idea that the land ofzion will be sort oflike a beehive... or like that anthill overthere... with everybody doing his share ofthe work... and getting his part ofthe profits. A place where everybody will have everything he can eat and use. There'll be great storehouses to keep food and things in... There'll be great storehouses to keep food and things in... for the sick and the poor, the old folks. You see, under a brotherhood plan I i ke that... it'll be impossible for any one man to pile up a lot of goods... or have power over his neighbors. That'll mean there'll be no social distinctions... no caste, no special privileges. any more than, I take it, there is in that anthill over there. We had it once, but somehow we've all but lost it. We've got to get back to it again. Well, that-- That sounds all right. But then there'll always be lazy people, ambitious people. There'll be some honest ones and some dishonest ones. What I'm telling you, Brother Brigham, is a revelation from the Lord. It's up to us to work it out. This isn't an easy religion. Well, I'm not looking for an easy religion. I'm looking for one I can bring myfamily up decent in. Joseph. Dinneris ready. Won'tyou stay and have dinnerwith us?. ( Young ) Well, thankyou. We'd be glad to. All right. Come on. Now, gentlemen, I'm not asking you to believe... a single thing Joseph Smith said... but I do askyou-- let him believe it. Let me believe it ifwewant to. Yourforefathers and mine came to this country in the first place... for one great reason-- to escape persecution for their beliefs... and to build a free country where everybody might worship God as he pleased. That's what brought the Puritans to Massachusetts... the Quakers to Pennsylvania... the Huguenots to South Carolina, the Catholics to Maryland. And when they found what theywere after... they fought a great war to hold on to it... and they drew up one ofthe noblest documents everwritten-- the Constitution ofthe United States-- to govern free men. And the very first words they put on that piece of paper... guarantees to every man... the right to worship God as he pleases... and prohibits Congress or anybody else... from ever doing anything to take away that right. You can't convict Joseph Smith just because... he happens to believe something you don't believe. You can't go against everything your ancestors fought and died for. And ifyou do, your names-- notJoseph Smith's-- will go down in history as traitors. They'll stink in the records... and be a shameful thing on the tongues ofyour children. Thankyou, sir. Thejury can go out now and decide. ( Whispering ) ( Man, Shouting ) Hey,Joe! Hey,Joe! Give it to 'im! - What areya waitin' for?. - (People Chattering) We don't have to go out, Your Honor. He's guilty. - ( All Cheering, Clamoring ) - ( No Audible Dialogue ) - (Clamoring Continues ) - ( Gavel Banging) (Judge ) Order! Order! - (Banging Continues ) - ( Clamoring Continues ) Order! Sheriff, take charge of the prisoner. - Have him here tomorrow morning at 1 1 :00 for sentence. - Yes, sir. -Joseph, ifyou'll say the word-- - You'll do nothing ofthe sort. - I'm going with you,Joseph. - So am I. Come on. Joseph, I'm going too. This is the end. I wantyou to stay and take care ofmy people. Don't look so solemn, Brigham. Onlythe Lord God oflsrael can whip us... and I don't think he's in cahoots with the sheriff. (Man ) There he is!Here comes HolyJoe! ( Crowd Laughing,Jeering ) (Man ) How about a couple ofmiracles,Joe? ( Shouting,Jeering ) ( Shouting, I ndistinct ) - (Man ) There goes HolyJoe! - (Man #2 ) String him up! (Shouts,Jeers Continue ) - ( Singing Hymn, I ndistinct ) - (Mob Shouting) - ( Singing Hymn, I ndistinct ) - (Mob Shouting) - Shh. - (Stops Singing) ( Shouting, Indistinct ) They're coming. Ask the Lord to save you,Joseph. (Shouts Continue ) The Lord God of Israel has spoken. Verily I say unto you that one will be raised up to take my place... endowed with courage, farsightedness, common sense-- ( Glass Shatters ) He will lead my people... even as Moses led the children of Israel across the wilderness. (Pounding) - (Pounding Continues ) - (Shouting Continues ) (Pounding) ( Groans ) O Lord, my God! ( All Shouting, I ndistinct ) (Knocking On Door) We thought we'd just come over and see how you were getting along. Won't you come in?. - I'm going away. - Where to?. You see, I have an aunt back in New York-- not really my aunt, but just by marriage-- - and I wrote her and asked her-- - We came hopin' you'd come over and staywith us. Oh, thanks just the same, but I-- I'm afraid I couldn't do that. We'd sure like to haveyou ifyou could. We thought, seeing you lostyour father had something to dowith us-- - Oh, but I'm not a Mormon. - That wouldn't make any difference. But I-- I just don't understand. It's been so terrible, all this hating and killing. - Itwon't always be like that, zina. - I couldn't stand it. I'vejust got to get away. ( Sobbing ) Oh, well. Now, now. You come over and staywith us. ( Crying ) I don't know hardlywhat to do. Well, now, you can stay for a little while. And then a little later, after you're getting to feeling better... then you can decide. ( Crying ) (Rooster Crows ) (Hammering) I'm afraid you folks are making a sad mistake... fixin' to run off and leave a fine farm like this... when there's no sense to it. Brigham Young thinks there's sense to it. Gettin' ready to leave by spring. What Brigham Young thinks and what the Lord says are two different things. Brother Duncan has been picked to takeJoseph's place as prophet. - Duncan?. - He's had a revelation. What does Brigham Young say aboutyour being head ofthe church?. As I told you before, what Brigham Young says and what the Lord says... are two different things. Everyone knows thatJoseph wanted me to take his place. I was his chief counsel long before Brigham Young ever came along. - I stood up for him. - Like Brigham stood up for him in courtyou mean?. He'd never have been in court in the first place ifhe hadn't listened to fool advice. I warned him what would happen raising an army instead of compromising. ""Compromising"?. Listen. I stood right here in this yard and saw my father-- who'd never hurt anybody in all his life-- beaten to death... zina's father shot down in cold blood. And you sit there and talk about compromising. I'dratherbe shot down than go crawling on mybelly... asking a lot ofmurderers to let me alone. And I don't believe that the Lord said anything to you at all. If he picked anyone to be head of this church, it was Brigham Young. And if Brigham tells me to stay here and fight, that's what I'm gonna do. And ifhe tells me to pack up and go on somewhere else, that's what I'm gonna do. And there's nothing you or anybody else can say that'll stop me. Can't anything stop me any more than it could stop my father... from saying he believed in Joseph Smith even ifhe knew he'd be killed for it. Ifyou're in such a hurry to talk about compromising... you'd better get on yourway right now. Come on, Ma. Eliza, I've always thought a lot ofyou and your husband... so I won't hold this againstyou. Good day. (Hammering Metal) Young fella's got quite a temper, ain't he?. Brigham Young put him up to it. You mark mywords. Who's that girl there with 'em?. I never saw her before. Must be an outsider. Jonathan! Jonathan! Look! They're headed for Nauvoo. You'd better get out the backway. Looks like our runnin' days are over. - Hallelujah. - (Knocking On Door) - Brigham Young?. - Yes, sir. - Come right in. - Thankyou. Young?. - How doyou do, sir?. - How doyou do?. I've come over here to warn you. You'd better getyour people out ofhere just as fast as you can. - Why?. - Because I've held off those mobs as long as I'm able. From now on, I can't be responsible. You mean you want us to leave everything we fought all our lives for?. I mean, ifyou don't go and go quick... blood's going to run like water in the streets... and nothing I can do will stop it. We're not budging one inch. I am sorry that's your answer... but I'm afraid the law can't helpyou much. The law?. What law?. The law that lets a pack ofscoundrels come in here... and hunt us down like wild animals?. Burn ourhomes, ruin our crops? Arrest our leader on trumped-up charges... and then looks the otherway when a mob breaks in and murders him?. They call that law, let 'em keep it. We don't want any more ofit. I appreciate this warning, Major, but, no, this time... we're going to stand up for our rights ifit kills us. You tell that bunch ofhoodlums that I said... ifthey come over here again, we're going to fight... clear down to our boots and up to our necks in blood. You mean that, don'tyou?. - Doyou doubt it?. - No. Then I guess that's all we've got to say to each other. - Good day, sir. - Good day. Funny thing that major taking it for granted that I was the head ofthe church. Why didn't he go to Angus Duncan?. He's been going around from house to house... telling everybody he's been picked to run things. Still, ifI'm the head, why doesn't the Lord tell me so?. One thing's certain-- somebody's got to be head pretty soon... or there won't be any church left to be head of. (ThunderRumbling) (ThunderRumbling) (Thunder Continues ) You'd better put this around you. Brigham, they're over at the council hall meeting-- Duncan and Crum and the others. They found out that the raids are gonna start all over again tonight. Duncan says they're not gonna listen toyou anymore. They're gonna make peace with those people over in Carthage anyway they can. Well, maybe he is head ofthe church. Maybe it's up to him. Brigham. I stood here in Joseph's footprints. I knelt where he did... trying as hard as I know how to get an answer... but the Lord won't talk to me. He won't tell me what to do one way or the other. He didn't sayyou were not to head the church, did he?. He didn't say anything. Brigham, when you asked me ifl loved you... I didn't say anything either... but that didn't mean I didn't loveyou. Sometimes silence is the best answer you can give a person. Mary Ann,Joseph told me to run this church... and I'm going to run it theway it ought to be run until the Lord says no. (ThunderRumbles ) (Duncan ) We're headedfor the worst trouble we've everhad this verynight... unless we act and act quick. ( Man ) Minute they heard what Brigham said about fighting, they started organizing. ( Duncan ) I wish I 'd have been there to hear hi m. I 'd have shut him up quick enough. He's acting as if the Lord chose him to run this-- How else should I act?. I hearyou've been making some sort ofa deal with those rats over in Carthage. Whatever it is, you're not going through with it... because I'm taking the bull by the horns and spitting in both his eyes. - We're leaving here tonight. - Tonight?. - We're crossing into Iowa. - You can't bluster yourway into power. It might doyou some good to know that the Lord said-- - We cross the river into Iowa tonight. - Was it a revelation?. Yes. That's a lie. Angus, I'd like awfullywell to seeyou live to a ripe old age. Maybeyou will ifyou hold your tongue. - But the river is frozen over. - How else could we all cross it in one night?. - But it's fixin' to storm. - They'll never expect us to start. - We couldn't get our things. - The lighterwe travel, the better time we make. Don't listen to him. We can't run off now and leave everything. - I've got my granary to think about. - And my store. Every cent I've got in the world is right here. Maybe we're getting too interested in granaries and stores and things. Remember how when Joseph started out, he had an idea about nobody getting rich... but everybody sharing alike?. Somehow his idea seems to have got sidetracked. - I figure it's time we got back to it. - But I've worked hard. - I've saved and scrimped. - If a little money means more toyou than this church... you'd better stay here. Heber, put some fellas on horses. Tell them to spread the word. Tell everybody to come just as they are. We've got to put the river between us and Nauvoo by morning... or there won't be enough of us left to worry about. ( Duncan ) No, no. Wait a minute. Don't pay any attention to him. You're making a mistake. Think ofyour homes. You'll just be run out of this state like we've been run out of every other state. Listen to me. You're making a mistake. (DoorSlams ) Here he is. Theywon't compromise. Theywon't do anything. They're leaving. - Leavin'?. - Where are they going?. - They're crossing the river into Iowa tonight. - You're lyin'. It's the truth. Brigham Young's making them leave. - And good riddance. - Nowyou won't have to raid. You better get over there and see that they don't change their minds. - We'll fix it so that they'll never come back. - You won't hurt my property. - I did my best. I played fair. - You're no better than any other Mormon. Look, there's plenty else. What about that promise?. You're not gonna destroy my granary. It's full of Mormon wheat, ain't it?. - (PulleySqueaking) - (Man ) Take it easy. - (PulleySqueaking) - (Man ) Take it easy. Let 'ergo. Come on! (Man ) Get on! Hyah! All right, Mary Ann. I'll meet you down at the river. Lord, Brigham's a great and good man. I'm his wife, and I know. I've known him longer than anybody butyou and Heber Kimball. Only sometimes he's so sure ofhimself. Sometimes he's bullheaded and thinks nobody else knows a thing but him. But he's onlytrying to dowhat's right. Sowon'tyou look after him... maybe speak to him?. Because this is an awful thing he's asking us to do. And right now, in his heart... he's not halfas sure ofhimself as he makes out to be. Everybody meet on the other side ofthe river. Get together on the other side ofthe river. Everybody. (Men Whistling, Shouting) Jonathan. Meet at Sugar Creek on the other side of the river. Right. (Man ) Giddap there! Giddap! Hah! Giddap there! Ho! All right, go ahead. Keep moving. Supposin' the ice breaks through?. I'll get my horse. Let me try. ( Bleating ) Ho! Hie! ( Gunshots ) Hyah! ( Gunshots Continue ) Come on! Get those wagons across the ice! - ( Gunshot) - (Man ) Getyour children in the wagons! - Eliza! - Henry! Henry! ( Gunshots Continue ) Come on! Hurry up! Watch where you're going. Keep driving. Get those wagons across the ice! Well, ifyou ask me, it looks like the end ofthe Mormon Church. Come on. Mary Ann, look. Looks like we've burned our bridges behind us. Couldn't turn back now even ifwe wanted to. - Getyour tuba. - Tuba?. And get hold ofthe rest ofthe band. Tell them I said to start playing. Yes, sir. - Where are we going?. - Well, wherever it is, we'll get there. (Band Plays Hymn ) ( Continues ) ( Muttering, Indistinct ) Don't take it so hard, Porter. We'll build another city someday. Who gives a hoot about a city?. My gun jammed. I didn't get to kill even one ofthem. (Rifle Clatters On Ground) ( Cattle Lowing) Brigham, there ain't no sense tryin' to hide the truth. Folks are as mad as wet hens, cussin' you all over the camp... claimin' you're to blame for gettin' them in all this misery. Everywhereyou turn, they're gettin' ready to pull out. - Where to?. - Well, anywhere but here. They don't seem to know, but they say they're awful fools... pullin' up stakes and leavin' everything they got... to come out here and squat in the mud and slop till they freeze. - That's enough, Mary Ann. - It's high time somebody did some thinkin' around here. Why, there ain't 50 families in camp ain't got somebody sick or hurt or already dead. It's true, Brigham. I've been out all mornin'... and it pret' near breaks your heart just to look at 'em. And they've got to know whatyou're gonna do about it. Mary Ann, you and Clara get Emmaline and Lucy and some ofthe others... and helpyou take this stuff around to those that need it just as soon as you can. Well, what areyou gonna do about it?. Well, I've got an idea, but they're gonna need... some ofthis hot composition in their bellies before they hear about it. ( Exhales Loudly) What in tarnation's that?. It's one of Brigham's remedies to put down colds and ague... and fever and rheumatism and such. What's in it besides fire?. Hot water and cinnamon bark and ginger root... and cayenne pepper and anything else that's hot. Throw the stuff out. Ain't folks sufferin' enough without burnin' their insides out?. - Feel better?. - I'm all right, thanks. - (BabyCrying) - You better give her to me. - It's past her feeding time. - Oh, butyou're not strong enough to. She's hungry. (Fire Crackling) - How's Ma?. - She's feeding the baby now. Hmm. Doc Richards said he'd be over in a minute. Plenty more hurt. I wish he'd hurry up and come. zina, there's a family fixin' to pull out today... and I've arranged thatyou can go with them. No, I'm not going. I couldn't leaveyour mother and the children... whatwith her hurt and everything. - Butwe got no call on you. - No, I-- I'll stay. That's nice ofyou, zina. Ma will appreciate that. - How's your mother?. - You know Ma. She doesn't complain. She's a fine woman. - New convert?. - No, sir. I'm not a Mormon. - What are you doing here?. - Her fatherwas killed the night they raided our place... and she's been staying with us ever since. Well, I guess we can feed one more mouth. Thankyou, but that doesn't mean I'm going to be a Mormon. - You don't seem to like Mormons. - No, it isn't that. But, well, it's just that I'm a Christian. - So am I. - Well, I mean, I've got my own religion. I wouldn't change that for anything or anybody. And besides-- - ""Besides" what?. - Well, there must be something wrong when there's so much hate... people being tortured, killed... everything they've got in the world taken away from them. A lot offolks seem to think it worth going through all that for. ( All Chattering ) You folks have been doing a lot ofworrying... and wanting to know what we're going to do next. Well, in the first place, we're gonna start acting like we've got some common sense. We're gonna build some strong new wagons, gather in all the food we can... get enough guns and ammunition, warm clothes and whatever else we need... and then we're gonna get out ofhere. And we're gonna keep going until we're clear out of the United States... across the RockyMountains into Mexico. - Hallelujah. - Mexico?. Across the Rocky Mountains?. When it's got to the place a man can't stay in the United States... and believe what he wants to, then he's got to get out. - (Man ) That's 1,500 miles. Take us fouryears to get there. - ( Young)Just about. It took Moses 40 years to get where he was going. - (Man ) But 1,500 miles! We'dstarve! - ( All Chattering ) Doggone you, Brigham Young. We've stood for all your foolishness we're aimin' to. I'm through, through with the whole dang setup. I'm quittin'. You understand?. Quittin' you and the church. I'm goin' someplace where me and myfamily can live. ( All Chattering ) I know. I know it's not an easy thing I'm asking you to do. But we can do it ifwe've got faith enough. There's good stock here, Lord. They're about as fine a bunch of men and women as ever lived. All they need is a little bucking up... and a kick in the right direction so's-- so's they'll know their own strength. And then you'll see how soon they'll stop all this infernal whining... and all this talk about running off, quitting the church. First thing you know, they'll be letting their beards grow. They'llbe getting dirt undertheirfingernails... and calluses on theirhands as big as hoecakes. And they'll be ready to whip the tar out ofthe first fellow... that says we'l I never make it. I f there's anybody here doubts that, they'd better haul tail right now... because we don't want 'em. We'll build ourwagons, and we'll scratch for our food. We'll shiver, and we'll go hungry ifwe have to. And maybe some of us will keel over and die in ourtracks... but that won't stop us neither. Because the rest of us will keep going, and we'll never stop. Never, not until we've found the place. (Young's Voice ) Well, Lord, we're on ourway. Just as faras the eye can see, theykeep comin'. I doubt ifthere's been anything to equal this... since the children oflsrael set out across the Red Sea... andyou-- you had to open up the waters to let 'em through. And talk about miracles. Just take a look at the way some ofthese wagons have hung together. Ofcourse, it took plenty ofscurrying around to get together what we did. But I knew that as soon as we stopped arguin'... and grumblin'about what had to be done... and started findin' ways to do it, that we'd manage all right. Some ofour folks aren't really in shape to travel. Some, like Eliza, with bullet holes in 'em. Everybody, young or old, has his or her work cut out. The women are busy sewing, mending, weaving... or taking care ofthe babies, doing the cooking. And the men who don 't have to drive or look after the livestock... are turning out new shoes and seeing that our harnesses hold out. And we don 't aim to let our children get far behind in their lessons either. Classes are being held every foot ofthe way so 's it'll never be said... that a Mormon can 't read and write with the best ofthem. ( Woman ) Seventy-two-- Yes, sir, we're on our way. Load your wagons and get ready to start. There's only about five feet ofwater. (Man ) Ho there! It's all right,Jonathan. We can make it. It's only about five feet deep. Take care ofhim. It's only about five feet deep. Come on! ( Cattle Lowing ) - Can you swim?. - No. - You will. - ( Screaming ) (Woman Screams ) ( Screams ) Whoa, boy! (Jonathan ) All right. Now straighten it out. - There. All right. - We should've built arks instead ofwagons. Ifwe had, we could've floated clear to the Rocky Mountains. Has this wagon grown roots?. Angus, I didn't know you were here. - Yep. In the mud with the rest of us. - It's my church too, Brigham. Sure it is. Ifwe all push together, we'll get someplace. - All right. All together. - All together. Heave! Heave! (Young) Lord, the waythese sisters swing an ax is a caution. Theygo at it as iftheyhad the devil himselfon the ground... fixin' to lop offhis tail. In the meanwhile, we keep jogging along... putting plenty ofgood Iowa mud between us... and those scoundrels back in Carthage. It's rough country we're going through... and it's just as hard on the wagons as it is on them inside. zi na, come here. What do you want?. I want her to drive, Ma. I want to find Brigham. Tell him we're gonna drop out for a little while. We can catch up later. - All this jolting-- - You keep going. Ifyou let one stop, then somebody else will want to stop too. Then a third and a fourth, and, beforeyou know it... the whole shootin' match will be fallin' out. I don't want it said that we were the first to give up. Not for anything. Understand?. zina, you go and sit with Jonathan. It ain't right you cooped up in here... and all that springtime outside. Go on now, dear. (Young) We've beenseeing Indians, Lord, forseveral days now. Sometimes there'sjust one. Sometimes there's two or three. Sometimes a whole tribe just lookin'. Porter Rockwell says that... their main village is up ahead at Council Bluffs... and there must be a couple ofthousand around here and with more comin '. Kind ofgives you a creepy feelin '... knowing they've got their eyes on you. Some ofour folks are getting downright uneasy... but I tell them, ""Indians can 't be any worse... than some Christians I know. '" Till we find out a little bit more about them... we mean to trust in you, Lord... and to keep our powder dry. zi gzaggi ng. That means he wants to talk in peace. You zigzag out to meet him. My name's Brigham Young. We folks have been run out of our homes... and some of us are pretty tired and sick. We'd like to stop in Council Bluffs for a while. My people knows ofyour coming. We know whyyou are here. As Superintendent oflndians, my advice is to say no. Not manyyears ago, we were driven out of our homes. You are welcome here. Chief, those are the first words of real welcome... we've heard in 1 6 years. And don't think we're going to forget them. You can count on us for anything you want. ( Young ) We're welcome here! We can stay here as long as we want to. Unhookyour oxen, turn them out to graze. Clara. Mary. We're welcome here. We can stay as long as we want to. Oh, I'm so glad, Brigham. Tell everybody to unhook their oxen and horses. Theycan hunt too. This countryis running overwith wild game. Look, Brigham, good, rich earth. Sure. Anything would grow here. I think I'll let the main body stay here and raise a crop. The rest of us will push on and find someplace to settle in. They can follow us later and bring whatever they've raised. Tell the people the band's going to play tonight. Tell them we're going to sing and dance like we used to. Firstyou tell us we can rest. Nowyou say we have to dance. I bet I've lost a foot ofbelly since we started out. - It's good for the figure. - It looks good. I'm going to take a bath, even ifl muddy up the whole dang river. You'd better go now, because this afternoon you're going to be awful busy. - Buryin'. - Buryin'?. There's quite a few... counting the old folks, babies. - Eliza Kent went this morning. - Eliza?. Jonathan. Why didn'tyou tell me about Eliza?. She didn't want me to. None ofthem did. She told me to tell you, Brigham... that even though we might be the lastwagon... we'd never be the first to fall out. I just couldn't go away without leaving her some kind of marker. You know, Ma used to say... that a good wheel always sings. Ma would've loved those flowers. I never saw a body so crazy about 'em. Dandelion, ragweed, any of'em. Sonny, will you hold him?. - Hi. - Howdy. - Mind if I get a drink?. - Nope. You one of them Mormon fellas?. - Yes, we're Mormons. - I heard you was coming. Leaving offthe ""mister"' my name is Jim Bridger. - What mightyours be?. - Leaving offthe ""mister"' Brigham Young. - Say, how many-- - Twelve! Hmm. How about a chaw to oil your tongue with?. No, thanks. I never use it. How come?. What's the matterwith you?. - You see this?. - Mm-hmm. I've been carrying that now for 1 5 years. Whenever I feel myselftempted, I hold it up and say... ""Am I stronger than this tobacco or is this tobacco stronger than me??' And Iput it back in mypocket. I'll be doggoned. ( Children Shouting ) - Little more?. - No, thanks. You?. Yes, sir. It's all over California, I tell you. And some ofthem nuggets are as big as the hub on a cart wheel. Sounds like tomfoolery to me. My brother ain't the tomfoolin' kind. He wrote me all about it. All you got to do is yank up a pea vine... scrape the ground with your finger and there it is. Gold-- anywayyou turn, pretty and yellow... - ready to buy anything you want. - Don't go blabbing it around. We don't want people talking about how rich she is... Ieastwise until we get California into the United States... now that we've been dragged into this warwith Mexico. ( Chuckles ) Don't worry about us talkin'. See thatyou don't talk to our people about it and get them upset. We're not searchin' for gold. We're searchin' for a place to live. You don't have to worry about us either. Well, thanks. Good-bye. - Bye. - Bye. What's the matter with you?. Have you gone out ofyour mind?. I don't think so. I had to hush those fellas up. I've just had a revelation. There's gold in California. Well, this is a revelation, and I think the church... is about to find a new leader. As captains, each ofyou are in charge of 1 00 people. It's up to me and you to see that the Lord's will be done. Ifthere's all that gold out in California... it seems strange and peculiar nobody's heard about it before. The Lord chose when he wanted it known... and who he wanted to know it. Nowyou brothers get busy. Each ofyou know who you can trust in your own companies. What's Brigham Young gonna say when he finds out about this?. The Lord will handle that too. zina. - zina, areyou asleep?. - Uh-uh. Aren'tyou?. No. Ifyou were asleep... I bet I could tell you what you'd be dreaming about. - What?. - All that gold in California. ( Sighs ) Just imagine, zina. Chunks ofit as big as oranges. Wish I had an orange right now. I'd cut a hole in the stem forthe babyto suck. About the best thing there is for colic. Gold. You know, next to the Lord and maybe the land... I reckon it's about the most powerful thing there is. Hmm. What would you do with all that gold?. Oh, about a million things. I'd get a new saddle. And I figure that thewagon needs a new doubletree. Baby ought to have a cradle to rock in. And you-- I'd getyou a new dress and a hat. Lots ofboats come into California from China and everyplace... full of silk and things. I'd getyou a parasol and shoes to match... prettyfingerring-- Iots ofthings, Zina. All you got foryourself was a saddle. Well, maybe I'll get me a horse to go under it. Jonathan, suppose Brigham Young doesn't want to go to California. He couldn't help it. It's-- It's just like the promised land. zina?. You knowwhat I've been thinking about?. Sounds funny, but... I've been lying here thinking about the time... before I got into long pants. All the talking I used to do about... what I was gonna do as soon as I got into grown-up britches. Now, I don't know, I-- I don't even care anymore. Reckon the only thing I care about is... having somebody like me... Iikin' them and... just always bein' with 'em. zina. zina, seein' as you're so crazy about the children... and they're so crazy aboutyou-- Well, I was just wondering if-- Course, I mean, afterwe get settled... and I get a crop goin' and some ofthat gold I was talkin' about. Well, I was sort ofhopin' that maybeyou and me could, uh... ( Inhales, Exhales Slowly) get married. Hmm?. I told you to let me cook that stew. - Sure was good stew though. - Henry, shut up and go back to sleep. - ( Crowd Clamoring ) - ( Shouting ) Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! For the championship of Fort Bridger, a frog-jumping contest... between the defending champion... - Jim Bridger... - ( Cheers, Applause ) and the challenger... - PorterRockwell! - ( Cheers, Applause ) - I'll bet you Porterwins. - Bet what?. Oh, that new silk dress I'm gonna get against the horseyou're gonna get. Sounds like a fair bet. (Man Stuttering) G-G-Getset! T-T-T-Tickle 'em! ( Onlookers Shouting ) Come on, Bridger! Looks like you're not gonna get that dress you haven't got yet. (Shouting, Cheering Continue ) Dang saints, listen to 'em. Gambling. - They're only tryin' to have a little fun. - Fun?. There's whiskey bein' drunk. Porter Rockwell is chewing tobacco again. - Since when did he ever stop?. - I'm not going to put up with it. - I'll not have the devil flipping his tail in my face. - Brigham. Why doyou lie toyourself?. You'reworried about all this talk of gold... and going to California. Day and night, that fella Duncan has been at 'em... with his talk about gold. That all you do is stick a seed in the ground, and it pops up beforeyou can turn around. You're dead set against California, aren'tyou?. You know human nature. Take a crowd of people to a place of milk and honey... and in six months' time, theywon't be worth shooting. Our only chance is to find someplace... that nobody else has even put foot on. Sometimes I think I'm being punished... for saying the Lord told me to take charge. I don't think so. Not afterwhatyou've done to hold us together. (People Chattering) If I only knew for sure where we're heading. You set out to find a place across the Rocky Mountains... where we could live in peace according to Joseph's plan. That's what the people trusted you to do. I wouldn't disappoint 'em. Mary Ann, you're as fine a wife as a man ever had. Sometimes, I don't know what I'd do withoutyou. Always the same, never complaining. You're neverjealous ofthe others. No, Brigham. Sometimes, I think the Lord has been almost too good to me... just letting me take care ofa fine man likeyou. That's funny. When folks have been together as long as we have, it's-- it's kind ofhard to say what's in your heart... about lovin' a person. I know. Remember when I was courtin' you... how we used to sit out just like this on moon-bright nights?. ( Chuckles ) Mm-hmm. I remember. Supposeyou had to do it all over again?. Would you still have me... knowing all you do about me... and all thatyou've had to go through?. Yes, Brigham. I'd do it exactly the same. (Young) Well, Lord, here we are again. All I keep hearing is talk ofgold in California. So far I haven't said anything, that is, the way I feel about it... figuring that as long as we 're heading west, they'll be satisfied. I can 't keep that up forever. I'm not feeling very well myself. I don 't seem to be able to eat or sleep. And then I'm all cold inside, kind ofshaky. I must have got hold ofsome bad water back yonder. Maybe it's a touch ofmountain fever... from eating that rabbit stew the other night. You've got to help me find the right place, Lord... and find it quick. Because I can't go on like this much longer. ( No Audi ble Dialogue ) I tel I you, Mary Ann, ifwe lose him, we're done for. Well, they're leavin'. They're goin' to California. - Leavin'?. - It's that white-livered skunk Duncan. - Didn'tyou talk to him?. - Talk to him?. Sure. That doesn't do any good. - Theycan't leave him like this. - That Duncan's so shrewd... he's got people thinking everything he's doin' is to help Brigham. Go hitch up the horses and help me get him into the wagon. - You're not takin' him?. - I am. He's not able to move. He'd never forgive me oryou either ifwe let the people go on without him. - Woman, he'll die. - He can't stand it. I know the risk I'm takin'. But if Brigham has to die, it'll bewith his people. You'd want it thatway, wouldn'tyou, Clara?. It'll kill him. I'll hitch up the horses. You get him ready. Come on. - Where arewe?. - High up in the mountains, Brigham. What's that strange noise I keep hearing?. It's an echo. The wagons sound like a lot ofhammers goin'. Porter set to whistlin' a while back. You'd have thought it was a dozen flutes playin'. Look out and tell me whatyou see. There's nothing but mountains. Overyonder's one a mile high. No, not there. Look south. The mountains suddenly fall away?. - Over here they do. - You can see, maybe... a hundred miles straight off. Yes, I can. Pull up. This is the place. We'll build our homes down there. It was a revelation. He knew it before we even got here. It was a revelation. - ( Whispering ) - It was a revelation. I thought we were going to California. So did I. You said that Brigham Young himselfwould want to go. Well, I thought hewould. This isn't the place. This isn't the place! Lookat it. It's nothing but a lot ofdesert! Just a lot ofsand and rock! We'll shrivel up and die like rats. We're going to California, doyou understand?. - We're going to set up our own church. - Areyou?. Yes, we are. We letyou drag us away from Nauvoo. We left every cent, everything we owned in the world. We've watched you mark every foot ofthe way up here... with the bodies of ourwomen and babies, and we haven't said a word. But when it comes to stopping and settling in a place like that-- the most desolate country we've seen yet-- with California just up ahead waiting for us, it's time to call a halt. He says God told him this is the place. But I say it was the devil talking. And as far as I'm concerned, the devil can keep it! - We're going on! - All right, Angus. That's the way to California. I'm not going to stopyou. I wouldn't lift my little finger to hold you... or anybody else that feels the same way. Moses went up in the hills like this once... and right away the devil started putting in his licks. Remember how he got the people to build a golden calf and to start worshipping it?. You rememberhowmad Godand Moses got... andhow close Godcame to washing his hands ofthe whole business? I don't claim to be a Moses... but I say to you just what he said to the sons of Levi: ""Who is on the Lord's side, let him come unto me." Well, you can have your desert. I'm going to California. ( Angus ) Come on. You said you were comin', didn'tyou?. You're goin', aren'tyou?. Well, areyou comin' ornot? Think ofyourfamily andyour children. What's the matter withyou? You're not gonna buildyour home down in that desert, are you? You'l I al I starve to death. Come on. Get up and get goin'. You said you were comin' with me. Think ofyour family! Our hearts... are mighty humble and mightythankful. Lord, we'll make this desert blossom. There'll be hamlets and cities... vineyards and orchards... with every kind oftree there is. There'll be no filth in our cities. There'll be no ugliness ofany sort but... broad, clean streets with flowing water. Andthe law ofthe valley shall be that... no man maybuy orsell land... forall land will be held in common. It'll be measured off to him, both in the city and for farming. And any man may have as much as he can till... but he's got to take care ofall he gets. All wood and timber will belong to the community, too... as well as ditches and canals. Anyperson caught trying to take greedy advantage ofthese materials... will be run out ofthe valley. Now, as to the city itself... it shall be built in blocks often acres each... with streets eight rods wide... and with gardens and lawns on both sides. Right in the middle, I'm setting aside ten acres for the temple... which we 'll start building the day we get our first crop in the ground. We 're going to establish Joseph 's idea ofthe United Order... and build a mighty empire here... based on labor and love and fellowship. And this time, doggone it... I mean to see that we stick to it. ( Brass Band) - ( Continues ) - zi na. Come on. We have to hurry! ( Continues ) - ( Ends ) - I t's a nice sight to see you people... come up here to put your food in a common storehouse... to be rationed out to everybody alike during the coming winter. Joseph Smith would be proud ofyou. It's not just a tithe we're giving this time... although that's the law ofthe church... but everything we've got. If one eats, we'll all eat. And if one starves, we'll all starve. Now, we're gonna have our hands full to make this food last until spring. So don't waste anything. Eat regular... but don't let me catch anyofyoupeople putting on weight. Now it's up to us men to fish and hunt and lay in stores. Andyou boys get out and see how many rabbits you can layyour hands on. But don't eat 'em. Pen 'em up and give 'em time to multiply... - I i ke good sai nts. - ( Chuckles ) Al I ri ght, you fel las i n the band, let's hear... ""Come, Come Ye Saints"' while everybody takes their food over to the storehouse. And play it good and loud, especially loud. Leah. Well, all right, dear. Martha. John. Harriet. ( Continues ) Oh,Jonathan. I'd like foryou to go with Porter back to Council Bluffs. Tell the people there to harvest their crops... but that they must stay there through the winter. Then they can join us in the spring and bring whatever food's left. Well, I-- I'll look after them. - Will you do it?. - Why, yes, sir. - When can you start?. - I'll be ready to leave by tomorrow morning. Thankyou,Jonathan. - That all right with you, Porter?. - Fine. Seeyou in the morning. Good. How long areyou gonna be gone?. Four or five months, I guess. He has no right to askyou to go. You've got a family to look after. Besides, there are plenty of others who can go in your place. You know how it is here. Everybody has his job to do. - This is mine, and I've got to do it. - Brigham-- Brigham Young. Don'tyou care what anybody else thinks or feels?. - He's head ofthe church. - Even ifhe is, he isn't God. - He can't run everything. - He'll look afteryou and the children. I can look after the children, and I'm notworrying about me. It's just that-- Oh. I'm sorrythatyou had to go and get mad. - I'm not mad. - 'Cause ifyou hadn't been mad... I had it in my mind to tell you about something. I'm not mad! Well, ifyou'd been in smilin' good humor, I meant to talkabout it. - Talk aboutwhat?. - What I was gonna talk about... ifyou hadn't got mad. Maybeyou had a revelation. Well, you might call it that. We ought to get married right away. - Right away?. - Well, in the spring... soon as I get back. Well, I don't see any sense in puttin' it offany longer than that. Oh, butyour Brigham Young'll wantyou to marry a Mormon girl, won't he?. - Several ofthem. - Several?. Ifyou're gonna be rich, you'll have to have a lot ofwives, won'tyou?. I've been wonderin' howyou're gonna go about askin' 'em-- one at a time or all together. Maybe it would be easier ifyou said, ""Sisters, will you kindly marry me??' - zina! - Then afteryou've married 20 or 30 ofthem... supposeyou get to lovin' one more than all the rest put together?. Then there's poorJonathan, loving one and divided by 30. Now, zina, you're just talking nonsense. There they'll be, all darning the same socks and cooking for the same man... and all talking about their husband. Just imagine, 30 wives combing your beard! You haven't answered my question yet about our being married. Oh, well, it-- It isn't spring yet. Well, figure it out foryourself. Say every man's got 20 wives. - There aren't that manywomen. - Oh, we can get 'em. Women convert easy. And say everywife's got ten children. That's 200 children apiece. And say every one ofthose 200's got 20 wives. That's 4,000. And say they got ten children apiece. So that'll giveyou 40,000 grandchildren. Figurin' 5,000 men to startwith. Well, that's 200 million. Quite a settlement. Ifarithmetic'll doyou any good, I'm willin' to call you grandpa now. Oh, I'm aimin' to do my share. (Young) I don't remember, Lord, everseein'a winter to equal this one. Started out mild enough, but now it's hit forsure. It'sjust one blizzard after another. Snow is so deep that game has run clean out ofthe hills. ( Lowi ng ) And even what little cattle we had left are lost... or they're frozen to death where we can 't get at 'em. I've had to cut rations three times already... till there 's hardly enough to keep body and soul together. The babies look mighty hungry and peaked to me. The women and the old folks are just hangin ' on... Iivin ' on roots or whatever they could lay their hands to. Well,just the same, we 're gonna hold out till spring... when the winter wheat and the new corn come through. I don 't know how we 're gonna do it... but we 're going to, Lord, somehow. ( Cryi ng ) Mary. Mary, dear. - Would you I i ke to play a game with me?. - What kind of a game?. Well, it hasn't any name, but here's the wayyou play it. Now first, open up your apron. Why, that's it. Now, see the sun in it? - Yes. - All right. Nowfoldyourapron back. Quickly. Catch the sun. That's right. Got it? All right. Now bring it over here to me and the baby. Careful. Don't drop it. All right. Now open your apron and let's see it. Oh, it's gone. You've lost it. You had it just a minute ago. I sawyou catch it. Look. There it is. It's still over there on the floor. Hurry up. Get it. zina, I-- I don't feel like playing. I-- I'm hungry. ( Weeping ) Oh, don't, darling. Don't. - ( Sniffling, Sobbing ) - Now, don't cry, sweetie. ( Mary Crying ) Jonathan! Jonathan, I'm hungry. Hungry?. - zina, what happened?. - ( Sobbing ) ( Crying ) Tablespoon every hour. Now there's no use playing possum any longer, Miss zina. Anybody as pretty as you are can't be very sick. That girl in there, there's no telling how long it's been... since she's had anything to eat. - She probably gave everything to the children. - Yes. And she isn't the only one who's done that. - She'll be all right, though, won't she, Doctor?. - I hope so, son. Now-- Come on now. I'd hate to have to hold your nose and pour. zina, Doc Richards said you have to eat something. Careful. It's hot. You'll never be hungry again. I promiseyou that, zina. Never again as long as you live. Open. There. You know, all the time I was gone, I kept thinking about... well, how soon it was going to be spring. One day... it was just about noontime... but I made old Porter stop and camp... right on the spot where ourwagon stood that night. Remember?. You almost promised to marry me... butyou fell asleep. Remember?. I asked you again before I went away. You told me it wasn't spring yet. Well, it's here now. Oh, ifthinking could've helped to make the time go quicker... spring would've come an awful lot earlierthis year. It's no use. We'll never be able to get married now. zina, you couldn't mean that. ( Sobs ) I tried to believe. I almost did once. Not anymore. I can't. There's nothing left to believe in. - What areyou doing? - Well, the boys are eatin' 'em... and-and the Indians eat 'em and-- You kids get in the house. Go on. Hurry up. Get! Jonathan! Hello,Jonathan. I'm glad to seeyou. - What's the matter?. - You promised to take care ofzina. She's so sick over there, she hasn't even got the strength to eat. She doesn't care whether she lives or dies. I don't believe God would let that happen. - God?. What's he got to do with it?. -Jonathan! Ifthere is a God, where has he been?. Where is he now?. -Jonathan! - You said you'd take care ofher. You said a heap of other things, too, butyou sayin' 'em didn't make 'em so. But me, I believed 'em just because it was you sayin' 'em. Ifyou'd told meyou was God Almighty himself... I reckon I'd have believed that too. But not now, not anymore. Pa dead. Ma dead. Everything that I ever loved dead. Just becauseyou said God wanted it that way. And now zina. We were plannin' to go to California like the others. I told herwe would. We had it all fixed up between us, but no. You wouldn't let us go. You said God wanted us to come down here. He wouldn't let us starve. And I thoughtyou meant it. I thought God was talkin' toyou every step ofthe way. God talkin'toyou-- Maybeyou andhim don'tspeak the same language. I know you and I don't, not anymore. Why did you do it?. Why didn't you leave us alone?. Why did you have to take everything that we love-- even God?. Brigham! Brigham! Brigham, come on. There's bugs-- crickets-- millions of'em! - Where?. - Comin' down the mountain. They're in the wheat already. - They're eating the wheat. - Halfthe fields are covered already. Crickets in the fields! Hurry! (Pounding) Hurry! The crickets are ruining the wheat! ( Man Shouting ) Come on! The fields are full of crickets! What areyou gonna do?. I don't know. Go on out to the grain fields. Listen, people! Don't wasteyour time here! Let's save the grain! Come on! Here, you children, get away from there. Let's hope we can find your ma. Come on. ( Banging ) - Food?. - Run and get some wood and start a fire. Mary, you get some clean water in a pot. Honey, a plague has struck the place. Crickets are overrunning the fields. As soon as you get your strength back, we're gonna get out ofhere. We're going to California like I promised. Brigham! Brigham! Look! Millions andmillions-- the hills are black with 'em! They're too much for us, Brigham. It's no use. Might as well try to push back the ocean with a broom. I told you what would happen ifwe stopped in this valley... butyou wouldn't listen to me! You ran offwith a false prophet! That's why this happened! It's true. We're all gonna die! You brought us out into this place to starve, you--you devil you! But we've one chance! Repent and throw him out ofhere! - It's true. You ought to be run out ofhere! - Yes, you! ( Angry Shouting ) I wouldn't do that ifl was you! And I'll plug the first one ofyou that moves! ( Inhales Deeply) It's true. I lied to 'em, Lord. I told them thatyou said I was to run things. Butyou and I know you didn't. Do anything you want to me, but-- but save them, especially now when they need you most. Onlyyour strength is left. I'm licked. I'm all done in. From now on, it's up toyou. What am I going to do, Mary Ann?. I meant to do so much for them. I've got to tell 'em the truth... even if they kill me for it. I've got to tell 'em. (Bell Ringing) (Ringing Continues ) ( People Murmuring ) - ( Murmuring Continues ) - ( Young ) Listen to me, people. You've a right to know the truth. I told you that the Lord wanted me to run this church. I said he wanted you to build your homes in this valley. And Ipromisedyou in his name thatyou wouldn't starve... that no harm would come toyou. - I used the Lord's name. - ( Gulls Squawking) ( Man ) Seagulls! - (Squawking Continues ) - ( Excited Chatter) The sky is black with seagulls. They're headed toward the fields. Look! They're eating the crickets! ( Excited Chatter) - Oh, our crops are saved! - Look at them eat! There are more coming! Hallelujah. - What is it?. - zina, you'll have to see it foryourself. You see, Brigham?. He was talkin' toyou all the time. Maybe that's theway it is. Maybe he's ready to say something anywayyou turn... ifyou only know how to listen. Maybe talk-- speech like we use-- maybe that's not his language at all. I know whatyou're thinking. Maybe we were both wrong. There is something to live for. (Young)Andsomeday, good Lord, we'llbuilda great cityhere... on the shores ofSalt Lake. And when we do, we'll erect a monument... to the glory ofGod... and to the symbol ofhis benevolence-- the seagull.
