 

                        Bribery begins at birth Bribe the midwife for safe delivery We are introduced to bribe even before we taste mother's milk Bribe to live Bribe to grow Bribe makes you sell your integrity Bribe for believing a truth is true Bribe for believing a lie as truth Bribing is necessary even if we want to see A world without bribery Bribe the child with a chocolate for a kiss Bribe a cell phone to your son if he gets through the exam Necklace is a bribe offered to your wife Hug is a bribe offered to your husband Bribery starts at home But spreads across the world Bribe for love, bribe at wedding Bribe makes us dance to its tunes Bribe sucks life out of the poor lt steals food from their mouth lt feeds on the projects and relief measures lt even swallows the God Bribe is thievery under the mask of duty Bribe sinks the ship of development Bribe if you need a birth proof Bribe if you need a death proof lt will haunt you even at the burial ground Life is very short We need a short cut for everything And that's why we need a broker - Use his services. He will get your work done fast. Otherwise your file will be here forever see how this file is flying away... Bye sir. Shortcut! Hi Dad, l am transferred to another department That's good news. End of your suffering in law and order Lord Balaji has heard my prayers He has moved you away from criminals and dead bodies. Which department are you transferred to? - Anti Corruption Bureau. Thank God... now we can clear the Rs.30 lac housing loan. .. Poor dear Boss, this is the fourth time he has gone to the toilet this morning Too much of tension leads to too much time in the toilet What else can he do when a 200 crore project is stalled abruptly They have already spent We never thought the Joint secretary would refuse to sign the contract We need to find a right guy to get secretary's signature What.. did the JS agree to sign Not yet sir, but someone who could get the job done is here Are you fine? Sir, this is Chinna... - Hello sir. Tell me what shall we do now? - Very simple sir lf you want this contract, you need to offer a bribe to that Joint secretary Oh, that's an old trick. We tried it. We offered him a fortune Even some big wigs recommended in our favor. But it didn't work Then, it's difficult But don't worry... Our boss can handle this. He is the only one in the market who can do miracles. lf he takes up your cause, consider yourself lucky You can't do it on your own? l only handle small books. My boss takes care of larger ones What do you mean by books? Small book means works amounting to lacs. Big book means works more than a crore. Who is your boss? Ganapathi - Ganapathi who? Om Ganapathi... Lord Ganapathi, the leader of leaders Hello Ganapathiji - Hello Queue seems to be very long - Yes madam. Sin and devotion are growing at an equal pace Queues are for ordinary people. You please come this way We pray to you to clear all our obstacles We serve you delicious foods Without your blessings, we cannot go further l thought it would take a long time to get Darshan. Even God has short cuts What did you ask the God for? - Nothing.- Why? l get good marks by working hard Not by praying Okay...drop ten rupees in hundi and ask for class first You mean bribe the god...no - Don't say like that l won't offer money to God Enough. He takes after you Yes Chinna. lf he is very strict, let's get him transferred Not possible. lf we do that, he'll close our file permanently before leaving Your company's track record is very bad. What the hell. He's trying to find our holes instead of helping us lf you increase the commission to 10% , Boss will take care of everything That's fine. First get the work done Who is that Joint secretary.. - Kranthi Vardhan. Where is he now? - RB guest house. l'll meet you again after finishing your work. Bye. Be confident. No more trips to the toilet. l will collect the advance from the accounts section. Bye sir Hello sir. My name is Ganapathi. l'm a lobbyist sir.. People lovingly call me a broker l heard you have refused to sign Jamon lndia's fly over contract. You are a great man sir. The society stands in balance because of people like you l just wanted to shake your hands Okay sir. Bye Sir... l forgot my bag. Urvasi sir. Our Urvasi. Got it sir. Bye. This girl is mind blowing sir. This girl's eyes will blow you away. Her lips are marvelous This girl is heart blowing sir, That girl is stomach blowing sir. And this girl is ... - That's enough, confirm this girl. She costs 50 thousand rupees - Ok Pay me more commission this time Hello Ganapathi Anna One moment What's the matter? - l have some small task for you Sure. Tell me Do you know Film Star Urvasi? - Who doesn't know her in our state? What does she take? Two pulkas and one glass of fruit juice, she is on diet. ls that ajoke? l'm asking about her rate. Rate? Oh no... She is a firebrand Let us put fire out of her Where does she live? She is in the city shooting for an English film. Staying at Banjara Heavens l don't know how you do it. But confirm her in 1 hour and call me Anna it's not so easy... Go play inside. What's the delay? l tried all channels in Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai. She is not on menu anywhere. l can get you Prema Mani, Samitha, Udayathara, Ambheswari and many more - Where is she now? She is in her Hotel room. But why don't you try one of these other heroines. Eswar, get the car. Go to Banjara Heavens. - Okay Anna Do you like Film Star Urvasi? l adore her. l can die for her. l deserve to be the president of her fans association You like her that much? - Yes, l can do anything for her Want to try her? - What! Do you want to try Urvasi? - You must be kidding l am a nobody and she is a film star Okay just wait Hello Vara. lt's me. Our Eswar is madly in love with Urvasi. He wants her ls it possible? That's good What do you say now? - ls it true Anna? Do you think l am joking? Did you hear what l said on phone? - Of course, but... Go! Room no.333 - lt's happening. You go, l will take care of everything. Be careful - Okay brother. Hey wait The minute she looks at you, she should know that you are a stud Understood She's bathing. ls it for me? She must know that l am a stud... ..the minute she looks at me... Raju, l'm getting ready. Come after ten minutes. l should ask that question. - l don't know who he is. How can you share a room if you don't know who he is? l know this game But...l'm not such a girl - Everybody says the same. Prove it in court. Go get dressed. We have to go to the station My name is Naveen; l'm the manager of this hotel. Sir, madam is a regular customer. She's not that type sir. Do you want me to book you too? One minute... - What! Madam, Only Ganapathi sir can save us. He is in the lobby. He has good contacts with all officers Shall l ask his help? One has to be strict in his duties l know my duties When did you join the police? ls it necessary for you? Let me tell you... you have joined 5 years ago... You are from Rajahmundry Your father is a Telugu teacher. Sports quota. Married and you have two kids. One is in 4th class and the other in 3rd class. How do you know all this? - You need to know one more thing. You are going to be transferred to Nallamala forest Home minister sir... Hello sir, it's me Ganapathi. - Yeah Gani, what's the matter? l need to get someone transferred - Come in the evening. Do you want me to come home directly? - Yes. Okay sir. Congrats... Your transfer is confirmed. You will be working in Nallamala forest from tomorrow morning What's this sir? Hey, why are you here? Go away What do you think of yourself? She's a famous heroine. She charges more than a crore for a film lf you arrest her The media will have a field day. They will bombard her with uneasy questions ls this the first time. Or were you arrested before? How much you charge madam? Do you sign films only for acting or for a ''package''? They will make her life miserable We have many problems in our country. But every channel will telecast her news as if it is very important Breaking news - Urvasi arrested for prostitution. Can she bear all that nonsense? ls this fuss necessary? Don't you have any other work? Either you take this one lac and go... Or do you want your transfer order decide fast Take it! Thank you very much. - lt's okay madam. lt's alright ...now it's your turn to help me Bye madam. Come on Ganapathi... You got the file signed? Great! How could you do it so fast? lf you know the weakness, it's easy to weaken anyone l have arranged a dinner meeting with his favorite Heroine Urvasi. lt continued till breakfast - Oh. By lunch time, we got our file cleared. You are a smart guy. We have to collaborate on more ventures in future Definitely sir... but please build your structures strongly once in a while Nice punch. What about my commission? - Handed over to your wife already You are very fast sir. - Not as fast as you are Namaste sir. - Namaste to you too l am fish pond Chinna Rao l want to purchase land on moon. Where shall l meet you? Another filthy rich guy Where are you calling from? - From Darling cave resort. Look across the road - Yeah, l'm looking sir Do you see a young man's hoarding there? Yes... l am looking at it How is that young boy with a coconut in his hands? Coconut is very nice, but the person drinking it is repulsive You are talking too much Who do you think he is? - Who is he? lt's me. - Oh my god! ls that you. You are glowing like full moon. Sir, how should l reach you? Come straight from there. - Yeah coming. Stop the vehicle. Where are you sir? Now look up - Yeah looking up sir Do you see lndra's hoarding Who says he is lndra. He looks like a vulcaniser in heaven You are talking too much again - What happened sir? Look close. Who is it? Oh it's you. - Yeah it's me. You look exactly like Devendra Where shall l come sir Come straight. - Go straight Be on line, stop... l'm here sir. Do you see a spider man hoarding before? Spiderman? He looks like a pick pocket. Jealousy of handsome people. Who do think he's? lt's me you mad man. Oh God! is it you? - Publicity l couldn't recognize with a mask. You must use famous stars for publicity, why yourself? Everyone has madness. Aren't you mad to buy land on moon? l'm mad about publicity, what bother you? You come fast. - l'm coming. One more victim... Take this file. - Namaste master. Namaste son You are an elderly person. lf you greet me with a Namaste, l shall die young You will die young if you don't do good deeds. l've been running around you for the past Meanwhile two prime ministers and Three chief ministers have changed. l have been telling you for the last five years that you need to wet our hands. But you don't understand l am curious. Are you an employee or a prostitute? Taking bribes is worse than prostitution. lt's a sin My sin costs you ten thousand rupees - Won't you come down from that figure? lt's a discount rate. For you l won't pay a single pie. l told you years ago and telling you now. Then you won't get your pension l've submitted all the documents required l must say that not you sir. But you have not submitted your date of birth certificate l will get it Then l'll see how you can stop me from taking my pension. l prefer death to bribing. My mother is a pious lady What do you mean? Sruthi, did those Jamon lndia people... - Suitcase? l kept it there. Where? - ln that corner. Do you know how much is there? lt's cash for you but trash for me l'm doing all this for you. - But it's a sin Why don't you understand me? Are you a 'Bhagavath Geeta' to understand? Okay where's is Siddhu? - Upstairs. He is Painting pictures of people dancing And you make people dance to your tunes Made for each other. - That's enough. Let's go Hi my dear. - Look what l am drawing Superb... What is it? You tell me what it means Simple... it means that people go crazy for money ls that all you understand? Your dad is teasing you. Now you tell what it means lt means that money makes people go crazy Super. You will get 1st prize But dad, make me a promise - What's that? Please don't lobby for my prize So nice of you! See that's my son. - No, he's my daddy. The project is to install Peace Ambassador's statues at all the schools. The contract is for 20 crore rupees But there are thousands of schools. Put only the head of Peace Ambassador instead of whole body. Then you will be spending only That's a great idea sir...thank you - Thank Ganapathi. lt's his idea. l am sending him to you. He'll take care of everything. That's good sir. By the way, what are your children doing? My elder son is my political heir. l want to add glamour to my political power l'm making my younger son a film star l am about to listen to a film story now. Bye. start the narration - We open on a bungalow...then cut to lf we cut again to right, 200 men are coming with sickles and axes lf we cut again... Let's cut to the chase. You are talking only about the cuts. Where the hell is the story? Dad, the story is very good You have never faced the camera once but you are confident of this story You cut yourself out for a while. Now you tell me some other story There is another good story. But it will cost 10 crore sir. Budget is not a problem, you please narrate the story. You keep quite Call Gani. Why do you call Ganapathi for everything? We are also capable of doing things Then tell me where do we get Not just ten, we will spend Sure... but first tell me where will you get that money from We will draw that amount from our Swiss bank account The bank is theirs. Only the money in it is ours Anna, still listening to stories? Dad has not selected any story even after listening to How can l select when the stories are bad The director says the budget is 10 crores. Tell me how can we raise it? We can spend more than 10 crores. How? Easy. Do you remember Granite industry owner Appalaswamy? He leased 60 acres and occupied more. Send a notice to him. See, that's why l called him. You need to have some brains... Listen director lf we open... - l will close you. Prepare your story around us. Me, my sons and my trusted assistant Tell me a story with these characters. Sir it's getting late for Old Age Home opening Old Age Homes are for people who don't have kids like me Ganapathi, one more thing Go and talk to that Peace Ambassador Statue contractor Why can't we do this job? Because you have proved yourself to be an idiot just now Gani, you go - Okay Anna Who are the most dangerous among these three? ls it the Terrorists, Religious fanatics or Politicians Let's find out. What's your opinion? l think politicians are more dangerous Politicians, OK, you? - Terrorists OK, you? - Terrorists Politicians Religious fanatics Let's take more opinions We are from TV news channel. We need your opinion Who are the most dangerous among these three? ls it Terrorists, Religious Fanatics or Politicians? lsn't there a ''none of above'' option? Do you mean, there are even more dangerous people? Who are they? The Common people. The silence of the common people. Could you please elaborate? When the common people are silent these three become dangerous As long as common people are silent A terrorist gets shelter in the country. A Religious fanatic will create havoc A politician will rob the country When people start voicing their resentment, there won't be any danger to our country. That's why silent people are more dangerous Let us remember these words of Napoleon. This is Harini signing off with cameraman Sreenivas You go and file this story in studio. How many times did l tell you l don't like being on camera Hey...please leave me lt's none of your business, go and do yourjob. You don't know what media can do to you You don't know who he is So what if he is an ACB officer, how can he quarrel with media Hey... don't show off your media attitude There are both advantages and disadvantages if you marry her What are they? You will suffer sound pollution even at home l'll hit you And the advantage? No need to buy a TV - Why? She will inform you everything you don't need to know l will kill you No...no...don't pluck it Seethaiah, come here Sir has come for you. l told you repeatedly that l won't sell even for 50 lacs We bought 320 acres on that side and govt. gave 500 acres this side. You are creating troubles in the middle Don't talk to them... let's go. sir, please leave Let's go sir Why is he not accepting our offer? Don't worry Sir; we will get it acquired by the government. lt's safer and cheaper True. Then we may get it for only five lacs But that route may take up 6 months. lt would be better if we approached a broker Okay. Let's see. Madam, you are looking like 'Kolar gold mine'. l'm gazetted officer's wife. l've to maintain this. Your words are also gold madam. - You caught it very well. You came from far off. But my hubby is on a checking camp We don't have to talk to the officer when his wife is smart like you. We need to talk to you What will you talk with a house wife like me? Sir is a senior officer in FCl. We need his endorsement that the rice in FCl godowns is spoilt... Then you will sell that rice in the black market You are very fast madam lf you can get his signature on this file ... What if l do it? Will you give me a piece ofjaggery? Piece ofjaggery? l'm speaking in code language. ACB raids are a threat these days. Jaggery piece is crore. Oh it's very funny. Okay then we will put ajaggery piece in your hand. That's not enough. l need a Coconut piece How much is it? - 1 S crore That much! - Yeah. Okay madam here's the cash. And here's the file. Sir returns this evening. You come tomorrow morning and take the file. - Okay madam. Why are you looking like that? Some business men came for you - Why did they come? They need your signature. How many times did l tell you not to force me into those things They have offered 1 S crores - l am worried about ACB raids Let me bother about it What will you bother if l am arrested? lt's a sin. We will be cursed - That's not a problem We will wash our sins by going on a pilgrimage Please listen to me. They are trying to corrupt you and you are trying to seduce me With this tension l will get BP, Sugar and thyroid Won't you put sign on this? - l won't. Won't you? - No. Won't you put it? - ls it necessary? Yes... l've bed weakness and you've bribe weakness. Okay. l will sign You are my gold mine let me finish signing He gave us only 2 minutes Did the minister call him? l was with him when he called there is another thing His secretary belongs to our cast l have connected that link too ls it necessary to pay 10 % to that broker for this small work? Excuse me sir, please come inside. Hello. We want to develop that Agricultural land into an industrial area We will be able to provide thousands ofjobs The country will benefit both financially and industrially. Now everything is in your hands sir. Everyone is helping their own communities. We should also develop our community lf you help us acquire land from the farmers cheaply, We will offer more to you sir Your time is up Time flies when we talk to you We will meet you later sir. - Bye sir. He's very strict; did he understand what we offered? l doubt if he even heard what we said He is ignoring the minister's recommendation too He is a very flexible officer. He will do anything - He doesn't look like that Will it be written on his fore head? Actually, he himself gave me information about you That's why l offered to do it for you. But, you bypassed us and went direct. Now you are going out with disappointment lf you can get it done, we will give you whatever you ask - What? You wanted only 10 % then! True. But now the rate is 20 % . lf it is acceptable to you, come to Our Spice restaurant at 7:30 pm. This is a big book work, our boss will deal. Okay? Hello Subba Rao, have you received the packets? Have you explained matter to sir? - All your details are with him. What is your offer? - We can pay three One...two...three Three sugar cubes are not enough Make it four Four. Too much sugar leads to diabetes You will get BP if your work is not done Even after he signs, l will have to manage the MLA and councilors. Finalize it for 5 crores He is having his coffee. - Did we come to watch this! lt means that your work will be done Where is the cash? - Here's the file. Sir cash is ready. Shall l send it home? My brother is buying land in Vizag. Send it to him. - Okay sir. l will deliver it to your brother He is taking huge amounts But he's driving an old car instead of a Benz He's taking precautions. lt's none of your business. Get me the balance cash Your land is acquired by the government lt feeds on the projects lt even swallows the God Bribe is thievery under the mask of duty Bribe sinks the ship of development Bribe if you need a birth proof Bribe if you need a death proof lt will haunt you even at the burial ground Where are you Gani? - l'm near Secretariat Come directly to my chamber. - Any urgency? lt's not urgent, That silver stone company guy is talking about grape wine... Mine is large scale industries portfolio... l'm not able to understand what he wants. Come fast - Coming. Yeah, now tell me. He's my personal associate. No problem, go on. Again he is talking about wine. Tell him l am not excise minister You mean rumor? - Yes. Do you speak Telugu? - Yes sir. Then why are you talking in English Sir, we need to spread rumor that your ministry is canceling subsidy to our company. Your company will lose money if we cancel the subsidy. Yes you heard it right. We want 500 crores - Why should i give you that much? Now your company's share value is Rs. 250 You have 25 % stake in the company Remaining 75 % is with the directors and share holders They are not cooperating with you That means, you need 51 % of the shares to gain control over the company You don't have enough money to buy shares at this rate This rumor will bring down the share value to 30 rupees That's why you want us to spread the rumor Then you'll get a profit of 2500 Crores Give us 500 crores out of your profits OK sir, but a small doubt - l know what it is after you buy all those shares, The Minister will personally announce that the subsidy is not cancelled ls it okay? Then, how will you make the payment? l can transfer money to any bank. Shall l transfer to Swiss bank? No, Swiss banks are under heat in the parliament ls British Virgin lsland okay for you? lt's okay for me if it is okay for you Can you transfer to British Virgin lslands? l will give you all the necessary details for money transfer All the best Sir, C.M. sent this file for your signature. This Sliver stone guy is acting smart l am going to cancel his subsidy Rumor is on its way l have a question for you. - What is it? l need to get drunk to gather courage to ask you You can ask me even if you are not drunk. Shoot it ln fact l have a lot of questions - Come on, go ahead. You are looking very young in this dress. lnstead of wearing these dresses, Why do you wear white and white costume? You are too nanve People like me wear white to hide the bad colors that are lurking inside us One more doubt You seem to have a lot of doubts - l want to clear off all my doubts today OK, ask.. Our stomachs are very small. A handful of food will fill it. A small piece of cloth can cover our body And few feet of land is enough for us to stay Do you really need thousands of crores to get all these things? Listen you fool... My father died without giving me a single penny He left me an orphan. l didn't have money to perform his funeral Then l got an evil idea l sold my father's dead body l even did pimping and pick pocketing l earned enough to survive Hunger forces you to do many things Then l fell for a low class woman Then l realized That if l have children They need more money l didn't want to raise my children like paupers Then l have decided to earn money by working hard. But l'm illiterate. So l started doing many bad deeds l earned crores My children are important to me. l should keep them happy My future generations can live happily with the money l earned They should not face problems like me. That's why l am still earning money You did right Dad l want to buy an imported race car Only a race car? l will be happy if you buy an aero plane Dad, won't you ask me what l want Did l ever say no to you? Ask l have booked an apartment in Mumbai Go ahead, no need to ask me All this money is yours. Yes it belongs to my sons You are right Anna Hi my dear wife... Why are you staring at me? You think l am drunk? - You are drunk Walk straight if you are not You liar... - Where's our son? He's sleeping. Don't disturb him. l need to tell him so much. My darling son No... - Leave me. My son All this money is yours. Let's go to our room - All this money is yours. Please...don't disturb him - ls it! My son Okay, it's all his. Let's go Yeah.. Anna told me so Okay, come on. Are you coming or not? Do you feel bad that l have not given it to you? lf i give it to him, he'll be happy. His happiness is our happiness My son, all this money is yours. Siddhu, it's yours. Please come...Move - Let me finish Please attend to him fast - What happened to him? He has invested in shares When the share market crashed He suffered a heart attack. Please take him to the hospital quickly Will you grant me my birth certificate today? Certainly sir Thank god! We will give it to you as Guru Dakshina l feel our country is fine, at least some of the times But my superior insists on one thing - What's that? He has asked us to collect Rs.2000 for the certificate Are you giving me concession? - No sir, its respect. Oh, concession for the respect. Do you know how much it cost my Mother when l was delivered? One rupee. - Rupee value is falling sir lt's not the value of rupee that is falling. lt's the moral values that are falling down Tell your officer l won't give a single rupee. Fine. Then submit your birth record From Naya pool maternity hospital you collect from there. ls that enough? Do you also need a registrar certificate that my father married my mother? And also an M.R.O. certificate that l was born to my parents. You don't require any certificate if l bribe you You can even generate a birth certificate for an unborn if you are bribed l'll get it. l'll definitely get it l will bring it and take my birth certificate Hello sir - Hi Gani, how are you? What happened sir? - Those people... Forget it. How are you? How are Siddhu and your wife? They are fine. What happened to you sir? l need my birth certificate for my pension l am roaming around these offices daily These officers are harassing me for not paying bribes Not anymore. l will get it done quickly l don't want to get my pension with recommendations and bribes. l served the govt. honestly for many years. l have a right to get my pension Sir, please listen to me.. - Ganapathi.. As a teacher l taught you morals and ethics l cannot be immoral and unethical now Take this What's this? ls this news? Lovers in Sanjeevaiah Park. ls it worth doing a half hour program? You have put it in news bulletins, breaking news and even in scrolling. Lovers in Sanjeevaiah Park. We are not after TRP ratings. Try to do stories on social issues. Find real issues People have hundreds of problems Follow the example of Harini. She has done a beautiful program on dangerous elements in the society. Why don't you do something like that. lf one channel supports a politician Another channel condemns him Viewers are confused by this bias Channels are losing their credibility Our news must be credible And useful to the public lf we are responsible, TRP ratings will come automatically. Your program was very good Are you planning any new story? l'm working on it sir Yeah Chandra Mouli What? He is warning us to stop the scrolling? Tell him we are going to air a 30 minute program on him Let him to go to hell This is the moon - Moon? - Model of moon That's our venture. Shahrukh Khan bought the first plot Salman Khan took the next one And the plot beside that... - Aamir Khan? No. Hrithik Roshan Where the plots of our Telugu heroes are - Our guys are not that smart This plot is bought by Mallika Sherawat Could you please arrange a plot beside her... Please No it's impossible. Jackie Chan will object He is ready to pay double - l'll give triple amount - Triple! lt will cost three lacs per square yard. ls it okay? No problem sir, l will give ten lacs if she is beside me What's your business? - Album business Album business? l have albums with pictures of beautiful girls We will discuss about it later. How much advance shall l pay? Give me 20 first - l brought exactly 20 What's your height? - Why? will you offer concession? No, Mallika Sherawat may ask me about it Tell her that l am 5.2 This bag is free for you - Stones are free for you in your plot Have a seat sir. - Please give me some water. Anand, bring a glass of water. Have it sir. What shall l do for you You must be around 30-35 years of age. Am l correct? - Yes l am born 30 years before you But l need to get my birth certificate from you What's your date of birth? - 15 August 1947, lt's not possible to find such ancient records now lt's very important. Without that certificate, l won't get my pension There is another way Give me thousand rupees l can also give you the certificates of Gandhi, Rama, and Elizabeth Taylor too Won't there be an enquiry if you issue fake certificates? They won't ask me why l issued fake certificates They ask me how much money l took Because they get their share - Okay. So you say that l must give you a bribe - Even God has to pay This is a free country l forgot that our country is independent. l was unable to remember that our country was pawned to corruption 65 years ago l thought l was born on lndependence Day. But... while searching for my birth Certificate l realized that our country is yet to get independence What's happening inside? My senior officer will explain The search is going on. So far we found property worth many crores. We will give you full info after the search is over This is a conspiracy by my rivals All the assets are earned by me Please put your signature here we need to make a physical search - ls it necessary? We have to do it l can show accounts for the property seized But the pen drive they took contains un accounted information We should get it back before it's too late Dharma Teja has high contacts - l know He can clear the charges and comeback as your superior officer very soon Of course, but everything is on record lf we can change our constitution, Can't we change the records? One of the covers seized during the raid Contains info about Dharma Teja's corruption lf you can give it back... lf l give it back? You will get... Two crores. Sir! What is this? - l'm an ordinary human being You seem to have forgotten that - That's why l am getting two crores. l can share it with you if you want Thank god! You have done it The officer was shocked when l offered 2 crores l never counted how much l own After the ACB raid, l learned that l am worth 100 crores Anyhow, we got our pen drive back. Bring tea for both of us. Come here. What happened? l feel ashamed - Why? Everyone in school is saying that you are corrupt Fools, what do they know ls it necessary to rob people for our luxuries? Wish l was born to someone else! Shut Up! How dare you talk to your father like that? Too bad. Gani, l need to get out of this rut Get my suspension cancelled Use all your powers... l need my reputation back Mother Theresa Service Center? We are not giving land even to car and software companies Why should we give free land to lt's meant for social service sir, lt's not too much l know how much you gain through this venture. l have seen enough social service agencies and l know what happens Talk to my personal assistant Hello sir. - Come Gani. Haven't seen you for a long time Sit So, what's happening Gani? l came to talk to you about Dharma Teja's suspension after ACB raid He was caught with 20 crores. How can we cancel his suspension? He will show legitimate accounts for that money sir. There are no legal issues involved. lf you accept... How about the others? l have a plan for them sir You are smart! C.M. is ready to help us But the file has to be generated from minister's office. lf you could talk to him... - No problem...l will speak to him What about the officers and others? l am arranging a get together Oh... Then your work is done. Your father will do whatever you ask. Convey my regards to him This night is yours. Enjoy! Sweep it baby.. Sweep it Sweep the dirt with your hand.. Sweep the lust with your Pallu.. Sweep l travelled everywhere l cleaned off all the villages and towns l came here to see how manly you are But l doubt if you can stand my seductions Tell me what else l should do Sweep me baby Sweep me off my feet l went all over the state l met all the great men Officers, Producers, Politicians, Fighters, Factionists, Business men Jolly men, Classy men, Massy men, My neighbor, your neighbor l visited all their houses And cleaned off all the corners Shall l tell you in detail? Or shall l display my capabilities Sweep me baby Sweep me off my feet Oh my god! You are very dirty! Where is the dirt? - How can l say where its! Dirt is in your body, in your eyes, ln your head, and in your pockets. l cannot stand the sight lf you permit l will make you spotless Bring it here. Sir, do l get a tip? lt's okay sir, bye . Where is it from? My pension is sanctioned They have sent a demand draft Our troubles are over after all these years Lakshmi get my shirt. Dear, my tummy is bulging. lsn't it? l need to work out lt is bulging with public money. Very difficult to reduce it Siddhu are you ready? - Coming mom Namaste, Masterji... Please come inside.- Namaste Sir You are going somewhere? We are going out to do some shopping What's the occasion? My son won a national award in drawing competition. Where is your kid? He's getting ready. l will bring him. Please be seated sir You took a lot of trouble for me - lt's my responsibility sir lt is not your responsibility But my inability This is not pension sent by the government. lt is not for my years of service lt is not for inspiring many young men to Become lAS lPS officers They have sent this draft because they value a broker more than a honest teacher lt's better to commit suicide Than take this money Look Ganapathi What the government has done to me so far was injustice Now you have insulted me My self-respect is wounded lf you had any respect for me, you could have shown it in some other way Where is Masterji? What happened? He has been suffering at their hands for the past 5 years This is how he reacts when l help him Let's go. Where are we going? - Kala Niketan mall l want to go to toy shop - Certainly, but later we will go to toy shop first - but first we have to go to the mall Then l won't get down there. - He will not step down if he has a video game Why did you allow him to bring the video game? - He insisted Eswar you stay with Siddhu - Okay Anna lf he wants anything, get it Hello sir. - Hello. You select whatever you want and come to the counter l have to get a dress selected by the wife of principal secretary ls that dress ready Yes sir. Come this way Show the dress selected by madam. No. Show me that saree How much? - Four lacs and seven thousand sir. Four lacs and seven thousand! We can buy a car with that money - lt's designed by Neetha Lulla sir. They will select anything As long as it is not their money Hello sir. - Yeah, Gani. l'm at Kala Niketan. Principal Secretary's wife has selected a dress They want to us purchase it. What's the problem? lt costs four lacs and seven thousand They have selected it because they are not paying for it They have helped us in lifting the suspension Take it. Here is the bill sir Eswar come and collect the packets. Pay at the counter - Okay sir. Calm down... please clam down. Who's the contractor? - Jamon lndia We helped them get it ...please build your structures strongly once in a while Are you the boy's relative? - l'm his uncle. Come with me. Jamon lndia Chairman called Opposition leader Narayana Reddy is trying to make an issue about the fly over collapse. Chairman wants you to talk to him and settle it Call him Now? Call Narayana Reddy lts ringing Who is this? Sir please hold on Ganapathi wants to talk to you. Narayana Reddy is on line. Anna... - Yeah Gani Please leave that flyover issue sir How can we leave a golden opportunity to defame the ruling party That contractor is offering 10 lacs A kid died in that accident. - He is my son Ok... we will not raise the issue Calm down... be brave l was in Delhi when it happened. l know words cannot comfort you Only time can heal your pain lt's the only solution Please have some food l won't move from here unless you eat You seem to have stocked up all kinds of diseases my wife's greed for money is the reason for my ailments She makes me commit sins Everybody gets diseases But people will laugh if an officer like you doesn't earn money lsn't it doctor? ln fact, l have a small favor to ask My brother-in-law works in the same office Your husband suspended him for taking bribes. l will pay 10 lacs if he is reinstated l brought advance Please sign it dear - No, l won't. Won't you? No, ll won't. - Please sign it l'm feeling tired dear. - Come on sign it dear Must l? - Yes you must Doctor, give me your pen. You've money weakness. l've health weakness. We can't wait like this anymore Chinna Rao, come here How long will he mourn? We trusted him and paid huge amounts That engineer is refusing to pass our bills. Says he will sign only after Ganapathi comes He promised he would get me off murder case by managing the police He made me pay the registrar 10 lacs But my work is still pending And Ganapathi is missing - Stop it He too is a human being He too has feelings and sentiments He will start working as soon as he comes out of his grief He will solve all of your worries You've killed him with your greed Your sin is haunting us Yeah eat. l am dead for you if you answer the call Do the mobiles and TVwork there? Of course, your plot has a satellite station on the left and space station on the right. Both are less than a few kms from your place l feel like going there right now But will l be able to go so far in my life time. lt depends on your luck. Then why should l buy it? - Because you are foolish What i mean to say is, you will go if your days here are numbered lf not you, your kids Or their kids will go Can you take your money with you? No. you will pass it on to your kids This is also an asset you will be passing on That sounds logical We can't take anything after we die l have to invest somewhere l am sure there won't be any land grabbing on moon There is no land mafia on the moon yet - My land would be safe there This old man has a bag full of money This is the advance amount. Oh my god! Why did you pinch me? - so that you would remember! He pinched me for 10 lacs. What will he do while giving me the rest Need plots on Mars? We will begin after moon venture is sold out Right now we only have plots on moon l can get you a plot facing Venus Another fool.. No l don't want to. - lt's alright, have it My son would have been alive lf l had not helped them get the contract, The flyover wouldn't have crashed and my son would be alive When a child grows up to become a terrorist And kills innocent people, Would you blame the doctor who delivered him? l don't think what l have been doing is right The word broker may sound negative But brokering is not a bad thing You need one to fix a marriage Or to get a divorce Or even to unite the separated couple Middle men are necessary everywhere You need one when you buy a plot or flat You need him to arrange a loan To register the property or to sell it He is useful everywhere You need a broker to get a bed at the hospital He will get you medicines, blood, kidneys and eyes He will arrange benefits under medical schemes Can you get a ration card without his help? Or a voter card? Driving license? Passport? Can you get your work done? At any office without him? You won't even get an entry Without his help So my dear Gani, A vehicle may run without wheels Crops may yield without rains. But, without a broker this society will cease to run You may stop eating while mourning for your son But it is wrong to neglect your profession that feeds your family You can take liquor when you are sad But you should not take hasty decisions. Have it Why are you so serious? Shall we have ice-cream? l'm not here to have ice cream - Then? l want to discuss about our marriage - what's the hurry? How are you? - Fine. ls he your husband? - Yes, but we are not married yet See you. My hubby is waiting outside See, people are thinking that we are wife and husband Are they? She is two years younger to me She got pregnant with in a month of her marriage That's pretty fast. Tell me how did it happen? You... naughty - Hey cool down... Let's go talk to our parents But one more thing - What is it? You shouldn't get pregnancy in month. - Then? You have to get it in days. Do we have to vacate the orphanage for that Dubai company? Yes. We have to give that land to them Then only they will give us partnership in the 5 star hotel Your father won't accept That's why we want you to deal without his knowledge How can he not know? He has sentimental attachment to that orphanage He is funding it and spends his birthdays there with the children We will build another one for them in the suburbs Please get it vacated So that we could turn our money white l can't do anything against his wishes - What nonsense! We were cheated by a fellow in a land sale He took huge amounts as advance - Please find him get our money back Give me his details - He doesn't have an office How can l book a case without knowing his details? At least you know where the land is? - lt's on the Moon... On Moon! - Yeah Have you seen it? - Not possible sir. Shut up, l will kick you all to the moon How could you pay money to a con man? Go and complain in a police station on Moon That doesn't come under my area Sir please... only you can help us How can l catch him without his address or details? l have his contact number - Okay call him lt's ringing... Don't reveal your name - l know Sir, this is Bobby speaking - Gobi who? l want to purchase plots on Moon. l want to meet you All plots are sold Put the phone down He changed his name but not his voice He seems to have recognized your voice. Now you try l want to buy land on moon l have two wives. l want to gift land to them Where shall we meet sir? - l'm busy right now. We shall meet later This fellow changed his voice but not his number He is recognizing us because we are calling from the same number Sir, try from your number - Tell me his number. He is calling from a landline He's thinks l'm a fool Why are you shouting? - l'm very far away Tell me fast. What's the matter? l too want to buy land on moon. l'm busy laying out the second venture The incoming call costs One lac! Why? - This isn't STD or lSD. lt's lPSD What is that? lnter Planetary Subscribers Dialing. - So there are cell towers on moon! We don't need cell towers We have satellites all around... What happened? - l have bumped into a satellite Cut the call. l am smart enough to know your strategy You won't get your money back Don't have any hopes Are you insane? Do you think you can buy anything with your money? People like you are cheated by people like him always. Go away Get lost. You are misusing your money while others are starving This is Gopal, CM's PA - hello sir We have not received money for cancelling Dharma Teja's suspension lt's already two months since And CM sir asked me to remind you - l will settle it soon Sir, this is Gani - Yes Gani Where are you sir? - lmage gardens. Sir l need to meet you - Okay come. Go to lmage gardens. Doctor, don't bother about the expenses Life is more important than money Keep me informed of her health from time to time Come Gani. - Sir, what are you doing here? l'm sorry about your son l was in Nellore at that time in a health camp. lt's okay sir. What are you doing here? - Surprising. lsn't it? Both death and change happen instantly All it takes is a minute l've gone through that minute On that day l was coming from Delhi to Hyderabad in a plane The captain announced that we will be crash landing due to a problem in the engine The craft started falling down. All of us in the plane were frightened Some of them were screaming Then l saw my death up close My life flashed before my eyes like a movie All that l saw was my corruption, dark deals and cheating l couldn't even remember one good deed that l did l was scared. lt was worse than fear of death l thought l was going to die in moments l prayed God to give me one more chance Suddenly the flight started steadying lt started flying again l survived it God has given me an opportunity to change l have to utilize it l have to erase all my sins That's why l took a long leave And started these health camps l am paying back to the society l have learnt valuable lessons in the past few months l was scared of being caught When l was taking bribes l was scared of enjoying it l could not even have it in my name l am sick of that false happiness Now l am happy when l save a life The satisfaction l get out of it ls greater than crores of rupees Trying to live happily is a selfish desire But trying to let others live happily is an aspiration Desire helps us live for some time But aspiration makes us eternal. The story on Cheetah is sensational enough. What more does he want? Our boss is expecting something different which is also useful for the society l have no idea what it is l will tell you how to do that. l can help you get the sensational news.- How? You can expose a corrupted officer But if you expose a broker, You will automatically expose officers - A broker? Yes... a middle man. Nothing happens without him in our country Try to get a broker. That's what your boss is looking for Okay but who's that broker? This is VKP Ramakrishna from Delhi. l am handing over Rs. 5 crores To havala dealers here Okay... that's good Please tell me the number of a currency note lt's a thousand rupee note, - Note it down. Noted sir. Please describe the person You are sending to collect the money Please hold Hey Gani...Gani. He's not here dad. - Why is he not here when we need him? Shall we go instead? How can you go? - We can handle this Can you manage properly? - Yes dad. l'm sending my sons this time. Do you know them? - Of course l know them sir Take this note and comeback safely with the money Yes Siva tell me Sir TV vehicle is following your sons' car Have you informed them? They have left their mobiles in my car Ask Gani to come at once What? Won't you leave us alone? Do you need to see what we do in our bed rooms? Actually.. - Get out of here. He's drunk.- How dare he argue with the media?- Let's go How are you my children? lf not for you, l would have been exposed in the media l would have become a Minister of Havala. You have saved my kids and in turn, my life lt's my duty lt's already two months since you have taken advance But you've not started work yet. - lt will be done soon Either you finish the work immediately or return our money How many more will you kill? - What happened? Oh you don't know! - What are you talking about? School Master is dead He hanged himself in the school. You are the reason You bribed officers to sanction his pension You murdered his self-respect l helped him because he was suffering. ls it a crime? He did not need your kindness But you have destroyed his honesty. You bought off his faith with bribe He's not a broker like you to buy everything with a bribe Shut up. Did l take commission from him? l know both him and his wife They helped me get education l tried to help them when they were in troubles. ls that a mistake? - Yes, it's a mistake Yes Chinna. Coming right away What are you doing? A dog's tail never gets straightened A dog's tail never gets straightened A dog's tail never gets straightened Even more twisted is the greed for money Someone has a need. Some other waits to exploit him A broker comes in between Someone throws the money Someone else sells his soul for that money We are the ones crushed in between Please get my suspension cancelled l may be dismissed any time soon What's the problem? l have withdrawn the pensions of some dead persons. Are they not dead? Actually there were no such persons l created fictitious persons and drew money My superiors found out You've to get me out of this. - let me try Gone are the days when roads were laid for villages Now the villages are usurped to pave the roads Bloody thieves are sharing the profits These rogues will bite their mother's breast while drinking her milk These scoundrels... Cunning jackals... Even if you hurl abuses, they don't mind We need to get district collector transferred - What's the problem? We have been providing mid-day lunch ln our village school for the past 12 years Government has been paying us promptly every month But this new collector wants to stop it How can he stop a government scheme? l will speak to the Education minister. He will talk to the collector But we want him transferred Transfer means money. No problem, get him transferred ls there some other reason? To be frank There's no school at all The people who stand for honesty have broken their backs People are selling their honesty for money Some rascals are earning money by destroying others Fraudsters are making money over dead bodies They are turning to politics Bringing insult to the nation These leaches are sucking blood out of the common man These are the guys l told you about We have a medical distribution company We supply medicines to all government hospitals we get bills for 100% but supply only 10% The rest is shared by the hospital superintendent and district officers lt is a common practice at all government hospitals But a new officer is targeting us Take him off our backs. Or let him go after our competitors too lf all of the distributors get involved, it will be easy to get him transferred Does the minister know about it? The officer he appointed is doing all this Newly appointed officer? We know him very well. We will handle this. But it will cost you - No problem You settle this matter. - l will do that Now they are selling medicines too. Great business! Truth is like a fire. The truth which we are going to show you, may light fire in some lives But it's going to enlighten the society You have seen sting operations like 'Tehelka' We are going to telecast more dangerous scams TV9 is going to expose many politicians and bureaucrats Tomorrow evening at 6 pm l won't allow this fake seed deal l already spoke to madam about it What's your problem? Farmers will be ruined if they use these seeds lf they plant 100 seeds only 40 seeds will grow. Do you know how much they lose? l won't accept Why do you worry about the farmers? You are not here to look after them They need your signature. Do it They have promised to pay a lot of money Apart from gold and diamonds from Dubai lsn't the gold you are wearing is enough? No, it's not enough. Sign it l won't sign. Will you sign or not? - l won't. Do it.- ls it a must? - lt is... dear Do it sir. You are fond ofjewelry And l am fond of you Why are you looking at me like that? Aren't you wondering when l will change? l'm riding a Tiger. lt's not easy to get down l can't. l'm leaving. lt will be an insult to my self-respect if l stay here anymore One more thing... please don't send a broker to mediate with me Why don't you understand? l didn't come all these days because sister-in-law will feel sad. TV news channel has done a sting operation People are saying that many big wigs were trapped lt's better to be careful Nothing will happen; no one will bother us Okay bye brother. - Carry on with your work. To shore the whales of corruption Swimming in the waters of dishonesty... Will their program be as powerful as their promo? They have been making a lot of noise After creating so much of hype, they will finally catch a small fish But this time, they seem to have netted some big fish Big fish? Any one we know? l have seen a lot of such programs Don't take it lightly. They have trapped some big guys Then we will sit before TVtomorrow l can't do it anymore. My hands are breaking You took lot of bribes with those hands What if you are exposed on TV? Come on break them Purohit told me that our sins will be washed away if we break 1000 coconuts, How many did l break so far? No l can't break anymore - Come on, you can! You are about to watch a sting operation that is unique You are about to witness dishonesty and corruption of many MLAs, MPs Ministers who have sworn that they will preserve, protect and defend the law and you will watch how the lAS and lPS officers Who have sworn to serve the country and the people? lndulge in corruption and amass wealth The Media which is supposed to be a Fourth estate has certain limit to go deep into the government offices To find the fraud that lurks behind the walls, we need some one who is a part of that system We do not claim to have unearthed all this by ourselves The person who made this possible is a 'lobbyist, a mediator, and a facilitator To use the general word, he is Broker You harassed me for money and gold. Now you see the consequences You have handled many big transactions You are recognized as the most successful broker Like everyone, l have a doubt Your work so far involved in doing the shady deals Why are you trying to come out of it now? l started doing it to earn money l thought l was a bridge between Need and opportunity but l realized that my work is harming innocents l thought l was successful when l closed a deal But l witnessed how my actions were decimating others What's behind this sudden realization? A great man - Who is he? l don't want to mention his name. But l want people to know what he told me What is this? - A Thousand rupee note This? - Five hundred rupee note And this? - A hundred rupee note What is the common factor in these notes? Gandhiji's picture. We have committed all sorts of lllegal and immoral activities for this money ls this the respect we give to the Mahatma? We need to change Gani. lf we change, our point of view also changes What happened? Mother... - Wasn't she operated yet? My mom's operation is successful Then why are you here instead of staying with her? She is alive because of you Why are you crying if she is alright? l'm not weeping. This is my happiness l wanted to hug you and cry Clam down. l am not yet accustomed to doing good l'm getting tears lt's difficult to receive love God gives a chance to everyone to change. My daughter asked me Why l am robbing others She said she is ashamed to be my daughter That was the chance God gave me But l have neglected it He gave me another chance in the air craft. Then l realized it God may have given you a chance to change May be you have not recognized it. Recognizing that opportunity is important Life isn't just living when you are alive Living even after our death is real living Recognizing the opportunity to change is important My son died before my eyes That might be the chance god gave me Even then, l refused to change l did brokering when his dead body was in my hands When l saw the happiness in that great man's eyes, When l identified the truth in his words, l thought it was the opportunity to change my self l have changed. l have changed. lt's okay that you have changed, but isn't it risky to come out with a list of corrupt persons? ls there a reason? My school teacher... l taught my students to be daring, courageous and confident l am not a coward to commit suicide The persons who are ruling us are not politicians and public servants They are the incarnations of corruption. l realized that nothing is possible in this society without bribing l wanted to resist it But l am too old to put up a fight The young men who are capable are not bothered about it l have to reborn to get the energy to fight the evils That's why l have to die Honesty was defeated by corruption. l never thought what l was doing was wrong But, when l saw it from a different perspective, l understood How much corruption l have dealt with l have transacted hundreds of crores My son, my teacher and a farmer Died because of my corruption There are thousands of brokers like me in this country l shudder to imagine the proportion of corruption that is going on How many lives are being lost... lt's not enough that l change, Everyone should change l don't know if my teacher will be reborn Suppose if he is born again. By the time he opens his eyes, l have to get rid of corruption in the society. l must show him that there are honest people too To show that there are honest people, we have to first show the dishonest. Before you reveal their names, let us take a small break l think he's going to create trouble. Ask the electricity board to cut power in the state for an hour Turn on the speaker Going live on TV! Beware if you reveal anything about us or Discuss our deals l'm not telling this as Minister Rayudu's son. l am warning you as Das.. Come out of the studio, you bloody broker! Hey, what you are talking is coming live in the channel Who are you calling again? - Will you shut up? l know what to do. Kill him Not only Ganapathi, even the studio is receiving thousands of such threatening calls Now tell me whose scam we are going to witness first The one who called me now Play it. lf we change, Viswasanthi Orphanage - Where is it now? My father thinks he cannot do anything without Ganapathi And Ganapathi can't do anything without my father's orders Can't we do anything without you? We burned down the orphanage My brother's plan was fantastic - Of course ln case if they find out, do you know who will go to jail? My father! Within one year, a 7 star hotel will come up there Viswasanthi Orphanage! Everyone thinks it was a mysterious fire accident Even your channel ran a story on that They were all kids, mentally retarded children They don't even know how to ask for food They were chained to their beds for safety. They were unable to escape They were burned alive And now these animals declare that they are building a 7 star hotel on the ashes of innocents l hope my Anna will watch this and realize how cruel his dear sons are Forgive me Anna for not informing you about it. l was scared that you would forgive them We will take a small break Don't worry, l will manage Dad, actually what happened was.. l wanted you to be rich But l forgot to teach you humanity l have destroyed many lives for your sake l feel ashamed of myself. l wish you were not born to me My father made me orphan after his death. But you made me an orphan again you will not get a single rupee.... l am donating this property to the deserving According to the latest information, Police are making several arrests This is great Let us hope the ACB also responds to the scams we are about to disclose Even they are on my list - What? Life is precious Honor is even more precious To enhance their honor, people start earning money ln that process they commit crimes Because of the crimes, they lose both their honor and lives The guilty must be punished Now Mr. Ganapathi will reveal the next names Oh god.. l have decided not to reveal any more names.- What? All those who have dealt with me know they are guilty l know they have suffered the pain of dishonor during the past 60seconds. They thought l would reveal their name. Some of them thought of dying My advice to them is... Treat this as a God given opportunity to mend you ways The electricity employees have refused to cut power l was punished for my mistakes Anyone who does wrong will be punished in some way lf not to you today, your offspring will suffer tomorrow for your sins l am not revealing anymore names. But l am reminding you of the opportunity to change lt's good for you and good for all too How can you not reveal their names? We have to pluck out the weed Weed? lf taking bribes is a crime, then giving it is also a crime Everyone in the society has his share in corruption lsn't it? lf you start plucking out those people No one will be left l am telling you... no one will change with lectures Not even a single person will change - But l believe in it l'm giving you one hour l will keep all our phone lines open. Even if a single person calls to say that he has changed And declares his corruption, l will accept that your belief is correct. Otherwise you will have to hand over your evidence we will telecast it There is a caller on line - Connect him ''l too offer firewood to the world's fire'' ''l too offer a mad yell for the for the world's roar '' l thought l would change and help others. But you are trying to change many people who will help many more You are great Gani Hats off to your thoughts Let me be the first person to voice your ambition l hereby announce that l have earned l have spent 3 and half crores for the people l am offering the 96 and half crores to the people through this program My advice to all my friends is this We may buy a bed for 1 lac rupees. But we cannot buy sleep We may buy bungalows and cars with crores But we cannot buy happiness Happiness comes with inner peace You can achieve inner peace only when you accept your mistakes You may own thousands of acres You may have hundreds of crores of money or you may have tons of gold. Never feel proud about your wealth, dear friend The earth is a tiny particle in the universe How much do you own in that tiny particle? Mr. Surya Prakash, you wondered even if one person would come out You are wrong. Thousands will come out like a flood The real soul of a man buried deep under the layers of corruption will erupt like lava Honesty never fails You are going to win You will win Thank god, we will not be exposed Why did you beat me? - Don't you get it yet? He made us stand naked on road. lf you have conscience, bring out the money you have hoarded We can give bright future to 100 kids We can get heart operations done to 1000 poor kids Why are you beating me? l'll kill you. You played games with my weakness. Sir, we are getting calls from all over the state l have sucked money from innocent people like a leach May be because of my sins... my wife is incapacitated l wish to declare my sins l have earned lakhs illegally. l'm accepting my crimes l'm chief engineer of irrigation department l have earned...2 no..3 crores illegally l'm speaking from Pathapatnam, Srikakulam district. l'm a head clerk at the pension office l earned 25 lacs by bribes P.A, arrange a press meet immediately Hello is this TV? This is Kalyani speaking from Vijayawada My husband is working in Excise department. He has hidden Rs.35 lacs in our home l know he will never reveal this. So l am calling you This is opposition leader Narayana Reddy speaking You leave those big criminals, but arrest a small timer like me ..Please let me go Who are you? Security, catch him CM is on Live l know the state is in a tense mood l have come to inform you about an important issue After speaking with the PM, l have taken a historical decision some people are disclosing their illegal assets on a TV channel Some more want to do so, but are scared When a naxalite surrenders, We are giving him a second chance by rehabilitating him We have decided not to press charges against those who reveal their illegal wealth Today l have witnessed my country making its first steps towards progress. l congratulate Ganapathi and TV9 for that. Now l am declaring my assets... Better than the entire world, is our Hindustan... we are its nightingales of mirth, and it is our garden abode... We sang this song many times But it's time we tried to do something for our country Waving the flag is not enough Singing 'Vande Mataram' is not enough. Gandhiji or Netaji are not coming back for us You need to fight with yourself To drive the corruption away only then, lndia will shine We are very sad about the killing of those innocent kids Please take this and use it Who sent it? - My Anna What is his name? Recognizing the opportunity to mend our ways ls more important than the opportunity itself May be this film is such an opportunity...
