 

                        PMCG I've heard of you before Really? You major in piano right? Yeah Why did you transfer to our school? Something wring with yours? Your school is more beautiful Well, my Dad made me Hi! Classmate? Yeah The school is famous for this piano? Yeah, we're all very hard-working You too, right? I'm okay Look here these 2 floors are all piano rooms You study piano, you'll be here often It's so beautiful This building is over 100 years old But on graduation day, we're tearing it down Why? To build a new one! We won't be using it after graduation though Later students are more fortunate Come practice often! Sure This is a really nice school Want me to show you inside? That's okay. I'll be fine on my own! If I get lost, I'll yell for help! I'm sorry, were you playing? No There isn't anyone else Okay, it was me It sounded beautiful Thanks In 19th century there was a musical genius later knowan as the piano poet Sorry I'm late that's Chopin Why was he a musical genius What's so interesting? Pay attention in class! Because at the age of 6, he started learning piano but when he was 8 years old he was already performed publicly and successfully played a concerto which made him famous But why was he called the piano poet? Because his work is described to be fluid and graceful like a poem What? Why are you following me? I'm not No? Bye then! Yes! I want to ask you! What's the name of the song you played? It sounded beautiful! That's a secret! What's so secretive about that? What's your name? I told you already I hear you from far away Let's go This is a school, not a place to piek up girls Pay attention in class! Now listen, just watch yourself! Want me to give you a ride? It's on the way How did you know it's on the way? Why the sudden rain? You don't have an umbrella? Why are you so quite? No matter what I ask, it's always a secret Which musician do you like? All of them Do you like the sum or the rain? Like them both Alright then You play the piano well Very well! Very well! Will you play for me next time? No! That's ok, I'll hear soon or later I'm almost home Really? I can just go up myself, thanks It's fine, I'll take you to the door I don't want my family to see What's your name? I'm Rain My name is Jay Bye! Aren't you making dinner? Right, I almost forgot! You still remember! I got it all ready That's okay, I'll get it from your Dad Really? Thanks! You look happy today! Ok, bye! Ride carefully! Goodbye! You're back! Dinner will be ready soon! Jay, what're you looking for? Nothing Looking for someone? Good morning Good morning Let's look question 2 and see which student knows the answer Raise your hands, Miss Huang Very good, please sit Question 3 the answer is A, sub key of A major Did you see 2 students come in? He's gone! You're a standup guy! Are you new? Music class! I'm Bob, he's Lance We're in the rugby team He's the captain, because he's old What're you talking about! I gave my youth to rugby I've chosen this long and arduous path Because the school need me Got it? Pay attention when I'm talking! Let's go! You don't even study music! Come watch us play next week! Bye! Leaving now. Bye! The coach is so dumn! Stupid! Really dumb! Did I scare you? You scared me! Why weren't you in class? I was practicing Why? You miss me? Yeah! I miss your music! But I miss you... Your music! The weather is so nice today The weather is so nice today Come here Crouch! Crouch! Now! Let's go! How many people in your family? My family? Just me and my Mum What about you? Just me and my Dad Just me and my Dad Stop copying me It's true though What does your Dad do? You don't know? How would I know? Never mind then What's so secretive about that? You're not the only one with secrets So tasty! I've never had this Really? Then have more! Cheers! Nobody cheers with ice creams Let's go after school! Jay is going start! Hurry or we'll miss it! Hey, you're supposed to... keep the school lively! Let's follow the chicks! Let's go Today, the new guy is going to challenge Howe What a brave thing to do Let's applaud to that! What're they doing? Piano battle, don't you know? Ladies, do you all know me? Mr.Ice! That's right. And this is Howe Did you all know his nickname? Prince of piano Right, because... there isn't one song he can't play! And no one can compare to him What Prince of piano? Out of my way! Without further a due Let's begin with ourpiano battle Whoa, turning black keys to white keys! New guy, did you listen carefully? Don't you miss a key now! Not bad! You didn't mess one single key! How, it looks like need something harder Chopin Waltz? That's too easy I know it wasn't going to be that easy Come on! Hey, keep up! I said keep up, not stand up! Isn't he cute? Even Chopin didn't know this part! Aren't you all lucky to hear that! Howe's improvisation is brilliant! New guy! That's me friend Looks like today, it's going to get interesting! The battle today is just brilliant! Let's give them a round of applause! Okay, back to class! I'm a man of my words, here You're really giving it to him? It's rare! Thanks! That was good! Okay! See you in class Why do you do that? I can have a heart attack, you know? Hungry? Very hungry! You like to scare people from the back! That's because I like your back You played well yesterday You were there? Yeah, I just didn't want to distract you Yeah, right! No girls can distract me! I can still play smoothly What? Don't be mad! I'm just kidding Why did you battle yesterday? For this egg! That's a secret! Come on! Jay! Bob and I are playing for the welcome party you played well yesterday I'll count you in! How about it? Sure! Then it's a deal! Stick to your words now! What deal? Jay, you come here too! See you in piano room later Stand straight! Stand straight! Who said you can east here? Does this look like a place to eat Would you jog in a cafeteria? Why don't you tuck in your shirt? What's this? What kind of belt is this? You think you're a singer? Is that how to wear a tie? If you don't cut your hair by tomorrow, I'll cut it for you! Girls like it! Girls like bad appearance Got a smoke? Can I have one? I've got a lighter Cool It's been a long time Yeah Why do you have cigarettes? You! What kind of friends have you made? Friends who smoke? Just go! Go now! Trying to scare me again? Are they your friends? Yeah They don't look like your friends I don't look like your friend You're special, I'm ordinary I think you're special too! Being able to meet you has been incredible Really? If I'm a friend to you Then tell me why are you so mysterious? If you can catch me, I'll tell you You like to play single-handed Because I want to hold your hand with the other I thought heard 4 hands playing Why are you alone? I played so fast you thought there were 2 people You students! Unbelievable I'll pretend I didn't see anything, Got it? See! Good pianist can get away with things No, it's because teachers like me Yeah, right! That's Chopin's lover They were together for 10 years But eventually parted To have each other, 10 years is plenty Is there something on your mind? I don't know maybe I'll tell you someday Just cherish our moments together Okay Let's go Where? Cherish our moments together! So fast! Go! Don't ride so fast! I'll be home too soon! Really? Alright then It's beautiful! Want to stop here? Have you been busy lately? Dinner is just ready when I get home Don't you think it is just nice? Well, got girlfriend? No, just out with Bob and Lance Bob and Lance! I knew it! They are bad people Don't make those friends! They smoke! They don't listen to music. They're bad people! They don't listen to music so they're bad? Of course! Don't make it hard for me! what's so hard about that? You're my only son I'm just worried about you, you know that? Answer properly Okay! And don't make those friends, understand? I'm done! Are you on a diet Look at this, how many times have I told you... Not to misplace the CD Pay more attention! Don't daydream all the time, and be proper Be someone ordinary! I've listened to music for decades Young people should listen to music more and don't think so much I didn't How long haven't you listened to music? If I haven't Just then, how would I misplace the CD? Music had many different forms We can usedifferent instruments to mix and have different types of feelings Like just a while ago, we had piano and flute Let's have one of the music majors come up and do an example for us Sky, How about you? Sky, did you hear what I said How about you? Jay, want to shoot some hoops later? I'll pass I'll return the book tomorrow! Okay! Later! Bye! Sure, bye! Bye, Sky! Can you give me a ride home? Your bike, give me ride home? Never mind, I'm just kidding, bye! Bye! Can you give me a ride home? Sure, come on! You're such a copycat! You're so bad! What? Someone missed class today! I was practicing in the piano room! Sure? Then I'll take you some place No class later? Jump aboard or I'll take Sky! Okay. Let's go! Quit messing, you said it was only for 3 days! It's been 2 weeks I'm gonna get hell from my boss! What? Alright, I'll have a look This is my favorite song Well? Do you like it? Keep the change! Thanks! We're not going inside! Hurry! What's wrong? It's asthma! I just need a short break Don't scare me now So, I can't kiss a boy Can't hold hands Can't do anything too exciting Really? Serious! I feel better though I'll tell you a secret Okay I... counted 108 steps from the piano room to class That's silly Forget that I've said it then! Fine! I've counted too! From me to you, it's 5 steps! How would you know! You almost had me! Such a silly game! It's Swan! That is so hard to find! The piano battle Was to get this for me? Yeah You don't have many friends, right? Nobody like me How can that be? Do you like me? I like you The world is a peaceful lullaby But I insist on my manhood Face all my enemies with an iron will Love you tenderly under the moon Man do not play sissy games Life it like calm scenery I insist with the shade of my manhood To give heart to my brothers and leave the chest for the girls' tears I'm a totalman Watch out, girls! Adjusting my manly breath Shaking my manly hair Open my manly eyes to give you a sweet face I'll charm you with my manly smile! Men with biceps of a mountain Men with lonely like a wolf Men with hearted passion Men with warm hearts The man is me Watch out girls The man is me and you've fallen for me! Do you know they're tearing this place down? When? Graduation day! Then do you want to learn it? The song I played the first time you met me? You're really going to teach me? Finally? Do you have to play so fast? That's how fast I play before I go home That's hard to remember Don't play this in the old piano room Why? It sounds bad on the old piano I thought It's because Sky usually plays there I'll play you a song too Now? Not now! On graduation day, I'll play for you Alright, it's a deal! Aren't we too old for this? Push! Push! That looks nice. A gift from your boyfriend? I don't have a boyfriend She don't have a boyfriend Can you sign forme? Sure! You guys are so good! We're just okay Thank you! Next week is the championship, want to come? Can we, really? Thank You! Of course! You're so cool! Bye! Bye! Pretty cool huh! Hey Jay! Men don't play sissy games! Jay! Not bad! Girls from our class ask you to sign! That's nothing! You have to get use to it when you hang with us! Got a question! Shoot! What's up? Have you athletes. Heard of asthma? What are you? Stupid? That's so easy. Bye! Such an easy question! It's a kind of cold Bull! You're not even close! It's a sport injury! Really? Yeah! I better ask someone else But... A sport injury? Yeah! You're back! You play well when I'm not around Just learned it! From whom? None of your business What's good for asthma? Dancing! Dancing's good for asthma Crap! What's really good for asthma? Food makes you crap Dancing doesn't, and... Dance with me and I'll tell you! How about it? Dad, are you done? Just about! What's good for asthma? An apple a day keep the doctor away By the way, the market lady gave us some apple! So it's apples? Yeah! Don't play with me! Apple! Apple! Why did you turn it off? How do you turn this on? York, what else do you want to listen to? It's class time, I'll play for you next time! So many apples! Want some? Can I? No! 15 apples for 15 days! Look at how long you haven't been to class What does that have to do with apples? It does! I bought them for you! I'm like a fool everyday! I brought all these, but you're not even here Give them to Sky then! Sky? Okay, sure! I have so many of them anyways What the? Are you mad? When I'm not in school Will you like other girls? Yeah, 15 other girls Hey, help me out! Bach and Vivadi Classical, there's Mozart, Beethoven Over there we have the most famous one The changes of classical music is so slow From the beginning... Rain! Rain! Rain! Ran! Where? Rain ran away! Jay! Rain's mad! Thank you! Thank you! Excuse me! Are you okay? Yeah Don't you have anything to say to me? I don't know what to say, I'm sorry Stop playing, You'll make me cry! Dad, can you cut it out? What! Cut it out! Cut it out, just leave me alone What's wrong? Just tell Dad, okay? Nothing! You're my only son, I'm worried about you Tell me what's on your mind I'll go cook! Don't cook, it's a day off! Let's eat out! Okay? What do you want? Let's go out and eat! Be happy, son! Be happy, son! Alright, alright! Looking for someone? I'm looking for Rain! Not so loud! She's resting, you'll disturb her Why isn't she in class? She dropped out! Stopped studying! Her asthma's acting up and needs rest Don't come around anymore! Then... Sky! I'm sorry about last time It's okay, it's in the past Did you ride your bike today? No! Then... Will you give me a ride if you had the bike? Sure Abalone? Is that abalone? We don't have abalone Why don't you just wait outside? I've waited so long I'm hungry! The usual, right? Yeah! OK! OK, thanks! How have you been? I've been okay! Sure? Yeah, bye now! Becareful! Okay, bye! Old piano are hard to play Really? You like to come here often? I have a lot of memories here But on graduation day It'll be torn down I know You're kind of mysterious Really? If something bothers you, you can tell me Okay Can I get a ride home after school Don't you have this album already? Yeah Welcome to the 84th graduation ceremony For Tanjiang Art School Throughout this year Watching outstanding graduates completing This phase oftheir education Nervous? A little It'll bring good luck! I'll give this back after the concert Okay, good luck! Come on Rain! Rain! Don't disappear anymore okay? Okay! What're you doing? Wait forme in class! You're a disgrace, get back there! Lunatic! It really brought good luck! What're you doing? Where did you go? It's over and now you come back? What's wrong with this classs, a refugee camp? There's nothing here! They should get a grant, only pens and rulers! Look at that! What? That! Hello, Jay! What're you doing? Cleaning your classroom! A lot of good stuff! Don't say we didn't take care of you! Here, this is for you! Don't forget us! Let's go To the next room! Did you see a girl in my class? Girl? Who? The one dancing with me at the party! Dancing? Are you nuts? You were dancing alone! I should pick a fight with you! You totally stole my thunder! Why aren't you in class today? I was practicing! Someone missed class today! I was practicing in the piano room! Look at how long you haven't been to class The one dancing with me at the party! You were dancing alone! Next time you need a dance partner, just ask me What's your name? I told you already I thought I heard 4 hands playing Why are you alone? You students! Unbelievable! I'll pretend I didn't see anything Being able to meet you has been incredible (I'm rain!) (Where are you?) (I Love You!) (Do you love me?) Granny! Granny! Granny! Anyone there? Who are you looking for? I'm looking for Rain! The door's not locked, come in Try to be quiet, Rain is listening to music Where did she go? This is her favorite song One day, she told me She love someone who loves this song too! Don't touch Rain's stuff! Rain, Mum should've believed you! What? It was 1979 Rain is a 3rd year student She plays the piano vert well, and, She is a very talented student But, she was always daydreaming Rain We've sat here for so long already Can you tell me now why are you crying? I'm getting kind of tired Sir, will you believe me? Of course I will I'm just afraid you don't trust me Then I'll tell you a story, okay? One day... Follow the notes upon a journey At first sight marks one's destiny Once the voyage comese to an end Return lies within hasty keys I saw him at the first sight I'm sorry And only he can see me Excuse me! Excuse me! Excuse me! I'm wondering... Sorry I'm late We were in the same class Hey, pay attention in class! (January 18th, 1999) Just that we're 20 years apart Don't run! Because I want to see him at first sight I counted the distance from piano room to class It's 108 steps But it wasn't successful all the time I'll never forget how his back looks To me, those moments... were har to get! York thought Rain was going back No, I'm here to see Jay I've made you fail again Sky is here Rain! Rain! Rain's gone! She's going home! Rain, it could be... No, he has no taste! That's right! That's how future boys are! If I see him I'll slap him silly Naughty! Naughty! York! Yes, Mr.Yeh That's too obvious It's no longer eavesdropping! Be careful, he's a pervert! Rain... He's just not worth it Forget about him If anything bothers you, if you're unhappy You can talk to me, I'll help you, okay? Sir, I won't go see him anymore Can you keep this for me? Sure! And one more thing Don't mention this to anyone else Then can you keep this secret? Of course! Rain! Don't think so much! The thing with Rain, we've been watching carefully So, don't you worry, we will keep it up Students, teachers the school cares for her Mostly, we need parents to help us out You're the head of the class You should watch over her, understand? Don't tell other students about this! (Lose your virginity 20 years in the future?) Even though so good at homework It's pity that got brain problem Being so pretty, why not be my girlfriend? You're so bad Let's think about the performance on graduation day Why not ask Rain to perform Acting time travelling, looking for boyfriend Ok, Ok! That's enough What! Just kidding what! You people don't bluf on Rain anymore! Go back to your garbage work! Rain? Rain, you're really not going to class? Take some medication then, I'll leave them here (Psychiatrist Dr.Chang) Who is he? He's the boy I told you about! How does mum look in 20 years? The locks were changed, I couldn't get in But I think, Mom should still be beautiful It's all your fault Saying that music will make her more elegant! Look! Look at how sick she is! What will we do? (Psychiatrist Dr.Chang) I'll get you some water Did she meet the boy again? She is better, thank you for visit her If she knows you're her, she'll be really happy It's the graduation ceremony today I hope she can be here I'll get her Rain, look who's here Rain, it's graduation day I hope you can be there, okay? Do you know they're tearing this place down? When? Graduation day! I'll play for you! Take a picture for me and Rain But the results... didn't turn out like I expected I want a picture too! Come, 1, 2, 3, smile! What're you doing? Wait for me in the class! A gift for your boyfriend? I don't have a boyfriend (I'm Rain) (I Love You) (Do you love me?) That was our last picture together Why do you ask? Have you heard of her? Oh and... Jay? Don't ypu play in the old piano room Why? It sounds bad on the old piano Ready over there? Yeah! Hurry up! Boss is rushing! No one left? No! Are you sure? I've checked thousand times! What about the piano? The principal said they'll get new ones! Here first! Here first! Come over here! Do you have to play so fast? That's how fast I play before I go home (Return lies within hasty keys) (Even if we'll never see each other again) (Even if you forget me) (I just want to tell you a secret) (I Love You) (Rain) (To Jay)
