 

                        HOMEGREEN FILMS Presents China, Ming Dynasty The year is 1457 A.D. At that time, the eunuchs had special privileges and power They had control over two groups The East Factory Guards and the Brocade Imperial Guards These are the Fan-tze Fan-tze are secret agents These Fan-tze and Brocade guards are stone-hearted and vicious If the peasants heard them approaching They would be frightened to death He is their second boss, Mao Tong-Chin He is their first boss, Li Shao-Dang These guys are good at fighting, and do the evil work. The head of these people is a man called Tzao Shao-Chin Not only is he in charge, he is also a swords expert His fighting ability is extraordinary The official are all afraid to see Tzao Shao-Chin Today he is the prosecutor The one who is being executed Fu-Ho Grand Theater Greetings to my lord What is the matter? They are meddling They couldn't have gone far, we can catch up No Wait for them at the Dragon Gate How many guests are staying here? This month? We don't have any Good We'll book the entire inn The entire inn? We'll be living here for five to ten days or so While we stay here, don't take any other guests. Do you understand? I understand, but this... Go and arrange the place for their stay Yes Kind sir, spare some money for wine! Wait there Projection room You see! Yu-Chien's spirit will not go away Send these kids off to the border and there's still going to be trouble to come My lord is wise and perceptive To kill a weed, we must pull it from its roots, so it will never sprout again Take caution! Go now Halt Stop Stand aside, stand aside Get lost Errand boy Take them away This righteous one Hurry and leave Quickly prepare water What name do you go by? Hsiao Shao-Tze Brother Hsiao Where do you make your living? I don't work Anyplace where someone will spare some food, I'll stay awhile I don't really think about what I do I don't mean to be rude, but may I ask a question You come to this wilderness... for what purpose? The manager of this place, manager Wu, is my friend Where do you make your living? I come from the criminal law division Every day, I lead these monkeys wandering around So you come here on a case I don't have a choice, I have to make a living Later on, I may even need your assistance You are too kind So what case are you on this time? Brother Hsiao, not to be offensive But in our line of work, we usually can't say much Understood, understood This time, we are on a secret mission The authorities command that there should be no bystanders I see, you're asking me... to leave I'm afraid to say so If you will, on my behalf, I'll repay you handsomely in the future No need for that I have enough money for the road You're too kind But if manager Wu comes back I'll be back Of course, of course Thank you Manager, the check Forget it, forget it No need Well, thanks. See you around We'll see each other another day Do you know this theater is haunted? This theater is haunted Ghosts I am Japanese Good-bye Good-bye Please rest! Open the door My lord, please take a look we won't have to worry after we pass this mountain Lord Tzao You've lost what's down below, better protect the top Teacher Miao Shih-Chun Teacher, you come to see the movie? I haven't seen a movie in a long time No one comes to the movies anymore And no one remembers us anymore Temporarily closed Male left, female right, please place your hand in the appropriate place Please choose your blood type Please choose your question Please take your fortune I remember, under the moon I remember, before the flowers So much of the past lingers in my heart Half is bitter Half is sweet Year after year, I can't let go Can't let go, can't let go Under the moon, before the flowers Can't let go, can't let go I'll remember with longing forever I remember, under the moon I remember, before the flowers So much of the past lingers in my heart Half is bitter Half is sweet Year after year, I can't let go An Oldie from the 60s Can't Let Go Performed by Yao-Lee Music by Hattori Ryoichi Lyrics by Chen Dei Yi Tsai Ming-Liang Cast LEE Kang-Sheng CHEN Shiang-Chyi MITAMURA Kiyonobu MIAO Tien SHIH Chun YANG Kuei-Mei CHEN Chao-Jung PRODUCER LIANG Hung-Chih DIRECTOR OF PHOTOGRAPHY LIAO Pen-Jung SOUND DESIGN DU Tuu-Chih EDITOR CHEN Sheng-Chang ART DIRECTOR LU Li-Chin ASSISTANT DIRECTOR Vincent WANG
