 

                        Subtitle English Translation kouVou BUDDHA COLLAPSED OUT OF SHAME Eh kid didn't I tell you not to come here? Our cave is dark. I can't study there. You're waking up my daughter! Go back to your cave! Why are you shouting? Your son woke up my daughter! Come, let's go to our cave! Tie up your daughter and don't scream! You tie up your son! My daughter isn't a chicken to tie her up! I'm going to tie you up! That way I won't listen to her voice! Here you are... Light! Go and read! I'm going to get water. Don't go and play with Abbas. Stay here and take care of the baby. Read lower. The baby is sleeping. Quite! The baby is sleeping! Don't you understand? Of course you don't! Mom tied up my leg. I can't leave. Abbas, quite! The baby is sleeping! I'm talking to you! Lower your voice! You are jealous because you can't read. Why to be jealous? You are a little aunt. Unable to go to school I know how to read. No you don't. Come and read! -I know how... but I won't -If you can... read the book. If I'll read, I'll wake up the baby. Come and read. You can't read! Can you? -Do you know how to read; -I do.... Tree, pail, house... You hold it upside-down. Tray... Pomegranate... Cup... Teapot... Nut... One man... Two men... This isn't reading. Read the words not the pictures. -Pomegranate, pencil -Here, I'm going to read the words. A man was sleeping under a tree. A nut fall on his head. The men stood up and said: ''Fortunately it was not a pumpkin. Otherwise it would have killed me.'' A man was sleeping under a tree A nut fall on his head. The man stood up scared and said: ''Fortunately it was not a pumpkin. Otherwise it would have killed me.'' Read more Abbas. A man was sleeping under a tree A nut fall on his head. The man stood up scared and said: ''Fortunately it was not a pumpkin.'' ''Otherwise it would have killed me.'' Abbas will you take me with you at school? You neither have a note-book nor a pencil I'm going to take money from my mother and I will buy one. I'm going to buy a note-book. Don't cry! I'm going to school. I'll be late. Mom where are you? Mom where are you? Mom come here! Come to catch me! I fell down! Mom! -Have you seen my mom? -I don't know your mom. -Have you seen my mom? -No I haven't I thought that you were tied up. Go back home. -What note-books do you have? -What would you like Two with lines and two with blank pages. One with blank pages Anything else? Two black and two red pencils Have you got eraser and pencil sharpener? Give me one. Give me the red one Here you are. What would you like little girl? -How much for a note book? -Ten rupees -Would you like to go to school? -Yes You need a pencil sharpener, eraser and pencils for the school -Have you got any money? -No, but mom will give me. Ten rupees for the note book The sharpener and the eraser twenty rupees. Go and get money from mom -Will you close the shop? -No I'm going to stay a little more Mom where are you? I need money to buy a note book Mom! Mom, I'm falling down! Catch me! I'm falling! Mom, I'm falling! Catch me, I'm falling! Did you get money from your mom? I couldn't find her Take something from your house and sell it at the market -Have you got potatoes? -No -Eggs? -Yes Sell four eggs and buy pencil and note book -Will you buy four eggs? -How many eggs do you need? -Will you buy my eggs? -I've got plenty of eggs I want to exchange eggs for a note book. I want to go to school with Abbas Did you get money from mom? I couldn't find her anywhere Go and sell eggs to the market and come to buy the note book -How much they cost? -Five rupees. Be careful of cheating! Five rupees each egg? How much totally? Five rupees Be careful of cheating! Don't close the store I'll come back I won't. Go quickly Will you buy my eggs? Will you buy my eggs? I don't need eggs Will you buy my eggs? Will you buy my eggs? Five rupees each. Will you buy my eggs? Five rupees each. -Will you buy eggs? -No. -How much? -Five rupees each Three rupees each. Six rupees for two Give me two -Take the money -No. Don't you sell two eggs for six rupees! Will you buy my eggs? You broke my eggs You broke my eggs You broke my eggs You must pay me You have to pay for them I want to buy a note book Why you broke my eggs? Will you buy eggs? Five rupees each Will you buy them? Five rupees each Will you buy eggs? Five rupees each Will you buy? Five rupees each. They are big eggs -Will you buy eggs? -I don't have money Look in your purse I don't have money! They are big eggs What will you eat? Buy them for lunch -Will you buy a watch? -No. So I don't buy eggs Give me some money Buy my eggs for your children What will you do with so much money? One egg cost only five rupees I must buy a note book for my school It's a good job Five rupees Will you buy my eggs? Will you buy my eggs? Eggs are dangerous Sell them at the market Five rupees each -Look at them! -I won't buy eggs -Why not? -I want bread -Will you buy bread? -Bring me bread and I'll buy it -For how much? -Bring me bread and I'll buy it I'm going to bring bread Don't eat me! Don't eat me! I have to buy a book -Where is the bakery? -Over there Please take these eggs and give me bread I don't want eggs bring me money I haven't find my mom As soon as she'll be back ask her Take back your eggs Give me a little bread! I want to buy a note book I'm late for school Wait a moment I'm late for school Take the money Take the money and give me a note book It's ten rupees. For four eggs you were supposed to have twenty Two of them Brock. I've got ten rupees and two eggs With ten rupees you want to buy a pencil or a note book A note book Thank you -Where have you been? -I sold eggs for the book -Where is your pencil -I'm going to get mom's lip-stick Abbas, you are going to be late for school! I'll wait downstairs. Quickly! Abbas, wait for me! Abbas, wait for me! Quickly! We are late! Quickly! My teacher will put me standing on one foot! Sir can I come in? Come -Why you've been so late? -I brought the little girl with me Every day you find a new excuse. You were late! -Who is she? -My neighbor Go to the corner and stand on one foot With hands up! This is your punishment What you want? I bought a note book and I came to school with Abbas This is a school for boys. Not for girls -Go over there -Go where? To the other side across river's bank Go to register there There is a girl school across river's bank Go! -Where? -Don't bother us! Across the bank there is a girl school This is the place for you Children, listen to me! And then repeat Let me stay Don't bother us! Go to girls' school Don't bother us A man was sleeping under a tree... Teach me a story Why you want to learn this story? Go to girls' school and don't bother us Teach me... Nuts... Learn first the alphabet and forget the nuts No pass! You are godless! We are Talibans! -Where are you going -To school And what will you do at school Hands up! Turn to Buddha -What are you holding? -A book -What are you doing with this -I bought it for school Girls aren't going to school! Give it to me! Attack! -What are you holding? -A lip-stick I didn't have money for a pencil and I took mom's lip-stick You're sinful! Sinful use lip-stick! We are going to stone you! We destroyed Buddha with paper bullets! This is Buddha's head These are Buddha's eyes You are smaller than Buddha's little nail Take in, Buddha's foot nails! We stoned a girl who had a lip-stick. I'm not going to play the stone game That's not a game They are digging your grave Stay here That's it God's order Don't move! Didn't I say to follow God's order? Won't you listen to me? Don't you repent? Repent! Get back to God's way Walk in the middle! There are mines in the street! Stone her! Put her in the grave! Leave me alone! I want to go to school and learn funny stories Leave me! I want to go to school and learn funny stories Let me go to school! I want to go to school and learn funny stories I don't want to play the stone game! My clothes will be messed-up I'll dirt my hands Give water to the sinful! Hide your hair! You are a woman! Don't show your hair! You are a woman! Drink, don't die thirsty Abbas, where are you? American spies! Hide! Here I am Abbas! Bahtai where are you? Lets do it like Vietnam for Americans Bahtai where are you? Bahtai where are you? Bahtai where are you? Teacher sent me away from school Let's go home Tell he to turn to the right if he wants to see you Abbas, be careful don't fall into the ditch! If you want to see Bahtai turn to your right Right More right Abbas here I am! Go ahead! Turn to see Bahtai! Further! More! Come here! Now aback! That's it! Where were you America? At school Say a word from "A". -Aab (water). -America, idiot! And a word from "B" -Bahtai -Don't say female names! Baba (father)! A word starting with "B" is Buddha. A word from "N" Nan (bread). , as we say . No. A word from "H"; I don't know... Honda, God. Honda, God. This is what I said, idiot! What are you learning at school? H as Hand (sleeping). American bombers are coming! Run! I'm going to kill you if I'll grow up Stay there! Hands up! Don't chow gum! Throw it! Hands up! Quiet! I fought too much! I want to sleep! Quiet! Don't speak! Hands up! If you will speak again I'm going to stone you! Who are you? Gemile Take off the bag I want to see who are you I'm afraid to uncover my face -Whom are you afraid of? -The boys Why? If I'll uncover my face they will stone me Boys are playing they won't harm you -Why they arrested you? -For my eyes -What with your eyes? -They say they are wolf-like -What does this mean? -That they are beautiful They are not beautiful You are so little Why they arrested you? For my lip-stick But you don't have lip-stick on you -Who put it there? -They boys -Do you like lip-stick? -Yes I'm going to put lip-stick on your lips and cheeks I'll make you beautiful Now you are pretty -Why they arrested you? -Because I'm pretty Why they arrested you? I was chewing a gum while I was going to school Gum isn't a sin They found a football player's photo in the cover -Don't chew gum -But I'm hungry! Let's go leave! I'm scared Call the police to rescue us Let's go! Boys are fighting They are going to stone us Get the police to rescue us Policeman, boys are holding girls as hostages in the cave. They want to stone them. Will you please come and rescue them? I'm a traffic warden not a cave policeman I've been late for school I want to go and learn funny stories Wait! If anything happens it's going to be my fault I'm late Where is school? Follow the sun and you will find it -Can you find the school? -No -Have you got a note book? -Yes Give it to me -Have you got a pencil? -No -You haven't got a pencil? -No Do you see the sun? Follow sun and you'll find the school. I can't Follow the river and you'll find the school I can't -Follow the river -I can't It's so beautiful If we'll divide the cycle into 180 equal parts... ...each one of them is called degree Which is equal to... ...to 180. One vertical line makes a 90 degree angle Go to your class-room dear -How many are these? -Two -And these? -Three Good. Write... Hold the chalk Write: 1 . Go there. Now write: 5. Write it again Nice. Close the lines. -Let me sit -This is my chair. Go there -There is no chair for me -Go Don't squeeze me! -Let me sit -Sit down. -Don't push me -Sit down Write: 5. A little up. Good girl! Zeinab go and get a chalk What is it girls? A pomegranate! -What is this? -pomegranate! -And under the tree? -Bumpkins. There are bumpkins in the dish. -Do we eat the bumpkins? -Yes -What is this? -A tap -What are these? -Nuts Get up! Let me sit too Give me a page from your book Go away! Go away. Go away! Ok girls! Girls, I'm going to write first... ...and then you copy it. capital, a minuscule... capital, b minuscule... Give me your pencil. Don't paint me! I'm going to make you up Girls, write! capital, a minuscule... Why don't you let me? Hold her hands! All of you've been made up! Don't let her go. You are pretty Give it to me Let me make up your cheeks. -Enough -Her lips now. A little smile. What's going on here? She has got lip-stick on her teeth. Girls watch the board! Write what I write Smile. You are pretty What is this on your faces? -What is this? -Lip-stick Who put lip-stick on you? Who are you? Where did you get from? Who? She? She? Me? -Who are you? -Me? -I'm Bahtai -Where are you coming from -What is your grade? -First class You're in the wrong class Clean up your faces! Get out Zeinab. A man was sitting under a tree. And a nut fall on his head Then he said: ''Fortunately it was not a pumpkin. It would have killed me.'' Bahtai where are you? Bahtai where are you? Bahtai where are you? Your mother is looking for you! Where are you? Your mother is looking for you! Abbas, over here! At the river! -Bahtai where have you been? -At school Did you learn funny stories? No-one told me I've learned by my self My mom won't let me in... unless I find you. We are Americans! Hands up! Where are you going terrorists? We are going home! Die liar, terrorist! She run away! Kill her! Kill her! Bahtai, in order to set you free... die! The boys want to kill me! Go to play over there! I don't like the war game You're a terrorist You can't go back home unless you die! Die! I don't like the war game You are a terrorist! If you won't die... You can't go home! Bahtai die, ..to set you free! Subtitle English Translation kouVou
