 

                        Goodbye my dear Spain, I carry you nailed within my soul,... although I am an emigrant never in life can I forget you. One day, on leaving Spain, I turned back my face, crying,... because I was leaving behind what I loved the most. Carrying as a companion my Virgin of San Gil,... a memory and a pain, and a Rosary of ivory. Goodbye my dear Spain, I carry you nailed within my soul,... Although I am an emigrant, never in life can I forget you. With my homeland and my girlfriend and my Virgin of San Gil... and my Rosary of beads, I just want to die. Die! Hands up! Fast, get off! If you obey and behave well, maybe we'll let you liver. You, unload the luggage and careful with your hands. Take care of them. Where could my child be? But where will have gone, my God of my soul? Where will he be? What's your problem, friend? Nothing, man, nothing, I can't find the kid. A kid of pure gold that I'm escorting in my custody, you know? A gold kid, eh? And custody? You frisk him and take care of it. I'm ticklish! No, man, what I've lost is a small boy, a child, that's all. Now we'll start looking for him and hunt him down like a rabbit. Listen, don't hurt him, for God's sake, the poor thing! ~ Will you shut up, shut up! ~ Yes, sir. You, down with those suitcases! I'm out of my mind missing the dearest I loved,... passionate for a woman. I can only abate my pain by drinking heavily. And if you did it out of malice... or to make me suffer,... then you'll see me surrounded by flowers, and new lovers who will love me well. Don't move! What's your problem, kid? I haven't done anything, sir. Don't try to tell me you're out for a quiet stroll at this time of night. No, sir. I've just come from Spain. I was walking by... Just walked here from Spain? Sure! You think I'm a halfwit? What, isn't Spain on the other side of the sea? I mean I came by walking from the ship. Walking... What's your name? I'm Joselito. My parents died in an accident more than a year ago. I was the only one of my family left in Spain. I mean, except Flix, who was our steward. My grandmother ordered him to bring me over here,... but the war made it difficult. And what about your grandmother, and that Flix? As for Flix, bandits nabbed him when we were going to Ocotln, which is the town where my grandmother lives. And they let you go because of your pretty face? They didn't let me go, I escaped - that's different. They were forty-one with their chief, like in Ali Baba. And they tried to... "skitsh"? Not "skitch", he wanted to hunt me down like a rabbit. But no, I already had them do with the seven children of cija... and the same as Lus Candelas in the Sierra Morena,... but I still got away despite all the shooting. Oh, man, enough! How strange, hey, since there's nothing here. Sure, but suppose this was pretty far away? I had to crawl through the jungle and ford a river where I had to fight a snake. Wow, that snake! It was a goods train! It took an hour to pass by! Then I heard a guitar and a good singer,... and I said to myself: "Hey, Jos, there's someone singing, and where people are singing, life is good. "And if there are good people, there may be food for you, since you're hungry. " ~ So are you good people? ~ Eh? I'm asking whether you're good people, or just hungry. ~ Well, I'm good people, but... ~ Ah, then you should know how to sing. I know a little, indeed. ~ Here, have a go. ~ Eh? I'm a guy who likes to eat with music. Sit there. Sing a song, go on. Oh! Oh! Through the mountains I sing alone. Through the mountains I sing alone... because if I cry out my sorrows I get scared of being so alone,... because if I cry out my sorrows I get scared of being so alone. Oh, little star of mine! When I die I don't want to be so alone. I want to be... oh!... by your side. Give me a bit! Go on, apply your teeth, you've earned it! What a party this boy this! My grandmother has many gold mines,... and if you take me to her I assure you she'll give you at least one all for yourself. Then what? Look, these are her mines' gold coins. She sent them for my birthday... and a mountain of them were in the bags the bandits took. Show me... Oh, Chihuahua, this really is gold, hey! Well, to sleep. You stay here, boy. Get some sleep because tomorrow we have to get up early. Until tomorrow, Mr. Don... Don't call me mister, my name is Antonio Cueto, to serve God and those who love me. And now go to sleep, such a talkative boy, this! Mines of gold, gold hills! Train-length vipers...! Such a boy, such a lying boy! My gun! Where's my gun? Was it you, Rebelde? I already told you not to keep waking me up like that, one of these days you'll give me a fit. Joselito. Joselito! Joselito, wake up! ~ Eh? ~ Have you seen my gun? ~ What gun? I wish I'd find my gun, man! Joselito! What happened, boy, are you hurt? No, it just scared me. Just look, liar boy! What if you'd killed yourself? Serves me right, for playing the nanny. And look at my guitar! Yapping boy...! Come on, pack up and kill the fire! Come here, Rebelde. Such a boy! When you sleep with children... What beautiful eyes you have under these two eyebrows, under these two eyebrows,... What beautiful eyes you have! You know that song? ~ I know one just like it! ~ Ah, then sing it. What beautiful eyes you have under these two eyebrows,... under these two eyebrows, what beautiful eyes you have! They want to look at me but you do not let them,... you don't even let them blink. Amusing Malaga girl! I'd like to be kissing your lips... Amusing Malaga girl, and I tell you, beautiful girl:... you're pretty and magical, you're pretty and magical, just like the innocence of a rose. If you despise me for my poverty then you've got good reason,... I give you good reason, to despise me for being poor. I you offer no wealth, I offer you my heart. I offer you my heart along with my poverty. Amusing Malaga girl! I'd like to be kissing your lips... amusing Malaga girl! And tell you, beautiful girl:... you're pretty and magical, you're pretty and magical, just like the innocence of a rose... as the purity... of a rose. How about a cow's milk and a tequila from Jalisco? How do you want your milk in a glass or bottle? ~ Hey, my friend... ~ What's happening, Antonio? We've been getting hands like feet. Don't eat yourself up with worry, Luciano, I'll get some centavos out of this with luck. Let's bet big money! What's been happening, guys? Nothing, just waiting for you. What's going on? Hey, Antonio, these men, I don't like them, they're very ugly. Hey, we're not going to marry them,... and their money has a pretty face! Look, Antonio, I know about many men who have ruined themselves by gambling. How about you don't play and you save the little money you have left? I'm getting tired of babysitting. ~ Come play! ~ Come here. It sounds to me like you didn't bring money enough to cover your bets. ~ Then what are these, just empty words? ~ And ol! ~ Thank you. What are you doing here, kiddo? This area is banned to minors. Come on, get out. ~ Ante. ~ I'm in. Ten. We mustn't refuse the gent who gave us the chicken. Raise ten. ~ Fold. ~ I'll see you. Ten, and ten more. ~ Raise ten. ~ Call. I'll take one. Wow! I'll have a shot, give me three. Complete. Bet. Hey, Joselito, you want to be my capitalist partner? Does that mean I get the money and you do the work? ~ Exactly. ~ And what work are you going to do? But, man! Look. I'm into this! How many? ~ All in. ~ I'm in. Pay to see me. ~ How do you like this boat? ~ It's pretty, but my quads win. So much for luck, my friend! Do and what, do not play? What happened, Luciano? This brat brought cards and now wants to make us believe that...! Cheater! Down, Antonio! What are you doing with the money? Joselito, picks up our winnings... and these scoundrels are responsible for paying for the damage. What did you say, hitting and everything? But I stayed with the profits, right? Here, have this for some liniment. ~ Thank you, partner. ~ Thank you, for what? You kept me from getting a right pounding. And you're the man, eh? You didn't even scream. Now, I was more hurt than you by the blow they gave you. No way, it felt like I'd be spitting out a dozen teeth. I do not know if you understand what I'm going to say, but I felt very bad when the bastard clobbered you. It hurts to think that you don't have a father to stand up for you, or a mother to nurse you. I don't know, I saw you as a little boy and so helpless that for a moment I felt and I saw you as my son. ~ And that made me very angry! ~ That I was your son? No! It got very angry that you were struck, and I felt like I was your father. Let's go, kiddo! What you mean, "kiddo"? Kiddo? Kiddo and little buddy means the same thing. To me it sounds like an insult. Someday soon you'll learn to speak as God intended. Why is boy this so illiterate! Come on, walk. Let's go. ~ How goes it, Master? ~ Ready, Boss. OK, Rebelde, let's see how your manicure came out. Fine! How much do I owe you, Master? That'll be four pesos, Boss. No, no... OK, just two, that's the bottom line. No, I'm not going to haggle. How much for that horse? I just paid one hundred pesos for him. ~ A hundred and four. ~ Thank you, Boss. Let's boogie, kiddo! What do you want here? Come on, you're already a big boy, mount your horse. My horse? I was clear, what, can't you hear me? Or did the trail leave you deaf? Come on, mount up! ~ Come on, let's go! See you, Master! ~ Goodbye, Boss. How do you feel now, Joselito? Very well, partner, thank you. Well, come on, spur your horse! Come on, let's go! ~ Oh, what good rider you are, you little beggar! ~ Well, what did you expect? I just never imagined you'd have such a good seat. Now I'm really confused, anyone knows that the horses were invented in Spain. In the beginning all of them were just donkeys,... but with the sun of Andalusia and the water of the river Guadalquivir, they grew up and got more clever... turning into horses. Just like people were monkeys until they came to Spain. Stop there, stop right, oh, such a liar! Don't think, Rebelde, that your grandfather was any sort of donkey. Look! And stop insulting my horse. Go on, then, or is she your girlfriend!? More than that: horses are more noble, more intelligent, and more good. And last but not least, they don't talk. On top of that, here in Jalisco, there's a beautiful story of a white horse. In fact, it was the grandfather of your horse. Let's see what you make of it. Here we go. This is the ballad of the white horse... that one Sunday started out happy. He went with the intention of reaching the north... having left Guadalajara. His noble rider took off the rein,... he took off the saddle and went bareback,... crossed like a flash lands of Nayarit between green hills and the blue of the sky. At a much slower pace they arrived at Esquinapa... and through Culiacn already walked haltingly,... they say that in Mochis already he was falling... that he had his whole muzzle bleeding. But they watched him pass through Sonora... and the Yaqui Valley gave him its tenderness,... they say that he limped on his left leg... and despite everything continued his adventure. He arrived in Hermosillo, continued to Caborca... and through Mexicali felt like he was dying,... came up step by step through the Rumorosa,... arriving in Tijuana with the light of the day. Having completed his feat he left for Rosarito... and didn't want to lie down until seeing Ensenada... and this was the ballad of the white horse... that left one Sunday from Guadalajara. Ocotln seems very remote, but here we are. ~ Hey, partner. ~ Yeah? I staying with you, right? No, your grandmother's expecting for you. You're going to get a home there and you'll be very happy. But you didn't. I want to be free to wander everywhere, like you. Playing cards, target shooting... Having a gun and being a proper man, like you. Ah, that's not being a man! I have my flaws, I'm not an angel. One day or another I'll wake up with a bullet between my eyes. Tougher guys have been get rid of. Valentn de la Sierra. Thomas Resendiz. Benjamin Argumedo, no, man! Then, you don't want me to stay with you? Well... no, you'll be better off with your grandma. Let's go. You're in a hurry to stay, no? That was your idea. Besides, anyone who has grandmother at least wants to know her. So go on! Put on your sailor suit with its starched neck. And don't cry, you look like your horse just died! It's a burro, partner, like the grandfather of the white one! Keep your horse, I won't ride a donkey anymore. And wait there! That's your horse. It's yours. It's like a mortal sin to get rid of a horse. What do you think, that horses don't have feelings? That they don't have a heart? They feel like their masters' children and thus must be treated like children. I'm going. Do you think, partner, that horses are better than people? I mentioned I don't want to be your nanny! Cowardly brat! Joselito! But where did you get to, Joselito? What does someone mean by "escuincle" and "rajn"? "Escuincle" and "rajn"? Look: escuincle means a child. And "rajn", that's not to behave like a man. Umm... someone who flinches! You'd better understand I'm not any sort of "rajn" or "escuincle". Man, that seems awfully fine, Joselito! But hey, dismount that horse, your grandmother's in deep trouble, man. My grandmother's going to be hanged? What do you think, Rebelde? This kid's thinks I'll cry because he's going to stay there with his grandmother. He's crazy, man! Stand there, you! What do you want? ~ Cowards! ~ Lock her up. And I'll pound anyone who gets near me right into the wall... like a Venetian mosaic! If you'd really tried to find my grandson... you'd already have found him! Bandits, cowards! I'll see the Mayor, the President of the Republic, everyone! Wild beasts! May God make you grow moustaches in your liver and lose your razor! But, do my eyes deceive me? Joselito! My grandmother? It's you, my grandson! Come here, son, even though you see me in a cage I don't eat children raw. Come here, my dear, come here. My Joselito! My grandson! Thank you, oh, my God! I thought you were dead, just like your mother. Oh, how handsome you are! You're beautiful, just like her! Oh, forgive me, son, it's just that all my thoughts cram into my head. The sad memories, the joy of seeing you... Joselito, my soul! I am stunning you, but the emotion, the age... You should say, what age, there's still plenty of oil in this lamp! And with you here I'm going to shake off the moths and the years... and I'm going to have more guts than the whale that swallowed Jonah. Fine, but tell me, where have you been? Let me out of here, kidnappers! ~ Scoundrels! Flix! ~ Ma'am. And what you do there standing there like a stake? Pay the fine and get me out of this filthy pigsty. Yes, Madam. Come, Joselito, child. Tell me what happened to you! Well, grandmother, when the attack happened, as Flix will have already told you,... I hid under the carriage, and right there I came across the most ferocious of the bandits. And then what? Well... as soon as he saw me, he began to shoot me at me. My God! And you weren't killed? Not hardly, grandmother, but I was scared. Wow, I flew out of Guadalajara! I dropped the reins... I mean... I crossed like a flash lands of Nayarit up to Esqinapa. By the time I got to Culiacn, I was already tired. By Mochis I was already staggering and my nose was bleeding. What a load of cobblers! Liar! As soon as we get home...! ~ You're free to go, Ma'am. ~ Let's go, it's about time! How much did they charge you, these rogues? Very little, Ma'am. Twenty-five pesos fine and fifty pesos for damages. Overall, nothing. ~ That's nothing, eh? ~ A pittance. A pittance? Then pay an extra two hundred, this has just begun! Hey, get out of here! ~ Lady, please, Madam! ~ Come on, get out of here! Well, so now let's talk about the plans I made for you. You'll be a lawyer or a doctor... ~ No way, Grandma. ~ Why on Earth not? Lawyers have to cause one to lose for another to win. Doctors, if they're any good, cure things in a trice, and then don't earn any more money. And why should I have come all the way to the Americas for that? Then what will you do? Who knows... but for the moment I'll get into mining, to remove gold from your mines. What mines? But... don't you have any mines? Well, your grandfather had one that earned us what little we have left,... but it soon became more blind than justice. What a screw-up! Hey, Grandma? You'll need to work and study to become a useful man. Hey, Grandma, is it that I'm doing so badly as a child? No, son, I guess not. Since everyone's put so much effort into turning me into a man... And you'll have to be one someday, Joselito, like it or not! Starting tomorrow, you're going to school. You'll like it, you'll make friends. Ah! He's bought something that you'll like a lot. Man, you gave this to me upside down, what a nimrod. Here, go on, get out of here. Look, check this out, this is... This is great, son! Look! A sailor suit. Where did you park your boat? Check out the fresh water sailor! There was once a small boat, and there was once a small boat... And there was once a small, so small, so small boat that it couldn't sail. ~ All right, stop with your fucking boat! ~ Stop! Columbus wants to address us. If you keep teasing me, I'll give you a right pasting. With what, chorizo and guacamole? Well, all right, which of you wants to fight me? ~ Me! ~ Me! You and Andrs. The battle will be shoving with the usual rules:... no scratching, pinching, or kicking. First to quit loses. No complaints if there's blood or bruises. No help from the gallery. The loser gets the silent treatment all week. Outside! Now what? What do you want, huh? Ah, that's the way, Joselito! The teacher's here! Did you see that, Rebelde? No? Come on, fool! Look! How beautiful, right? Mr. Jimnez and Mr. Muoz, please exit this room and don't return to class until you've become friends. And she has blue eyes! What blue, surely they're coffee-brown? Really that's one father of a teacher! A father? She would be a mother! Don't be silly, "father" means she's very good. Oh. I'd like this school, if it weren't for you! And forgive my insistence that you come to eat with us... but I'm determined that you as my grandson's teacher know each other better... so he isn't alone in the school before making friends. Don't worry. I think that today he's made a great friend. Right, Joselito? Yes? And who is this friend, son? Answer, child! What, didn't you hear me? Or have swallows have made a nest in your ears? ~ Let's go, Grandma! ~ But, child! By God! Excuse me, Miss, may we accompany you? What bit this child, who seems to have seen the devil? He almost killed me, with the careening he's given me. Mrs. Arteaga, I am very happy to greet you and to wish you a very Merry Christmas. Happy Christmas? But that's still far off! We're in February! Time flies, Madam, and in a twinkling of an eye, look,... it's the twenty-fourth day of December, and I wanted to be the first to congratulate you. Wow, thank you, and happy New Year! Happy New Year. And to you, too, young lady, though I don't have the honor of knowing you. But you don't know each other? This is Julieta Aranda, the daughter of Don Ral! And she's Joselito's teacher. Ah! The daughter of Don Ral? But you were so tiny when you were born, and just look at you now! And your grandson, Doa Refugio? Just look at that nice boy! You look so nice in your sailor suit! Doesn't he indeed? He looks like a poster boy! And he didn't even want to wear it! Just look at him! And what you think, Miss Teacher? I don't know... children have their ways of looking at things. Ah, but with the education that you two will give him,... he'll be a famous poet... like that beggar Adolfo Hocker, the one who wrote about the swallow's nests! Just look how these women scurry off! Who is that man? That guy's one of the bandits from the stagecoach! My God! God save me from these women...! Let's go, Rebelde. I'm going to turn him into the police. Don't do that, Miss, really, he did nothing, he was just there. But, boy! Didn't you say that he was the most ferocious? I didn't say fierce, but fast. It was more running around the stagecoach, that's all he did. Same difference! He's from the band and we'll report him, just in case. Wait, Grandmother! I'm not sure if it it's really one, or if he just looks like one, people dress all so alike here... It's just like the Chinese, who all look the same to me. The same thing happens to me, and that man doesn't have the face of a killer. Looks don't matter. Judas was the most beautiful of the Apostles, but he was still the traitor. His attitude is very suspicious, considering I'd never seen him before. Me, too, grandmother. I think I could even swear it. Child! What, don't you know it is sin to swear in vain? He's just very nervous, you know? Tomorrow I'll goose you with castor oil. Go on, go see if you need to water the animals. Yes, Grandma. It's obvious that this man frightened my grandson. Oh! What if he's one of the bandits? What will happen if he thinks my grandson's recognized him? By God, don't let him leave the school even for a minute! You know? Because he's so tiny, and also a saint, a true saint! What, you want to fight? With these? Are you afraid? Scaredy-cat! Flix! Flix! Flix! What's going on here? What's all this, Joselito? But, son! What happened here? Mother of God, all the animals are loose! God of my soul! What can we do about this? Stay still, boy! Porker, let him alone! Come here. Get down. Fucking dog, fucking dog! The best thing is to not mention the matter,... and tomorrow when you have him in to school... I'll go see the mayor to ask for his advice. Eh? Jesus! What on Earth is this? This? This is your grandson, Ma'am. And now I'm on my way back to Spain on the first train that goes out of here. And if there's no train back, I'll walk, but I'm going back to my country. "Going back" my foot! Now wash this demon for me! He'll climb into his room, and stay there locked up until tomorrow. Look what you've done to the sailor suit! And you did all this on purpose, to ruin it. But don't think you can get away with dressing however you please! Tomorrow I'll buy you another, and another, and another. And you're going to be dressed like a sailor until I yell "land ho"! The Shepherd with his flock at the break of day... goes down the path from the mountains to the prairie. Whispering his sorrows with his reed flute... followed by his sheep as if under a spell. The flute of the shepherd, oh, oh, oh, she sings as well... The shepherd is going back because the sun is hidden. Going up the hill to save his flock. With his flute he'll be calling one by one his sheep... as he communicates his joys and sorrows. The flute of the shepherd oh, oh, oh, sings as well. Guadalajara. Guadalajara! Guadalajara. Guadalajara! You have a countryside soul, you smell clean, a morning rose. You smell like fresh green grass from the river side, your houses look like a thousand doves. Guadalajara, Guadalajara, pure smell of wet earth. Don't let us down, Jalisco! Guadalajara, Guadalajara! Oh! Tlaquepaque Village,... your fragrant jars... oh, Jalisco, Jalisco, Jalisco! Make even fresher the sweet tepache for the barbequed goat, in addition to the mariachi... that in stallholders and potters sound with sad melancholy. Oh, oh, oh! Oh, oh, oh! Oh! Guadalajara, rose,... I'll tell you one thing. Oh, Jalisco, Jalisco, Jalisco! You, who preserve water in the well, and in women their inevitable shawl. Guadalajara, Guadalajara, you have the most Mexican soul. Oh, oh, oh! Oh, oh, oh! Guadalajara. Guadalajara! ~ Papa, Papa! ~ "Papa" my foot! What the hell are you doing you here? My mom's been waiting for you with my ten starving siblings. What mom or what ten siblings what dying of hunger!? Just look at this! He's not funny, this guy! Singing, while your children starve, in the pub! I can't understand how they dare have children. ~ And ten, for fuck's sake! ~ Since there's no law to hang these criminals...! Scoundrel, traitor! The traitor is you, scoundrel, blackguard, what you have to do is get out of here with your child! Yes! Beat it! Get out of here! I don't know why I didn't give you a complete set of slaps. It'd be funny! But you wouldn't get out of there alive, for sure. ~ So what really brings you here? ~ The bare truth? As if you knew what the truth is! Of course I know that. I want to live with you and I look forward to us becoming partners. What gives with this boy! Home and school aren't for me, I want to be just like you. No way, Jos. It's just that your grandmother hasn't realized that you're a man,... and she wants to keep treating you like you were a child. But don't worry, I'll talk to her tomorrow,... and you'll see how I help her understand. That's precisely the "no way", partner. No? What the heck, I'm more than used to dealing with ladies! Doa Refugio, for God's sake! Be careful, that thing bangs! I swear it's the pure truth. Also I've become endeared to this little liar. Here, man, here! You're very nice, Mr. Cueto,... and quite manly,... and I have the virtue of trust in my heart. Of course I don't have gold mines, but I have a barn with some cows and... and this colt to be broken. But I've never worked for anyone, Ma'am, much less as a nanny. And haven't yet grown roots to seed myself in any place. Uh, nonsense, nobody works for anyone! Each reaps up what he has sown,... and I'll offer you a good soil for your sowing. Try, at least. Well, here I'll leave you, both of you speak man-to man. So... I expect you for lunch at precisely two o'clock this afternoon. And you, child, go change your clothes, you're a mess, again. So... at two o'clock on the button. ~ All right. ~ Clear? ~ Yes, Madam. Well, see you then. Now you see? Wow, what a grandma! Did you hear? At two o'clock. And me, I haven't let myself be hitched like all those poor married guys! And I'm not going to let your flakey grandmother order me around, no, siree! Fine, but she's mine, and since we're partners, you have your share of a grandmother. Hey, why not stay here? It'll work out for us. Instead of going to school, we'll go swim in the river. You'll teach me how to play cards, how to judge roosters, OK? No way, Jos! You're going to go to school. And you're going to be the best student... because when I come back here I want to see you grown up into a proper young man. And no more lies, yes, siree! ~ Hello, gentlemen. ~ Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Hey, Antonio, these men are some of those who attacked us. What did we agree, liar boy? Do you know who those gentlemen are? They are nothing less than the President and the Secretary of the Board of Charity in the nearby village of Jalisco. But I'm sure, partner! They're imprinted on my eyes forever! Do you know what you have there? It is a construct of lies, rather than brains. And don't speak to me about attackers anymore or I'll kill you. Boy, what a dreamer! In the minutes that we dedicate to our selected readings... today is the turn of one of the brightest playwrights that the world has been given. He is called William Shakespeare. I have chosen one of his most popular works,... called "Romeo and Juliet", the most beautiful love story ever written,... in which two young people in love die for their love,... victims of hatred and misunderstanding of their families. The part we're going to read takes place on the balcony of the House of Juliet,... until her lover, Romeo, arrives. Princess, Princess, she of blue eyes and scarlet lips. Butterfly, cutely colored butterfly, among the morning flowers. Look at the one who, at your feet, sigh,... love the one who worshipping you, dies. Kiss, my lovely Princess... the one who your blue eyes, your scarlet lips, your cute colors captivate his soul. Look at me, loving me, kiss me, kiss me. In your eyes there is sunshine of hope, in your mouth smell of carnations,... in your Argentine laughter, joy, and in your mouth the sweetness of the honey. Princess, I love you. Love me because I'm dying... Aaaay! Princess,... Princess of the blue eyes and scarlet lips. Butterfly, cutely colored butterfly, among the morning flowers. My Juliet! Oh, knock it off, buddy! Joselito! Your rein is too short, the left leg. Go on, go, it's going very well. Slacken off the horse, let it up, let up it. Oh, how good this beggar of a boy is! Let's see... "My beloved former teacher Miss Juliet... "the gifts I give you every day haven't been brown-nosing for grades like everybody else,... "but because when I grow up I want you to be my girlfriend. " Joselito! Come here. "If anyone should hinder us, let us die like Romeo and Juliet... "except I'll stick the knife somewhere where it won't kill me... "so when I recover we can get married anyway. " "Signed with Joselito's heart swollen with love,... "Joselito". Ay, Chihuahua! It's the best perfume that I could find in the pharmacy,... and it has cost me four reales just for a splash. Everything seems OK, but... say, isn't the teacher a bit aged compared to you? That's why I say: "when I grow up". OK, partner, I'll do what I can for you, but I won't answer for it, eh? Because I've never played the role of... I knew were my buddy and I counted on you. Shake, partner. Partners...! Miss Teacher. I am sorry to stop you but I need to talk with you. With me? Yes, Miss, it's about Joselito. Oh, I was just thinking of going see Doa Refugio. That boy has me worried, he behaves in a way...! Very understandable, if the cause were known. The boy lives in another world, Mr. Cueto. "Mr. Cueto"...! Why not call me Antonio,... and I'll call you Juliet? ~ Agreed? ~ Good. Rebelde, behave seriously! May I see you tomorrow? At the end of classes. Rebelde, I think that it's going to work, beggar! What's up, partner? You didn't give it to her, did you? Give it to me, I'll show you how to hand it over. I just haven't had the right opportunity yet, man. Honest! Already you can hardly smell anything. Well, look, don't worry, I'm going to buy a bottle of this size, a full liter, so you can give it to her. Do you have a fever? Are you sick? It must be because I'm scared. Never mind a fright! Come on! Doa Refugio! Doa Refugio! There's nothing to worry about, it's simply measles. The only thing you need to do is avoid complications. Fill this prescription. Avoid drafts, too much light... What's Joselito have, Doctor? ~ Good afternoon, Mr.... ~ Good afternoon. Open your mouth. Yes, open your mouth! Open it! More! More, more! Friend, you also have measles. ~ Me? ~ Yes. I never fall ill, doctor,... I never get sick or anything else except from high-velocity lead. You say what you want, but I don't want you spreading a measles epidemic throughout the town,... so straight to bed, and is an order. ~ Hey, doctor, but... ~ Yes, to bed. ~ I have never suffered anything, doctor. ~ Yes, the bed, the bed... ~ To bed? ~ Yes, Sir, to bed. Ready, lad, give it to me, give it to me! Oh, what balls of gold! Hold on, hold on, hold on, beggar! Sneak in, sneak in, sneak in! "I have a soft back-and-forth swing... "and I'm very happy to swing on it... "on the strong branch of laurel... "that my good daddy made for me. "What soft rhythm, what a sweet swing! "Hey guys, don't you want to come swing?" How beautiful! Right? What, that's nice, really? Here, this is for you. Down the hatch! Now you. Not bad. 5 x 1 = 5, 5 x 2 = 10,... Shall I start again? Let's see, you should relax and hold tight, man. Hold your legs tight, make yourself heavy. Now, ready? Now the bull will buck. Show me what you've got. Hold on, beggar! Now apply the spurs! But maybe not so hard! Well, this is already dealt with. There's nothing like rest to cure these diseases. That damn bell is ringing again! When are we going to live in peace in this house? Attack, coward! Defend yourself, Indian Geronimo! Nice to see you! What brings you here? I've wanted to know your grandson for a while, Mrs. Refugio. It's just that work keeps me tied up. ~ Well, go on, go on in. ~ Thank you. Sneak down! Joselito! Joselito! Joselito! Get out of there, demon! Mr. Manuel has had the courtesy to come see you. ~ To me? ~ Hello, Joselito. Although it's late, I have come to bring you a welcoming gift. Well, I knew your parents, rest in peace. Antonio! What's up with that nut? We were just playing cowboys and Indians. He was the Indian, and I... I have to capture him. But you both know you can't leave just yet! Now I'll go fetch that Antonio brat! No, don't go, Grandma. Child, attend to your visitor, go on. May God forbid a cool air blow hit you, kiddo. I wouldn't like anything to happen. Look what I brought. It's genuine, and the best steel... but be careful because you can hurt yourself with it. This knife belongs to a bandit who swore to kill all who recognize or talk about him. Keep it, and above all keep the secret, because if not... So don't talk about this with your grandmother or that Antonio... lest they happen to die. Goodbye, Joselito. Oh, and welcome to Ocotln. For San Antonio's sake, let Our Lord gather Don Manuel into His Holy spirit,... and give me the courage to deliver the letter to Juliet, even it doesn't scent anymore. After all, I want her to read it, not smell it. Just a moment. My love comes to the bottom of your window to sing to you,... finally! My love needs your love to not cry. In that hard grill of your flowered window,... just like the Honeysuckle is entangling my life. And... oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I come here to sing to you,... oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I come to worship you... oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I come to pray to you. oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I can't help myself. The night will cover us, it is high time to neck,... because lovers prefer the darkness. A kiss from you is my longing to feel your body close,... to kiss your mouth, to feel that I'm going to heaven. And... oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, how beautiful is love! Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, how beautiful is love! Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, you make me dream,... oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I want to kiss you at once! Partner... Traitor! Secure the door well. Hurry with the lamp, Cosimo. On the way, Chief. ~ Give me a match. ~ Yes, boss. Now finally we'll go for a big one, boys. Here is the telegram from our pal Chagas. "Sunday are leaving fifty fat steers with six peons. " How can you see it from there? Soon we are going to rustle cattle, boss! You're so thick, Cipriano! A "fat steer" means a thousand pesos... and "six peons" means they'll depart at six in the morning, you see it now? What the hell, it's only money, right? Just there's lots, and lots, and lots of money. When will you give us some to go have some fun with girls? I getting tired of telling you: everything in good time. Here's the plan, to show where each should wait separately,... and to study the meeting point. There's someone there, Chief! What are you waiting for? Move! Fuck, someone ran off! Help me up! Don't push, Cosimo, because I'm jammed. ~ There he goes. ~ Who is he? He's that grandson of Doa Refugio. ~ And I'm stuck. ~ What is it? Cipriano's jammed,... He says it's Doa Refugio's grandson who's gone off! Fill him with lead when you see him! Get me out of here, please! Help me! Don't leave me alone, Cosme! Hey, Cipriano is stuck up there! Blessed San Antonio, forget about Juliet for the moment,... and don't fail me in this other favor: give me good aim. Run, White, to Grandma's house! Take it to Antonio! Pay attention! It's boy's horse. Maybe he got frightened by the shot. Who's calling? Who's calling? White, what are you doing here? Who let you outside? Hmmm. Why are you so nervous? Oh, how strange! What's this? Help me! My hands are cramping! Shut up! "And the head of the bandits is Don Manuel. "These aren't lies, there's a Cyprian and a Cosimo here, too,... "and someone else. On Sunday they'll be stealing fifty thousand pesos. "Goodbye, tell grandma not cry, and also try to forgive me. " "Your brother, Joselito. " Oh, my God! God willing, it's another lie from that rogue! Attack him from inside! So you thought you were going to escape? I noticed you in your grandmother's House, little boy. Don't move! Waste them, partner, these shitheads are getting up my nose! And when I get angry, look out! Grab their guns, partner. Drop the gun or I shoot the boy. Throw away it! Freeze! Hey, boy, just give me that toy. Get moving. Don't move! Give me your gun. I can't, boss, because if I let go, I fall. Damn boy! What happened here? These are the stagecoach bandits. Take charge of them, boys. Coming. He saved my life. Yes. Now I've learned how to love a horse. And I've finally learned that you can love a child more than a horse. What are you waiting for to hug your girlfriend, Antonio? I think she's too big for me. Besides, she doesn't have blue eyes. Very nice,... enlarging the family without the consent of the grandmother! Yes, grandmother, and I'm thinking that we could be the best family in the world,... provided that Antonio and Juliet marry and come to live with us. Well, that is if the big guy decides to take root. I already planted them, and what's better than your home to throw some seed? Just look: in one move, a wife, a son, and even a grandmother. This game is certainly won! ~ Partners? ~ Partners, beggar. ~ Partners, but what about me? ~ Well, partners! ~ Well, partners! ~ Partners!
