 

                        Cinematic pageant in 6 parts. Biography of the great Roman general CAIUS JULIUS CAESAR Produced by the Cines Film co., Rome. Film from sale and rental office Jean Desmet, Amsterdam. Lead roles in the first part: For the young Caius Julius, more pleasant than the boisterous gaiety... ...is the company of the amiable Servilia, who belongs to the mighty family of Cato. With the carelessness of youth, they devote themselves entirely to enjoyment... ...and to the pleasure of love. A FEW MONTHS LATER The strict discipline which rules the family of Servilia... ...makes that Caius Julius can only meet his beloved in secret. Servilia visits with Cajus the temple dedicated to the goddess Iuno, the patron of fidelity. Before the goddess' altar they take the vow of eternal loyalty, ...and their secret marriage is consecrated by a priest. But Lutatius, the Cato family's head, to which Servilia belongs too, has promised her as wife to Marcus Brutus. Cajus Julius is spied while leaving his pretty Servilia's house. The secret visits are told to Lutatius. Lutatius, having learned of the affair between Cajus and Servilia, therefore wants to hurry the marriage between Servilia and Marcus Brutus. "You will marry Marcus Brutus! Refuse, and the mighty dictator Sulla, who is on our side, ...will certainly bring about that Cajus Julius is executed." "Stop!... I consent!..." The last meeting. On the notice, that he will have to part forever from the by him so dearly beloved, Cajus Julius wants to end his life. "If not for me, then do it for our child!" - "Yes! For our child I will stay alive." "Farewell, Servilia! I swear, that I will keep our secret in the grave. Even our child will never learn who was his father." Servilia marries Marcus Brutus. At the wedding feast she hides her heart pain behind a proud smile. The confession. "I am already mother! Kill me, if you will, it is in your right. Our line knows how to die!" "No! You will live on in shame! That will be your punishment! I will manage to save my honour." To avoid possible suspicion from Marcus Brutus, Cajus Julius has married the noble Cornelia. But neither marital bliss nor his daughter Julia's birth can make him forget all of his heart pain. The Roman people await the tyrant, Sulla. "Be careful, Cajus Julius, for you almost surpass the dictator Sulla. It might sadly cost you your life." "You here, Cajus Julius? Don't you know that your presence is most unpleasant to me?" "But dictator, am I not a Roman citizen?" "Remember, Cajus Julius, that contradiction and opposing my will means death." "Cajus Julius, the mediation of the above all holy Vestal Virgins has saved your life." Despite the Vestal Virgins' protection, Cornelia, wife of Cajus Julius, fears... the revenge of the dictator, and she begs her husband to flee before it is too late. Cajus Julius to Servilia: "I leave Rome, but do not flee. Now Sulla is more powerful for our son shall live." During the seven years of Cajus Julius' voluntary exile in Asia, the young Brutus, son of Cajus and Servilia, receives the first lessons from a member of the Catonian family and the idea is impressed upon the lad that Rome must stay a republic. Slowly the young Brutus is instilled with hate... ...against his unknown father Cajus Julius, who is not a follower of the republican party. His mother Servilia attempts to temper with soft words the hate of Brutus for Cajus Julius. By her promise to Cajus she is forced to keep the secret and so she cannot tell her son that he is is father. The death of the dictator Sulla (in the year 78 BC) brings an end to the reigh of terror and joy to a large part of the Roman population. The news of the death of the dictator has made Cajus Julius decide to return to Rome after an absence of 7 years. But Cajus Julius has nevertheless made himself formidably heard of in his city of birth during his stay in Asia. His plans have taken solid form. Rome trembles...Rome hopes for him. Cajus Julius manages to win the people over completely with his generosity. Visit of Tertullia, wife of the rich and powerful Crassus, to Cajus Julius. Cajus Julius, you will be amazed to find Tertullia visiting you, ...but for a long time I observe your pursuits and your works with interest. At the house of Tertullia, the wife of Crassus, ...the friends and followers of Cajus Julius meet to prepare his election as consul. At the senate session, noisy debates take place... ...between the followers of Cato's republican party and the admirers of Cajus Julius. "Cajus Julius, do you dare to oppose the will of the senate? Don't you fear to be called an enemy of the republic? If you are an honest man, then show me the statement that was just received by you." "Here... read! and you will see who Cajus Julius is." Cicero to Cajus Julius. I have already won many to our party, but beware of the implaccable nature ...of Cato and his party. May the gods save us from a second tyrant like Sulla once was. Tertullia, who admires Cajus Julius, has him meet in her house Pompey, also a powerful and influental man. Cajus Julius wins Pompey too for his grand plans, namely his election as consul, and supreme command of the Roman legions. Now start the glorious campaigns of Cajus Julius. One year later. Tertullia moves to meer Cajus Julius, who returns with his invincible legions... ...from Iberia (present day Spain) to Rome, to greet him as future consul for the first time. Although Cato tries with his great speaker's talent to cross the election of Cajus Julius as consul, ...the senate the next day still greets Cajus Julius as consul. Ten years later. Cajus Julius, who for a long time held the plan to penetrate even further into the land of the Gauls (present day France and Belgium) with the Roman legions, wins Pompey over for this plan too. He gives the latter his daughter Julia as wife. The glorious campagins and the many done by Cajus Julius in the interest of the republic... ...is belittled and depicted as hostile to the republic by the tutors of his son Brutus. Irmidia, a Gaulish vestal virgin, requests Julius Caesar for an interview. Despite the precautions of Tertullia, she manages to enter the room of Caesar. Abandon your plans o Caesar! For I predict you that your campaign to Gaul will cost you your life. Perhaps even sooner than you suspect. Tertullia sacrifices herself for Caesar. She takes the murdering steel that was meant for him. The people wish Caesar and his legions luck on their departure to the lands of the Gauls... ...and trusts, that they will return as victors from there too. Druids and druidesses (Gaulish priests and priestesses) sacrifice to the gods, and pray to them for protection of the 38 Gaulish tribes from the Roman rule. Vercingetorix, king of the Arverni, is appointed as supreme commander of the Gaulish armies. Irmidia, the Gaulish vestal virgin, is inconsolable that her attempt at Caesar's life has failed. She wants to chop off her arm, which was too weak to carry the murdering steel. "You have saved my arm. I will give my life for the fatherland." The siege of Alesia by the Roman legions. Gaulish reinforcements enter by a secret road in the city besieged by the Romans. The Gaulish commander orders his different chiefs to send messengers to call all Gaulish tribes to Alesia. One of the messengers has been caught by the Romans. To all Gaulish tribes that fight for their freedom! The Roman eagle threatens us! Pay attention to the sign of our commander Vercingetorix. The signal of the tubicines. [trumpet players] The alerted Gauls move into the city by the secret road. At first light the Gauls stand ready to storm the Roman army camp. Lead by the heroic Camulogene, the Gallic advance guard approaches the defenses erected by the Romans. Free Gaul lets you know: Run away Romans, or Caesar's ambition will make you find your grave here. The Gauls accomplish little against the military well-trained Romans, and have to flee. The catapults (ballistic machines) cause great havoc among the Gauls. With an extreme effort the Gauls succeed for a while in driving the Romans on the run. ...but eventually they have to yield to Caesar's brave. In vain the Gauls seek refuge in Alesia... ...because that night already this strong fortress is in the possession of the Romans. After the defeat of the Gauls. Victors and vanquished. Friends and enemies of Caesar await impatiently in the "Curia Hostilia" (senate's meeting place)... ...for messages of the Gaul's desperate fight. We bring good tiding! Messages of victory from the great Caesar! Vercingetorix is the prisoner of Caesar. The Roman eagle now controls all of Gaul. Because of the glorious victories the hate has been set of even more... ...between the members of the republican party of Cato and the followers of Caesar. The majority of the members of the senate vote to remove the consulship from Caesar. The eloquent arguments of Caesar's follower Curio are in vain. The Catonian party is too strong. Contemptful Mark Antony, Curio, and the other party members of Julius Caesar leave the "Curia Hostilia". In Ravenna Mark Antony and his friends bring the message of the hostile at- titude of the senate to Julius Caesar. The next morning the official delegates of the senate arrive at the army camp as well. Brutus is the spokesman, who doesn't know that Caesar is his father, ...and sees in him only a powerful opponent of the republican party. Cajus Julius Caesar hail! We charge you to disband your legions and remove you from consulship. My legions will bring the response to the senate themselves. And you, fear not. Your life is sacred to me. Caesar makes the message of the senate known to his centurions. Cajus Julius Caesar hail! We charge you to disband your legions and remove you from consulship. The centurions, who know Brutus' hate of Caesar, throw dice, who of them will kill Brutus. But the watchful father's love protects the life of Brutus. Stop! Not with the dagger in the dark. I tolerate no assins among my men. This life is sacred to me. Expect no gratitude from me! I will despise all my life those, who like you, are enemies of the republic. Caesar moves forwards with his legions until the river Rubicon. (The assumed border of Italy proper.) The grand events in Roman history. Roman marches on Roman! "Alea jacte est!" ("The die is cast!") The Roman eagle marches on its fathercity. In Rome there's great excitement about the continuing advance of Julius Caesar with his legions. Always onward! In great fear the senate decides to put Julius Caesar outside the law. Here with fear and there with joy, is Caesar greeted by the Roman people. "No servitude! No slavery! But glory and freedom brings my Eagle." Without listening to the words of the temple guardian, Caesar defiles the temple of Saturn... ...and seizes the contents of the treasury to provide food for his troops. Caesar stop! Temple violator! The treasury is inviolable! Saus populi suprema lex! (The good of the people is the highest law!) Caesar's enemies have left Rome. Caesar's friend and son-in-law Pompey has gone over to his enemies also. The latter has been charged by the senate... ...with the defense of the republic against Julius Caesar and embarks with his army at Brindisi. At Dyrrachium (Durrs in Albania) the first galleys of Pompey arrive with troops. The next day. Cato and Brutus blame Pompey, that he is to hesitant against Caesar. The advance of Caesar against Pompey's legions. Caesar gives his captains the order, that the life of Brutus must be spared. On the signal of Caesar his concealed warriors emerge. The army camp of Pompey is entirely surrounded. When the morning red colours the sky, the armies face each other. Caesar the idea-creator of the new fighting rule has his troops advance in loose formation. Pompey, follower of the old way of fighting, leads his troops with closed ranks. Man against man! Roman against Roman! The forces of Pompey fight with heroic courage. ...but in vain. Here too the brave must yield and the army of Pompey turns to a disorderly flight. But also in the wilde pursuit, the orders of Caesar are obeyed. Brutus is captured and led before his, still unknown to him, father Julius Casear. "I despise you. Thank the gods that you are victor, otherwise... Now I request you to have me killed." "No, I want you to stay alive for the fatherland. You will rule the Gauls that I've conquered." Moved by some much goodness, Brutus bows the head. The vanquished Pompey seeks his salvation in the flight to Egypt. Caesar follows with his gaze the galley of the fleeing Pompey. Caesar is shown the head of Pompey, who was killed at the order of king Ptolemy. The latter thought to be of service to Caesar with this. "Pompey! I did not want your death!" Rome receives the victor with the greatest honours... ...and gives an image of his many victories in an allegorical parade. Rome is now completely under control of Caesar, who has been named dictator for life. Therefore the party hatred has flamed even more. A secret call. My greeting to Marcus Brutus! The republic of Rome, which has already suffered... ...the tyranny of the dictator for too long, cannot allow this situation to continue. The republic is in danger! Brutus are you sleeping? Are you no longer Brutus? A few days later. Brutus is entirely influenced again... ...and puts himself at the head of the conspirators in the house of Cassius. Caesar is warned. However he trusts his lucky stars and disregards all warnings. "Beware, great Caesar, for the ides of Mars (15 March)." Loyal friends inform him of the conspirators' sign. When someone lays the hand on Caesar's shoulder, ...the moment has come in which an end will be made to his life. "Have the senate guarded, Caesar." "I do not wish the members of the senate to be guarded by my soldiers as enemies." The ides of Mars (15 March of the year 44 B.C.). "Remember Caesar, the ides of Mars has come." In the most terrible moments of his life, Julius Caesar does not show that he knows his enemies. "Him?!" Ruunt fata! On the one hand, world rule, on the other hand, his son. "You too, Brutus, my son?!" By the body of Caesar, Mark Antony swears to avenge him. Servilia is worried by all the street uproar. "I have killed Caesar... and saved the republic from ruin!" "Brutus! Unhappy man! What have you done... it was your father." At the ceremony Servilia sends her last regard to Cajus Julius Caesar, whom she's never stopped loving. Mark Antony reminds the crowd of people with inspiring words the great deeds and merits of Caesar. "Invincible in every battle, he died by the hands of assassins!" The excitement of the crowd of people reaches its top when Mark Antony... ...reads Caesar's will in which he bequeaths his estates to the people. The people avenge the murder of Caesar. Now the murderers too suffer the same fate, which they had inflicted on Rome's greatest general and statesman. The pyre's fire that burns Caesar's body destroys the body, but not the fame of his glorious victories. Julius Caesar is immortal in world history.
