 

                        Teacher Bai, it looks like there is food ahead Go, let's see Go Boss, I want one bowl of noodles One bowl? This... this many people, one bowl? Teacher, I want to go back to Stone City We're going to a new school We're not going back Come, stick your hands out No matter what's happened before We have to look ahead We are the bravest, the strongest We'll never separate, we are family, understand? We understand Okay, we'll leave after we have eaten Wipe away the tears Good Look, it's pigsy Here are your noodles Thankyou Let's eat Let's eat, let's eat Slow down, slow down Waiter Yes sir, are you ready to pay? That's a total of ten... Robbery There's thieves inside, quick run Listen up Do what I say, Put all your money on the table Do it now Or we'll use our swords You pay If not Youll bleed R... robbery You bastard R... robbery Seriously It's lunch time now People are trying to eat their lunch Choosing this time to rob is impolite I'm still trying to digest my food I'm a very healthy person After I have eaten I just want to sleep I get irritated when my sleep is disturbed Can you, be more professional as a robber? You should come back at night for... R... robbery Get out here Robbery, having fun? Disturbing my sleep Still digesting Robbing during the day is unprofessional I feel better Everyone get down Have mercy You're breaking our arms Naughty, naughty Our arms hurt Boss, keep the change Pigsy is good For the noodles Hero Hero... who? Thank you For your help You think I'm a god too Idiot, he's not pigsy He's the Monkey King In 1914, China glassware South, North, there is a war military Cao Ying from the north is the cruelest Cao troops attacked the place there surely will be hell People fled from their homes Pucheng Sheriff Yang The Sheriff is back Sheriff The Sheriff has returned Dad The Sheriff is back Let's eat, let's eat I have some important news Cao Ying has occupied Stone City There is now a south military emergency Guard troops had been sent to the front line to help Pucheng is without the army's protection It's up to us to keep guard Army's gone to war We'll defend and maintain order No problem Anyway the sheriff will lead us, you will won't you? Right? Of course Let's eat, let's eat Thank you Sheriff Sheriff There's a lot of refugees out front, prohibiting the entry of our citizens Now they are ready to fight Everyone move, step back Calm down, don't push Stand back, stand back Spread out They can't stay, there is no room for them here Sir, we ran away from Stone City Cao's army conquered our city. Now we have nowhere to live We beg you... Everyone listen to me Could you bear to see these people wandering around starving in the streets? Many of you are not from Pucheng Twenty years ago, you fled from famine We sheltered you all now you live well Yes true We'd like to think If we were to have a disaster, wouldn't we be hoping to find a place to stay as well? We should listen We can all help many Would that be good or bad? Good... I'll do steamed buns Folks we'll help also Some can live at my house Okay Cousin Cousin Cousin... What happened? Come... give her to me At the time Cao and his troops rushed to the school to kill people A lot of teachers and students died tragically Because Cao Shaolun did not like to hear the sounds coming from our school I saw Cao willing to kill everyone just like a demon So I took the students away from Stone City Teacher Bai, you are safe here People of Pucheng do not slaughter people Okay, it's okay While you're here in Pucheng don't be afraid Sister will take good care of you, rest assured See what's happening Stop there Where are you from? Stop, stop You want to fight, do you wish to die? Are you deaf? They told you to stop You force your way in What do you want? Your city is the richest Boss Liu asked us to come Don't get in our way You're a gang of bandits Let me tell you when you enter Pucheng you must register You cannot force me Aren't you just a small ruler? I, Wang Weihu, will show my skills and I'll dismiss you from this land Brothers, do not help Ok Good That is called dog eating shit Was that unanticipated? Are you all right? Of course I am, are you going to fight? Okay Stop fighting Boss Liu Kenan, do not misunderstand Do not exaggerate the problem I employed them to help oversee here Kenan, do you not see our army has abandoned us Cao Ying's troops may attack at any time You do know that, right? We are not without Liu's visionary With an insight to hire more protection Who is responsible for the safety of our way? Do we just rely on you to defend us? And these few people? We beat them up, how are they useful? Sheriff Yang, why did the army abandon the city? Will we fight tomorrow? Everyone listen to me The army only swept the front line And did not give up on Pucheng people You have nothing to worry about Monkey King...? Taiping Taiping... I've told you so many times to wake me You ogle me to sleep but don't wake me Do you want me to fall to my death? You're like this every time Do this again and I won't buy things for you to eat All right Up Board on board Brothers, we face the boss Liu Monkey King... Quiet! Let's go Boss Trim my beard Have a seat Right away What style do you want? Who are you? Seems that I don't know you I am the sheriff of Pucheng Handlebar, short moustache, goatee What style would you like? Do your best, I'm so handsome anyway Miss Bai said you rescued the children. What is, your purpose in Pucheng? I didn't choose to come I go wherever Taiping walks me to Taiping? My horse What style are you going to cut? I'm still thinking What do you do? I want to know I have nothing to do, today and tomorrow Hey man, can you concentrate? Trim my beard A wanderer... passing through here? When are you leaving? Ask Taiping Any ideas? None yet How about a handlebar moustache? Would it make me, more handsome? You would look lecherous Like a bad guy How can you tell who is, good or bad? Bad guys have no morals Don't you believe in justice? Yes But believing is not enough It must be enforced There can be no justice, without enforcement Well What is your name? I'm Yang Kenan "Ke" as in kissing? "Nan" as in nancy? "Ke" as in conquer, "nan" as in hardship Honoured I'm Ma Feng The nation is in chaos But not in Pucheng You should leave soon All I want is simple "Taiping" (peace) Just like your horse's name Remember to register Hey, are you done? How much? Depends on how happy you are Nice Hero Hero Come on Can't you let me sleep in peace? I'm sorry to interrupt your rest We've met It's late, but I came to ask you a favour I'm Bai Ling, a teacher Stop, I know what you want Let me tell you I'm not a loose man Don't misunderstand I'm taking some orphans to the Capital But the route is fraught with danger I'd like to ask you to protect us on the way Do you know me? What kind of person am I? I know you are a good man Wrong I do everything except what is good Please go home Hero I beg you, please help them Their parents have been murdered Only you can guarantee their safety And bring them to their relatives in the Capital... Can you please stop talking? Besides being a bad guy, I'm a very busy man Do I look like I have nothing to do? You're still here Do you have money? Money... Yes I'm a very bad, very busy man who loves money I work for money, not for people 100 Republic dollars, do you have it? A hundred? Yes If you do, I can help you I have an idea See if you are interested You look nice With proper training, can you... - you could be sold at a good price - I won't disturb you any more I know you want me to back away Get some rest, good night Teacher Why must you help those little urchins? Is she asleep? Yes Look That's you - Those eyebrows - There's a hole That's herself Move those into the cart Let's go after breakfast Be careful Take your time Good Careful, careful Go inside for noodles Good morning, sir You're dressed to go hunting Are you lost? Come in. have a seat No one is open yet This way, please This way, sir We just opened, excuse the mess. The kid is sick, so I slept in a bit Please sit down, sir It's easy to get lost in our mountain trails Where are you from? Do you come from Stone City? Really You're so lucky to have escaped Stone City must be hellish now being taken over by Cao There's no peace there any more That dog of a warlord Dog of a warlord? Isn't Cao Ying a dog of a warlord? That bastard dog of a warlord's son. Cao shaolun is even more like a bastard He's a beast among beasts A beast among beasts? Do you have something against him? Yes My cousin taught at Stone City If not for the evil bastard Cao Shaolun Killing the innocent why would all those children be orphaned? Why would my cousin suffer such hardship? Here comes my cousin now If you don't believe me, ask her yourself She watched the bastard commit murder I, Li Tieniu, swear that I will curse him all my life May he go to hell when he dies May he never be reincarnated If he has a son May he be cursed Cousin, stop it Let me talk to him I'll make you some noodles You must taste Tieniu's beef noodles Sure No scallions, please You know me? I do Come, have some tea I beg you, let them go Sit Do I look like a murderer of innocents? Then I'm finished If I have a son, will he really be cursed? What will happen if I have a daughter? What did I do wrong? We are ordinary people We don't know each other Why do you kill people? Do I need a reason to kill? I've been killing, since I was eight My father told me then Son, it's no problem Kill whoever you want You're Cao Ying's son This is nonsense You're a teacher and you, don't understand such a simple fact How can you teach the next generation? With brute power there is no justice When you have power, others fear you Those who don't... Only meet with death I'll play a game with you If I lose I'll leave right away If I win... You all must die Let's bet on whether my noodles, will come with scallions You choose No? Then I'll choose Since he has been telling me off I'm sure, he's put a lot of scallions in it Here you are, sir Enjoy Tieniu's Beef Noodles, while they're hot I don't eat beef Go see what's going on Run, Dayuan Run fast! Teacher Bai! Look I'll strangle you Die, you demon It's really not my fault Hurry, go see What was that? What's wrong? What's going on? Teacher Bai... Don't cry... Murderer, hang him Kill him Hang him Murderer! He's a killer, execute him It should be done right here Murderer Quiet, everyone Quiet, quiet This man, came to Pucheng and killed our Tieniu A Stone City teacher and a child today Our governor has left the city So Sheriff Yang will be in charge of the murderer's trial What is your name? Where did you come from? Why did you kill those three people? I just went in to eat noodles But the kid came and grabbed my gun I wanted to take it back, but it backfired The boss came to beat me up I asked him to stop, he didn't I had to shoot I didn't mean to Liar! You did it on purpose, stop arguing! So, you killed all three of them They really were accidents All three murders were accidents? You won't say your name Or where you're from You're speaking only nonsense Since you admit to the murders As the Sheriff of Pucheng, I must sentence you, the nameless, to death Liao, get the executioner Yes, sir According to the law This man's dog of a head can be removed Early tomorrow morning Hurrah... - Stop shoving! - Move! Halt What is your purpose? I came to pick up Junior Commandant What Junior Commandant? Go Go now! Junior Commandant, I deserve to die For coming so late Please spare us, Junior Commandant He is the son of General Cao Ying Junior Commandant Cao He's Junior Commandant Cao? Release him now! You're on my turf You cannot demand his release So what if Cao Ying is his father? He is a murderer He will be executed tomorrow morning My army will arrive tomorrow When General Cao takes over Pucheng We will be the law Release him! We'll talk when you've fought your way in If you dare to take him away I will execute him on the spot Stop it, you better behave Don't you dare Try us May I remind you If he dies, the entire city will be buried with him Colonel Zhang Those who break the law must be punished Even I, the Junior Commandant Put down your guns Go back Yes, sir You only have one day's time Listen carefully Tomorrow morning I will lead the army into the city for him If even a hair is missing on his head This whole city, will be covered with corpses And the rivers dyed red with blood I'll play a game with you In one day... I want you to release me with your own hands Lock him up! He's Cao Ying's son Kenan I think we should probably let him go? He is Cao Ying's son... The Junior Commandant If we kowtowed and apologized - perhaps... - No He's a murderer, who will be executed tomorrow Since that is how you feel Kenan I'm not going to die, with you Out of the way What are you looking at? Go home and wait to die I'll notify the army to back us up Don't worry Go home now Colonel why didn't we grab Junior Commandant? If anything goes wrong, we'll die Don't you know what kind of man he is? If he's having fun he won't stop If he wanted them dead we would have killed them already Besides, we want to reign the city Not destroy it They won't harm Junior Commandant Come with me tomorrow to get him - But... - I give the orders Bullocks He thinks he's the Commanders pet If anything happens to Junior We will die, not he Yes They're just local guardians Are you leaving now? Why would I stay? Here is a letter, I found it among Miss Bai's things Sorry It didn't have an envelope, so I opened it The letter is for you The children are now at the Guardians Hero, I had benefited from your help So I know you have feelings I didn't mean to interfere with your wanderings But as a teacher I can not leave my students in mortal danger Unfortunately, I am weak and alone and unable to handle the prospect I was desperate for a long time I am writing this letter to you Safely bring the students to the Capital I am willing to be your slave for rest of my life Waiting on you hand and foot Doing all your bidding To make up for your $100 fee Talk is cheap This letter shall serve as evidence Bai Ling bows to you Sheriff You have arrested the murderer for Bai Ling I drink to you Have a drink I don't drink while on duty Just one drink I'll toast with tea So stubborn Let me, ask you The decision you made today Aren't you afraid of harming your family? I am And that's why I must not back down The colonel who came today We studied under the same master. His name is Zhang Yi He is, a man of his word and a martial arts expert You're no match for him We haven't fought, how do you know? Do you think I'll just give up like that? What about those three lives? Then why did you toast me earlier? One lives... through one's conscience Are you full? I will take the children, to the Capital You will? Because... One time, I had... a delivery I couldn't refuse Test one's conscience Excuse me Be careful it doesn't catch fire See that it doesn't catch fire Don't you want this? I see your forehead is dark Nose hair is too long, ears stick out too much You won't live past tonight You don't believe me Then never mind Prison raid Where is Junior Commandant? In hell In hell? Guang! Release Junior Commandant! Shun... What is it? They came for a prison raid Let's go Don't go after them, Save Guang first Guang... Guang... I'm going to kill him! Zhang Wu! You bastard! Wu! Let him down now Now! Lift him up Let him down, quickly. He cannot die Down... Wake up... you can't die Wake up! So now I can't die? You want to kill me, then you are afraid I'll die That look on your face is... Priceless... Priceless... Why the hurry to hang yourself? I would have granted your wish tomorrow Tomorrow At least half the people here will die Priceless... Halt Who are you? Colonel You have a visitor outside Bring him in Yes, sir It seems You have been very free these years It's been all right Your face suits a beard Very handsome Thank you I'm not a good fighter but at least I'm handsome Are you sure? Of course Why don't you try it? I might try it? No one has dared to speak to me like this I'll try it Of course You're now the high and mighty Colonel Zhang Who would dare to joke with you? Look at these two dragons These should be what you want? This is just the start I want to go even further Congratulations And you? Your grand wanderings How are your grand wanderings going? How else can they be? Just like this I told you, to join me to make a new world But you wouldn't listen Come back To make a new world with you? What do I need to do? Be a battalion commander for now After a few battles I will give you My rank of Colonel Battalion Commander sounds good Battalion Commander... Does a battalion commander have to... fight and kill From here... To here And in the end, we've now... Arrived at... Pucheng Speaking of Pucheng I pity the residents there They'll all die tomorrow I've said, let Junior Commandant go and Pucheng residents will be unscathed The Junior Commander of yours is a murderer He killed three people including a teacher and an innocent child Forget about three people Even if he killed 300 people I must protect him It's my job I just don't want to see the innocent die Exactly I don't want to see the innocent die either, so I'm giving them one's day's time Master taught us about justice... Don't talk to me about justice Have you forgotten you ruined our business? Because of what you call justice That dog of an official burned down our business Our men became homeless Many died or were injured Have you forgotten that already? I remember You have a death wish? Robbing us with no martial arts skills You bastards Gods Why don't you have karma? That dog of an official Cheated me out of my money Killed my parents Took my wife Give me back my wife! Dog of an official Even if I die without avenging them I will haunt you as a ghost You can still escape now Husband! Husband Wife Husband - I must kill you, you dog of an official. - Ignore him Dog of an official Scumbag You may not kill him You're crazy If the package is here, the guard lives, if not he dies So the guard can ignore right from wrong? And let this scumbag go free? With that one knife-stroke over 300 people in our business will die Feng, that is reality Brute force beats reason every time Yi, what is the result of reality? The officials always demand payback If you still consider me your senior classmate Do not be my enemy Thanks for the egg Feng Ask them to release him Junior Commandant Junior Commandant I'm Ma Feng, here to rescue you under Colonel Zhang's orders Junior Commandant, I have a question Please don't mind, I'm just curious So... after you get out What will you do? will you spare the people of Pucheng? Nonsense! You think I'm an idiot? With all that killing Your clothes may still be white But your heart surely is black Are you letting me go? Yet another dog of an official He seems to mean to let you do it Now you understand He's not worried if we'll let him go He just loves to kill If we let him go now We'd be giving our lives unconditionally I hope the army will win on the front lines and return soon Only then will Pucheng's people be rescued Crystal-clear vision But you will die, with or without clear vision It will soon be dawn I don't know you But if you want to play a game I'll join you Liao, you're are here Good timing Liao Bao said you need to see me urgently What is it? Yes... - Come with me - Where to? Let's talk as we walk So much has happened today I'll bet you haven't eaten Have a pastry Why are you so secretive? Nothing In all of the years I've known you Your stomach aches when you're nervous What is it? Boss Liu wants to talk to you He has a way to resolve this crisis When did you meet with him? His idea is, for me to release Cao Shaolun You wouldn't believe him, would you? Trust me this once We've risked our lives together all these years Everything I do is for your good I trust you But I won't do this Cao Shaolun is not a regular guy Who is his father? A grand warlord with hundreds of thousands of troops And you? Just a local guardian With the few of us, we're no match We can't afford this - Guang is dead, I fear you may be next - You fear you may be next You want me, a guardian, to release a murderer? I didn't think you'd be the biggest coward I'm not afraid I wan't to save you I've been with you for 30 years I've done everything you said They call me a yes-man, but I don't mind Because... I trust you, you're my leader I obey you in everything But this time you must obey me Release him! Someone told me the first day I became a guardian A guardian doesn't have to be very learned But he must tell black from white right from wrong Do you remember who told me that? You did I trusted you, too I know, I know Is that worth it, for one Cao Shaolun? Ask the people, what do they want? Don't lecture them on justice or integrity Everyone just wants peace... To have a safe home and a good job Don't give them a hard time You think we can solve everything, if we kneel down? Just kneel first It's critical to stay alive If we kneel today, will we still be able to stand up tomorrow? Can our future generations live with their heads held high? We are not slaves We are the owners of Pucheng The more we fear, the worse our fate Cao Shaolun's arrival into our city has sealed Pucheng's fate, there is no escape for us Yes We may die But everyone dies Let's not die in vain All right? Yang Kenan! What do you want? Boss Liu invited us here You still don't understand? Sub-commander Liao Your job is done, go Boss Liu said you must pay for your mistakes by killing him Yang Don't put the blame on us in the underworld we're just doing our jobs Kill me first, if you can Leave me! Go Sheriff Liao! You wouldn't go when I asked So I must send you out Out of my way Wu, Wu... Calm down Leave me Leave me alone - Wu - Calm down Calm down, it's useless Why are you all standing here? Liu Cheng You sent men to kill Liao I want your life for his Wrong I'll tell you what happened Yang offended Junior Commandant caused the death of his man and will kill all of us in Pucheng Listen to what the people are saying Sheriff Yang Once the Cao army storms Pucheng, they will kill everyone in the city Sheriff Yang I beg you I beg you, please let Cao go Please, I beg you, let Cao go Kenan My son is still young I just want him to grow up in peace You don't want your daughter, to be killed by Cao's army tomorrow I am devastated by the deaths of Liao and Guang But this not for revenge I believe murderers should be punished But, Sheriff Yang What about us? Sheriff Yang Sheriff Yang My family has lived here for five generations I am in my eighties Give my descendants... a chance to live I beg you, sheriff Yang Please let him go Father Mother, please get up Get up Kneel and beg sheriff yang Kneel Zhuangran, beg Sheriff Yang Sheriff I... There is righteousness among the people Justice is in everyone's hearts We Yang's have been guardians here for three generations We have been loyal and faithful, our consciences are clear Today, you don't need me anymore I understand your fear Before daybreak... I will resign as your Sheriff You all decide whether to let him go The Guardians... are permanently dismissed Xianger will love Guangzhou She will get to know many new schoolmates Give the men an extra month's pay Send them away You're staying here by yourself? Is that useful? He wants me. With me here... he won't vent his anger on the people I'm sorry Junior Commandant We're sorry Let us save you Cut it open now! You may not open it Please be serious, sir Junior Commandant Please come out Please forgive us, come out Junior Commandant... Junior Commandant We all know that we were wrong Please come out, sir Daddy You promised to play hide and seek at Grandma's house I'll wait for you, hurry up All right, I'll be very quick Show Daddy a punch Strike That was so fast Daddy couldn't even see your fist But it hurts a little Kiss it better One more One more Sheriff We don't care where you go We just want to follow you What for? All good things must come to an end You think I want to lead you monkeys around? Go on We're leaving Sheriff, thanks for taking care of us all these years I hope to have a chance to repay you Go Take care Sheriff Yang They're leaving, why are you still here? I have an extra seat, I could give you a lift Why do I need a lift from you? Take the children You're really staying? Yes Knowing you will lose I didn't do anything wrong What will I lose? Back off Junior Commandant... Please forgive us for being late Men, open the lock Is it for you to open? Sorry, Junior Commandant If you were not one of my father's dogs I would have killed you long ago Whoever cuffed me Will be the one to release me Yes, Junior Commandant Men Bring Yang Kenan No need, I am here Sheriff Yang... Well? Is the executioner here? I think he's lost his way You need an executioner to chop off my head? My head is right here Cut it off Cut it off How many lives, may I exchange with my life? I gave you my head, yet you won't cut it off Fine You want to defend the people so badly and you want to die so badly I'll grant your wish Tie him up Let me play with him at my own leisure Cheers Junior Commandant is handsome and smart Impressive Truly a shining young hero Hero... Thank you for gracing my home With your presence I am so honoured We are family from now on I will do anything for you Laugh... Sir... Eat when you eat, stop talking Let's eat Please, eat You're really eating Go look there, see what you can find No... don't take that... You can't take this Let go Don't take it... Xianger, you're a good girl When you grow up I'm sure you'll be a brave, heroic person Go to Grandma's house with Jiaoer I'll go be with Daddy All right? Teachers Miss Bai and Dayuan are dead Teachers I hand these rascals over to you Monkey King... Don't cry Listen You must... grow up to be kind people, you hear me? Yes, sir... Be good Where are you going, Monkey King? To fight monsters Madam Yang, we're back... Ma Feng You've returned, too? I don't charge a fee for some things that must be done Well? Isn't it fun to drink wine upside-down? I told you last night, half of Pucheng will die Now, I want everyone to die And you'll be the last one So, hang in there Release Halt Who are you? I bring a gift to Junior Commandant What gift? Let me see it You may see it But I'm afraid your rank isn't high enough It's very... very... very confidential If you insist, I'll show it to you I'm going to show you now Are you sure? Take him to Junior Commandant, take his weapons Quickly Cheers What's wrong? Stomach... Me too Quick... My turn Quickly... Wait Junior Commandant someone wants to see you He says he has a gift for you He came here to join our game - Send him up - Yes, sir Come up Go up Junior Commandant You changed into black clothes Behave Congratulations on conquering Pucheng I bring you a valuable gift I have... a gift? Of course You want to rescue a cooked duck? Let me see what it is? Don't be too excited I'll get it for you right away - Bring it - What? What I just gave you What? Where is the thing I just gave you? What thing? Junior Commandant! I knew you didn't have a gift It's a trick I'm not tricking you My gift was to release Yang Kenan for you Help you build up some karma points But we don't need it anymore since you killed another person Why do I need karma points? Don't you know why I let you up here? It's because it's... fun There's an explosion at the army camp - Go see what's going on. - What happened? Sheriff I told you to behave Why must you get me in trouble? I didn't I came to kill the bastard If you kill him You'll destroy me Get it? How's this You kill the Junior bastard for me I'll kill his dad for you I guarantee you'll be made Commandant Can you? Let's go Yi! Kenan Go, now Sheriff Out of my way Sheriff The heavens... choose who will die I am Cao Ying's son I am Cao... My dad is Cao Ying Kill him... I still remember being punished by Master for being too lazy to practise Three days and three nights with no food or water Only you... I know I took an egg for you at that time I can't thank you enough You say I have memorized this story a hundred times I looked at the eggs and Master Later I shall give it you You said later... I'll hit you, you can not fight back Later... Times have changed The jobs we do do not last long We don't know what we'll be doing in the future Thank you You're welcome You once said... Righteousness does exist among the people A few days later Cao Ying led a team to Pucheng He ordered his troops to kill everyone At that time, Pucheng's troops were back There was a terrible battle with the troops of Cao Cao Ying was killed I should be going If you get the opportunity to come back Remember to find me I'll cut your beard again for free If you wish to travel around the country and be a wanderer Come find me too I I want to travel the country to protect people from harm Hero woman We'll discuss it when you grow up Brother Ma Feng Take care Take care Take care Ma Feng Where are you going? I don't know This is a question... we should be asking Taiping Taiping
