 

                        Hi, I'm James Kallarikkal, everyone calls me J.K, I'm the D.J over here, it's a part time job. The real job is studying, Like everyone else, we also dislike that. We, means there are 5 to 6 of us, who and all I'll tell later. On saying, we have come to Manglore for studying, can figure out our attitude. But, today is an important day for us. One among us has loved, the love means, boy,running after a,Girl, etc, etc, climbing the wall, this is not like that as, normally found. A girl saw a boy and got love at first sight, going after him, won the heart and jumped the wall,it is a similar story. That means a girl loved a boy! They have come here to tell that story. For the time being you, hear this title song. "The eyes and eyes met each other" "The desire, you have started the story" "The Gandharva tune flowed" "The love song as a sweet rain" "The first love in the heart, transform ed to admiration" "From that day onwards, I became a follower" "Danced with the petals of red Mandarflowers, little had leaves on it" "Is it the lotus where the petals get dried?" "Became a flower, where the petals never fade" "In the streams of the clouds, became a flower in the sky" "I became a part of the moon in the sky" "Like a golden feather wafted high up in the winds" "Like a dew drop, filled the heart with nectar" One girl, going after a boy and loving. Not only on this campus, but for the first time in my life. This is our principal, don't know the actual name, know the nick name' Parrikutty' Our old movie is there no, 'Chemenn' not like the Parikutty, with the lost love. Singing the song, 'Manasa Mainee and all. He is a 'love hater' there is a reason for that. He was a brave heart, who started the love at the age of 6. A relation started by exchanging the pencils and ink sticks. Then match box pictures. Stamps and water Lilly, finally due to one and only reason, didn't allow to copy,At the 10th standard, she disdained him! But, the sincere Parikutty kept waiting, never, did she come! Then Parikutty, decided never to have love again. The time, when there was a high demand for e-comm and coco plantation. The rich girl had fallen in love on hearing the song. But, there arises a problem. Like the movie, 'Chinna Thampi, for the five brothers, only one sister! Is there much needed to get the whacking? Decided, that no matter if one gets the whacking, continued ahead... with the love! Reached, till the register marriage! Reached a point of putting the sign also! But the brothers had sniffed this, reached there and asked one question! Did he make you to sign with your consent? No! The Parikutty who was scattered, first did not go to the sea shore, but straight to the Abbey. After learning and learning became a Father! Now, if he hears love.. After telling about us, will say what had happened? We, are 6 of us. Even though, 3 are females. We, are called as' 6 men army' in the college! She is Yamini. A Rajput family from Rajasthan. Immensely rich! Honestly speaking a princess! Why be-cos, there is no second chance in life. Buddy, tell about me. Oh! This one is Siva Kumar. We, call him 'little landlord'. Son of a great land lord, at Coimbatore. Fathers, dream is to make the son, a great English man, by sending to England. Sons, dream is be a landlord. His, weakness is 'folksong' and ' minced porotta' She, is Katharine, a poor Christian from Kanjirappally. As usual, 500 acre rubber estate. Father at the club,mother social work, her weakness is boy friends, night life and 'Vodka' Then, our '6 pack Hashim', till now not even 4 packs! Gone mad, by seeing the Dabang movie, of Salman Khan's for 10 times! A computer wizard, the head master in out gang. 'May God be with us' Now have to listen very carefully, the speeding tipper, as usual hit a school going child, Fled without stopping. The public, no one has reacted except taking photos. The Dhiya, who forcefully ran in to the crowd. After knocking down all the mobiles, she ran. No vehicle had stopped. Then at last she stood in front of a car, which was speeding, without no fear! The car stopped! Escaped luckily, on reaching on time. Is that school going child anybody of yours? Is it necessary, one must help anyone, only if one is related to you? Is it necessary, one must help anyone, only if one is related to you? She is our heroine, no no, not like that. Hero..Dhiya. Now every one is complete. Now we will, enter in to the story. Even though, there is no screw! One day after the night party, got little late. Okay, okay I'll hold. Daughter, not inside, outside! Don't teach principal to blow! My Mary! Must have had, at least five! My mother! Sir, what is this? On the night of the day, of receiving the suspension, Yamini had got a call from Rajasthan. That is the reason for everything. Yamini's sisters marriage, that was the turning point. Is it? Where the boy hailing from? From Bikaner. What is he doing? From America" So that means, we have to come to Bikaner. Take the leave immediately, from the college and come to the house. When, is the marriage going to get fixed? Start immediately. Yes, father, will come with my friends. How to get the permission from the Principal? That was the only problem Finally, I told an idea. You are the one, you are the only one responsible for this! Did you need any such things? I'm not to disobey the rule, never to wish other wives, I'm daily coming to see you. If one cannot love the unseen sister, one cannot love unseen God, that is why. We'll meet tomorrow, bye, bye. What? Why are you here? You can really enjoy. No doubt, I can arrange the leave and all. This, Rajput wedding for 15 days, it would be good, if it were taken as a project. As a study tour, there are marks also, don't you need marks to reach next semester'? What a pity, is this? A project. Know there is no enough, time but still can do it. For some days, no need of sleep and sightseeing, in away it is also a thrill, On, getting no time for anything. That 'arch villain' made our trip in to a project. All the plans to freak out was domed! Then, had decided that will face it on its course, then comes the next 'thunder bolt'! You don't go along with them. I alone? You stay here, hear that? Except me, all to Rajasthan. That day all the songs I played were sad. Like the saying, meant of the mice, hit the cat! Hey you! Give me also a screw driver, let me also get high! Will straight away go there! Push strongly! No body in here? My God what is this? Welcome, come all of you. Chinna, as usual joined with the gardeners with the folk song. The wedding plans responsibility, was vested on me. But still I dedicated some time for my 6 pack! Quickly, our Katherine got a company, Bhagavan singh. Day time boozing and at night hunting that is his routine. Mostly, they were together. Even other wise the drunkards are like that. They will identify their people very soon. Don't simply say this and that, say how this love story really happened? Will tell. Where did she meet him? Then, did he fall? To make him fall, had sung. Like how the hero sings in Tamil movie. Yes. If men can sing, the girls can also sing. "Is it love? Some, thief has robbed the love" Is it desire? The so called desire is stolen by the thief" "Who is that? Who is he?" "Does one know who the thief is?" "From here starts the drumming of the heart" "From here starts the coquetry of the young hearts" "Who is that? Who is he?" "Does one know who the thief is?" "On standing at a distance will feel like, running to reach near" "On standing close, can't stand before the eye sight" "What is the name of this? What is the name of this? Can one say?" "Is it the desire or the amour or a curiosity of love?" " Does one know, who he is? "He is the thief" "Like the water lily looking the the image of the moon" "Even when half bloomed, filled with honey inside" "The dream I saw in my mind, some time ago, is becoming true" "The golden moment waited by me is going to be complete" "Is it love? Some, thief has robbed the love" Is it desire? The so called desire is stolen by the thief" "Who is that? Who is he?" "Does one know who the thief is?" There is some kind of attraction. How cute is he? Never in my life.. What is his name? I don't know. But, still a nice story is it not? You are mad! Seeing some one, simply some sort of.. Buddy, that is love. Have you seen Tamil movies? There are lot of situations like that. Only, in that, there is thrill! We are Rajput, this marriage must be greatest. Bhagavan Singh, had told in detail, how the marriage should be made a great event. We, really got tensed. The marriage should be made a great event... must be different from others. In the case of food, how the novelty can be brought. The color of dress. The ornaments and all. The discussion went on like that, in nut shell, the Rajasthan journey was just like a marriage contract! Escaped, since there was Hashim. The entire job was vested on his head! Some body come man! Help man! The biggest tension, was on the issue of food. How to bring novelty? We were thinking round the clock. Now what is the way out? Hey every one look here, got a super idea, we will go for minced Porotta, masala dosa, Kall dosa, Chettinadu Biriyani Ottappam. Will you stop it man? All this has got the same taste. Then, all this Rajasthanls will make us minced Porotta! Now what is the solution? Shall we call the Taj and do the booking?Is that not safe? Is Taj required? What to do now? What is it girl? Say. Padippura toddy shop! Yes, duck roast, baked pearl fish, mapas(gravy kind of dish), fish... with chilly, without chilly,Anguilla fish fry, fish with coconut scrapings, beef, prawns, the bird quail. Enough of it. Hey girl don't make one covetous! How can that be made possible here? Dhushyandhan. Who is that? My child, there is no time left here. Child, don't you know? Just because of the curries of , Dhushyandhan., this toddy shop is running. All of a sudden will I get the leave and come there? That will not be possible. Here, if one marries a Rajput girl, free with four servants. Is it, if one marries a Rajput girl, free with four servants? Yes, that's it! No that..No..Don't hang the line! When is the next train? I'll come. As, long as I'm alive, I'll be there! My God! Dhushyandhan. My father. Father. Without any previous experience, had expired all of a sudden. Now nobody is there for me. Brother, will you be there for me?Will be there. What a baldness is this? Anyway things have happened like this, you be in peace. My dear brother, even yesterday when my father called, he had told. What? While putting pepper in the duck curry, careful that should not fall... in to the eyes. That is, to be put in the curry not in the eyes, anyway you don't cry. Even today or tomorrow each and everyone of us, must go. But, must go today Vise, not tomorrow. At this time, doing like this? Keep it away! Let this cash be with you, since it is a matter related to death. Whose? Oh! Fathefs death! My father. Anyway place a wreath in the name of our toddy shop also. Owner shall I take leave? Brother. Go and come man. Careful, that the price of the toddy and the curry, never go high! I'm not here. Hey you! First you learn to stand by your own feet! Then get on the cycle! Is he drunk or is the cycle drunk? Don't say comedy for the sake of comedy. Tell, what happened? I'll tell, next day on the occasion of sheneoy event, unexpectedly, she had again seen Pavan. Chachi, (sister) he is the boy about whom I have told to you. The one I saw now. He is Pavan Thakkur. Why? Did you like? Thakkur, is bringing him up like a prince. After him, his dynasty should be given to son. He must not be loosened from hand, that is what the Thakkur desires. He is the dream of all girls. Thakkur is looking after Pavan, without much contact... with the outside world. Always, there will be body guards along with him. If Pavan had noticed Diya, then it is her luck, Suparna Dedi told that repeatedly again and again. Since it is a Rajput marriage, it is 15 days celebration, Everyday there will be dance and music at the brides house. Think it is on the second day. Yes, second day. Yes, the second day of the occasion, that occasion is called sheneoy. On that day, I was the one who composed the song. You composing the song? Might have removed the shirt and might have done some folk song. Might have danced like Salman you donkey! Not that cement bag, like the one of our Oppana music in Malabar What is the relation between the Oppanna music and the Rajasth an m arriag e? We are only creating the relationship. "The Kajol, the kajol like the love applying collyrium, to the eyes... the dark kajol" "The Kajol, the kajol like the love applying collyrium, to the eyes... the dark kajol" "Like the color of the henna, on the hands became red as the berries" "you are full of love towards the beloved, his love to me" "The Kajol, the kajoL. Like the love applying collyrium, to the eyes... the dark kajol" "Hey black bug, what did you feel on seeing the beloved" "what will you give in hand full to the blue mooned trickster" " Without seeing the person, in the mirror of the mind, will feel like talking to beautiful faced" "Nevencause worry nor flirt" "Alighting, on the chariots from seven hills.." "-The new bridegroom comes with the rhythm of hands clap.." "-What will he feel like, as he comes" "The Kajol, the kajoL. Like the love applying collyrium to the eyes, the dark kajol" "The beautiful daughter, who has got the mole of coral-wood" "Hanna, hanna in the hands" "As the green leaves garlands blossoms in the hands" "The shade of dusk, real shade of redness" " For the maidens around to tease, she became a baby girl" "As they are coming, coming" "The bridegroom and others are coming to see, wife is sitting in an intoxicating fort" "The Kajol, the kajol like the love applying collyrium to the eyes... the dark kajol" "Like the color of the henna, in the hands became red as the berries" "you are full of love towards the beloved, his love to me" "The Kajol, the kajol like the love applying collyrium to the eyes... the dark kajol" Did the crows began staying at the palace? A guy is standing with a money cap. Is he a money or a human being? Look, brother in law my name is, Dhushyandhan., I'm the cook at Padipurra toddy shop, near Vaikkom. One of our lady is staying here, would be great, If, I could to go her place. Can you tell the route? What? That means..How to make this fool understand? One of my lady child..Girl..In a palace, in a near by locality..ls staying. Is staying..Want to go to her place...The route" Did you understand, man? The route" Can you tell the route, to go like this? Would be fine, if you can tell, where is it? Are you mad or what? My God will die here, beating my head here! Brother in law, did you see this? Bhagavan house where? So, you need Bhagavan Yes that is it. He understood that. Go straight from here. Who Sita? What ever it is. Take the right first and then the left, they will come to a small gully, on the right there is God. Only that much, move back you cattle! Turning its back and standing when going for a good thing. Child, can I ask one thing? No need that will turn to an assault. Look bai, this Bhagavan( God) God is here. Is it here? Is it not temple? Not this Bhagavan, one guy had told me the route and send, is it not? That, Bhagavan, where is it? What? Why are these Hindi speaking guys always saying 'Kaya' 'kaya', whenever they see any, 'Malayalee'? Look here old man, consider me as your own guy. Now tell me. Don't know..Don't know. Tell slowly, or your artificial tooth will go out! My God, where will I go and find her? 18 steps in Rajasthan, what? No more complaints that one had not rang this! Hey, who are you? Looks like human being born out of frog! Where are you going? Hey mister, I will tell in Malayalam, if you can understand that in... Hindi it is good for you! I'm coming from Padipurra toddy shop, one of my girl is inside this shack! No, inside the 'Havelli' ( old fort) Hey You, go man! So, you didn't understand in Hindi, didn't you? Move back you! As if rice sack, fixed with hands and legs! Hey you go out! No, no I will stamp on you by bending you down! If one comes to Padipurra toddy shop and ask for Kangaroo... any child will say urinating! Now, I'll tell you a truth, I have learned the Kalari... (Marshal an of Kerala) If I poke you, on your vital area! I tell you, you will die man! My God, I'm Dhushyandhan...The quail bird, eggprab, duck, hen, rabbit, chicken, mutton, pork, beef Don't kill me! What is this guy saying? I will catch your legs! Don't kill me, will catch your legs! He is our friend, Dhushyandham. Acha!( Hindi it means, okay I fine but in Malayalam, it means father) So, that is the thing, this guy is his father is it not? On looking will not say so. He came to do the cooking for the marriage. Hey you! Have you called me, to cook in the house of robbers? That is because you don't know Hindi, that is the reason. Not because of that, these guys doesn't understand Malayalam! What is he saying? Okay go. What is this? Is it tapioca? Oh!, that was his leg is it not? Go. Hey you! But we will have to meet again! My God! If you people won't have turned up here.Won't have turned up means" Two dead bodies will be lying down here! The one with the gun and one with the cap! What is this?A 'big catch' in the kitchen, girls, please pay attention, my name is Dhushyandhan.. That means for today onwards in this kitchen I'll be also there, with you. What are all your names? My name is Chandini. Acha. My name is Kajol. My name is Karol. In our places the carol is on Christmas day. Here is it carol everyday? What a good combination? Just like the dark moon and the white noon. You should not chop that like that, see you should hold like this and slice. The Dhushyandhan's things went as we planned. You little naughty! Now my finger would have went inside the dimples! As the things went on with Dhushyandhan, and the wife of... the camel keeper, the issue of the, Marriage food was settled. No other job is it not? When one gets the spare time, immediately will start playing cards. The responsibility of this function, is not vested on me alone, it is on everyone of us. What all things to do? Have to buy the dress for her, have to buy the ornaments. Do we have to look in to all this? Is this correct to simply sit like this? On that last day, if there is a bar set up, it will be superb! Oh!, you have no other thoughts, only about the bar! Oh! The princess in the dream world has reached. Sister, can you come with me once? What happened? I want to talk to you. What? Love! Yes, but I have met him only once till now. Met once, is it not? That is more than enough. But I want to tell him lot of things to him. There is an old movie called" May Rae Mehaboob" in that there is... a song sung by Rafi sir. I'll write that and give it to you. Diya, read and learned, those lines. By looking at Pavan's face, she must tell the meaning of that song. For that, she had decided to jump the compound wall. Hey man! Will the girls jump the compound wall? Why not the girls, jump the walls? Let, this be a change, right from the beginning of the love story... it has been the boys,Who, jump the walls, is it not? It has been very long, since she left. Don't worry, for love there is no decency, time nor any place. I've to tell an important thing to you. What is that to tell? Hey look, somebody is coming. My heavens! Blow the whistle man! Looks like some one has come, I'll tell later, have to go now, will meet you later. Jump fast! Spoiled a good chance! Big Thakkur might have seen, I have told in the beginning itself... that the girls,Should never go for un-necessary tasks! The next day when the Yamini's father, told certain things, We came to know it was a task un-necessary task. Pavan is the one and only son of big Thakkur, So, he has already done the child marriage for him. Pavan's marriage has taken place in the early childhood days. The big Thakkur, had already, married off Pavan to his best friends daughter, Poonam in the childhood days itself. Now, Poonam is studying in America, as soon as, coming back after completing the studies. The real marriage will take place. ' One more shocking truth was told by Yamini's father, the tragedy of Poonam's sister! She was in love with someone else, who was not a Rajput. On knowing the news the brother, Vikram singh, she was killed by burning her on fire by pouring kerosine. Vikram singh, was dare enough to do anything. I can't understand, then why did you guys go after him? There is no sight for love. Correct, there is no face for love. That is all that in TamilNadu, here the girls will love only after... looking at the face. Look at my situation! I'll sing Piaya, will sing" "There are lands for the snakes and the birds, human sons... have no space on earth," "To lay his head on" You come here. Going to give the prize now itself! Go man! You got a slap is it not? Does this Bhagavan Sigh and wife have no other job? Their happiness is this, though after the marriage, they do not have the children. How many years is it? 12 years! 12 years, where is this guy going with the gun at night? For hunting. At day time it is full of drinking, at night will go for hunting, then how can they have children? If I were, the person would have started a play school here! Wait! Why did you come last night? What was there to tell? I'll tell. "The eyes and eyes met each other" "The desire, you have started the story" "The Gandharva tune flowed" "The love song as a sweet rain" "The first love in the heart, transform ed to admiration" "From that day onwards, I became a follower" "Danced with the petals of red mandarflowers, little had leaves on it" "Is it the lotus where the petals get dried?" "Became a flower, where the petals never fade" "In the streams of the clouds, became a flower in the sky" "I became a part of the moon in the sky" "Like a golden feather wafted high up in the winds" "Like a dew drop, filled the heart with nectar" "The forest of time, flung the feathers, in the winds your hair swayed" "As the smell of flowers flows, at the dusk, your lonely song" "In the lonely nights, your honey sweet rustling sound" "In some, image of shadows, the tune of your Gandarva lute" "You, as an image of love has ignited the fire in the life" "Beloved, your song has become the song of my soul" "The eyes and eyes met each other" "The desire, you have started the story" "The Gandharva tune flowed" "The love song as a sweet rain" "The first love in the heart, transform ed to admiration" "From that day onwards, I became a follower" "The eyes and eyes met each other" "The desire, you have started the story" I can't understand your song, but through this song what you tried to tell. Your eyes have told me that. I also want to tell. Please tell. In: Pavan! Yes, Papa. Time for me to go. Tomorrow I'm going to Pushkar. If you come there, I'll tell everything. Shall I go? I'm not coming. Hey! What happened? I, need to meet Pavan, I should go to Pushkar. The moment I send you guys to Rajastham... I doubted it will end up like this. Anyway, things have reached this far, the rest will be after the interval. Where is this Pushkar? In the Rajasthan, some 30,000 camels, horses, it is a big event, 'Pushkar Mela' It is one of the rarest temples in the world, in the month of Karthika, (Third constellation) during the full moon. The petals of the Brahma ( The creator according to Hindu Mythology) Will fall in the Pushkar river. When you dip and arise in the Pushkar river, the things one... is planning will be materialized. Like Arnold, mister universe, other wise no need, a Bollywood actor. Remove the tax of the spirit, that is all. Hey God, after MBA, give a good job in a big company. God, I want to be a landlord. I love you! "My beloved.." "In the beauty of the eyes, dipped in the waters of love" "My beloved.." "Have emerged with the the pearls" "Did the dreams knotted with bells" "Adorned in the hearts" "Mesmerized by your golden kisses, longs for that" "My beloved.." "The sound of anklets, comes in a coquettish manner" "My beloved.." "The rain drops falls ceaselessly" "The autumn, kept in the hearts" "Splashed the perfumes in the hair" "Dressed in the fabric of moonlight" "Sing..Beloved" "All alone..All alone, in the sky where are you" "With the love, in the sky, all alone where are you" "Can sit in the steps of stars" "Can ride on the chariots of the sky" "Can swim in the brook of the sky" "Will, you come?" "Can decorate on the chest with chilling bells" "Can search for the smile in the silver skies" "Can pluck the new buds of plantains and drink nectar" "Will, you come?" "In the beauty of the eye, dipped in the waters of love" "My beloved.." "Have emerged with the the pearls" "Did the dreams knotted with bells" "Adorned in the hearts" "Mesmerized by your golden kisses, longs for that" "My beloved.." "With love to that extend, you come" "I will come to melt in to the light in you" "Sesmane oil of musk is ready, the tray of camphor is ready" "Stone etched flowers are ready" "Will you come?" "The dark cloud has reached, for applying collyrium" "For the eyes to get washed, the sweet rain has reached" "To tell the tales, birds are near by, are coming.." "In the beauty of the eye, dipped in the waters of love" "My beloved.." "Have emerged with the the pearls" "Did the dreams knotted with bells" "Adorned in the hearts" "Mesmerized by your golden kisses, longs for that" "My beloved.." "The sound of anklets, comes in a coquettish manner" "My beloved.." "The rain drops falls ceaselessly" "The autumn, kept in the hearts" "Splashed the perfumes in the hair" "Dressed in the fabric of moonlight" "Sing..Beloved" Never mind if the entire money with me is over, I will put this hand full of bangles. I'm getting scared, if my husband sees. Why have we come to this Pushkar? Is it for honey moon? Don't spoil my mood saying pathi (husband) in between. What are you saying? Now my entire mood is gone, should start from the first. Hey,Dhushyandhan! Does your husband know Malayalam? What happened? You were the ones! Why, are you two here? TWO People? By the way, who is this girl? Is her, father and mother, here. No problem, even if it is brothers. Doesn't know anything about Malayalam, then how did you snatch this Hindi girl? Caught, no chance now. There are only two things in the world, where the language is not a barrier. One is 'bar' the other one is.. ...Love. Hey! Be careful, if her husband sees this, will kill you! He doesn't know that fool, that we are here, now you fools don't go and tell this. Come closer little more, if anybody asks" Hey, guys no need of much respect and all, sit. On looking at the photo, should look like the Mammotty. You rascal, idiot! I'm taking helmet made of cloth. Did you see any south Indian? No, I didn't see any Malayalee! My God! Like walking in the dream, running on the sand it is not moving also. Beat him! Caught me! Fooled you! Don't beat me. Where are you guys taking me? No, don't make me sit on the camel top. I don't know, how to drive this one. My God! Where is the gear of this one! Hey fellows! At least tell which is the neuter! Vikram Singh, as that villain came, the entire story got changed. Anyway, the coming of a villain is good, you guys were lacking beatings. From now on don't show the guts to do such things to others, hear that? Don't know, who was beaten up. But, one thing was understood, he had beaten some one who had spoken against Pavan. Our fright increased, but Diya was cool. How was the journey child? From New York to Bombay, there was no problem. But the journey to the Jodhpur was the problem. For the connecting flight had to wait a bit. Father and mother will come next week. Well, where is Pavan? Pavan..He is upstairs go and meet him. Till those people come, you stay here. As you wish. Without seeing you for two years, I was upset, do you also feel the same? I'm not feeling well, okay tell me how was yourjourney? Enough of your questioning and all..Have I grown fat or slim? Do you know, for the,Last one month I was on fastingmAnd work out. You look all the same, even now, no change for you at all. What happened? What are you thinking? Nothing. This is 'baang' can travel in the world of dreams, why friends shall we take this? Yes. Then enjoy. Forget all your worries and go to the land of dreams. Drink and enjoy. They have come back. 'They' who? Poonam. My marriage with her will be conducted soon. Will do one thing. Will, go from here today itself! No not now, will wait for some more time. But how long to wait? Till, getting the consent from the parents, after telling the father and mother Then no need to go, and everything will take place also. Then what is the problem? Okay..I'm doing it for you. Why did you tell like that? We, can elope now itself. Is it not, own father? If they don't allow? I'll beat you, the dignity of the Rajput is important to me. I have already fixed your marriage, With my friends daughter, in the childhood. At this years, I have guarded you keenly, if you disdain that, I'll not spare you! If you men are seen here again, I will kill you. And tell your friend that we are Rajput. Enough of getting beatings. Shall we return after ending everything? No, anyway I will not refrain from this. Okay, no need to refrain, all of us can die in this Pushkar. Then you'll be satisfied. What, mind your words? After all this things happened, look at her attitude. She, is only worried about her own concern. I'm going back. Chinna, I'm also there with you. Hasim what is your decision? I'm also coming. You support her, we are going. It is a matter for my concern. I'm the only son of my father, if something happens to me. I'm goir19- To me I feel like, what we are doing is wrong. Hey look Dhushyandhan. Hey man! Why are you in this costume? My brother in law, how did you reach here? How did you reach here? Nothing more to say, that Chandi's husband, the one who looks like a frog, That camel keeper, he bet me up, with those Hindi speaking guys and, Made me sit on the camel's back and I was send to the desert. Then I was struggling around this desert with out knowing the direction. Then this Sasi and Velladudhan had saved me. Are they Malayalee's? No Hindi guys only, two years will be wasted like that, if one tries to learn their names! So, I've put these names by myself for my easiness. Didn't I tell you, if that camel keeper sees you, he will kill you? Now what happened? Now, I'm now going on with the business of 'real' camels. 'Real camels'? Yea, in the native place, like the business of real estate, here... it is the business of 'real camels'. Anyhow, you have reached in high places, and you are safe now. Me, safe? Yes. Do you know? From that day to till date, have not seen... even rice water for days! You don't worry you come with us. Saved, some how I want to reach the native place. We are not going to the native place, we are going to the Yamini's house. Where? That camel keepers house? Better than that, it is better to live in this desert, with the business of real camel. You don't worry, you come with us, we will manage your things. Are you sure? Sure. My God, shall I go and come? Get lost camel! From now on we must never split, even if the life goes, is it not? Everything is my fault. It is our duty to full fill your dreams. If we send Dhushyand, as a cook, we can also send the messages. A real great idea! Wow sister! You have become intelligent! I didn't understand the comedy what you told in Hindi. That means you go to big Thakkur house as cook for us. My God! So, my life is almost decided. Are you Dhushyand? Yes, father, mother, no, yes acha! Escaped. Do you want the job of the cook? That means" My curry..You..Yamini's sister... When, came for the marriage of Sonam.. Had..My curry. Telling it is super..Gave the hand to me. If you make good food, you will get the job, but food you make, should be at its best. Banana, and all I'll make! Yes boss. Show him the kitchen of the house. You go with him. No, that is, Saturday and Sunday... I want the holiday must go the church! What and all are you saying? You go! What is the use of saying it is a big palace, No one is there to mend a broken pipe! How can I give this letter to Pavan, duping their sight? That means, I want urine. What? Again what? How will I make them understand? That means , wants to urinate. What? How to make him understand, urinating? That means, remove this cloth. Don't misunderstand me.. while drinking lot of water" At that time..Under the tree. Like this, where is it? Fine, wants to go to the bath room. Tell like that. Come, go straight, then left and then you will find. Understood, you guy with the cap, don't know where will I find him. The nail was struck on the forehead. A door without a hole! How to see the scene? But, anyway, must find him out and give this thing to him. Who are you? "We, two trapped in a room." What? I'm the new cook who have joined here..Cooking! Took the charge only today. What is in the cap? Only my head is inside this, then little dandruff! Don't catch it is full baldness, you will die seeing that! What is this? Letter. All because of you, truly I'm innocent, let me catch this white legs and plead with you! If you stay here for some more time, boss Thakkur will kill you with bullets! Door..Move, give that cap, let me escape. Who is this Diya? How did you come to know? Here...Look at this. Came to know from this. Don't say sorry, I can understand the heart of those who are in love. I was about to tell you everything, how I saw Diya and how we met. You should have told me earlier, this is not, like in the olden days. During the childhood, a past time which our parents have done, Do we have to ruin your life? What ever it is. Loving is really good is it not? Do you remember, few days before, a love story has happened here? But, that love story had a tragic ending. For the love stories to be beautiful, that should have an tragic ending. Haven't you heard? Especially in Rajput clans! Brother, I... Shut up! Haven't you heard how your sister died? When she loved some one, I've pleaded with her saying no, no, at last she,Made me do that! Just imagine how a brother will feel like? When he had to kill the, Sister with his own hands! Forgive me! Forgive me! We are from Rajput clan, our blood should not be contaminated. When contaminated... You will be burned alive! So, this marriage must take place at any cost! Did you give? Gave. Is this reply? Not reply, but my train ticket for going home. That head shaven fellow with ear studs, all of you go the native, before he kills all of you! What happened? You tell the matter. Hey fellow! I came up to the room of the Pavan with the letter. Then, a white cockroach like girl, came and snatched the letter. It must be her..Poonam! Yes, it must be her the ghost! I knew it will happen like this, when this idiot was send! I will kill you man! What, mistake did I do? I'm worried, about that letter which got lost. Shall, I do one thing? Can I write a similar letter like that? Shut up, you idiot! Pavan's family might have known this plan. That Vikram Singh, and his men can come here, any moment. So, there is nothing to plan. So, you are that smart girl is it not? Poonam, I want to speak to you. I know what you want to discuss with me. After coming from a far off distance. You have won the heart of the Rajput son's heart... I respect a lot on you. I can see that in your eyes. Will you help me to possess Pavan? I'm not from old generation, from new generation, I'll help you. What, should I do? Tomorrow, morning at 9 o'clock, we will reach at the road, near the desert, some how, Bring Pavan over there. Will reach, will definitely reach there. I'll never forget you in my life, how can I... This is my devotion to the pure love. I saw your face in her eyes! Be prepared to go, tomorrow at 9! I knew you'll try to escape from here, so that is why I've locked. You don't worry, you sleep. I fear will that Poonam cheat us? No, she will not cheat, I'm sure, Pavan will come on time as we've mentioned. How can Pavan come out, by duping from the sight of this much people? That is my doubt. I, also doubt that, that too, this much security is there, that... Vikram Singh is always there on his back. It is almost the mentioned time. They are here. We're Rajputs who wins with the swords! A girl from madras, how dare to take my son who is like a lion! Burn this girl alive! You filthy dog! Have warned you! Vikram Singh, here, burn her! You tell the matter without putting in tension, what did they do to her? Will tell, let me just rewind a bit. I will kill you, you have this much guts! Leave him. Will not leave. Till now, have being interfering in all the matters, not now. Rajputs have protected the dignity and love of the females, by sacrificing there own life! And not burning alive a girl who have loved, the one and... only mistake she had done! I'm a Rajput, hence forth, I'll protect the girl whom I love, even by sacrificing my own life.! Hey father! What is your business in the bar? To see you all, is it not, here one must come? Learn from the females man, their guts! Didn't you have a silent love? Speak loud as the girls! I'll tell... I love you. Today, these guys will make me to drink a wine. Then Halwa,(A kind of sweet) also must be there. Put that Halwa song man!
