 

                        "Tian Du Mansion" You're sure about it? Dao Tian Du isn't at home? I am sure This is Black Tiger Dao's Mansion Who is so daring? The 3 Tigers of Tian Nan We're here for Dao Tian Du Let's go for him Every night the birds tweet After a night of rain & storm She's Dao's wife That's his son Get him No, no Please don't! Should we kill them? Please don't! I heard Dao had an associate called Wan His Kungfu is quite good How come he hasn't appeared? Maybe he's on business with Dao Since you're all here Let's end our feud But killing the woman and child... Dao thinks he is quite a hero Well, here's his wife and son We'll do something on them Just to give him a surprise Great Let's chop off his wife's legs ...and his son's arms Great Mom! Dad! Dao Tian Du You're the Tian Nan 3 Tigers? You can't be called 'Tigers' by... bullying the woman and kid like that! Look at my Black Tiger 3 styles One kill with each punch Watch my punches Tiger Debut Winged Style Windmill Shot Keeper Wan Dad, Mom's dead Dad, they chopped of my arms But I didn't beg for mercy Great. Dad will spend whatever... to hire a skilful blacksmith... to fix a pair of iron limbs for you I'll let you practice Kungfu again Until you become the invincible You see. Dad didn't lie to you We found the best blacksmith and got you a pair of iron arms That you can freely maneuver Yeah Altogether we have tried seven sets before This pair is the best fit And it can launch secret weapon Black Tiger Fist is your Dad's masterpiece You've got to study hard at it I will Do you remember... with Black Tiger 3 styles your Dad killed... each one of Tian Nan 3 Tiger with one Punch only! These 3 styles are its essence Let's see if you'll unleash the power of it Tiger Debut Winged Style Windmill Shot They're Tian Nan 3 Tigers' descendents I've deliberately let them grow up... and practise Kungfu Then I captured them here This is my son Dao Chang His arms are cut off by your Dad Now you've all learned Kung Fu If you can win over him ...I'll let you free And I won't harm you I'm absolutely not going to help him Chang I've killed Tian Nan 3 Tigers years ago ...for avenging your mother's death Well, at least they didn't take your life So, as for their descendents... You just need to cripple them Yes Alright, untie them Yes Untie them all Tian Nan 3 Tigers cut off my son's arms I'll let their descendents... became cripple Watch my son. Though crippled... can still have a good Kungfu skills He really has an inborn talent for martial arts Compared to him... there are many who deserve to be handicapped! Sir, this way please Okay Have a seat And what'll you order, sir? Give me a bottle of wine first Sure Hey, stand up, stand up Who are they? The famous Tian Dao Mansion's Master Black Tiger Dao Tian Du This is Young Master Keeper Wan Master Dao Young Master Dao What's wrong with your hands? You jest about his being crippled? Oh, no What's the matter? Why is that gentleman so unreasonable? You want to die? They're plain lucky today If Master Dao had slashed out... their wounds won't be so light Sir, take a seat It's all our fault Phew... what has this place turned into? Everyone greets them just like... they've seen ghosts Sir, take a seat Don't be angry Don't be angry Sit. Please sit The way you bully around here... you'll meet your demise pretty soon You think you know Kungfu And your wife got killed before; Your son had his arms chopped That gives you the right to punish anyone, huh? What kind of hero are you? Even though everyone's afraid of you Me, Wei Jia Jie won't fear you Boss, get two pots of wine over Master. Young Master. Don't be angry This kid is a blacksmith I know where his shop is We can find him at any time At last the heaven shows a merciful eye Just now that fellow showering abuses was real fun I say, heaven has no merciful vision Master, what if this lad has no vision too! Yes, you too would be deprived of vision Sir... Master Dao He's a travelling salesman from other town He doesn't know... Your hands? I have no hands and you have no eyes That 'd be quite fair Why do you say I have no eyes? I... "Wei's Blacksmith shop" A punch like this, a punch like that I've beaten them all Nothing to be afraid of What do you say? I just cursed Dao and his son... seriously indeed You are not afraid of them? No, I abused him The worst is getting killed by him You know, if no one fears them... I don't believe they will kill everyone Blacksmith Wei, Master Dao has invited you over Why does he want me to go? He likes to be scoffed, eh? Are you coming or not? I sure will if he is sincere If not, let's forget about it Blacksmith Wei Can you against Mr. Dao? I can risk my life to go against him You think Mr. Dao will risk his life? He invites you over for a drink Didn't you say you aren't scared of him? Of course I'll go Our blacksmith is a frank guy Mr. Wan, just leave him alone I am not afraid of them It's no use begging them I'll go myself I'll be angry if you push me again I'm here What's going on? You like cursing people, eh? I never do that I only swear at village hooligans Master Dao asks you to drink this cup of wine What's in the wine? Silencing drug That'll kill your voice And you won't curse anymore Drink it quick No way You do evil things Kick him away Dao Tian Du You're a shameless bastard You shall die miserably Heaven will punish you And you still can swear abuses? "The whole world will curse you" Okay. Let the world curse me You wish! But you won't hear it What're you doing? What's that now? Say something... You hear me? Say something Say it Sir, I'm willing to keep you But you've offended Master Dao I am old now, I don't dare I understand Where's the blacksmith who dared to curse Dao? You'd better go now They made blacksmith Wei deaf and mute You take care Thank you God be with you Be careful Be careful... Thank you. Thanks I am blind You're blind, too? Oh, you're mute? And you're deaf too? Oh, you're Blacksmith Wei! Go... you get lost I can hire someone else Alright then A mean person like you You'll die a miserable death And a poor man like you You deserve to be starved I have arms and legs You will starve, not me Having arms and legs means you can rush around? I only talked about myself, not you And I didn't know you're behind me And you've no arms... Son, don't bicker with him Killing a man like this... is as simple as killing a dog Okay, dad will vent out your anger And what did you want from him? He bumped into me Careless walker Let's chop off his legs Let's do it Blacksmith Wei said not to worry He'll take care of our living We're all handicapped We've no other alternative Well, well? Deaf and mute Tough making a living, eh? You all listen well Whoever comes to buy things from Wei's shop Watch your life The blacksmith hasn't been in business for long time I badly want to have a knife made Is there any other blacksmith in this town? No Where has he gone anyway? All the way I came... I've been asking for the blacksmith Like you everyone gave me a strange look Sir, you're from afar So you don't know the situation here But that poor Blacksmith Wei... Go... Go... Who's Blacksmith Wei? Such things really happen in this world Thank you, Hero You must have come from afar So you dare to help us out You're the blacksmith? Don't worry. I'll avenge for you I'll remove the evil here Mister Dao, come out You're Dao Tian Du? How dare you call Master by surname? I am Dao Tian Du How are you related to Tian Nan 3 Tigers'? What Tian Nan 3 Tigers? My name is Wang Yi I heard about your evil and dirty deeds So I just came to eradicate you And who the bickering fool are you? Get him Yes Dad, let me go Just kill me if you must If I die, someone will avenge me No matter what cruelty you use on me If I ever so much as tug my eyebrows You can call me a no-good bastard Dao, even your son is crippled You still went and hurt innocent people How do you justify your evil acts? What's your name? I have told you My name is Wang Yi You can really remember your own name You think I am a idiot Why would I forget my name? Dad, he said he's not a idiot Well, right now he isn't Dao. Oh, you... Dao Tian Du, you... Hero, are you all right? Hey, what happened to our Hero? Is he hurt? I don't know Hero, you... Hero, you... This is fun Hero, what's your name? Hero, what's your name? This man is a idiot Looks like you've got the wrong man You should know his voice This hero tried to avenge for us ...and has been tortured by Dao What do you think they did... to him and made him like this? No fun What're you doing? I'm searching him over if he has something Trying to find out who he is He became like this because of us We should at least tell his family A letter for the Master of Eagle Mansion This letter is for his teacher Me... let me do it Hero Wang We'll take you to your teacher Don't be naughty, okay? You're talking to me? Up the cart. Try again What is it? Wang still has his Kungfu Blacksmith Wei is beaten That'll take several days... to Wang's teacher place Oh, what do we do? Come again, come Boss What would you like to order? Just give us something Be quick Let's go... Damn, we've got to go It'll be trouble if they bring their parents Who hurt you? Take us to see him... "Eagle Mansion" I've been here before Come, come Thank you for escorting my student back Hero Wang becomes like this because of us Lucky we found a letter... that is for Master Li So we could bring him here Dao is famous for his Black Tiger Fist He's a Master in the boxer world Though I'd never have expected him to stoop so low Get up I understand what you mean Learning Kungfu for common people is hard enough You three... No matter how hard I will make you all a Kungfu Master You're blind You have to use your ears as eyes It'd be very necessary for you... to have an excellent command over your hearing Now you listen well Blacksmith Wei is deaf I can scribble words on his palm And teach him the eye practising skill You can communicate with him... by this method You can'tjust let him push you Kick him back We owe Hero Wang for saving us No matter Although he's mad But his Kungfu is intact You won't get him for sure Come, push me Kick quickly. Use the hips Don't rock your upper body Chen Shuen Your hearing skill has greatly improved Now I'll teach you a way... to let your limbs react to the sound That'll be a winning edge Come on I'm not doing it You pretend to be blind You pretended Come... Over here Go It seems you've taught Wang a lesson Yesterday I had to kick him three times I am so sorry Now he runs when I am near I wonder if you are really blind or pretending Let's practise in the night No, no Your iron leg hurt me Come This set of Kungfu maneuvers... is especially useful... when one encounters a master like Dao You're deaf and can't hear a sound This maneuver lets you shift around It's fun with you One of them he kicks me ...and the other hits me You all have been here for three years Though broken in body our spirit has been firm Thank you for teaching us, Master You're right Physical handicap is amendable Mental handicap is beyond help Like Dao Tian Du Although his body is intact But his intellect is fragmentary And beyond any remedy You think four of us... can rid the town of this evil? These three years You guys have been extra diligent You may go now Rise, you all I heard that... the Daos are getting worse And they've gathered some top guys ...to engage in lawless activities Victory is not a certainty for you So you all have to be careful In his Black Tiger Fist The most deadly is the Three styles You have to learn its patterns And find a way to break it That'll be your winning way Yes... Rumour is just rumour You've to find out about it Although he had crippled you But he didn't take your life You can take your separate route And check out what's the situation Then come back for a plan It's also heard that Dao will invite... all the boxers to attend his birthday party That'll be a great opportunity for you But if not in danger... don't hurt anyone Yes I'll pretend to be a fortune-teller Wei will arrive on the second Hu and Wang will arrive on the third Hu and Wei will stay at the blacksmith shop I will meet Wei in the tavern I'll hang a fortune-telling banner for signal If I went out... You'll find my cloth banner hanging upside down We must arrive there before Dao's birthday Master Where's Keeper Wan? For Master's birthday gift Wan has asked for Tavern Boss Fang... to prepare some necessities He is going to pick-up Mr. Wan The necessities you ordered... I've already prepared them for you Mr Wan, please sit Everyone, please sit Waiter, get them some tea Coming Get them a high-grade tea Be quick Why are you glaring at me? Who said I'm staring? Boss Doesn't the blind man look familiar? That blind man? Looks like the salesman who had... his eyes blinded 3 years ago Yes You warn him to be careful Okay Beware Keeper Wan of Tian Dao Mansion ...is sitting with his guys right over there Gentlemen Would you like to have your fortunes told? Come. Predict for me Blind man Please take a seat first Let's drink some wine You will lie down No need to stand up Blind man, I've seen you before? You've been forgetful You remember your words three years ago That man had no eyes Yes, you're that salesman Keeper Wan, good memory Anyway, Keeper Wan is not a noble man You're just the chief Tian Dao Mansion's bastards How dare you? What a skill! Go We have trouble here Master Law is famous for levitation His lightening act is the best in here Keeper Wan, you're too kind After learning with Master Law They all have improvement... in their Kungfu skill Just one thing I would like Master Law to handle Can you do that? Please order, Keeper Wan My pleasure There is one man who is the enemy of our master He is living in the tavern now He is a blind man He fights by hearing With Master Law's levitation You'll get him very easily Great. When do I go? I think tomorrow is the best Come... Look... Good... very good Keeper Wan Even if the blind man has good kungfu skill He may not beat us Why don't we go and get rid of him? I have thought of that If Master Law goes alone Victory is not a certainty But we will lose some men for sure And then we can't keep secret from Master Dao That'll be a distress for his birthday We don't want to make a fuzz out of it Then you plan to... We like it done silently I think Master Law would suffice But it's better with Master Lin With his Projectile Kung Fu That's a sure demise for the blind man Is it better? But Master Lin... Of course I'll go for sure Boss... It's blacksmith Wei Yes Blacksmith Wei You looking for the blind man? He does live here But he went out for now Wei can't hear anything This way Coming Mr. Wan Get out Wouldn't be back for at least two hours Mr. Wan... Go... Everybody listen carefully When the blind man comes in... Everybody stay still Don't make a sound He can't see But his ears are sharp He'll surely return to his own room Wait till he's stepped over here First let Lin flick his shot from the window It'd be best if one shot kills him If he gets away We'll attack him right away Kill him in his lowest defense, right? Everyone understood? Understood Brother Lin, please Master, outside there's a certain Mr. Jiu He wants to meet you Okay It's your uncle It's his first time to be here We'll go receive him He is your great teacher's student He's known for his hard Qigong and inborn strength Get off Do you know what's this place? Get lost Yes He's blind. How can he see? Forget it He's a cripple... poor fellow! Brother Jiu Senior Go... What happened? It's a beggar Give him some money and send him away Yes That's yourjunior, Dao Chang Call Uncle Jiu Uncle Jiu I've come to greet you for birthday You're too kind Let's chat inside This is your first time in here You have to stay a while longer Leave Master Jiu Mr. Jiu is the junior of Master Dao Mr. Jiu Master Lin is famous for Projectile Oh, the secret weapons Someone as strong as Master Jiu You must have a strong arm You'll never need a projectile plaything Hero works in the broad daylight And I practice hard Qigong Master Jiu, please demonstrate your art It'll be all my pleasure Okay. You can flip projectile What other weapons can you use? You both are my guests If you want to show your skill... to everyone in here I should play with you That's okay too What's the weapon you use, Mr. Wan? Chain Hammer, sir Your Hammer is something different The chain is long and thick I would think it takes a special skill Feel free to demonstrate. Don't be formal Demonstrate it on my body, okay? Okay, Master Jiu, please Sorry about it This guy thought he knows Kungfu He'll suffer sooner or later He is Master's junior Bear with him, because of Master Dao Has anyone seen Law Bo? I think you just stopped him... from fighting with those two kids He seems not too convinced Maybe he went to look for them alone You go look for Master Law Ask him to come back Say I need him for an urgent matter Okay Tomorrow is Master's birthday Don't let things go astray Let me play... I win Come, play marbles with me I'm not playing... Don't go Play with me Don't run away You... Mr. Wan, Master Law... Who did it? Blacksmith Wei Law wanted to attack him from behind But Wei had a mirror hanging in his neck And he saw Law's reflection He's deaf He can't hear things behind So he hangs a mirror Clever of him to get this idea Now we... I'll go to stop Law Bo first I had thought of acting silently Without Master knowing it before his birthday Or make a fuzz of it We'd never thought... So... Now that Law Bo is dead We can't hide it from Master Dao What we do now is to kill those two kids... before master's birthday tomorrow So we can report to him Let's go and gather some people right away And kill those fellows tonight This once we can't waste time thinking too much Unfortunately my Chain Hammer is... broken by Jiu in anger I wonder if it's fixed Where's Wei? Back to the tavern Let's do it like this Master Jiu What's the matter? Is Master Jiu cross... with me for breaking his Hammer? Why would he be? Because, in the tavern... we saw two of Dao's old enemies Jiu wants to use his Hammer But we are busy these few days And we forgot to fix his Chain Hammer Where is the tavern? There's only one tavern in town You go outside and walk along the street You won't miss it Put out the candle light Wait You think when the light is off... the deaf man can't see anything But you never thought he can't see And you wouldn't see too You mean you can attack him in the dark But there's something you miss The blind man fears no darkness Get out, you useless You'll only add to my trouble Watch me get these two cripples by myself All you need is to watch for escape You bring so many people against two cripples What a shame! Let me give you an advantage So don't say I bullied the cripples I would stand still here Each of you punch and kick me three times Then I punch and kick you back three times If you guys move and topple me I would say... Master Dao will never trouble you again If you can't move me And you can't take my three punches and kicks Then you are in a streak of bad luck What do you think? That's fine It's my turn now? Who will take my three punches first? Wait We are diehard comrades You take my three punches and kicks Then you hit back all together, how about it? Well, okay You big guy don't get tricked His legs are cast in iron Yes He has taken Wei's iron punches Now it's time for him to take the iron feet There are many so called 'iron' in the boxer world I think it's all an exaggeration Come now Your punch would put anyone to shame! Come on, let me try your iron feet Hey, his feet really... Your feet are really made of iron? What a guy! This guy got real Kungfu If he knew before that your feet are made of iron I am afraid... That kid almost exposed the secret Thanks to your speech Right You hide with him in the room No-one knows you have iron legs That's an advantage Go He's dead He is a tough guy But he met the wrong friends And ended up in this plight For the sake of him Let them get his corpse back Get lost, hurry You stuck by me many years We got through many harsh situations together How did things get to be like this? Since your birthday is due tomorrow I just thought I'll act quietly Without your knowledge I never thought... Forget it It's no use to say anymore now Tomorrow I'll kill them myself But tomorrow... Let's forget for a moment what's tomorrow ...and get rid of those two guys first Then we'll come back to entertain our guests Wei saw Dao and his son... bringing some people here You go with Wang by the backdoor Don't let them see you We'll meet up at blacksmith's We should go together Earlier we didn't know Kungfu We had no idea of... Daos' Kungfu skill I knew Wei is just testing him today And we're not ready for final hit You'd better not let him see the iron legs Come with me I'm not going We'll leave you here if you don't go Hurry up... forget him Who are you? Where's the blind man and the mute? The blind and the mute? I won't tell you Dad He's the one who came for revenge And we hurt his head But he should... Get him first Come Come This man looks insane But his Kungfu is intact. Be careful Son He looks like an idiot No need to kill him What's with your hand? That's made of iron, it hurts It's similar to Hu Ah-Guei's... His hand is iron made. Watch out! It's a pleasure to meet Black Tiger Master Dao We didn't know Kungfu before And we have no idea how good you are Today we want to try Master Dao's... Black Tiger Three style You? Not enough yet? The surname of my teacher is Li ...and his name is called Jing Ying We happen to be his humble students This is our senior, Wang Yi He got hurt from you three years ago We want to have a duel with Master Dao today So let's test how good is our Kungfu skill Good Oh, that idiot is the student of Li Jing Ying You're all his students Let's see how good you are Look out. Tiger Debut Winged Style Windmill Shot Wait for me Let them go Our guests are here Let's go back for reception After today I think those avengers... won't leave here that soon Master, you're right After Master's happy occasion today... Even if they don't come to our mansion If they are in town ...we can find them out What are you doing? Close the door Then you locking me out? That's not good Stop horsing around Closing the door or not would make no difference Dao knew we had nowhere to go We must stay put here Then we... I think he wouldn't come to us right now Why not? Dao is ambitious. He wants to rule the boxer world Birthday is just an excuse to meet people The most important is his fame He won't take care of the few cripples... such as us in this occasion Everyone will laugh at him He'd have thought we won't escape too far And we won't leave He will come to us after today What can we do? It's important to set our priorities right Rather than he come to us being well prepared It's better we go look them up tomorrow... after they are exhausted from the banquet Come... Wishing you long life & all the best Please... Sit... Everyone, please sit... Let's go Great, I'll be following Keeper Wan They have left the blacksmith shop ...and are coming right now They're here! Everybody ready Open the door Go... Good... You are very good Wang Yi didn't follow us Remember, you got to tangle up with Dao first Don't fight hard with him as our teacher instructed After tackling Dao's son we'll fight him together It's not fun to play alone Let's find Chen Shuen Chen Shuen... Chen Shuen Chen Shuen, for you Come and play Come on Come on His iron hand hurt me real bad! Your feet... Dao Tian Du He's dead!
