 

                        Director: Protect Luo. The give starring: David. Card name of movie: The shell flies the car be you drive of time, gram Sir of must remember the of the car brigade to lead otherwise only have an of dead end, understand? Is, Sir the risks all exist to your times I know this game count for much to you, section do you understand my meaning? Yes, I am understand if I won... Right if you won... I know that you know very much this meaning what she will not come otherwise your heart the lover will die this is you are drive would the on the way time take place of matter, not is? ...Good heavens, this thing accompanied me unexpectedly so many year now, I tell you... you at dry what? The in early morning loquacious does not stop you good 38 the good car that you want, brothers now is 4:15, I think like like to sleep once be I complete this machine, that you wake up and then can fly as long as is to have relation with game of I want to attain best can you hurry? I do not want to let that guy won again relax to order you know and attain how much would explode? yes, should be this piece want only this treasure to leave the city but, he is certainly the meeting of please wait slightly what matter do you have? Now just at 5:00 A.M. Difficult way can't etc.? Card boon space wife of? I am a ratio especially. I can borrow your car to go to New York to take a letter the piece by luck for you past all right, this is the key and drive to shine on remember, must drive in the evening must the car attain soon 50 absolutely can't, wife remember, went to certain first essentials in New York to go to the plum especially guest house of is, wife I do not know he can... I know the rice, dear we have already been late for 20 minutes hurry good heavens, see you are true happy hurry quick take off your uniform hurry, ready to the fairy, you are so a little time preparation for us only each time we still have what good preparation of like, the useless talk is little to say the shell, you do not want to want to play something to sing thus each time just will not let me have no pain and sufferings thus you know that I want to infuse the CD tonight be these to complete hereafter you will become a person, big wrist you will become the star you also as exhausted as those boys meeting sarcasm I do not think that the thunder receives to pick thus you stab you are might with even better than attaining thus the thunder receives this boy... do you is it the car that toes do this boy that go to New York? How are you, the thunder receive boy, put your bottom here the thunder receive, must win the game this time my meeting of, mother, small vegetables a disc wish my good luck, dear I will make a phone call to you from New York love your section" today" hi, I am a. Section section the here is our area headquarters of California last year, through a year of warm report way the automobile magazine come to a the publicity originally whole purposes of match with big beautiful cross-island highway of time everyone what to see is 21 contentses of the pages of this period magazine now... all-weather, have no regularity is a rule... this game continues to follow to use unspoken engagement of the last time will have the cash award of USD 100,000 to wait for the you high risk, extreme incitement trip to this time New York, can let you gain both honor and riches first? Most car hand... Hey, gram of hi, the cloth pull virtuous hi, Bill the person of the television station is dry here what? Compete and don't is a secret to carry on of? Right. They will make this one period program next week before they will not broadcast program the protection affect we make money fertile man of. It is big match champion of preceding batch that plum fill speak a few lines to everyone you for this big match pressure have mentally? Is what pressure? Pressure be if there is no target would be how however, a lot of afterwards all have the opportunity to challenge this laurel wreath this make me feel very excited certainly I also will not give up... those USD 100,000 this is a rightness of cars handses of the interesting do you let your automobile become the honeymoon place? I think that such felling should be quite good hear I say, do you know that this time game risk is very big? I do not know this not only is an automobile only daddy, if if you see, do not worry to have no matter of we will spend a week safely in the car tell me... if you win these USD 100,000s how would you spend? If we won, we will buy the small villa of in the sea beach white hear big, you? Father, will you win those moneys? This is the children's idea we how to like to let you does a person spend a time on the car? Then see, father, do not forget to buy gift for us dear, everythings that I do are all is you and children we ask the organizer cloth of the game to pull now virtuous tell us, compete whether can hold under publically? The police disallows to hold such game in the country may exceed the limit consumedly because of the speed of the car hand you are a game that say your hold illegal? Not, not, I did not say thus Sir, do you see this? Did they like this again? Now there are all the rumours of this aspect on Internet what matter? Call cloth pull virtuous do not accept to gather news conveniently the thunder call, the game wased in Dutch then send the helicopter to street up the fairy, hurtled the roadblock blunt in the past, fairy... fairy! You succeeded! This is which the bedlamite that come?! Dear, you can't attend such game you see many does this have no? Give me it, the reach you know such game substance and contentses is under the condition of have no police's permission particularly I am just not concerned how would they interfere my brothers spends USD 60,000 to refit this car I can't cancel the game I hope end even if your end, also will enter the jail this is your future the section, you know that I take to heart you I know that I have no business to say to you what but I want to be this responsibility that becomes me this is not to say the cancel cancel of this sing game is I expect already a long time of the section, I think to be afraid is you did not see there 100,000 USD front you have already died bother once, is this your car? Wish your good luck I come to introduce for you once the reach. Michael this is the organizer cloth of the game to pull the virtuous Sir nice to meet you, Michael I believe that you contrast the match to certainly be filled with the confidence the of the finally would be I I also hope thus I hope that you can still attend the game next year you are two early for the understanding, is? This is the virtuous of thunder, he is a gram I miss that we are already to meet for the second time hope that you arrived 32 years old and can still keep such appearance this is I give your an advice I will certainly defeat you you will differ several hundred miles with me at least see my bottom of dash away he is such person does this guy of such matter also make out out? Attention! The car hands, please watch for! The police is rushing through to go toward to compete the place you only have 15 minutes to leave damn! Hope you to end the whole works right away I do not hope you to are whichever to be punish by the police the Sirs, wish your good luck dear, we have to lead a week in the car possibility we must make love in the car oh, I have not yet tasted to stimulate so of felling our one person 10 hours, do not worry what? I am earnest, section I want to heading up the class report section! You am together with me! The broad keep of! Hey, section you not are to say that you can't appear of? You are take I play trick? We must take down this game the reach, you are dry here what? This, I must talk with you... I must walk, this I will not lose face for you of, thanking you if you were vanquished by the person I will kick your bottom you must win the game close to the window take good care of! Wish your good luck! Oh not! I know that we was late this is you was late for the second time do not say so your end of next time orders on time don't let me worry always we will win of, do not worry everyone, we started on! They came, tidying up the thing! Do you think that those girls still have the opportunity? Yes, they have of hurry, pull it come down hurry game cancel, you this is illegal game? What game? American automobile of the open type let them experience the real devil now Hey, the section, lady police does this is what is the row? To your car felling how? Want to take advantage of this to get married? , you know early of I attain each time best so my friend's car also is such you is what the friend who keep,? Relax the point, section you launch the machine is top-grade, waiter similar to race car yes, someone what you say are to play trick right, but drive the aspect is to lump together arbitrarily such game without you absolutely not go do not say so, you think you are to say, boy? Quickly drive, I think 15 the police kept up with you after minutes the is my best friend he is very good the section, do you really want to drive to New York? If not yes words, that I also will not be the police don't know why, I hope that my boyfriend ability wave son turn head I am very happy to hear you say thus I will make an effort of not, not, not... this place is really wonderful beautiful have no words to say is really quite good, I like this place very much good heavens! I must in this match the quarter finds back the appearance I wanted to exceed you, you what matter? The time play wants the nature, relax oh, good of, good of this, come over to sit like dance in the wind the song ? Yes be this, this is I compose something to write how? You think? Very quite good is the time today, we hereafter continue again I bring about interest on piano suddenly my intention reached now I still want to write the lyrics of the oneself I can attain yes I how become rich? Yes, you are probably the meeting of but, first, give us money and see we need 100,000 cash awards urgently to race car the cash award now I can't do like this, you be not good at long this aspect our a pairs are all very clear this are you what mean? Do I have the so good opportunity your nonsupport? Did not forget that I have ever supported you I will not let again this time his hat of I will kill him is? That you think again who crack down his position? The car that is him is soon over 150 will explode somewhere I will not make such game let a personal again to break always you have to a very small hope to me? Oh, I say very with reluctance,"not." We walk lo of,"musician" is he making the rice? Return to make your rice, still race car? Good heavens, true incitement oh, not, not, not... boy, need not order the true effort you are to defy the spirit true effort see didn't? After winning you probably, I have some the carefree feeling to drink the cup coffee thus of also call opponent? I wanted to only have the automobile in the on the road your in the mind the car is the next in order lo, they caught up to come oh, his mama of! Open thus, don't give other car opportunities at all I think that that bad egg is a car bedlamite exceed the gram, I am this I hope your the hand that stretch out to help certainly, everyone know of hear the, my brothers also attended hear I say, you want to help me this time good of, can you subsidize USD 100,000? Exceed the gram, my airplane wanted to take off I make a phone call for you in the airport yes, I am following the match way good of, thanks Hey, Hey! The Hey, the little girl, come over, my this car want to be much more comfortable we can also at go to bed inside the thus small sex maniac also wants to steep me I want to bump this boy to open severe? Hey! The Hey, the waiter, lays up you that breaks the throat let the clean short while of our ear can't I play to kick back and enjoy? You relax the oneself thus? Forbid the impoliteness, virtuous of thunder this time is I invite the to all the way go together of but the person who drive is I if inside nasty have what provide the convenience of? We what also have no if your true urine is nasty, having the thing side what? What fun do you open? You are true and wet nasty my nature and will make you convenient I will come to a stop, wanting only him not to sing a song the pressure does not want to be so and greatly virtuous of thunder you are to fear to delay time to lose the game the useless talk is little to say, fart eye son! Let me arrest the finally you can't be to want to bump him? You have no matter, waiter don't bump, virtuous of thunder! You are almost my, young man! Grasp the prison to order, mama, grasp the prison to order the cloth gram", I am" shell", I am in your 10 miles of places of behind I am in 070 mile markings receive to have no,? Shell", I is, we 20 second inside arrive to section I am not afraid we have no reason to change the car of your safety is more important I have already not livinged now you annoy what matter did the good heavens, the waiter, take place? The virtuous of thunder bump of? You also want carefully, waiter the thunder receive from bump me behind, so I decide... temporarily let reach are together with you section do not thus Hey, hear I say, such game... the process of the game is very dangerous I tell you, the section I wanted to capture this lady is that bad egg again this time I to put even he good, thank Hey! Hey, how? Hey, the matter that is just now I am no object, treasure I can also give you an opportunity do you want my chest dress? Yes, hurry to me all right why don't take off directly to my lo? Want this whether you wants this or not? Is true? Hurry to... especially mile especially mile, see you too happy have to take thing to Mary Anne? I can never forget to take thing to you oh, champagne! Oh, I really think and can drink them immediately oh, your evil claw came again does that want that I go to? that does he have and did not find you? Have no, Sir have no, what matter also did not take place hear I say, our nasty of now wants to spend money I believe that this also seeks you yes, this matter lets all of my appetites have no I tell you, sponsor originally the is to lose money in business the business understand my meaning? He is unworthy I say the inside situation of this and you don't believe this easily, what matter can't you know to will take place... virtuous section, I visit relatives tonight from say with this thus best his brothers also attended to compete this time do not worry that"shell" can't win this time game hurry, cover, is a control centre here I am the cover, we are in the supervision now the section now at which? "Shell"? That German just destroyed by knocking his car he exceeds that Hollander now now he is leading off to near to charge the street corner etc., another charges street corner? Yes, arrived about see come him"good-bye kiss" with us soon see come us want to act quickly I think to be in this endless on the travel everyone certainly feels very boring now I believe that everyone didn't certainly think how place is of idle away the method of the time the conduct and actions is with talent in this aspect I I think dedicate for everyone previous from create of song borrow this brief time to offer to everyone good of, we give you this opportunity we invite a song of handkerchief now for everyone deduce a head he from create of a song dedicate specially to everyone hope that everyone like ? DJ, can't you stop? This is the telephone, we still need to walk faster what is the row? Hey, fag your face! All right, that wish that satisfies everyone oh, this country is really beautiful more stronger than my house, not is? Scenery such as painting to compare Germany much more beautiful beautiful, beautiful see to bother to come, not is? See the skill that you have to race car have a yellow automobile high speed to cut through an area you carry on intercept for me good of, I intercept for you brothers, hurry come, see how I play you the German car hand was kill) Oh, good heavens! See how they are to hold the game of you guaranteed and can't take place such affair, not is? I say so Hey, Jim the Jim, come to hear this voice, is what is the row? Oh, damn, launch the machine to break down stop the bottom to the car I know to would be thus do not get off in a mess, launch the machine to lead the heat we must replace to make the cold machine hurry Hey, quick leave for the part to the car fling out my gun out of the window why? The broad keep of exactly which go to? Etc. Hello to help? I made the cold machine to is out of order sorry, Sir, I do not provide such thing here you would go to specialized place can have let me match it together what things? I see to have lose no time too long we at which can return to make the cold machine? Seem to want 200 miles outside you teach his at one feed want only and don't want that"shell" went this is the order if let him run away... don't want the useless talk, I as long as he can't compete, treasure I will fix mama of! Motel) The nobody bothered now we have time the dancing that call"light" that is the CD machine, we call it as"fill the" there is..."Have sexual love the bed" very comfortable nasty sex maniac this place, dear they usually talk that the oneself drive greatly is how severe one day I canned not stand and then beat the report in the evening true of, I do not know and would result in so big result to go to the nobody love oh not! Until his emergence yes although I is so long with him, still don't how to understand him yes, we go to school together ride the bicycle together sometimes still the meeting and other childs fight you know, sometimes is a female child is all the business of kid's son with the little girl girl appointment they see we say, seeing that a pair boy true? The another matter matters all like to help victim of an injustice he like to be successful in career,? Yes , bump to die a girl at the time that you drive? Yes, I admit I get drunk connect an of the "pound" I bumped once dizzy is the car that you open?! Yes but the section say... I do not know, you did not ask , you did not tell a lie I do not know... I feel sorry, the reach yes, I am also similar boy, stop the part I have the urgent matter and would overtake a car so please high lift... please raise the your hand raise the your hand then open 1:00 I did not do amiss what the leg stretches backward very good, relax Hey, hear me say this is the routine business, routine business what do you want to be dry? Pretend to be a son? The courage is pretty big the under charge of this? Felling how, dear? If did not bother, I attained the high tide I come to a soon the that time waited now good heavens, what's the matter with you? I will not give him the opportunity again if is not you are a boss... beat first. Whether open the red car does the hair is brown? Yes your this smelly boy, he is a section don't is that bad egg am I a smelly boy? Am I a smelly boy? Calculate, he is a smelly boy mama of, the road is so long am I how can anyone know he? I take you go to the hospital to see leave me alone I am the cover, commanding officer, hear receive, the cover, I am a commanding officer they are whole now within the scope of supervise and control everything is normal but a car and the seconds still have 20 miles of margins then is your brothers section. The car of the gram let the person's disappointment sorry connect down is those girl's sons to race car she leads the black automobile of behind about we should strengthen the supervision don't had trouble again my mother will not suffer such failed I do not believe that you would let him go to the motel to drink the beer he drive the root is to play the life unimportant but, I think that he would make me proud I do not know the factual circumstance how but I have such intuition the hope is such oh, good heavens, bothered to come only have there is just such wine in Bavaria just have such taste you had better taste once this wine lets the person enjoy in retrospect the everlasting the flower a little money can compensate your energy not, thank I like to be other this bad egg will let what us get into trouble what matter? Oh, see what is the row? Quickly accelerate, the fairy, we will was in Dutch of hear the, is not a critical time now as long as you hear I shut up the mouth can get away from them oh, dear... see what to come is what guy! That young and high big affirmation is still a male morning good, young lady best early please post notice you drive shine on? Oh, all right overdue embarrassed, you must return drove to shine on to register oh, that bothered too most quick super car want to be many long time? Dear, are you telling me? Police officer, if letpass we can't ask for for you to bother? Right? Not, perhaps can't, however impossible... we do not mind to do with you a car return not, must take your car to return oh, the mile boon stem what? Hear the, see these misses are to need to live the son technically can't to hard come, I to see the they, you drive to return not, I follow these girls together car, you drive the mile boon, shine on I say of do, I will solve this matter I is say I am fix not... the mile boon, I attend time of the police compare you long three days you like to ask the oneself so much, bad egg! That we to calculate the minute... the dispassion order, some problemses of this matters all have no come with me How are you, this yesterday... you was late, this, I want to blame this matter I know that you have a lot of affairs your brothers can't win hear the, the benefit is especially I feel and should worry... I do not want to hear, originally affair is not you think so I do not want to hear, this this matter is not... very sorry, I say sincerely I am very sorry, but have to do like this everythings should be like this song similar I once dreamed of, but you make me heart-broken hear you weep over, I am very sorry but the sometimes must do like this to just go you let me disappoint, probably you should be very melancholy but I know now that this is also your sad affair all right, you was satisfied with now hope that this would be useful you know to be after your younger brother have an accident we have to feel sad much want if failed and will take place what matter good heavens, gram! Your this car is 72 constructions of a of snow of? Good heavens, thank the day to thank the ground it did not ruin completely Hey, you are affirmative and will like this pedestal wireless but it has already damaged completely a heap of garbage waiter, you really did not experience he is attending the game are you attending the big match of highway?! Good heavens, this is really our great honor, true H'm... This car is complete damaged do you plan how to do? Feel helpless whether you feel that this idea is not good or not you can open our car to continue to complete to compete this time is? You have what car, tractor? You do not arrive the behind to see why? Good carriage of Renault, everythings all get ready this car? You open what fun tremble to move severe, uncomfortable, follow the pipe pediatric thing my that races car however! This? This is to dress up as the cool cruiser oh, dress up as the cool cruiser? This but 10 strenuous effort of month dress up as the cool cruiser? Good heavens Hey, this car is true interesting how to make? the electronics lights the fire device top-grade chariot material the mix of high speed machine of accelerate 100 of time is 10 second perhaps this is good material that you need should can the game for you bring the motive what condition do you have? The gram Sir, you not only race car severe is still a movie star if a of the medium report gram drives our car carry off the words of the big match champion we will get many big advantages n't report our name of on TV why? All right, make you great a pair of our car how... quick go to the car to help in the claim! Do not take care of them, quickly get on the car to plea for help! Hey, come back! Make what?! I early will you stay on this car! Died to settle this time! See good matter that you do! Dear, my performance how? According to my covariance, I still didn't hard you mind to turn does the face come over? Do I call you turn the face to come over, hear have no?! Like, stop once... Hey, the big musician did not play I is to attend to race car of, is not to hear what you sing a song can take advantage o I didn't before throwing down the car to you shut up the mouth all right, you still concentrate the energy... I know I is to help you keep the awake brains oh, is if hear suffered stem not plug the your ear?! So I can give musical performance again the song of oneself's fancy I just at horizontal wear the Mainland good heavens, you... drop down after a while and then is not a piano now I am very unhappy I also would be unhappy! Dog's dung! You two can see the not to let me nap this is what ghost thing? We have no other? Race car this time how? Replied up, we requite the circumstance that the way race car the be over only I just ignore him, I make that bad egg understand what to! Fill up the tank to the fuel tank good of we now should how to do? Captain, this song has already put for 15 minutes don't come to a Chicago why?! I do not know! As long as don't urinate on the car, do what can! Good of, thank the day to thank the ground the, what do you think to be dry? You want to go to again where? That girl in the car, the guitar that I lend her! Bother once you may recognize now I came my guitar did not take on the car, but... I am a. Fertile especially . Fertile especially? We hear your song still in the wireless just now! I like that song very much oh, is? Thank you I feel more the honor, you see... dear, by a hour... I just lost unique guitar this seemed the winter to come to me, didn't guitar I the creations does not serve as what good song I see the car that you are from the behind down of you also at attend this game? H'm... That's right, we really at attend the game fertile especially Sir of, I am very happy to lend the guitar to you oh, liked too go to New York, you can return to me? My meeting of, dear... what matter? Sweet heart, you can imagine... just saved my occupation career can say that my occupation can't break to send now two, then see he is the unexpectedly. Fertile especially?! Are you say, is in his wireless to sing a song? Right the positive full speed of your next character companion go forward judge is not an useless thing, be careful the point know, do we have an accelerator, want? What kind of accelerator? Shining red motor waiter, that run really great your his mama of, I have not yet say that finish! Bill especially... do I am a virtuous of thunder, hear have no? Hear, his mama of, you say that the target is a rightness of husband and wife but our se superiors waited a night here the person who also did not see to seek see come us or find her get all right, but I feel her shall arrive soon she follow another a together, you appear to that now help me to like to teach to open the red gun carriage once... that guy that calls shell flown the car gram they wanted to be through the furcation street corner right away good of, we will not letpass any suspicious target set out to go to right away now what he drive is a red yellow alternate and super sport car the destination is California good of, we can be like you guarantee from now on there is no a red sport car can be through here , what does he say? They are saying the section what things? Think that the way connects the wireless Bill especially, Bill especially, I is, hear have no? Waiter, I is, hear have no? Waiter, hear have no? Aha! You guess how, those persons are waiting the garbage truck is stop by side bottom, this but the car of the section right, this is the car of the section I will be a shell, you be see you, shell like, relax the point, they came all right, your this turkey! You how, hero? Still do not need to call the doctor the section, beware of! You have no matter? Still go have this police-woman to be the teammate happily oh, is some matters still have to hand over to the police-woman to do, dear this is what is the row, have what... we hear the virtuous of thunder are converse with them he lets these persons tidy up you I knew you park the car why, are you I? Waiter, do you are not understand? I be you, drive this car, wear this clothes of and follow this girl together but you wear the baseball cap of, openning the car of to take the air everywhere! What you open is what garbage? You like to get a shock of, see good? Section... the said with me, that girl is kill for hour... person who opens your car is he you why not tell me these? The absolutely can't live on the car the benefit the Sir wants to remove me the section, from now on I want to follow you on the car I worry, he shouldn't have relation with this matter again do not participate, notice the circumstance for me, good? Real now of is a person do not tell me, you also think the and this bother he is affirmative and will deal with me while compete, I want a person have no assistant you do not go Hey... Knowing my first matter in New York is to do what? H'm? Certainly seek a hotel, like to like to enjoy this this but you say of waiter, I have a bad news someone filled the thing in didn't line up windpipe however don't is very what a mess, need to be help? Need not, can you take my woman to leave this? I warn you, she if little heel sweat hair wait I dried by heat to bounce back, beat to you to beg the dad to tell the are you what mean? Now I am a shell! All right leave, the reach , have a good trip! Dear... Why? Buy after getting hold of this money the house how... then invest the remaining money to the election sport lucky words, probably I can be the eparch of San Francisco you and will the childs back me up? Certainly, all right certainly, then you can carry on the Californian eparch again afterwards I can campaign the American president this sound good I with president the body win the Whitehouse you are a first lady you feel that I can't try some small scaled things suppose... Dark catcher? I am jocose I am affirmative is to support yours do you understand my meaning? How? Hey, you see that car oh, good heavens! Hey...! You at dry what? Hey, waiter! Your car have what trouble? Press trumpet, he is out of hearing you talk oh, good heavens! All right have another a hour, I canned not hold up really don't know that how those cars hand is insisted down of the card is virtuous, I am hungry and have to want the dead we arrive that supermarket to see to have what buyable? His place connects the places that addsthe water to all have n we seek a car to steal some water to save you say? You can leave some money, thus the other people know what is the row all right, your idea is quite good we try how is the car of this yellow? I open the door lock senator what matter? Do you say how to put together to write of this rain bag? I think is"rain bur..." rain...", Then? Bursa" "bursa"? Right oh hi best early is this what is the row? My car turned off then... This young man want to dismantle him down see can don't help me to re- launch you take the wrench of at why? I beat not to drive a cover I only have this and can use top like, let I to try small vegetables a disc! Thanks do you substitute the article? I have here take the like, you are best is an attention to order, don't want the disorderly parking next time have no so lucky you say right, my meeting of very thankful Don't mention it wish your delectation thanks your reaction arrive pretty clever oh, thanks do you say that he would turn head? I want to still leave earlier for good do you feel that a piece of money is enough? Right that guy should feel this time have no only wish you quickly get on the car! What should we do? You drive away the car right away that you? Smelly boy, stop! Parking! Hey, say you! Park the car right away! Call you! Oh... See come we get the is a to came back again you discover what? What ghost the things all have no however quick fly a little bit and low oh, in fact... I have been all concentrating on the contribution of this aspect still there is a young lady may suffer from severely wounded I am to proceed from the help to just report the traffic accident that unfortunate this time his mama's stem what? Do you not torment the oneself be happy not? I want that you temporarily leave my car a period of time with the convenience I handle affairs virtuous of thunder, don't want to be thus how to make? The, stop here let myself! Religious festival, mother! Relaxed relaxed here your tax dues at produce result the new state highway that leads to New York openned on March 18 in 1977 his mama of! Your this idiocy! What ghost...? All right, acceleration, acceleration the champion of this game comes right away to like with you to like to play today come his mama of! H'm, the flavor is quite good come, etc. You know? Come, encourage very good, this is just good child, blunt I come champion champion! Oh, good heavens! Good heavens! I come to embrace she get on the car move does she be dangerous? Have no way we have to send her to go to the hospital as soon as possible slowly oh, the Jim, whether we to return or not? Not, we want to send this girl as soon as possible up the hospital hospital she has no matter, just ordering the skin external injury you help here not up favour still return the take a rest you have no matter? Whether trap very much? We should find a hotel take a rest my headache died for the sake of your woman you must walk we end the game now why, compete thoroughly though does now leave your person? Like, want your political career of the future before you end consider how is once political career? Doctor... how many hours can please ask give us a sickroom rest? The misses, put on the uniform we wanted to hurtled the terminal point with the best carriage terminal point this car arrives the terminal point to let everybody first shocked others all which go to? Everyone, the contestant that everyone see is especially the mile. Michael's Milan compete of win congratulations, Michael's rice pulls the Sir thanks we are the first to arrive of? I know that we would win early of, endless hard game but we face the difficulty, always is to go forward courageously always are all! Is should come to the cup champagne to celebrate once seem to forget in the cabaret you can listen to this program in the whole countries come from the United States to choose the handkerchief Fertile especially the traffic accident of die each car hand, wish your good luck! The fairy, if you do not recognize road ask the other people do not ask anyone, I know at which the right here turn to the left we did not meet this kind of transportation from the beginning you had better turn around turn around? This is the one-way road, idiocy! You are best to turn to 11 streets from 7 streets is really on helping the lousy person! It is impossible for them tos compare this to return lousy his mama of, you make what, shut up! This place is exactly and what is the row! Section? You how...? You are dry here what? I know that you can succeed of you mean to say to order what? I say a,"this is nothing" quickly ascend that to accept award the set everyone waits the you you but the contestant that unique single take part in a game the gram Sir, you want to say for the game that order what? I do not know I openned too quickly Hey, gather news again after a while good? Our champion wants to follow the family together I this has some the thing your shell fly car how? What shell fly the car? Your shell fly the car to has no matter have no matter? Do you say that 17 persons lie to call have no matter at the hospital? Roll out to me! First what to have an accident is your car we think you are the first to enter the hospital how, the is in that car this, exactly and what is the row? He has no matter, come, is all right? I witnessed the whole process on the helicopter afraided of the driver to die someone sent to a girl of car hospital which hospital? The hospital of of New Jersey I want last hospital section... This, you this is a stem what?! Registered the ticket to walk again first how about it? Come you have no matter, brothers? I guarantee that you would certainly win of you to who guarantee that I would certainly win? Do not take care of this, hurry card, then see this... is you let the virtuous of thunder obstruct me, to? Do not make silly, I beg you to beat the card first then I explain with you again! I won the game certainly, you are my pride if have no this money, my life canned not guarantee you at dry what? Stay the this, this is to the worry if you obstruct, obstruct yourself I will go to the hospital come, the section, I send you we have a lot of words to want to talk this, we also have a lot of words to want to talk the gram the Sir takes my car to ascend waiter, connect down what should we do? Do a summary they all round the our car stem what? Young lady, can gather news you how many minutes? What? Why? What we have to like to say of? What? You is win! Congratulations! Don't is jocose? Of course not is! Did we win? Did we win? We won! Good heavens! Doctor, please the center area the here environment is quite good shell, sorry can't won to celebrate for you in time may flower cabaret excuse me to let you long etc. Star: Bill. Micky star: The Luo's card. The play is eventually
