 

                        1 Madagascar... For centuries the bloodiest cock pit of all the seas. Where the infamous brotherhood of the damned Waited to plunder the treasure laden galleons from India and Catay. Then returned drunk with slaughter To their pirate stronghold, the 'Last Hope'. Most ruthless of all was Captain William Kidd... He encountered the great London galleon the Twelve Apostles... Commanded by Admiral Lord Blayne And approaching unsuspected in the guise of a peaceful merchant... By a sudden treacherous salvo he reduced her to a burning hulk. When night fell... the Twelve Apostles was only a blazing funeral pyre... on the placid surface of a Madagascar lagoon. Bless me! There's a pretty sight. It will be prettier still when the fire reaches the magazine, Captain. Pity though. Lot of stout seamen among them. And they was with us for a long time. We can none of us live forever Mr Boyle.. And dead men don't talk. Man your oars, we've got this job to do before high tide. There! Dig faster, if the tide catches us here.. It'll save the Kings hangman some rope. There ye are. Deep enough to bury a man in. Give us a hand, mate. - All ready, Captain. - Down she goes. What are you waiting for? Well Captain, that chest's been in your cabin a longish time. We all thought as it would do no harm to open up that chest... And make sure that what was in it then... Is in it now. I suppose you remember what was in it. Aye. I remember an emerald necklace that came off that Portuguese ship, El Vengar. And all those pearls that we took from the big ship. The Virgin Queen. I remember a diamond medallion... We got from that Moorish galleon off Madagascar... And could we ever forget that silver casket With the arms of Lord Blayne that you claimed for yourself... After the taking of the Twelve Apostles, sir? Your neck will be stretched as long as your memory one of this days. Satisfied, gallows meat? Put them back! Lower away! Now what? Wait a minute Captain, there's something else you forgot. What do you want now, we got half an hour before the tide traps us... That's as may be, sir. We are all equal in this I take it? Equal shares, yes. That key then, what you put back in your belt. That goes down with the chest! Thus we start all clear and no favours. If some some of us don't get back... It'll will be that much easier to open for them that does. Question me honor again would you, and I'll rip you... From belly to chime. Are we such callous rascals... That we would leave a dead comrade... Without commending his soul to his new master? Here lies one who through treachery... And avarice... Would have placed in jeopardy the lives of honest men. And here may he lie forever. In the sands of Madagascar. Rest in peace. It's time to be out my lads, time to be away. If a gentleman is a gentleman, he's gentleman. That's all there's to it, sir I'm one of nature's gentlemen, but I need polish my good man.. If I'm to improve myself... A gentleman employs the terminology 'my good man'... Only when addressing lower servants... Or his inferior, sir. You see? That's why I need you. My upbringing... A gentleman never sucks his teeth, sir. Many a man's social career has been ruined by less, sir. You seem to know your business. I want the best mind and I can pay for it. Hundred quid a year. An infallible mark of the person of quality... Is his reluctance to pay his domestics high wages. You don't say so. Merely an idiosyncrasy of good breeding, sir. Sixty... quid a year then? You realize I have never been on board a ship before, sir. Oh don't let that frighten you. To the contrary. In fact, since I was a nipper... I've had a rather adventurous inclination... towards life on the bounding main. It should be quite educational, sir. You'll learn a lot, no doubt. - Is it a bargain then? - Very well, sir. My hand on it? Court Calendar Upon the solicitation of My Lord Bellomont... His Majesty is graciously pleased to Order... To Attend upon him at Hampton Court... Upon the morning of November 13, at nine of the clock... Captain William Kidd, shipmaster, of New York... With intent to discuss a voyage of portent... To the waters of India and Madagascar. Then... It is your proposal, my Lord Bellomont... That Captain Kidd... Sail to meet our ambassador Lord Fallsworth... And give him safe convoy through the perilous waters of Madagascar. May it please Your Majesty, yes. That need a bold and adventurous man. Bring in this Captain Kidd while we take the measure of him. Captain William Kidd. Your Royal Majesty. And other Lords. Bellomont, is this your roaring killer of Spanish buccaneers? Nay, me Ludd... I'm only a peaceful shipmaster who must do trade with other ships... Without inquiring too closely about their business. And it was so I fell into the hands of the Twelve Apostles. A King's ship turned pirate. In Madagascar waters? I have never been in Madagascar waters, your Grace. It was off the southern tip of Africa... Where I had gone to trade in elephant's teeth. Who commanded her? One of your admirals, Your Majesty. Name of Lord Blayne. He did turn pirating. Sufficiently, me Ludd... To put fear in honest traders, like myself. And if you are succesful in this voyage, Captain... What reward do you expect? May it please Your Majesty... Having forfeited me honor in that I was forced to strike me colors to a pirate... I want no reward but to regain it... In the service of Your Majesty. Unless it be, is it true... That Lord Blayne's lands are estreated and his title forfeit. Yes. All, well, all I ask is... If I lay this renegade nobleman by the heels... Is that you honor the humble self... With his castle and his lands. Is that all you want, Captain Kidd? Not a farthing more, Your Majesty. The fellow treats of a title so lightly... He must be bursting with noble blood. Though I confess he keeps it well hid. Aye sir, you can no more judge of a man by his appearance... Than you can judge the extent of a nobleman's brains... By the expensiveness of his wig. Am I to suppose... That the Captain of the King's Guard would deign to fence... With me? Come, Captain. Is your courage less than your wit? Nay sir, I know nothing of the fence. You must come at me... Quickly as though you'd kill me. Very well then. I ask pardon, Sire, I've a hot head when roused. I only meant to demonstrate. And to good purpose, Captain. Your Majesty is satisfied with the Captain of our choosing? I can think of none better. I thank you, sir. And now, Captain. The main mission of your crew will be to meet a great ship. The Queda merchant... Which is sailing from India with vast treasures. And to give her safe conduct, in my name... Past the perilous waters of Madagascar. But Your Majesty... Will her commander accept me letter of mark as sufficient authority to... You shall have a letter to our ambassador Lord Fallsworth who's returning in her. That he is to accept your protection. And to submit to all matters pertaining to the safety of the ship. And her treasures, Sire. Oh yes. And now, Sire... Me crew... Your crew? Captain Kidd wishes to recruit a crew from the pirates... Now under capital sentence in Newgate and the Marshalsea. A crew of condemned pirates? Aye, Sire. There's none would be so loyal... Nor fight so desperately... As cutthroats under sentence of death... If they knew that at the end of the voyage... A Royal pardon would be in their pockets. But I shall hold you accountable for their good conduct. Between their conduct and mine, Your Majesty... There will be little to choose. And now, goodbye. And God speed you. I am but his unworthy sparrow. I'd rather eat the bilge slime from an African slaver. Adam, don't let your temper get you the lash again. If I'm to hang I'll hang, but I'll go to the gallows with clean guts at least. Hey you! What kind of stinking maggots meat is this? Wardens! Wardens! There's that dainty scum Mercy... Complaining about the taste of the King's bounty again. - Watch it! - Bounty? Bounty me eye! The King's allowance is thrupence a day for food! Not muck from the sewers of Whitechapel! Making trouble again, hey Mercy? I'm asking only what a man is legally entitled to. Here, smell this! Delicious. Hear ye Governor! What manner of a kingdom is this... Where a man is condemned before he's heard... And starved before they hang him? - Who is that quarrelsome feller? - Adam Mercy. He was taken in a pirate ship by his Majesty's frigate Wasp. He's always escaping, so that's why we keep him in chains. He's got a lacing of tiger's blood in him. This ain't exactly a flower garden, is it? Oh, forgive me Governor! These are two of me officers... Mr Boyle, Governor Landers... Mr Lorenzo, Governor Landers. Spanish blood. A pretty lot of sinners Capitan... Do you think there is anyone down there who knows us? I hope not. Governor, would you be good enough to tell them what we are here for? Give heed you, you... vermin! Her's news to your advantage. Is the hangman dead then? Out with it then, Jack nasty face! Is it that your mother's turned into an honest woman? Silence, you mutinous dogs! If another man speaks I'll trice him up by the thumbs and flay him raw! Governor... Is that the way to win the love of these unfortunate gentlemen? Now, then me bullies! Would you rather do the gallows dance... And hang in chains till the crows pick your eyes from your rotting skull... Or would you feel the roll of a stout ship beneath your feet again? - Aye. - Aye! I have a vessel, the Adventure galley... And the King's commision to sail her. And for those who show a loyal and a stout heart... There's a Royal pardon in the offing. Which of you knows the waters of Madagascar? I do! Would you have him unlocked, Governor? Warden, unlock him! Look you then! I want men with iron in their blood... And steel in their sinews! And the first up here is the first enlisted. Governor, if your wardens are ready, would you be good enough to have them lower the ropes. Lower away! Here they come! Make ready lads! Put your hands on that, I'll make you a free man! The other now! Next! Next one! Come on! Name. Philip Shaftstow. Philip Shaftstow, regardless of the fact that I'm your Captain... You will always address a gentleman as 'Sir', scum. Aye, sir. Make your mark. On board! Name. - Adam Mercy, sir. - Oh, so it's you. Mercy. That's a comical handle for a blade of fortune. Mercy! It's also something the world needs more of! A quite and gentle philosopher. You speak cultured! Were you by any chance a stable boy to a noble house? Perhaps. I was also Master Gunner to a buccaneer you may have heard of... Captain Avery. Avery's Master Gunner? We needed a Master Gunner Mr Boyle, and from what I've heard... Avery was a shrewd hand at picking them. The berth's yours for as long as you can handle it. I can handle it. Swivel gun or long arm, I'll forfeit a guinea for every miss. You'll forfeit your neck if you miss while you're on my ship. Make your mark. And you can write! We'll give you a nice bath! Then you'll draw a uniform befitting a Master Gunner. - On board! - Next man! - Name. - Bartholomew Blivens, sir. Bartholomew Blivens. Make your mark! There's no mask for a treacherous heart like an honest face... You keep an eye on him. Down below! - Captain aboard? - He's over there, sir. Next man! - That's all, sir. Our complement's full - Is it? Holy...! - I thought you... - Yes, you thought I was dead! I can hardly believe my eyes. You mean you don't want to believe them. Come, come Mr Povey, is that kind or is that fair? As fair as what you did the day you abandoned me on a Bahama reef. Oh please Mr Povey this is not the time to talk about that. Oh, it's the time alright! Unless you want me to go ashore and tell what I know. In which case your present voyage is over before it's begun. Now, now, now, now, Povey. Mr Boyle, would you take over, please? Mr Lorenzo, take the deck watch. Come to my cabin. My heart bleeds when I think of one of your delicate constitution... Having to fend for yourself on a coral reef, Mr Povey. Come off it, Captain. I know why you marooned me. You thought there'd be only three of you to share, instead of four. It's true! A hostile wind did blow us away from your reef! Between friends, we might have sailed back again... But we did exactly what you would have done, Mr Povey. So no more of your sentimental nonsense, please! Now that we are four again, what then? We are not four. We are two. Boyle and Lorenzo, dull clods. Twenty thousand pounds apiece in their hands would only be spent in sinful ways. Are you propose to remove them from the path of temptation. How? A knife in the dark? I am not a violent man, Mr Povey, I detest violence... But people have such an awkward habit of getting in my way... I am an ambitious man, Mr Povey. An ambitious man, if he be bold enough, can carve himself a kingdom. I want to be a Lord, my friend. And that for a commoner like myself takes a deal of money. And that's why there could be two less to share. Before we raise old England again? You cold-gutted shark. A flatterer. Oh, I'm glad you're back in, Mr Povey. You have no idea how gratifyng it is to have a congenial soul to confide in. Thank you. There's something I want to tell you. I've left with a trusted friend in London a sealed letter... Containing an exact and complete account of certain previous events... Only to be open in case, just in case of course... You should happen to return to England without me. Of course, my dear fellow! Very sensible of you. Now I know you'll have a happy voyage. I shall too. I'll look up me quarters. We are two of the luckiest man alive. Just think... We are sailing for Madagascar waters. We'll pick up the search where we left off. Every officer on board has a servant. I'll request the Captain to assign you to me, then we'd be together. Yes, I've spent a good many years of my life at sea, Milady... But I doubt if any woman minds a dash of salt. Even in a Peer of the Realm, like myself. Now, if Me Lady would care to join me in a minuet? My Lady, sir, not Me Lady. Blast me Shadwell! Does one gentleman creep up on another... without a cough or a spit, or something to warn him? I'm not a gentleman, sir, I'm a gentleman's gentleman. Pity about the hair. So you've tried everything? Bear's grease? Prenatal influence perhaps? Dinner is served, sir. Thank you, Shadwell. Pardon, sir... I'll show you to your place. Captain, what's all this mummery? You can forget your bilgewater manners for the time, Mr Boyle. You are now officer on a King's ship. So a man must starve while his manners fatten! I know, I know. And in a King's ship it is customary for the officers... to rise when the Captain enters. That's better. Gentlemen, be seated. Well, well, well, what have we here? You must not do that, sir. Of course, but don't press me. Come Mr Mercy, tell us something about yourself. You already know whatever's of consequence, sir. While under Avery I was taken by a King's ship and brought to London. There I was tried for a pirate and condemned. You were innocent, of course. No sir, I was guilty! You speak above your station. How came you to go on the Account? Call it love of adventure... Perhaps for love of scandal, perhaps a mix of all three. And you've seen something of the world? Enough sir, to dislike what I've seen and know there's small hope for a better. Perhaps you prefer the next world, Mr Mercy. You were close enough to it when you were in the condemned hold ar Newgate. But I'm keeping you from your dinner. And now gentlemen... A toast to the King... And since proposing it is a privilege of the youngest present... The honor falls to Mr Mercy. Mr Mercy, we are waiting. No, sir. Since I have little love for the King, I'll neither propose his health nor drink it. Never the less you are on a King's ship. King's ship or the devil's, it's all the same to me, sir. I owe him nothing. You owe him your neck Mr Mercy, if it were not for his bounty... You'd be dancing daintily on air at Wapping. I owe my reprieve to you, Captain... So to you I'll drink gladly, but not to William. You stand up and drink to his Majesty's health as a King's officer should! Or by fire and flame I'll have you shipped back to Newgate on the first vessel we speak! Gentlemen, the King. - The King! - God bless him! That's curious. Do you suppose His Majesty put him on board to spy us out? We've found him chained to a pillar in Newgate. It wouldn't be to hard for the King to plant him there... Yes, but why would he speak so openly against the King? Your wits are even duller than usual, Mr Lorenzo. Have you never heard of the serpent... That takes the colour of it's background, the better to strike? Shadwell. Yes, sir. You have waited high born people and those of the courtship. Have you ever seen Mr Mercy before? No before this voyage, sir. He has as high a spirit as a gentleman of quality. I like him. Would you find out who he is and where he comes from? - As you wish sir. - Thank you, Shadwell. - Foggy night! - Good evening, Shadwell. Excuse me sir, but you seafaring men... Always seem to be looking at something that I never can see... We are looking for something just over the horizon. You know sir, I recognized you for a gentleman the moment I saw you. What are you, a valet, doing at sea? The Captain employed me to make him... Socially acceptable, sir. I'm afraid we're too far out for me to swim back. If I can be of service to you, sir. Did the Captain send you here? - Yes, sir. - Why? He wants to know who or what you are, sir. Who do they think I am? Possibly a spy placed on board by His Majesty. This seemed uneasy, sir. This... This Captain Kidd, how long have you known him... Have you sailed with him before? Oh no, sir. All I know is, he's a... Well, among other things... A merchant Captain. A spy, that's strange. Why should they be afraid to be spied on? - Goodnight, Shadwell. - Good night, sir. Who is he? Where is he from? He's a nobody, sir. He was employed by persons of quality... Where he learned his speech and his manners. It's a matter of judgment. If you fire on the uproll, the shot will go over his yardarms... But if you wait for the down roll, the enemy is coming up. Now watch! Get ready! Fire! Hurray! Pretty shot Mr Mercy. Can you do as well with a 74 throwing grape and canister at you? I have done it, sir. Reload and secure! And pick up your practice on the lower quarter swivel gun. Mr Mercy? If you sailed with Avery, you must know these waters. Fairly, sir. If we needed to careen and take on stores... - Where would you recommend? - Ponticos Bay, it lies... We draw to much water, you remember Captain... Remember what? I only know the Spanish main, these are Madagascar waters. - Ponticos Bay? - Aye, sir Thank you Mr Mercy. Come along, Mr Boyle. You blundering ass! Your presence is becoming increasingly irksome to me. Get you below. Now let's get down to the business of this voyage. Hand me that chart, Mr Boyle. Capitan, I have been thinking every day and every night. What about that dinero that was buried in the cave? What good is it there? Let's get it back where we can spend it! It stays where it is for a while. Why? We've got a fatter prize sailing right into our pockets. Now! Here is our present position. Here is Madagascar... Here is Calicut. In June, the great galleon, the Queda merchant... Sails from Calicut... to England. We should meet her.... About here. She's stuffed from keel to gunnels... With treasure to the value of half a million pounds. Half....? And we are to give her safe passage... Through the pirate seas. By safe passage you mean we are to take her, Captain? Now, now, don't be greedy Mr Povey. I grant that most of what's in her may find it's way into our pockets. But let's be fair, the King, poor gentleman, will expect something. But however we do it... It must be done... Legal like and honest! Stick to ways you are familiar with! Why, you pox riddled villain, I can be as honest as any man if I have the incentive! Oh yes, me Lord Blayne! Lord Blayne's name is not be mentioned among us Mr Povey. He's dead, so is his crew and so's ours... And there's none outside this cabin that knows what became of them. And if you all enjoy living... You will remember that! Well! Here's to our meeting with the Queda merchant! - Queda merchant! - Queda merchant! God bless her! Wind fresh from West North-West, sir. Course North-East by East, night dark but clear. Very well, Mr. Mercy. - North-East by East. - North-East by East, sir. It's Mr Boyle! Help me! Lend a hand men! Man down! What happened? He is dead. If I find the man that's responsible for this, I'll hang him. Fetch the yard and re-set it! What do you suppose happened? Someone's been tampering with this lines. We are gathered together to say farewell to a gallant seaman and a stout comrade. Here was a man, shipmates... Whose heart, the flinty mountains could not match... Who always took better than he gave. Whose benevolence was such... The orphan's might and the rich man's gold alike... Found refuge in his pocket. A jealous Providence removed him from our midst... An' I esteem it a privilege to commit his body to the deep! We shall all mourn him. Aye, we shall mourn him, but take comfort my friends... We shall never see his like again. Rest in peace. Pop him over. Pity, Mr Mercy, a great pity, but the ship's work must go on. Move your gear into poor Mr Boyle's cabin... You will take his place as Master. As Master! Aye, sir. Why, Shadwell! Don't tell me after all this time at sea... My inward revolt is not for the movement of the vessel, sir... Is occasioned by the company I endure. The manners I say nothing of, sir. But I am a Dorcestershire man... And when I find a common ship's master... Has the presumption to copy himself the coat of arms... Of one of our best Dorcestershire families. Can you wonder if I am physically upset? Whose crest was he copying? Credit it or not, sir, the Blayne crest. - Are you certain? - Perfectly, sir. Pardon me sir, I must join the captain. He's inspecting a cask of pickled eels... With Mr. Lorenzo. Well, Mr. Mercy! Do your new duties include robbing my desk? Shoot me Captain and your head goes with it. I'm here by the King's order. So he did plant you on board! Do you think he would let a man sail with a crew of cut-throats... And not keep tabs on him? And with good reason... If anything ever reaches the Palace it is those, and murder, Captain! Boyle's death was no accident. By the way... What ship was sunk here, the Twelve Apostles? Why the Twelve Apostles, Mr Mercy? Here's Blayne's ring, his name is on it, and he commanded the Twelve Apostles. That will make interesting telling in London when we get back, Captain. If you get back... When I get back, for if I don't... - On the other hand... - On the other hand, what? Since a man doesn't exactly grow rich in the King's pay... A crooked rogue! So you have your price... How much? An equal share in what's buried here. Share that with you? I'll be hanged if I do! You'll be hanged if you don't! Of all the slumocky blaggards... And if you do share, Mr King's informer... What guarante is there that you won't... Still turn evidence to the Crown? If I go in with you, I am equally guilty. And if we are caught... We hang together, but... I can keep you from beeing caught. What more could you ask? You know, Mr Mercy... I wondered sometimes if ever I'd meet a more unscrupulous blaggard... Than myself... And I have. But let's be sensible about it... Who knows... We might be useful to each other one day... In one way or another. You've forgotten something. The ring! So I have! Listen in carefully because I want you to tell it in London if anything happens to me... Kidd caught me in his cabin robbing his desk. I lied to him and told him I was a King's informant... Good! Yes but he didn't believe me, not one word, he just pretended to. Oh, why didn't you shoot him? Then he would give us no more trouble. If he proves the liar I think him... King's man or no, he betrayed an uncommon interest in the Twelve Apostles. I didn't like that Mr Lorenzo and I mean to find out why. Why you could have charged him of robbery and turned him off to the yardarm... And all legal and shipshape! You would've been rid of him once and for all. Let's not be impetuous, Mr Povey. He can't leave us, unless he swims. It'll be rather amusing to find out what he does. You rest easy, leave Mr Mercy to me. Sail ho-ho! Sail ho-ho! Have the bosun pipe the chorus. Pipe the chorus! The Queda merchant, sure enough. Can you make her out, Captain Rawson? She hasn't the cut of a buccaneer, Your Excellency. Much too tidy for that, more like a King's ship. Yet she has the lines of a merchantman. Have the longboat ready and manned. Longboat off board! Stand by to puty a shot across her bows, Mr Mercy. Aye, sir. Number four gun crew stand by for action! She's fllying the English colours. Perhaps she is our escort ship. It was about here we were to meet wasn't it? Though we make it certain just the same. Mr Gillian, keep it all hands at their stations. Very good, sir. Ready? Fire! Well placed Mr Mercy. Hard to starboard! Hard to starboard! Starboard she is, sir. You will come across with us in the longboat, Mr Mercy. And pay my compliments to all officers, who will dress as befitting a King's ship. Aye, sir. Captain William Kidd of his Majesty's privateer Adventure... At your service, sir Mr Povey me surgeon... Mr Mercy me master... Mr Lorenzo me navigator. Welcome aboard, gentlemen. I'm Captain Rawson. I am Lord Fallsworth... His Majesty's ambassador at the court of the Grand Mogul. Your obedient servant, sir. I have been sent to give you convoy, and we better make haste with our business. These are unhealthy waters, the ship could be hove to.... As I discovered a day or so ago. You mean you sighted some of the pirate brotherhood? More than that, sir. We beat off two of them. Avery and Culliford... Out of Last Hope, some thirty leagues South of here. Oh I nearly forgot, could you spare us some powder... For we used more then expected in the action? Why, all that you need sir, and welcome. Mr Lorenzo here could attend to that then? Mr Gillian, take Mr Lorenzo below and see to that he gets what he wants. - Aye, aye, sir. - Captain! Mr Stanson's the master gunner, he will take care of all your needs. Mr Lorenzo! Take this powder and put it in the longboat. Aye, aye, sir. Gentlemen, my daughter. The Lady Anne Dunstan. Captain Kidd... Mr Povey, Mr Mercy. - Haven't we met before? - I think not, My Lady. You remind me of someone I've seen. I... think it impossible that we could have ever met. Perhaps. How do we proceed now, Captain? Well, I am instructed to give you protection past Madagascar. And you'll be safe as long as we sail in company. But Avery will be a wolf at your heels and if we are separated... In darkness or storm... And what would you advise then, sir? Well... I suppose we could take Lord Fallsworth and Lady Anne... Aboard the Adventure to Madagascar... And then if we are separated and this... Vessel should be taken... What about the treasure on board? One silver chest alone... A present to His Majesty from the Grand Moghul... Contains precious gems valued at more than a million pounds! May I suggest, your Excellency... Why not transfer the treasure chest with yourself and Lady Anne... Aboard the Adventure until we are out of danger? She is a King's ship. That is a great responsibility. And although my instructions are that you are to trust me in all matters... I don't know if I could go so far as... What else can we do? Three of them against us? Or even two, sir... We'd be helpless! It's the wisest course! It defer to your Excellency. Now could we inspect the chests? We could have them slung into our boats along with the gear of Lord Fallsworth and Lady Anne. Why, certainly! This way, Captain. No trouble at all! Hoist away! Mr Povey! I've sent for the manifest, Captain. You may check it against the content of this chest and give me your receipt, if you will. Gladly, gladly. Oh, there you are Mr Lorenzo! Have you completed your business? Almost, sir. Your people have been most kind, Capitan Rawson. There is only one detail left. It will not take a minute. Finish it up then. We must be gone within the hour. Yes, Capitan! - The manifest, sir. - Would you attend to that Mr Povey? Thank you very much, Captain. Come Mr Lorenzo! You've seen a lovely lady before this! A tribute to your beauty, Ma'am! Did you finish your business below? Yes, Capitan. Then we better be under way! Mr Mercy, you will see Lord Fallsworth and the Lady Anne into the boat. Aye, sir. Make way for the longboat! You will look after the luggage, Mr Lorenzo. I apologize My Lady for our poor accommodation. But me valet Shadwell will see that you are made comfortable. A pleasure to have your Ladyship aboard. If you will follow me, please. Why hasn't it happened? Release that chest! Captain! Papa! Excuse me My Lady. Your father. May I say how sorry I am. The captain has requested that you take your meals in the main cabin. Oh no Shadwell, I can't bear to face those men. I can't! I quite understand My Lady. But the Captain's orders are orders. Shadwell, you must help me, there's no one else I can trust! What can I do, My Lady? I'm only a servant. Where can I turn? I'm so confused and frightened! I keep thinking of my father and the others lost back there. But on this ship wherever I go, those horrible staring men... Like Lorenzo, who's always standing behind me, beside me! Last night there was a tapping on the door... When I opened it there he was! The evil smiling face of his! We might have been better along with those pirates you fought a few days ago! Pirates, Milady? We fought no pirates. Well my father said Captain Kidd... Shadwell, what manner of ship this is? My father was killed deliberately, I'm sure of it! That's why I can't bear to face your Captain. I'd accuse him! There's a man on board, My Lady... A gentleman. Whom I know you can trust. - Mr Mercy? - Yes, MY Lady. Shadwell, I know I've met or seen him before, no matter how he denies it. His name isn't Mercy... Who is he? All I really know is My Lady, he is no friend of the Captain's. Perhaps if I ask him, he'll... Shall I? - Oh yes, will you please! - Yes, My Lady. I'm asking you again very nice... My dear Capitan... Your fancy manners do not impress me, Mr Lorenzo. - When do we divide the gold? - In London, not before! Then look Capitan, I'll make a bargain with you. A bargain? Everybody wants to bargain with me. You and Mercy! Who do you think I am, a stinking sausage merchant? What kind of a bargain? The girl. All my life I've dreamed of a beautiful woman like that. Give me half of my dinero now... And you can split the rest between you. If you will let me have her. Pity on him! He's smitten with love. Again! I want her... And I'm going to take her. Whether I like it or not? With all this treasure on board... The crew is like a barrel of hot gunpowder. All that is needed is a word in the right ears. Do you mean mutiny? You're a witness! He is inciting the crew to mutiny. No, no, no, no, Capitan! I was only joking. You have a very nasty way of joking, Mr Lorenzo. As for the girl, I have my own plans for her and they do not include you. Get out. Who is it? Adam Mercy. Mr Mercy, I... - Thank you for coming, Mr Mercy, I... - My name is Adam Blayne. Son of Lord Blayne? I knew it, I knew. What are you doing on this ship? My father was killed and accused of piracy. - Few people believe that Lord Blayne... - The King did. That's why I went to sea and turned pirate three years ago. That's why I'm on this ship. I knew that someday I'd come upon the truth. And you have? It was Captain Kidd who killed your father, wasn't it? Adam I am no fool! He did the same thing to my father! The fat butcher! It's taken me three years to track him down. Three years of degradation. Now I got him where I want him and he knows it. Do you mean he knows who you are? He knows something. That's why you didn't get me to know you. Why you avoided me. If Kidd knew we shared this he'd kill you with as little compunction as he means to kill me. If I'd let him. What can I do to help you? There must be something! Forget everything you've seen on this ship. Play up to him. Be friendly. That way you'll be safe. Now, when you get back to London, no matter what has happened to me... Go to the Lord of the Admiralty and the King. You'll be doing me a great favour, as well as you know. I will, Adam, I promise. We're going to have trouble with Lorenzo. He's speaking as a lion who's exciting the tiger. His blood's getting too rich for him. He'd be the better for a bleeding. Things are getting a bit complicated me Lord. The King may accept the elimination of the Queda merchant as an accident. Maybe even the sudden demise of Lord Fallsworth... But what about the Lady? You said you had plans for her. Do they include... Mr Povey, the little dear is as safe with me as if she was me daughter. My passion's power and gold. Since she suspects nothing... I'll deliver her to His Majesty along with his share of the Queda merchant's gold... I'll weep appropriately over the untimely demise of her Pa... Receive the grateful thanks of me Sovereign... - And a peerage is mine. - Milord! That is your will, but that's what I'll have! And neither man nor devils shall stop me! - Shadwell. - Seorita, Milady. Do not be alarmed. Now that she knows who I am and what kind of a ship she's on... I think we can count on her to keep her head. You stay here till I come off watch. Help! Shadwell! Use your head Mr Povey! Luck is with us tonight. Which of either of them would you like to see survive? Mr Mercy, you did well to protect her. - Are you alright, sir? - Yes I'm alright. Look after Lady Anne. Shadwell. Adam, what's the matter? My medallion is gone! Has the Blayne crest on it. Blayne? - Perhaps I can find it for you, sir. - No! It must have come off just before Lorenzo went through the port. Shadwell, take Lady Anne to her cabin. Please Adam, I can't go in there! You must Anne, this is serious, it involves you. Remember, no matter what tricks he tries... You've never seen me before and you don't know who I am. - Shadwell I think... - Don't worry about me, sir. He never could get anything out of me and he never will. It's the only way you'll be safe. Shadwell will watch out of you. What about you, Adam? What will he do? The same thing he's done with the others, if he gets a chance. - Oh Adam! - Don't worry Anne. At least I know what to expect. Go now. Shadwell, if anything does happen... Remember you're to stand by Lady Anne and see that she gets safely to London. - I'll stake my life on it, sir. - I know you will. Be careful, Adam. Please be careful! Come My Lady. - He's no King's man. - Who is he then? Tomorrow we put into the lagoon for water. While the crew is getting it on board, you and me, and Mr Mercy... - Is going to the cave. - You aren't taking him there? I have a peculiar humour to watch my clever young friend's face... When we dig up that chest. Sweet dreams. Dig fast Mr Mercy, we haven't got forever. Who might this be? Perhaps a man that asked too many questions. Gently now, Mr Mercy. You've came on something. THE TWELVE APOSTLES So it was the Twelve Apostles, hey Captain? Yes it was, Mr Mercy. Open it up. Blayne's! Blayne's. He was a brave seaman, but foolish... Did you happen to know him, Mr Mercy? I've heard of him. I thought perhaps you had. This... Is yours. Isn't it? I... Traded a ring for it... One of Avery's men. Yes! When I encountered Lord Blayne at sea... I did my simple duty as a loyal subject... A pity he turned pirate and traitor to his King. Liar! He's meat for the sharks now, Mr Povey! The tide closes this place in half an hour. We've nothing more to fear. Yes you have, Captain. Lady Anne! It's a long voyage home Mr Povey... And anything might happen. Naturally her Ladyship is still very distressed, sir. In the midst of life we are in death, Shadwell. - Although me heart... - My heart, sir. My heart bleeds... Confound you Shadwell! You've driven the thought right out of me, and it was an uncommon pretty one! - I'm sure of that, sir. - Go to her at once! Tell her she can't mourn forever... And I shall expect her to take her meals in the main cabin with the rest of us. Very well, sir. Poor lad! We turned just in time to see him go over the edge. Searched for an hour, never came out. Well... Here's to him! Wherever he is. You sick Lady Anne? Yes, sir. I'll go to my cabin with your permission. If you wish, it has been quite a trying voyage... What with one little thing or another, but bear up! You'll soon be home again. I warned Adam not to go. No one could've stopped him. It was cold bloody, planned, deliberate. The same will happen to her Ladyship, unless we can... Adam! Adam! How did you? If he finds you on board... I've come back for Lady Anne. Oh thank you, sir. I have been hanging on the rudder chain since dark waiting for the turn of the watch. The jollyboat's moored astern. I've had it along side, it's secured right down this port. Why, get in it then. Flip it aft under the main cabin... Well now, get me some dry clothes. - Shadwell, where is the captain? - In his own cabin with Mr Povey, sir. Examining the silver chest they brought back on board, sir. My father's chest! Shadwell, Kidd doesn't suspect you. Tell Lady Anne to get some things together... And when the coast is clear you come back for me. Yes, sir. Master! Aye, sir. Rouse out both watches at daybreak! We'll weigh on the morning tide. Aye, sir. Adam! Kidd doesn't suspect Shadwell... He is staying on board and he'll be evidence for us in London. Bart has a small boat moored astern, we'll row ashore. Then where Adam? Two days journey overland is the pirate town of Last Hope. It's the most lawless place on earth, but I have friends there. Somehow they'll find us a ship for England. England. - Now! - Come on! Sit down in the bow. Goodbye, My Lady. Goodbye, My Lord. Godspeed! I'll see you in England! Ahoy there! Who's in that boat now! Come on! Come on! Fire! Thank you. Melord! Fire! Down the longboat! Bart! Bart! Hold on to me! Take her away! They're as dead as a mackerel! He's gone through! Now, I guess that's the end of them, Captain. And good riddance! Back to the ship boys! If you are thinking what I think you're thinking my friend, forget it. There's the little matter of a letter I've left in London. Spoilsport! Captain William Kidd! Greetings, Captain! What news have you brought me from the Indian seas? By your leave Your Majesty, both good and ill, but mostly very good indeed. I returned by way of the American colonies, Sire. So I understood. With the main points of your voyage, I am familiar. I wonder if you could enlighten me... About the affair of the Queens godchild Lady Anne Dunstan and your shipmaster Mr Mercy? Oh that poor impetuous fellow, Sire... Inveigled that bud of innocence, he did, into running away with him. And catching him red handed in defence of me very life... I was forced to dispatch them both. Rest in peace. Tell me Captain about the treasure... And the Queda merchant. Unfortunate, Sire. Most unfortunate. The ship with that chest, well, up she blew... And all souls went heavenward. Rest in peace to them. Ditto. I see. And after Twelve Apostles and Lord Blayne... Did you encounter any trace? Nay, Sire. I can only hope that the weight of his sins sank both him and his ship. I see. Then how do you explain this? Whose might that be, Your Majesty? My officers found it on your ship at Plymouth after you left for London. It bears the Blayne crest, with which I believe you are not unfamiliar. I've always thought that Mr Povey, me surgeon, a very wily fellow indeed was hiding something from me. Hide it in a secret locker in your cabin Captain? I hope Mr Povey has a proper explanation, Sire. Mr Povey was killed three days ago defending it. With his dying oath he swore it was not his. Perhaps Shadwell, me vallet slipped it aboard. Might it not have come from a Madagascar cave, Captain? The facts will clear me about all this, Your Majesty. Enough of your lies! Look! A nightmare! A pity you overlooked Last Hope, Captain! We stood on the headland with my friend Avery and watched you sail by. May it please Your Majesty, I accuse this man of piracy and murder! Was ever a gentleman so misfortunate? Lock him up in Newgate! To be held for the next session of the court, there to be tried for his life... Hands off me, you scum! All I've done was to the credit and for the honor and glory of England! So here's me bequest! To them what hunts what I have hid... and to their sons' sons... Down trough the endless corridors of time... Greed! That spawns murder. Hatred! That corrodes the soul. Ambition! The foulest strumpet of all! Hey Jack! Jack, hey! Sell me that hangrope for sixpence, will you! Save your money me lad! You can have it all for nothing... If you'd only step up here and wear it. Hurry up, Jack! Can't wait forever! Captain Kidd is dead, My Lord Blayne. The account is closed. By what manner can I atone for the injustice I worked upon your father? What of you First Sea Lord? What do you suggest? We have a fine frigate of fifty guns. Commissioned for American waters, Sire. That we sought of naming the 'Lady Anne'. It shall be a wedding gift to you from the Crown... For your loyalty and service to King and Country.
