 

                        THE TYRANT OF HIM SAY ALL, SAY MORE! AND STAB WITH THE FUEY OF A SLAVE'S HAND, THE TYRANT'S INFAMY WOMAN? OF HER BITE YOU MAY PERISH... ...BUT SULLY NOT YOUR LIFE SPEAKING ILL OF WOMAN! JOSE MARTI Here come the cigarette girls! My name is Jose Lizarrabengoa, "The Basque" to most I was born in a village in Navarre 23years ago I joined the army... ...before I was 18 My service record is spotless Get in the shade, sweetie, or you'll melt! Cook like you walk and I'd lick your pan clean That arse must shit sweets I could eat you, dress and all Hey, gorgeous! They say women and cats never come when you call,... ...yet come when you pay them no heed Hey, darling,... ...I fancy that chain of yours It's for my ramrod Where does that hang at night? Behind the door? Want to count the moles on my body? ,Mary appeared to the shepherds,... ...the children Melania and Maximus,... ...and told of plagues, wars and famine in Europe,... ...and earthquakes the world over The Virgin said:... ...Melania, these words won't always be secret You can publish them in 1858 Society is on the eve of its worst calamities It will bend under a rod of iron, and drink the wrath of God This will be its darkest hour, a crisis for the Church., Give me water ,The Antichrist will be born of a Hebrew nun,... ...a false virgin, in league with the serpent of old,... ...mistress of impurity, a bishop's brat..., Is the Basque a good shot? Not interested Sour grapes. You know who said that Some foxy bitch Better a whore than a cigarette girl Is that you or your mother? Does soldier boy smoke? -Ask him Give him a nice cigar Here,... ...give him this See if it lights him up Slag! Shag bag! Stinks of dead fish Blotchy its, try washing! You reek of gypsy dick Call me gypsy and I'll knife you You've been kissed already, oh, dear, dear, dear Gypsy girl You've been kissed already, I don't want you now Want two scars, eh? Let me go, Carmen Damn you, bitch. I'll scar you for life! Let me go! Be quiet, the lot of you! My name is Prosper, Prospero to Spaniards I have no specific nationality, Being half-English, half-French I am a writer, a traveler, a humanist, an archaeologist... ...with a penchant for delving into the mysteries of the human heart In autumn 1830, I ventured down the roads of Spain, ... ...in search of facts about the Nasrid and Umayyad dynasties, ... ...tantamount to researching two historic Islamic capitals:... ...Cordoba and Granada Is it much further? -Nearly there, sir Chance, ... ...or perhaps my guide and companiors Familiarity with the land,... ...led us to a shady river bank,... ...delightful in the extreme A traveler could not wish for... ...more peaceful a spot to rest Smoke But the honour of arriving First was not mine Sir, shouldn't we go back? See to the horses Did we disturb your rest, friend? Do you smoke? Do you have a lighter... ...I could borrow? It's genuine prime Havana It's an age since I smoked! My man prudently brought supplies Do join us in a snack Do you know the region? What valley is this? I don't know I'd ceased to believe in bandits... ...of whom I'd heard but never met I'm not what you think, sir My beliefs forbid crime Life has made me... ...the opposite of what I wished Continue, please Why? To what end? It's always the others who speak,... ...never the bandits I'm a writer I listen to life If we ever meet again, which I doubt,... ...I may tell you my story, but not today Your servant covets the price on my head I must be on my way Your name, at least? I'm called Jose Jose Lizarrabengoa Don't worry... ...no one will report you Thank you God be with you Jose, the Basque He's a murderer,... ...vermin wanted by the law He's done us no ill Nor you nor I have ever seen him Welcome back, don Prospero Thank you Well attended by the friars, ... ...I stayed in Cordoba longer than planned Excuse me, don Prospero,... ...the brothers wish to see Your watch again. May they? A pleasure. -Thank you In the mornings, ... ...I studied the valuable documents Kept in the monastery,... ...and at dusk, when it was cooler,... ...I visited the places I'd always dreamed of Do you have the time? Quarter to five Thank you What a superb watch! Are you French? Shall I tell your fortune? Are you a gypsy? If you prefer Then if you're not a gypsy,... ...are you a witch? I'm in league with Satan Again. -What? Your watch Of course May I take your arm? -Naturally They say an Andalusian beauty... ...must have three black features: Her eyelashes, eyebrows and hair Three white features: Her face, teeth and hands And three pink features:... ...Her nipples, lips and nails May I have your spyglass? My seductress fell short of such perfection... ...but had, for a writer like me, ... ...the added attraction of calling Herself a slave of Satan Do you have a coin? -Yes Cross your left palm with it Put it here Bachelor. -Yes Turned forty-five Indeed Spiteful heart Why so? Your beloved loves another... ...of nobler birth You flee this woman, but in vain She lives in your heart It is written Would you know more? About what? The cure for your ills Is it costly? It's a sweet balsam Worth all the gold on earth Keep still. Don't turn round Who's this? A Frog I met Why bring him here? Seen those rings? Tell him to go Clear off Just a minute You, here? As you see, it's a small world You interrupted just when... ...the future seemed interesting She's beyond hope But she'll soon meet her match Let's go Walk down the street... ...and forget tonight's events My watch! Best forgotten A few days later,... ...I employed Antonio once more... ...to help me move to what I suspected... ...had been as important a citadel as Cordoba Is this common in Andalusia? Don Prospero! In barely a week,... ...we saw the earth open and give birth... ...to the testimony of an Almost unknown culture A few days later, on myreturn to the monastery,... ...I received a surprise Thanks, Antonio Praised be the Holiest! Welcome, my dear friend I, your servant,... ...and my brethren were praying for your soul What do you mean? So you were not killed? We know you were robbed They found your watch in that bandit's house Praise be to God The accused will rise The trial took place some days later The verdict And I was summoned as a witness This court,... ...by the powers vested in it... ...by HM Ferdinand VII, King of Spain,... ...made up of the disciplinary council, finds... ...Jose Lizarrabengoa... ...guilty of banditry with military dishonour His crime is considered proven,... ...he being the confessed, convicted author... ...of the crimes of murder and armed robbery Consequently,... ...it condemns Jose Lizarrabengoa... ...to death by garroting Signed in Cordoba Carmen Your neck's shorter. That's it! I brought you these Anything else I can do? Thanks, I don't think... ...I'll need any more Do you think bribes,... ...or the influence of friends might get... ...your sentence commuted? Arrange a Mass for my soul's salvation Do you know Seville,... ...that huge building by the city wall near the river? Help! She's dead! She's killed her! Back there, in the cigar room! Help me, please! Help me! To the guardroom and calm her down! Take two men and see what's going on Fate's finger had just traced my future in fire It's all yours, come and try it Let us through! Out of the way! Quiet! Fight, fight, bastard! Quiet! Quiet! Give me all you've got Basque! Tell Big Nose we prefer you I'm bleeding to death! Get me a priest, and a hangman to garrotte that bitch! Your mother was the bitch! Silence! Right, what's going on? You must come with me Only because I trust you Give me my mantilla. -Let's go Slut! Bitch! You're for it now! Shut up, all of you! Silence! Murderess! Anything to say? Carmen started it Rubbish! It was Fernanda. -Yes, Fernanda Silence! Speak up, I'm waiting Knifing people is a serious matter It was your fault! It always is! I'll get you! Fuck you! Silence! I'll get you! And I'll get you! You're too free-handed Bring a rope Sergeant Tie her tight, Basque! Tie her tongue too! Lock her up. Let the judges decide Let the nuns look after her! A jinx on them, Carmen! Eat ,em up, Carmen, they're only men! Watch our for your husband! Why are they taking you? Where are we going, officer? To prison, lass Have pity, officer! You're young and gallant Keep walking The rope's too tight! My wrists! I'll loosen it Look... ...let me escape and I'll give you a charm to drive women crazy Cut out the nonsense You're off to prison. Orders are orders I'll be giving the orders soon Really? How come? I know you keep my carnation next to your heart It's bewitched Keep walking Go on Oh, God in Heaven! By all my ancestors! What's to become of me? Virgin Mary, take pity on this sinner! You're crying? Where's your pride now? She hasn't done anything. Let her go! It's not for me So, what was the fight over? -You Over me? They said, like all Basques, you were only fit for chopping wood Well, now... You speak Basque? I'm from Etxalar. You? -From Elizondo Gypsies brought me here But I'm Basque They insult me, for not being like them Fellow countryman, friend,... ...won't you lend me a hand? Move it She was lying, sir She always lied But she spoke and I believed her She was stronger than me She spoke terrible Basque, but I took her for a compatriot I was crazed, oblivious I thought if a Spaniard had spoken ill of my land,... ...I'd have slashed his face,... ...as she did to her workmate Compatriot,... ...if I pushed you and you fell, these two Castilian pigs would stop me Go ahead, my friend... ...and may the Virgin help you Quick, she's escaping! Juanito! Get the hounds! For negligence in the course of duty,... ...sergeant Jose Lizarrabengoa... ...is demoted to private and sentenced to one month's prison About turn! Five years of discipline and dedication! Five years of irreproachable conduct in the hope of promotion... ...to lieutenant What had brought me to this? An insolent cigarette girl who duped me... ...and was probably, even now, beguiling another somewhere Despite myself, se pervaded my mind I looked through the bars... ...of my cell,... ...and of all the women who passed, not one... ...came within an inch of that devil's daughter The worst was yet to come:... ...At the Colonel's annual party... ...they made me stand guard like a common soldier But fate had shown no more than part of its game The rest was to come that same night Been promoted to private, eh, rookie? If you like fried food,... ...find Lillas Pastia's tavern in Triana Fall out! Who's dancing? -Carmen Innkeeper, a bottle for that table Two house wines For one look, a world,... ...for one smile, a heaven, ... ...for one kiss of your lips, ... ...I die ofjoy Twenty-four hours has the day,... ...if it had twenty-seven, then those three... That's enough of that! What happened? -She's crazy Lieutenants get her pussy purring He's a private Wait Look at him! He looks like a tin soldier Ever had your heart eaten out? What are you won'th? A measly ten? Better than nothing, I suppose Let's spend it all And you can spoil me Hear the bells? Ringing at night attracts witches Don't laugh, dimwit They say you're a witch Only Saturdays Who is it? -Lodging for the night Let's go A snack for your girls Put it down Your favourite room Return the baskets Come, girls, don Angel's waiting Can't get it up even with three of us He's a saint What did you pray? For you to return to the cigarette factory To leave the world of Pastia's tavern Why not pray for a windfall? I prayed you'd be good and take pity on me This Virgin is Andalusian,... ...and knows I won't change All Virgins are our Mother Mary I prayed to the Virgin of Nievas, our Virgin of Elizondo I have a pact with the Devil,... ...and won't return to the cigarette factory But I'll be good to you Come Better she doesn't see this Am I really the first? I'll show you how to do it, rookie You'll learn a lot tonight Are you really a virgin? Where are you going? Roll call at the barracks The barracks? -Yes Are you a puppet on a string? I have to go Well, go on, leave Clear off! You're such a wimp! Here! Go! What can I do? I can't stay It's my duty to go So, go. Lick your commander's arse Carmen I'm a soldier I belong to the army. Don't you see I must go? I can't stay What day is today? Yesterday was Monday And the date? No, quiet! Don't say it A bad day Why? Not now I said no Listen, Jose... ...consider yourself paid I'd have forgotten the debt, but I liked you So we're quits When will I see you again? When you stop being a fool So, light a candle to your Basque Virgin, she's earned it Carmen After that night, I had no other thought I spent the day roaming, hoping to see her Carmen! Excuse me Believe me, sir,... ...every corner I turned, I hoped to bump into Carmen Where's Carmen? Look for her in hell Hail, Queen, mother of mercy, our life, sweetness and hope, hail To you I cry, exiled son of Eve To you I sigh, I mourn and weep O gentle! O loving! O sweet Mary, hail! Turn your merciful eyes on this sinner and ease his exile Make her return to me. Make her see the light Let goodness flood her soul Make her love me and be loved The Virgin heard my prayer, in part... ...for one night, on guard a tone of Seville's gates... Want some extra cash? The men with packets... ...let them past. -No I can't let them past. I obey orders You didn't that night in Candilejo St I don't want dirty money If you don't want money,... ...we can visit Candilejo St. again No If you won't, I know who will I'll invite your lieutenant to Candilejo St He'll say yes Bye, dimwit! I'll laugh the day the orders are to hang you Carmen! Carmen! When? What time? Eleven o'clock and all's well! It's eleven o'clock Nothing to say? -I'm in afoul mood I've got more reason to be I didn't like having to haggle last night I'm not here out of love Here The cash I promised, For your troubles Wanted pussy, didn't you? Here it is If I killed you now,... ...I'd save myself a lot of tears I'm sure... ...but it's not time Tears of a dragoon Ideal for one of my potions If you kiss me,... ...maybe I'll love you again a little Bear me no grudge I love you despite myself,... ...the best way to love, they say I can't help it You're my first and Last thought each day The next night I waited in vain I should have stopped seeing Carmen but she was right:... ...It was written Written on my mind and my heart Every step I took brought me closer to the abyss Reversed cards, they never speak straight Well,... ...an older man will retire you,... ...but won't marry you He won't leave his family The man of your life will appear later,... ...asking you to leave him That's it for today, girls Hello, handsome Gorgeous Where's Carmen? Who knows where that one gets to? -You. Where is she? Carmen is like the weather:... ...The hotter the sun, the nearer the storm Don't wait Why? What do you know? It's good advice. Don't wait. Go Do you know who Carmen is? Do you want to? At 14,... ...they'd sold her cherry four times. While her mother... ...screwed Frogs, her father killed them for 10 ,reales, When she's broke,... ...she comes here and lays Why Carmen? What do you see in the bitch? What do you want? A tender young virgin? I can provide one A 22-year-old, adoring and a good cook? I can provide one Or a bearer of healthy offspring? I can provide one, too And if you'd prefer... ...a real woman,... ...a woman with experience,... ...who knows what a man is,... ...and what he likes in bed... ...and out of bed... ...then... ...I... ...can provide it all,... ...and all at once, if you wish. -Enough! I want Carmen I want her, for myself For me and no one else Just me Why are you here? Go Get out, dolt! Damn the pair of you! Attention! Stand to attention, I say! I've only contempt for you and that whore! This means a court-martial Obey! -Whore! Attention! Whore! Attention! Lieutenant... Get out Carmen... -Go, I said! Go and pray to your Virgin until I come Let's hope she can get you out of this mess. Quick! Go! Most merciful Virgin Mary,... ...who has never been known to deny refuge... ...to those who seek thy protection,... ...I come to thee, O Mother, Virgin of virgins,... ...and, groaning under my weight of sin, I stand before thee O my Lady! I offer my whole self to thee This very night, I give thee... ...my eyes, ears, tongue, heart, my whole being Since I am yours, Mother of goodness,... ...keep and defend me as your vessel Amen Through my fault, through my own most grievous fault Here, civilian clothes You can't be seen in uniform Your lieutenant's done for,... ...so it's time to change lifestyle For starters, to dress as a civilian Come You dumb rookie! All you do is mess up. I said I'd bring you bad luck You'll have to act now If you've the guts, take to the hills and be a smuggler Here It's from Lillas Pastia, for friends in Jerez who'll help See, my outlaw friends aren't so bad There's a bay horse outside. Lucky colour, they say Every cloud has a silver lining From sergeant to private You killed a man and gained freedom You no longer work for His Majesty Now you'll sleep under the stars Carmen,... ...do you love me? How dim can you get? The proof is I never asked for a cent When she said these things, I felt like strangling her However, as I journeyed towards my new destiny,... ...I dreamed of Carmen being mine, ... ...of a life of adventure, my lover mounted behind me So insane can love drive one Dancaire, you're wanted Afternoon. -Afternoon I have a letter for you A friend of Pastia's, he wants to join us Welcome He's a lousy guitarist, but has his reasons, right? Aristotle Reads books and knows all that's going on in the world The first man to compare a woman with a flower... ...was a poet. The second, a cretin Says so here Juanele Hardly speaks, but when he does... Go on, Juanele! Long live the Constitution! Long live the Constitution! -Down with the Constitution! Down with the Constitution! -Long live Ferdinand VII! Any news, sergeant? One move and you're dead. Throw down your arms Get down. -Down Dismount. -Take them away You deaf, or what? Move. -Drop them Move it Go on The paper Juanele, their swords You only die once and the law can only... ...condemn you to death once Money! Bags of money! Gents, that's the way to Rome Hurry! ,Ferdinand VII, by the grace of God, etc, etc,... ...it pleases me to issue this edict... ...on the occasion of the birthday of the Queen, my beloved spouse;... ...I hereby abolish forever, in all my dominions,... ...execution by hanging;... ...ordering henceforth death by simple garrotte,... ...for commoners;... ...by vile garrotte, for dishonourable crimes,... ...regardless of class..., I never killed anyone I tell a lie. We killed Napoleors soldiers like flies,... ...but ministers praised us for that We were young Know how many titles old Big Nose has got? Listen... ...King of Castile, Leon and Aragon... ...of the Two Sicilies, Jerusalem, Navarre, Granada,... ...the East and West Indies,... ...Archduke of Austria, Duke of Burgundy,... ...Brabante and Milan, Lord of Biscay... ...and Molina What ails him? Pining for his tart His tart? What tart? Carmen Was he really your general? My lieutenant Beat him in a sword fight, fair and square, face to face He fell onto my blade Can't blame the stick if the toad leaps on it One toad less They looked up to me For killing a man For a few days it seemed My dream had come true What's that? It was my mother's Kill a man and you get your freedom, rookie Freedom and a woman Maybe ,Chapter 28 The things that happened to Candide, Cunegonde and Dr. Panglos Forgive me again, he said to the Baron Forgive me, Father, for running my sword through you Say no more, said the Baron, I confess to certain aggression..., Tell me you're happy I'm happy Learn, Juanele With two stones? They're looking Let them Move, rookie, move. Don't leave it all to me A visitor! Who is it? -One-Eye Who's One-Eye? -Don't you know? Your lover's husband. He got out of prison yesterday Well? When two are in love with one woman... ...and both are in the same place... Let's have a feel. I'll stick my head in there ... and the other grits his teeth... He's drunk, not up to anything What is it, rookie? I only love you He bought me when I was twelve Let's have no knifings over a ring You came at the right time When I'm with him, I think of you Greetings, Garcia Greetings, Jose Maria Long time, no see Where've you been? -Doing time What's the score? A big shipment English pistols, tobacco It's dangerous That's my view,... ...for what it's won'th Our back up? Me, Jose Maria Hinojosa,... ...Tempranillo Agreed? Agreed We're invited to Lucas Domeque's farm Tell us who will love us Tell us who will betray us Your husband does He sleeps with others, but loves me Flee bitter answers in vain. The cards don't lie. Ever The other is a woman of passion, dangerous Look... ...if I flirt,... ...he gets into a jealous rage. He's my man You love the matador Everywoman in Andalusia loves Lucas A message from the governor Gentlemen,... ...your attention, please I have news of the utmost interest The King is pleased to issue the following proclamation:... ...,On this day of ...my august wife, was delivered Of a healthy princess Heaven has blessed our union, fulfilling the desire... ...of all my subjects for a direct heir to the throne HRH will tomorrow receive Holy... ...Baptism in the Royal Chapel,... ...and will be christened Maria Isabel Luisa., Long live Isabel II! What's your name? Carmen I'll kill my next bull speaking your name Careful, you'll lose her Tell her husband You can't fool me, you're her husband The woman who loves a Chinaman... ...has no pride... ...for the Chinaman smokes opium, ... ...and causes trouble among the neighbours, ... ...and causes trouble among the neighbours Soldiers! Take cover! Come on! Take up positions! Quick! Quick! They're from Villadiego! Run for it! -Come on, come on! Damn and bugger it! Bales first Come on, quick! Help me, please Don't be an idiot! Finish the scum off! -Fire! Leave him! Leave him, I say! Idiot! You'll be killed Help me Help me! Nobody'll recognize him Let's go! See if there's any food Cards, wine and tits to lighten the heart While I play, I ruminate Your friend betrayed us Only tobacco here That Tempranillo of yours is evil He only works for himself He only wants to get on All he wants is for Big Nose to pin a medal on his chest He's an evil one He's sold us down the river Shut up See to the mules Carmen. -What? We can't live on air Go and see that man The Englishman? MacGregor? Perhaps he'll have something Even if it's his blood to drink You're a devil Yes Spades Here What? No hug? Bring something back, but not with the sweat... ...of another man on you. Especially an English mars If you want... ...to cheat and rob, a woman like Carmen is an asset And careful with your kisses You know what to do, but if you sleep with him, don't enjoy it Those tits are mine, and nobody else's Off you go and be careful You don't like it,... ...but One-Eye does Halt! A message from Carmen Come up Look what's coming instead of the Englishman A bird with two mules Dimwits! Taking me for a la-di-da cow Beat it! Don't want to see you for dust You,... ...hands on your head Get his pistol So... ...like her arse, eh? I told you he had balls Idiot! You still have time to bet, Dancaire I know you've got clubs You know how to bluff But you've no chance with clubs Spades. -Fine What did he fuck like, Carmen? How long did he take to come? How did he do it? Like a rabbit? Or a bull? Carmen Come here Let's see if... ...you bring me luck This will, if you keep it on your head Come here My Carmen has a lively pussy Your play, One-Eye Jack of Clubs Things are changing. Now it's spades Deal me in You? Playing cards? What's come over you? Maybe he's unlucky in love Take that card from... ...under your arse I don't need to cheat I said show that card Relax, One-Eye's done nothing He's jealous. Don't tempt me You want my whore, she's yours for four ,reales, Looking for trouble? Come on, then Calm down, you two. Put your knives away Stay out of this Jose... -It's not your fight. Stand aside Where were you born? From your mother's arse? Bastard... ...suckled on putrid milk I'll slash your face Then rip open your guts Scum You're going straight to hell Who are you wishing luck to? Whose widow do you want to be? Filthy Basque Damned affairs! Maybe she really is a jinx Here, take it Take it! I won't wish you luck, you can't handle it We'll have to bury him Isn't this better? His time had come Yours will, too My time has come already And yours This smuggler's life is over You'll be my wife, mine only,... ...for life What do you want? Children? Me with a brat clinging to my tit? It was then I bumped into you, sir First near Montilla, then in Cordoba Carmen kept your watch She also wanted your money and that ring you wear Said it was magic and attached great importance... ...to owning it Another man occupied her thoughts Walk down the street and forget tonight's events My watch! Best forgotten Is he your lover? Who? The matador Are you lovers? I wish we were I forbid you to see him Careful, forbidden fruits taste sweeter Forgive me! Please, Carmen, forgive me! I will not It bears your name, Carmen Look, there's your Jose Pierce me Run me through Moan with me Let's shout in unison Hey, where are you going? Who is it? What do they want? Get dressed Who's this lout? Go What bad luck! The woman I desire in my arms,... ...and her lover turns up Bruno, Daniel, Paco, out! Everybody out! See... ...I've spared your life I kill bulls I don't break the hearts of men... ...who love the same woman What are you waiting for? Lucas is my lover! Shoot, if you dare,... ...or go! Swear you won't do it again No Swear you'll only ever be mine No Carmen,... ...I'm begging you I'll forget the past Have pity, Carmen Let me be saved and save yourself... ...with me. -l don't love you I won't let you deceive me with another man Don't strangle me... ...or blow my head off Bury me in the wood. -l don't want to kill you I just want you to come with me and be my wife No, no, no! No! I'm sick of threats I'm sick of seeing you. Go. Leave me alone For the last time, you witch,... ...come with me No, never Never! Carmen,... ...I beg you I've killed for you, and will again,... ...to keep you I want nothing of you! Nothing to do with you! I hate myself for loving you Dare to kill me Kill me or let me go And live with memories? I'll follow you only to death, I won't live with you Kill Carmen Kill her Her body was still alive for me Now... ...at last, Carmen belonged to me At dawn, I gave myself up I'm a man of letters,... ...a coiner of words and phrases meant to bring solace... ...but which, often, only cause... ...more grief Grief and love... ...are our eternal tutors Would you, were it possible,... ...renounce... ...what you lived? Would you return to the innocence Of a humble army officer? Could you erase Carmen from your being? No Of course not When they kill me... ...when they kill me... ...they'll be giving me life... ...to find you They'll be giving me life... ...to find you And there in death... ...and there in death... ...I will ever have, at myside, ... ...your passionate body I will ever have, at myside, ... ...your passionate body The Virgin doesn't love me for I've sinned... ...and I'll burn in hell with you at myside But I don't care... ...but I don't care:... ...Eternity with you... ...will be short... ...will be short I love your body... ...I love you body... ...which will always be alive... ...among the dead... ...which will always be alive... ...among the dead When they kill me... ...when they kill me... ...they'll be giving me life... ...to find you... ...they'll be giving me life... ...to find you
