 

                        Send along another load And win that war, win that war One more to go and then one more One more to go and then one more One more to go, one more to go Send them along and win that war Send them along, send them along Send them along, send them along? Hey, you! - Me? - Your ID. My which? Oh, I ain't here to work. - NoWhat for, then? - I'm looking for a corporal named... You can't go in to see a general without proper identification. - You've gotta have a pass. - Well, where do I get one? From the security officer. - Where's he? - Securing himself, in Washington. Your corporal will be a brigadier time he gets back here. Lift 'em up and put 'em down Lift 'em up and put 'em down Mark time and lift your tootsies Six inches off the ground Lift 'em up and put 'em down Marching all around the town Company, squads right That means turn around! Wish that I was 21 - Squad, hup! - Old enough to tote a gun I'd go and be a soldier They're the ones that have the fun Wish I was a bugle man Playing in the army band I'd blow until I bust it Playing in the army band? Glad you could find the time to join us. Hope we didn't inconvenience you, Corporal. Joe! Joe! Wipe that smile off your face. Fall in! All guard, present arms! Present arms! All guard, order arms! All guard, file! At ease! - Cindy Lou! - Surprised to see me? You can say that again. Oh, Joe, I know I ain't smart like you, but if the way I feel makes up for it, then I's way ahead. - How you been, honey? - Missin' you. My ma said... - She all right? - Uh-huh. When I got your letter, she say "Cindy Lou, you go see Joe off." Woulda come anyway. Hey, hey! Going to flying school's nothin' to cry about. Either got to cry... or bust! I'm so proud of you. Come onto this side of the fence and tell me that. - Can't. - Why not? - Got no pass. - Just you watch. Joe, don't get into trouble on account of me! I never saw trouble look better. Hey, Corporal! Pass that civilian. - You're the Joe she's looking for? - Nobody else. - Why didn't you say you're his gal? - All the way. Then you're responsible. All the way. Hey, Dave! Put away my gear for me, will ya? Thanks. Congratulations, Corporal. That Air Corps was smart in picking you for officers' flying school. Thanks! - Hi, Carmen. - Hi. Well, get a load of this hip-swinging floozy rolling around to work in time for lunch. Hey, puss. You make sounds I don't like. I'm telling the foreman you was late again. You do that and I'll scratch out the one good eye you got left. Hey, Carmen. How about going to Pastor's with me tonight? I can dance those other guys right off the floor. T- Bone, you too little and too late. I don't waste no time. Dig me, baby? Wastin' your time right now, Sergeant. The wind's blowing in another direction. Ain't no use arguin' with the wind. Hey, how about going out with me tonight instead of playing the field? Yeah, Carmen. Pick out one. That'll release the rest of 'em. I won't pick out a man And he won't pick out me It don't go dat way You can't ever know Where your crazy heart Wants to go Love's a baby dat grows up wild And he don't do what you want him to Love ain't nobody's ngel child And he won't pay any mind to you One man gives me his diamond stud And I won't give him a cigarette One man treats me like I was mud And all I got, dat man can get Love's a baby that grows up wild... Dat's love - He don't do what you want him to - Dat's love - Love ain't nobody's ngel child - Dat's love - And he won't pay any mind to you - Dat's love You go for me and I'm taboo But if you're hard to get, I go for you And if I do, then you are through, boy My baby, dat's the end of you The end of you! So take your cue, boy Don't say I didn't tell you true You know you're through I told you truly If I love you Dat's the end of you You go for me and I'm taboo But if you're hard to get, I go for you And if I do, then you are through, boy My baby, that's the end of you The end of you! So take your cue, boy Don't say I didn't tell you true She told you true! I told you truly If I love you, dat's the end of you? Gimme a chicken sandwich. When your lover decides to fly Dere ain't no door dat you can close She just pecks ya a quick goodbye And flicks the salt from her tail and goes If you listen, then you'll get taught And here's your lesson for today If I chase ya, then you'll get caught And once I got you, I go my way - When your lover decides to fly - Dat's love - Dere ain't no door you can close - Dat's love - She pecks you a quick goodbye - Dat's love Flicks the salt from her tail and goes Dat's love You go for me and I'm taboo But if you're hard to get, I go for you And if I do, then you are through Boy! My baby, that's the end of you The end of you! So take your cue, boy Don't say I didn't tell you true She told you true! I told you truly If I love you Dat's the end of you!? I hear you're gonna be a fly boy. Congratulations. Thanks. I hope if you're gonna use a parachute, it's one I made. I'd like to toss a party for you tonight at Billy Pastor's. Give you a real send-off. Pick me up at eight. We'll have ourselves a ball. Sorry. I've got a date. Honeybee, if you change your mind, you know where to buzz me. That girl's mighty pretty. Oh, I don't know. She's what the fellas back home call a hot bundle, I guess. Yeah. Looks like she's on fire just for you. I never lit it, honey. How do I know? Cos I got a girl. But I live in another town and I know what the fellas say. "If you got a gal in another town, well, you ain't got no gal at all." Yeah, but you're not just any girl, Cindy Lou. There's nobody in the whole worid like you. Nobody. - Except... - Except who? The maw. You talk just like my maw You even walk just like my maw And I know why I'm stuck on you It's cos I'm just like my paw I talk just like your maw I even walk Just like your maw And I can see why you like me Cos you is like your paw - You's awful like your paw - Oh Let me tell you what the Lord did He made me live next door So we could fall in love The way my paw and maw did Is you my Cindy Lou? I is your Cindy Lou And I belong to you And I belong to you I is your Joe My Cindy Lou And I belong To... You? - Cindy, suppose I asked my CO... - Asked him what, Joe? To write OK in triplicate. And what if I found a chaplain and I said "Sir, here are orders for a rushed wedding"? Joe... No use waiting till the war's over for us to get married, not when I got a 24-hour pass. Our honeymoon could be tonight. What'll our folks say, us not getting married in church? What do you say? You wait right here while I go find the CO. You blabbermouth witch! I told you if you told the foreman on me, I'd... Go back to that bad street you come off of! Take that off. What's this? A full net of catfish! Bail her out of that 'chute! Who's responsible for this? Me! Corporal, take custody of that prisoner. - Prisoner? - Interfering with the war effort. Destroying Government property. You heard me. Remove the prisoner off that table. You go for me and I'm taboo But if you're hard to get, I go for you...? Give this to the judge in Masonville. Masonville? You know the Army can't put civilians in jail. Gotta leave that pleasure to the other civilians. But I'm off-duty. I got a 24-hour pass. You mean you had yourself a pass. This is an emergency. - Sabotage, maybe. - But Sarge, I don't see why... You don't go to flying school till the morning which leaves all night to take care of the prisoner. Here's the formal charges. Judge sure to get it now. Corporal, do your duty. Take me to town. Request a five-minute pass, respectfully. What for? - Private reasons. - Request not granted, respectfully. In case you forgot the manual, you're responsible for this prisoner until you dump her in the lap of the civilian authorities. Now get going. Carmen Jones is goin' to jail Carmen Jones is goin' to jail Carmen's gotta stay in jail Sit all day upon her tail Carmen Jones is goin' to jail Carmen Jones is goin' to jail Carmen's gotta stay in jail Sit all day upon her tail Carmen Jones is goin' to jail Carmen Jones is goin' to jail Carmen's gotta stay in jail Sit all day upon her tail Carmen Jones is goin' to jail Is going to jail, is going to jail, hooray!? Somethin' wrong, little gal? He volunteered to take Miss Jones to jail. Long way to town. What you figure he got in mind? Just shows, you can't trust no corporals. Well, I trust Joe. What's your rush? The sooner we get there, the quicker we gotta bust apart. Cut that out. Get over where you belong. That's just what I'm doing. OK, honey, accelerate me all you want! The harder I get bumped, the more of me bounces. Sugar, you ain't gonna take me to the cooler, are ya? I can't do you much good once I'm in jail. What do you say we drive to a little place I know on the edge of town? I'll show you more fun than you ever had. You're going to jail. Dere's a cafe on the corner Run by my friend Billy Pastor A spot where a man takes a lady when he wants to move faster Guess I'll go and say hello to Pastor How can a lady drink alone? How can a lady dance alone? No lady can romance alone I ought to have a sweetie-pie The one I had I gave the air to I threw his toothbrush out the door Now that I'm free My heart is sighin' I'm off the hook and lookin' for more Dozens of fellas telephone me All asking me to make a date I'm holding out for somethin' special But I don't know How long I'll wait Where will I wind up? Who'll I be true to? Ain't made my mind up Waitin' for you to What you say, brother? What you say, boy? Ain't it time that we got away? Ten o'clock sharp on the corner See that you're right in there pitchin' Cos I ain't the kind of a mare that'll stand without hitchin' Now you got your little filly at the starting gate Got a little filly who is raring to go? No, you don't. - I just want to stretch my legs. - Stretch them in here. Boy, you's the roughest of rough. Won't even give me a little break. Sorry, you're a prisoner. You mean to say you're really gonna take me to jail? You won't be in for long. A minute's too long for me. I can't stand being cooped up. - An order's an order. - Not here it ain't. Aah! Uh-uh. That's no way to get to Masonville. I'd like to see the road that can stop this baby. You will, sugar. Ain't no use. You'll only get messed up. Careful, honey. You'll bust your gaskets. OK, out! Oop! Boy, but you's strong. Way you pulled me up like I was nothin'. Bet you're a good dancer, ain't you, honey? Maybe we could have us a lot of fun. Now, if you ask my advice, you'd turn right around and go back as far as the railroad crossing, then along the track... till you get to Senatobia, which is my home town, where the train stops for Masonville. You're trying to trick me and I know it. I wouldn't do that no more. Cross my heart. OK, we'll do it your way. Now get going. And don't try nothing funny. Believe me now? When we get to Masonville. Still don't trust me, huh? Guess I'll have to work on it. Hi, Willa. Well, look who's home! Carmen Jones! Say, ain't that a brigadier-admiral you got on your arm? Somethin' better. This boy's gonna be a pilot. Really? Let's see now. Fly boy's gotta have something special for supper. Well, how about a nice roast chicken, Carmen? Yeah. Like that. Hi, Harry! Hi, Carmen. We got potatoes, beets, carrots, corn... - And peaches right off the tree! - Oh, peaches! We can eat in Masonville. Where's that train? It ain't due till the moon's up. This town's the last stop for the moon. Come on, I wanna know when that train comes in. Not till ten. I got time to cook you a supper you won't ever forget. - Thanks, Harry. - Thank you. Oh, wait. This is for you, fly boy... for free. - It's mighty kind of you, but... - We'll accept. Hello, Grandma. How you feelin', honey? - I brought a fella home for supper. - Hi. Grandma, somethin' wrong? - Trouble comin' your way. Soon. - What trouble? Found a buzzard feather on the doorstep. - Buzzard feather? - Just 'fore you come. She's trying to keep the bad spirits off with that pail of water in the moonlight. Let the ol' buzzard flap his wings right over me. Till he comes down and gets me, I got a lot of livin' to do. Don't tell me you go for that junk. Come on. Start the party rollin'. Have yourself a drink while I get supper ready. Thanks, but I don't drink. Boy! If the Army was made up of nothin' but soldiers like you, the war wouldn't do nobody no good. Guess that's what I like about you, though, Joey. You ain't like the others. No. You ain't like them at all. Say, that little candy-faced gal I seen you with at the canteen, she your steady? Uh-huh. How steady? We're getting married. Soon as I get back to the base. So that's why you were in a hurry to dump me off in Masonville. I'm right in the way of your honeymoon. But not for long. - Ain't no way to get the mud off. - It's OK. Good thing you're getting married. You need a gal to look after you in the worst way. I'll do it. You'll only mess yourself. Don't want to get into trouble with them Army cops in Masonville. You'll never get to flying school. Bet when the war is over, you'll come home with a chest full of medals, and that gal... What's her name? - Cindy Lou. - Yeah. She'll hand 'em out to all your kids. Better win a lot of medals. You and Cindy Lou'll need 'em. One every year. No bunch of kids for me, not till I can take care of 'em real good. Got that all figured out too, huh? I'm not going back to the farm. I'm going to school, learn all about planes. What you gonna do when the war's over? The parachute factory's bound to close. You comin' back here? Maybe. Maybe not. I never figure from one day to the next. Guess you don't have to. You're sure to get a husband in any town. MarriedMe? Never. Shoes need polish bad. - I do my own. - Not when I'm around. Sure, you'll get married. I bet you'll have all those kids you wished on me. - Not a chance. - Why not? Ain't in the cards. Look, you can't let that spooky stuff trip you up. Signs never lie, Joe. Just don't pay 'em no mind, Carmen. A gal like you: Why, there's nothing you couldn't get if you aim for it. How do you figure that? Just look at you. You got a lot more than other gals. A lot more what? Got your belt on twisted. I'll fix it. What's the matter? Still don't trust me, huh? Or don't you trust yourself? Carmen! Carmen? "Sorry, honey." "Like I told you, I couldn't stand being cooped up in jail. " "I gotta be free to come and go or I'd just die. " "Don't hate me, Joey, cos I love you, like I loved no man before. " Prisoners, halt! Left face! OK, sit down. Joe, honey, I thought I'd never see you again. I tried and I asked... They don't allow no visitors the first two weeks in the stockade. I'm sorry. Carrying on like this. I made myself promise I wouldn't. That's all right, Cindy. How you been? Waitin'. Just waitin' to see you. Won't help none, you hanging around. You oughta go home to your maw. - You want me to? - I was just thinkin' of you, Cindy. Home's where you is, Joe. You all right, honey? How they treatin' you? Fine, fine. - When d'you think you'll get out? - I can't tell. They'll still send you to air school, you'll see. - The truth is, Cindy... - I know. Sergeant Brown told me. But it don't matter to me none. I know you, Joe. I know you're done with that girl. Joe, there's a package for you. It must be from my maw. I wrote her to bake something nice for you. Time's up. Prisoners fall in! Left face! Forward... March! Chow call! Come and get it! This flower that you threw my way Has been my friend By night and day I saw it fade And lose its bloom But still it kept A sweet perfume In my cell Through every darkened hour On my lonely eyes Lay this flower And so I'd sleep the whole night through And dream of you And dream of you Then I'd wake up With no-one near me And talk for the jail walls to hear me She ain't the best They all the same Like all the rest She's just a dame Then I told myself I was ravin' There was just one thing I was cravin' It wasn't food It wasn't dough I guess you know That it was you You're all I'll ever crave And that's for true I don't know anything about you I don't know much about a shinin' star Just know the worid is dark without you That's all I know I only want you as you are Carmen I love... You? Thanks for the lift, big oil man. Going as far as New Orleans, if you wanna help the war effort, baby. I got my battle station. Anybody here ask for me? The whole Army, that's all. - Hi, Carmen. - Hi. You know who I mean. No corporal by the name of Joe. Go, Mack! Go, Mack! Go, Mack! Go, Mack! Go, Mack! I'll tell you why I wanna dance It ain't the sweetness in the music I like the sweetness in the music But that ain't why I wanna dance It's something thumpin' in the bass That thump-thump thumping on the music That bump-bump bumping on the music Is all I need To start me off I don't need nothin' else... Maybe I do! To start me off Beat out that rhythm on a drum Beat out that rhythm on a drum Beat out that rhythm on a drum And I don't need no tune at all Beat me that rhythm on a drum Beat me that rhythm on a drum Beat me that rhythm on a drum And I don't need no tune at all A- all A- all A- all A- all I feel it beatin' in my bones It feel like 20 million tom-toms I know there's 20 million tom-toms Beatin' way down deep inside my bones I feel it beatin' in my heart And then I get a kinda dream And in my dream it kinda seems There's one big heart In all the worid There ain't but one big heart... One heart. In all the worid Beat out that rhythm on a drum Beat out that rhythm on a drum Beat out that rhythm on a drum There's one big heart in all the worid Beat out that rhythm on a drum Beat out that rhythm on a drum Beat out that rhythm on a drum There's one big heart for all the worid Worid Worid Worid And now that heart is beating fast And that's a rhythm I can dance to I'm mighty glad I got a chance to With the one big heart that's beating fast Tomorrow morning let it rain Tomorrow morning let it pour Tonight we're in the groove together Ain't gonna worry 'bout Stormy weather Gonna kick ol' trouble Out the door Beat out that trouble on a drum Beat out ol' trouble on a drum Beat out ol' trouble on a drum And kick his carcass out the door Beat me that rhythm on a drum Beat me that rhythm on a drum Beat out that rhythm on a drum And kick ol' trouble out the door Kick him out the door Kick him out the door Kick him out the door Kick him out the door!? Charlie, give me a double double on the rocks. - Hey, Jones gal. - Hi, Carmen! - How's tricks? - Ginger ale. Slow, Frankie. You still got a blowtorch for that boy in the stockade? By now it ought to be so hot you could send it to the Navy. They could use it to weld battleships apart. That's how it is. Husky Miller! Thanks a lot, I'm sure glad to be To be where I can see So many friends of mine How've I been doin'? How've I been doin'? If you really want to know the truth I'm doin' fine Seventeen decisions in a row And only five on points The rest was all KO Jackson and Johnson Murphy and Bronson One by one they come And one by one to dreamland they go How's it done? You ask me how's it done? I got a trainer man Who taught me all I know Sure feels good to have him in my corner Hear his voice a-whisperin' low Big boy, remember You must remember Stand up and fight until you hear the bell Stand toe to toe Trade blow for blow Keep punching till you make your punches tell Show that crowd what you know Until you hear that bell That final bell Stand up and fight like hell When you fight out in the open air In a patch of light, the ring looks small and white Out in the blackness Out in the blackness You can feel a hundred thousand eyes Fillin' the night Cigarettes are blinkin' in the dark And making polka dots around the baseball park People are quiet Then there's a riot Someone throws a punch and plants it right Smack on the mark Someone's hurt You kinda think it's you You hang across the ropes That's all you wanna do Then you look round And see your trainer's eyes Beggin' you to see it through They say, remember Big boy, remember Stand up and fight until you hear the bell Stand toe to toe Trade blow for blow Keep punchin' till you make your punches tell Show that crowd what you know Until you hear that bell That final bell Stand up and fight like hell Stand up and fight Stand up and fight And fight Like hell? Three cheers for Husky Miller, the comin' champion of the worid! Hooray! Drinks for everybody in the house. Inform the gentleman behind the bar. Set 'em up drinks on Husky Miller! Hello, Heat Wave. Introduce yourself. You talk like you know me already. I noticed you right off, up on the balcony. Did you notice me? Why, no. You was acting so bashful I didn't hardly know you was there. Hey, you talkin' to the champ. He just looks at a chick and she's down for... - Shut your teeth! - Excuse my dust, gentlemen. The air's getting mighty unconditioned around here. What are you paid forTo manage me or to KO me with the dames? This chick needs a big investment in time, and your train is waiting. - It don't leave for an hour yet. - It's at the station. Remember, you promised the trainer ten hours' shuteye. OK. I ain't gonna break no promise to him, but you listen to this and listen good. When I wake up tomorrow in Chicago and get off that train, I wanna see Heat Wave on the platform. Suppose she don't want to go to Chicago? That's your toothache. If you can't show up with her, find yourself a new meal ticket. - Good night, all! - Good night, Husky! What's he mean, "Go find yourself a new meal ticket"? He means I don't eat. And, brother, if I don't eat, you starve. Come on, Myrt, let's go where the money is. I believe we had this parking space reserved, but don't get up, please. Don't these gentlemen look like they met us someplace before? I could swear I met 'em with Husky Miller. - Where d'you know Husky from? - Oh, maybe New York, New Orleans. What you doin' in this hamburger joint? - Just passin' through. - Then you don't know nobody here? Who d'you want us to know? Thought you might be acquainted with her. Carmen That's my best friend. What d'you want with her? Just asking. Won't you pull up to the kerb and park? - If you insist. - I do. Indeed I do. Uh, drinks for the ladies. - What kind? - Ask 'em. - You made up your minds yet? - Anything light. - You mean with bubbles? - ChampagneMy, that's too splurgy. Frankie! Not for Rum Daniels, manager of Husky Miller. You his manager, for real? - And this is Dink Franklin... - The manager's manager. Large bottle of Champagne, from the bottom cellar. Sure, Mr Daniels. Too bad we're leaving for Chicago in an hour. Hardly got time to trade punches. Would you care to stop off in the Windy City with us? What's the proposition? She mean, you talking to us like we was a pair of you know what! I had nothing like that in mind. Just thinkin' it would be nice to have your company in a drawing room, showin' you around the fancy stores in Chicago, footin' the bill for some of the things you might want to buy, like a diamond ring and a mink coat. Mink?! Course, if that ain't good enough, maybe there's another kind of fur. No. We're old-fashioned. Mink and diamonds suits us fine. - Then it's settled. - Let's get going. Don't wanna miss that train. Yeah, go pack. While you're at it, pack up your friend there, too. - Carmen? - For Husky Miller. And if she says no? Then ain't none of us gettin' on that train. I get it. Figured you would. Well, come on. But don't everybody start talkin' at once. Miss Jones, this is Rum, Husky's manager. And Dink, his manager. They're taking me and Frankie to Chicago, in a drawing room. That's nice. Reserved the biggest suite on the top floor of the biggest hotel. - Gonna buy us fancy clothes. - Diamonds and mink! We'll be livin' off the fatheads of the land. The fatheads of fatheads. We've room for one more. Care to join us at Husky's invitation? Hear that, honeyHe askin' you to come to Chicago with us. Keep us company. - Chicago. - Man, we'll have ourselves a ball! All expenses paid including the little extras. Like a storeful of diamonds and fancy clothes and everything nice. - For true? - That ain't the half of it. You take us to Chicago, show us a good time. What we gotta do for it? Don't ask him that now, honey. Let's get to Chicago first. What do you say, Heat Wave? Wanna make a trip on a crack Chicago train That's a trip you ought to make It won't be hard for you to take Travel 'bout as fast as a Kansas hurricane It only takes a half a day to be a thousand miles away - Away, away - Come on, come on That streamline engine won't delay - Away, away - Come on, come on That streamline engine won't delay That streamline engine just can't wait That streamline engine ain't no freight That streamline engine won't be late Whizzing away along the track Clickety-clack, clickety-clack Leavin' the wind away in back Clickety-clack, clickety-clack Up a hill and down a hill And out upon the plains again Through a storm and outta the storm and pretty soon it rains again It only takes a half a day To be a thousand miles away It only takes a half a day To be a thousand miles away, away - Come on, away - Chicago, Chicago - Away, away - To come away, to come away Hey! On a Chicago train? Go pack your duds. Ain't got much time. - Carmen'll come. - I knew she would. Well, let's get going. Wait! Let me say my say If you're bustin' to go, then go But just count me out of the party Just count me out Cos I ain't in Ah, Carmen, honey, have a heart Don't want no part of it, don't want no part of it Don't want no part! Don't waste our time with all this fuss Don't want no part of it, don't want no part of it Don't want no part What you got that you like so much better than this? - What ya got? - What ya got? What ya got, what ya got? If I told you, you'd only laugh - Oh, no - Not me - Go on - Give out You got to promise not to laugh OK OK Dere's a man I'm crazy for She's got a man she's crazy for! That's why she can't come to Chicago. That's a laugh! I'm in love And dat ain't no laugh Well, shut my mouth and call me dumb And beat me! I'm a kettledrum The birdies in the trees are hummin' Carmen's in love, Carmen's in love Still we ask, won't you come? And break your date Give the gate to your chum? Another night, I might've come To raise some pandemonium But now the mockingbirds are hummin' Carmen's in love, Carmen's in love Leave me here with my Joe Take your train to Chicago and go - We gotta get you on that train - Some other time What makes you think there'll be another time? What makes you think there'll be another time? - To get a trip - To get a trip - To Illinois - To Illinois - And get it free? - And get it free? Dat is the place that I'd sure like to see Whizzing away along the track Clickety-clack, clickety-clack Leavin' the wind away in back Clickety-clack, clickety-clack Up a hill and down a hill And out upon the plains again Through a storm and outta the storm and pretty soon it rains again It only takes a half a day To be a thousand miles away It only takes a half a day To be a thousand miles away, away - Come on, away - Chicago! Chicago! - Away, away - Come on away, come on away Hey! Whizzing away along the track Off to Chicago Illinois? Well, Carmen, what's the count? You comin' with us? I always did wanna see the big town. You got your wish, honey. Chicago's gonna be real good for you. You gonna be real bad for Chicago. You comin'? Uh-uh. Look, baby. Let's talk turkey. I gotta produce you in Chicago, and I don't care what it costs me. You name it, Husky'll sign the bill. I know that boy. When he goes crazy for a chick, she starts looking like a neon sign, all lit up with diamonds. Diamonds ain't what I want of a man. If I love him, he don't need no chequebook. If I don't, chequebook ain't gonna do him no good. Who's talkin' about love? We don't care what happens between you and Husky once we're in Chicago. If he don't appeal to you, well, ain't nobody's fault. It ain't that he don't appeal to me. But he rang my bell when I'm busy. BusyFooling around here when you got a chance to go to Chicago? Are you gonna stay here and sleep or wake up and come with us? I'm gonna wait here for Joe. Been waitin' a month. Bet he don't never show up. He'll come. Soon as they let him out. Look, Miss Jones, in case you wise up before the train leaves, here's a ticket for drawing room A. Right over the wheels. You can hear yourself click-clicking to Chicago. - No use wastin' it. - Just castin' bread on the waters. Come on, brother and sisters, join the prayer meeting in drawing room E. Don't let too much distance come between you and that money. Come on, honey. Joe! Joey! I was afraid you wouldn't be here. I've been here every night waitin' for you. They ain't after you no more? I got a suspended sentence. Felt like you wasn't ever gettin' out. Thinkin' about you all the time, while you was away from me. I been dreamin' about tonight and wondering if you would be feelin' half as lovin' as your Carmen feels for you. Carmen, there's something you gotta know. Tell me later, when Carmen takes you home with her. Carmen will unlace your shoes... That's just it. I can't stay or go with you. I gotta report right back to the base. What? I gotta get that bus leaving for flying school. Captain Halldale, my CO, he got my court martial reduced and made 'em take me back into flying school. Where does that leave us? How far apart? Only 400 miles. Only?! You can come up when I got a pass. Boy, if that ain't one on Carmen! Love on a pass! Carmen... Go to flying school! Take off right now! Then lay in your bunk, look up at them pin-up gals! See what that gets you, droopy drawers! I got something I want you to see. That's been with me all the time. Right here, where you are. That don't ring so true. I swear it's true. Joe, if you loved me true, know what you'd do? - What? - You'd come to Chicago. - Chicago? - I got enough dough for us both. And a ticket too. I been savin' up to give my man a real good time. You know I can't just pick up and go like that. Joe, I want to go someplace where you're the last thing I see at night, first thing I see in the morning. I can't go AWOL. You're just taking some time off so we can be together before you go away. That's not the way the Army'd look at it. Boy, if you ain't a lover red-hot for Carmen. You just burnin' up with passin! You sizzle like a fish on ice! I can't afford no more demerits. If I step out of line again, I'll never make officers' flying school. You know what? You too chicken for me to waste my time on! Chicken is right. Look at that officer material. You got as much chance of being a flyer as a flea inside that shirt. You quit that! That's no kinda man for you, Carmen. He can't even keep his shirt in his pants. - You do that again, and I'll... - You'll what? You ain't thinkin' on strikin' your sergeant, I hope? That wouldn't be four weeks in the guardhouse, more like four years. How about it, sugar? We got lost time to make up. Let's get started. You keep your paws off her. Who's gonna make me? Run along, Lt Caspar Milquetoast. Looks like he's hurt real bad! Yeah. Four years for hitting a superior, ain't that what he said? Maybe more. Get him in them bushes! Hurry. - They're bound to find him. - By that time, we'll be far away. - I can't. That's deserting. - If they find you, that's prison. What you got to loseCome on, man. Get a move on, Joe! Gotta make that train! Who's that? Husky Miller, the fighter. I met him at Billy Pastor's with Frankie and Myrt. Blow on 'em, sugar. Make 'em dry faster. You can turn the heat off now. Ah, man, that tickles! You some harmonica player! What a mosquito bite. Why the camouflage? You don't need it with me. Hand me them nylons, honey. You ain't goin' out? Far as the grocery store. Gotta feed my man. Look, Carmen... I don't know how to tell you, but... I'm busted. I gave the last of my pay to the landlady. I got some jingly stuff. I ain't gonna let you shell out. We gotta eat, growin' boy. Not on your dough. What's mine's yours, Joey. And that goes right down the line. If I could only get out. With them military cops on your tail? They'd grab you so fast, I'd still be kissin' the breeze goodbye when you's in Leavenworth. Easy, honey, easy. - You're two bits shy. - Charge it to Husky. And you discovered Husky? To the stars belong the credit. I was on the New York waterfront, sellin' $1 m of War Bonds, when I see this big boy walking along carrying a Jeep... with one hand! You know what I said to myself then? I said "That's my man!" That's just what he said. Put that in your column. Heat Wave, be with you in no time! Look who's here! The answer to our prayers. If it ain't the Jones gal! - Hi, Frankie! - Where you been all week? Around, having myself a time. WhereIn a bargain basement? Get a loada me! Look at this iceberg! It's almost real. But that ain't nothing compared to what's driftin' your way. I came to ask you for a little loan. You... you bustedFlat? Yeah. Can you let me have a couple of bills? You talkin' to the wrong party. There's your bank. You just tell Husky what you want and don't stop, cos he's percolating to take care of you real good. Now this manager's gotta manage something special for the Champ. Got all that I need. Thanks. Miss Jones! This is our pleasure, indeed. Hi, honey! You sure showed up in time. We can't get no more outta Husky. She means Husky's got his mind set on finding you. How you been, Myrt? Great while we were buying out all the biggest stores, but now Husky's stopped all charge accounts. You'll be raiding 'em again with Miss Jones. Boss, I told you I'd produce her. Hello, Jelly Roll. Where you been wasting time away from me? Into the dressing room! Go on, get! You wanna catch a draft? Can't fight with my trainer. Stay put. I'll be out in no time. Then you and me'll start the second Chicago fire. You all set, honey. Just like being partners with the US Mint. - All you gotta do is grab. - I'm not here for that punching bag. - Don't you like Husky? - He just one man too late, is all. - You still with that soldier boy? - You staking me or not? Sorry, honey. I'm flat too. All I got is fancy clothes, diamonds and mink, that's all Rum gives me. Come with me, and maybe I can promote some cash-and-carry. I'll wait here. You gotta be sociable with Husky or I'll get nowhere with his manager. - Dust off the divan for the lady. - Yes, Mr Daniels. Look at that physique. Bet your soldier boy's got nothing like it. The better man won, huh? Glad to know you're only human. Get this and get it right. I didn't come here to stay in your corner. - Say that again. - She's too bashful to admit it. Oh, that's different. You gettin' me that loan, or do I have to listen to more braggin'? - What loan? - For clothes and things... Put a raid on the stores. Just name it and charge it. Thanks, Frankie, but it won't work. What is thisWhere you goin'? - Sorry, Carmen ain't for sale. - Heat Wave, wait! You just relax them classy muscles. Leave that gal to me. It ain't my fault. You know females are always changing their stripes. Get out. Don't come back till you bring Heat Wave with you for good. And that goes for your manager too. Carmen! Hey, Carmen! I hate to see a hep chick like you acting like a dumb cluck. - Be sensible. - Frankie. OK, keep your soldier boy, but don't walk out on a private convertible and gold-lace nightgowns. You know two-timing ain't my speed. Shift gears and join the female race: Keep one man for the ride and one for the money. Uh-uh. Listen, honey. I'll level with you. If you don't show up for Husky, Myrt and I are right out in the cold. How about it, sugarFor us? Ain't that I don't want to help you. - Only? - I can't. LoveNobody lives on that street forever, not with the same man. You're bound to move, maybe sooner than you think. Let you know when I get the message. Well, when you do, ring me at the hotel. Here's the number. Don't wait too long, Heat Wave, or Husky liable to start blowing cold. - See you. - OK. What took you so long? - I had to wait for it. - All that time? - You been gone ever since... - I got back as soon as I could. It's a lot of stuff. All you had was some loose change when you went out. Where'd the rest come from? What's the difference? I wanna know. Well? Look, boy. Don't go puttin' me on no stand. I don't answer to nobody. If you got nothing to hide... Do you think I do? What do you expect me to think? Why don't you tell me? You think what you want! - I don't account to no man. - You're accounting to me. - I love you. I have the right... - You've no right to own me. There's only one that does, and that's me. Myself. Where you goin'? - I might come back. - Carmen, I'm sorry. Carmen. Carmen! That racket, it's enough to drive rivets into your head. You're goin' out again? Feel like takin' a walk. - You already had one today. - Feel like another one. Look, honey, I'm sorry for the way I blew off. You're spillin' it. But that ain't no reason to turn on the ice. Look, boy, I don't have to keep the truth from nobody. I can't stand bein' cooped up in this alley no more. But you know the MPs are after me. I've got to stay in here. You gotta. I don't. What does that mean? I'm bustin' out for a while. Who with? - You really want to know? - Well, I asked you. I'll tell ya. With a friend of mine. Frankie. That gal that works at Billy Pastor'sWhat's she doing here? She's with that Husky Miller crowd, got here when we did. My seams on straight? Who's she throwing your way? You ain't goin' nowhere. You're stayin' where you belong, with me! I don't get it. This place suited you fine before you went out. What happened in between? Got a whiff of fresh air, that's what happened. Just wanna get more of it. Not without me! Maybe you ain't got the message yet. But Carmen's one gal nobody puts on a leash. No man's gonna tell me when can I come and go. I gotta be free, or I don't stay at all. You talk like this was a jail. - You makin' it one. - It ain't to me. I could stay here and never go out as long as you're here. But when you ain't, it's worse than jail. There ain't no light, no air. Suppose I never come back? You'd never get away from me. I'd follow you down the rivers or across the sea. To hell or up to heaven. Why'd you ask? Just to hear you say it. You're hurtin' me, Joe. I'm sorry, honey. I didn't mean to. Get back soon. And remember, I'm waitin'. You just keep a light burning in the window, boy. Poor Champ. Can't have no happy juice, no good time, nothin'. Just gotta keep trainin' to keep in trainin'. Wanna break it for fun and see what happens? Take the count. - Get me some more. - You already had one Seltzer bottle. Make this one for the road. You can't have skirts in your head before the big night. You gotta forget that woman. I'm tryin', trainin' man. I'm tryin'. Hi, Husk. I said keep outta my corner. You're fired till you bring me Heat Wave. You just got to give Rum the teletype, boss. There she is. Heat Wave! Easy, boy. Don't KO me in round one. - Give the fans their money's worth. - Tell my fortune. - Let's go warm up a corner. - I wanna watch. Am I gonna get that certain party? No way to tell in advance, but the cards don't lie. - Cut them - Cut them - Seven - Seven - That's quite a card - Yes, that's quite a card Do you mean good or bad? That's the queen of hearts. - Quiet, please! - Quiet, please You're gonna get a lot of money. I don't know how you'll spend it all but it's a lot of money! Will this gal see a bright and happy future? Or will she be a good-for-nothin' moocher? Come on, you cards, and tell her true Come on, you cards, and tell her true And tell her how she's gonna do And tell her how she's gonna do For good or bad, for high or low Come on, you cards, and let her know Whatever way the wind will blow All set? All set. For sure? Let's go! Let's see what they say about me Oh, you gonna get a good man, Carmen. Yeah. Here's your little secret. The nine of spades. De nine Dere he is De ol' boy Plain as can be Death got his hand On me It ain't no use to run away From dat ol' boy If he is chasin' you It's best to stand right up And look him in de face When he is facin' you You gotta be prepared to go with dat ol' boy No matter what the time So I won't fill my pretty eyes With salty tears Cos I ain't got de time I'm gonna run out every second I got left Before he throws me down I'm gonna laugh and sing and use up all my breath Before he mows me down While I can fly around I'll do my flying high I'm gonna keep on livin' Up to the day I die De nine Hello OI' boy Hello? My Joe He was always my Joe and use up all my breath Joe said there never could be We was in love And I reckon we showed it From the way people talked Reckon everyone knowed it Kids on the street where we'd go Used to yell at us "Cindy Lou belongs to Joe!" Lord! O Lord! You know that was true And Joey belonged To Cindy Lou? We wanna check on his pass. He's been shacking up here for a week. - I run a respectable place. - Ain't sayin' you don't. Take a look at this picture. Does he live here? One flight up. Room 24. You're too late, miss. Husky's finished trainin' for the day. I'm looking for someone the papers say he's runnin' around with. - Is her name Carmen? - That too. She's in his dressing room now, right in there, to the left. Thank you. Sorry, we got all the toothbrushes we need, little lady. Wait. I'm here to see Miss Carmen Jones. Please. Me? Say, ain't you that little gal Joe was stuck on? Yes. I came here to find out where he is. You the only one that know. Nice gal like you gonna get into trouble taking up with a deserter. I don't care what he done. I gotta find him before the military do. Tell me where he is, please. Joe! So you ran out on me. Sure. He can give you a better time than I can. Fancy clothes... swell company, the whole works. Husky Miller's latest woman. Only that ain't the way it's gonna be. We's all washed up. Go away. Go with this sweet little gal. You'd like that, I guess, so it'd leave you free to play. Only you're coming with me, where you belong. Put a hand on Carmen again and I'll immobilise you. - Joe, don't fight with him. - Leave me alone. - Who is this jerk, anyhow? - You shut your fat trap! - You double-crossin' tramp! - What'd you call her? - Husky, you'll kill him! - If it's the last thing I do! Husky, that won't be the last thing you do. - I swore I'd let no man take you! - How you gonna stop me? - I'll show you! - No! You's in enough trouble! - Cindy, go away. - Somebody get the police! - Dink, what you waitin' on? - Stay put! Joe, honey, listen! I ain't no good to ya, Cindy. Go home to your maw where you belong. Put that thing away, boy. Ain't gonna get you nowhere with me. Nor with him neither! That's enough, Husky! That's enough! One more crack! The MPs! Get out the back way! Go on! - You're comin' with me. - She ain't goin' nowhere with you. - I said we was washed up. - Why you helpin' me get away? Cos I can't stand nobody bein' cooped up! - Right this way, gentlemen. - Just keep goin'. Go on home. Forget him. Bait your hook for fish you can fry. How can I love a man When I know he don't want me? He ain't been good He ain't been kind He give me up For that old roadside woman But I can't drive him from my mind I's scared, O Lord, I's scared I's like a leaf that's lost her tree I's alone, O Lord, I's alone He got hisself another woman Did she feel his arms All around her? No, Lord, I can't believe it's so No, Lord, don't you let her keep my Joe Make him throw her back Where he found her Joe! You said that both your arms was mine Remember? You said your arms Was mine I's... Your gal I was always your gal There was no-one but me You said there never could be We was in love And I reckon we showed it From the way people talked Reckon everyone knowed it Kids on the street where we'd go Used to yell at us "Cindy Lou belongs to Joe!" Lord, O Lord Look down and try to see How you can make Joe Come home To me O Lord, look down Lead my Joe Off the road Where he's strayin' Oh, tell my man Where to go O Lord, I's callin' On You? Poncho! Poncho! Ladies and gentlemen, this is your feature presentation, ten rounds of boxing... ...introducing from the great city of Chicago, Husky Miller! And his opponent from Brazil... the South American heavyweight champion, the sensational... Kid Poncho! Give him another one, Husky! Punch him! Punch him! Punch him on the nose! Well, what do you think? This is just the beginning. A piece of gum, please. Hit him with the right! Hit him! Yeah! Hit him, Husky! ...three, four... five, six... seven, eight... nine, ten! Husky! Husky! The time: Two minutes, 20 seconds of the second round. The winner, by a knockout, Husky Miller! Stand up and fight until you hear the bell Stand toe to toe Trade blow for blow Keep punching till you make your punches tell Show that crowd what you know Until you hear that bell, that final bell Stand up and... That's our man The man with the wallop Hotter than a firecracker What a man, man, oh, what a man Bell! Bell! Bell! Attaboy, can you make with the wallop Win that dough and then we can doll up With a diamond big as a scallop Attaboy, attaboy, attaboy! You're comin' with me or you ain't goin' noplace. Let me go! You promised you was gonna be mine till the end. That's one promise you're gonna keep. Can't you get it through your head? We're done. Now let me go! I'd sooner kill you. Then here's your chance. But all I wanna do Is love you Like I used to To hold your hand In my hand And feel your heart Next to my heart Can't we begin again? Couldn't we start all over? Couldn't we Begin again? If you want to start a fire where a fire was before The coal you burn must be new coal Our flame is out Cold as the snow We had ourselves some fun Didn't we? And now it's done But where can I put my memories? They got no sea to drown in The little things that used to make us laugh When we was clownin' And all the things we'd say or do Are all part of me and you Joe, you is makin' it tough now For yourself, the same as for me Joe, ain't you heard me say enough now? No! No! No! What used to be ain't no more! Do you forget how I used to love you? No-one but Joe ever loved you so good Let's go away and begin our life all over Carmen all alone with Joe Don't you think there's a chance? Only say that you do No! That wouldn't be true Ain't gonna lie! Ain't gonna lie! I look at life straight in the eye? I'll have no man laugh at me while you roll around in his arms. You're stayin' with me or I'll kill you. OK. Kill me now or let me go! - For the last time... - For the last time. Here's that ten-cent store ring you gave me. Now that's the end of you! You tramp! You're no good. You never were. Two-timin' me, like it don't count for nothin'. Well, it does. You ain't never gonna do that to no man again. Keep punching till you make your punches tell Show that crowd...? String me high on a tree So that soon I will be With my darling My baby My Carmen? Intelfax Media Access
