 

                        1 All rise. Judge Kendall presiding. You may be seated. Gentlemen, all the evidence in this case indicates to me that your true motive was the most common of all motives for crime, and that is greed. And despite all of the media and public attention that this trial has received, today, here in my courtroom, you are nothing more than a bunch of common criminals. And for that reason, I intend to make it very clear here today that even rising star athletes are not above the law. When I call your name, would you please stand? Yeah Bass Rodney O Bass DJ Joe Cooley Ba... Ba... Ba-Ba... Ba-Ba... Bass, bass Ba... Ba-Ba... Ba-Ba... bass Yeah, yeah Ba... Ba... bass The bass that's in your face sho'nuff shrugs your face Just like you got sprayed by a can of Mace You see your speaker is movin' Everybody is groovin' My song moves along... What's up, D? What you getting into tonight? Man, you a fool. I can't believe we tied that game tonight, man. Tied? Shit, I feel like we lost. That'll be two dollars, dawg. Man, nah, dawg, that was a tie, man. Break yo' self, fool. Man, your ass play around too much. Always trying to act like a gangster. Thanks, dawg. Man, what... what you doing? Come on, dude. Thanks, dawg. - Make the ladies say - Oh - King of my - Castle - Causing much - Pain You dumb shrimp wimps, it's you I tame So to the R to the O to the... Freddie... it was just a tie. Ah. Good game this weekend. - It was a tie. - See, that was good, though. That should keep... people's focus. How do we get a tie, anyway? Well, the, uh, score we had and the score the other team had was the same. Now, I know... your blind ass ain't trying to be funny. All right, y'all settle down, everybody take a seat. When the bell rings I will pass out your weekly grade reports. - Derric, stop. No. Damn, Derric, let's go. Get off of me. - Stop. Let's go. - Stop. I know you see those people coming. Let's go. Move. Mo... Get back. Let's go. Man. I'm-a chill here till lunch. That's in ten minutes. I'm-a holla at you later. Piece of my love... This is the last time. For real. Girl, it's true... Hey, do you know what they're having for lunch, though? Baby, you can't have all of me 'Cause I'm not totally free... Jay, you decide on a school yet? - Not yet. - Nope. Come on, fellas, I need something for the school paper. You should be able to see where they're going with them thick lenses you got on. With your blind ass. What's up? Oh, it's nothing. I'll catch up with you later. All right, cool. Mr. Bates, I think you gave me the wrong grade. All right. Well, let's see. Uh... Here we go. Yeah, see, here it is. Uh, the third week you failed to complete a homework assignment, so I've given you an NC. - A what? - NC. It simply stands for, uh, "not complete". So, I didn't get a grade for the homework? Athletes don't get special treatment in my class. Special... I did the homework. But you didn't complete it. I just wanted you to know that whenever Derric is late it is for a legitimate reason, okay? - Whenever Derric's late? - Yes, whenever Derric is late. - Well, Ms... -I don't... Hey, Gary. How you doing? - How you doing, Ms. Evans? - Oh, I'm doing just fine. Hey, let Derric know that I handled that for him, okay? - Okay. -Let him know that the money is under - the bread box, all right? - Yes, ma'am. - Gotcha. - All right. Well, I'll see you. - All righty. - Okay. Bye, now. Okay, so are we good? I mean, do you need a note from me or something? Coach, they didn't have tuna so I got you turkey. With peanuts on the side. I ain't eat peanuts since my days at PV. Yeah, bad luck, right? Oh, no, no, I heard. Hey, remember... when I hired you and you claimed to be an offensive coordinator? Yeah, you said, "I sure hope you know how to stop a good offense, because you're now my defensive coordinator." Look, Coach, I know we can't expect to give up 24 points and win the game. - And defense... -And defense wins championships. I know. Coach James, please report to the principal's office immediately. But do you know why? Oh, good afternoon, Coach James. How you doing? Just fine. Never expected to see that tie this past weekend. Um, you know, a Dallas team hasn't won state in football since... Have a good one, Coach. Whoa. Okay, who started it? I said who started it? It was a accident, Coach. So, how are you gonna accidentally start a food fight? Oh. I thought you was talking about the fire alarm earlier. Mm-hmm. All right. Come on, I don't have all day. What's up, Coach? See you watching game film. Look... I just wanted to apologize for the whole food fight incident and apologize for me and the other teammates. Son... do you know why we, um, study game film? To find our mistakes. See what we do well and where we need improvement. Or... to find the tendencies of our opponent, good or bad. You... don't have the, uh, luxury to rewind your life. So make good choices the first time. Any word back on that summer incident? Not yet. But you did do the homework? Yes, sir. And you didn't get a grade for it? As for now, I got a zero. Mr. Russeau, I think it would be best if we have Gary taken out of Mr. Bates' class before it's too late. Well, now, we got a policy about letting students transfer out of classes. Especially this late in the six weeks. I definitely understand, but I'm asking you, please, to make an exception under the circumstances. Please. W-Wait a minute, where your money at, homeboy? I got something better than that. What the hell is that? - Get out of jail free card. - Hey, let me get one... - Shoot the damn... - Keep your voice down. Shoot the dice. All day. Come on, dawg. Are you gonna shoot the dice or blow the damn dice? - Shit. -Same... same stuff, every time. - Pass this, come on. Mmm, mmm, mmm. Now, come on. Man, swing it my way. You got love for me, PK. - Cool, cool. - You can have it. Now, don't get scared now. What you shootin' for? I got five on it right here. Nine, my point. We... Nine. I see that. I like nine. Get up, Derric. My bad, Coach. Your bad? Your bad? Yes, sir. Haven't I told y'all? You do not shoot craps in my locker room. For all y'all who was shooting craps, y'all grab the dice and roll for your points. Say, Coach, I-I was just watching. Oh, you was just watching? Okay. Well, I'm-a cut you a break. For those who're just watching, y'all roll one dice. Uh-uh, uh-uh, Derric. Uh-uh. Get your ass over there, assume the position. Jessie, we've been watching you practice. So, what makes you all so good as a team, besides your speed, of course? I'd say our discipline, 'cause soon as those lights come on, only goal that we focus on is getting it done. - Blue 80. Blue 80. - 20, 20. What makes us so good? Me. All we know is my speed... That's 100 miles per hour. Nah, let me stop playing. Competition. Everything we do, we compete. Every time we touch this football field, we compete, compete, compete. No, we don't take it easy during practice. I mean, Coach wants us to, but, uh, no. We too busy trying to knock each other's heads off. Don't show your coverage! Don't show your coverage! All right. There he is. There he is. Hey! Hey, now! What if somebody gets hurt? Hurt, somebody else step up. That's the way it go. And that's it. All right, all right, bring it in. Bring it in. Yo, it's game time, come on, lit like gasoline - Come on. - Come on, they ain't got the right frame of mind They ain't even got the athletes Does the star shine bright on the Friday night lights... Listen to me. Nothing worth having... is gonna be easy. You just can't show up and think, "That's it." Ain't nothing free, fellas. Nothing. Now it may appear that way, but don't be deceived. Coach, you got anything? Yes, sir, I do. I'm gonna need my defense to stay with me at the closed practice. - Oh, man. -All right, okay, okay, all right, listen. Yeah. Make sure you stay out of trouble and be a leader, not a follower, all right? - Yes, sir. - All right, come on, come on. - Bring it in. -Bring it in here! Bring it in here! All right, "Cowboys" on three. One, two, three! Cowboys! Good job. - Hey, have fun, PK. - Good luck. Where are my Cowboys at? Where are my Cowboys? Listen up. Listen up. Listen up. Have y'all ever heard fans cheering, "Come on, offense, hold that line"? No, sir. Have you ever heard fans yelling "Offense! Offense!"? Or holding some signs or messing with some mess like that? No, sir! - Derric, what they yell? - Defense, Coach. - They yell what? - Defense! - They yell what?! - Defense! Have you ever heard "Offense wins championships"? No, sir! - Yes. Yes. - Coach? Huh? What's up, Rod? Crowd don't get loud for the offense. It's a distraction. And the quarterback gonna tell you to be quiet. - Man... -Oh, no, no, no. He all right. He all right. Come-come... come here, Rod. Come-come here. Now, you see that fence down there? Yes, sir. I want you to sprint... not jog... Sprint to that fence and find me a marble and do not come back until you do, you understand me? Yes, sir. 'Cause your buddies here are gonna be running until you get back. - Oh, man! - Man! -Coach! Let's go! On the 50! - Man. - You better run, boy! You won't be starting. On the 50. Let's go! Guys, the game is all about adjustments. Okay, now we win the game when we adjust to what they're gonna do before they even adjust to it. It's about adjustments, goddamn it. What the hell did he just say? Man, he talking about adjustments and adjusting. - We got to adjust... - Watch here on this play. So we can adjust that ass just like that. - Hey, come on, y'all! Derric, what's so important you want to share with the rest of the team? Coach, we just over here talking about adjustments. All right, let me worry about the adjustments. You worry about learning 'em. All right, I'm gonna let you all go home early. What? Early? Listen, when you guys go home tonight, make sure you get some rest. All right, quit chasing them girls all night. There's gonna be plenty of time for that in college. All right? Let's go. You okay? I think... I'm losing them. You know, all these years, I've never seen you take a game so serious. It was only a tie, Freddie. Jessie's parents... They said he got probation for stealing that T-shirt. What? Football should... Football is supposed to build character. It's got to prepare these boys for life. I mean, that's why I do this. And you are doing a great job. Well, not if my boys are stealing T-shirts. It was during the summer. Look, you-you can't protect them forever. All you can do is instill good morals in 'em and hope that they stick. Is that enough? It's a start. What about state? State will take care of itself. You just make sure these boys have the best opportunity they can to further their education. For free. Always want something for free. Uh-uh. Mm-hmm. Suspect's in a very light Jeep Wrangler eastbound. Driver's license and insurance, please. Carter High School? Sir. Well, I've been watching y'all since y'all were freshmen. Hey, we going to state this year? - Oh, no doubt. -For sure. For sure. -All right. I'm sure happy to hear that 'cause I'm gonna be right up front, too. But, man, I got to ask you a question. Now, what happened with Duncanville? 4-38. 4-38. We have a robbery in progress at 1030 West Camp Wisdom. 4-38. Show me en route, Code 3. Hey, listen, I'll holler at y'all. - Sir. - Slow this car down. - Yes, sir. -Going 20 miles over the speed limit. - Yes, sir. Thank you. -Good luck on the game this weekend. Sir, thank you. Thank you, sir. - Hey! - Hey! Cowboys, are you ready? Cowboys, are you ready? I said, are you ready? I said, are you ready? I understand that, but the school improvement program is set up to provide a productive educational opportunity for these students. I'm not debating that, sir. I'm simply saying I've been using the same grading system for the last three years. Hey! The school improvement plan calls for these kids to get a grade sheet every week. And I give weekly grade sheets! There ain't no way in the world you can give these kids a grade average using symbols such as "NC" s and check marks. Fuh Dee-oh - Fuh Dee-oh - Hey! - Fuh Dee-oh - Hey! - Fuh Dee-oh - Hey! - Fuh Dee-oh - Hey! - Fuh Dee-oh - Hey! - Fuh Dee-oh - Hey! - Fuh Dee-oh - Hey! - Fuh Dee-oh - Hey! - Fuh Dee-oh - Hey! - Fuh Dee-oh - Hey! Down center, hut! That'll be $19.95. Fo' sho'. All right. - I got you. - How y'all want to do it? - Want to go... - No, I got that. Hey, what's up, fellas? -What's up? - How's everything going? - Good. -Good. -Good, man. Hey, good luck in them play-offs this year. - Oh, sure. -For sure. - My man, my man. Check this out. We're gonna do this one on the house. - Oh, word? -Oh, man... - On the house. - What? - My man, my man. - Man, thank you. - My man, hey. - Hey, appreciate that, man. - My man, hey. Appreciate it. Hey! Enjoy. Enjoy. Hey. Bring us back that state championship. - Not a joke! You'll see. - My man. Oh-oh-oh, D.W.C. Oh-oh-oh, D.W.C. Oh-oh-oh, D.W.C. Oh-oh-oh, D.W.C... Down, down with the sound Down, down with the sound Sound, sound, sound... Down, down, down Down with the sound D-D-Down with the sound Down, down with the sound - Sound, sound, sound - Hey, CC! Too bad, too bold! Hey, CC! There's a place in Dallas known as Oak Cliff Where you can tell the raff from the riff It's full of them boys lookin' for the beat... Too bad, too bold! Hey, CC! Too bad, too bold! Hey...! What's going on? They say he failed his algebra class. Well, did he? He said he passed. Then who said he flunked, then? The UIL. What you doin', dawg? Come here, come check this out, man. Come here. - Get up, dawg. - Man, listen to this right here. Everybody's talking about it. If you haven't heard the news story, the breaking news: the Carter Cowboys, they've been disqualified from the play-offs for apparently using an ineligible player. Now, we're gonna keep you up to speed and up to date on the latest information on the Carter... I can see it I can see it Clear as the summer's day Damn, I can feel it I can feel it It's standing right next to me The pain and the time is right To let it wash over me Uh, the spirit of a champion I gotta let this ship run free. That's your report card? Let me see that. No, no, no, Coach, look... he did pass. He got a 72 in Algebra. Gary, you change the grade on that paper? Nah, Coach. That's the grade I got. Did someone else change the grade on that paper? Coach, that's my grade. Nobody changed nothing. Why the hell are they saying you failed, then? Supposedly, the UIL received an anonymous letter saying he was ineligible. That's bullshit. He passed, goddamn it. Hello. Yeah, this is he. Yeah. I see. Okay. All right. Thank you. Who was your algebra teacher? Mr. Bates at first. Then I transferred to Dr. Abby's class. Freddie, you need to eat something. They gonna try their best to make sure we don't play. Can they really do that if he's passed the class? They're conducting an investigation, whatever that means. Baby, you always taught that defense does what? Hmm? Defense. Defense does what? Wins championships. Coa... Coach, I don't think I heard that loud enough. Defense does what? Wins championships! Exactly! And as long as they're investigating, it ain't over. That fat lady ain't sang yet. Now, you go on out there and you defend your boys and you win us state. You hear me? - You guys just hear? - No comment. It was nearly an hour after the ruling by the commissioner in Austin that the official word reached Carter High School. Excuse me. Excuse me. Would you mind, uh, giving a statement on the mood here at Carter High? It's crazy how even in 1988 racism still exists. So you think this has something to do with the school being predominantly black? I bet you if this school was mostly white, none of this stuff would even be happening. Well, if he didn't pass the class... How you know he failed? So far, those are the reports that we've been receiving. Well, as far as I know, he passed. And those are the reports we've been receiving. Well, there you have it. Carter has, in fact, been forced to forfeit their final three games due to an ineligible player. That puts Carter out of the play-offs and South Grand Prairie in. They done it to us, and it's the worst way to go out. Always been told if they can't beat you on the field, they want to beat you in the classes, so... They can't do... They wrong about it. I mean, how can they do it the day before the game? That's what I don't understand. So what am I supposed to tell my boys? You say he passed. Here's a report card shows he passed. But the UIL say he failed. Well, after the UIL got its mysterious phone call... - I thought it was a letter. -In the beginning, it was a letter. Then it was a phone call. Whatever. Whatever it-it was, after that, Bates' records came through. Didn't he transfer out of Bates' class? Yeah. But then his records transferred with him. So, um... so Abby has a 72. The UIL has a 68. And what does Bates have to say about all this? - I said no comment! - But, Mr. Bates... - But is it true you alerted the UIL... -No, I have... - I said I have no c... - But, Mr. Bates, don't you worry about your safety? What about repercussions from the students - at Carter High? -I am absolutely not worried about my safety. These are wonderful students, and I'm... Let go of my door! Mr. Russeau has informed me that this matter is being taken up in the court. However, the DISD refuses to foot the entire bill. And there's a meeting tonight in the auditorium to discuss the options. According to the, uh, UIL, we're not allowed to practice until they get this thing figured out. So, Coach, what we 'posed to do if we can't practice? You stay focused! You, of all people, you're a senior! You stay focused! And, look here, don't let this obstacle make y'all lose sight of the real goal, which starts after you leave here! Champions! Champions. Champions this, champions that! Oh, they throw that word around nowadays like... like it ain't no big thing anymore, like it... like-like it ain't special! Well, goddamn it, I'm tellin' you, it is special! It is a big thing! A champion walks onto this field, and you can feel it! You can see it! A true champion is a champion in the heart. And that's something. That's something that nobody can ever take away from you. That's something... that only you can give away. Okay, okay, okay. Listen. I understand everyone's frustration. But at this point, we're simply waiting for the district to give us the go-ahead. Look, all I know is that these young boys should not be punished for some grown man mistakes. And as parents, we should make sure that doesn't happen. Well, you know what, no matter wherever the blame lies, there is not a child at Carter High School that is responsible for what happened. Nevertheless, it's the children at Carter who are being punished by DISD's failure to do what we pay them taxes to do. Okay, whoa, whoa. Un-Unfortunately, DISD is dropping the ball. But we're here tonight because we need to take legal action. And the sooner we get a restraining order motion filed, we can start with the proceedings. Oh, so, what, you need some money? Hmm. I mean, so what is our guarantee that this legal stuff - is gonna work anyway? - Right. The only guarantee I can give you is that my staff and I will fight as hard in the courtroom as those boys fight out on the field. That's the only guarantee that I can give. Whatever. This is my community, too. And believe you me, it's not about the money. It's about those boys, those young men right there, knowing that their hard work wasn't in vain. And them knowing that they have a village that will come to their aid no matter what. That's what this is about. So all those in favor of seeking a temporary restraining order that would possibly allow Carter to remain in the play-offs, stand up. And for the record, UIL stands for? University Interscholastic League. And what exactly do you do for the UIL, Mr. Winston? I investigate complaints related to the No Pass No Play law in DISD. Okay. So is it fair to say that you received a complaint regarding Carter High School? That's correct. And when did you receive this complaint, Mr. Winston? At the end of the six weeks. Hmm. Well, if I am, uh, correct, I believe that Carter was declared ineligible about four or five days after the end of the six weeks. So, four or five days, Mr. Winston? Yes, I'm... I believe that's correct. Hmm. And where... No, who did this complaint come from, Mr. Winston? Mr. Winston. Uh, well, sir, we, uh... we normally don't reveal the source of our complaints. Oh, "normally." Will you tell that to the Carter community and all these Carter kids who are - Your Honor, I object. -being affected by your hasty decision - to disqualify their school? That's far -Counsel... - from normal circumstances, sir. Your Honor, we have -Counsel... reason to believe that the source may be the same - individual that we attempted - Counsel, - to subpoena but was assured - I advise you - by the UIL and - to settle down - other investigative authorities - before I hold you in contempt - that that would not be necessary. -of this court. - And furthermore, Your Honor... - Counsel! How you ain't see all this comin' with them big-ass glasses you got on? No. But I did see Attention, faculty and students. I've just been informed by the Dallas superintendant that our football team has been reinstated into the play-offs! So congratulations to our football team and good luck in the play-offs. Hey, CC! Too bad, too bold! Hey, CC! Too bad, too bold! Hey, CC! Too bad, too bold! Hey, CC! Too bad, too bold! Hey! Well, I have just confirmed that Carter has, in fact, been reinstated in the play-offs. Apparently, the UIL received some kind of anonymous letter to recheck one of the students' algebra grade. He actually passed the class on his report card, but there was supposedly some kind - of miscalculation due to him transferring -Yes! - From one class to another. - Yes! Whoo! - As of now, Carter -That's what I'm talking about, baby. Will be marching on in the play-offs. Play-off bound, play-off bound. Since the reports are conflicting, that, uh, at this point, uh, we need to turn the, uh, investigation over for a hearing, that is. Not an investigation but a hearing, uh, to the executive commission in Austin. And until that's resolved, Carter High School will retain their position as a contender in the state, uh, uh, tournament tonight. Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth, as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, the power, the glory, for ever. Amen! Edwards takes the pitch around the right end. He's inside the five-yard line. Touchdown, Cowboys. A spectacular flip into the end zone. Hall under center for the Cowboys. A little play action. He's looking down the right sideline. He's got a man open. It's Grant. He's to the ten, the five. Touchdown, Cowboys. - A rocket goin' on. - Wildcats deep in their own territory. Quarterback number 12 back to pass. He rolls around the right end. He's looking downfield and... - It's picked off! - Oh, got it! That's number two, Edwards. Ooh, that's a mattress, baby. That's a mattress. - Oh, money gone, baby. Money gone. -Aw. Come on. Get that, get that, get that. I'm gonna ask y'all one more time. Was it worth it? Weren't even doin' nothin'! We just threw dice! Nah, you was Gamblin'. And Gamblin' don't build character. Gamblin' makes you rely on luck or chance. Football ain't about relyin' on luck or chance. Football is about making good decisions, good choices on every single play. Now, if you can't learn that and apply it to your life, you're wasting my time and your time. Why you think we have a tie on our record? Because... we had the same score as others... as the other team. Oh, no. No. The choices we made. Like you, Derric. You saw fit to hit a man when he was five yards out of bounds And give them excellent field position. Or you, Jay. When you chose to try to pick up a fumble instead of falling on it like we practice all the time. And you, son. You make a good play and then decide to celebrate for 15 minutes. That is what a tie is. All we need you to do is sign the affidavit. Look, Mr. Winston, this... this was not my intention. I-I simply confided in a friend about a conversation that I had with my boss. Right. And that conversation led to an investigation, - which I'm trying to conduct. - An investigation?! You had the school disqualified! What difference does that make to you?! Now... you can... sign the affidavit, or I'll subpoena your ass to testify! Your choice. Okay, we, uh... we're waiting on a phone call. So, uh, let's, uh... All right, everybody off the school bus. As of now, we've been declared... ineligible again. And we're waiting on a phone call to... to see exactly what's going on. So... just hang out. Stay loose. What's going on? I thought we were checking out and going to the game. They just declared Carter High ineligible again. You're kidding me, right? I advise you to put that coffee down and help us - prepare these motions. - But the judge already ruled. Against the UIL. It's from the T.E.A. That's got to be, like, double jeopardy or something. All right, folks, we have exactly 45 minutes before the courts close... It's gonna take us at least that amount of time to make it through traffic. We're gonna need at least three motions. And honestly, guys... I don't know what to expect when we get there. You mean if we get there. It's kind of hard to fight when you can't even identify your enemy. So we're gonna... we're gonna prepare a bullet for all their asses. All right. We're back in. A judge issued a temporary restraining order that will allow us to play. But... the game is rescheduled till tomorrow. So go home. And stay out of trouble. I'm heading to Austin for the hearing. But tomorrow is it. Tomorrow? We don't even get to practice 'cause they keep kicking us out. Now they want to reschedule the game till tomorrow? Listen, you have every right to be upset. Man, come on, Coach. Tomorrow night there's gonna be some people across the field you can take that frustration out on. Especially that quarterback. I thought everything was taken care of. What's going on now? This is what you call political football. So what's the adjustments? I guess the adjustment is, don't give them nothing they can use against you. Or better yet, stay out of politics. The hardest thing is not knowing if we'll be playing or not. Now, I hate they have to go through this. You think the boys gonna be okay? You know... baby... on that field... they have this certain intensity in their eyes that I've never seen before. I mean, it's like they're, they're really locked in, focused. I mean, as long as they're on that field, baby, I mean, they're so good it makes me nervous. State? State?! State? They'll beat the Dallas Cowboys the way they're playing. - Give me some! Give me... - I heard that! Give me... Hit me again! Hit me! Okay, Coach! Yeah! Good to see you smiling again. Yeah. Man, feel the atmosphere tonight. Everybody's ready. I'm ready, I'm ready. You ready? Round two of the Texas State UIL Football Play-offs with the Carter Cowboys taking on their cross-county rival Dallas Samuell. It looks to be a good one tonight. Cowboys inside the ten-yard line, lined up in the, uh, wishbone formation. Give is to Edwards up the middle. He's pushing his way through. He hits a wall at the five-yard line, but he breaks free... Touchdown, Cowboys! His feet never stopped moving. Edwards just powered his way through. It looked like he was, he was down at the five, but he kept fighting his way, busting through and touchdown, Cowboys. Defense! This crowd is behind this Cowboy defense here as they're looking for a stop. Hold that line, defense, hold that line! Hold that line, defense, hold that line! Samuell quarterback under center. He looks. He looks out to the flats. The ball's hit by Maston and finds the hands of Armstead! Armstead is down the sidelines, and he's gonna take it all the way. Tipped by Maston, intercepted by Armstead like a thief in the night. Sweet Jesus, that boy can jump! And touchdown, Cowboys, Jessie Armstead! Armstead has been the man on this defense all year long. CC! CC! CC! - CC! - CC! CC! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter! Carter... All right, we ready? Yeah. What's, what's the holdup? I don't know. Lift every voice And sing Till earth and heaven ring Ring with the harmony Of liberty Let all rejoicing rise High as the listening skies Let us march on Till victory is won. You got a letter from Notre Dame. It upsets me to see you go through all this. 'Cause in my eyes... you're still my little baby boy. How's Gary doing? Jungle boogie More bounce Jungle boogie More bounce Relax your mind, let your... I know this is hard for you, because it's hard for me and your father. But we're both here if you need anything. I keep thinking I'm gonna wake up and it's all just gonna be a nightmare. Everything happens for a reason, baby. Come on, let's get something to eat. Mike Adams reporting. And now for the latest news on Carter High School's road in the play-offs. The Carter Cowboys are winning on the field, but will soon have to win in the courtroom again. Plano Independent School District has entered into a lawsuit on the side of the Texas Education Agency. Plano East would advance if Carter High is declared ineligible. Go, go, Cowboys, play! Go, Cowboys, go... It's the quarter final game, and Carter takes on Marshall. It's gonna be their biggest challenge of the year. Hall under center, play action. Looking down the left sidelines. He's got Grant. And it's caught! Laid that ball in his arms like a daddy laying his son down for a nap. Okay, here we go. It's fourth down for Marshall. And this could be their final play of the season. Quarterback drops back. He's looking down. He's got Odell Beckham and it's caught! Lord have mercy! Touchdown, Marshall, and the tide has just changed. After a big return by Grant, the, uh, Cowboys' backs are against the wall. After three unsuccessful tries, they're facing fourth down with under 30 seconds to go, trailing 18 to 14. Okay, Cowboy fans, it all comes down to this. It's fourth down. Hall back to pass. He's got Allen across the middle! Allen's to the sidelines. He's down the left sidelines and he could go all the way... Is he in? Waiting on the call from the refs! - He's in! He's in! - Yes! And he's gonna be ruled out, just shy of the goal line. Time-out, ref! Time-out! Come on, bring it in! Everybody, bring it in! Way to go! Coach, I'll catch it. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, baby. You sure will. And look. Regardless of what happens on this next play, we had a hell of a season. A great season! But you know what? We've always had a great season! So right now we all got a choice to make! I want y'all to know there's this little thing called, uh, destiny. And you don't get it by, like, sitting around, waiting for it. It doesn't come to you by chance! It's a matter of choice! It's something you got to go out and get! So what you waiting for? Go on and get it. What is this? Armstead is running onto the field. Armstead is lined up at tight end. Hall back to pass and catches Armstead across the middle! Touchdown, Cowboys! They've done it again! Jessie Armstead, All-American linebacker, checks in at tight end. Hall drops back, runs a little tight end dump. And the Cowboys are on their way to the semifinals. A district judge has blocked the Texas Education Agency commissioner from determining Carter's eligibility. He's also stopped the UIL from knocking Carter out of the play-offs. That should be a lot for a team that, since the beginning of the play-offs, has not known if they are in or out. And we're live from Darrell K. Royal Memorial Stadium in Austin, Texas, for this state 5A semifinal game between the Odessa Permian Panthers and the Carter Cowboys. You know, I heard from a little birdie that Odessa was trying to persuade Coach James to play this game in Odessa. Hall spins away from a tackle. He's got Jones down the left sidelines. And Jones scampers into the end zone. Sweet feet. Touchdown, Cowboys. And it's blocked. Oh, he blocked it. And there's a scramble for the ball. Get it! Somebody jump on it. And it's gonna be Panther ball. Cowboys inside the red zone. Hall looks across the middle, and he's got Grant. Touchdown, Cowboys! Carter Cowboys on their way to their first ever state championship. After a 14-to-9 victory over 5A powerhouse Odessa Permian, the Cowboys are moving into the state championship to face Converse Judson. A lot of things... have been out... of our control... but we got... the opportunity... to choose... what happens... from this point on. All right, fellas. This is it. For us seniors, it's our last chance. Last opportunity. Yeah. Like Coach James said, we worked hard for this. We earned this. This is ours, not theirs! Let's go get what belong to us. Damn the T.E.A. Yeah. Damn the UIL. Yeah. And damn them fools across the field from us. Hell yeah! 'Cause tonight is our time. Fuh Dee-oh Fuh Dee-oh Fuh Dee hoes Fuh Dee-oh... Fuh Dee-oh Fuh Dee-oh... Fuh Dee-oh Fuh Dee hoe... Fuh Dee hoe Fuh Dee hoe... Hey, hey, hey, cut that out! I found out what y'all been saying. That's enough of that. You done got me as an accomplice in this nonsense. Everybody in Dallas yelling that mess. You knew what the hell they was saying. Man, "red dogs" on three. One, two, three. Red dogs! I'm back in this bitch with a vengeance And no, I'm not here by mistake I'm hungry, I'm just here to eat And I see it's a lot on the plate... Carter Cowboys are the state 5A champions. State champs, baby. A Dallas team has not won the state championship since 1950. Feeling proud right about now. 'Cause we-we went through some hard times to get here. Feeling proud. We knew if we kept playing football that we would be here, but we didn't know about all the UIL stuff. That's the only thing that's kept us out of here is UIL. And now we're here, and we did it. Thinking about it, having fun and... I'm ready to just jump off the top of the building, hang from up there right quick. CC, too bad, too bold Oh CC, too bad, too bold Oh CC, too bad, too bold - Oh... - Hey. All right, all right, all right, all right. I just want to say... just want to say this. As that clock was counting down, I realized... what I wanted... out of coaching after all these years. This championship means a lot. But what I want... what I need... is for you all to leave here... and be successful. Be successful in every endeavor of your lives. Now listen to me, boys. This is not the end. This is just a beginning. And I want to... I want to thank you... from the bottom of my heart. So, "champions" on three. One, two... Whoa, whoa-whoa, Coach. Come on in. No, come on in. Come on in. Come on in here. Come on in here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Listen. Listen, boys. This gentleman... this gentleman right here... fought for us... in the courtrooms... so we could continue to fight on the field. Please. Guys... you're fighting for what's right. There's a goal of team sports, and you all have accomplished that goal. To see so many young men face and overcome the adversity that you all have is nothing short of a miracle. You all have made so many people proud. Including myself. - Yeah. Yeah! - Right. Carter High, thank you for a hell of a season. A hell of a season! Yeah! Whoa, hold on, hold on now. Hold on. Okay. I would like to say on behalf of Carter High and the Carter High football team, thank you, okay? And from one great defense to another defense, I would like to present you with the game ball. CC! Oh, oh, no, no, you got to join us. - Come on, Royce. - Come on in here now. "Champions" on three! One, two, three, champions! Oh CC, too bad, too bold Oh, CC Too bad, too bold Oh CC, too bad, too bold Oh CC, too bad, too bold Oh, CC Too bad, too bold Oh CC, too bad, too bold... Man, you heard from Jay? Oh, I hollered at him day before yesterday. You know he been busy with school and shit. But he said he gonna catch up with us after graduation. Tweedledee, Tweedledum... Man, you sure Vincent's still here? Yeah, here that fool come right now. Crazy fool. - What up, D? - What up? 'Sup, baby? Man, I know one of y'all finna get out of the car and get this food. - Man... - You gonna take our order? - You paying? - Paying? Exactly. Get out the car and get the food, man. Hollywood D. Hollywood. - Ooh! - Ungrateful ass, man. Oh. Season over with, fellas, so this, uh, fringe benefit stuff gonna have to cease. You know we appreciate you, dawg. Friend benefits, that's the difference. - Whatever, man, same thing. - Trying to tell you. I be trying to tell him, G, he don't listen, though. Last time we got busy, your body got numb And now you're beatin' like a big bass drum You're in position. Can y'all believe we actually won state, though? Bam. Look, loc, you gonna have to hold up, a'ight? 'Cause you messing up my concentration. They still treat me like a celebrity up there, Jay. Ah, for real? Man, will y'all please shut up. He actually got robbed the other day. They took money from everybody up there except me. Oh, for real? I see you're on that pool table again. Dinner's almost ready. - And you're welcome to stay. - Oh, okay. - Thank-Thanks, Ms. Campbell. - Thank you, Ms. Campbell. Uh, s-say, Mama, you, uh, you got $20 I can borrow? - Boy, what did you do with your allowance? - Shut up. You done. No, I-I got some notes... Cash only, homeboy. None of them pink passes. Shit, I can take a couple of those, man. Your ass got some money? I mean, not right now. Right. What I thought. Yeah. I got robbed and got more money than both of y'all. Yeah, whatever, PK. Say, man, is y'all hiring up there? Man, I doubt it. We got enough fools up there getting paid to do nothing, man. But I can hook y'all up, though. Man. Man, dawg, somebody gonna blast your ass for real, you keep running around with that little toy. This toy can get your ass paid. Hey, man, PK, you're crazy, man, for real. Say, you... you talking about robbing? Kinda. Oh, "kinda"? It'd be robbing me. Well, I mean, not robbing me. You robbing the store. Man, hell no, PK. That shit's stupid, man. That shit dumb, man. Nah, man. Nah, you stupid, dawg, for real. And I'm telling you this shit's easy. Two to three minutes, in, out. More bounce Jungle boogie More bounce Jungle boogie More bounce Jungle boogie More bounce Relax your mind, let your conscience be free And get down to the sounds of EPMD Well, you should keep quiet while the MC rap But if you tired, then go take a nap Or stay awake and watch the show I take Because right now, I'm about to shake and bake The E-R-I-C-K is my name I spell Thanks to the clientele, yo, I rock well I'm not an MC who talking all that junk About who can beat who, sounding like a punk I just get down, and I go for mine Say "check one, two," and run down the line To the average MC I'm known as the Terminator Funky beat maker, new jack exterminator Destroy and employ When your rhymes are not void Never sweatin' your girl... why, P? 'Cause she's a skeezoid When I'm on the scene I always rock the spot I grab the steel with the crown on top. Get your ass back in there and don't say a word. Hey, man, PK, chill out before they find out you in on this, man. What you doing? What's up with the pantyhose? I told y'all to wear stocking caps, man. Hey, PK. For real, man. This is your bright-ass idea anyway. - Okay, okay, okay, okay. - You owe us, man. - For real, man, come on. - Okay. Y'all sure is takin' a long time gettin' this place cleaned up. Maybe if we had a little help... Any time the manager leave, you act like you can't do nothing. But eat them damn fries. Nigga, you ain't nothing but a shift manager. - Which means... - Get your hands up. When the manager's gone, I'm in charge. As a matter of fact, since day one... Day one... You've been fucking up. Everybody get your ass on the goddamn ground! You, too, man, get on the floor. Uh-uh, uh-uh. You. You get your ass up, big boy. Uh... uh... Uh... ooh... I... I'm... I'm just... uh... uh... - In charge? - Yep. Mr. HNIC. Shut up. Ah... I'm just, I'm just a shift manager. Yeah. Yeah, right. Now shift your ass over there and put the money in the goddamn bag! Come on, hurry up! Come on, big boy. Yeah, all of that, too. Come on. Come on! Yeah. And then that, too. Come on. Come on, big boy. - Get your fat ass to the ground! - Ah! - Don't y'all move. - Come on. The Carter Cowboys won the state championship a month ago, and you could've held a convention on the sideline of the Cowboys' practice field. That's where recruiting coordinators gathered daily to catch a glimpse of the team that could produce more recruits than any other team in the state of Texas, maybe even the nation. This year's Carter team appears ready to climb the ladder of success. That leaves only one thing left to say: this is a class by itself. I told y'all. Just like clockwork. Man, Keith, how long you been working here? About a week. So y'all go ahead, get suited up. Say, PK: give that toy to Los. Run with this. Man, this real? Don't worry, it ain't even loaded. Hey, man, for real. All y'all, this the last time, all right? - -Y'all taking this shit way too far, man. All right, nigga. Get in. Get back in, jet. Go on. Go, go. Go on. Go on. That chick there a starter Brewster go to Carter She gon' let me get it - Soon as she drop off her daughter... -Damn, fellas! Ooh, look like y'all had a nice Christmas, huh? Yeah. It was a'ight. Excuse me, Derric. Hey. You mind if I wear your jacket till last period? I'm a little cold. I ain't even trippin', baby. - Thanks. - Mm-hmm. Mmm-mmm-good. Oh, I was just, uh, admiring the jacket. Is that all? And I was wondering if there was any more room for me in those jeans. Maybe. Damn! It's like that? Must be the shoes. Girl... ah... I want to... Hey, I just want to know, is there any room for me in these jeans? And I was wondering if you ever heard of a peppermint. Say, dawg, I guess it ain't the shoes, then, huh? Hey, I-it's all good, dawg. Real talk, man. All right, then, dawg. Breath mint, dawg? "Nice Christmas"? What you mean, "nice Christmas," dawg? Man, what you talkin' about? Thought you knew, brah. Knew what? Now I lay me down to sleep Ooh I just can't find a beat Flash light Oh, I will never dance Flash light Flash light Flash light Bah-dah-dah-Dee Bah-dah-dah, ah-dah-dah-dah Oh, it's no use Flash light Red light Neon light Ooh, stop light Now I lay me down to sleep I guess I'll go Count the sheep Oh, but I will never dance Oh, don't make me do it Dance, sucker Ooh, ha-ha, get him... No less than 18 Carter football players are headed to four-year colleges or universities on full scholarships. Just one more area where no other high school can beat Carter. I almost... I almost got you. You couldn't keep up, boy. - Nah, man. - You couldn't keep up. I ain't gonna never let no old man get me. Who you calling "old"? - Come on, baby. - Come on, I still got it. - Shoot. - Old man, old truck. That's what you think. - That was a damn good workout. - Pretty sweet. You know why we come out here? Not only does it make us better athletes, but it makes us better men. Now, you made your choice when you decided to suit up and play for the Carter Cowboys. I don't know. I guess what I'm saying is... Hold on. Come on. Whoa. If you didn't have football... what would you be doing? Get in the truck. You want the receipt in the bag or with... All right. Thank you. Have a nice day. Got another quarter? Damn! You scared the hell out of me, brah. So what's up? My-my manager still out there, dawg. - Thought you said he's supposed to be gone. -Shit, he is. This nigga out there playing goddamn Ms. Pac-Man, brah. You said this was gonna be easy, dawg. How long you think he finna be here? You don't know. I don't know. Walk in, get the money, then we good. - G... - That's what you said, D. G, if Keith and them can do this shit, I know we can. Whatever, dawg. Vincent, go on, get behind the counter, let's do what we gotta do. Y'all sure about this? Yes, I'm sure. All you gotta do is go up to Vincent and get the money. I'm-a take care of the manager. You in or you out? Nigga, give me all the money! Get your punk ass on the ground. You, too, bitch. Get on the ground. - Get on the ground! - Hurry up! Move! "Just one more game." - Save that shit for later. - "This is it, - the last..." - Shut the fuck up. Get your ass on the ground! Come on. Man, you niggas done lost y'all damn mind. Jay, I'm telling you, dawg, it's easy. Ain't like we really robbing the place anyway. All we gonna do is walk in, get the money, and we... Man, I'm still on probation for a $15 T-shirt. My teacher'd kick my ass. I made a promise, dawg. Not to mention my old man. Hell no. It's like being back on the field, dawg. It's a trip. We walked into this one place, and the chick at the register, - she knew us, right? - Fine, too. So I asked her, "What would you do if we was gonna rob this place?" Shit. She said, "Give you all the money "and anything else you wanted. Anything." So D said, Well, we robbin' it, baby. Then wrote her phone number on one of the bills. Just like that? - Just like that. - Just like that. It's nothing. - Ah... - What's up, fellas? Man... Where your big-ass bifocals at? It's nighttime. They're called "contact lenses." They kind of work like glasses. I will miss this fool. For real. I'm gonna miss you, dawg. Got your ropes and everything. A'ight, dawg. A'ight, G. Take it easy, dawg. Ropes and chains... What you gettin' into tonight? - Yeah. - Uh, chillin'. - Got a 9:00 to 5:00 in the morning. -Oh. So, uh, tell your girlfriend - we can't kick it tonight. - Ooh! - -Boy, I'll spur you in the back of your head. - A'ight. - A'ight, man. Oh, man... Look, straight up: what you gonna do? Barbecue or mildew? Do you know you can ask your mama for money whenever? - Shit, you, too, G. - But you think I'm finna go to my mom's to ask for money to shake you niggas up in a dice game? - Ha! - OPM, dawgs. OPM. Jay, look. It's probably gonna be the last one. Is you in or you out? Last one... Damn, how many has it been? Asking too many questions, huh, my boy? Ha! Meet me at 1:00 if you're down. It's barbecue or mildew, big boy! - 1:00. - Let's ride, G. Come in. Hey, how you doing, son? I'm all right. I was, uh, I was driving by and I saw your truck, so, um, I thought I'd stop by and check on you. Yeah, well, relax. Hey. You didn't stop by to apologize for something, did you? No, sir. I guess you're a little nervous about going off to school. Well... You're gonna be okay. You've made a good choice. Sir? You couldn't stay here forever, son. Listen. You just remember everything you learned. And make room to learn more. And stay humble. Stay humble inside. Appreciate it, Coach. And, uh, by the way, they say we're gonna have a better team next year. We'll see. All right, you kids get to bed, I'll get the story Now, here's a little story that needs to be heard Word, word, word, Rick Y'all tucked in... Derric! Gary! Where laws were stern and justice stood And people were behavin' like they ought to... good... Hey, Derric, Gary! Misled by another little boy, and this is what he said Me and you, Ty, we gonna make some cash Robbin' old folks and makin' the dash They did the job, money came with ease But one couldn't stop, it's like he had a disease He robbed another and another and a sister and a brother... Hey, hey, Coach? Hmm? I got it. I got it. Your defense is your offense. Now, a good defense leads to an easy offense, which puts the offense in a better position. Mm-hmm. It's, um, it's a mindset, Coach. "As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he." You can only defend something that you already possess. So the more the team believes they're already champions, they have already won in their mind. And now have something to defend. Hence, defense wins championships. Yeah. Sirens sounded, he seemed astounded And before long, the little boy got surrounded He dropped his gun, so went the glory And this is the way I have to end this story He was only 17 in a madman's dream The cops shot the kid, I still hear him scream This ain't funny, so don't you dare laugh Just another case about the wrong path Straight and narrow or your soul gets cast Good night, good night, good night Knock 'em out the box, Rick, knock 'em out, Rick Oh, boy, that Uncle Ricky is really weird Knock 'em out the box, Rick, knock 'em out, Rick I know, right, what does he mean Straight and narrow or your soul gets cast? I don't know, I think he be crackin' up or something... Driver's license and insurance. Nah, man, I'm just trippin'. Be advised, suspects are armed. Stand by for description. Hey, why don't you do me a favor? Will y'all sign this for me, please? - Absolutely, yes, sir. - Yes, sir. Suspects in the video store are two black males - about 17 or 18 years old. -You got, you have a pen on you, sir? Oh, sorry about that. Here you go. One is about six-two or six-three... Carter High School, State Champ! Other suspect is stocky and about five-nine... Now, you're going to Tennessee, right? Yes, sir, the Vols. Suspects are armed and... And you're going to U of H? Oh, yes, sir. - All right, ah... - Yes, sir. The suspects were last seen heading westbound... Hey, I'll be looking out for y'all, all right? - I'm so proud of you. - Thank you. - And proud of the neighborhood. - Yes, sir. - Appreciate that, sir. - We all proud of you. Yes, sir. Y'all have a good one, okay? - Yes, sir, thanks. - You, too. Suspects were driving an '87 or'88 candy-apple-red Corvette, no plate at this time. Man. See, we can never Oh Stay strong Stay - Strong - Stay strong Oh... Never It's never you - So if I am hurting - Stay strong Stay strong We here, we in here We salute, we salute So hard, so hard Oh, hard We come So far Baby, the night's so cold... This was gonna be the last one. In a room so dark And the light is so... And they're both pregnant. Edwards? You made bail. Believe me, I'm not saying that the boys are not guilty of something. I just want to make sure that you know that these are not your typical aggravated robberies. Royce, I understand that boys will be boys. And you know you're much better suited to decide their fate than some emotional jury. The rule of law affects not only those involved, but those who observe. Come on, Joe. You know, we both know the rules of law. I just want to make sure that if my request for probation is nowhere close to where you're leaning, just give me an opportunity to prepare my client. That's all I'm asking you, Joe. Fair enough. If they ring this doorbell one more time... Do they not have any consideration...? I got it, baby, I got it. I got it, I got it. All right. Coach James? Have any of your players told why...? If you press my doorbell one more time and disturb my wife, I promise you that will be the last microphone you ever hold. Today here in my courtroom, you are nothing more than a bunch of common criminals. Criminals that went out and pulled guns on innocent, hard-working citizens. You terrified them. You took their money. And you did this because it was simply an easier way to obtain money than to actually go out and work for it. And even though you never shot or killed anyone, as defendants before this court, you communitively have committed in the last six months more armed robberies than Bonnie and Clyde did in their entire life. When I call your name, would you please stand? Mr. Evans. Son, when it comes to violating the law, it simply doesn't matter that you can run a football down the field. And for the robberies you committed, I sentence you to four 20-year terms - in the State... - What? No! - in the State Department of Corrections, -No! No! All to be served concurrently! Order in the courtroom! Order in this courtroom! That's too much! I will have order. - You don't do that! - Order in the courtroom! - No! That's my baby! - Order in this courtroom. No! That's not fair! Order, please, ladies and gentlemen. - Order in the court. - That is not justice, to take our babies away! Mr. Edwards, would you stand, please? For the robberies you have committed, I sentence you to three 16-year terms in the State Department of Corrections, all to be served concurrently. You may be seated. You may be seated. Mr. Campbell... Jessie, do you have a statement? Do you have anything that you can tell us? Son, I believe you have some serious psychopathic tendencies, and, frankly, you scare me. And for that reason, I am sentencing you to four 25-year terms in the State Department of Corrections, all to be served concurrently. Be seated. Mr. Allen, for the robberies you have committed, I sentence you to three 13-year terms in the State Department of Corrections, to be served concurrently. Be seated. Mr. Williams. For the robberies you committed, I sentence you to three 14-year terms... in the State Department of Corrections, all to be served concurrently. Ooh Oh, Lord Uh-huh Sometimes you can trust nobody And it's hard To understand The people that you love the most Will knock you where you stand So you do all you can To take away the pain Cover it up when all the world has to offer Until all you feel is shame But you know I'm... I'm holding on To God's good grace But you know I'm... I'm holding on To God's good grace Oh, yeah Folks will turn their backs on you... Some who were better able to control their emotions... And they'll kick you when you're down Make you feel like the sun won't shine Until you're not around So you do all you can reactions to the prison... - To hide away the fear You cover it up when all the good time can bring you Until you disappear But you know I'm... I'm holding on To God's good grace But you know I'm... I'm holding on To God's good grace I'm holding on To God's good grace You know I'm... I'm holding on To God's good grace And no matter... No matter what I'm going through I know No matter how lost I get I know I know... I am... somebody. Ah... Tone. Tone. Rhymefest. I could give them the codes To every lock They still wouldn't figure me out I could turn myself in Run to the cops They still wouldn't shut me down I'm a mastermind... I ain't who they said I was I kept messing up 'cause I was scared I was The preachers, the teachers, the cops, they all got to me I was the leader in the crowd pretending not to be You ever feel or ever felt like we've been More conditioned, poor positioned Poor people make poor decisions You ain't who you thought you was You're who you're taught you was, hood brought us up Till the cops caught us up Yeah, they was anxious to tell us that we ain't shit People that supposed to help tell you what you can't get They tried to tell Malcolm X to be a carpenter They even tried to tell Barack he was a foreigner They told me my career was dead, call a coroner Then we rolled "Glory" on they ass, I'm a warrior - We want to give music - Yeah - Trauma, we live through it - Yeah Don't think the pain and setbacks is all it is to it... You know, as time has passed, I haven't always made the right decision, but I have come to understand that... one mistake or making an ill-willed decision not only affects that particular person, but it affects those that are around him as well. I can still hear the screams from the courtroom. I would never play ball again. Today when I look back, I'm proud of where I stand. But you have a choice: not to make the same mistake that I did. Mama brought... brought... raised me and my brothers in church, and one of the things I knew that I had to give my life to Christ in order for me to be able to stay out, in order for there to be balance, 'cause I was not gonna go back. Actually, uh, a couple years ago, I played in the NFL, and, uh, a lady asked me to hold her baby, you know? And her husband was like, "Them guys you played with at Carter, they were some criminals, weren't they?" I'm like, "They were identical to me, and you asked me to hold your baby." It wasn't no difference in me and them. I just made the right decision at the right time. If I would have gotten in that car that one time, then I would have got 20 years in a maximum-security prison. And they were looking for... trying to, uh, tie me in with something like that. A soda can Yeah, I walk like Jesus, Chi's my Bethlehem When I step in the room, niggas know to stand Understand? Last year of King's life, everybody hated him They assassinated him, then we celebrated him Yeah, that's what them niggas did - Guess who sold his legacy - Who? His fuckin' kids, they made us choose Between fame and integrity, friends or celebrities Then they flashed 'em in In black light to steal your memories I sold my soul to the dealership for an Infinity It didn't last forever, but it had all the amenities Don't let the leeches steal your energy Come on, gangsta, that's your inner G Them niggas ain't your squad, them is frenemies We can make the whole world bow to the symphony. No jail cell can contain me, no graveyard can hold me, no lie can stop me because I am... somebody. No chatter, I really matter. I am... somebody. Down with it? Can't quit it. Ain't gonna turn around 'cause I matter. I am... somebody. Through it all, let nothing break your spirit. Your back, maybe, but never your spirit. I am... somebody. '88 Carter raid. '88 Carter raid. '88 Carter raid. '88 Carter raid. Back then in '88 Yeah, money, we flexing our weight Carter Cowboys, we never let down We dinosaurs, we ancient I sit at the job on the scene With a lean that is mean that'll make Joe Greene leave - My squad is the best - Yeah Gorillas are us '88 Carter raid, down, set, hut Smash on the team, and we were passionately elite No need for the nurses, just bring a couple roses 'Cause Jessie 'bout to go in deep And G got his own and, no, we can't get along So you from the other side If you didn't come from... I mean, act well I got a chick with a mean half-step In a group, they call us the calicoes They groove with the band while the band play Groove me, baby Headed off to that sneak street For them drag races and that dice game PK got the dice flame And keeping it cool for the nice dame We hop in the bus and Cowboys are us We come just to bang We hope there's a nurse, we hope there's a nurse We hope there's a nurse No need to go bus, homie, stick to your lane Yeah, you know who done came in this beesh Hey-oh Fuh these hoes... Fuh these hoes Fuh these hoes... Fuh these hoes '88 Carter raid... '88 Carter raid '88 Carter raid... Look, we taking our time Stepping on the field, that turf We stepped on cold, understand we own it They want to holla back, Coach James Ain't never let us down, we comin' without a warning And bein' after, we gotta hit another lick 'Cause the riches, they just steady callin' And hold up, let me get back on it Wait a minute. '88 Carter raid, yeah... Ain't nobody better than us Ask Carlos, we got to rock that blue, that red And say, huh, what it is, homie Nobody get passes, they're not normal And see, our city we all for it So let's get it on just like Marvin '88 Carter raid '88 Carter raid... '88 Carter raid '88 Carter raid... '88... '88 Carter raid Ah... Listen, I'm from the city of the T, Cadillacs and Capris Golds in our mouths, you don't know about the South You don't know about the South I said I'm from the city of the T, Cadillacs and Capris Golds in our mouths, you don't know about the South You don't know about the South Fuh these hoes... Fuh these hoes Fuh these hoes... Oh... '88 Carter raid '88-'88 raid-raid '88-'88 Carter raid Fuh these hoes... Fuh these hoes Fuh these hoes... Fuh these hoes Oh...
