 

                        1 There's an imaginary line out there Between right and wrong. Good and evil. I believe what I'm doing is good. And I believe what I'm standing up against is evil. It's the cartels, they are the ones terrorizing their own country And now they're starting to do it over here. gunshots on the us border with mexico. with a porous border cartel violence is spreading. warning visitors to beware of heavily armed drug smugglers And human traffickers. ranchers finding drug stashes on their property. Calling the border patrol, sometimes getting help sometimes not. this area has been ceded to the cartels. This is no longer really the United States. They own it. the situation's getting so bad That border patrol agents are completely overwhelmed. concerned citizens are arming themselves, Trekking into dangerous cartel territory. we're out here alone, The situation becomes more violent everyday And it concerns us not just for our safety, But for the future of this nation. mexico's right around the fucking corner And there's the staging area a fucking mile away. They're gonna have... If they come through, They're gonna have to walk right by us. Stick hard fucking left. Stay close to the brush. If anything fucking happens, they will have no problem fighting it out. We're so close to the fucking border right now. They have more guns, they have more people. It's kind of like a david and goliath story out here. We're david and they're goliath. That's where the dirt bags are sitting up top, right up there. That's where we're gonna go. Roger that. Go. Fuck. The cartel scouts keep getting away. Damn it! They have a beautiful set up here. They just have to sit right here And they can see the road for miles and miles and miles. Mexican cartels control this. Technically we're vigilantes Upholding the law where there is no law. But the phrase vigilante, It's been given a bad name by the media. they are heavily armed and claim to be protecting our state From foreign threats and from our own government. But the state's growing militia movement Is causing concern among law enforcement fire. Back in the day vigilante wasn't a bad thing. Say the bandits was riding into your town, The town's people would all get together and, you know, defend their town. Now when people hear that phrase they think of a vigilante As somebody who's got white sheets over their head And they're gonna hang fucking people from trees. It's bullshit. This is what I consider to be the wild wild west. There is nothing down here, there's no mall. I'm supposed to be able to pick up my telephone And go, "911 come help us." But it's an hour and a half out of tucson. What the fuck am I going to do sitting around for an hour and a half If I'm being attacked by the cartels? People scream out, you know, "oh, your racists. Oh, you're vigilante," and la la la. Bring your asses down here. I'll take you out on a nickel tour In the middle of the fricking night, And you tell me that it's safe and secure. Those fuckers over there, the cartels, They don't care about anybody. thanks to a new report By the southern poverty law center, We know that anti-government patriot groups are now At an all time high in this country. We need to pay attention to this folks. Bullshit. So the southern poverty law center Has just labeled us an extremist hate group. But we're just regular people who're standing up And saying, "enough's enough, we're sick and fricking tired." Something needs to be done. I believe that everybody has a purpose, All roads lead to one spot and this is where I am now. I left home when I was 15, I was tired of the physical and mental, Emotional, whatever you want to call the abuse by my father. So I tried to drown out the feelings and everything out With alcohol and drugs. I tried meth for a year or so, Couldn't even control myself. And one day I stopped at a bar And had a few too many. And I was passing this semi, and somebody was coming head on. And I got in front of the semi and started sliding sideways, And I remember looking up at him and he just threw his hands up and said, "can't do anything, sorry." The truck rolled six times and I climbed out Looked down and there was my wallet and the pictures of my two kids, And so I said, "okay, I got it." So 18 years ago I quit everything. Realized that I needed to deal with, uh, my issues. And so, I dealt with them. Once I got cleaned up I was working construction, But back in late '08 when the economy started falling apart I lost my job overnight, I lost my house, I had to sell everything. I hit the road for a year, year and a half, But everywhere I went there was illegals working on every construction job. A lot of them are doing work under the table, They're not paying taxes, they're sucking into the system. So I said, "well I got to Try to help and do something about this." So that's how arizona border recon came in existence. I took the last of my savings, came down to the border. Lived in my truck for the first two months in the mountains. I would drive the roads, find the trails, And apprehend illegals coming out of that area. but once I learned how the cartels pretty much controlled, Both the human smuggling and the drug smuggling. We had shifted our primary goal To keep cartel activity out of the country. Our main priority is going after the bad guys, these motherfuckers. for years mexican drug cartels have been waging a ruthless war Over the lucrative drug and human smuggling routes into the United States. And the affect on our country maybe just beginning. The federal government is failing the people of this country And especially people in border states. do you think that the federal government Isn't complacent in this shit? It's all lies. It's government propaganda. It's bullshit. I mean it's not rocket science. There's more people joining survivalist groups, militias, now than ever before Because they're scared that the country's collapsing, And a stand is going to have to be made. ...Waiting for distribution to other parts in the us. people that come down here have their own opinions On why the border needs to be secured. Good night you guys. I don't always agree with everybody's views, But I'm happy to have the help. Oh, it's burning. The reason I come down here Is to do something about having a porous border. The truth is tall fences make for better neighbors. Especially if you have conflicting ideas. You wouldn't put two pitbulls in the same pen, And expect them to get along and not fight. Why would you put two races in the same nation, And expect them to get along. when you join the military you take an oath. And that oath is to defend the country Against all enemies, foreign and domestic. And right now I see this as an invasion. the situations in mexico, specifically, it's insane down there. The villain is the cartels, these smugglers. they have no regard for human life. And I get asked a lot by people, why do I do this? And my question to them is, If not me then who? President obama heads to mexico tomorrow, But while mexico's president hopes To show off his country's economic successes, The ongoing war between violent drug traffickers And the growing movement of armed civilians Threatens to overshadow the gathering. estanislao beltrn torres A member of the michoacn self-defense group says, "dr. Mireles' whereabouts are not going to be made public for his security." ...Who's that, tim? Taking matters into their own hands, The rise of cartel violence and homicides Have sparked an emergence Of well armed vigilante groups. those guys are deeper down in mexico. They are in the southern mountains of michoacan. They're taking back What is theirs from the cartel, And is nice to see that they're standing up And going back at them. Oh you don't know who's who, who's actually helping them? Is it just the town's people, or is the government involved, Or the cartel's involved? Even if that's true, once they get strong enough They'll go after the cartels that armed them, So I hope they kick some ass down there. It's the way it should be done up here, too. We just spent $400 on a new digital scanner. The scouts are starting to use encrypted radios, So we got to beef up ours. Holy crap! I wonder if they're now over here. The scouts up on the mountains Are pretty much like air traffic control, But I like to call them drug traffic control They are the eyes for the guys on the ground. If we can take the eyes away from the cartels, We can put a little dent in what's happening. do you copy there, spartan? I sent a couple of guys to loop down and around, In case we flush the scouts off the top. roger here, it's over to you. this is my third time up this the fucking thing, And they get away every time. So I've got a bone to pick with these guys. These motherfuckers. Nailer, spartan. go ahead. Be advised. Duke has 07 bodies Camouflaged carpet shoes in person. fuck! Hola. Sit down. Mexican? - who does? - this guy, right here. It's their coyote, he's the guy in the front. He's the one who speaks the english. He's the guide. Yeah, yeah, yeah... I speak english because I working in cancun. You know where is cancun...? I know where cancun is. - I working there and I speak english... - Uh-huh. Finish up, we can go. I'll be up front Anybody touches me, drop 'em. Roger that. Okay, let's go. Tucson, this is clint with arizona border recon, I just want to let you guys know we need an agent for transport, We have seven off of guemero mountain. Nailer to spartan... Do you think there are other scouts? resupply for the scouts. the more and more I spend time down here I see innocent people becoming casualties of a war That they didn't want any part of, But they are stuck right in the middle of it. I'm not going to close my eyes, I'm not going to look the other way. he's a brave man And the time's are difficult here in our country, And this guy has a... As we say in mexico I've always had concerns the violence in mexico Would make it across the border, And it's already happening. there's been a major new development this morning In the border battle. two agents have been shot in southern arizona, Eight miles from the border. we've identified 25 murders, 124 kidnappings And extortion's that are cartel related. It's bad down here, I think its going to get a lot worse. there's a lot more people Waking up to what's actually going on And the interest in what we do has gone up tremendously. this right here is where it starts man. It's a group of people coming together Having the necessary conversations I've been doing this for over four fucking years And I've been asking, begging and dying For fucking people to come down. And look you guys show up, It took four years, but you're here. We had run-ins two days in a row with scouts. We've held them off, so they're dying to get something through. We're going to deploy in four different spots On four different hilltops. We're going to show them That we can watch this whole area. That's it, let's do it. Down the road, on your right, straight up that fence line. That's where you want to be. Try to stay off the roads as much As possible, use the trees as cover. See you in a couple of hours. Be advised, it looks like There's two scouts. tell him to notify as soon as he can confirm. We got a confirmed visual. Two scouts. We got a scout right there in those bushes, Right there. Copy. just post up and sit. Nothing will come through. Copy that. You know, we're playing a game of hide and seek, And we're just trying to play with the best we can. It's a victory even though you don't grab the mules and the dope. Just by stopping them from bringing it over, Is a small win in the battle. The odds are stacked against us, And we're sick and fricking tired. alcon, alcon, this is sierra 01. There is cartel radio traffic indicating possible movement Due to the storm. Stay alert at this time. we won't back down, we won't give up. We're going to keep pushing against the cartels. I believe what I'm doing is good, And I believe what I'm standing up against is evil. I think that this circle of violence has to stop. This is a big dream, And everybody can have beautiful dreams. I think I was a good vigilante for my people, For my town, for my michoacn state. But I lost my motive, Lost the family. And the family was the motive To fight against criminals. I... I think it's my fault, I think I'm responsible for this situation. This is life. There's people all around the world Trying to make a difference. They're all just like me. They're tired. They're tired of sitting, they're tired of waiting. They're tired of nobody doing anything, So they take the law into their own hands. The cycles do stop, You just got to want to change them. let's go, rocko. I left home because of the physical and mental abuse by my father But at one point he finally got to meet my daughters. And he complimented me, and says, "hey, they're great kids they're well behaved, They're articulate, they're intelligent, and everything else. And I told him I had him to thank, Because everything that he did to me, I did the exact opposite. So the cycles can change, It just takes somebody to change them. But we're stuck in a cycle where nobody wants to change. When they're spouting, they're changing But they're not doing anything. They're doing the same thing, but just with a different look.
