 

                        You know, I do a shit load of reading and studying and praying and I've come to a few conclusions I wanna share. People look at politicians and celebrities on the TV and the newspapers... glossy magazines, what do they see? "I am just like them." That's what they say. "I'm special. I'm different. I can be anyone of them." Well, guess what? You can't! You know why? Cause in reality, mediocrity's where most people lived. Mediocrity is the elephant of the room. Ubiquitous! Mediocrity's in your schools, it's in your dreams, it's in your family. Those of us who knows this, those of us who understand the disease of the dull, we do something about it. We do more because we have to. The deck was always stack against us. You're either a big leader or you're a slave clawing your way onto the sea train. Some people said Jack Abramoff moved too fast, Jack Abramoff cuts corner. Well, I said to them, if that's the difference between me and my family having a good life and walking the news in the subway everyday... then so be it. I'll not allowed my family to be slaves. I will not allowed the world I touched to be vanilla. You said I'm selfish, fuck you! I gave back, I gave back plenty. You said I've got a big ego? Fuck you twice! I'm humbly grateful, for the wonderful gifts that I received here in America... the greatest country on this planet. I'm Jack Abramoff, and oh yeah, I worked out every day. Mr. Sprague? Susan Schmidt of the Washington Post. -Find it alright? -Yeah, thanks for seeing me. I've got a lot of questions for you. -Jack Abramoff, right? -I hear he was charging the tribe an exorbitant fees. -30 million or more. -So, I guess you've met his partner Mike Scanlon too? Oh yeah, he's a real cowboy. Looks like they might be in some troubles. -Jack? -Honey! -Jack?! -Dad... -Mikey. Hey, I've been calling you all day, dude. -Where are you? -I'm in L.A. What the fuck are you doing in L.A.? Our world's collapsing here. Wait! What have you heard? Are you going to be indicted? Like a federal marshall is looking for me, okay. -I had a hundred media calls today. -We're under horrific assault from the -workforce, that isn't our culture. -I know... I know, Hey, you're the only one that returned my call. The president probably destroying every picture he ever took with you. Well, you're no one in this town until you've met us. That isn't funny, Jack. Don't fucking mess with my qi here. I'm serious. We're super fuck here, okay. They're calling us the new Watergate, Jack! We're about to be on the nightly news. Step up to the line. Dear Mr. President, I write you this petition with hope and prayers. As a man of faith, I've come to see God moves in mysterious way. After we're born, he gave us the choice of two paths. -Please don't smile. -I am not smiling. Accept the world the way it is. Or see it for how we might want it to be. I need a right. Right. To me, the choice was obvious. How long you'll be holding me here? You can get that information from your lawyer. I do get my own cell, right? I only eat kosher, okay. You do serve kosher!? Mr. Abramoff, this is a federal holding facility. It is not kosher. Jack Abramoff. Snake. What are you in for, Snake? Assault and battery, resisting arrest... chicken shit ... things like that. How about you? Oh me? I work in D.C. -I am a lobbyist. -Lobbyist. That against the law? Lobbyists - Noun legislation on behalf of a special interest. to influence public officials to take a desired action. Two Years Earlier... Next to God, faith and country, nothing's more important than influence. Political influence. Influences with the powerful is like the influence with God. Without it, there's only eternal hellfire, damnation and congressional log jam. Here, the influence we wield is more important than the air you breathe. As a licensed lobbyist I'm legally allowed to accept money from special interests in order to influence Congress on their behalf. I'm essentially a conduit to motivating sleepy lawmakers into getting bills passed and legislations done. He's extremely anxious to knows what's in your bills. The reality is, without lobbyists the wheels of WA would come to a grinding halt. How much do you looking to requisite about? Can you tell me that in dollars term? Why? Because the most powerful Members of Congress relied on lobbyists like me for information to guide them on how to vote and how they vote sometimes required taking them on facts finding mission. Like House Majority leader Tom Delay we brought to the Northern Mariana islands in the South Pacific. A U.S. territory, where my textile clients produced American-made designer clothes without having to pay minimum wage. Well, these folks seems happy. How are you? -I felt good, thank you. -Uh-huh. We should be able to vote favorably on this, Jack. For example, your top of the line stone-wash jeans can stay on sale for $19.95- Simply because labor costs in the Marianas remained low. Jack's pushing Mr. Delay hard to make sure the minimum wage legislation stay off Congresses schedule. Hey, you troglodytes, will you make sure that Delay gets the latest export numbers from Willy in case the Senate tries to kill this thing. Oui, mon capitan! Lobbying is nothing more than American style democracy in action. And the more influences we have- the bigger the smile on our kid's faces. Good morning, gentlemen. Grover, what brings you to locker room? Don't even bother trying to pitch him on our new client, he has issues with helping our native's people. Just with natives American, Jack. What do they have to do with American for tax reform? I need your help on this one, Grover. I need the Congressional friends in your organization to understand there are certain American Indian tribes that need help. Jack, United States from day one was founded on the basis that you could be or do anything you want to. You're in charge of your own future. There is no ceiling, there is no floor- You want to be a bum, you can be a bum. You want to accomplish great things, you can do that too. So, natives American chose to live in third world conditions, why is that my problem, huh? -Are those pistachios? -Yeah, genius. Listen, this is perfect for you, Grover. It is philanthropic. I mean- The money we're saving them is essentially paying for their health clinics and schools. -Help them help themselves. -Yeah, come on! There's no one on the stand as persuasive as you are. -You are a Harvard man, dude. -Yeah... yeah! The man with the crimson tongue. Grover, all we are trying to do is help these people empowered themselves. Jack, I've known you for 25 years. Why do I think your social gravitates is more than just about health connections-schools? -Veuve Clicquot, sir? -Thank you. You're welcome. -Ice tea? -Thank you. -Merlot with three ice cubes. -Thank you. Seriously, I think I once got a lap dance from her on "Nexus Gold." -I wouldn't know, Mikey. I'm married. -I thought I recognized her too, si. I liked the good lord would prefer I have deaf ear on this one. -We all set? -Check! 18 holes, St. Andrews, 5 stars hotel. Hugh Fraser, the British Open champion on hand to give a lesson lolly fucking doll. Restaurants tour in Edinburgh, two days stopover at the Hyde Park Oriental in London. Oh... VIP tickets to The Lion King for Tom. Nice soft grip, soft hand. Take a whack at her. Come on. Great shot! Great! Now I gotta sandbag my drive so Ponchos doesn't spew on his shoes. Ponchos been prime to arrange that he got his picture taken with Bush. Three years ago, his tribe is weaving pine needles and selling key chains. Now he must be able to drive a Hummer and buy condos in Hawaii. You tell me why these clowns get to own casinos and made 20 millions a year? Well, I don't know? Maybe that's not good enough reason for you, champ? -Are you part Mohawk now? -Yes indeed, Kimosabe! -One of the lost tribes of Israel. -Yep yep. You tried to play Indian. -No wonder they liked you so much. -Background talking crowd. You know what blows my mind? All these Indians are so damn rich and still acting like Wal-mart shoppers. He is a multi-millionaire, Jack, with a $10 watch. Listen, if you and I could accessed some of that liquid, -we would be running D.C. in no time. -What are you suggesting? I'm suggesting that they pay us a ridiculous amount of money, okay. And then, you and I can split the fees 50-50 under the table. It's a little tough on the Chippewa, not to mention is it legal? What are they gonna do? Cancel my membership at the ACLU? You know, I've got a limit on what I can charge. Shucks for you but I'm freelance, Jack! I'm grass root, baby. You're always complaining about living hand to mouth You know what? You deserve better. And Chief Shack-a-lot there, is our ticket out of our leady health. -That's it, chief. -Okay, put together a pitch for Tonto, -let's see what he says. -It looks good. Now chief, it's a simple thing. Look, I've handled the Coushattas, the Tiguas, the Aguas, Caliente's... and I tell them all the same thing, chief. I know what it feels like to be a persecuted minority. Yeah, well it's about time you guys in Washington finally did something good for Indian people. Like give America back? You've got a real sense of humor, Jack. I like that. Look! The casinos are a plus if it's profitable. But in reality the gaming industry is very competitive. You know, the Jena tribe, they want to open up their own casino now. -They're just one state away. -Yeah, I know those guys. They can be brutal. They can shut you down mega fast. No more Chippewa casinos. You need our help, chief. -You heard Mike's proposal? -It's a tough call. It's a hell of a fees you're asking for. -Kind of a record, isn't it? -But think of the billions that you're gonna saved. I can guaranteed you that goddamn Jena tribe casino will never opens. And before you know it, the Jena tribe gonna be back selling moccasins. You know, Mr. Abramoff, we can't afford to lose this one. You won't. Swear to God! Give me five! I told you, team Abramoff! -Team Abramoff! -To giving America back to the Indians All hail to Washington -biggest retainer. -Fucking A! You're no one in this town, if you haven't met Jack fucking A Abramoff. -Take it easy, Bill. Jack, you know I believe my fianc Emily, -everybody from the Bush's inaugural. -I'll never forget that night. McCain was in his office pounding Bush bills: "We lost!" It's very sincere moderate believe from every voters. Amen to that! Hey, Jack. Those Polynesian factories you wrapped to make the blue jeans on the Mariana Islands... -Yeah, what about them? -Words on the streets, is they're goddamn sweat shops and rape camps. Oh, all you guys from the Washington Post wants to be Woodward Bernstein. Fucking pathetic. That's so? The Labour department just fined your client $9 million dollars. Must be for something. Hey listen, bad breath. The mistakes will happen but the truth is you can't tell me those immigrants are making more money than they would in China -sending it back to their families. -That's right, we are greasing the wheels with American dollars, baby. -Capitalism at its finest. -Doing the Lord's works. Doesnt sound much like American democracy to me. Don't be stupid. No democracy, no fucking capitalism. No capitalism, no fucking democracy. Chrissy only goddamn communists slave-driven Bolshevism. -Thank you, Joe McCarthy. -Fucking elitist. -What? -What's wrong with you? Calm down. Someone called 911. Scott is a hemophilic. You just hit a hemophilic reporter from the Washington Post. Come on! -Grey another bleeding liberal. -It's okay. It's fine. Did you see that? This is not good. -Enid, get Delay for me, will you? -Should I remind him of Bible class Thursday afternoon? - Bible class is Thursday? - Yeah... Jack. Remember I switch it with your golf game. Well... Enid, you know sometimes even those of us who occupied the oval office can have our senior moments. Yes, Mr. President. Oh Jack... Mr. Rouvelas is here. Make sure I see it before it goes out, okay! Manny. -Let's grab a coffee. -Hey listen, if it's about the Jarrell incident, no worries... I fired him yesterday. The guy was a loose cannon. It's not like The Post is an important paper in this town. -Yeah, can we saved this for later? -Bear with me, it's important. Alright, Manny. So, where's the fire? We hired you because the partners felt we needed someone who have friends in the Bush administration. It's not about friends, Manny... it's about ideas. Then you guys on the right used to have ideas. But now that communism is gone, all you think about is money. So you invite me out for an iced vanilla cha just to remind me that I'm a right wing fascist, that's kind of beneath you, isn't it Manny!? What's beneath me... Jack, are the clients you dragged into my shop. Bottom feeder in the rag trade in the Mariana Islands. You know there's an upside for the poor Chinese. They get to send money back to their families in the mainland. And look at all the great works we're doing for the Choctaw, the Chippewa... That all sounds nice and philanthropy, Jack- but you're buddies with the White House. Hell, you're the reason that idiot cinched the Republican nomination. That because we destroyed McCain in the South. Bush still owes you. Why not used that? Aim a little higher when bringing in clients. -Such as? -Such as.. Fortune 500-company or two. You mean rich, white people? Listen, I've got a situation in Florida with a client... a very important client. With your background in gaming, might help us still handled it. -So... Indians? -No, Greeks. A guy in Florida named Gus Boulis... Bankruptcy is just the tip of the iceberg. He needs a buyer. Fast. It's a very lucrative casino op. Anybody who can afford to get in on it will get rich. Anyway Manny said you had some clients who might be interested under the circumstances. Yeah okay, Art. I will look into it. -Have you done all your things yet? -Hmm! Well, come to bed. The kids are asleep. It's late. What? What are you thinking? About us. Seems like only yesterday we were kicking out with the college Republicans. Remember that time you brought Pavarotti for Brandeis? -Nobody thought you could pull it off. -All them lefty listening to the Clash -Hey, I like Joe Strummer. -Hmmm, maybe I should have asked him to a duet with Pavarotti. That would have been something. I still love your dorkiness, hon. Always thinking out of the box. "Adrian... nobody ever went the distance for Creed." "If they rings the bell, and I'm still standing -" "I know I weren't just another bum from the neighbourhood." Come to bed. So this Gus Boulis, comes down from Canada- opened up a chain of sandwich shops in Miami. Then he cashes out and he goes into the cruise business, buy a fleet full of yachts, so pull the strings and turned them into floating casinos, runs out of 9 ports. Tourists, retirees some high rollers they called the cruise to nowhere. But there's this... Florida attorney general who's got a hard on for gamblers looking for a technicality to nail this guy. Problem is, Boulis isn't a US citizen- which turned out to be a violation of the shipping acts 1916. And then, this idiot gets sloppy about how he runs the casinos, you know, he plays fast and loose with the best, he think he's still fooling around with the cold guards. -Blackjack, house wins. -The customers start complained, pretty soon, Boulis is catching heavy grief with his gambling license. The gist of it's, the Feds are forced him to sell. He got months to diverse -which gives me a window. -Gives you a window? What, are you serious? No, we're serious. we going to swing it? We're gonna used our most powerful resource, Mikey. -My imagination. -Well, you'd better imagine we're as rich as the Chippewas then. So, what do you think of Sunsail? How do you think we should handled it? We need a frontman, you know. Someone strong enough to run a business but not so strong we can't control him. He's to have his own money, so he can invest, keep him loyal... honest. Do you know anybody like that? "Kwikee Mattress." The last "s" is for saving. The lowest prices in greater Bethesda. Plus same-day delivery. The principles of the Republican Party's more closely parallel the moral vision of the God of Abraham than anyone else. So the question: Does God want people to be... liquid? The answer is yes. The answer is yes. Prosperity enable us to do the right thing. To be able help our fellow man. To be steward of civilization. In biblical times, taxes never rose above 20 percent, which is a lesson we could learn today. Ladies and Gentlemen, the Republican Party lights the way for America and may I say, the rest of the globe. -Ralph. -Brilliant stuff. - Thanks for coming. - Inspirational, Jack. -Thanks, Congressman. -Jack... -Grov... -We need to talk. Sure thing, Grover. "Steward of civilization"? Beautiful words, Jack. Well, I only take my cue from the most powerful men in Congress. You remember Reverend Mueller from my own district in Texas, don't you? Please to see you again, Mr. Abramoff. You know, it's refreshing to see both Jews and Christians working together... -... to make this a better world. -I'm inspired, reverend. -Karl. -Nice to see you, Jack. The President asked me to tell you to come by soon. He needs a little help with his golf swing. Happy to. Thanks, Karl. Senator. My clients've a substantial check for your campaign. Why, I can't thank you enough, Jack. We're really lucky to have you. Hey hey hey! Slow down, you monkeys. Here, be careful with that. See you in the car. Watch your brother, okay... honey. -What do you think of my talk? -Well, except for the part where God wants us to be financially liquid, -it sounded weird. -I meant abundance. It means power. Remember Exodus 32 the golden calf that -worshipped false idols? -Hold the horse, she's quoting scriptures to me. Why... Pam Abramoff, when we met you were reading Cosmo magazine, mispronouncing all them Yiddish word. Kvetch. Schlemiel. I think I'm getting the hang of it. -Jack, nice speech. -Hey Adam. Thanks for showing up. Wow! You've gone for the whole Jew package. I thought it made me look more like Don Corleone. More like Fiddler on the Roof. Hey, don't knock Fiddler on the Roof. It was transformational for me when I was a teenager. -Maybe you want to be a milkman? -No, maybe I wanna be a real Jew. Good-looking family you have. Big family you have. Pam, you remember Adam from the college Republicans? -Hello! -You've done an excellent job raising the Isis. I'm single again. Swinging bachelor I guess. Good luck with that. Listen, we need to talk. You swing by my house on Sunday. We'll have dinner. You mean like, a kind of date? What business could you possibly have with man like that? Honey, he's got a law degree from Brooklyn college. He looks like a defendant on Judge Judy. Have a little compassion. He's a partner in a casino in Saint Martin. He is a respectable guy who knows a lot, could be a very useful partner. Useful for what? "In five years, our family will be completely legitimate." Would you please stop it? Facts quoting... movies all the times, it's irritating. Come on, honey. You know, I love the movie. And I'm a Hollywood producer. You produced two Dolph Lundgren movies piece, okay. -You work in Washington now. -Okay. Washington is Hollywood with ugly faces. I'm serious, Jack. He makes me nervous. And another thing. How is it, that we're late with the mortgage payment? We are okay, ain't we? Oh yeah! No... this just must be some accounting thing. I'll look into it tomorrow. Don't worry. Put this on my desk. I'm watching you walk away. Still watching you walked away. Walk away some more. Everybody wins. As we all know, gaming industries is blown out across America. This phenomenon has given great fortune not only to our tribe, to our people in general- But now, we risk losing everything to the competition over our neighbouring tribes. The point is... We need help from Washington. And we need help now. As I've said in my written statement, Mr. Abramoff here has my full support in recommending that he have only the best interest of our casino at heart. Mr. Abramoff, I have read your proposal. I see you want one million dollars just as a retainer to start. Oh, you're asking for the best, Mr. Sprague. We're the best. We can get it done. You want to kick some ass on the hill, we can do it. "Let's kick some ass." That was Dolph Lundgren not Schwarzenegger in case you were confused. Alright look, here's my advice. It's free today. You fellows hire Michael Scanlon of Capitol Strategies and Ralph Reed here as some of you may know, at one time is the very famous right hand of the Reverend Pat Robertson. He can organize some high wattage Christian opposition to this proposed casino by the Jena tribe and do to them, what we did to McCain in 2000: Wipe them out. You want 30 million dollars in fees over three years. I could be president myself for that. -It's just too much money. -The money is worth it. Jack lobbies for us in Washington. He can help... make us one of the most powerful tribes in the region. Our people need more healthcare. We need more education. Not influence. Mr. Sprague, you may not think you need influence in Washington, but I'm telling you to have direct access to members of Congress, is gonna influence how they vote on the very... Aah, speak of the devil. It's the Congressional offices calling. It's House Majority leader Tom Delay. Excuse me for a moment, everyone. -Tom, how is it going? -Jack, am I on time? Everything is terrific here. In fact, I am with the Chippewa now. Remind me not to order the tuna from cafeteria again. Yes sir, I will remind them of what they are up against, sir. And absolutely that they can count on your full support. Great, Jack. I'll see ya. Hey Tom. Say hi to the President for me. I'll call you when I get back. I'm not bragging, when I tell you that we can have effective and direct access to Members of Congress on behalf, of Screaming Eagle Resort. Otherwise, this beautiful casino that you have here is gonna shut down tight and very quickly. In the current climate, we're barely breaking even now, I said the council vote no! Sorry, Mr. Abramoff. I'm going to I've to agree. The council vote at 3 o'clock today, Mr. Abramoff. But... thanks for coming all this way. He's seriously messing with the qi we had flowing. Sprague is the sub-chief on the council? It is an elected position. Poncho has zero juice, okay. What the hell is a ceremonial chief, anyway? Why don't we know this is before we wasted a hundred grand taking the gulf thing. How the hell was I supposed to know Poncho was the fucking Queen of England? Sprague gotta go. -When is the next council elections? -You're not talking about messing with the council election, are you? Because you know, you're gonna be in contravention of the Indian Acts of 1968, mister. Let me tell you something. They're fucking with our bread and butter, Mikey. I was gonna used that money as a down payment on the Sunsail opportunity with the Greek. Tell me about it. I just put a huge down payment on this new house I'm buying. -What? -The Dukebroad mansion on Hobart beach I told you about it. It's bad ass. I got a lease on a suite at the Ritz Crown with this killer pool table. My overhead is insane right now. You haven't pay off your student loans. What do you need with a mansion and a pool table? -What! You are buying stuff. -Worthwhile stuff. Alright look, just have Grover keep Poncho entertain and let him tell us mega fast when is the next election. Hey, I was in Florida 2000, dude. Handling chairs, state troopers. This is gonna be a cake-walk, alright. Tip-toe through the tulips. Hello. Thank you. Be careful now, Mikey. She's probably still into Girl's Scout cookies with milk. Thank you. -Hey, baby doll. -Hi. Oops! -Who the hell was that girl? -You are so cute. She is an employee. You gotta be nice to the help. For a Jew, I bet you got a lot of cold Christmas cards. -We see our share of inactivity since. -Hey... look at you. Macho man. You didn't know I was a guard at Beverly Hills High? Once knocked a kid ice cold out from Inglewood. -It made the papers. -I bet a lot of guys from Beverly Hills went to the NFL, huh? You know what I major in, in High school? Pool? -No! Fucking. -Really? I have a feeling I'll see you in that class. Alright, so you've gone from pool to selling mattresses... that's quite an upgrade, Adam. I'm a very successful mattress businessman. Really? Cause I hear Kwikee Mattresses in Chapter 11. Hey! I sold my franchise for over 7 figures and got out. Excellent. Because I've got a new fantastic offer for you. -Like what? -Sunsail's casinos. Off-shore gambling!? You know who you're dealing with? -Greenpeace? -Trust me. I know. And think of the fund-raising possibilities, alright. It is like Las Vegas on crack. The boat goes out beyond the 12 miles limit. It's an all cash business. Use your imagination, Adam. -I got plans. -Yeah, plans like Bugsy Malone. No, plans like to open up my own private Hebrew school. Public education sucks. You've no idea what my kid have to deal with these day. -Your own school? -Yeah! Plus there's my foundation, all the charities work I did. Look, I'm trying to do, importance stuff that matters for people. I... I don't know, Jack. It's sound like Charlie Manson is my room-mate for the next 10 years. This isn't a bunch of native people. You're dealing with sharks here. I'm gonna say no! But thanks for the $65 steak. It's delicious. Adam, just go down to Florida with my business partner, Michael Scanlon and you guys talk to this Gus Boulis. You always asking me to give you something, "Give me something... give me something." Well, I'm now giving you something, you schmucks! I was thinking something maybe little less hazardous to my person. I've dealt with communists in Nicaragua, generals in Pakistan and I even dealt with fucking Imelda Marcos. Why should I be afraid of a Greek who make sandwiches? What's Imelda like? She likes to play the piano and sing show-times. -Really. -Yeah. She's got a pretty decent voice. That's all the sums of the Thai whorehouse. Not that you would know a Thai whorehouse looks like, right? Look like Boulis's into family values. Looks like he hired the whole family. Hey guys, I'm Chris. Gus's nephew. Gus's running a little late. You guys hungry? You want something to drink? -No, we're fine. -I'll have a shot of queen bols and two Heineken. I've told Jack to forget about this place. It's a fucking reptile cage. Boulis is doing mega business here. -This blows. -Whatever, he's just trying to make a statement. This is how he operate? We've waited an hour. I don't like it. -I'm going back to Miami. -Whoa, whoa, hang on, Adam. Sit down... sit down, okay. Konstantinos Boulis. Sorry to keep you. Hey, Mike Scanlon. Pleasure to meet you. Adam Kidane. Sorry, Jack couldn't be here. He send his regards. You have done well for yourself, Gus. Nice piece of boat like this, dude. You gotta be a content man. Yeah, except for the fucking Attorney General. Because of him, I need to keep in step with my sanity. So, let's cut the crap. You jacks planning to pay my price? Alright look, we can give you 20 cents from the dollar. It's the best we can offer you. There's no negotiation. You pay my price, that's it! Oh yes, I keep the ten percent interest. I run the business. And don't call me 'dude.' "Are you talking to me, huh?" "Are you talking to me? It's your move." "You make the move, huh." Sorry. Jack and his boys watch too many movies. Movies, I didn't invite you here to listen to comedies. What, you joke with me? Movies? You guys... get out! -Whoa fellas... -Hey... you come back when you could show my uncle some respect. No, I'm just trying to lighten the mood. Olag, Christos... Come on. Who doesn't like impression, right?! What the fuck!? Oh, that went well. -Fucking idiot. Who doesn't negotiate? I know. I'm telling you. He's a hard ass dude. You watch me put some hot sauce in this fucker tabbouleh. He is not going to scare easy. I don't how the hell you're gonna get him to negotiate. Yeah, well you know what. Tried the Congress of United States. Boulis will turn around. Mikey, trust me. Hang on, Bob? -Yeah Jack. -Listen! I need a favor for a client. Sure! Name it. Which tribe we talking about? No, not Indians. Greeks. Casino gambling in South Florida. I represent the 18th District of Ohio, Jack. It's a bit of hot potato. Can you give me a pass on this one? After the money I funnel to you this year, Bob... No, I don't think you get a pass, alright. I need your help, I need it now. Michael sends you the details. Thanks. So, here's the casino file. Jack expect to see you on the C-Span no later than Thursday. -Tell him he's pushing it. -Bob, he knows how busy you are with the upcoming fall elections. In fact, if I'm not mistaken, he is organizing a huge fund raiser for you next Tuesday. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I'm an ardent supporter of consumer's rights. At the heart of my comments today is how certain gaming companies treats their patrons. There're a few bad apples out there who don't play by the rules. And who must be... weeded... weeded out. One such example, is the case of Sunsails casino and it's proprietor Gus Boulis. Ney's the man. Ney's the man. -What's all the noise about kids? -Oh hey Manny, we're just working hard -finding a buyer for your client. -Hey good, glad to hear it. Any life one? Oh yeah, we're all over it, Manny. -No shady one from the Marianas, ok. -Absolutely! I serve this country, and no other. Listen, we need to give everything we can on this Boulis, alright. I want you to call our friends at Fox News. And have Delay hammer Jeb Bush son on the Florida. No, never mind! I'll call Delay myself. He wants me to hook him up with a Harvard college Republican's. Thinks that will made him looks good in front of all those Ivy league monkeys. Yeah, good luck with that. You know what, he was a pest exterminator in Laredo, Texas, dude. That's gonna be a huge challenge in Cambridge. Hey man, he clawed his way up to Majority Leader, now he's got his eyes on the White House. Delay? Are we talking about the same guy? He's an alcoholic whose famous for raunchy party before he met God. What the hell, dude? What the hell was that? Never before has an individual who's been steadfast to our principles risen as high as House Majority Leader Tom Delay. Tom Delay is the most effective, I would say he was the most effective whip in the House... and I would say he's the most effective Majority Leader and thank God, Tom Delay is the Majority Leader in the House of Representatives and I would just like to add one thing to that because I'm sure we all want to hear from Mr. Delay but Tom Delay is who all of us hope to be when we grow up, Tom... You truly are my dearest friend. Senator Jarvis, I have a check for you from Choctaw Indian. Huh, that's my easy partner, Jack. And they want to wish you the best for your campaign. Congratulate and thanks each of you for getting involved in politic, through young Republicans. What you're doing is commendable and important because as goes politics, so goes our country. Grover... Glad you're on the team. Jack, you know how I feel about freebies. Poncho is the third Indian you made me babysit this month. There is also so much Congressmen of American for tax reform want to be educated about the benefits of Indian gaming. Grover... Grover, how about we fatten Poncho donations to ATR to help you out with your operation costs? That be a start. I have a hole in my budget of 75K. Ouch.... alright, I'll look into it, champ. Meanwhile, where's the fuck is your evil elf? Mikey boy? He was supposed to take Poncho off my hands three hours ago. Private Property - No Trespassing You guys want to see something crazy? A million smackeroo, baby. Give me five! -How sexy am I now to you right now? -Very sexy. You sure you're not a drug's dealer or something, baby? -Drug dealer my ass. -Oh, your lackey's defending you. Jack and I are doing God's work, baby. And you don't think the Indian's Affair committee is going to take issue with all the high fees you've been charging? Since when have you become an expert on Indian's affairs? I only want to know a thing or two about Washington, you know. Those bitches're doing the exact same thing we are. Trying to open casinos. They're just jealous, because they don't make as much as you. You're so right! There it's baby... Shangri-La. Kublai Khan Xanadu. Sorry, babe! -Oh my God! -What! You don't like? -This is high end!? -This is like something you find in South Hamptons, right? South Hamptons, have you ever been to South Hamptons? -This is great for Delaware, dude. -Right... a little bit of paint and there. -Come on! -Mike, have you lost your mind? -It's a what? -A Zamboni. A Zamboni machine for smoothing out the surface of the ice. -What ice? -The ice for the hockey ring. A hockey ring? -I don't see a hockey ring. -Oh no, not here. It's being built somewhere else. Honey... look. These are all temporary facilities. It's all part of the new secular academy and sport's center that I'm building for all these kids. For our kids. You were serious about building a school? Oh of course. You know how I feel about the education the kids these day get. -A hockey ring? -Baby! Baby! I thought you had be happy. I just bought us the biggest house in the whole damn state. -It's astonishing, dude. -For the Addams family, maybe... that you would pay money for this dump. You kidding me? This place could be like the Playboy's mansion or something, huh. It's all part of the bigger picture, Pam. Philanthropy! The Academy, the library, my foundation, the restaurants, the boats, the hotels... all gonna pay for it. -Hotels? -Yeah, I'm looking at a property right now. The Chitimacha wants to invest in me. Jack, what are you doing? Is this why we aren't keeping up with the house payment? Honey, think what you want about me. Because this is for our kids and their kids. There are priorities here. This is even above board. "Joseph Kennedy built up his entire business empire -with the help of his Chicago mobs..." -Jack... honey! I love you. And don't take this the wrong way, but you're completely insane. Dude, we're gonna rips this crap out, throw in a sound system... they'll hear us for miles, right? A sound system? What about the furniture? -Knock yourself out, baby. -Scanlon. -Mike Scanlon? -Yo! Susan Schmidt with the Washington Post. Hi, what can I do for you, Susan. Well, I wanted to see if you would comment on that new minimum wage bill that Senate Legislators passed out of respect to your textile clients in the Northern Mariana's? Oh, you know, I don't believe they have all the votes on that, so... I don't think that bill is going to make it, actually. I'm also curious about the works Preston Gates' does on behalf of native Americans. We're thinking of doing a report on Indian's gaming. Oh yeah! Well, good luck with that. That should bored your readers to death. Really? Looks like your Mariana's Islands are fuck. The Senate passed the bill, minimum wage is on the way. I'm fuck. Jack said he'd canned me if we ever reached the end zone on this one. Well, be a man now. Go break the news. What's wrong, Randy? Somebody die? You guys didn't watch? -Hmm. -Yeah! The Senate passed the bill. The Marianas are fuck! So why the long face? This is great. -Okay... yeah. -Oh look. Let me run it down for you, boy. This is how it works. Do you have any idea how much more money our clients are gonna have to pay us to get that bill killed in the house. In fact... I'm gonna call them right now. Tell them they gotta double their retainer, Enid. Sorry to interrupt you all so hard at work. Jack, I need you to see me for dinner tonight. Okay! -These sashimi toro is excellent here. -Okay. Not as good as it's gonna be at my new restaurant though. I just hired a top dollar Tokyo chef, 5 stars. New restaurant. Tokyo chef.. 5 stars, how're you feeling Jack? Perfect! Why do you ask? No reason other than I think you maybe suffering from delusions of fucking grandeur. I'm gonna have to let you go. You've violated the firm's ethics policy. We asked to help Gus Boulis sell his business. Not elbow your way in and tried to buy it yourself. Your client is difficult. Do you think any buyers out there will agree to his terms and try to help you out? Help us out? Using Adam Kidan as the frontman? He is a good man. He's a respectable businessman. He's bankrupt. He's been disbarred. He's a mob connected sleaze ball. He has told me he has a clean bill of health. Clean bill of health? I'd say he was a cheap fat whore with a clap. My God, his own mother was whacked. What the hell are you talking about? If you're doing business with this guy, then so are we. You think I want my firm connected with someone like that? And Jack, what's even worse? You lied to us. I need you to clean out your office by the end of the month. You're done. You don't think, do you Manny? You've never got me and never have and never will. Am I missing something you want us to hear? Uh yeah! I'd say you're missing some new ones. You're missing a big fucking new ones. The Wall Street Journal is coming out with a piece called the "Super lobbyist". Do you know what that is? That's me. I'm the "Super lobbyist". I get paid higher retainer fees than anybody else in this town and you goddamn well know it. And I'm gonna have a new restaurant, Anything else? I love my kids. I worked out every single day. You're gonna come out the losing end of this one, Manny. You're gonna lose every single one of those Indian tribes as clients. And you know what I'm gonna do? Tomorrow morning I'm going to go outside and when K-Street finds out that I'm available... Listen, there will be 5 fucking law firms, top drawers... who will be dying to hire me. They're gonna be jumping up and down, little kids, who needs to go to the camp, "We have hired Jack Abramoff!" Then you should have no reason to be unhappy. Absolutely! Nice piece. You playing cowboy now with those Indian? -You've kept me waiting. -Why do you get the shooter? You didn't tell me about your dis-barredment, not to mention you're a fucking bankruptcy, not to mention the fucking mob connection in Saint Martin, not to mention the fucking murder of your own fucking mother. -Well, I was gonna tell... -When... 2020, you're a dangerous man, Adam. That's why I've got the fucking gun. -Okay... so, go ahead, shoot me! -Jesus... ... just get in my house. You're a fucking menace. You know that! You ought to wear a sign around your neck as a public service, "Beware Adam Kidan, fucking menace." -Where's Pam? -With the kids. I send her to see her folks. So you're the married dude, and I'm like the hot underage mistress? Jack, you gotta relax, maybe even pyschologise, okay. You gotta ask yourself: What does Gus Boulis want? He wants to make millions of dollars and keep his fucking business. That's what he wants. What Boulis wants is to keep his company and sell it at the same time. -He wants both. -So how do we give him both? What if we quietly kick back Boulis' ten percent, call it a consulting fees?! How does that get us the missing piece of finance, Adam... -I'm already... -Look Jack, we're just a few deal points away now. Boulis wants to keep his piece of the business under the table, that's against the law. He'll have to take our I.O.U.s For 20 millions, that's a hell lot of I.O.U.s, Adam. Now, you gonna have to find another way to pay him. Trust me to handle the formalities, sweetheart. Jack, the boats can be ours after the weekend and your money problems are over. Just keep it legal, okay. I have a better idea: Why don't you show me your pussy! Washington's New Hot Spot Republican Big-Wigs Cuddle Up To Jack Abramoff ... allowing the feng shui in here... Here, one thing missing! Congressman... Listen... yes sir, we need your vote. Tickets... for the Redskins, Sunday? Absolutely no problem. I have had the honor to know Tom Delay... The best Majority Leader that we had in Congress in the history of the United States. Jack Abramoff: The Super lobbyist Hi daddy-o! How much if I drill this in if I'm left handed? Come on! -25K. -You're a cheap whore. Come on, halfway across the tarmac. -Alright 50K. You'll never make it. -Alright, here we go. Daddy need a new pair of shoes... -Oh Mikey... -What's the matter, brother? I'm haemorrhaging money like Niagara Falls out of my ass. Sunsail, the restaurant, the school. They all got me strapped. I'm bouncing checks all over the place. And now, I really don't remember the 2nd restaurant. What the hell do you need the 2nd restaurant? -One of them got to be kosher. -Aww, come on! There isn't a decent kosher restaurant -... anywhere near K Street. -So... -We need more clients. -You need to chill out, dude. I got a phone call this morning from Chief Nokoaht of the Texas Kickapoo. Nokoaht of the Kickapoo. You're kidding? We're golden, baby. He wants to meet with Bush about oil drilling rights. I told him, if you want to get her done it's gonna cause him a million a month retainer. -Can you can get that in the end zone? -He loves what -we've done with the Chippewas, baby. -Awesome! If that's true, man... you made him show you the money fast. -Show me the money! -Show me the money! You hear that? Give me five. Keep in under the radar. Congressman, I was on the phone this very day with the Governor of Texas who told me personally that all of his Congressional district are gonna vote no on the bill. That is correct! Adam Kidan: In like Flynn. U r now proud owner of Sunsail! Congressman... look, my mother is very ill. She's on the other line. Could I call you back? Yes, thank you sir. We did it. We're in! We're in! We're in like Flynn... Look at that! Who's Vegas? -Who's Vegas? -You... Jack. Vegas, baby! -I see you're enjoying the new digs. -You are the man, Oscar! Glad to have you at Greenberg, Jack. Along with the Coushatta, the Choctaw and the Chippewa. And don't forget the Kickapoo too. Mikey... baby! Chippewa likes essential, dude. Beautiful Saginaw, Michigan. Oh man... can Pastar keep goal, it's a perfect timing because you know why? We just closed Sunsail. We owned it. Oh sweet, dude! Our kwan is so flow, daddy-o. How goes it down there with all the troglodytes? The what? Troglodytes... it's... fucking look it up. What am I? A dictionary! Dude, listen, listen... Slater Bates rock it today. We are in. -What're you saying? We won? -We did it! Bernie Sprague is out, Poncho is in. Considered us high brother Chippewa, dude. You are gold, you know! When it rain, it pours. Alright now. We got to start talking about billings figure. I want 20 millions from these monkeys right away. Yes, big chief Rainmaker. Oh, you have to know, Sprague is super pissed about this whole deal, okay. He took it really hard. -Oh yeah, what is that job he's got? -Parks and recreation commissioner. Yeah well, doesn't the council control it? Why don't you just tell Poncho to eliminate the position. You've got it, mate. fatten the budget... fiscal discipline... No... I don't know. Maybe it's bad karma to kick a guy when he's down. Oh yeah, right! Not only are we gonna kick him when he's down, we're gonna kick him till he passes out, dude. And then we're gonna beat him over the head with the baseball bat, rolled him up into an old rug, kick him off the cliff into the pounding surf below. You go take a jog, buddy. Mr. Abramoff's office. -Yeah, ring it Jack. -Excuse me, who's calling? -Bernie. -Bernie? Bernie who? Tell him I'm a rabbi from the synagogue board. Mr. Abramoff is in a meeting. Can he return? Tell him he's going to have company soon. -Are all this bastards related to Gus? -What do you mean? There is enough staff in here to run an aircraft carrier. -They are all family. -Really? This isn't the old country. We're in America. Wait for me there. Here it is. This is just today's take? K Street Goes Kosher We want to make sure all our kosher friends in Washington are well taken care of and they will be here. Yeah honey, I promise. -Only two restaurants. -Aah Jack... BEST Corned Beef In Town Abramoff Builds His Empire Mike! Mike! Why is Susan Schmidt trying to reach you? She just leave a message for you on my cellphone. Ignored her. She is a nosy reporter from the post. -Either Susan is a friend? -Babe, I don't care how many white wines breecher you drink with her. This is business, so fuck her. I'm not calling her back. Did you see the electrician up there? He says he'll be here at 4. What do I look like? The help. You're so useless... where the hell do you think you're going? I'm pretty sure I told you I have a business meeting. A business meeting? What, in your flip-flop? How dumb do you think I am? What, I have business to discuss with Brian. You have business with Brian. I love you, but you're getting kind of nuts, you know that. I gotta send Brian to Michigan to help over the Chippewa deal. And what part of your dubious dealings with the Chippewa is Brian partied to? Baby, Brian is helping us fight the good fight, okay. Oh God! Why do I waste my time here with you Delaware whizz? Oh yeah, because you'd rather be at some gay leader's dinner party in Georgetown, right? -You bet I would. -Later. Mike! overdoing it a little bit, Adam? Hey, how big is your place? -Yeah well, I've got a family of 7. -Oh, I've got people too. It's a real beauty deal here. Why shouldn't I have a few perks? Well, just try to use a moducal of self-control. Is that possible? This isn't exactly Manhattan. I'm dying of boredom here. Yeah, Adam! Listen to me. I just spoke to the money people. The last financials you send over don't make any goddamn sense. -I think that's maybe like pizza? -Adam? -Oh dios posti. I kick your ass, okay! -I'm gonna have to call you back. Adam, don't hang... Twelve people here... Tonia, Nick, Dimitri. You know, I... You know, I'm not the welfare department, okay. Finding your relatives new jobs is not my gig. My family... they all moved here to Florida because of me. They starve? You know what? I'm really not having as much fun here as it might look like, okay. I don't need your family around skimming the take. Listen to me, you dumb Jew bastard! The wire transfer was a phony. My nephew, my sister-in-law... all of them. They all go back on the pay roll tomorrow. Now, you listen to me. You're out, Gus. You don't like it, sue me! Sue me! I'm not going to sue you. I'll kill you. Since my previous statement, I've come to learn that Sunsails casino now finds itself under new ownership. The new owner has a reputation for honesty and integrity. Adam Kidan is most well known for his successful enterprise Kwikee mattress. But he is also well known as a respected member of his community. While Mr. Kidan certainly has his hands full, it's up to him to clean up Sunsail's reputation. His track records in business, leads me to believe that he'll easily transform Sunsail. From a questionable enterprise, to an outstanding establishment that the gaming community can be proud of. I can't hear you! Please... Make him stop... -You have reach the voice-mail of... -Mike Scanlon. This mail box is full. Please try again later. -Is Michael in? -I haven't seen him this morning. Oh, I have some dry-cleaning for him to pick-up. I will take it. Mike! Mike? Excuse me, does Abramoff knows I'm here? Sir, I've already told you Mr. Abramoff is unavailable. So if I were you, I wouldn't waste my time. Dude, seriously. I'm worried about Emily. She hasn't return my calls since yesterday. Well, you sleep in the bed you make, my friend. Oh, thanks for the empathy. I really appreciate it. Yeah well, listen... You can have anyone over. Sensible people always negotiate. All you have to do is just make Boulis sensible. Oh yeah, great. Thanks Jack! You know what, I'm sure he's gonna be thrilled about the bogus wire transfer. I'm damn serious, Jack. What am I gonna say about Kidan phony wire transferring? Gus, just let me personally apologize for Adam Kidan. He is a social menace. You're gonna apologize for that phony wire transfer too? What... what phony wire transfer? Holy shit! Gus, that was Kidan's department. Had nothing to do with us, okay. There is nothing that I detest more than substantial lies, okay. He's a errant boy, send by grocery clerk to collect the bills, right. Jack and I have your cash. I can give it to you right now. You all are out of Sunsail. As far as I'm concerned, that's it. Gus, we're reasonable people here, okay! Let's... Talk to my lawyers, alright. Hey... listen, Jack and I would like to settle this without lawyers, okay. Gus, our new client's the Chippewa tribe of Michigan just made me the highest paid lobbyists in our nation history, okay. You know why? Because we help them, Gus. And they help us and we'll help you. You help us. You help them. -They help you. That's how it works. -I help who, what? The bottom line is, we've serious financial liquidity now. And we want the opportunity to prove to you, Gus, that we can take your 11 boats and turn them into a fleet of 30 around the world, okay. We're talking about tripling, possibly even quadrupling our income in 6 months. A floating casino empire here, dude. And we want you to be a major part of that, right. We can make this happen. I don't want Kidan. He's a disgusting fat asshole. I mean, he groped me in front of Gus. -So Kidan just disappear from Sunsail. -How? Jack works him like a monkey on a stick, alright. You let us handled that. Your pen face makes me wanna puke. This is the second time I've been a victim of family violence. Had to hire a gorilla... -Ooh... no offense. -None taken. I've got a court order. Gus Boulis can't come near the boats. I've rented an armored plated car because of that psychotic. Well, did you ever think that he might be mad at you for giving him a check for $23 millions that's absolutely fucking worthless. I'm talking about my physical safety! His people are moving our slots of our boats. He's capable of all manners of strong-arm shit. Well, just don't do anything stupid. Hey, I think you've broke something. Well, Adam. We break something, we fix it, right?! He is the all time champ bastard motherfucker of all time. I think you'll agree, it's time Gus Boulis was gone from Sunsail. Let's us go talk to him. I know how you talk to people. You're as subtle as a fucking chain-saw. Look at you. You alright? I can't even get through the front door. Something interesting happen with Walther On-rapid casino. -He did an annual audit. -Oh... yeah. Nothing match. They counted so that none of Abramoff papers add up. We're paying for hundred of thousands worth of lunches at his restaurant. $200,000 for his Redskins skybox. But it's well known he help other tribes saved billion of dollars in taxes. And that so called "Grassroots Campaign" against the Jena. It was made up of 3 people handing out a few dozen Kinko flyers. The guy took us for a bunch of suckers. Son of a bitch. He's no good. He's now preying on the Kickapoo and the Chocta. Look, you tell me it's about taking care of things, so I only gives you a financial piece of the casino. I just don't want to take any more chances with this guy. -I don't know. -Tony, we're old friends. Don't make me beg. You know, I had an uncle who is half Jewish. He used to relax me. Give me your hand. Give me your hand. Give me your hand. Palm up, palm up. He used to do... Fuck! He scared me and relax me at the same time. Anyway from what you tell me, this goof, this fucking Greek deserved some broken leg at least. No, no, no! Violence sickened me. -I hit him in the fucking head. -No, no! No shooting please. You'll come down there and you'll be.. what, the ship's catering director. What do I know about cooking? You learn to make gyros. Can it be that difficult. -Gyros!? What's a gyros? -Heroes! Listen, I'm telling you now like I would tell my own son. I've been in this business, 50 years. The correct move... is to whack him. No, Tony. Listen, you should know they're some important people involved political people. High up... way high up. And there's a lot of money involved. Hundreds of millions of dollars. Everything is very, very, very sensitive. -Okay, I've got it cover. -Got it cover! What about Abramoff, is he okay with this? Jack? He'll never comes down. He's in D.C. Besides I've got the guy baffled. Okay, I need 40 grand, right away. Just want you to make sure Gus Boulis never attacks me again with a fucking ballpoint. Is that funny? -A fucking pen... -It's not funny. Aye, aye... listen! Why don't you go on a vacation? Don't worry. I'll be nice. Jack, the IMF is never going to allow the Russians in until Putin deals with the human rights issues. Come on! You don't think we've -influence in Moscow? -I don't care! I'm sick and tired of waiting. -I come all the back from Michigan. -I know that son of a bitch -is back here some place. -Excuse me, sir! Excuse me! -Take your hands off... -You cannot come in here. You've no rights to go by reception... We must talk about the 20 million he took out from my people. You and Scanlon. No more hiding in your goddamn office. -Sir... Look, I've come all the way from Michigan to talk to you. From today on, Jack... I'm gonna make you my hobby. -Who is that guy? -Bad karma. Anyway, I know people that knows Putin. Miss Miller? I am Agent Hanlon. Please come in. -You've something you wish to report. -I do. Miss Miller, is it a federal issue? You bet! It's a little embarrassing, Jack. Look, he's a Jewish kid from the West Bank. He's tired of having Hamas lobbed rocket into his neighbourhood. He wanted to build a sniper school and I help him out. With a shipment of a thousand night vision goggles? Okay! So we make a lot of money, right. Don't you think it's our obligation to help the children to get good karma. You bought them from the Russians. I've got a lot of good contacts in Moscow now. Jack, Newsweek is calling you a "Zionist thug." You got that Time magazine article? The same week, the Newsweek calls me a Zionist thug, Time magazine accuses me of supporting Islamic terrorism because I gave money to Grover to help him mobilise Republicans Muslim in Ohio. They're passion maniac, you know that. A lot of people are talking, Jack. You're drawing too much attention to our profession. Bunch of woozies! Jack, this isn't the 90's anymore. Look around, it's post 9/11. Bill Clinton isn't running around boasting about budget surplus, drinking crew got him crystal flu's. Bill Clinton is the best thing that ever happened to Washington. And I say that as a Republican. Let me spell it out for you. K Street doesn't like the limelight, Jack. The partners and I are giving you a warning. You're wrong on this. -Susan Schmidt, Washington Post. -Susan, Emily Miller. I like to talk to you about Mike Scanlon and the Chippewa Indian. Hey, who the hell ask you to sit down, pop? Mr. Boulis... you don't return phone calls. You know, well... I work for a living. I'm busy. Well, you got a nice operation here. But it is rude, see. Could I've a cracker? I'm starving. Who the fuck are you asking to return your calls? I'm looking after Mr. Kidan now. His interests are mine interest. He's with me. Adam fucking Kidan can suck my prick. -Really? -Yeah, really. And no goombata is gonna waste my time. Maybe I should explain to you who I am before this goes too far. I know who you are. You are the senior citizen fucking Al Capone. I'll cut your fucking throats, okay gramp. Oh, okay. Alright, fine... I'll go. I don't bother you no more. Listen! Trust me, chief. -Bernie Sprague is becoming a problem. -Yeah! Can you help me out with this guy? Your guy, Scallion told me to fire him. Scanlon. Look, can you just give him his job back? It don't exists anymore. Scanlon eliminated it, right? Well.. look, you know! I can't... Musharraf. I've met Musharraf, okay. Newt Gingrich knows my name. I don't need this guy. Can you just give him some job, get him off my back? -Hey Jack, guess what? -What? I got the new H2 in metallic red. It is fully loaded and it's fucking beautiful. -Great! Hope you enjoy it. -Enid! -There he is. -He isn't such a tough guy now, is he? Gyro... Now this ought to make that fat Jew happy. Forget Kidan. If he doesn't do what we says with Sunsail, it'll be him next. Go! Emily? Baby? Em? You here, baby? Hickory! Now over here, we've a beautiful portrait by Aaron Shikler of our 35th president John Fitzgerald Kennedy. Adam... Adam, what are you talking about? Are you nuts? You said you wanted Gus Boulis gone from Sunsail. Five shots in the head? Five shots in the head? That's what you think I was suggesting, you fucking moron. Well, I asked him to be my caterer, not whacked the guy. Anyway, we're over 1000 miles away. They can't connect us to it. Are you serious? Do you have any idea that the grand jury is sitting right now discussing fraud on the wire transfers? I didn't even want to get involved in Sunsail. What was I thinking? My way. So now we have got blood on our hands. Oh no! No, no, no. They're not coming after me. They are coming after you, Adam. You know why? Because I know those guys at Justice and they jerk off taking on guy like you. My right handed guy, Jack. I wish I've never met you. Fuck you, fuck you... you stupid goddamn fatty. What, you're the one who's fat. You fat fuck. Fake Jew fuck fat. Eat me, you goddamn fat cock sucker. Sorry. A little issue on the hill. .. Presidential's portrait collection. Mr. Abramoff, Congressman Delay needs you to come to his office. I swear to you, tell Tom that I'm currently in the White House about to see the President of the United States. I've Chief Nokoaht of the Kickapoo with me. Congressman Delay said you should dropped whatever you're doing and come to his office immediately. -The President will see you now. -I've to call you back. -Mr. President... -How're you doing there, buff guy. Looks like you keep on working out. Mike, Mike... listen to me, alright. Why? Listen, this could be very serious. Why is the Washington Post calling Delay about the Chippewa? His secretary said he's freaking out about a story they're running tomorrow. Jack... me and Emily broke up. Oh well, you know... buddy. You've got my condolences but, you know... he's about to rip my head off. No, no, no... listen. Emily found out about the stewardess, Krystle. But this could be serious, Mike... pay attention. No Jack, you're not listening. She found Krystle panties in my dry-cleaning and she got super fucking pissed and went to the FBI, dude. She knew everything about Give me five, Jack. She had no mercy. You told Emily Miller about Give me five? How can you be so stupid. We were getting married! She wanted to share everything, Jack. Mike, what the fuck were you thinking? Hey, hey, hey! I've my priorities too, man. You should have been thinking of me. I'm your fucking priority! Oh right, right! So when I'm in the can, jerking for some big black dude named Postum, I'll be thinking of Jack fucking Abramoff. Fuck you, Jack Abramoff! He is waiting for you. Hey, Tom. Come on in here, Jack. My secretary told you about how concerned I am about this, the story coming out in tomorrow Washington Post. Look, they probably are gonna buried it in the National section. I mean, Indian gambling is a very dull subject. What in the hell were you thinking, boy? Tom, I don't know what the story is about, I hav... You listen to me! I did not clawed my way out of the mosquitoes infested flatlands of Laredo, Texas... to become Majority Leader of the United States Congress only to be brought down by a no good lying... Jack, you remember Reverend Mueller from my home district, don't you? Yes. Take a seat, Mr. Abramoff. You've a lot to answer for, Jack. And there just so much I don't understand. But first, I think it's important that we, sat here together as man of faith and pray. Reverend... Jack? In the name of our Lord, Jesus Christ... Dear Lord, as we sit here under the shadow of a gathering storm, You know, I think my life is over. Honey, I don't mean to change the subject, but when did you start smoking? It's the Sabbath, you know. Jack, have I not always been straight with you? Not always the good mother and devoted wife? Of course you have. Then I think you should just, you know... go to whoever, confess and like get it over with. Confess? I have no idea who killed Boulis. Who's going to believe you, Jack? And what about all this Indian gaming stuff? Honey, I haven't done anything that every other lobbyist in Washington does, right? Charging high fees... everybody knows I saved those -Indians tribe billions of dollars. -Jack... they're saying that you were hiding the money you were making, by splitting it with Scanlon under the table. Honey, that's no different from what Ralph... Look! It's just a technicality, really. Look, I'm gonna sell the restaurants, I'm gonna hire the most aggressive lawyers I can find. Those assholes out there are accusing me of selling excess. What the fuck do you think everybody on K Street does? We all sell excess. That doesn't make it right, Jack! Goddamn it, stop justifying it. It's all bullshit! Maybe you're right, honey. I just got caught up in all of it. I should have never got into business with someone like Kidan. And I got greedy with the tribes. And I'm worried now... I worried so much that I've let down God. What about me and the kids? What about letting down me and the kids? It's okay. It's okay. We're gonna be okay. We're gonna be okay. I've got lot of friends on the hill. We have no friends, Jack. None! All we have are people you do business with. I've a statement I liked to make at this time, The good Lord has always told me the difference between right and wrong. All I can tell you now is that if someone is trading on my good name, to get clients or make money, it is unconscious able, it is illegal -and it should stop immediately. -We are absolutely outraged, by the dishonesty, duplicity of his words in action of Jack Abramoff. NBC news in depth tonight, a former super lobbyist in Washington.. -his name, Jack Abramoff, NSBC chief.. -Abramoff's friends are some of the biggest players in the Conserva... They believe corruption and illegal activities are... ... mushroom into multiple investigations... ... exploiting Indian tribes by Members of Congress... Potentially bad news for leading Members of Congress... It may proved to be the biggest Congressional scandals ever... Big troubles for some big time lawmakers. There are a lot of people scared... This whole thing is turning into the Enron of lobbying. How the hell are we gonna cope with that! Look what happened with those accountants from Enron. They failed to cooperate, the government took away their license to do business. I figured we make reparations to the Tiguas, Choctaws, the Chippewas and the Agua Caliente. -That ain't hay! -Hey, guys... -You're costing us 70 million, Jack. -Oh that much! -Do you know how much money I saved.. -Look Jack! They're saying that you and Scanlon defrauded those tribes of the 70 millions. That money gotta comes from somewhere. Who the hell do you think is going to pay for this? We're sitting in shit here, Jack. Do you have any idea, any of you... how much money I gave away everyday? How soon can you be out of your office? Jack! -I need a couple of weeks. -You have 30 minutes. For God's sake, you are on the front page of the Washington Post. Again? Is it above the fold? Enid... put a call to my old friend Simon Bowler of Paramount. Paramount Pictures, it's a movie studio in Hollywood. Call him and tell him I want to set-up a meeting because I've got a great movie idea that I want to pitch to him. You want to hear it? Jack... Jack, how're you? I didn't think you still have the film bug in you. Ahh... you never lose it. And you know what, folks in Washington, they love movies even if they pretended they don't. Every week, George Bush calls me to ask me, what movie should I be screening. -At the White House? -You're damn right! So you've been getting a lot of press lately. -You feeling the heat? -Oh no, not law. The law blow over. It's par for the course. So, you're here to pitch us an idea for a movie. Based on the Old Testament. A biblical epic, kind of re-telling of the Ten Commandments. Only this time it's called "Pharaoh's Thorn", alright. Now... Here's the great modern twist. It's kind of a Bourne Identity action like Moses leading his people out of Egypt. Russell Crowe, perfect for Moses. I think we can get Ridley to direct it. Now listen, man. This film is epic in scale. Cinemascope, big story. Russell Crowe leading his people out of Egypt to the promised land. Happy ending. Excuse me. Yes... Jack Abramoff? -This is Agent Patterson with the FBI. -Yes. -Michael Scanlon? -Yeah. Oh... hey guys! Come on in. The right of individual groups and corporations to lobby the federal government is protected by the right to petition in the First Amendment of the United States constitution, huh! So, what's the problem? Honestly, I don't know. I don't know! Very nice that you finally decided to cooperate. Look, I know you want me to do it for awhile, but we finally talk about it as a family and that's the decision we have reach. Right, there's one tiny problem. -What's that? -You'll never make it. Michael Scanlon had beat you to the punch. He negotiated a sign deal with Justice on Tuesday. Does that mean Jack can't make a deal? I'm sorry, Pam. They don't need him. They don't need you. He kept track of everything. E-mails, phone conversations... the lot. He's saying how the two of scammed the tribe of almost 20 million dollars. And the two of you conspire to bribe Ney. A trip to Scotland and meals at your restaurants. It's all out there. They're calling it the Stream of Things of Value. Well, that is bullshit! It's a technicality, he knows it. -Yeah... well, it's all out there. -He's given all this shit to Justice? Well.. you know, your good buddy used you as his get out of jail free card. I'm afraid I've got more good news for you folks. The Indian Affairs Committee has ask me to form an inquiries. They're gonna subpoena you before Senate hearing. A Senate hearing? Jack has help half of the Senate get re-elected and now they're gonna... Isn't there someone we can call? Who's the head of the Indian Affairs Committee? John McCain. What are you gonna do? I'm... tell him. I'm gonna tell him I was doing my goddamn job. -That's what I was doing, my job. -Jack! They're not going to play nice, understand that. I strongly suggest that you go in there, you plead the Fifth. The Fifth? I might as well say I'm guilty. I will not plead the Fifth. I'd like to thank you, Senator McCain. Thank you, Senator Jarvis. I want to thank you and the vice-chairman and staff for your tremendous effort on behalf of this investigation and your continued dedication and efforts of many years on behalf of native Americans. This chairman adds to the history of our great nation. It's a long and momentable chapter about the exploitation of native Americans. It began with the sale of Manhattan and it's has continued ever since. Mr. Abramoff, you had a relationships with a number of native tribes, did you not? Is it fair to say you felt these tribes were gullible and naive? Senator, on the basis of the Fifth Amendments, I respectfully declined to answer the question. These tribe, was never told about the secret scheme that allowed Jack Abramoff and Michael Scanlon to take over 40 million dollars for services dubiously rendered. Senator, I respectfully invoked the privileges as stated. You can continued dodging questions Mr. Abramoff, yet you ripped of my fellow native Americans. You referred to them as "monkeys" and "troglodytes"... Senator, I respectfully invoked the privileges as stated. This is the most extraordinarily pattern of abuse and criminal conduct that has been before this Committee the entire 18 years I've served here. Mr. Abramoff, you've proven yourself to be callous. And to only have been, all about the money. Do you not feel any shame? Senator, I respectfully invoked the privileges as stated. All this account of unscrupulous men are sadly for me, the tale we hear today is nought. What sets this tale apart, what makes it truly extraordinarily is the extent and degree of the apparent exploitation and deceit. Mr. Abramoff, have you nothing to say for yourself? Senator, I respectfully invoked the privileges as... No. Jack! No, I no longer wish -to invoke the privileges. -Jack! I have something to say and -I'm gonna say it. -Jack! -No, no, no! In fact, -Jack, just be quiet! Jack, what are you doing? -if we want to talk all about the money, why don't we start with the four, five thousand dollars checks I personally handed to Senator Jarvis for his re-election campaign. And we know what that money was all about, don't we, Senator. Or how about you, Senator Burman... I donated $30,000 to influence your vote to keep the Marianas opened for business, remember? What about you, Senator McCain... You should be sitting in the seat that I'm sitting in right now. For years, you've taken tens of thousands of dollars from lobbyists just like me representing competing Indian tribes who wanted to open up their own casinos that would have shut my clients down. -Sir, you're out of order. -This man... this son of a bitch is guilty. And if he is allowed to go free, then there's something really wrong going on here. Sir, you're out of order. Out of order. You're out of order. You're out of order. You're all out of order. This whole Senate hearing is out of order. Seize him! I've got a whole panel of Senators who loved to take money from anybody who's got a fucking bank account. And you call me a con Jew? Fucking hypocrites! You fucking hypocrites! You ought to stand for something. You should protect people. Hold on... hold on. I've just completed my opening statement. Mr. Abramoff? Mr. Abramoff? Senator, I respectfully invoked the privileges as stated. And I say to you, Mr. Abramoff; Shame on you! Who the hell are you trying to look like? Who the hell are you trying to look like? Look, it's Michael Corleone! Hey, Corleone! You are a thief and a racist buff. We pray for you, Jack Abramoff! Mr. President, at the end of the day, I was vilified as Satan and ordered to pay restitution of more than 21 million dollars to the Indian tribes as well as 1.7 million to the IRS. Adam Kidan was sentenced in Florida in March 2006 to six years in prison for conspiracy and fraud in the purchase of the Sunsail casino gambling fleet. Bob Ney was sentenced in January for allegedly taking bribes from me. In 2005, Anthony Muscatello and Anthony Ferrari were charged with the murder of Gus Boulis. In 2006, Tom Delay stepped down as Majority Leader and resigned his seat in Congress after being indictment by a Texas grand jury. In 2009, he appeared in the ABC hit show 'Dancing with the Stars'. My two old buds, Grover and Ralph... they never face charges of any kind. And poor Kevin Ring, well... he's looking at five years in federal prison. As for Mike, well he's still free and he has taken up work as a Hobart beach lifeguard as he continued to stay out of jail while cooperating with the investigators. It's like starring in our own movie. Sorry, I was just trying to lighten the mood. Make bail, huh? Yeah, so far. Looks like... Thanks for coming, Jack. Pam would be furious if she knows that I was even talking to you. We still friends, right? "I know it was you, Fredo." "You broke my heart. Right... you broke my heart." Or as Harry Truman once said; "You want a friend in Washington D.C..." "... get a dog." Jack, you have no idea how much pressure they put on me, at Justice. I'm sorry, bro! It's okay. My lawyer tells me you only beat me to it by about 2 minutes. The student becomes the master. Your serve. You're a good kid, Mike. I'll miss you. I was sentenced to six years at a federal correctional institution in Cumberland, Maryland. Pam and the kids visit me on weekends. I spend the rest of my time leading a Jewish prayer group. And teaching a screen writing class to my fellow inmates. Occasionally I'll find time to throw darts at the photograph of George W. Bush. If it wasn't for all the money I help poured into Florida, that idiot would never have left Texas and I think you'd agreed, we all will be better for it. And despite the fact that the Justice Department recommended my sentence be reduced by 2 years, for fully cooperation with the investigators... ... on his last day in office, Bush refused to even considered. You see to this day, I remained Republicans worst nightmare. Not because I'm an icon to an era most people would prefer to forget but because once I'm out of here, God has given me a new mission... to remind the world what a bunch of hypocrites they all are. You see, Mr. President; It's time to think out of the box. I know it's a moonshot, but in writing you this letter... to a former president who understand very well how the game is play, I hope you might see my point of view, and considered making an appeal to the right Democrats, who might find it useful to help me, so in turn, I can help all of you. Time's up, Jack! Why... because my name is Jack Abramoff and I worked out everyday.
