 

                        CATACOMBS INSPIRED BY REAL FACTS i 200 years Ago, to Paris he ran out of the space... i ... to bury to their deads /i i For real ordinance, 7 millions of remains they were relocated /i i ... in a mine of calcareous stone abandoned under the city /i i Today, the city but romantic of the world it lies 30 meters above... i ... of the collective tomb but big of the world /i i The empire of the deads /i My name is Victoria My name is Victoria How do you call yourself your? Health... no... no... i My sister sent me a postcard /i i he/she Only said: They "Come to Paris He/she will make you well" /i i 48 hours after my arrival... i ... her and all those that I knew they had died /i Open the bag Pardon? - Open the suitcase - That he/she opens my suitcase? Had he/she already come to Paris? No, it had never traveled What is this? I become sometimes nervous Does he/she speak French? Pardon, I don't understand He/she asked him/her if he/she speaks French No, not Will he/she stay in a hotel? No, with my sister Hello, welcome to Paris Are you already having a good time? Not I know where he/she lives... ... but here he/she studies In Sorbona Their home? I don't know it, I sit down it It will pick up me in the airport I don't know it Welcome to France This trip will change you forever Are you excited? If but it hurts my head That is the sister that I remember To where do we go? Here you do live? Yes, he/she gives fear But the rent is a bargain He/she listens The first murderer in series of France he/she lived in the 5o floor It quartered to several until you they complained about the noise of the handsaw When facing it the type became crazy When the police arrived, it had killed to all in the 4o and 5o floor Then d ela slaughters all moved Too much blood, they said What? I am taking the hair It is only a building of dirt Calm. Not there is maniac homicidal in each corner Does he/she light the light, if? Not I know where this I didn't tell to you What? Imbecile, you always have that to scare people? The corzn breaks me. Carolyn Not it is personal, him him ago to all. Are you well? If. No. Alone- Where will I sleep? In Baltimore, Vic Neither the deads sleep in Paris It is that last night I didn't sleep in the airplane It was nervous for the flight so I didn't sleep- Not there is time We should get ready for a party Tonight? Neither madwoman will be able to go And fewer dressed as mom We go shopping Do you feel well? If Sure that don't want him/her to say anything to Quasimodo? That you find up to now? What? What? Paris! He/she looks around to your The city but beautiful of the world The City Luz. Romance, art, architecture, beauty It is incredible that it is on the tomb collective more big of the history Not we can go to a party without using for the first time shoes He/she hears You scared me To you, always so calm? What are you taking? Anything, hurts my head Good, vmonos A taxi comes He/she Looks, the Tower Eiffel A cono of Paris He/she hears... hello How's it going? Happy of seeing you Victoria, he is my dear friend Hugo one of the hosts... ... of the fabulous today party. Hugo, my famous one mates Victoria My name is Victoria Here we speak English, it mates - It is well - Of agreement What? Am I interested? It is for your sister For my? Happen, young ladies We go, sister Carolyn, waits Where do we go? It is too much afternoon to return Not I understand, Carolyn What party class is it? The party class that it will change your life It changed mine at least Outside of joke, why they make parties here below? Because here the cadavers are You only want to get scared again truth? I swear that not. everything is true It is the dark secret of Paris "Abandon all hope when entering" Pretty to bury to their deads The cemeteries were replete the bodies one on another The cadavers rotted in the streets of Paris Somebody brilliant he/she decides that there is that to begin of zero To exhume all the cadavers in Paris, 7 millions of them... ... and to toss their bones in the mines under the left bank - Seven millions? - Not it is amusing? Doesn't the police try to stop them? He/she attempts it. They created a squadron to stop, those Taste-polis There are almost 500 km of tunnels, and those parties are never in the same place Do you remember them? Nico and Len Hello We go, move Jean-Michele he/she waits for us Who is Jean-Michele? You will already know it To him and Hugo they were happened to make the parties here As our parties you they have made more popular... ... they accuse me of being in love of the death As a species of necrfilo, I suppose In old Greece, the philosophers they had the habit... ... of conserving a human skull... ... on their desk The idea is that... ... alone concientes being of our imminent death... ... we can appreciate fully the life I always found one good form of thinking The only problem is... ... that I never had an escritrio. Welcome to the Catacombs! Hello! Do you give me water, please? Do you give me water, please? Not you have to drink here You are Jean-Michele Carolyn spoke to me of you What did he/she say? That you fear to the darkness Not it is certain Seriously No? Because me if We all fear him/her Then, why they come to this place? "God frightens us with its kindness so that we become strong" Where can I drink? You lose your time, Jean-Michele Not I drink alcohol Not it is alcohol It is absinthe We go, we go, we go... This will finish bad Hear! He/she listens space cadet Are you well? Then, since you arrived in Paris... Have you seen some ghost? That sentence is so wornout It is in Paris, the city more charmed of the world It is a legitimate question He/she looks around to your Six million bodies pulled up of the earth... ... and stacked under your feet as firewood If the ghosts exist, they are in Paris. There are ghosts in this place He/she has the whole reason The catacombs are charmed But not for demons or spectra but for people For the degenerate and crazy that lower of the surface for the illness The death is a show An opera When the Black Virgin's cult it began to invest... ... the rites of the catoliscismo painting of black Mara's statue... i ... and adoring Satan... Still when they alleged to have given birth to the Antichrist... i ... any sensible person he/she took them seriously /i But they made it They take a boy... i ... born of the incest... ... servant with raw meat... i ... and they don't allow him/her to see the light of the day /i i they teach Him/her that it is the destroyer of the man /i i they put Him/her a hideous mask of goat. That you wait? For when he/she is 18 years old, he/she believes it to him they have created... ... a moonstruck being... ... not thinking and unmanageable... ... so evil... ... that it could really be call the Antichrist Please. a murderer with goat mask... ... it is alone a myth Terrifying, but only a myth It is spoken of people that lowers to the catacombs and it leaves never This is not a myth That mounstro that created... ... it is here below You don't go to the school with Carolyn, truth? We will swim. You want of wetting you, sister? We go, Vic, cares anybody Undress and enter to the water Carolyn... Carolyn Do we go for that not? It is your body You have a beautiful body Of what are you embarrassed? Anything, I am only cold It is everything Clear. If not, it would be the first in entering But it is cold I am a coward For once in your life you would rot to be about not being the most boring Not it would be myself if not. I believe that I will return to the party That sounded more hateful of what I wanted Somebody tells me how to return to the party? Over there Such it seems that you will have that to swim He/she neglects I will see as returning Not be idiotic, Vic You will get lost It is a labyrinth Vic! I speak seriously! Vic! "Soon you will be as us" It is what says You scared me I am happy. People as you he/she needs to get scared I speak seriously, silly Don't go away this way, it is dangerous The Catacombs have bad acoustics You could get lost Not you are lost, if? No. I don't believe it I believe that if Do you speak seriously? At what do you laugh? The one that wrote that didn't care it toward where we were What does he/she say? "There is only an entrance to this life... ... but those of the death they are countless" Brilliant What demons was that? You said that there was bad acoustics And it is certain Stay here I already understood They want to get scared They love to make that Good-bye! Not bother! Carolyn, I want to leave Wait! He/she waits That? What? The music under your feet, the serious ones Almost we arrive. He/she dances with me He/she lights the light That it happened? Why did he/she fade? The battery finished He/she waits What? How that finished? When he/she descends the battery the light blinks God! What will we make? - Calm down - We will be left without light! - It is well - No! He/she is being left without battery You are so silly! My God, what will we make? Why do they continue making that? Not it is amusing Not you can be my sister you should be adopted How can you be so calm? First rule of the Catacombs he/she always brings but of a light Do you see, silly? Not everything is a crisis We go The party is there Carolyn! Carolyn! Carolyn! No! Carolyn! please! Please! It aids! Help me! It aids! No! My God Please he/she lights Please, he/she lights... Please... Please... We go, we go... It aids! No! Leave alone me! Hold! Leave me! Help me! Is somebody? It aids! Help me! Does somebody listen to me? Does somebody listen to me? Oh, not! Leave alone me! Help me! Help me! Help me! Help me! It aids! Chingado! Want to kill me! Want to kill me! It aids! Help me! That somebody helps me! Somebody helps me! That somebody helps me! It aids! Victoria! Victoria! Jean-Michele! Jean-Michele! Jean-Michele Jean-Michele... ! Be dead! Oh not Hello? Is somebody? Is somebody there? Can somebody hear me? Please! do they listen to me? Can they hear me? I am caught here! Somebody can hear me there out? ... 64 ... 65 ... ... 83 ... 84 ... ... 85 ... 86 ... ... 91 ... 92 ... ... 93 ... 94 ... 95 ... ... 102 ... 103 ... 104 ... ... 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 ... Hello! Somebody listens to me there out? Somebody please helps me! It aids! Help me! It aids! I don't understand you Stay there! Don't move! Don't come closer! Stay there! Wait! Stay there! Don't come closer! No! Not I understand I don't understand you Not I know that you say. What? The exit? Is it blocked? Don't tell me, idiot! That is my lantern, imbecile! Hear, wait! Not I see! You don't take yourself the lantern of somebody but, idiot He/she waits Do you know to where you go? Do you know it? Be careful Are you listening to me? What is that? A map? Of this place? Allow me to see It is a map of the street Of up! For heaven's sake, don't make that Rue Saint Medard? What? And... ? Hear, hold! Hear! Do you have idea of that faces? They are the same ones intersections that up? Is there another exit? It is well, he/she waits where we are? God, is very far What did it happen to you? Were you in the party? Did you also get lost? Hear! Do you want to wait? Could you go but slowly? Please, you go but slow Don't play me! He/she hears, you go too quick Not I see anything God... Hear! Wait! Where do you go? What do you make? Why... ? Why do we stop? We have to continue What do you hide? What is that? Don't come closer me! Don't play me! What do you make? Don't play me Take away from my Don't injure Don't come closer me You are hysterical Perfect Henri Henri? Henri Henri Is your name? If I am Victoria Victoria Victoria My bigger sister died yesterday I believe that it was yesterday We have to leave Henri? Henri? Henri! Damned you are! Unfortunate! Henri! Don't leave me here! I will die here! Where rays did you leave? Give me the lantern Imbecile's piece Take off! Vmonos!, Henri It is necessary to find the other exit Care, Henri Be careful Put attention, Heni Slowly Carefully Are you well? Henri! Henri! My God! Everything will come out well Henri! Do shake hands me, if? Shake hands me, please! Shake hands me Please, stop! Henri, give me the... Well, well... It is well, it is well One, two, three... already! Not look! Look at me to my! Henri! Let us go! Tu can! Walk! If! Let us go! Pull with but it forces! Please! Well... Now we will attempt it with two hands, if? Two hands Let Us Go, Henri! Victoria? I regret it... I regret it No, I regret it. I will return I will find the exit and I will return I swear him! I swear you that I know where these I promise you that I will return I promise it to you No! No! Victoria! Victoria! I believe that I ended up giving the turn Henri? God Hello? Hello? Hello? Leave alone me! Damned it is! Stay lit! Don't fade! Please! Don't fade! Don't fade! Light! Light! No! Don't fade! Don't fade! Light... please! Please, he/she lights again Don't fade! Victoria? He/she knew it. My sister... Truly you believed that was it dead, certain? i he/she knew It... It is so comic /i i truly you believed it /i He/she knew it! My God... It is so comic! You really believed that had he/she died, certain? We fake the cut It is false blood Not there is any mounstro, it was one joke. Hugo with a mask Show him/her Do you see it? It was only a joke A joke? Not a joke A play, an initiation The Black Virgin's Cult and the mounstro with goat mask... i ... they are tricks that the boys have used per years to scare to other /i We will explain to you it, but he/she appeared the police and it dispersed us i we have been looking for You, screaming your name 12 hours /i And you believed that us were we the bad? Hello? Victoria Hears! He/she stops to run Victoria! Victoria! Didn't you listen to us? For that reason you continued escaping They are the walls. Anything is not heard One screams and anything is not heard Leave alone me! No... My God. Henri! He/she hears he/she stops to be so melodramatic Not they should make it No, but we made it It is what these boys make Imbecile. All your life has that to be scaring people? Have you already seen a ghost? They want to get scared They love to make that We believed that he/she would make you well Hear! You scared me! I am happy. People like your he/she needs to get scared Not there are homicidal maniacs in each corner According to Jean-Michele, when you survive to your own death, you reborn i for that reason we lower to the Catacombs /i Alone concientes being of our imminent death... ... we can appreciate fully the life Why you believe that I wanted that you came here? He/she wanted you to overcome your problems and you left those damned pills - Where it is Jean-Michele? - I don't know it Have you seen it Victoria? Shit, Jean-Michele! My God! My God! Stop to shake it! - Let us go, let us go! - This dead one? - Jean-Michele! - God! Leave it! No longer shake it! No, no, not Jean-Michele! No! Revise him/her the pulse! Jean-Michele! How could this happen? Jean-Michele! No... no... Piece of stupid! This dead one! How you could to be so stupid? What do you have in the head? Look at that you made! Come and he/she looks at that you made! Stop and he/she looks at this! Look at that you made! - I sit down it - You are an idiot! I hate you All that you have made in your life it is an error. The ones! Always the ones, but that made to lose everything! I hate you so much! Look at that you made! What does he/she spend? Look at that you made! i you are a perfect idiot! God willing you died! i you are so silly that not even you could kill yourself /i i you attempted It 20 times and you didn't achieve it /i i you are a stupid dog! All that you have made in your life... No! i My sister sent me a postcard /i i he/she Only said: They "Come to Paris He/she will make you well" /i i 48 hours after my arrival... i ... her and all those that I knew they had died /i To the airport, please
