 

                        1 And I could never tell as a kid What that window door went to Only told to stay away I almost had an accident at age six When I found the key in the attic It's okay, girl. I'll be back. Is the only sense I've left Hello? Mr. Pearce, it appears you are going to miss your flight. Yeah, I'm sorry, man. I'm just finishing up. I'll be right out. Get the fuck out of here. Don't fix my smile Life is long enough Mr. Pearce! Don't fix my smile Would you mind taking a picture with me? Yeah, yeah. My daughter's going to freak out. Just a sec. Would you mind taking a picture of us? We will put this flesh into the ground again Don't fix my smile Flight number 24 from Houston, your baggage will be on carousel one. Mr. Pearce? Yup. Welcome. You from around here? Yup. I heard you guys have been having some rough weather lately. Heavy winds. Oh. Have a good night, Mr. Pearce. You too. Hi. I'm checking in. Mr. Brown. We have you on the fifth floor, room 539, our most special suite. I think you'll find it very LA. Cool. Uh, Mr. Brown, if you need anything at all, my name's Rhonda and I'm down here late most nights and I can take care of you. Nice. Um, elevators are on your left. Okay. I love you on the Howard Stern. Thanks, brother. Oh, shit. Hello? Hi, Mr. Brown. It's Rhonda from downstairs. How's the room? Um, it's good. I knew you'd like it. Mr. Brown, there is a foreign man down here waiting for you. Okay. He seems a little agitated. Thank you. Bye. Okay, bye. Hey, Tim? Oh, good to meet you, man. I love your work. Thank you. Big fan. So glad you agreed to do this so last minute, man. You are the perfect Vaxy. Cool, man. Obviously this movie is very important to me, you know? Excuse me. Regan, do you think we could get a picture with you? Yeah, I'm in a meeting, but if you wait a second... Come along, girls. Let's move along. Move it. Dude, dude, dude, dude... Let's move it! No, no, no, no. They're okay. They're okay. Yeah, come on. We'll take a photo real quick. You mind, Tim? No, no, no, no. So, how do you like Shreveport? I like it. It's cool. - I just got here, but... - A little bit closer. Okay, good. Okay, okay. Thanks, Regan. Nice meeting you. Mr. Pearce... Yeah? You want me to post up? I don't think so, man. I think I'm good. All right, if you need me, I'll be right there. Okay. Um... Now, I don't pretend to know anything about your process, but I like to do a ton of rehearsals. Just get in the room, the two of us, man, and... Uh-oh! Look who's in Shreveport! Regan, glad you finally made it. Tony. Tony Cunningham! I'm the guy who writes the fucking cheque, yours too. What do you think? Uh... Of Tim here. Huh? He's a genius! Huh? And Timmy, am I right? Oh... Huh? You love this kid? This kid's a star and we're going to be the ones to remind him. Look how ripped Pearce is. All right, don't let me interrupt. You guys do your thing. We'll meet back here 7:30, get us some nice steaks, find us some pussy. How's that sound?! Look who's in Shreveport! Hey, Schiff, it's Regan. I'm freaking out a little, man. Can you give me a call back as soon as you can? Okay, bye. Front desk. Hey, there's no internet in my room. Yeah, the internet's been down for a couple days now. Okay. Is it going to come back on? Uh, they're working on it. I'll let you know if it does. Okay, thank you. - Yo, Schiff, Schiff, it's Reagan. - Yo, man, what's up? Hey, man, this is going to be a fucking mess, dude. Yeah. I am totally regretting taking this job. I just sat down with the director and, Schiff, dude, this guy is a fucking moron. Maybe a nice guy, but, you know, he's just not a director. And this fucking Tony guy, have you met him? What the hell happened to my career, man? Hey, I hear you. Try to calm down. Just tell me what the issues are. How's the room? The room? Who cares about the room, man? Look, I'm sorry. The fact is this isn't a long shoot and chances are no one's even going to see it. Well, then why the fuck am I doing it? You know why. Did we hear back on the Cameron movie? As a matter of fact, I caught Avi earlier today. He's still a fan, man, but he thinks you're a little old for the way they're going. They want to play this a bit younger. And we've had this discussion many times before. You know what we need is that game changer that's going to get you back on those studio lists. It's just a matter of time. It's gonna happen. You have to trust and be patient. Hang in there, man. Better days ahead. To Flashpoints! Oh, fuck. Hello? - Hello, this is the front desk. - Someone's here to pick you up. Really? Could have used you yesterday. Are you guys from... Flashpoints, yup. They didn't tell me they moved up my pickup time. Tell him we want to get going. Uh, they want to get you going a little early, I guess. Nice to meet you, Mr. Pearce. I'm Mike. I'm Junior. I'm in production. So, you're a PA? Huh? Yeah. They just want me to come along and make sure everything goes good. Man, I couldn't sleep for shit last night. Always happens the first night in a new place. Yeah, it's got to be tough, being on the road. Yeah. Hey, man, can we put on some music or... Yeah. What do you like? Hip hop, R'n'B... Flow like water down the drain Can't hold me down, I'm off the chain Can't phase me, bro, I'm focused man Flyer than a bird, flyer than a plane Graduated when evaluated Can't tell me, Bitch I made it High as shit, not even faded Compared to me, they overrated So, you guys from around here? I actually live down in New Orleans, but I come up here for work. How about you? You ever heard of Atchafalaya Basin? No. It's kind of like... swampland. That's cool. Like, gators and shit? Yup. This is pretty far out here, huh? I don't think I'm going to make it back for that one o'clock rehearsal. I should let the production office know. Shit, I don't have the number. Hey, Junior, you got it? Here, I'll dial it in for you. Don't get it wrong, dude, they can't do what I do Can't be like me, you can try all you want That's funny. Can I have my phone back? Dude, give me my fucking phone. Young and reckless, like Johnny Manziel It's gone. Nigger music. - Out the van now. - Come on, let's go. What the fuck is going on? What the fuck is going on?! Hey, p-people are going to be looking for me. Good. What do you guys want? Money? I will make the call to my business manager right now. I'll him to wire you whatever you want. You could have it tonight. Oh, boy, you can do that? Yes. I swear, man, I can get you anything you want. I promise you, I could get you... at least a million dollars and no one will ever know this happened. I don't want your fucking money. Pretty boy. Why are you doing this to me? I'm Diana's husband. I have no idea what you're talking about. Oh, you'll remember. I'll make sure we remember... together. Please! I didn't do what you think I did! I don't know any Diana! Are you listening to me?! I don't know her! What are you doing with that? These are bolt cutters. They'd cut through anything. They'd cut you free of them chains or snap through your bones like twigs. But I'm gon' use 'em to chop off something a lot softer. Oh, no, no... I'm gon' take something from you now, boy! No, no! Yeah! No, no, no! No, no! No! Mike, I got it. What are you doing? I'm gon' cut his fucking balls off! Oh, you don't wanna do that, Mike. He'll bleed to death right there on the floor. I thought you wanted to keep him alive for a little while. Get the fuck off me! Junior, hand me that gator thumper. Which one? The big 'UN, right there! Get it! Fuck. What the fuck is that? Now you ain't never gonna touch what ain't yours again. Oh! Shit. Thought you was dead. You ain't moved in a day. Here, take this. Take it. Don't-don't spit it. Go on, swallow it down now. If you don't, pain's gonna kill you 'fore he does. It's just an Oxy. You made it. You remember her yet? No, man, I swear. I've been really fucked up the past few years. There's so much shit I don't... Bullshit! Dark hair, 5'6, worked on your movie! In wardrobe? Even if I did do anything with her, I would have had no idea she was married, man. I wouldn't do that. I would never knowingly fuck another guy's wife! Oh, yeah? What's your password? What? Junior? "2259." You know, man, you work together with somebody on a movie set for a couple months, you don't know their whole life. You don't erase your shit, huh? "Okay, sexy, just tell him you're out with your girlfriends." Tell who? I don't even know when I would have written that, man. "Last night was insane. I want more." That's not what it sounds like. "That was the best..." Oh... Who's that? It's that actress... buck naked. You know the one. He used to date her. Look, there's another. Now, I have seen her in something. Oh... lookie here. What's that one? It's him... naked like a "B." Hey, what's your computer password? "Evolution." What? "Evolution." How do you spell it?! "E-v-o-l- u-t-i-o-n." Come on. Get some. It's good. I don't want any, bro. It's good. It smells like shit. Come on, get you a couple. No, thank you. You should at least get another Oxy in you, maybe some water. Come on. Go ahead. What the fuck are you doing?! You feedin' him?! He don't need nothing! You were right. They lookin' for you. About 100 missed calls, texts. "Regan, it's Caroline. Where are you? Butch said you left with a friend before your pickup time. Please get back to me." Well, I'll be... You really are something special. Or maybe all the attention's 'cause, see, what we did, while you was having some quiet time, we're sending them pretty pictures from your cell phone out to a couple big websites. Junior knows 'em all. He is a halfwit, but one half knows computer shit somehow. Anyway, they loved 'em. Look at this. It's everywhere: Radar Online, TMZ, Perez Hilton, even CNN, Huffington Post. "Another celebrity cell phone hacked." Hey, they saying it was his cell phone got hacked. They don't think it was him. Well, get on his Twitter and tell 'em that way. He got one. You twitter, faggot? Don't worry, I'll make sure you get the credit. Time to feed the gators! Mike, get in here! Look, come check it out. Oh! We got us a tree shaker! "Pearce tweets responsibility for photo leaks. Tells Hollywood Jews to go fuck themselves." I added that. Why do you even fucking care about doing this shit? Why don't you just kill me? Oh, not yet. First, I'm gon' destroy you, the way you did me. I'm gon' take your life and reputation from you, humiliate your ass publically, make sure the world thinks you're the biggest piece of shit on the planet. Then I'm gon' kill you. You gon' die knowing you hated. I mean, it's working so far! They think you lost it! Saying you committed public suicide. Guess it won't be a surprise when you turn up dead. But first, I wrote you a little something for your outgoing cell phone message. It's a kind of, um... script. And you gon' read it and you gon' make me believe it. Or I'm gon' split you... and watch you die slow. Nobody talks like this. Come on, man, you can do better than that. I'm fucked anyway. You wanna make 'em think I'm crazy, let's get fucking crazy. This shit is weak. Junior, give me that fucking phone. Hey, hey, hey! I'm not as dumb as you think. What is it? "2259." Go on. Yo, this is Regan. Don't bother calling this number anymore. I'm out. Basically, fuck you to everybody. Kristy! Especially the Jews, for all the sins you committed against the world. Praise be to Allah. I die an enlightened man. Yeah! You workin' for me now, boy. A major Hollywood scandal unfolding this afternoon. Actor Regan Pearce, best known for the Oscar winning ensemble drama Volume and the hit dark comedy Crimes Against Us, allegedly posting naked photos of his famous exes last last night on the internet. Then today, Pearce took to his Twitter feed, claiming responsibility for the leaks, and then later, unleashing an anti-Semitic tirade against Hollywood. Now, Pearce is no stranger to bad press. He has a minor arrest record, including a DUI, destruction of property, and most recently concluded an extended stay at a Montana rehab facility, where it appeared that his life was back on track and he was back to work. But today's behaviour indicates a meltdown of Sheen-like proportions. Pearce, who was in Shreveport, Louisiana, to start filming his new movie Flashpoints, has not reported for work and has not been seen since Wednesday. Pearce's publicist Nicole Perna issuing this statement just moments ago: "The person responsible for these actions and comments is not the Regan Pearce his family and friends know. We hope to be in contact with him shortly to get him the help that he needs." You done real good with that message. You should be an actor. But now you gon' tell me a real story. Of course you'd be a cop. Ex-cop. I work in security now. Got dismissed from the force about a year and a half ago. Don't you want to know why? Got me on a heavy domestic. They took my badge. I did a year. Lost my house. Can't see my kids no more. And almost everyone I knew turned they backs on me. And that's all because of the story you gon' tell me right now. Story of the first time you fucked my wife. You hearin' me, boy? I want every detail! Each and every thing you did to her and every thing she did to you. You hearin' me, faggot?! Fucking pussy. Whoo-ee! I do got to say, they always got you in some pictures with some pretty-ass bitches. God damn, look at this one. I'll be you said some things. Hey, I gotta ask, What was it like working with Clint Eastwood? Now, he's the shit. That's a real fucking man. Fucking pussy. Yeah. Yeah, it's been a good run. I mean, don't get me wrong, it fucking sucks that it's got to end this way, but overall, I've been a lucky man. I've had pretty much every experience I ever wanted to. Yeah. Yeah, think I'm good. Hey, Mike. Yeah? Let me tell you that story. So, I gave her a ride home from work, right? She wanted me to see this kitten she was keeping, she found behind her hotel a couple days before. We talked, hung out, had a few drinks. And then she starts telling me about her scumbag of a husband. This motherfucker's one of those domineering, egotistical, fucking pieces of shit with a perpetual need to just eviscerate others so he feels better about himself. You know, like, to compensate for his shortcomings. I just listened, man. She cried. I wanted to hold her, so I did. She said I made her feel like a woman. Then she lead me to the bedroom and started going down on me. I was surprised, but I didn't stop her. After awhile, she straddles me, pulls her panties to the side, put me inside her. It was amazing... for both of us. When we finished a couple hours later, she told me I made her come four times. And then she laughed when she told me that you never had once. I guess your tiny rent-a-cop dick ever could get the job done. Kill me. Not yet. I... ...ain't... done! Here they are, Mike. I got two of 'em. Be back day after tomorrow, finish this up. I just totally lost my shit in there. Hope he makes it till I get back. Don't you fucking go getting soft and sweet on me, boy. Man up! Save that gas in the gennie. Hey... come here. You done real good so far, Junior. I love you. You a good nephew. It's 'bout to be lunch. She came up in here. She was trying to fill up her belly before she hibernating. I just saved your life. Now, a gator jaws snap shut 'bout 2000 pounds of force, but once you up on it like this, it ain't got no muscle for opening. Even one hand'll do. Phew... You welcome. I never seen 'em come all the way up inside before. Probably smelled all that blood in here, heard you moaning, thrashing around, figured she could get in on an easy meal. Huh... Best we get you up off the floor. All right... There you go. All right, get comfy. Phew... Hey, now, she a pretty little bitch, ain't she? Hello? Yeah, he breathin'. I seen it. No, he's still right there on the floor where you left him. All right, then. Hey, Mike. See you tomorrow. You won't ever bring me down Down, down, down, down, down You won't ever bring me down Down, down, down, down, down You won't ever bring me I can't escape From the disdain Your heart, your pain Your drama is lame I won't chastise Even when you think you can Bring me down Already had my life turned upside down I ride a downward spiral round and round But I keep flying I keep fighting You won't ever bring me down Down, down, down, down, down You won't ever bring me Down, down, down, down, down You won't ever bring me You can't bring me down Already had my life turned upside down I ride a downward spiral round and round But I keep flying I keep fighting You won't ever bring me down You won't ever bring me down Down, down, down, down, down You won't ever bring me down Down, down, down, down, down You won't ever bring me down What'd you come up or something? Yeah, I guess I did. Mm-hmm, yeah, okay. Been through the other way anyway. Hey, Junior... What is it? I gotta piss so fucking bad, man. Can you hold it? Until when? Don't make me piss on myself again. That's really fucked up. Okay, I guess I'm-a unhook you, but... you gotta keep those hands in them cuffs, okay? All right, careful on that-that hand there. Come on, I'm-a get you up. Oh, let's go get you drained. I can't walk, bro. My feet are tied together. Um... I'm not going to run. My legs are fucked and I don't even know where the fuck we are. Okay, all right. I know what I'm-a do. I'm-a hold this bungee end like a tether. And if you run, I'm-a snap you down, okay? Okay. Come on. Toilet's behind that wall. Don't even think about it. I don't want to have to hurt you extra. All right, now, I'm-a stay out here. You go on and do your business. Shit... You all right in there? Yeah. Come on, let's get you going. That's Mike. He's checking in. I got to answer that mobile phone. Get you on the cot. Come on! Come on. Come on, come on, come on. Mike?! Is everything okay? Yeah, Mike. Everything's great. Then why the fuck didn't you pick up the phone, you fucking crackhead? I went for it, but it went quiet. What's he doing? Same as before, when you left. I got this, Mike. All right then. Between now and when I get back, that phone rings, best you pick up or I'll have two piles of shit to deal with. I'll do it. Junior... What's he going to do to me? I mean, how's this supposed to end? What's the plan? You're okay with just letting him kill me? 'Cause you seem like a good dude. Thank you. I ain't running this thing. Yo, he called me up, said he had a job. You supposed to help out family. Even though he don't come 'round there too much no more, he's still my uncle. So, you can live with that? Your uncle's fucking nuts, man. His wife never told me she was married, and the truth is I barely touched her. How do you know he's not planning on killing you too? You think he gives a fuck about you? You're the only witness. What if he tries to frame you for this shit? The guy's a fucking psycho. I don't really feel like talking no more. I think it's best we get some sleep. And how about this Regan Pearce? This guy is making Charlie Sheen look like Tom Hanks. Have you seen his Twitter feed? Oh, you filthy perverts. Well, needless to say, the two ladies in the photographs are very upset. Yes! And from what I understand, Regan's rabbi is furious. God damn, it's a shiny day! You don't look so good, bro. Sun might do you some good. Yo, I figure if I chain you to that cot, I could set you in the doorway. Sun'll bounce on you real nice. Okay, let's get you going. Let me know if you get too hot. I'll help you off with your shirt. Put some sun cream on you. Yeah, I'm right here, Mike. That's good, Junior. I'm just checking in. Everything's sweet. When do you think you're getting back in? Soon as I get off work. I told you, it's my alibi. Well, what's my alibi, Mike? You don't need one, baby boy. Okay. Figure I'll get there about 1:30 in the morning or so and we'll finish this thing up. So, 1:30, I'll see you then. What are you doing here? I'm sorry just showing up like this. You are not supposed to be here. I understand. Wait. Just hear me out and I promise I'll go. Just give me two minutes. I'm telling you, I feel different. Diana, I am not a violent man anymore. That part of me is gone. Diana, you know I would never hurt my boys. Please... I'll think about it. Mike... can you grab her for me? Yeah. Hi. Hey, honey. Hello. Yo, yo, Junior, Junior. I got a headache, dude. You know, I really love your movies. Really? It feel kind of silly talking about it, seeing... the situation we in, but I do, I love 'em. Huh... What was the name of that one you was in, that nasty one, with all them high school kids that's fucking each other? What was it, Up Against Us? Crimes Against Us. Yeah, that's it. Yeah, we watched that one a whole mess of times back in high school. And some of my friends even took to dressing like you in it. Yeah, people still love that one. That's 'cause you were such a badass in it. You were so fuckin' cool. You were the man in that one. I guess that probably wasn't too hard for you though, right? You know, I gotta say, you look real young for your age. You must take real good... like, real good care of yourself. I guess so. I mean, I kind of have to. It's like part of the job in a way, you know? I'm definitely not perfect about it, but... How about you, Junior? You look pretty... fit. You work out? Yeah, I do mostly body weight stuff. Well, it's working. You look good. Man, stop that. Yesterday, the entertainment world was rocked by nude celebrity photos, anti-Semitic comments, and the behaviour of an actor that seemed to be on a downward spiral. But new information could change all of that. Early this morning, investigators went into the hotel room in Shreveport, Louisiana that Pearce was staying at and found all of his belongings inside. Hotel surveillance video shows Pearce getting into a van that was not sent by the production of Flashpoints, a movie he was set to start filming today. Also, late last night, Pearce changing his outgoing voicemail greeting to this... ...to everybody, especially all the Jews for all the sins you committed against the world. Praise be to Allah. I die an enlightened man. Now, at first, it was thoughtnthat this was just another sign of a young actor at the end of his rope. However, it was discovered that Pearce is actually quoting dialogue verbatim from his 2003 movie To Carry or Kill, the Iraq war drama, in which he plays a US soldier abducted and held captive by Muslim extremists. And especially the Jews for all the sins you committed against the world. Praise be to Allah. I die an enlightened man. Also in the recording, you can hear Pearce call out the name "Kristy," which happens to be his character's name in the film. Now, whether or not this is some sort of code or perhaps a suicide threat, remains to be seen. One thing is for certain, police investigators are still looking for that van, and more importantly, they want to know the whereabouts of Regan Pearce. This your first time eating gator? Yeah, actually. A lot of people get... a little turned off by the idea. Nah, not me. I'll try anything once. So? How do you like it? It's really fucking good. Can you taste the crappie? No, I said it's good. No. A crappie of fish. I put crappie of fish in there. It's... See, there's, uh... There's white crappie and there's black crappie, and I put the black crappie in mine 'cause it's... It's tenderer. You got a nice smile. Thank you, Junior. Well, you know what I mean. It's... You got them nice... ...you know, Hollywood teeth. You got a girlfriend, Junior? Nah. How 'bout you? Just ended something. I don't know. I'm thinking maybe it's time for something different. You want some more? Mm-hmm. Yes, please. Hey, can I "axe" you something weird? Go ahead. You ever try it on with a dude? Hey, I've heard if you get me drunk enough, I'm down for whatever. So... I got some whiskey. You mind if I do a little pop? No, go ahead, man. Mmm. Man, this is good. What up with that cup, man? Don't worry about it, man. We don't need a cup. We can just drink from the bottle. You can pour it for me. Yeah. How's that? It's working already, and I can feel something. It's weird. My heart's beating all fast. There go them Hollywood teeth again. You gon' make me do something. Am I? All right, cut... Stop. Get off me. I just... I can't, man. I just, um... Junior, man... Dude, I'm just freaking out. I'm fucking desperate. You've been real good to me, and I didn't mean to upset you. It don't matter. I roofied your stew. I just got to wait a little bit and I can get at you all night. Oh, my God. Oh, shit. My head is totally spinning. Oh, fuck. Oh, my God. My head is just so... Oh, my fucking head is spinning. Dude. I'm going to kill that boy. Reginald, this is Uncle Michael. You are a piece of shit! Answer the fucking phone! You are not a good nephew. Fuck you! Answer the phone! Reginald Hester Jr... Motherfucker, boy! Goddamn it. What do you want? Junior here? You hear from him? Junior, he ain't nobody's thing. He ain't call you? That boy never got no phone. The road's flooded. I'm taking Jesse's boat. Hey! Jesse on a pumper, he knock you for turning me over. This will jar your preserves. Get back in the fucking house, Corinne. Uh-uh. I'm going to hold you up for the ass right here and watch Jesse lick on you. I'm-a bring it right back. You ain't taking our shit. Show up out of nowhere, lay your hands on me like I'm your old lady. You ain't about to shoot straight, you junkie. I was deer hunting at nine months pregnant. No wonder Junior ain't worth a shit. Don't make me do it, Michael. I'm gon' draw a bead. Let's see what you got, Corinne! I'll draw a bead! Motherfuck! All right, then. All right, then! You in here, faggot? I hope to hell you is. I seen Junior down by the swamp. You done him pretty good. I know you... Dang. You come up a whopper. You just come on out. Be a real shame expiring in the shitter. Oh. He outside. I got you. Yeah, Mike. You got me. So, at what point did you realize, "I'm going to live"? You'd think it would have been when Mike was gone. Uh, dead. But, uh, I thought, "Yeah, they were gone, "but there was a good chance I was going to die there with them." Why? At that point I still had the drugs in my system, a roofie, and I was pretty destroyed physically. I knew Mike had arrived by boat and I would have gone straight out there for it, but I couldn't move very fast. I knew there were alligators out there. Um, and so, I thought I'd wait until the next morning, and that's what I did. Okay, so then, you get in the boat, you set out, and then miraculously, fisherman actually see you or they hear you? It's hard for me to remember exactly what transpired during the rescue. I know that they told me that I was, uh, yelling... Incoherently when they heard me, and then by the time they got out to the boat I was in that I was dead weight. I was just out. I was taken to the hospital, and the doctor there told me that if I had arrived even two hours later than I did, I would have been in a coma or dead. Let's go back. In those quiet hours, in those days that were long and terrifying, what did you think about the most? It became clear to me in a life sense how I could have been a better person up until this point, and I would say to myself repeatedly that if I were lucky enough to survive this, that I would be. I'd be a better human being. And that an awareness of some kind, uh... That led me to believe that maybe, um, some of my choices and actions had led me to this point, or were in some way responsible for the situation I was in. That's a big admission. And I thought about my mom a lot. How has this change manifested in your life so far? Just a taste Just a taste Just a taste Hello? Hey, Pearce. How you feeling? Good, man. Just resting, getting my strength back. I got my tooth fixed. Oh, good. Well, listen. We need to talk about a couple of things. Yeah? Yeah, your 20/20 interview was the most-watched show Thursday night. Your interview had more viewers than the Lance Armstrong confession. I've been getting calls about it non-stop. People can't get enough of this story. And you know how crazy this business is; you got the offer on the Cameron movie this morning. I thought you said it was cast. You said they were going younger. Yeah, well, all I can tell you is that when the overnights on 20/20 came in, you got a lot younger. This is the game-changer we've been talking about. It's crazy. It's a crazy business, man. Everybody wants a meeting. It's your choice if you want to sit it out or you want to go for it. But they will move on to something else. That's how this goes, and I know you, Reagan. And I will say this: ill-gotten gains can be made good. It just depends on what you do once they're received. That a girl. Let's go. How'd I arrive in a place like this Red right hand as the alligator kiss Head turns white and my face is green But my feet are still moving if you know what I mean Dancing, dancing dancing, dancing Dancing He says to me to shake around And don't stop till you hit the ground And I know that it's not how you thought it would be No whips no chains just dancing, dancing, dancing Dancing, dancing dancing, dancing Satan, Satan Satan, Satan, Satan Satan, Satan Said dance, all right
