 

                        Laboratory of extreme weather Washington, DC I want you to call right now at Ross Ross gave you his number to you What about you? There superstorms across France, right now Department of Meteorology Please understand. In the past 2 weeks, Las Vegas, St. Louis, Chicago All were battered by storms of unprecedented ferocity He is proposing that the same may happen here? Absolutely, it's a small planet My models suggest that there will be no exceptions Look at what is shaping out just now Ross is in a meeting, treats 911 I already tried with 911 Can you believe that a storm of that intensity is going to beat Paris and Europe? Not only in Europe, this is a global crisis Unless we find out the cause, the entire planet is doomed, faster than you think Take my hand Henry Oh God, shit What? Ross ... Not where you're crazy, but better look out the window now I think everyone should see this It's worse than Chicago We have no time Federal Protective Services ... damage report ... Carr! An excellent physical condition is not the solution to manage time, take a seat I repeat: Paris was destroyed And before that, all in Nevada until Chicago And in a short, everyone will fly off the rails At the same time that the country is thrown into greater recovery from the 9 / 11 By which we, the Federal Protective Services We collect waste Oh, I'm canceling the vacation Keep working Captain, I was ... Save it Carr You're late to get the gun probably confess to someone who was 30 km / h in a school zone. Am I wrong? I just want to congratulate your sister for me Do not you say? Shit son just made the director of FEMA That must make her happy And now to introduce the new acting director of FEMA, Secretary of security of the nation Thanks Storm Cat 6, unprecedented It underlined the need for government to be more active That's why the president Judith Carr chose to run the FEMA Because of its merits without parallel in the organization and his tireless energy We the American people exactly what they deserve What is the best of the best Miss Carr Thanks After the secretary revealed my secret identity as Wonder Woman I'll answer your questions The President wants to know if it is right for the job? Direct FEMA? O capture the spirit when voters realize that she can not make a tragedy pufff multistate do? Of course, I've never seen erratic and is credible, authentic camera On top of all that ... It's a team player I hope you're right Miss Carr, why you believe it was promoted among many qualified candidates within FEMA? Just the fact that his father is Senator solves Maybe, if my father were part of the party in power To be honest, I was not the first choice FEMA is stretched to the limit It was the ideal time to take sides, but ... Maybe I just have more to prove Agency Federal Emergency management Agency (FEMA) Can I have your attention please? For those who do not know me, I'm Judith Carr This treatment is simple, pick up the pieces will not touch us anymore We were asked to be ahead of the game See what's coming, and do something about it before we call Wait, we get in early warning Exactly I'm the only one wondering if storm explosion is just a coincidence? Here in Paris, the past 2 weeks What will you do with the weather predict There must be someone out to us a theoretical background of what is happening And tell us whether or not going to happen again Also ... Security of the nation has given us a new priority No matter what you lose up We respond first to review Government Infrastructure damages caused by the storm category 6 He left us very vulnerable to terrorist attack It is crucial that government offices ... The forces of order and basic utilities are in line for security From now onwards you will have to make many difficult decisions If you are sentimental, are in the wrong department I do not like, but are orders This is the new policy Hey, you're still here The former Chief had this wizard: Jesse We had this thing of walking friends with benefits Once he put his hands in a study of AS About the weather settled in the Union Yes, I know, one of Ross Duffy, I read Actually read the edited version It seems that the energy industry did not like the implications That they were finishing their products with the global climate So the White House buried in hell house And refused all arguments you know where to find Jesse? Oh, he is so out of my life, apart, destroyed all the original copies Except this Good evening sir, sorry to bother you, but ... In order to better preparation, I was in the location of sources and found this The report by Ross Duffy If Sr I read It's nothing Well sir, perhaps you read the edited version Because I have to say, the original, you really open your eyes Basically predicts the sites to be hit by severe storms, including Paris Yes, I know, but is politically anti ... But sir, with all that is happening, I think we should really consider That report was heavily edited after being carefully considered You know why? No Why Ross Duffy is a fool Now we and the rest do we ensure that more research When, if you quit, quit something you will be among the first to know I'll see you then Yes sir ... A new batch of storms exploited Seattle to Chicago The tornado warning has been around South Dakota While massive rainstorms have temporarily closed the Mount Rushmore National Park And just a few hours, which may be another tornado Category 6 Mall destroyed most of America in suburban Minneapolis Where the majority of retailers have lost everything I lost everything, that should be the motto of FEMA We could sell T-shirts Great, you will hire for the job There are no data to predict what happened in Chicago and Paris ... Sorry Mommy, is rare, he do not like Do not say that do not have to do I remember your expression when you found out he was dating his daughter It's so clever it hurts, and irreponsable I had enough hard times with him in college and then nothing was ham Yes, but not you the one who tells me that the job is more important than any individual person involved? You're telling me I should go on The fate of the world hangs in the balance of the principal Carr And the fact that Ross will be distracted by arguing with me And so he pays no attention to the guy who spends too much time with her daughter It would be quite a coincidence Hello Melody, the idea of a secret mission appeals to you? I have a Chinese tattoo of a cat in my ass? I'll take that as a yes to both Dr Duffy! I Melody Chen, assistant director of FEMA Sorry, wrong The director wants to talk about your report The original ... Paris ... Chicago With predictions like these should be fortuneteller Cute, but not spend more time working for the government So you may be wondering I'm not here officially The director is working under the radar You earn points for this You have them. Who is she? Judith Carr Leave the rain Nia That look tells me you think I have a great opportunity to ensure getting hurt To be imprisoned and become the man of his time in the Iron Mask Sure you did the right thing Well Good evening Carina Daddy Goodnight Someone was playing? If, a girl ... wrong direction The terrible storms across America, and now in Europe They can be just the beginning These are terrifying times friends But we are less when we remember ... Do not have to face them alone Look in your heart Look deeper and delivery, delivery We have an anonymous tip about a reporter underestimated Locked in the facility Know? Technically, the writers are reporters Well done Let him on 200 dollars You know what I hate? People who use God to manipulate others To people who really believe in God we have to do serious work when promoviso outside the cemetery The creed of reporters. Comforting the afflicted and afflict the comfortable I do not plan to take advantage when filled with alcohol, right? What is that? Just a scratch Yeah, you always mess with scratches Nothing but worth it No what about you, some people want to kill you. What I've always wanted to kiss you I is great technique that you The center of gravity of fluids Do you think you can make me something special? How an IQ test? Not everyone can have beauty and brains We assume that we have the same interests as being in the same school I can help you find your way to a life of political glory? Hey that happens in your dreams or something That brings me back to my starting point Dale 555 012 Sorry, I really thought you would send? Keeping things in the breasts? Only a matter of babes Hey Stew! I have an extra ticket for Rockfest If you do not mind I would ask her Just think about it Incredible He behaves like working Mount Rushmore Black Hills, South Dakota These fierce storms hitting the U.S. The administration is aware that we may be facing a global climate catastrophe? Global Catastrophe The storms have been punished. But that's a little scary? Mr. Secretary ... Lisa The president will review its decision not to sign the Kyoto agreement? We currently have an energy policy in place That leads us clean for the 21st Century The president is very clear about that Staying on course, focused on the future And do not believe for a few isolated thunderstorms panic Do not panic with a storm ... You have not heard? FEMA will kiss whatever you do The records of humidity rose 40% since last week The old George has water in the skull The temperature decreases rapidly Let's go! The water is frozen, is breaking Jump! Hold on! Gotcha! I can do it! Hold on! Laboratory of extreme weather Washington DC Failure to connect the primary online pericandril going to miss Of course not a complete waste of time Doc, is for you So this is where the spy Grandfunk Greenpeace Rented until September at least, that is when I lose my graduate students Everything is great I read your report The original Want tea? No thanks So you read my report. For what I need? We have become the new Alice in 2 continents, and your report suggests places, 2 years before that happened Let's get this clear, I predicted the locations Look, I was in Paris, this storm was on the scale I never predicted that So you say it's a matter of degrees? From grad ... When was supposed to have that kind of climate on this planet? You realize that my report is just the tip of the iceberg Yes, global warming is the origin of these extreme changes in climate but ... Something else is happening One thing is becoming more common in the worst storms ever recorded climates on the planet Please Well, and why is that? My God, do not. Truth Judith is a complex problem I remember you told me once that there was no settlement complex problem with a night of concentrated thought No need to make this personal I'm bothering you? I need air. Need air? Let's go to air cojer Ross, the fact that this has come down to us is very difficult for both But the truth is that I ran out of geniuses So I can not let go, and frankly ... you owe me Health Listen, I have money and power And I'm working with one guy who may be able to save millions from death So ... you're going to work with me? Only 2 teams One in military aircraft and other ground This ... detonator or whatever you're looking for, Do not give any warning signs Ni remained after, which means we'll have to dive in one of these suckers, hoping to find something to give them a sense The Air Force will work. Any idea who they want in the land unit? Yes Two people. One that's almost dead and the other nearly met death Cool Hello. Hold on Excuse me sir, you want? What are my other options? Tell me something good Ross! Partner No plan to visit your partner in metal that is in the sewer You're kidding? can not remember what day it is today Well, I'll be there ... hello, hello Ross, you probably need a little help with the rudder, a partner If someone gets hurt it would be great Goodbye Small, if you give me a nudge A mojito and Cuba libre ready doc are you doing here? What happened? What are you doing here? Walking with drinks is like working with you any day Faith That was funny, really funny The instrument that you built, now you can fly You were recruited before defending your master. How finished is it? I finished with you. Defending yourself was when I tossed the campus And looking for jobs, this is a relief No that's wrong with me I was so involved with a great man and did not even believe in your sacred theory My theory forgot everything that was important Storms are much worse than I predicted, something does happen Faith I have no idea that Good I never hear you say that I need another chance Well But there's something I want to do first for me Whatever Cleans soil vomiting Listen to this ... Five power events have passed with only days apart What does it mean? Hey Dad, what does? Just between you and me, make sure no illusions that make you then you down, this time You've seen the news Gail, and noted my work Ross, do not expect much. They need you until they need to get rid of you Do not worry, the last vestiges of an idealistic student killed Then be at the top will be like eh? No No return to nowhere I have to go to work. Bye Bye Adios Carina Adios Mama Oh, maybe late, I have a meeting tonight Reagan National Airport Washington, DC Oh, the boy never looked better Panhandle I could not get anything clear from his report teacher but ... But again you do not pay me to scholarly No, you need the contract because such data are obtained only when the world is running around the making These are the data we need You're sure you can back the horse? I tell you what teacher ... When I was up there in that tornado, looking down the Sears Tower He hit me, I was a man facing his death in an SUV What did I do? Which? I opened the door, I went out and flew You did I flew! I thought, I'm already dead. So why not enjoy the trip? This was when I saw it. My destiny I was flying higher than the air traffic coming But I knew for sure, I was not going to crash That tornado dropped me right on Lake Michigan Point your fingers it points to that She drives as dirty as it looks? Aha And that's all for you partner Add 150 pounds of ballast, to keep it on the floor I need to send as close as possible Tremendous pain, but then a piece of heaven Damn girl, never were pretty as well on a lap 4 years ago, when Penny and I took our vows And unite not only our lives but our purpose We had no idea how many believers would join us But they're here, are here And they're more and more each day A safe, together We can spend the pain of the storm, tragedy We can see the great power of God guarded Now and forever What must we sing Penny Well ... Since it is our anniversary, I chose something from Elvis But I will not get you in trouble Why not see if Monty us an anthem for us? The next time you choose a younger child I know, but I loved it. Do not you think? So many new faces, one would like not to come with fear That's why they come That's what those storms God shaking the shoulders of those who need to be awakened That's the beauty Penny always, always see the hand of the Lord at all I ... the door was open, I'm sorry ... Penny I asked him to bring me some numbers He strongly feels the passion But something makes him difficult to find peace. Right? If The passion between you and me Go Mad dog this is Wind Raider We went out toward the Northwest DC You have to give the white lady It seems the National Weather Service tells us something like the storm of Chicago That hangs over Michigan Wind Raider, what Dana is saying is that you deleted a total sucker Chicago, is being reformed Definitely not trying to say total sucker Tommy, air masses are heading east at 15 mph Well, let the northwest, sure we will cross I know it seems nothing, but I want to follow No problems professor If there is severe weather 200 miles ahead of this truck, we'll take you Copy Golden Poison Frog Congratulations Thanks for the thought I think it would be better if they really believed what you say ... Jud, your voice does not sound like a professional player, but you try, that's good. It's what you're good Beyond pro if the game were not so corrupt Am I being cynical? Or is it a coincidence that work on an event that invited you? You think so? My 2 children, that pleasant surprise You too? You asked that Kevin was in this event? Of course I did I needed protection first. It is a good idea for the brothers to monitor each other Just because you're a public servant, we do the rest of us your servants I'm so bad? Well, considering you were in Congress, You could be worse, but ... if Dad ... 're pretty bad I'm very proud of you I always told you: make the road ... Inside the political life would be a great opportunity for you to grow balls But you dear And you've committed a mortal political sin You have assumed that the policy actually leads When any government official bald knows it backwards The report Duffy How many people know? Honestly, all that matters is that ... That Horst, Chief of Staff is one of them Do not let him see through you, is hard and dirty But it's good when it comes to his first love: The energy business. Alan ... You've had the privilege of knowing my daughter? Actually I had it. Good to see you again Miss Carr Nice to see it to you Mr I hope you have everything under control I have an excellent staff ... Perhaps now you are the most important person in government We need your help, we need to put things back as they were Do not expect to do everything perfectly right the first time While everything returns to normal, we would say ... On Friday morning? Back, all back! They are poisonous! They understand they have to touch you?! We need the curator, now Get out of here! Everybody out! This is Carr, need immediate medical response! Pyramid of Khufu Giza, Egypt What this? It can be well Doc! Doc! Which? Better come see this Somewhere near Cairo Someone takes care of that? - Hello is Judith -- I am sorry to give you the bad news, but we have a big storm in a place I never predicted It is not Kansas You heard it from Egypt? I watched the news all morning I wonder if Danny has something to say He says what he always does, the Lord is watching I need to see this A plague of frogs Exodus 8.4: and the frogs will come upon us, upon his servants and all persons If the storm did not warn us, but this can be a clear signal Pests? Very showy He put everyone in the azador It was Egypt Penny The tombs of the Pharaohs Destroyed I have something to prove to the Lord, now I'm not the man he once was He picked me up The Lord is his His way, we can be your insurance We can do it on their side I leave to my gentle smile on that, Monty But it must be in secret Our secret Here's a little story of human courage which discredits our administrators Last night, the great pyramid that has endured for 5000 years all the best with the planet It came down like the pig's straw house This is not about marriage treaty, this is not about truth. This is about protecting our backs Could not you find another mad scientist? For research, I will not lose anything or anyone I realize that the power industry has hundreds of billions of dollars at stake You know something that nobody knows When I gave the job I thought you were not so clever That's good or bad? I wonder well, as this with an open mind as there is something else I want to ask Base Randolph Air Force San Antonio, Texas Colonel, there is a type of DC in his office waiting They're trying to get me from my years irresponsible If that's what it is, maybe I'm more irresponsible hereafter The kids think you are a hero Thanks but ... You're only a hero if you do something worthwhile and remember Your reputation as a hurricane hunter not endorse, Colonel Well, not really hard to find some 200 miles in diameter And it moves at 12 mph, but if I was in trouble I will live with you We need to fly in the storm, just as having the worst time to be seen It is extremely dangerous and demanding Demanding? For someone my age sir, this is not to take data from research papers This is on storms that kill people and we do not understand why I understand your mission and concern But the only thing about me that is old and slow, This is the plane flight The C-130 is not what we need In that type of racing they can burst at any time and place You need something quick There are many SR-71 in good condition at a base in Arizona I already had the approval If you do not notice it, especially between Las Vegas and Chicago is broken And my job is that the rest of the country did not pass the same Look ... for the love of God, we speak of people No pain of your precious airplane Wait, I got another call ... forget the lasagna in the fridge Look ... if we do not supply the aircraft at this time The next call you will receive will be the head of Homeland Security Reasignandote to a radar station somewhere in the Tierra del Fuego Let me help with the salad Oh ... what I'd do without you? You'll probably die of hunger I'm so sorry No mom, well Keep saving the world Yes No that's exactly ... I like having my porn in bad weather near Maybe you're right Let's find out Colonel, we're going to turn This is Cyclone 1, the test flight was a success Waiting for the coordinates of the storm of death Copy Kevin, I need you to look after your sister He's playing with guys too big and heavy And they have very dirty toys It was for that to what you trained? I never thought that if she had to work in the system, never accept the health system How could you? Because that would mean that his father is corrupt Close the doors! Stay here These are scary times my friends But we are less when we remember, Do not have to pass their own Join us At the house of God will find friendship Shoulders strong ... So what they do is use the people for fear of storms to build his ministry It is wrong write a story about them. The will contact to see if we get an interview Let me see some of that guardian of the Greens It's on his desk Ms Bridget Hall are pernonajes the media, Barbara Walters would get an interview, not you I'd like to find a way If there is no risk, why worry? All you can do is win Okay. Just make sure your forms are not impeding your work day 30 miles south of Detroit Tell me what's wrong? Something is blowing As you prepare to launch There is nothing to read, I will not spend ... Wind Raider read me ... Tell me Billy, what happens? GPS has them 42.86 and 78.86 North West, is that correct? Yes The Detroit center detects severe wind bags Something very big is spinning just over their heads Sure you can not say watching is there anyway, just now preparing a rocket I'm on it What are you doing? Help You Throwing the minerva Go back Faith is Billy, you see what I see? Yes, it's nice, it really works Did not get to 23 in the air, we just had a few seconds to take the data How long? 5 minutes maximum Faith, you have 5 minutes girl, this is great, exactly what we need Try to find a safe place and launched again We have to find refuge And how do you do that? I went to school for this madman I know this is what we do, but now what? We stopped and we are getting the finger in the air? We have the target in position We have the target in 2 minutes Where I'm from they call that a tornado magnet As the caution He's crazy, there are children ... Sorry! There is a tornado on the way, we go to a safe place! They have to evacuate, a tornado comes, believe me! Get out of the trailers! Put yourself safe! Stop the shouting! You have to get out of here now! Why do that? Find land! We have a big tornado coming like in 2 minutes! I will not leave man Let me think that not passing the worst for you Stop it! Stop it, release these things! We're right on the parking of trailers reading data running Erratic readings No stay close We'll have to find the heart of this sucker Hey, that's my truck! If he runs like I think I can take pictures of him coming and iendose We are in position now The data are rare Care Tommy! Dana Tell me, tell me Professor treatment still no response ... What I said? This eddy was not going to kill Tommy Tornado Sorry friends, I think I scared. Gone are the danger? Now it was the danger Hello ... Doc! They are alive! Faith ... Tell me you got the data? We have a small registration codes a small airplane lack of focus I have all the data you need a teacher, with my 2 eyes I was in front and in person prior to this storm in Chicago do you know? It's like kissing, love I do not do both in the same way? Other than that, I have a pacifier for the last I agree with that Faith Absolutely Do not know if it was category 6, but when it was under him, it felt like the sky falling If the storm follows its course Chicago, Buffalo is next on the menu Professor ... It seems we have another big event in the Caribbean Please tell me you are not going to unite? Miami says that if and when they do ... You go north Son of a bitch You must be kidding Ross. Melody, give me the numbers of shares of the satellite. Then Hey, I gotta go Ross, you storm, you think to join a major hurricane? Chief, we have no reserve If another storm hits us need a FEMA to save the FEMA Hell, I picked a bad time for my promotion You can feel it? Life, the spirit, the energy it says ... Nothing can stop me! Amen When you hear the tragedy of the poison frogs in the museum, was called "the plague" I laughed Now ... assault with a fly Perhaps you are really plagues the Lord You are right here in the good book; Exodus 10.6 And flies filled the house of their official Another devastating storm is directed to Buffalo, NY Severe weather killed thousands in Asia What more can be saying the Lord? Fate: "come to me, do not wait another minute" What Penny and I ... Folks, as always Danny says: Once the Lord knows that we trust him We have nothing to fear Teach your face, tell him what they can I have something to teach From a believing soul You know what's here friends? Deeds of home ... if I'm sure I have my house in the sky I bless you, you will be saved Oh Danny, lead us in a song of victory ... It is a crime, are donations Why not leave people wake up in God's purpose? Be afraid. Let's talk about fear Oh please At least talk about the flies Someone opened a box of bugs A few flies flew and thousands already believe If we do this right, hundreds of thousands of people return to God Are you crazy? There may be a federal investigation You get up Danny You pray an hour and work on your sermon by two And give handshakes for photos Do you think the rest happens by magic here? I'm evaluating what you do ... Then stop acting like yourself and not what God tells us to do This is not a divine punishment, global warming is a human act You're so afraid to face that The point of my church To bring people to God's house And deliver them from their fears so they can meet the challenge of their lives Well, it's easy for you to say, you've never been scared in your life But for many people, is all that we mean Really We have to undo the damage Penny We have ponerno on the line for our beliefs are you talking about? I'm going to the storm I'm going to preach under the enormous force And not because we fear we will be in the hands of the Lord We'll do this together, and he is also Penny, let me tell you that was my idea flies No, no, all is well Just that Danny and I have very different ideas of how to do the Lord's work This is like the old days, you, me, cheap pizza Yes, thank you for the rest For half an hour we do like things are normal Normal? We were once normal No Normal is spent We had a special brand of normal Abnormal Yes, abnormal That was bad What is this? Miss Carr, Dr Duffy ... Andreas Kisser of WGBC We have rumors that you are using FEMA funds To aid climate research of Dr. Duffy. Is that true? Yes, certainly. We must understand that we face to be ready Dr Duffy, what evidence you have that everyone but you are wrong? They were not wrong, it is true that at that time was critical, and I was too stubborn to realize As I work now has a concern and consideration It would be unfair to say that he brought on board to Dr. Duffy for her recent divorce? And the fact that they were lovers in college? You know? This interview ended Ross! Florida called, the hurricane reached Category 5 Eduardo! One more question ... Your relationship is ... As Florida prepares for a Category 5 hurricane to come ashore later today All eyes are on the FEMA director and his surprise realianza with Dr. Ross Duffy ... would be unfair to say that Dr Duffy brought ... Read! ... by his recent divorce? ... ... and the fact that they were lovers in college? ... ... you know, this interview was over ... ... answer the question is legitimate ... That explains why they were worried that his story came to light They thought that we never find out? Sorry blushing FEMA director on national TV What if you let me catch the people who laid the trap? Well I ... I appreciate the impulse If I see something that put all the talent of your weapon in game What you need to do? Tabanus Pontificia West Fly horse Do not fly here Hettfield basically laughs at me, said that if we have the foxes Why not also the bugs? If it's any consolation, my editor laughed at me when I asked him to write a real story What does that mean? We are doomed to mediocrity? I like to think that the best thing for us is to come Then why not spend our time enjoying it? That's not so bad eh? I'm going up pressure for us to climb to that baby They do not pressurize the cabin for our comfort Col. The team would like more Cyclone 1 its hot data stream Like the hurricane Let me extend your view Welcome to Florida, the team gets ready for disaster Say your prayers Araya To where we never have chance Hurricane Eduardo Dade County, Florida Monitoring hurricanes Dade County, Florida I have covered many hurricanes, and I never saw something like this Definitely Category 5 Sustained winds are 150 mph If this is not hell on earth, not what is The super storm that destroyed the Mount Rushmore And now travels throughout the U.S. Northern go directly to Buffalo, NY The new FEMA director Judith Carr has already been criticized By the way he has handled this disaster Paris Egypt Chicago Hong Kong Let everyone everywhere thinking one thing: What's next? ... the hurricane passes Eduardo North Miami ... ... the winds still impose ... ... Georgia and the Carolinas are ... ... I'm fine, I'm ok ... I do not care if you have to kill someone to power is restored Just do what is necessary and call me in when you're ready Hey! What about breakfast? You know? I've had enough of your work You know, give details of your personal life at press conferences Stuart, sorry, that was a long time What are you doing? If you have not noticed, the sky is falling and Ross and I tried to do something about You know that's creating a lot of tension in your family And what do unhappy to read, makes me unhappy to me Stuart're not being fair about this Stuart! I want you to know that I have nothing to apologize But ... sorry anyway So you got caught Caught? On camera, is all It seems that we have the choice of Judith and I, for two What do you mean? We were in double quotes, I can tell you that you are interested You're the one who stole her boyfriend And now she wants to steal it back The thing is that you two look so guilty She made you think, right? The Road Not Taken I made my choice long ago For a million reasons, was and still is the right decision Why then sounds like you're trying to convince yourself? All my life I have lived by the essence of things And there are boundaries, limits, physical laws There is no NF6 Tornado, or a storm category 6 And there's nothing certain right now If you can be wrong on that, but can you be? Billy has to be good What is As bad is the new good Tommy nose itches just outside of Buffalo I gotta go Reverend Hall It is truly an honor to have you here Well thanks Mrs Hall Welcome to Buffalo, we are completely full tonight I think people are really scared But we are here to take away that fear, is not it? If your computer is ready for a soundcheck, somo good at it I do not disappoint Reverend It's not about me, it's about people who need to receive the message 20 miles south of Buffalo Damn! Both bridges are bottled never make They are more afraid of being hit by that I Tell me something I do not know If kept in water can give off the pier Colonel Davis clog our target just two bridges in Buffalo Where is it? Iowa What the hell is he doing? We need data We're throwing a little fuel, and we are coming Look, if you wanted to make myself understood, you did Shut her down, nor do the sound check It is terrifying truth? This is exactly why we are here Danny I believe in the Lord, Penny And also I think Worry about those who care for them A new baseball park has four types of lighting It has its own weather station And if the wind passes of 60, we cancel Penny, you have to ask God for direction I did And the voice that answered said: Teach her that there is nothing to fear But fear itself Oh, the sword of your membership After I said that the flies were a plague from God No more talk of these pests Danny, God gave us all that well for us to walk by it Better check it out back and prepares data transmission Copy ... this is Cyclone 1 ... We're ready Cyclone 1 Araya is transmitting now Colonel, how long may it remain so? So much as is necessary Doc Get in the plane, is the only way out of here Doc, what the hell is that? Nothing ever seen before What makes it so I think we Want to shoot from here or nearby? Close, since we got here The pressure is extremely low, it is very cold Dry as a Bone Is the gas mixture We still have the trigger? He's coming! I'm ready to be launched from here! We have a severe wind shield shield of wind? So bad? I am analyzing the data stream Robert! You and Patrick actualicenme Billy, where the hell is Tommy and Faith? They're stuck right in the middle of it We'll see if beg gives us everything we need? You take this seriously true? It's a rare thing. I like that! It's really familiar Tell me what is better than working in a bar? Right now prefer serving drunks ... in a wind storm And down the hill and said to the Lord The parish is ours and sat down before Him And He said to them: Where is your faith? And I looked into his eyes And they ran sweet tears of anger when he spoke: "Arise ye, whose knees are shaking and his face dark and winged enemy" And that's exactly the message we want to A wind storm that test our cities And our faith Who will rise up with me now? Oh God! On this, my darkest hour I stand before you To honor the memory of Danny A man whose named It was more important than your life A man that his life was his own message God will welcome you No matter how late in the game I think the Lord took Danny so fast As a sign But if we take the Lord in our hearts He will rise to heaven Friends, we must now accept That in fact we could be facing the end of days Allow yourself to be ready all As Danny was for the Lord Storms, Disasters The plagues of frogs and flies What other signs that we must give the Lord? Let's hold things we can not take the sky Let us choose what we have to What we have is to irrigate the message to our brothers and sisters wherever Please let us pray ... It seems that the Lord speaks through me today And lit in grace Thank you Monty, you understand And I think that they, too, but there are many, many other deaf to the wishes of the Lord As Farrel If, as Farrel What would it take to bring him here? The death of the firstborn Death ... firstborn All fear. And that is what is making us into religion A guy on the street gave me this The news is less daunting I hear a new crusade? I have the interview with Penny Hall So many drops filled the cup That was my ticket You should read what I wrote for the Global Orbit It was so beautiful that Penny Hall called me in person I had no idea you were so deviant And do you call police? Anyway, I tried to postpone it, but she insisted She is in mourning but can not leave Locked in the mourning for the husband She is in the air making your research on frogs and flies, pests It must be rolling over the poor Danny, where is When I look in the eyes of this woman, see something very bad When I look in the eyes of this woman, see a very good You're sweating I hold after ... it is very sad when you realize how many lives have been lost ... ... and still do not know where many of them, even those who are ... ... officials say it will be some time before they can be resolved. Maria ... ... from here it is almost impossible to imagine the power of the storm ... ... destroyed huge buildings ... ... and the small bag from their foundations ... ... these structures ... That's in Buffalo? The infrastructure is destroyed and the casualties are many I have deployed all the resources we had left That's what we need to talk, its time assistance Sevicio Yes, since they present the possibility that Hurricane Eduardo struck the DC metropolitan area Thank you, you are ready You know politics, we need to protect military and political infrastructure Yes, I know, I plan to make some changes It's not about making changes, it's about caring for others Jim I thought that people were really, really hurt out there This is hypothetical DC is also a city of low line, with a groundswell and a hurricane on the way That's "the" priority Now, it is imperative that you and your people to ensure That the government is kept in line There is a petition Judith What about Jim? Congress has gone to a break of obedience We are offering to evacuate Families of all key personnel That is left behind Your name is on that list Judith, it is critical that you perform your duties without personal distractions No other personal distractions I was leaving my family here You have no family Jim Yeah, well Duffy's family is on that list? I can not simply add fa ... Your skills are key To understand what is happening and save lives For me, it's the most important person in the city now Done I'm looking Billy Looking and can not see Leave some pessimism Doc The race began when we received the 15 seconds of data And Tommy and Faith did not release Because I should be able to see, even with incomplete data The shutter Security hell There should be a coalition in the data, in pieces Some ... track We're in it, we will solve We're in a bad mood? No Bin Because ... I ... I'm about to ruin your day Jim wants to evacuate our families until the storm passes Last week was "persona non grata" and am now essential personnel? Yes You would not be here if I did not think was right I think under the circumstances we have no choice Okay Evacuate? Where? The Hotel Los Enanitos Verdes It is a military installation in West Virginia Not for Me This is not optional Stuart This can be very dangerous, I need to save Maybe I should make the decision Not this time wrist Well 'll pack Oh we read, look at the bright side, go with Stuart Now I understand Judith Please meet me I just needed to leave the house Do not worry What? No, do not look at the camera You are the happy moment of Oh, you looked at the camera Read Fuck you Peter Want a car? Why not go back to your limo and find someone who ... If you really love her You should try to improve Stuart! Stop! It's all right friends? No problem, we were just finishing He's a little annoying Why not go in separate directions? I see you on the bus, murderer I can not believe that idiot is also Look, maybe we should relax Billy, you can remove it? Put that back client Enough Put the kettle back Genius It is the trigger which is composed of two elements And one of them is us About us, what that means? Our power plants, cities, the violence of its heat They generate direct termocolumnas that shoot into the air They generate heat But Ross, our factories and cities have spent years pumping heat into the atmosphere, hundreds of years It's exactly what I had not thought Can I turn this off? Forget it What if those columns of heat supplied from Our air conditioners, cars Not to mention the heat wave we have record-breaker for 5 years What if all that heat rises and hits something more? Something really cool Have you ever heard of the mesosphere? Yes, it is the coldest part of the atmosphere Right, which is above our aircraft fly Where the clouds are lost, there is cold, really cold It's like minus 150 degrees And you are supposed to contact where we live But I think that our pumping greenhouse gases have sufficient energy In the mesosphere and destabilized the hidroesternocleidos What about the hidroesternocleidos? This fall These pieces of mesosphere fall all the time, but they do not notice Unless they hit termocolumnas When that happens you have a huge temperature difference instant Tornado Alley And when he adds a genuine bad weather, everything goes up several points in magnitude You can test this? The storm is moving northeast Chicago One of the termocolumnas going to hit the falling pieces of mesosphere And when it happens, we will be there to register You go to where they will strike again assume? I bet all of New York There are 20 million stories in the city, but ours is the best: the weather The sky really is falling ... as Washington prepares for the arrival of Hurricane Eduardo ... ... the first answers are already in action ... ... just now a spokesman for the White House assured us ... ... that all precautions have been taken to ensure ... Look, guess who is going too? Yes, I'm nervous Listen, is only a few days, ok? Come back, and the storm ends You and I are going to spend much time together, like it or not Portate well and take care ok? Adios Do not worry Dad, we will be Greet your storm for me Beware Adios Keep your head down If Dad I thought you'd like to have these You always say you can not be an engineer but you descente top of the latest advances You'll have much time I do not know Ross, perhaps it is good Give us the opportunity to think about what we really want Gail Adios I did not thank you enough for what you wrote I have many photographs of Danny, but But I think the plasma as none of them Thanks I guess ... you're a believer? And you see the show often To be honest, not Best, is people like you who want to achieve Perhaps you can help me do it Let We have 30 000 National Guard soldiers, is positioned to aid The tornado warnings have been given in 5 areas of New York Dave gets this line with the emergency command NY Look to see how much more it will take the National Guard They have to be there before the storm Felix, report it in 20 minutes Billy, you have the connection with NY? If, indeed Well Faith, Tommy, Colonel Davies, remember When the going gets rough, they must be guided by their own trial Do not worry professor, this time we will have your full data set from 15 thousand feet Colonel Davies, just ask him to fly to the edge of the hull of the aircraft safety It's been done before Well, remember ... I need evidence on the ground and air A complete cross section of the trigger The termocolumnas up and hit the mesosphere fall Ladies and Messrs We are going to attach the sucker to our crystal ball Copy Do not move! To your positions, we Move! Keep down! You go! You, go now! Hurry! Come here! You go! No! I'm shitting fear Take one of each family Be seated! You go! She stays in ....! Let's move! Come on! Sit! Shut up! Keep it moving! Come on! The storm is split and its worst threat Manhattan But even if they leave the city, each artery to enter or exit is congested and traffic is impossible So the orders are to shoot to kill Are you sure it's around here? 'm From Oklahoma, but the answer is yes It's so Repent, the end is near You have no idea what is coming Luckily for him to do more good than he does Control, estamos en contacto Come, come, we need that data Guys, we have tornadoes Let New York Show me how strong you are What you reading? If we launch in the next 10 minutes will be many Preparemoslo there Guys, I have 2 ... I I have 5, this is huge The storm that is about NY, not only hits the city with full force But now we have reports of massive waves that are directed to the city There is this supposed to happen. What the hell is happening? Lance this thing and get out of here! Oh my God Up there! Tommy care! That was the last rocket Faith, we have a job to do Let's make this count Come on baby, do not give up now The clock on the air pressure is spinning Sr I know Araya Then we should do something about I keep the bird in one piece, you keeping your data running The power is down Scans Navigation System Right now in the midst of this? There's Something About Coronel What? The left generator fell Look stabilization, will be a hard journey Hold Drive I try to make the record, but the memory is blank Dr. Ross, we have electronic failures, including data acquisition Colonel, any chance you can do something? We are a dead stick for now We have finished data rockets out of the oven We have 3500 feet We have 6000 feet I hope you take that Altitude 15 000 feet Full Details No errors Tommy, tell Faith, we have I have You need to see this Si ... Judith ... Ross ... We have perfect data from the rocket, not Davis but still ... Ross, just called the license file? They put the alert, a storm south bend North Think hurricane strikes the Eduardo Ross ... How bad is it? Judith ... If these two storms are directed to the DC and its direct termocolumna the mesosphere No talk Category 6 This is category 7 When a storm hit unprecedented San Luis and Las Vegas in the past 2 weeks, was called coincidence When a storm of Category 6 for 1st time reported Destroy Chicago is called a storm every 500 years But these terms are wrong in recent days, When a 500-year storm, after another, hit Paris Egypt Buffalo But the devastation of yesterday, here in NY No questions left for the sun is coming out today in a very different world global disasters we have been stretched to the limit Local resources are depleted and energy services to breaking point Increasing people around the world to kneel and pray for deliverance The question that everyone is doing now: If these storms do not stop, is this the end? And nowhere is this more urgent question in our nation's capital At night, Hurricane Eduardo, accelerated its pace toward Washington DC The storm in NY, is moving in the same direction Although we hope predictions Defining National Weather Service You can find these 2 monster storms in Washington? God help us Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Remind them assured me that Florida would not have a hurricane on top of the Capitol, before lunch So if you give me a forecast a little bit before that happens, I really appreciate Ok, please tell me what you answer? No The stage is so rapid evacuation to nuclear attack So the basic plan is ... Garbage If Geological studies show that we can not send anyone to the south or east I'd be right in the path of the hurricane or in these huge areas of possible flooding The only higher areas are the north and west Right in the path of the storm NY ... Melody, line 3 ... Melody Chen ... The center of storm forecasts and the weather service, together Yes And then when you know? Listen, I'm the first call They do not know if the storm will hit the NY DC What is not good news but at least it's not bad What we do know is we have a violent storm upon us So obviously we can not rest 50 miles south of New York Do not you love NY? Freedom Ms. machacarte tried with his torch Looking death in the eye does not make your heart keep beating? My heart works perfectly without that give these shocks Well, at least we have the data provided And now ... is time to ... The crazy world of Tommy Tornado weather! And that's a howl improved? Oh, you will not get hurt. When Tommy becomes entangled with the tornado, It's like a dance ... like a waltz I mean ... you can call it intimate The best part ... have to live all the sexy Time and again Someone once said that these mentally unbalanced? Once every day and twice on Sundays What is a little hard to believe since ... I'm still standing but I'm still here! No evacuation was declared officially The highways are congested Dc Well, people flee Hurricane Eduardo This is the thing, aguantaremos firm Federal Protective Sevices Washington DC Some of the facilities will be used as a shelter protect So I have work cut out Queensryche, you coordinate the tasks Go out for a few hours there will be very windy for walking Carr .. Te reallocated to the Secret Service, they need help apparently they were moving their families out of town VIP And one of the buses disappeared My nephew was being evacuated The force of Secret Service men asked, I thought you wanted to go Roger Sr Help ... please Are you OK? What happened? My daughter ... They took my daughter Come on, move, everybody, now! Keep it moving! Tamper there, let's go! Move, move, go! Come on! Do not move a muscle! Come on! Come on! 11 were all abducted children and the eldest in their families Who took responsibility No one who knows anything know Follow in the report of the victims from the scene And the son of Judith Carr is one of the abducted DC is about to be beaten by a hurricane There is a federal emergency that needs attention without distractions So do not call Jim If asked, say that for security reasons there is interference to cellular Your son was kidnapped! The work we will do When you have something to know, one way or another, it will be updated Objection noted, you have your orders It is a little early to orinarte in your cage? The first thing to do in an emergency Peter, is to know your resources Your mom taught you that? I guess if You know I like that you are ready to be a scout, Stuart, really But this is not about you No one kidnaps the son of the director of FEMA They go after important targets So if it's me, I'll decide to do What are you doing exactly? Working on it It is recommended to be home and away from windows Hurricane Eduardo is expected to hit in an hour Francis, hang, go home I'm Just because you can bet that the next election until the last of my constituents You'll know that I threw ashore And the fact that both children are resisting his here has nothing to do? Go, go where you do some good And if my calculations failed, accidentally sacrifice my life for my country ... I'll see your photo on the front Thanks dear Good luck Mr. Laboratory of extreme weather I just hang with each agency in this country weather And they all agree that massive storms definitely not collide 2 You are wrong. I analyze data from Tommy and Faith Not only the storm strikes the hurricane NY But it will just above the DC How come all but you are wrong? They would be correct if a storm studying for 15 years But it is Judith, you have to give the order to evacuate I can not do that at this level of play will spread panic in the city Judith, there is no city Not only is the most vicious storm I've ever seen But will collide with a Category 5 hurricane You're going to stack just above the mass termocolumna DC All this power will feed Diected to tornadoes This will not be category 6, will be category 7 Ross not give me options, I need options Judith, the DOC will look as if he had beaten a nuclear device I personally think he is underestimating Ministers Hall Do not cry my dear, the Lord will provide I can not stay with you much as I wanted tods we will stay, care for our neighbors at home ... Hurricane Eduardo struck off the coast of Florida almost apocalyptic forces ... ... like nothing seen, many meteorologists compare the strength of this storm ... A storm of the devil? The end of the world My dear, it's time you are with your family Monty, I have not seen Paul and Gene has a long, are safe? They went It's time to go for you too This is my home, I do not ... You are so full of faith But here there is flood risk I'm not afraid Penny I know, I was But really ... I really have no fear Penny One way or another the Lord comes to take are you talking about? The End of Days, as you say I did not say that If you did You said that many were deaf to the words of the Lord Monty And the final act of God to convert unbelievers Monty, whatever I said, whatever you heard It's not the end of days Penny Be Prepared Farewell dear I'll see you later Monty ... What have you done? Only the Lord's work I will pray For both All systems are back online We set all of this with gum and Goldy but ... I guess it works You can talk to air pilot now, no Araya? The reading of data is ready? If Sr, 5 by 5 Mad dog, this is Cyclone 1, we're back, we have a new toy and I think they'll like I got it, ok Doc! Dr. Rammsteim has a new idea: the sled data Look at this, I will teach Basically it's a small sled that drop behind the plane with 5 miles of fiber cable Where giant storms What they do is speed up the bird to say ... 2.5 And then make a turn at high speed The sled is his way, like giving a lash So you can send this baby ... Where no man would go, right into the heart of the storm Great, let's hope that works I gotta go If Listen, I tried to call Gail on her cell. You've heard of Stuart? Jim says there is interference to cellular Some of the security, but I will make sure that Gail has access to a line That will be fine It was probably a good idea to send Yes See you later notice anything unusual in the voices of the hijacked ' Accents, impediments, some unusual name? No, I told all the other agent I know Ms. Duffy, I apologize We have to assemble all the pieces, it is crucial to remember Sure he does not remember the faces of the hijackers before putting on masks? I need to call my husband Right now, every minute is crucial in our research For the safe return of her daughter, this is a closure No one outside knows about this yet It says here that you oversaw engineering at the GSA Had any unusual interaction with the ... Perhaps you can return at a time Thank God Hi Gail 3 minutes I also took Stuart Why did not you tell them when asked? Stuart began fighting And beat him. Judith knows? Bridget, where are you? Kevin can you hear me? Something very bad is happening here ... Bridget ... I can not hear you Go to my office, there is a shelter to ride out the storm My nephew has been kidnapped with 10 other guys What? Oh my God, that's terrible Look, I gotta go Call me as soon as you arrive at the office Kevin thou also beware At midnight, the angel of death came to Egypt And he killed the firstborn Tracking Storm North 153 miles north of Washington DC O my nose is screwed up smoking so much grass O? I think we have tornadoes festival Ok Tommy, wait Billy, tracks the satellite images around Hershey, Pennsylvania We have data coming Good news Tommy, you have a hot spot Tommy, you see a tornado in there? Why? Got a receiving antenna of tornadoes there? We have a large column of steam, leaving the plant nueclear Billy, start calling and do not stop until you finish I'm in this Good thinking Maybe we should make the visit Just in case, you know? Tommy is on the way, try to shut down nuclear plant But first we want to prove what makes trigger, before cutting the termocolumna I'll be in in a minute Pensilvannia as Doc Copy I dropped the sledge If we get the proof we need, this part of the data must operate Copy Sled fully deployed Cyclone 1 will contact the perimeter in 30 sec Oh, that's new 15 sec Colonel release point Here comes If you arrive subsided a bit safer Have you any idea of the time it takes to shut down a nuclear plant? I have no idea Ross, I have something like the ideal approach Colonel, how long it will take another route set? The fastest turn lead me to Virginia, maybe 3 minutes That's too much, what we do now, ugly or not Copy Stop, restricted area! Do not shoot, we are the threat! That's the threat! 5 seconds Brand Ross, the plant should be shut down right now Entering data sled SR-71 Cyclone 1, made contact We lost the data flow I think that came off the sled What God take confessed This plane does not have health This is Cyclone 1, we lost the sled data No She cut data reading But Doc, I see ... If this is DC, we must find a new capital Satellite Meteorological Anstar If it's any consolation Doc, I'm sure I saw the trigger this time Dime Well, the thing measured miles And it comes down from above We will need another data sleigh sleigh No other data But that does not matter, your storm is like an explosion in a minefield What then? It can not fly within that Well, "I can not" is a strong word That's why I still have pilot rather than computer-guided system Colonel, I appreciate your gesture of "death before dishonor" But I'm not in the business of dispatching suicide bombers So I can not get the data Copy Give me back to the vector database This is probably Because many times you hit my head Colonel I will miss you chase storms We finished it? I also was a pleasure flying with you Araya Billy, you can put the thermal image with the radar Sure Sorry, I think I did wrong No, no, you did That was exactly what happened without you propose Put a disc The good news is that people go to shelters instead of going out of town The bad news is that the shelters are copados You gotta see this Its a combination of thermal imaging and the storm The thermal column converge here And then the storm converge, you can activate the trigger And then you can also turn it off, pull the chestnuts out of fire Nothing has to explode We have to turn off the thermal column Right, here in DC Cut the power, everything, cars, electricity Let us beat the heat storm without falling pieces hit the mesosphere Do not be the end of the world Judith, we can do to turn the storm I know this is perfectly clear to you Ross But you have to convince others that it is not a coincidence Is not! You can try that? Because I have to have proof Cut the city power when approached by a monster hurricane, causing some disaster I need hard evidence Not a data wheel entangled that no politician would understand Judith! Stuart ... this video was delivered anonymously to our studio ... ... 20 minutes ago ... ... do not know but anything beyond what it says on the tape ... "and came to pass, that at midnight, the Lord hit hard on the firstborn" The end of days arrived " Why did not you tell me ray? Interference of cellular? Stupid pig I know Judith is unforgivable You do not know What happened? Where are you? The Secret Service continues to work at the crime scene Who has them? Do not know The tape and saw that I assume is the first communication we have Since when did you know? Ross Gail We believe that their children are in the city The ambulance that had carried the GPS enabled Then can track No one knew, all we know is that ever came out of DC No chance you'll screw with storms? We have run the numbers many times, are about to collide I need to be kept at work, both It is true, must stay They lied to us, they do not owe anything We owe it to Stuart, Leah and the rest of those guys We need to bring them, but first they must survive this storm of Category 7 And the only people in this town who can do something about it are 2 pcs And it came to pass that at midnight the Lord struck the firstborn force. Y. .. "The End of Days has arrived" What has he done? It was my idea, he misunderstood me He who? Where are the children? Monty Him .. God, I do not know Where's Monty hides? Are there any place here? No No. .. I saw the tape, so there's nothing here I have your attention for a moment? I think Dr Duffy's research is correct And they say that 2 storms slamming on the DC In a few hours And that will be catastrophic So do not ask them to stay When there is no guarantee that they are safe Here or elsewhere There are possibilities, so I'll try For those who decide to stay, I am grateful For those who decide to leave, I understand Just tell them do it quickly Look to your families and go to shelter Honey, you stay here, is the safest place for you No, I'm going to risk Ok Ross ... If you remove the current need irrefutable evidence has it Khudhair, I have to go Stuart I'm going to find and bring him back Ok Ok Ok I need you make sure you bring back to the city also Tormented Virtuoso Monty I was stunned Let me pray with you The end of days If Monty, the final I'm glad you face together Do you think there is love in heaven or evil? Think you'll be rewarded for the things you did on earth? Perhaps some are lucky But not you You did a terrible thing And it was worse if you did it for the Lord But He, He told me He speaks through thee No Monty! You heard what you wanted to hear Now listen, you have committed a grave sin And you will be punished Because if you were worried about one thing Monty The end of days, and you are guilty of: Ira Of envy, lust You only hope is to repent Monty Tell me where are the children, and then and only then I help you out of this hell that you made for yourself The worst thing about your hell Monty It is that I will be there with you Guilty of lust And you are with me You You're the temptation But I will not go to hell Penny Monty was supposed to be communicated half hour ago We will not do anything until we hear from him If things go according to plan, there are no guarantees that we pay Things have already changed Since we were stupid enough to take the job in this storm I'm sure that if we leave that we can convince Monty to pay more Of course We did the work, as he wanted We won in numbers And we're going to try to force them? No, we're 11, assuming you join the fight No, no way. I have a better idea The stress would be too, for you Sure you do not talk to you? Perhaps asthma, some heart I want to keep body and mind together And that's what you'll see the guards when they come through that door And when they do, we jump That's ridiculous So is dying Who's with me?! That's democracy And now you'll be the decoy I do not think And what is the point then? The point is to see a pretty girl lying on the ground Do not think it's a trick You and I know Hurricane Eduardo moves through the DC now The National Guard units are trying to get people in the street But all indications are that the brunt of the storm is yet to come To what boss needs me I need to go and work with Billy To make information packets that include the theory of Ross But put it in simple terms and sent it to my dad If we remove the energy, he has a backup generator The best in DC, hoping to do something I'm in it Ok We have some information I need to leave? What exit? In case that the DC did not survive the storm Tomorrow morning, every city on the planet will know what happened here I need your help to spread the word every capital, every urban area with a population over one million You have this huge termocolumna that interacts with the mesosphere You have to bring it to light Base of the Air Force at Randolph San Antonio, Texas Mary Jane I'm so glad you came Someone not miss it for nothing Hi Captain Bob How are you? Well Come here Well, you did to convince them to let you reassemble the bird Well, sometimes experience beats youth, meteorological research Hey, someone told you that flying is the best thing you can do man? You did I did? Well Captain Bob, I was wrong The best thing I did It's become a grandfather yours And things like that Storm of NY If Where's Dad who sits behind you? He will not go on this mission There are millions of lives at stake, I have to go Come here I'm glad we could see My I'm glad more Cameron, want a soda? Go ahead, we will follow Bridget, where are you? Kevin ... I am in the church He kidnapped some guys are not where Bridget! Answer me Hello is Bridget, leave a message Tracking Storm North 40 miles north of Washington DC It's humble know? No matter how big you are, there is something even bigger You're humble? Well it was generally film that Next time, do not seek a place built by the 3 Little Pigs Why say that? I'm getting close to the goal You can prepare the records Colonel, not like ... Director Carr, with your permission, the best moments of my life have been up here And I hope that today will be another entirely I have to say thanks Thanks for the way to prove this When you like, whenever you like Dr, I am 15 seconds to penetrate the wall of the storm Any idea how big it is? No more than one thousand meters Turning on the data channel The scan shows wind speed of 400 mph. How he can fly out of that? Can not I'm in the hole Dr. .. O God, we contact? Diganme when I have, whenever they want, When you like I have! Cyclone one is in the database Thanks Colonel, thanks Mission ... mission accomplished Contact lost Ross ... Please tell me that Colonel Davis did not die for nothing? We have, on the disc Davis has it The process is complete Off the heat of the DC is the key Maintain the storm without going off the scale It's like a switch it on and we can turn it off It's funny that I knew all the time Ross, you and I will have to convince Horst How would we write this data to something that neither can ignore? Hours We have hours Ross This is not science high school How many hours? 3, no more Well, do it while ... We will try Buffalo's horse accept the truth When there is still time to make a difference Ok Bring this information to Senator Carr And Dan ... in the next 20 minutes ... Maybe you're the world's largest And if they do not, you deserve the pay increase It's a shame we live it That door is a temptation, right? The reconnaissance aircraft gave us new data I can say conclusively that the 2 storms will stop on the DC I can not say I'm happy to hear that But as we can not evacuate ... The data show conclusively that the storms combined They will be far worse than anything we've seen to end DC According to you No, Mr. .. we have data And as soon as the National Weather Service will be saying the same thing Judith, you're saying we have to evacuate anyway? No, that alone would increase fatalities We are looking for an option here And the sooner the better We have to cut the energy of the city That's impossible, there are hospitals, law enforcement Infrastructure critical of government, the panic only cost us ... The destruction that these storms are just causes When the heat rising plume intercepts with them That was what destroyed Chicago, Paris, Vegas, Giza, NY And that's what will happen here Yes, unless you turn off power now I shall consider this to No time for consideration They're looking at two scenarios immediate here Turn off the power, cut the termocolumna Give the city a last chance I can not order something so irresponsible, just because you are convinced by your old boyfriend No offense to the logic of Ross Data still being processed Since when has any firm conclusions Duffy? Damn, the data is here in my hands And if you were smart enough, I would know in a sec I am sure you certain And I'm sure of one thing This day will pass and of course with a high degree of devastation At that point the only important question will be: If we act and make it worse. Just leave it as is The climate is not anyone's fault Stupid bastard You know? If you cut the power, And save the DC There'll be many questions why we continue pumping all that crap into the atmosphere In an industry that gave his heart and wallet As the Secretary for the safety of the nation command power is cut My greatest weakness Because people have illusions I have the approval of President You're fired I still know nothing Above all, listen up! Everyone has done tremendous work It's not safe to be here So please take my thanks and will take care of their own Please go to shelters You also Yes, outside You're kidding? I built this system from the ground I installed these terminals connect those cables Update these motherboards You do not get out much right? Abelardito you calling me? Both two, out! No, and I say more ... When this is over, if we are not finished looking vamsoa Horst's house and stoning Billy ... I want to stone the house Horst Well, well, let's leave the estate and return to save the world how long to wait for Monty? I'll tell you, if you do not like it ... You can beat it, share your party Just talking, do not know how this place will endure He has a point, we need a plan if Monty does not aparesca The plan is: Do not be stupid, just the wind blows poque If there is a place to be safe from the storm is this building Not because you're so impatient Great That's your theory? Hiding in a corner until it's all over? Above all, use it! Teach them that we are made Look to see why the hell these children make so much noise? And if you move from ready, make sure you do not try again And what's your excuse for still being here? Some even pretend that we are all here Horst you volunteered for that? No, you are well and safe poker White House I said the bunker was in this area You told me to prepare a video conference You know, to wave a flag Congratulations You are about to become the first presecretario that meet your creator live on tv You're doing an excellent job back kissing I have a few minutes alive right now Got something you want to say? Also try to lose your job? Some of it Shut up there! You, come into the other room! You too, Move! I think he has an attack I do not think breathing Ok, back, get away from it. The two, against the wall! Come on, Move! back! Do not even think You are more brilliant ideas? What the hell happened? It was a trap. They saw my face I really saw saw me straight to the face And what about you? You were the boss Before the cagaras I had a bad feeling from the beginning I will make sure these kids do not do that again not succeed If Monty does not come with money We will have a serious, serious problem Senator Carr It was time If this goes, can make all the difference in the world It is literally true Sr We are seeing the same weather patterns throughout the atmosphere of North Here are the data So my first call is the head of the European Union Go home to your family's son, thanks Thank you Mr. ... and now, a special report from the White House ... Less than an hour The director of FEMA sent to the White House crucial information That will greatly reduce the damage to the city Jim ... Thanks Evan, good afternoon I do not speak as Secretary for the security of the nation I have been relieved of my duties to maintain The interests of the people above personal interests And a. .. I do not have the power to cut energy The Ladies and Messrs urge to do so yourself The best chance of salvation is in your hands Bravo That noble Marty ... That came out? Some people like to keep their jobs apparently You're not the only one who thinks Perhaps you are in church, but if you think ... Just look outside, the Lord comes to test your soul No, I do not But if I understand Monty, I understand that this is your proof That's why these children raptaste The firstborn. I do not understand What did you do that was so bad? Why did you have to work so hard for forgiveness? It was really Penny You have no right to talk about it But I have to, Monty, I do Because she's the reason you're here For her I am here that these children are where they are? Can not say where they are I understand that Penny was a temptation She was a beautiful woman She was a prostitute People can be good and bad at the same time As you Me too. And we can be forgiven This is not about forgiveness, this is about doomsday Because God has everything solved It was in medieval times They captured the city It's about like deciding who or If you do not think any good They were all killed For God will know his own! You do not go to hell Monty I'm in hell And I want out I'm pointing at you, and your not me, it do not want to hurt No I will not do, God will Now that gun down before you send this miserable sinner to hell Download it! Ok! Pateala away Just, just not ... Shut You're right Monty You're right They never doubted No What are you doing? I want to send first Bridget I have nothing to fear You try to make me commit a sin I murdered Penny, what does another Do not want to hurt I want to go first for the Lord will judge my soul, and when it does burn in hell for what you have done There's still time Monty Tell me where are the children? Without faith you fear death How can we be in life on earth? Aqueducts Albear A water treatment plant Bridget, we gotta go We'd better go to a shelter That's the 1st reason to believe that these sane in the last 600 miles. Let I'm talking about you, not me This is. This is what I wanted all my life You do not have a life but go with me to a shelter now I have to do what I do You know Faith? I've always been alone in this I would have gone with you I'll let you know how it be in the forefront Tommy, you're going to die out there a tornado is approaching, evacuate now, go! There comes a tornado, go, go! a tornado is approaching, all the shelter, go! Go to my office, asked Carson Captain Chairs He will take the refuge No leave me! Bridget, I have to look at Stuart I want to go to that shelter! Then you come back for I hope you succeed! Over here Move, go! The National Weather Service confirms that Washington DC It is now in the eye of the storm With many of the key buildings now destroyed The National Guard is using the little break from the storm To make all safe in the shelters before the eye wall hit And when the storm finally North clash with Hurricane bets are closed As the city prepares for a never before seen Superstorm of category 7 Mr. Secretary, Jim It is my fate is not dead That's departure Great One step forward, two steps back Welcome to DC Vamos Care I think we turn the eye of the hurricane Now is when all hell broke loose When storms collide will be category 7 All your fury unleashed Please stop talking like the Discovery Channel Duffy Ross ... I can not locate Jim, the report says the whole White House was You're saying that even if I end this presentation together ... We may not have human structure to receive No one on the boat Nor is there anyone to stop You have some information from the electric key routes into the city? Enough to know who we can get cooperation from ... You just need cooperation when planning a controlled shutdown turn my trigger in a blackout? Judith, if you can find a weak link, I can help put out weak link? Call my dad again To cut energy ... that would be less work If they had not many companies with hands on the switch If it were easy, Daddy, he had done The Department of Energy is our best bet This is Senator Ryan Carr I need to speak urgently with Scotty Owen You got Judith I got it, the transformers of the union of Anacostia 345 to 138 kilovolts Owen says that the weak link I do not understand how it works but he says that if we lose that All metropolitan mains off It's basically supply demand If you cut off the supply at the junction of the Anacostia So the rest of the system can not carry the energy required And the whole thing off before it exploded What causes it turns off? I think we better find out what Dad, do not go to prove that you really are deadly I really do not want to know Considering the circumstances I know this sounds ridiculous but It's nice to know that my children still need me Come Judith, answer the phone The storm is already looking for reinforcements Billy! I need someone to monitor the satellite's thermal imaging Ghost 12 And stay here with the storm figured I have enough 1.5 degrees Below the average temperature to keep the storm without breaking the city But I have to have someone to continue checking the temperature And I sent it to my laptop We can not ask someone else to deal with that? We are not officially allowed to do this Doc .. Apunteme for the journey of death In order to achieve that we leave the city in blackout He's still working on it The last of the nightmare scenarios for local emergency workers A temporary shelter that had thousands of people It was tragically beaten by a tornado and collapsed The new bases will be at the DC Armory Only minutes into the second eye wall hit Many shelters are beyond their capacity No one knows what will happen to all people To remain in the streets And that do not meet safe Sit down, this tire only I saw the guy's face Somo a danger to him, we must leave here Before you decide to do something about You're trying to get us out of here since we Well, enough Your ears feel weird? I think the atmosphere is changing You think you're creating a vacuum here? No, but it's a hurricane There are low-pressure All the air is sucked out of the building If the air can go, we also Ok Vamos Stuart! Let's move those barrels, come here Take one apiece, up we go! Sit in the front row gives you a sore neck Look at Faith! Nobody has seen this before Now everyone is running Scared, no one stops and just ... The lets We will die if we stay here I still do not understand it? I was touched I know something happened and made you think you're immortal Even if you are immortal, I do not So maybe let me escort you out of here We can always rebuild this city if left in ruins But you can not rebuild without you my heart From the east, is only a bridge on the route still open Termocolumnas ... assumed that the storm gave us hard with all that hot air in Washington Talking hot air king in person Yes, I said things and even some things that would not have said Put all the attention on out of here There will be other opportunities If I fail, I hate my mom's roast At least you get that chest I collect sweets targetas Actually the theft of candy from other Really? You smell that? If it is gas Come on Transformers Union Anacostia Kevin ... Judith, where are your kids Well? All I know is that they are in Aqueduct Albear The water treatment facility in Palatine Where are you? Just passing the 5th, arriving at Bloomingdale's We're closer to where you are Then go now, I find there You go, I stay What? This is what I do best you sure? Yes, both Kevin, we are on track, but hurry, I need you there Here are registering thermal readings of the city If the temperature drops to 79.2, you did Go get our daughter Monty does not come, we must leave here What will we do with them? Many people will die today No one's fault You two, go look They went through ventilation follow him. Let Go round the back Hey! Can I help you? Hello ... I ... I'm Gail Duffy ... Who are you? 'm Ted Hanneman You can take me to the control room, I am a ... I know who is I read your article about the energy problems in the new millennium Well Ted, we have a new energy problem now Can you take me to the control room We hack the authorization to the satellite We got termoimgenes DC every 3 minutes It has lots of megabytes, so go satellite All I have to do is press this little button and we are totally ... Offline. What? The serial ata pericandril Online How? Why? I have arranged a million times but continues to break You know where he is? Siii I know I need some kind of authorization Who? They've all gone If we hesitate, be too late Listen to me, yesterday my only child was kidnapped So you think you would actually stop here Talking to a complete stranger, so that Go against professional instincts, if not know that I am right They are not here, but may not have gone far Come on! Ok, find the exit The wind comes from there Why not follow the last and you make sure that any should perish? Why not follow you at last? Just do it ok? The espetculo must continue So she bought a stairway to heaven, la la lala 79.2 is the magic number that sparks storm We have to keep the temperature below and do so fast I bulsitis and garlic is making me no end, is as fast as I can I guess someone is sending satellite data And it will continue until the target demos Ok, we are within Can not hear yet, but I'm en route If you try to go back, there will Ok guys, come here. Just stay there You know, when you put tremendous thing male companion Do not want to be like the singer Pink And if not open more problems if we leave this building You know what? I'm glad you two get along, really But if not silent, they will kill us all I was thinking What? Forget Which? I can not help thinking that cut energy And what about Stuart and Lea are in a place where they need it? Well, I hope this is paranoia, not who speaks instuicin Because if we do not cut energy The storm is going to kill everyone in the city Let's end this Melody! 2 guards What if Peter used to bait? It's a good idea Excuse me? All, we It is hidden, so that we continue to guard us When they do, they are sure that they were They all go ok? Below This is the number of my uncle, tell where we are If they can find shelter, just wait here Stay in the corner, hide in This is a stupid idea You've always wanted to be the leader Peter, when it's easy. But for once in your life ... Shut up dummy There they are! All I needed was to have done a bit of pumping iron Billy, no matter what you are, you're all a genius in this Well, I'm just being paranoid There's nothing to worry about, the old Billy has managed this a thousand times Melody! Ted, later, turn off the first bank? District 6 out of service Melody! Billy, the line is fixed! What are you doing up there?! Just give you the opportunity to risk your life for another Another what? Yo, Melody! My arm got stuck Please help me! " Well Wait What are you doing? Trust me Wait, where's Peter? Obvious They're in the hall, catch! I'm on it Better wait here, I will download Ok Peter! Peter, are you okay? I think I broke my leg Hey! Stop! Hide Stuart Do not move Let's Move Stay here and try not to annoy but nothing 80.6 is not fast enough The 42 is blocked We'll go by 21na Ross careful! This is Senator Ryan Carr, Washington DC I'm trying to get the word out to as many nations as possible To avoid suffering the devastation we are now moving We have scientific evidence that a total blackout of the city It is the only way to cancel the timer A summary of this research It's on its way to you ... now Ross ... Come on Ross, wake Wake Ross. Wake up! We have to get out of here Judith ... Kevin hit us a banner Ross is unconscious and can not get him out of here And the car is filling with smoke Wait, I'm coming As fast as I can Move! Come here! We have one of the girls Find the others I launched into the sky In an ocean of air I suppose that the ladder is not an option This is falling! Shut up, I'm thinking Please tell me why you're so smart as you are good? No I meant, I'm hallucinating Do not you mean that? Best Repeat if you want to save you You're so good! " Well then Pa'rriba What's this? The Crouching tigger hidden and Billy? Watch and learn, I am not eternal You made me go for this Well, I just could not wait to see you, missed you Half of the city is off. What is the reading now? It is not enough We must continue Failure. Shutdown procedure unsafe All personnel evacuate Ross ... power generation plant of DC out! You can zafarte that? My arm is made of rubber This is the plan I'll tie Your dad is a sailor or something? No No but to discharge him camping Are you a lesbian? No Stop arguing with me Aguantate firm I have plenty to grab To be Chinese have slanted eyes not You can say something with one word Thank you Dr. Duffy Where's your backup generator? I guess I have to go on, but I want my erection lasts Pretty Judith! It is locked! Yeah, I know Give me that The car is burning, there is a fire extinguisher back It is was, find him! No update Let Billy, it's time to loosen What are you doing? I agreed to turn it off, not destroy Not enough The last 3 readings were 80.6, not why, but this thing is not being updated We must do something And we must do now Come with me Do not worry! The generator is in this place reinforced Nothing could ... Oh, Ross is going to kill me for not updating the data Of course it does not update the data, the storm destroyed the city And we'll be dead anyway Hurry! You okay? " He is fine if, let's go Wait Come, come The thing is you do not like you Wherever I go that energy is going to get very ugly A new car, knew he had to secure Come on! Mtele foot What is your reading outside? Same We got it! Come on! Come on Billy, give us the numbers we need It's working! The temperature has not fallen enough Only two tenths of a degree I have a little help from above? You know what they say Ted? God help us if we do not help ourselves He did! Cut power. God, yes! Works But even the temperature remains high Fold here We prove that door Stuart! Hey! Mrs Carr You okay? I fell I think I broke my leg Where is Stuart? Where is everybody? It took Leah Stuart was behind them They are the ones who need help. Go! You must stay with him. We will find Stuart and Leah Ok Let's try to move, ok? Ok, let's I will seek help, you all right here? I'll be back ok? There's a tornado right outside the building This will not last! Well, better pray for endurance What? Stuart! It's me Where's Leah? Do not know Read! 'm Here! I'm here! Read! Get out of here! I'll be back to look for another boy, look out Professor! You have one shot Mama Stuart Where's Peter? I could not move, is still there Let's look Stop! Drop the gun. Lower it O shoot Good boy. Now go down the stairs Come down the stairs Move! Keep it moving Keep it moving! Hey! they are all well?! Yes! Let's get out of here The storm diminishes its power We did Okay boy, you posarte here This is Cyclone 2, I have the target in sight Do not last much longer That's right, the storm dissipates It will, the storm was The storm is officially dead Thank you Colonel Hey ... We went through quite I know you went with a heavy But no more, everything was back So all that was needed was a storm the devil and armed madmen? Yeah, well, and your mom Not only is good, but that is totally available Loco ... is a joke I'm kidding Stuart, is your grandfather Grandfather We did Discuss anything you want But I say the proof is in your hands Many of us suffer tremendous losses But there have been sacrifices And then wins As you know, all abducted children survived But we did more than survive We gave him the face of adversity The Capitol is open for work, FEMA is fully in operation And we're not only better prepared than ever to face these harsh climates But even to mitigate I hope you will forgive me if I give special thanks to my father Sen. Ryan Carr Who fought the storm from the Congress building Fiercely to get the message from Dr Duffy everyone The cities of London and Helsinki directly owe their existence to his efforts Thanks Dad Now, where are torm ... Hey guys, we need more sandwiches, more than 81 people came How many? Yes, here Stuart Your mom is doing a great job This is your place? No, well it's a lifestyle Or was That's you? It all makes sense Now I understand these feelings he had I mean you are ... One of the chicks of Ross But underneath that education There is a real wild You are you proposing? No The biggest storm in history happened You're here with me Unable to put more romantic than that I can handle the truth now I have chance? No, you do not have Please stop talking and you get to this Until they fix the damage he did to the environment You have my word that FEMA will be in front in 1st To prevent and handle any disaster that threatens us still FEMA will be there every step of the way The city may be destroyed But again from the ashes Thanks to the efforts of many Today brought something new ... Hope
