 

                        1 Are you blind when you're born? Can you see in the dark? Can you look at a king? Would you sit on his throne? Can you say of your bite That it's worse than your bark? Are you cock of the walk When you're walking alone? Because Jellicles are And Jellicles do Jellicles do and Jellicles would Jellicles would and Jellicles can Jellicles can and Jellicles do When you fall on your head Do you land on your feet? Are you tense when you sense There's a storm in the air? Can you find your way blind When you're lost in the street? Do you know how to go To the Heaviside Layer? Because Jellicles can And Jellicles do Jellicles do and Jellicles can Jellicles can and Jellicles do Jellicles do and Jellicles can Jellicles can and Jellicles do Can you ride on a broomstick To places far distant? Familiar with candle With book and with bell? Were you Whittington's friend? The Pied Piper's assistant? Have you been an alumnus Of heaven and hell? Are you mean like a minx? Are you lean like a lynx? Are you keen to be seen When you're smelling a rat? Were you there when the pharaohs Commissioned the Sphinx? If you were, and you are You're a Jellicle Cat Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats We can dive through the air Like a flying trapeze We can turn double somersaults Bounce on a tyre We can run up a wall We can swing through the trees We can balance on bars We can walk on a wire Jellicles can and Jellicles do Jellicles can and Jellicles do Jellicles can and Jellicles do Jellicles can and Jellicles do Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Can you sing at the same time In more than one key Duets by Rossini And waltzes by Strauss? And can you, as cats do Begin with a "c"? That always triumphantly Brings down the house Jellicle Cats Are queens of the night Singing at astronomical heights Handling pieces from The Messiah Hallelujah, angelical choir Jellicle Cats Are queens of the night Singing at astronomical heights Handling pieces from The Messiah Hallelujah, angelical choir The mystical divinity Of unashamed felinity Round the cathedral Rang vivat Life to the everlasting cat Feline, fearless Faithful and true To others who do what Jellicles do and Jellicles can Jellicles can and Jellicles do Jellicle Cats sing Jellicle Chants Jellicles old and Jellicles new Jellicle Song and Jellicle dance Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Practical cats, dramatical cats Pragmatical cats, fanatical cats Oratorical cats, Delphic-Oracle cats Sceptical cats, dyspeptical cats Romantical cats, pedantical cats Critical and parasitical cats Allegorical cats, metaphorical cats Statistical cats and mystical cats Political cats, hypocritical cats Clerical cats, hysterical cats Cynical cats, rabbinical cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats Jellicle Songs for Jellicle Cats There's a man over there With a look of surprise As much as to say Well, now, how about that? Do I actually see With my own very eyes A man who's not heard Of a Jellicle Cat? What's a Jellicle Cat? What's a Jellicle Cat? What's a Jellicle Cat? The naming of cats Is a difficult matter It isn't just one Of your holiday games You may think at first I'm as mad as a hatter When I tell you a cat Must have three different names First of all there's the name That the family use daily Such as Peter, Augustus Alonzo or James Such as Victor or Jonathan George or Bill Bailey All of them Sensible, everyday names There are fancier names If you think they sound sweeter Some for the gentlemen Some for the dames Such as Plato, Admetus Electra, Demeter But all of them sensible Everyday names But I tell you, a cat Needs a name that's particular A name that's peculiar And more dignified Else how can he keep up His tail perpendicular Or spread out his whiskers Or cherish his pride? Of names of this kind I can give you a quorum Such as Munkustrap, Quaxo Or Coricopat Such as Bombalurina Or else, Jellylorum Names that never belong To more than one cat But above and beyond There's still one name left over And that is the name That you never will guess The name that no human research Can discover But the cat himself knows And will never confess When you notice a cat In profound meditation The reason, I tell you, Is always the same His mind is engaged In a rapt contemplation Of the thought, of the thought Of the thought of his name His ineffable Effable Effanineffable Deep and inscrutable Singular Name... Name... Name... Name... Jellicle Cats come out tonight Jellicle Cats come one, come all The Jellicle Moon is shining bright Jellicles come to the Jellicle Ball Jellicle Cats come out tonight Jellicles come to the Jellicle Ball Jellicle Cats meet once a year At the Jellicle Ball Where we all rejoice And the Jellicle Leader Will soon appear And make what is known As the Jellicle Choice When Old Deuteronomy Just before dawn Through a silence you feel You could cut with a knife Announces the cat Who can now be reborn And come back to a different Jellicle Life For waiting up there Is the Heaviside Layer Full of wonders One Jellicle only will see And Jellicles ask Because Jellicles dare Who will it be? Who will it be? I have a Gumbie Cat in mind Her name is Jennyanydots Her coat is of the tabby kind With tiger stripes And leopard spots All day she sits beneath the stair Or on the steps or on the mat She sits and sits and sits and sits And that's what makes a Gumbie Cat That's what makes a Gumbie Cat But when the day's hustle And bustle is done Then the Gumbie Cat's work Is but hardly begun And when all the family's In bed and asleep She tucks up her skirts To the basement to creep She is deeply concerned With the ways of the mice Their behaviour's not good And their manners not nice So when she has got them Lined up on the matting She teaches them Music, crocheting and tatting I have a Gumbie Cat in mind Her name is Jennyanydots The curtain cord she likes to wind And tie it into sailor knots She sits upon the window-sill Or anything that's smooth and flat She sits and sits and sits and sits And that's what makes a Gumbie Cat That's what makes a Gumbie Cat But when the day's hustle And bustle is done Then the Gumbie Cat's work Is but hardly begun She thinks that the cockroaches Just need employment To prevent them from Idle and wanton destroyment So she's formed from that lot Of disorderly louts A troop of well-disciplined Helpful boy scouts With a purpose in life And a good deed to do And she's even created A beetles tattoo! ( RULE BRITANNIA) Squad salute! For she's A jolly good fellow... Thank you, my dears Miaow Miaow The Rum Tum Tugger is a curious cat If you offer me pheasant I'd rather have grouse If you put me in a house I would much prefer a flat If you put me in a flat Then I'd rather have a house If you set me on a mouse Then I only want a rat If you set me on a rat Then I'd rather chase a mouse The Rum Tum Tugger is a curious cat And there isn't any call For me to shout it For he will do as he do do And there's no doing anything About it The Rum Tum Tugger Is a terrible bore When you let me in Then I want to go out I'm always on the wrong side Of every door And as soon as I get home Then I'd like to get about I like to lie in a bureau drawer But I make such a fuss If I can't get out The Rum Tum Tugger is a curious cat And there isn't any use For you to doubt it For he will do as he do do And there's no doing Anything about it The Rum Tum Tugger Is a curious beast My disobliging ways Are a matter of habit Now if you offer me fish Then I always want a feast And if there isn't any fish Then I won't eat rabbit If you offer me cream Then I sniff and sneer For I only like What I find for myself... No So you catch me in it up to my ears And put it on the larder shelf The Rum Tum Tugger Is artful and knowing The Rum Tum Tugger Doesn't care for a cuddle So I'll on up into your sewing Cos there's nothing I enjoy like a horrible muddle The Rum Tum Tugger is a curious cat The Rum Tum Tugger Doesn't care for a cuddle The Rum Tum Tugger is a curious cat And there isn't any need For me to spout it For he will do as he do do And there's no Doing anything About... (MIAOWING) About... (MIAOWING) About... (SCREAMING) About it Remark the cat Who hesitates towards you In the light of the dawn Which opens on her Like a grin You see the border Of her coat is torn And stained with sand And you see the corner of her eye Twist like a crooked pin She haunted many a low resort Near the grimy road Of Tottenham Court She flitted about the no man's land From The Rising Sun To The Friend at Hand And the postman sighed As he scratched his head You'd really have thought She'd ought to be dead And who would ever suppose That that Was Grizabella The Glamour Cat? Grizabella the Glamour Cat Grizabella the Glamour Cat Who would have ever supposed That that Was Grizabella The Glamour Cat? Bustopher Jones Is not skin and bones In fact, he's remarkably fat He doesn't haunt pubs He has eight or nine clubs For he's the St James's Street Cat He's the cat we all greet As he walks down the street In his coat of fastidious black No commonplace mousers Have such well-cut trousers Or such an impeccable back In the whole of St James's The smartest of names is The name of this Brummell of cats And we're all of us proud To be nodded or bowed to By Bustopher Jones in white spats In the whole of St James's The smartest of names is The name of this Brummell of cats And we're all of us proud To be nodded or bowed to By Bustopher Jones In white spats My visits are occasional To the Senior Educational And it is against the rules For any one cat To belong both to that And the Joint Superior Schools For a similar reason When game is in season I'm found not at Fox's, but Blimp's I am frequently seen At the gay Stage and Screen Which is famous For winkles and shrimps In the season of venison I give my ben'son To the Pothunter's succulent bones And just before noon's Not a moment too soon To drop in for a drink At the Drones When I'm seen in a hurry There's probably curry At the Siamese or at the Glutton If I look full of gloom Then I've lunched at the Tomb On cabbage, rice pudding And mutton In the whole of St James's The smartest of names is The name of this Brummell of cats And we're all of us proud To be nodded or bowed to By Bustopher Jones in white Bustopher Jones in white Bustopher Jones in white spats So much in this way Passes Bustopher's day At one club or another he's found It can be no surprise That under our eyes He has grown unmistakably round He's a twenty-five pounder Or I am a bounder And he's putting on weight Every day But I'm so well-preserved Because I've observed All me life a routine, and I'd say I am still in me prime I shall last out me time That's the word From this stoutest of cats It must and it shall Be spring in Pall Mall While Bustopher Jones wears white Bustopher Jones wears white Bustopher Jones Wears white spats Toodlepip! (THUNDER ROLLS) (POLICE SIREN) Macavity! (CAR BRAKES SCREECH) (CAR ACCELERATES AWAY) - (WOMAN LAUGHS) - Shh! (WOMAN LAUGHS) Mungojerrie And Rumpleteazer We're a notorious couple of cats As knockabout clowns Quick-change comedians Tightrope walkers and acrobats We have an extensive reputation We make our home in Victoria Grove This is merely our centre Of operation For we are incurably given to rove When the family assembles For Sunday dinner Their minds made up That they won't get thinner On Argentine joint Potatoes and greens And the cook would appear From behind the scenes And say in a voice That is broken with sorrow "I'm afraid you must wait And have dinner tomorrow "The joint has gone From the oven like that!" Then the family will say "It's that horrible cat! "Was it Mungojerrie Or Rumpleteazer!" And most of the time They leave it at that Mungojerrie and Rumpleteazer Have a wonderful way Of working together And some of the time You would say it was luck And some of the time You would say it was weather We'd go through the house Like a hurricane And no sober person Could take his oath Was it Mungojerrie Or Rumpleteazer? Or could you have sworn That it might have been both? And when you hear A dining room smash Or up from the pantry There comes a loud crash Or down from the library Came a loud ping From a vase which was commonly Said to be Ming Then the family will say "Now which was which cat?" It was Mungojerrie And Rumpleteazer And there's nothing at all To be done about that And there's nothing at all To be done about that Old Deuteronomy? I believe it is Old Deuteronomy Well, of all things Can it be really? Yes! No! Ho! Hi! Oh, my eye! My mind may be wandering But I confess I believe it is Old Deuteronomy Old Deuteronomy's lived a long time He's a cat who has lived Many lives in succession He was famous in proverb And famous in rhyme A long while before Queen Victoria's accession Old Deuteronomy's buried nine wives And more - I am tempted To say ninety-nine And his numerous progeny Prospers and thrives And the village is proud of him In his decline At the sight of that placid And bland physiognomy When he sits in the sun On the vicarage wall The oldest inhabitant croaks Well, of all things Can it be really? Yes! No! Ho! Hi! Oh, my eye! My mind may be wandering But I confess I believe it is Old Deuteronomy Well, of all things Can it be really? Yes! No! Ho! Hi! Oh, my eye! My mind may be wandering But I confess I believe it is Old Deuteronomy Well, of all things Can it be really? Yes! No! Ho! Hi! Oh, my eye! My mind may be wandering But I confess I believe it is Old Deuteronomy Well, of all things Can it be really? Yes! No! Ho! Hi! Oh, my eye! My legs may be tottery And I must go slow And be careful Of Old Deuteronomy Jellicle Cats meet once a year On the night we make The Jellicle Choice And now that the Jellicle Leader is here Jellicle Cats can all rejoice Of the awe-full battle of the Pekes And the Pollicles Together with some account Of the participation Of the Pugs and the Poms And the intervention Of the Great Rumpus Cat The Pekes and the Pollicles Everyone knows Are proud and implacable Passionate foes It is always the same Wherever one goes And the Pugs and the Poms Are the most people say That they do not like fighting Yet once in a way They now and again Join into the fray, and they Bark Bark Bark Bark Until you can hear them All over the park Now, on the occasion Of which I shall speak Almost nothing had happened For nearly a week (AND THAT'S A LONG TIME FOR A POL OR A PEKE) The big Police Dog Was away from his beat I don't know the reason But most people think He slipped into the Wellington Arms for a drink And no one at all Was about on the street When a Peke and a Pollicle Happened to meet They did not advance Or exactly retreat But they glared at each other And scraped their hind feet And started to Bark, bark, bark, bark, bark, bark Until you could hear them All over the park And they'd Bark, bark, bark, bark, bark, bark Until you could hear them All over the park Now, the Peke, although people May say what they please Is no British dog But a heathen Chinese And so all the Pekes When they heard the uproar Some came to the window Some came to the door There were surely a dozen More likely a score And together they started To grumble and wheeze In their huffery-snuffery Heathen Chinese But a terrible din Is what Pollicles like For your Pollicle dog Is a dour Yorkshire tyke There are dogs out of every nation The Irish, the Welsh and the Dane The Russian, Dutch and Dalmatian And even from China and Spain From the Poodle, the Pom The Alsatian And the Mastiff Who walks on a chain And to those that are frisky And frolicle That my meaning be perfectly plain That my name is Little Tom Pollicle And you better not do it again And his braw Scottish cousins Are snappers and biters And every dog-jack of them Notable fighters And so they stepped out With their pipers in order Playin' When the Blue Bonnets Come Over the Border Then the Pugs and the Poms Held no longer aloof But some from the balcony Some from the roof Joined into the din with a Bark, bark, bark, bark, bark, bark Until you could hear them All over the park Huffery-snuffery, huffery-snuffery Huffery-snuffery, huffery-snuff Until you could hear them All over the park (WHINING AND HOWLING) Now! When these bold heroes Together assembled The traffic all stopped And the Underground trembled And some of the neighbours Were so much afraid That they started to ring up The fire brigade When suddenly up From a small basement flat Why, who should stalk out But the Great Rumpus Cat? His eyes were like fireballs Fearfully blazing He gave a great yawn And his jaws were amazing And when he looked out Through the bars of the area You never saw anything Fiercer Or hairier And what with the glare Of his eyes and his yawning The Pekes and the Pollicles Quickly took warning He looked to the sky And he gave a great leap And they every last one of them Scattered like sheep And when the Police Dog Returned to his beat There wasn't a single one Left on the street ( WHEN THE BLUE BONNETS COME OVER THE BORDER) All hail and all bow to The Great Rumpus Cat Jellicle Cats and dogs all must Pollicle Dogs and cats all must Like undertakers, come to dust (THUNDER ROLLS) Macavity! Jellicle Cats come out tonight Jellicle Cats, come one, come all The Jellicle Moon is shining bright Jellicles come to the Jellicle Ball Jellicle Cats are black and white Jellicle Cats are rather small Jellicle Cats are merry and bright And pleasant to hear When we caterwaul Jellicle Cats have cheerful faces Jellicle Cats Have bright black eyes We like to practise Our airs and graces And wait for the Jellicle Moon to rise Jellicle Cats develop slowly Jellicle Cats are not too big Jellicle Cats are roly-poly We know how to dance A gavotte and a jig Until the Jellicle Moon appears We make our toilette And take our repose Jellicles wash behind their ears Jellicles dry between their toes Jellicle Cats are white and black Jellicle Cats are of moderate size Jellicles jump like a jumping jack Jellicle Cats have moonlit eyes We're quiet enough In the morning hours We're quiet enough In the afternoon Reserving our terpsichorean powers To dance by the light Of the Jellicle Moon Jellicle Cats are black And white Jellicle Cats, As we said, are small If it happens to be a stormy night We will practise a caper Or two in the hall If it happens the sun Is shining bright You would say we had Nothing to do at all We are resting and saving Ourselves to be right For the Jellicle Moon And the Jellicle Ball Jellicle Cats come out tonight Jellicle Cats, come one, come all The Jellicle Moon is shining bright Jellicles come to the Jellicle Ball Jellicle Cats come out tonight Jellicle Cats, come one, come all The Jellicle Moon is shining bright Jellicles come To the Jellicle Ball... (MUSIC STOPS ABRUPTLY) You see the border of her coat Is torn and stained with sand And you see The corner of her eye Twist like a crooked pin Midnight Not a sound from the pavement Has the moon lost her memory? She is smiling alone In the lamplight The withered leaves Collect at my feet And the wind Begins to moan Every street lamp Seems to beat A fatalistic warning Someone mutters And the street lamp gutters And soon it will be morning Memory All alone in the moonlight I can smile at the old days I was beautiful then I remember the time I knew What happiness was Let the memory Live again The moments of happiness We had the experience But missed the meaning And approach to the meaning Restores the experience In a different form Beyond any meaning We can assign to happiness The past experience Revived in the meaning Is not the experience Of one life only But of many generations Not forgetting Something that is Probably quite ineffable Moonlight Turn your face to the moonlight Let your memory lead you Open up, enter in If you find there The meaning of what happiness is Then a new life Will begin Moonlight Turn your face to the moonlight Let your memory lead you Open up, enter in If you find there The meaning of what happiness is Then a new life Will begin Gus is the cat At the theatre door His name, as I ought to Have told you before Is really Asparagus But that's such a fuss to pronounce That we usually call him just Gus His coat's very shabby He's thin as a rake And he suffers from palsy That makes his paws shake Yet he was in his youth Quite the smartest of cats But no longer a terror To mice or to rats For he isn't the cat That he was in his prime Though his name was quite famous, He says, in his time And whenever he joins His friends at their club Which takes place at the back Of the neighbouring pub He loves to regale them If someone else pays With anecdotes drawn From his palmiest days For he once was a star Of the highest degree He has acted with Irving He has acted with tree And he likes to relate His success on the halls Where the gallery once gave him Seven cat calls But his grandest creation As he loves to tell Was Firefrorefiddle The Fiend of the Fell I have played in my time Every possible part And I used to know seventy Speeches by heart I'd extemporise backchat I knew how to gag And I knew how to let the cat Out of the bag I knew how to act With my back and my tail With an hour of rehearsal I never could fail I'd a voice that would soften The hardest of hearts Whether I took the lead Or in character parts I have sat by the bedside Of poor little Nell When the curfew was rung Then I swung on the bell In the pantomime season I never fell flat And I once understudied Dick Whittington's Cat But my grandest creation As history will tell Was Firefrorefiddle The Fiend of the Fell Then if someone will give him A toothful of gin He will tell how he once played A part in East Lynne At a Shakespeare performance He once walked on pat When some actor suggested The need for a cat And I say that these kittens They do not get trained As we did in the days When Victoria reigned They never get drilled In a regular troupe And they think they are smart Just to jump through a hoop And he says as he scratches himself With his claws Well, the theatre is certainly Not what it was These modern productions Are all very well But there's nothing to equal From what I hear tell That moment of mystery When I made history As Firefrorefiddle The Fiend of the Fell... (MUSIC FADES AWAY, GHOSTLY WIND) These modern productions Are all very well But there's nothing to equal From what I hear tell That moment of mystery When I made... Skimbleshanks The Railway Cat The cat of the railway train There's a whisper down the line At eleven thirty-nine When the Night Mail's Ready to depart Saying Skimble, where is Skimble? Has he gone to hunt the thimble? We must find him Or the train can't start All the guards and all the porters And the stationmaster's daughters Would be searching high and low Saying, "Skimble, where is Skimble? For unless he's very nimble "Then the Night Mail just can't go" At eleven forty-two With the signal overdue And the passengers All frantic to a man That's when I would appear And I'd saunter to the rear I'd been busy in the luggage van Then he gave one flash Of his glass-green eyes And the signal went all clear They'd be off at last For the northern part Of the northern hemisphere Skimbleshanks the Railway Cat The cat of the railway train You could say that by and large It was me who was in charge Of the Sleeping Car Express From the driver and the guards To the bagmen playing cards I'd supervise them all More or less Down the corridor he paces And examines all the faces Of the travellers In the First and the Third He establishes control By a regular patrol And he'd know at once If anything occurred He would watch you without winking And he saw what you were thinking And it's certain That he didn't approve Of hilarity and riot So that folk were very quiet When Skimble was about And on the move You could play no pranks With Skimbleshanks He's a cat that cannot be ignored So nothing went wrong On the Northern Mail When Skimbleshanks was aboard It was very pleasant When they found their little den With their name Written up on the door And the berth was very neat With a newly folded sheet And not a speck of dust On the floor There was every sort of light You could make it dark or bright And a button you could turn To make a breeze And a funny little basin You're supposed to wash your face in And a crank to shut The window should you sneeze Then the guard looked in politely And would ask you very brightly Do you like your morning tea Weak or strong? But I was just behind him And was ready to remind him For Skimble won't let Anything go wrong When they crept into Their cosy berths And pulled down the counterpane They ought to reflect It was very nice To know that they wouldn't Be bothered by mice They would leave all that To the Railway Cat The cat of the railway train Skimbleshanks the Railway Cat The cat of the railway train Skimbleshanks the Railway Cat The cat of the railway train In the watches of the night I was always fresh and bright Every now and then I'd have a cup of tea With perhaps a drop of Scotch When I was keeping on the watch Only stopping here and there To catch a flea They were fast asleep at Crewe And so they never knew That I was walking Up and down the station They were sleeping all the while I was busy at Carlisle Where I met the station master With elation They might see me at Dumfries If I summoned the police If there was anything They ought to know about When they got to Gallowgate There they did not have to wait For Skimbleshanks will help them To get out And he Gives you a wave Of his long brown tail Which says I'll see you again You will meet without fail On the midnight mail The cat of the railway train The cat of the railway Train (CRASHING AND BANGING) (SINISTER LAUGHTER) (CRASH) Macavity! (LAUGHING) Macavity's a mystery cat He's called the Hidden Paw For he's the master criminal Who can defy the law He's the bafflement Of Scotland Yard The Flying Squad's despair For when they reach The scene of crime Macavity's not there! Macavity, Macavity There's no one like Macavity He's broken every human law He breaks the law of gravity His powers of levitation Would make a fakir stare And when you reach the scene of crime Macavity's not there You may seek him in the basement You may look up in the air But I tell you once and once again Macavity's not there! Macavity's a ginger cat He's very tall and thin You would know him if you saw him For his eyes are sunken in His brow is deeply Lined with thought His head is highly domed His coat is dusty from neglect His whiskers are uncombed He sways his head from side to side With movements like a snake And when you think he's half asleep He's always wide awake Macavity, Macavity There's no one like Macavity For he's a fiend in feline shape A monster of depravity You may meet him in a by-street You may see him in the square But when a crime's discovered Then Macavity's not there He's outwardly respectable I know he cheats at cards And his footprints are not found in Any files of Scotland Yard's And when the larder's looted Or the jewel case is rifled Or when the milk is missing Or another Peke's been stifled Or the greenhouse glass is broken And the trellis past repair There's the wonder of the thing Macavity's not there! Macavity, Macavity There's no one like Macavity There never was a cat Of such deceitfulness and suavity He always has an alibi And one or two to spare Whatever time the deed took place Macavity wasn't there And they say that all the cats Whose wicked deeds are widely known I might mention Mungojerrie I might mention Griddlebone Are nothing more than agents For the cat who all the time Just controls the operations The Napoleon of Crime! Macavity, Macavity There's no one like Macavity He's a fiend in feline shape A monster of depravity You may meet him in a by-street You may see him in the square But when a crime's discovered Then Macavity Macavity Macavity Macavity When a crime's discovered Then Macavity's not there (MUSIC STOPS ABRUPTLY) (SINISTER LAUGHTER) (CATS) Macavity! (CATS WHISPER) Macavity's not there. We have to find Old Deuteronomy You ought to ask Magical Mr Mistoffelees The original Conjuring Cat There can be no doubt about that Please listen to me And don't scoff All his inventions Are off his own bat There's no such cat in the metropolis He holds all the patent monopolies For performing surprising illusions And creating eccentric confusions The greatest magicians Have something to learn From Mr Mistoffelees' Conjuring turn And we all say Oh! Well, I never Was there ever a cat so clever As magical Mr Mistoffelees He is quiet, he is small, He is black From his ears To the tip of his tail He can creep Through the tiniest crack He can walk on the narrowest rail He can pick any card from the pack He's equally cunning with dice He's always deceiving you Into believing That he's only hunting for mice He can play any trick with a cork Or a spoon and a bit of fish paste If you look for a knife or a fork And you think That it's merely misplaced You have seen it one moment But then it is gone But you find it next week Laying out on the lawn And we all say Oh! Well, I never Was there ever a cat so clever As magical Mr Mistoffelees Presto! Oh! Well, I never Was there ever a cat so clever As magical Mr Mistoffelees Oh! Well, I never Was there ever a cat so clever As magical Mr Mistoffelees His manner is vague and aloof And you would think There was nobody shyer But his voice can be Heard on the roof While he was curled up by the fire And he's sometimes Been heard by the fire While he was about on the roof At least we all heard That somebody purred Which is incontestable proof Of his singular magical powers And I've known the family to call Him in from the garden for hours While he was asleep in the hall And not long ago This phenomenal cat Produced seven kittens Right out of a hat And we all say Oh! Well, I never Was there ever a cat so clever As magical Mr Mistoffelees... (LAUGHTER) Magical! And not long ago, This phenomenal cat Produced seven kittens Right out of a hat... (DRUM ROLL) (DRUM ROLL) (CATS GASP) And we all say Oh! Well, I never Was there ever a cat so clever As magical Mr Mistoffelees Oh! Well, I never Was there ever a cat so clever As magical Mr Mistoffelees Oh! Well, I never Was there ever a cat so clever As magical Mr Mistoffelees... Mystical! Oh! Well, I never Was there ever a cat so clever... Magical! Mystical! Oh! Well, I never Was there ever a cat so clever As magical Mr Mistoffelees I give you the magical... The marvellous... Mr Mistoffelees! Daylight See the dew on a sunflower And a rose that is fading Roses wither away Like the sunflower I yearn to turn my face to the dawn I am waiting For the day... Now Old Deuteronomy Just before dawn Through a silence you feel You could cut with a knife Announces the cat Who can now be reborn And come back to a different Jellicle Life Memory Turn your face to the moonlight Let your memory lead you Open up, enter in If you find there The meaning of what happiness is Then a new life Will begin Memory All alone in the moonlight I can smile at the old days I was beautiful then I remember A time I knew what happiness was Let the memory Live again Burnt out ends of smoky days The stale cold smell Of morning The street lamp dies Another night is over Another day Is dawning Daylight I must wait for the sunrise I must think of the new life And I mustn't give in When the dawn comes Tonight will be a memory, too And the new day Will begin Sunlight through the trees In summer Endless masquerading Like a flower As the dawn is breaking The memory Is fading Touch me It's so easy to leave me All alone with the memory Of my days in the sun If you touch me You'll understand what happiness is Look, a new day Has begun Up up up Past the Russell Hotel Up up up up To the Heaviside Layer Up up up Past the Russell Hotel Up up up up To the Heaviside Layer Up up up Past the Russell Hotel Up up up up To the Heaviside Layer Up up up Past the Russell Hotel Up up up up To the Heaviside Layer Up up up Past the Jellicle Moon Up up up up To the Heaviside Layer Up up up Past the Jellicle Moon Up up up up To the Heaviside Layer The mystical divinity Of unashamed felinity Round the cathedral Rang vivat Life to The everlasting Cat You've heard of Several kinds of cat And my opinion now is that You should need no interpreter To understand our character You've learned enough To take the view That cats are very much like you You've seen us both At work and games And learnt about our proper names Our habits and our habitat But how would you Address a cat? So first Your memory I'll jog And say a cat Is not a dog So first Your memory I'll jog And say a cat Is not a dog With cats Some say one rule is true Don't speak till you Are spoken to Myself, I do not hold with that I say you should address a cat But always keep in mind that he Resents familiarity You bow And taking off your hat Address him in This form "Oh, Cat!" Before a cat will condescend To treat you as a trusted friend Some little token of esteem Is needed, like a dish of cream And you might now and then supply Some caviar or Strassburg Pie Some potted grouse or salmon paste He's sure to have His personal taste And so in time you reach your aim And call him By his name A cat's entitled to expect These evidences of respect So this is this And that is that And there's how you address a cat A cat's entitled to expect These evidences of respect So this is this And that is that And there's how you address A Cat
