 

                        In the 90s, Shinchon was the place to be Streets were filled with trendy rock cafs and young people Now, the scene has moved to Hongdae In Hongdae alone, there are over 50 clubs On so- called 'Club days,' the area gets packed with clubbers Not only popular with young people but also for the expats and US soldiers creating an ideal environment for new drugs to flow in Ecstasy is commonly known as 'Dori- dori' Because it makes you shake your head when you dance Mapo precinct has seen an increase in drug offenses As for Seodaemun, a massive city redevelopment project has started Especially in Sangam- dong, as if the World Cup Stadium wasn't enough they're making a fuss about an I.T. "city" or something C. T? What do they need a CAT scan for? No, an "I.T. City," something to do with culture- technology I said coffee, not green tea! But this is coffee College students these days have no political awareness They used to gather in Shinchon to protest just about anything City hall square... has become a popular choice for protests When candlelight vigils were a rage, Jongro precinct broke their arrest record in one day Who left the empty plates there again! Geez, why on the floor? Who are you? Well, I... - I'm here to see the captain - Excuse me? - Well, the mop first... - Over there Do we have any security measure around this place? Letting anybody walk in as they please - And, you! - Sir Is it the captain or a mop you're looking for? Do I look like a mop to you? Who the hell are you? I'm here to report... I was appointed to the post of chief of Major Crimes as of October 1 Allegiance! He is class of 24 The Academy must have lowered the bar significantly That's right Detective Jo! What now? We got a tip about Cheongdo Boys What should you? You're asking me? Get moving, now! - You! - Yes, sir Aren't you going? Of course I am. Allegiance! Urgh! The day is short Move your asses The goods have arrived The goods? What goods? They're importing dried pepper stuffed with ecstasy inside I see Painstaking 6 months of undercover investigation And, you're taking a free ride You should buy us all a drink later Sure Who's that woolly hat? It's Seodaemun's new chief I wonder how long he'll last Is he out for a run or to buy a smoke? I say he would fit right in It's ecstasy Okay. Let's get to work Be gentle with the boxes! You, dumb ass! Gently! What? There's a fight It's a turf war over who takes the hot spot Right... Don't shake - On the floor! - Now! Fuck! What are they doing there? - Detective Jo! - Come on! Where are you going? Get him! Not so fast! The package is dispatched Over there! Follow that car! We got a tail Just one? That's fine Get a pram ready Spot 2, have your net ready Report status The fish is in the net Here comes the fish Give him a welcome Okay. The fish is turning away Is that our back- up? That was fast They're not one of us They're Mapo motherfuckers... Mapo... what? Not the police? They're no police but goddamn thugs! Shamelessly stealing our catch from our hands Whatever you got planned in mind, this is our jurisdiction, bastards! And, there is no way you can take him to your side Rabbit hole ready Just drive it right Hey, hey, hey! Not that way! That leads to Mapo It's our precious baby - Just drive through! - No no no no no! I don't know about the Academy, but in the Major Crimes world, where I go is the right way - Out of the way! - Out! Out! No! Holy Mary! It's one of theirs! You can't do this Mind your baby What the heck! The package has arrived Bro, this way! Get in! I haven't seen you around Who's your boss? Go go go! Fucking bastards! Who are they? Argh! Mapo's Sneaky Hwang! Sneaky Hwang? Nice to meet you I'm Sneaky Hwang What's going on? Officer of the Year Dirty bastard! You played us Mapo Police sweeps drug smugglers Mr. Commissioner - How's it going? - Well, uh... Sir, I got this for you from the trip to China What's this fuss about? Have I done something? You're asking me? You hijacked our case that we worked our ass off for months How can you do this to your own kind? How are we one of a kind? Bumpkin, we're playing in totally different leagues You're calling me a bumpkin? You bastard! Hey, hey! An interception doesn't constitute a foul You two haven't changed since the Academy days There's a promotion review coming up in 3 months It's all about the performance Fishing rods, nets, electric bars... I don't care what you use That was a lot of food - Hey, Kim - Sir? Don't leave the dishes out Some idiot keeps tripping over them Yes, sir You see? Dumb ass... Which one of you is Jeong Eui- chan? Allegiance! You're embarrassing me I said which one? Run! That one standing over there Now, he's sitting What's the penalty for speeding? For 20kmh above the limit, it's 15pts plus 60 dollar fine For under, no penalty points Just a 30 dollar fine That's all? Shouldn't it at least cover a down payment for house I mean this kind of speeding violation He knows Well, sir... With your blessing, I'll take care of the housing issue I promise you I'll be an honorable man Sugar and cream is the main cause for obesity Try this instead The hell with black coffee I like my 3 sugars Give us a break What is it? She took stacks of free classified ads, and sold them as paper scrap How much? For 1 dollar 60 How should I handle it? You need to ask me? Book her on theft Officer, I didn't know I was breaking the law If I go to prison, who'll look after my grandchildren? You're not going to prison You'll get a suspended sentence - What about you? - She lifted She stole some coffee from the corner shop. Book her, too? Don't ask me the obvious Add 2 counts of theft Hey, man Long time. How have you been? I heard you got compensation for your old man's land You lucky son of a bitch! No need to tense up I'm not questioning you Well, actually... I'm getting married Cut out the congrats speech Well, I was wondering... If I could borrow about 30 grands Hold on... Can I help? I've come to turn myself in Turn yourself in? You gotta take his statement The statement, sure... So, friend... Hello? Hello? So, the statement... Take a seat here I should take the statement? What kind of crime? Seo Mi- kyung Sangam- dong, Mapo Jeong Yu- kyung, Hongeun- dong, Seodaemun Kim Yura, Yeonhee- dong, Seodaemun Hong Jae- hee, Hongeun- dong, Seodaemun Hang on! What... is this about? It's consistent with the list of women reported missing in last 6 months Really? Interview! Interview! Do we have an available interview room? Yes, sir It was a day like today I could smell blood in the air Smell of rotten flesh Hey, mister! What's wrong with you? I... killed a man! Get off the table What the hell are you doing? Stop it Mi- kyeong! My darling, Mi- kyeong I'm sorry, gu-suk So sorry Gu- suk, oh, my dear Gu- suk I killed her baby You can stop now, Dr. Go Is he a nutcase? You know there is no special promotion from lieutenant Yes, sir From then on, it's all about the politics There is a rumor about a major personnel shifts in the Blue House That's what I have eyes on Are you interested? It'd be my greatest honor We're in the lead Along with Gangnam and Yeongdeunpo precincts I'll do my best, sir I don't want your best I want us to be No.1 Lieutenant Hwang, You got no academic backgrounds No ties nor connections You're only chance is becoming No.1 That's all So your mother loves coffee but you can't steal it We'll have your mom pick you up What's her number? You got no mother? Chief, It's a squirt! Looks like another Balbari case The M.O. Is consistent with previous cases - So what? - Sir? If it's the same unsub, there is no print nor DNA Still, we gotta check out the crime scene You still believe that perps return to their scene of crime? If nothing turns up in No time to waste on maths when we got an English test at hand Let's go But, sir... Breathe in How did it go? Only 10? What about the rest? You told them you were police? Of course. I even told them I was the chief of Major Crimes... They say I already have too much outstanding loan Well done for flushing it down the stock market! You can't turn on me like that It was your brother who gave me the wrong tips Anything I buy turn into paper scrap I buy at the upper limit and sell at the lower limit You sure he works in securities? Hey, he makes 50 grand a year What was that? What happened? Shit, baby... I got a motorbike You mean you won a bike? Like in a raffle? No, I mean... I hit a bike in an accident Accident? Lie on the ground and don't move until the insurance arrives I gotta go I'll call you back Hello? Are you alright? Purse snatcher! Son of a bitch! Did you catch him? I suppose so Little piece of shit! Go to hell! We shall start the monthly meeting These are this month's major suspects This curly hair is the catch of the month Armed robbery with murder, he must be worth a lot I'd say... 150 pts? Mr. "Gambling hall," your expertise speaker for itself His girlfriend is an avid clubber spotted regularly in Hongdae Those of you in the area, pay special attention - Detective Song? - Yes, sir Be extra nice this month, alright? I made it extra special this month These are the numbers Number 6! And, 27! But 27th is Friday! You can't bust us on a Friday? And the bonus number... Will go to whoever gives me a usable tip It's the dear doctor friend Lieutenant Hwang speaking ...and, they threw themselves right at me swinging the chain But, you know me, hon I can throw a punch within a split of a second Told you not to worry, silly! No Cellphone No, they're not purse snatchers They stole it right outside bank, so it's bank robbery Shit! Hey, wake up Come on! We gotta get outta here Hi, Det. Jo They are wanted men with Does that mean I get the 10 grand reward? Get out of here! No, not for the police That's what I thought, too I'll consider that my gambling charges are struck off You're a doctor. Don't go sniffing around gambling houses Call me especially when stab victims come in You got it It's only one out of two charges dropped Stop right there! You're headed straight for hell Come this way instead Go straight on Hell suits you They're in ER, in no state to move after my spin kick Where're they going? Hey! Hello? Hey, you! Hey! Excuse me! Wait! What the heck? Hey! What's going on? You tell me. I have no idea They are well- organized and specialized team of motorbike snatchers believed to be accountable for 37 incidents totaling 90,000 dollars Tell us about the investigation It took us 5 months of scientific investigation and... That's a goddamn fraud Book him on fraud if you dare He is just unbelievable On top of 37 confirmed charges, the police are Questioning... and double that for 2 offenders... It's a much better deal than catching a few murderers That sneaky bastard hits another home run And, you're sitting on you asses envying? Allegiance! So, you got your snatchers snatched away right under your nose? - Quiet Detective Jo - Yes, sir Aren't you the same class as him? What does that make you feel? - Envious? - No - Pissed? - No, sir Why not? Why aren't pissed off? Why not envious? It makes me pissed off and green with envy You are on the same payroll as them You got your self- respect locked away in a cell? What good is a 30 grand reward when we got no chance at it? Hey, Det. Jo! I thought officers don't get rewards Officer of the year One, ten, hundred, thousand, the thousand... Thirty thousand! How come I didn't know about this? Huh? Why! You came all the way to Mapo and all I have to offer is pigskin... You graduated from the Academy It's quite a different world from what you learn in the text book, right? Please help yourself If we live for thousands of years there won't be the need for learning because you can learn everything from experience I didn't come here to eat pigskin Give me back my criminals What kind of cops can't protect his own property? A cat is not really a cat unless it catches mice, right? Cat is not all the same cat, a stray that digs up dumpsters is no different from field mouse, isn't it? You're a funny young man I heard your detention cells are practically empty Why don't you use the space to breed a guard dog? You'll hear them barking all the time I can already hear barking right in front of my nose Have a drink Thank you. I take it as peace offering I'm getting a new place Thirty grand! Park Sang- num, 40, suspect in double homicide... It's still so early in the morning When did you get inside? Are you punching in or something? Hey, Dr. Go Let's grab a bite What's the matter? What happened to him? He lost his mind while preparing for his bar exam or his doctorate thesis or something So, I call him Dr. Go Not bar exam, civil service exams... He is such a convincing actor He once made me search the entire mountain for bodies - Det. Jo - Hmm? Let's spice things up for our friends Dr. Go I don't like spice food Come here Go Myeong- heon, 42 years of age, clean records Lives with his 70 year old mother He killed someone? Claims to be responsible for 12 murders Twelve? But, his list is exactly same as our missing persons list What? So, you killed someone? Who did you kill? That's one hell of a face Seo Mi- kyung Sangam- dong, Mapo Kim Yu- ra, Hongeun- dong, Seodaemun Jeong Yu- gyeong, Yeonhee- dong, Seodaemun Hong Jae- hee, Hongeun- dong Seodaemun Stop for a moment Say the names again This time, in reverse order Kim... You see the hesitation? This one's a little weird Did you kill mine? He's a little off, no? It's obvious that he learned the names His eyes seem a little off, too Seodaemun is requesting for rendition of custody Seodaemun? Give him back to us! What did you do to him? He walked in with his own two feet He's a complete nutcase, a cuckoo Don't harass poor fella Just let him go, okay? - Alright. I hear ya - What? We'll let him go once he's cleared There is nothing to look into You should really have more respect for others Just get outta here Have a great one, all of you! Maybe there is more to it than it appears Should we take another look? Dispatch 1 riot police squadron You're sure this is the right spot? This is where you buried the body You the reason we are dragged out here The rock! Det, Shin. The rock! Look under the rock I know that rock Mr. Kang? Chief Hwang sent us What for? I dropped by from Seodaemun to say hi Push! Push! Oh, my leg! Police! Freeze! It's a rock wall We can't dig under it Are you sure this is the spot? It was just like today I could smell blood in the air Smell of rotten flesh This is the fifth rock! You'll make us turn every rock in the mountain? Are those... reporters? How do they know about this? Did you tell them? No What's up, Mr. Kang? You didn't give me heads up about the bust How can you do this to me? Chief Hwang! This is Jeong from Seodaemun Are you still holding on to the fruitcake? I told you he wasn't in his right mind A couple of reporters will be on their way soon for a story about harassing of an innocent civilian You got dogs there? I think I hear barking Anyway, have a good one! Did you kill them or not! Where did you bury their bodies? Chief, the reporters... Somebody shut the damn dogs up! Let's go home. I'm starving Let's go What the heck? I wanna go home now I wanna go home now Crazy bastard Let's go home! Go home Over here! What is it? According to the letter found at the scene, The deceased was raped by an unknown attacker in her own home After she reported it to the police the perp posted a video footage of the victim's naked body She suffered from extreme shame and a sense of loss before she sought to the last resort of taking her own life The unsub mostly targeted single women living on their own He climbed up the wall along the gas piping and broke into the house through the bathroom door In order to prevent the victims from going to the police, he recorded victim's naked body with a video camera Put your hands down And in order to clean up the scene, he vacuumed the crime scene and took away the filter bag Based on the M.O. And the deceased's written testimony, We believe that the perpetrator is the same person responsible for in the area in the last 2 years - If it's the same person... - That's right It's Mapo Balbari It's him It's not the entire city but just in Mapo and Seodaemum area While the same man committed the same crime twelve times, you've done nothing about it Seodaemun, Lee Yong- gab! Yes, Commissioner If 12 cases were reported, how many incidents actually occurred? Considering only 7% of rapes are reported to the police, The actually number must be close to 100 Mapo Jo Jun- gu If you won the 1st place in performance without having solved this case, you think the media will give you an applause of approval? Since we touched the case, I'll see to it that we close it under any circumstances What the hell are you talking about? took place in my precinct The press are referring to the case as 'Mapo Balbari case'? Does that mean all pig skin and rib joints with Mapo in their name are in your jurisdiction? The body was discovered in my precinct How dare you bicker in front of me? Discovering a body is something to brag about? Why don't we take the case, since it's geographically close to us? Talking about geography, it's close to my precinct! Commissioner, we have recently renovated our building... Shut your mouths! - Seodaemun Lee Yong- gab - Yes, sir Mapo Jo Jun- gu Launch a joint investigation team It's on your shoulders to close this case I give you two weeks If you fail, I'll personally stripped you off of your insignia - Yes, sir - Yes, sir Did you move everything? Seodaemun boys are here Move the car Come on, move it We ended up in the same puddle Try not to get too deep in the water You might fall and drown Let's say whoever cuffs the perp first takes him Okay. Finders keepers! I thought you didn't deal with squirt cases It's not an everyday squirt I hear the perp climbs up Got your ladder? It comes with the territory Mind your own damn problems We could have used one of our free offices You prefer this dumpster? It's exactly half- way Don't even think about taking a free ride We're not going the same route Let's split here One, two, three! - Seodaemun! - Got it! How're you doin'? Stop that... Check these photos All from different angles Chief, we got the IP result On May 3 at 3am, the perp logged on at an internet cafe using his ID "Napoleon" to get on to a P2P network and uploaded the footage of the victim - Napoleon? - Yes, sir Did you run the ID? It traced back to Kim Do- sik, resident in Namgajwa, born 1927... Born in 27? How old does it make him? Too old for internet Squirt cases are such pain in the ass 'Squirt' cases? Rape cases. Didn't you know that? You can't be serious You can't use that kind of language! Shame on you Where are they going? You must be so busy taking care of stately business Sir, I have a question for you Have you heard about Napoleon? - Of course! - You know Napoleon? I know, I know garlic wine I don't know about any garlic wine- but he's a French general on horseback... Hello? Listen to me carefully Someone stole your residence number to create an ID for this website - Do you know what 'internet' is? - Of course! - You do? I know 'ln- deok' very well He live in the neighborhood Such a good boy Oh, you don't need to worry about In- deok Of course not! I see... In- deok... That's wonderful Can I have some sweet potato? Bank A/C no. 4308- 57... Hanul Goodwill Foundation ...023 Hyeon- suk's birthday is next week Shit! I looked into ex-sexual offenders in the area for whereabouts These five had no alibi What are you doing? This is a precise mock- up of the window frame that perp used to break in A solid evidence Attention! Attention! - Breathe in. Come on - Wait Put your arms up I told you. It wasn't me Have you lost your mind? Only a contortionist can pass that That's exactly what makes this a solid evidence I had it made to the exactly size Det. Kim, can you give me a hand? Pull it up - What's their problem? - I don't even know what to say Seo Dae-gil. Seo Dae-gil? What is this man? What's the matter? The old man's benefit is wired to Seo's account every month And, he has a squirting history It's him! He's the one Shall I bring him in? Shutsh! Don't look in their direction We'll go quietly and bring him in Who do I know in that neighborhood? Two coffees and one tea, right? Hey, baby! Long time I should have known when you said two egg yokes You can't do this to me again after all these years I'm going to hook you up with a guy He told me to scrub hard while filming me in the shower I wanted to die I practiced driving at the driving school for about 2 hours... I spent a couple of hours talking to a friend at a coffee shop then went to my driving lesson to practice for about an hour To practice for about an hour I spent roughly 2 hours at the driving school and came home They must have really lowered the bar at the police academy Quiet! What's the point of staring at the map? What can he do other than making window frames? Where are you going? You reported a case to us a few months back Please open the door Don't bother me Let me ask you one question Ever been to Yangji Driving School? What about the driving school? I'll explain later You got the wrong person She moved out Ms Choi, I know it's you Get lost! Right now Don't push me! As if the house price hasn't dropped enough already... Are you trying to clean me out? Your only concern is for the house price? This is clearly obstruction of justice How dare you threaten me! What's your name? Give me your names And, which police station? Don't 'what's- your- name' me! I'm Lieut. Hwang from Mapo Station I'm Jo Jun-gu Take it easy! I think there's someone inside I saw the curtain drawing This is the last, right? I don't think she'll be happy to see us She must be so scared that her video might be posted I'll check out the piping - Detective Jo - Yeah? You got your family picture on you? - Family photo? - Yes Of course Here These are my girls ...before the boy arrived You got four kids? Who the fuck? Who is this? Who is this? You really don't know? I'm so mad. I'll just hang up Wait... I just got a new phone So, I don't have your number Where are you? Are you in a billiard room? You're freaking me out, girl Which one? 'Sky? ' 'The Green Field? ' No, 'Cho- won' - Can I bring my friends along? - How many? - Quiet a few of us - More the merrier! Be right over Don't you have a female colleague? Don't call me again Let's see if you've been a good girl I'll totally clean! Look at all these punctures Stop that, darling Good job He must have climbed to Is that even possible? Give me a hand here? One, two... It's not your cup of tea I used to be in climbing club back in college days Rock climbing in the summer Ice wall climbing in winter What's the matter? Why do you stop? I'm climbing It's been so long Alright, I hear you! Now, come back down I said I'm climbing Are you alright? Chief! Chief! I told you... Call 911, chief As a father, I want to make a safe world for my girls. I'd like get this picture back. Seodaemun officer Jeong Dae-gil darling, I brought friends Let's party! I'm a from down south, babe Darling! Sweetheart! I'll kill you if I catch you - Sweetie - What the fuck? Dae-gil darling You're so precious to us I've done nothing wrong Say hello It's really good to finally meet you We brought these from your collection Let me ask some simple questions Who do want in your neighbor? Instead of granny, you want... 'A Girl Next Door' That's right! There's gotta be a girl next door A middle school girl, a high school girl, then what? 'A College Girl' That's what becomes next Third questions, the reason you wanted to study so hard was... - 'My Private Tutor' - Correct! The tutor girl And, lastly... Who do you miss the most when you don't feel well 'The Nurse' That's right It's the nurse, pervert! This is our guy You were so consumed with these movies that you wanted to be the actor? Don't treat me as if I'm a scum What else are you? You're no goddamn human You were so low you stole benefits from a senile old man With embezzlement and theft you already behind bars It's my uncle giving me pocket money - What's your height? - I'm 5' 7" - Without the insole - 5' 4.8" - So, you call yourself Napoleon - Excuse me? Your online ID on the website where you uploaded the footage What are you talking about? What about Napoleon? Oh, he's acting dumb as Napoleon That's the proof. So, shut up! Don't add. Zip it! What's Napoleon's height got to do with me? Napoleon is the old man's garlic wine I heard you have a strong suspect I'm sorry, man. Looks like we got him before you Seo Dae-gil, 38 years old It was supposed to be a joint investigation I'll have the courtesy to mention your name Maybe on the 4th line How kind! But, I'll pass Cause you got not case It seems you got the wrong guy You see this guy doesn't have a driver's license But, our Balbari must have one It's true. I don't have a license Don't know about a driver's license but he has a rapist's license But, he must absolutely have a driver's license What are you talking about? Why don't you figure out yourself - Napoleon is online - What? Napoleon just logged onto the P2P website! Where is he now? It's an internet room called 'Zip' Get the 7- seater now! Get the car! Hurry! Isn't that our car, though? Get the car! Now! - What the heck? - Are you gonna let him slip? Come on. Go! It's a joint effort Step on it! Now! Police! Stop what you're doing! I said stop! Hey, you! Put your hands up What are you doing? It's a triple stake game It's my turn to call I should raise, right? Well... in this case, definitely It's a go Excuse me - Hold it - You there! Stop I said stop! Det. Song, come round to the back - Chief - Set up a barricade at the back All four sides Don't miss an alley This way! Where is he going? They have tangerines already Don't mumble about tangerines Where did he go? Where are you chief? Your current location? I'm stuck Stuck? Where? Turn into the alley I'm stuck between red brick houses Copy that Which redbrick house? Group 2 entered into zone 3 No visual of the suspect - Detective Song! - Chief! Black windbreaker in front of corner shop Wait... wait! We're on our way Chief! Come on, let's go Come on, pick up the phone Mapo boys? What about the suspect? He went that way - Can you help me first? - We'll come back Detective Kim! Shin? You're stuck alright It's a joint investigation! Remember? Easy tiger... Detective Jo! I'm here Come on, man. Hurry! What are you doing? You got talent for getting stuck Look who's talking - Maybe he got away - We'll find him There! Where are you? I'm making an inquiry What about group 2? What? What's the matter? - Help me up - It's looks unstable Since the 911 incident, I've weight- trained Will you be okay? You sure? Follow him up the stairs Detective! Are you okay? I'll call 911 myself Go after him! Now! Fuck! Son of a bitch Kim! Redbrick house at the far end, Go now! Copy that Don't you have respect for your senior? You're talking about honor? You got that insignia by stealing others' cases So, you're an Academy graduate Good for you for your noble background It's that inferior complex that's driving our department apart It seems to be common issue for those who started at the bottom What did you say? Motherfucker Let me go! How long you been in the force? You know nothing! I know alright! Goddamnit! To you, the victims mean nothing but points You deliberately avoid rape cases because it's a low point job We lost him Chief! Told you we're wasting time with this case If we stayed here, we'd have closed at least ten cases Bring up all the phone records from around the internet room and find the ones coincide with the crime scene But, it means thousands of calls One by one, every single one of them Every single one of you are here Myeong- hun, say hello Dad's talking to you This is my boss He graduated from Police Academy You know what that is, don't you? - What's up, big guy? - Brat! How do you feel? They say I have fractures here and there Climbing up the wall, I realized he's not an average Joe Why don't we look into climbing clubs, perhaps? What happened to your face? Oh, this... I'll tell you about it later Now let's look into the driving school Why do you keep going back to that? The map! These red dots indicate all the crime scenes This line is the driving school's shuttle bus route The crime scenes are in the vicinity of the bus route What does that mean? The victims were attending the school when they were attacked This method is called geographical profiling We identify commonalities between the crimes scenes and track back Then, why not bus stops or subways? Kim, brief him about what you found out got their license from this school Bingo! - Let's go - Hey! We apologize for any inconvenience Your cooperation will be appreciated Are there instructors who is overly flirtatious... Or one that followed you home perhaps You can't barge in like this without presenting a warrant Will you take the responsibility if Balbari is not among us? We're sorry. It should take long if only we had a warrant... This is abuse of authority Well, actually what this constitute is... How dare you walk in on us and stir up such a fuss Mr. Kim! They'll have our full cooperation Appreciate it, sir We'll be gone before you know Who's that man? He's the owner of this place He also runs golf practice range, offices and restaurants... He is a known man of means in this area He founded a goodwill foundation to help out the poor Don't you have more recent attendance record for this man? Mr. Jang... he got fired He used to be a constant flirt Doesn't he have a taste! What were you doing there on 2nd and on 8th? I'm the residents' representative We already know that but why make a call? I had a call about boiler repair Before I pay a visit, I call my clients to let them know But the building security deals with you. Why call? Officer, as your jurisdiction is Mapo Mine is also Mapo, okay? Let's talk sense here Happy birthday to you Happy birthday dear Hyeon- suk Happy birthday to you - Congratulations! - Happy birthday, ma'am - Happy birthday... - You! - Oh, sir - You're ever so busy As a civil servant, it's my duty to work hard You won't be doing this for your children too? I'll be there with them for their birthdays For the kids you will but not for my daughter? No, what I meant was... - How do you end this? - I'm on a stakeout, so... Damn it! No cops can be there for family birthdays That's too much. - Chief! - Hmm? It's him... That's Jang Seok- cheol! Where is he headed? That's not his house He knows he's being followed? Jang Seok- cheol! This man pissed on my car This is the men's alright You can't arrest a civilian for pissing What's going on here? Mapo people, we need some order around here I'm innocent What is this place, a chicken pan? I have issues with toilets Sober up, man Public toilets are skanky in this neighborhood Det. Jo, I need to go now I need the toilet Hey! Seodaemun! Can you do this for urinating? I'm wrongfully arrested Somebody give me a hand here Get the drunk out of here Bringing in all sorts of dimwits... This is no playground for drunkards What is that supposed to mean? Who is being unprofessional? Is that why you go sniffing around driving school? - Come on then - What! They taught the drunkard how to drive? Is that it? Watch your mouth What have you got so far? What's wrong? He has a point Sons of bitches! We have an emergency Be quiet! Quiet! We used to do this a lot in the old days It's nice to get together without the insignia In the bathhouse, the insignia is the this How come yours is shrinking by day? You can't tell until you compare it head to head Well, bring it on then! Who's scared? I'm heating up It's hot a bit, Sir. Shall I get you some cold yam juice? That slimy thing? So that he'll slip on his upcoming promotion? How come you're always so negative? Just shut your mouths! Thank to your vomiting and pooping up the mess, I'm left to clean up after your shit! I'm not gonna be held responsible for your screw- up Dismantle the task force and clean up the mess If only one of us must take a fall, you do it No way. I have my boys beneath me - Stop there - What now? What happens in a case like this? This is the first Since when do you talk down to me? I should have done so way sooner We're going for a second round you and I We're not even in the same category How is that so? We're both chiefs Chief! You must be happy You were never interested in catching Balbari anyway Only about points When was it ever a 'joint investigation? ' Why are you giving me this? It's your plaque It wasn't my idea Think you can lend me 5 grand? If not the whole 30? I see Don't worry about it, man Let's get a drink together sometime And, you're 17th to say to have drinks together You're giving me a headache ...showing up only when I'm trying to lend money You Who do you think knows our perp best? Your mom How did you know that? She knows everything Then, after her who knows him best? You! You, you, you! Wrong answer! The answer is Jennifer Jewitt Jennifer Jewitt who got sexually assaulted at the age of 8, made a TV appearance twenty years later "This is not just my problem but She wanted to tell her aggressor that she is the winner So what? Not again! You gotta find that person that know the perp very well I... I... killed a man! You flopped again? You fail your exam You fall off the roof Hey! Don't do it, man My bag! My bag! He really failed the exam? He didn't get time to study thanks to joint investigation It's a pity Captain wants you in his office What for? Get your hands out of your pocket You don't hear me? The patrol unit? A change of scenery will do you good I'm Hwang, the officer of the year! You don't need to remind me Then why should I take the fall? Someone's gotta do it So, instead of the Blue House, you're sending me off to a patrol booth Roof over the head all the same You'll be reinstated in no time Their total asset is 290 bucks What's the point? No burglar will bother with 290 bucks It's good. For a peace of mind - This is for you, Jo - What is it? - It's from my Academy days - I see It's the golden book for criminal litigation I'll get going then This is a good place where 50 pts murder nor 20 pts armed robbery happen If 0.2 pts patrol can prevent crime, isn't it as good as 100 pts? Good luck! One month later Tell me where you live You impolite brat! Hi, officer! Just in time She doesn't say sorry after stealing from me You got no mom and dad to teach you manners? You're glaring at me? Hang on What happened to your face? - Did you do this? - Excuse me? Did you do this to her? Drives me even more crazy! She's the one that stole from me Do you want me to book you on assault? Charge for violence against minor is more severe Gimme that, kid Go! Go! Hey! It's been a month since MIS launched investigation into the serial rape but another rape broke out last night raising fear among public It appears the M.O. Is consistent with 'Mapo Balbari' cases The MIS is yet to publish an official announcement We have in the studio, criminologist Professor Kim Chan- ik with us Good evening, professor The unsub is as fast as fast- legged dog, "Balbari" It's not an acceptable excuse for failing to catch the perpetrator And there is loud criticism about incapability of the police The problem has created a chaos for families Parents rushing to drop and pick up children from schools A special service to cater for both working parents... Hi, Su- yeon! Is your father home? Say hello. He is the chairman of the welfare foundation He wants to hear your story and help you out She looks after her father by herself What happened to your face? Su- yeon! Where have you been? I was so worried Thank you so much, mister Don't lose him again Thank you, sir! What's happen? Chief! It's a squirt case What brings you here? I heard there was an assault case I never reported it to the police Someone else did I came by to check up on it It's nothing. She got caught in a fight with neighborhood kids Didn't you hear me? I said leave! No rape test was carried out But based on laceration around the genital suggests sexual intercourse and, bruises around her wrists is consistent with exertion of force She also has bruises on her face and cuts on the shoulder possibly from broken glass Anyway, it's a squirt case, right? I can bet money on it Watch your goddamn mouth She's only 15! Don't talk about squirts! But, you use that word all the time You have her address? Hanul Goodwill Foundation He's gone Where to, I don't know He is no longer with us Because he got transferred to patrol unit It tears my heart to think about it But, despair no more for we have a new man to fill his place I came up with a new motto to share with all of you - Detective Shin - Yes, sir Above Sneaky Hwang is myself, Detective Song For I will not run but fly Until my ass is set on fire Don't forget this man That there is a high stake on his head Mr. Kang of gambling hall, He's a spitting image of you! Det. Shin, you have the numbers? The time has come that you've been waiting for Attention please 5, And 12 That'll be all What is this? You gotta give us one more number He's even worse than Hwang Hwang's era is gone It's the new ear of Song Chief, you're back! Chief... They don't keep you busy at the patrol unit? You've come a long way touching other's plates I have my own fresh plate Det. Shin! Det. Song! Let's get Balbari No prints, no DNA how are we supposed to catch him? These were your own words You also said this If nothing turns up in 3 days, it's a cold case No time to waste on maths when we got an English test at hand - Thanks, honey. Bye - See you Let's get inside - Mi- hwi! - Daddy! You have grown to be a princess! What brings you here? I missed the kids I'll be excused So- hwi! Try to understand She's at that age Come here Lock up properly You're just the girls Even Balbari doesn't climb up gas pipes in winter You see he's long gone into hibernation... But, Balbari is not a bear It's a dog Where are you? I dropped by the station and you weren't here What? Why did you go there? I'm out at the crime scene You shouldn't show up unexpectedly at my workplace I got our baby first picture It's so cute It looks just like an acorn I wanted to show you first Go home for now I'll drop by later Alright, baby You'll catch all the bad guys so our baby can live in a safe world I'm so proud of you, honey That woman over there asked me to give this to you Sweetheart, I have an emergency I gotta go - Oh, really? - Love you, too I'm sorry I dreaded the thought of reliving the moment I really appreciate your coming here and admire your courage But as you see, I've been transferred to a different department I put you through to the right person How stupid of me! I thought you'd be different Please, ma'am How cute is this? I love you! The M.O. Is consistent And, how he cleans up afterwards and takes the dust bag from the vacuum cleaner It's all fine... but whether or not it's a Balbari case it must be reported first I can't be sure if it's 98 or 99 It's difficult to count as you get close to a hundred Was it me that loved the women or was it the other way round It's like Chuang Tzu's dream, am I a man or a butterfly? So, you're saying you raped Let's start from the beginning Your name? I'm the crazy rape- maniac, Dr. Go! Catch me if you dare! Gu- suk! My darling, Gu- suk! Have you seen Eui- chan around lately? Don't you come near me Mark the numbers, 2 and 18 It's my birth date No wonder you're such a lovely person Did you know your chance of winning a lottery in 1/8165060 You have a far better chance with catching Balbari and win the reward Why did you bring up the subject? How much is it going to be? I mean the down payment for your house You always know what to say to piss me off I'll lend you the money What's with the sudden enthusiasm? We already screwed up A 15 year old was attacked My gut tells me it's Balbari's job but nothing is being done about it No- one gives a damn about a girl from poor neighborhood You know something don't you? Sniffing around my ass now? So you'll take from me and do a runner? I'll scratch your back if you scratch mine Let's open the cards together Okay. On three, then Okay One! Two! Three! You see? I wasn't being a twat Alright, alright! This time for real Okay? One... two, three - Hanul Foundation - Yangji Driving School Why did you obsess about the school from the beginning? taking classes there when they got assaulted What about the charity foundation? Su- yeon was getting help from them Su- yeon? The 15 year old rape victim And, the old man too There has gotta be some connection between the foundation and driving school What are you doing? Detective Jo Police Exam Questions Hi, Chief. This book is really helpful You told me... the owner of the driving school is related to a charity As if you haven't already done enough You're gonna shake up his foundation too? He is not that kind of man I'm just looking out for you Hey, man... It's him They gave you a scooter? This is embarrassing What if we catch him together? Take half credit each? First to cuff the bastard takes him. Deal? Okay. Deal You also run Hanul Goodwill Foundation? Yes, I'm the chairman Do you know a girl called Choi Su- yeon? I found that your foundation is covering her hospital bill Something wrong with that? She is one of the people that we're helping After learning what happened I couldn't turn a blind eye It's not like I made a political donation or illegally paid bribery Thank you for your time The pleasure is mine You got a lot of calluses on your hand I climb rock for hobby Nothing beats it for thrill Rock climbing doesn't give you calluses on the palm because you use the fingers Where were you on the night of Vacuum cleaning in Ahyeon Isn't that right? - What the fuck are you doing? - Hold still - Get this off me - Hold still! You want to lose your badge? You see? You see? Get me sacked if you can What's your name? Lieutenant Jeong Eui- chan from Seodaemun Crazy bastard! I know it's you! What were you thinking? You gotta think before you act What the hell? After what he did that to her, he paid her off as if nothing happened It's him. I know it! What don't we just arrest him? Where is your proof? You saw him pass the frame It's him! It's easy to figure out the perp It's about how we break him You can't be swayed by emotion Don't stand around Let's go! Mr. Prosecutor, did you get home alright? I had fun hanging out with you You're like a brother to me I appreciate your looking into the matter I sincerely apologize for letting you down the other day But I understand now why you came to me It's the owner of the driving school Do you recognize him? I did go to that school but I never saw him there And during the incident, he had a duvet over me I couldn't see his face at all How about any scars or marks on his body? Shall we take a break? No. I'm fine Do you remember his voice? You okay? I thought I could do anything to catch him but to face him in person... You don't need to be afraid Just identify his voice tell us if he is the one You said there were others like me I think I can do it with their help Where the hell are you? On the patrol, sir I got complaints from the prosecutor's office Get you ass over here now And, stop harassing the foundation's chairman Hanul Foundation Benefit He'll be there, right? I know it's very hard for you but we gotta bring him to justice That's the only way your nightmares will end No. You are my nightmare! Leave us alone You didn't see his face but you know his voice We gotta catch him You don't have to face him You just need to identify his voice Identify his voice? It's that voice that... that makes my sister... Sis! I'm home Can you give me a hand? Don't move I'll kill you if you resist You like it, too. Don't you? How can you talk as if it's so easy? 'Just need to identify the voice? ' But, will it stand in court as evidence? What else have we go? The only way to win the case is for the victims to step up Will it be too much to ask the kid? It will be, right? Maybe we're stirring up their old scars Su- yeon, wait! Please, just one minute What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you gonna do with the knife? It's none of your business I need to know what happened to you the other night Nothing happened I'm not here to blame you I'm only trying to help I got beat up by local kids Did my drunk dad tell you that? I said it was nothing! Why won't you leave me alone? Get out! I said get out! What did she say? That didn't go well by the look of your face It's too much to ask of a kid By the way, why are you so obsessed about results I started out as a patrolman It's my only card What chance do I have against Academy graduates like you It's not like the Academy is the golden ticket I've falling off the brand No different from you Will you be okay? What! If this doesn't work out, you may have to leave the force That bastard paid the kid's hospital bills He passes right through the frame What more proof do we need? - He must be the one, right? - Of course! Don't worry. We'll get his ass We gotta do the this Are you going to a press conference? What's with the tie? It's called courtesy You are in your hat again? Don't want to get your hair caught during the chase Where are you? Catching the bad guy, of course - Have you lost your senses? - Sir Get over here in 5 Break a leg if you have to Or you'll never see my daughter again But, I'm on this incredible important case Shit! I totally forgot I was meeting my in- laws tonight Go on. I can catch him with someone else And, let you have the glory? Hi, Hye-jin! A lovely performance by sweet angels Next, we'll see some footage of the foundations work Please enjoy Mr. Kang... made a generous donation toward scholarship Please give him a big hand Good evening It's a great honor to be here It is a tremendous pleasure to see your happy faces Receiving love is a joyous thing but I'm learning that giving love is even more fulfilling I would like to introduce to you... Is that him? It's him, right? Yes Please welcome Choi Su- yeon Despite hardships, she never lost hope and took care of her unwell father while being an exemplary student at school It's a great honor to present this award... It's none of your business what I do this knife Chairman of Hanul Foundation Kang Won- sik It's him? You were going to stab him, right? Kang Won- sil, you're under arrest for serial rape This is ridiculous! Get him off of me Let go of me! - Stop him! - Back off! I'm a cop Let me go! Get off me This is abuse of authority What the heck? It was you, wasn't it? Why did you do that to my wife? Why? I'll kill you, son of a bitch Don't move! If you do, I'll kill you You like it, too. Don't you? I know you're screaming because you like it You said that - Go that way - Okay Take the elevator I'll go up the stairs No. I'll take the stairs It's 7th floor! Go! Hello? Sir! Too busy catching the perp to care about my daughter? No, sir. I won't miss any of them Only that way, she and little acorn can live safely Acorn? Our little baby Small as an acorn but precious little thing Make sure you show up after catching him Yes, sir! Thank you so much Come here, you Come here Drop the knife Back off before I stab Go on, then Go on if dare! Son of a bitch! You, son of a bitch Don't move Motherfucker Why did you do that? Why did you do that, bastard! Tell me! I wasn't the only one... I wasn't the only one that enjoyed it They were secretly loving it, too Fucking son of a bitch! What are you doing? the maximum he'll get He'll be back at it as soon as he walks out I gotta make sure he doesn't use it ever again Calm down, man Drop the knife, man Drop it and calm down You said a cop cannot be swayed by emotion He passed out Sick bastard! Don't do it Stop it, bro Come to your senses! What are you doing? First to cuff takes home the prize This is your cuff So, he's yours What the heck? Wait up! We caught him together You can't just dump him on me? Hey, Mapo! Bro? I caught the perp, sir Now, I'm here to take Hyeon- suk The serial rapist that drove the metropolis into terror was arrested last night Since the um... arrest, over 80 additional cases were reported Task force investigation will be launched to look into the connections Questions? Victims' courageous testimony played big role Serial rapist arrested You have such a sweet tooth This year's Officer of the Year goes to the man who put Balbari behind bars Lieutenant Jeong Eui- chan of Seodaemon Police Station And, Lietenant Hwang Jae- seong who won the highest score with 3,245 pts Two winners were chosen this year Lieut. Jeong, Chief of Major Crimes... What a pity! If only we got Balbari Are you thrilled to have entered my league? Don't you know that high- profile cases have extra premium? Think about who will have better ground for promotion Salute! Captain, to the center a bit more - One - One two... Hey, why don't we take a group picture? Seodaemun, let's do a picture together We're in joint investigation team together When did we ever do that? Let's join for the photo at least That's not your call Let's do it It's his call Love the smiles! Good! One, two... Sneaky Hwang, smile! Come on, Officer of Year Think you're in my league now that you are promoted to a lieutenant? Come on, where is your smile? Now, here we really go One, two, three! Joint! Joint! Yong-san! Youg- san Dong-jak" Can't believe I gotta do this for damn 5 meters Don't come near me I'm serious! I will jump I won't come any closer Can you back off a little instead? Where is he now? Bring me my girlfriend How about a couple of meters further down? Don't come near Dong-jak! Oops! It looks like he's yours now, Dong-jak precinct What is this? Bring me my girlfriend You think my toupee is funny? Your girlfriend lives in Dongjak anyway. I'm going You can talk to them from now on Long time, bro! When did you transfer to Yong- san? What are you doing there? I was transferred here They know you're a sucker for me Cut the crap! Take him away You, stay right there Let's say whoever is closer to him take him Stay where you are Don't come this way Who are you people? Me? - The officer of the year! - The officer of the year!
