 

                        Good day Mam Good day Who is she, Mike? I'm working on it Fiona Birch Alias Fiona Nielson born in London, England, 1978 Wanted for murders in Spain Brazil and United States And here you're gonna like this It says here she was kidnapped from her parents when she was... She was 12 years old Madame M likes to start them young I'm in the lobby. Where to now? Look to your right Take the VIP elevator up to 12th floor He's in 1238 Hey guys What took so long? Nobody sells take away around here. Cappuccino, right? Here you go, Mike Why don't you cut him some slack He's new on the job To be a good agent Jack you need to think fast It shouldn't take you twenty minutes to get a cup of coffee Sorry, sir. Won't happen again So why don't we just arrest her? The point is to let her escape so she brings us to Madame M I like her technique What technique? You know, like Mata Hari She uses her incredible body to either get the secret from the enemy Or... Or what? Or she'd kill you You wanna take your little picnic outside Jack? Sorry, Mike You got something else to eat? Um, no I think I need a sandwich, Jack Now? Yes now Alright Waiter? Can I have 2 croissant sandwiches please? Yes, sir Jill! Oh, shit! Oh, shit! May I join you? You are an amazing fighter Would you like to have this? It's yours if you want it Go ahead and choose whatever you like I can take you to where all the best fighters go You can become one of them Do you want to come with me? Oh shit! October 11th Another girl has been reported missing... ...bringing the total to 40 Their ages are all around 13 years of age Although their nationalities and family backgrounds vary it is interesting to note that each of these girls... ...excels in either martial arts or sport Ever since the Rome incident Madame M and her organization have not resurfaced In the meantime, little girls are disappearing all over the globe Could it be... one female assassin dead... and dozens more being trained to take her place? If that's the case, I'm afraid these girls will be scarred for life... and can never be helped This is your new home And these girls are your sisters I want to go home I want my mommy! For the time being you can think of me as your mommy You are not my mommy You can't tell me what to do Do you really want to go? Yes! I don't like it here and I don't like you! Alright, you can go now Go Girls! I would love to officially welcome you to a brand new world Here every exercise every meal and every class will be with one thing in mind... to create a team of world class fighters Is that clear? Yes, sir! We are two hundred miles away from the nearest island And if you try to run away, you'll be shot Any questions? No sir! Hi! You're the one who came in with me today right? Yeah My name is Charlene, what's yours? Katherine I like the name, Katherine Thank you Everybody, come! Come on! I say we go now tonight, as soon as they turn the lights out There's only one guard in the tower and one on the pier If we can just get to that side of the bay before they see us there's a boat we can use to make our escape We'll have to row, but it's our only chance I've seen that boat, we can't all fit in it I didn't think everyone here has the guts to go Alright. So who's in? Raise your hands if you want to go What are you doing? I want to go with them You won't make it Ready. First ready position! First! Change sides I'm too tired, Katt Don't stop. Keep going, Charlene! Look, it's Ann-Marie, Renee And Susan Come on, keep going! Move your ass. Go! You people are barbaric. Go! Go! Go! Move! Move! Go! Go! Keep going! Come on! Go! Go! Come on, move your ass! Use your legs. Use your arms. Go! Go! Come on go! Attack! The centraI nervous system and the delivery of electric pulses from the brain to the rest of the body depends almost entirely on your skeleton network and in particular the spinal column Remember what I said about detaching the C-5 vertebrate It cuts the nerve cortex instantly paralyzing your victim Death by suffocation normally follows Keep your back straight. Your head still Wiggle your hip. Now stop here And you pose Turn Stop. And turn Today's lesson. Working through pain To be a fighter, to be a killer you must learn how to work with the elements I don't care if you are wet... or if you are freezing Your environment is your friend It's your only friend The water is so nice I was sitting at the bottom of the ocean Katt It was so peaceful Have you ever thought that we would have to kill someone That we don't even know? I don't dare to It's not up to you, this is our fate together We can't run from it I know I can't do it Well... We'll make a lot of money for our lives from it We cannot help to do it Come on, let's go This is not an exercise Today's mission is to kill a group of enemy soldiers They are all armed and ready to attack They will not show any mercy You have to fight for your survival Good luck ladies Let's go! Let's go! Are you alright? Look, we knew from the very beginning what this is all about And eventually we would have to kill We're just an experiment to her That's all. Survival of the fittest Everything we're learning here... is what we're gonna need out there I know that. But today... today just makes me feel worse about everything Forget about today Think about our future That's what I use to do as a kid Then Madame showed up and saved me You were awesome out there hanging upside down from that tree and shit Snap. Man, you should teach me that sometime Here let me help you Hey you're tense. You should relax a bit If there is anything, just ask I can help you Man, did you see me today? That fucker tried to sneak up on me But I was really for that shit It felt so good to kill him Hello? When I first came here I had a boyfriend back home We use to ride our bikes everyday after school My first memory is cleaning up around the boxing ring I tried to stay away from such a lifestyle and finally I chose to fight in the ring You and I are so different, Katt And yet I can't imagine my life without you Listen up. Here is your assignment Kill the nearest girl and bring her body outside Anyone who isn't outside in 2 minutes... will be shot Wait, this is so stupid Why are we killing each other? Because there are ten guys waiting outside with M16s If we refuse there is no way she can kill us all There isn't time for this. We have our orders Congratulations ladies. You are the survivors You show your courage and your strength in every imaginable situation Take a good look around you These girls are not your friends anymore Only one of you will survive tomorrow's exercise Who will that be? Get some sleep, ladies Tomorrow is graduation day for one of you This is bullshit! The whole thing was bullshit from day one! I was wondering when it would come to this Tomorrow is just another exercise That's it Katt, if we have to face each other Promise me you won't hold back Get some rest Today is the day. One of you will earn the right to survive Some of you may feel that I have treated you unfairly In fact, I'm afraid that I might have protected you... too much from the harsh reality of the world outside All of you will soon be given a number Girl number 1 enters the cage first She faces girl number 2 in a fight to death The survivor must then face two more girls number 3 and 4 The winner then faces three more girls Number 5 to 7 But that's not fair! That's right. Life isn't fair You're sending us to our death Maybe, but an assassin knows... the path to your own mortality is only a footstep away What if girl number 1 survives the first three rounds? If she survives, she'll have to fight the last four girls One on four The fighting is over when only one of you remains Behind you is a box containing numbers Choose one and accept your fate I want out of here. I don't want to die! You have no choice All you can choose is your weapon Oh look, we're in the same group! We can be like a team I watch your back, you watch mine It's a win-win situation! From the moment I realized that I was an orphan I knew I didn't have future Charlene, if I die in this cage tonight you have to remember me We will always remember each other Charlene, don't be stupid! She took my number. I'm supposed to go first! There is only one rule inside the cage No matter what method you use to kill your opponent you cannot leave, you cannot surrender You have no friends, no support All you can believe in is yourself Today you fight until you die... or until you are the last survivor It's all very simple, ladies. Live or die Do not disappoint me We've been friends for six years I don't want to kill you Maybe now you understand survival of the fittest... and the need to eliminate the weak Kill her! Kill her! Shut up! Get off me! Charlene, are you alright? Oh my god! You have to win I will for both of us Don't quit on me If we join forces, we'll be invincible Nobody can touch us I am invincible You have no chance! Don't kill her Please Stop! That's it! Bravo, girls! What a terrific performance You have exceeded my expectations I have decided to break my own rules... and keep all three of you I'm glad we can finally sit down and have dinner together Let's do this more often in the future To be honest with you ladies I'm still in shock about the other day It was never my plan to keep three of you But I'm glad that I did Let's have a drink Cheers Jing, taste your wine... and tell me the year and the labeI Petrus, 1971 Katt, your's? Vega Sicilia, 1985 Hmmm. Good Charlene? It's table wine Very good You ladies know your wine In a month you'll leave here with new identities You will be making more than five million dollars a year Soon you'll become three of the most wanted women in this world In five years our contract be over You can stay working for me or you can go free Are you okay? I feel weak. She poisoned us Now. I've only given you... a mild sedative to help you relax After today your body no longer belongs to you It is now your greatest weapon You must be willing... to do anything to please a man no matter how vile Because a man's happiest moment... is also his weakest Okay, let's go This way, this way He's waiting for you Yes more... please more More... Do you know why you are here? To please you You are the most unusual young woman I'm glad you think so I'm sure my cousin thought the same thing... before you killed him Charlene, hurry! This is great, there's no way out! Hurry! Help me block the door! Katt, we are stuck here! There's got to be a way out Don't worry, I'll get us out of here Forget it, it's over! Hurry! Go on. Hurry! No! If this is it, we end it together! I won't leave you. I won't! Charlene listen! I promise we'll see each other outside I promise! I can't lose you... Go! Go! Please. Go! Based on the markings surrounding the fractured vertebra the coroner seems to think that he was killed by a woman One of my first assignments was following a suspect named Madeline Ho a.k.a. Madame M Whoever did this ruptured the central nerve with her bare hands It's been six years since I've seen a body like this Jack, there's something else you should know The coroner found a blood sample on the body which doesn't belong to the victim Run a DNA check and send the results over to missing persons If my hunch is correct, Madame M has decided to come out of her hole Charlene Ching. All these years you've been missing What has happened to you? You must be a different person now But how much have you really changed? Please, goddess Tin Hau bless my only daughter Charlene I hope she has found peace... and joy in this world Back again? How are you? Don't worry, your prayers will be heard Goddess Tin Hau will send her blessing... to you and your daughter I pray. It is Tin Hau's wish... for me to see my daughter again Excuse me Mrs. Ching? Jack Chen, CIA What can I do for you? I came to ask you a few questions about your daughter Did you find her? Please tell me that she's still alive There's been a series of murders throughout Europe We think the killer is a professional assassin DNA tests points to your daughter as the killer That's impossible! How could my daughter have become a killer? Six years ago, forty girls disappeared at about the same time They're all trying to be professional assassins We think Charlene is one of them My God... There's a good chance your daughter may either be in Hong Kong or on her way here If that's the case she may try and contact you I hope I can count on your cooperation You can't imagine the pain a mother feels... when she loses her child I've put all that pain... and guilt behind me I'm sorry to put you through all this But my job is to find a murderer and that's what I intend to do Mr. Chen, even if my daughter is a killer what makes you think I would help you arrest her? Mrs. Ching? I thought I asked you to leave me alone I want to help your daughter But I have to find her first Has she contacted you in the last few days? Jack, first you tell me... my daughter is a professional killer Now, you think I'm hiding her from the law? Please, excuse me Go! Go! If you don't stop following me I will kill you I've been on this case for six years How can I not follow you? That's your problem, Mr. Not mine No, this is your problem Do you recognize her? Do you, Charlene? Let's go! Hurry! I'm arresting you because I want to help you How can you shoot someone in front of your mother? Do you think she actually forgot you? Don't you have any feelings at all? Do you want to live a normal life? I'm afraid you've got the wrong person Charlene is dead Listen Charlene... or whatever you want to call yourself... We're stuck here and it's cold... and to be honest I don't know how much longer I can keep my arm up I knew you wouldn't kill me It's not that I can't. I won't I'm a federal agent. I'm here to arrest you Are you OK? Here Take my coat I've been looking for a lot of girls who disappeared just like yourself Can you tell me... where you've been the past few years? Or who's been running the operation? Forget it... I knew you wouldn't tell me But I'll find out I'll find out by myself. I'll never give up Are you sure you don't want your jacket? You look cold Don't worry about me. I'm not cold I'm a man What? What's so funny? The metabolism of men... runs fifteen percent faster than women So technically, men are more resistant... to the cold than women I don't know about you... but I'm freezing Come here... we stand a better chance If we do like the Eskimos and combine our body heat Come on You're a good guy... you know that? Case 538, day five Despite the lack of cooperation from the local branch my investigation continues to progress I am watching the mother of one of the China Doll assassins Hopefully, I wrap things up before anyone else gets killed For the moment, my only lead is Charlene Ching I believe Charlene was... she said the most amazing thing in that ice-cream truck... she's lucky I gave her my jacket What am I saying? Even if I have to do it on my own I will solve this case Jack Chen, agent 75394 signing out... ...while officially on sick leave in Hong Kong Mommy! Once I'm all grown up... and well trained in martial arts I'll protect you... and beat up all the bad guys Charlene? No! help... Freeze! Don't move! Drop your weapon! Shit! Charlene... Take her and get out of here! Use your gun! I'm here to visit my mom Why would I have a gun? Where's your gun? I dropped it Watch out! Mommy, I'm sorry... I'm sorry I wasn't here to protect you I am the one who is sorry Seeing you alive... God has answered my prayers You're going to be fine There's a hospital nearby I'll carry her She's losing a lot of blood. Put some pressure on the wound Don't tell me what to do Let's just get her to the hospital! Jack... She's trying to find a Jack Chen? That's me Please Jack, don't arrest my daughter I promise you, Mrs. Ching I won't Thank you Even if someday you do have to take me in Jack? Is that your name? That's right I don't lie about my identity like some other people I've known about you for the past six years Charlene Look out! Thanks I'm just confused... I don't know anymore I don't know if I'm here for professional or personal reasons Charity, I think? Goodness of your own heart? Don't worry. Your mom will be fine You really are a good guy What's the matter? The last time you said that you hit me with your gun Here I know you'll be back for her And when you do, I'm going to be here too I know, Jack I know What about the contract? You can't see your mom They'll kill you both Trust me, Katt I know when to give life and I know when to take it I'll make a deal with you Finish this one last job and we'll consider our contract over Besides, you wouldn't want any more harm to come to your mother would you? Alright. I'll take it That's my girl Welcome, Madame allow me to introduce myself My name is Ryuichi You know the terms? As you require, 10% in crisp, unmarked bills There's a traitor within my organization His name is Kenji You know what I want The thing is I would like to watch as he dies If you watch it's more work more money No one changes a deal on me Not now, not ever! Alright! Since you have the balls to ask for more money I know you won't fail Your greed will not allow it Ryuichi is meeting Kenji tonight at a local disco Your Job is to kill Kenji before he escapes I'll be outside waiting in case you need backup Shit! It's a trap! I'll see you in hell... You crossed the line, Madame just for a little money Kenji doesn't even exist! That's what drives all the assassins It's what brings you here tonight! My friend Carlos... was killed by a dancing female assassin Do you have any idea... how lonely I'll get without him? I bring you here because... I want you to suffer as I know he suffered Ladies. Welcome to my nirvana! Run! As for the darts it's just a friendly little aphrodisiac Run! You should already be feeling warm... and happy Hurry! You'll come for your friend! We'll see you at Pier 14 Hello? Who is this? Charlene where are you? Charlene! Charlene! Jack What happened? Charlene! It's me, Jack Are you OK? What's wrong with you? Wait... No! Stop...Stop...Stop What is going on? What's wrong with you? I...I was drugged... some kind of aphrodisiac... We need to calm down. Charlene! Charlene! Charlene! Charlene... Charlene! I'm here to catch Madame M and her China Dolls Not take advantage of a young beautiful girl. Not like this I could arrest her But now... What am I saying? I'm such an idiot! Jack? I just want you to know that actually I'm quite traditional I just want you to know... it's okay Dear Jack, if I could live my life over again I would love to be a normal girl and have a normal life But I accepted my fate a long time ago What I am prevents me from being a responsible daughter So Please, watch over my mother until she gets well Maybe one day... fate will smile upon us and we'll see each other again Charlene Every time just when I can reach out and almost touch you you disappear Help me! Charlene! Help me... Help me... Charlene Help me... Oh Charlene... save me! Oh my God! Katt! ... Katt! Charlene...Charlene...Charlene You've finally come to save me It will be a pleasure to watch... as you and Ryuichi duel to the death Let her go, Ryuichi! I'm the one who killed Carlos, not her! I've finally figured out how to play with my China Dolls It'd be nice if you girls came with instructions, you know? Stop it! Katt! Please... kill me... But we made a promise, Katt! That we would always stay together Our time...is in the next life... Okay, it's time to say goodbye to your friend Bye bye! No! Okay Ten seconds I love you, Charlene... and I will always... be with you. Always... No! No! No! You and I are both driven... by vengeance Let's settle the score... using more primitive weapons You're beat up now You can't even see anymore I'm afraid our little duel is just about over I have one chance left. Will my strength fail me? Focus Focus on one thing... and everything feel the vibrations follow the energy... Visualize the stillness of water and let your heart... become water... I'm leaving tomorrow have to go back to the States Whenever you have time Please come and visit I'd like that You think this is just superstitious nonsense, don't you? No. I was just thinking... the Chinese are so strong in beliefs You know I really never had a religion But somehow... this place makes me feel...peaceful If you like, you can make a wish Perhaps it will come true really? Try it. What have you got to lose? Please let Katt be filled with joy and happiness And let her know that I miss her very much Please make sure that certain someone the guy I told you about... I wish the woman I love is happy and safe And I pray that someday... I'll be able to tell her how much I care for her No. 68 Two with one mind will meet hand in hand playing music and dancing I'm sorry I don't understand Very strange, a woman was here earlier She has the same fortune Was she looking for someone? Yes She said she was looking for... a man she met in a refrigerator Refrigerator? No, ice-cream truck Where is she? She just left Thanks! Call me superstitious but sometimes I think I can feel Charlene's presence It's as if we're heading off in the same orbit If we both stay on this path and don't stray we'll see each other again some day I can only hope that day is sometime very soon
