 

                        rip by warlock ( rock music playing ) How happy is the human soul?  Not enslaved by dull control  Left to dream and roam and play  shed the guilt of former days  Walking on the foggy shore  Watch the waves come rolling home  Through the veil of pale moonlight  My shadow stretches out its hand  And so we lay  We lay in the same grave  Our chemical wedding day  And so we lay  We lay in the same grave  Our chemical wedding day.  ( clock ticking ) ( big band music playing ) Children have you ever met  The bogie man before?  No, of course you haven't  For you're much too good I'm sure  Don't you be afraid of him  If he should visit you  He's a great big coward  so I'll tell you what to do  Hush hush hush  Here comes the bogie man  Don't let him come too close to you  He'll catch you if he can  When the shadows of the evening  Creep across the sky  And your mommy comes upstairs  To sing a lullaby  Tell her that the bogie man  No longer frightens you  Uncle Henry's very kindly  Told you what to do  Hush hush hush  Here comes the bogie man  Don't let him come too close to you  He'll catch you if he can  Just pretend your teddy bear's a dog  Then shout out, "Fetch him, Teddy!"  And he'll hop off like a frog  say "Meow"  Pretend that you're a cat  He'll think you may scratch him...  I can't wait to meet the wickedest man in the world. Alex, you promised to behave yourself. But does that mean I have to be good or bad? Don't play games, Alex. He's powerful and dangerous if you cross him. Here's one way to catch him without fail...  - ( doorbell rings ) - Keep a little salt with you...  Oh, symonds. And put it on his tail.  You know your way up. Oh, take the post up, will you? Come on, symonds, look at this dump. He's the forgotten man of magic. Not so forgotten. He still gets post from followers in America. One born every minute. ( knocks ) Mr. Crowley? "Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law." "Love is the law, Iove under will." ( ticking ) Midday. I did have to speed a bit to be on time. Well done. Time is important. How go the studies? I'm rereading the Bible in light of what you said. It's most interesting. Unfortunately the last remaining source of primeval magic. Who is this? Alex Lepard, sir. I'm at Trinity too. Reading theology like symonds here? No, sir-- science. science? Ah. The new magic. ( laughs ) Excuse me? You're no scientist. You ooze disbelief. A good ritualized fuck will expand your consciousness, not to mention your constricted orifices. so, symonds, what have you got for me? Nothing special-- your newspaper, the post. Ah. Thank you. stupid woman. Ah. Now, symonds... ( coughs ) time is of the essence. I do want to learn. No no no, symonds, that won't do at all. It won't work unless you believe in me right down to your very soul. I do, sir. It's just there's only three weeks and I still don't understand. Ah, yes. Let's begin at the beginning. Put that down! My magical diaries are not for blind eyes. They contain every rite, every sacrament of sexual magic. Thank you. Now... the oldest and most powerful ritual comes to us from Egyptian hieroglyphics. It's tells of the murder and betrayal of Osiris by seth. seth cut the dead body into 15 parts and scattered them over the land of Egypt. Isis found most of the pieces, and using her magic she fused them together in resurrection. But... she was missing the phallus. so... using a reed as a substitute phallus she performed the wedding rite with Osiris... and brought forth a powerful son-- Horus. It's a non-carnal union. A virgin birth. Exactly. Only four magnificent times has this rite been performed-- Joshua with the Magdalene, Abelard with Heloise-- these are the two you know already. Who were the others? On Friday, when you return... alone, we shall begin your initiation. I'm not sure I can afford to come back. Don't worry, symonds. This will... where's the money? Where's the money? What? No. The head of our Californian brethren seems to have fallen under the spell of a writer of science fiction. They invoke my scarlet ritual to produce a moonchild. Moonchild? What are you going to do? I shall invoke such a miraculous illumination... that Jack Parsons will-- ( coughing ) Can I get you anything, sir? No. No. Leave me. I need medication. What the hell is a moonchild? A moonchild is an elemental, a reincarnated soul in a body created by ritual. By sexual magic? It's elemental, my dear symonds. The fellow is a perverted nut. Alex, you're mad. He's traced back nine previous lives. Previous lives? Ko Hsuan, Count Cagliostro, Eliphas Levi-- each one fixed by the wedding rite, what he calls the chemical wedding. Chemical wedding? - ( clattering ) - ( glass shatters ) ( knocks ) Mr. Crowley. Mr. Crowley? Oh my God. Alex, stay with him. ( ticking ) Mr. Crowley. I curse the hand that steals my time. ( groaning ) ( ticking ) - He's dead. - ( thunder crashes ) ticking away the seconds of my life... marking triumphs and failures, Iove and loss and the long painful path to self-knowledge. Then four days ago he came from Cal Tech. Four days that would change the course of our planet. ( bell tolling ) Professor Mathers? - Hi. - Professor Mathers. Thanks for the promotion, but just doctor. - Welcome to Cambridge. - Thank you. - You the welcoming party? - Uh, no. Not exactly. I'm Lia Robinson. I was hoping for an interview. - lnterview? - For "Varsity," the college newspaper. My work just isn't suitable for interviews or magazines. Why not? I've read your "Mysteries of Chaos." It's fascinating. I know I could write a really interesting piece. Okay, you're standing on a moving train and you jump up in the air, - do you land in the same spot? - Yes. Um, no. No, you'd land further back? Lia Robinson. From "Varsity." - You got your interview. - Really? - I should be free by 5:00. - Thanks. 5:00, yes. Oh, was I right? No. ( keyboard clacking ) - ( computer beeps ) - ( door opens ) Ah. This is Victor, our technical wizard. Victor, Joshua Mathers. - How do you do? - Pleasure. How's it coming along? Well, yes, I've begun fitting the electromagnets and vacuum pumps to the floor and ceiling. The porters call it the space coffin. ( stuttering ) I suppose we'd better start. Miss Robinson seems to be later rather than sooner. The comparison between "Julius Caesar" and-- I'm sorry, Dr. Haddo. I had to meet someone and the train was late. ( stuttering ) sit down please, Miss Robinson. Can you illuminate, Mr. Jones? "Julius Caesar," the Mark Antony speech-- "The evil that men do lives on." Meaning? Well, I suppose-- I tend to remember the bad things about people rather than the good. But in the spiritual sense? Miss Robinson? Um, people abused, Iike children abused by devil worshipers, their minds could be permanently scarred so that the evil lives on in them. Devil worship and evil. Perhaps we're in danger of taking certain value judgments for granted. The church may have blackened the name of Lucifer... but who was it who first asked man to take a bite of the apple of knowledge? Was it the serpent? The serpent. Pity you didn't think to take a bite of that apple yourself, Mr. Jones. The Z93 should cope with the problems your integrator's been having. - It's really something, isn't it? - Oh, yes. Its speed comes from a combination of Josephson junctions and these "weak link" macro quantum particles. If it works, then a joint paper, I presume? I shall take the journey if I am to deal with the press and TV. Mind you, if I put my brain paths into the Z93, maybe they'll sack me and have the computer do my lectures. - ( knocks ) - Come in. Ah. Victor, look. Water into wine. Very good. You'll be raising the dead next. Oh, you've moved. Yes, I'm really rather pleased-- Oh. Um... Well, it's in. The computer? Aleister Crowley transferred to binary. His rituals reenacted from Montevideo to Madras. Would they be able to trace a virus to the Z93? No, not the way I'm working it, with an external key. Who would want to open it? Well, sexual magic. You see, that's what he recognized. The one way to our primitive emotions-- sex. When we perform Crowley's rites, then you see union. The ceremonies without him are useless. Oh, you have no understanding of ritual. Look, the Z93 works in a field of quantum physics and quantum physics is the modern alchemy, but alchemy at a sub-particle level. Your Z93 can't experience fear or hatred or passion. What are you expecting it to do, cast spells? Cast spells. Yes. Yes. That's exactly what I intend it to do. ( pulsating ) ( knocking ) ( knocking continues ) ( sighs ) Man: so your front-page scoop on the visiting chaos professor hasn't materialized? - I'll get it. - Man: But we won't hold our breath. What about the Masonic story? I've got a few names, but I can't figure out how far it goes in the university hierarchy. Not ready then. Any ideas? Did you see that Prince William is going to st. Andrews? Is that news? We could try and find out if Prince William was circumcised. Circumcised? Well, Prince Charles was circumcised by the chief rabbi. It's part of the ancient rites of all British kings. Rick, I'll tell you what: Write the first part of your investigation into Masonry as if the big revelation will be in the next issue. That should stir something up. Brethren... assist me to open the preceptory. Is the lodge properly tiled? Eminent preceptor, the lodge is properly tiled. ( bangs ) I then call upon the chaplain. Knights, it is time to commence our labors. set a watch before my lips. All: so mote it be. Registrar. Bring forth the novitiate. "Thou shall take a solemn obligation to keep inviolate the secrets of this order or else thy tongue will be torn from its roots." ( bell tolling ) Haddo. Haddo. I need to talk to you. I'll catch you in a minute. Okay. symonds's voice: That was the last time I know I saw Haddo alive. You want human contact? The link between the Z93 and the soul? There it is. And I'll really be able to experience him? Are you scared? What are you afraid of? An encounter with him or with your secret self? Relax, Haddo. What-- what are you doing here? This is a restricted zone. - Is that Dr. Mathers? - No, he went back to his hotel. - I've been there. - Haddo: Victor, hurry up. Can you tell him if you see him that Lia Robinson from "Varsity" was looking for him about the interview? Yes. Yes, I can tell him. And shut the door on your way out. Haddo: Victor, I'm getting claustrophobic. Relax. suit activated. Electromagnets on. Here we go. ( electricity crackling ) Haddo: Victor! ( electronic hum ) ( bell tolling ) ( knocks on glass ) - Dr. Mathers. - Lia Robinson... from "Varsity." Yes. Weird, I thought I dreamt you. You said 5:00, but you didn't say where. I'm sorry. I'm jet-lagged. Look, there's no one here, so why don't you just fire some questions off? Great. so why did you come to Cambridge? Well, we were having some problems with the machine back in California and here, the Z93 is-- sorry, excuse me. Have you got it working? Uh, yeah yeah. I wired it up last night. Okay. Have you tried it out yet? No, I haven't actually tried it out. I'll go and fire up the Z93. Mathers: It was personal, actually. I watched my father succumb to Alzheimer's. And I thought that if I could somehow save his memories... ( dialing ) ( phone ringing ) Oh, where the fuck are you, Haddo? Mathers: ...that reality is light; That matter and time don't exist. They're just byproducts of the degradation of light, the slowing down of light. so you don't believe in time? Well, chaps, are we all set? Yeah, Victor is just wiring us up. You can't go in that suit, I'm afraid. Why not? I'm having some problems with the... time-date sequence. Can I help? Give me the morning to work on it. Thank you. And who might you be? - she's a reporter. - Lia Robinson. I was hoping to interview Dr. Mathers. Press are not allowed on campus without authorization. I'm from "Varsity." What faculty are you? Who's your tutor? Classics, Dr. Haddo. Look, we've got to get back to work, I'm afraid. - Lia: It was just getting interesting. - Mathers: I know. I'm sorry. Are scientists superstitious? A few. Why? This interview is beginning to feel cursed. I hope not. Hope? Forget it. Just give me the probability. Very probable. With how much uncertainty? Only what can't be ruled out in the Copenhagen interpretation. Oh, that means I can't calculate my position at any moment-- the where or the when. You did your homework. I'm impressed. Okay. I'll be at the bursar's office later, and maybe we could have dinner. Maybe I'll get better service with you at my table. - I'll be there. - Great. But that was British service-- it won't get any better with me by your side. Well, at least the wait will be a little more enjoyable. Did you just say that Dr. Haddo was your tutor? - Have you seen him today? - No, but he's giving the Modern Classics lecture this afternoon. Oh, Christ. Haddo? Where the hell did you get a move like that? Normally he's so punctual. Fuck him. He's coming. This year's Modern Classics lecture will be given by Dr. Oliver Haddo, who will be discussing the psychology of "Hamlet." Hallelujah, hallelujah  Hallelujah, hallelujah  Hallelujah.  ( without stutter ) William shakespeare was an occultist. His characters Titania and Oberon are veiled facsimiles of the ancient Egyptian gods Isis and Osiris. Moreover, Hamlet is not and never was a man of indecision. On the contrary, he is a man moved to action by a spiritual encounter with a ghost. Academia's attempts to prove otherwise confirm that they are mere boils - on the Bard's asshole. - ( students laugh ) For enlightenment, we must look to the works of England's greatest living poet-- Aleister Crowley. ( whispers ) Living? "To pee or not to pee: that is the question: Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer The slings and arrows of outrageous stricture, Or take arms against a closed urethra And by abscission, end it? To fuck: to come: No more; And, by that come, To say we end The cockstand and the thousand natural lusts That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation Devoutly to be wished. To fuck: To come; To come, perchance to clap! Ay, there's rub. There's the chordee That makes calamity of so wet dreams! There the jerks And drops of piss." ( women screaming ) ( playing classical music ) ( whispering ) "England's greatest living poet Aleister Crowley." - Is he crazy? - I like the haircut, though. - Who is Aleister Crowley? - Was. He died years ago. He was a 1920s occultist. He's one of the characters on the front of the sergeant Pepper album. He scandalized the world by practicing an A to Z of ritual fetishes. You know he was here at Cambridge. I just we'd had a camera. What a front page it would have made. shall I write it all up? Yeah, one of Crowley's books is in the library. Hold on. The university is gonna clamp down on this big time. They can't stop us printing what happened. If he's ill or having a breakdown, it would appear totally callous. Well, Lia can get an interview. she could, being teacher's pet and all that. Teacher's pet? Are you joking? ( mimicking stutter ) Oh, come now, Miss Robinson, surely you've noticed the way he looks at you. ( all laughing ) ( ticking ) He's late. - ( door opens ) - ( wind blowing ) Bother. "Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law." sit down, please. Perhaps you could start by explaining your behavior at the lecture. In 10 years' time, that is the only lecture that those students will ever remember. That's hardly an explanation, Dr. Haddo. Haddo resides in the abyss. You are now addressing the reincarnation of Ko Hsuan, Count Cagliostro, Eliphas Levi. You may refer to me as the Beast. Delusional behavior may impress the undergraduates, but it's hardly an explanation, - Dr. Haddo. - ldiot! I've already told you Haddo is in the abyss! And save the Masonic signals, Professor Brent, for the promotion boards. I am, I must admit, a little unclear of your identity. I suggest we suspend your classes until you've had time to visit a good doctor. But I'm in excellent health. And as it says in satan's book, in three days my resurrection will be complete. I see no reason to blaspheme a book you clearly know nothing about. Oh, really? Open it anywhere you like. I do not intend to get involved-- No no, please. Open it. A reading will do nothing but good. Genesis, 6:4. "ln those days the sons of God came into the daughters of men and they bore them children." Am I right? Does it say "sons of God"? Plural? Yes, it does. Next? Numbers, 31 :7. "They warred with the Midianites as they had been commanded by the Lord; They burnt the cities and they killed the men. They brought their captives to Moses. He said, 'Have you left alive all the women? Even those who tempted the lsraelites to transgress the Lord? Therefore kill every male among the little ones and every woman who has known a man intimately. And keep for yourselves the young girls who have not known a man intimately."' These are Old Testament interprets. Let us see the words of our Lord in the Gospel. Haddo: Are you sure? Mark, 14:51-- it's the homosexual rituals in Gethsemane. "Now a certain young man followed Jesus and he wore only a linen cloth over his naked body. And the men laid hands on him, and he left the linen cloth and ran from them naked." That's enough of the amateur magic. Amateur?! I shall return in three days and then you will be as ants beneath my feet. You will not succeed in threatening this university, Dr. Haddo. Not a threat, a promise. That watch of mine still keeping good time, symonds? - What? - Oh, it's all right. It's not your fault. It was that thieving young friend of yours-- Alex. ( door opens, closes ) What the hell was that about, symonds? I've no idea. But I've only ever encountered one man who knew the Bible like that. ( bell tolling ) Dr. Haddo. I'd just like a comment for "Varsity." The new age has dawned, the Aeon of Horus. "Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law." Did the board suspend you? Them? Those cockless wonders hiding in their darkened bedrooms to perform the rite of magical impregnation? You're not advocating sex in public, surely? Miss Robinson, you're forgetting your "Midsummer Night's Dream." Puck, Robin Goodfellow-- the ancient's spring fertility rite of dancing around the phallic Maypole was followed by a sexual romp. Offspring of that caper were known as Robin's son. so a very great ancestor of yours in some past time performed a most public sexual rite. Um, in the lecture you quoted Aleister Crowley as England's greatest living poet. Without question. Isn't he dead? Death is but a short sleep to eternity. Meaning he's not dead? Do you believe in the resurrection of Jesus the Nazarene? Nazarene? Nazarene is a mystic who does not cut his hair. sampson was a Nazarene. And speaking of hair, you have the wonderful red hair of the Magdalene. Perhaps your chance of immortality will come sooner rather than later. Ah. Here's the man you should interview. The man with the Lazarus touch. Wonderful machine, Dr. Mathers. Have we met? Only on the astral plane. Born in Pasadena, schooled in Westcliff High, first girlfriend susan, yes? You two should get on very well together. His mother was a redhead-- of course you're an orphan. He never met his magnificent mother. Who is that? Dr. Haddo-- my classics tutor. Is your mother a redhead? I don't know. I was adopted. Have you been researching me? No, it's nothing I did. something to do with him. Aleister Crowley. He's dead. Not according to Dr. Haddo. ( ticking ) Oh, I didn't hear you. Listen to this. "The universe is full of obscure and subtle manifestations of energy." ( through voice box ) Why are you reading his books? Well, I just never noticed it before. He's come back, hasn't he? ( switch clicking ) Hail the conquering hero. Haddo. How the hell did you get in here? The lock does not exist that can stop the Beast. Another one of your tricks? Oh, Victor, ye of little faith. Hiding away, wanking over your paltry pictures. Why do you not take my laws seriously? Your laws? "Do what thou wilt." "Love is the law, Iove under will." Who is it you think you are? Victor, who is it you think I am? You are Oliver Haddo. H-A-D-D-O. Haddo. Oh, Victor, would you deny me thrice before the cock grows? Oh, God, what-- what have you done? Don't stutter so, Victor dear. Don't worry. I come not to bury Victor but to praise him. Oh, Jesus. Another one of your stupid tricks. - Mathers: What do you think? - It's really weird. Aleister Crowley was born in the same year Eliphas Levi died and he claimed to be his reincarnation. Levi wrote, "An elder from the line of David would impregnate a young girl to preserve the bloodline." I meant the menu. What? Oh, God. I'm so sorry. You must think I'm-- No no no, not at all. It's just that this will make a great article. "Resurrected lecturer reveals hidden truths about"-- A visiting physicist? What hidden truths do you have? Born in Pasadena, schooled at Westcliff High, researching at Cal Tech, first girlfriend susan, mother redhead... maybe. He really shook you, didn't he? Yeah. I mean, some random professor announces that he knows who my birthmother is? Well, maybe he just read it somewhere. Where? I don't even know who she is. And susan was my first girlfriend... when I was nine. ( sighs ) - Are you ready to order? - Mmm. Wait a minute, you're from Cal Tech. The founder of Cal Tech was a propulsion chemist and the head of the Crowley organization in America. Jack Parsons, and...? They're both Crowley fans. Maybe Haddo knows him and got the information from him. He'd need a medium. Parsons blew himself up in our lab years ago. Well, how did he do it then? Magical meeting on the astral plane. Come on, scientists don't believe in magic. You've got to believe in cause and effect. Really? What about the uncertainty principle? What about it? The implications are in my equations. Chaos. Exactly-- the inability to link cause and effect. The unexpected. You've got it. To the unexpected. Long may it surprise us. I can't bear to think of you perverting your natural urges, the power of your sexual magic. see how the flame burns through her just as your red-hot passion calls forth... the whore of Babylon. The mother of abomination. she hath defiled herself to suck dry its mysteries. How did you...? Touch her. Caress her. Come, O serpent of passion, grasp the moment now. O great whore of Babylon, Iet us gaze upon the cavern where lies Choronzon. In man rages. ( Victor moaning ) Let your fingers draw open the chasm of creation. Call her. Name her. Jesus! Kundalini! The serpent strikes! ( moans ) suck him. Oh God. ( moaning ) Who rewards you, Victor? What's my name? What's my name, Victor? - What's my name, Victor? - Oh, Crowley! Oh, Crowley! Crowley! On him, whore. Take him through to the abyss. And now... the final journey. ( screaming ) ( bell tolling ) Hi. still jet-lagged? No. Just thinking about an equation that came to me at the station. When the car pulled away, I looked back and I thought about your light chasing us. - My light? - Yeah, and-- why are we whispering? Rose might hear us. - Who's Rose? - My flatmate. Will she mind? "Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the law." - What? - It's what Crowley said. The late magician. Not so late, according to Haddo. speaking of late, what time is it? - 9:00 - You're kidding. - ( laughs ) - What? I didn't think you believed in time. ( rock music playing ) How was he, your Mr. Wonderful? I hope you didn't commit the cardinal sin on a first date, young lady. Rose, this is Josh Mathers. - Oh. - How do you do? Hi. Thank you. I'm going to go and die now. Oh my goodness. Oh! What happened there? Oh, I fell. sometimes it's hard to keep your balance in Cyberia. Russia? No, the environment on the other side of the computer screen. Brent: Oh, Cyberia as in cybernetics. Of course. ( laughing ) Dr. symonds, this is how I found it. ( groans ) Crowley's holy God. And he claims Aleister Crowley's not dead. Not dead? Okay, I'll dig out a picture of Haddo from the prospectus. You see if you can get a picture of Crowley. I'll try the library. Is there any way of getting one of Haddo with his head shaved? Great, it's working. It's flying. Okay, Professor. Victor is going to fire off the coordinates. - What's that? - Oh, you'll want to see him. What's going on? It's pitch black, you know. Uh, just a slight technical hitch. We did it together-- you and me. What is the matter with you? Oh, sorry. sorry. We're just very excited. Oh, go on. Go on. You fired up? - ( computer beeps ) - All fired up. Okay, Professor, welcome to Cyberia. You're on the 50th floor of the Wi-Fung Corporation building. Brent: My goodness. I'm going to activate the squids now. Look in the mirror behind you. But I'm not in the suit. No, because you're not really there. The Z93 is regenerating your thoughts. Now let's see if your computer can take itself seriously. "Do what thou will." Professor Brent, introduce yourself. Hello, I'm Professor Brent. Hello, Professor. My name is Mei Ling. Pretty damn good. We're getting a lot of information back from you. - How are you feeling? - How is it for you? Brent: Perfectly natural. I'm pleased. Would you like to come this way? - Brent: What do I do? - Follow her. Ask her if she does blowjobs. Damn it, there's supposed to be a corridor in that space. - Why isn't the Z93 generating it? - ( alarm beeping ) No, don't go in that space. There's no information for it. Enter and kneel before the eminent preceptor. Brent: Close the door of my lips. What's that? Professor Brent, are you all right? We meet again in the kingdom of the Beast. ( screaming ) ( yells ) ( screaming ) ( alarm beeping ) Disengage the suit. I'll do the electromagnets. ( flatline beep ) "Every man and woman is a star." I always say, Mr. Crowley, there's a little bit of good and evil in every one of us. Rene, you are a philosopher. Now you should be more careful with this in the future. Only minor bruises. No lasting damage. Let's hope so. so it's a redheaded girl you want for tonight? I have one in mind. Let me see what I can do. so be it. Good afternoon, ladies. Up the west end, that's the best end  Where the nightclubs thrive  Down into a dive you go  There's a jazz queen, she's a has-been  Has been Lord knows what  Every night she's there on show  she dances underneath her magic spell  she's full of charm and beer and stout as well  she's 66 but looks 16  Her friends don't know her, now her face is clean  Fanlight Fanny, the frowsy nightclub queen  see her glide around the floor  Then glide around into the pub next door  Fanlight Fanny, the frowsy nightclub queen  she looks well in the lime, a queen all the time  You get your money's worth  By day, you'd say  It's her second time on earth.  - Dr. Haddo. - The Earl of Boleskine. I haven't prepared anything for tonight. What have you done to your hair? And who is this charming young lady? This is my sister stella. she's helping out. Not that much help. My back's bad. How very fortunate. I happen to know an ancient ritual which redirects the body's chi to the spine. Never fails. Dr. Haddo is very clever. ( laughs ) Dean: But until you figure it out, no one is to go into that suit, understand? That suit is a danger. Look, I understand. It's just-- it's not real. It's an illusion. Dean: Well, whatever it is, it's caused a serious injury here. Who was in that suit last? I was, at Cal Tech. so this was the first time it was linked with our computer? - Uh, l-- - Yes, Doctor? Well, it seems that traumatic shock initiated a heart attack. Dean: Well, is he going to be all right? The heart will recover, but... the brain appears frozen. something seems to have caused a complete shutdown of the senses. ( bell jingling ) Her back is cured. That's amazing. Now for the ceremony. We shall be performing the Pentecostal Eucharist. - Not the-- - Only 12 initiates will be admitted. There are some important items that I need-- some of them quite expensive. - Yes. - I shall also require the key to the upstairs room. Neither you nor anyone else will enter without my permission. Do you understand? ( bell jingles ) - Hey. - Hi. - Where's Victor? - He just grabbed his coat and went. - What's going on? - There's been an accident. There's something seriously wrong with the program. It's generating a tremendous amount of information. Information? Is that bad? No. Yes. What are you doing here? Nothing. I-- look at this. - You didn't write this, did you? - I wouldn't write in your books. It's not my book, I just-- it doesn't matter. I just don't understand why it's veering off like this. It was working perfectly fine when I was last in the suit. Well, you weren't the last person in the suit. Yeah, I was, at Cal Tech. No, Victor had someone in it the other night. Victor's out of his mind. Out of his mind he may be, but he had someone in that suit... and I know who it was. - It was Dr. Haddo. - Dr. Haddo? I'd recognize that stutter anywhere. What stutter? - The astral plane. - What? The astral plane-- that's where he got the information about you-- when he was in the suit-- from the computer. Dean: so, for some mad reason, you think Dr. Haddo believes himself to be the reincarnation of Aleister Crowley? Yes. What do you make of that, symonds? Didn't he mumble something about being the reincarnation of Count Cagliostro? Count Cagliostro, Ko Hsuan, Eliphas Levi-- exactly the same people that Crowley claimed to be in his previous lives. I'm surprised he doesn't think he's Napoleon and George lll as well. You know what Oscar Wilde said about him: "Aleister Crowley is a madman who thinks he's Aleister Crowley." I don't see how any of this excuses or justifies what has happened to Professor Brent. Dr. Haddo was in the suit before Professor Brent. - In the suit? - Yes. see, I believe Victor somehow introduced information in from the Z93. Information? What sort of information? My guess is, amongst other things, energy coordinates that specifically relate to Crowley. Fanlight Fanny, the frowsy nightclub queen.  Mr. Crowley, my name is Ruby. Rene sent me from the massage parlor. I've got a wedding dress and a white veil. step this way. You look like the fairy off the top of a Christmas tree. More than 12 days late. Not at all. You know what those 12 days are? Looking to take the decorations down? Jesus Christ was born on January the 6th. December the 25th was the old Pagan winter solstice. They were sun worshippers, you see. It was the Emperor Constantine who pushed Christmas back to December the 25th. so all those Christian simpletons are really worshipping the sun. I'm not a simpleton. stand here. - ( cloth tears ) - ( gasps ) Redhead, my ass. This your idea? No, it was Rene's. "What fools these mortals be." - ( rips ) - ( groans ) ( gasps ) He thinks I'm crazy. He won't believe that Haddo could be programmed by a computer. Well, why don't you get ahold of Haddo? Or better still, Victor? The bursar will have his address. Victor... what's his name? Newman. I wonder if I could have a word with you? It's okay, I'll get Victor's address from the bursar's office. - see you later. - Okay. Look, I may not know much about computers, but I know a hell of a lot about Aleister Crowley. Vile locks of deception. Oh! Offending filaments, thy time has come. - ( razor scraping ) - It's starting to tickle now. What a fool I was to trust such vermin. Oh, scarlet woman, I wasted time. "And now doth time waste me." - ( scrapes ) - ( gasps ) It must have taken years to input all this stuff. But it's just information, it's not a program. Victor has got to have an external key. Did that mean anything to you? Hmm, yes, it's all obvious occult imagery. How do you know so much about this stuff? I met Crowley. - The original? - Mmm. I was a student. He was an old man. He was quite a showman, but underneath he had access to some extraordinary knowledge. Have you seen this? Rites of Eleusis. It's tonight. What's this? - Victor Newman? - Yes. - I have a few questions for "Varsity." - What? The other night you had Haddo in the suit. Whatever you did affected Dr. Brent, didn't it? - The ghost in the machine. - Where's Haddo now? - Haddo's been possessed... - Possessed? ...by the greatest spiritual leader of modern times. Aleister Crowley. The Aeon of Horus, his second coming. In Haddo's body? The ultimate transplant. That's just not possible. Then tonight the chosen Where? How? E equals MC-squared. What's that supposed to mean? Reverse it, what do you get? Mass times the speed of light squared equals energy. The creation of matter from thin air. You don't believe that. Victor: Einstein did. ( hammer pounding ) Coming. ( keys jingling ) ( screaming ) Hey, how come he's allowed in? sorry, strictest instructions. He's one of the 12. But I've come all the way from Glastonbury. Oh, Mathers, oh, I'm glad you came. You can be a witness. It'll change your life. No one's supposed to go in. Crowley, I've got it. - Did he say Crowley? - Yes, I think so. ( thunder crashing ) sip the wine which represents the holy blood. sip the wine which represents the holy blood. sip the wine which represents the holy blood. sip the wine which represents the holy blood. sip the wine which represents the holy blood. ( glass shatters ) ( heart thumping loudly ) ( door opens ) Crowley: Let the Holy Ghost descend. Aren't we staying? The 12 apostles will announce my resurrection. We must prepare for the scarlet bride. Woman: Aleister Crowley alive! It was the Beast! ( laughing ) ( bell jingles ) ( women crying ) ( car honks ) - ( rock music playing on radio ) - Do you want to take a drive with me and check out my sounds? Can you spare some change? Bastard! Your time will come! Your time will come...  Time! Time! - Your time will come...  - I'll give you time! No, master! You'll kill him! Your time will come  ( mutters ) Your time will come  Whoa whoa  Whoa whoa  Whoa whoa.  Are you all right? ( woman crying ) ( people moaning ) ( screams ) It's the Beast! The Beast! - ( glass shatters ) - ( woman screams ) ( timer clicks, ticking ) ( doorbell rings ) Can I help you? I thought this was the residence of Lia with the red hair. - she's out. - How very unfortunate. Maybe Victor and I can go for a last one at The Green Man, or perhaps this charming young lady might be prevailed upon to allow us to wait. There's a chance she might not be back. - she's with a friend. - Ahh. Well, give her this. Tell her Mr. Crowley called. - ( woman crying ) - Just take a seat. - You have to believe us. - I saw it! He was there! Aleister Crowley alive! He was the Beast! That's right. Very good. And now the bra. It's so warm on the beach. You should enjoy the sun. Take your skirt off. Don't you agree, my dear? Yes. What a very pleasant figure the young lady has, eh, Victor? You must free yourself of your restrictive knickers. Am I allowed? Of course you are. Clothes are such a burden. Here, take this as a present. I want you to lie on that couch. And now... Dr. Victor will give you a thorough examination. I want to show you something. - Hmm? - symonds gave it to me. It's a letter Crowley wrote to Parsons in 1947. Look at the handwriting. - It's identical. - Yeah. And this book was published less than five years ago. Who are you saying wrote this? - Crowley. - You don't believe that. Why not? There's no scientific principle that says it's impossible. We transfer memory from one computer to the next. - Why not human memories? - But you can't think-- What, reincarnation? Basic tenet of several religions. so are delusions of grandeur. Look, I'll confront Haddo with it tomorrow. No no no no. symonds told me that Crowley could always spot a weakness and learn how to exploit it. Are you saying I'm not perfect? No. Just promise me you won't go. ( bell tolling ) ( keyboard clacking ) she's thinking of me. Get up! Let's go home. What? she's thinking of me. What time is it? Time?! Time, you imbecile?! "The innocent and the beautiful have no enemy but time"! We have work to do. she awaits my call. What's this? Can't sleep? I've got a new front page. Your story's already front page. Everything's changed. Don't worry, I've laid it out. Let's have a look. - How are you all? - shh. ( whispers ) I'm sorry I spoke. "Pale or purple, veiled or voluptuous, thou who art all the pleasure of the innermost sense desire you." Now the spell to bring her to me. Hand me my stick. ( thunder crashes ) Get my stick. You damn fool. My scarlet woman awaits. strike. ( grunting ) Harder. Harder! Now read. "Put on the wings and arouse the coiled splendor within you: - Come! Come unto me!" - "Come! Come unto me!" Come! Come! Come! Come! ( fax machine rings ) It's for you. Oh, God! There's something wrong with this machine. It's leaking ink or solvent or something. ( phone ringing ) Hey, where the hell are you going? You said you wanted a photo of Crowley, didn't you? Crowley? Crowley? It's Haddo. ( computer beeping ) - ( phone rings ) - "Varsity." Lia? she just left. No, she never said. ( doorbell ringing ) ( ringing continues ) Ah. Mathers. ( ringing stops ) I thought you were going to bring the girl with you. I can't find her anywhere. - ( whispers ) shit. - What? Well... it's her hair. Mathers: Her hair? ( door creaking ) - symonds: Do you see that Rafael? - Mathers: Yes. - And that Bellini? - Mm-hmm. Ah. And that one there? All paintings of the Magdelene. Painted centuries apart. But do you notice how something similar? Perhaps it's more obvious in that Rosetti. They all have red hair. The occult power of the scarlet woman was something Crowley always emphasized. Crowley: Behold the place where I have led you. Mate in one. I mean is Haddo playing a role, or is he actually Aleister Crowley? How could we tell? Being possessed by the spirit of Aleister Crowley, he wouldn't appear any different than actually being Aleister Crowley. ( through voice box ) That's nonsense, symonds. sorry, did we startle you? I'd like you to meet a friend. Alex, this is Dr. Mathers. Alex is in the same field as you-- theoretical physics. Pleased to meet you, Mathers. And you, sir. Remember I told you, Alex was with me when Crowley died. He cursed me. We can't say that for sure, Alex. ( thunder crashing ) ( Crowley whispering ) ( footsteps approaching ) Well, she was at the college newspaper earlier, Ieft a little while ago. since then nobody's seen her. Jack Parsons. Excuse me? Jack Parsons. Alex has a theory that you carried something from Cal Tech. As Crowley was dying, Jack Parsons and Ron Hubbard were performing Crowley's ritual to produce an elemental. A moonchild. Crowley was furious. At such a time when all conditions combine-- do you believe in destiny? Excuse me, I need to use your phone. Oh, I'm sorry. Here we are theorizing. Yes, of course. Help yourself. It's over there. ( phone rings ) - Hello? - Who's that? This is Dr. Mathers. I'm with the faculty. How? Okay. What is it? Lia? There's been an accident. Wait, I'll drive you. I'm sorry, sir, but you can't enter. - Are you Dr. Mathers? - Yes, I am. "l will open my mouth in parables. I will utter things which have been kept secret from the foundation of the world." secrets. You see, Victor? Now Romans, 16:25. Huh. "Now to him that is of the power, according to the revelations of the mystery which has been kept secret since the world began." The ceremony will begin at 9:00. Nine, the number of life and death. Very good, Victor. You will be the only witness to secrets hidden from history since the sphinx aligned with Leo Got my altar knife? Now we shall embark on the greatest occult event of history. Will you walk or shall I get the car? We'll walk, - but let us make haste. - ( thunder rumbling ) I feel a storm coming on. Police think it was a suicide. should I have told them? What, go to the police about a dream? Am I being crazy? Take a look at that and tell me I'm being crazy. "Massage Parlor Atrocity. Police search for a Mr. Crowley after gruesome crucifixion." Haddo. Do you know where he lives? Yes, I do. ( doorbell rings ) ( glass shatters ) she has been here. she's in serious trouble, isn't she? I wonder where they might be. - Have you seen this? - ( ticking ) "Thou shalt conquer space, And lastly climb the walls of time, And take the golden path the great do tread." What is that? Crowley wrote it. - He's scared. - What's he scared of? Time. If he's not fixed in this time, he'll need to perform the chemical wedding. What is that, some kind of ritual or something? I mean, where does he do this? I'm not sure, but there's one person who might know. The curious cat comes willingly. ( door slams ) - Ow! Fuck! - I'm sorry. ( gasps ) Down down into a deep deep sleep. You'll hear nothing but my voice. Do you understand? Yes. What did you see in the suit? We are forbidden to speak. Who forbids you to speak? Haddo? - No. - Was it Crowley? He can't hear you. He can only hear my voice. Was it Aleister Crowley? ( gibbers ) Closes the door of my lips. Look, Haddo knew everything about me from the suit. He must know what's going on. What do you need for the chemical wedding? The relics of Joseph of Arimathea. A knife, a cup to catch the holy blood and a reed. Ask him where it's performed. Professor Brent, where is this ceremony performed? Notre Dame. Paris? He's taken her to Paris? No no no no. Crowley told me that's where it last took place with Abelard and Heloise. Okay, well, the knife, the cup to catch the blood-- what's the reed for? A substitute phallus to perform a non-carnal union-- a virgin birth. she's not going to participate in that. she just has to arrive willingly, and then-- Professor, where did you see Crowley? He can't hear you. Hold on, I'll hand him over. The next voice you hear will be Dr. Mathers. You will answer his questions. Professor, where did you see Aleister Crowley? High throned between-- no! No. What was through the door? Was it the ho tekton? The blackness! - ( crying ) - I'm sorry. I can't have you upsetting a patient like this. Now bring him back. Brother Omnia Vincarn, you're watching me like a hungry dog. I've had the meal. Would you like the scraps? "By the pricking of my thumbs, something wicked this way comes." "'Tis now the very witching time of night, When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood..." But before we start, Victor-- get that fucking watch off! And be a good chap and make sure that she isn't wearing one. Time, after all, is only... relative. What did you say to Brent? Hoticon, or something? No, ho tekton. It's the Greek rendition of the semitic word "naggar." The Bible mistranslates it as "carpenter." The actual translation of the word is the Masonic term for "master of the craft." Professor Brent mentioned several other Masonic terms. Does this relate to anything you saw in the suit? Mathers: No, we only saw part of the event that happened in the suit, but there is one way to find out what Brent knows. Come on. These are the instructions you enter into the computer when I'm ready. The last person who went in there didn't come out in one piece. This disc contains Professor Brent's experience. Are you sure about this? What other choice have I got? If you think I'm in trouble, enter this. "space flight simulator." How does that help? Acceleration changes the speed of time. Einstein. Wait. Take this. It belonged to Crowley. In demonology if you possess an object belonging to a person, it gives you power over them. Good luck. Uncertainty may be your best chance. ( watch jingles ) I feel like schrodinger's cat. Let's hope God doesn't throw dice. ( speaking Latin ) ( yells in Latin ) Who's that? she's computer-generated. I'm pleased to meet you, Dr. Mathers. How do you know my name? Professor Brent implanted that information as he came through. How can I help you? I would like to follow Professor Brent. Where is the door? I'm afraid that was Professor Brent's creation. Mathers: symonds, feed in Brent's records. ( computer whirs, beeps ) "Now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths." "Give me my crown; I have immortal longings in me." "The earth was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep." ( whirring ) It's working. Damn it. What was there before? I don't know. Professor Brent saw something we didn't. He was mouthing some religious ritual. Brent's blackness. ( speaking Latin ) I summon thee from the dark abyss to enter this Holy Union! ( screams ) Choronzon! - What's happening? - It's a singularity! It's a black hole! - ( grunting ) - ( Mei Ling screams ) ( alarm blaring ) ( grunts ) ( gasping ) As above, so below! ( screaming ) ( watch ticking loudly ) ( snaps, ticking quickly ) ( screams ) ( alarm blaring ) - ( alarm stops ) - ( beeping ) Mathers. ( gasping ) Haddo? ( stuttering ) Why, that bloody fool Victor! Where is Mathers? Who's Mathers? What's going on down there? You damned idiot! I could have drowned in here. What are you talking about? After 30 seconds? It was much longer than that, you bastard! You fat idiot, you panicked. A girl came in looking for Mathers. I had to get rid of her. ( bells tolling ) ( knocking on glass ) Dr. Mathers. Lia Robinson from "Varsity," yes. Weird, I thought I dreamt you. You said 5:00, but you didn't say where. Mathers: I'm sorry. I'm jet-lagged. Thank God you're all right. I'm sorry. Have we met? You don't know me, do you? No, I don't. should l? No. No. Um, the interview. Yes. so why did you develop the suit in the first place? symonds: suddenly, I felt strangely out of place, as if I was on a different planet or a different time zone. Not one other person noticed those missing days. Why just me? You witnessed his death. And so his resurrection. Ah. Maybe I just dreamt the whole idea. No, scientific equations are reversible, even those with time. The uncertainty principle almost demands parallel universes exist. What could have happened is schrodinger's theoretical experiment of the cat in the box. Only when the experimenter opens the lid-- or in your case takes off the helmet-- only then will he find out what universe he's in. so in some parallel universe, Aleister Crowley is wandering around. And in that other universe, the world will be a more evil place-- wars, earthquakes, atrocities. Thank God he's not in ours. It's time. There's a couple of details I don't understand. How did Mathers get out of the ceremony when the door was locked? And who killed Rose? - Brent: What happened there? - Mathers: Oh, I fell. sometimes it's hard to keep your balance in Cyberia. - Brent: Russia? - Dr. Mathers? - Yeah. - Is it possible the suit - could be carrying a virus? - I don't think so. Why? Well, there's a problem with the computer's date-time sequence. - Yeah, so? - I don't know, it's weird. The Z93 is set two days in the future and it's not allowing me to correct it. Is there a code to access the helmet's computer? Try 1 2-1-47. My birthday. ( beeps ) Oh, it's Aleister Crowley's death. "Moonchild"? - Hi. - ( Haddo clears throat ) ( stuttering ) It has become a commonplace of critical discourse... "The time is out of joint: O cursed spite, That I was ever born to set it right!" You set it right because you had the watch. That's another thing. Where is the watch? "O, that this too too solid flesh would melt, - Thaw..." - ( watch ticking loudly ) "...and resolve itself into a dew!" Here in a church  A schoolboy is kneeling  He prays to a God  He does not know, he cannot feel  All of his sins of childhood  He will remember  He will not cry  Tears he will not cry  Man of sorrows  I won't see your face  Man of sorrows  You left without a trace  A small boy wonders  What was it all about?  Is your journey over?  Has it just begun?  The vision of the new world  From the ashes of the old  "Do what thou wilt"  He screams from his cursed soul  A tortured seer  A prophet of our emptiness  Wondering why  Wondering why  Man of sorrows  I won't see your face  Man of sorrows  You left without a trace  A small boy wonders  What was it all about?  Is your journey over?  Has it just begun?  Man of sorrows  I won't see your face  Man of sorrows  You left without a trace  A small boy wonders  What was it all about?  Is your journey over?  Has it just begun?  Has it just begun? 
