 

                        He originally on that works off angerflushes the day? Ya! His Sword Law actually does not have said but, also is not unnecessary like this! Comes rebellion successfully? Your sword law still is also wise he has harassed in the saint mood deserves to be damned sees such loyal general the sum fellow loyal ministers I thought already obtained under the entire day (North Korea, night of the Hanyang) Have how many people who has rendered meritorious service all quite recommended you, knows? They now also very much are afraid threatens own if is this kind of matter goes to the criminal law department to look! Our here looks like only is is responsible for in the saint the secure convoy guard saint security temporarily personally is in charge of by me In seeks after the highest authority right causes adult's murder incident his tragic death sufficiently vacillates the entire royal government if can seize the criminal your future immeasurable future you compare my to be nicer future speaks the careful spot situation is horrible to look at fears the adult to witness with difficulty we, all are altogether adversity brothers certainly must see him finally one side is the heaven penalty you were saying any I early knew this day general meeting approaches carries off him lets loose me, bastard lets loose me, these bastards, adult bastard, you waits to look, adult we can receives the penalty, the adult can receive the penalty can receive punishes adult, adult adult fills the matter which the hate the ghost does also can the useful sword ghost? Is after is sentenced for the charge which plots a rebellion calculated turned ancestry's grave also must hang them does not know any meaning is a time you casually play a lower lip to have a look again is soon has the new officer to get to work heard has several hundred bureaucrats to kill present died right causes the adult and left causes the adult also all once joined has plotted a rebellion they also are in an eight people who has rendered meritorious service's member you What want to say? I want to say, you have ten necks? That who didn't know? Is not such first investigates the bureaucrat which participates plots a rebellion have keeps living witness also has monitors is left over several people who has rendered meritorious service's sounds of something astir you meant also has the possibility is some person who has rendered meritorious service does? Is really unreasonable he wants you to safeguard person who has rendered meritorious service's meaning! I only then no matter the person who has rendered meritorious service refuses stubbornly to die we so long as process our matter line must a bit faster draw in the popular sentiment, that is any speech adult always said the popular sentiment popular sentiment therefore the country only then can turn this vice - appearance these rebellions must completely eradicate has not been wrong, this kind of matter is not two real must be noisy in a big way at the matter before, completely is that assassin? You must be such anxious? Folk view is Behind you can believe me? In front of you are not have gone to the palace after me? At that time I conceal very much preparation assassin what? How do you plan? How our future only then meets light like this we cannot continuously encounter indifferently, is not? Already had four days not to see the wife have not been drinking, your belly has received? My belly how? Must give to mine youth this kind of person is really unbearable your that is saying me? Who Who are any Who this is doing any is not I is I is called you to come you do not understand the North Korean speech? Who are if you put an my way out I give you others' two time of rewards Who ? Halts has the assassin assassin this present existence is here is here holds him, holds him, in here holds him holds him in where? Here, holds him holds him he said from assassin there sees the strange thing he, on his knife On his knife engraves has the character engraves "to enjoy oneself in seclusion" you in why? If is decree life is unimportant? Is in here under this moonlight you suddenly want to make any Why suddenly that study hard if not strong will feel the shame you knew what is the true shame? Knew what the true shame is? You drank many that liquor also can give me a cup? You also remembers Cui Zhixian this person? He also is living? Our troop always with is enjoying oneself in seclusion this title Why have this kind of title this is because, the common people anticipate us can compose always can welcome the cool breeze to look at the bright moonlight the peaceful prosperous times but comes title Yongchang adult you should not be able to link me also to have to implicate! What were you saying? I become the adult under also already had 20 years I do not imagine other minister to be same that pitiful dying, you How can I kill you so long as completes this bridge satisfies in the saint the wish speech nobody can despise the royal court the dignity such speech we with saint in relations cannot like the present like this not right? I hoped is not you whose inciting no matter you have received or for any you appear a time of speech again I can bestow you to die lets the assassin run away under the eyelid is really? This period of time please do not need to take a walk please be careful your this bastard you calculated any also lets me be careful any you take the sword the hand, now very is powerful how, do you want to extract that sword? Dog calculated was angry has not been able to nip the master you or exit! You not self-confident speech no longer works well also for me writing brush badly fell should throw him you can exhaust the life in here? Or must seek the outlet in addition? In any case your life because the counter-conviction is unable to see the sunlight would rather holds him to start the new life does not see for a long time present situation? He returned to the hometown my hometown also is this hometown to this time occasionally can see the grass carp group you know grass carp's habit? They knew oneself should go back road this is their instinct I certainly can return to the hometown When do present also can endure? Is good, you are supporting! Was not is eaten by the fish In the middle of you has one half can again return to the warlord to defend the armed escort but is left over can go to the north frontier really worries the country north revolts the thief to expand the influence also has the Japanese pirate in to eye covetously to North Korea does not enhance the city wall In royal government has actually filled the swindler we in order to enjoy oneself in seclusion together world is good you has gotten drunk? What I thought you are drunk me are fiercer than you know? I like here can have the friend to accompany me to walk also met has liked father same teacher result everybody must be separated Where all worry has to go to? I have not related I do not have any in any case my life originally likes the weed to be same I like your look in here What do? Who is there oh, is I executes the hibiscus was such late has been also practicing the skill in wushu is a father evening air is very cool, quickly goes in! What do you do in here? You looked like is completely executed the hibiscus to charm I look like such? In water time you knew I why each time can endure for a long time compared to you? Looks at you all said is I intentionally loses to you that you want again to compare with me? Certainly, you thought I do not dare? After two years is the correspondence which comes from Seoul right? That, he with executes the hibiscus fortunately? In the frontier which this nobody knows you very are really laborious present Seoul, because of hoodlums rebellion country had the crisis which overthrows comes our present, needs to embark for Seoul what does rebel? You unconsciously a little strange? I want first to go to a place asked you now want me to defy the imperial decree? Must collaborate with you? Is not must collaborate with us but is must walk along with the general situation enjoys oneself in seclusion is by the common people anticipation for defend the country to establish How can we become satisfies your desire the method? You said too have been excessive, general Why are you such ignorant of current affairs? You thought you said enjoys oneself in seclusion world light depends on the mouth to be able to implement? I finally ask your you must with us concentric? What situation I clear am? But or first leaves here good I am for say this saying with you catches up with only then at the same night I should walk appears such suddenly you were saying any remembers my speech not time in any case tenth has revolted thief's family not to be able to maintain a livelihood calculated maintained a livelihood I can follow father's meaning leaves goes to the place which nobody can find is your wrong judgement let our entire team all face the death everybody takes the sword I want to participate please rescues us the team member I want to do take the lead Why did I believe you let you and my army take the lead asks you to believe me completely executes immediately and so on, if I believe you What can you make for me? I can bet my life in other words you are life-long all devote for me? You take general's number of people to come you are takes my number of people! Has not related this is a destiny, who also doesn't have the means you have forgotten with the saint in pledge? Quickly takes the number of people hate flavor all fluttered here quickly takes away! Also not quickly takes away? Arrives finally does not open the mouth to speak rips hers body the smashing to throw outside goes Yes is left over the person also certainly must find stops should first your head gives chops down if your also a little friendship a bit faster has killed me I now must run away present had to turn to us dies right? You since that are afraid would rather from breaks the life really worthily is world murderer What also hesitating? Military officer I said you what is happening? You thought pretends not to know can erase all? Believed you can as you like we calculate any is for obtain these position has betrayed altogether the adversity brother has gotten drunk, forgives him comes, we walk! I already was weary of this kind lived military officer military officer why? Also not quickly is called the court physician, a bit faster! Is a bit faster, military officer military officer What you do, military officer? Military officer before Between us also feels better! Military officer awakes, military officer in order to defend Yongchang to have to leave 20,000 armies you think this also ? Continues these The people which replaces which died the person who has rendered meritorious service holds the post of the important post What person do calculate? In enters the palace these small lamb belts How in saint can a person erases rebels against the royal government the bloodstain? I am not do not understand Yongchang the heart but cannot violate the popular sentiment must let the royal government be stable as far as possible could not again duplicate the blood the history our compatriot, not we died not are the blood history? Whose merit does sit above that all is? Present actually does not recognize the account must even more take strict precautions against the security now immediately issues the decree quickly lets the army embark is lets the boy which is wet behind the ears sat in the throne actually said any in this middle of the night What matter do you come here to have? What matter? Tin of I said you how unexpectedly also dares to kill me? I with great difficulty walked this step this picture is imitates in the saint the Hanjiang River chart adult Zheng adult is killed Zheng adult but, is not the assassin dry also has military officer died your face thin were many is because wanted too to be many! That does not suit you not right? If wants to change any general meeting needs to sacrifice In th not a thing may easily obtain assassin that bastard finally is not I? I in order to announced under the entire day royal court dignity and has legitimate waited for more than five years knows? In order to achieve my this target I have endured patiently all you has not forgotten with mine pledge! Your body belongs to me I can execute you final you certainly want to comfort well will appear in tomorrow long journey troop thought you can change the world? Is like this does not have usefully you or give up! Useless matter perhaps! I cannot change the world lives down has died all only is duplicates anything cannot change anything cannot but we have had other world also remembers? Always welcomes the cool breeze to look at the bright moonlight the world old person had said enjoys oneself in seclusion world present any world has not been able to let us go back I now can do has this adult you in here? Adult adult adult starts from that day I continuously run the present in order to take revenge never has has turned head in the future but some times actually could not recall to mind father's face I not too understands I for father's revenge only then like this five years you have not swaped the look with me I only hope this that day if were not you has rescued me I could not exactly down! In piles in that kind of hell corpse first time wakes when cannot die together with the companion I thought is very the shame but compares that shame is is in that kind of hell also is thinking life me is drinking companion's blood which died, I continuously support I want exactly at that time I thought if I can live from here these harm is miserable we the person I absolutely cannot let off them stops present or lays down the sword may preserve your life for you I also may die receives asks you to let off us we wanted to return to the past asks you asked in water time therefore I can endure that the long time is because of you in my side is because of you always in my side calculates my asphyxiation I also knew that, you can come to rescue me Yahoo! ID: Sunlight22xp@yahoo.com.cn QQ: 9.799235 million
