 

                        A MAN'S LIFE STORY DOES NOT FIT INTO A FILM HOW TO GIVE DUE WORTH TO EACH YEAR OR INCLUDE EACH EVEN OR EACH PERSON PART OF A LIFE WHAT MUST BE DONE IS TO BE TRUE TO WHAT HAPPENED AND RELATE THE ESSENCE OF THE JOURNEY. Mother, my dear mother. You always kept your promises. Come. Come be near me once again. I'll be with you. I'm quite sure you will. -Five minutes, sir. -Thank you. B Suite, please get ready! -We're ready. -Alright, man. You gotta white balance. Camera 2, Camera 3.. Please... A minute and a half and we'll be on air. Saulo... Saulo, our guest is heading your way. Quiet! We're starting, we're starting! Quietly, please. Take your places. Release the teaser. -Roll credits! -Done. Teaser is on air. Four, three, two... Good evening ladies and gentlemen, we now present... another edition of our Quick Fire show. With us tonight, the greatest and most controversial Brazilian medium of the century... -Attention telecinema... -United States, England... ...in France, Italy, Spain and Portugal is well known. -Roll. -Done. Born in 1910, in Pedro Leopoldo, Minas Gerais. Having lost his mother as a child, he did his first spirit writing in his youth... -Camera 1, on him. -Chico moved to... Uberaba in the 50's, where he started his current center, the Christian Spiritist Communion Center. -With the proceeds from more than -Tell 2 to stay on Saulo. over 100 books, dictated by his spiritual guides... Cut to 2... -2 on Saulo. -He has dedicated himself... -to works... -Leave it on him... here comes the needling. He has been called both mad man and saint. A fraud or a phenomenon? Do spirits exist? Does life end after death? -The ratings will go through the roof. -Here with us tonight, -our special guest, -Yeah, yeah. Francisco Cndido Xavier. -Our Chico Xavier. -Cut to 1, cut to 1. Good evening, Chico. We are touched... by our dear host's words... Did you see the wig, Orlando? We feel unable to live up to the expectations of this show, so we are here under the protection of our spiritual friends... Put 1 on him... -cut to 1, cut to him. -1, close in on Xavier's hairpiece. Is it? Is it? So I pray to all our friends of the spiritist faith... Vivaldo! Vivaldo, come quick, our godfather's on TV! Here I am afraid to be even more uncivil... than I already am in daily life. Chico, I'd like to know how you'd define your life: sacrifice, -distrust, misapprehension? -Cut to 2. So many people go through painful moments, it would be pretentious to think myself persecuted, misunderstood. So yours is a life of giving? I will take the liberty to use words... different to the ones used by the illustrious reporter. I'd say that my life is a search... A search for peace. Cut to 1 and zoom in. Of a certain inner peace... I believe that giving is a part of this. I might say, I've been helping others... since I was a child. ''Oh clement, oh pious, oh sweet forever Virgin Mary pray for us, holiest mother of God, may we be deserving of Christ's vows. To thee we clamor, we the exiled children of Eve... ...To thee we sigh, moaning and crying in this valley of tears...'' Go on boy! Lick the wound. What're you waitin' for? Lick it already! Do it good d'you hear, it's only 3 Fridays. Do it good! ''Here she is, our advocate, turn your merciful eyes on us! After our exile lets us see Jesus...' Disgustin'. Chico, you did good being obedient to your godmother. Humility is a virtue of yours. It was that magic lady who told me to do it. She's ain't no magic lady, she's a healer. She prescribed, but it's your godmother who gives the orders. He's gonna be alright soon, the torture's gonna be over. So my tongue's magic? No... It ain't neither. What's botherin' you? Godmother ain't gonna be long. That all? You tol' me you'd stay near me. Ain't I near you... Look if you pray just right, Jesus said he's gonna send an angel to help you. I don' want no angel! Ain't you gonna show me your spinnin'top? Huh! You're really somethin', Chico! Chico! Where're you, you brat! Won't be too long, afore I'm back. How long is not too long? Chico! It don't matter what she does... -Chico! -You make like it's alright. Chico! You brat where're you?! S'true that the neighbour's daughter's dead? That one there. Is a fire that don't burn out, a street broom, swishin' this way an' that. She made too much effort -and look what's happened! -Yeah... She was kinda old to be a mother, past the age. Well I never. Thirty-five and pregnant. The problem was an inadequate formation of the egg. What's that, son? The baby was in an ec... ectopic position! That's it. There he goes again. Where'd you get that, boy? I saw her over the wall, and the man done tol'me. What's this son? What else did the doctor say? It wasn't no doctor. It was a voice I heard. Rita! Sound like something come from the devil. Father, I gotta a lot of sins on my back. Chico, confession is not our daily bread. You haven't even had your first communion, why confess? But, I gotta lot a sins. Again? What is it this time? See anything in the dark? Heard things that go bump in the night? You done tol'me it these are the devil's works. I ain't having nothing to do with him. All right. Lets get this conversation back on track... Chico these are things in a boy's head. Do you want to be different from everyone else or do you prefer being a good Christian? I just' don't want everybody on me. I wanna keep to mysel'. So you have to be a good Christian. A member of the Roman and Apostolic, Catholic Church. Yeah! I wanna be a Christian. I gotta get rid of this thing that's draggin'me down. Right! That's the best choice. But it's not easy to be a good Christian. Father, I understan'. I swear an'swear again, I wannna be a good Christian. I want God to rid me of this ghost, so ain't nobody gonna be angry at me no more. You're made of gold, Chico. And if the devil comes tempting you remember, I'm by your side with Jesus. You go home now and pray, it'll relieve your head and keep evil away. -OK. -May God go with you. Father, ain't it that, Mr. Pascoal sent his regards. What's this rubbish? He's been dead these last ten years. But, I seen him yesterday. No you didn't! You're lying! You don't know what he looked like. You dreamed you saw him! Well, if it's like that, I dreamed I saw him, I dreamed I saw this huge spot, right here on his forehead. Uh... a big mole right, here? Yeah... Yeah. Chico, make those prayers a full rosary! And pray correctly! Do you hear? It ain't 'cause I'm far away, I don't keep an eye on you. Pa, what do you do when yer'far away, -do you take a holiday? -Holiday... I sell luck to people so I can make money. Ain't there a way to make money here, in Pedro Leopoldo? Yeah there is... But it is how I know how to make it. -But which way do yo'go? -I go... You ain't foolin' me. I know you ain't a bad kid. But what's this story 'bout seein' souls come from beyond? -You soft in the head, are you crazy? -NO! I already talked to the priest. I don'want no crazy kid. Ijus'don'! Go, go help him Joo. That's right. Alright, Chico... There are people who make a sacrifice, make a vow to get a cure for a sickness, a cure fortheir nerves. Get rid of evil... So will you make this sacrifice? -I'm willin', Father... -Very well. All you do is pray the Hail Mary during the procession... -A hundred times! -Blessed be... the holiest sacrament -Blessed -''...Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and... -at the hour of our death, amen.'' -Be the holiest sacrament -Be the holiest sacrament -Ninety six. ''Hail Mary full of grace, Our Lord is with thee, blessed art thou among women, -and blessed is the fruit... '' -Move, Chico! Go to the front, go. Pray, son, pray! Ninety seven... Psst, ma! You... thinkin' that I'm gonna be washin' you're clothes every day? What else is there? Damn! Damn! Damn the day you're Pa brought you to me... Damn it! I take it, because after the badness you always come. You gotta hold on. -Be strong. -I'm strong. I'm cryin' now, I don' cry near her. That's not what I'm talkin' about. I ain't gonna'be seein'yo' for a while. Jus'a lil' while. Don'do this to me, don't! Didn't I keep my promise last time? It's 'cause... people're either scared o'me orthey're pokin'fun. Don say that... You want me to tell you a secret? You are the bravest boy... jus'a minute, yer'already nine, So... Yo'... the bravest an'most special man in the whole wide world! Special is differen'? It's 'cause I see an'hear what nobody else sees an'hears? No. It is because yer'special that all this happens. I prefer it diffren'. Prefer? Playin' tag with the other kids? Yeah, ma... I'd like not to be left out of every game. The worse part is gonna'to be over soon, I promise. A step ma ain't like a godmother, you'll come runnin'back in no time. Come here, son... Maria Cndida... How're you ma'am? -Raimundo... -Hi. Luiza, -Conceio... -Pleasure... Geralda, -Carmosina... -Hi. Lucia's the baby, and... this... is Francisco, see? Did yo'like t he ride in yerPa's cart? -An'Jose. -Good day. Looks like the family's all back together again, All the kids of Joo and Maria! Ain't no one gonna' be missin'a ma no mo'. Cidalia, is ours now, see? Joo... Leave 'em be. They've been separate for so long, now they're together... Yo'right. Let's go in. Come with me, C'mon. Chico, wait. Sorry, Chico. Now may I, you'll let me? ''...taken from the Portuguese crown, thus causing the Empire to collapse.'' This is one of the essays chosen for the state contest for 1922. It was written by one of your classmates. And more, I am pleased to say that he received an honorable mention. Come here, Chico. Francisco de Paula Cndido. -It's always him! -Him again? What's going on, here? Teacher, it's that spirit stuff. What's this silly spirit rubbish. Well I never, making up such stories! Get up, Rosa and go to the principal's office. Rosa, were tellin'the truth. Chico... It is nice to help out your classmate, but... I ain't lyin'. I had a man by my side, helpin'me. Do you want to go to the principal's office too? Why don'he do an essay right now? Stop! Stop messing about! Stop! Stop! He's here. By my side. Right here. Alright then, write stuff 'boutthe sea. 'Boutthe sand on the beach... Enough. This has already gone far enough. -Both of you straight to the principal's... -I'll write it if yo'let me, miss! ''My children, let no one mock creation. A grain of sand is almost nothing, yet it is like a tiny star reflecting God's sun. That grain which is negligible when stepped upon, gains an unimaginable dimension... when with other grains... it becomes an instrument... of the passage of time ...'' Jucelio...? Don't know nobody by that name. I don't know him. Yes, ma'am. Right Mrs. Eullia, I'll tell my pa. Yo'say it an'I'll repeat so I don'get it wrong? It seems like the pain is in his back, but the pain is really in his lung. Right... Right, Mrs. Eulalia. Chico! S'matter?. Somethin' bad happenin'? I heard you talkin'. No... nuthin's happenin'. Who yo'talkin'to? Where's this person I can't see? Oh my goodness! Chi... Chico forget this stuff. Come lay down. Go to sleep. You got school real early tomorrow. You don'believe me neither, right? This stuff in yer'head come from this badly writ rubbish. But, ain't he sick? Let's make a deal. Talk only to me. Yer'Pa ain't got no understandin'. An'do yo' really unnerstan'me? Look here, when a boy's cries either its 'cause of school, or 'cause of work. With you it's diffren, ain't it Chico? Must be 'cause of these things you see, an' hear, ain't it? l miss my ma so, so, much! She promised she'd come back... but up to now she ain't... -But yer'Ma, she's... -She promised in the hospital too... And she came back. Now she's gone... an'up to now... In the hospital... What did yerma say in the hospital? We was like we are now. Me here sittin' and she lyin'there... She was sorta yeller 'cause of being sick. My pa said she wanted me to go to my godmother Rita's... Can I talk like, kinda pretend you're my ma? Yes, Yes. I like you almos'as much as I like her. So tell me, tell me everythin'... You givin'yer'children to others, its ' cause yo'don't wan'us no more, ain't it? I'd never do somethin'like that. It's yer'pa who can't support y'all. Yeah... An'then she said this: ''If anybody say's I died, they're lyin'. Don'believe them. I'mjust gonna be still, sleepin'. An'I'm comin'back, back to to yo'.'' She said that, did she? She did. An'she came back! An'yo'believin' me? I am... I believe in you son. I have faith... Someday, somebody's gonna explain what happens to you. Our disembodied friends tell us, that the tears we shed for those dear to us... do them a lot of good. when they reflect our longing tempered with hope. The tears light the paths... of those who are remembered with great affection. But when the tears reflect our anger... at God's designs, things that we cannot immediately understand... these tears hurt the living, as well as those who are no longer with us. Very well, Chico. Now we pass the word to Menezes de Assis. Thanks Saulo. Chico, we are in an age of hippies and of drugs. Many believe that in worship where there is a trance like state, substances such as these are being used. What is your opinion? I can only speak for myself and for Spiritism. My Mediumship became manifest when I was a child. And I believe that my family never used these substances... on me. -Give me 2 on the audience... -2 , on the audience. -Put 3 too. -3, on the audience.... I was curious to see if the states... -between the two cameras, showily... -Intercut... between the two cameras, slowly... Wait, slowly, follow the timing. -Cut, to 3. -On 3. Under a doctor's and Emmanuels supervision, I had experiences with hallucinogenic drugs. This is gonna be good... The guy went on an acid trip and never came back. Orlando, back to Chico! Yeah... Back to Chico. They are conditions of the human soul. They should not be thought of as astounding phemomena, and liable to be attacked by Humanity's scorn... We haven't talked to each other today... You left early, didn't you? I called you here, you weren't in. -Where were you? -Hiding, same as you. I called, they said you weren't home. I... The apartment... it's become a purgatory. I've got to get back to work. You really aren't going to speak to him. What for? To get another all purpose letter? ''My dear Mommy, I can see you from over here, I love you, I miss you bla, bla, bla.'' A standard text, good for any desperate mother. It was Tomas' signature! What if he wants to speak to us, who knows he has an important message... Enough, enough! -Please, speak with him, -enough already! it won't hurt us any, please... A similar signature, so what?! Similar signature, so what? You know that banal stuff?. You know that banal stuff?. ''That this is only a nightmare, and that it'll all be over tomorrow?'' But it won't... It won't. It won't. I wanted... your pain to lessen a little. That's all. You got your letter and you're still not in peace, are you? It won't be this guy nor anyone else who'll bring back what we've lost! Get it! Damn! I wanted so much for us to go through this... together, Orlando... But... We're growing farther and farther apart. Farther and farther and farther... So why don't philosophers such as Plato, Aristotle, St. Augustine or Kant send us their works from beyond? Is it too difficult to ''translate'' their ideas? With all due respect, sir. Might it not be, because they too are mediums? That is not for me to answer, sir. This is a question and answer show, not a debate! Please forgive me, if you thought that's where I was going... but, Emmanuel asks me to add that the first book ever written was a book of stone, the Ten Commandments. Spirit written by Moses. So the general public who may not know you, can understand. Emmanuel is your spiritual guide? Yes ... and more... Orlando, I need you, and you just sitting there! Come on, I left the trainee in charge of cutting! He is a disembodied person, or spirit if you prefer, -he corrects my vocabulary... -I'm back, I'm back. my attitudes, he helps me... -overcome my limitations. -What is it? What? Calm down. Did he bring you the peace you were searching for? Understanding. -Thanks, Chico. -See you tomorrow. See you. See you tomorrow. Lock it up, Chico. Lock up and lets go! Has something' happened to Lucia, pa? No change in Lucia. Les'go Les'go, it's gonna be good. What am I here for? What for... 'cause of you being a virgin, jeez! I know the way. If I wanted, I coulda'come! You know it, but never came. Get down! Get down, Chico! What's up, Joo? Chico... my son. He's a bit shy, its his first time. Lea, come here. Here's Joo's son. Take care of him. He needs relaxing. Don't think he looks nervous. Come. I knew you're house would be good for him. Some boys are shy like him. When a boy becomes a man he deserves something' better than rum. I believe in God, the Almighty Father, the Maker of Heaven and Earth, and in Jesus Christ, His only Son, our Lord: Who was conceived by the Holy Ghost, born of the virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, ''was crucified, killed, and buried;'' He descended into Hell. ''On the third day, He rose again from the dead;'' He ascended into Heaven... We have a problem in terms of Humanity and sex, we have to consider... with great care and respect. Let us say, if man's potentialities... -We're going to have a problem. -sight, hearing, the immense resources of the brain, taste, the hands... -What is he talking about? -tactile hands... -This is a live show. -execute handiwork, the feet. If all these potentialities were given to Man for education, to do Good, potentialities consecrated to goodness and light, -in God's name... -Now what? He's said it. Why would sex and its diverse manifestations... be sentenced to darkness? Lucia, Chico, has completely lost her mind. Pa's called in some healers from Maquin. all mighty god give me the power to free Lucia from the influence of the spirit that obsesses her. You shit... -We are here to help... -Get out, out! to pray for divine support, we're here to help... Usin'her body ain't gonna be much good. Chico! Save your sister, save her Chico! Leave, go! Go away! Get out! out! You don't need to touch her, Chico. -Its just the vibration. -Get out! Out! Forgive my sister. If she's done bad by you. Forgive her, forgive her. Think about the value of family, yer'parents, yer'siblings. Think of yer'ma, she is looking at you, she is here. Forgive. I lost two mothers, my sister did too. Forgive her. Leave her in the name of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. She's better now. Much better. Thank God! But Chico, you shouldnt have done it the way you did. Sorry. You asked me but... I'm sorry... -I heard... -What did you hear? More than heard... felt. Someone talk to you? Yo'afeared to talk about this, right? People always laugh at you... when you tell them. Yera medium, Chico. That's what it is. God. give us strength to progress and to rise unto you. Give us the purest charity, give us faith and give us reason. Give us purity to make our souls mirror... your divine image. Do you hear, Chico? A friendly spirit is here. I can't see him, but he asks for pencil and paper. Did you ever do spirit writing? Chico... Have you written things dictated by spirits? I've written essays, letters. Yes. You wrote all that. It's from yer'Ma'. Tired? Confused? I recognize yer' voice. My Ma's letter it were yo' who dictated it, weren't it? Yes. I see things that nobody sees, -why can't I see you? -Just turn. Why didn't I hear her voice? I was asked to do it. Who asked? Do you really want to know? Do you really want to know what happens to you? It's what I want most. It's going to be a lot of hard work. I've been workin' since I were a lil' boy. That's true... You're probably ready for the three basic rules. What rules? The first is discipline. -The second? -Discipline. The third? Discipline. How do I get disciplined? You should think this over. I know... I know you like helping people. But you're going to suffer... from a lot of suspicion, be happy from admiration and gratitude, sometimes feel even anger. Sound good? Suspicion and anger have always been in my life. Well, I warned you. For starters we have to write thirty books. Thirty books? I don't make much money. What about the ink an'the paper? I have 13 siblings! Do yo'reckon my pa's goin'to win the lottery? Who are you, anyway? It's the Devi! I told you many times Over the years. He of many faces... may show a different face at any time. You been insistin' for a long time... Chico, I didn't forget that you swore before me and before Christ. I have a good memory. Remember that boy with the rock on his head? He don't exist no more. I learned a lot now. I can almost unnerstan' what happens to me. Understanding and learning with this... What do you call it? Spirit? His name is Emmanuel. Now I read books day n' night. And there's Percio and Carmem they help me a lot too. Do all Peracio and Carmem's books... give you peace? Yes, I'm at peace with mysel'. I want to take this peace to all. I'm goin'to start a place to help those in need. I know you're no longerthat boy. But to me you're the same you always were. Beware: many folks are going to make fun of you. You know it, right? You will be doubted and persecuted. Think on it. I know it's for my own good. But now I have discipline, I have a mission: help others and talk about Spiritism. The church is against it. And me... well I'm sorry, if you keep on I won't... be able to see you anymore. I don't want you to be angry with me. I'm not. It's just that you are a very good person. And such goodness is hard to find. Give me yer' blessing? May happiness, our greatest good, always be with you. I pray to the Holy Virgin that she pours blessings on you. Amen. May God go with you, my son. Thanks, old friend! Within the Catholic Church, we have seen... prodigious manifestations of spirituality at Masses... when the communion of the spiritual vibrations... of all the faithful is possible. And so you believe that the miracles of the Catholic church, like apparitions of Our Lady in Lourdes and Fatima, are examples of spirit materialization? We've seen sainted spirits blessing holy wafers... the priests offered at communion... and transforming into flowers of light. ...unable to explain this phenomenon. Therefore all the manifestations of the divine, that have reached us through the Church, which we consider to be the mother of all civilization, truly merit our veneration. The spirits teach us... that we are at different levels of interpretation... but that we are one family in the eyes of our Lord Jesus Christ... ...despite being on the level of christian spiritism, according Allan Kardec's concepts, one day we left the catholic church with the blessing of a priest whom we loved, like a father, Because mediumship beckoned to us. This is how we started. They're talking about him all over the town. -Crazy... -He's finally flipped his lid... Bonkers. Now all he wants is to listen to spirits. Chico! Chico, look it here!!! It's yesterday's paper... It says everything. Tells about all the sickness you helped cure, the advice you've given. It even has yer'poem! The poem ain't mine, Z, It just went through me like the wind. But that ain't all, come take a look see. You're gonna have a lot of work tonight. You sure are. Now off to the store. I'll hold everyone there till tonight. You must put a herb poultice on the wound. And trust in the power of Jesus. Thankee my lil'saint. What can I give you for it? It ain't me. It's Dr. Bezerra. You go help needy folks, the heaven will thank us. We thank our friends from the spiritual plane that have been here helping us do good. -Amen. -Amen. Good night all... Congratulations, Chico. Good work and good night. Now go and rest, go on. Good night. Chico, we got a present for you. You folks are leaving and I get the present? Altair, get in, stop running around in here! Attention, Attention... How lovely! Look Z. Look at our work here, -just look how beautiful... -Now... its up hill all the way. -Mr. Chico, sir. -At your service. Look it my boy's face, we're in need of yer'heIp, Mr. Chico. This is our home, mister. -You wait yer'turn! -Hey Carmosina. I'm gonna help the boy and his pa. The house ain't just yours. We come back later. No, I'll see to you now. -You alright, Z? -Everything's fine. Paulo. -Yup! -Beautiful calves, huh? Looking good, sir. Why are you just standing there?! It hurts. I'm bleeding! We've still got a lot to write today. Don't you see I can't. My eye's sick. You know that two eyes are a luxury. Open your eye... Where is the light? To the right. And now? Down. And now? Up to the right. How could let your eyes get this bad? It's work... too much work, sir. No work can justify this. What do you do? Well, now I'm a civil servant. Durin' the day... right around now I go to the office... Then on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays we have night sessions, on Thursdays, study group, at night and in my free time, I have to write books. This isn't civil service. It is slavery! I am a Spiritist... a medium. No wonder you see spirits... with your eye as blurry as it is! I'm prescribing these eye drop three times a day. Will it be long till I'm well again? I'm sorry but the eye drops Are just to relieve the symptoms. You have a serious case of cataract... in your left eye. I suggest more frequent check ups and... And to take better care of yourself. Could you move over here, please. -Yes. -God bless you. Pa, what's goin'on? -Did you hit the jackpot? -Better than the jackpot. My boy's now on track. An' I already know... Chico, I brought you a chicken. Thanks, son, thanks... I know how we're gonna sort things out. We put a gate on the hen house an' if each visitor leaves us a hen, -we gonna be rich, no time! -Oh pa, we can't. Donations are only for who really needs them. Spirits only say that 'cause they don't have to pay for meat -and milk. -Pa! My salary is enough, and we have our jobs too. 'Nuff for you. Be sure I'll guide you when I die. Right now, I say one thing an' you do another. Father, Chico is arm in arm with the other one. So you're the one who pretends to get messages from beyond. I was... I am a friend of the priest. I could be friends with you too. I know. The dark spirit is artful and seductive sowing his evil. Those who communicate with me, teach only good. Evil is kept far away. If that's so, tell me: here, in God's church, do you see any of these spirits of yours? Some people think your imitations are close to perfect. Do you think I should agree with them? I didn't come to ask for nothin'. Jus'to see my friend. Hey boy. Go on, go! I've told you a hundred times, that a dog's place is outside. Go on Lorde, scram! Get outta here! Carmosina! There's a man waitin' for yo'. And he ain't one of the usual beggars. Mr. Francisco de Paula Cndido? -Alias, Chico Xavier? -Yes?! I am a court official and I have come to serve you a writ. The estate of Humberto de Campos is suing you for illegal richment... enrich me, for fraud! Many have accused you of fraud, -2 on Saulo! -of making things up. -Emmanuel is your main guide, -Give me Chico. -he's always with you... -Wait a minute. Is he here, now? He's going to say yes, that only he can see him. Here by my side, but not everybody can see him. Aha. That's why he keeps looking to one side so much... Let's go to a question... -from Reverend... -Get the preacher on. Set. Don't you believe this? -Tape, please. -Roll it. -And do you believe? -No, but there's something there... ...each person born is the reincarnation of one who died. God created Adam and Eve, the first human creatures. They had two children, Cain and Abel. Could you find an acceptable explanation, according to reincarnation to explain where... -Cain and Abel came from? -His question should be: where did the people after Cain and Abel come from. Adam and Eve I can even accept. -What's wrong with you, man? -Nothing... ...that we first would like to thank... his words full of fraternal love and sweetness. But with the help of our spiritual friends, I might ask the noble minister to consider the Book of Genesis, chap.IV, verses 16 & 17. Cain having murdered Abel, left Paradise... Hi, Gloria. Long time... A year, two months and ten days. What are you doing here? We were so close, I miss our conversations. You didn't come to say that, did you? I... Eduardo, still cries every day, a lot. He swears it was an accident, that they were horsing around, and the gun went off... Do you think that if we forgive your son... -he'll get out of jail? -No. The prosecutor said he's going to have to be prosecuted, no matter... You've known Eduardo since he was a kid. Why would he shoot his best friend? Think about it... I don't know, you tell me. -Gloria, please. -Why? I beg you... Think about it. Look here, Iara. I also miss our conversations. But I miss talking to my son much more... I've tried everything. Witchcraft, meditation, Spiritists' Circles, Everything! Everything. And up to now all I got was a letter, that my husband thinks is a forgery. But you, all you need to do is get in the car on visiting day and talk to your son. -Don't Gloria. -Get it? -Please... -Get it? -Let me talk to you... -Leave me! We're going to take a brief break. It's been like this ever since the lawsuit. Oh my. Today it's exorcisms. Please... Get in line, please. My children! Please don't go in there. This is not the house of God! Miracles are performed by saints, not liars like Chico. Spiritism is deceitful. Satan's most successful and fascinating art, designed to entice those who have lost their beloved ones! Our sick sisters must be helped here with Jesus' love. Fraternity is the light of Spiritism. Gently with the girls. If the spirit takes hold of me, apply the gospel vigorously. Merciful Lord! Have mercy on the spirirts that obsess these girls. Lord allow me to lead them to the path of light away, from evil. Lord let me show them good and evil. Take the gospel! Take it! Take it! God forgive me, Chico! God forgive me. Uncle's sayin'to come back next session. Ain't no more today. Chico... Ah, I'm not speakin' To journalists now... You are right, we are journalists. But he's American, Harry Dean... Sir, nice to meet you. Moi,je suis franais, Jacques Vrenel. I am French, my pleasure. It's for publication in the United States. Your lawsuit caused quite a stir over there. No one's going to see the article over here. -You know the New York Times? -New York Times, sir... He doesn't even speak Portuguese. Doesn't understand a thing. Enchanting... Come kiss Our Lady... ask him about Humberto de Campos. Humberto de Campos... even praised your first book, before he died. Who knows... Who knows that's why His spirit came to me. Do you feel hurt by the widow accusing you, saying you are making money off her husband's name? Money? Many people don't accept things from the other side. Oh, but she's willing to accept. She says that if the spirit writings are recognized as such, she wants the royalties because it's her husband's creation you merely write it down. But is it fair? Does someone who is dead need to be paid? But if there's life after death...? That's what the lawyers say. I'm sorry... your colleague didn't understand a word. He's speaking of the ''lawyer''... Okay, no problem. It's okay. Polite opposition, but troublesome at times. No problem, no problem. excuse me. Excuse me, excuse me... Excuse me. -Do you play the piano? -Wha...? Do you play the piano? Ah... I wish... It was a present. I ain't got no time to learn, what's more play it. Here's a little souvenir for the journalist. -Thank you. -JEAN, ASK HIM. Yes, yes... We would like you to spirit write answers -to some questions. -Ah yes... Will the socialization of the monetary system, based on a certain percentage of each country's revenue... from exportation, by emission based on that percentage, regulate the exchange phenomenon? ''Each country's regulating ballast... has a key role in maintaining the balance of currency. According to the emissions stock amortization and redemption...'' please answer in english: have your spirits, any power upon the future of our living friends? these lives are only on a different level that sometimes intercept. how and why did we get here? The idea that rules over the orientation... of the gemmules in the formation... -of an animal's embryo... ''-supports the idea of evolution... based on observations from many different areas.'' Est-ce que vous avez du contact avec les esprits... des personnalits de la literature franaise? Comme, par exampIe, Molire, Racine? ''Nous avons des auteurs qui l'ont dej fait. Les lignes qui rejoignent dans ces...'' Bye... Good night. So Chico? All right? As peopIe say, they skinned me aIive. UnfortunateIy, I have bad news. I fear he had a stroke. Or something... The doctor didn't say for sure... Said it couId be a stroke. But he's goin' to wake up again. He's goin' to wake up again. He don'Iook good... He's gonna wake up, but he ain't knowin'nobody. That ain't what the doctor said! He ain't gonna know nobody. For many, many years. He ain't gonna know nobody! You say you cure all these peopIe, you gotta cure your own brother. Why are so many spirits 'round him? Ourfriends are debating if it is better to ask Our Lord to Iet him go. Oh God... He taIks to everyone whiIe I'm at work... hammering away, and Iistening, calming and consoling peopIe. Exactly. And that's why he deserves peace. But, the way they Iook at me. My father... It's very hard for me. Do you really think that your suffering is greaterthan his? Let us reach out our hand... to our brother so he can feeI the Iove, feeI our strength... For his souI to find the path of Iight, of strength. ''Our Father, which art in Heaven, hallowed be thy name; thy kingdom come; thy will be done, in Earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us Our trespasses, as we forgive them that trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil. Amen.'' Son... Son! He couldn't even cure his own brother. He say he channels this Bezerra de Menezes. Lies! Lies! Lies! Bezerra, Menezes Bezerra, a lie. What does he channel for if he can't even save his own brother. Go away, away, you fools. He has been embraced. He has been embraced. Here, David. The caption ''Chico shows books by authors that coincidentally he made 'Spirit writings'''. -Great. Take a look at this! -And this one?! -Look, Jean... -Here! Lovely, look at this one! The main shot for the article! Great! Come look. ''Apparently he is a man... Who seeks a life of sacrifice, like that of a saint. His conceit, however, is evident in the pictures, and more importantly, our interview was the result of a sham. Yes. And who can say that Chico Xavier isn't a sham too?'' -Strong stuff. -If his guide really existed... he wouldn't have let us fool the hick the way we did. Have you looked at the book that Chico gave us? What for? -There, I'm done. -Look. Who did this? Dunno... We did everything right. TO JEAN MANZON, MAY YOU GO IN PEACE, EMMANUEL TO MY FRIEND DAVID NASSER, A GIFT, EMMANUEL You will my dear reader, come to the end of these lines... without reaching the answer that you have been waiting for so long. ''Is Chico Xavier a fraud or not?'' And you will say: 'I paid good money for this magazine... and I still don't have an answer to this mystery?' The mystery will still remain, perhaps it will remain forever.' The pictures are bad, huh...? Well at least he didn't say you believed he was American. What a mess. It even makes me miss my Godmother's fork. And you allowed this. Vanity allowed it. Chico, forget the excesses and think. Look at the bright side. Jesus was on the cross. You were only on Cruzeiro magazine. Right, Cassiano. Give me the earphone. Elias hand Saulo the earphone. Boss's orders, let the program run. That old law: It's only over when it's over. The law suit acknowledged that the book was a result of spirit writing. -Saulo, go for the family drama! -our mission isn't to be polemical. we didn't need the chaos. The lines of waiting people already took up all our time. Chico, a phone question from Alda in Campinas: ''My favorite cat died six months ago. I am very lonely. My family hasn't spoken to me in years. I bought another cat last month. The very day I bought her, she surprised me... -by exactly like... -Its too much! -my deceased Tati -Cats and family rejection? ...I'd like to know if animals have souls too,'' Back on Saulo! -''and if they reincarnate.'' -2 slowly back to Saulo. -Dear AIda's question -Chico, Chico, Chico! awakens in us memories of our beIoved pets... -Leave it on him. -EmmanueI says, animaIs evoIve toward the human condition, as man evoIves toward that of the angeIs. -For men, -3, audience. each incarnation brings with it -Now, Chico. Stay on Chico! -new experiences... and that sometimes, even the most deveIoped spirit... needs to stop for a breather. How couId you demoraIize Spiritism like this? Charging desperate peopIe for a pIace in Iine?! -UncIe, I onIy wanted... -AItair, no! Not another word. This is one of the saddest days in my Iife... Jus'one thing... Yer'gonna be sorry. Who can stand all this givin', all the mess you Ieave behind... Without me, it's gonna'be you and that miserabIe Iot. How about the rest of the town's peopIe? PeopIe in Pedro LeopoIdo say you ended the peace here. EmmanueI said Nobody can return and make a new beginning... but anyone can start over and make a new end. CHICO DENOUNCED BY HIS NEPHEWAND AID My son ain't taIking to no one! -No one! -Can't stand it no more! Chico can't make a mess of our Iives like this. We gonna speak to him! Out... Tol'yo'not to lose it with Altair! Pa... He didn't say much different from anyone else. That I read a lot? That I've been copying authors since I was a kid? -Altair's family! -How could he lose himself so? It'll only be worse for him. Chico we was talkin'... this mess, day and night there are people at the door, it's a never ending in and out, like the house belonged to them. -For the love of God! -I'll talk to the journalists. I'll tell them I did not take his words as accusingly, he's young... They will leave... Chico! Don't you understand? It's become difficult for all of us. -Take Pacheco, my husband, -Pa, calm down. he even likes you, but the doorbell or the phone are always ringing, a constant in and out, the house has become a livin'hell. Chico, I didn't want to tell you. But... Either you go or we do. Carmosina... A new beginning... brings experiences from the past, but made lighter. Like a blank sheet of paper, a new year, a new beginning. Passengers to Uberaba... May God be with you. -Cleide, I missed you! -And how was your trip? -It all went very well. -Everything alright? A good trip, thank goodness. How's Euripedes? ''And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive them that trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil. Amen.'' ''Dear mommy, if I've been away too long, it's 'cause we'll be together will be much longer. Tell Ludi that she ain't never gonna'be aIone no mo'. I'm always by her side. Take care of everybody there.'' Did you hear, Ludi? Ludmilla? Elizabeta! Chico... We... We lost our son. No, you didn't. He now, is one of Christ's apostles. Mr. Felipe Neto. Thank you. God Bless you. ''Father, forgive what I did. My friends, Carlos and Flavio Antonio, invited me to the bar on the day... I disembodied...'' Simone Martins. -No, no, please. -Please... -Take it, please. -No, no. I really need you to accept it. It 's all really pretty, generous and full of love... But this isn't my son! -Maria Celeste... -''Mommy'', ''Daddy''? He never talked like that, he never believed in Jesus and I do not believe in you! This is a joke. -Chico... -Yes, my daughter... This medicine's got to be took at the right time. I never know what time it is. I can't take it right. Our spiritual friends knew this! Here... Look what is here for you. Oh Chico! ''Dear mommy, I see you from here, I love you. I miss you. Our Lord Jesus' love is sublime. I am alive, I've got to rid myself of the bonds to home to be better. I'm well cared for here. Bless me. Toms Vana de Oliveira.'' Come, my daughter. -Chico! How are you? -Yes, doctor! Ready? I don't think any one is ever ready for this. We can't be sure before we see the prostate, but with your protectors I believe it'll be benign. -Then, I am ready. -It'll be alright. The nurse will give you something to relax. Okay? We'll see each other later. Thanks. I can't understand why you didn't go see Arig... At least to make sure. He might have even been able to fix you. Cleide, Doctors study, they know a lot... For a medium to open up a Christian's body I think it is a crime. Don't say that Chico, I'm worried about your health... Don't you worry, Cleide. Emmanuel said that I would only disembody on a day that everybody in Brazil was very happy. Then you ain't never gonna die, right? Don't you think it makes you look a bit... exotic? I prefer to not to discuss this with you. At least my appearance belongs to me. You are late, Chico. We're gonna miss the plane. We're never late. This TV stuff is too new for me. You shouldn't have accepted, why did you?... Emmanuel ordered you to. Not a word about this. Aren't you that guy who sees spirits. I knew it! From UberIandia. I've seen your name in the newspaper. You must have seen it. After all, you recognized me from UberIandia. How are you? It's nice to know what the other side is like, isn't it? Here I am terrified and you... relaxed. -God help and save us! -Now it's serious! Our Lady of Aparecida! -Help! -Why are you screaming? Why... Our lives are at risk. Many people's lives are in danger. Why should you be privileged? If my life is in danger, I'm gonna scream. Oh my, Help me Lord! Don't you think this is a good time to prove your faith, -your belief in immortality? -I am terrified! I think I might die if we crash like everyone! We're all going to die...! So shut up and die politely. Oh, God, God! Have mercy on us... Have mercy. Thank God! -Amen! -Amen! We thank Jesus' kindness... for the opportunity we were given today. They say the ungrateful forget, but tonight... I was taken far away in time, I was with my mother... My mother gave me this incarnation out of kindness... If you'll allow me I'd like to pray as she prayed with me since I was four. Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name; thy kingdom come; thy will be done, in Earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive them that trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom... Tell Saulo to ask him to start Spirit Writing. the power, and the glory, for ever and ever. Amen.'' Chico, please, I'd like to ask you to do a spirit writing. Yes, yes of course. -The whole deal. -Thank you. Could I have some music? Ah yes, of course... Music. Don't you believe? Not even a little, man? No! Not after all that's happened. Do you mind waiting for just a little while? Please! There are things in this letter that concern you, and others too. It is a difficult situation. But tell your wife, a mother's love is so powerful that, my mother helped me find my way even after she was disembodied. I know your wife has enough Iove to understand your son's message. I don't know what my wife toId you when you met. But she's not the probIem, I am. Maybe my memory faiIs me. But I don't remember having taIked to your wife. You wrote her a letter. I'm like a postman. I receive tons of letters. I deliver them. Testing, testing... Spaceship Excelsior calling Earth base. ''Ma Goya'', do you read me...? This is, ''Ma Gia,''over. Stop it, Mom. This isn't a walkie-talkie. It is a spaceship. You don't say over, ''Ma Goya.'' Go ahead, Commander Orlando. Commander Orlando speaking from Earth. Do you read me Lieutenant Tomas? I'm sorry. I know you don't like listening to this... ''Ma Goya, over.'' I never told Chico that. I swear, no one knew. ''Ma Goya. Ma Goya, over. My dear mother, my beloved father. May God enlighten you. It was very peaceful. I didn't feel a thing. What hurts most is thinking of your suffering. I've recovered from the accident...'' What accident? Go on. Please. Go on. ''The peace here in the spirit plane... makes us want to help others. So, I want you to help more people. And this is why I want to say that... Eduardo... isn't guilty?!...'' What is this?! ''We were messing with the gun, and without either of us doing anything much, it went off and fired the shot that took... me. No one's fault. But the result is still the same... I know how dad likes his privacy, but Grandpa wants to tell dad... that that day in the hospital, he wanted to tell dad... that he never missed... he never missed... a show dad did. Well, grandpa says the shows were always silly, but he watched every last one of them anyway...'' Sounds just like your Father... ''Grandpa wanted to tell you, but the words wouldn't come out of his mouth. A thousand kisses, Tomas.'' I'll try to explain. I was with my dad in the hospital, he was in a coma and... and I was with him, talking to him, and I asked him why he disdained my job, why didn't he ever say anything? I did so many of the things and they were all for him... and that he refused to watch... And now Tomas... They... This... What is this? He is well. -He's well my love... -What is this? The victim's parents had a letter annexed to the suit, supposedly dictated by son... to Francisco Xavier, the famous medium. In this letter, Tomas or Tomas' spirit, states that he and the accused were ''playing around'', the gun fired randomly, killing the victim. The letter comes with a signature Similar to the victim's, as can be seen on his ID papers and was also submitted to a handwriting expert. Mr. Prosecutor, you may question the witness. I'd like to note that in previous hearings you were hostile to the accused, quite normal under the circumstances, but in great contrast to your new attitude. Was there no kind of appeal, or even coercion, which may have influenced this change in attitude? None whatsoever. We... We acted completely out of our own free will. Are you a Spiritist? No. I am an atheist. And so? It is very difficult as a parent to be here in front of... my son's killer and ask for his release. Very difficult. I don't know how to explain, but I am now convinc... Sorry! But I'm convinced my son... my son wrote this letter. It is my son's letter. In an unheard of decision for the Brazilian legal system, the victim acquitted his own murderer. Sir. I am sure the jury was influenced by that letter, in acquitting this young man. It is a sad day when the dead interfere... in the sentencing of the living. -Early start today? -Didn't you see. There are piles of letters, lots of people for the session tonight. And we haven't even written the two hundredth. Well I'll be... You never told me why you gave them that letter. I told you. I said you knew everything. That's not an answer. Every little bit of peace, I bring to someone is worth the peace that I never had. -I never said... -You said something like that... Make up your mind. Are you gonna help me or should I look for another guide? CHICO XAVIER WROTE 412 BOOKS SOLD MORE THAN 40 MILLION COPIES WAS TRANSLATED INTO 33 LANGUAGES ALWAYS DENIED AUTHORSHIP OF ANY OF THE BOOKS WAS NEVER PAID ANY COPYRIGHTS ALL REVENUE REVERTED TO CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS HE DIED AGED 92 AT 7:30 PM ON JUNE 30TH 2002 TEN HOURS AFTER BRAZIL WON THE WORLD CUP FOR THE FIFTH TIME THE BRAZILIAN PEOPLE WERE HAPPY When they reflect our longing tempered with hope, our disembodied friends tell us, that the tears do them a lot of good. These tears then light the paths of who is remembered with such great affection. But when the tears reflect our anger at God's designs, things that we cannot understand. When the tears reflect our rebellion the tears hurt the living as well as those who have departed. Within the Catholic Church, we have seen prodigious spirituality manifest several times, and mostly... at morning Masses. Where there is a communion on the same level of the spiritual vibrations of all the believers and their faith in Jesus. We've seen sainted spirits blessing the holy wafers, transforming them into flowers of light, that the priests offered at communion. ...So I started shouting ''God help me!''. And Emmanuel's spirit entered. -It seemed like this thing... -He entered the plane? It sounds like something from a TV program... but it is true... -He entered the plane -You saw the spirit enter? Then he passed those people who could not see him, just like most of the people here... can't see him. And he asked me ''Why are you screaming? I heard your cry for help, what's the matter?'' And that thing had been going for about twenty minutes. So I said: ''Don't you think our lives are at risk?'' And he said: ''Yes and so what? There are many whose lives are at risk, you are not privileged, right?''. So I said: ''Alright if my life is at risk I'm going to scream!'' and I went... and I went on screaming... ''My God help me!'' And everybody was screaming too. ''I am afraid of dyin in this crash too''. And he said: ''Very well, then die politely. Shut up and die politely... so you don't make everyone anxious with your screaming. Die with faith in God''. -Very well... -And I said: ''I just want to know how does one die politely''. So I pray to all our friends of the Spiritist faith, to help me with their fraternal vibrations, since I am here, fearful of making more... grammatical errors... and of being more uncivil... than I already am in daily life. The first book known to humanity, was let's say, a book from the spiritual realm, a book of stone, it was the Ten Commandments. Spirit written by Moses! The spirits teach us... that we are at different levels of interpretation, but that we are one family in the eyes of our Lord Jesus Christ. Though we are personally on the level of Christian Spiritism, according to Allan Kardec's conception, as the mediumship... called us to this field of work, which is in itself profoundly Christian, and so we left... our work in the Catholic Church... with the blessing of a priest... who we loved like a father. We have a problem in terms of sex and Humanity, something we should consider... with great care and mutual respect. Lets us say... if man's potentialties in seeing, hearing, in the huge resources of the brain, let us say, in taste buds, in the hands, the hands that do manual works, in the feet... If all these potentialities were given Man for his advancement, for education, for wellbeing, I'm saying that these potentialities in God's name, are dedicated to good and to light, why would sex, in its diverse manifestations... be sentenced to darkness? I wouId like to ask permission to sum up my thanks, by saying the prayer she recited with me... when I was 4 years old. ''Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name; thy kingdom come; thy will be done, in Earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive them that trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, forever and ever. Amen.'' Thank you very much. END
