 

                        Don't let Captain see you like this Time to eat, boys Food, finally Morning Morning Tommy, the Fung Nin Road case... Did you apply for informant expenses yet? I'll do it today Hurry, or they won't tell us anything Okay Management is complaining you order too much You're always over-budget Whoever orders, pays You ordered everything So I'll pay Here's Captain Captain Sorry, Sir Have some tea Sun Has Kingman received news ...that Rat is there? Well, Kingman? Watched TV all night again? I've handled it I'm fine Rat has entered Yu King Square Copy that Rat chose the Third Hole Every unit there has front and back doors When we're sure where he is Tony, Chi, Christy and I take the front door Sun, Michael and Fai, the back door On my walkie signal, ...one for ready, three for go Are we sure this is it? Any weapons upstairs? No Take him to the car Be careful, men Stop! Police! Sun! Wasn't it three for go? Are you deaf? Sorry, Sir You're sorry! I ask you Answer my question Are you deaf? I am not deaf You told me at breakfast You've handled it. It was a mess! This is not the first time You fall asleep on every job with me I've always said If there's an operation in the morning Don't stay up late; don't nod off You're sloppy You like late night soccer? I'll get you transferred now It's just a little mistake That's not your call Get lost! Get out of my face! Where are you going? To get medication for Sun Thanks Back to work! Attention, all units Prisoner Cheung Yat-tung has been hijacked At San Wan Road by three armed men In a black Honda, plate number NA558 Heading towards Yuen Long You were harsh I take care of my men Get it X-rayed I'm fine I've been waiting for this for over twenty years And now, at my age... When I was shot, I only thought of my family You'll keep it secret, right? My lips are sealed We get this done today... ...you may get promoted Then you'd better write me a good report Study hard and take the exam You can't just have stripes on that shoulder You must have some stars I hate to study And I don't want to be Chief True, you don't have the look You nut After work, I just want to go home It's NA558! Dispatch, this is Tong of Yuen Long Team A I am on Tai Chuen Kiu Road Following the Cheung Yat-tung suspect vehicle Plate number CE2923 I repeat, CE2923 I am directly tailing it Over and out Calm down, Sun Stop It's amber? Stop Now what? Ram him Now what? Keep him away from town He's going to shoot! Ram into him! We'll flip! Just do it! Sun Hang in there, Sun Yee Linda, Cheung is awake Set him a court date now On 20 December 2007 Three armed men robbed a jewelry shop They killed a guard Police killed two as they left Cheung was captured three days later They found Cheung's blood at the scene That blood sample is the only evidence That Cheung committed murder there Advising Counsel for the case is Ann Gao On 16 February 2008 On his way to court, Cheung was again ...picked up by three accomplices The same day, officers Tong and Kwok... ...arrested him again In the process, Tong killed... ...Ann's daughter by accident Mr Lee, should Ann still be ...assigned to the case? Her daughter is ruled to have died in an accident This is not related to Cheung By law, she must continue... ...to work on the 17 December 2007 case Cheung's armed robbery These are two separate cases The Defense will use this against us Our case is so strong that ...with our evidence, we've got Cheung We just need to follow all protocol exactly ...with no mistakes We're ready They can't win I trust Ann's conduct and ability absolutely You're getting good at this What did you draw? This is me, this is my sister Dad said she went away to school I miss her Same as last week again? This should taste better It smells good Try some Delicious I'll learn to bake cakes on Saturday I'll bake you some May I go, too? I'll have to ask Miss Lee All right Yes? Get to work Rest in peace, haunt your enemies We're just following orders $40,000 for this job The two packs you lost cost $200,000 This $25,000 is the second installment And $15,000 for you, right? I want my watch back Your eye is getting worse The doctor cannot get the glass shards out? No Then you'll go blind in your other eye, too You're on your own Even if you're blind, you must pay me back I won't help you You can solve your own problems Fine, my eyes are not your business What else will you let me do? I don't know if you'll do this I'll do anything A child Kidnap her for $20,000 Then we'll decide what's next Ok, let's start Hurry up! Ling Hurry up Come back... Come back... Hurry up Children ...line up to wash your hands Then we'll eat cake, all right? Yes! Excuse me, I need to wash my hands One by one Ling Someone took Ling! Hey! Ling has been taken Hello? I have your daughter Fix Cheung's blood sample If he's acquitted, we won't hurt her Call the police, and she dies Hey, Mr Hung You said you would fix my toilet It's blocked by your sewage pipe You are so mean! Doesn't an old lady need to crap? Honey, when you be home? Why didn't you answer my call? Didn't you get my sms? I didn't check My father is in Hong Kong I'm picking up Ling to have dinner with him What's wrong? She's not feeling well She was fine this morning I'll go see her No need, it's not serious I'll see her anyway No, she's sleeping Why not? She is not supposed to be with you today Don't be so unreasonable Who's being unreasonable? She's sick and you want to drag her out Today is Mother's Day She stays with me Dad's leaving tomorrow I'll bring her back really soon If you valued Mother's Day... ...you shouldn't have abandoned them Get out! Ann, please don't do this Ann, open the door, hear me out Ann, calm down Ann Open the door, Ann Ann The divorce papers state that... ...Ling stays with you, Yee with me If you insist on having Yee, I'll see you in court What court? I'm not fighting with you Have you considered how Yee feels? She's my daughter She'll tell me herfeelings Stay out of this You only think of yourself Do you know she hates staying with you? She is a child, she needs care You leave her alone at home every night Last night she was bawling when she called me You work 18 hours a day, then go home and sleep Have you even looked at her? You're too selfish ...to think about us If you can't care for her, give her back to me Bring her over now So when you fooled around ...did you think of us? Would our family be like this if not for you? You're not qualified to criticize me Fire! What is it? Sorry, Sun The boys and I had a barbecue We talked about you What did you say? That you vanished You just left without a word That was an accident The bosses said nothing. Don't blame yourself You don't hate me? What's the use of hating you? My daughter taught me how to read comics I now know what fair trade means I'm limping But my wish came true! That's Fate She tricks you, then she helps you There's nothing you can do What can I do for you? Sun, you have connections I have to do something, but I cannot report it Please look up a number for me Tong, I've got it The 1:15pm phone call to Ann Gao... ...was from the public phone at 6 Observatory Road There must be a lot of fingerprints... ...since then I've asked Christy to help you Sir, I don't think it will work You haven't tried. So lazy When I first came, they told me about you Yes, you are mean, but... ...I like working for you I'll call you if I find anything $350 Sir, I'm the only one here Is that your closed circuit TV? Yes Sir, how long will you be? Why are you messing with my garbage can? Have you collected the garbage today? Yes Where is it? At the Garbage Collection Center Why are you here? Police What's going on? Where is the garbage from Observatory Road? There, but so are sacks from nearby streets One puff only That was some puff I gave you this after my first deal You pawned it? Doctor said you'll recover So try to move your hands more ...by sending me more sms's Sunny day, want to watch the sky with you When you are better ...we'll go watch the sky, the sea ...anything you want Sun, I found a SIM card Have Intelligence check it out for me I'll do it tomorrow I'm home Come back I'll do it in the morning Or go yourself. You know my contact Who is it? Michael What is it? The number Sun told you to check, he checked for me Fill out the form Short cuts are not allowed Please help me Help you? How? My boss finds out, he will file a complaint I'll lose this job You loved to file complaints against me I leave a bit early, complaint Two-second delay in rushing a door, complaint Did we get the guy? Yes! Everyone was commended but me What can I do but stay here? This is not right You like to yell, so I let you yell at me I prepared myself for that But there was more I needed time off, gave you a fake doctor's letter Applied for sick leave ...but you snitched on me And filed a complaint! You messed up my record so much I'll never get promoted! You take your job seriously, but remember... ...I'm your cousin We're family I'll always be your cousin At least you can apologize Sorry, Cousin Get out I don't want to see you again I understand why you won't call the police I'm not here as a policeman Get out! I know you hate me I'm not looking for forgiveness I just want to help Stay out of my family affairs Please open the door, hear me out Have they called you? Your daughter is fine, for now Remember, remove Cheung's blood sample Someone will call you before tomorrow's trial I got Ann's phone signal She just got an mms I need time to decode it And the sender is the same... ...number as the card you picked up The reception point is in North Point The area bordered by Java, Marble... ...Tong Shui Roads and Chun Yeung Street Sir, I am the advising counsel ...in the Cheung Yat-tung case I need to ask you for help All the evidence and paperwork in the case ...have been delivered to your office All right I've decoded the mms, ...sending it to you now Have some bread Open up, Mr Hung! Mr Hung! Old lady, is it here? Mr Hung! Is this the place? Yes, I saw him come back Open up, Mr Hung. This is the police Mr Hung, this old lady called the police Saying you maliciously broke her sewer pipe And your home smells bad and is too loud We're here to take a look Sure Old Lady, there is no smell Go in, you'll smell it Be serious in your duties We'll go in All right Nice ceiling height But the stairs are too much TRUE It's fine Just wait Watch, it's floating up I've asked you to fix it dozens of times It's floating up now No matter what You're neighbours. Just fix it Don't be a bother to her, and don't bother us All right Watch, just stand here It will float up soon Okay, we'll stay a while longer You must fix this it's filling up I told you so Hi Hello? Mommy Ling! Mommy, I'm scared Come take me away Where are you? Ling Be brave Tell Mommy where you are Can you see outside? Ling Ling, tell Mommy What do you see? Be brave, what do you see? Tell Mommy Hello? The number you have dialed is not available at the moment, please try again later Well? Does it still hurt? What colour is this? What colour! Purple And what colour is this? What colour! Yellow And this? Purple Take your medicine Drink some water Better? It's fine, I'm here Don't be afraid Really? Do you want drumstick? You want salad Louder And salad I want salad Okay, after we sort these What did you find out? Look The red light at the window Is it neon light? Looks like neon light from nearby There are 9 neon signs there Three are near homes They are huge, and shine on many windows Do you need backup? when you pay ransom Too bad they don't want money It's useless even if... ...10 teams scoured the area They'll change location once they get wind You will lose them What now? Wait for night, find the red sign We have a long wait Have you eaten? I'll buy, what do you want? Black coffee Black coffee and no food ...will kill you, you know? Keep your eyes peeled Beef noodles... ...fried rice, two iced coffees ...one with no sugar, to go $70, please Here Count it Thanks Have some tea and wait Chicken salad I think... ...I see the Grey Eye you've mentioned ...meet me at Fat's Kitchen Call an ambulance! Hey! What's wrong with you? Are you blind? Give me back my daughter! Attention all units Gunshots at King's Road at North View Street Overpass Request assistance Out Attention all units, the North View gunman... ...is in blackjeans, brown pants, short hair... ...with an obvious scar over his right eye Out Stop! Stop! Police! Officer 5253 calling Dispatch The North View Street gunman... ...is heading west on Chun Yeung Street Stop! Police! Out of the way! Get out of the way! Police! Stop! Back off Sgt. Tong, your gun please We'll take you Downtown for a better statement Can you hear me? Excuse us We'll be there soon I know you wanna rescue her at any cost But everything is messed up now It's out of our control I must save her myself I know You want to rescue her by yourself... ...for your redemption But have you considered... ...you may make things much worse Anything happens to her, ...you're finished Are you doing this for her, orfor yourself? Think about it I know what I'm doing A gunfight erupted... ...at Tin Chong Street at 5pm today Police say the criminal fired four shots. ...injuring a police officer Police are now searching... Hello? You don't take us seriously Remember, you chose to harm your daughter It's not me! I didn't call the police! Hello? Listen to me. I have a clue I'm in North Point I'll wait for you Ann is coming Yes? Boss says, cut off her hand Film it and send it to her mom Hey! Sun I told you to leave it alone! Why did you continue? We really have a clue You've made it into such a big deal They will harm Ling You've killed my other daughter Stop before you kill Ling too I want to save her I don't want you to! Not you! Anyone else can save her but you! I won't let you hurt her again Get lost! Get lost! Look at this We know your mms was sent from here The red light in the background is definitely from a sign We've looked at them, this is the one I may be wrong ...but we need hope Did you find out anything? Did you see her? I will bring her back Tong! Honey, I'll come back for you What are you doing? Where is he going? Which hand do you write with? My right Cut off her left hand Help! Help! I found your wife. Bring Ling back Let my daughter go! Or the police will guard your wife You'll never see her again Let my daughter go! Sun, what did Michael say? Got it. He's still around Do you know what your husband is doing? Tell him to come back! Call him, tell him Calm down Please get him back it's no use Calm down. Want some water? What do you want? Sure, I'll bring it Get some water Which bottle? This one? No. This? No. Or this? Yes How many pills? One? Two? Give her two Open your mouth Take it easy Help her open her mouth Help her Easy, easy Here Take a sip All right It's fine You're fine Relax, don't worry As a fellow woman ...I hope you understand One of my daughters is dead I caused her death I feel so guilty I can't sleep at night I can't lose this daughter, too I beg you... ...tell your husband not to hurt my daughter I will do what they asked Tell him for me ...I beg you I can't wait any more That's an obstruction ofjustice Call an ambulance Take her to the hospital I'll go with her These are her pills Thanks Get up, open the door Get up Open the door Sun! Hang in there! I can do it My phone is in the ambulance Get up, open the door Tell Michael to track my phone Take it easy, don't move Don't talk I'll call for a car This is Hung What phone are you using? A new SIM card The thing's gone bust I don't care, you have to be responsible Can you help me look after my wife? No, deal with it yourself And, don't think about escaping If I find you, you won't be the only one to die Sun's phone is on Lok On Pai in Zone 59 of Tuen Mun Inside an abandoned desalination plant Ling Tong Give the blood sample to the two men ahead Then we'll release your daughter Hello? Ann, I'm with Ling Tong? How is Ling? I got her. We're fine Hello? Hello? Listen, don't give it to them Is Ling okay? Hello? Tong, does it really hurt? Mommy says ...when you fall, no matter how much it hurts, you must keep running I know I know My lord, Members of the Jury The lab has proved this is Cheung Yat-tung's blood Thus, the masked armed robber ...who shot and killed the guard ...is the Defendant Cheung Yat-tung Call my men! Call my men to work! Witch! Just you wait! You witch! Court is adjourned Hold this Once we go in ...don't turn back no matter what Okay? I'm afraid of the dark Tell yourself, you can do it I will also tell myself, I can do it Okay? Go in Ling, go in Mommy, help! I'm afraid Call me back soon Speak Kill the girl I'll pay you when I see her body Ling! You have to be all right Ling Wake up, Ling Wake up I said, wake up Wake up Please wake up! Don't give up, I won't Wake up Wake up You told me, you said ...Mommy said ...Mommy said, no matter what ...you must keep running Wake up Wake up and run with me If you don't, I can't run any more I really can't run any more Wake up Please wake up Please wake up Run with me And bake cakes with me, okay? Call me back soon Ling Breathe, keep still Breathe slowly, Ling We'll keep running Cop! Cop! Cop! Cop! Cop! Come here! Cop! Come here Cop! Come here Cop! Come here Cop - I will save you Find my wife Find my wife My kid will soon be born I need money, please help I'd give your husband work, ...but he nags too much Complaining or throwing tantrums It's survival of the fittest Nowadays, killers just need guts Youngsters charge a few thousand Your husband charges five figures You choose bargains when you shop This is a job My husband has over 20 years' experience You can't compare him to rookies If he works, he won't starve I'm his wife; I don't want to see him insulted I'll do anything Chuen, are you insane? Can't you see my wife is pregnant? You let her make your deliveries? Are you blind or crazy! What are you shouting about? Honey, I offered to do it All talk... Wake up! If not for your fooling around... ...would your pregnant wife have to work? You choose jobs You want dignity? Can you afford it? I won't allow this! Don't go back on your word Hung, run! Stop! Hold it Stop! Wah, this is Hung Grab your gear, meet me at the fight school Now! Are you hurt? Hang in there! We'll go to the hospital now! Hang in there, honey THE END
