 

                        "Biyun Temple" Pleased to meet you. Did the three of you receive an invitation just like me and that's why you came here to Biyun Temple? The name of the sender is very strange. I want to see what he looks like. This is outrageous! Don't you have any respect for me? You're here so late. I've been waiting here since noon, now it's dusk. I was getting really impatient. Almost thought that the 4 infamous Jiangnan Killers are too scared for this appointment. You must be kidding. Kid, are you Xinsuan (miserable)? That's right. Just as miserable as my name. Interesting. So you're a strange person. Why don't you call yourself Kuaile (happy), Xiaoyao or Ziyouziazi (carefree)? Why must you call yourself Xinsuan? It sounds awful. It's unfortunate, but I've never had any happy event in my life. It's always been miserable. Xinsuan. Panda, enough with the chit chat. Why did you send us the invitations? I need your help. Sure. Can you afford it? Of course not. That's why I caught four fat rats, I plan to cook you a roast rat feast. You're very rude, kid! You take us four as rats! The rats ran away! But not you! Unless you'll hand over Prince Yan's commission letter. Commission letter? Correct. Word is out that you four have received the secret invitation from Prince Yan. You're invited to his dinner party on the 8th of this month; That's tomorrow evening. I heard that he's given you a job to do. Where did you hear about that? Let's not bother with who's the source. As long as there's a commission letter. What do you need that for? I'll go to the party on behalf of you. Wait. Four against one! Maybe you're alright with this. But not me! I hardly think you're that strong, come and get my head. Not bad, eh? A fellow expert can test how good you really are. Only one of us will live. You're right, only one of us will live. Just as I expected. The Four Killers who stop at no evil, they don't live up to their name. It's just a piece of cake to get rid of you lot. And you'll make no exception. Xi Men Bao, your turn. Very well... Amazing... That's the first time I've seen something like this. This is really something. Prince. Strange, those we're expecting aren't here, but someone we don't expect is here. Go take a look. Yes. What's wrong with you? Why did you let him in? He... Today is the 8th of September, I heard that the Four Killers won't be here. Why? Because I have their heads here. Bring him over. Yes, Prince. Xinsuan is here to greet the Prince. Kneel. Now! I didn't do anything wrong, why should I kneel? Kneel. Let him be. Yes. Open up. That's them. Take it away. Yes. What's your name again? Gu Jian, also known as Xinsuan. Xinsuan as in miserable. What a strange name! Why did you kill them? Firstly, they kill innocent bystanders, I'm doing the public a favor to get rid of them. Second, I love money. This job will give me fame and fortune. Third, killing the Four Killers can prove my abilities. Also it'd prove they ain't the right guys for the job. How did you do it? No poison, no tricks, only with my own skills. I don't believe that. Unless you can dodge three arrows of mine. Please forgive me. Impressive. You're very bold. Have a seat. Thank you. Do you know why I hired the Four Killers? I don't know the details. The thing is, I've something very important that needs to be sent to Xian. I fear that someone might try to intercept. That's why I need someone to make sure it's delivered. Why don't you hire the escort company? Well, they aren't good enough. What about martial arts experts? Trust no one. You've plenty of soldiers, can't you send some of them? Why pick the evil Four Killers? I must keep the delivery low profile, and it's very dangerous. It's risky for the person who's doing the job. It wouldn't matter so much if the evil ones die. Young man, do you still want this job? Yes, I heard the reward is I think it's worth a try. But I wonder what exactly am I supposed to deliver! Yes. Take it here. This is it, young man. Don't be curious about what's inside. If I find any sign of it being pried open, you'd be punished instead of any reward. Don't worry, prince. I'm only interested in the reward. Keep this half, you'll need this later. Who should I deliver this to in Xian? Someone will contact you. What are the consequences if I fail? Don't worry, you wouldn't need to compensate me. Because I'm sure you'd be dead by then. Move over... That's him, must be. Hello... Hi... What's the big deal? So snobbish. A famous martial arts hero perhaps acts like this. Pleased to meet you. From your appearance, I can tell you're Gu Feitian, Golden Rod of Qi Gate. You must be Master Gu. I've heard so much about you, it's my honor to have finally met you. My name is Gu Jian, also known as Xinsuan, I'm from Xiachuan, Lingnan. I'm a newcomer in the martial arts world, I'm here to listen to your teachings and advice. I'm in no position to teach you. But I could give you an advice, you talk too much rubbish. You... Fine! Gu Feitian, I want you to remember. My name is Xinsuan! Xinsuan! No need. I have my own teapot and tea leaves. Pour the boiling water here. Thank you. What's that? Waiter. Please sit down. Alright. Do you have any vacant room here? Rooms... No? Oh, there is vacancy... Then prepare a room. And bring me something to eat. Yes. Show the guest to his room. Yes. This way please. This is your room. Don't stay there, pal. It's dirty. What are you talking about? What's wrong with you? How did you know? Because I arrived a few hours earlier. Sit down. What's your name? No name, a wanderer. Stop talking in circles. How did you know that I'm staying here? Well, I'm not the only one who knows. Jufeng Inn is the only inn here, you have no other option. Come, have a drink. It's good tea. Come on. What tea is this? It's very bitter. All good medicine tastes bitter, the name is "Bitter Lion". It is good for your brain and heart. You should know that there will be a storm here in this inn. Since you've became famous. Don't bother. There will be plenty of those on the way. You've helped me, how should I thank you? Don't mention it. It's my pleasure. There aren't many who are like you, thanks. Boss, I want a clean room. For two. For one. Wait, Master Xin. Wait, Master Xin. Wait. Master Xin. Can't run anymore. You're a good man. I know you're very kind, you won't leave me behind, thank you... Thank you! Master Xin. Old lady... I know I shouldn't bother you at this time. I'm just passing by. But I couldn't find any place for food. Could you give me something to eat on the road? Normally that wouldn't be a problem, but you are here at a bad time. I am not in the mood to cook. I understand... Old lady, don't be so sad. He's my only son, I couldn't give him anything for his burial. That's why he's still holding his last breath. Really? Xinsuan, we don't want to kill you, we just want the box. Open it. We'll split the contents with you. Consider this as our favor for you Or else, this would have been your grave. So obnoxious! Who are you lot? Jin Ju, Poison Scholar. Shen San, the Black Lunatic. Liu Ergu, who comes and goes suddenly. Big names, but I've never heard of you. And my job is to deliver it. I have no right to open the box. I assume that there isn't anything precious inside this box. Who will believe you? Your reward is so high, I'm sure it's worth a fortune. Old lady, it's up to you to believe it or not. Stop. Ergu, the beggar is here, let's go! Let's go. Oh no! You're dying so young. This is really sad. You're hit with the poisonous needles! Those are very powerful. Get up. I've the antidote, come take it. I beg you. Don't beg me, you're not worth saving. I'll just wait till the poison kills you slowly, and then I'll deliver the box to Xian, claim the reward and enjoy it all to myself. So? You have a problem with that? Get up and kill me then. Xinsuan, I really wanted to be your friend, but you pushed me away. Now you know, you're about to die, and you know my importance. Very well, I'll save you this time. You shouldn't judge a book by its cover. I may look like a butcher, but it doesn't mean I'm not kind. Lucky you! Where are you... brother? Right here. I haven't slept in a coffin before, just trying it out. But it wasn't such a good idea. Very spooky, not enjoyable. Agreed. Stay away from it. Or you'll have bad luck. Yet you slept in it! Xinsuan, how's your leg? Much better now. Great. The poison is very powerful, but your antidote worked like a charm. Thank you. If my assumption is correct, you must be Yang Feng, the Head of Beggars Clan. Bingo! Brother Yang, I don't get it. Why did you help me and save me? Xinsuan, you know why. People look down on us beggars. It is really terrible. We beggars should have some aspiration. We shouldn't eat food that's handed out in contempt. I heard about Prince Yan is hiring. I really want to try out. You came out in the middle of nowhere, and killed the Four Killers. I didn't stand a chance. Then, why did you follow me on the way? After I help you to get the job done, I hope you will give me a share. So that we can have better days. Don't worry, half of my reward is yours. Why are you tying the knots? One knot, one dead person. The Four Killers. The Poison Scholar. As for the nobodies, they're not counted. I don't know how many will die on the way to Xian, and neither am I sure if the two of us can make it. Don't worry, I'm very tough, I won't die. I am concerned nevertheless. No one knows what will happen later. Qionghua Hall is full of pretty women in all sizes, it lives up to its reputation. Miss Sisi, I'm infatuated with you. I don't want to go home to my life. Master Gu, did you mean that? Do you mean it? Come here. Only a monk could resist this. No... even an old monk can't resist in this kind of environment. I haven't enjoyed any of this for three months, what an endurance. I'm suffering more, I'm starving. Let's go and get something to eat. I'm full already. Alright, I'm getting off. Please wait. Are you Xinsuan? That's right. What can I do for you? I'm Tao Jian, this is my brother Tao You. Prince Yan's ordered us to protect you in the dark. I don't care if you're protecting me, or the box. I won't share my reward with you. Don't worry, we get paid separately. What happened? Tell me. Prince has instructed that you should meet him at the abandoned garden of Xue Residence, he'll be waiting for you. Abandoned garden of Xue Residence. How come the prince has arrived here so quickly? I'm not sure, goodbye. How do I go there? This way out, walk along the main street till the end, head east and walk into the alley. And you will see it. Go soon. Brother Yang, have a drink in the inn and wait there. I'll be back after I complete the errand. Come back soon! I don't have any money with me. I don't have any money with me. Come back soon! Carrying a hulu and green bamboo crane. Walks like a duck and goose. The person has hidden wealth, fame and fortune in the generations to come. You aren't talking about me, right? I'm talking about you, what's your name? Nameless. Right, and how old... Thirty eight. Correct again, come... Miss Ruohua, he's your benefactor, hurry and invite him inside. Please... Let me be clear, I have no money. Don't worry, come... Come on. Please go in. Go on. Come on. Go in. Nice. Make yourself at home. What's mine is yours. And you can have me later. In that case, I've turned into a pimp? That's a terrible thing to say. The fortuneteller Zhang said I'll support you now, and you'll support me in the future. Why is that? Because you're about to strike gold. He said I'm destined to meet my benefactor. Smell it. You stink. Sorry, I haven't had a shower in months. Stinks, right? What are you doing? The fortuneteller Zhang must have forgotten to tell you. How a woman should behave with virtues, a woman has 72 cheap behaviors. Look at you, you can't walk properly. Your eyes show that you're promiscuous. And the mole amidst your brow, it means that you're destined to be widowed, your husband and son will die. You! Do you think I'll fall for a low class prostitute like you? What are you doing? If I guess right, you have a mole on your belly button. With the mole among your brow, and the mole on your belly button, it means that you're a woman of lust. Just as I expected. I've no time to play with you. Who's behind this? I don't know. Speak up. I don't know, I honestly don't know. It's me. The fortuneteller Zhang. That's right, it's me. Who's that? Stand still. Human or ghost? Human, of course. I've been expecting you. Actually, it's not Prince Yan who invited you. I walked into a trap. Say what you have to say and leave. You think this is funny? I haven't had a taste of a woman in three months. At this time and place, with the two of us alone, I wouldn't care. Human or ghost, I don't mind. You're the one who is in an unfavorable position. Scared? Just leave. You're forcing me to do that. Master Xin, I don't think you're that kind of a man. As long as you promise you won't send the box to Xian, I'm willing to sleep with you. What? I could also pay you one hundred thousand. If you agree to it, I can recommend you to be an official. This is my lucky day! Money, status, and a wife! Lady, you're making a big sacrifice. What's in the box must have something to do with it. Yes, I can't tell you the details. Many would die if the box is delivered to Xian. Fine if you don't want to tell me. I'm no material to be an official. I can make my own money. And you... I have absolutely no interest, please leave. Listen. Young man, you don't know the lady. That's because you are a newcomer. Master Huo. Let me introduce you. She's the well known Miss Shui Xian Hua of the Shui Family in Jiangnan. Old man, and you are... Me? Nobody. What are you doing here? I've brought someone here. A person? Brother Yang... Don't panic, he can't speak temporarily. It's because he's been drugged, but... the longer he waits, the deeper the coma. What? I hear that you're a man of honor, especially those who have saved you. Since I'm in a trap already, give me the antidote, and I'll give you the box. The antidote is here, but I can't give this to you yet. I'll only give you this after the box has been transported over ten miles from here. To be fair, I'll put it here. Three Brave Brothers, take the box. Master Xin won't give you any trouble. Yes. Trying to cheat? I think I should keep this with me for now. Since I'm outnumbered, why don't you just snatch it from me instead of tricking me into this? Yes, this act is low. Master Xin, it's only because of desperation, we would never do this, and we really don't want to hurt you. We only want the box, we are not your enemy. Too bad it's too late now. If I'm right, you must be the Three Brave Brothers. Don't panic, we could never be friends. I'm just interested in what you're carrying. Who are you really? I think it's better if you don't know, or you'll be scared to death. I'm taking the box no matter what! I don't have time to deal with you. Just go! Go! Miss Shui. Goodbye, Master Xin. Brother Yang. Wait here, don't leave. Don't bother. How come you have this? This only proves one thing. Survival of the fittest. A newcomer like you, risking your life for fame and fortune, is really ridiculous. Gu Feitian, you are full of rubbish. Tell me what do you want to do with the box? Return it to you. Unconditionally? That's right. I pity you. Your eager ambition to become rich and famous, this is the last time I'll help you. Crocodile tears. Tell me. It's worth a fortune, why not claim it for yourself? I've got fame and fortune. Why should I risk my life over a small sum? Tell you the truth, it's hard to have fame and fortune. As for me, it's destined. Stop boasting. Don't let him scare you. Gu Feitian, others might not know your background, but I do. Listen up. He's an orphan, who knows not his parents. He's raised by an old acrobat. I see. You're into gambling, prostitution. And you've done all kinds of bad deeds. You've made a name for yourself in the last few years. Next time when you want to show off, make sure there's no one around. Master Gu, you're a forgiving man. What I said was wrong. He's returning the box, you should thank him. Sorry about that... Xinsuan, if you fail to deliver the box, stop making a fool of yourself. Don't. Goodbye. Sorry, I almost ruined it. Sorry. It's not your fault. Just as I expected. There are plenty who want this box and make a fortune. Oh no! It's getting more complicated. Master Huo, do you think... Say it. Could Chi Sifang and Liu Ergu be the ones who did this? How did you know? Just a wild guess. They are the bad elements, and you've talked to them about it. I hope not. Thief! An invitation. Meet me at the Charming Alley tomorrow evening at 5 PM if you want to collect the item. Chi Sifang. Master Gu, it's been quite a while. Chi Sifang! You picked your name right! Now you're stealing from me! Tell me, why did you steal from me? Simple enough. The plants need water, the animals need food, man needs money. Master Gu, I'm surprised that someone like you would do what a robber does. For me, it doesn't matter. Doublecross? That sounds terrible. I'd like to discuss with you. The box is worth a fortune. Right, let's split the fortune. Everyone knows that the kid called Xinsuan is a fat sheep. Who would have thought... Master Gu is the first in the line. I can't blame you. It's easy money. But too bad, I've already returned the box to him. Really? How's he related to you? Not related. Why did you help him? You won't get anything even if I didn't help him. He might be annoying, but you are detestable. Gu Feitian, you have two choices. A box for a box, or you name a price. Otherwise, forget it. Gu Feitian. There are many who work for me, I could play with you today. So that you know I live up to my name. Go! Stop... Master Huo, he killed the Three Brave Brothers, and he took Xinsuan's box. What should we do? Tell me. That's enough. Master Gu, we've never met before, but I've heard so much about you. What an honor. Pleased to meet you. Was he telling the truth? That's right, and I've returned it to him, it's the truth. Certainly. Master Gu, you're a man of your word, but I'd like to know why did you return it? I just want to let him know how dangerous it is in the martial arts world. Just like you, Master Huo. You're tired of the reclusive life, suddenly you're here at Charming Alley, and befriended Chi Sifang. Master Gu, you killed my friends, and now you've made impertinent remarks. I can live with that, because I don't want to have another enemy. But I want to be clear, We're determined to get the box. From now on, please mind your own business. I hope so. Master Huo, as for the deaths of the brothers, you can come claim it anytime. Master Huo. Move aside. You must be Shui Xianhua, how lucky I'm to meet you, what a beauty. Chi Shifang, how could you break your word? You took my money and now you want the box to yourself? For a mere ten thousand silver taels, I've lost so many men! I quit. How much do you want? I want a raise. Fifty fifty. Fine! If you try to keep anything from me, I'd not let you get away with it. No one's inside, Second sister. Really? Over here. What did I tell you? Liu Ergu is a fake old lady, catch! The Liu family has five sisters. They are all ruthless and with a nickname! We've met. and the youngest, "Green Chilli". Brother Yang, let me take care of them. You just sit there and enjoy. Very well... They made a fool of me at the brothel last time, I'll get even this time around. Bravo. Eldest Sister. That was close. What goes around comes around, I'm sure we'll meet again. Let's get some sleep. It's almost dawn. We'll just sleep out here. Am I your baggage now that I'm traveling with you? Of course not, I'm glad you're here. Because you're an interesting person. The more time you spend with me, you'll discover more of my good side. Xinsuan and Yang Fang are coming this way. Great, we must snatch the box today. Listen, whoever gets the box, should leave right away. We'll meet at the Charming Alley tonight. Yes. Bad elements won't change! You broke your promise. I can't change my personality. Yang Fang, I'm a friend of your boss, move away and mind your own business. Master Huo, would you leave if your friend is in trouble? And I almost lost my life because of you. It's really generous of me that I'm not holding that against you. Shui Xian. So snobbish. He's your friend? He's just a kid who risks his life for money. We're two of a kind. Right, Xinsuan? Brother. Brother Yang, they're only after me. Rest in the shade. Come and claim the box if you can! Otherwise, move aside! And let us through. Master Huo, you're old. Let's go! Let's go! Master Huo... what should we do now? We'll think of another plan. Miss Shui, until the next time. Brother Yang, I'm starting to have doubts whether I should have taken this job or not. People like Master Huo, Miss Shui, and the Tao brothers, they are no robbers. I think the box shouldn't be delivered to Xian. You're just protecting the box, you won't care what it's about, right? I mean, as long as you get paid. Just as I expected, this day is finally here. Only a few days earlier than I thought. So you've been guarding against me all this time. That's right. You were wrong from the beginning. First, you shouldn't have saved me when I was poisoned. Second, you talk too much. You revealed your ambition in your conversations. You had so many chances to kill me, why wait until now? Because Xian is near, it's time. The tough opponents have been dealt with, I only need to kill you now. Then I could easily go to Prince Yan and claim the reward to myself. So you were using me to fight off the others. That's right. You're wrong. Because you've met me, I'm a smart and cunning fox. All the nice things you said, I took them as entertainment. I wouldn't trust you. Although you didn't really want to save me last time, but I still couldn't kill you now. Very well then! We're even. "Le Tian Tavern" Welcome, sir. Is there a Master Gu staying here? Yes, he stays in the supreme room. Is Master Gu here? Yes. Master Gu. What a surprise! Master Huo. And Miss Shui too. Please come in. Have a seat. So you're here about the deaths of the brothers? No, Master Gu. We're here to solicit your help. Because there's only a day left in Xinsuan's journey, he'll arrive Xian soon. We'd like to ask you a favor, to take the box away from him. Because we won't even have the chance after tomorrow. It isn't that hard. Miss Shui is a bright new star in the martial arts world, everyone knows that. And Master Huo, your arts excel all. Can't you do that yourself? I've been living the life of a recluse. It's only because I've been entrusted with the job. Master Gu, please help us. Xinsuan now has made a name for himself. I'm willing to pay you a very good price. A deal? How much can you pay? One hundred thousand taels of silver. Two hundred thousand. Miss Shui, killing someone and ruining my reputation for a small sum, is that worth it? Yes. Because you'll be appreciated by thousands. They will be so grateful. All men share a responsibility for their nation, this is related to the court. Then it has nothing to do with me. I just need one person's appreciation. Master Huo, I'll make myself clear. I want Shui Xianhua. No, absolutely not. Alright, Master Gu. If you can give us the box, I'll be here. Miss Shui. Master Huo. This is the only way, let's go. Wait. Miss Shui, you need to pay the price before I get the job done. Speaking of the devil. Miss Shui, think it over. I'm the only one who can kill Xinsuan. Very well, deal. But you must get hold of it. Don't worry. It's all set. I will kill him. I'm so sorry. Master Gu, a man must keep his word. Indeed. When can you hand me the box? Tomorrow at noon, outside Xian City. Fine. If one can't uphold justice, what's the use of learning martial arts? You're not a man if you can't tell the difference between good and evil. Please speak clearly, and don't... Remember well, one will die a terrible death if he does wicked things. What wicked things? Prepare a room, and some wine. Master. "Huang Gu Tun" Careful, Miss Shui. Master Huo, there's someone coming this way. Master Huo... We fell for Gu Feitian's trap. Master Huo. "Xian" Tell the prince that Xinsuan is here. Prince, Xinsuan is here. Bring him in. Yes. Xinsuan is here to greet the Prince. The box is here, please take a look. Please. Well done. The road from Guangdong to Xian takes 33 days if one travels fast. And you're three days earlier. Impressive. That I owe to you, I can live because of your blessing. You didn't open the box? No, the official seal is still there. Then, would you like to take a look what's inside? Really? Certainly. Go ahead. Bricks! Open the iron box. Prince, you are paying me one hundred thousand just for the bricks and a blank paper scroll? Have you any idea about the dangers I had to face? Was it all to make a fool of me? I didn't. You volunteered. I used you as bait, to get the others' attention. In the art of military tactics, it's feigning action in one place and to make the real move in another. It wasn't a complete waste of time for you either. At least you've made yourself known from a nobody within a month. What? You're not happy? Don't forget that I gave you this chance. Catch him alive... Go! Bastard, I'll be back. Go! Don't bother. Official Wang, send the word out, capture Xinsuan. Gu Feitian. You broke your promise and killed Master Huo; Why didn't you kill me ...the other day? That's because we slept together, I couldn't bear to kill you. Huo Rongfeng overestimated himself, he shouldn't stick his nose where he doesn't belong. He asked for it. Miss Shui, listen to me. Go back to Jiangnan, and wait for my proposal. You unscrupulous animal! I'll carve your heart out & pay respects to Master Huo. Could you kill your own husband? I wouldn't be so kind if you keep this up. Gu Feitian, I curse you. I curse you a terrible death. As long as I don't die at your hands. Let's go. Happy now? You've got the reward. You wouldn't care about the others. I didn't get a dime, you know. I fell for a trap. You wouldn't believe it. Inside the box, there was nothing except bricks and blank papers. There wasn't a name list? No. I get it. Someone else made the delivery. Follow me, Miss Shui. Why should I? At this time, who else could you listen to? Come on. Master Gu, the Prince asked for you. Please. Congratulations. Your ingenious plan worked! Well done! Have a seat. Thanks. Thank you for protecting Xinsuan on the way, so that no one knew about my plan. Or else... The real name list wouldn't be here. Prince, has Xinsuan arrived? He was earlier than you. Come take a look. He made a mess around here, and he's escaped. That's why you must be extra careful when taking this with you on the road. I fear that he might intercept you. Don't worry. He's an arrogant kid, I'll take care of him sooner or later. Then rest for a day or two, and start moving. Afterwards you can bid farewell to this way of life, and can become an official. Thank you for giving me the opportunity. Well said. I couldn't believe it, so Gu Feitian had the list all along. They took me as a moving target. Miss Shui What's the big deal about this name list? That so many are risking their lives for it Prince Yan Yikang is trying to unite a group of traitors. Their secret society is collaborating with the Jin Army, trying to overthrow the imperial court. My father was entrusted by the court and found out the plan of Prince Yan. He was ambushed to death while trying to gather more evidence. It's all your fault. You should have told me when we first met. Or I wouldn't... Forget it! You wouldn't believe any of this if you didn't find out it was a trap. I've got to get that name list anyhow. Once you can hand the list to the court, we can stop the Jin Army's invasion, and we can get rid of the traitors. That's what we should do. Now I'm sending Gu Feitian an invitation to a challenge Discontent like a snake trying to swallow an elephant; Gu Feitian, you really are something. You took my share of the reward too. And now you're trying to get a job as an official. Fortunately it wasn't my time to die, I can still meet you here. Shut up. You asked for it. Xinsuan, unless you take back the invitation, otherwise, hurry. I've to be on my way. Don't bother. This is the end, your dead end. Forget about getting the list to the Jin Army. What list? Stop acting innocent. The plan has failed. And now, me the escort, is here to rob. Very well! "Only one of us will live." But you might fail when facing me. Try it out! That was just a scratch. I really pity you. Someone like you, would use such low tricks. Xinsuan, if I really did that, you'd be dead already. That move showed that you're foolhardy, and reckless. It's hard for you to succeed. Don't be so sure. Gu Feitian, you're arrogant, you look down upon newcomers. Do you still remember? You insulted me twice. I must get even. Also, this challenge isn't about fame or fortune. I'm stopping you from helping the traitors. Do you know? Shui Xianhua. Do you think I need your help here? It's between me and him. What did you kill him for? It doesn't matter who killed him, and you don't need to know why. He deserved it. Take a look. We've made a pledge. Prince Yang Yikang leading seven officials from Central Affairs, eight officials from the Imperial Censorate, two Privy Councilors, forty-seven generals, seventeen poets and writers; One hundred and four in total, we're all here to serve the King of Jin.
