 

                        CHRISTIANE F. WE CHILDREN FROM ZOO STATION Piss and shit everywhere If you look close enough At first sight it looks fine, with its lawns... ...and shopping centers. But the staircases of the flats stink! What are the children to do, when they are playing outside? They shit themselves waiting for the lift, so instead they do it in the lobby. I've lived here since I was six, together with my mother, sister and a cat. And I'm tired of it. The posters hang all over the city... 'Sound' - Europe's most modern discotheque! I want to go there. One day I said to my mother: I'll sleep at Kessi's Kessi is the coolest girl in my class, everybody likes her She already has big breasts; I admire her 'Sound' is her second home; She's there every weekend, and knows everybody This will be my first time Come on! Is she 16? Of course, she's in my class - Is Atze here? - When isn't he here? Please put down the bag. You can't walk around with a plastic bag in here Wait a moment.. Cherry Juice, please! - Come on! - We're in the Cinema Here! - Don't you want any? - I don't feel like it! - First time? - I just don't feel like it! Stop that shit! You shouldn't have taken that pill Can't take it? Are you OK? He's Axel I'm Detlev I'm going back in You want to get back in? See you! - Pitty, where have you been? - He's been playing with the kids - Why weren't you in school? - I have packed my things What? Has the old man won you over? Is it because of Mother's new friend? It's dad He's waiting for me downstairs Mom is struggling to keep up, and all you want is to get away from here You should be glad More stuff for you No, I'd rather see you stay And I want to try living with Dad - And what about the fights in the past? - He wants to make up for everything Follow me down? Won't you think about it? I don't understand you Any message for Dad? Don't be grumpy What are you doing in the dark? Did you meet Sabine? - Now we're all alone - She will be back - You think? - It won't work You know what? We're having a lovely evening together Turn it over - Watch out! It runs... - That's the whole point! It's Klaus, I invited him Just so we're not alone. Do you mind? Can I borrow your shoes? Are you going out? Just over to Kessi's If you have to I have something for you Hope you like it! Thanks! Shall we go somewhere? Anywhere? - Coming with us? - Where? I'm really too tired You can sleep when you're dead The Police! I hope they didn't catch Kessi - My mom thinks I'm sleeping at her place - And her mom thinks she's sleeping at yours? Are you often at 'Sound'? - Will you be there next week? - Of course! We're really high up I get all dizzy You haven't taken any more trips, have you? You don't care for them, right? Not really Want one? Did you make that yourself? - Didn't it hurt? - Yes, but I was bored It's almost dawn - Are you going home? - What about you? I'm going back to my place; come with me, if you like I live with Axel Are you angry? We thought the cops caught you Look, two Martians She was that loaded, there was hardly enough room for her in the lift The Police Over here I think they're still looking for us You ought to arrest him; he's an addict You're coming with me Keep away from my daughter Kessi has no use for bad influences Can you do your homework with all that noise? It's Klaus' record It's the record Klaus gave me That doesn't mean it should be played so loud David Bowie is coming to Berlin The guy on the record Klaus gave me You want to go? Can Kessi come, too? I often sleep at her place I might get some tickets through work Have you hurt yourself? It's a tattoo A what? A tattoo, it's not finished But that's permanent? Well, you have to walk around with it - I've just met a boy - And he has one just like it You know, I didn't really think of going to the concert with Kessi I get you - Are you going to the concert, too? - I can't afford it Detlev? What have you bought? 'H'? You can swallow three trips at once, or something else to turn you on I can get you anything, but leave 'H' alone Otherwise, I won't see you again Axel, Detlev wants to take 'H' If he fancies it Didn't you understand me? If he wants to take it, he will - Can't you talk to him? - Me, of all people? What do you mean? I thought you were his friend I thought he lived at your place Stay cool, kid Take something before you flip out Look at them. The cooler they are, the more shots they've had What's up? - You look like a corpse - Because I'm a blood donor - Why do you do it? - Because I need the dough I'll see if somebody's got a Valium left for us Mandrax. I couldn't get Valium - Is he ill? - He needs a shot - Apart from me, who doesn't shoot up? - No one I know Got any dough? Twenty marks I'll get some. Wait outside I've got some. And I've got my old man's car Ciao, thanks for the dough Open up I want to try it No way I paid for it I want my share Let me in I don't shoot up, I just sniff Really? - Just once - As they all say I'm in control of myself Take that, and you'll soon be as far gone as me - You'll be a corpse then - From giving blood? Why don't you join us? Something wrong? Got a trip for me? What do you want with a trip? - Do you want a drink? - Cherry juice I'll get it I won't be long - What did Babsie want from you? - A trip Be careful, don't give her one. She swallows all she can get - And what do you do? - It's not the same at all Know somewhere I can sleep? Your own home I don't want to go home, I'm fed up with it There're some sexy guys here Are you crazy? - You can talk - Do you copy everything I do? I only wanted to know what you feel like Groovy, eh? Axel, it's me Make yourself at home This is for you Axel made it for you Really? Does your mother know where you're sleeping? Sure, she isn't stupid We see each other only at weekends We can meet when I come back from school We can't do that Why not? I go to Bahnhof Zoo Station What for? Pick-ups Bullshit Honestly Really? With the pansies? I only jerk them off It's nothing, considering what they pay Don't you go to bed with them? Yes, but even then I don't do more What do you feel? It's a job. They mustn't touch me I won't let them jerk me off. It wouldn't be a job then - So it doesn't excite you - It's repulsive. Just for dough Don't you like me so much now? Good night You can get up now. My mother has left - Are you fourteen already? - I'm an adult from today on That looks great You reckon? - Have you got anything to wear? - I didn't come here naked - You can't wear the same old rags - Why not? Clean things. You can wear my Bowie jacket Here's something to turn you on Do you have any 'H'? Are you crazy? Don't touch it I only want to try it I can control it As they all say When you leave, shut the door properly Come again soon Sure, I will Hey, girl, how much? Excuse me, do you fuck? I pay a lot Muhametto, leave her alone. Go on, clear off Are you catching a train? No. Are you? Looking for Detlev, too? Has he disappeared? There's "Pissnelke". He lets me piss on him - What does he do? - It's what he wants Nonsense Ask him yourself I stand over him and piss - I can't do it if I'm watched - He grabs my prick Axel, come here Axel can do that. The punters like him Who's that? 'Stuttering Max'. He only comes when he's flogged Look who's here Don't come here. I won't have my girlfriend coming to 'Zoo' The scum of the earth. You don't belong here Especially not on your birthday I wanted to bring cake for you And this. Mother said I was to buy myself something nice 'Who wants to piss in my mouth? I drink anything' Axel, there's something for you - I want to shoot up today, too - No way Whether I shoot or sniff, it makes no difference - It does. A shot is like a hammer - Don't talk shit It's a sexual climax Shit, it's clogged. Try and see if you can get one through - You can ditch that one after - Don't talk crap Can you lend me your kit? Keep clear of that, girl Please help me You've no idea How was it? I had a different idea of a sexual climax Do you want to sleep with me during the weekend? If you like On one condition No 'H' I love you so We must stop shooting up You mustn't get hooked I don't want you to die Mother wonders why I'm not fatter, with all these sandwiches Got a shot for me? You won't get one from me Don't be mean. Your pupils are pinheads, yet you tell me to stop At least you can stay clean You just want to hog it all I want to be on the same level as you O.K, a small shot I'll do the next punter for you. See him? He's crazy about me - Don't go to him! - Why? Because he has a crush on you That'll make him pay well Why didn't you show up? No time. I've got a regular guy Sunk really low, eh? Look who's talking You fuck? - She fucks hell out of them - What makes you so sure? - You let them stick it in anywhere - Jealous? You hump with foreigners - Shall we celebrate our reunion? - I'm waiting for my dope I'll lend you some - I did seven tricks in an hour - You blew them all? Seven in an hour. A lot of dough - With condoms? - You can do it with them, too Without you might catch oral clap "At fourteen he was on drugs. He took an overdose in a fit of desperation" One less after the stuff 'As long as something's left to shoot, I'll never take an over jolt' 'Deeply moving farewell letter of seventeen-year-old Andreas W' I know him. That's Atze Be seeing you What's up? - That was my last shot. Must get some - What about me? I need some for tomorrow morning. I can't go to school otherwise I need some right now, or I'll have the horrors in two hours I must go now It's O.K. You know what? Maybe I can help you Maybe I can get something begging I'll be at Kurfrstendamm Could you give me a mark? I need a mark Could you give me a mark for the subway? Old jerk! - Are you crazy? - Get in - What's up? - What do you think? I don't do humping - Why not? - I'm going steady - You'll blow, then - That makes me puke That doesn't leave much All right, just jerk me off For one hundred marks First the dough I've got some You got a lot Where did you get so much? Begging didn't work I jerked off a guy He gave me one hundred Are you having me on? Honest, I only jerked him off One hundred marks for that? What should I have done, then? I did it for you What I told you was true I did it for you You did it for yourself, because you were scared of going short You'd have done it even if I hadn't existed This is all because we shoot up But we'll make it, we'll start to withdraw some time We'll withdraw with Valeron And I promise I won't turn tricks with a punter We'll make it yet Christiane, hurry up Why lock the door? I must leave, I'll be late Why are you taking so long? You'll be late for school Unlock the door, what's the idea? What's the matter? Get a face-cloth Shall I call a doctor? My child, what's the matter? My circulation - What are you doing here? - Your mother called for me At 'Zoo'? So we can withdraw together If we withdraw together, that will be the end Rubbish, not with us I can't stand it anymore Are you crazy? Keep off that Let me. Please, let me Just a little sniff against the pain Bernd, you're still alive, old boy - Sure. And where have you two been? - Take a good look at us - You're clean, eh? - Did you withdraw? You bet They've withdrawn You really did it? Yes, we really did it. It wasn't all that bad All you need is lots of Valeron, Valium and suchlike I think that's great You can do it, too, Axel. Really Shall we do it? Really? I'll get dough for Valeron We can start with it next week We'll tell Babsie and Stella, they might join us A cool, clean clique. We'll only smoke grass sometimes I could have started today, but I've bought 'H' already We can still shoot that Sure, that's O.K. We'll be back soon That was really something, eh? That really was crazy On the first day already If we keep it under control, be careful not to get addicted to it We know now that we can quit So we can permit ourselves one shot We could ask them if they have a shot for us O.K, let's ask Axel, don't you know it's Saturday? They're letting you starve You've no water, either - We can't just leave him there - Want to take him with you? Hurry up! Why did he kill himself? He didn't. Some pig sold him strychnine I can't stand this shit any more I need a shot! I need a shot! Where will you live now? With my bloke - The one with a crush on you? - Who else? You're a fine friend Have you got a better idea? You'd let any pansy shove his prick up your ass You think I like foreigners humping you? Do you know what you are? The lousiest creature I've ever met I'm sorry I've never let them hump me All I ever do is blow Me, too We must stop with this stuff Yes, that's O.K. But now I need a shot Or I won't hold out - But we haven't got any dough - Shit! I'll get some O.K. Fifteen marks Are you crazy? Some are brand new. This one's still in its wrapper - Seventeen - Let's say twenty - Find someone else - O.K., seventeen Thanks Babsie, Babsie! have you got something for me? In a year they'll be where we are I'm giving it up - Why are you still here, then? - I'll really start tomorrow I'll withdraw tomorrow I think that's really great Either I stop... or I die You'll stop, for sure And when I've made it, I mean after the therapy... what then? You know what? I'll give it up, too I'll join you in therapy. We'll withdraw together - Really? - You'll see, we'll make it yet You bet? What's this? Come to me Stay here Look at me I need money Stay here I only jerk them off Look It doesn't turn you on, eh? Just a job What can I do, then? Tell me Have you seen Babsie? Have you seen Babsie? The little one? It's been some time. She might have kicked the bucket, or be in jail Don't talk such crap You need a shot, girl I don't. I'm just looking for Babsie If you've got one. You still owe me one, anyway Sure, but right now I haven't got one myself Tina, got anything for me? Find your own stuff Have you got the time? You old pig, leave me alone Berlin's youngest drug victim She was only fourteen! I survived Mum took me to my Gran and Auntie, in a village near Hamburg I've been clean for eighteen months It frightens me to think of Detlev. I often think of him I'd like to give him some of my strength, and help him But first I need the strength myself Dedicated to Andreas W, "Atze", Axel W., Babette D, "Babsie" And all the others who lacked the strength and luck to survive
