 

                        Joy to the world, the Lord has come, let earth receive her king. Why'd you do it? My rocket ship needed to fly. You put orange paint all over your classroom wall, Caleb. Dad says rocket's we're non-boosters. And flames shoot out and lift it into the air. Okay, listen sweetie, when you're staying at daddy's paint all the flames you want, but anywhere else it's considered vandalism. You just don't believe in flying. You're right. I don't. We don't live in the air, we live on the ground and on the ground we behave better. Come on, Uncle Owen's expecting us. We're gonna bring him some Christmas spirit. (guitar playing) Hey! I thought you guys were coming over earlier. Ugh, someone threatened his status on Santa's nice list at school today. Is that true little man? Santa won't find out. Uh, Santa knows everything. How? Magic. Magic? Yeah, you don't believe me? Go look it up. Encyclopedia's on the shelf. (sigh) You don't have to decorate sis. Yes I do, because you won't. It'll do you good to be a little festive. (laughs) Oh wow. You remember this? Of course, this is my robo-reindeer. A robot reindeer with lunchboxes and an animated special. (robot voice) "What's your name space cadet?" "And what's you major malfunction?" Here, you could definitely use a little of this. Oh, pot kettle black. I'm fine thank you very much. You got divorced, not ordained. Don't you think it's time you get back out there? Look, I'm good at a lot of things, being a mom, a vet... But love, love I'm just not good at. Well sometimes you have to take risks. Like you live life on the edge Mr. Achy Breaky Heart. Eh. Owen loves not like a song; people don't just waltz into your life and change it for the better. Well maybe you just need to change the station. Whoa! Uncle Owen, will you go with me to the father-son football game? Your dad can't make it buddy? He's flying. Holiday's are the busiest time of year for pilots. Of course little man. I'm there. Thank you. Come on. Let's help your mom decorate. You would pick out the old lights, those probably don't even work. You have to take a chance. How do you know they won't work? (laughs) Unless you try. Just need a little magic, that's all. More like a miracle. Ohhh! Ho, ho! Magic. See mommy, you just have to try. You just have to try. It's that time of year when everybody's dancin', The snow is falling down, but we're warm inside. By the candlelight I see your eyes are talking to me. And you'll always be my Christmas Valentine. Great job with the Christmas party, Mia. Well our re-introduction of robo-reindeer was the most successful ad campaign in the agencies history. We deserve to celebrate. Wait a second. "What's your name, Space Cadet?" Sean. "Hi Sean. Will you come with me to Santa's Space Base?" I love that we put the North Pole on the moon. It's something all right. No, this is something. You're proposing to Kimber? Open it up! Wow. When are you proposing? Christmas. I have it all planned. Why wait a couple of weeks? You should do it tonight. So we can all gush and celebrate more. Hey, sweetheart! Kimber! Mia! How was your day? Same as always, another fun-filled day on Wall Street. Yours? Great. Our robo-reindeer campaign is a huge success. Congratulations. Thanks. You okay? It's been a rough day. You know, I was gonna wait to do this but, I want to talk to you about us. I know what you're gonna say. You do? We should take a break. Let's go talk in my office. What are you saying? We've gone stale. I act bored because I am. I guess that's why when Larry Fitz Gilbert asked me out, I couldn't say no. Nothing happened, but there's an attraction there and it's thrilling. I haven't felt that way in so long. Back up! Larry Fitz Gilbert? The bowtie guy? He's engaged. They're on a break. Whatever! You haven't noticed our relationship has crumbled. No. I envisioned a future with you. (sighs) Oh no, Sean. Is that? Was. Larry Fitz Gilbert kinda changes things. How did I not see this? Because, Sean, you're never present. I'm standing right here. Yes physically, but mentally you're always looking to the future and neglecting what's happening now. Including us. We haven't been happy, really happy in a while. All you had to do was tell me. I've been trying, but again you're too busy planning the future. You're like the human version of tomorrow land. I own an advertising agency. Coming up with the next trend, staying ahead of the game is part of the job. Yeah, well that doesn't work in relationships. Which is why we need to take a break so we can re-evaluate this relationship. Larry Fitz Gilbert. He's spontaneous, exciting, and we have a connection. I'm sure you do. Let's just take some time off. Well that doesn't sound promising. At least for now. I really hope you have a Merry Christmas. Well, Christmas is two weeks away. We wouldn't wanna get ahead of ourselves. (slam) What's your major malfunction, Sean? Hey Chappy. Man, it feels like the North Pole in here. Yeah. You guys sell toys? That's funny. Real funny. I haven't heard that one today. Boiler's busted. Courtney's been trying to fix it all morning. Why didn't she call me? I think she feels weird, with your history and all. You wanna melt this iceberg, be my guest. Looks like you could use some help. Hey, Owen. God am I happy to see you. All right. It must of busted last night. It was like a meat locker in here when I opened this morning. Killing my business. You know you can call me for things like this, right? Yeah, I know, I just uh... I just didn't wanna bother you. I'm a repairman, it's my job. Yeah... I know it's just, since we broke up I thought... It was eight months ago Courtney, I'm an adult. Our break-up didn't stop me from getting coffee here did it? Well it's the best coffee in town. That's not the point. All right. There you go. You're the best! Thank you. What do I owe you? How about having dinner with me tonight. For old times sake. Owen we've been over this. We can't relive the past. Hey Chappy. Hey Ryan, I'm glad you're here. I have those gift cards for your bingo games. Thank you. We so appreciate the donations. Well it's for a good cause. Morning Ryan. Hey Courtney. Thanks for the gift cards. Oh yeah. Hi. Ready to do some Christmas shopping? Is that an engagement ring? When did this happen? Uh, Randall asked me the other night. Randall? The guy from Charlotte? You've been dating for maybe three months and it's already serious? Six. And yes. Obviously, I'm moving out there to be with him. Chappy's taking over for me. We were dating for seven years. Every time I brought up marriage you bocked. You weren't interested in traditions Courtney. Well I'm allowed to change my mind. You're good at that obviously. Owen, we didn't end because you weren't a nice guy. Okay we're just, not right for each other. I was never truly happy. You could have fooled me. Maybe because you always saw me as a teenaged girl. I could never really grow in that relationship. Owen, I care about you, okay? This doesn't mean that we can't be friends. Oh that's very nice. Merry Christmas to you too. Please don't be upset. As long as you're happy. I always thought you'd be a beautiful bride Courtney. Congratulations. Hey, stop right there. Look, I know we had plans, if you don't mind, I'm just gonna go home. I'm sorry, I know you're hurt. Yeah, we'll maybe I'll get a good song out of it. You know, maybe you should get out of here. Make a change. And do what? Go on an adventure. During the holidays? Why not? There's no time like the present. This living in the past is what got you into this mess. You have dreams Owen. I think it's time you start chasing them. What if I fail? Well you never know unless you try. You familiar with the concept? Yeah, I think I heard it somewhere. Well maybe this holiday season we both adapt to it. That's fair. One day you'll find a love, that you never knew you wanted, but you desperately needed. And that's the best kind. You know you deserve the same. Some day. Christmas cards! I've already signed, just need your signature. Sean? Are you okay? I know it burns, but you just have to trust that everything will be okay. Thanks. She said I wasn't present in our relationship. I'm too busy planning for the future. You agree with her? Well, you are always thinking ahead, I mean, which can be a good thing. So I plan too much and I have no real connection. Huh, well, this breakup has officially ruined my Christmas. Get out of the city, go to the country. Experience nature. You know, just quiet down your life and relax. Really connect with yourself. Everything's probably booked. You ever think of a house share? What's that? You basically just trade places with someone. It's the latest craze, tons of blogs about it. You saw this on the internet? I'm sure there's no psycho's involved. Don't be so judgmental. It's safe and background checks are required. Believe me, it's legit. You've checked this out? You'd do it? If I had an amazing Manhattan loft like you, absolutely. You can negotiate a sweet swap. Maybe I should. I never get out of the city anymore. Go. You know what? I need to be more spontaneous. We worked together for two years and you have never taken a vacation that wasn't work related. I'd say treat yourself and go for it. (guitar playing) (email alert) Dear Owner, I need to get away from the city for the holidays. Your house might be the perfect solution to my situation. Would you be interested in swapping for a loft in Manhattan? Wow. New York City. (phone ringing) This is Sean. Uh hi, this is Owen Harrison calling from Butters, North Carolina. Hi, yeah. That was quick. Yeah I just happened to be online. Don't worry I'm not a psycho. No, no no. A friend of mine referred me to the site I'm new to this. Oh, me too. I kinda posted on a whim not more than a couple hours ago. Honestly, I didn't expect anyone to respond. Especially during the holidays. Yeah, this is very unlike me but I really need a change from the city. Well Butters, North Carolina is the exact opposite of New York City. I suspected that. Let's see my place if nice, lots of peace and quiet, you could use my truck to get around. So you live in a loft? Yup, it's a bachelor pad, but it's larger than most places in Manhattan. What do you do? I'm a cop. NYPD detective. So... If you're thinking about taking anything. I would never, and it's not like you don't know where I live. Good point. So why do you wanna leave New York City so bad? Not to sound pathetic but, a bad breakup. I completely understand that. Single just in time for Christmas. Owen, you think you can handle New York City? I could be there by Monday. You know what? Let's do it. I'll email you the details. Perfect. Thank you. This is gonna be good, for both of us. Let's hope so. New York City. Woo! North Carolina. Finish the Christmas cards? Found a house, made the swap, booked the flight. That was fast. Well something just jumped out at me. I took your advice. I'm getting out of the city. Butters, North Carolina. When I said country I meant Connecticut or Vermont. Like somewhere New Yorkers go for holidays. Are you sure? You're not exactly the outdoorsy type. Maybe not, but I wanna give it a try. I need a change. Yeah that it is. How far are you exactly from New York? 10 hours or so, I guess. Why? Oh, so when you have a total meltdown I'll know how far I have to drive to pick you up. I'll be just fine. In fact, I'll probably have some real peace and quiet. There's one more thing. Mmhmm. Would you mind checking in on this guy, Owen. Be a mini welcoming committee. You never know, could be a real prince charming type. You can finally dump that jerk realtor boyfriend of yours. That last part was outloud. I know. Fine, I'll meet the guy. You know you're gonna be alone out there, right? No I'm not. I am gonna have my little buddy with me. You're in charge while I'm gone. Use the office, happy holidays. Happy Holidays. Why do you have to go? You're gonna miss everything. We make a good team, right? I won't let you down, I'll be back for Christmas. Hey, I'll be back for Christmas, I promise. Here. I need you to look after robo for me. It's just a dumb old Christmas toy. Ah he may look like that, but he's much more than that. You know when I was your age, whenever I was alone, or scared, or just not feeling good. I'd close my eyes and he'd fly me to wherever, to whatever I wanted. You close yours he'll do the same for you. Really? You believe in magic, don't you? 'Cause you really have to believe for him to do it. Yeah. Good. So look after him for me. I will. Promise. Good. Go wash up for dinner. Awe, you always had the imagination. Agh. I don't think I ever believed in magic. Well who knows, maybe a little will fall both our ways. (laughs) Hey, Merry -- Oh. Merry Christmas. Can I help you sir? Yeah, I'm here to pick up an envelope. My name's Owen Harrison. Mr. Tucker's guest. You're staying with us for the holidays. We've been expecting you. We? Hi, I'm Mia. I have an envelope for you from Sean. Thanks Mia. I thought there would be a key. It's a keyless lock. Those are the instructions. I can help you get settled in if you want? You don't mind? Not at all. Wow. (laughs) This is amazing. I know, right? You get one of the best views of the city all around here. Absolutely. Geez. Make yourself at home. That looks just like Eric Clapton's Gibson Les Paul. That is Eric Clapton's Gibson Les Paul. Not the Eric Clapton. Yup, the Eric Clapton. Wow. Yeah. We did a pro-bono ad campaign for a charity he was involved in. (strumming guitar) Does Sean play? No, he said he was gonna take lessons some day when he had time. Wait, Sean said he was a cop. (laughs) No, no last time I checked Sean owned an advertising agency. Agh. Well, maybe he was selling me. Yeah well, he is pretty good at what he does. Apparently. Well um, if you need anything you can call Dennis downstairs. Or you could call me. Here is my, um, my card. There you go. Thanks, I probably will. Good. Well have a good night. You too. (thud) All right, bye. (strumming guitar) Oh yeah, this is heaven. (strumming guitar) It's not so bad. We can handle this. It's like an igloo in here. (clunk) (playing guitar) (ringing) Hey Sean, you made it in. How's the country treatin' ya? Well not the warmest welcome so far, I don't think your heater works. Ah, it works; it's just a bit finicky. Man, I'm sorry; I've been meaning to get it fixed. Grab those pliers and the matches there and we'll work on gettin' the pilot lit. Okay, I'm ready, talk to me. Okay reach in behind and give the J-valve a quarter turn to the left, while you push in the pilot light button. Oh and give it about a minute to clear the residual gas-- Residual gas? How do I know it's cleared away? I don't wanna blow myself up, I just got here. Hang on, I think I heard a car pull up. Oh that should be Ryan coming by to check on you. So tell me about Mia, is she single? No, but judging from the guys she's with, she should be. All right. Well listen, uh, Ryan's gonna take care of everything. Great. Thanks a lot. I'll talk to you later. (knocking) Hi, I'm Ryan. You're Ryan? Oh, I was expecting... A guy. Sorry to disappoint. No, no, uh, not at all. Hi, I'm Sean. Owen wanted me to check on you and make sure that you were settled in okay. You New Yorkers sure like it cold. It's freezing in here. Yeah very funny. The matches and the pliers still over there? Yeah. You'd never know that Owen repairs these and almost everything else for a living. Really? Yeah, he fixes everybody's problems but his own. Oh careful there may be residual gas. I think I'll be all right. (clunk, clunk) (gas running) (text tone) Oh. You're a miracle worker. I have to go, but tell you what. I'll stop by in the morning and fix that valve for you properly. You will? That would be great. See you tomorrow. Did you do that? (honking) (ding) Hello. Yeah. Have a good night miss. You sent it to my email? Okay, I'll check right now. Bye. (chuckling) Loving the city so far? You have no idea. I see you've met Halo. Halo? Like an angel? Yeah. Angel/model/waitress. (laughs) You're in the city. That women. Definite multi-hyphenate. Good to know. What can I help you with? Where's a good place to eat? Best sushi in New York just around the corner. Euhnn, somethin' more hearty. Yeah well then don't go there. Go to BeBe's two blocks up, get yourself a burger. It's very popular with our tenants. Thanks Dennis, you're like my New York guru. It's my job sir. All right. Do you remember when the trains were all late, That day when you lost your cap. The leaves were blowin' down the alley. Hey. We meet again. Hey! Yeah, we do. Um, this is my favorite hang out. Dennis must of told you about it. Have a seat. Oh yeah, Dennis my guru. Any recommendations? Oh yeah. Burgers are the best. I'll have a cheeseburger with fries. Thank you. So, what made you wanna house share? Just wanted to try something new. Mmm. Relationship fall apart like it did for Sean? No, not at all. You're a terrible liar. Okay, I just found out my ex got engaged. We broke up 8 months ago after 7 years together. I was hoping to get back together, but I should've known that would not happen. Girls never want nice guys. Okay. Who took you aside as a little boy and filled your head with that garbage. Nobody, but it's true. I did everything for her and what happens, I get dumped. Oh okay, so just because you help someone out, or compliment them, or are nice to them then they're obligated to give you what you want or be who you want? What's nice about that? Well nothing when you put it like that. I guess we had different ideas about the relationship. Well when you project your fantasy onto someone you only set yourself up for disappointment. And you prove that you're selfish. Again, it's not so nice. Wow. You New Yorkers are not afraid to speak your mind. I'm sorry to be blunt, I always hear the song and dance and I think it's unfair to women, that's all. Well, you're right. I never realized I lived in a fantasy world. But I am a nice guy, that is real. There is a sweetness about you. My sister says a good breakup will allow me to sing from real pain and help my career as a singer. So who knows, maybe fate had a hand in leading me here to New York. You sing? You know I can see that you have a nice little twang in your voice. Why thank you. (laughs) You know what, I know this great open mic bar. We should head down there tomorrow night and you can show off your chops. Oh wait a minute, tomorrow night is all Christmas songs. I love Christmas. I love Christmas songs. You gonna sing too? Oh... (laughs) No, I-- I sing with a lot of passion, just not a lot of talent, so it's probably better I just cheer you on. So um, how's your singing career going? I made a demo and perform every now and then. I'll have you know that I am very famous in my hometown and loyal to my fan base. I can't wait to hear you sing and you never know, this is a city when dreams come true and careers are made. So I've heard. Thank you. Thank you for being my first friend in the city. I appreciate your insight and you kindness. Well, you're welcome and don't worry because my insight and kindness don't come with any obligation on your part. Good to know. Mmm mmhmm. Oh yeah. Right? Morning. Morning. Some people here would already call it afternoon. (laughs) Almost done, just a couple more minutes. Take your time. Hey. How are you doin'? Oh, thank you. Hey Ryan, who's your friend? Hey Chappy, this is Sean, he's visiting from New York City. Oh yeah, staying at Owen's. What can I get you all started with Ryan? Uh coffee for me. You don't have a soy latte by any chance? Sorry soy latte's were knocked out by sweet teas at the Mason Dixon Line, our coffee menu's regular or decaf. Regular. I'll be right back. How does he know I'm staying at Owen's? It's big news when Owen swaps his house with a New Yorker for the holidays. Well not much longer, I'm leaving tonight. I told you you'll have heat by the time we get back. It's not that, it's just I had this fantasy about getting away from the city and I think I'm a little out of my element. Or mind. Owen said you're a cop. I may have lied about that. You mean not all cops dress in designer clothes in New York. I own an advertising agency. That's more believable. So what can I get you all for breakfast. Oh um, I'll have the eggs and the sausage. Uh, do you have anything besides sausage? Bacon or ham? Just bring him some grits and toast. Yup. Grits? What if I hate it? Well then we'll get you pancakes, but you won't because you'll trust that whatever comes out of that kitchen is gonna be amazing. What do you do that makes you so positive? Um, I'm a veterinarian. A vet? Cats and dogs, hamsters? I delivered a colt last night. It was a difficult birth. Bringing new life into the world does actually give me a positive attitude I guess. I get that. So you've always loved animals? I have. But it wasn't until my marriage fell apart that I became a vet. Well that's pretty brave, starting a whole new career. When everything crashed and burned, I went for a walk. I saw this horse just basking in the sun, not caring about the past or the future, just fully present in enjoying the moment. And I thought, that's what I want. That's where I wanna be. I wanna be in the present. It's not always good, but I'm willing to go wherever it takes me. I find life's more exciting that way. So you got from a horse, what most people pay thousands of dollars for in therapy. (laughs) I'm better at giving advice then taking it. But you can learn a lot from nature. I applied to vet school the next day. Here ya go. Thank you. Enjoy. Best breakfast right there in front of you. That's not bad. Enjoying the moment? This moment, yes. Good afternoon miss. Warm and toasty. My work here is done. I have some patients waiting for me. Horses? Ed McGowan's. I'll walk you to your car. Thanks for buying breakfast. It's the least I could do; You introduced me to grits, my new favorite breakfast food. And you saved me from freezing. I have to admit I am very impressed. Well now that your heat's working are you still leaving? I did book a flight-- If you happen to miss it-- You're gonna ask me out for a drink? No, I can't do that. Of course not. It's a dry county. Those really exist? You're in one. Well then I have to leave, I mean... What do you do for fun? All kinds of things. I'm running the bingo game tonight at town hall, if you happen to stay you should come by. (laughs) What? There's prizes, Christmas fruitcake, stuffed stoking's. I'm more of a black jack kinda guy, You see that's your problem. You're trapped in all this, which is your comfort zone. But over here... This is where magic happens. I like the way magic looks. Are you flirting with me? No, of course not. I'm way better at flirting then that. Good to know. (phone ringing) Hey Sean. Hey! How's it going? Good, Mia just showed me some of the sights. What's up? This my sound strange to ask but uh... what do you do to impress the local girls around here? In Butters? Take her to bingo. Enh bingo's covered. What else you got? Well there's this Christmas hay ride, it could be romantic. Like in a ride in a hay wagon? Yeah, it's even horse drawn, got all these lights set up with Christmas music. It's a lot of fun actually. Owen you're a genius, thank you. Hey so, let me ask you the same question, how do you get these city ladies to notice you? In New York, that's easy. You just dress real stylish and act like you're worth a million bucks. You're a decent looking guy; you should have no problem at all. Yeah I think my problem is I'm more casual then stylish. Ah, you're welcome to anything in my closet. Eh, thanks Sean, I really appreciate it. Me too. Good luck. Thanks. Haven't you got a plane to catch? I've got time, and you left your toolbox. And you tracked me down to return it. Well, an independent lady like you needs her toolbox, I mean, what if some other poor soul needed you to save them. It happens all the time. I'm just impressed that you have a toolbox. Don't you? What do you do for home repairs? I call Dennis, my doorman. You city boys sure are spoiled. We are, it's sad. I'd be the first to die in an apocalypse. (laughs) You born and raised in the city? Yup. What got you into advertising? My dad was in it; I just stayed with what I knew. The path of least resistance. Something like that, but I do enjoy it. I bet you're good at it; you look like a good salesman. My last campaign was a flying robotic reindeer. Robo-reindeer? Oh, my brother loved that when he was a kid. Well I'm the guy that revived his career taking him into space. You're the guy that did that? You are a good salesman. Well I don't think of it as selling as much as creating an illusion. In some ways I think that concept has managed to bleed into my personal life. How so? Well, sometimes I think I have managed to fool myself into thinking I'm happier than I am. You're not happy? I thought I was, but then I experienced moments like this morning, and right now, and I think that's what real happiness is. You know, for some people, the best decision they ever made is letting go of a plan and allowing fate to carry them. Is that so? Is that what you do? (laughs) I try to. But sometimes it's easier to say no rather then yes. Maybe it's out of fear. I told you I'm bad at taking my own advice. It's hard to believe. Well you're not the only one that's good at creating an illusion. (knocking) Hey. Whoa, look at you. You like? I raided Sean's closet. He said it was okay. You look very dapper, the ladies are gonna love you at open mic. Oh stop, you're making me blush. They're gonna love that too. Come on, let's go. Do you have a big family celebration for Christmas? Not really my parents moved to Florida and I can't usually take any time off. Well you got a boyfriend at least. Yeah but he'll probably work straight through the holiday's, he's a realtor and he's always busy. Successful? Yeah. Um, thank you. Sometimes I feel like I have to go to one of his open houses just to see him. Call me old fashioned but I feel like if someone really wants to see you, they'll make an effort. Hey, I'm sorry, I wasn't judging, it's not my-- No, you're right, I mean, you're not the first person to tell me that. We have problems; I guess I'm just, uh, stupid for letting it happen. No, no, you just want to be loved. We all do. It sounds so pathetic, but it's true. Some things take more effort. It's worth it in the end. Can you tell him that? (laughs) (phone ringing) Sorry. (phone ringing) His ears must be burning, this is him. Do you need to go? No. I'm gonna let him sweat. I want to hear you sing. Well, someone's gotta get this crowd going. No one wants to be the first up, so how about you kick things off? No problem. (tapping) Joy to the world, the Lord has come, let earth receive her king. Let every heart prepare him room. And heaven and nature sing. And heaven and nature sing. And heaven, heaven and nature sing. Joy to the world The Savior reigns. Let men their songs employ. While fields and floods, rocks, hills, and plains repeat the sounding joy. Repeat the sounding joy. Repeat, repeat the sounding joy. Joy to the world. Joy to the world. Joy to the world. He rules the world. With truth and grace. And makes the nations prove. The glories of His righteousness. And wonders of His love. And wonders of His love. And wonders, wonders of His love. Wonders, wonders of His... Joy to the world. Joy to the world. Joy to the world. Joy to the world. Woo! (laughs) (applause and cheering) Thank you. (applause and cheering) Hey, thanks a lot. Appreciate it. That was amazing! No one's gonna wanna get up there after you. I mean you are really good, this is a tough crowd and you had them in the palm of your hand. (laughs) I got friends in radio, I can hook you up. Seriously. Thank you. No, for taking me out and giving me the chance to sing. I'm having a really good time. Me too. And you're welcome. Everyone deserves a chance at their dreams. That realtor better start treating you better. You're awesome Mia. See? Fate did bring you to New York. It just may have. Fate did bring you to New York. You missed your flight. There will be other flights. So, uh, where do I get my game cards? You know how to play? Are you kidding? I killed at bingo in the fifth grade. I am taking home that fruitcake. Okay, we'll see, these people are serious about their bingo. Oh I got this. Hmm. Hmm. Welcome everyone, Season's Greetings to our regulars and I see a few new faces, thanks for joining us. We have some very special holiday prizes so let's just get started. Under I, 16. I, 16. Woo! This may be my lucky night. (clears throat) Three-time champion tonight. You defended your fifth grade title well. That was a very impressive victory dance you did in front of everyone. Well you were right, I mean, bingo can be very thrilling. So, um, I thought maybe, since I am a champion, you might like to go on a little adventure? Unless you have to be somewhere else. No, nothing like that. What do you have in mind? Mmm it's a surprise. I promise I won't keep you too late. Okay. Why not? I just have to make a phone call first. Sure. This is my first hayride. New York isn't known for its hayrides? Let me tell ya, New York is missing out. (laughs) I can't believe you brought me here. How did you even find out about this place? I did my research. I even arranged for them to stay open after closing just for us. My dad used to bring us here when we were kids. So you save animals and guys from New York City, and you're handy with home repairs, who was the idiot that let you go? He was... is a good guy actually. What does he do? A pilot. He was always gone; I could never compete with that love of flying. Ambition is a double-edged sword. Only if you let it be. Depends on the person. Maybe, maybe not. People get comfortable, and they stop caring. You don't really believe that. Sometimes it's just easier believing something. Do you believe in this, here? Now? I believe in what I can feel. Who would of ever thought Christmas lights could be so beautiful. Why did you come here Sean? I felt lost, disconnected from life. You know 90% of our body mass is made up of stardust. In fact, all the elements except hydrogen and helium are found in the stars. Okay. So what does that mean? That we're all connected. Everything's tied together. So the next time you feel disconnected just look up. Because you are the universe expressing itself. It's impossible to be separate from it. Life sounds so much more exciting when you put it like that. It's the truth, especially this time of year. Christmas brings us into a collective heartbeat. If you sit still, you can feel it all around. so I decided to do my own little mix-- I know, and you just like, you just took the house down. That was amazing. I'm glad you liked it. Yeah. Well, thanks for walking me home. I'm just making sure you get home safely. How kind of you. Well it's hard work looking after you, but I have to admit I had a great time. Me too. I hope your boyfriend doesn't mind it. Mmm no. I'm sure we'll fight about it later. You guys fight often? About stupid things, like last night I just wanted to listen to silent night in the car but he had to take a phone call. Silent night? Yeah, it's my favorite Christmas carol, my dad used to sing it to me when I was little as a lullaby and just, I just had the best dreams when he did. What are your dreams Mia? Well, I'm good with my job so, I guess it's time to take a look at my personal life. You know the holidays, the New Year, they're just always a time I like to re-evaluate my life, and look at where I am now and where I'm going. And where are you going? To a life filled with more passion and less drama. I like that. (text tone) Sorry. The realtor? Yeah, I gotta go. Have a good night. You too. This was so nice, thank you. Yeah it was really great. I didn't honestly know how it was gonna turn out. (laughs) We should get a picture. Oh yeah. Here. Here, sit. There you go. How is it? Definitely Facebook approved. Oh tag me in that. Does this mean we'll be Facebook friends; you ready to take it to that level? I think I'm ready. You know a friend of mine said I should be more spontaneous. What are your thoughts on that? Spontaneity exquisite freedom of the unexpected. I'm a big fan. (phone ringing) I need to answer. (phone ringing) Hey. I'll be there soon. We should go. Hot date? No, nothing like that. Uh, yeah, sure, let's go. Good morning. Grits again? I am hooked, and Chappy discovered a way to make, well, fake low-fat latte's. You have left your mark on Butters. I am honored. I wanted to thank you again for last night; I had a lot of fun. Until Cinderella took a phone call, on her way home. Yeah, well, I had to. So it wasn't the kiss? You started it. Once you held my hand I couldn't help myself. I'm glad you did, I enjoyed it. Me too. Which leads me to my next question, not to sound presumptuous but, I feel like we have a real attraction here, dare I say real connection. How do we keep that going when I go back to New York? Maybe we just let it unfold naturally. I don't think I can do that. I really can't help but think of the future when it comes to you. Sean there are things you don't know, my life is here. And I believe I can add to that life, Ryan, if you'll let me. (phone ringing) Excuse me a second. If there's someone else-- Nothing like that. That's what you said last night. Look, I'll be back tonight for the tree lighting at the town hall, it's a Christmas tradition. Meet me there and we'll continue this conversation there, okay? Promise? Yes, trust me. I can do that. Besides I'm a sucker for Christmas trees. I'm just leaving Butters now, I'll see you soon, okay? I don't care; I just want us to have dinner. Well we talked about this last night, we said that if we wanted our relationship to work we had to make more of an effort. Okay. Yeah I get it. Okay, talk to you later. Hey. Hi. Bad time for lunch? No. I'm fine. You sure? I'll live. Boyfriend? Sometimes I just feel like I'm trying to fit a square into a circle. I mean it's not supposed to be this difficult, right? It's so easy when I'm with-- never mind. Come on, I'll treat you to a sushi lunch and a hug. Thank you, I needed that. But forget sushi, let's go to BeBe's they have just what the doctor ordered. Ooo, yeah they do. So this is your happy meal? Hot dogs and hot chocolate. Mmhmm, strange combo I know but cheers me up. I love it. Proof strange combo's can be the best matches. It's surprising but true. Surprises are good. You should come visit North Carolina some time. I'd like to. All of New York will be listening at the open mic tonight, including A&R reps, I can get you on the line-up. Really? Yup. Wow. Thanks Mia. You're talented, you should be heard. No promises, but it's an opportunity. Wow, I really appreciate it. No problem. Well what can I do for you? Nothing. My kindness comes with no obligations. Ah, that's right. I remember that speech. Yeah. Well then, how about some more hot chocolate? Mm mmhmm. (text tone) Ah, someone might be coming to his senses. Really? Mmhmm. I hope you're right. We'll see. You deserve it. I'll get us some more refills. (text tone) (knocking) Excuse me, Denis gave me your apartment number. I want you to know it cost me a very large tip. I'm Owen. I'm Halo. Like an angel? Yes... I seen you with your girlfriend, I thought I would come by and introduce myself since we're neighbors. Oh no, she's, uh, she's not my girlfriend. Just a friend. That's nice. Can I, um... Offer you something, you wanna come in? No. I just came to say hi. I'm free tonight though. Oh, uh, sure, okay. Pick me up at 7, apartment 606. (robot noises) Kalup sweetie, I want to talk to you about tonight. What are you doing? Robo and I are going to space in my rocket ship. I want you to meet someone. Who? A friend. Well he's not really a friend, he's someone that... Forget it. This was a bad idea. Why? Because he's a guy. So am I. Mommy, do you want to go to space with me and robo? I'd like to baby but I think there's only room for you and robo. Robo says you can go to space too. You just gotta believe. I've thought a lot about this and if we can't even be together at Christmas then there's no point in us being together at all. Yeah, I guess this is goodbye forever. Okay. Goodbye. (sighs) Hey. Hey! I was just thinking about you. I have something to tell you. Me too. Is it cool if I bring a date tonight? A date? Yeah, her name is Halo, she's a fashion model or something, lives in the building. I guess she realized we were neighbors 'cause she came knocking on my door. Well, she came knocking on Sean's door. It's weird 'cause she's ignored me every day until now. That's because she's attracted to money and she thinks you have lots of it. Come on that's a little judgmental. No, it's the truth. How do you not see that? She doesn't really care about who you really are. Well how do you know that? You're right; it's your life. Enjoy your date with Halo. I need to get back to work. I guess I'll just go. Yeah. Bye. (knocking) Kimber? Surprise. I came to spend Christmas with you. Hah, you've been roughing it, huh? How'd you find me? Facebook. I have to admit I thought it was a joke, and then I got here and it's not. What are you some social media sluth? You didn't exactly hide your location. It's a friendly town, everyone loves the boy from New York City. I thought we were taking some time off. We did, for a re-evaluation, and I realize I was a fool. My answer is yes. Yes to what? The last time we saw each other you had a ring. Remember? Yeah, but what about Larry Fitz Gilbert? A flash in the pan, totally over. Really? Larry made me realize how much I love you. How's that? Because when we were apart and I was with him, it made me realize how much I missed you. Sean, you know we belong together. I was wrong before but you made me realize how important the future is. And Sean, I want my future to be with you. Are you going somewhere? Uh, just some boring townsfolk getting together to light the Christmas tree at town hall, no big deal, just something to do. You wouldn't be interested. Sounds like a party. Just let me freshin' up. Bathroom? I gotta do something, take your car, I'll meet you there. Hey. Hi. Everything okay? Yeah, uh, everything's great. I'm really glad to see you, I thought a lot about what you said earlier. Right I need to tell you-- Me first please. There is someone else in my life. Is it the guy that keeps calling you call the time? Hey mom. Hey little buddy. I want you to meet a friend of mommy's. This is Sean. Nice to meet you, Sean. You too. Mom and I went to the moon today. You don't say. With robo. I love robo. I know him very well. I wanna show Chappy robo. Okay, don't wonder off. You're a mom. I am. I like to keep my private life private until I know I can trust someone. That's why there's no Kalup on your Facebook. In case you haven't guessed Kalup is the someone else in my life. In fact he is my life, which is why I needed you to meet him. I didn't tell you about him sooner because I didn't know what to expect. I do want this to work. Ryan I need to-- I know it's a risk, and there's location problems but I'm willing to try. So are you free for Christmas dinner? I would like to be but I-- Honey, I've been looking for you. I'm Kimber, Sean's fianc. No, I can explain. No need to. I clearly made a huge mistake. You both have a Merry Christmas. Ryan, wait! (clapping and cheering) We're leaving? It's not over. Yeah it is, I'll meet you back at the house. (knocking) Hello there. Hi. I thought I was coming over to your place? I couldn't wait. Do you mind? No, not at all. So, what are you hungry for? I'm not really a big eater. Calories are kind of a job hazard. I'm a model. I eat what I need to. Tough job. What do you do? I'm a repairman. Do you own the business? I do. Mmm. We should get going; I'm up for suggestions as to where. I usually leave the 'where' up to the guy. Okay. I'm new to New York, my friend took me to this great open mic club. (laughs) The girl you were with in the lobby? Yeah, Mia. Figures she would take you to an open mic club. She's obviously low rent. Careful, she's a good friend. We should get going. You forget something? Yeah, I really did. (slam) What are you doing? (smack) Do you know who I am? Absolutely. You're the wrong girl for me. Merry Christmas Owen. Hey, you too Denis. You okay? Not really. Denis since you're my New York guru, what should I do if I think I'm in love with a girl? Well do you think you really love her? I mean you've only been in New York a short time. I know that's what's so incredible. My previous relationship lasted seven years but I've never felt like this. I don't know if she feels the same but I gotta tell her how I feel. Say what you have to say. I mean it's scary, but once it's done the high hands rest. And if it is who I think it is, there will be a happy outcome. You're a wise man, Denis. I hope you're right. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas Owen. What are you doing here Kimber? You're my fianc. I wanna spend Christmas with you. You wanted to take time off and you were pretty clear about that. You were bored with me, our relationship went stale. Crumbled. Remember? I changed my mind. I'm very happy with you. You saw that picture of me and Ryan of Facebook. Was it your heart or ego that made that decision? Sean... you know that we belong together. I used to think so, I got so caught up in having a future and following that blueprint that I totally missed what was right there in front of me. I'm glad you really see me, us. I do. You came here because you can't stand the idea that I may have moved on with someone else. Yes, I uh, I saw the picture, but it just made me realize that I love you. And Larry Fit Gilbert went back to his fianc. You're not the only social menace. I'm sorry Kimber but I can't do this. You bought me a ring. Me. I bought a ring but it's not for you. Not anymore. I bought a ring but it's not for you. Excuse me. Hey, do you mind doing me a favor and turning these lights down? Thank you. Silent night! Holy night! All is calm all is bright. Round yon virgin mother and child. Holy infant so tender and mild. Sleep in heavenly peace! Sleep in heavenly peace! (applause) I didn't like how we ended things earlier today. It's in the past, no need to dwell on it. So where's your date? It never happened. I realized something. What's that? My heart's already been taken, by you. Look, I know you have a boyfriend-- Not anymore. I broke up with him. You did? Right before I saw you today. I realized that everything that was wrong with him, was right with you. And you still believe that? I was beginning to doubt it but, you sang silent night. My sister told me that if I stay open I may find a love I never knew I wanted but, desperately needed. I thought it was a bunch of nonsense but when I met you, I realized how true it really is. I had to come all the way to New York City to find it but somewhere along the way I fell for you Mia. I don't know maybe I fell for you the first moment I saw you but was just too stupid or too scared to admit it. But now with every moment I fall deeper and deeper in love. It's like magic. It just keeps getting better. You have no idea how wonderful it is to hear you say that. I'm in love with you too but I just thought I was being silly. Would you by chance want to spend Christmas back home with me? I guess that's a yes. (laughs) Yes! Best Christmas present ever. (cheering and clapping) (laughing) (knocking) It's late Sean, what are you doing here? I need to talk to you. You don't have to explain, everything makes sense. It's fine. You'll go back to New York and I'll wish you all the best. You're blowing me off. No, I'm being honest, which is something you should try some time. Okay, I should of told you about Kimber, I'm sorry. I asked you why you came here. You never said anything about a girlfriend, and definitely not a fianc. That's because at the time she wasn't. Yes I bought a ring and yes I was going to propose. I... had all these ideas about how the future would be and you know what, life just laughed in my face. I'm sure it did, but Kimber made it very clear that you're still together. Why else would she come here? Kimber came here on her own. No invitation from me. Ugh... I don't know, maybe this just all happened so we don't make a big mistake. Or maybe Kimber did me the biggest favor. If she hadn't made me realize how I was living my life I would never of come here. And I never would of realized I was missing a real connection in my life. I never would of found you. You woke me up Ryan. You made me realize that if I'm always planning for the future I won't be present for it when it comes. You showed me how to be present, how to absorb the moment. And you made me be willing to experience it. It's not just my heart that's at risk. Maybe this is all an illusion you're gonna forget when you go back to New York. No, it's not. What's real to me is that every moment I'm with you, is the best moment of my life. I'm in this for the long hall. Starting now. Whatever it takes. All I need is to here you say this. You'll get on the plane-- No. I've come to far; no way I am turning back. I have a son. I think Kalup is wonderful. You didn't really think that would scare me off? Maybe. Is that why you kept it a secret? I'm not looking for a dad for Kalup. What scares me, Sean, is that he seems to like you. That boy has dealt with a lot of disappointment and I don't want to feel one ounce of what I felt today. I'm sorry about that. It was never my intention to hurt you. But you did and I know you won't do it again. I promise you I won't. Do you believe in fate? 'Cause I do. You know why? Because I was just supposed to be coming her to regroup. That's what's so astounding about all of this. Somehow fate brought me something greater than I could ever imagine. It brought me you. You truly believe ours is a real connection? Written in the stars. Merry Christmas! Hey, little brother, just in time. How are you? Ryan, I want you to meet Mia. Thanks for having me. Owen has told me so much about you. Very nice to meet you. Where is Kalup? He's playing. Kalup! He's coming. Mia, what are you doing here? I came with Owen. Sean this is my brother, Owen. Sean? Sean Tucker? Yeah. Owen Harrison, you're Ryan's brother. What are you doing here? Ryan invited me. You asked me about how to impress the local girls here. Well, it was just, you know, the one local girl. I hope you're cool with that? Hahaa!! You should of told me it was Ryan, I would of told you all her secrets. So you and Mia? Yup. (laughing) Kalup the man. Hey, a toast to the best house swap ever in the history of house swaps. To start dust. And to silent night. Merry Christmas. (everyone) Merry Christmas. (laughing) Merry Christmas, little buddy. Hey. All right, sis, let's eat. ...Let every heart prepare him room. And heaven and nature sing. And heaven and nature sing. And heaven, heaven and nature sing. Joy to the world The Savior reigns. Let men their songs employ...
