 

                        You rascal In the end do? I'm sorry, Colonel This time, we double the dose injected I thought it was excessive, Please forgive me! You too have failed To win this war These prisoners must all become our soldiers Test must succeed! Yes! Dear viewers Tonight, Charlie Jin Gangqi Square Cultural Arts Started First of all there is, please How forgotten what then? By the way, on the First of all, YAO have invited us to the beauty He Jun handsome Tornado invincible whip performances for everyone Dear viewers Next, went to the far the most exciting part of Rights The world of the knife and he is the king of Guanjue He will perform a scene for everyone ... The thrill of stunt flying cutter! Advise you that you do not blink Because of his knife and Is approaching invisible Dear viewers Have requested the ... Knife and the king! Is me, pole Sonny Up to Uncle, Sonny went to the trouble Dear viewers I is renowned the world, martial arts Unparalleled in the world of the knife and the main door door That is, the descendants of Romantic Swordsman Knife and ruthless person, patients do not vain Pole Sonny is my friends We are not very excited about it? I started performing it! We re excited out! Well you got the apple You must not be afraid While, I will give you money Take a little higher Well, close to the point Well, rest assured Look at me Too lazy to look Call an ambulance right Knife and a Die Another Day! Give me another chance On a Over the past Stand Outrageous! You are the son of a bitch, they make trouble here, right? While I fix you A little later to give you money Outrageous ... good! You put your horse to come, I see how strong you are Do you have trouble, you're dead You annoy me To back me to fix you Come on, the knife ah! Dear viewers, this is the real king of fly cutter Da first! So what ... So what ... let me past ... Sorry ... To ... sit sit Great beginning, there are two new little sister to stay with you Tert-up I really do not understand why you insist accept this boy His mind is sick, will kill you Great new hand Moreover, his father had died so many years Senju fly cutter? Great new hand, I ... I do not have to play you I just want to show Swordsman Kid Sooner or later die in my sword Do not get angry Rights Well happy to look at Good to accompany large new hand Go Be happy Good fun Fast, quick to let me down ah I have to die ... I invite you to eat it You standing there doing? The beginning of this great man is wolf in sheep You will not offend him It is no longer, he kill you sooner or later Do not mix up here, go back to Hong Kong I do not go I just want to play knife and Well, you are not to Then I would look for opportunities to try hands You to try this? School playing fly cutter? I grew up watching you grow up You have several kilograms of several two, I do not know? I have often told you, you are not practicing knife and talented Do not only talk about knife and good or bad! You always get into trouble ... I also put up Continue to let you stay here then do a clown But for your parents die early, to my good eye on you ... I early you him outside it! Give me one more chance Needless to say, and so the I really line Impossible I really line Yeah you do not work I line Trekking trip is any trip ... ah? What you do not trip! Your knife and no, not do you a man Doing things does not work, you better go! Heart felt With an Eye to aim Gas out knife Follow the trend of combining gas You have to follow suit friends Let the wind can take your knife set You will be able to do it, son Why I can not do? Father Do I really have not practiced knife and talent it? Big brother! Hey Hey, how can it? Side of the hill was dug under the gold that we make a fortune Rights True false I did not lie to you, that I heard at first hand to see Take me away! Go ... Let's go and see Big Brother, is that three They are very exaggerated in the bar They say that goes on a treasure map they bought bankrupt Say that those treasures, a Japanese ... Gold bars during the war left ah The wealth of the Husband, if that is our gold bars Would not have looked to others in the circus monkey, Wife, I give you ten servants, please Accompany you around the world Please look at me ten, hello to fool around it Wife, I Nagan you? What are you afraid of? If there is gold, I have no worries about my life a few friends Do not panic We go Ah well shame So short of places to fall Fortunately no one was found There seems little higher I went over there to try Feed Great new hand! So many people, at the beginning of spring fire party? Some fun, right? They are drunk so early? I was there practicing somersaults Almost ... giddy I saw nothing Since you like to come here We also considered the fate Thus, a large new hand to give you a chance Well Blessed with the sharing OK, go Will there be Guiya? Monster Monster What monster? However, it is human bone People have such a long spine it? Look at other end with a big rice cooker There are paw ... Can we find a alien? Whether it is people are monsters Have died anyway Than to the front to see what else ... Go There is still a way? Yes ah Brisk walking it! Kuai Diana Offend No wonder, then ... Namo Amitabha Surprising Great new hand, there seems to have died, many people Let's go Hush, ah shut up Your previous life is dumb it? You say he died right here! Hello vicious Husband, these are what? So many I do not know ah This thing can touch it? Open it I told you to open it Oh, miserable it! Just hand twisted No effort ... how do? Iron root brother, you maximum strength, you come to open it My older brother told you to open it! Open ah! How is it? Well, suddenly Okay ... really strange Nothing? OK all right? All right Fast Open Oh How to open it? Gold bullion ... You see Wife, gold bars Is that true? I could not believe my eyes Really! Really! Gold bar Great new hand, fortune it! Iron roots, with Sonny Lookout to go over there Go - Where? - I stay with you Go lookout Come see what else there is no Good Iron root brother, in fact ... this is no other person What sort of wind? - Husband - wife Husband, brisk walking! Hurry! Iron roots! Brother Brother Big brother, go! Hurry How do you do that? Some people ran on board do not know? Big Brother, how can he like this? It does not have infectious diseases, how to do about it? How do? We can not let him find the goods Threw him into the sea Son, as a man should be like flying cutter Must be objective You should adhere to in the end, do not give What happened ah? Help ah ... Help ah ... Hungry ah ... Anyone? Hey! Has anyone ah? Hey, does anyone ah Has anyone ah? Hungry ah ... Hungry ah ... Salted fish? Ye Hao First withstand Delicious Delicious Hey! Do? Steal fish? Quickly come ah Stop thief! Come on people, ah, Stop thief! Fast thief ah! I am just hungry I am not a thief ... Seize him! Sorry ... Do not come to us, ah, again I will kill you a dead fat man Parking Parking! Parking Parking Parking! President, my tire explode You have no time Can you help me? I ... Hey, you jumped into the sea you? Not That is being robbed? Not Why are you so late one body wet? I only swim Go swimming? Wearing clothes to go swimming? You have no identity Otherwise, I'll show you police the Do not Do not alarm I have identity cards My name is Li Fei Knife and ruthless person, patients do not vain Sonny is my pole So much up to? Yes ah I am a thunderbolt Jin Gangqi arts performances by groups ... Performance flying cutter of Should not take you to the hospital? No I do not understand why suddenly a lot of fat As it goes, you send me home like a Yes, you were so good How is your name? My name is Ann children This name is with you In fact, I know you I've seen you on TV You are the flower of CSS News Well Miss Ann child, your cookies are so tasty Thank you ah Child safety In fact I was not so fat I am very slim The next time you jump into the sea, no one will set you Trouble you You're welcome Goodbye Goodbye Goodbye Tert-up Up Uncle! Why do they not come back? What is this? Robbery ah! Dear viewers, good night Now is the news feed, I CHEN children Yesterday 0:00, with an armored car Wang Tai Road, Kowloon Bay was robbed on his way driving Losses amounted to more than The same night, the red sea Street A jewelry factory was robbed Repeated rumors live shots Police officers who were injured and no trace of the gun Can be injured in suspected hit a hard object The jewelry store robbery that occurred Alleged culprits have not even held a gun Is the estimated value of more than 30 million stolen jewelry Witnesses said the culprits were three men and a woman Strange appearance of terror Similar to the previous robberies had similar Police will continue to be a high degree of confidentiality as an excuse No clear explanation to the public This is already the eighth week since the robbery occurred Curiously, many robberies have found the scene ... What weapons they use? No weapons This bullet-proof glass that is ... They said the culprits would blow fly on the wall of security beat Shattered glass Would not you? Tang officers This is Professor Yu Sen Institute of Biology, scholars are sent The latter two, the experts invited from the Mainland They had grabbed the case of prisoners suspected of supernatural This is the Sun Hao This is Cheng Xiuhua Here it can be up to the two of them Sun Hao, thanks to you Who then ... Give you double wages, ah Like how? Severe than the last that is also So what? Old man, you see this diamond ring That we set more than bigger Then take it, Anyway, robbed a lot of Another little one, the police could find We still have a month to get married You think prison marry me? Not one month, give me 20 days I promise to catch them Then marry you right away Ha! On came to me ... do not call ahead? Adger issue a notice to me told me that next week I go out and do the paparazzi Why? So Lin complained about the The last interview you said, there is an element of his low damage Lawyers are out of the letter Owner does the only thing to find someone to scapegoat Two years ago, things, and now a complaint ah Years, you listen to me Company does not open you have is your luck Those rich people to play, we have no way to go Is not it? Keke, you do not fool me You tell me the truth You want to hear the truth? Good New holding company it would like to let you rest So Holding new? Yaoyao? Be I would like to help you pull Abdulla not live This is a business community You have been in the couple When you took office, the same people kicked out Companies could just look in the best interests She only went for two months only Be Her experience is not enough Even speak clearly But I tell the truth, you do not get angry ah She then younger than you, than you smiling sweet Appealing to viewers than you These, I am very satisfied You are more satisfied with her to bed, right? Even if yes, what? On child, you become obsolete In fact, you are leaving, not better? At least some viewers still remember you are the flower of CSS News Moreover, I also want you to know Feelings ... Sometimes really no way to control First, I broke up with you Secondly, I fire you After you do not find me! Dear! You come to me on, do not he give me a call? I will let you completely regret It hurts Up Uncle! Up Uncle! Well, up to Uncle, I am Sonny ah I returned to Hong Kong, why not you come back? Hey, Chou Xiaozi, you engaged in what? Malaysian police arrest you then Something the whole group were they detained Now, even the underwear to be changed no Not my thing ah Great things come out the beginning of their Told you not to mix with them Well Up to Uncle, I I am afraid of ... I seem to defective I'm so slim Yeah you have been very slim No, last night, very fat In the end you talking about? Also I saw mosquitoes flying Hao Mana You crazy ah? Or go to the police station, or go to the hospital, you choose What to choose, anyway, the police will arrest me You're not done, you afraid of? Do not say no more, go alert Oh Goodbye Want to bite me? How so easily? Go on! Go on Very dangerous here! Go on! Yeah you! Brisk walking What do you look at me silly? Brisk walking Very dangerous here, the first station to one side Police officers, what is it? I want to report ah Police incident, and report it? Go somewhere else, quickly walked My patience is limited Wow, is ah! Woman in the hijack personal ... ah! Is not it, so far you see? Clearly seen Can not shoot his gun and hostages tied If you shoot the hostages will die Understand Should I kill him, you will not believe it Sniper ready, once the opportunity to immediately open fire Know All you die the police! I make way for the whole Make way Hey, what happened? On children, something went wrong Prisoners revolver, hostage taking and ah! Together ... Well, go inside Can not just go in front of a very dangerous On children? Do not you recognize me? I'm Sonny Yeah! Who? Pole Sonny Yeah! I am a fat guy that night Ah? That is very slim Why do not the car? Hey, do not bother me, dead friends The man is not dead, do not be afraid WPC that seems out of breath ... Can you see? That criminals, gun ... Pointing to the po icewoman's head ... Also reined in her neck with tape Ah good risk Rights ... dying that WPC I really want to shoot Rights Do not move Shackled him! Let go of me ... Who fired the shots? Executive, do not shoot ah Like a bamboo stick Is he! People with a bamboo stick that is him! Good! President, I ask your name ah? You are not police officers? Is special training through the Flying Tigers? Follow me Adger, the camera to me On children, you brisk walking! I have to stop them Do not come ... do not come! Do you recognize me? Now everyone you know Can you help me a favor? Well, how to help? Let me make a exclusive interview Your case is very rare genetic mutation Your rate of cell division, several times faster than the common people Also continued to change Proliferation of cartilage are also constantly Do not talk nonsense I just want to know When can I change back Great new hand, you say You and your friends, infected with biological viruses I think ... I want to know the virus component Can find the answer Yeah In fact,,, I really do not know how to save your I beg you let me I have a wife and kids at home Big Brother, Come and see what Case occurred this morning, police held hostage Kidnapped police officers have been discharged after treatment Policewoman held hostage by criminals hand injury , Have been charged Lens can see, the bamboo fly rescue heroes Temporarily not able to confirm his identity Now please listen to our station reporter to bring you a detailed report He told us the drug Why he did not do? How the virus does not affect him? Different people's physical Response to the virus may be different Antibody bar or in his body You killed my younger brother Not only they did not die Not even look like have not changed Hello everybody, I'm CHEN children During the days of frequent robberies Finally there is an unsung hero to come forward With a bamboo stick to defuse a hijacking people, the quality of the crisis Rescue of a policewoman in their lives He is on my side I may ask him to introduce myself Hello Hello, everybody! My name is Li Fei Small  Nickname pole Sonny Pole Sonny, I hear your name The stunt will know you have not accidentally See your skill, but also the environment here layout Your job is not with the martial arts activities? This is not the relationship with the martial arts Here is an odd group ranges performing arts workshops My job is to follow the Church Square, performing arts groups To tour world-wide Showcase your knife and who taught you? My knife and my father taught me My father is a 26th generation descendant of Senju Swordsman Knife and ruthless, patients are not vain That your father now? My dad is gone But it does not matter My father once told me Like a man just like flying cutter Once the shot fly cutter Would have to hit the target Why do not you show what knife and stunts to the audience to see, good or bad? Natural point on as you normally perform on stage like a Well, I show for everyone to see I also wanted to see what your knife and stunts! Great new hand! On children? Hello I am your loyal fans ah I love you On children, Can we be friends? I deal with my family Sonny Why not change the way you do? Great new hand ... You did not look like how they change ah Very handsome What drug are you eating? Salted fish Cookies I am fat and thin the Pulling it vomit Then 'll Be all right Is not it amazing? Now, obediently Newbie with a large back I do not go with you Follow me Go on! How so fast? Help ah! On child! On child! Do not run! On child! Sonny Last night, I dream, they dream of my brother He said he died Haocan That he did not care ... slip fell to his death in Great new hand ... Really not my thing ah I saw you killed my brother I have no reason to think God is so unfair Give the power to us Push us into a monster You this kid is just eccentric Old man, they evolve so fast Has entered the second phase of the So what? Fortunately, God is the arrangement for you We have become the perfect Your blood Is our antidote Great new hand ... Freeze You do not drink my blood, right? I say ... I say a recipe for you You listen Beiqi, 42 ... Chinese yam, the two money In addition Fritillaria, Platycodon, loquat half a catty each To be a little sweet, add two honey The most important thing is not candied practice approach is very important! Help ah! Hit anesthetic, you so powerful Old man! Hit his points Da first! Do not force me Sonny Sonny! Old man I think this is not a group of Sonny with them Should not be bad So what? Is not a partner is similar Got to force him to tell the whereabouts of other monster Here to help me with a slow-motion Good Drag the camera below Yes, just to be here Do a end here I am accountable to the public, this is absolutely no mutants Please do not wild speculation, so as not to cause public unrest How do you explain our shoot clips and photo? I repeat, no mutants Police will spare no effort to arrest assailants What is the police are not equipped to cope with these people? Tang officer, you see Come from? Sonny's is very strange, I have never seen His blood did contain strong toxins in the But did not affect his tissue Contrary to his ability to increase many times than ordinary I think it might be his own antibody and the toxin I will be Sonny's preliminary examination report He Jun suspects and killed each other a bit more Found Sonny muscle, joint organizations, etc. ... And no significant variation It can be said He is a rare odd Pathwalker But ultimately this is a variant of human Sonny Posing a threat to the public will I recommended that he be detained indefinitely observation Button go? Approach is not Now all that he headlines The public will think that Sonny Is to pack up violent criminals and popular heroes who pack variants Detention of a hero, how accountable? Miss the children have a very good proposal We first hear I think that since we can not hide the hero Sonny Would not conform to public opinion ... Holding his idol for the people to fight crime Or savior Including performances, commercials, as well as spokesperson I have a very rich media experience I could be his agent To the police, on the Sonny ... Even rebuild the confidence of the general public will benefit I see On the most beneficial to it on her own I agree with Ms. Chen's proposal This, to strike while the iron is hot So I have asked my Special Adviser Miss Chen did Executive, I think this is a good idea Anyway, we invite these experts to come back Seems to us a little help grasping mutants are not After the two of you Full assistance and protection for me, Well, Sonny Why do you send us? Old man Let's go, quit Well We will make every effort to cooperate with the police all the actions Razor ruthless! Cases of non-virtual scratch! All the enemies of the All eradicate! Oh, James lived Mutants? Do heroes, often social interaction, Chase by chase again Find time to rest it? Fortunately, the "lib nemesis" Without it, when to fight mutants ... Stomach pain, how to do? Lib nemesis, burst ah! Mutants Do not run! Well can you Well However, we hurry,'s gone Brisk walking This helped me hold Holding Pole nose psychic Sugar ... eggs, on the After all poured into it ... By the way, mix it like a Yeah she was amazing! Do not sleep, walk walk Fuel oil I am OK I will! Sonny Sonny Thank you! Sonny mean After getting this award will be more efforts to do the best Always you have in mind the pole Sonny! Good! Old man, quickly informed the police officer Tang They certainly had to start operations No, I am so that they You swallow these days When Sonny is trying to bait? Know like But Old lady! To eliminate pests without the knife and the With "variant kill Die" it Here Pen Pen, where Pen Pen Rat Snake ants die, people die variants Variant kill die! Hello, everybody! Hello, everybody! Ah you are very uccessful evening You can also To drink? I'm working I do not drink Very professional ah Here life here? In fact ... Chau door is beginning to grasp Da variant of people who came But I now find, look into a monster ... Not the most terrible What do you mean? Sometimes people may be easy to get lost it Will lose self- A fame which, unconsciously we all changed Good quiet ah, the old man Has been a long time not so quiet Not have been saying that to buy a small house by the sea Lived a quiet life? Well Variants were caught after buying a Remember what day tomorrow is it? Our wedding had done you then Old woman I really am confident that We have found their weakness I believe that to get something done soon We have not had to deal with such a powerful mutants Old man Let's find aid you Helper? Who can help got our hands? Sonny Anyway, they are monsters We might as well help to find a little monster Well not much easier You do not believe me? Do you think I can not get this whole thing, right? Old man You know not what I meant Besides, you that day ... Really put Sonny in a very dangerous situation where To see the variety of people, not to inform police Do not you think that this is a selfish it? I am selfish? Then you better when I was selfish I do not fame one day, my heart would not quiet Even if we bought a house at the beach Do you think I am really happy, really calm it? Tired ah? Uncomfortable? No Well you tell me Knife and a, rival I can help you solve the problem Do you think I am bad you? Do not think Do not you think, I have been in use so you ... Is very selfish of me? As long as make you happy like - On children - ah Are you ... let me finish my dream Like father, like finally Can stand on stage fly cutter No matter how good are I really want to thank you Fool Do not move, monsters do not move Well, attack him Good A little monster in the past Watching on the left Very good Rights we eat, eat Rights To do all night, the best to eat a few pieces of this Swordsman Swordsman? I said, I will come back to find you Great new hand without you ... No use to stay in this world Great new hand, my blood may not save you ... You surrender it I do not care! I must have you blood You call the user being unable to connect Please wait dial Your life belongs to me Also An even children, are my Do not hurt the children safe! You're dead monster, you do not know how to say Hydrocephalus, or head you in the ass on the long? If you die one day I will not let you Me back Is you Finally come Good! Today, I use your blood To pay homage to my husband Four major points were sealed valve Is paralysis, right? Want to go? No way! You are my You they can not afford Open ah Studio on fire Rights Open ah Anyone? I heard a voice which seems to Somebody has opened the door! Open the door ah Wait, I'll take you to make contributions to science Anyway, you now can not move Waiting to make variety of people on the quiet bar specimens No use Why? Why? Why I wait for you for a long time Old man, brisk walking! Old lady, I promise things that can be achieved immediately Change the original marriage Old man, you beat him Brisk walking ah! I beat him? Just went outside to clean up the 1 You see him this virtue Old woman, see show it Old man! Stop! Useless Old man, brisk walking! You were still in evolution Old woman, nothing ah? There are no injuries? Outrageous! Mutation rate would have imagined that the monster so much faster than expected Silver Needle Cixue no use, it is quite unexpected Fortunately, to kill a Otherwise, I really think it is good to bully Sun Hao Old woman Silver Needle use steel mill, anesthetics double Next time will not let go of the monster Old lady! Sau Wah Sau Wah! You do not tell me to play Not fun I do not play Old man I love you call me old lady This name is your starting Old woman You good All right ... You Do not sleep We'll go to the hospital, all right No Old man I am sorry After the road, go to your own Do not say I do not go! Without you How do I go? Do not leave me Old man Remember And wherever, do not lose their Old man Old woman Okay, you do not be afraid And wherever, I told you with I told you with Not lost Old man Here is beautiful Good quiet Old woman Old woman Old woman I was wrong ... you come back Please come back I no longer played Thank you for saving me Like you, I Confused half Not my job to the next The do's, don'ts I have done Is the time left During this time, I made a big hero Swordsman Swordsman Changed my life I thought it would be happy, that is success In fact ... I have been deceived by their own You used to get ahead Can not fight to even have life But now you just leave? Sun Hao, please help me Old lady once said You little monster, the capability of packing up their I will teach you how to control your potential This is the old lady The last one asked me You breathe a lot of gas discharge in vitro has fortunately Only a half-mutants In an emergency you can only play the ability But the ability, you have uncontrollable Knife and not a quasi-head I now want to train your Is that your concentration Goals, what about not even think I will tell you, dilating the weakest point of the first News feeds Variants were a series of attacks Have resulted in numerous deaths and injuries Experts who have not developed variant of the method to solve Six graduate students were abducted earlier variants of the virus, scientists With a series of killings, arson Public panic, pulled out of Miss Chen, you break it You have not slept a couple of days If Sonny's message, we will notify you Can you help me? My name is Ann children On child! Do not sleep, go Fuel oil Sonny ... are not you? Child safety I I'm Da beginning I sent Sonny to go to heaven Himself is hell Child safety Where are you? I am very lonely I now find that God gave me, not a capacity But a punishment I am gaining strength But more and more empty heart You should have worse retribution! Child safety You are now the only thing I want to see No matter where you are I will find you Our police have a duty to remind you You do, high risk Even if you can Da first leads to the We can not guarantee that the arrest Really decided? I have decided Do not say I did not find the treatment method Even if I found Does not give you medical treatment Power, is the heavenly But the evil heart, is your own health There is no way to treat You so go die! Where have you been? I can not find you, a lot of people will die You do not look for me I finally figured out In fact the whole thing, I told you are bad The same person, I am lonely Tomorrow is my birthday Bay Building, 131 A unit, a unit, there are no circumstances? There is no situation? Very quiet here, no case All normal Receive Headquarters, Headquarters, I've found no abnormality Continue to monitor Receive Sniper, received please answer, please answer received Sniper received Dispatched a group of closely Once goals, you can shoot Receive Attention! Goal appears! Goal appears! Goal has been down it! He too quickly, not hit Attention all units, dispatched a group of closely! Dispatched a group of closely! One team received! Second team received! Miss Ann children, mutants have been down According to plan, you start with the back way On children, Miss, you do not go very dangerous We can not protect you Immediately take her away! On children, Miss brisk walking Do not start operation, the door may be peer I am not clear! Child safety Happy Birthday! Be happy ah From today We are good friends lifetime Sorry, a love of human capital to Always together Love? Why do you love me ah? Whenever I think of you when My heart very happy ah Do you know what is love? Is feeling We all empathy, miss each other Laugh together cry together, in my heart that only the other side Now that's love You are only just a wretch I do not care! Follow me What you want, I give you I want you to die! Useless! Follow me Do not shoot! Miss the Da An early introduction of children out of the window Can not aim! On child! On child! Sonny Sonny ... you are not dead? You receive hands now! Do not shoot! Do not shoot A fly cutter Fairy! Sonny! What is this? I'll fix you Your old lady waiting for you in the following You go on with her right On child! On child! On child! Sonny! It does not matter So I killed that fool You are my Sonny ... See you did not die, I have a very strange feeling I am very happy! This time, you are to die for Although you can not change the appearance But the heart is possible You receive hands ah! I do not want a man I want God! He gave me strength So I can get everything Including the love You're pathetic Nonsense! You even can not hold their own Swordsman Swordsman, how to do it? A knife it! Save us! Save my child Help ah ... Grown doubled to open the door Yeah! Not open ah! On child! Doors open! Come down to Hurry up! Brisk walking fast down ah Why Why? Laugh together ... cry together ... Even die for each other On child! I do not believe ... I do not believe ... Child safety Child safety You do not send me to the hospital I really dead
