 

                        CITIZEN X Fresh meat. Straight from the farm. Fresh? This body is a year old. It's a sort of a joke, your predecessor would have got it. Yes, I understand that he was funny. Lazy, but funny. You said something about a farm. Collective farm number 5. The big field right next to ... The girl died in the woods? I am Sorry, Were you about to say right next to the woods? Did you look through them? No Now, better go back and look through them. For what? For something that I can use to identify her. Glasses, cigarettes, whatever. If there Had been anything, I would had brought it here You think we're all lazy? Go back and search the woods. It's after five. I don't care what time it is, take an extra man, tell Sasha it's on my authority, comb the area, look under every leaf and every tree. I get the idea. Heartless, Son of a bitch, what is he trying to prove? Dear Comrade. He's new. Doctor Mirtjinskij? It's your turn, The body is ready for an autopsy. No, there's no question of how the little girl was killed. Violent blow to the back ... Shouldn't you do an autopsy all the same?? Comrade ... Do you help me get this job done, so I can do your job too? Comrade Burakov ... What is it? They are coming in with something for you, they want you to wait. Tell them that tomorrow is fine. I can't deal with it now, it's after nine.. Who cares what time it is! Have a nice evening ... Violent blow to the back of the skull. Multiple stab wounds to the face. On the second body, as many as and emptying of the eye sockets. and a broken sternum. disfigurement to the breasts. along with traces of semen. On the sixth victim's penis has been removed approximately 2.3 cm. above the junction, with some additional disfigurement of the genital area. Some additional disfigurement ... Some additional disfigurement ... Some additional disfigurement of the nature of which suggest ... not so much as a sharp instrument as teeth ... Yesterday the men of the Rostov militia unearthed eight bodies in different stages of decomposition And you brought the odours of the grave and rumors as evidence. How clever. I assume that the time you devoted to their examination is the time you couldn't spare to get cleaned up. Next time a little less diligence and a little more hygiene. In the files of my predecessor I found records of seven other bodies. If you do not mind Comrade, I would like to start by introducing to the members of the committee. General Ivanov, Head of the KGB, in Rostov. Comrade Dunenkov, Comrade Tatevsky, our Mayor, Comrade Ignatiev ... and of course Comrade Bondarchuk, Secretary of Ideology of the Communist Party. I'm Colonel Fetisov, I am in charge of the militia, whose officers efforts have a small part. I am also Secretary of this committee. Gentlemen, this is Comrade Burakov ... He is our new forensic expert. They are a breed of men who work in basements with chemistry sets. We could hardly blame them for looking little startled when they come out into the light. Comrade, Please begin. It's clear that we have a serial killer, on our hands already the most prolific in Russian history. We will have to take extreme measures to stop him. Is he saying a "Serial Killer"? We understood that there were wide discrepancies in the wounds inflicted. That's what he told us, Colonel. And their were both boys and girls. It could be two different men It could be a gang. There are no serial killers in the Soviet state. Well that sounds more like we should think of it then ... It is a decadent Western phenomenon. Gentlemen, that's all we have for now. Thank you for taking time out of your busy schedules. I will keep you informed of any new developments. Welcome to the Halls of Power. My God, No wonder nothing would stand. - In this case it will. Why? - Because you will be in charge. What? You'll be in charge of the case. Infact of the entire department ... because technically we do not have one, yet. We have a division for the most serious crimes ... and we put you in charge of the "Killer Department" The "Killer Department" But I am not even a detective, I am a Forensic man. You always wanted to be a detective? Yes .. - Well, Then you're in charge. Start by making lists of the man power and logistical support you think that you may require. And then outline a general approach to begin an investigation. Report back to me tomorrow. Good day. Is there something else? - Forgive me, but we reached the top ... regional apartment list for forsenics, my wife and two kids, we are qualified for the two bedroom ... We have been waitng for seven years. If I take a new job would I lose my seniority? I personally guarantee, that you'll get the next two bedroom apartment when it becomes available in Rostov. All right? Now go home and tell your wife about your new promotion. Yes, Sir. Next, a special report on crime ... deadly combination of heroin addictions and street crimes ... is ravaging American cities as even their own Time magazine ... Okay, let's hear it. Listen to what? If this job is so great, why are you so upset about it? I am supposed to keep it a secret. I would not tell a soul. For God's sake, you're treading dirt all over the place ... - I am Sorry What the hell have you been doing? They made me move some filthy boxes in the factory. I am from the Police. You are Mrs... It's about your daughter... When did you last see her? It was well over a year ago. I don't remember. She was your daughter, how can you not remember where you last saw her? Okay, Did she have any friends? No. She watched the trains whole day. She was retarded. Did he have any friends? Who? What were their names? Did he have any habits? - The Electrichka. Say it again? - He rode the Electrichka. He rode the trains for fun? - All the time. He finds them on Electrichka! He finds them on Electrichka. I know it. Electrichka, The trains that criss cross rural Russia. - I know what they are, Comrade. I don't ride them, but they do sometimes get in the way of my limousine. If I was hesitant to my reaction which had only to do with a vague unease. About what? The fact that you was only been the detective for 48 hours ... and your intution is already so highly devolped. Are you a genius or just given to power of enthusiasm? I know the killer's method. He picks up young people on the trains. I've been to the station. They're all there. The naive, the weak, the retarded. It's over. He has confessed. - What? - Who confessed? Somebody from the institution of Statsi. A Gypsy. He is gonna show them the murder sights now. Mr. What is your problem? Don't you remember what you told us? They are coaching him. - They are very experienced detectives. Here it is, this is were I killed her. Again you fucked up. This is how manyth time? Twelve? He goes for an appointment with the Spring suppliers on Tuesday. Come back Thursday, saying ... it went fine and on Monday I hear that he never saw him. Never showed up. Have you any explanation for your miserable performance? I am going to take you down and show you to workers on the line ... see what they think of you. This is the man who stopped the chain of supply, this is the man who stopped our work today You have no where to go? Are you Hungry? I hope this latest murder puts to rest the idea that the gypsy boy did it. Why? Because he was in custody when this one was killed. So what? It could be a gang of which he was only a part We can't disount that man as a suspect so quickly. He did confess. I have some requests to make, we have 16 bodies and we know ... that there are more of them. In my opinion it's a state of emergency. And for that reason I have to ask for more men, a lot more. I have also need computers, so that I can start the library of information about the case and I need to communicate with the FBI Serial Murder Task Force in Quantico, Virginia. The largest store house of information about serial murderers in the world. And finally, we need to publicise this case as widely as possible First, to warn people of the danger. Second, to get more of the unknown bodies identified. and Third, In the hope of bringing forth a witness ... to one of the crimes. No. - No to what? No to everything? Are you mad? There's a maniac out there who will kill every child in that god damn district! Stop this insolence! Is there something you want to say, Colonel. - No, sir. You handled that quite deftly. - Bondarchuk is a stupid man. He may be stupid but he is in charge. How can it be, you don't seem to know how things work in the Soviet system? I know how things work, but right now there are 16 dead children and I want a little special treatment. The strength of the bureaucracy is measured by it's ability to resist giving anyone special treatment. I don't appreciate your sense of humor. - One day you will. The reason I said no to your demands ... to ask for more men or computers, for that matter, is to admit to our superiors in Moscow ... that we're overwhelmed. Which they'll never do To ask the FBI for help ... is to admit to the West that we are behind them in both forensic technique and in manageing information. Which they would never do. And to publicise the case is to admit that such crimes exist ... in the Soviet Union. Which is one thing they would rather die than do, To Publicly admit that anything is wrong. the only way I have been able to get anything done is behind closed doors. By offering favors, by bribeing, by weedling ... But that will take time. It always does. Only in this case people will die. People will die and that'll take all our strength to suffer these outrageousness, But suffer them we must. Because we are the people who have to catch this monster, Comrade Burakov. You and I. And you may have noticed, no one else is even willing to try. Good day. You care about nothing more than making your superiors happy. You're right, I should spend more time ... trying to alienate them. Perhaps you could teach me. You say that You and I have catch this monster ... what you mean it's upto me isn't it? Thats why I begin as the perfect choice ... if I fail I'll be dangling out there by myself. Happy Birthday, Nadia! Are you trying to sabotage what we are doing here now? Doesn't you understand that you're supposed to be under cover. You're supposed to let the killer feel comfortable and let him try to pick somebody up. Did you think that wearing your uniform would help? It was freezing when we came this morning - So what? It is his only warm coat. My brother-in-law has a warm coat. I'm sure, I can borrow it tomorrow. I would ask him today ... Give me your coat. Take it. I'll give it to you back later. When we solve the case. In the years since we discovered the first bodies, we found six more. and we interviewed 800 potential witnesses. And despite all that, we have no suspect. In fact, all we've been able to do, is to discredit the theory of the gang of retards from the Institute, would've been involved. And according to some of the people in this room, we haven't been able to do that. And if you continue to forbid us to publicise the case I can't promise to say when I except our luck to change. You're saying that you're no less than when you have begun. - Not exactly. Bring in Gorbunov. Gentlemen this is Comrade Gorbunov, Special Prosecutor from Moscow Sit down Comrade. - Thank you. Gentlemen, Without wishing to embarass anyone in particular, I must tell you that I have been send here... to take over the investigation, because of it's poor focus and slip shot execution My superiors in Moscow agree with me, that we should drop the train stations survelliance immediately. Not only because it's costly in terms of man hours, but also because it hasn't produced a single viable suspect in a year. and because I say this with all due respect to my predecessor, It is based exclusively on one man's intuition. Well I'm afraid that's no longer going to count anymore. As of now we will run this investigation as professionals. As of now, standing along is no longer our style but aggressive pursuit is. We will aggressively pursue the suspects ... and focus primarly on known sexual deviance. For the obvious reason they fit the nature of the crime and particularly the homosexuals ... owing to the fact that there are so many young boys among the victims. And we will concenterte on a lesser extent on doctors and surgeons because of the precision of the lacerations. Is what I said satisfactory to you all? I Object, most of ... Very satisfactory. Extremely satisfactory. I particularly liked the idea of investegating the homosexuals. I think this is the best idea we have heard of, in the tragic history of this case. We want to thank you, Comrade Gorbunov. I understand that you'll remain here for a couple of days. And I will see to it that you'll have enough time to get Burakov's team pointed in the right direction before you go back to Moscow. I am sure I will. - Well, We're done here, I think . Have I not? Well then. You've heard him. He would be here for 24 hours and then he leaves. We still run the day to day operation. In a bureaucracy it is important to know which skirmishes to join and which to ignore. We are developing quite a network of informers among the city's homosexual community. That is not worth it. I found it fascinating that Secretary Bondarchuk so vehement about pursuing them. Didn't you? - No. There is a whole world for gossip and it's in your hands to explore, Comrade Bukarov. Perhaps, If you took an interest, You'll be a little more light of heart. You think a man is what he says, Don't you Colonel? He is, if you talks for a living. A man is what he fights for. Well, I don't fight for anything. I know. He is a doctor with a bad reputation, if you know what that means. It is as I suspected, Comrade, it's fornication, I made some drawings. Take them in. You serious? Take them in. Why are we arresting so many perfectly respectful doctors? Because we've been told to. You're told told to investigate them, not necessarily to detain them.. The doctors who are party members we detain them as briefly as possible. The sexual deviances who are party members we intend to keep a little longer. This is arrogance. - I will speak to the men about it, Comrade. I will take care of it. Why don't you investigate the police men, Comrade Burakov? Wouldn't you say that they know more about getting away with murder than any other group? Wouldn't you say that you yourself will make a good suspect? I know it's late, I'm sorry. - I wasn't asleep. Bondarchuk suspects the Cop, now. Someone who knows how to kill and get away with it. I suppose it's a possibility. The One he suspects is me ... That's absurd. - I'm afraid not. You do not know what he is like. Someone could come in the night and take me away. If you knew they would come and take you on Friday, What would you do different, this week at work? Nothing. - Good. Eat. Pathetic. Where are you going all dressed up? It's Saturday. I have some work. A trip I have to take for work. To make up for something I failed to do Why does that not surprise me? I have some vodka in my bag, would that do? Use your hands, for God's sake. Help me in here. I'm Sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry ... You Okay? This almost had pissed him off. A little respect for the dead! I want every piece of garbage within 200-yard of radius checked out, fingerprints, fibers and body fluids. every can, every bottle, You understand me?. If we gonna fail it won't be because of something left undone. you understand what I'm saying, God damn it?! - Rest assured, I will get them working. Okay, Let's move out. - Is he serious? He's gone crazy. - Keep moving. If you see anything interesting, You let me know. Police, Citizen ... - Chikatilo May I have your bag? Citizen Chikatilo, You're under arrest I was on my way home. I talk to the young people because I used to be a teacher ... I always talk to young people I have rope and a knife in my bag because I work in a factory ... and often need them. What do you think? - Personally? I don't think he's a Savage. Well, How do I know? I have some more paperwork to do. Stay with him, okay?. Absolutely. I have a suspect What is it? - The blood test came back negative What? Semen sample is of type AB Chikatilo's is of type A I don't believe it. - It's true. What you talking about is true? What does that mean? Our blood test is for 11 variables. The FBI is for 149. How do you know that? - I saw it in a movie! What the hell difference does it make what the blood test says, You do not know what you're talking about. Comarada Burakov! Are you aware that your prisoner is a member of the Communist Party? Is he not aware that this man is a Party member in good standing? Are you or Are You not aware?! Of course I am aware of it, that I'm a detective, Remember? You approved my appointment. And you're holding him anyway? - That is my right After The blood test came back negative. Who told you that? - What difference does it make? Did you tell him? - What difference does it make?! It makes a difference to me ... Let him go Now. .. Let him go or suffer the consequences Colonel! Release Citizen Chikatilo. Burakov Office. No, not yet ... It's strange. They force us not finding bodies, than finding them. At least this time, if we found another body, we might have another chance to find fingerprint, or a witness. In this way, I would rather find three at a time and none in a year. Let's get out of here. Let's go to work. What happened to the boy? He is being held in the cell downstairs. He is not connected to the murders ... but he has given us a fascinating little piece of gossip. You Let him go. - What? You Let him go. - Why? Why not? Gave you a God damn gossip. Why can't you just let him go. I am Sorry. Please show some mercy. He's a victim, not a criminal. He's a child. All right, Go ahead. But don't get anyone else involved. Thank you. I'll do it myself ... You can go in. You'd rather find three bodies than none ... You'd rather find citizens dead, If it would make your job easier. Have you become that perverse? - I do not think this is a fruitful line of enquiry. I do! Viktor Vasilievitj Burakov, You stand by these remarks? You stand by statement that you would rather find bodies than not? Is this man crying? Is this the man to whom we trust the safety of our children? Crying? Mrs.Burakov? I am Mikhail Fetisov. I have your husband here, He is having a problem. Yes, Yes, I know. I have arranged for him to take a vacation and a rest tour. Can I persuade you to come and pick him up? Replace him. No. What was that? What did you say? After five straight years on the same assigment, Lt. Burakov is taking his first vacation His job will be waiting for him when he comes back. Get out. All of you! Right now! If you ever again contradicts me in front ... I have here ... I do not care what you have! Information ... Who cares!. From a 19 year old boy whom you maintain in the town of Sakti! In the apartment you have arranged for him and the gifts which you have given him. And the dates of your last three over night visits! If you attempt to fire Lieutenant Burakov, now or at any time ... I will send all this to your wife. I Recommended you for this position. - I'll always be indebted to you. Colonel Fetisov stopped by with a ham. A whole ham? Where did he get a ham? He's very well connected. I bet he knows everyone in pork. He is very proud of himself, for defending you. I think, he feels that, he has finally earned your respect. Has he? Will you tell him when you go back to work? I think it would mean a lot to him. I knew, I could talk you into it. Lieutenant Burakov, You're 10 days early. - I feel much better. I am glad. You haven't been home? I came to see you first. I want to thank you for taking care of my family while I was away. And for saving my job. You were right by knowing which skirmishes to ignore. Not really. I have just, when you spent enough time with the lion ... the idea of roaring, starts becoming more and more reasonable. There is something I wanted to ask you about. - What is it? While I was away I spoke to a psychiatrist. I would like to bring one into the case. Maybe you know someone from the Institute. You are aware, I am sure that, never in the history of the... Soviet Union As a Psychiatrist ... been brought into a murder case. - I know. You will be the first ... to make history. What? - Did you just come in here and go out of your way to make me feel good ... and ask me for something? My God, You are learning how to manipulate people. I've created a monster. What about the psychiatrist? - I'll see what I can do. All right? Thank you. - Now you wants to go home or prefer to stay here? Come In. Colonel is ... Okay. There is another body in the woods. Your timing is impeccable. - I'm ready. What's that about? He likes to examine the terrain a little before rest of us get in there and stomp around much. - That's smart. It doesn't do too much damage. So you would say that he's a good detective? I will say that I never worked with anyone as good. Excuse me. Can I explain about the evidence? We start with any physical evidence on or adjacent to the body ... Make a cast of this? I'll have it to you by six. I know it is irregular, but I hope one or two of you, would be interested enough in what we said today to get involved. If you are, Please Stay. Thank you. It's embarrassing to see grown men run from their responsibilities. It's like seeing your parents drunk for the first time. They're afraid. To be a Psychiatrist in this country ... is to be an expert for paranoia, whether you meant to be or not. Why are you frightened? I am Sorry. Do I look like a man of courage to you? I am Bukhanovsky. Well I was always been interested in abnormal psychology. Which is a dangerous thing in the Soviet state. Anyway, I was fascinated by the pattern of disfigurement you described. I would like to try to help, but discreetly. I would like to think about it for a while. Then write my ideas down If I have it and then send it along. Is that will be all right? - Good.. I would like to be as cautious as possible not to risk my career. My God, being a hero is enormously taxing and I've only been doing it only for 7 or 8 minutes ... and already I feel strangely enervated. You ... What is it? - You must live with a great deal of pressure. It's all right, now you know? What is it? The slaughter and all these horrors, It reveals the monster which we all have in our selves. PLEASE READ THIS. M. FETIZOV. CITIZEN 'X' by Bukhanovsky. I read the whole thing last night. It is very intuitive, well-defended. There is little chace of that he is homosexual. A man with a wife and kids. And the sexual problem. And maybe a job working with young kids ... a worker in a chidrens home or can be a teacher. We will had to have someone go through these kind of files again. This is interesting speculation, but certainly not good enough, to persuade me to change the goals of the investigation. Not the goals, Comrade. Just the methods. But just continue arresting the homosexuals ... it may not be directly contributing to the resolution of the case. But we will still be doing the society a service. Under the new policy of perstroika. Soviet leaders have agreed yesterday to surrender the partys The American President George Bush congratulated ... The President, for his commitment to democratic reform ... and to ensure him that the hopes of the American people are with us as we chart the new course of the Soviet state. Thank you. - Will it change things? I don't know yet. I was on the telephone since midnight. Just keep the attitude alright and we'll see. Can you get him for me? We've to talk. Not now, tomorrow, in the office. Why? What is it? - Tomorrow morning. Don't make me suffer Colonel. There will be a new Head of the Investigation by tomorrow morning, Come to the committee room at eight and We'll meet him together. Who is it? - It is not decided yet. I'm flying to Moscow right now ... to see if I can influence their decision. That's why I stopped to tell you. Don't start worrying yet. Have I ever let you down? Thank you so much for your support. I'll see you tomorrow morning. Good luck! Where are they?. - Who? The committee. We're it. Who is the new head of Investigation? - You. Congratulations, Colonel. - Actually, I'm a General now. I don't have my insignia yet, but they're on order. Congratulations General. You're a Colonel. Congratulations Colonel. Now, Sit down, let us get started. I am now the prefect of the militia for the entire operation. Reporting only to Moscow. I can allocate my forces anywhere I see fit, and I'm considering this case, my highest priority. If you need men, you need publicity, you need communications. You have it. I bought these in Moscow yesterday, they are fantastic. You have a telephone appointment tonight at midnight to speak with the Head of the FBI ... Serial Murderer Task Force Special Agent Beckford. He told me late last night, that he has been following your work on this case with great interest for about five years ... I didn't ask him how. He considers you as a man of iron will. For what it is worth, I agree with him He also told me that he rotates his people of the Serial Murderers cases ... every 18 months, whether they like it or not ... to prevent the inevitable psychological consequences of too much frustration. I pretended that I had known that all along. He thinks that I pushed you ... and pushed you in search of your limits. Until I realized that you hadn't have any. Privately I offer my deepest apologies to you and your wife. I hope that someday you can forgive me my ignorance. Anyway ... he suggested that I will not tell you this but ... He said that he starts a new ... group of recruits through the program every 16 weeks. And the first lecture that he gives, It's always about you. He calls you "The one man in the world he would least like to have after him " "An Intelligent, Methodical, Painstaking, Passionate detective, who would rather die than give up " Again, I agree. Colonel Burakov ... I'm Sorry, you may go. I have a plan. I've been thinking about it for a long time. We intend to have a visible uniform presence 24 hours a day ... in every single train station within 50 miles of Rostov. Every station, except three. The three smaller stations of the Matievs line in the Katma forest. There we will have only under cover men. That's where we want him to make his next ... attempt to kill one of our children. In order for this plan to work, we need you to do a job. We need you to accost anyone who stops to talk to a child or a young woman. Anyone who stops to talk to any stranger at all. We need to demand their identity cards. and ask their business and take down their answers in your note books We need to search them. And above all, we need to do this visibly. We need everyone in the station to notice. Understand? What you said, I didn't hear that. - Yes, Comrade General. Again. - Yes, Comrade General! Do you believe that you are capable of performing these tasks? - Yes, Comrade General! Do you think that you're capable of perfoming them without subtlety? - Yes, Comrade General! Without discretion? Yes, Comrade General! Without tact? - Yes, Comrade General! Good. It wasn't long ago, if a cop took a big chance like this and failed, he'd have been shot. For your sake, I hope it works. I will not let them shoot you, Not before a trial ... It started very well. But it's only just seven weeks and already we're getting lazy. And reports of one of the stations reads no suspcious characters in 3 days. 3 days! The whole idea is to stay visible. - Surprise Inspection would come? What I am saying is keep up the pressure, Okay. I'll let you know a little secret. Surprise inspection in half an hour. Tell your men. That defeat the purpose of the "surprise" As for that station. You have to give them a little sugar once in a while anyway. Your interrogation slips. Okay. Interrogation slips. Get up here! Close that. I had to go to the toilet, I was no longer than five minutes. Give me your Interrogation slips. Why so many? They are from, since Friday whole through the holiday week. How long have you been here? You have no relief? No sir, my partner got sick ... and didn't send anyone else from the station. Because of the holiday. Let us look through the Interrogation slips, well... no harm done. You can send these along with the rest of the interrogation slips . When you're relieved.. What is it? Did you personally speak to this man? - Yes, Sir. Why? He came out of the woods and there was dirt on his jacket. He was well dressed, but he was dirty. So I asked him his business. He said he visited his mother in Belkovsky, which is a tiny hamlet near here. Which made sense, except I... I was born in Belkovsky and I didn't remember her. So, I wrote him up. Did you search him? - No, Sir. He hadn't accosted anyone ... He only just looked odd. You Remember this man? Chikatilo. Did he had a bag? - Yes Consider yourselves relieved of this post. Take my car to the station immediately, Tell him, to contact Moscow ... I wanted 200 soldiers here to prepare to search these woods in one hour! Got It?! In one hour! - Yes Sir! My God ... What is happening to me? My heart is pounding, My throat feels tight.. What the hell is this? Passion. General, they found something ... Stand Back, Comrades. You have done your part, Thank you. Get the team together and start sending these soldiers home, Unless the General have some other use for them. I have 49 of them in my conscience. You mustn't blame yourself. It's not that. - What then? She is my cousin's daughter, Natasja Dunenkova. She was 8. I am Sorry. You be okay? You wanted me to send someone along with you? For what it's worth, you may have helped us catch him. Just keep walking. How did you get this? At work, A box fell over me at work. Would you mind removing all your clothes, please. - What? Remove your clothes. How did you get these aberations on the head of your penis? How did you get these aberations on the head of your penis? I don't know. Can you honestly tell me that you feel any remorse? For killing children! For cutting off their genitals? Don't you feel you've to confess to your crimes? My God. Are you human. This is a disaster. Why can't we ... Because we can't ... Because he demanded, to do the interrogation himself. And he still has a lot of friends. I will talk about my crimes, tomorrow. What did you say? Repeat that. I'll tell about my crimes tomorrow. But I'm exhausted today. Did you get that? Good. Now it is in the official record. We're not getting anywhere. What are you talking about? Did you hear, what he had just said? He said that yesterday too. It is the only way he knows to get you to stop bantering him. What do you want? I want you to let us bring in someone, who can get somewhere with him. I am doing the interrogation. You are wasting time, five days already! With no other evidence, if we do not get a confession by 28th we have to let him go. I am doing the interrogation. Are you willing to take that risk, just to satisfy your ego? You've handled him quite deftly. I'm fed up! I will not suffer that stupidity anymore. He may be stupid, but he's in charge. What is this? This is your confession? In 1978 you fondled the breast of a 11 year old girl. You mocking me? It's true. I don't give it a damn, if it's true! We are talking about murder here. You know that! You think I'm a fool? I was fired from my teaching job for that incident.. I know that! What the hell kind of game are you playing? Citizen Chikatilo, I asked you a question! Tomorrow is our last day, we would have to... You think I don't know that? If you want the man who gets him to confess won't that reflect happily on your wisdom. Whom do you have in mind, Colonel? I've never done this before. I'm terrified. I Bukhanovsky. I am a Psychiatrist. And I ... I wrote a paper about you three years ago. I called you Citizen X I'm sure lot of things are widely incorrect. Would you like it, to read it to you? Pardon me? Yes, Please. Let's leave aside those things which are larely rubbish, designed to make me sound brighter. We shall ignore that which is not important . Citizen "X" has probably had a tendencey towards isolation since childhood. His internal world filled with fantasy is closed to those around him ... even to those close to him. The adolescence of such a person is as a rule painful ... because he is often subjected to the laughter of his peers ... and at a time when success among them is the subject of his secret dreams. His sexuality is not noticeable to those around him. However it is an external asexuality that which frequently coincides with steady masturbation and abundant erotic fantasies. He is painfully sensitive in company. incapable of flirting and courting. However it cannot be excluded ... that he has fathered a family. There is a reason to think that the Citizen "X" has weakness in sexual potency. This is supported by the fact that the signs of the entry of the sexual organ into the sexual part of the victims has been found in ... nine cases, but at only two the length of contact has been sufficient to reach orgasm. but with the rest of the cases involving ejaculation on the body of the victims. He sits or squats astride his victims, the orgasm and ejaculation most likely... occur at this stage of the act and in this position ... sitting on the victim in the period of her agony. The blinding of some of the victims could be a symbol of his power over his victims ... or an inability to bear his or her gaze, even if it is unconscious. Or possibly a reflection of "X" 's belief in the folk tales that the victims eyes ... retain an image of the killer, even after his death. Was I right, Is it not. He believed that the police might see your image in their eyes? What about the ejaculation, was I right about that? Sitting on the victim on the period of her agony? You Ejaculated while stabbing them? I Ejaculated while stabbing them. Sometimes before they died, some times after ... With or without additional masturbation? Most times, yes. That justifies the scars on your organs? The frenzied masturbation. With the last one especially ... Natasja Dunenkova. After killing her I still had some ... difficulty. I hurt myself trying to achieve orgasm. Congratulations, gentlemen. The General would say something witty, but he's overcome with emotion right now. Thank you both. May I say that together, you make a wonderful person. Release the Monster! We will give him Justice! Step aside. Step aside, dammit! You should thank them for God's sake! These are the men who caught him! Step through the door, please. Please don't turn around ... Subtitle by George M.
