 

                        I am there. Yes, I am there I see... I see there's the contact. He's just entered. The contact has entered the contact... the dead... I see the dead the city of the dead hold the link, don't break it hold the link it's critical for mary. Don't break the link, don't break it mary mary... the soul that pines for eternity... shall outspan death. You dweller of the twilight void come dunwich. I'm afraid mary's dead. No... alright, maybe I've got no imagination, but your story is a little tough to swallow. James mclewin, busted twice for peddling and possession. That's right. So? And you expect me to believe that mary woodhouse died out of sheer fright while you were having a seance? Ok fellas. You help us and we'll help you. What were you on? Coke? Grass? Where's the stash? Down the toilet? - You don't deserve any help you're a comic book version, sergeant. You look better in your mugshot, you know. The great theresa. The master medium. Yeah, for you it's all in the book your book of... what's it again? Enoch. Yeah, enoch. According to you this poor girl is dead because of a book that was written 4000 years ago. Correct? That's right. I'd find such an unusual paradox of tremendous appeal terribly stimulating if I were a sleuth. The explanation in every detail of a crime before it's been committed. Lady, you're either on grass or you're pulling my leg. No... the problem is in your mind. It can't accept the truth, but I'll help you just same. In the book of enoch the killer is... sergeant... come here and look who's playing games here? Come out of the floor, out of nowhere. Who lives downstairs? It's vacant, has been for 26 years. But how the heck did...? Don't you start acting up too. It's only a prank and I'll find out what's behind it even if I have to tear the whole building apart. Keep refusing the truth. At this very precise moment, in some other distant town, horrendously awful things are happening. Things that would shatter your imagination. Hi officer. I'm looking for sergeant clay. And who are you? I'm peter. You see, I'm with the... - don't tell me you're a newspaper reporter, right? I can smell you guys a mile away. You're right, I'm a journalist. Look, there's a rumor down a the station house that someone kind of died mysteriously and I wanna talk to the sergeant about it. It's not going to be any mystery how the next guy dies if I let any unauthorized people in that house. Look... isn't there a way that maybe you and I could come to a sort of gentleman's agreement? You're talking into deaf ear, pal. Now take my advice and beat it before the sergeant comes out. Ok, I'll take your advice. It's like we're in the wrong season suddenly. Damn dusty all these high winds, pretty unusual. By the way, I hear cindy heran never went home last night. So? It sure wouldn't be the first time. I remember once she was sitting in... you know something? Ever since father thomas hanged himself dunwich ain't been the same. Kind of scary a few beers and you fellas start seeing ghouls and devils all over the place. Well, you saw what happened, didn't you? Sure, but that doesn't mean that there isn't any explanation. It could have been a truck passing by the vibration anyway, I've lost my mirror. You forget who our ancestors were? No. I've forgot how many beers you have drunk. So let's have another. House buys. I've gotta go but wait, what about... - see you me too wait up, mike. I'll see you around wait, guys... guys... brand new building... new construction. I tell you, more garbage like this... I'm gonna loose all of my customers. The language is scary, I admit it. But the overall message couldn't have been more puritanical. Then why did you choose the topic of incest? When I was 8 years old I wanted to marry my father. I guess all girls that age want to marry their fathers. Anyway, I got over it pretty quickly he was a drunk. One day he just picked up and left my mother and me. Did this leave any particular emotional feeling in you at the time? Emptiness. That and pity for my mother. I began to hate all men and I... excuse me jerry. Hi, sandra. How are you? Hello emily. How come so early? I mean I thought we made it for eight. That's the trouble. I can't make it tonight. I have to see bob. Bob? You're not upset are you? No, I'm not upset. Maybe a little worried perhaps. You've been seeing an awful lot of him, haven't you, lately? Poor bob. He's a sick and ionely kid. I don't see why people hate him so. His mother was what you call a woman of easy virtue. No husband. No morals. Here in dunwich, anybody like that is also branded a witch. Look sandra. I don't believe those idiots who tell me that our ancestors were salem witch burners alright? Okay, okay jerry, I'm sorry. - Don't worry I'll see you tomorrow. Around 9? Sure thing. Bye. So long sandra. Bye bye and take it easy. Jerry, bye. - Bye okay sandra, where were we? On the same old problem, men. Why do they have to make life so difficult? Sandra sandra... did he hurt you? Did he claw you? He must have been frightened. Strange. It's the first time he ever acted up like that. He loves to have you pet him. He always comes to you when you're here. Something must have frightened him. Give me the dirtiest thoughts... I'm telling you, you're gonna end up a dirty old man. A pervert. Peeping tom. Talk about box lunches man saw a porno flick once, where this guy got so carried away he humped himself to death. Too much of good thing but what a way to go what's the matter? Never seen a body in the earth before? Any law against looking? Yeah okay, I'm leaving. What time you got? Let's flip to see who goes in the hole alright. Call it. Heads. Tails. In the hole, sucker. Shit... what are you still doing here, pal? Come on fellas. What do you want from us? - Nothing I'm just curious about this girl here, that's all. Look, why don't you guys go ahead with your work and just pretend I'm not around. Well move, cause we're almost finished. It's 5 o'clock. We've busted our balls enough, let's go. You're not going to leave her like that, are you? Union hours. Anyway, what does she care? She's not in any hurry. Is she? Oh, my god... but for you, mary would have suffered a terrible death. I was just lucky. No it was written. Are you acquainted with the book of enoch? A text which dates back to more than 4000 years ago. It contains man's first recorded description of his boundless mortal fear in the face of malice itself the demanding implacable enemy who's search for blood is never satiated. Mary, tell your experience. Everything you've witnessed during our last seance. The city of the dead... the living dead. A cursed city where the gates of hell have been opened. Where exactly is this city? I don't know where it is. All I know is that it is called dunwich. I've never heard of it. How do you know? I mean how can you be so sure? I read the name on a tombstone mr. Bell, if those gates are left open it may be the end of humanity. We gotta try to get them shut again. At midnight on monday we go into all saints day. The night of the dead begins then. And if the portals of hell don't get shut before then, no dead body will ever be able to rest in peace again. And so the dead will rise up and take over the earth. You've got to get to dunwich. You must re-close those gates bob? Bob, are you here? Bob? Bob? Bob...? Bob bob... what happened? Did you hurt yourself? Bob bob... bob bob... don't leave me alone I'm afraid... hello? It's you, mr. Robbins. No, emily's not here, I'm afraid. What's that? She's usually home this hour of the night. I hope that nothing's happened to her. There's been a lot of strange talk circulating. Come on now mr. Robbins. Ignore it. People here in this town thrive on that stuff. You should know it by now. She'll be home in another couple of minutes. If you need me for any reason though, feel free to call. I should be at the studio for at least another hour or so, okay? Goodbye mr. Robbins. Goodbye no, no... come on tommy, please. No please, tommy what the devil's the matter honey? You treat me like I was a stranger. What have I done? Tell me. How come you picked out here to park? This place gives me the willies. Oh, rose. Come on. You're not a little child now. You don't really believe in that stupid salem witch stuff, do you? Of course not. Now what's wrong? Sorry tommy, but... but I keep thinking that someone's out there spying on us. Come on. There isn't anyone out there watch. I'll turn on the headlights. You know this dunwich it's not even on the map. So, you don't believe me, do you? That's not the point. It's just going to be harder to find, that's all. We don't even know where to start, do we? You know I get my inner visions too. You know. Just let me meditate over a bottle of scotch and? And I'll take you anywhere. Well, she certainly wasn't strangled. Doesn't seem to have been any kind of physical abuse. What was the cause of her death then? Some kind of cardiac arrest. Only that expression on her face looks like pure fear like something scared her to death. Scared her? - Excuse me, mr. Robbins do you know if your daughter had a heart condition? No... oh god... well, what's our procedure? Sit tight. Everything depends on the autopsy. I'll sit tight you'll get your order after that from the d.a. Okay, but let me hear from you, joe what's your opinion, jerry? What's there to say. I'm at a total loss. It was bob... that pervert? - You can bet on it they should have put him away for life after what he tried to do with poor little anne ross listen, I'll call all three cars out after that boy and I wouldn't be surprised if he could tell us what happened to rosy kellman and frank's kid, too sheriff russell... sheriff what the dickens is this? Good lord... that kid is gonna fry... mark my word. So, your newspaper editor wouldn't believe you? Listen. When adrian deniro told me about 2 years ago that I'd meet a girl who would be buried alive, I didn't believe him either. I mean, I laughed right in his face. Deniro was aware of many things. He knew all about the city of the dead. Okay, okay. Say I believe you. Did you see... when you were in this trance did you see anything besides that tombstone? Oh yes. I saw a priest who by hanging himself opened the gates of hell. He must be destroyed... amen. The lord is my shepherd... this way please. Where is she? Where is my emily? She's in heaven now, mrs. Robbins mrs. Holden? Yes. Mrs. Holden died last night and according to dr. Thompson, was frightened to death. Frightened to death? That's what she said, fear. Of what? Damned if I know, doc. It's the strangest thing I've ever heard of. Fear? There's been talk that rose calvin and tommy fisher disappeared too. They went to the movies last night and nobody has seen them since. That makes five people that have disappeared in the last 48 hours. I think it's bob. I don't believe in this superstitious nonsense. Yeah, maybe you're right sure, remember two years ago when bob took little anne into the woods? It was a miracle we found him in time. Yeah, and I say it's him he's the one causing all the trouble around here. God only knows what he did to poor emily. All I know is that the air in dunwich is getting awful thick... soon as I can find somebody to buy my shop and my house I'm vamoosing. You can bet your ass. Calm down, dear. Take it easy. Calm down. My baby, my poor baby you better take john john out. Yes, of course. John john come on. Let's go outside. Let's take a walk. You have to be strong now. You have to find courage to face reality. You have to be a man. Do you know what I mean? I'm hungry good. There's a lollipop in the glove box look. I'm not joking. I'm starved. Look, you're the one who got me out here in the armpit of the world chasing your galloping cadavers. Come on. Let's go have a snack someplace okay. You want to give up? Why don't you get in the car we'll go and check out the local cuisine. Don't be upset. Upset? Who's upset? According to your theory we have less than 48 hours before this... aii saints day. Oh please. Not now. Do you mind? Come on. Let's go check out the local cuisine mommy... daddy... mommy... daddy... mommy... what's the matter, honey? Emily is back. I saw her looking in the window. She wanted to catch me. Emily went away forever, john john she's in heaven. I saw her... i swear, I saw her I really did you better call the doctor. I'm alright... I don't need a doctor. I don't want a doctor... i saw her you had a big day. You're upset. We all are. Off you go now. Go to bed. I don't wanna go, mommy I'm scared... emily's gonna get me I know it... hello? It's me, sandra. You have to come right away. No, there's no time to explain. You wouldn't believe me anyway. Just come, please I'm having a nervous breakdown... yes, okay. Sandra, just calm down and control yourself. What is it? There's only two possibilities. Either I'm going out of my mind or something very very strange is happening. Look, take it easy. I'll be there in 10 minutes, honey. Bye. Jerry, is that you? Yeah, it's me. Come in... come in what do you need that for? I don't know, maybe a crucifix would be better. A crucifix? What the hell are you talking about? Tell me the truth. Do you consider me a basket case? No, not at all. Why? Your nurturing a pet neurosis, that's all. Like about 70% of the female population in this country. So according to you I'm not stark raving mad, at a least not yet. Don't be silly. Of course not. Sometimes you may drink a little more than you should, but that's no reason to be taken away and put into a looney house. No, I'd rather not right now and you really shouldn't either. Alright. You better see for yourself. It's in the kitchen. The kitchen? Oh, christ was I just imagining things? It can't be... it's her. Mrs. Holden. This morning she was inside a coffin at the funeral home and now she's here in my kitchen. How? How did she get here? I don't know. I heard a noise. I came to look and there she was on my floor. I called you right after. I thought I was loosing my mind. Okay. Let's use our heads and not panic. Calm down. We've gotta find out how she got here, alright? I couldn't give a damn how she got here. I just want her gone. Let's get her out of here. I can't take the sight of her. Yeah, yeah, yeah. At this point, a good stiff drink is the only medicine what are you gonna do? I don't believe in the twilight zone so I guess I'll call the the sheriff on this matter. And what do you tell him? I'll tell him exactly what you told me. That you heard this noise. That you came running and that you saw her there, and the rest is up to them. What was that? The door is closed but we left it wide open. Someone took her away. Or maybe she just left. Don't be ridiculous bodies don't just get up and walk away by themselves. She's still here she's still in the house... sandra... sandra... get a hold of yourself I don't want to stay here anymore jerry get her out calm down... - please... tell her to go... she's in here you hear her. Jerry, she's in here, I can't take it anymore. Sandra sandra, calm down. Don't let imagination run away with you. I don't know what the hell is going on here either, so were going to take it step by step and search every room in the house, alright? And we'll find the reason, alright sandra? And you're going to follow me. Follow me now come on, that's it. Alright? Alright. I'll do whatever you say. I don't think I'll manage to sleep here tonight. If you want to stay at my studio or my house you're always welcome. Good god... it's blood... blood... dunwich? Yes. Yes. I know it. Odd that you're looking for dunwich. Yes, as a matter of fact... yes, that's the town where father thomas... terrible... terrible you know that dunwich was built on the ruins of the original salem. That village of witches and heresy. And evil... yes, but can you tell us how to get there? It's not easy. You'll have to go back towards the highway and as you approach it there's a road going left blocked by a landslide. That will take you to dunwich. Thanks a lot. Just out of curiousity... why are you folks going down there? We're just looking up a friend. I see. Thanks again. Good lord, help us. Bob... hi ann. What are you doing in the back seat of my dad's car? I didn't know where to sleep. You won't tell anyone will you? No, of course not. Although you get some awfully weird ideas. Come on, smoke only then you better split, okay? Ann... it's him go on... get out of here what are you doing? Get in the house... I can explain everything, mr. Ross shut up you bastard... what were you trying to do with my daughter? Please, let me explain, mr. Ross. I was only looking for a place to sleep. I swear pervert... murderer... I guess there's nobody in. That's strange. What do you plan on doing? I have a feeling this is where the answer is. We've gotta find the undertaker or someone from the funeral parlor. Maybe they have gone to the cemetery. You go. I'll wait in your office. I don't think I can take a cemetery right now. Fair enough. "Dweller of the twilight void..." well? Yes... that's it that's the very same tombstone that I saw in my trance. Great. Welcome to the city of the dead. Now what do we do? We must find the priest's grave and uncover him. There isn't much time left. All saints day begins at midnight. Where do we start? Okay... it's gonna be one of these. Good thing he didn't hang himself in arlington. Yes? Excuse me. I wonder if you could give us some information. Sure. Well, we're looking for a tombstone of... of a priest who hanged himself. Father thomas? We don't know his name. Well, why are you looking for his burial site? It's a long story. One you might not want to believe. Try me. I'm just about ready to believe anything at this point. That's the whole story. My god in heaven... the living dead. And that's why you're here in dunwich? What do you wanna do? What are you hoping to accomplish? The death of father thomas gave birth to some... some evil. They're worms... who's speaking? Alright, john john now listen to me you take it easy. Stay right there and don't move. I'll be right over. What happened? That was emily's little brother, john he just told me that emily killed her parents... emily died 2 days ago. Jerry, jerry I'm scared, jerry, I'm scared... it's all over. Everything's going to be all right. You girls take care of him, please? Sure. Come on my car? Yeah, okay in you go. Oh god. Oh god all mighty totally butchered. Literally ripped to shreds. You're sure it was emily? Yeah, but she was all different. She looked like, she was like... like she was dead. And she was eating mommy and daddy poor kid. You poor darling. Jerry... jerry, listen. We've got to go to the funeral parlour and then we've got to look for that... that grave of the priest - alright. Well? Is the kid alright? Scared to death. John john... it's all right. It's going to be all right. It's all over now now listen, sandra go to the studio with john john stay there and don't let him out of your sight yeah, sure jerry, we'd better get a move on we only have god knows what else will happen emily? No... no go away no... go away... emily... john john, thank god you're safe, boy. There's a police car around the corner mary's there too, you go straight to it go... I'm in car two in with sheriff russell we're in main street... we got to look for father thomas' grave you want some of my men? No, I think it's better if you guys took care of the kid alright, I'll take care of the kid mary? - Coming did you call? Yeah - let's get going we interrupt this program to bring you a special broadcast dunwich a state of emergency, effective immediately within dunwich county all citizens are requested to return to their homes as quickly as possible in case of necessity contact this station, radio wdwc the telephone number is 825... mind telling me what's going on? The dead are leaving their tombs that's a load of crap crap or not I'm taking my money I'm closing my doors until tomorrow morning and I'm not opening it for anybody I believe father thomas is buried in the family tomb over there guess what? It's all saints day oh no... well... thomas family tomb, now what? I wish I had a cigar shall we open it? The lady had a vision are you sure? Mary? Ready? Here we go... be careful there you go hold on to this and let me try to give bill a hand for god's sake, hurry it's past midnight my god someone must have broken in from the other side or broken out now what do we do? I want to go take a look give me a hand having receive no further bulletins on police emergency operations which is still in progress we can only confirm our previous special broadcast citizens are requested to remain in their home under no circumstances should anyone try to reach the state turnpike we repeat do not panic, remain in your home stay tuned to wdwc for further bulletin for those who just tuned in we repeat our previous bulletin dunwich police authority has declared a state of emergency effective immediately within the dunwich county all citizens... stop... sandra...? Mary jerry... jerry no, no... no...
