 

                        (GRUNTS) Fire! Fire in the hole. MAN: Fire in the hole! (EXPLOSION) Let's get it, boys. Always loads easy on payday. (TRAIN CHUGGING) (HORN BLOWING) Hi, Daddy. Look at your knee. Daddy, why don't you wear your knee pad? Oh, Loretty, that old shaft's so low, you wear your knee pads, you skin your back. If you don't wear 'em, you skin your knees. I'll wear 'em tomorrow and give my back a turn. DOOLITTLE: Boys, there ain't no place this thing can't take me. There ain't a creek she can't ford, a gully she can't jump or a hill she can't climb. By God, I know a thing that you can't climb. That heap of red dog back yonder. Oh, hell, buddy, I can climb that damn mess in a by-God New York minute. MAN 1: Shit! Hey! You boys watch your language in front of these kids. All right, does anybody wanna bet me I can't climb that mess up there? MAN 2: That great pile up there? Hell, yes, buddy! I can ride up there at the top... Oh, I'm sorry, little girl. Excuse me. (MINERS CHUCKLING) MAN 3: Never done. Can't be done. I got me $25 that says I can do it. Does anybody wanna bet me? (MINERS CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY) DOOLITTLE: I'll take all bets. Okay, come on, kids. Let's get to the store. BOTH: Give the company their money back. (BELL JINGLES) Loretta, come on, honey. (MINERS CONTINUE CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY) Hi, Ted. Hey, Carl. Who's that soldier boy out there strutting around like a banty rooster? It's old man Red Lynn's boy. Doolittle. Come back from the army acting like a wild heathen. He'll calm down as soon as they slap a coal shovel in his hand. Yeah. That Sears Roebuck I ordered come in yet? Yeah, I'll get it for you. All right. Loretty, get you and Herman a jar of vyannies, honey. Great! (MINERS SHOUTING) (MINERS JEERING) MINER: Get your mule, son. Hey, Cousin Ted, come on in here and get in on this bet. It's a sure thing. Ol' Doolittle will never get up there without rolling over and killin' himself. (ENGINE STRAINING) (GEARS GRINDING) (MINERS CONTINUE SHOUTING) (MINERS CHEERING) Lord have mercy, that son of a gun Doolittle don't know what quit means, does he? He sure went to a lot of trouble to get on top of a pile of junk. Come on, Herman. BOY 1: Mommy, Daddy's home! BOY 2: What you got in that box? TED: Something special. Don't open it till we get inside. (CHILDREN CLAMORING) Y'all get washed up before you come in. Y'all hear your Mama? Everybody go wash now. Come on. Lee Dollarhide? Come on in here, Doo. I was just about to blast you one. Old boy down at the store said you wanted to see me. Here, take you a sip. TED: Okay, fellas. Donald Ray. Thanks, Daddy. Jack, well... Hand that to brother Jack. Thank you. CLARA: Take the baby, Jack. TED: How do they feel, gang? Daddy, Peggy got two right feet. TED: What? I mean, two right shoes. TED: I'll be darned. Don't worry. We'll get 'em changed. CLARA: How they feel? Loretta. BROTHER: Get your hands off. Leave 'em alone. Leave 'em alone, Donald Ray. (GASPS) (BABY CRYING) Daddy. Hey, how come she gets something extra? Jack, Loretta's getting to be a woman. Going on 14. Women's 'sposed to have pretty things. Oh, she ain't no woman. She ain't nothing but a dad-burned kid. (LAUGHS) Well, what are you, Herman? (ALL LAUGHING) (DOOR SLAMS) Remember when you used to work for me, sell my goods down at the mine? Yeah, I remember you used to pay me a nickel for every jug I sold. How'd you like to come back to work for me? (CHUCKLES) Not for no nickel a jug! I'm talking about real money, Doo. Business is good, you see. I'm selling more whiskey than I can make. But I heard you'd been stealing some from the boys over in Greasy Creek. Oh, just when I run shy of my own. I'm fixing to make me another run on Greasy Creek, Doo. You got that jeep. You know how to use a gun and you can use you a job. I'll go 50-50 with you. Doo, if you're born in the mountains, you got three choices, coal mine, moonshine or moving on down the line. (COUNTRY MUSIC PLAYING ON RADIO) MAN: (SINGING) I'm walkin' the floor over you I can't sleep a wink, that is true Herman, get your feet off! Turn the radio off. We can't afford no new batteries. You got one of your bad headaches again, Daddy? Ted, you want me to mix you up some medicine? It don't do no good. It'll pass. What you see in them grounds, Mommy? TED: Loretty, take the baby, hon. I see a woman crying. Looks to me like a man crying, too. Who are they? TED: Loretty. (GRUNTS) LORETTA: What are they crying about, Mommy? Take the baby out and rock her, Loretty. Bad times is a-coming. Well, we don't need no fortune-teller to know that. (SINGING) In the pines, in the pines Where the sun never shines And I shiver when the cold wind blows The longest train I ever saw Was on that Georgia line The purtiest boy I ever saw Was on that caboose behind In the pines... (GUNSHOT) (GRUNTS) Good thing you wasn't still working for him, son. You'd be laying there aside him. I know that, Daddy. Course if you had have been working for him, at least you'd have been working somewhere. (PLAYING BLUEGRASS MUSIC) (CROWD CLAPPING RHYTHMICALLY) (MUSIC STOPS) WOMAN: You're out. That's all right, sweetheart, you did fine. (MUSIC RESUMES) Get up and dance! (MUSIC STOPS) Preacher Banks was supposed to be here to auction off these pies. And he's sick and I... I sure can't take no time to auction no pies. Besides, if these girls want to eat pies with a boy, they'll do it whether there's an auction or not. (GROANS) Say, lady, I'll auction off them pies for you. You will? I sure will. Six bits? Got six bits right there. Who's gonna bid a dollar? MAN: I will! All right, now we got a dollar right here, now. It's a dollar one time. Boys, that's a dollar twice. That's sold, right there, for a dollar. (CHEERING) Give me that dollar right there. Thank you. All right, you all got one more pie left. It's a chocolate pie here, belong to Loretta Webb. Who's gonna bid first? I bid two bits. DOOLITTLE: Two bits? Buddy, that's an insult! Who's gonna start off with a dollar? Who'll give me a dollar, now? (INDISTINCT MURMURING) I guess I get it, then. Heck, I'll bid a dollar, buddy. You're the auctioneer. You ain't supposed to bid. Oh, all right, that's a dollar once, that's a dollar twice... Hey, a dollar and a dime. Three dollars. That ain't fair, he's cheating! (CROWD MURMURING) All right, that's $3 once, $3 twice... Three and a dime. $3.75. $3.77. (CROWD LAUGHING) $5. CROWD: Ooh! Once, twice, sold to Mr. Doolittle Lynn for $5. (ALL CHEERING) (PLAYING BLUEGRASS MUSIC) MAN: (SINGING) Play in the house and play in the sea And when that pretty girl turns to me Swing her high and swing her low Swing your partner, do-si-do Takes that lamb and takes that squirrel Takes that pretty girl round the world (SPITTING) Make a lot of chocolate pies, Loretta? Not too many, except this one. (COUGHS) How much salt did that recipe call for? You don't put no salt in a chocolate pie. You just put in sugar and... Well, you must have got 'em mixed up, Loretta. Makes a lot of sense, though. The salt and sugar's both white. (CROWD CLAPPING RHYTHMICALLY) Well, there ain't no sense in walking when you can ride. Come on! I ain't gettin' in that thing. You ain't never rode in a car before, have you? That ain't no car. Looks like something from Mars. Mars? Gal, what the hell do you know about Mars anyway? I'll bet you ain't never been past the mouth of this hollow. Come on now, get in this thing. I said I ain't gettin' in it and I ain't! If you like me so much, you can walk me home. Oh, Lord, them pies ain't the only thing salty about you, are they? Wait a minute! Wait, we'll walk it, then. Wait! You know, the first time I ever seen you I said, "Me and that little ol' gal's gonna get together. " I saw you, too, in that little soldier suit. I thought you looked just like a little toy soldier. Hey, now, you listen here, I went ashore over yonder at D-day plus four and I stayed in combat until the day the damn thing was over. I wasn't no little ol' toy soldier. You know what D-day is, don't you? (CHUCKLES) What? Never mind. Tell you one thing that army showed me. There's a whole big world out yonder. Showed me I ain't about to spend my life buried in no coal mine, neither. Ain't no future in it, not a damn bit. And that's what I'm interested in, mainly, course, is the future. You got any plans for the future? Not that I know of. You sure cuss a lot, don't ya? Yeah, I do. Cuss, drink, chase wild women. What? What are you doing? I'm gonna kiss you good night. Ain't you ever been kissed before. Huh? Hey, Loretta? I'm gonna bring my jeep up here and take you for a ride. You ain't gonna get that thing up this holler. There ain't nothing I can't do, girl, once I set my mind to it. (PIGS SQUEALING) (DOG BARKING) CLARA: Loretty, honey, take Peggy Sue in and feed her. Come on. (VEHICLE APPROACHING) Stranger coming! Stranger coming! Stranger coming! CLARA: What is it? I told you I'd get this thing up here, gal. You gotta take a ride with me now. Hey, Bill. BILL: Hey, Doo. (HORN HONKING) (TIRES SCREECHING) (GASPS) I can't breathe. I feel like I'm gonna faint. Well, that's the way you're supposed to feel when you're in love. It is? Yeah. (DOG BARKING) (JEEP APPROACHING) Where have you been? Doolittle took me riding. What? Doolittle took me riding. Took you riding? You just run off. Didn't ask nobody or nothing. Run off and worry everybody to death. (DOOR SLAMS) (CHILD COUGHING) Y'all get to bed. Go on. (FOOTSTEPS RETREATING) Don't you know he'd rather cut off his arm than have to whip you like that? What you mean running off like that with that wild boy? I love him, Mommy. You do no such a thing. Stay away from that Doolittle Lynn or I'll give you worse than what your Daddy did. I'll go make you up some salve for your legs. Loretty, you know I don't like to boss you, but I got to now, honey. Daddy, I... Just let me talk. Doolittle's been up the house every day this week. I don't want him hanging around no more. Why? 'Cause you ain't got no business hanging around with him. You're just a little girl, he's a grown-up man, wild as the devil. I love him, Daddy. And he's a-wanting me to marry him. You ain't even 14 yet. Y'all ain't knowed each other a month. I know. But I love him. Lord, Lord, don't do it, Loretty. Don't throw all them young years away. You're my pride, girl. My shining pride. I just can't help it. I can't. (BOYS CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY) BROTHER 1: Okay. BROTHER 2: Okay. (TURNS RADIO ON) (STATIC) ANNOUNCER: Presenting the Grand Ole Opry. Let her go, boys. (BLUEGRASS MUSIC PLAYING) Get up, Mommy. Do your squaw dance. See if we can't get a smile out of old sourpuss here. Yeah, come on, Mama. CHILDREN: Come on, dance. Come on, Clary. MAN ON RADIO: (SINGING) Blue moon of Kentucky keep on shinin' Shine on the one that's gone and left me blue Blue moon of Kentucky keep on shinin' Shine on the one that's gone and left me blue It was on a moonlit night The stars shining bright (INAUDIBLE) They whispered from high Your love said goodbye Blue moon of Kentucky keep on shinin' Shine on the one that's gone... (TURNS RADIO OFF) DOOLITTLE: I knocked, but I reckon y'all couldn't hear me outside. (WHISPERING) Guess I broke up the party. Oh, it don't matter. Come on and sit down. Okay, come on, Donald Ray. BROTHER: Mmm. Why don't you try that one? Y'all get out of here or I'm gonna knock the tar out of every one of you. Why? We're playing checkers. LORETTA: Jack, go on. Say, "Please. " Herman? Junior, come on, take 'em out. Please? Come on, fellas, let's go. Pretty please. Look here at this, Loretty. My gosh, Doo. Where'd you get all that? Mess of paychecks. I've been saving 'em. You know what tomorrow is? It's our anniversary. Get a little closer. (IMITATES KISSING) Herman, I'm gonna kill you! What were you saying, Doo? I was saying that tomorrow is our anniversary. I figured that'd be a good day for you and me to get married, especially since I got all that money. (SIGHS) Go ask Daddy. (DOOR CLOSES) Mr. Webb, me and Loretta is fixing to get married if it's all right with you. Tomorrow. Go ask Clary. Mrs. Webb, uh, me... Me and Loretty was thinking about getting married. Tomorrow. Go ask Ted. HERMAN: (IMITATES KISSING) Where's lover boy? Doolittle, what are you doing? Hell, Ted said to ask Clary and Clary said to ask Ted and... I don't know. Come on and sit down. Wait'll they go to bed, then you can catch them together, else they'll keep you running back and forth all night long. Mr. And Mrs. Webb? I know everything's happened real fast. I know she's young, I know how much y'all love her, but the deal is I love her, too. Just as much as you do. I growed up real fast, I seen a lot of the world. I want you to know first time I seen that girl I said, "That's all I'm ever gonna want out of life. " And I promise you I'm gonna break my back working to make her happy. I reckon y'all set on it no matter what we say. I don't wanna go against y'all, Mrs. Webb, but, yes, I'm really set on it. Two things I want you to promise me, boy. Don't you never hit her and don't take her off far away from home. Yes, sir. I promise you that. Wilt thou love her, comfort her, honor and keep her in sickness and in health and forsaking all other, keep thee only unto her so long as you both shall live? I will. And, Loretta, wilt thou have this man to be thy wedded husband, to live together in the holy estate of matrimony? Wilt thou love him, comfort him, honor and keep him in sickness and in health and forsaking all other, keep thee only unto him so long as you both shall live? Mmm-hmm. Yeah, I will. Who giveth this woman to be married to this man? I do. Please join right hands. The wedding ring is an outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace signifying unto all the uniting of this man and this woman in holy matrimony. Do you two have rings? DOOLITTLE: I ain't got no ring, Judge. (DOOR CLOSES) She'll warm up here in just a minute. I got a present for you from Mama. (UNZIPPING PANTS) (URINATING) (TOILET FLUSHING) Well, go on, get ready for bed, baby, come on. (SIGHS) (CHUCKLES SOFTLY) Loretta, you ain't supposed to wear a nightgown over your clothes. I'm freezing, Doo. (LAUGHS) Get on in there and take off everything, but your nightgown now. (WHISPERS) Go on, Loretty. Go on! Move. Go on, now. (SIGHS) Get off. Don't do that. Don't! Doo, no! It's just a little rough the first time, Loretty, is all. Don't worry about that. Come on, baby. Don't, Doo. No! Hush, Loretty. No, Doo! No! No. (CRIES OUT) This stuff's cold. It's because it froze between here and the damn restaurant. You want a hot breakfast, you got to go with me. I ain't going in there having all them people looking at me knowing what we've been doing in here. Hell's bells, Loretta, do you think this is something the rest of the world ain't caught on to yet? They don't give a damn. Baby, it's just a little rough the first time, that's all. Didn't seem too rough on you. Well, you better get used to it, darling, because that's what a damn marriage... I ain't gonna get used to you getting on me and sweating like an old pig! You told Daddy you wouldn't hit me and look at you already. Well, hell, I'm sorry, Loretta, but you drove me to it! (TRAIN WHISTLE BLOWING) (DOG BARKING) Hi, hon. Look here at this. These radios are on sale real cheap. You reckon we could get us one? (GROANS) Here, you read that. Then we'll talk radios. My gosh, Doo, this has got pictures in it. Ugh! (WHISTLES) Here, dog. (BARKING) Oh, Loretty, that there book, that thing's helped millions of people the world over. I thought it might do us a little good. I can't read this book, Doo. It's got all 'em great big ol' words in it. Look at this one. Look. That dadgum word is a foot long. Now, what's a foot-long word supposed to mean, huh? (GROANING) Oh, Doo, I don't need no book to tell me what's wrong. You just need to be a little more patient and gentle with me, honey, that's all. I just need a little more time. Give you a little more time. Well, let me add up all these damn things I'm supposed to give you some more time on. You need a little more time to learn how to cook. You need a little more time to learn how to clean the damn house. Plus you need a little more time to learn how to love your man the way you're supposed to. Goddamn, is there anything that you know how to do right now? Doo, when you gonna get me that wedding ring? (GROANS) Stop making that noise. You sound like an old bear growling. Where are you going? Doo, are you leaving? No, I ain't leaving. PEGGY SUE: Mommy, look who's here! Loretta! (HORSE SNUFFLING) LORETTA: Hi. Hi, Peggy. Hi, Donald. Look who's here, Dad! Hi, Mommy. Doo's thrown me out, Mommy. Oh, thank the Lord. Maybe it ain't too late to save you from ruining your life. Loretty, you home! Hi, Daddy. Mmm! I believe married life's making you fat, girl. (CHUCKLES) Oh, no. GIRL: F, O, D... Ready, Loretta? The last time I seen you I was giving you kids a shot for the measles. Here you are an old married woman. How do you like it? Fine. Except me and Doo is separated. Things happen pretty fast between you and Doo, don't they? (HORN HONKING) Hey! Hold up there. Hey, Doolittle, how are you? Good day, isn't it? It sure is. What have you been doing? No, not a hell of a lot. Working too goddamn hard. What about you? Hey, Doolittle Lynn. Who's that sow wallowing in your jeep? What did you call me? A sow. That's a woman pig. (LAUGHING) Hi, Loretta, I just... Hey, Loretta! Hey, Loretta! I was just fixing to come see you. Was you gonna bring your girlfriend with you? Oh, hell, that don't mean nothing. She just flagged me down. I got something to tell you, girl. Yeah, I got something to tell you, too. Loretta, I am leaving Kentucky. I'm going out west to Washington to get me a job on a ranch or something. That damned ol' coal mine's got me buried alive. Was you just gonna leave me? Just long enough to get the money to send for you. What makes you think I'd come? 'Cause you're my wife, darling. I'm your wife! Boy, you better think of a better reason than that. There ain't nothing for me in Kentucky, Loretta. Except a chest full of coal dust and being an old man time I'm 40. You ask your daddy. 'Sides that, you got to come with me, I love you. You promised Daddy you wouldn't take me off far from home. Well, you just have to make up your mind, darling, whether or not you're his daughter or my wife. Get in. I'll take you back to the house. What are you doing in the bottom anyhow? I come to see Doc Turner. You sick? Yeah, I'm gonna have a baby. (LAUGHING) Oh, Lord, Loretta. You know, darlin', you might have found something that you know how to do. (CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY) It's from Doo, Daddy! He sent me the money to come to Washington. Well, she's late. Reckon she might have jumped the tracks. Oh, Daddy, them things don't do that. Do they? They've been known to. Get up here. Let's see what you weigh. 117? Boy, Daddy, this baby's gonna be a big one, ain't it? You weigh now. It wouldn't do no good. I wouldn't know how much was me, how much was all that coal dust I swallowed. (TRAIN WHISTLE BLOWING) I ain't never gonna see you again. Yes, you will, Daddy. Maybe. But I ain't never gonna see my little girl again. Them years has been robbed from me, like a thief broke in and robbed 'em. (BELL RINGING) (BRAKES SCREECHING) WOMAN ON RADIO: (SINGING) As I listen to the words You are saying It brings memories When I was a trusting wife It wasn't God Who made honky tonk angels... Thank you, Betty Sue. As you said in the words Of your song Ernest Ray, your daddy is gonna wear you out when he gets home. ...married men think they're still single DOOLITTLE: Y'all scared of the rain? You ain't gonna melt. Let's go to work, boys. Come here, boy. Come here. Come here, my little... (BARKS) Daddy, Daddy! How you doing, Bo? Hello, darlin'. Come here, baby. (GRUNTS) What did you do all day, baby? Well, I put up 17 quarts of this apple butter. And, Doo, the dadgum sink stopped up. And I spent half the morning fixing that. Jack Benny, stop kicking him under the table. Do you hear me? And then I had that doctor's appointment. He said it was a false alarm. We'd better be a whole lot more careful next time. (COUGHING) Let's cover your mouth when you're coughing. And then I come home. Eat, boy. Betty Sue, you are not leaving this table till you finish that, do you hear me? You were eating all day. Sit up there. Sit up. Come here. Then I come home and cooked supper. And I'm about ready to die. How was your day? Wet. (SPEAKING GIBBERISH) Hey, Mooney! Yo! Your mama called long distance from Kentucky today, said happy anniversary and said why don't you call her more often. Much obliged. Why don't you have a phone put in sometime, Mooney? Really don't like telephones. LORETTA: (SINGING) The captain, he must have been drinkin' For he knew that he had done wrong He was trying to win the record When he let the Titanic go down The children were cryin', "Dear Mother" Dear Mother has gone to stay But maybe it'll turn to somethin'... Close your eyes, Cissy. ...that'll raise the Titanic some day Do-do di-do-do do-do-do... (WHISPERS) Baby, I was just thinking, we got an anniversary coming up, I was wondering what kind of anniversary present you wanted. Well, I ain't got no wedding ring yet. Wedding ring? Bullshit. Oh, bullshit! (LAUGHING) Doo! Jack Benny! Now, go to sleep, Ernest Ray. You, too, Jack Benny. (SIGHS) Happy anniversary, darlin'. Yeah, it looks like you had a happy one. You know, Doo, most couples spend their anniversary together. (GUITAR STRUMS) What's that? That's your anniversary present, baby. Happy anniversary. My anniversary present? Mmm-hmm. Doo, sometimes I think you got a washer missing in your brain. I can't play that thing. Most people can't without they learn how first. You're not too ignorant to learn, are you? Hell, if you don't want it, I'll give it to the kids. They probably don't want it either, so I'll put it in the kindling box. Give me that. (SIGHS) (STRUMS) What you get me a guitar for? 'Cause I like the way you sing. (SIGHS) Do you really think I sing good? (SIGHS) Baby, I know you do. Can I have a present, too? (SINGING) Have I told you lately that I love you? Have I... Could I tell you once again Somehow? (CHILDREN CLAMORING) If you boys knock Cissy off of this porch one more time, I'll have to whup you. That's right. No, no With all my Heart and soul how I adore you Well, darlin', I'm tellin' you now You boys stop fighting and listen to me sing. (GIGGLING) This heart would break in two if you refuse me I'm no good without you anyhow Dear, have I told you lately that I love you? Well, darlin', I'm tellin' you now Hey, darling, how about Saturday night let's get us one of them babysitters and go honky-tonkin'? You mean together? Yeah, (CHUCKLES) Together. Okay. What are you grinning about? (CHUCKLING) (LAUGHING) Doo! What are you up to? (CLEARS THROAT) My Lord. (COUNTRY MUSIC PLAYING) (INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS) I'll have one of them beers, please, plus one Coca-Cola. How about a dance, darling? I can't. I'm married. You must not be too married, you ain't wearing no ring. I bet I know what this is all about. Oh, dang, you guessed it. Wait right here, I'll be right back. Hey, buddy! Hey, buddy, come here. I got something sitting right on back there at that table... (CONTINUES SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY) Come here, darling. Come here, honey. (MOUTHING) I'll be right with you, Hoss. Excuse me. Loretta! What the hell are you doing running off and hiding like a... Don't make me get up and sing, Doo. Please, I'm sick. Oh, hell, you're not gonna have to get up there and sing. That ol' boy wouldn't allow it. Thank the Lord. You're gonna have to audition for 'em in the morning. I ain't no singer, Doo. I can't sing for no strangers. Yes, you can. I done fixed it up for you. There ain't no problem. You didn't ask me nothing about it! How the hell can I ask you something about it if you run off and hide like a stupid hillbilly? Don't call me that. I may be ignorant, but I ain't stupid. Why do you want me to sing so much for anyway? 'Cause I'm proud of you when you sing. Doo, I'm glad I make you proud, honey, but I can't sing in front of people. I just can't. Yes, you can, baby. You're gonna sing for these old boys in here in the morning, and next week you're gonna be up on that stage singing for all these people here, if I have to kick your ignorant hillbilly ass every step of the way! And now, folks, we've got a special treat for you. Making her very first public appearance, please welcome The Westerneers' new girl singer, Miss Loretta Lynn! (WHISTLES) (CROWD APPLAUDING) (BAND PLAYING COUNTRY MUSIC) There he goes He's walkin' away And each step he takes Brings heartache my way She's won his heart I lost him someway There he goes He's walkin' away Oh, if I hadn't cheated And if I hadn't lied I'd be the one Who's walkin' by his side I love him still And I guess it shows The way that I feel As there he goes Oh, if I hadn't cheated And if I hadn't lied I'd be the one Who's walkin' by his side I love him still And I guess it shows The way that I feel As there he goes (SONG ENDS) (CROWD CHEERING) (WHOOPING) WOMAN: Darling, you were good. MAN: You got a big voice. PENN: How'd you like that, folks? Would you like to hear the little lady sing another one? Doo, they liked me! Yeah, baby, they loved you. They loved you. They gonna love you a hell of a lot more if you get up there and do another one, honey. Go on, do another one. Go on. LORETTA: (SINGING) So fill my glass up to the top (HUMMING) ...star So fill my glass up to the rim (HUMMING) ...him I've lost everything in this world And now I'm a honky tonk girl I done wrote myself a song, Betty Sue. Your mama's a dadgum songwriter. It's a nice song, Mommy. Thank you. DOOLITTLE: Deal is, Loretta, you can sing in every little honky tonk in the country. There's thousands doing it and they ain't getting nowhere and they never will. The thing that's gonna give you the edge is getting yourself a record. And the next step's even more important than that and that's getting people to play the dad-burned thing, but right now what you and me have to worry about... Listen to your daddy. ...is you making the best doggone record you can, it all depends on that, darling. Boy, Doo, I didn't know you knew so much about the music business. I don't. I'm just figuring it out as I go along, listening to people talk. It's just got three chords. (HUMMING) All right, honey, what are you gonna sing for us? She's gonna do a song that she wrote herself called Honky Tonk Girl. Right. Honey, what key's it in? Y'all just go right ahead and play along, and she'll follow you just fine. Go ahead and y'all just play. She does talk, don't she, partner? I mean, generally people that can sing can talk. Oh, she'll talk up a storm if she feels like it. All right. Y'all settle down here now and be quiet. Darling, come over here and sit on my knee. You'll have a lot better view, boys. Sit up here, now. Sit up big and listen to your mama. All right, tape is rolling, we're ready. Let's go for take one. Three, four, one. (PLAYING UPBEA COUNTRY SONG) (SPEEDY CHUCKLES) That's all right, that's all right, don't worry. We got a lot of tape. All right, you all, get ready and set, and we'll go for take two. Buddy, could you give us a minute, please? Well, sure. Kids, come along with me. Come here. I guess we're leaving now, so... DOOLITTLE: Hey, put that thing back on. What are you doing in here with them kids? Doo? What are you doing? Darling, I want you to sing to these babies. Sing to the babies? Yes, just like you was at home. I'll sit there in that green chair. Okay. Are you sure? I'm positive. (PLAYING UPBEAT COUNTRY SONG) (SINGING) Ever since you left me I've done nothin' but wrong Many nights I've laid awake and cried All right, hold it, everybody. Just hang on a minute. Let's take a little break and let me see if I can find a few more pickers. Man, I can't afford no more pickers. I done spent every last penny I had. As bad as them two are, what do you want more for? No, no, I mean more better. That little lady sings her hind end off. (PLAYING UPBEAT COUNTRY SONG) (SINGING) Ever since you left me I've done nothin' but wrong Many nights I've laid awake and cried We were so happy my heart was in a whirl Let's go, darlin'. Let's do this thing now, I ain't got all day. Wait a minute, I ain't got all these doodads sewed on yet. Baby, I got to get to work. Come on, now. Okay. It's just gonna be your head and shoulders anyhow. Get up there in front of the backdrop. You mean that bedspread? Yeah. Oh, wait a minute, Doo! I ought to put on some lipstick. Get back in here. I like you better natural. Forget the lipstick. Slip's all rotten. Sit down there. Get up on the back of the chair, babe. Up on the back of the chair? Yeah. Oh, that's gonna be pretty. That's gonna be pretty. I don't want you ever wearing no lipstick, or makeup or none of that junk, I don't like it. It ain't right. All right, here we go now. Where do you want me to look? I want you to look at heaven, baby. BETTY SUE: Mama. Get out of there, sweetheart, I'm trying to take your mama's picture. Get over there and sit down now. Thank you, baby. Smile. Oh... (CLICKS) Beautiful. That's just beautiful. That's it, babe. Put the backdrop back on the bed. Are you and Daddy going out again tonight, Mama? Yes, honey, I've got to sing over in Lynden. Can I go with you? Oh, no, that's a rough old honky tonk. You can't be going over there. (TYPING) (YAWNS) Did you stay up all night again, honey? Yeah, darling, I'll get me a nap later on. Well, let me fix you some breakfast. No, I'll get me a bite later on, baby. I got to go now. You be ready when I get home. We gotta drive all the way to Spokane. Okay. Bye-bye. Where's my egg, Mommy? I'm cooking it as fast as I can, darling. MAN: Loretty! BOY: (LAUGHING) Loretty. MAN: Loretty! Loretty! Long distance! Your ma's calling from Kentucky! Emergency, she said. MAN: Amazing grace, how sweet it sounds. MOURNERS: (SINGING) Amazing grace How sweet it sounds MAN: That saved a wretch like me. MOURNERS: That saved a wretch like me MAN: I once was lost, but now I'm found. (MOURNERS CONTINUE SINGING) He come to me, Mommy, when he died. I seen him just as plain. You know, he wanted to be with you and them grand-young'uns. MAN: Was blind but now I see. Mommy, I shouldn't have left. I don't guess he ever got over me taking her off from home, Doc. You did the right thing, Doo, leaving here. Well, anyhow, it's over and done now, I reckon. No, it ain't, Doc, it ain't never gonna be over. MOURNERS: (SINGING) We have already come Finished widening that trail. It ain't gonna be so hard to get up here next time. (SIGHS) Loretta, this ol' mountain top is gonna be covered in wildflowers in six weeks' time, what the hell are you doing bringing plastic ones up here? Because they don't die. The real ones just die. Darlin'... Like everything else. Mommy's moving away, Daddy's gone. I ain't gonna have no home left. You got our home. Baby. Get away from me! Leave me alone. (ENGINE STARTING) Loretta, we gotta decide something. Most of them radio stations that we sent records and pictures to is right here in this part of the country. If we're really gonna do this thing, we gotta go see 'em in person and make sure they play that record. I already talked to your mama and she said she'd watch the kids for us. We gotta move right now, you understand? Darlin', if you don't want it, I ain't gonna make you do nothing you don't wanna do. It's your choice. We'll just go back to what we was doing, that's all. I want it. What? I said I want it! Baby, I can't hear you! I wanna be a singer, Doo! I want it real bad. (SOFTLY) I want it real bad. Jack, you see that little row of numbers right there? That tells you how many miles you've gone, and tell us how far we've been when we get back here. I love you. I'll see you when we come home. Go with Grandma. Come on, girl. Mommy, I love you. I love you. Betty Sue, you take care of the little ones, okay? Will you mind Grandma? Okay? Bye, Jack! Bye, Ernest Ray! Bye-bye. I left y'all some Tootsie Rolls in the top drawer, Mommy, in the bedroom! Bye-bye! Bye, Mommy! Bye, Mommy! Come back, Mommy! (TUNING RADIO) DJ ON RADIO: Now here's that number one hit, Walkin' After Midnight. Patsy Cline. That's right, that's WCBL. Disc jockey name of Bobby Day. Keep your eyes open for the transmitter, honey, it's right up here. The what? Oh. The transmitter. WOMAN ON RADIO: (SINGING) I'm always walkin' after midnight Searching for you I walked for miles along the highway Well, that's just my way Dadgummit, Doo, wait a minute! People can see in here. Hurry up, let's go. What am I supposed to say when we get in there? I don't know what to say. Don't even think about what you're supposed to say, just start talking. (KNOCK ON WINDOW PANE) Hey, I'm sorry, folks, there's no visitors allowed in the studio. Uh... Hi, Bobby. My name's Loretta Lynn and I sent you a picture and my newest record on the Zero label. Hey, look, no kidding, you can't be in here while I'm doing a show, okay? It's a song I wrote myself, it's called Honky Tonk Girl. I got the idea... I got it and I played it and it just sorta laid right there. So thanks for coming in, you all. Bye-bye, now. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. You're listening to Tri-State Country with your DJ, Bobby Day right here till 6:00, neighbors. And now here's a word from our friends down at Hutchins' Hot Pigs. (SNORTING) Tell them all about it, Hutch, and all of them little piglets. You played it, huh? You ain't even took it out of the wrapper. Do you know how many do-it-yourself records I get in here every day? If I played all of 'em, I wouldn't have time to play anything else. Well, why did you lie to us? Huh? Why'd you say they didn't like us? Doo worked so hard to get us this record! Hey, buddy, get her out of here. I gotta go back on the air. I'm sorry, buddy, there's nothing I can do once she gets cranked up like this. He took the picture, too. Heck, we got four babies we had to leave home with my mommy. We drove all the way here, spent every last dime we had. Folks, we got a special treat for you here today, a young lady who I predict is gonna go all the way. I can't believe it! I can't believe you'd do something so dadgum mean as that! BOBBY: Tell them all about yourself, darling. About myself? (HONKS) LORETTA ON RADIO: And then I sung it for Doolittle. That's my husband. Except everybody else calls him Mooney on account of he used to sell moonshine back in Butcher Holler. Where? Butcher Holler, that where me and Doo's from back in Kentucky. Anyway, I wrote the song and Doo heard it, and he said, "That's about the prettiest song as I ever heard, "good as Patsy Cline. " I said, "Oh, ain't nobody sings as good as Patsy. " BOBBY: Well, let's get a listen to it, folks, brand-new on the Zero label, Miss Lorene Lynn singing... What? ...Honky Tonk Girl. It's Loretta Lynn, not Lorene. Loretta? Uh-huh. (COUNTRY MUSIC PLAYING ON RADIO) DOOLITTLE: Girl, you sure got over being bashful fast. I just done what you said, just opened my mouth and out it come. I couldn't even stop. I didn't have no more notion of what I was gonna say than a rabbit. You keep on being a rabbit then, darlin'. Hey, where is the next one? You want me to watch for that next transmitter? Hell, yes, watch out for that transmitter. LORETTA ON RADIO: (SINGING) We were so happy my heart was in a... DJ 1 ON RADIO: WTMT, the voice of country in Hazard, Kentucky. LORETTA: We've been seeing all different parts of the country and meeting all kinds of people and Doolittle, he's driving... DJ 2: WMIT in Middlesboro... LORETTA: Mama's back in Kentucky taking care of the four babies. Bet they're wondering what's happened to their mama. DJ 3: Top Ridge, Tennessee... LORETTA: I had no idea where singers got songs to sing, so I thought, "Shoot. I better just lock myself up in it, "at least till I get this music business figured out. " (LORETTA SINGING ON RADIO) MAN ON RADIO: (SINGING) Come fast through the mail with a satisfied mind... Doo, can we send the kids some suckers or something? No, baby, we can't afford it. We ain't got the money. Here's your baloney, 48 cents. I'm getting so sick of baloney. You are? Well, you know what they say about baloney now, don't you? What? Makes you horny. What's that mean? (LAUGHING) Are you so dad-burned ignorant, you don't know what horny means? No. What does it mean? (LAUGHING) Ain't gonna tell you. Doo! Doo, what does it mean? (CONTINUES LAUGHING) DJ ON RADIO: With all these months on the road have you hit Nashville yet? LORETTA: No, sir, but I'm dying to. I'm gonna get on the Grand Ole Opry, too, just as soon as I can. (CHUCKLES) Well, you know, sometimes you gotta pay a lot of dues to get on the Opry. Pay dues? Well, for most people it takes years and years of hard work. Still, from the looks of things, you're off to a real good start. Shoot. We've been driving so much I don't even know where I am half the time. Oh, it's fun, though, you know, we sing and talk and Doo, that's my husband, he'll get to acting horny. What? The more I laugh the hornier he gets. Loretta, goddamn! He'll say, "Loretta, spread me up "one of them baloney sandwiches!" I don't know where in the hell you think you are, lady, but that kind of smut don't go on in this part of the country. I didn't know it was dirty. I thought horny meant cutting up and acting silly. Come off that dumb hillbilly act. You know, mister, if you knew Loretta, you'd know that ain't no act. Thank you, Doo. Yeah, well, let me tell you something. We're gonna be damn lucky not to lose our FCC license for this. And I mean damn lucky! You know, I'm gonna tell you something else, I ain't never playing another record of yours on this radio station! Never! Goddamn, Loretta. Don't you ever stop to think what the hell you're saying? LORETTA: You told me not to! Wait up! Don't worry about him, kids. If you're on the charts, you're gonna get played. What charts? (CHUCKLES) You got a hit record. You don't know that? That really isn't an act, is it? Look here, Cash Box magazine, came out today. You're number 14 nationwide. You really didn't know. Thank you. Doo! (SOFT MUSIC PLAYING ON RADIO) I love you, Doo. DJ ON RADIO: For the girl with roses on her pillow, here's Patsy Cline's number one hit, Crazy. PATSY: (SINGING) Crazy I'm crazy for feeling so lonely I'm crazy Crazy for feeling so blue I knew You'd love me as long... Doolittle? Doo? Doo? (HORN HONKING) That old building sure would hold a lot of hay, wouldn't it? This is the Grand Ole Opry. You want chocolate or glazed? The Grand Ole Opry! What if they won't let me in? They'd better let us in, I done spent all the money on these donuts. Besides that, how are they gonna keep us out? We're number 14! Nationwide. (PLAYING COUNTRY MUSIC) (SINGING) I'm walkin' the floor over you I can't sleep a wink, that is true I'm hoping and I'm praying as my heart breaks right in two Walkin' the floor over you You left me and you went away You said that you'd be back in just a day Are you Loretta Lynn? Loretta Lynn? Loretta Lynn? Loretta Lynn? Loretta Lynn? You Loretta Lynn? I've been calling and calling you. Now, Mr. Devine says to put you on Ernest's show. Now, you go stand right over yonder and keep your eyes on Ernest. He'll introduce you if the show ain't running too long. What's the matter with you? I'm scared, Doo. Scared? Goddamn! I don't belong here. You belong here as much as anybody does. Now try to quit that complaining and relax. I ain't ready. I ain't paid my dues to be here. By God, we'll pay 'em later on then. Where you going? If there's one thing I can't stand, Loretta, it's a nervous damn woman. Don't leave. I ain't leaving you, I'm just going to get out there and get me some fresh air! I'm walkin' the floor over you I can't sleep a wink, that is true (INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS) Ain't got no place in here for drunks. We don't want no trouble. Go home. (CROWD APPLAUDING) Thank you all. Thank you so very much and welcome to this portion of our Grand Ole Opry. Right now I want you to meet a little gal that I feel sure you're going to love very much. So, let's give a great big Grand Ole Opry welcome to Miss Loretta Lynn! (CROWD APPLAUDING) Get out there. Well, if you ain't a picker, what are you? Got a wife singing on the Opry. Oh, I see. You're one of the husbands. Well, I'm one of the wives, darling. See you later. Hey, hey. How about one fifth wheel buying another one a drink? Oh, there she is. She's on right now, she's on the radio! Hey, buddy. Hey, buddy, could you turn the radio up? ...nothing but wrong Many nights I've laid awake and cried We were so happy My heart was in a whirl But now I'm a honky tonk girl MAN: Hey, sweet thing! Sweet thing! How's that big ol' ugly husband of yours? He's out in the alley trying to sober up enough to do his show. Hey, Del, turn the radio up, will you? Listen, I'm trying to hear the radio, you all. Delmar, turn that thing up! WOMAN: He's got a wife on the Opry. That's right. Oh, is that right? Hell, you got it made, man! All you gotta do is lay up and count it as the old lady rakes it in. Oh, I do my share of the work, mister. Delmar, turn it up! Sure you do, Hoss, sure you do. Hey, listen, I told you all politely, I'm trying to hear my wife sing on the radio. Oh, is that your job? I mean, she sings and you listen? Yeah. (LAUGHING) (PEOPLE EXCLAIMING) And now I'm a honky tonk girl I'll be! Wonderful. Real wonderful, honey, thank you so much. Hey, by the way, you think you might come back next week? I ain't got nothing else planned. (CHUCKLES) She ain't got... Okay, Loretta Lynn! (CROWD APPLAUDING) She's a doll, I'll tell you. Thank you, honey. Doo, did you hear? They loved me! Yeah, I heard ya. And they want me to come back next week, can you believe it? I can believe it, baby. Now what we gotta do next is to sit down and plan real careful what we're gonna do next. I'm too happy to even think about that now. I don't care if I die tomorrow, Doo, if I never sing another song, it ain't never gonna be any better than this. Did you hurt yourself? Your jaw's swelling up. That's just from grinning, baby, that's from pure happiness. (LAUGHING) LORETTA: (SINGING) I fall to pieces How can I be just your friend? You want me to act like we've never kissed You want me to forget Pretend we've never met And I've tried and I've tried But I haven't yet You walk by and I fall to pieces Friends, this is a number one hit song by Miss Patsy Cline. I guess y'all all know she's over in the hospital 'cause she's been in a real bad car wreck. So I wanna dedicate this song to her. So, Patsy, if you're listening, this song is for you. I fall to pieces (INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS) Oh, thank you. Loretta, Patsy Cline's husband. Charlie Dick. Hello. Patsy heard you tonight and she wants you to come and see her. Can you come? Doo, this is Charlie Dick, Patsy Cline's husband. She heard me. She was listening in the hospital. She wants to meet me. Can we go? Sure, baby, go ahead. I'll take the young'uns. Get your mama's guitar. Are you sure? Get in the car, baby. Yeah. Okay, honey, Mama will be home soon. Bye-bye. Bye, Mom. Patsy Cline was listening? To me? Bye-bye, honey. CISSY: Bye! See you later, Mama! Hey. Hey! Did you bring me that beer like I... (CLICKS TONGUE) I keep my straw in the top drawer, honey, right behind you. Right behind, top drawer. It's right in there. Thank you. That's the one. Thank you. (SNORTS) What's the matter with you? (LAUGHING) Ain't you ever seen no glamorous star before? You ain't mad at me for singing your song, are you, Patsy? Mad? Sit down. I'm scared because people might think you sing that thing better than I do. Uh-uh. You're stirring things up in this town. Hey. How many times you been on the Opry now? I've been on 17 straight times. People wanna know who you been sleeping with that you been on so many times. Who's been saying that? Gals that have been sleeping with everybody and still ain't been on yet. Like who? (CHUCKLES) Oh. Let me put it this way, take it as a compliment, you got 'em running scared. (LAUGHING) I just can't believe I'm sitting here, talking to Patsy Cline. ANNOUNCER: You know, Patsy Cline has been hospitalized for several months now due to a serious accident. We are happy to say she is here tonight to sing for you. A Grand Ole Opry welcome for Patsy Cline! (CROWD CHEERING) MAN: You're looking hotter tonight, girl. (SINGING) Sweet dreams of you Every night I go through Why can't I forget you And start my life anew? Instead of having sweet dreams About you You don't love me It's plain... DOOLITTLE: Johnny didn't need any dogs... WOMAN: Great, Patsy! MAN: Nice show, Patsy! What y'all two devils been up to besides getting into trouble? Don't answer that. Delmar, two Co-Colas. Hey, Patsy, Mooney says he's gonna take me squirrel hunting. Oh, now, Charlie Dick, don't you bring home no squirrels. When I left Virginia I swore I'd never eat another squirrel as long as I live. I love squirrel meat. Don't you like squirrel, Patsy? Of course I do. I married Charlie, didn't I? (ALL LAUGHING) Charlie, you know I love you. Even if I have to remind him every now and then he ain't nothin' but a damn tax deduction. That goes for you, too, Doolittle Lynn, and don't you forget it. (ALL CONTINUE LAUGHING) (INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS) (SINGING) Right from the start, most every heart That's ever been broken... Doo? You all right? Yeah. Got you enough books? (INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS) Get down from there. Let me try. My Lord, Patsy, I hope we don't get rained out. (LAUGHS) You don't get rained out on circuits like these, you just keep on singing. Mud, flood, hell or high water. MAN: Five minutes, Patsy. Looks like that's it for me. What else do you wear? I start out with some liquid makeup and then I powder that down. Now, look, Loretta, you get ready 'cause I'm gonna call you up after my first song. Okay. MAN: Somebody moving! What did you do that for? What have you got on your face? I just thought I'd try it. Do you like it? No. Hell, no. You know that I don't like it. Now get on back there and take it off. No. What? Hey, now, wait a minute, by God... MAN 1: Loretta Lynn! MAN 2: I'll be darned! BOTH: (SINGING) I'm back in baby's arms How I missed those lovin' arms I'm back where I belong Back in baby's arms Don't know why we quarreled I'm sorry. We never did before Since we found how much it hurts I bet we never quarrel anymore No good. What do you have to do to win one of these parrots here? Two out of three. One... One parrot. Let me know when I run out of money now. Get away with every parrot you got. Uh-huh. (SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY) Put them right there under the guitar against the red trailer. Come on, let's move it up. I'm cold, I'm miserable, I'm wet, I'm gonna lose my voice. Have you seen Doo? No, darling. MAN: The corner and put that big ol' thing up against the dashboard. Take this, will ya? MAN 2: Anything else in this here? MAN 3: Yeah, I got this right here. MAN 1: Put them on top. That's it. MAN 2: Let's go. This bus is taking off! Woman, if you wanna keep that arm, you better get it off my husband. Who are you telling what? I don't know who you are. But I know what you are. Come on, Doo, if you can walk, they're gonna leave us. Well, let me tell you something, if you was keeping your man satisfied, he wouldn't have to go nowhere else. (BUS HORN HONKS) Doo, come on, they're gonna leave without us. MAN: Loretta, let's go! Let me get my parrots, baby. (HORN HONKING) MAN: Loretta! Thank you. The hell you getting in such an uproar about, Loretta? I wasn't doing nothing. Yeah, I saw you doing nothing. Loretta, darlin', I get lonesome standing around by myself, I need somebody to talk to. It didn't look like no talking to me. I'm warning you, Doo, I'd better not ever catch you with trash like that again. I mean it. Warning me? Goddamn, woman, don't you ever warn me about nothing! You understand that? Hear me talking to you? You hear me talking to you? (PLAYING COUNTRY MUSIC) (SINGING) Women like you, they're a dime a dozen You can buy 'em anywhere For you to get to him I'll have to move over And I'm gonna stand right here This is the chorus. It'll be over my dead body So get out while you can 'Cause you ain't woman enough to take my man Where the hell did you get the idea for that? Where do you think? Hey, Charlie! Charlie! Wake up, Charlie. Where the hell you been? Shopping. Looks like you have, too. Get all that crap off your face, by God, I had about enough of this crap. I like it and it's stayin'. Where the hell you going? Hold on a minute, Mooney, this is my idea. You don't talk to me like that. If I wanna wear makeup, I will. The hell you will. You're gonna do exactly whatever the hell I tell you. I'll do just what I want! Don't you talk to me like that. Don't you hit me! Don't you hit me. I'll whip your butt, girl! Goddamn! Hey, hey. Come on, let's get in the car. Charlie, get in the car and drive. Loretta, get in the car. Charlie, get in that car and drive. MAN: Oh, that's Patsy Cline. (ENGINE STARTING) WOMAN: That's Loretta Lynn! Damn! MAN: Hello, Patsy! WOMAN: Get your camera, honey. Get ready now. Ain't no chance of gettin' in that goddamned car, hey, boys? (TIRES SCREECHING) (VEHICLE APPROACHING) (CAR DOOR CLOSES) Oh, my God. Did I do that? Is it broke? (SIGHS) Aren't you gonna talk? Baby, what I think I'm gonna do is get me a job somewhere, driving a truck or being a mechanic or doing something that I'm good at. You're good at managing me. I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for you. Getting here's one thing and being here's another. (SIGHS) My job's done, baby, I'll just get me another one. Doo, if it's gonna break us up, I'll quit. Successful people don't quit, baby. Got another one of your headaches, don't you? Just like your daddy. Coal dust give him the headache. I guess I'm what's giving 'em to you. Loretta. Figured it was about time. Doo. LORETTA ON RADIO: (SINGING) For you to get to him I'll have to move over And I'm gonna stand right here It'll be over my dead body So get out while you can 'Cause you ain't woman enough to take my man I'm pregnant again, Patsy. Are you sure? I don't wanna have it. I've been having babies since I was 14. What does Mooney think? He doesn't know. Hey, come on, I think you oughta be happy about this. I'm tickled. We're gonna have a baby! You know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna give you the biggest baby shower in Nashville. Now, I want you to make a list. Then we'll go shopping. Hey, you know, I saved all of my maternity clothes. In fact, I got Randy's old things, too. You're gonna need all of this, Loretta. (PATSY SQUEALS) You know, I forgot I had this. Oh, Patsy. Can you believe it? You scared me. (SINGING) Red's the color that drives men wild. Oh, great, that's just what I need. Well, you never know when it'll come in handy. Hey, listen, anything you can't find in this box we're gonna buy when I get back. Where are you going? I got a benefit in Kansas City. Oh, I didn't know I threw that thing away. Maybe I oughta keep that. Keep it burnin'. Now look, this'll take you through your fifth month. (GASPS) Oh, Patsy, are you sure you want me to have this? Oh, yes, darlin', take it. Take it. I got something with your name written on it right here. I love that. (CHILDREN LAUGHING) Oh, Patsy, I got to go. Doo's waiting for me. You all right? Yeah. All right, now, I'll call you on Monday. Okay. We'll go shopping. Anything we can't buy we'll make. Anything we can't make, we'll steal. (BOTH LAUGHING) Now, you take care of yourself, all right? Okay. Okay, darling. Bye-bye, darling. Thank you, Patsy. Take care. Now, I'm calling you first thing Monday, don't forget. PATSY ON RADIO: (SINGING) You don't love me It's plain I should know I'll never wear... DJ ON RADIO: You're listening to a special memorial tribute to the late Patsy Cline, tragically killed early this morning in a plane crash near Dyersburg, Tennessee. Baby. Darlin'. She can't be dead. Baby. (SOBBING) We was going shopping. Who am I gonna talk to now? I got the names for 'em, Doo. Peggy and Patsy. Which one is which? I don't know. (LAUGHS) I reckon we'll have to wait and see who grows up to be who. Well, one thing's for sure, we're gonna have to get us a bigger house someplace soon as you get some rest. I'm gonna go back to work just as soon as I can, Doo. (BABY GURGLING) ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen, from world-famous Grand Ole Opry, make welcome Miss Loretta Lynn. (CROWD CHEERING) (PLAYING COUNTRY MUSIC) Well, I like my lovin' done country style And this little girl would walk a country mile To find her a good ol' slow-talkin' country boy I said a country boy I'm about as old-fashioned as I can be And I hope you're likin' what you see 'Cause if you're lookin' at me You're lookin' at country You don't see no city When you look at me 'Cause the country is all I am (HORN HONKING) I love runnin' barefooted through the old cornfields And I love that country ham ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen, make welcome, please, a young lady with 21 number one records, Miss Loretta Lynn. LORETTA: (SINGING) You don't love me It's plain I should know I'll never wear your ring I should hate you The whole night through (SQUEALING) Instead of having sweet dreams... ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the number one country music entertainer, Miss Loretta Lynn. (CROWD CHEERING) LORETTA: (SINGING) You've been making your brags around town That you've been a-lovin' my man But the man I love when he picks up trash He puts it in a garbage can That's what you look like to me And what I see's a pity You better move your feet... ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the first lady of country music, Miss Loretta Lynn. (SINGING) There ain't no pipe can settle this fight Your squaw is on the warpath tonight Well, I found out, a-big brave chief The game you're a-hunting for ain't beef Get off-a my huntin' grounds Get outta my sight This a-war dance I'm doin' means I'm fightin' mad You don't need no more of what you've already had... All I could hear was those dadgum drums beatin' in my ear. When you sing, I feel like you're talking about my life. I made this for you. Darlin', thank you, I love it. You look tired, you okay? No, this is it. I feel like I've been on the road... (SHRIEKS) I got it! I got it! What did she do to my hair? She cut it. Let's get on the bus. (CROWD CLAMORING) That sounds like your mama. It sure enough is. (BUS HORN HONKING) There's your mama, kids, let's go. Come on. Hop in that jeep, let's go say hello to Mama. There she is! Get in there, baby. Howdy, Jim. Hi, Mooney. How you doing, baby? I'm fine. Come here, twin, get out of there and give me a hug. My name ain't Twin! You all get out of that jeep, get down here and say hello to your mama. When do you think I'll ever be able to tell y'all apart? Probably never. Wait a minute. I want you to mind your manners around here or I'm gonna whip some hind ends. Get on over there and help Jim unload your mama's stuff. My Lord, Doo, what happened? Oh, Jack Benny done that. Him and Ernest Ray was having a little race. Well, they didn't get hurt, did they? No, they've done gone to Nashville to get another one. Did you do something to your hair? Yeah, this fan cut it for me. Huh. Looks real good. Doo? Huh? I'm gonna ask you to do something for me, honey. I've been having them bad headaches again, Doo. The doctor gave you them pills. You taking them pills? (PILLS RATTLING) I'm taking them, but they ain't doing no good. (WATER RUNNING) Nothing does. (TURNS TAP OFF) Maybe you ought to slow down some. Yeah, if you slow down, they forget about you. Doo, when I go back out on the road I want you to go with me. I'm getting rung to death out there, honey. I need somebody to take care of me a little bit. Hell, you got people fighting each other to take care of you. I need you, Doo. I need somebody that cares about me. I need you. (PHONE RINGING) (GROANS) I ain't even gonna bother you. Don't worry. (PHONE RINGING) It's 1:00 in the morning, what the hell do you want? No, Loretta ain't here, lady, she's on the road. How the hell did you get this number, anyway? (SIGHS) Hey, quit that crying, lady. Quit it and I'll give Loretta your message. Yeah. All right, you liked her last album a lot. She loves you, too. She'll pray for you, too. Lady, you're gonna have to quit that crying. Get yourself some sleep, gonna be better in the morning, I guarantee it. (CHUCKLING) No. No. You didn't wake me up. Uh-uh. That's right. There's a lot of lonesome people in the world. (SIGHS) Good night. MAN 1: Go get 'em, Loretta. MAN 2: There she is. DOOLITTLE: Better step back there. Would you sign this, honey? Would you sign this, Loretta? All right. (CROWD APPLAUDING) ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen, would you make welcome the first lady of country music, Miss Loretta Lynn. (CROWD CHEERING) (PLAYING COUNTRY MUSIC) (SINGING) Well, I like my lovin' done country style And this little girl would walk a country mile To find her a good ol' slow-talkin'... Hey, Jim! What does it look like, boys? She's looking good tonight. (PLAYING COUNTRY MUSIC) DAVE: "They say to have her hair done. " (SINGING) They say to have her hair done Liz flies all the way to France DAVE: "Jackie's seen in a discotheque. " "Jackie is seen in a discotheque. " And Jackie's seen in a discotheque doing a brand-new dance "The White House social season. " "The White House social season should be glittering and gay. " Hold it, guys. You Ain't Woman Enough. You Ain't Woman Enough. (SINGING) You come to tell me somethin' You say I ought to know (REPORTERS CLAMORING) Here's the tape of her new song. She has a problem with the words now. Would you see she gets it? ALL: There she is! MAN: Will you please move down? Thank you, move on, now, keep moving, please. Doo, what time is it? Doo? Doo? Is it time for me to go on yet? (REPORTERS CLAMORING) Where have you been? I was just coming to get you. Are you ready? You're supposed to be taking care of me. That's what I'm doing. It's just not clear and we have to set up the schedule properly. Honey, you're early, you got another 10 minutes. We gotta talk about what you're gonna do for the Vegas show. I wanna talk to Doo. I wanna be with Doo for a minute. (SIGHS HEAVILY) I can't sing tonight, Doo. Somebody tell them. Baby, you've got 10,000 people sitting out there waiting on you. Please, Doo. Baby, they're out there waiting on you, now you don't wanna let 'em down. Don't tell me about letting them down, you don't even know them people! Darlin', I don't know what to tell you. I swear I don't. Hell, baby, there ain't nothing I can tell you. All I can do is just tell you to get the hell out there and sing for the folks. Okay, get me on stage, I wanna go out there. (COUNTRY MUSIC PLAYING) (CROWD CLAPPING RHYTHMICALLY) Hold it, boys. Hold it. (MUSIC STOPS) Ladies and gentlemen, would you make welcome the first lady of country music, Miss Loretta Lynn. (MUSIC RESUMES) (CROWD CHEERING) (MUSIC STOPS) (EXHALES) I had something I wanted to come out here and tell y'all tonight. But, Doo, he don't want me to say nothing. But I can tell you. Friends. 'Cause you wouldn't be here if you didn't care about me. See... Things is moving too fast in my life. Always have. I mean, one day I was just a little girl, the next day I was married, the next day I was having babies, and next day I was out here singing for y'all. And... Patsy was always saying, "Little girl, you got to run your own life. " But my life's running me and... Uh... Where's my... Where's Doo? Doo? (FEEDBACK) Come on, let's go to the bus. We've got you. (GROANS) Come on, baby. Baby. (NEIGHING) DOOLITTLE: Whoa, babies. Whoa, babies. Whoa, babies, slow down, now. Whoa, babies. Hey. I got something I wanna show you. What? (CHUCKLING) Slow down, Doo! What do you think? About what? What are you up to, Doo? I'm gonna build us a house right here. That's a hell of a view, ain't it? I picked this particular spot on account of, well, from right in there it looks a bit like Kentucky used to be. Thought I'd put the bedroom back over in here in the front of the house so we can wake up every morning and look out that old picture window and watch the sun come up. Thought back up here would be a good place for a breakfast nook. And then right... Dadgummit, Doo. You never asked me nothing about no new house. I wanted to surprise you, baby. Well, stop surprising me. You never ask me about nothing. Well, hell, I thought you'd want a new house, babe. For the privacy if not for nothing else, by God. I ain't said I don't want no new house. I just said you ain't asked me nothing about it. You never do. You just say, "Hey, baby, here's the deal, take it or leave it!" Well, it's driving me crazy, Doo. Hell, let's go to the house, let's call the lawyers and get a divorce. I'm tired of this bullshit. I don't want no divorce, I just want the dadgum bedroom in the back of the house. (EXHALES) You put the dadgum bedroom in the front of the house, Doo, and the sun comes in every morning at 5:00 and shines in my eyes. How am I supposed to get any sleep? You're not too ignorant to get out of the bed and walk over here and pull a set of window blinds down, are you? No, and I'm not too ignorant to know that the dadgum bedroom don't belong in the front of the house where the living room ought to be. (GROWLS) (IMITATES GROWL) Stop growling, Doo, you sound like an old bear or something. All right, we'll put the bedroom in the back of the house, all right? (CHUCKLING) (GROWLS) Let's not be too hasty, Doo, maybe we oughta leave the bedroom in the front of the house, it's always been there and it's pretty here. It's beautiful, darlin'. We'll put the bedroom in the back of the house and then we'll put one in front of the house, too. Oh, great. Then we'll both have our own bedroom. No, I'm gonna be living in a tree house, I'm gonna build right up the hill there. ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen, back with us once again, the first lady of country music, the coal miner's daughter, Miss Loretta Lynn. (CROWD CHEERING) (SINGING) Well, I was born the coal miner's daughter In a cabin on a hill in Butcher Holler We were poor but we had love That's the one thing my daddy made sure of He shoveled coal to make a poor man's dollar Daddy loved and raised eight kids on a miner's pay Mommy scrubbed our clothes on a washboard every day Why, I've seen her fingers bleed To complain there was no need She'd smile in Mommy's understanding way In the summertime we didn't have shoes to wear But in the wintertime we'd all get a brand-new pair From a mail-order catalogue Money made from sellin' a hog Daddy always managed to get the money somewhere Yeah, I'm proud to be a coal miner's daughter I remember well the well where I drew water The work we done was hard At night we'd sleep 'cause we were tired I never thought of ever leavin' Butcher Holler Well, a lot of things have changed since way back then And it's so good to be back home again Not much left but the floor Nothing lives here anymore 'Cept the memories of a coal miner's daughter (CROWD CHEERING) They say to have her hair done Liz flies all the way to France And Jackie's seen in a discotheque doing a brand-new dance And the White House social season should be glittering and gay But here in Topeka The rain is a-fallin' The faucet is a-drippin' and the kids are a-bawlin' One of the them's a-toddlin' and one is a-crawlin' And one's on the way Ever since you left me I've done nothing but wrong Many nights I've laid awake and cried We were so happy my heart was in a whirl But now I'm a honky tonk girl You come to tell me somethin' You say I ought to know That he don't love me anymore and I'll have to let him go You say you're gonna take him but I don't think you can 'Cause you ain't woman enough to take my man Well, I like my lovin' done country style And this little girl would walk a country mile To find her a good ol' slow-talking country boy I said a country boy I'm about as old-fashioned as I can be And I hope you're likin' what you see 'Cause if you're lookin' at me You're lookin' at country Well, you've been makin' your brags around town That you've been lovin' my man But the man I love when he picks up trash He puts it in a garbage can And that's what you look like to me And what I see's a pity You better move your feet if you don't wanna eat A meal that's called Fist City Well, your pet name for me is "squaw" When you come home drinkin' and can barely crawl And all that lovin' on me won't make things right Well, you leave me at home to keep the tepee clean And six papooses to break and wean Your squaw is on the warpath tonight No, don't come home a-drinkin' With lovin' on your mind Just stay out there, on the town and see what you can find 'Cause if you want that kind of love Well, you don't need none of mine So don't come home a-drinkin' with lovin' on your mind No, don't come home a-drinkin' with lovin' on your mind
