 

                        Thanks! I want to complain Can I have a complain register? In fact airline should be sorry They are making safety drill from very beautiful girls. And I wasjust looking at you I couldn't concentrate on instructions, Now the plain will go to sea then I mean, I wouldn't know what to do... And If I would die... then who will be responsible forthat If you will read it, then you will have chance to survive in sea What will happen if you won't be here nor something would happen nor anything is gonna happen I don't know If something will happen You didn't tell me your name I wish my name would be longer So why you are going to london? I am shifting to London What you do? I am a software engineer It's boring but not like you that you are chatting with strangers all night long Stop it! This is my first time and because of you So do it! Don't stop! Let it be! I don't know what happened You said and I sinked down You are very naughty It's legal yet but my shifting will be over in an hour Sir! Meera! Are you nervous? Look! Flight isjust about to take off It's such a long flight We will get time to chat Why you are getting so nervous? You are going for 2 days If you will show my any flash of my Dehli flashback to your aunt then remember... Assume that I will open your sin's database to your mom Which database? I am already naked, Everyone knows about me But you have to commit sins in future I will help you to hide them I will have to book the table You are talking to me Same childish game, I don't know you, Get lost etc etc Let's move on Sonu, Let's take a fresh start, Now what? I will have to beg on my knees, I made a mistake Look at my condition Now fogive me Whoeveryou are? My husband is waiting for me outside You got married? Now I will endure this sorrow But you have the address Address is also wrong I don't know perhaps I would have copied wrong Obviously I will try It must be changed, How is that? Listen! Aunt won't be so worried But don't tell her anything I will call you later Relax! I am coming Wow! I was thinking do you believe in love at first sight Rather I should come back again Then say it! I will put my life I will work really hard I will make a system forthem that even I wouldn't corrupt it Veronika! I was thinking, I will shift in some hotel forfew days, Your dad is a rich man My parents are not alive But I have saved some money But my parents are alive I don't know where those rich people are, but every month they send my hugejuicy cheque But you don't even know me You know I didn't know my parents when I was born When I lived with them still I didn't know them Stay here! Until you don't sort it out But nothing is clear Either he will come or not I don't know how much time it will take and I... If I would be stuck so you won't help me Definitely but! So account settled He is the same, Your husband! That airport guy, I have told you You know I have never seen such a shameless and cheap person Does anyone spare this chance Thank God that I met you, I have found you everywhere and you... In this foriegn country you are chatting with yourfriends How could you do this to me? I am begging you We can't take a fresh start to forget whatever happened Let's take a fresh start after an hour But right now this meeting is really important for me It's important and this... Tell me! Where is Mama? Cheap Person! You are blamming your mama Fine! Make me suffer! He already shifted with her What? He shifted with her And what were you doing? You are in dehli I am taking care of him I am his guardian Now that girl and his work is in London So I suggest him that take a room in nearest building Do you understand? So what's up? Have you got guava this year? Duffer! That tree has been cut since long Me! Who me? Okay! I agree he is little bit cheezy But he have something, He is always having fun Even pig is always having fun He have another qualification I didn't need this information I will tell you what else Gautam is that typical type of pest who will use you He will live in your house forfree lying on this sofa he will eat popcorn from your money and he won't pay a single penny Grocery store is empty I have told you that you should have call first It happens in west If Gautam is inside then tell them You are Gautam's friends Mom! When? How? I mean... What a lovely surprise? And you? What were you saying to me? I will say whatever he will tell me to say What? What were you saying to me? He is grown up This one... Answer me what I am asking You tell... Let yourfamily check the facebook they will leave everything and come here... What were you doing? Come fast! What happen? But what happen? Water has filled inside her body Look! She is not breathing Bring the doctor How would I find a doctor on beach? I will try She is awake Are you alright? Whatver happened but she is fine now I will take her inside No! I will take her You enjoy the sunset No! We have already enjoyed, You are not going anywhere I saved her, I will take her Go! Take a walk Be carefull! You are so grown up but you don't care foryourself I will get you something to eat What happened? He is a fraud! He is running marriage business He married with you to rob you And you think you have a problem that's why he left you I don't want to discuss this issue But I want to discuss this issue I want to discuss, Do you understand Why are you insisting? Because you are a fool And to being an intelligent it's my duty that I should help you What do you think that you will give me tips and my life will be changed Now what will happen to me? Don't worry! I am here Dr. Gautam will fix everything And you are so handsome, intelligent and good looks and in much quantity Now I am like that but you are not so bad You have some intelligence and You looks good No! Yes! I have an experience Actually! I will also say that you are hot Do you really think that I am hot? I am afraid that if I will touch you so I should be burned You are so original Your eyes are like post card shot They make people dreaming whoever saw them he finds himself and your lips... whoever look at them once he thinks later he thinks in night and your smile Your smile is social service People are losing theirtension You wear so many clothes But a person will think that what's that what you are hiding Like your waist... nobody is allowed to see it how does it feel to touch it I shouldn't say something else Otherwise you will look down again Are you feeling cold? Your hands... I want to hold them but I am also afraid that if somebody will hold them once who would never leave them ever That's why girls gone flat on you You are amazing, But today it was really amazing That was my best performance Really? It's gone natural I kept speaking what I was feeling You also try it sometime Why do you need to try? You are so beautiful that people would fall down to see you No! Yes! So why don't you fall down? Drunk! Yeah! We will have to leave I was really enjoying, You are late... Earlier girl like you shouldn't need to ask Pardon! Sit! I don't understand My heart is beating like someone is about to shoot me I didn't sleep lat night I said I am not falling in love What do you think? I'm in deep trouble My counting will be in people like Devdas and Majnu You are right Nothing's gonna happen to sit here I must make a move Thanks to you God shall fullfill your needs By the way all you need is here Okay sister! Keep me in your prayers Meera was right! You are a nice girl Just wear good dresses Tell me one thing You don't have affair with some guy No! Howeverthe society becomes modern It's not good for a girl to live alone for longer Tell your parents get you marry Where they live? Dad is busy in his business and mom I don't know If their own marriage is in danger so how they would get you married But you don't worry I will find a groom foryou Look! You are coming to Dehli For Gudlu's marriage Yourjob will be done there Myjob will be done too It was a mistake We both were drunk You were lonely and I am characterless It happened We don't have to do it again We are not like each other's type Actually we both don't like each other and I am Veronika's guy And you are someone else's wife So let's handle it with maturity let's make it happen like it was earlier And let's forget it all Thank God that everything is cleared Look! What's happening? That's what we have to avoid All these things arejoke foryou You must be addicted of these situations I wish I would be like you Life would be very simple Till today I also... Please let's not make it complicated Let's stay away from each other and we will forget everything Now don't go to Shakuntla mode There is nothing serious between me and Veronica Everything is already cleared For me it's already cleared that you both live in same room and you both use the same toothbrush I am not talking about right and wrong Perhaps I am different like Desi, illetrate But I am sorry I don't have capacity to understand it all So I will explain you We are friends And we also enjoyed, I don't want to understand But I amjust saying that I know Veronika She will be happy for us And when she will listen she will say first of all Let's party! Yes! And you willjump down to my room from her room And we'll also enjoy it... Isn't it? Where are you going? Distance from each other Please forgive me But I have got the case If Veronika will tell Meera that there is no problem then there is no problem Anyway! Carry on! I am leaving! How am I looks like? What my mom is doing with you If I will wearthese kind of dresses I shall grow my hair in short if I shall become like Meera then your mom will accept me Accept for what? We neverthought about marriage But it could be... I know you will get marry with your mom's choice it will be tough but I feel I can do it And by the way we like each other What were you saying? It's really hot... I am sweating I neverfeel happy for someone to leave You three must get the award Thank God that this drama is over Real drama will start now People says that it's such an amazing feeling Novels had been written on that But uncle I have realized something about those people that they all are liers To sell their books they all write lies It's not an amazing feeling I am feeling like a cooker with this pressure I am breathing hot My blood is boiling like it's burning and I can't run away from this fire It's inside me When I stand up so I feel I should sit down when I sits so I feel that I shall drink two more drinks... If this is an amazing feeling that it happened amazing today ljust want... that I should buy vegetables and go home and Meera is making breads, Taste of home made food I am a rascal of flirt type I don't have any religion but mummy... Did you everthink why? It's possible that I hook up with so many girls because that girl... I didn't met that girl yet but now when I met her then do it... Clothes are still easy but you know that thing inside you So now you want to become Desi After meeting Gautam's mom And you know like she was with you I never had it And I will get training from you, You will have to help me What's up? Where is Meera? I have to talk to you Every problem could be solved to discuss Big countries can solve the warto sit on a table and talk so we can't solve the issue to sit on this table There is something running between we three and I want that... all those things should be placed here I didn't expect this from you and like get off my face dialogue should happen here I have to talk to you, We are already talking you love me and I love her Now tell me what to do And she won't admit because of you but she loves me too. Nothing's gonna happen to escape Gautam! I told you... I made a mistake But never... You have already made a mistake Why you are behaving like kids? I have told you that it's not possible I have told you forget it I can't forget and I can't pretend to forget like you So tell me what to do I will never come between both of you It's not possible Why not? In fact it should be happen Two people like each other so obviously they have to be together In this situation... You should console me I have taken those bridal magazines very seriously Otherwise I will fall in love with you I couldn't think anything since long I have drink 100 pounds bear Actually I am also very impressed This music, These lights... Take me somewhere along with you in your world Marriage! Family, in the world of relationships. I know what everyone thinks about me that Veronika is good enough for only one thing I never let anyone know that how I am from inside Just give me a chance and you will also find out that everybody is wrong that Veronika is also a normal girl I will do it, I could be a good wife The best... Betterthan Meera Have some water I will do whateveryou say I will become howeveryou want Look at me once how would I survive Why you can't take me along? She came for one, and she is gone with another one Your phone is ringing You thought I won't come But it's good that you came I have to talk to you Would you do me a favour? Shall I do it before you say You really like me? You respects me So please I am begging you stay away from me If you like me then stay away from me If I wouldn't like you so why would I came closerto you You have become fool falling in love with me I will never come to Veronika's way Specially after knowing that how she is serious about you Two girls are playing with me Now you understand how does it feel? You have played alot You had so many toys I could be one We both know... that's different but how long? Tell me... Just look at your self once What are you? Till yesterday you were with Veronika and today you are here You don't care either Veronika lives or die But you are here today you are following me That's your pattern and you will keep doing that Take care of Veronika She needs you Believe me I know her And did you know yourself... that what are you feeling? Listen! You understand one thing that whatever I feel foryou and rather whatever it takes that's my promise to you that's not possible I won't let it happen I have decided so fine! I have also decided Now I will ask you everyday that have you changed your decision or not Don't worry we will meet soon When you will go to office when you will come home and you will also have lunch break, We will make a time table If we will have to do it for lifetime Who were those people? Are you Gautam? Why you are doing all this? I knew that you will come back, I knew that you'll realize that you love me She will be fine soon But problem is in mind This is Kunal. My husband! I couldn't come to meet her But everything will be fine He will come to you At least forfew days, Till then why don't you stay with me He should really feel that we... like husband wife It's fine! And I sleep on sofa many times By the way there is no chance of ourfuture I don't believe in that but Who knows what will happen? I was thinking we can put our divorce papers on hold forfew days We both will get time to think something You are doing alot What's happening? My best friend is getting married And with that guy whom I love and I wouldn't come So meera! What I want to say... Actually! What I am thinking Marriage! You propose her What everyone thinks... about us My family what I also think... Do you understand? No! Like I was earlier And what I am now What I am standing here You really enjoying When you will have to do it... So do it! Then let me do You are standing here You are making me nervous That was not Because that natural acting. Because that was right That's what happened You have become like that I couldn't even think Now I am not like that Because I... Forever! When you were gone It was not possible for me What were you saying It's really hot
