 

                        1 (In response to the mysterious disappearance of police EU van last year, ) (Hong Kong Police top brass launched Operation Cold War.) (Deputy Police Commissioner Sean Lau worked covertly with ICAC) (to uncover the mastermind behind the disappearance) (the son of fellow Deputy Commissioner, M.B. Lee.) (After learning the truth, Lee surrendered his son and applied for early retirement.) (Based on Security Bureau recommendations) (Sean Lau was appointed the new Police Commissioner.) (But, the EU van is still missing.) COLD WAR 2 Funeral services were held today to honor SSP Albert Kwong, killed in the line of duty during Operation Cold War. Police top brass were all present. HKSAR Government broke protocol to allow the procession to pass police headquarters where Kwong's colleagues bid their final farewells. (M.B. Lee, Ex-Deputy Commissioner, Operation) We are public servants. And public trust forms the very bedrock of our authority. The moment we take up the mantle of law enforcement, our duty is to serve the community. As police officers, we are committed to protect citizens with courage, to defend the vulnerable with compassion, and to uphold justice without fear or favour. Standing now before our fallen colleagues, (Sean Lau, Commissioner of Police) we have but one choice: to honor their sacrifice (Phoenix Leung, ) with respect and righteousness, (Senior Assistant Commissioner, DMS) with respect and righteousness, (Alan Au, Deputy Commissioner, Management) with integrity and selfless devotion. (David Mok, ) with integrity and selfless devotion. (Senior Assistant Commissioner, DC&S) with integrity and selfless devotion. (Stephen Han, Deputy Commissioner, Operation) May peace be found in our hero's undying souls. Same! May I know who's calling? Please hold. Sir. Hello? Commissioner Lau, remember me? Yes, I do. Your wife Michelle Chan owns the Sunshine Flower Shop. Your 5-year-old daughter attends Sunnyside Kindergarten. Her name, Josie Lau. What do you want'? I want you to release someone. Sir. Officer Ken Wong from G4. Rachel Ma We're here for your protection. We've picked up your daughter from school. She's safe. But we haven't located your wife. Alan, call the Secretary of Justice and Correctional Services. I need Joe Lee transferred to headquarters. No need. You're challenging the HKPD. I'm not challenging the HKPD. I only kidnapped your wife. I'm challenging you. Don't interrupt your boss. Whatever you do to me, I'll do to her. I repeat, 5100-1075. Make the video call in 10 minutes. Someone will tell you what to do. Commissioner. Let me talk to him? Joe. What will it take for you people to stop? You know, the HKPD doesn't negotiate with terrorists. Sean Lau is not like you. Family is his top priority. As long as I'm alive, I won't let you get away with this. You just spent 350 seconds in this room. By the time I finish this sentence, Sean Lau will have wasted 6 minutes. Also You are no longer in charge. (Video call connecting...) Commissioner Lau, listen carefully. Come alone with Joe Lee for the exchange. You have 20 minutes to prepare. Advice? Don't do this yourself. You're the Commissioner. If criminals can boss our Chief around, the force will be compromised. You can't put yourself at risk. Their goal is to free Joe Lee. I'll handle the rescue operation. Sorry, sir. I must remind you all that we've already broken protocol by bringing Joe Lee here. The media, politicians and internet have their eyes on us. One false move, it'll blow up into a scandal. If we can't even protect our families, what's the point of law enforcement? Even if the hostage was a fellow officer, I'd do the same. I'll escort Joe Lee myself. Sir, we understand how you feel, but I take full responsibility! 15:42 I hereby enact emergency measures. Phoenix serve as witness and Acting Deputy. Alan you're now the Acting Commissioner. Stephen take charge of the Cyber Crime Bureau. One more thing, next time listen carefully to what I say. I want advice, not comment. Man To, Progress? They keep switching IPs. We're still tracking. Commissioner, our 3rd Generation Command, control & Communication (C3) System is equipped with invisible tracking devices I suggest that you and Joe Lee wear two identical sets. (Man To, Director of Information Technology) Yes, sir. The last time I brought Joe to justice, I wanted him alive. He deserved punishment, not death. If something goes wrong, will you spare his life? I promise you. He'll get a fair trial. I take that as a yes. Do you mind if I stay hereto keep an eye on him? Thanks. Team 1, we are behind the Commissioner. Team 2, situation normal. Sir. Thanks. Morning sir. Sir, all five units are ready. Everyone, I'm now at the Cyber Crime Bureau. The 2 sets of tracking devices are active. The blue dot is the Commissioner. The red is Joe Lee. Commissioner Lau, you have multiple vehicles with you. Lose them or your wife loses an arm. Sir. The caller has a counter-tracking device. Keep trying- Team 1 breaking off. Team 2 taking over. You've got some balls. You asked for it! The Commissioner changed lanes. He's on Johnston Road now. Well done, Commissioner. Now, head to Ship Street. Team 1 to 3, new location: Ship Street. Standby on Lun Fat, Tai Wong West and Tai Wong East. Team 4 and 5, head to Queen's Road East. Mr. Lau, I have yet to receive the file you promised. What do you mean? The security detail for the Chief Executive, 3 Department Secretaries and '13 Bureau Directors over the next 6 months. You promised to send it when you received the $50M two weeks ago. Just tell me. How much more do you want? $50M wasn't enough? Mr. Lau, don't get greedy. Mr. Au, morale is crucial. Joe Lee wanted to sidetrack our investigation. Don't get distracted, stay focused. - Understand? - Yes, sir! Stop the car. Go to the black SUV with the flashing lights. The bomb is to protect you and your wife. The next stop is Sai Ying Pun MTR Station, Platform 1. How long before the bomb squad arrives? I'll find out. Notify MTR officials to enact emergency measures at Sai Ying Pun Station. Yes, sir. No, ii can't be a bomb. They must know killing the Commissioner comes with serious consequences. Their sole purpose is to create chaos. Mr. Lee, we must be prepared for the worst. Sir, the bomb squad needs 10 minutes. Seal off the station. Enforce crowd control measures. If chaos erupts at the platform, we can still control the exits. Crowd control measures could lead to higher casualties. I object. I've given my advice. You're the commander. You decide. The train to Chai Wan is arriving. Please lei passengers exit first. Bomb! There's a bomb! A bomb! Joe Lee escaped! After him! Evacuate the platform! Stem - Thai way! Hurry! - Keep moving! What happened? Fugitive heading to A1 exit. All passengers, please stay calm. Our staff will direct you to the nearest exit. Stand back! You'd better leave. Go out of here! Now! Don't move! Police! Don't move! Over here! Don't panic! Team 1, proceed to East Platform. Team 2, proceed to West Platform. Team 3, guard the two concourse elevators. Move! Police! Move over! Sir. Stay calm. Michelle. After sending you to hospital, I'll bring Josie over, okay? A bomb explosion took place last night at 7:45 at Sai Ying Pun MTR Station. A bomb disposal expert was injured during the incident. Convict Joe Lee escaped custody during the chaos. The operation last night was under my direct command. For causing unnecessary distress to the public, I take full responsibility for the operation. What concrete action will you take beyond an apology? How has MTR management responded? Did the police violate any protocol during the operation last night? Was the Security Bureau informed prior to the operation? Sir. This is M.B. Lee. Connect me to Crime Unit's SP Yang. Lee. (Peter Choi, Former Police Commissioner) Yang, I'll call you back. Joe has been working for me. I've been wondering who Joe has been working with. I never guessed it was you. I'm a good judge of character. Your son is just like you. Out of all the operation code names that I set up while I was in office, you picked "Cold War". Interesting indeed. Sir, we go back a long way. Let's skip the small talk. We won't tolerate anyone who will thwart our plans for succession in the police force. We have always wanted you to succeed the Commissioner. Joe was our top pick for the position in the future. But he became a fugitive in order to help you succeed. What do you mean "we"? Sean Lau is the confidant of the Secretary for Security. He's not one of "us". Technically speaking, you're still on pre-retirement leave. Once Lau is eliminated, I can ask the Secretary of Justice along with other powerful officials to support your reinstatement. Mr. Choi I doubt that you and your backers have the power to appoint the new Commissioner. We don't, but we can push forward candidates. As long as it's one of our own, whoever gets appointed makes no difference. Think it over. Dad. You've been wearing the same glasses for years. It's time for a change. Operation Cold War had many issues to begin with. When the entire legislature plans to impeach the Commissioner, he's even lei a convict loose during custody! Since the founding of this city, we've never had such a ridiculous police chief. If we don't hold him accountable, how can we answer to the people of Hong Kong? (Isabel Au, Barrister) Hi, John. Who's in the study? (Edward Lai, Secretary of Justice) When Father Kwan passed away, you asked for nothing but this plaque. Edward This is no ordinary model. Monochrome camera with 0.95 lens. (Oswald Kan, Legislator, Senior Counselor) Perfect match. It's wasted on me, but you like B&W photography. Something bothering you? Operation Cold War has created lots of problems. Many councilman have lost faith in the police force. What's your decision on the P&P inquiry committee? You come all the way here for my advice on Council matters? Oswald Personally, I hope you join the committee. With you on board, I could ask the Secretary for Security to fully cooperate with the investigation. Oswald. For the common good, we must all make compromises sometimes. Compromises? You are trying lo override the legal system with judicial power. Politics is the art of negotiation. Edward Those words are embarrassing even for a first year law student. Among all of my juniors, you were the brightest and most promising. Head and shoulders above the rest. What more do you want? But real politics has many unspoken rules. Had I followed the "rules", you would never have become the Secretary of Justice. "Digital" photography has its charms. But my passion lies in "analogue". Understand? No, thanks. Uncle. Your flight leaves tonight at 9:15. Go home and reflect on you actions. - Go. - Thank you. Master, you had promised Edward Lai? They sent the Secretary of Justice to lobby me. It's a last ditch effort by the government. Things may shift in the future. If I don't step in, I may regret it. Master, the sign up deadline is 5pm today. Call them at 4:45pm. By a majority vote, the Legislative Council passed Security Panel Chair, Chaplin Ma's motion to invoke the Powers and Privileges Ordinance to investigate Police Commissioner of Police, Sean Lau for ethics violations during Operation Cold War. This is the first time since 1993 Legislative Council invoked the ordinance to investigate a top government official. We just received the inquiry schedule. Lydia Wong will serve as committee chair. Chaplin Ma is the vice-chair. Other members include Alan Tam, Emily Ng and Oswald Kan, all top legal experts. The first witness is Mr. Lee, M.B. Lee. Sir, in view of the P&P inquiries over the last decade, if Operation Cold War fails to yield results, I predict the Council will conclude the inquiry with words such as "regret", "denounce" and even "condemn". You not only stand to lose your pension, you may even face criminal charges. All we can do now is to publicize all the facts on the Commissioner's behalf, to gain public sympathy. Sir. Instead of relying on the police force for help, think about how you can help the force. (Billy Cheung, Principal Investigator) (Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC)) I've spoken with Mr. Mak. How can I help you? The rooftop firework incident and the MTR explosion both involved black market explosives. But so far, we have no suspects. I don't have a single lead. I may have been kept in the dark from the beginning. Does MB. Lee still have an influence on the force? Don't just focus on the police force. I want you to do a sand table exercise. Expand your scope. I want to form a clean team on the outside. I want you to take the lead. Happy birthday! That's enough! I promised to quit. Just one drink once a year? You know what I mean. When I was 20, you said it was the last time. Then you'd let the past go and stop mourning my dad. You're becoming more like him. Cantankerous, stubborn. Back then we were poor. Your dad and I often drank this swill. Now I'm slowly discovering how good cheap booze tastes. That's enough! Stop it. If I was the one driving that day I don't quite remember his face. That's why cameras were invented. Guess who I saw in my dreams last night? Your father? Yes. But his name was Oswald, not Oliver. Promise, stop drinking so much, okay? Madam Chairman The last paragraph of the Operation Cold War police internal report reads: "This operation upheld the core values of Hong Kong, (First Hearing) "setting a good precedent for other common law jurisdictions. "The Internal Review Committee deems this operation "the most successful failure "since the handover." First of all, Madam Chairman, what do they mean by 'most successful failure'? The oxymoronic language is preposterous. I completely disagree with the findings of this internal report. What about you, Mr. Lee? Madam Chairman, I did read the report, but I was neither involved nor had any input into it. Mr. Lee. According to the internal report's attachment B2, page 17, Section B, Sean Lau, then Deputy Commissioner anonymously leaked a substantial amount of classified information to ICAC in the interest of solving the case. Were you informed of this action beforehand? I wasn't informed beforehand. But Clause 6.01.22 of Police General Order clearly stipulates that "Police officers shall not send anonymous correspondence as such action "may be seen as conduct to the prejudice of good order and discipline." Mr. Lee, do you think Mr. Lau broke the law knowingly? Mr. "Counselor". Regulations are set in stone, not people. I suppose we lawmen are out of your league when it comes to dancing around the law. Madam Chairman, let's go back to page 57 of the police internal report. On the evening of December 26 last year, the following incident took place at your residence, Mr. Lee. Lau had got evidence to prove your son of engaging in criminal activity. It's admirable to uphold justice at the expense of your own family relations. I want to ask Mr. Lee. Did you ever question Sean Lau's integrity and leadership ability'? Madam Chairman With respect to Commissioner Lau's integrity, I had no doubt. But on the day of the Sai Ying Pun Station incident something else happened. Commissioner Lau and Joe Lee had a conversation inside a bugged vehicle. Joe Lee hinted that the missing EU van, firearms and equipment had not resurfaced because Commissioner Lau refused to deliver on his promise. Mr. Lee, how did you learn of this information? I was at the police headquarters. I heard the conversation as it happened. During that conversation, did Joe Lee specify what Commissioner Lau had promised him? Joe Lee said They agreed on $50M. Commissioner Lau promised to deliver the security detail of the Chief Executive, the 3 Secretaries and 13 Bureau Directors over the next 6 months. But Commissioner Lau was greedy. He wanted more. - Chairman! - Chairman! Mr. Lee. Are you aware you're making serious allegations? You're suggesting to the chair and all P&P committee members that the Police Commissioner was conspiring with Joe Lee and his cohorts and threatened the safety of Hong Kong's top-level government officials. As a police officer for over 30 years, I've learned not to rule out any possibilities until a case is solved. Questions and answers in previous P&P hearings were all rehearsed. M.B. Lee didn't follow the script ai all. Don't you think Lee had ulterior motives from the start? What he said today was meant to divide the police force. Now that Sean Lau is so vulnerable, what's wrong with putting him out of misery once and for all? Old school cops value honor. Lee knew very well what he said today was enough to ruin the reputation that the force built over the years. We can't trust this man. He can't be doing this just to go after Sean Lau. If Lee had other reasons, who or what could convince such a cunning old man? He sacrificed his own son to uphold justice. What makes a person change suddenly, almost always comes down to a few reasons. Power, Money, Personal or Family. To convince Lee to switch sides requires someone with influence and power. We can skip this. With power comes money. This person might have made Lee an offer he couldn't resist. Even though Lee still has influence within the force, my guess is that both father and son are merely pawns in a bigger game There must be someone else behind this. If someone is using me to get rid of the Commissioner, I would like to know who it is. They're using every means to force me to step down. If I stepped down, who would benefit the most? Expect more contact between Lee and the man behind this. But it will be hard to trace. Lee's every move from now on will directly impact the rest of the hearings. Find out what Mr. Luk thinks. He's been too quiet. It's unlike him. Alan, put Lee under surveillance. All of you, let go of your identities as lawyers, serve as the senior assistants of "Councilman" Kan. Our battlefield is inside the Council, not the courtroom. I hate being used as a pawn. Since when did Oswald Kan start running a surveillance business? You drove a blue BMW, plate no. 6960. You followed me here from my home. What do you want to know? Retired or not no other high-level official has ever publicly betrayed his own people. I have not. Who did you meet before the hearing? What did they offer you? You know best. What's your name? Au. Ms. Au, I'll answer you now. On the 2nd day of my retirement, the Big Four Developers already sent negotiators. They asked me to work for them. They would pay any price. I turned them down. Anyone may try running before learning to walk. The question is, do you have the talent? If not, take one step at a time. You don't look like a corrupt cop. The force has both good and bad cops. Stick around for ten years, you'll see. Please tell Mr. Kan to mind his own business and stop sending kids to follow me. If he wants to know something, just call me. My number is the same. I'll even make a personal visit. Mr. Lee, thank you for coming. Skip the formality. Call me M.B. Sit down. Chaplin, Gilbert, Lydia You've met. But we don't know each other that well. Mr. Lee, I hope we'll work well together. Everyone is here tonight. Perhaps I'll be privy to inside secrets'? Secretary Lai decided to run for Chief Executive. Here are the key players in the next administration: Chief Secretary Financial Secretary Secretary of Justice Hung Kong's future is sitting right here. So you were playing kingmaker all along. Mr. Choi lobbied most of the political and economic: elite. Still, the current government needs a complete overhaul. Secretary for Security Philip Luk is the most likely contender in the Chief Executive race. However, once Sean Lau is eliminated, it will be easy to remove Philip Luk from office. As Mr. Choi suggested, Mr. Lee will serve as interim Police Commissioner. Once elected, I'll get approval to appoint Stephen as the Commissioner, and you'll be promoted to Secretary for Security. Mr. Lee can handle any of your brushes with either side of the law. If all goes to plan, I'll announce my candidacy by year-end. Expect chaos and confusion in the months ahead. Some people will need to be consoled. Others, I implore each of you to make an effort to keep them quiet. Sir, there is no tougher job than being Chief Executive. You must have some powerful support. Regardless of the changes ahead for Hung Kong, with everyone here on board, we can only expect even greater rewards in the future. Cheers! Sir. Sir. A former coworker who now works at the Legislative Council told me that Oswald Kan didn't plan to join the committee at first, but signed up just 15 minutes before the deadline. Are you sure about this? Yes. Oswald Kan and Secretary of Justice Edward Lai both are alumni of Lincoln's Inn. Both have chaired the Hong Kong Bar Association. Lai has publicly stated on more than one occasion that the police force needs reform. You suspect Oswald Kan, Edward Lai and M.B. Lee of working together? Yes. Is the setup here capable of bugging someone 24/7'? We have the software but lack the expertise. I'll transfer someone here. Mr. Mak will not agree to putting Lai under surveillance. Leave Secretary Lai for now. Focus on Lee and Kan. No need to apologize. At least we now know we're on the same page. With the police also watching him, M.B. Lee will be extra careful. You won't gain much from tailing him. But you won't stop me? Would you listen if I asked you to stop? Now that you suspect Lee, will you change tactics dealing with Sean Lau tomorrow? I want to find out how much Lau knows or if he's been left in the dark. Very good. (Second Hearing) A crooked stick has a crooked shadow. If the Commissioner breaks the rules, how can we expect the 33,300 men under you to enforce the law, Commissioner Lau? Madam Chairman. Counselor Kan. Extreme times call for extreme measures. But only those in power decide what constitutes extreme times. That's why the law prohibits extreme measures to be employed at all times! You're at the Legislative Council, Commissioner! Please answer the question! Madam Chairman. Breaking convention and breaking the law are two different matters. Joe Lee was captured because ICAC was involved in Operation Cold War Did I hear wrong? Was Joe Lee recaptured? Commissioner, do you have selective amnesia? Please rephrase your answer. Joe Lee may be at large at the moment, but he can't escape the long arm of law forever. I already stated publicly that I assume full responsibility for the MTR Station incident. In the last hearing, Mr. M.B. Lee testified that while you were escorting Joe Lee, Joe Lee said the following Counselor Kan! I don't believe this Council Chamber is the place to bring forth unfounded allegations against me from a proven criminal. Commissioner Lau. Why do you have so many enemies? I believe it's because my appointment jeopardized certain vested interests. I'd like to take this opportunity to state the following Hong Kong, is not a place where they can have free rein. He parked outside Fung Shing Auto Body Shop. Please take over. Tin Man? Sorry, sir. That's strange. M.B. Lee's phone was quiet all day. Ken's protg has been hanging around Tsuen Wan. One EU van, five officers, plus the equipment, what's it worth? How much will it cost to make an EU van disappear? Jammer included, at least $20M. $8M, if you gave me the job. After leaving office, Mr. Choi has been the network security consultant for the US, South African and Israeli governments. Sean Lau overestimated his intelligence. The 3rd Generation Police C3 System was worth $540M. He gave the contract to 8 independent suppliers in the end. But the world of IT security is small. No matter who he picked. I can make them mine eventually. You're saying it won't matter whatever system the police uses. MB. Technology is just hardware. What matters is the people. Sir. ROY Gary, when did you get back? 3 months ago. You guys took the fall for me back in 1995. I still haven't thanked you properly. Don't say that, Sir. You and Mr. Choi have taken good care of us all these years. We all want to serve with you again. Dad, just one more step, you will rewrite history. Sean Lau won't win in the hearing. A sinking ship is not worth bothering with. Your tenure as Police Commissioner starts now! Dad. Mr. Choi arranged for me to leave by sea tonight. Joe. Go as far away as possible. Don't let anyone know your whereabouts, including me. Take care. It's time to go. Stay far, far away from these people. If possible, start a new life. I love you, Dad. Master, I just saw M.B. Lee meeting his son. I'm tailing Joe Lee now. Bella, come back now, we'll talk later. I must find out who else is in his car. Isabel Au just called Oswald Kan. She's tailing Joe Lee's car, southbound along Sun Tin Highway. I'll get the model and plate of her car now. Inform Alan and ask for backup. Mr. Choi, there's a car following you. Yes, sir. Police! Move over! Police! Ms. Au. Ms. Au. Ms. Au. ROY- Boss, get in! Sir. Au's phone and camera have been examined. It seems like nothing can be recovered. There were 3 shooters in the tunnel. The suspect with the shotgun was blocked by the minibus. CCTV didn't capture a clear shot. The other one escaped left fingerprints on his car. We may ID him. The 7-seater? A same model car was discovered at Cafe Old Beach half an hour ago, completely torched. Joe Lee? Sean Lau! - Sir! - What did you promise me? - How dare you act outside the law! - Every one of my decisions - You think you're king'? - Was in the interest of the force. Hypocrite! - Did you ask him what he did? I begged you to spare him! - I never said I'd let Joe Lee go. - He didn't deserve to die! - He was hell-bent on killing me! - Now that you're losing your job, - you made him take the fall for you! - I fired back in self-defense. You call yourself a Police Commissioner? If he wasn't your son, would you react so strongly? Mr. Lee, don't do it! All of you listen carefully! If Sean Lau is allowed to continue being your boss, I'll fucking change my name! Are you two crazy? The former Deputy used an illegal firearm. The incumbent Commissioner, guilty of obstruction of justice. Sean Lau. You know well that wiretapping requires authorization from Customs, Immigration, ICAC and the Supreme Court. But you don't even have one permit. Not one! Zero! M.B. Lee. Listen. I'm devoting the rest of my life, to taking care of you. Be my guest. According to our records, the second gunman is deceased. His name is Roy Ho, a former CID investigator. He left the force in 1993 with a clean record, and died in 1995 in a car accident. The CID Director then was M.B. Lee. Do you suspect the gunman works for Lee? Something else happened that year. Special Branch was dissolved. I always suspected the Special Branch immigration program for covert agents was misused. Faking their deaths was just part of the protocol. Even after these agents left Hong Kong, they remained on police payroll as informants. If your suspicions are correct, Lee will strike back. Sir. Mok, do you know why I asked you here today? Because you're a sensible person. How can I help you? I've decided to return to the force. But before that, I need you to remove Sean Lau from office. We have the power to legally remove Mr. Lau. As for your reinstatement, No need not worry about that. Technically speaking, I'm on pre-retirement leave. Once Lau is removed, Stephen will be appointed Acting Commissioner, I'll take care of the rest. I'm not the only Senior Officer vested with the power to co-sign the petition for his removal. Alan is too close to Mr. Lau. He can't be objective. Everyone knows that Chan never got along with Mr. Lee. He won't agree to sign. Phoenix used to work under you. She'll do whatever you say. If we pull this off, I'll make you Deputy Commissioner. Sir. My decision will have nothing to do with your offer. Let me repeat one last time: You're a sensible person. Phoenix Mr. Han, I have loads of paperwork. Please get to the point. Phoenix, have a seat. With respect to the shootout at Shing Mun Tunnel, we've received over a hundred complaints. In the past two days, every newspaper and radio phone-in program is critical of police for not following standard procedure. But Commissioner Lau captured Joe Lee. Shouldn't we all adopt a fairer view? A fairer view? We're still unable to rule out if any of the victims were hit by Mr. Lau's bullets. At least four of them are filing lawsuits against the Commissioner. Everyone here wants what's best for the police force and the Commissioner. But if we must choose between the two, Phoenix I'm sure you know which side to choose. Starling with Joe Lee's removal from prison, Mr. Lau has stated repeatedly that he assumes all responsibility. I want you to deliver this document to Mr. Lau yourself. You two decide if the removal of the incumbent Police Commissioner will come into effect. I won't sign it. I don't have the slightest bias against Mr. Lau. I'm doing this to save the force. I never guessed that Mr. Mok would take the lead. Neither Stephen nor Mok is at fault. Sean. I forced Lee to surrender his authority using the exact same means. That's how they keep me in check as well. It's a necessary mechanism for preventing top officials from abusing their authority. If you don't sign it, no one in the force will listen to you again. According to sources close to the police management, Commissioner of Police Sean Lau has requested a leave of absence for heath reasons. - Deputy Stephen Han - You're back. Will serve as interim Commissioner. Where is she'? Sleeping- Staying here might not be safe. Take the earliest flight tomorrow? Take Josie to mother. My home is where you are. We're not leaving. Michelle, I'm already. To me and our child, you'll always be the Police Commissioner. Sir. CCB found evidence that the 3rd Generation C3 System may have been compromised. Stop using police tech for our investigation. - Sir. - The clean team will follow the case. From now on, keep your distance. You must not be implicated. Mr. Kan. My protg left this for me. How did you Cloud storage. Bella was very meticulous, always prepared for the worst. I never guessed that it was Peter Choi. The Cold War inquiry gave me my first clue, and Bella's death further corroborated my theory. Someone is exploiting the power of the legislature to purge political opponents. Even though I disagree with your methods, I believe you have the ability to bring these people to justice. But it's not yet time to make a clean sweep. Senior Officers may petition the removal of the Commissioner for dereliction of duties. But I've never declared a city-wide tactical alert. According to the Police Protocol, I have 2 weeks before the handover. Let's locate the missing EU van before the deadline. Tie everything up by then for any chance of winning. Mr. Kan sent Wilson to help us on the condition that we share our findings. The traffic camera videos revealed that prior to her accident, Ms. Au was parked on Wang Lung St. M.B. Lee's car was also there for more than 30 minutes. According to the photo's file properties, it was taken at 18:45. Lee made a return trip to the body shop within 30 minutes. How far could he travel? Sir, I don't think I follow. Regardless of who the new Commissioner is, the search for the missing EU van must continue. I formed a clean team outside the force. For security reasons, they change locations periodically. Right now, they work from the HKU Cavern Reservoir. I ask that you ensure their safety. In case I lose, Mok, the future of the police force depends on you. - We found nothing. - Let's go. Nicole, fly higher. Don't let them see us. Nicole Set up a stakeout outside the junkyard. We've confirmed the identities of the men in the junkyard. They all worked under M.B. Lee. All had death certificates issued. (One day prior to the transfer of power) Sir. We confirmed your suspicions about the C3 System suppliers. We've found a lead, but we need more time. We may not be fully confident. But tomorrow, let's show them our hand. Sir, officers are expecting you at the conference room. Mok, please proceed. Everyone, this meeting is held in response to the joint petition made two weeks ago by five Senior Mok, please hold on. Everyone. Today's meeting should be chaired by me. There're still 4 hours left before I step down. I have one last mission to complete before leaving. Of course, I hope to have your support, especially yours, Mr. Lee. 4 hours will go by quickly. Who would dare defy Commissioner's orders? I received a reliable tip on the location of the missing EU van. These are Joe Lee's accomplices. Someone here should be able to recognize them. This operation concerns the honor of the force. In terms of ability and experience, the best man to command this operation is Mr. Lee. On one condition I decide who to take with me. Of course. But I have a request. When you brief your team, do not disclose any details of the operation, until the moment you take action. Too much is at stake, you understand. Stephen you assist me. Set up 3 teams with SDU and Crime Unit. Everyone must have served with me before. Also, exclude anyone who joined the force after 2005. Mr. Lee. I'll send Alan to back you up. No. Phoenix, you come with me. Mr. Lee, it's against protocol. You're not in charge of this mission. Alan, Mr. Lau, I'll go. Mr. Lau, no activity detected. Do we just monitor these 5 Senior Officers' mobile devices? M.B. Lee didn't disclose any operation details during briefing. Anyone who leaks any intel will be implicated. (Once we get out, inform Mr. Choi to warn our men) Sir, all units are moving to the target. Sir, activity detected on Stephen Han's phone. Kelvin 30 sec. Sir, it's Stephen Han. Sir, Han sent a message to a ghost phone. The location is Ice House Street. Ice House Street. Be careful. Attention all SDU present. Updated intel: The missing EU van is located at the target junkyard. Suspects may include former officers, believed to be heavily armed. Stay alert! (Mr. Lee is about to raid the junkyard. Warn our men now!) Mr. Choi. All units in position. Fellow officers, this is M.B. Lee. On my command, Action. Code Red! Code red! Bravo-one-zero, suspects in sight. Watch and shoot, watch and shoot. Bravo-one-zero, site booby-Mapped with explosives! Attack failed! Attack failed! Attack failed. Over. Alpha-one-zero, Charlie-one-zero, Keep moving. Keep moving. Bravo-one-zero, Casualties. Report casualties. Report. Bravo team down. Sniper team to Zero Suspects in sight, moving, moving Zero to Drone One, 6 suspects are moving to the vehicles. Drone-Z reporting, the suspects are headed north. Sir, they'll pass Kam Tin Town Centre. Drone-1 to Zero, Large explosion reported at the main structure. Sniper team to Zero, one suspect down. One suspect down. Sniper team to Zero, two suspects down. Two suspects down. Let's go! Run! Backup team to Command. Two suspects exited their vehicle, fleeing northbound on foot. Green to shoot. Backup team to Command The two suspects have taken a woman hostage. Repeat. The two suspects have taken a woman hostage. - Mr, Lee. - You stay right here! Finish today's report! Ben, help her! Stephen Back off! Suspect is taking the woman hostage into the convenience store. Move! Move! Hold this! Don't be afraid. No! No! Stay there! My name is Cindy. I just want to help. I don't want the situation to escalate. My colleague will deliver a cell phone lo you. You can tell me what you want directly. This is M.B. Lee speaking. All units, hold your fire. Sir, two suspects armed with a Browning handgun. One suspect is wounded. There are at least 5 hostages inside, including an infant. I just gave them a throw phone. Report to Zero. All suspects down. Repeat. All suspects down. Sir, congratulations! Last time, I told the four SACPs the same thing that I formed a clean team outside the force, so that I could find the mole. But this time I told only you about the Cavern Reservoir. Mr. Mok. You said you wanted to save the police force. I think, you'd better save yourself first. Ceci, call the driver? Yes, sir. I'm fine. Thanks. Mr. Choi, this way. He's in the VIP lounge. Mr. Choi. Mr. Lau. I came to see you off. I've forgotten, did you ever serve under me? No, I was lucky. How rude! We've both served as Commissioner. Being too polite is a form of hypocrisy- Mr. Choi. Take a look at what's inside. Why don't you just tell me? I've got good evidences to show that the 3rd Generation C3 System used by the HKPD is actually owned by you. This is a photograph of Mr. Lee, his son and you. You've come all this way. That can't be all that you have. Before I came here, the Secretary for Security consulted with the Chief Executive. I was instructed to grant you leniency due to the fact to stabilize the society and to protect reputation of the Hong Kong Police. So here's the deal. One: M.B. Lee continues with his retirement. Two: You must divest all your shares in those system suppliers within a month. Three: Don't ever return to Hung Kong. If you can do all that, the HKSAR government will suspend its indictment of you. Are you using me and Lee as bargaining chips? Do you think you can keep your post this way? I don't care what plans you and your backers set in place. This is my final order to you. Stop and get out! You don't have what it takes to fight us. Take one more step. I'll declare war. The rule of law is the foundation for Hong Kong's success as a global financial center. As the head of Hong Kong's finest disciplinary force, the HKPD, I must ensure that the decisions we make are never influenced by the rich and powerful for political gain. It is my hope that each of us will continue to defend our values and beliefs. God bless our homeland.
