 

                        Whatever you say... everything one does in life is for a profit This business is done for a profit too Without paying taxes or keeping accounts "Because this business is run on fear, not paperwork" Anyone wishing to enrol can enlist But he can't pull out "And most importantly, anyone breaking our rules..." is broken down "Friendship, respect, loyalty... everything has but one goal" Profits And profits there will be "This way, or that..." any which way "Namaskar, this is Sumit Awasthi. Welcome to "Aajtak" The headlines Few people know that the hawk is a very patient bird "Once it sights its victim, not an hour, not a day..." the hawk flies in the skies for a week and a month Till it is the right time And when the time arrives... "even before you can blink, the victim has been grabbed" Even if it is in a crowded city Malik used to run an import-export business in those days But that was only a front He was actually a special member of the Aslam Ali gang His proximity with Ali caused heartburn among the older members of the gang They were close because Malik had used his intelligence... to spread the tentacles of the gang So much so that they were in the need of many new members It was during this that Malik first met Chandu Will you work for me? - That's what I'm here for How much do you want? - You called me here. So you tell me for your companions We make that much anyway. So what's the use of working for you? Know what it means to join Aslambhai's gang? We're not into petty stuff We're into big time Anyone can be bumped off at any time Are you scared of death? - I'm scared of nothing All right. You get 20 and they get 10 That's it Discuss the rest with panditji May I go? Useful guy "Joseph, get the car out" "Useful guy? He talked back at you, Malikbhai" He's terribly arrogant He's arrogant because he knows he's useful What the? "Chandubhai, I thought you had gone off your rocker" "The way you spoke to Malikbhai, I thought we were all dead men" I don't care for him "Malik's an okay guy. But that guy who fingered me, the bastard!" "He's Yadav. - Whoever he is, to hell with him" I felt like stuffing a knife in his ass and pulling out his guts "Cool it, I say" "We haven't even started working, and he's already playing hero" Want to see what a hero I am? - Sit down. Sit Listen to me carefully. Days when we joked are past "If you want to break into big time, stop prancing like kids" Or you'll be blown away before your time "Chandu, where's the need for us to work under someone?" "Look, nobody works under anybody" They need us. And we need them We want to do something big and only they have big jobs in the city The job is of course theirs. But we name the price Who is it that said we don't need to think too much? "So long as we are all together, we'll take them all as they come" "Pappu, why're you sitting with your lips sealed?" What will I say? I'll just do as you say. What Warsi? Yes... but I'm not sparing that bloody midget "There he goes again. Somebody label him "Crackpot Dagdi Warsi" What did you call me? You call me a crackpot? Out of my way! "Sit down... you sit, too" What is it? What're you watching? Sit down. Sit! It's very late. She must be sitting with her claws out for me Go home now. And go straight home. - Sure You take this for a hotel you can come anytime to? "Open the door, Ma. - Where were you?" I've returned before midnight. So don't nag me now Big favour he has done to me. He will eat. At midnight Who asked you for anything? Just go to sleep I'm not hungry. - Don't talk rubbish "Lunch at midnight, dinner at lunch... - Must you pick on me always?" You start nagging the moment I... - Who else do I have but you? Tell me. - What're you doing? Are you mad? Idiot! I've made some curry and rice Ma... - Yes? I've found a nice job. - Where? With someone called Alibhai. - What work is it? He runs a business. - What business? Many things "When the game is big, you take care of yourself first" I know "Yes, it stinks. But it's business" Our business isn't what people make it out to be There's this 40-storeyed tower coming up Narayani Chowk The buiIder came to us. Hi Raju! How're you doing? He asked us to help him sell the buiIding We spoke to a dozen buyers and got him the right price That's it. And people will say anything There's no trouble every day at our place What happens sometimes is that people are dishonest in business Or they work against principles. One has to take care then That happens once in 2 or 3 months. Aslambhai has a great reputation Nobody interferes "Besides, Ma, no one can make it to the top by the right way" "Yes, it stinks. But it's business" What say Aslam? All gleaming? This is my babe. It's gotta look gorgeous She looks like a heroine's cheeks You've been avoiding me Will I call you all my life forjust ten million? Where's Malikbhai? Where's Malikbhai? Laugh "What's with danger, Ma? Man can die even while crossing a street" He's double of what I hoped. - Who? Chandu. Know what he did? "Malikbhai, do you know what Chandu did to Chopra?" I said what will you discuss with Malikbhai. Just give us the money He started irritating me. And I had to give him the treatment But the money will arrive on time. - All right I'll have to sit him over a couple of drinks I'll have to talk to him lovingly to bring him back to his senses Why? "With special men, we must always maintain a relationship" "When you know he's special, why must things reach this state?" Because even special men need to be reminded... that they can be dispensable You keep pampering just about anyone You're talking about Chandu? - No... just about anybody Is Chandu of any use? He's like the AK47 Who goes to theatres anyway? They watch the movies at home on VCDs Why won't they if they make nice movies? "Stuff the movie with fights, dance and the works" Get him to make a movie now. - Shut your trap Greetings You... are Chandu? "Mubarakbhai, your stuff is ready" But it's only four crates I asked for 6. - Malikbhai told us to give only 4 Malik... give me two more crates. I'll have a word with Malik First talk to Malik. - I told you Your telling won't help here "That which Malikbhai says, happens" Hey! What's up? "He's asking you, isn't he? So deliver" What's happening here? "Nothing, Mubarakbhai. Two boxes got misplaced while counting" "Take four crates away now. You have my word..." two more will be delivered by afternoon tomorrow. Okay? Bhai! Come on! Remain hidden... I'll handle it Come here What's been going on there? Where? Who were they? How would I know?. - Spit that beedi out! Spit it out and talk to me So why were you talking to them? Who was talking? I was only asking for a match A match eh? Where did they go away in such panic? How'd I know?. Must've been in a hurry. Go and ask them Really? What are you doing here so late in the night? I went to see a picture Why? Is watching a picture forbidden? Get him... I'll show you a picture Get him. - Come on... hop in Get in and sit down Ma asked when we are getting married You want to? "What do you want? - What's a marriage, Saroja?" It's when two people seek the world's approval to live together And I've never sought anybody's approval for anything I've done "If it still makes a difference to your mother..." let's light a fire and take the vows Sometimes I think there's a monster hidden in you There's a monster in every human being It's just that some people are scared of confronting it So you're fond of watching pictures? Speak Where's Gadeji? Sharma. - Over there Is she a fool to be doing the rounds for two years? Malik! Here you go What makes you think of me today? You must've heard of last night's trouble. One of my boys got caught "Yes, Saeed says he has an acid tongue" Let him rot. The cops will straighten him out for free He's our boy. He was caught doing ajob for us "What will the other boys think, if we don't get him out?" What do you want now?. - I've made enquiries Inspector Rathod is very corrupt. He's the Thakur's friend Is Thakursaab there? Back off there! The bloody... This is the first time you've come to my house. Have a cup of tea Where were you? There was no word! Couldn't you telephone? Couldn't you telephone? - Quiet... I'll explain Malikbhai is here. - Stop it Malikbhai is here. - Who? My boss. I told you Please come in Couldn't you tell me? We haven't been getting any water. So all the clothes... "Chandu, let him sit down" "Had I known, I'd have brought something to eat" Just plain tea... - That's not necessary I was telling Chandu that we'd talk to Panditji and arrange a flat for you We have some friends among buiIders. - I know Yes? "It's that new boy, Chandu. Bring him to me immediately" Yes Chandu and I've got to go somewhere. I'll send another car for you Let's go "What did you get? A bullet gets in here, and life ebbs out there" Another car's arriving for the lady. Stay here Where are we going so suddenly? - To Aslambhai Is Chandu okay at work? I always tell him to put his heart in his work "He won't tell me, but he has great respect for Malikbhai" Malikbhai trusts few people too This thing hurts... give it up Sometimes Who's Saeed? He's been with Aslambhai for a long time "Saeed, his brother Anis, Sharma, Latif, Shankar..." they're jealous because we're doing well in our business "Greetings, Malikbhai" Well Sajid? You've put on weight. - It's one of those things Is someone there with Bhai? - Saeedbhai How're you keeping Aslambhai? You've got the itch in you? - Aslambhai... Chandu did just what I asked him to do The market pays four for two. Mubarak has been fooling us "Ask Patel, if you wish to" "If Saeed doesn't know, it won't hurt him to ask around" "Malik, I did telephone you!" I've told you so often that we don't discuss business over the telephone "As you know, the police are tapping phone-lines everywhere" "You mean any Tom, Dick and Harry will talk back at me?" This pig? He'll call me names? He'll heap abuse on my womenfolk? The bastard's lying! "Chandu, put that gun down. - Now talk!" "Chandu, go out... go on" So he's the one you were taking up for? I took up for him because he's on our side Everyone knows who was around when the need arose "We can't find such boys every other day, Aslambhai" "Someone else will employ him, if we throw him out" What will we do if he speaks up for them? But if you still think he has said things he shouldn't have... I apologise. Forgive him I must leave now "Aslambhai, you didn't say a word! - What will I say?" What he said was right. You can't do a thing without squabbling Your own hands are broken "And when someone else wants to work, you put obstacles in his path" Allah! I'm already in trouble. And this mess with you guys won't end My waist's been hurting since yesterday And I've got to take all these medicines... they're setting my stomach on fire Abdul! - Coming I can't see. Shut that window The old man's gone senile. I wanted to break his break! He's not going senile. He's openly taking up for Malik So then? It's obvious. Either Malik lives. Or we do That's what I've decided too The only difference is that I thought about it before you "Look Malik, what happened in there... - It has nothing to do with that" It has to do with the future "Look, Malik. There's a lot of money in our business" Enough for both of us "Let's end these petty squabbles and share the spoiIs, okay?" "If you had the gun in your hand, would you share with me?" "Now look, Malik. I know it well..." that you can't make the mistake of letting me get away alive But we have worked together for years "Have some mercy, for all those years" Let my brother go You know he can't run the gang without me He'll start some other business... he'll give up all this "Malikbhai, why I... - Shut up!" The two of us will start another business Shut up! "If one of us lives, both the families will be looked after" Let my brother go... okay? Please let him go All right Brother... brother... Brother... I've finished Saeed and Anis Send a dozen of our boys to Sri Junction with Kekre You told Saeed you wouldn't be killing his brother So why? "Chandu, what did I lose if Saeed died a happy man?" His brother was scared But he'd have sought revenge the moment he reached home "And more than his family, I'm worried about my boys" Where now?. - To Sharma He's the only one who can cause trouble What Malik? You walk in anytime you want to I'm here to kill Sharma. I don't want any bloodshed Mr Rathod Hi Hero... how are you? - What brings you here suddenly? I'm not here to look at your face. Dagda's stuff is arriving from Pune It'll be unloaded at Dahisar So Mr Rathod? Stuffing a lot of bankrolls? That's my job. I stuff him first. And I stuff currency notes now Go on What's happening here? - They've killed Saeed and Anis So what are you going to do? "Makes no difference to me... whether he pays me, or you" "Bhai, I want to kill! - What?" "I want to kill him, that's all - What? You'll kill a cop?" Him? - What rubbish is he talking? What? You'll kill a cop? Bastard! You forgot the trashing you took at the police station? You'll kill a cop? Let me see! You'll kill a cop? My gun? I've forgotten it or I'd have shot you right here "You threaten me, bloody tramp! Go on... hit a policeman" Hit a cop if you have the guts. Go on... hit me Kill him. - Forgot the beating you took? Saeed and Anis are gone You know what state Aslambhai is in. It's for you to decide. "Will you work with me, or will you?" "Chandu, those four bodies..." "Aslambhai, I've killed Saeed and Sharma" No... keep lying down I had no other way "Had I not killed them, they'd have killed me" And had I told you... you wouldn't have allowed me to kill them "So, without even telling you, I had to..." "Aslambhai, please go back to sleep. You've worked so hard..." brought the business so far... brought us so far too You take care of your health now. I'll take care of the business In the next 48 hours... "with three weapons called murder, money and compromise..." Malik took control of his and other gangs before the sun could set "In other words, he took over the reins of the whole of Mumbai's undetworld" It isn't as if the police was fast asleep when all this was happening Veerapalli Sreenivasan looked more like a professor in a college "Which he was, before joining the IPS" But the brains behind his soft and compassionate face... sent a chill down the criminals' spines Everywhere he went during his career... the crime graph fell And now with him as the Joint Commissioner of Mumbai... there was a lot of peace And suddenly there was news of an upheaval in Aslam Ali's gang "Sir, there's news from Bandra police station" Saeed Mirza of AIfa Bar and his brother have been missing for 2 days "No, sir. There's just no question of another gang being involved" Who'd mess with a gang as big as Aslam's? "His name is Sharma, sir. He's an Octroi agent" "Please don't take offense, but Inspector Rathod..." didn't have a very nice reputation Arif said that there's a tug of war between Malik and Saeed "I don't think Malik has a hand in all this, sir" "In any case, I haven't heard much about him in the recent past" May you didn't hear about him... because he didn't want us to hear Harish Chadha. Owner of the club MiG29 nightclub "Vijay Singh, Vice-president, India, of Bank of Mauritius" "Rhea Burman, this year Miss Mumbai" And fiImstar Naved Khan What was he doing there? - I don't know... but they appeared to be good friends. - For drugs? "They have a lot of sources to get their supply of drugs, sir" "Why would they go to Malik for that, sir?" "I can't understand why they even need to meet someone like Malik, sir" They don't need to. Malik needs it Malik isn't one of those old fashioned guys who kills with guns He's killing them with his brains and making friends through the gun "Back in Kerala, we have a saying" "After six months of friendship, the two of them swap places" "If we don't finish Malik right now, forget arresting him..." "to even meet him, we'd need permission from a hundred people" Here's another room. Your loo is right beside. Squeaky clean Water running 24 hours. Airy up here "If you need, we'll get airconditioning. You can sit right here... what's up?" You've become a big boy. - So I am "That's marble. Imported. Come on, I'll show you the other room" Where did marriage crop out of? - You're making a nice living "Time to fall in line. - Drop it, what's the hurry?" "Someday you'll marry, won't you? The girl is willing too" What girl? - Kanu Come again. - Kanu Are you mad? Kanu is still a baby. - What baby? "She's only 2 years younger than you. Says, she's going to marry only you" What? - Lots of guys are after her Don't you tell me I never warned you "Kanu, I never knew, I mean I was shocked. You never said..." I said it now "Yes, but..." What? "Kanu, you know what business I'm into? - Yes" What? - You're a hood And you still want to marry me? - Yes But why? - Because I like you "If you got an affair, just say it. - No, I got no affairs" So? - Yes what? So what do you say? - What have I got to say? I like you too Say something. - What have I got to say? I told you I like you too Do I leave now?. "Yes, go on" What? Well what is it? SiIly Happy? - Like you're doing me a favour? "Doing it for yourself, aren't you? - For myself okay, but you wanted too" "Chandu, Krishnan called. Movie starts shooting at eleven" What's up? He's marrying your sister. - What? What are you gaping at? You're my brother-in-law now Met him? Stop staring at me I said stop staring at me I had to arrive. Hit? This is going to be superhit "If Akram makes a movie, it can only be a hit picture" Send your brother over. I'll take care of him Congratulations Akram. So everyone's here Hi Yadav. - Hi Mr Producer All thanks to Malikbhai. - I told you Naved "Malikbhai, he's the director" "As everyone here knows, my last movie was a big-big hit" "As you know, I make movies from the heart" "What I'm about to embark upon, isn't a fiIm, it's a dream" And it's called When in Love With me on my project is producer Akram Ansari Our industry needs men like him "If he is, we are. EIse..." "In your arms, this world of mine" Where are we headed? But never shall we part "The shooting resulted in a pandemonium" "Of the five men who ended up in hospital, two are dead" One is still critical "With the shootout, the controversy of links..." "between fiIms and the undetworld rages again" "Behind the Bollywood arclights, not everything glitters" Crime Branch called. They want us to identify some guys they've picked up "Whatever the truth, the strange relationship between art and violence..." "shows that spread of the tentacles of the undetworld..." "to hitherto-unthinkable social institutions" "Maybe it'll take a movie to tell us what the police is doing" None of them Why would anyone want to kill you? - That's what I don't understand either I'm only a simple businessman What business are you in? - Export-import Must be a cash-rich business? - Provides me my bread and butter "And something more, I'm sure" How long have you known Sharma? - Who is Sharma? R.K. Sharma. - He's in your line of business. "Malik doesn't know him, I've met him a couple of times" Who are you? - I'm Vilas Pandit What do you do? - I look after Malik's businesses And you are the one who saved his life? Why? What do you mean why? What's your name? - Chandu Full name. - Chandrakant Nagre How long are you working for them? - Just started Did I ask you? "Whoever you ask, the answer will be the same" What's your interest in the fiIm business? Only acquaintances. At parties May we take the excuse to make an acquaintance? I only regret not being able to nab your assassin No matter. Your hard work is showing. - No hard work. I'm all for you May we leave? "Yadav, I found out. He's Soorti's man." When did Soorti start soaring? I'm wondering too. Let's talk when we meet Still can't figure out how Soorti dared Take out Soorti and all his men. For the next decade... daring ought to be a dreadful word Has a brother-in-law in Bangalore "Perhaps a brother in Hyderabad too. Shambhu, this is Vilas Pandit" "Soorti has a brother living in Hyderabad, doesn't he?" Cousin? AIso someone in Nagpur? Why are you shoving? - I know You're the one who shot at him. I also know why he didn't identify you "Had I done anything, why wouldn't they identify me? You talk such rot" Because they would have to answer too many questions. I know... there must be so many problems "UntiI you tell me what's happening, I'm not letting you walk" This is too much! The police can't hold anyone without evidence And I know that. - Who told you... that the police always stays within the confines of the law?. I could never take the pain. But maybe you're used? To tell you the truth... at times even I'm scared of the men under me "But what to do? We got to do it, for the job, they and I too" You'll know. You got ajob in the gang too You think you'll lose yourjob if you tell us anything? You're out of ajob in any case "You see, you won't be able to endure the pain and keep mum all night" "But still, even if you manage, I'll pump a bullet into your head" "By tomorrow morning, after what they have done to you..." "I can't let you walk out and sue them, can I?" I think you should just tell me who's behind all this He went to collect protection money What happened? I never said this before Whatever you did for Malik that day at the movie shoot... Anyone else in my place would've done that "When I'm talking, you listen. - What's the discussion?" "Malik, had Chandu not been around..." "Don't get emotional. - But it's true, isn't it?" "True, isn't it?" Isn't it? Come off it Malikbhai... He's offering you his hand. Take it From Hyderabad. Soorti is gone. - And his brother? Should be dead by four thirty. - End of the story That's what they thought when they attacked us at the studio "In our business, nothing ever gets over. - Only lives get over" Anyone who takes his eye off the game is gone "Malik, stop talking about business. - Chandu, have you told Malik?" No... - What's up? He's getting married. - Getting married? You never told me? - I was about to But then everything went haywire. - Get us a champagne He's progressing in life only because you're patronising him No one patronises anyone. Everyone gets what he deserves Still... the oiI doesn't pour out all by itself "No, I'm fine. - That means I'm not fine?" Come on Malikbhai He was so shy talking about you. You should've seen him He's so shy. Doesn't even talk properly One more... - There were two earlier Don't even bother trying to understand him More? - No thanks When is the wedding? - 2nd December GadgiI Yes? He's here Mr GadgiI? Come Sit What would you like to have? "No formalities, what would you like? Coffee or tea?" Why have you brought me here? - You're too busy to pay me a visit "But we must, for the sakes of big men like you. Besides, you don't like..." coming to a police station? - Just ask me what you want to know Just because we're policemen doesn't mean that we're always asking Sometimes we might have something to tell you What are you telling me? - I'm telling you... who tipped off Soorti about Malik. - Who tipped him off? "You did. If Malik gets to know, you're dead before the hour is over" But I've no interest in seeing you dead. I only want to see Malik in jaiI I know you were there when Sharma and Rathod were killed "Just turn witness for the prosecution, depose against Malik in court" Will you do it? You got any other choices? Looks like it's going to rain. - Yes so? "What do you mean "so"? - Is that something to be discussed?" You're really a Satan. - There's a Satan in everyone Only some people... - You've said that before Are you about to say that it has begun raining? "Arrest warrant, sir. For Malik and Chandrakant" This must be kept between the three of us "Come unto me, you needn't even ask" "Give me something to remember" Live in my eyes... lie in my embrace... linger on my lips... or live in my heart What are you doing? What do you want? - Where is Chandu I told you! He isn't at home Confirmed news. They have left for Hong Kong "I know. Nawlekarjust told me. Chandrakant is abroad, honeymooning" His mother told me But one thing I don't understand. None but the three of us... ever knew of the raid. How come they knew?. That was the question... on my mind when I asked for a listing from the telephone department. Guess Which number called Chandu's residence just before the raid? "Internal injuries don't show up, but they hurt like hell" "So we flopped on the arrest. But at least, we've driven them out of India" But Sreenivasan was wrong For years Malik had been preparing for this day "David, his man Friday had created a new haven for him, far from Mumbai" "Yes, it stinks. But it's business" Hong Kong became the gang's new residence "Malikbhai, GadgiI is dead" "After setting up home, the gang got back to business" The telephone became the biggest weapon in the undetworld Malik realised that the fear of death was more potent than death He pissed when he saw. He started mock attacks Terror struck Businessmen started huge ransoms for fear of their lives If the need arose... Malik managed to get away even with real kills Want to get shot? I'm not scared of your threats "Unknown faces, boys..." shot the quarry and disappeared They went back to their small towns... from where they were recruited for pittances The gang was never short of friends "In police, in customs, in government, in the press, everywhere" "But Malik wasn't stopping here. Construction, stockmarket..." the gang wanted a legal share in every moneyspinner "Trust me, let me see what I can do" Buy or grab As the buying and grabbing went on... distinctions between the legal and the illegal were blurred "In their penchant for the melodrama, the press dubbed the gang "Company" Sreenivasan was doing all he could to smash the gang's new avatar... apprehending men... arms caches... stemmed the fund flows... even targeted the legal businesses "But he knew, he was treating a sick man, not a malaise" And the epidemic spread. Malik concentrated on alliances... "with gangs overseas, to promote his Company" Mumbai was left to Chandu Why do you want to talk to Chandu? I'm telling you "Okay, I'll get Chandu bhai to talk to you" What happened? After so many years in the business what are we doing? Now Ali insists on talking to Chandu bhai What are we here for? Sweeping floors? - Don't make mountains out of molehills "Molehills? Mumbai is all agog about "Chandu bhai" Malikbhai is all but forgotten Yadav can't overcome his jealousy. His problem about Chandu... is the same problem Saeed and Sharma had with me I can understand. But I'm apprehensive about leaving all the controls... in the hands of one man. We should not be repeating... the mistake Aslam bhai made about you "No, I'm not saying that I'm suspicious about Chandu" But why leave the scope for such an eventuality? Krishnan! - Hi Joseph This is David. David Khan. He's close to Malikbhai Don't go by the name. Maybe he's mix breed Krishnan? Where did you come from? - I've called him "You know Krishnan, Chandu's workload is staggering. So I thought..." why don't you share a bit of it. - What do you mean? "Take over Kurla, Chembur, Ghatkopar, Vikhroli" Report directly to me. You needn't trouble Chandu What are you gaping at? You got a promotion When are you throwing a party? "Chandu, what's all this? - What?" Am I to be an underling to Krishnan? - What's this about being an underling? "You know I don't get along with him. - What are you, a kid?" Am I asking you to marry Krishnan? It's plain business What's this all of a sudden? Any trouble out there? What trouble? You're a crackpot. Don't you ever get anything straight? "The business is growing, we got to work properly" I'm crowded with these little things. I'm just passing over a bit to him Now stop thinking too hard What ajoker! Talks nonsense He was always like this. Don't take any tensions Strangle him But Chandu is mad about kids Kids? What kids? Yes Yadav? You like kids? "Kids! How pure at heart, everyone likes kids" But if I could have my way damn them all Are you out of your mind? Is this any humour? He fancies poetry Not poetry. He has a tragedy. Want to know?. "Tell me, come on. - Back home in the village..." Stop raving! - Just telling the sisters He stepped inside the well for taking a bath "Shut up, or I'll hit you! - Let him finish" The kids stole all his clothes "Shut up, shut up I say" And when he was walking home hiding behind plantain leaves... the goats went for him. - I'm not sparing you What do you think of yourself? Just you wait "What don? Just because I've fled some place abroad, I become a don?" We are the ones who make the company. The real don is the one who shoots "And what do we get out of it? Ten, fifteen thousand?" He makes millions just over telephone Shouting orders over the telephone makes somebody a don? I'm calling Malikbhai and I'll tell him... I'm the don over here and what do you say to that? "I guarantee, Malikbhai will be zapped" These buiIders are complaining that the market has bottomed out "Ask them for money and they say, kill me, I haven't the money" "Can't do that, can we? We know they're in dire straits" And these fiIm-wallahs talk about millions in papers "Look in their pockets, you won't find a cent" But our expenses are the same. So what do I do? - Who's asking you to do anything? It's my birthday today and this is all you can talk about? I brought you here because it's your birthday Are you doing me a favour? I thought you'd propose... "forget it, I got to tell you everything" You do? Who brought you here? I did "Come on, now tell me. - It isn't like that Chandu" "Tell me, have you ever given me a gift?" "What do you want? Tell me, right now" "There, I got to tell you everything. - How will I know unless you tell me?" "When one is in love, he knows. - You mean I don't love you?" "Right. - Okay, I don't love you" I had to tell you that too Drop it Chandu Let it be. Forget it Drop it. - AIways at a whim? "If you want to pick a fight, you want to patch up, it's all fine?" "What am I, a machine? Press the button" "Chandu, when you're angry, you look just like Amol Palekar" I love it "Now come off it, drop it, come back, on-line" You won't stop being angry? You know what I'll do? You won't? "Are you mad? - In a foreign land, anything goes" "Chandu, Malik wants to see you." Right now Warsi? Warsi would never say that about Malikbhai! Out of question "What don? Just because I've fled some place abroad, I become a don?" We are the ones who make the company. The real don is the one who shoots "And what do we get out of it? Ten, fifteen thousand?" He makes millions just over telephone Shouting orders over the telephone makes somebody a don? I'm calling Malikbhai and I'll tell him... I'm the don over here and what do you say to that? "I guarantee, Malikbhai will be zapped" Put Warsi on the line "Warsi, talk to Chandu" "Warsi, what have you done? - I was a bit drunk" I might've said something. How would I know I'm being taped? Are you mad? - My mistake Chandu bhai Who doesn't make mistakes? They held a gun at my head... and they dragged me out of my house. But... "In my business, forgiving such a mistake is a worse mistake" I don't know. They're saying he must've been one of the Soortis or Karlekars "Wouldn't know. Yes, Chandu spoke to Warsi's brother. Yes, money was sent" All Malik's fault. Everything was going on fine Why did he start this Krishnan mess? That's why Warsi was incensed He wasn't mad was he? Bloody mental Friend of mine One mistake and he's dead Do you think Malik is a demon who enjoys killing people? Get this straight. The company stands on one thing. That's fear "If Warsi was let off, ten others would've spoken out" Malik is responsible for the entire company He can't spare someone who flouts company rules "Be it Warsi, be it you, be it me" No tea or coffee for a guest? - I'll get you. Tea of coffee? "Tea? Listen, is there any food?" "Chandu, would you like to eat something?" "Chandu, go to Switzerland. Meet Nalin Raote" Relationships with politicians can be profitable "Malik wanted to go, but there's this meeting with South Africans" "Remember, Raote is big fish. He might end up becoming big croc" People want to invest billions in our state and instead of welcoming them... we make them run around in circles? What a shame I'm returning to India tomorrow Sit See me with the case file I think you should see Thakur in Delhi Environment clearances are tough nowadays The rest of the papers? "Tea, coffee?" "No, that won't be required at this stage" Too much paperwork might not be good Well all right I have heard much about you Praise You know PatiI? - Home minister? "He's a bit of a problem. - Belongs to your party, doesn't he?" I want him out of my way Got to be killed? - No not killed "He's a big man, it'll become a scandal. There might even be an inquiry" But he must die "Not to be killed, not to be left alive" I don't think he's a proper guy. - Are we proper guys? Is there a poison that won't be detected in the post mortem? Make sure you write a story for one of Akram's fiIms What if he has a fall? May we have coffee? What if there's a road accident? - But how?. Accidents keep happening on highways What happens to the driver? - He'll suffer some injuries "Better still if he dies. - If he's caught, he'll own up" What's the sentence for reckless driving? "Six, eight months?" "Yes it stinks. But it's business" Kids too? Yes? - Two kids with him "Kids? - Yes, seven-eight year olds" I'll call you back Where's Malki bhai? So? - We got to kill PatiI Why mess with his kids? - Not another chance. Kill him What happened? I don't feel right like killing kids. - What's right and wrong about this? We only took a contract on PatiI. - Add two names from my side Don't disturb me now What's the problem? This is David. - Put Malikbhai on "Tell him it's me. - Whoever, no calls" Tell him I'm calling off the contract Are you crazy? - Shut up Has he gone senile? "Malikbhai, I don't know what's come over him. He called off the contract" "Is Kenkre in place? - Yes, he's there" "Yes Malikbhai, Chandu called off the contract" I'm telling you. Do it Whom did you ask before calling it off? I did what I felt was right. - Who are you to decide? "When I'm doing something, I decide. Did you ask me before killing Warsi?" All you said was it goes against the company. Did I say anything? A hundred decision are made a day. Am I asked before deciding? Decisions will taken according to the needs of the company Not according to what you think. - I'm part of the company too "Then stay with the company, don't try to own it" Shut up you lackey! - And what will you do to me? I'll bury you alive! - Who do you think you are? "Come off it Chandu, come on Yadav. - Come to your senses, Chandu" I'm just coming to my senses. Now I see it all clearly You never saw it when we picked you up from the streets? "You did it for your gain, not mine" Do you think... the company can't go on without you? If the company can make do without me I too can make do without the company Bloody cur! From day one I've been saying I don't like this guy one bit "But you lost your mind, you pampered him" "Now you see that bastard? Malikbhai, just tell me..." I'll pump a whole magazine into him. - Yadav Malikbhai! I'll kill him! - Have you gone mad? "Saroja, go inside. - Malik he's..." Go inside But Malik... Kanu? - Yes Saroja? Chandu will be coming over. Take him and run away What? Send a few guys from Kowloon over to Sayonara Hotel We'll kill him right there He's chiIdish. Malik you know him and I know him too I'm going to haul him in by his ears and I'm going to make him apologise "Come on David. Yadav, you stay right here" What happened? - Saroja called She said Malik is in a rage. - Tell me properly "She said, Malik is in a rage, he might do anything" He's sending someone to kill you! - What? "Chandu, I'm scared. Let's go away from here" "Kanu, come on" "Come on David, I'll kill you right here" "Come on, out" I'll kill you and I'll kill your Malik too "Come on, I'll kill you" "Come on, you coward! Are you hiding?" "Malikbhai, Chandu started shooting. Panditji is down" Didn't even give him a chance to talk. Just shot him You know what he said? Said he'll kill Malikbhai too "What do you mean why? I told you, he came to kill me" Came to kill Chandu Just let me make it to Bombay. I'll show them who Chandu is I'll let you know which flight I'm taking "Yadav, any problems?" The problem is about to begin What do you mean? - The word isn't out yet "But once word outs, no knowing how the boys will take it" "His men will be incensed, anything might happen" We aren't yet ready for something so big "Listen to me, stay for a while in some other country" "Malik, did you think Chandu will die so easily?" Chandu won't die. But you're going to be finished The blood that went into the making of this company... will now go into destroying this company "Malik, you and your company are finished" Mumbai was dumbfounded at the news of the split between Chandu and Malik No one knew what was happening Day and night Yadav was trying to trace Chandu "Maybe to Kenya, Malaysia" He could be in Switzerland too. - Find him Men have come and men have gone but I never saw Malikbhai this way He never made such a big mistake "But I swear sister, I'll set everything all right" Saroja hid it. But she was torn by the feeling of remorse "In Mumbai, Rani was scared to death" "Chandu, what am I hearing?" But you said he's a nice guy. - That was my mistake... taking him for a nice guy. He belongs to no one All he thinks of is gain. - But when he came home... "he looked like a nice guy, didn't he? - Do you know more than I do?" "Look Chandu, right now you're hot in the head. Think it over, properly" Don't you tell me what to do. He and I have parted. Period "After PatiI died, Raote was the only leader who could assume his position" That's why he had PatiI bumped off "After the two-minute silence, he became home minister for 5 years" News of Raote drives me crazy Give the chair to someone you ought to haul in? And now he's killing our boys. Such justice And they call us undetworld At least we say it openly. Politicians are doing it on the sly And they're raping the whole country Hey Kanu... - Coming. Stop screaming Come down. - Hi Kawra! How are you? "Fine, look what the lady sends you" You'll laugh your guts out when I tell you about Yadav Patel the money-launderer from Bandra tipped Yadav off saying that... "Chandrakant is in Hotel Sheraton in Bangkok, laundering money" Yadav calls up Bangkok gives the chinks a contract Man dies. - Dead? Listen on. He does ajig and he goes to see Malik But Malik was informed already. The guy was some other Chandrakant Guess who? Someone who was working for their distributor Really? - The distributor was in a rage Malikbhai called him personally and said let bygones be bygones Now I hear Yadav is after Patel for a wrong tip-off What a look he must be wearing. - Looking for a place to hide his face Tip offs need not necessarily be wrong every time Too much salt "Kanu, listen to me, this is just the beginning" Yes I'm in Kenya and they don't know yet That they'll never find out is no foregone conclusion "If something happens, I can get out. But with you..." "For the last time, hear me out. I'm not leaving you" "So let's die together, okay?" "Kanu... - Not you, not again" "Try to understand. With you around, he'll worry for you all the time" "If you're in Mumbai, he will at least..." "And look, your staying on is no advantage for us" Instead... "How are you, Kanu? I would've come to receive you. But something came up" No problem. Let's meet tomorrow or day after How is it going? - The mess has shaken up everything "Everyone is taking sides, the police, customs, everyone" As if someone used a sword to slash the business in two Businessmen are cribbing about having to pay two instead of one Nothing's spared. Take my movie My hero says Yadav told him not to work in my movie. And I told him... "if he doesn't come at 9 tomorrow, by two o'clock I'll have him shot" What can we do? - What do you mean? Stop them How?. He's out of India. - Do something "Why not ask this other friend of yours, this Malik, to provide you security?" "I'm a fiImstar, I meet a hundred guys, doesn't mean everyone is my friend" "Yes, I might've said a hello or a hi to Malik sometime" I have 42 tapes of your hellos with him. Want to hear? "So you see, friendship lasts as long as it lasts" "Sawant, provide him with a security detaiI" I hear the police are about to arrest you Absolutely incorrect. Where do you get these news? Is it also true that the undetworld is financing your movies? Absolutely false. Malicious gossip. - The shootout on the sets... clearly establishes the relationship between fiIm industry and the undetworld I've told you before. Some guest was shot at How come you're here? - On behalf of the fiIm industry... I was talking about the police welfare fund Why did you go to the police? - What else am I to do? Yadav tells me not to shoot for the fiIm "Akram tells me, if I don't he'll kill me" "Tell me, what am I to do? - You're a friend" I'll take care of everything What do you mean Chandu bhai? My climax set is up Release dates have been announced and he says he won't shoot "And you tell me not to say anything? - Akram, listen" "Naved Khan, poor fellow is in a fix. They're pumping him too, aren't they?" "Just cancel this shoot, postpone the release" We'll fix things later "Very well, as you think best" But why did he kill Akram? Chandu listen to me. Killing Naved Khan will give us bad publicity "After Akram died, he has been given so much police security..." the job will be tough - What are you? An eunuch? Don't make excuses. We got to show them now. Period Naved will die once the security gets a bit lax We shouldn't be at the losing end "The man who supplies stuff to Malik stays in Lokhandwala, doesn't he?" Don't be siIly! I know what Lateef means to Malik. Why should I kill him? And am I his only man here? Lots of them work for Chandu Krishnan would never lie to us. Whoever did it... Chandu is behind it. Have you spoken to Lateef's brother? Yes Malikbhai. He married just "Who's this guy in Versova? One of Chandu's punters, isn't he?" "Not him, you were supposed to take out the guy in Parel" Checked him out? Don't make me mad! Kill all of them I called the hospital. He'll be dead in 4 or 5 hours "Think it over, once again" Yes "Told him so many times, lie low for a while" What can I do now?. What's done is done He's coming Whatever anyone says... each and every one of them... were connected to the undetworld "Malik, we fought wars too. But not at the cost of the business" You are destroying the entire fraternity The boys are scared to death They are either caught between the two of you... "or the police is picking them off. Malik, when will all this end?" Tomorrow. I've found Chandu I miss Kanu. - Call her Who says I can't? I'm just telling you Missing her Marriage scares me worse than the police What's in marriage to be scared of? Marriage is shooting yourself in the foot Have I shot myself? "Look, before I married Kanu, I never knew what I missed" "Today, there's no one happier than me in the whole world" You died in an encounter "But you're right about one thing. After marriage, a man changes" "Before you were married, you were always looking for Kawra" And now?. After the marriage? It's Kanu-Kanu-Kanu "Hey, you're going to get hit" Get him Where are the guns? - Downstairs After him "Chandu, run" How is this? "When did you come, sister?" "How are you? - Fine, how are you, sister?" Fine Of course he was shot. The cur! He must be dead One spoon? What if all this never happened? How is Malikbhai? Fine Chandu? - Okay Never got a chance to talk to you But I'll never forget how you helped me When did you arrive? "Kanu, come up! Quick! Hurry" What happened? - I just saw on tv What happened? - On tv... someone shot Chandu Where? I just saw it Pappu here. Any news of Chandu? That button! Surf ahead In an attack on his residence in Nairobi It's said that after being hit by three bullets... the chances of the survival of undetworld don Chandu are very slim We spoke to the officers there. They say there are injuries But he is out of danger I'll talk to you later "Try if you must, ten times over" But kill that bastard Malik "Do what you will, but kill Malik" "Hush Chandu, relax" "Yes, lady... - Get me Chandu" Chandu... how are you? - I'm fine Why are you crying? I told you I'm fine Don't talk crap! You took three hits No bullets I just watched on tv Who knows more? Your tv or I? Give me the phone Now stop crying. - Enough son "Now come to a compromise. For God's sake, stop it" Stop what? It's just the beginning This time God has saved you. - Give the phone to Pappu "Chandu bhai, this bastard..." Not a word. Krishnan is involved. - Our Krishnan? "I told you, listen" Tell the boys to stay away from him. I'll take care of the rest Get me Kanu "Chandu, what happened?" You don't get started now "You wanted top marry a hood, didn't you? Now what?" "Chandu, I want to come over. - Don't be siIly, Kanu" What will you do here? - I just want to come over I don't want to listen to anything. - Kawra is here He'll take care of me. - Why won't you listen? Why won't you? - Take care of my mother The undetworld has reminded Mumbai of it's presence once again A Wadala market shopkeeper has been assassinated The deceased Krishnan Pillai is said to have been connected with... the Chandu-Malik gangs. This killing could be a part of the gang war No one knows when this happened. But bystanders suspect... a boy of 17 or 18 years. According to the police... some witnesses saw the boy often in the company of the deceased The police are on the look out On line from Hong Kong is Ganesh Yadav of the Malik gang... whose men reportedly tried to assassinate Chandrakant in Hong Kong What was the intention of the assault? - Do I have to spell it out? He bit the hand that fed him. Got to tell... what happens to traitors in this business But we hear he survived the attempt? - Because he ran "But now he can't even run. What will he do now, the cur?" "I've put him out of action. In a while, I'll kill him too" But he's under police protection. - Damn police protection We'll send him home minced. Tell that cur on my behalf Let him have a few last words with his family "Death is coming for him, he's finished" Are you insane? You think Malik will spare Chandu on your say so? You're being siIly. - Yes I'm being siIly "But please, listen to me, my sister. Who else have I but Chandu? No one" "Let me talk to Malikbhai, for once. I'll tell Chandu to give up all this" "He'll give it all up, he won't do anything again" "Sister, you helped me once. For one last time, help me" I won't ask for anything ever again "At least, try" "Try, at least" "Try, please" Check out the security. He mustn't survive this attempt I'll call later Kanu wants to tell you something I know what state you're in. I won't waste time asking how you are In this country I'm no policeman. We've no extradition treaty with this country "I came by, just to see you" You take me for a fool? - I don't talk to fools What will you do now?. You haven't much of a base left "You've only so many men left in India. Some Malik killed, some I killed" "Yes I know, new hands keep coming" But the company isn't what it was So what do you say? Can I get a tea or something? "Kanu, you've seen what the business is like" "He can't let go, nor can I" What's left of Malikbhai? He took three bullets "He's barely alive, he's in bad shape you know Malikbhai, don't you?" What can he do now?. "Malikbhai, I'll tell him. He won't do anything" He'll give it all up. Please forgive him You think he will listen to you? - He will listen to me I know he will listen "You'll never see us again. We'll just go away, somewhere" Please forgive him "Sister, say something" "I beg of you Malikbhai, forgive him" "For your little sister, let him live" Let him walk For my sake "Saroja, what can't be done, can't be done" Why not? After all he did for you? He even saved your life Now you want his life? You're a demon! - No point explaining... what you won't understand "What are you doing? - Saroja, get out of my way" "Kanu, give me the gun" Give me the gun "Look, don't be siIly. - I'm going to kill someone" Enough of this I brought you here. And you'll kill Malik right in front of me? Get the car Just got news. Your wife has died in Hong Kong What? Find out "Ma, put Kanu on the line" Didn't even tell me? One bullet in the head. The other went through the abdomen "But I think, the first shot took her life" Who did it? Why? "Who did it or why, I don't know. But you're the one who is responsible" Just tell me one thing Why did you get into this? Money? It can kill you before you've spent it Power? It's all a show After a few small-time robberies you met Malik. And you rose And now where are you? "In return, what have you?" "Dead friends, a dead wife, an estranged mother" The public face of a gangster Any day I prefer the bastards who use men like you "What future for you? Wait, for the next attack" "If you're lucky enough to survive, keep running..." looking for an opportunity to get even Right? "In the end, you either kill or you get killed" "Even if you kill, you still get killed" If you feel there's even an iota of truth in what I've said... then come back with me We can use your help to destroy the company that the two of you buiIt "Let me assure you, you will have your vengeance a thousand times over" "Chandu, don't let hatred for one man blind you" Try to understand. Whatever is happening... is in the nature of the business. It's not because of one man "I'm responsible for whatever happened, Malik" "Saroja, let bygones be. - Listen to me" That day... you were sending them after Chandu I called up Kanu I thought everything would work out fine in the end I never imagined Chandu would kill Panditji And everything went haywire I was afraid of telling you "Malik, you thought Chandu can be killed so easily?" And now... I even endangered your life. All because of me... it's all my fault "Why did all this have to happen? Used to be so nice. Everyone, together" "You, Chandu bhai, the two sisters, it was wonderful" And now?. Chandu bhai adored you I got no brains bhai I can't understand why he changed. But all the time I wonder... what if everything was to become like olden times? Somehow... Chandu killed Pandit because he thought Pandit was going to kill him? How could he make such a mistake? - Not his mistake alone We all made mistakes "Pawar, I want to talk to Chandu. Get him on the phone, somehow" "Malikbhai, I was about to call you. They've taken Chandu away to India" News of undetworld don Chandu's return to India... "has shaken politics, government, business, all walks of life" Turning him into a witness for the prosecution... is being regarded as one of the greatest successes for the police "According to police sources, his depositions will unravel..." the links of big names to the undetworld Rumours have been rife all day. Names in every walk of life... "police, administrators, customs, businessmen, actors, thespians..." are being mentioned Heads on which his deposotions dangle like Damocles' sword... only Chandrakant can say. Or maybe those secret patrons... who have had dalliances with the undetworld Malik speaking Listen to me carefully Whatever happened between Chandu and me was a grave misunderstanding Breakfast is ready. - I'm coming Hurry up Welcome Sit What would you like? Tea? Coffee? Nothing? Sit Chandu talks a lot about you Is he all right? - Perfectly. He's doing lots for us "I want to see him, once" Yes Mr Raote? What to do about Chandu? - What do you mean? "What if he squeals on me? - If he squeals, he squeals" "What are you saying? - Mr Raote, we've patched up" Malik called You wish to see Chandrakant? "No sir, what problems can I have?" "Yes, I'll pick you up" Lady... I'm glad to hear about your cooperation Mr Sreenivasan says you are in possession of lots of evidence? Don't be afraid. The government will take good care of you We will also take care of your mother You take care of me I'm happy because people like you who cooperate... are examples for other criminals. You understand? What have you done? I couldn't show you the evidence against him... and I don't need evidence to satisfy myself You can say it was part of the job you brought me over to do "After the incident, Chandrakant was shifted to a maximum security cell" "On one hand, there are condemning a failure of the system..." "on the other hand, Raote's political opposition..." is alleging undetworld connections. Whatever the truth... in the accusations and counter accusations... the heat of the debate or demands forjudicial enquiries... the incident hangs like a question mark over the entire system I could never have proved that Raote had a hand in PatiI's murder But this much I understand. In the state you're in... you have no need to lie. For all the information you've given me... maybe even you don't know how many heads will roll... and what a difference this is going to make to the crime situation In return... I can offer you nothing more than thanks and gratitude Mr Sreenivasan... can I talk to Malik once? Sreenivasan Your friend wants to talk to you Malikbhai... - Chandu... About Kanu. I made a grave mistake We all made mistakes "Malikbhai, I'm about to do what I think is right" If you suffer any losses... don't take it personally I understand You know I was telling my wife last night... if the two of them give up crime... no knowing how far they might go I'm not Chandu "I know, you aren't. But think about what I said" If you come over... - Were I to give you the same offer? Nor am I Chandu Take care of Chandu. - Sure "Last night, Andheri and Byculla were raided. 25 raids in all" "30 of our boys, arrested" "Malik, I hope Chandu isn't causing you much damage" So what? It's our Chandu. Got to hand it out to the guy And the way he killed Raote! While the whole world watched Brought fame to the company Just received message from Hong Kong. Someone killed Malik Hong Kong police has arrested one Kawra Singh on suspicion Chandu spent the rest of his life behind bars "He was allowed to go out only once, for his mother's funeral" Rani died of heart attack The police couldn't naiI Pappu for killing Krishnan Now he is into real estate. He visits Chandu every Sunday "After Malik died, Yadav tried to run the company" But he didn't have the capability of controlling the other gangs Now he runs a small gang out of Bangkok... one of the many Mumbai gangs Saroja still lives in Hong Kong... "with Joseph, his mother, his sister and her husband" She runs a boutique of Indian dresses. It's doing fairly well Joseph drives Saroja's car and at Indian hotels in Hong Kong... "after a few drinks, he reels off spiel about the olden days" After a few years... Sreenivasan became the chief of a police training school Currently he is penning a novel about his encounters with the undetworld "Hearsay has it that he has named the book "Company"
