 

                        (Whinnies) Argh! (Thunder rumbles) See the galanty show! Only a penny! A show for the family! Full of pictures, both descriptive and humorous! Only a penny! Galanty show! Pictures of every description in colour. See John Guildford make his famous ride, and only one penny! lf you haven't got a penny, a ha'penny will do. lf you haven't got a ha'penny, God bless you. Straight from London. (Thunder and crack of lightning) Good evening, miss. l'm offering entertainment. A show for the family. Comical pictures of every description in colour. See. Endless rollicking laughter. Tell your master. l can ask. (Dog barking) Roll up for the lantern show! Only a penny! You pay for the entertainment but all the news is free! North, east, west, south! All the news is free! (Tambourine rattling) (Rattles and strikes tambourine) (Violent striking of tambourine) (Birdsong) Morning, Jacob. Who's this? Oh! l can see. Who's this? l've seen that face somewhere. l've seen that before. Who can it be, eh? Who can it be? You don't think l'm gonna drop you, do you? Here we go, then. Way-ee-ee. Off you go, then. Be coming just over in a moment. Bye-bye. Bye. (Laughs) The rascal. Children become you. When can we have one of our own? How can we manage? Hm? l know times are hard. But l'm not getting any younger. We are the most beautiful people in the whole world. lt's true. Good morning, family. Good morning. Good morning. (Laughter in background) Oh! Ooh. (Laughter) WOMAN: Serves you right. And he went off and got himself a rabbit. And he brought it back and he ate it. And that's it. (Man chuckles) WOMAN: Do you know, when l was younger, l always had to sit between those two. Nothing changes. Let us say grace. Dear Lord, we humbly beseech thee to accept our gratitude for this our daily bread. Give us the goodness of heart to share whatever we have. Amen. VlCAR: Proverbs 14. ln all labour there is profit. But the talk of the lips tendeth only to penury. The poor is hated even of his own neighbour. But the rich have many friends. But in all labour there is profit. And it beho?es us to accept our lot in life and to work for our reward. Let us never forget that our Lord humbled himself for all our sakes to be born of the wife of a carpenter on this poor earth. Let us strive to excel in the role we are born to, remembering... we are all beholden to our maker! God the Father... ..in his infinite wisdom, created large men and small, white men and black, rich men and poor, wise men... ..and fools. And we shall not dare to presume to question his wisdom! Hold fast to that which we know and have learned to value - the natural order of things, tried and tested down the ages of man. lt is hardly a chance that in all living things there is law and order. There are enemies of the Church, dissenters, who speak together blasphemously... (Whispers) ..tampering with God's work. (Whispering) Be not drawn by the devil's smile. (Man whispers) Let go of me. (Pew door bangs) Now let us... Let us talk of the... Let us now sing hymn... (Organ plays) (Congregation stumbles over lyrics) d We go to thee d To thee... (Another choir sings nearby) (Choirs drown each other out) (Second choir sings lively song) d We'll win the day d Though death and hell obstruct our way d We only need to watch and pray d And then we're sure to win the day (Baby crying) d Come all and one to glory now d And in this world of sin and woe d Forsake your sins without delay d Believe and you shall win the day d We'll win the day, we'll win the day d Though death and hell obstruct our way d We only need to watch and pray d And then we're sure to win the day l liked that. And now... we'll pray together. Give us the vision, Lord, to see past the narrow confines of the field. To the great and infinite glory of the world beyond. Help us to stretch ourselves to the full extent of our being... ..that we might be one with all men. Neither master nor servant before thine eyes. Amen. ALL: Amen. Jesus has given us many blessings. And one of these, my friends, is the smile. l lo?e every new day. But Sunday is the best of all. For how good it is to see all of you joining here together. During the coming weeks, we shall be calling upon the services of my good brother James. Thank you. l would like to talk about comradeship, about the Disciples who laid down their work to follow in the path of truth. l look forward to your good attendance. Praise the Lord. (Girl giggling) No planning ahead would be complete without calling upon our good friend and neighbour Tom Stanfield. Tom. As well as reading the Word of God, l shall leave part of my time open for anyone to approach me with a subject for discussion. (Whispers) - All our troubles are shared by Jesus. So please come forward and don't be shy. lt is worth bearing in mind a grief shared is a smaller grief. l see we have a stranger in our midst. l'm glad you had the temerity to enter. Now we know who trod the grass these Sundays past. Welcome, lad. (Organ music) Good morning. Good morning. (Men talking nearby) - Hello, John. - George. What were you doing in church and all? (Low conversation) (Knocking) (Latch clicks) GEORGE: Bridget. BRlDGET: George. Come in. We thought it was the vicar. l wouldn't trust the vicar with a fart. Forgive me, my dear chap. l had no idea we had the pleasure of your company. John. Bridget. My dear friends. Your labour is more important than the Sabbath day? We all need a day of rest. Maybe your brother has the right idea. Though it pains me to admit it. l wish times were different, George... ..and we could have back the respect we give to others. lf you'll forgive me, then, George. Mr Frampton demands they be sent in this very week. They are a work of great beauty. When we create with our hands such harmony, God is truly present. BRlDGET: He's been awake the whole night through. (Light hammering and sanding) Why don't you ask for more payment? Because, George, if they don't like it, they'll find someone else. Yes. But supposing all you carpenters were to ask for more? (Tapping) MAN: Arscott. Brown. Buxton. Sir. Sir, far be it for my friend here to seek priority over his comrades. Oh, dear. Nor do we wish to take yourself too obviously to task. But, as l understand the alphabet... (Mocking posh accent) ..do not the 'l' in 'Brine' precede the 'O' in 'Brown'? - And indeed the 'U' in 'Buxton'? - (Workers chuckling) ln time...comrade. - Right. - ln good time. MAN: Hammett. Lost a finger, have you, Hammett? Or is it just you can't count? (Chuckling) Legg! Loveless! MAN AT DESK: George first. James following. Let my brother go first. For l've not reconciled. Not reconciled what? My conscience. Stanfield! Do you call father or son? l think there must be some mistake. We should be getting nine shillings. - Not eight. - There's been no mistake, Mr Stanfield. You must take it or leave it. Brine! MAN AT DESK: Brine. Will you sign? We haven't all day. (Murmur of distant chatter) Mother? l'm hungry. Let me in. Mother! (Sobs) You mustn't touch. You can look as much as you like, but don't touch. - How much are they? - Ten a penny. - That isn't a bargain. - They're a bargain at twice the price. Wait. A dozen then, a dozen for a penny. l only have a half a penny. l don't really sell ha'penny's worth. But as a special favour to you, five for an ha'penny. Come on, Briney. Afternoon. Nice day. - lnnit? - lnnit? What are you doing this afternoon, then? Shall we go blackberry picking? A bit of blackberry picking in the woods there? What do you say? What you do with blackberries, you squash 'em all up... ..you rub them all over your face, and you lick the juice off. Be nice? (They laugh) Are you all right? Go off for a walk up the woods, then? (Girl squeals) Hurry up. (Whistles) Hurry up. Come here. Here, duck down. MAN: d She's the girl l'll marry, marry, marry d She's the girl for me d Oh, she's the girl l'll... Whoa there, Nelly. Whoa. (Horse and cart approaching) Whoa! Dear God, teach him not to think. Help him to accept things as they are. Don't let him question things. Not too much. Handsome bit of work. You'd have to get yourself a new pair of britches before you could sit on one of them. - What's his asking price? - A pound apiece. Know how long it takes him? Two weeks a chair. Getting on. What would you say to your trying to up the price a bit? l'll take full responsibility. - l could ask. - Good man. l'll to the top of the hill with you. Walk on. Up you go, go on! (Young woman sobs) OLDER WOMAN: Come. Come to me. l'm not angry with you. You see, if we get something for nothing in this world, it means someone else may have to suffer. Now, that's not a good thing, is it? lt's quite simple really, you know. We only have to love one another to know what we must do. Forgive Charity, she meant no harm. He's a good lad. But not perfect. Has his ups and downs, just like the rest of us. But... ..he's been a good son to me. Who'd have sons? (Giggles) What's funny? Now, get you back. You can't come wi' us. Go on, get you back. (Women laughing) d A poor man to labour, believe me, 'tis so d To maintain his family is willing to go d Either hedging or ditching d To plough or to reap d But how does he live on eight shillings a week? d Eight shillings a week, eight shillings a week d But how does he live on eight shillings a week? d So now to conclude and to finish my song d May the times be much better before it's too long d May every labourer be able to keep his children and wife on 12 shillings a week (Women laughing) (Man singing) (Woman whispers) James. James. l'm not going back there. No. James. You must come to bed. d Sailor's Hornpipe (Cheering) Roll up, roll up! For don't you know, it's Sergeant Bell and his Royal Raree Show. Highly instructive for lads and lasses. ldeal for the gentry and the labouring classes. Come on, now, don't hog it. Let the lady in, there we are. There's a man of God. l've the very thing for you, sir. Jacob and Adam in the land of Nod. Now, it's only a penny to take a look, to see the pictures from the holy book. Oh, sir, l beg your pardon, it's Eve without her clothes on, in the garden! Ha-ha-ha! Roll up, Sergeant Bell's Raree Show! Only a penny to see the view. See Nelson being defeated at the Battle of Waterloo. The Raree Show's the thing for all the lads and the lasses, but be careful, thou young titches, not to breathe on the glasses. d Lively fiddle and whistle (Chatter and laughter) John. John. (Grunts) FOREMAN: Ford! Grey. Hammett. Father. Father. - Leave me alone, son. Leave me alone! - Father. l'm tired! (Low conversations) - We've talked about this before. - But we've got the advantage now. MAN lN BACKGROUND: l'm not saying we should go against the law. l'm saying we've had enough of all this. No! (Woman screams in agony) Tom! Argh! JOHN: lf mother was alive to see what you've become! JAMES: Leave our mother out of this. - There's such a thing as responsibility. JAMES: What's so responsible about fathering a child when you can't make ends meet? Who do you think you are telling me what to do? Your brother, that's who. My first loyalty is to Bridget and the baby. You want me out of the way now. ls that it? - That's a good idea. There's the road. - l'm boss in my life, not you or anyone else. l'll decide what l want to do where and when l want to do it. That bloody baby has gone right to your head. (Baby stirs) (Baby grizzles) Shh. (Sheep bleating) What on earth is it? lt's a skeleton, Mrs Wetham. But what's it for? lt's a design for a banner. - For a union. - Union? A society of friends. lt's a most unusual request. - We'll pay a fair price. - l'll speak with my husband. MAN: Mr Loveless. Good day. Well, well, well, what brings you into town? l thought l detected a...Tolpiddle hereabouts. So you're a lover of prints. Who would have guessed it? l like to extend my mind whenever l can. How rewarding that one who uses his hands... might also use his mind. An antidote to the sloth of countrifying, Mr Frampton. The problem, Mr Loveless, is to match it. And having matched it, to use both hand and mind to exert it to some use. For a well-balanced appetite, we must satisfy all our parts. Eh, Mr Loveless? But it is sad to see folk who are... blind to their own interests. Folk are not blind, sir. - But it is those that master us that cannot see. - Explain yourself, Loveless. Here, for instance. Can you see this, sir? Yes. Can you see it now? No. What prevents you seeing it? The silver, of course. That's just it. Sir. GEORGE: Mr Pitt. - George Loveless. - lt's very kind of you to meet me, sir. - l thought we'd take a ride out of town. - Thank you, sir. (Wind blusters) (Trumpet fanfare) (Gunfire) (Shouts angrily under cacophony) (Trumpet, drumming, xylophone) Do you want to buy a ticket to see the show, sir? None of us needs to bother with that. We'll be having a battle of our own soon enough. For nowt. My dear sir, l think you underestimate the novelty of this unique exhibition. A diorama is the highest achievement of human ingenuity, delineating the most interesting parts of the world in varying aspects of light and shade. How about a trip to the other side of the world tomorrow? What you offer, sir, is illusion. lt's the real world l'd like to see. ln our short lives we move about so little... ..see so little. Yes. l'd like to travel one day. Hello, George. You're gonna have 25 children. lf you spent less time thinking about yourself and more time helping others. l mean it. For your own good. Getting on with a job never hurt no-one. Are you getting paid for it? ls he? Only a fool does something for nothing. Those men paid a shilling out of their hard-earned money to join the union. lf you and others like you were to join... He believes in what he's doing. Don't worry about me. l can look after myself. (Gentle knocking) MAN: Who comes here to disturb the peace and harmony of this our most worthy and honourable order? l'm a brother with strangers. We wish to be admitted into this, your most worthy and honourable order. Most worthy brothers, another stands at the door with strangers who wish to be admitted into this, our most worthy and honourable order... OLD TOM: Let them enter. (Floorboard creaks) (Muffled men's voices) Dear God, help them. (Soft footsteps upstairs) Strangers within our secret walls, we have admitted you hoping you will prove honest, faithful and true. lf you cannot keep the secrets we require, go hence, you are at liberty to retire. Are your motives pure? Yes. Then amongst us you will shortly be entitled to the endearing name of 'brother'. And what you hear or see here done, you must not disclose to any other. We are uniting to cultivate friendship, as well as to protect our trade, and due respect must to all our laws be paid. Are your motives pure? Yes. Give the strangers sight. Strangers, mark well this shadow... ..which you see. lt is a faithful emblem... of man's destiny. Strangers, you are welcome. And if you prove sincere, you'll not repent your pains and labour here. We have one common interest, and one common soul, which should by virtue guide and actuate the whole. The design of this, our order, is love and unity, with self protection founded on the laws of equity. And when you have our mystic rites gone through, our secrets all will be disclosed to you. Edward Legg, do you swear to this alliance? EDWARD: I swear. GEORGE: And now, shouldst thou ever pro?e deceitful, remember thine end. Remember. VICAR: l like to think of myself as being a friend to all men. lndeed it's flattering that you should ask me to intervene, but... ..don't you think you've got things slightly out of proportion? Difficult times, Vicar. Mr Frampton... ..has not been ungenerous. As you can see. Mr Frampton says for you to make yourselves comfortable. (Men conversing within) (Muffled men's voices) (Men laugh in another room) (Applause in another room) (Laughter) Good afternoon, gentlemen. George, how very nice to see you. l do hope we haven't kept you waiting. We had no idea of the time. Please accept my apologies. Gentlemen, please... sit down. FRAMPTON: Please sit down. Well, gentlemen, how good it is to see you all here. l must claim, in all modesty, to be a fair man. Mr Frampton, my friends asked me to act as independent spokesman on their behalf. Yes, yes, yes, yes. l see no reason to detain you longer than is necessary. The vicar has put your case. And we must admire his ability to see... both sides of the coin. (Chuckles) We felt the time has come... Yes, of course you did. We have your best interests at heart. lt's just that...well, we don't know where we are what with the wages going down week by week. You're quite right. There's no question of that. But in spite of the circumstances, and with, if l might add, a fervent hope for the future, an extra shilling will be granted. Are you saying eight shillings? Eight! Have you any more questions, gentlemen? (Man belches) Have away, Nelly. (Bells ring at various pitches) Mr Frampton told me to give this to you. EDWARD: Thank you very much, miss. That's very kind of you. Thank you very much, miss. Thank you. That's all right, Mr Legg. FOREMAN: Hammett. Legg. Look. Loveless. Come on, George. One must eat to live. Sing for us, Elvi. l'll sing for you. Come on, Briney. We'll sing for 'em. d When l was just a beardless boy no more than six years old d l used to go akeeping crows in rain and wind and cold d Oh, well do l remember now as well as it can be d My little house... d ..thatched in the marsh agin the sea d Cahoo, cahoo, you old black crow d Go fly away to Sutton d lf you stop here twill cost you dear d l'll kill you dead as mutton (Laughter and applause) (Whispers) Shh. d lt's fare thee well, cold winter d And fare thee well, cold frost d Nothing have l gained d But my true love l've lost d l'll sing and l'll be merry d While a caution do l see d And l'll rest me when l'm weary d Let him go, farewell he d To half a pound of reason d Take a half a grain of sense d A small sprig of time d And as much of prudence d And mix them up together d As you may plainly see d l'll defy the lad for ever d Let him go, farewell he (Giggles) Poor Legg. (Hammering) Who's the next one that we see in our galanty show? Why, it's three little soldier boys standing in a row. Three little soldier boys. Standing at the battle. They hear the horses gallop. They hear the sabres rattle. Soon they'll wish that they were safely tucked up in their beds. Because...bang goes the cannon! And off comes their heads! l'm a changed man, George. A reformed one. You swept the cobwebs out of my brain. l shall never forget Tolpiddle. Go, then, and make a union of lanternists. See? The heavens! Remember us! Remember! (Pounding on door) George Loveless? Yes. You're all right. PlTT: These Iabourers - l use the word with the utmost respect - are worthy and honourable men. l've met George Loveless on several occasions. He is an honest man. He told me the men work hard. These men have the right to a decent wage for a decent job well done. Beyond this county, the wage of half a pound is tolerated. The solution is simple. A magistrate should fix the sum by law as has always been the custom. l am a magistrate, Chairman of the Bench and a member of the Grand Jury. Vicar, l understand that you were an advocate for the Tolpiddle men. And that you were present when Mr Frampton agreed to rectify their grievances. Were they not promised an extra shilling? Well? (Coughs) No. No such promise was made. Are you quite sure? He is a man of God! Mr Pitt, please don't make such a fool of yourself! The men's wages are neither here nor there. They were engaged in secret meetings, administering illegal oaths, taking the law into their own hands, and this must stop! PITT: We are talking about a union of farm labourers. Which may be offensive to some but is no longer against the law. All this nonsense about illegal oaths. lt's a trumped-up charge. lt's on the statute book, Mr Pitt. You're a magistrate. l will tell you in the strictest confidence, l have it from no less a person than the Home Sec... On the highest authority. This is the best way to proceed. We have followed every letter of the law. Cautions were posted. Yes, two days before their arrest. For an offence alleged as many months before. The men were charged before Charles Wollaston. Your brother. Half-brother! Actually. William Ponsonby committed them for trial at the assizes. - The Home Secretary's brother. - Brother-in-law! Actually. And Judge Williams will hear the trial in this very court. Judge Williams? Herod's brother. Whereas... Yes, and the King's brother. He also administers illegal oaths. As the Grandmaster of the Orange Lodge. One law for the rich and another for the poor. The whole thing is a monstrous game, a political box of tricks, with the cards stacked against innocent men. But there's one card left to be played. Public opinion. You'd be well advised to forget George Lovelace. And his kind. No-one wants to know them! And no-one will remember them! l'm terribly sorry. l'm afraid there's not much room. Ah... Oh, dear. lf you... Yes. That's all. l'm afraid the court is full. l'm terribly sorry, but the court is full. (Baby cries) (Whispering) (Whispering continues) (Muttering) (Weeping in background) What does trans...tr... Transportation. ..mean? lt means they're going a long way away on a boat. Seven years is a long time. l'm seven, aren't l? (Dog growling softly) Mr Frampton is not at home. When will he be back? l don't know. How l would love to visit Botany Bay. Have you read Cook? Readin' is for the leisured class. But when it falls into the wrong hands, it is a corrupter of morals. Strange chance that rabble-rouser Loveless falling ill, what. Can't exercise his evil powers o?er those gullible friends of his any more. Next thing we know, the wives are going to be asking for parish relief. No family is entitled to relief if they can afford to pay a shilling to join a union. Their leaders are simply feathering their own nests. l wonder if he really is the ringleader. Whether there aren't others, what. Some shadow puppet master up in London manipulating him with rods. Pass. ln some strange way, l can't help respecting him. l can't quite put my finger on it. When all was lost, his eyes looked with such uncanniness. Almost as if he had won. Hurry along, Frampton. Good night, gentlemen. Bad books. lt's not the books that's bad, my cherub. (Chains rattling) Where's it coming from? I don't want anything that doesn't belong to me. I couldn't touch it. Trust him, Betsy. It won't make up for what's happened. But it'll help. It comes from London. People of all walks of life are taking up our cause. Calling themselves the London-Dorchester Committee. They've started a petition. Meetings are being called all over the country. Questions in Parliament. They asked me to see that you and the children don't go wanting. They want you to have it. It's a gift and it'll come every week. The Lord be praised. Hetty... Hetty! Oh, people are good. Are you up to walking, sir? I'm not likely to outdo you. We're having to bash through the town. Let me remove them. It's all right. I'm not ashamed. We have injured no man's reputation, character, person, or property. We were uniting together to preserve ourselves, our wives, and our children... .. from utter degradation and starvation. (Horse-drawn vehicle passing) 'God is our guide. From field, from wave, from plough, from anvil, and from loom. We come, our country's rights to save, and speak the tyrant faction's doom. We raise the watchword "liberty". We will, we will, we will be free. ' 'God is our guide. No swords we draw. We kindle not wars, battle fires. By reason, union, justice, laws, we claim the birthright of our sires. We raise the watchword "liberty". We will, we will, we will be free. ' He meant this for you. And others like you. Not me. When you've done with it, don't throw it away. Let it go from hand to hand. My task is to teach the members of my class... .. that injustice cannot be allowed to go unchallenged. Hello, Betsy. GEORGE: I thank you, my dear wife, for the kind attention you've ever paid me. And you may safely rely on it, that as long as I live, it will be my constant endeavour to return that kindness in every possible way. And that I shall never forget the promise made at the altar. And though we may part awhile, I shall consider myself under the same obligations as though living in your immediate presence. Be satisfied, my dear, on my account. Depend upon it. It will work together for good... .. and we shall yet rejoice together. I shall do well. For he who is the lord of the wind and waves... .. will be my support... in life... .. and death. For just one penny, you can put the world in your pocket. Absolutely charming thing. - Nice journey, Captain. - A profitable one. A pound a head it pays to keep the scum alive. British? Only the very best, my dear sir. Done. (Chuckles) (Piper plays in distance) d Barnacle Bill (Men shout encouragement) Come on, more! Into line, you lot. Come on! Name? Speak up, man. Neilson. OFFICER: Can we have a few more along? Hurry it up! Name? Blotters. Name? Loveless. (Fly buzzing) Next. - Where do I go? - It's all there. OFFICER: Can we have a few more along, please? Yes, but... where is it? That's for you to find out. Next. (Kookaburra laughs) About 300 miles. It should take you nine days, a strong fellow like you. Don't eat your rations all at once or you'll starve. That way. BOY: Hey, mister! Could you help me? I don't know which way to go. Take it. Ta. Look. 'C' stands for 'convict'. No... 'comrades'. What's your name? Charlie. Well, there you are, you see. Things are more than they appear. What's yours? Christopher. No, it isn't. (Bird squawks) Men are bad. Are you bad? So, not all men are bad. The truth is... that men are born good. Tell me... .. if we planted apples in this field, and the fruit grew rich and strong, and we planted apples in that field and the fruit didn't grow rich and strong... what's to blame? Hm? Well, go on. The apples what didn't come out right, of course. No. We could have planted them here, they'd have been all right. Some of them would have come out all right, anyway. True. Some would survive in spite of everything. But we want them all to grow, don't we? You sound like a preacher. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to. It's OK. You don't look like one. (Horse's hooves approaching) Wait there. Don't move. We might be in luck here. Whoa! Sir! Whoa! I wonder if I might ask you a favour. We've got some papers. It's got a place name on it, but I don't know because I'm new round here myself. I wonder if you could help him or... if you know where that is. Charlie, come here, quick! Right, get him up. Go on, Charlie, quickly. You're in luck, lad. Come on. Hold on. Fetch his pack, then. - Here you are, boy. - Put it over your head. Thank you, ma'am. Bless you, boy. For what we're about to receive, may the Lord make us truly thankful. Amen. We will... (Voice echoes several times) .. be free! (Echoing) We will be free! (Echoing) (Insects chirrup and frogs croak) (Dingoes howl in distance) One, two! One, two! Keep together, you! One, two! One, two! One! Come on, you lazy shower of shits! Put some muscle into that. You want my boot up your arsehole? One, two! One, two! One, two! (Clattering of tools) If I catch any man shirking... And don't look at me like that. You'll be eating your own shit for breakfast. (Mutters) Stay. Stay, boy. Stay. Take it nice. There's a good boy. Take it nice. Come on, take it nice. Take it nice. Come on, take it nice. Take it... Aagh, you bastard! Bite me, would you? Bite me, you bastard? If I ever meet up with him back home, I'll show him where my foot will roam. It won't be where it ought to be, but up his arse and all for free. Keep up with us, Brine. Don't let this bastard road be our memorial. Water! Who shouted? He needs his boots. He says somebody stole 'em. Let him steal another pair. (Harmonica plays mournful tune) Are you all right there? (Drunken laughter) - Do you love me? - Of course. - Do you love me? - What do you think? - Do you? 'Cos I love you. - You're a sight, mate. (Woman laughs) (Man shouts) You remind me of Ned Ludd. Who was he? He became a she went he went machine-breaking. (Man and woman bickering) (Coins jangle) Ah... like a nice time, Bertie? (Chuckles) Huh? (Laughs drunkenly) There's not a man among you. (Cackles) Whatever you do, don't do it alone. One man is nothing. I've learned that. We're here to help each other. Go to sleep. Wait. How much? Too much. (Cicadas singing) (Grunts) Do you not like to be entertained? Hagh! Hagh! Hagh! Hagh! Hagh! Hagh! Hagh! Hagh! (Chuckles cockily) Yargh! What's this? What's this, eh? What's this? Look what I've got for you. Soldier. Come on, sweetie, come on. That's it. That's it. That's my boy. That's it. (Mouths) Good dog! Good boy, good soldier. Good soldier. If you dig any deeper, you'll reach England. (Laughs) MAN: You there! Yes, you! Not you, you imbecile! Don't they understand the plain English? Our Father, which art in heaven Hallowed be Thy name Thy kingdom come Thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven Give us this day our daily bread And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors Lead us not into temptation But deliver us from evil Amen. Tell me something more about yourself for identification, monsieur. I was born William Moncrieff Norfolk, New Year's Day in the year 1790. Educated at Harrow and Oxford. Commanded a regiment at Waterloo. Great times. (Clears throat) I came to New South Wales as governor of this province. My wife finds the climate here oppressive, suffers from the vapours. Longs to go back to Grantham. Pines pathetically for the values of the mother country. Women are happier at home, of course. They shouldn't meddle in the outside world. Our daughter, Flower, has adapted rather better. She's taken to horses. She'll make an excellent marriage one day. I sometimes feel the urge to have more children - a son. But my wife and I... It's like a square peg in a round hole. (Norfolk sighs) Now I regard the subjects of this province as my family. I'm a martyr to duty, public service, diplomacy. It's generally acknowledged I have promoted a measure of stability where before there was none. Merci, monsieur. It is obvious you possess a very liberal turn of mind, a quality that is greatly appreciated in my country. You will of course be familiar with les raisons d'tre of the French Revolution: libert, galit, fraternit. Your aperitive, sir. Apritif! Sacr bleu! Tell me another one of your wonderful stories, Stanfield. I don't think I know any more. But you must! You promised me! I know you were only pretending. I don't always understand what Jesus says. Do you? If Papa said such things, he would become a laughing stock, wouldn't he? I have a daughter... .. just about your age. Don't forget to clean my shoes. You must learn to read, to write, and think for yourselves. You must use this... .. not this. If we fight amongst ourselves, we perpetuate our serfdom... .. because they know we will never stand together against them. You're becoming quite famous, Mr Stanfield, quite the celebrity. People in high places are championing your cause. I envy you. You should read about yourself. Tell me... .. what is this Society of Friends, the wisdom of which you are so eager to bestow on others? To whom, I may say, I've already extended the hand of friendship. Perhaps you could wish to share it with me? I am, as you know, as indeed all must know, a fair man. Why, I'm willing to talk to anyone who'll listen to me. You won't read about yourself? You should. Mr Stanfield... we are not uneducated men, are we? The field was my university. Stanfield, I respect your homespun philosophy. But I cannot have you preaching insurrection. The native population are little more than savages, in spite of my efforts to rescue them from extinction. Surely you must realise the impropriety of er... .. arousing them? I know that we are all God's children. You imbecile! You snivelling workhouse guttersnipe! How dare you? How dare you fetch your filthy stench to foul the air? You contaminating labouring scab! Get out! Get out, before I send you back where you belong, inside your whore's belly! (Sobs) (Branches crack) Hurry? Well, I was beginning to think there were no more people living in the world. You're the first person I've seen in a week. I'm making for the Governor's country residence. Have you got anything to eat? Here. See for yourself. You want to go that way. Which way are you going? That way. Where have you come from? That way. Why are you going so fast? You want to get there, don't you? I'm going to see my father. I haven't seen him in three years. (Charlie moans softly) Hey, don't fret now. We'll find something to eat tomorrow. You know, when I get home... .. I'll not go hungry again, that's for sure. I'll forget about this place. No child of mine will know what I've been through. Now, if I was the Lord Mayor... .. I'd get rid of the old way of life. There'd be no more bowing and scraping. I'd build a new world. Do you hear me, Charlie? (Charlie snores) Oh, well. Look! Oh, it's beautiful. - Good? - Mm. See them up there? They're the biggest. That's the boy. A few more. That's good. Charlie! Charlie? (Shrill whistle) Come here! Come! Bring 'em round. Bring 'em back. (Whistling and sheep bleating) Come on! Go! Turn 'em round! Bring 'em back. - Good night, ma'am. - Good night. - Good day's work, yeah? - It was. (Plays tune) Are we saying good night, then, ma'am? Tell me, James, are you happy here working for me? Yes. I've been happy enough, Mrs Carlyle. Mrs Carlyle! Mrs Carlyle. My name's Violet. Yes, ma'am. Do you know, ever since my husband... Do you know, I've never heard my name for three whole years? I was prepared to think I never had one. Have you ever thought, James, to make yourself a life out here? I mean, this country has a lot to offer for a man like you. How should I have managed without you? I could see to it that you had every opportunity. I could arrange for your wife and your children to come and join you. I'm childless. Ah, it's terrible to be alone with oneself. I do wish you'd consider it. I'm not getting any younger. I love my wife. (Beckons and clicks tongue) I'm sorry to lose you. This is from your brother. George? 'My dearest brother, I pray to God my message reaches you at last. I've tried all manner of means, but hearing nothing from you, I've feared the worst. It gladdens my heart to alert you to the news of our freedom. The Good Lord has looked into the hearts of men, and shown them that, imperfect as we are, we did never countenance violence nor any violation of the law. Good friends at home have rallied to our cause and argued long and hard on our behalf. Rejoice, my long lost brother, in the free pardon granted to us. See to it that you complete your work to the best of your ability, that our time here may be said to be honestly done. We shall all be waiting to welcome you, all save Hammett, of whom there is no trace. Fear not, brother. He that is for us is more than all that is against us. We will, we will be free. Your ever loving brother, George Loveless. ' (Sings to himself) Come on. That's good. Ah, s, s. S, bella, bella. (Chuckles) Bella. Bellissima! No touch. It's very hot, you understand? It's hot, it's... (Sizzles) Ah, hot! Caldo. Molto caldo. No touch, no. You come with me. I take your image. I take image of you. You understand? Come, come. I show you. I show you. Standing here. Standing very still. Like so. Very still. You stand. Good. Yeah, very good. Very good. Stand here, very still. Good, good, good. (Chuckles) Molto, molto bene! Mwah! Mwah! (Chuckles) Oh, it's so good. Don't move! Ges bambino! Madonna di Dio! Hey! Get a... Get away! You get a... Go away! Go away! Va via! Move! Move! Move! No, no, no. Mo?e, mo?e! No, no, no, no! Stay still. No, you, get away! Get... Oh, mamma mia! You, stay, but you, move! Stay very still! Dieci, nove, otto, sette, sei, cinque, quattro, tre, due, uno! (Tinkling) (Whistles) Hammett! Ges! (Clattering) (Wails) (Mutters angrily) What do you do? You destroy my work! (Wails) Idiota! (Photographer sobs) (Cackles) (Audience gasps) (Cackles) AUCTIONEER: Magnificent creature, ladies and gentlemen. Feast yourself on that gleaming, naked flesh - the arms... made for lifting heavy loads, the back, like a mule. Come now, ladies and gentlemen. You all look as if you could do with a little domestic assistance. (Ribald laughter) The torso, ladies and gentlemen. The biceps! Ah, ladies and gentlemen, what am I bid for this fine human specimen? What am I bid? He may be a bit rough and ready, but treat him right, I say, and there's a hard day's work in him yet. I want to hear the sound of money, ladies and gentlemen. Four shillings. Now, there's a lady of measure. FOP: Five shillings. WOMAN. Six shillings. FOP: Seven shillings. WOMAN: Eight shillings. FOP: Nine shillings. Dig deep into your pockets. I want to hear the jingle of coin. Is there any advance on 17 shillings? FOP: 18. Do I hear a pound? Will anyone give me a round pound? Look at the muscles, ladies and gentlemen. One pound. Going, for a pound. Going, going... gone for a pound! Thank you, sir. Jump! (Whispers) The bastard. He won't lick me. I'll see him in hell first. So how's it feel to join the nobility? If you were old enough to know better, I'd chop your balls off. There's one thing you don't do, son. And that's turn against your own kind. There's some folk that think they're better than others. They're not. They're just more selfish, that's all. What's your name? Out here, I have no name. Why are you here? I'm here instead of my brother. What's the difference? We're all brothers. What did your brother do? He's a carpenter, a craftsman. If it wasn't for him and others like him, then everything would just fall apart. I mean, what crime did he commit? Him? Oh, he didn't do anything wrong. He just wanted to see folks treated right. He believed in what he was doing. And out there, there are five others just like him. Now that I know what they've been through, I admire them. I count myself one of them. All my life, people thought they owned me. But I'm a free man. In here, where it counts, I am a free man. No matter how other men may treat you, they can never own your soul. Remember that. Push! Run! Jump! Agh! CHARLIE: Help! Help! (Men laugh) Help! Get down here. You are a very silly young man. Come on, run. Run. So, comrade... are you going to tell us your name, or aren't you? Are you going to tell us your name, or aren't you? Free man. My name... .. is Adam Freeman. (Heavy thud) Now, you just sign this transportation order. I'll give you a receipt. He'll be sent to the penal settlement at Norfolk Island... .. the dwelling of devils in human form, and refuse of Botany Bay, doubly damned. He'd be better off dead. (Thunder cracks) (Audience whistles and claps) (Cheering) Ladies and gentlemen, it is my privilege to stand here as a representative of you all - many thousands of men and women from all parts of the country... .. whose prayers and entreaties and remonstrances... .. have brought about the return of these ill-used men. (Applause) And... And have supported their families... .. during their long and arduous exile. (Cheering) I do not have to remind you that the women have suffered along with their men. We shall not forget the authors and abettors of this cruel and vindictive violation of the laws of humanity. Most truly, those men have earned for themselves an ignoble fame. But my task today is to praise and thank those others who have helped our cause. (Crowd shouts out names) Robert Owen! Cobbett! Grantwell! Whitley! Moore and Pitt! (Pitt chuckles) Yes. But see who have really lent their weight to these joint efforts. The silk weavers, shipwrights, - joiners... - Trimmers! - .. cordwainers... - Blacksmiths! - .. journeymen tailors... - Whitesmiths! - .. hatters... - Brassmakers! - .. corkers... - Tin-plate workers. - Bricklayers! - Blacksmiths! Glass-blowers! - Trimmers! - Wheelers! Brassmakers! Yes, yes, yes. Paper stainers, coach painters... Gardeners! .. and gardeners. To all of you, our heartfelt thanks. (Applause) And finally, ladies and gentlemen, let us thank our friend the lanternist, who, through the power of optics and its magical transformations, has told the story here today. It was almost as though he had been present throughout himself. (Applause) Ars magna lucis et umbrae. George. (Applause and cheering) Comrades... .. I believe that God works by means and man. Under such an impression, I call upon every working man in England... .. to shake off that supineness and indifference to their interests which leave them in the situation of slaves. Has not the working man as much right to preserve and protect his labour... .. as the rich man has his capital? Such a measure, I'm well aware, will be dreaded, reviled, reprobated by the moneyed part of the nation. They would devise all those schemes, stratagems and policy that the art and cunning of man can invent... .. to thwart and retard it. But let the working classes of Britain, seeing the necessity of acting upon such a principle, remembering that union is power, listen to nothing that might be presented before them to draw their attention from the subject, alike despising and conquering party disputes, personal bickerings... .. and they will accomplish their own salvation and that of the world. Let every working man come forward... .. from north to south, from east to west. Unite firmly but peaceably together... .. as the heart of one man. And then, no longer would the interests of the millions be sacrificed for the gain of a few. But the blessings resulting from such a change... .. would be felt by us... .. and our posterity - even to generations yet unborn. # We'll win the day, we'll win the day # Though death and hell obstruct our way # We only need to watch and pray # And then we're sure to win the day # And when we reach that happy land # With flags unfurled on Zion's strand # New land of hope, our heads we'll lay # And shall to think we've won the day # We'll win the day, we'll win the day # Though death and hell obstruct our way # We only need to watch and pray # And then we're sure to win the day # A poor man to labour, believe me, 'tis so # To maintain his family is willing to go # Either hedging or ditching to plough or to reap # But how does he live on eight shillings a week? # Eight shillings a week # Oh, how does he live on eight shillings a week? # So, now to conclude and to finish my song # May the times be much better before it's too long # May every labourer be able to keep # His children and wife on 12 shillings a week # 12 shillings a week # His children and wife on 12 shillings a week # And it's fare thee well, cold winter # And fare thee well, cold frost # Nothing have I gained # But my true love I've lost # I'll sing and I'll be merry # While a caution do I see # And I'll rest me when I'm weary # Let him go, farewell he # As I was a-walking # Through a shady green grove # He met me with a smiling face # And gave to me the road # He thought I would have spoke to him # As I passed by # But before I will humble to him # I will lay me down and die # To half a pound of reason # Take a half a grain of sense # A small sprig of time # And as much of prudence # And mix them up together # As you may plainly see # I'll defy the lad for ever # Let him go, farewell he
