 

                        [wistful music] %% [hair dryer whirring] (Dennis) Hollywood is a place where dreams are made And dreams are broken. Everybody and their mother wants to go out for that lead role. Sure, a doctor saves lives, but is he remembered? Is his-- is he there for all times? Like people are still talking about Marilyn Monroe. People are still talking about, you know, Elvis Presley. People in the entertainment business are forever here. (Allen) yeah, it's just like, It's the money, and it's the fame. It's, you know, that's all what it's about. Actors now are making, God, $20 million a movie, you know. (McQueen) and it's tough, you know. It's tough being out here by yourself Trying to be this actor, you know, this actress. (Dennis) we're like ambassadors to Hollywood boulevard, But at the same time, We're out there trying to sell ourselves To the media, the public, Producers, directors alike. Hello, citizens. Welcome. How are you? I'm doing quite super. [laughs] Hi, there, Princess. (woman) get a picture with him. Yeah, go. Come on in. Uh, we do work on tips, okay? Okay. My name is Christopher Lloyd Dennis, And I play superman, Aka, kal-el. Afternoon, citizens. For Christ sakes, put on some clothes. Oh, that's right. I'm using my x-Ray vision again. I was born here in California, Decided that I was gonna become an actor, Because my mother was an actress. Can you guys take a photo for them? (woman) yes, sure. Thank you. She will take photo. My name is maximus "Batman" Allen. First came out here, it was-- I had no intentions of becoming an actor, So it just kind of came to place. Yeah, we work on tips, if it's okay. It's just--yeah, whatever you want to tip. Right here. All right, here we go, folks. All right, I'll give it here. My name is Jennifer Gehrt. Yes, so this is my insane occupation. This is what I do. I put these boots on, and I go out there, And I take pictures with tourists. Say, "cheese," baby. Cheese. (man) hey, how are you? Hi, my name's Joe McQueen, and I play the Hulk. I was born, originally, in Pinehurst, North Carolina. Thank you. Thank you. Bye-bye. You know, I get, "hey, hey, man, the Hulk's not a black man." And I'll be like, "well, he is if you're in Hollywood." Tourism is alive and well in Hollywood. I'm Leron Gubler, president and CEO Of the Hollywood chamber of commerce. The allure of Hollywood is the magic associated With the film industry, the thought that, "maybe, just maybe, I might be able to meet someone who's famous." Some people used to say it's the boulevard of broken dreams, But it's actually the boulevard of dreams come true as well. We give out stars on the walk of fame. And it's interesting to me how frequently The stars who are honored say That one of the first things they did When they came to Los Angeles was come to Hollywood And walk down Hollywood boulevard, Looking at those stars, saying, "someday I'm going to have a star." Well, the characters are an entity, An issue unto themselves. There's a place for them, As long as they don't get too aggressive. Our police work very closely with us To keep that on the top of their minds And to educate the characters That they are ambassadors for the community. (Shea) difficult? I would not say it's difficult working with the characters. I think I'd be hard-pressed to say that. It's annoying sometimes but not difficult. Hey, do you know where the line Between the public property and the private property is? That's it. That's it. [Chewbacca growls] Ah, rrrr, yeah. You can see there's lines, But it's these double lines right in here, And this is the private property on this side, And that's the city sidewalk. I'm not quite sure about the DMZ there, But... Well, they ought to be thrown out of there, And everybody in town has tried to get them out, And I hope they see this. I say "hello" to them when I go by. Some of them are dirty. Some of the costumes are ridiculous. Does anyone know any one of their names? Are they personally What the people are taking the pictures of Or is it the costume they're wearing? I always felt if I had a superpower, There's no way I would wear a costume. I'm a showoff. I'd want everybody to know. I wouldn't wear a mask and conceal my identity, And I wouldn't want to look like an idiot in some costume. Well, you see, it's a public sidewalk, And the theater would like to get rid of them. They'd like to get them out of there. They're panhandlers. You know, they come up, And they pose a picture with you, Like, "oh, this is gonna be for free," And then they stick their hand out and want five bucks. Uh, we don't work for tips. We accept tips. The process is supposed to--okay? Go like this: Would you like a-- picture? Sure, now, we work on tips, if it's okay. How much? (Allen) you want just me or-- Yeah. Okay, here. (Allen) as the tourists come up, you-- They have to come up to you. Okay, that's also a law that says You cannot come up to them and solicit photos to them. They have to come up to you. You also cannot name amounts unless you have a permit. It's usually one each. Okay, and it's usually fine doing more, If that's okay. You can't expect to get a tip, because a tip is not mandatory, You know, and nobody has to give you a tip. On a bad day, I will go in. I'll get out there, and I'll start working At, like, 12:00. I'll work till 3:00, and I make about $30. And I'm like, "you know what? I could have done this at another job." I got the whole effect. (Gehrt) but on a good day, We're really taking in the crowd and we have good energy-- 'cause that's important-- Thank you, sir. (Gehrt) I'll make about $150 an hour. What's this tasmanian devil? Here you go, sweetheart. Okay, I'll see you later. (man) can I get a picture of you by yourself? Oh, yes, of course. (Allen) it's tips, you know. Tips, donacion, pourboire-- [speaking foreign language] You know, pick a language. [laughs] Okay. Thank you. (Allen) and like I said, I've been tipped anywhere from, God, a quarter-- thank you very much-- To $100-- I mean, one shot. Me and superman both got a $100 Bill. Thank you. (Allen) now, hold on. I got the last one; this one's yours. (Dennis) okay, well, I'll keep it. (Allen) okay, as good as one on one, all right. I told him, I said, "you know, this is not a $1 Bill." And he goes, "oh, no, no problem." "thank you very much, man." Uh, two. There it is. And the next one is yours. Right. Hello, folks, welcome. (Dennis) we can make between $200 to $300 a day. And on a really good day, you could make about $595. Who's out there? Okay, we have two Jack sparrows, Fiona. There's about three supergirls. There's three Marilyn Monroes, Three Elvises, Pinhead from Hellraiser, Batman, About six spider-men, Wonder woman. We have these guys that we call the En Garde Buddies, Because they don't really have a movie character That they're doing. We have Charlie Chaplin, Who has now changed himself to some sort of Japanese geisha man or something. So there's quite a list. (Dennis) hi, did you want a photo? (Ghost Rider) don't forget Ghost Rider. (Dennis) and we have Ghost Rider. We do accept tips, okay. You're scary. I know, but I'm a good guy. You got to remember there's a lot of dos and don'ts As a superhero. But if you abide by them, you'll do okay. Well, just remember, superheroes don't smoke. It's an image. Except Ghost Rider. No, Ghost Rider doesn't smoke. He's made of fire. But still, he doesn't smoke cigarettes. You can't make exceptions for something That doesn't exist. You'll never see Ghost Rider smoking a cigarette Walking down the street. It's just not proper. You never see me smoking a cigarette Out here in costume, And you never will. Rambo. (man) Ghost Rider. How you doing? What's up, Ghost Rider? Not much. (woman) superman, superman. Hello. I need superman. You may have superman. I need superman. Oh, my God. Wow, I don't get that much action. Sorry, I love superman. Thank you. Make it look cute. (woman) okay. There you go. Okay. (Dennis) thank you very much. Thank you. You're welcome. You guys have a great time. (woman) you too. Wow, did you see where her hand was? (woman) I have taken at least A dozen pictures, And I have not been tipped once. I'm about ready to fly. Well, that's okay. It's not mandatory that anyone tips. I think it's like theft. No, it's not. You walk into a store, and you get a service, And you don't pay for it, And you just walk away like it's nothing? Well, out here, it's not mandatory. Of course, but I mean, it's only kind and considerate. People look at you like... What kind of an attitude is that? Exactly. I'm sorry. It's just time after time, I took five-- at least over five, Seven pictures with these orientals, And they just-- just--it just-- And then somebody saw them not pay me, And I asked them, you know, And then they didn't want to do it. It's like domino effect. And now these guys-- Well, it's not mandatory that anyone pays. But-- I know, but come on. You know, we could be out here all day And not make anything. I know, but I usually-- at least a dollar. Come on, just at least a dollar. [hair dryer whirring] (Dennis) I like to consider myself to be a historian of superman And the keeper of artifacts. This is superman the movie And superman ii, the movie soundtracks. They're signed by the whole cast. (Allen) everybody has one of these friends that are just like-- They're, like, really weird, really out there. He is so strange, And there are some times when it's like, God, this is a train wreck, but you can't look away. You can't. This is basically the diorama that I built Out of cardboard and other pieces of paper And whatnot. This is the departure from krypton. This would be a scene from the Christopher reeve Superman the movie. Yes, obsessed. He is, yeah, he's very bold and very obsessed. That would be the one word for superman. (Dennis) I've also started up with a new diorama. It's actually right behind me. It's going to be the three villains But right now, Ursa doesn't have her head on, Because I still need to find a head. Well, that body sure makes a good Ursa, Doesn't it? Well, you're gonna love this. That's actually a wonder woman body. (Bonnie) I'm a PHd student in psychology, and I'm working on my thesis. I get all kinds of jokes about being in my field And being with Chris. [sighs] Chris is 1 in 10 billion. He's somebody who's able to fixate On something that he's passionate about In the extreme, Far beyond what most-- Any mortal man will do. Yes, most ordinary, mortal men would do. And, uh, yeah, Obsessive doesn't even begin to really describe it, But, um, I'm not sure if there are words Existing in our language to describe-- Only on krypton. Yeah, well, that's-- I think-- There you go. I think that's what it is. It may be that we would find the appropriate words And emphases fully on another planet. This is four years, four years in the making. And we've got-- Every one of those books and stuff That's right there on that shelf over there Is all superman-related as well. We spent about $70,000 to $80,000, Maybe even $90,000 worth of merchandise. You haven't been back this way real quick. (Bonnie) hey, what are you doing here? We can zip off into that way. Yeah, but I'm going that way. (Dennis) we're starting to put some posters up in here. This is gonna be like a poster and action figure room. We got a lot of action figures on the walls And stuff here as well. How much would I guess it's worth? I would probably say That we're probably sitting close to $1 million or more. I've never seen someone so taken in by-- It's like he's suffocating in the world of superman. Suffocating, no-- He has suffocated. He cannot breathe anymore. That is the only thing that he knows, But that's part of his charm. I am wonder woman on Hollywood boulevard At Manns Chinese theater-- Not with Manns Chinese theater, just at Manns Chinese theater. (man) where are you from? I'm from Knoxville, Tennessee. I thought you were from Maynardville. Okay, I'm from Maynardville, But nobody knows that hole in the wall. Um, there's, like, a population Of between 2,000 to 2,500 people. My grandpa is the judge of the town. My dad's a minister. My mom and my aunt run the union farmer's co-op. (Fred Wenger) her name--Jenny-- You named her after a horse, didn't you? Jenny? Yeah, you know, that's-- The mule--the female mule is a Jenny, And the-- she's stubborn as a mule. She's gonna really enjoy that you told about that. The male donkey is a Jack, And the female's a Jenny. That's why-- her name--Jenny. [children babbling] (all) % happy birthday to you. % [girls shouting rhythmically] [girls singing indistinctly] %% (man) is that camera on over there? [together] yeah. We knowed she was gonna be in movies From when she was little. We'd say it all the time. My dad was very-- "there's only one way to do things, "and there's only one way to get to Heaven, "and there's this set of rules that God has for everyone, "and you should just follow them, Or you're going to hell." And my mom was a little bit more loose with that. She let me be a human, and she let me make mistakes. And she knows all my mistakes, But she knows all my accomplishments as well. And my dad missed out on some of my accomplishments Because he was too busy worrying about mistakes. The year that she was a cheerleader, They won the national champions, didn't they? They won the cheer-off. It wasn't the national-- It was a cheer-off at six flags over Georgia. But they'd never done that before. No. People thought that I should love high school And that I should-- I was voted miss union county in high school And best all-around my senior year, And I was homecoming Queen. I was on homecoming court my Junior year, And I was voted miss freshman And always--you would think that I had a lot of fun, But I hated high school. I graduated early to get out of there. I just hated it so bad. I just felt like I was suffocating in that town. (Karen Wenger) she made a few "b"s, you know, mostly "a"s, And she made a few "b"s, But that wasn't the important thing for her in school. It was socializing. That was what she was here for: To make everybody happy By spreading her own little quality, Own little brand of sunshine Around everybody's day every day. She thought that she was put here to entertain The people here. This wasn't where she was supposed to go and learn. I always liked to perform. Cheerleading, you know, I loved to choreograph dances and stuff like that. So performing was what I wanted to do. I knew that. She done many a musical or play up there. If people were gonna be on a stage, She wanted to be there too. [mechanical whirring] Here's what happened the day I decided to move to L.A. I was at college. I was a college cheerleader, and I came home for fall break, And I just laid on the floor and cried. She always had that little bit of unhappiness about her. She could never be happy here. And she and I were sitting in the living room. She was kind of upset one night, And she's like, "I'm never gonna get to be what I want to be, "do what I want to do, you know. I'm stuck here in this town." And it was just blah, blah, blah. She was real upset, and I said, "Jenny, if you want to go, go. And she said, "well, do you want to get on a plane and go to L.A.?" And I said, "yes." It's like she totally knew. She goes, "how soon do you think I could go?" I said, "when do you want to go?" She said, "I want to go tomorrow." I said, "okay, we'll book a flight." And she was gone, just like that. Mm-hmm. Well, the reason why I moved out here is, You know, at a young age, you know, I had this acting bug. And I'm from North Carolina, so, you know, It can really get pretty boring, And, you know, you want to go see other things in life, So I was like, "you know what?" I just sold my super nintendo, Got me a greyhound bus ticket, and headed out here. When I first got here, The Rodney king riots had started. It was, like, the second day of it. It was like a wakeup call. "welcome to L.A.," you know. Got to town, riots were going on. I was a scared young black man, didn't know what to do, Saw all these, you know, cops, undercovers, Busting all the looters. My thing was to get to safety and find refuge, So being a country boy, I said, "you know what? "I'm headed for the hills, 'cause I know ain't no looters gonna run up here, you know." My biggest obstacle, you know, trying to make it out here As being an actor, you know, my teeth. You know-- you know, every--you know, Every celebrity that I know in Hollywood Has perfect white teeth. And but, you know, people keep telling me, "oh, well, look at Steve Buscemi's teeth." I say, "well, that's Steve Buscemi. "you know, he's been in the game longer than I have, And people just accept him." Hey, what's up? (man) how are you? How you doing? You know, I'm still in a, you know, a hard rock, You know, out here, trying to change my life. You know, it's not easy. What's up, guys? Hey. How you doing? Are you hot? No, I'm used to it. [laughs] I feel so much like a loser, because I didn't come out here To get in a costume and stand on Hollywood boulevard To make chump change. You know, I'm out here seriously Trying to make a name for myself. Howdy. To me, it was a different way of panhandling. I have to say "performing," you know, for money. You know, and that's basically what I see it as. Originally, I'm from Texas. I was born and raised there. Born in Austin, raised in Houston and Dallas, And then lived in Waco The last few years I was in Texas. Youngest of, you know, three kids, An older brother, an older sister. You know the whole scenario. So yeah, kind of a rambunctious kid, Let's just say, Rebellious, and then-- So it was kind of a rough childhood. Batman, I just-- I kind of fit in to it. It just kind of fell in place more or less in '87. I didn't really start to get into acting Till about '89. And it was just extra work, And of course, you need money to invest into, like, headshots And everything else. And of course, at the time, I didn't have it. So it took me-- you know, it's an investment. Acting is actually an investment. Then everybody started telling me, "you know, you look just like George Clooney," And I couldn't figure out who George Clooney was, So of course, er. So that made it even worse for me as an actor, Because, you know, now you're a look-alike. I've actually got a black belt in tae kwon do, Got one in tiger kung fu. I studied ninjutsu for a bit, And then of course, I know hand-to-hand From the special forces training. So of course, I started doing look-alike things, You know, trying to, you know, fit in somewhere. And that's when I met superman, superman Chris. And he'd been doing superman out in the boulevard For, God, 11 years. And so he said, "you know, you should come out And work with me as George Clooney," Of course, the doctor from er, and that's how I started out. Well, I like Batman. I think the whole deal is pretty good. He gets a lot of attention on the boulevard. He's done birthday parties and has done Christmas parties At, like, elderly high-rises as-- Actually, that he doesn't do as Batman. He does his Dr. Douglas Ross, Because he looks like George Clooney. And, um... But yeah, it's a living. It helps pay the bills, 'cause I'm disabled, So I'm not able to work right now. My relationship with my wife is very good. Well, my wife, I guess she likes-- My wife likes what I do. She actually wishes, of course, I made more money at doing it, But she's kind of proud of the fact That she can tell people that she's married to Batman, For one thing, and the fact that I look like George Clooney. She likes that fact too. (Sandra) "describe Maxwell." Well, he's--all in all, he's a good man. He's a good provider. He's spontaneous, very protective, Protective of what he loves and what he cares about. He has a bit of a anger problem. He doesn't necessarily take the anger out on me, But he usually tends to get angry over things That he cannot control. Love you. Take care. You're on your own then. (Sandra) if he would realize that getting angry doesn't change it, He would have a better handle on his anger. [engine revving] (Dennis) you being a superman fan, you should know this. Metropolis, Illinois, is the home of superman. All right, metropolis, Illinois, All right, really does exist. The second weekend of June, They hold a superman celebration. Oh, wow. All right, they always have the celebrities show up. This year, because Christopher reeve had just passed on, They're doing a special send-off. Margot kidder will be there, who played who? (woman) is she okay? She's fine. Okay. What am I trying to achieve? I want to become a leading actor. Well, hi, there. Hi. How are you? I'm fine. Would you like to fly away? Yes. (woman) wait a minute, okay. Since she's going for the dip... My mother was Sandy Dennis, an actress: Who's afraid of Virginia Woolf? The out-of-towners, splendor in the grass, Sweet November. She got two consecutive Tonys and an Oscar. It is the only thing that I own that I really care about. Now, I'm not gonna forget it, and I'm not gonna leave it. I don't care what you do or where you go-- You're upset. (Dennis) on her deathbed, She still wanted me to get into the movie industry, So I figured, "well, it couldn't hurt anything. It's done her pretty good and whatnot." So I figured, "what the heck? I'll give it a shot." (Pam Dennis) when she was-- started doing the movies, And she started making more money, Then she just started being generous with her money, You know, by sending grandma places that she wanted to do And having us girls come and spend time with her. You know, I spent a Summer in England with her When I was 16, and I mean, good grief. You know, she just bought me, like, everything I ever wanted. You know, it was like a teenager's dream. She basically kept a very private life, You know, with her family and stuff like that. She didn't want a lot of this stuff out. (Gehrt) my fourth night in the town-- In town, period, Fourth night ever, I went to a broadcast seminar. And I went in late, And another Guy came in late behind me And sat down and started ripping jokes. We were telling jokes together, and we just really clicked, And we traded numbers. Then two weeks later, We were out to eat for my birthday, And he just-- he asked me what I wanted to do. And I said, "I don't know. You know, what do you want to do?" He was like, "well, do you want to go watch a movie? I was like, "no, we always go out to movies." He was like, "well, do you want to go to Vegas and get married?" And I said, "sure." He said, "are you serious?" I said, "yeah, you're not serious?" He said, "yeah." And so he said, "check, please." (Gehrt) hey, honey. Hey. Say something to our kids. So you didn't think your dad was cool, eh? I was cool back in the day, because I'm 26, And you see how hip I was. So we're at the Rio hotel in Vegas style, And it's a countdown about, What, seven hours till we get married? [laughing] (Chris) so now, wait, when you marry me, You get all the bad credit too. Yes. So if you-- if we ever get divorced, Then you get half of by bad credit And half of my debt. So you've got to take that half. It might be worth it. So we're ready to rock. What's the name of this place? (man) Steve's buy and sell. Steve's buy and sell, So if you ever want to get married--oh, yeah. [laughs] All right, next step: Let's go get that license. Okay, so it's official. Hey, come here, you little shit. We just got married, And the lady at burger king didn't give a crap. You notice that? It was the best reception I've ever been to Until our second one. [laughs] Wow. I love you. Eh, hey. (McQueen) I was homeless for approximately four years. It was actually something I would never push on anybody else, Especially being homeless at a young age. I still managed to do my auditions Because I was serious, And I felt like my energy needed to give off because of my pain. And like they always say in Hollywood, "use that energy to bring out the best in you." I tell you, every audition that I managed to get to, It was tough, because I had my bags with me, You know, and I felt embarrassed, Because everybody else, You know, was either driving, you know, or dressed nice. And my goal was not to let anybody else know I'm homeless Just by, you know, the clothes you wear. I always managed to wake up early in the morning, Go to McDonalds, You know, use that as my bathroom, But at the same time, you know, I would get, you know, People, you know, looking at me. You know, my hygiene wasn't all there at sometimes, You know, 'cause I would walk places. My worst experience was actually getting laughed at At an audition. And I don't wish that upon anybody, So it kind of hurt me. Yo, this is it right here. This is the old area. I remember, late night, midnight, Me coming to get some sleep, and I would head this way. Right here is where Joe McQueen slept. Right here. Wow. I guess it's nothing now, but this is where I would hide From everybody, right here. Wow. They put a whole gate here, man. Yeah, you know, I had my whole setup right here. You know, I would put my blanket right here And go to sleep into the next day. And then I would hear the store owner's footsteps. That's what would wake me up. That was like my alarm clock, you know, like, He would say, "okay, get up, get up, time to get up." You know, but wow, things change. (woman) hey, do a punch. [speaking foreign language] Okay, we turn in with the heel. Turn all the way. Okay, what are we doing here? Sorry. Turn-- Turn straight with the heels. Yeah, turn and-- hey! Well, okay, now martial arts and stuff was-- I kind of got thrown into it way back when. I started working for a guy, a very rich guy, And that's where I got into the martial arts, Because he wanted body guards and stuff. So that's when I got into the martial arts, And then I got into boxing. And then of course, he had his own stunt car thing, So he put me as the driver. That's how I became the driver, and actually, I got into guns and all that because, you know, Doing the bodyguarding back in Texas. And so, yeah, so I just became, actually, very good at it, And so now I'm trying to make a living at it. The heel. Turn with the heel. And, okay, from here-- change your-- That's fine, okay. Actually, the other way, right? No, this hand's right here, So you've got to change your other leg, okay. (Allen) we weren't exactly on the side of the law, But let's just say by-- not by choice, okay? I had to work for-- The man I worked for, like I said, The guy was very rich, but he was also very Italian, And we'll leave that there. Very man-- with very long Italian names. [speaking foreign language] And of course, me, I played bodyguard and security, And of course, made him money in the ring. And I used to fight under the name of maximus canavino. That's--and of course, we were gladiators. That's when the movie gladiator came out, And I thought that was just the bomb. Ooh, nice. [both laughing] There are some things that have happened in Maxwell's past That I think were detrimental to him. I think some of it was a little shady, Kind of like gang-oriented type things. Okay, as far as doing the things you see in the movies, Such as collecting, collections and stuff like that, Unfortunately, the answer would be yes. Not that we would break kneecaps, But we would make them think of death. We have--I have slapped a few men around more than once Because of the fact that they wouldn't do What they were supposed to. (Goulston) well, Bruce Wayne. We meet again. How you doing, sir? Nice office. How you doing, sir? Pleasure to meet you. Nice costume. Batman--well, let's just say Batman has a lot of suppressed anger For one thing. Yeah, a lot of skeletons in the closet, Let's just say. [laughs] So yeah, but for years, I've probably needed to see a psychiatrist, Someone to help me with the problems Or how to overcome the problem. And the biggest problem is the anger. Anger's probably the thing now. What triggers it? God, a lot of things, a lot of things. But all my life, I mean, you know, All my life, even as a kid, I've always had suppressed anger, Always had a fight, always had a battle. You know, and of course, in the younger years, There's a lot of bad things I did back then. Have you ever hurt someone real bad? Oh, yes. Unfortunately, yes. Uh, like to the hospital and then some or-- And then some. We-- yeah, we won't-- Well, yeah, they've already-- Yeah, I've, uh, Unfortunately left a body count between that one too. (Dennis) you're giving me a hard time. Pardon me. Pardon me, guys. Cutting through, guys. Here come the limos. Here they are. They're here. Antonio! He's signing. Melanie's here. She's over there. Hey, Melanie! Antonio! Antonio! Over here! Antonio! (man) I think he's coming. (Dennis) Antonio! Antonio, please. Can you please sign the DVD right here for me? Thank you. Yes, we got Antonio Banderas, and we got Antonio Banderas. We got them both. [exotic music playing] %% (Dennis) hi, you sure may. There we go. Oh, we do work on tips. Let's see if I have dollars. So do you do this all the time? When I'm not working in movies and TV shows. Okay. I'm serious. I'm also an actor. Let's see, I've been in, like, 18 movies, 9 TV shows, 4 commercials, and a couple music videos. % moving to the left, moving to the right.% % moving to the right. % % give it up. % % do the lumba. % % give it up to the Summer. % % doo-doo-doo-doo-doo. % There's just so many of us That they don't know who to take the chances on. You know, you have to really give them something That lets them say, "ooh, money. I can make money with this one." All righty. Good morning. Good morning. So tell me the bottom line, what we're doing, And what you want to accomplish. Okay, I have a meeting with a manager tomorrow. Uh-huh. So I need a manager, 'cause my agent doesn't work for me, And I've signed a two-year contract with her. Okay. And I need somebody who's gonna work for me, 'cause this is a scene from a movie That I got down to the bottom two, But my agent wasn't working for me, And if I could just have somebody in my corner, I feel like I could be a lot more successful. Now let's read through this first scene And see what happens. Okay. Get away from me. Listen, Lise, it wasn't me. Well, then, who else was it, then? You're serious. I can't take it anymore. I can't take the bickering, The mood swings when you go on steroids, The fighting, your pimply ass, And most of all, your perverted behavior. Okay, so we'll start doing it from the front. Are you going or am I? You know, you're no hot stuff either. What? Yeah, you fart in your sleep. Argh! [whispering indistinctly] Good, good. Okay. Okay. (Sandra) I think because he looks so much like George Clooney That he thought his career would take off a little bit faster, A little bit more. I mean, he's even been sent home a couple times 'cause he looked too much like Clooney. "we don't want a Clooney look-alike In our movie or our show," or whatever they were doing. Yeah, actually, I've done one independent film. It was actually my-- I guess you can say my film debut-- Was in a--it was kind of a gang rapper movie. It was an independent, but it was called Who's making tha rules? Now, what the fuck do we have here? Who the fuck is this? You remember the first rule was that you keep me informed At all times. Who the fuck you supposed to be? Somebody--the president or some motherfucker? I'm the boss. I run everything. Man, you don't run a motherfucking thing. Piss on this. Go ahead. (man) hey, cuz. I think he has some talent as an actor. I think he'd be a lot better if he did do the acting classes. You know, they say that it's, you know, Acting is in the blood, you know. And in a way, I kind of believe it. My mom did influence me. When I was 17, she was, you know, Trying to get me to get into the industry a little bit. She had access and stuff, you know, So I should have jumped on it then, But I didn't. You know, 'cause to me, I was a wild kid. I just wanted to go out and find a job that was fun. So I started off with landscaping. On her deathbed, she asked me to give it a try. You know, and before that, I was in denial. I didn't want anything to do with it, 'cause I saw the headaches and stuff that she went through, Coming back, thinking she did really crappy on an audition, And it turned out to be she did really good, And they wanted her for the part. (Pam Dennis) this is something that comes from his soul. It's what's driven him, Just like my aunt was an actress, And it came from her soul, and that's what she had to do. What's wrong? Why all the crying? Where's your mummy and daddy? Gwen-- where do you live? Gwen. (Pam Dennis) in the times that I talked to him, A couple times, his stories have varied really wildly. He told other people he was with her at her death. I know that he wasn't there. She was a very private person in a lot of ways-- Her personal, you know, emotional stuff, but-- And I don't think she's his mother. I mean, when would she have had a baby? Well, I'm not going to leave him. All right, all right. (ryk) and it's impossible to believe of Sandy That at that point, She wouldn't have said to you guys, "and, you know, I have a son." Right, right. I mean, that's just unbelievable. (man) and people think that Sandy Dennis Never had-- you know what I mean? Never had a son. I know. I've heard that. What--I mean, what's your take on that? Well, that's their opinion. You know, all I know is, she's my mom, you know. Were you close to her in your childhood? I wasn't really that close with her. I was more of the troublemaker. But I think most of what I was doing was going out, Trying to seek attention, you know, 'cause she was always busy with her work. And of course, my dad, he didn't stick around at all. You know, they weren't even married. When I turned 17, That was the last that I've ever heard from him. At that point, I was already in shelters and group homes And stuff like that, Because my mom figured she couldn't handle me. Maybe these people can. You know, and even they didn't have that good of luck with me. Something had to have been that I think was difficult, Because I see instances now where sometimes I think He didn't get maybe everything That maybe a child needs growing up, Maybe attention that every child needs. Something-- I can't put my finger on it, And again, because he doesn't talk about that stuff too often. There was a time in my life where I was doing Crystal meth And, you know, just doing speed. And I decided that enough is enough. You know, I was sitting there. I was watching TV, And you know how if you do enough speed, You start getting delusional. So of course, I'm sitting there. I'm watching TV, and I see a death scene. So it was, like, for, like, an instant, It was almost like I was seeing my own death, Which that was like a spiritual awakening. (man #1) was this all before Bonnie? Well before Bonnie. (man #2) was this before superman? Way before superman. (Fiona) hi, officer. What's going on? Long time, no see. Well, I know. Have you been all right? (Fiona) I've been great, working, Surviving the Oscars. Where's Jordan? Oh, he's at home. He was gonna come out a little later. Several times a day, one of these characters Will, you know, violate the laws, scare people. [woman and children screaming] Oh, I'm sorry; how you doing? One of the characters that I do not recall Getting a complaint about aggressive begging Or panhandling or that is the original superman. And I think he's the one That looks the most like superman. Got the little curl up there. (woman) thank you. You bet. And it's just tips, ladies. It's whatever you all would like to tip For the photos. [girl laughs] (Allen) but we do work on tips. No, not superman. (Dennis) we work on tips, okay? We work on tips. Okay. Thank you. So it's whatever you would like to tip for the photos. Fine. (girl) all right. Ladies, how are you doing? (Shea) I've taken reports. I took a report on Batman for aggressive begging. Max has one insane temper, like, insane. Yes, we work on tips. He will choke a woman if she doesn't tip him. I have do doubt in my mind. Probably not that far, but he would choke her husband. (Allen) don't you know that spider-man doesn't smoke? You need a big red nose and some green hair And some big shoes, clown. [laughs] Homie's a sissy. (Allen) hey, I think we shoot the little bastard. What do you think? Folks, how you doing? (Sandra) a lot of times, I think his bark is worse than his bite. Not that he's not tough or anything like that, Because he is. (Allen) you want to see us fight? It's big money. You want a picture, it's just a little money. Clown. Is that the only thing you can think of is a brawl? How about me and you? (Sandra) I think that because he's always had to fight for everything-- I mean, even just to be recognized In his own family sometimes-- That I think he likes to put across That he's bigger and badder than what maybe he really is, 'cause to me, I think he's got a heart of a lamb. I mean, you know, it's like the lion and the lamb. You can--when he's angry, he's a lion. When he's home and with me, he's the lamb. Hi, how you doing? Welcome to Hades, California. That's right. (woman) you're making us chase you. Oh, I'm sorry. Would you like a pic-- We work on tips for the photos, okay? Yeah, we're just gonna go strip down the leather And jump in the shower. And I can't believe he's talked me into this, But it's so hot out here. But she's gonna love me forever for this, Because she's not gonna be sweating like-- If it turns into being a good trick, I'll be very grateful. [water running] Oh, that's cold. [laughing] Is that too cold? No, it's okay. Oh, Jesus, okay. Now just step into it. My hair's not getting wet, is it? No. You could also take it up To your shoulder if you want. I would rather not 'cause then that takes more chances Of getting my hair wet. Feels good, doesn't it? Yeah, it does. Okay, done. It's feeling 100 times better. I hate to say it. She hates to say it, but I was right. What's happening with you? Oh, man, I just blacked out. What? I just blacked out. You blacked out? You blacked out? Where? At Shelly's restaurant. Are you okay? At Shellys? Oh, wow. Ooh, that's not good. Not good. (Dennis) beautiful, beautiful Crystal Gayle. Well, I'm dating her hair as long as Crystal Gayles-- The reason my hair is as long as it is Is because he's got a thing for Crystal Gayle. Here you go. So I haven't cut my hair since I hooked up with him. Not not only that, look at the style. Here, Bonnie, why don't you hold this one up to you? That's what I'm trying to emulate Is the Crystal Gayle hair. [repetitive clicking] (Dennis) October 10th of 2004, I'm sitting at home. Jeffery Maxwell "Batman" Allen calls me In tears. "Christopher reeve just passed away." Chills ran up my spine right there. "there's no way he could be dead. "he's superman, "the man of steel himself. "he--there's no way. He can't be dead." And I'm sure there's people out there that don't realize That Christopher reeve had passed on. So... (Bonnie) Chris and I hadn't been to the superman celebration At metropolis for four years. In October of last year, as you know, Christopher reeve passed away. And I guess it motivated us in a certain way That we felt that it was right to go For the next celebration in honor of Christopher reeve. This year, no matter what, we're going. You said 600 of each, right? (Bonnie) yeah. All ready. [grunts] Oh, my goodness. Want to take a look, check it out? Of course. [gasps] Isn't it nice? Yes. This one, my hands were dirty. Oh, that's okay; oh, my God. See, my hands are a little dirty Look at how beautiful. Isn't it nice? And then there's another one in the middle. Look at that close-up. Isn't it nice? It is absolutely magnificent. You love it, huh? Look at my guy. I'm so proud of him. Oh, my goodness. He's what you call a looker. (Sanford) this is for an American idol DVD board game. Okay. And you're working at the checkout stand, And you're actually scanning the items. Scanning items, okay. And you look up, and the camera is a customer, And you're kind of-- You're really obsessed with American idol. So the customer is looking at you Like you're a little strange. Okay. But let us slate you first. Okay, Jennifer Gehrt. (Sanford) and profiles, Jennifer. Back to us. And action. Hamburgers, oh, Fantasia loves hamburgers. Mac and cheese! That's Clay's favorite. Awesome. Taylor hicks' favorite, oh, my God. He loves nutty buddies. Try it where you're just telling yourself, But you're saying it out loud. Okay. Yeah, it's almost got to be like a whisper. Hamburgers, fantasia loves hamburgers. You know how sometimes when people are-- You're almost having this conversation with yourself... Right. (Sanford) not really with the person there? It's almost like you're a little nuts. (male announcer) Mr. Incredible and Elmo busted on the streets of Hollywood, Their heads on the trunk of this police car, The rest of their bodies cuffed. Their crime? Strong-arming tourists To take pictures of them for money. Police say they warned about 70 regulars Who pose along Hollywood boulevard That they'd be cracking down on aggressive posers. We've been keeping a close eye on the characters Across the street. They congregate-- these people, They dress up on Hollywood boulevard, And they--they're superheroes and cartoon characters. They take pictures with tourists for money. The other day, Elmo and Mr. Incredible got arrested For being a little bit too aggressive, I guess, In asking for tips. They really did, and ever since then, A lot of the characters there have been on edge. Superman, you there? Elmo and Mr. Incredible: Guilty or not? What do you think about those guys? Um, I think they're not guilty, actually. They actually were doing pretty much what they were supposed to, But every now and then, they do go after a tourist, Even though you're not supposed to. We just put out a few officers who just dressed as a tourist, And then they walked up and down And made contact with the characters To see if they were gonna violate any of the rules That we set forth the week before. When Elmo got arrested, everybody knew. Okay, we got on the Jimmy Kimmel show. We got news press. We got-- yeah, it was-- Yeah, everybody tried to make it bomb on us, But it didn't. It actually worked with us, and now we're actually making, You know, a lot of money Because of the fact that Elmo got arrested. That's how it was. [laughing] I know it's a bummer to get arrested, But hey, man, you know, You just made your money back ten times. [laughs] What are you doing? You better get ready to catch the freefall. Oh, my God. I'm gonna drown. What a way to go. (Dennis) we've made appearances on stuff such as Jimmy Kimmel. [cheers and applause] (man) on my whistle, superheroes, wrestle. [whistle blows] (Kimmel) and here they go. (Dennis) there really is no such thing as bad publicity, As long as it's publicity. (man) the winner is Batman. (Kimmel) it's all over. Wins the first ever superhero wrestling. Congratulations to Batman And congratulations to all of you For being a part of history. I've ended up in newspapers, magazines, Entertainment weekly, people magazine, Renaissance magazine, grupo taca, You know, foreign magazines and stuff. When you're getting that kind of publicity, It's not just the public seeing you. There's producers, directors. Hey, I may have the look that someone's looking for, And they know right where to find me: Hollywood boulevard. (Moore) hi, Jen, how are you? Hey, how you doing? Good, nice to see you. Good to see you. You're looking good. You look great. How you been? Eh, okay. So tell me about your audition the other day. Okay, like, overall, it was good enough, But I know I could have done a lot better on that scene. That's interesting that you say that, Because, you know, I called over there. Oh, did you? Yeah, they loved you. They said you held your own against some very-- Some more experienced actresses who had done a few more things And that they thought you were just a great newcomer. They were very excited. They said, "she's definitely somebody We want to keep a pulse on," so... Somebody told me the other day, And I was so, like, I think it's a good campaign, The dove campaign. Yeah. I think it's a great campaign... The real women. Search for real beauty, all that. But it's like, someone, like, Compared me to, like, one of the really big girls On there. And I hope they said, "you know, this is the stuff that you could be doing. You should go out for this." I'm like-- [gasps] Well, it's because you're voluptuous, You know, because you have a big bosom. You know, people see you more as, You know, a sexy, curvy woman. I see you that way. I think that, you know, I wouldn't take that personally. Well, I guess it's just the childhood issues with it. I'm very touchy with it. Really? Yeah. You should let that go. I should let it go. This isn't supposed to be therapy. [laughter] (Karen) Jenny, you can't just-- (Gehrt) Chris, tell me you're not gonna do a word puzzle. We are at bethel missionary Baptist church. It's the only southern Baptist church That I found in California, So it's my home. [gospel music playing] (all) % in my father's house, % % in my father's house, % % in my father's house. % % love and happiness-- % True love is sacrifice. Give it up, that which is Precious to you, To give, to-- % come and go with me % % to my father's house. % % there is peace, peace, peace. % [applause] (McQueen) I'm waking up, you know, just handling some business, But what's the word? Yeah, I'm S.A.G. Yeah. Cool, yeah, I love Justin's work, man. Justin Lin is a really good guy. Man, he deserves it. Okay, Josh, hey, I appreciate it, man, And I'll see you on the set. All right now. You too, bye-bye. Wow. I just got booked on a kung fu spoof movie Based on Bruce Lee's last movie the game of death. But this is called the game is not ending yet. You know, so this is, you know, they got me a part Being the sidekick to the bad guy in this movie. I'm happy. Things is happening, so yeah. True acting, that's what I want. You know, that's it. That's why I'm here, you know. Things is happening. Things is happening. This weekend, we are going to the superman celebration. They're supposed to be doing a special send-off For the man of steel himself, Christopher reeve. Margot kidder will be there doing a signing. Then there's a costume contest for the adults. (man #1) are you gonna be in the contest? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, definitely. It's $20 to get into the contest, To enroll for it. And then if we do win, it'll be a thousand bucks. (man #2) what do you think your chances are? I think that me looking like Christopher reeve At this particular event, Being the fact that they're doing a send-off To Christopher reeve, It may boost our chances a bit, Because a lot of people are gonna be thinking Christopher reeve at this celebration. So I think the chances are really good. So, Bonnie, the only thing that we need now Is this lunchbox to go in something. Okay, this is-- I don't think this is gonna fit in here. Sure, it will. You may have to carry your lunchbox Like you're going to elementary school And this is your lunch. Okay. My name's Billy McDaniel, Mayor of the city of metropolis, Long-time resident of metropolis, Lived here all my life. Carol, this is Billy McDaniel. How are you? Metropolis is pretty well-known as the home of superman. Probably there's no place that I go in the run of a year That if you're asked, "where you from," And you say, "Metropolis, Illinois," They'll have something to say about superman. (man) lot of drugs, stuff like that around here, Criminal activity. Whole bunch; it's a dangerous little town. It really is. A lot of black people's moved in here. Used to be none, But a lot of black people's moved in now. (man) why is everyone so obsessed with superman here? Man, you tell me. I've been here all my life, and I don't know. My comic books said new York. I don't know why they put Illinois in metropolis. [triumphant music playing] %% [woman on microphone] we do have a special treat for everybody. We have invited our high school band, And they have got a special song Picked out to play for us. (Dennis) you guys are gonna be around for the costume contest, right? So what you guys do is, You vote for your favorite superman, okay? Or superhero. Give me a hug. Wow, superman. My hero. Why, thank you. You're my hero. You're my hero too. Thank you. (kidder) which part of Montana? (woman #2) Livingston, do you know where that is? It's near Bozeman. I've never seen those. They look terrific. No one's got these ones. Jesse, j-e-s-s-e. (kidder) you're welcome. (man) are you excited? I am ecstatic. I can't wait. (kidder) I'll come back here so we can still do the picture. There you go. (man) can I put my arm around you? Oh, yes. (man) what are you gonna say to her? What am I gonna say to her? I'm not quite sure yet. We'll have to see. It's probably gonna be a surprise. I usually get all tied up-- Tongue-tied when I get up to the celebrities, You know, especially when it's somebody like Margot Or if it was Christopher reeve. I turn into that little kid that doesn't know what to say. But if I wasn't taken, I would ask her to marry me. Yeah, I'm gonna let you guys go first, 'cause you guys have a small amount. Hi, Chris'. How are you, dear? Good morning, I'm doing wonderful. Thanks, good to meet you. Take care. I know Christopher, and he's very sweet. I really don't think we, as people, Get to judge each other that way, you know. I think sometimes some of the guys in the outfits Should go to the gym. That's my only comment. (man) Christopher we already did. We're gonna have to do it at the-- (Dennis) okay, no problem. (kidder) yeah, and Christopher, I'll buy you a drink. (Dennis) okay, no problem. I'll even buy you a snack, all right? I love you. Okay, I'll see you in the Severy, Margie. No, there are a lot of awful things you can take too far, And superman's terrific. So hey, if you want to wear that outfit 24 hours a day, Go for it. It's a lot more appealing than a lot of other things I can think of. (man) how can I help you today? Yeah, I just wanted to rent some guns out for the range. Do you know what kind? Preferably, I like the beretta, actually. A beretta? Yeah. All right. Why? Is there a better one? Some of the stuff that Batman says you got to-- It's hard to believe, because like I said, I really don't know his dark past, But when you hear him talk about the stuff, It's almost like, "wow, dude, you've been watching too many movies." Right here we have a 9-millimeter beretta. All right, right here we have the magazine release... All right. Always by your thumb. Press it, and out pops the magazine. All right, when you load it, You always load it from the back in, all right? All right. Tip always facing the direction that the muzzle's going, Because that's the way the bullet's gonna come out. There's only two ways you can get out of it: If you die or if pretty much everybody else does. And so that's-- Yeah, that's pretty much how I got out of it, 'cause everyone else died, And I was the only man left standing. I know he talks a lot about it with his friends More so than he does with me. And I would have to say I would believe about 50% of what he says is true. Until I see these people or, you know, see this dark past, Man, it's hard to believe, you know. I still re-- you know, still ask God For forgiveness for some of the things That I've done in my life, so... [gunshot] [gunshots] (Allen) let's just say I was married to a girl, Very, very beautiful, loving girl, Didn't even want part of the-- of what was going on. You know, she was just the daughter. So anyway, and, uh, yeah. She was killed in an accident that I was supposed to be in. And of course, once I found out who did it-- Yeah, so... "yeah," what? Once you found-- I went--I went raged out and more or less went after him And left more than a body count than I can count, I guess. Is he permanently injured now, Or is he dead or-- No, no. They're deceased. From this incident? From this incident. So... Was it something you were prosecuted for? No, no, unfortunately, They couldn't prove anything. So... So is this a confession? I don't know what-- Like I said, I mean, there's--you can't-- No, there's no Trace of anything. That's the whole thing. It's gone. It's over. It's been 22 years. There's-- you couldn't Trace anything. It's been very well-- See, back in the '80s, You could cover things a lot very easily. Now, today time, it's very hard. But, yeah, you can't-- There's no statute of limitations on murder. [laughs] Well... You know, sometimes when you have memories from your past, You can elaborate on them And make them sound more than what they really are. You may do it to make your somewhat-- He may do it to make himself sound bigger or badder Or just, you know, "don't mess with me" type of thing. (Dennis) now, you guys are gonna be around For the costume contest, right? Okay, well, remember to vote on your favorite superman. We're going by numbers, all right? Well, my outfit is actually based On the actual Christopher reeve outfit from the movie, so... [theme from superman playing] %% We'll see. I think that I've got a really great Chance. [cheers and applause] (Dennis) sounds like they're calling us. But anyhow, yeah, I think my chances are great. [man over microphone] well, without further ado, Let's get this show on the road. [cheers and applause] Come on, 16. [man over microphone] okay, without further ado, We are going to announce our winners. In third place, number eight, Cindy Brucheski. [applause] Okay, second place, number 19, Scott Romine. [applause] All right, first place, The winner of the superhero costume contest, $1,000 goes to contestant number nine. [screams and applause] Why don't you step up on stage here if you can? I want to thank everybody who voted for me. I appreciate it. All right, Again, great job, everyone that participated, Everyone that made the long trips from California, New jersey, South Carolina. Great job. Thanks, everybody, for coming out. [cheers and applause] [male announcer] you're watching eyewitness news in high definition. Batman behind bars. It's been a bad day for the caped crusader Who's become the latest Hollywood street performer To end up in LAPD Custody, And this one, like many of the others, Was caught on tape. The LAPD told me that Batman was arrested and charged With disorderly conduct. They also say he kicked out a window In one of the patrol cars And is spending a little extra time in jail. Robin, the boy wonder, wasn't around today To spring his partner from the clutches Of Batman's nemesis, the LAPD Police say Batman landed himself in this predicament When he insisted on using the porta-potties Rented by union workers picketing a local business. You can see the argument between union workers And Batman begins to escalate. At one point, Batman removes his cape And appears to taunt the union workers. Then Chewbacca shows up And also appears to confront the picketers. The LAPD Swoop in and arrest Batman Who now joins other notable arrested characters Like Captain Incredible, Elmo, and Cookie Monster. (Gehrt) I was gonna make ramen noodles, The only thing I know how to cook. (Chris) well, now you tell me. What's there to do tonight? I don't know. What do you want to do? You could go and-- what's that movie that came out You want to see? Well, yeah. Well, why are you asking me what you should do When you don't even care what I say? No, I care what you said, but I, well, I was trying to figure out what to do. Well, I told you what to do. Look at your hair on the floor. Well, why don't you vacuum it, husband? You're supposed to take care of me. (man) what's going on with you and your husband? [laughs] Um... Can anyone tell That question made me uncomfortable? "what's going on with you and your husband?" Okay, so about a month ago-- and I take full blame for this-- I'm very hard to deal with. I'm very high-maintenance when it comes to attention. And he's just not willing to supply it right now. He doesn't have time for that right now. He's focused on himself and his career goals, And yadda-yadda-yadda. And there's no room for his little wife right now. (man) so what now? I don't know. I tried to-- I tried to go out and watch a movie with him yesterday even, And it wasn't the same. We don't talk to each other the same. We don't look at each other the same. It's just cold. I still love him, always will, but it's just cold now. And it's like there used to be an intensity When we touched each other, And now it's just like, "ppthh, don't touch me, And I'm annoyed by you." And I'm just angry all the time, and I'm not an angry person, And I don't want to be angry. I want to be happy. And he keeps acting like he can make me happy, And he used to-- could make me happy. And now I just-- it's just out of reach, And I don't even remember what it's like. [man over microphone] we have a Christopher reeve look-alike from L.A. Out here today. Christopher Dennis is back there, And he's got a few things he'd like to say real briefly. The person running it said, "we have Christopher Dennis, "a Christopher reeve look-alike with us tonight, And he has something that he'd like to say." Bonnie, would you please do me the honor And make my life complete, And would you marry me? Yes, I'll marry you. (man) yeah, perfect. [applause] [man over microphone] ladies and gentlemen, The future Mr. And Mrs. Christopher Dennis. Thank you. And I remember seeing this superman ring, Which I now have on my hand, In his hand. And I remember him saying, "Bonnie," But after that, I don't remember any more exact words. All I remember is, he asked me to marry him, And I said, "yes." (man) mazel tov. Thank you. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you. [man over microphone] we need to round off the numbers. I am getting change, so we'll make it 436. Kind of reminds me a little bit Of that first moment that I met Chris, And I also was at a loss for words and temporarily What was going on around me, Because I was so mesmerized by Chris. [applause] (Allen) this is just set security. I do security full-time now that Summer's over. I do, you know, Monday through Friday. It's usually anywhere between 12 to 16 hours a day. And more or less, we just-- we make sure-- We establish, you know, a security boundary around it, Watching the equipment, watching the crew, Watching the trucks. I like being on set on the fact That maybe a director will see me and say, "you know, hey, let's use him, give him a shot." So at least I'm here in the business itself. A person, you know, who does have an anger problem, It just-- it's a snap of something. Snap of something inside his mind, Inside his heart. Something snaps, you know what I'm saying? I need to find out what makes me snap. It's only the bad people that I get mad at. You know what I'm saying? Everybody else has no problem with me. But then there's some people that I have walked away with, 'cause I know they're as dumb as dogs, And it's like a stupid dog. You can beat the dog, But he's still gonna shit on the floor. You know what I'm saying? So to some people, I just-- I let a lot of people walk away, But there's just some that I don't. They need it. They need to be beaten down to open their eyes, And all I'm doing is volunteering for the job. Really, some people need to be beaten down. They need it. Okay, really. And yeah, and so that's all there is to it. (woman) are you doing the action? No, I'm just standing there, acting cool. I'm playing the part and the role of Leroy Jackson, You know what I'm saying? On the cool set of finishing the game. Yeah, '70s-- And I have the gators. We had the crick crack kitchen pants on. We had the pleather leather on. We had to show our rings, you know what I'm saying? Come in the house, "hey, mom, I don't need no nothing to eat. I'm going out-- night on the town to eat, baby." [laughs] Willis, where you at? I knew you were a snake, Leroy Jackson. Yeah. (Michelle) good Lord, you have 7,003 profile views? Really? Yes. Oh. I have, like, nine. That's not a lot, though. You are at my apartment in north Hollywood That I have with Michelle, My best friend and roommate now. I'm in this new apartment Because things just started getting a little too tense At my other home, at my home before with Chris. We just continued to fight over the small things, And he refuses to change, and I refuse to change. And so it's just like there's not much of a point To stay in the same place anymore. I never, in a million years, Thought I would get the courage to get my things and leave, And he didn't either. He came home, and he looked around, And he saw my bed was gone, my clothes were gone, My shoes were gone, everything was gone. He was like, "you really did this." It's a happy thing right now, and it's a brand-new beginning, And I don't know. I feel like the world is more open to me right now, And I feel like there is thing-- There's success out there waiting for me, And I've got to be open to it, and now I finally am. (Allen) the ratio of it, of people actually making it big And the ones that are trying are so minute. [laughs] It really is. It's almost a Miracle if you can actually make it. As long as I'm here, yeah, I'll never give it up, yeah. I tell you, I don't care if I do look like Clooney. I'm still not giving up the dream. (Gehrt) even if I just do theater for the rest of my life And I never make two dimes, At least I'm doing what makes me happy, so... (McQueen) everybody I've always worked on camera with Always has something good to say, like, "wow, dude. Yo, McQueen, man, you're gonna make it out here, dude." (Dennis) I like to think that my future holds fame and fortune. I'd like to say That I've got the fame without the fortune right now. (man) will you have Chris to be your husband, To love, comfort, honor, and to keep him, Forsaking all others, Be faithful to him as long as you both shall live? (Bonnie) I do. (man) Chris, you will be faithful to her For long as you both shall live? (Dennis) I do. Okay, until death do us part. Until death do us part. You may kiss the bride. [applause] ---the end---
