 

                        I have grown old It's so long since I last dreamed of master Zhu My ideas of educations, musics, humanity and harmony Can be fullfilled only in times to comes... Yan Hui , disciple of Confucius Palace of Lu Master Kong Qiu, the mayor of Zhong Du Indeed! Follow me At the time of King Dinh Lu (501 BC), the power of Lu in the hands of three families called "nobles family": those are Ji, Meng and Shu's carriages Master Kong, you may bow inside Announcing Master Kong Qiu, the mayor of ZhongDu His Majesty arrives King Dinh Lu Welcome, Kong Qiu... Your humble servant Kong Qiu glad too greets Your Majesty Ok, Kong Qiu As I heard you've been mayor of ZhongDu for only in a year, many things.. has been changed... Streets were safes, homes were secures Your majesty As I said of observing the ritual of Zhou "A year show progress, there years would show much more" I would like to see Your policies applied througout the Kingdom of Lu I have no such authority, and therefore shouldn't exert myself This could be easily handle I'll appoint you to the right position Lord Ji Yiru has just died Now, his oldest son Ji Sunsi has become Prime Minister and Chief General of the Army But the post of Minister of Law is vacant "There nobles family" all their own nominees But I'm inclined to appoint you I can't presume to be worthy then I will support you You and your disciples could civilize the Kingdom of Lu You could challenge those you've called unworthy in the past Do you dare? My Lord, A slave has just escaped! What? Who is it? It's master PingZi late lord's favorite young servant He is Qi Sigong! That little boy My father ordered that this boy must be buried with him! Get him back! Yes Overthere! Prepare poisoned arrows now! Help! Master! Master ... help me, please! Teacher, in your opinion could the kingdom of Lu stronger but the emulating the Dukedom of Qui? Your majesty The people of Qi obey the law Out of their fear of punishment If we respect the law because of we are civil, honest, and have integrity, dignity,... aren't this much better when horrorable and credible men are choosen to be officers theft and corruption would disappear men who cares their parents and children also care for others Men should perform their duties while women would be given a home and family ... then orphan and widows, the old, the sick and the weak could be taken care of Then the people will live and work cheerfully Universal peace and harmony will reign! Mother! ? Don't close it! Open the door! Let me out, please! Prepare the meal Your father has returned How do you know? I heard his voice He'll be surprised I've brought you to see him Hurry, take and bring this to him Father You're back You've been gone for half of the day! Mother and I have been waiting You haven't eaten yet? You must be hungry Don't be worry, who are you? I am ... Qi Sigong Little boy.. Teacher Yan Hui, call a doctor, quick! Yes Hurry, call for a doctor What's this all about? Teacher as I came here the troops of Ji Family were chasing this little slave So i rescured him He was a burial-slave The Ji's troops want him back Teacher, let's avoid trouble I can leave him with my brother in law in the Kingdom of Wei This might be better for everyone No, Zilu, he could stay here Seeing injustice and do not extend help equal to a lack of courage Gong Boliao ,disciple of Confucius. Then, Lord Ji Sunsi will be furious Zilu You did the right thing Stop! What do you thing you're doing? Gong Sang Niu,genaral of Ji Who are you? I am General Gong Sang Niu of Biyi cidatel Quickly search this area Mr. Gong San Teacher Kong Qiu What do you want? It is reported That the Minister's escaped slave is hiding here If you don't show him over to us now it may damage your relation with the Minister Minister Kong, may I have any words in private? Minister Kong, I hate the arrogance of the three Noble Families so much And today, I could report that I found nothing You and I should be friends and partners. Together. we could drive out the Noble Families and rule the kingdom ourselves. Now, tell me What say you Our paths are different, so we cannot work under the same principle General, it's getting late, you should be on your way Go! My lord and Ministers Everyone has come to observe the Winter Sacrifice But before we can begin A strange occurrence demands explanation Yesterday, the officer responsible for the sacrifice of birds reported that one of the ten pheasants prepaired for the ceremony has pecked off its own tail So, today I must seek your exalted opinions Ought we to cancel the ceremony? Or make a delay? I wish to speak You can speak, Su Sunwu Su Sunwu ,minister of Lu, belong to Noble Families In my opinion, since the Winter Sacrifice marks the most important sacrifice at year end it must not be delayed nor canceled! We address the gods throught this ceremony the omen reflects a message from Heaven therefore, the pheasant should be set to fly out from sacrifice To do otherwise would be seen as a disrespect for the Spirit! We must obey the will of heaven And allow this bird to live Kong Qiu, what is your view? Your Majesty your humble servant fully agrees with Minister Shu's opinion Then ... you ministers? Your humble servants also agrees with the two minister's opinion Since all are in agreement. So be it! Let the pheasant be released Into the mountain forests. Your Majesty, your humble servant wished to speak Speak I have a request at the end to the evil ritual of burial of living being with their deceased Master Kong Qiu Why do you have such respect? Because today, your humble servant Is pleading for this little slave's life Which little slave? There he is Uncle Ins't that the slave who ran away from your home? Kong Qiu He was my family's slave and you took him into your house! How dare of you! Teacher Minister Ji, please pardon him This boy should not accompany Lord Ji Yiru to the grave Don't you always approve of observing our ancient traditions? This is just one of them! Minister Ji Benevolence is love for our fellow human! A ritual murder is still a murder even if they comply with our tradition! Lord Shu You showed benevolence toward a pheasant I am here to ask you Surely you also to speakup for this wounded boy? Today, we come here Only for discussing about the Winter Sacrifice This matter is unrelated No, there is a close relationship! The "Zhou Book of Ethic" tells us to value a human life above all the burial of slave was praticed in wicked ways It was outlawed since the commencement of the Zhou throne in this Dynasty Our Kingdom of Lu is the ancient home of the Duke of Zhu And know for its ethic We should be innovative with our system and abandon outdated traditions Your Majesty, everybody I, Kong Qiu, on my own life I ask you spare this young slave Kong Qiu It was Lord Yiru's dying wish that those he loved should be die with him It is not cruel to bury this slave Rather, it demonstrates the Prime Minister's filiat piety, and his love to his father General Gong, I know You served Lord Yuri for years I heard he said many times that he could not live without you Yeah! That's right. Given how close you were to him he must still need you that he has passed to the next life If you were willing to accompany your lord in death I could not object you to taking this little slave with you You Can you say anything? You! Bastard! It seems the General is not willing to serve his master beyond the grave He imposes on others what he will not impose on himself Your Majesty, I have no more to say The scholar's words seem to be profound I decide Approved, release him Great! You will never have to back to the Ji's house Second bow Boy... Don't cry, stand up Qi Sigong. What's wrong? Are you okay? I am not crying May I really stay here? Alright now, today is a special day Zilu, let's get some drink Good! Ziqian, Boniu, help me fetch the wine Boy, come here This is now your home All of them are your brothers They will take care of you I know, teacher. Ran Qiu ,disciple of Confucius So we're family now Teacher, I could hardly believe it when Minister Ji accepted your proposal Here comes the wine Come. What about you? I have this Drink all you like. Very well. Cheer! It tastes horrid Qi State Capital Cities Le Di , minister of Qi Your Highest Making Kong Qiu a Minister with lots of responsibility with surely strengthen the Kingdom of Lu And their strength threaten us in the Dukedom of Qi Lu's strength is a threat to Qi ?????? King of Qi For almost one hundred years All rulers of Qi have dreamed of.. ..conquering Lu and clearing our way to the western border Kong Qiu has already asserted his authority in the Lu court Your Highest, perhaps we should celebrate a meeting to congratulate Lu We could invite the King of Lu and Kong Qiu to meet at our border Kong Qiu is a man of literature and not familiar with military affairs! He knows about Ethics, not bravery! During the ceremony, we'll take the King of Lu as hostage then we could discuss how the ruler end the three Noble Families can submit to Qi's will ??????? What an excellent proposal! Minister Li, prepare a formal invitation to The King of Lu About having a meeting in Jiagu on forming an alliance between the two kingdoms. despatch immediately Yes This meeting at Jiagu is my first challenge as a minister It is a matter of honor or humiliation, win or lose And it would have significant consequence! Yan Hui His Majesty agrees that you should take charge of the ceremony ensure that both parties have equal ground and no disrespect would be allowed Yes, teacher. Zilu Teacher You and ZiGong will be the only men to carry swords on the meeting platform Guard His Majesty carefully, regardless of what happeneds Understood! Ran Qiu Teacher Go in advance to Jiagu to inspect the area around the meeting platform seek out any places What do you want me to do, teacher? Teacher, the military commanders are here Our respects, Minister of Law Ok. Qi specified the place for the alliance talks It was known as a mountain ravine a dead end I would like to bring chariots nearby in case we need them Minister, we're based in a barrack We have only carriages at our command, and no war chariots Minister Ji and General GongShan Niu control them all Minister I heard the Prime Minister and Genernal Gong are holding an archery tournament in Biyi Very well Then I would have to visit them there! Teacher, we're approaching Biyi Teacher, it is said that Biyi cidatel has more mounted soldier and slaves than any other city of Lu Be advised those who shriked labor within three days will be dragged out and put on public display Complete at what? Archery Please The meeting between Lu and Qi is a serious matter Can your Lordship provide army chariots to protect our king? To show our might How many? 500 chariots Isn't it supposed to be an alliance meeting? Why do you neet suck a show of force? As Duke of Zhou taught us Must backup Words with Force Qi is a barbarous country which has long wanted to conquer Lu, so we must be prepaired We must be prepaired! Good Let us have a match My teacher respectfully request a match and drink to you If you win, I'll grant you 500 chariots The archery match will begin Please get in the shooting area You have my word If you win, they're yours If you lose, you'll get nothing Agreed A pure heart makes a pure shot Right, full score A new minister with high ambitions Who would thought BiYi cidatel walls were more than 18 feet high? Built to conceal their injustices use violence to control them the tyranny within these walls put tigers into shame! Prime Minister, has all this escaped your notice? Now, Master Ji May I ask how Lu stands today? it might that the Ji Family's real enemy is from within not across the border I hear you had no father Who taught you the shooting skill? My father was a warrior, but he left this world before his time A diligent student needs no teacher ... I learned myself Good Right wins Thanks Prime Minister So you need 500 chariots for the alliance talks Ask him yourself, General Gong. We have a kingdom because we have an army! Who raised and trained that army? Not your King of Ly, It was my BiYi cidatel! Why could I turn over my chariots to you? So that you can process my army into the dessert and famish them! See again! You see, my words don't necessarily count I will give you the order But you have to figure out the rest by yourselves Teacher Halt Your Majesty! Teacher! Greetings, Your Majesty and Teacher. Have General Gong's army moved or not? I don't know what happened Not one soldier or horse has moved yet But... that can't be correct? Ji Sunsi ordered them But why didn't they follow us? Put our second plan into effect, immediately! Yes Go Kong Qiu, Qi has brought so much cavalry Is there anything to concern us about this? Your Majesty, rest assured we've prepaired Since Qi is host and Lu is guest, we request that the Nobles of Qi descent to welcome... Your Highest, you do not need to descent We invite the King of Lu do ascent Your Majesty Lu is the guest and Qi is the host The Zhou Ritual madate that Qi Nobles should descent Qi is the Head of the Alliance How could we dishonour our guest? Your Highest, Qi and Lu share a close retationship Our ruler has come to rebuild our brotherly alliance Please Please.. Please It is our desire to respect each other and forever abandon war Although the two kingdoms don't share the same surname but we are like the brother After this alliance the two countries are like one What Master Li said is interesting All the people in the whole world is one family the ministers and officers are just the servants of our kings Therefore, both of you excellencies have the responsibility to protect our Emperor Zhou's dynasty Excellencies, your humble servant advised When this alliance is formed Each state must commit to aiding the other Should Qi oneday find itself at war Lu would be asked to provide 500 chariots to supplement our army Excellent ideas! Excellencies Your humble servant would also like to make a request An alliance between us should be found on sincerity We have a request! The return of the Three Cities of Whenshang ... won from Lu 30 years ago in war Let me think about request Your Majesty Your Majesty A gentlemen's word is golden, your highest Thanks for returning our land to us, let's drink to it Kong Qiu, it seems that you and your Master have no a plan to leave here today Take a look Yan Hui Your Highest Today, we come here in peace We only brought 10 chariots with us But to safeguard the negotiation from any unforeseen threats another 500 more chariots are waiting nearby Need we summon them here? Take a look! Your Majesty the advance party is here 500 chariots are following me to Jiagu We await your order Minister Li Do you want to see this ravine run in blood? If this is the way you demonstrate friendship as a head of an alliance who will ever again trust the Dukedom of Qi? Why are you still standing here? Dismiss the troops! King of Lu King of Lu Please forgive my minister's shameful act May the alliance between us lasts forever We make use of 100 ox carts to scare off Qi's 500 chariots Another triump for our teacher Teacher has always said "Military planning need to be innovative and comes with surprise" Come on, there are drinks waiting for us. Our lady! What? Has she gone missing again? Sir, the prince has stormed into the palace and is arguing with His Majesty again Our Lady can't be found anywhere She was not here! Then what can we do? This is awful! Ok, Let's go back Go Father, I'm almost forty! I have been prince for almost 20 years You are getting old and our kingdom is stagnating But you just won't let go, will you? Kong Qiu in Lu has a saying "Women and servants are hard to educate" But how could you allow a woman to be involved in state affair and control it Madam, you are back ... Your Majesty What so important that the prince need to see you such in a hurry! There's a message from General GongShan Niu I wasn't asking you! This GongShan Niu, he is an army general For the Ji family in Lu He wants to know If we give him refuge in our kingdom So Wei is to become a heaven for cast-off now? That's exactly why i din't approve GongShan Niu is ready to serve us Why can't we give him refuge? Giving him refuge would give no benefit to the Kingdom of Wei GongShan Niu has served the Ji family for many years, anh the Late Ji Yiru was good to him Not only the BiYi cidatel was granted to him, taxes were exempted for years And now he turn his back on his Boss What use to have for a turncoat like that? I could control him Learn to control yourselves first! The kingdom of Lu and Wei depend on each other for their survival If we took GongShan Niu wouldn't we offend Lu? Have you forgotten? The mighty Kingdom of Jin is to our west and the rough Kingdom of Chu is to the South We have enemy on four sides! If we lose our main ally What then? Get out Next time, do not ... If there's a next time you'll no longer be the prince of Wei The prince can't even weigh up gains and losses How can I make him the regent? Invite Kong Qiu here to teach your prince Then Wei will be safe Your Majesty please write a formal invitation to Master Kong. Do you think Kong Qiu would come? Master Kong's talents are not recognized the three Noble Families in Lu keep his talent in check Our invitation will be seen as an application of his talent If he comes, that's great! If he doesn't Lu will put him to better use Lu will prosper, and will bring Qi to heel That will suit us too... What is this? Two invitations from both Wei and Qi We should start using Kong Qiu better or others will take him So how should we make use of his talents? One moment.. This Kong Qiu has no proper line of ancestry Your Majesty gave him a role in court less than a year ago First he was the mayor of ZhongDu Then he was appointed Minister of Law And now we're supported to promote him even higher? Does Your Majesty plan to make him a living god? At the Lu-Qi alliance meeting ... ...Kong Qiu regained territory and enhanced our national prestige The whole country praise him for that Kong Qiu was born a commoner, however your father had admitted He is an offspring of a Song noble family. He won back the Three Cities without using a soldier or chariot He may be a mere commoner but his idead of civilty in government works! When my father died. Kong Qiu was made the Minister of Law Now I could vacate the post of Interior Minister for him when the emperor approves, I would only serve as the Prime Minister Very well! I am glad our Prime Minister respects talents as much Good This is wonderful It is the time for talents when countries are in turmoil Besides Kong Qiu most of his disciples are available to serve our country Master Kong, this is an outdated tradition. The servant I dispatched to the palace has reported secretly Minister of the Interior Kong Qiu is not focusing on government work He has been busy to building the Wuzi high platform He claimed the platform is built to protect us from flooding, didn't he? Yes, that is what he said I do not trust him and I think he has other things in mind Kong Qiu is a mere commoner The Majesty already appointed him as the Minister of Law Now he has also appointed him to be the Acting Interor Minister Uncle, there has to be a conspriracy here He dit not ... did not eat again Cut off your tongue if you stammer again Out! Yes Zhongni, I've made some new black ink for you It won't be easily washed off, let try it. Very well Teacher, the petition is ready. Please take a look. Fine! Gong Boliao, ready the cart It's so late! Where are you going? It is urgent, I need to go to the palace. Wake up! Gong Boliao Do not disturb me Rotten wood is hard to be carved, let him sleep. You have been working all day, even at midnight This is hard If this is for the betterment of Lu's citizen, I don't mind Teacher you're ordering city walls to be demolished Won't the Three Noble Families rebel Against your authority? It is time for razing the power of these There Families If we raze, do it quickly Teacher, I think it would be dangerous to do so YEs Teacher, it really dangerous You should consider it once more Consider what? Disciples, my late teacher Master ZiChan had two fine sayings Please remember them all your life "Put your country ahead yourselves "Yes, as an officer the burden is heavy, the road is long "So maintain your strength of spirit" What we are doing now is not only for the short term Minister of the Interor Kong Qiu is here to see His Majesty Tomorrow in court, I will call for "Razing the Three City Walls" "Razing"? What exactly does that mean? When the Duke of Zhou ruled these lands, it was established ... that no fiefdom should build walls around its city higher than 18 feet in height The aim was to prevent the nobles from abrogating power to themselves But in recent decades, these three noble families have turned their cities to be their own ...so have their city walls grown taller I humbly propose that the walls of these three cities be razed and to break the separatis That is a serious matter It will stir up discontent Could you win this? If you fail you'll unleashed chaos everywhere Your humble servant did a fortune reading The reading was "Headless Dragon" That is very auspicious To strengthen the throne, the power of the nobles must be reduced we must cut off the dragon's head Serve my man here with the best wine and meal Thanks Minister, thank you Didn't I say this would happen? It is vicious Razing the city walls To pull down our walls to undermine our strength! Kong Qiu want to bring down the Three Noble Families Our fieldoms? Have we any fieldoms? May be Meng's fieldom still become to Meng Your fieldom belongs to you or General Hou Fan? Is BiYi still mine? Kong Qiu want to demolish them Fine! That would be benefit us Uncle, what should we do now? Laozhi taugh us If we want to gain, we must first give out something! We may support Kong Qiu raze there city walls! More speed We must reach BiYi tonight to see General Gongshan Niu Come on! Peck it! Urgent Report from the city of Houyi Acting Interior Minister Just speak Yes sir Hou Fan, Rebel General of Shusun Wu's terrorist has escaped from Houyi The armies of Shusun and Zigao have teared down their walls successfully Excellent! Well done. Good, we caught them by surprise The Minister must be congratulated on his famous victory! Come, drink. today we must celebrate No, it's not over yet Hou Fan will continue his resistance Minister, then ensure that Shusun and Zigao tear down their walls quickly or the rebels will regroup behind them! As I arrived in the city, I saw Zilu and his army encamped nearby Your BiYi is about to have its walls torn down, you need a plan They can come and tear down the walls, then the Capital would not be protected My plan is to take over the capital, execute Kong Qiu and banish the Three Noble Families! Stop! We want to check the carts Don't you recognize the Ji's banner? We are delivering the land taxes from Biyi to the Palace Open the gate! The Minister of Law has ordered that all carts be inspected Seize the Duke of Lu, Slay Kong Qiu! Seize the King, slay Kong Qiu, banish the three noble families Kill'em all Report, General Gongshan, the King is not at the Palace now Where is he? it seems he sought refuge with the Ji Family Find the King! Open the gate! Open it! In such a key moment, where is Minister Ji? He's out for a hunt. Your Majesty, follow me please Your Majesty, be careful Don't go head on with them, still for 2 hours Steer the rebels to the Wuzi Platform Yes sir Ji surely pick a good time for a hunt Quick! Kill'em all King of Lu, Kong Qiu, Three Noble Families, hear this... Today, in the name of the Lord Ji Yiru, under heaven mandate I will clean up all those that go againts the will of heaven Destroy them! March on! Seize the King, slay Kong Qiu Retreat Fire Pull Release Report, Minister! Gongshan Niu and his rebels were defeated and is retreating from the capital Uncle, urgent report from the capital it's just as you estimated Gongshan Niu was defeated at the Wuzi Platform Then what are you waiting for? Send the troops in capture GongShan Niu alive Yes Take Gongshan Niu alive Pull Pull Release Pull Release No body is demolishing my Ghengyi Why? Chengyi stands right on the border between Qi and Lu The fort with high walls is used to protect us against the invasion of Qi it must not be demolished How could you break your own words? Didn't you approve to raze the high walls of our three noble families is the first place? Let him finish Kong Qiu has reclaimed the three cities of Wen Shang The three cities which used to belong to your family But were they returned to you? No, they now belong to the Duke of Lu In this campaign, Kong Qiu has removed General Hou Fan from the city of Houyi Then who has become the Governor of Houyi? Zigao, Kong Qiu's disciple and BiYi, has it been returned to your family? No, and you have nothing. Zilu, a disciple of Kong Qiu, was now appointed as the Governor of BiYi See? Now if they're going to take over my Chengyi they would again to give it to the Duke of Lu Will there be any land or city left to us? You ministers Are you really willing to give the kingdom back to the Duke of Lu and Kong Qiu? Acting Interior Minister By the order of the Prime Minister No one is allowed in Please wait here, I will make a request Teacher, these are Meng and Shu's carriages Master, Kong Qiu is requesting to see you I don't wanna see him! They're all inside Teacher I am sure those are Meng and Shu's carriages Teacher Outside the BiYi Come! Let's drink All of you should drink more Attention! After the walls are torn down, we will truly become one big family Am I right? Father How far away is the Qi army from our border? Less than 30 miles But the Duke of Qi has sent an ambassador, Li Chu and some gifts Gifts? What's gifts? 80 dancing girls as well as more than 100 horses Has Li Chu made any demands? He demanded that Kong Qiu must be dismissed Off to the palace, we must see his Majesty tonight The Acting Interior Minister is here! Your Majesty We cannot pull back now! We have won back two of the threee cities, how can we abandon the last one? Do you know? Li Chu has 30,000 Qi troops, amassed on our border, ready to invade Once they from an alliance with the city of Chengyi we will be encircled But the razing of the three cities is a proclaimed policy, Your Majesty! Those with high principle would rather die to protect their belief It is wrong to beg for one's life but to compromise on the principles Who will be left to care about ethics if we've defeated in battle? Victory and defeat are what matter, not ethics Don't you remember? My father prince Zhao was driven out of Lu by the three families and die in exile If the three families turn against me now my fate will be much worse than his Your Majesty Do not say anymore! for the past 100 days, I have been always supporting you So had the Ji family Last night, Ji came to see me His words impiled more than they said It seems demolition campaign once reaches the City of Chengyi The Qi Army will seize the opportunity to march in With an army of 30,000 they will turn the world into chaos Kong Qiu, Kong Qiu You should follow my example sometimes Play a little stupid Didn't your teacher the revered Laozi say... Accomplish all task by not barged on anything? Kong Qiu, today the laws are not in order Everything is in chaos Yet you still insist on praticing your ethics, musics, humanity and harmony? I feel ashamed Not achieving anything Then just let go! Lao Zi, the founder of the gentle philosophy Taoism Fame and Authority are properties that all people try to obtain One should not take profession of it for long Then what should I, your pupil, do? Afterall, one cannot hang uselessly on the door, like a drink-up wine gourd ...not contributing to this world How do you know the lack of contribution is not the true contribution? The weak one compatible, and the mild one linger on Nothing is as soft as water and yet the agressive and the forceful one never triump over it The protect one always resemble water the master's words is profound, but I am loyal to my choosen path The Master's way is magnificent and shapeless Which trancends the cosmos And is not contrained to the material world My way, however, is within a dream of mankind Then you should not mind the lack of understanding by others Unlike those what are rich, I have no gold to give only this simple advice The sacrifice for the "year end ceremony" is over Has the sacrifice meat been distributed to the nobles and everybody? Yes, it has And as you ordered none went to Kong Qiu's household Father Have some of this No point in waiting I don't think we will be getting sacrificial meat this year My lord What is it? My teacher wishes to the the King His Majesty has no time for him Well, give this to Kong Qiu Don't say I sent it. tell him it comes from the Majesty himself Kong Qiu is a clever man, when he see this he would understand Yes, Master, I'll take it to him now And this tool Enough to buy yourself a piece of good land go home now, understand? Yes, sir! Come Stable the horse from Qi It's going to rain soon Yes, sir. Untie horse and bring them into the stables Father! Gong Boliao came back The King told him to bring this to you a parted jade ... Father, why would the king send this? Parted jade ... A parting gift Someone wants me to leave Did this come from the King himself? That's what he said, Father Gong Boliao handed this to me and then left He said he wouldn't come back anymore Find a chance to return this costume of ritual with its crown to the King Father this crown symbolized ethics It has always been something you treasure the most But this is something no longer important Father, please wait until the rain stops Please at least wait for your disciples Take care of your mother! Teacher Yan Hui... how did you get here? The Teacher is the body, and I am your shadow I will stay with my teacher until the end To be honest, I have no idea where I am heading for Teacher Yan Hui, you are very talented You will have no trouble in finding a good position in court If you come with me, you will have to leave your home and family behind You will regret it No! Never! Yan Hui, look... There is only brambly roads ahead And no prospect for a life of fortune Only a vast wilderness Aren't you afraid? Tell me, what have I done wrong? May I speak? Of course! Teacher, you were wrong to have put all your faith in the King Teacher, you once told me that if a man cannot change the world then at least he should try to change himself from within Good, well said. The humanity I taught is right before me, why should I still complaint. Teacher, Ran Qiu and I had to finish some works before we could come, hence we are delayed! That's right, teacher! Look! We've brought all your scrolls Teacher, who will drive your cart if I am not around? Besides, nobody would dare to to be rude to my teacher with me alongside you That's true Teacher Who would have thought the snore louder than I do Let's go In 497 BC, Confucius left Lu with his pupil and began the journey from country to other countries the Kingdom of Wei is in front of us I am instructed by His Majesty and his Lady to greeat Scholar Kong The Kingdom of Wei welcomes your delegation Master Kong, what is your impression of Wei so far? Compared to Lu, Wei has a larger population Yes, a larger population makes it more difficult to govern and has more potential for chaos Tell me, how shall I govern in order to prevent the risk of being chaotic? By making sure the people all have a prosperous life The vast majority of them are quite prosperous And yet they are signs of social disorder everywhere Then it be the lack of a good social moral surrounding and the people need to be educated Well said! The master is truly a sage! Then I hereby invite the scholar to teach in our country Also, land will be provided to build a school for this purpose, together with 60,000 stones of grains every year, that should be enough, shouldn't it? Thank you, Your Majesty! There is yet a matter that I would like you to advice on As you can see, Our kingdom Wei is vulnerable on all four sides Every one of our neighbors would want to conquer us So, I'd like to invite you to train Wei's military As a wandering exile, dare I even speak of soldiering at all But I have heard from somewhere Master is knowledgeable in warfare If Your Majesty speaks of sacrifical rituals I do claim to have some knowledge of them But on military matters, I'm afraid they are not my speciality at all So let it be then But there's one thing you absolately must agree to Your humble servant is a guest here, your wish is my command My royal consort Nanzi is eager to see you You won't say no, will you? Yes, ly lord. Better not to see her Does the teacher not know that Nanzi has ill repulation? This woman is great beauty But she is a succubus She had bad repulation in the Kingdom of Wei Teacher You do not know about her past story This woman was raised in the house of the Song's ruler In Song, she had an affair with the prince, there was a scandal... This kind of gossip is trivial Do you know who manages the Kingdom of Wei now? The King? Who else? I don't think so Wei's internal politics are very chaotic, there are many seats of power But I can see that the real power behind the throne is Nanzi What kind of a man is this Kong Qiu In my view, he is just a poor and disheveled scholar He is just a bookworm full of ethics and musics Poor he may be, but we could build up friendship This Kong Qiu is a worthy man so you must treat him well I still hope one day, we could ask him to be the teacher of our prince I have already promised him 60,000 stones of corn every year! Please be seated, Master Our Lady would be here soon Your humble servant Kong Qiu greets Our Lady Are you the famous scholar Kong Qiu? Scholar Kong, please be seated. Thank you, our Lady I have heard one of your axioms is "true benevolence is the love of mankind" Does this "benevolence" extend to a woman with a repulation like mine? I heard that you are teaching "The Book of Odes" here Yes, I am I also love poetry There is one poem Beauty is what a gentleman seek out for Could you tell me what that means? The poem means "Even while courting, a gentleman observes all proprieties" Of the 300 poeams in "The Book of Odes" so many pieces speak of love! All 300 pieces, we could use one sentence to explain In true love, there is no evil Since I was a child, I have taken a liking to poetry Will you take me as your student? I have taken on a new student in Wei, his name is Bu Shang Although still quite young, he is some sort of prodigy While studying "The Book of Odes" under me, he was shown much insight So I humbly recommend that he becomes your study-companion Our Ministers consider your theories of civilty in government to be impracticable Do you truly beleive they can work? Ruling with civilty will benefit the state, its community, and its people Why couldn;t be out into practice? Without civilty, a state will descent into chaos It is human nature to be lascivious and greedy. and will rage wars to these ends Since this is human nature it will be quite a task to overcome them Then it will be the true measure of a gentleman's worth Master, do you really beleive a gentleman? should carry himself as someone with high morality standard? And all this seems to be really important to you? It is my belief that when one is converted to a life of civilty in the morning, he wouldn't mind to give up his life Teacher, will you stay longer in our country so we can meet again? That would not be convenient How so? Why inconvenient? For I have never encountered anyone who loves a little virtue as much as love worldly beauties Worldly people could probably come to understand the master's sufferings, But few will ever truly grasp the depth and breath of those sufferings... It seems we should leave Wei now Why's that? This land will soon descend into chaos Worldly people could probably come to understand the master's sufferings, But few will ever truly grasp the depth and breath of those sufferings... Scholar Kong is there, let's go and take a look at him Commander Huan Kui have order Kong Qiu must leave Song. Second bow, third bow ... Teacher, you may commence your class Poetry, books, ethics, musics, these must be studied by all gentlemen So today we start to study together Duke should treat their minister with courtes and minister serve their Duke with loyalty If our belief is based on love to our parents and the emperror The the world would be harmonious All trades would prosper Take it simply, we could serve our parents well we could placate our neighbor countries we could also learn a lot including name of birds, animals and plants This is the order of Commander Huan Kui Get out of Song Stop Trees are going to fall. Watch out! Teacher, let leave here quickly Teacher, let's go Excuse me master, which way to the river crossing? The river crossing? Who's that man sitting on the cart? He is scholar Kong Scholar Kong? The famous scholar Kong Qiu from Lu? Indeed! Itsn't he suppossed to know everythings? Then he should know where the river crossing is Would it better for you to stay here and farm rather than drifting around with him and you could also stay away from the chaos That's right! Stay here and be a farmer! That's right! Stay here and be a farmer like us No work, no one food Please stay here Let's go Move on, we'll ask for the direction later Fei, is there any news of Kong Qiu? They say spent some time in Wei then went to Zheng and now in the Kingdom of Chen When the country at war, we miss the good generals and when the country is in the difficult time, we miss our great minister At that year when we talked about the alliance with Qi Kong Qiu won back the three city peacefully But we sent him into exile It is now clear we were misguided by the Qi Now that the Duke of Lu is dead, and a child has inherited his throne Qi wants to take this opportunity to invade us Our strength is no longer what we used to be If we go into war, we are lack of good commander Now I have a mission for you Bring Kong Qiu back to Lu! Father, we treated him bad! and force him into exile If we are going to invite him back People will mock at us Why don't we invite his disciple Ran Qiu back first? He is the head pupil of Kong Qiu, and a proven capable commander He would be more than capable to confront the Qi Army That would be fine. Let's invite Ran Qiu back at once Wake up! Quick! Teacher, wake up, something terrible happens The Wu is invading Chen, we must leave at once Have you seen an old foreigner? A stranger is outside the city's eastern gate Qi's army is at the doorsteps of Lu Teacher Master Ji ask for your consent to allow Ran Qiu return to fight for Lu Master For the sake of Lu, you must consent Teacher, we must not let Ran Qiu go Only when they are in trouble, they start thinking of us Remember how terrible they have treated us How did you find me? An old farmer told us he has seen a foreigner at the east side A forehead resembles King Yao's shoulders looks like Zichan's Had the air of an important man, but looked as scaggy as a stray dog We guessed it must be you I don't dare to be an important person and actually I don't resemble anyone famous The old farmer got it just right when he said of a stray dog though! Teacher, you have taugh us to practice what we learn and our motherland is in peril The Prime Minister is asking Ran Qiu to return ... That proves it is a matter of life and death for Lu As natives of Lu, we cannot just standby and watch Well said, Yan Hui Lu is in danger, I should allow you to return and save Lu from disaster Ran Qiu You should go I will wait for the good news Teacher, once the battle is won I will come and bring you back to Lu Kill 'em Greetings, Prime Minister Father General has lived up to our hope He has defeated the Qiu Army at the battle of Lang The Qi Army has retreated back to their side of the border I won't disappoint you I would petition the King to appoint you governor the three cities of Wen Shang Prime Minister, this is not what I wish for I only have one simple request Speak My teacher Master Kong He has been wandering for many years without a home and just continue teaching But there has never been a moment when the Kingdom of Lu wasn't in his mind Your humble servant only wishes that you would send someone to bring him back to Lu Well, I need to talk to the Majesty about that, And you are truly talented Just stay here and take charge of our family affairs You don't have to wandering around with Kong Qiu Look, a nine-tailed sparrow! Seeing that sparrow fly past means there must be a village not far ahead A village, really? That's great! We could finally have some food if there is a village Let's hurry Quick! I am starving How come there is nobody here Looks like this is another torched village by the army You must be tired, let's clean up this place I think we can spend the night here Teacher, look. It seems that the Cai army have us trapped in this valley Teacher I've found a small path at the back of this mountain It's very narrow, but I think it may lead down the mountain Why don't I go and have a try May I could find some food there Or we could be lucky and find someone that could give us help You can all take a rest and wait for me! Zigong, you always find a way! Come back early Let's go, Zigao Father, those do not must be rewarded by heaven with fortune What wrong have we done to deserve this? Why is it? that God would want to see us starved and run out of food Exactly Our teacher has great knowledge This could be difficult for people to appreciate It explains their lack of intelligence Teacher has said Only when weather becomes so cold That would be appreciate the strength of the pines Teacher has played with this instrument for days Yes, he could be using music to fill up his appettie Teacher, you have not eaten for days This is the last bowl of horse meat soup Drink it please Are you alright, brother? Brother Zilu, drink some soup Teacher, I am fine and you must drink Now that I had my share, you should have some too Let everyone share some I am not hungry, you should drink Teacher, you finally becomes conscious, Teacher Are you alright? Teacher, I am late You have left for seven days. If you late for one more day. You may not see us again. Teacher, you are fine now Zigong, tell me How is it out there? Teacher, after we left the valley We are hunted, and almost die Thanks to YanZhuoju, Zilu's brother in law He has brought more people to received us Only then we know how chaotic the world has become Wu has take over Zheng, and Chu has destroyed the Kingdom of Cai The people of Cai was being migrated to the south Come on, give us a hand Teacher Duke Ling of Wei has died. The new Duke of Wei has great respect of Zilu He would like to appoint him to be the Governor of Puyi What are you waiting for I am waiting for the roasted gigot of lamb, come, let's boil some water and start cooking! I am proud to see my student so honoured But "enter not a dangerous state, dwell not in a chaotic state The political situation in Wei is not stable To be frank, I do not quite approve of your taking up this post Teacher, just wait for me to successfully govern the City of Puyi I'll be able to build a powerful army to deal with the chaos inside Wei and appoint you the new Minister! Undue haste has no place in politics Zilu, you are headstrong and demanding ... That's very dangerous in this chaotic world. Teacher, I am aware of this But my "undue haste" reflect my wish to realize your ideals of harmony and civilty in government An officer should wear properly to reflect upon his appearance And do not forget Don't look at listen, or do anything which betrays propriety Teacher's words would stay withh me all my life Qi Sigong, take care on the road Teacher Take care of your selves, your student bid you farewell! Teacher What is that sound? The ice is cracking! Hurry up! Move Yan Hui, where are you? Hui ... Yan Hui Yan Hui Come up, please Teacher, please eat something It has been eight hours He would not recover, teacher Let go, Teacher. Teacher Teacher Please eat something Kong Qiu is still not comes back Father, I have sent people to look for him It is said that they are somewhere near the Lu's border He is raging with me. He would never forgive what I did to him Ask him to come back on my behalf When you see him, give him this. When he sees this, he would come home Teacher Teacher Qi Sigong Why are you back alone? Where is Zilu? Brother Zilu Brother Zilu, he ... he is dead! Wei in chaos, Yang Hu from the Kingdom of Jin has invaded ... Zilu was trying to protect the young heir to the Wei throne He went out to face the invaders alone He... he was killed Teacher says. "When a gentlement dies, he should maintain his dignity" Well said Zilu, well said! Mighty Zilu You were a true gentleman! My father asked me to prevent Master with this jade ring Mater Kong, my father is dying! He was very sick Teacher! I've found you at last! Ran Qiu, you have found your way here? Teacher, I Teacher, Minister Ji has been very sick and retired from court for years now. I am afraid he could not live for too long When he refreshed his memory, he deeply regretted about forcing you into exile those days He sent his own son to invite you to come back And he hopes to apologize to you in person Teacher, please come back to Lu A jade carved in "circle", that means "return" Stand up Teacher, for the sake of Lu's future, come home I ... can return But you must tell them that I went only to teach they must not trouble me anymore with politics I will stress this point to him We will comfort with your wish Teacher Start packing up, we are going home We're going home! We can go back to Lu finally! Father, Master Kong Qiu is on his way, he'll be here soon Go. Welcome him with my behalf. In 484 BC, Confucius came back to Lu, ending 19 years in exile We're home, we're finally home! the Kingdom of Lu We're back Lu, my beloved motherland I am back in your arm again, finally Teacher did you say something? Oh, ... nothing Pack up "The Spring and Autumn of Lu" and have it delivered Good If the world will come to know me, it will be through this book. If they will think ill of me, It will also because of this book Confucius died in 479 BC Life 73 years Confucius is the pioneer teachers in the transmission of religious teachings Disciples across the galaxy, education ceremony His life is the praised #####
