 

                        (Gulls screech) All secure, sir. All right, Number One. - Not a bad trip, Commander. - We did very well, sir. Well, young fellows me lads, you can count yourselves very lucky to have helped bag a submarine on your first trip. All I remember about mine is being confoundedly sick. They were green about the gills the first week out, sir. - We used to called it midshipmanitis. - Oh, we're over that now, sir. Muster the prisoners and send them ashore right away. - Anything come in about leave, sir? - Not yet. I'm moving your things from the sea cabin, sir. Will you be going ashore? I don't know yet, Bates. (Bell clangs) - Gangway for the red watch. - Any more for the Sky Lark? - Pick up your monkeys and parrots. - Get your shore-going out! Driver, where's my car? The old mud hook's down, let's hope she stays there for a bit. - Shut up that row! - Get you! # Home, home, sweet home, there's no place like home # - Home? You'll never see home. - What are you talking about? Pipe down, we're bound to get leave. Here, let's ask the admiral. Oi, come on, sailor, oi, wake up. - What do you want? - A little bit of wisdom. - Are we going to get leave? - Well, come on, out with it. Shh, can't you see he's thinking? Well, firstly, we sink a blooming submarine, that should mean leave. Secondly, we're due for boiler cleaning... - Come on, come on! - Hurry up! Thirdly, we haven't had any for a hell of a long time! And fourthly, admiral, we have the case of able seaman Edmunds, who was married two hours before he had to join his ship, and hadn't the time nor the opportunity to consummate the union. - (All laugh) - Nark it! Here, hold your noses, here comes the bootnecks. (Whistles) Oi, where you going with those pea-shooters? We're mustering the Jerry prisoners to go ashore. (All laugh) Grog-o, grog-o. Here you are my lucky lads. Stand back, you'll all get served, gents. Stand back and let the dog see the rabbit! Come on, one, two. Come along, kamerads, four. Come along, keep moving, keep moving. Prisoners, march. - Just a minute, corporal. - Halt. What do you want, sailor? Let's give the poor baskets a tot of rum. It'll be a long time before they get any leave. All communication with the prisoners is strictly prohibited. - Carry on, sailor. - Go on, pop it in. Here, Jerry, take a swig of this. Go on, Nelson's blood. Nein, das is verboten! Stow it, Adolf, give the lads a chance. Go on, it'll do you good. - Good. - Good! I should say it is. - Grows hairs on your chest. - (All laugh) Wunderbar. Yeah, you fellas made a mistake letting those Nazis kid you. You ought to join a real navy. (All laugh) (Cup smashes) Heil Hitler! Heil, my fanny, prisoners and escort shun, quick march. Party, halt. All present and correct, sir. Very good. Where the devil's that motorboat got to? She hasn't left yet, sir. (Gulls screech) (Tyres squeal) - Charles? - Yes, ma'am? - Take a walk, would you please. - Certainly. Steady, darling. Oh, David, it's all over your collar too. Damn these stiff collars. Spit. You know, after two years out of the service, running my own show, I'll find this "aye-aye, sir" business pretty difficult. Never mind, you look lovely in your uniform. Yes, absolutely divine! Oh, David, you're going to make a bad start, you're ten minutes overdue. Never mind, dear, Mr Chamberlain says it'll be a long war. (Horn blasts) I'm going to miss you, darling, even though I know you're an awful waste of time. Is there a better way of wasting time, my sweet? I've loved every minute of it. Goodbye, my dear, look after yourself. Goodbye, David. - Be good. - Aye-aye, sir. - So long, my poppet. - Goodbye. Motorboat's just leaving, sir. Good. Stand by with your prisoners, corporal. Party, shun. Oh, there's old Bates, sir. Will you excuse me for a moment? - Yes, carry on. - Thank you, sir. I say, Bates, is Captain Armitage going ashore? I don't know, sir, but I'm hoping if he goes, we go too. Thanks, Bates. - Wotcher, swain. - What do you want? - Is the oldie going ashore? - How the hell do I know? If anyone asks me that again, I'll knock his blasted block off! All right, all right! Will you be going ashore, sir? I don't know. - There's no news about leave, sir? - Nothing official yet. Would you be going to town if we did get leave, sir? I expect so. There something I'd like to ask you, sir, if it isn't a liberty. Anything you like, Bates. Lord knows, we've known each other long enough! Well, it's like this here, sir, my old woman made me promise, you see, like she being very keen for you to stand for the first, well, I said, "No, wait a bit, there's bound to be another one soon." What the devil are you talking about, Bates? Babies, sir. What, at your time of life? No, it's not exactly mine, it's me daughter's. It's a boy, and his father being in the service, we'd like you to stand godfather, sort of start him off right. - Why, I'd be delighted! - Thank you, sir. We was thinking of wetting his head this leave. I was wondering what to do with myself. Suits me perfectly, any time you like. By gum, my old girl'll be as proud as punch. - (Knock on door) - Come. - Lieutenant Cranford, sir. - Who? - Come aboard to join, sir. - All right, Hawkins. From the Admiralty, sir. Hello, Bates, how's yourself? I'm as well as can be expected, thank you, sir. I see. Tell the commander to muster all hands aft. I usually offer anyone joining a drink, but I think we can dispense with that formality. I quite agree, sir. Shall I go? Just a minute. Did you apply to come to my ship? No, sir. I think someone at the admiralty developed a sense of humour. You'll be transferred as soon as it can be arranged. Thank you, sir. Apart from duty, I suggest we keep out of each other's way. Naturally, sir. - Hey, Snotty. - Sir? - What's your name? - Howard, sir. Mine's Cranford. Where's the wardroom? I'll show you, sir. Was that the order for leave you brought aboard? I don't know, Mr Churchill didn't tell me. The First Lord, you actually know him? Winnie? One of my oldest friends. I help him with his hats. You're pulling my leg, sir. I wish they'd make up their minds about leave, it's damned unsettling. Unsettling? That means a girl. Well, of course, sir, she's only a friend, there's nothing definite yet. That's why you're anxious about leave. Yes, and it's just my luck, I'm on watch tonight. Perhaps we can fix something. I might take over for you. They'd never let you, sir. - It may be irregular but we can try. - Thanks, awfully. Down this way, sir. Don't mention anything about my girl, you know what it's like in the gunroom, I'd rather keep it to myself. My dear fellow, I'll be as silent as the grave. Three. Wrong, old son. - Four. - (All laugh) - They're on you, Dot. - A pleasure, Sandeman. - Make doubles now the anchor's down. - Very good, sir. - Here you are, sir. - Thank you. Come in. No, sir, not in here. - Come on, have a drink. - Thank you, sir. - My name's Cranford, I've just joined. - I'm glad to know you, Cranford. - I'm Sandeman. - How do you do? - This is guns. - How do you do? Torps, surgeon commander... - How do you do? And Dot and Cary, our heroes of the sky. I'm happy to meet you all, and to forestall the inevitable, I haven't the slightest idea when you'll get leave. I suppose everybody on the ship's been asking you that. Do you know what I'd like to do? Hop in my little bus, fly her to town, Take her on top of the Ritz, and make a parachute drop into the American bar. With rows and rows of gleaming bottles and fairy lights twinkling though them. Instead of Peacock's ugly mug leering at you over pink gins, there'd be a wonderful popsie. With a full set of everything. Bottoms up. Here we go. Hello, sir, you're just in time to meet the new arrival. We know each other. Well, you seem to have made yourself at home very quickly. Yes, sir, you can't keep a good man down. Pity. Get me a drink. Beer, please. Well, I've got a spot of work to do, if you'll forgive me. Oh, I'll give you a hand. The glass must be falling, deep depression. Your luggage has been put in your cabin, sir. Thank you. I'm afraid I've come to stay. Thanks for the drink. Oh, ha-ha, not at all. What on earth's the matter, Commander? It's an awkward thing to talk about. I thought he seemed a nice bloke, sir. That's a matter of opinion. I've served with Tom Armitage for a long time, he's one of my oldest friends. Oh, what's the skipper got to do with it? Well, five years ago, we were out on the China Station, his wife was there. - So was young Cranford. - Oh, well, that was it. Yes, there was a divorce. - Tough luck on the skipper. - These sort of things do happen, sir. Just what I felt, till we learned a year later at Singapore, that Cranford had let her down. - Didn't marry her, you mean? - Exactly. I'm one of those rare birds, a happily married man. I don't set out to be a moralist, still, you know what it is. - You must draw the line somewhere. - Exactly. Yes, we seem to be well-off for balaclavas, Jenkins. Two navy, three beige, one in your hand, that's six. Your lady friends like to keep you warm, sir. Nonsense, Jenkins, all knitted by elderly relatives on the front at Bournemouth. - Keep that one for yourself. - Thank you, sir. - I say, sir? - Yes? About wangling my leave, sir, I've come to ask you not to bother. I see. All right, my lad, makes no difference to me. - Thanks all the same. - Don't mention it. Have a helmet. No, thank you, sir. - Another one for you, Jenkins. - Thank you, sir. (Bugle blares) Lower deck clear, ship's company mustered aft, sir. Thank you, master-at-arms. Lower deck clear, sir. Everybody aft. Ship's company, stand at ease. I want to thank you all for the way you've acquitted yourselves during the patrol we've just finished. You've given the enemy a taste of your quality. I know there are people you're fond of ashore... He means you, Shorty, someone must've split. Oh, pack it up! I know you're expecting leave and you deserve it... - This looks good to me. - Sounds like a week at least. ...but I don't have to remind you that we're at war and have to make sacrifices. The orders I have just received from the Admiralty put general leave out of the question. Hard luck, Shorty. Our flotilla has been selected for special duty, and I hope this news will make up for the disappointment you've suffered, because I don't mind telling you, it may give us the chance of action - against enemy surface craft. - That'll be great. Swimming in the North Sea with a leg off. Never mind, you'll get a medal. The operation we have been detailed to carry out is one of the utmost importance, and I know I can rely on all of you to do your very best. That is all. Carry on, Commander. Ship's company, shun. Turn for'ard, right and left. Turn! Double march. The destroyer captains are aboard, sir. - They're in your cabin. - Thanks, Brandon. I understand, that's the trouble, I do understand! Now, you listen to me, of course you won't get any leave, and I'll tell you why, you're a lot of mugs that won't stand up for yourselves. - I've been in the service 30 years... - Shut up! Now, listen to me... - Oh, put a sock in it! - I'll tell you why there's no leave. Cos first, we sunk a blooming German submarine... - Grub up, grub... - Secondly, we're due for boiler cleaning. And thirdly, we ain't had any leave for a long time, and... (All laugh) Grub up - come on, lads! The merchantmen we are to convoy are assembling outside Norwegian waters. We'll steam across and pick them up and convoy them to Position X - that's the entrance to our minefields, where they'll be safe. You'll find all further details in your sailing orders. Pass them round. Usual precautions, no wireless messages, we can receive but we mustn't send. Absolute secrecy, absolute concentration on the one job, to get the convoy home, nothing must interfere with that. Well, before you go back to your ships, everything quite clear? - Very clear. - Absolutely clear. I've been reading the list of ships we're escorting, sir. - The Seaflower's among them. - Yes. She was running the blockade on the Spanish war. Yes, and she had that old blaggard of a skipper, always in trouble. He's in the thick of it again, she's lying off Poland. Well, good luck. I hope you'll be able to wangle us some leave after this, sir. So do I, they've had to postpone a christening for me. (Laughs) Just a minute, Cranford. There's a question you might be able to answer. Official or personal, sir? Purely personal. - Would you care to smoke? - No, thank you, sir. Have you heard anything of Lucy since she went abroad? Well, now and then. Usual motoring tour postcards. Nuremberg by moonlight, Hitler by daylight. - When was the last? - Day before war was declared. And you haven't bothered to find out if she got away from Germany? Lucy always preferred looking after herself. That's why you left her, I suppose. I thought this was a personal talk. I suggest we keep off dangerous ground. You won't understand my point of view and yours went out with wooden ships. - You're being insulting. - I have reason to be. What is this, a ship or a Sunday school? I've been treated like a leper since I came aboard, thanks to your influence, You're wrong, Cranford. The wardroom's opinion is entirely its own affair, I don't control it. As long as you do your job, you'll be treated like any officer on the ship. Please take these charts to the bridge, we're sailing at six tonight. (Bell chimes) Signal received from the Admiralty, sir. Read it, will you. All merchantmen reported to have left for rendezvous, except Seaflower, whereabouts unknown. I knew we'd have trouble with that damned old pirate. (Singing) Don't they sing lovely, the poor beggars? Very nice, if you like that kind of foreign singing. Now, when I was third officer in the Mauretania... I know, I know, you had two symphony orchestras and a prize brass band. Let me tell you, Mr Mate, there's nothing to touch the harmony of the human voice. It's all right. If it weren't for us, they wouldn't be singing, they'd be herded together in some Nazi concentration camp. Yes, Mr Mathews, we performed a real work of mercy. Yeah, twenty quid a head. That's beside the point. We saved them. (Harmonica) (Man sings) (All answer) (Sings) (All answer) - (Man sings) - (All answer) - (Woman sings) - (All answer) (All sing) Oh blast! Mary! Mary, go in there and tell them to stop that awful row. Mrs Lucy Armitage, I've nursed you ever since you wore nappies, I've put up with all your tantrums, I've tried to get you out of all your scrapes, I've whizzed across the continent in a motor car with you, chased by hordes of murdering Germans, but now, at last, I'm on me way to England, in a British ship - there's nothing on god's earth will get me out of the safety of me bed. - (Explosion) - Oh, what was that? (Screaming) Stay here, I'll go and find out. - What was it, Captain? - Shot across our bows. (Speaks German) Not a light nor a sound, Mr Mate. Go down and stand by amidships with a neutral flag. (Speaks German) - Can I help? I understand German. - What's he saying? He's asking what ship are you and where are you bound. Leave him to me. (Speaks bad Spanish) That's Spanish, picked it up in Bilbao. (Speaks in Spanish with a heavy English accent) Neutrale. Us neutrale. (Speaks German) (Speaks German) Cross your fingers, Captain, here it comes. (Speaks German) Carry on, Neutral, best wishes for a safe journey. What did I tell you, they're gonna let us pass. Now, where's that damned old fool of a mate of mine? Mr Matthews, full speed ahead. Have they gone, Captain? Don't you worry, Mr Mate, why, a child could fool a pack of squareheads like that. Captain, I believe you could sail us through the Kiel Canal itself. Well, why not? For the lord's sake, don't suggest that to him, Mrs Armitage. Thanks for your help, ma'am. Please don't mention it. Any time. - Steer nor'nor'east, helmsman. - Aye-aye, sir. Nor'nor'east, that'll never take us to the convoy. Now look, Mr Mate, me and t'old Seaflower are not joining any convoy. Catch us tacking across North Sea like a drunken sailor, with a lot of destroyers and cruisers chivvying us about. No, we're going along on our own, like we've always done. We're steering nor'nor'east. Make a signal to our flotilla. From U37, the British steamer Seaflower has been allowed to pass as arranged. Am following on her course. (Morse Code) Message from U37. Steer a course for the convoy and follow on her quarter. Signal to U42. Very good. Jolly cold, sir. Yes, shocking weather for monkeys, Mr Sutton. (Laughs) I think I'll go and get a little sleep. Your relief will be up in a few minutes. Very good, sir. Call me when they sight the merchantmen. Aye-aye, sir. Brought you a nice cup of cocoa, sir, (Yawns) Take it up on the bridge. What I want is sleep. (Whistles) Heave ho, heave ho, lash up and stow. Wakey wakey, all the red watch, all the red watch. Come on, out of it. Come on, what is in here? - Shut up! - Come on, show a leg, here. Come on, show a leg here, get up, out of it, all of you. Come on, the red watch, come on, lash up and stow. Oh, blast! Got any shaving soap, my lad? - Thanks. - That's all right. What a pretty girl. - Do you think so? - Damned attractive. She's the one I was telling you about. I was just writing to her, as a matter of fact. She's the sort of girl a fellow can write to. - Intelligent, eh? - She's marvellous to talk to. You're a man of the world, what do you think about marriage when a fellow's in the service? Well, that depends. How old is she? Only 25, and I'm practically 19, you know. - What does she feel about it? - She's as keen as I am. Of course, I'd have to keep it secret from my family, but she says that would be all right. She's an actress and she's got dozens of men crazy about her. And she's told you that you're the only man she cares about, eh? Yes, she did. Should be time to think about it, no use hurrying these things. Thanks awfully, sir. That's all right. One thing, Shorty, I shouldn't put too much in writing. - Why, sir? - Just a sound principle, that's all. (Wind howling) It's cold up here. This ought to warm the cockles of your heart. No need for it, man, I use my imagination. Here they come. Bridge. (Whistle) - Yes? - Convoy in sight, sir. I'll be up right away. (Yawns) Your cocoa, sir. I made another lot. No time right now, Bates. Later. Right, Mr Cranford, signal the two lead destroyers to form up the convoy. Main line of advance, 260, speed nine knots. Signalman. Form up the convoy. Huh, he means sort out this ruddy mess. They look like the Grand National field, sir, second time round. Better see what we can do about it. Bring her up to 20 knots. Aye-aye, sir. Engine room. (Siren) Scruffy looking lot, aren't they? If I had charge of them for a week or two, I'd make 'em look like real ships. How would you go about it? Oh, smarten up the paintwork, sir, and get all of the ropes coiled and everything trim and taut, - and that sort of thing, sir. - Ah! This is a convoy, gentlemen, not a regatta! Those skippers were master mariners, when you were toddling about with your nannies. (Both) Sorry, sir. We will consider the incident closed. Make a signal to all vessels in the convoy - zigzag 20 degrees either side of the mean line of advance every 15 minutes. - First zig to starboard. - Aye-aye, sir. They work too fast for me, skipper. Did you say a red flag with white stripes, - or a white flag with red stripes? - I never said stripes. I said the whole thing gives me the gripes! Well, I can't make head nor tail of it. Take no notice, Mr Mate, we play follow my leader and hope for the best. Ahoy! Are you in trouble with the signal, skipper? Can we help you? Yes, you can! I haven't seen so many flags since the coronation. It means to zigzag, first leg to starboard. Starboard your wheel. Thanks, Captain, come aboard and have a drink with us when we get in. What's he saying, Mr Cranford? All ships in position, sir. There's only one absentee, Seaflower. Yeah, I thought as much. I brought breakfast, sir, your cocoa's getting cold. All right, Bates, I'll be down in a minute. Steer 270 degrees, 12 knots. - Take up position ahead of convoy. - Aye-aye, sir. Achtung, here they are. Tell U42 to stand by. Very good, Herr Kapitan Leutnant. - Yeoman of signals, flag deck. - Flag deck. SOS, SOS, Seaflower, 52-30 north, Very good. Just received, sir. - All right, chief yeoman. - Very good, sir. I'll take this down to the captain myself. (Clears throat) SOS from the Seaflower, sir. Hm. I wish that old scoundrel had obeyed orders, then he wouldn't be in this mess. Shall I detach a destroyer to help him, sir? Make no reply to the signal, Mr Cranford. On no account whatever must a naval vessel be diverted from the convoy. I can't lay myself open to enemy attack, . Very good, sir. They'll have to take to the boats, and trust to the destroyer patrol picking them up. Another SOS from the Seaflower, sir. Oh, em, all right, chief yeoman. Very good, sir. - Signalman... - What did the captain say? I'm to send a destroyer and number one plane right away. Make a signal to the leading destroyer - leave convoy, proceed immediately latitude 52-30 north. Stand by with your torpedoes there. Stand by with your torpedoes. Torpedo number five, heave. We shall attack as soon as the destroyer leaves the convoy. Very good, Herr Kapitan Leutnant. What are you going to do, sir? Nothing. Make no reply to the signal. - But you must, Lucy's in that ship. - That doesn't enter into it. You'd let her drown rather than take a risk? Listen, Cranford, I've had my orders and they must be carried out, whatever my personal feelings are. It's common humanity! A destroyer could reach them in a quarter of an hour. And expose the merchantmen of this convoy to the danger of attack? - I haven't the right to. - (Alarm) What's that? (Alarm) I've taken the risk for you. As officer of the watch, I've sent a plane and a destroyer. You damned idiot! Wait till I send for you. Yeoman, make a signal. Recall the destroyer and plane. I can stop the destroyer, sir, but not the plane. Signals! Damn, the destroyer's going back to the convoy. Take her down to 50 feet. Mr Cranford. All right, gentlemen, I'll come quietly. It isn't very funny for any of us. Lieutenant Harvey will escort you to your cabin. You must consider yourself under close arrest. Certainly. Looks as though they've abandoned her. Bravo, boys, good shooting. Hello, U37. Nice work, Herr Kapitan. Have the convoy made any reply to the SOS? Not yet. Keep a sharp lookout. Did you save anyone from the plane? They were dead before they hit the water, ma'am. Poor devils. That's a risk they must take, they were part of your navy. The women and kids you wounded in my ship, weren't part of our navy. You should've surrendered earlier. By god, I'd like to wring your blasted neck! I have no doubt. Wireless room. Any reply from the convoy yet? - No, Herr Kapitan. - Repeat the SOS. Yes, Herr Kapitan. (Morse Code) (Gunfire) (Gunfire) Hurry up and get that mine, we're patrolling the North Sea, not shooting for coconuts on Hampstead Heath. - I wish we were, sir. - (Gunfire) Sir, intercepted SOS from the Seaflower. - (Gunfire) - (Explosion) Number One, full speed ahead, hard to starboard. - Steer 100 degrees. - Aye-aye, sir. Full speed ahead, hard to starboard. (Bells) Keep on signalling. There'll be no reply. You British are always telling the rest of the world, how humane your sailors are. Well, I'm giving them the chance to prove it. They may be gentlemen, but they're not fools. If you're right, it will be unfortunate for you. What do you mean? My submarine isn't an hotel, madam. I'll have no alternative but to give you ten minutes to take to your boats, before I sink your ship. But you can't do that! She's full of passengers, I've no boats for half of 'em. That is also unfortunate, Captain. You should either carry more boats, or less passengers. You can't turn women and children adrift like that. It's inhuman. Monstrous! With his own lips, our Fhrer has told us Germans how to fight this war. Let us be inhuman, he said. If we rescue Germany, we have done the greatest deed in the world. A greater man than Hitler taught the British navy how to fight. No greater man than Hitler has ever lived. Really? I used to smile at my husband for having a quotation framed on his desk - it went something like this - "May the great god whom I worship grant to my country, "and for the benefit of all Europe, a great and glorious victory, "and may no misconduct in anyone tarnish it, "and may humanity after victory "be the predominant feature of the British fleet." "For myself, I commit my life to him who made me, "and may his blessing light upon my endeavours, "for serving my country faithfully. "To him I resign myself and the just cause entrusted to me to defend. "Amen, amen, amen." It was Nelson's prayer on the eve of Trafalgar. What do you think of it, Herr Kapitan? We Germans think only as our Fhrer has told us - with our blood. Achtung, Herr Kapitan! British destroyers approaching. Destroyers? They can't be from the convoy yet. British patrol destroyers. Stand by to take us off. Very good, Herr Kapitan. Tell them to batten down the forward hold. - Herr Kapitan. - You can't sink women and children! - I've got to. - That won't help you. You're wrong, Captain - your destroyers will be too busy saving survivors, while we attack them, then get away. Come up on deck right away. - Batten down the hold. - (Speaks German) Batten down the hatch. (Screaming) Kick the lock. (Screaming) The swine have got clear of the boat, they'll be torpedoing us in a moment. Get the women and children on deck, quick. - Get a torpedo ready. - Very good, Herr Kapitan. Stand by with a torpedo. We can just do it. - What's the range? - 7,000 yards, sir. - Right, open fire. - Right, sir. - Open fire. - (Gunfire) (Gunfire) (Cheering) Come on, the navy, give 'em hell. (Cheering) (Explosion) (Explosion) (Cheers) Merchantmen with destroyer escort on the starboard bow. North Sea Patrol say they're bringing in the Seaflower to join the convoy. There's some casualties requiring medical attention. - Are they serious? - They've said nothing, sir. They want us to receive them. Have them aboard right away. No need to stop the convoy. Tell the surgeon to get sick bay ready. Aye-aye, sir. - Howard. - Sir? I want you to go to Mr Cranford's cabin and give him a message. - Morning, sir. - Morning, Parker. - Your patients are coming aboard, sir. - Thank you, Shorty. - Ah, the midshipman of the watch. - Hello, sir. - I've a message from the Captain. - I thought you'd come to join me. The Captain said to tell you, that the Seaflower had joined the convoy without serious mishap. Give the Captain my thanks. It was good of him to let me know. I say, sir, I'm awfully sorry about all this, I mean, this trouble you're in. That's all right, me lad, let it be a lesson to you. Touch hands and part with laughter. Touch lips and part with tears. In other words, lay off the girls. Oh, no, no entanglements for me. I'm gonna get properly married. Yes, I want a word with you about that. - (Knock on door) - Time for our little trot round. I'm sure we'll have that chat later. - So long. - I'm with you, soldier. That's all right, Mrs Armitage, but be careful with it for a week or two. - Thank you, doctor. - I understand Bates is waiting for you. Bates! Lt'll be nice to see him again. Ow! Now, now, Captain, behave yourself. I'll see you in the launch. I'm afraid she won't, Captain. What d'you mean, I've got to get back to my ship? I know you don't give a damn for the navy, but you've got to obey me, I'm a doctor as well. I feel all right. I've got to find out if that's a fracture or not. - You'll have to stay aboard for a bit. - Hey! - How's the family, Bates? - Fine, ma'am. - I'm a grandfather now. - Congratulations. - The captain's promised to be godfather. - Good. How are you, Tom? Hello, Lucy. (Laughs) I've been worried about you ever since this awful war started. Has Bates been looking after you properly? Of course he has, confound him. Always pestering me with cups of cocoa. - (Laughs) - Well, how about you? I've had the most incredible adventures. I'm a heroine now. You must've had a bit of shock when you found out I was in the Seaflower. I had. Unfortunately, I wasn't the only one. Oh? David Cranford's in the ship. David. - Must've been awkward for you. - It was. I think he treated you very badly, my dear. What do you mean, Tom? Well... the way he let you down. Oh, no, you've got it all wrong! David didn't leave me! Oh! What are you talking about? Well, I... It just didn't work out, and I knew it wouldn't break our David's heart. I don't understand you people! You run away together, make me look a darn fool, create a helluva scandal, then say the whole thing was a mistake. You don't care for him, he doesn't care about you, but when you're in trouble, he tries to send half the fleet to get you out of it! All he does is get himself court-martialled! Blast! Did David do that for me? Look, Tom, you'll have to get him out of this. I can do nothing about it. It's out of my hands. All the same, I know you'll do your best for him. You know, it's funny, you and David are very alike in some ways. I'm hanged if I can see that! Like most sailors, you're both incurably sentimental about women. Well, maybe you're right. It's queer, Lucy, how I've missed you. Everything seems pointless since you went away. - You're happy enough in this ship. - Oh, I'm all right when I'm at sea, but when I go ashore, Lucy, I don't know, sitting about in clubs, buying evening newspapers, having Turkish baths when I don't want them, I get bored stiff. If you were there again, everything would be different. Oh, but my dear, it wouldn't. You've always been like that ashore - grumpy, grumbling at everyone else's inefficiency, at a permanent loose end, just waiting for the moment when you can get back to your ship. But that's my job! No, Tom, it's your whole existence. Fond as I am of you, there's no place for me in it. I don't agree with you, but you always did know your own mind. Let's forget about it, shall we? Well, what sort of a cabin are you going to give me? I hope it's more comfortable than this one. Oh, no, Mrs Armitage, you're not staying in my ship. You can't put me back in the Seaflower, she's leaking like a sieve. I've had all the Seaflower passengers transferred to one of the convoy ships. The Seaflower party are ready to leave. Thank you, Howard. Well, goodbye, my dear, I hope you'll be comfortable. I'm sure I shall. - I feel safe now. - Good. Let's meet in town for a drink sometime. That's a grand idea. Would you relax your attention for a minute? All right, old man, but don't be long. Hello, David. Well, Lucy, fancy meeting you on my morning stroll. Is this going to be serious for you? Oh, I expect they'll have me in the ARP. Tom told me what you did. I'm... very grateful. Another of my gestures, Lucy. Dashing, but ineffective. You always were a lunatic. Yes. (Both) Well, eh... There's a party waiting for you. Goodbye, my dear. Goodbye, David. Good luck. Time's up, Cranford. Yes. (Radio) 'Here is our news in English. 'A successful attack has just been launched by our gallant U-boats, 'against a British North Sea convoy. 'Lt is firmly established that many vessels were sunk and damaged, 'the convoy itself dispersed and thrown into confusion, 'while the surviving warships are still being actively hunted, 'by our indomitable U-boats. 'An eyewitness account, 'referring to the sinking of the armed liner the Seaflower, 'reports that she was carrying a cargo of poison gas, 'dispatched from Poland to England by that fanatical warmonger, 'First Lord of the Admiralty, W Churchill esquire.' Sunk my ship - the ruddy liar! 'Finally, it is believed the flagship Apollo herself, 'has been torpedoed and sunk with the loss of all hands. 'A further report... ' Blimey, boys, we're all dead and we don't know it! (All laugh) So, that's where poor sailors go to when they die, eh? Back to the ruddy mess decks. This fellow's a regular Ananias, he's worse than that, he's a perishing liar! We don't take any notice of him. Poison gas? I once had a cargo of fertiliser - I'll admit, that whiffed a bit. - (All laugh) - (Bosun's whistle) B and Y turrets close up. B and Y turrets close up. B and Y turrets close up. - (Whistle) - What's up this time, bosun's mate? Don't know, but the old man must be expecting a bit of trouble. Skipper, the Captain would like to talk to you in his sea cabin. - Me? Oh, all right. - Yeah. Anything serious, sir? Just had a signal from the Admiralty, things are looking up. They say that a pocket battleship has slipped through the cordon on a raid. - After us? - Yes. We might have some fun then. I don't think they want us to. They're making dispositions now. They're sending out operation orders. 'Admiralty operations to battle squadron, Admiralty operations to battle squadron, 'alter course and take up positions covering flank of North Sea convoy. 'Alter course and take up positions covering flank of North Sea convoy. 'Admiralty operations to battle squadron. 'Admiralty operations to aircraft carrier Aquilla, 'admiralty operations to aircraft carrier Aquilla, 'locate enemy battleship attempting raid on North Sea convoy, 'locate enemy battleship attempting raid on North Sea convoy. 'Admiralty operations to aircraft carrier, Aquilla. 'Admiralty operations to aircraft carrier, Aquilla. 'Admiralty operations to minesweeper flotilla, Position X. 'Admiralty operations to minesweeper flotilla, Position X, 'North Sea convoy due Position X two hours earlier, 'sweep entrance to minefield before 1800 tonight. 'North Sea convoy due Position X two hours earlier, 'sweep entrance to minefield before 18:00 tonight.' They seem to be doing what they can for us, sir. Yes. Tell the navigating officer I'll be up with a new course in a few minutes. Aye-aye, sir. - And let that old blaggard in. - Aye-aye, sir. Come right in, Captain. Please take off your cap in my cabin. Captain Armitage, I hear you shifted passengers from my ship. Well, you've got no right to do that. So long as your ship's in my convoy, you're subject to my orders. - I want you to understand that. - I suppose so, but I want you to understand that I'm registering a protest. I've sent for you because I've got to sink your ship. Sink the Seaflower? Nay, you can't do that. I want no further trouble, Eckersley, there's as raider out. I have orders from the admiralty to alter course and increase speed. Your ship's practically unseaworthy, she can't keep up with us and I can't leave her behind. She'd be a pointer to our whereabouts and a danger to navigation. - But it'd ruin me. - There'll be no argument. I'm detailing a destroyer to take off her crew and torpedo her. Captain Armitage, I've been master of Seaflower for more than 20 years now, and you know what that means. How would you like it, if a stranger came and said he was gonna sink your ship? - I should have to obey orders, Captain. - Oh, so will I, only... ...I can't bear the thought of her being torpedoed. Look, would you let me go aboard her for the last time and open sea cocks? I'd... I'd like to finish her off meself. Someone told me the other day that all sailors are incurably sentimental - maybe they were right. You can go aboard her, Captain. That's right good of you, sir. (Bells) Well, there they go, skipper. Aye. Booking their way to harbour. It's a grand feeling, Mr Mate, when you're taking your ship safe home to port. I'll never know it any more. You'll get another ship all right, skipper. Ahoy. Seaflower, ahoy! Taking a darn long time about it, they ought to be on that boat by now. - Shall I tell them to hurry up, sir? - Yes, go on. Seaflower, ahoy. Get a move on. Well, it's gotta be done. Aye, Mr Mate. What's got to be must be. - You go for'ard, sir, and I'll go aft. - Yeah. (Sniffs) Do you smell what I smell, Mister? Why, yes, Captain - fog. She'll be down on us any minute now. Aye, the nicest piece of fog I've ever tasted. Mr Mate, I don't think we need bother with them sea cocks any longer. We'll be better of on our own than with that blasted sea circus over there. We're taking a great risk. Aye, well, we'll take it. You stay there. Tell the old fool to hurry up, this fog will be down in a minute. Seaflower, ahoy, hurry up. Stand by with the engines, chief. Seaflower, ahoy. Tell him I've gone below. Skipper's gone below, for the log book. Won't be a minute, sir. Seaflower, ahoy! Don't say a word, Mr Mate, we've done it. Put her astern. (Bells) He's started his engine, sir. He's trying to give us the slip. Blast him, he'll be going ahead, I'll try and cut across his bows. Half speed ahead together. Half speed ahead together. Seaflower, ahoy! Seaflower, ahoy! It's got pretty thick, sir. - Yes. - Are you thinking of reducing speed? No. I've got to make Position X before nightfall. - Tell them to string their fog buoys. - Signalman. Seaflower, ahoy! Seaflower, ahoy! Seaflower, ahoy! - You'd better chuck it, number one. - Looks as if she's clean away, sir. If I could get my hands round that old so and so's neck, I'd... (Singing) # Hoorah, boys, hoorah, we'll hymn the jubilee # God bless the navy but a merchant ship for me There's something in that song, skipper. There's nowt like freedom. It's one of our war aims, isn't it? # Stand by your weather mainbrace, and hoist away your lee # God bless the diddly dee... # Here, do you hear something? Yes. British merchantmen on port bow, Herr Kapitan. Hard a port. Slow your engines. Look! My god, the Deutschland. She's after the convoy. We gotta warn 'em, that cruiser won't stand a chance against her. Where's that blasted destroyer? Just like the navy, never there when they're wanted. Well, there's only one thing for it. Don't touch that, skipper, they'll hear it on the Deutschland. I can't help that, we gotta signal that destroyer. Now, how do you spell Deutschland? - D. - (Horn) - U. - (Horn) - T. (Horn) - C. - (Horn) I think she's over there, Herr Kapitan. Alter course and steer towards the siren. Very good, Herr Kapitan. On contact, open fire with secondary armament. - Very good, Herr Kapitan. - (Horn continues) (Horn) Merchantmen in sight, Herr Kapitan. Open fire. Secondary armament, open fire. (Horn continues) Skipper, skipper. All right, Mr Mate, leave it. I'm right sorry I let you in for this bucket. Don't talk so silly, skipper. Nay, you were right, we ought to have stuck to convoy, but... (Gunfire continues) ...l've always been a bit... pig-headed. I'd sooner sail under you than anyone, sir. Thanks, lad. She's been a good ship, Mr Mate... (Gunfire continues) (Horn) - Cease fire. - Cease fire. (Horn continues) That's someone calling us. - Must be the Seaflower, sir. - What the hell's she doing? Bring her up to 20 knots and steer towards the siren. Engine room, 200 revolutions. (Bells) (Horn continues) - It's Morse, sir. - What's she saying? D-U-T-C-H-L... - They must mean Deutschland. - Deutschland, that was her guns firing? Will you have a crack at her, sir? We've got to get to the convoy at top speed, before she does. She'd blow them all out of the water. We must give them a chance to scatter. Full speed ahead. That was good work, but just a beginning, the hors d'oeuvres. - We can't be far from that convoy. - I've plotted the new course. - Right, bring your ship around. - Very good, Herr Kapitan. - Bring her up to 20 knots. - Very good, Herr Kapitan. Sutton, how long will it take us before we make Position X? I reckon about three hours, sir. Where the devil's that destroyer got to? Be here soon. The fog's lifting a bit. It'll be a great deal easier when we get this lot inside the minefields. Thank you. - Ah, this is better. - Yes, Herr Kapitan. We should see them any moment now. - Full speed ahead. - Yes, Herr Kapitan. Full speed ahead. - Ship ready for action. - Very good, Herr Kapitan. Ship ready for action. Signalman, make a signal to Apollo right away. Aye-aye, sir. Destroyer signalling, sir. What's she saying? Deutschland reported Approaching convoy rapidly. I'm going to engage the enemy. We're three hours steaming from the minefields and Position X. We've got to hold her till the convoy's safely there. Make a signal to the admiralty. About to engage Deutschland. - Give them our position. - Aye-aye, sir. Signal Commander Martin, take charge of the convoy, keep her on course. Officer of the watch, starboard 25, - steer 280 degrees, full speed ahead. - Aye-aye, sir. (Bells) Action stations, Commander. Launch number two plane for reconnaissance. (Bugle call) Sir, has Captain Sandeman given you permission to leave your cabin? - No. - May I ask where you're going, sir? - Into action. - But sir... Corporal Parker, do you realise that I might interpret that indiscreet gesture, as striking a superior officer? You wouldn't do that, sir. I'm not so sure. I'll think about it. Stand to attention, don't leave your post. - All ready for action, sir. - Good. Come to report for duty, sir. Good lord, I'd forgotten all about you. Yes, sir. May I remind you that it's usual to release all prisoners, before a ship goes into action. Mr Cranford, you can consider yourself released, for the period of our engagement with the enemy. Thanks very much, sir. David, Lucy told me a lot of things. I think I overdid it. I know I did, sir. Good luck. Thank you, sir. With those 11 -inch guns of hers, sir, she ought to blow us to bits... on paper. Fortunately, Mr Cranford, we are not on paper, we're at sea - that evens up the odds a bit. Blimey, here she comes! Red 3-0, enemy battleship, sir. - Bridge. - Enemy cruiser sighted, Herr Kapitan. Right. Range? Main armament, open fire. Gun control, main armament, open fire. Main armament, stand by. - Deflection, eight right. - Deflection, eight right. - Steady salvo. - Salvo. (Gunfire) Pretty good for a first go, sir. Not so bad. What's the range now, Sutton? - Hold your fire, Hawkins. - Aye-aye, sir. That was a close one, wasn't it? You'll get that medal yet. Why don't we get a start and give them a basinful, sir? We've got to get to 15,000 yards, before we can do any good with our little Greta. (Gunfire) Blimey, reminds you of Guy Fawkes Day, don't it, chums? - (Gunfire) - (Gasps and screams) God help them, and God help us. Shh, Mary, be quiet. I will not be quiet. I'm after hearing one of the sailors say, the little cruiser doesn't stand a chance. Why did she go away and leave us with only them destroyers to look after us? I tell you, we'll all be sunk. Mary Hogan, you ought to be ashamed of yourself - you haven't any idea what you're talking about. You leave this to the navy, they know what they're doing. The Germans won't shoot at us again, will they? No, darling, of course they won't. Look, here's a bit for his face. It looks as if it's got a beard. Perhaps it's Father Christmas. - First blood to the Bosch, eh? - She's got the range all right, sir. - What's the reading now? - 17,000 yards, sir. Looks like we've got to take it for another 2,000 yards. Yes. - Got them again, direct hit. - Shan't be long now, Herr Kapitan. Forward turret, direct hit. Oh-ho, talk about haystacks, Jim... I don't think even I could miss that one. Let's have a go. We might check her fire and give our boys a bit of a breather. - Concentrate on the bridge. - Here she goes. What are they swinging the ship about for? I can't keep my guns going. Check fire. That finishes me for the day, Cary. All right, Jim, lets get out of here, and I'll buy you a nice cup of tea. - They're coming back, sir. - Nice work. Thank you, Sutton. Hawkins, you can open fire. - Aye-aye, sir. - Open fire. - Target's nice and clear, sir. - Right. All guns stand by. Salvoes, right gun commencing. Right gun ready, sir. Salvoes, left gun commencing. Left gun ready, sir. Salvoes, right gun commencing. Right gun ready, sir. Range 149, deflection, four left, salvoes, shoot. They've begun. Gun control? That must've been a direct hit, Herr Kapitan, there's no answer. We must carry on under local control, - get them firing quickly. - Very good, Herr Kapitan. - You hear that, Donald? - Aye. There's a fight on, and it sounds like them big fellas. Aye. I wouldnae be surprised if that's why they changed the time o' the convoy. - Aye. - There's nae sign o' them yet. They oughta be here soon. Have I not told you that you're in the navy now, and I'll no have that fishing on ma boat? - Have ye got one? - Aye. Bill? Bill? It's all right, sir. We'll get you below, old man. Look out. - Put your wheel amidships. - Put your wheel amidships. Quartermaster? No reply, sir. Looks as though the voice pipe's gone. - Ah! - Message from the quartermaster, sir. The ship won't answer her helm. The transmission's been shot away. - Sutton, are you all right? - Yes, sir. Contact the chief, I'll get her steady by the engines. Cranford, get the steering position connected up. Organise a chain of men to relay my steering orders. - Hawkins? - Sir? Let the gun crew take it easy. I'll retire behind a smokescreen till she's steady again. Mortimer, tell the engine room to make smoke. Aye-aye, sir. - Cup of cocoa, sir? - What? - Yes, please, why not? - You could do with it. Thank you. Smokescreen, Herr Kapitan. They're in trouble. Keep firing into her. - She'll have trouble on her course. - Very good, Herr Kapitan. - Check. - Check. Check fire. Something's gone wrong with the interjector switch. He looks pretty bad, sir. How are you feeling now, Walker? - Shocking - hurts like hell, sir. - I'll get him down to the sick bay. Oh, no, you don't! My left arm's still all right. No, I'd rather stay here and be a hero. All right, we'll patch you up and leave you here. - Still after that medal, eh, chum? - Yeah. Grub up. Al right, boys, carry on. That's right, feed yer faces while you still got 'em. Sounds as if only the Deutschland is firing, sir. I can't hear our guns. I don't like it. I wish to heaven we were there with them, instead of pottering along wet-nursing this lot. We'll be sighting the minefields presently. Maybe there'll be time for us to get back and have a go at them ourselves. Maybe. - Master-at-arms, are you ready? - Yes, sir, all men in position. Pass a message to the bridge, tell the captain, everything under control. Everything under control. Everything under control. Everything under control. Everything under control. - How are you, chum? - I'm all right. Everything's under control. (Gunfire continues) Everything under control. Message from Mr Cranford. - Everything under control. - Good. I'm leaving the smokescreen. Tell Mr Howard his is the only turret left in action. He's to engage the enemy as soon as possible. Any news of Commander Blount? - He's dead, sir. - Oh! He asked if all goes well, would you go and see his wife. Tell the engine room to stop smoke. We're going to attack again. Aye-aye, sir. Tell Mr Howard's turret to stand by. Right. - Shorty? - Hello, sir. You're to engage the enemy as soon as we leave the smokescreen. And shoot straight, yours are the only guns left. Very good, sir. Let's go. Tell the engine room to stop the smokescreen. Donnerwetter! They are hard, these British. They are attacking again. (ln-coming shell whistles) Tell the captain there's been a direct hit on Mr Howard's turret. Aye-aye, sir. Mr Cranford's gone up. Howard? Where's Mr Howard? Went below to the magazine, sir. It's on fire. The whole ship'll blow up in a minute, sir. (Explosion) Get that gun working again. Shorty? (Coughs) I was trying to flood the magazine, sir. (Coughs) (Coughs) - Are you all right, sir? - Yes. Mr Cranford is down there. Easy now, easy. Magazine, must, must, must get maga... Hello, Shorty. Hello, sir. S... Something I want to tell... If I were you, old man... ...I wouldn't marry that girl. Not... not your sort. They're waiting for you on top, sir. There's one gun in the turret still working. All right, close the flood valve and get some more cordite up. - Howard's turret still out of action? - There's a message coming along, sir. - Right turret ready for action, sir. - Then what the hell's he waiting for? Tell him to open fire as soon as he can. I'm still engaging the enemy. (Speaks German) She's still firing. - Shall we steer the new course? - Yes, close in. She's been silent for five minutes, Herr Kapitan. I think she's done. We'll finish her now. - Steer to close in 5,000 metres. - Will we stop to pick up survivors? I've no time. I've got to get that convoy. (Speaks German) Bridge, British battleships approaching. The battle cruisers, that ends it, mein Herren. This is no place for us. Cease fire and steer for home at full speed. Well... we held her. I think we can cease fire. Cease fire. - Anybody got a handkerchief? - Here, sir. Thank you. (Bugle signal) Cease fire. Easy, boy. Come on. The end of a perfect day (!) (Cheering) Blimey, chums, the old Deutschland is off like a scalded cat. Ooh, and they're giving her a pasting! - Who's firing? - It's the big boys. (All) Hooray, hooray. Well, doctor... how did we get on? I'm afraid you've lost some good men, sir. (Sighs) What about a bit of leave this time, sir? I think it's in the bag this time, lads. When are we gonna get home, sir? We'll hold church in harbour tomorrow. Any man who's fit for leave is fit for church, isn't he, doctor? - That's right, sir. - (Laughter) A very soft job this convoy. Nothing to do. Just steaming along with a lot of merchantmen. Aye. They ought to come and have a spell at oor job. Thank heaven we're home at last. When I set me foot on dry land, nothing will get me out of England again, except when I go on me holidays, of course. - I'm just glad it's all over. - Yes, it'll be good to be home. Wireless message for you, ma'am, from the Apollo. Leave me alone for a moment, will you, Mary? (All singing) (All) Amen O, eternal Lord God, be pleased to receive into thy almighty and most gracious protection, the persons of us, thy servants, and the fleet in which we serve. Preserve us from the dangers of the sea and from the violence of the enemy... - Hear hear. - Shut up. ...that we may be a safeguard unto our most gracious sovereign lord, King George and his dominions, and a security for such as pass on the sea upon their lawful occasions, that the inhabitants of our empire, may in peace and quietness serve thee our God, and that we may return in safety to enjoy the blessings of the land, and with a thankful remembrance of thy mercies, to praise and glorify thy holy name through Jesus Christ our Lord. - Amen, amen. - (All) Amen. (# "Rule Britannia")
