 

                        1 Corporate - the professional way of conducting business The owner of a corporate entity can either be a sole businessman.. or a lot of shareholders together The sole objective of every business is the same - profit Also called the bottom-line in the corporate world To improve upon their bottom lines.. ..professionals of these corporates.. often resort to a lot of unprofessional methods, too Our story revolves around two corporates.. who are traditional rivals in the food products business The Sehgal Group of lndustries.. and the Marwah Group of lndustries They're always launching new Products to upstage each other ln the recently concluded elections, the party backed by the Sehgals.. romped home to power While Marwah was dejected.. Mr.. Vinay Sehgal was obviously overjoyed The Finance Minister has personally invited him to New Delhi, after all. Navin my contestant was right. We backed the right horse. Ashwini has bagged the finance Portfolio.. that's a plus Poor Marwah. lt's gonna be difficult for him. After the State, he's going to be kicked out of the Centre too Congratulations. - Thank you. Thank you very much for your support. l am very happy. The party has entrusted a huge responsibility to me Oh yes.. Vinay, there's a nice proposal for your company Yes? There's going to be a major change in.. ..the Foreign Direct lnvestment policy The American food giant, Friscon lnternational.. are looking for collaborators in lndia Their Asia Pacific chief is here in Delhi right now l've spoken to him for a tie-up with you Make sure you meet him. - Certainly.. thanks This is going to be a great partnership. Friscon lndia Ltd. will be a joint-venture company.. which will manufacture snack foods and soft drinks The Sehgal Group will hold 44 per cent of shares.. Friscon lncorporated U.S.A., will hold 26 per cent.. and 30 per cent will be held by lndian financial institutions ls it going to be a closely held company? Very soon, the Sehgal Group and the lndian financial institutions.. will divest 8 per cent of their holdings through a public issue And today l am very proud to be associated with Friscon. Thank you all. Good morning sir. Congratulations on the Friscon deal. Thank you! lt's a clincher. - Well, let's see. How did your meetings in Singapore go? Both the deals are closed, sir 12 consignments in the next 6 months. That's 270 million in the kitty So see you tomorrow at the Cll meeting, okay? Okay, sir. l'll see you there Hi Nishi. - Hi Andy, what's been happening? As usual. There's a backlog of 2 weeks, Nishi l've kept the papers on your desk. - Fine Have you sent out the emails for tomorrow's Cll meeting? Yeah, all done. That's great. - And by the way that new girl, Megha, she is come. Okay, send her in 10 minutes. - All right. Send Anmol inside So Megha.. are you clear about the job functions? Yes ma'am. - No ma'am here. We work together on a first-name basis l mean.. Nishi. - That's better One thing l'd like to tell you. When you were featured.. in the Business Today magazine as the best female executive.. l was extremely proud. l have graduated from your own management school and.. l just hope, l'm as successful as you are, some day. That's very nice Megha. Thanks. l hope l can live up to your expectations. Welcome aboard Friscon. Hi Anmol. - Hi Nishi How are you? - Good, thank you. She's Megha.. Megha Apte. And that's Anmol Rawat Megha's joining us as assistant manager, operations Would you like to show her around? Yes, of course. - Well.. yes.. terms and conditions of Friscon, marketing.. please go through it And do involve Megha too. - Done. l hope you enjoy working with us. - Thanks. - All the best. Yes, Navin? Okay Megha. Open an Excel file of Friscon's.. ..region-wise distribution network.. and get a print-out in table form, okay? Anmol. Can l have a coffee please? Coffee..? Of course. But it's Machine-made.. not nice. lf you want to have good coffee, there's a coffee-shop close by.. we can go over, if you wish Don't you think you're a bit too fast? Fast..? To be honest, madam.. the rest of the guys in the office are by far faster than me Anyway. Hey Lobo. - Yes sir? - Listen. ..treat the lady to some coffee from the machine See? A new girl arrives and the boss starts playing Romeo immediately You're no less a Romeo, are you? What difference between you and him? Don't you ever compare me with the bosses There's this great difference between the boss and the orderly What difference? - Look.. in a shift of nine to six, when you stop working at four.. you're the peon. Those that start working at four.. are the bosses! You dig? - You're right Now stop raving and make some coffee.. go on ln your gain lies our gain Make as much gains as you can.. and also make the state and the nation gain in the process That's the objective of our party There was so much disagreement over the disinvestment programme But what will the opposition do, lf not disagree with us..? l had a simple argument. The government.. ..must provide the industrialists.. a proper atmosphere to set up industry For example, the Maharashtra Bottling and Confectioneries.. a public-sector undertaking. What does it do..? Makes cakes, biscuits and soft drinks And the Maharashtra Two-wheeler Ltd. Another public-sector company The government, l believe, ought to show the way to people.. making scooters and motorcycles is not the government's job ln any case, government officials prefer to travel in four-wheelers.. what good is the manufacture of two-wheelers? And thus, our government has decided to sell all public-sector units.. to the private sector l will not waste any more of your precious time Else, you will accuse me of delivering a speech even at the Cll meeting Glory to lndia. Glory to Maharashtra What did your State Finance Minister say? He made great promises for the corporate world. - Will he keep them? Whether it's lndia or America Steve, politicians are politicians. This PSU will benefit our company's expansion plans immensely Right, sir. And their product-line matches that of ours Good evening. This is Devyani Bakshi from Corporate News and l'm here at.. ..the Cll meeting tonight with Steve Jones from Friscon.. ..lnternational in an exclusive. Hi Steve. - Hi, how are you today? - Very well. To start with could you throw some light on your.. ..tie-up with Sehgal Foods? Well, Friscon is world number 1 in aerated drinks. And we control nearly 55 per cent of the international market. So even in lndia we feel like the soft drinks segment will provide.. ..a huge per cent of benefit. That's exactly what we are working at with out with Mr.. Sehgal. This Maharashtra Bottling and Confectionary.. ..looks like a good proposition. Huh? Nishi? ln fact we qualify in all criteria, sir. Will you take the last page? That's the criteria of corruption. We emerge tops at that too. What is that saying, corruption is an infallible symptom.. ..of a constitutional liberty. We are truly liberated. Cheers to that. l'll just come. - Okay. Work on Gulabrao because l have a feeling Marwah is going.. ..to move in big time on this piece. l don't see you at the club nowadays l was out of town Singapore right? How was the trip? lt was nice l'm told the Sehgal's are starting a regional office there? Parvez, l thought you were doing well as the CEO of Marwah lndustries Since when have you taken up full-time detective work? Come on Nishi. You don't have to be so acidic. To keep myself abreast with competition is part of my profession But the tie-up with Friscon was a great surprise l don't want to talk with you now. Exactly why l tell you, Nishi.. Always mix a bit of pleasure with business Believe me. lt's a highly potent mixture. You sound like a confused scientist to me. Kumar, everybody's drinking And having a great time.. it's such a shame for us! Do you drink? - Yes Also eat non-veg? - Sure Hey you.. come here You know who we are, right? Of course, sir. - Here's what you'll do Two bottles of Black Label. Two or three grilled chickens Keep it in the van behind that Guy's car there.. hurry it up Kumar, you know your way around! - Just keep watching So you're coming with me tonight? - lt's difficult to make it, Mukesh My husband's returning early tonight. - Make some excuse My wife has also left for Shirdi today There's nobody at home. - But my husband..? Say you have a presentation. That You have to work all night ln any case, l'm giving you an out of turn promotion l know. - Okay? l'll wait for you. What Marwah? Your rival Has entered into.. ..a tie-up with such a big company The Sehgals are in the habit of taking big strides From the very beginning, we have always moved at our own pace So you want to be a tortoise. Slow and steady wins the race. What? Hello, Gulabrao.. - Joe! How are you? l was good. Till now. - Have you met Mr.. Marwah? Mr.. Marwah. Chairman of the Marwah Group of lndustries. This is Joe Rajan. He's into corporate surveillance and intelligence He's a very useful guy in your line of work My card sir. Nice meeting you sir. - We'll keep in touch. Please come.. Mom, from college l'm going to the gym Keep in touch okay? - Okay bye Mom. Have a good day. - Okay bye Dad. Let this be.. l'll handle it Vinay.. l hope you remember l have this exhibition and auction? The world's top painters and artists will be participating First time ever in lndia. Well.. there's something more. - What? Ritesh is coming back from London l see l was wondering.. this new project is such a huge one.. if you could involve him too..? Why doesn't your brother talk to me directly? Maybe he's afraid of you Don't you think we ought to give him another chance? Let's see Yeah okay. Everyone deserves a second chance. And he's my wife's brother. l'll have to do something about it Don't worry, l'll fix it 3 lakh bottles per day. A huge water reservoir. Believe me sir. This PSU is worth.. ..every rupee we spend. Sir, MBC happens to be in a backward area The state government is bound to give tax and excise concessions.. to the company that takes over this unit The price of a soft drink will come down from rupees 5 to rupees 3 And our margin will be more than double. - That's true ln addition to that, if we acquire this PSU.. we don't need to set up a new bottling plant Our capital expenditure will be reduced to half The valuation of the plant and machinery alone is about 6.3 billion l want an accurate valuation of this PSU in Maharashtra Remember, there is 1500 acres of land around this PSU That too, in the industrial belt l have details in this report, sir. Of the 1500 acres of land.. about 600 acres of land is agricultural Jhunjhunwala and Bajaj are bound to bid for the MBC, no doubt But Anand Dahiya will be a very strong contender And above all, he is very close to Mr.. Gulabrao. This PSU is very critical for the further expansion of the Marwah Group Get cracking Hansa. - Okay sir. Parvez. lmmediately. - Right away sir. The Minister Gulabrao announced a benchmark price of 9.5 billion That means, the minimum bid will be 10 billion Right. And there are several requirements for the bidding companies l think only six companies in lndia will be able to qualify Come to think of it sir. lf there's anyone who can compete with.. ..Sehgal Group, it's the Marwah Group But after Friscon, we are far ahead sir. Folks, put things in the right perspective. Friscon is prepared to spend an extra.. ..100 million US dollars on this project.. ..if we can pull off the PSU. That's awfully sweet of you Steve. l am sure there's an incentive for all of us here. Now with your kind permission, l'd like to make.. ..an announcement to the whole team. My brother-in-law, Ritesh will be joining us. Oh outstanding. - As Senior Vice-President.. ..for this particular project. Well that'll be all. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Steve, what are you doing for lunch? - Thai food and Martini? - No, no. Come with me. l want you to come with me.. ..and try a special delicacy from Maharashtra. Lobsters. Yeah, yeah. Let's go. Let's go. lt's delicious, you'll love it. You've never tasted anything like that before. Bye. - Bye. Every moment.. this is life Every moment.. this is life Every moment that was yesterday, is there this day, too One moment, yours.. one moment, mine One moment, yours.. one moment, mine Let's merge these moments and make our lives Every moment.. this is life Every moment that was yesterday, is there this day, too A million dreams our eyes weave A million dreams our eyes weave lt's only when we march ahead that we reach our goals ln loneliness.. in loneliness.. you are with me in loneliness.. you are with me Every moment.. this is life Every moment that was yesterday, is there this day, too Coming.. coming Come. This is for you. So.. what's the gossip nowadays? Gossip? What gossip? They must be talking already. Here Comes the boss's brother-in-law.. to sink another company And they're not wrong either A loss of 1 .7 billion in London and then.. the complete failure of the fast-food chain Ritesh, you went to London to set up your own business lt's okay if that venture didn't work out You at least put in your effort That's what you say. That's not how the others look at it Ritesh, when we met for the first time five years ago.. l was going through a terribly trying time You were the one who told me then.. Either spend your lifetime looking back at your failures.. or move on in life You've now arrived in Friscon. lt's such a great opportunity l tell you today. Either spend a lifetime.. ..looking back at your failures.. or use this opportunity to move on Okay. Hello. - Hi Vinay. - How are you? How are you? - l'm good. Where are you going? Off to the gym. But you relax. Feel comfortable. - l'll be okay. - Wilson? - Yes, ma'am? Take care of sir. Okay? - Yes, ma'am. See you later. Take care. - Bye. - Bye. Give me a call, huh? - Yeah. l'll let you know. Hi. - Hi. How are you? - l'm fine. l'll take a shower and join you, okay? - Okay. - Okay. Did you talk to the astrologer? - Yes There was no network for two days. l spoke to him in Ujjain today He said, since today is Wednesday, l must wear the sapphire lt's her sixth month. l must go to Delhi for her fertility rites l've called her over so many times. But going to Delhi.. ls it necessary to go there? The ritual can be performed here She's our only daughter Let me think Tell your son-in-law to go slow on his hobby of hunting game He has been asked to strictly keep off stripping them l'll have a word with him There's an exhibition at Anita Jaitley's art-gallery this evening l hope you're coming? - l'll try to When you called this morning, l was with Deepa She suspected it was you l was talking to Lobo.. you see that mare? - Tanaaz? What about her? Earlier, she used to play along with just about anybody But now, she's seen only in Tyagi's company What do you think is cooking? - Jhandu.. looks like l need to explain it to you at the corporate level Earlier, she was a public enterprise. So she went with just about anyone She's now in the private domain. So she goes only with Tyagi, okay? Know what? l've heard the bosses say it so often at meetings.. Let's sleep over the issue What issue they come up with after they sleep, l have no idea Now pin it up quickly. Else, there'll be another issue! 45 per cent of the soft drink market is.. ..concentrated in the western region So this PSU is strategically located Okay, what plans do we have for statewise product launches? We'll first launch wafers and crunchies and later, soft drinks Which means, we'll first feed the public fried stuff.. and when they feel thirsty, we sell our soft-drinks to them You could say that, sir Okay.. who's our closest rival in this PSU acquisition? The Marwah Group. Our traditional rivals At the moment, they're thinking of making mineral water at the PSU l see.. when is the public issue of Friscon due? With the product launch. ln another six months March? - Yeah, just about. The shares are much sought after The bookmakers are quoting 350 to 400 in the gray market Okay, so Navin? What's next on the agenda? There's a meeting with the State Finance Minister. Gulabrao lngle We have about 35,000 retail outlets.. and our company provides employment to roughly 800,000 people Sir Friscon lndia is an alliance between.. ..two of the world's biggest consumer food giants. Yes, l know. - Sir, we have great respect for you.. and would like to take care of you in every respect No, never mind that. A PSU is national property We'll take a decision after we have looked into all the aspects And our government treats everybody equally There is no favouritism. But go ahead, file your bid.. do not worry. l'm here.. l'll take care Hail lndia, Hail Maharashtra Does business need politics more? Or does politics need business? lt's a question worth pondering As soon as the disinvestment plan in the.. ..public sector unit was announced.. business groups were desperate to acquire it The executives of Marwah and Sehgal.. began working out the profits the PSU would yield ln order to strengthen their positions.. all business groups got together to make their best bids But Gulabrao represented a different political party in the state lt was difficult to gauge from his mood.. as to whom he would entrust this PSU to Sir, we've offered Jhunjhunwala's 3.3 billion for a complete buy off Plus, distribution in the south. - Have they agreed? Of course. - Perfect Please have the agreement ready. Parvez will take a look tomorrow.. and we have a meeting the day after tomorrow Shirley.. - Yes, sir? this deal file of Jhunjhunwala's is very important. Put it away safely l'll need this file tomorrow morning. - Okay sir. Hi Nishi. Hi Pervez. You're getting more and more beautiful with every passing day What's the secret? Keep guessing. - Yeah. l will. Nishi, don't you think you're wasting your time at the Sehgal Group? Why don't you join us? We Could give you a good offer But l'm very happy with the Sehgals. Really? What is it that keeps you glued to the Sehgal Group? ls it Ritesh? Maybe. May l ask you something, Parvez? What is it with your house that you can't stop flirting.. ..whenever you see a girl? ls it a bad vibe? ls it a bad marriage? Or an average looking, narrow-minded wife? Well, both. - Both? Excuse me. Yes..? All right, l'll be there Sorry, l've got to go. See you. Nishi.. do think about my offer Hi Shirley.. how are you? - l'm okay Sorry, l had to call you to a place like this That's okay. So.. what information is it? lt's about Maharashtra Bottling Marwah has offered a deal to Jhunjhunwala Parvez gave me the documents yesterday. l have the photo-copies l hope nobody in your office is suspicious about this? Not yet Thanks, Shelley. Here you are Hello. Navin..? So what's the deal? Marwah has offered you 3.3 billion. - Yes For a complete buy-out. You also get distribution rights for the South Yes The Sehgal Group will give you 21 billion for a 51 per cent stake And also Sri Lanka, apart from South lndia Also the distribution rights in the entire.. ..North Eastern states will be yours And this is not just for the new products. But for the entire range of existing products. Ritesh.. The valuation of your company would be in the range of 4 billion plus And the distribution will fetch an additional 750 million ever year Year after year after year. Are you serious Ritesh? The offer is too mouth-watering. As l said, if we give you a better deal than the Marwah's.. ..You can congratulate us lt's a deal. - Thank you. l sent you to Jhunjhunwala to find out what Marwah had offered him And you went ahead and made a commitment to him? l made him an offer, he liked it.. On what basis, Ritesh? What made you do it? Did you discuss it with someone, or seek anybody's permission? With me or the management? - No l didn't consider it necessary. - Ah! How can you give him distribution rights in our current products? What's the problem if some new people are.. ..brought into our distribution system? So what happens of our current distributors? They've been with us all these years, even in our bad times.. Doesn't that mean anything to you? And you, Nishi..? you know everything.. at least you could've made him see reason No, l'm sorry. l cannot let this happen. l won't approve this. That's it. So l will have to take Navin Shroff's.. ..approval for every decision l make? Yes, you will have to, Ritesh You see, Navin has been with me for eleven years l trust his judgment and decisions completely. Navin has played a big hand in getting the.. ..Sehgal Group where it is today And then Ritesh, ultimately, business is about teamwork, isn't it? Excuse me. Hey Steve. How are you man? l'm good, l'm good. - Yeah, yeah, we.. ..we're working on the PSU deal, okay? Send the corrected Jhunjhunwala deal to Mukesh. Yeah. Okay fine. Papa. he's been standing for a long time.. order something, will you? What will l order, my child? Have you seen the prices? Look at this.. Cottage-cheese tikka: 375 rupees We don't cottage-cheese worth so much in a whole month! Seasoned lentil-curry : 345 rupees Bread.. 50 rupees! And look at this.. a large drink of whiskey.. 495 rupees! The Udupi restaurant is any day better! They serve nips.. we could've bought five nips! - Papa.. please! Please place an order for whatever you wish to eat! l'm footing the bill today. - You ought to be happy.. Megha has received her first salary.. and she has brought us to this 5-star hotel All right, l'll place an order. Listen.. big hotel, isn't it? - Yes, sir You must be getting a fat paycheck? - Papa! Have you bought an insurance policy? - No, sir No..? But you must.. - You're making a pitch here, Papa! One minute. l must explain to him. Take this. Give me a call and ask for Arvind Apte. Who will you ask for? Arvind Apte. - There are Four Apte's in our office Ask only for Arvind Apte, okay? - Very well, sir lf he buys now, the premium will be low and the span will be longer lf he doesn't save now, when is he going to save..? You have to guide these youngsters.. - Order.. ..whatever you want to, Papa.. l'll be back in a moment. - Sure.. come here, you Today l'm going to order something different. - Let's.. ..ask for.. - Nishi? - Hi. - Hi. Hi Megha. Who have you come with? - Well, today's a Sunday.. ..so, l've come with my parents. - That's sweet Do you come here often? - Not really. Once you get involved in the corporate lifestyle.. you'll have no time for the family. So that's good. Make the most of your time. - Thank you so much. Have a great life. See you in the office. - Bye. Enjoy. Nishi, this girl has the same spark that you had. What do you mean by 'had' ? l mean.. what you had in the beginning l also think so. She'll do well Maybe we're small in the food segment, but we have some big plans By all means, Anand. This PSU is extremely critical for our expansion plans, Vinay l have already turned down Marwah. - Anand, l know that! Vinay, you're a friend. l came the moment you called me However, to cut a long story short.. our company is not backing off from making a bid That was a good game. - Thank you. l'll see you. - Yeah. What happened, sir? Don't worry, sir. There's surely going to be way out A way out.. on its own? We'll have to find a way Let's meet the stockbroker Now Mr.. Sehgal.. Ruia is an extremely difficult man lf he has refused you already.. it won't be easy to convince him That's true. And that's exactly why l've called in a star broker like you Come to think of it, he's the one who holds.. ..the pulse of the stock-market Actually, we've worked on a deal. We want you to study it thoroughly.. and bring Ruia around, one way or the other Parekh, you crack this thing with Ruia. l promise, l'll take extremely good care of you Don't say that, sir. You are embarrassing me ln the last market-crash, it was you who bailed me out Stop worrying about Ruia. l'll do all l can to bring him around That's my man. - Hail Krishna. You'll do it. l don't get you, Parikh. - lt's like this, Mr. Ruia Friscon's public issue will be out soon They have a market capitalization of 60 billion The public issue isn't out yet.. on what basis have you worked out their market worth? Mr.. Ruia, we're part of the stock market lnstitutions have bought the shares at a premium of 1 10 rupees They'll obviously offer it to the public at a higher price We've calculated their worth with a price of 180 per share.. but the listing will certainly be at a minimum of 300 rupees Now imagine.. if you hold even 8 per cent.. ..in such a giant corporation.. what will be the worth of your holding? Have you ever given it a thought? - 4.8 billion Mr.. Ruia, think of your own profits. - Well, have a word with Sehgal then l'm okay with it. - Hail Lord Krishna. Hail Lord Krishna. Yes, l'm with Nishi. l'll come as soon as possible Okay, don't worry. - Okay, bye. Why're you so upset? Once it stops raining, you can leave Wine. Nishi.. l have something to ask you About me and Ritesh.. - l'm sorry, l didn't mean to.. Come off it, Megha. At least you can ask me directly Everybody at the office gossips about us anyway l met Ritesh five years ago. A year after my divorce What? Were you married..? ln Calcutta. We were divorced in just six months After my divorce, l moved to Mumbai. Depressed.. and disillusioned l'm so sorry Nishi. lt's okay. Call it hypocrisy. ln our society, there is.. ..no place for career-oriented girls l was on the verge of a nervous breakdown. lt was then that Ritesh came into my life lf it wasn't for him.. maybe l'd have been dead by now Whatever l am today, whoever l am, is all because of Ritesh We plan to settle down after the success of Friscon We'll be getting married Congratulations. What's happening, Parvez? lt was Jhunjhunwala first. Now it's Ruia Go and see Gulabrao l want MBC at any cost No matter what l stand to lose l just can't figure out what you're saying The Sehgal group has offered the same deal that you are offering Jhunjhunwala and Ruia are both with them.. they're mounting a lot of pressure. - l have a request, sir Before you take a decision, please talk to Mr. Marwah once That's no good.. Mhatre, he doesn't understand Sir.. ..please talk to Mr. Gulabrao Who is it? - Mr. Marwah Hello Greetings, Mr. Gulabrao.. how are you? l'll be just as you wish me to be What should we be doing for the MBC deal? That's a serious problem Sehgal is offering the same deal that you're offering.. 5 per cent What d'you think of 8 per cent? The PSU is worth 10 billion lt would work out to 800 million Half of it - 400 million. ln advance lt'll be deposited in your account in any bank you say What if l still give the PSU to Sehgal, despite everything..? Then keep what l give you as a gift from a friend Bapu has blessed me with enough. There'll be more coming Looks like it's going to be fun working with you Of course it'll be fun. Please at least make a beginning All right, l'll work out something Good bye So how do we go about it, sir? What will l say..? lt could turn positive, you know Hey Mhatre. - Yes sir. See what he says about the cash. Okay sir. Very well then.. - Thank you, sir What do you think..? You think it's going to work? Oh yes, it should Do you have any connections in the film world? What? Why must you yearn thus..? Things will soon change lf only you could look within.. for once There's something about you surely. lt's your stature, l admit There's something about you surely. lt's your stature, l admit You have it in you to become the conqueror of all You have it in you to become the conqueror of all O conqueror.. if only you would look within O conqueror.. if only you would look within Make the attempt and hardships shall cease to be lt takes a rendezvous to sate the desires of the heart Whatever you find, is part of your destiny.. Whatever you find, is part of your destiny.. what you do not achieve, you are not destined to what you do not achieve, you are not destined to O conqueror.. look within Why must you yearn thus..? Things will soon change lf only you could look within.. for once There's something about you surely. lt's your stature, l admit There's something about you surely. lt's your stature, l admit You have it in you to become the conqueror of all You have it in you to become the conqueror of all O conqueror.. if only you would look within O conqueror.. O conqueror.. Vow! This is very nice. lt's too good. Not to worry. Everything will be organised Come with me. Come on. Hello, Sajid-ji.. l'm Ashok Pandit from the Dainik Vichaar daily Please be seated You've included an item-song even in this film of yours? This is not a hot number, okay..? This is a philosophical Sufi song. - Oh, l see When's the book you're writing going to be published? My Breath will arrive first. And then.. the book Breath ? - That's the name of my film Oh, l'm sorry, sorry. Sorry sir. Please do your homework well before you come to me.. disgusting These so-called journalists! Payal.. l can't see Sikander. l want to see Sikander on this face. - Okay baby. More of Sikander on your face. Right. Are you through? Who are they, Ballu? - Some corporate guys And who do l have to go to? - A politician Delhi, or Bombay? - Local lndoor, or outdoor? - lndoor. ln Mumbai When? - The day after tomorrow How much am l getting? - l've quoted 400,000 Ballu, how often have l told you? l'm not accepting a penny less than five You get a cut of 10 per cent, don't you? And what happened of my brother's gym? Don't you know? He needs permission to build a two-storied structure When are you doing that? - l've discussed everything The matter is being processed. You needn't worry Okay, l'll be there the day after tomorrow.. go on l'm at a charity function Assembly's in session Your work will get done only after the session Do not disturb. - Very well, sir Oh Sikander, Sikander, Oh Sikander.. Look into my heart.. Oh Sikander, Sikander, Oh Sikander.. Kumar, the girl goes into that room. The minister went into that one.. and you said it was all set-up? - Namya.. you've just arrived from backward of beyond This is a 5-star hotel. They have certain specialties There's a door between the two rooms. As soon as it opens.. bingo! Don't tell me! - lt's the usual stuff Hello, Payal-ji. - Hello Please be seated.. sit down l must say.. l'm a great fan of yours, Payal-ji l don't watch too many films, but the movies in which.. you dance or perform a special number.. ..l've seen those parts several times.. so very often on DVDs Take it from me.. the movies of the big stars that are successful.. they're doing well only because of your special dance numbers What a dancer you are! l must say Ms. Payal. You're rocking! Shall we get on with it..? l've got to inaugurate a boutique after this Oh, certainly.. c'mon Namya, you got the pack of cards? - No. Why? We have an hour or so to kill. We could've at least played a game of cards Wait for another 15 or 20 minutes, will you? Yes.. everybody will get to know in just 15 or 20 minutes Me first, me first.. these guys from the media! Everybody wants to break the news first Mhatre, what's the position like on the MBC bids? Have you opened all the bids? - Yes, sir Madam Prabhune.. Satam.. please wait outside for a while l'll send for you Mhatre, whose is the highest bid? The Sehgal Group, sir. 10 billion and 2.5 million How about Anand Ruia? SRM Foods have bid 9.6 billion Now.. you have the blank bid of the Marwah's, don't you? Yes, l do, sir. - Raise it by 50 million.. Make it 10 billion, 300 million? - Yes, 10 billion, 300 million Okay, sir. - Hurry up.. put it all back inside Put big seals on the envelopes.. l don't want any trouble later And in about 20 minutes.. make the announcement. Breaking news We're on to some more business news. The bids for Maharashtra Bottling and Confectionary Ltd.. ..one of the seven PSUs that were on the block for.. ..disinvestment were opened today. Sehgal Group of lndustries, which was always the frontrunner in these bids.. ..was today piped by traditional rivals, the Marwah Group of lndustries. Our correspondent Parag Goyal is presently outside Mantralaya.. ..with Pervez Merchant, the CEO of Marwah Group. Gulabrao gave us the re-assurance.. that it would go our way Even the price we quoted was what was suggested by him l mean.. l can't figure how he.. l don't know Make me a drink will you? Bapu.. with your blessings, all is well With your blessings, our company has even acquired a PSU l had told you.. you have a bright future Praise the Lord.. Jalpa.. my son-in-law, too. - Come, my child May you bear a son. May you live long He has given her his blessings Bapu, if you would care to eat.. - Praise the Lord What made you call me so urgently? - There's some vital information Marwah had spread the impression that he would be packaging.. mineral water at the Maharashtra Bottling So what's new? - Actually they plan to manufacture.. a mint-based soft-drink there How do you know it's a mint-based soft drink? The company has imported the plant and the machinery for this purpose Here are some important emails that were exchanged Could you get details..? Marketing plans and so on? lmpossible. That's in the possession of only the company heads Pervez is heading the project. What are Pervez's plans for the next few weeks? He's going to Delhi tomorrow. lmportant branch-office meetings We have to call a meeting as soon as possible.. ..so you inform all branch offices. You know everybody there? - Yes, sir - They've already prepared But l still want you to call everybody over here.. because l don't want us to get late. l think.. That also reminds me Manji that.. l get it, yes. Well, l'll talk to you later. Those in Chandigarh.. call them over Mail the details to me at once. Yes,.. okay Hey Nishi. - l'll just call you back. Bye, okay. How come you're in Delhi? - We had a branch-office meeting Same here. We had a meeting too. What a coincidence! That is a strange coincidence. Same city, same hotel. you're having dinner with me tonight Parvez, there you go again l'm having dinner with some friends this evening Okay, if not dinner, we'll have a drink together. You owe me one, okay? You always make excuses in Mumbai. So.. please? All right, if you insist. What time? - Nine O'clock sharp. Okay. Bye. - Bye. That was a good one. Pervez, you are a really funny guy. l hope in the right sense. Absolutely. Having spent time with you today, l feel you're a gamely person.. A very nice guy. l totally misunderstood you. Maybe because we're competitors l wasn't very nice to you whenever l met you earlier To the point of being rude sometimes. l apologize. l'm really very sorry. Nishi, why don't you join us? Okay, tell me. What's your offer? Double the salary and perks; stock options and above all.. ..a Senior Vice-President's position. You'll be reporting directly to me. Virtually, CEO's designation. Vow! - How's the offer? - lt sounds too good to be true. But may l ask.. why make such a lucrative offer to me? Well, best deserves the best. Thanks Pervez. That's very flattering. Excuse me. - Sure. Yes, Pammi.. l'll be there. ln 15 minutes. Sorry, l have to go. Nishi, can't you really avoid your friends? Please.. Just see, we are having a good time in Delhi. ..let's go and hit the disc after this. - l know, Parvez.. but not today Any other day in Mumbai. Just you, for sure. Promise? - Yeah, promise. See you. lt was a lovely evening. Don't drink too much. Bye. One more drink please. - Yes sir. My youth is drying up.. My lover doesn't give me any water.. One scotch with lots of ice. - Right sir. The month of summer increasing the indifference.. My heart is burning.. l will drown in the well, l will drown in the well.. One Margarita. - Right away ma'am. l will drown in the well, l will drown in the well.. l will drown in the well, l will drown in the well.. - Hi. - Hi. Are you alone? - What? How about having a drink with me? This place is too noisy. How about going someplace else? - Like where? My room. But that'll cost you. - Really? How much? - No it's too much. - 30. - Okay done. - Okay. Should we leave? - No not now. l'll go first. You'll follow me. Okay? Room number 2019. - See you. l am scared and not opening my door.. According to this report, the Marwah's.. ..are launching a new mint-based soft drink ln just six months. lf that happens.. the launch of our product JUST CHlLL.. ..will be postponed by at least a year or two The project might probably not even take off This Parvez is a thorn in the flesh. - Yeah l must say, he's quite sharp. Bloody Parvez But he uses his sharpness at the wrong places Nishi, you're really nasty, okay? Nasty with a cause. Jokes apart, if we launch our drink before Marwah can.. this could be a major turning point for us Totally sensational. lf we can prepare a plan and present it to the boss overnight.. it won't be very difficult to get his approval Let's make a report, Nishi. The report, l can make. But l want you to be the one who presents it But you've done all the hardwork.. - No, Ritesh This is a golden opportunity for you. This launch is going to be a very big success story And l want you to get the credit for this information and report.. as far as the boss is concerned. Only you ln a nutshell, our drink will hit the market in three months That is.. three months before Marwah's We'll launch our drink and capture the market We'll get a huge, huge first movers advantage. lt's fine.. but how is it all going to happen? We'll import the concentrate of our drink.. just chill. And we'll pass on the concentrate to our bottlers across the country Whereas Marwah is manufacturing.. ..the concentrate of his drink here in lndia That'll take him six months But Marwah's per bottle cost works out at 2.90 rupees.. and ours will cost 3.70 ? - Agreed Should we increase on our volumes.. ..the cost can be cut by 20 per cent atleast And if we launch it on time.. we can easily achieve our targets That's okay, but that Marwah's about to.. ..launch a mint-based soft drink.. how reliable is this information? lt's wholly reliable So Marwah's been misleading the market.. ..with stories of mineral water bottling? What else is he capable of? By the way, l've already had a word with Steve Jones.. for the import of the concentrate. He's okay with it Very well, sir. So what date do we launch the product, Ritesh? A teaser campaign in August. And the product launch.. in October Which means, our soft drink will be.. ..launched in the market in 3 or 4 months Navin, we'll come out with a public issue, with the product launch We can raise atleast 40 billion from the market? What d'you think? That will be good sir. Nishi, Ritesh, great job. Brilliant work. - Thank you sir. Start preparing for the launch Value creation for my shareholders. That's my only priority. Although l depend a lot on my wife.. ..where personal decisions are concerned You can say Devyani that my family is my mental, emotional.. ..moral support system. - That's wonderful. Vinay Sehgal, the family man. Ladies and gentlemen, that was Vinay Sehgal.. ..first generation entrepreneur who's made it bigger than big. This is Devyani Bakshi signing off. See you again, same time, same day, next week. You start asking personal questions as soon as the camera rolls l enjoy making you uncomfortable. - Really? You do? Really. By the way, this programme will be aired on Sunday.. immediately after you have won the best businessman award lt'll be perfect timing. - lf l win the award, that is Vinay, please, trust me. l've taken care of every member on the jury You can win hands down. - Really? Really. Don't worry so much. Just be there to make sure you receive the award okay? - l will. Bye. - And the award for the best HRD manager goes to Mr.. Manohar Karango. Mr.. Bharadwaj, how are you? Good. - Hello Tanya. How are you? - Good. To give away the award for corporate excellence marketing campaign.. ..may l call upon Mr.. Anand Ruia.. ..chairman of CRM Foods. The award for the best marketing campaign of the year goes to.. Mr.. Alex D'cunha of Montano lndustries. Congratulations! - Thank you very much. - All yours. You know the importance of the last announcement at any awards function This brings us to the award for corporate excellence Last but by no means the least.. ..To give away the award for the business leader of the year.. ..may l call upon stage, the living legend.. ..the inimitable, the literary genius.. ..Mr.. Javed Akhtar. Please welcome Mr.. Javed Akhtar. The award for the business leader of the year goes to Mr.. Dharmesh Marwah. Of Marwah Group. Step aside.. Mr.. Sehgal, Mr.. Sehgal, were you expecting to win this award? Sir one byte sir. Sir one byte sir. Vinay.. please listen to me. Just please hold on! Let me just explain. - l don't want an explanation! The whole of the business community was out there.. you made me look like a bloody fool in their presence! But Vinay.. - No! What did you say to me? That you've managed the whole jury. - But the jury just got changed.. Just shut up, Devyani. Shut up! You know what, you're good for nothing. You know what you are Devyani? Just a pimp. A glorified bloody pimp, that's what you are. Leave me alone, l'm okay.. why did he say that, Kedar? Why did he say it? - Come on, ma'am. You know everybody uses me just like a punching bag, that's what they do. You know they just take advantage of me and punch me and punch me. Please ma'am. There's so much l do for everyone.. - Yes, ma'am.. l've done so much for him! And for one.. one stupid little thing.. he didn't get one award. Just one award.. and for that, you know what he called me..? You know what..? He called me a pimp! A bloody pimp. How dare? How dare he talk to me like that? Please, ma'am.. - He accuses me of whoring! Oh yes.. thank you so much. Very well.. good bye Yes, Cherian? - Please watch the news on TV, sir Why? - Please watch it, sir What is it about? - lt's on TlMES NOW, sir We have a formal announcement to make The Sehgal Group is launching a soft drink.. a mint-based soft drink Sir, are you launching this drink on an all-lndia basis? Absolutely. The drink will launched in the whole of lndia in 45 days.. and its name is Just Chill. You had no such plans earlier, sir. So why this overnight announcement? Because l believe in taking the competition by surprise. Ladies and gentlemen, the countdown has begun. lt's believed that you're making this announcement.. ..only because you did not bag the business leader award Look, one does not get emotional in business lt's a hard-core business decision. After our tie up with Friscon.. ..we feel this is the time to launch our product.. lt's got nothing to do with the award. You'll get the brochures and all publicity material.. ..wait for it. Thank you all. So this was Mr.. Vinay Sehgal.. ..chairman of the Sehgal Group of lndustries. Though he completely denies to have any personal reasons for.. ..the sudden announcement of the soft drink launch.. ..it's now quit clear that the simmering war.. ..between two corporate giants is now out in the open. With cameraman Prem Mishra, this is Tanya Khanna, Times Now, Mumbai. Mr. Marwah, the Sehgal group was about.. ..to launch their product next year, right? Yes, but this is a mint-based drink The plant and machinery has been bought from our own suppliers We were about to send advances to the bottling plants And they've gone ahead and cracked deals with them! Such a lot of coincidences..? l can't digest it, Joe ls there anyone you suspect? Nobody except my core-team knew about this project of ours Obviously, they're the source of the leakage Very well, Mr. Marwah. Give me all the details you can give me on them l'll give you a confidential report in just two weeks. Don't worry Just Chill is a mass-based product. Every age-group ought to identify with it Sir, media co-ordination.. how will we be able to manage all that in just 45 days? One works best under pressure. That has been my experience We'll do it. All we'll have to do is work.. 24 hours a day Sehgal was terribly offended at not getting the award What else could explain the announcement.. ..to launch a soft-drink in 45 days.. without any preparation or strategy? Ad campaigns, market-surveys, sampling tests.. efforts were on in full-swing to give the product a nationwide launch On the other hand, Marwah was taking a suspicious look.. at his own top brass, with the help of Joe Rajan He wanted to know how the secret of his soft-drink project.. had reached the Sehgal group Parvez.. how well do you know Nishigandha Dasgupta of Sehgal Foods? Well sir, socially. That's it. Like one competitor knows another, that's it When you were in Delhi recently for the branch office meeting.. ..did you meet Nishigandha there? - Pardon me..? Well.. no, sir You had dinner at Delhi's Shangrila Hotel with Nishigandha.. ..you then met this model in the discotheque.. ..and she subsequently followed you into your room That model was spotted with Nishigandha the very same evening You were having a ball with her.. ..and Nishigandha stole all details of.. ..our soft drink project from your laptop How much did he pay the girl? - 30,000 rupees 30,000 Your thrills of 30,000 have ruined our project worth 30 billion! Sir l'm really, really sorry sir. l was slightly drunk sir but l didn't do it deliberately. lt wasn't intentional, sir lntentional or unintentional.. ..you are fired Mr.. Pervez. - Sir. Now please you.. please. Thank you sir. Take 5. Just Chill. When thirst becomes the taste, baby the heart remembers it.. Chill, Chill, Chill, Just Chill.. Chill, Chill, Chill, Just Chill.. - Cut! Excellent Jennifer! Mind blowing. - Nishi you're films going to rock. Of course Prahlad. When you're there, it's bound to rock. Thank you ma'am. Anyway, l'm getting late. l have to go. Cool. See you. - Bye. Mahesh, close-up please. - Yeah, Prahlad. Turn off that light Parvez.. here? How could you do this to me Nishi? What happened? - Just stop acting in front of me You set this all up That girl in the discotheque.. the information you gathered from Shelley.. l know everything l offered you a job. And you? You double-crossed me? This exploit of yours has cost me my job. You screwed my career. How can you do something so unethical you bitch? Language Parvez. At least you mustn't talk about ethics What you intended to do by offering me a job, both of us know. You bloody wanted to sleep with me. And you know what Pervez? You are not bothered about losing your job or your career. What is eating you is the fact that a girl did all this to you And yes Parvez, get this clear. The brain is always in the head, not down there What happened? Sir, there's a problem. What is it? We've received a fax from the quality control.. ..guys from our plant saying.. that, they have found heavy traces of pesticides in our soft drink The FDA has refused to provide us the license, sir the pesticides are in the water source.. which makes it hard to detect Despite having a water treatment system at the plant? Sir, our water treatment system is not.. ..equipped to filter these pesticides Consultants say that insecticides and.. ..pesticides are indiscriminately used.. in the fields of Panvel and Khopoli Due to prolonged use these chemicals have penetrated the water table These are very dangerous chemicals, sir Studies say it can even lead to cancer lt could also affect the immune systems. What do we do? Navin, what would you suggest. - What should we do? Sir, we must find an alternative immediately. That'll take some time too The product launch is in ten days On the 14th. You want time, don't you? Forty-eight hours. That's it. Two days. Okay? l see. You mean to say, we must shift the bottling plant? lt'll take two months. So the launch too.. ..gets delayed by two months, right? Yes sir. We have no choice Navin, are you plain crazy? You know, after the launch of Chill, we're bringing out a public issue Delaying the launch by two months means cancelling of the public issue We'll lose 40 billion as well as the group's reputation No l can't delay the launch. l can't delay this. Which means we'll launch the stock with pesticides? Yes. And don't get emotional about it okay? We'll fix the future supplies and no one will find out Besides, millions in our country drink filthy water. How does it matter? Just forget about it and let's roll it. Excuse me sir, but in that case.. ..l'd like to resign. What? What? Don't be impulsive, Navin. Don't take hasty decisions No, sir. l think it's the right decision. l see. Your principles and all that? Well, in that case l can't stop you. lt'd be better if you stayed, since you know so much about this project l assure you, sir. l won't speak about this project to anyone That was never my worry, Navin. Do well wherever you are. And remember, our doors are always open to you. Thank you sir. Yes Mukesh. What is it? The FDA officials are with me. What do l do? What do you mean? Bribe them! Need l say that? Fulfill their demands. l need that licence, at any cost. Okay sir. - Okay. l don't think it's a wise decision. - Why? Because what we are doing is absolutely unethical. Unethical. Such talk doesn't befit you, Nishi. l know how you got hold of Marwah's project report. What's wrong with you guys, huh? l have to tell you that the only thing that matters.. ..in business is the profit. That's the bottom line. You think l'm doing all this for myself? Friscon's success is yours too. You are the top executives of a company.. ..worth 40 billion. Think about that. Despite this, if you still think you mustn't go ahead with it.. ..it's unethical, it's wrong, then we'll call off the project. Big deal. But.. Age, age, age.. Ritesh. This is it. This is what l mean. Give your heart tonight.. Move your body right.. Oh yeah, oh yeah.. Plunder the joys of life Plunder the joys of life Plunder the joys of life Have a couple of swills Plunder the joys of life Plunder the joys of life Have a couple of swills For such merriment.. you are not forbidden Hi. Hi Devyani. Plunder the joys of life Plunder the joys of life Hello, we have met before. Good to see you again. - This Ritesh. Have you met him? Devyani. There's somebody else l want you to meet. Some drink in love, some drink to slake their thirst Age, age.. Some drink in love, some drink to slake their thirst Some drink for fun, some drink together Live it up! Drink it up Live it up! Drink it up Have a couple of swills Have a couple of swills Plunder the joys of life Have a couple of swills Have a couple of swills Have a couple of swills Just chill Absolutely sir, book the table. Lobo, l'm flying to London tonight There are some files in my cabin, put those in the car So what do you want from London darling? Damn the ass! Every other month he is off to.. ..London spending company funds We can't even go to a hill station. - These VPs, CEO, executives.. they use the company's money to have fun And this smartass changes his secretary every six months Why? - Can't change wives in our country So he changes secretaries. Ass! - Forget him. You know Bhatia? Hemant? - l feel ashamed to even talk about him Why? - Steals stationery. Pencils, erasers.. He says he wants to distribute them on his son's birthday He even bribed me l couldn't help it, Lobo. l can understand the factory thing But l can't understand the corporate working style lt's very simple, l'll make it short for you Fifty people sitting across the table and doing one man's job.. is known as Corporate. What? - Corporate Let's take it Corporate lunch. C'mon Guys. Within a very short span of time.. ..Chill has captured the market. We haven't received the certified audited figures yet.. but indications are that we have displaced.. Which is great. l mean great. We have a staggering 65 per cent market share. Just one more thing. Just one more thing. Friscon's share's are now selling at a 150 per cent premium. That's another great news. And the credit goes to the Friscon team Especially, Ritesh and Nishi, who put their hearts and souls into it So guys, it's time to celebrate. There's just one last thing l want to say. Just chill. Congratulations, Ritesh. Congratulations! - Thank you. Bravo! Congratulations Love you! l'll see you in a minute. - Yes. Hi! Ritesh, well done. - Nice tea! Where are you? Congrats! - Thanks. That was great Nishi, Congrats! Congratulations! - Thank you! Great job, Nishi! Did he relent? - Well, he did We'll have to work out some options for his terms and conditions All right Mukesh, l got to know that Sehgal is appointing Ritesh as CEO But the news was that you were the top contender and you would make it l can understand. His brother-in-law, after all Anyway, Joe said that.. you want to set up your own business in Malaysia Yes. - And you need capital Yes. No problem. Will be done. Mukesh, this Navin Shroff gave his resignation just.. ..six days prior to the launch of Just Chill. He cited personal reasons before the media l don't believe it either What could be the reason? Valid information? Absolutely What do you want? - To begin with.. suspend those three FDA officers Then send a fresh team of seniors to Sehgal's plant at Panvel.. and conduct a raid. Send samples of Just Chill to the labs l'll organise the media Give me that order. Sandeep Varma, sir.. - Sharad Joshi, FDA Orders for plant inspection Mishra, collect samples from filling, coding and quality control. Quick Yes sir. Mr.. Rakesh, don't let these go for packaging. Seal them Ok. Sir. Yes sir. Let me see the sample. As you can see behind me the official of food and drug Authority.. ..have just conducted a raid at the bottling plant.. ..of the Sehgal Group of lndustries. Sir, what is the purpose of this raid, sir? - No comments. Sir, why this raid, sir? Sir, one comment, sir. - No comment. Sir, could you tell us... Really? You know this for sure? Are you sure? What are you saying? lt means that Marva has got the information about pesticides from him? l just don't believe this. Now l see, that's why he has left the country. What a bastard?! - Ok. Thank you very much.. ..Munjal. Tell me if there's something else. l'll make it up to you. Thank you. Guess who it was? Our dear friend Mukesh Tyagi. Bastard! He's joined hands with Marwah. The son of a bitch. Because he was not made the CEO. Bastard. And this circus in the media, it's Marwah's doing. He is behind it. What legal options do we have? Not a fat lot, Ritesh. Jindal and the other lawyers are at it. We'll know by tomorrow And in the mean while let us all enjoy the show. Yes, Ricky. Tell me. Listen l do not want to talk to the media. This is not the time. Just sell him l am not reachable. Ok? Congratulations, Mr.. Marwah The FDA lab reports have come in. The tests are positive Just Chill contains huge amounts of pesticides You tell me what to do The workers of your Nationalistic Party.. tell them to march out.. and protest in front of Sehgal's office.. and create an uproar in the media. l have incurred huge losses too Another thing The Centre passed the Just Chill project. Rattle the capital as well l'm giving you an issue for free. - You ought to be in politics Just watch how l take this matter to the Lower House Devika.. - Sir? The politician will do his bit But we'll have to prepare well from our side too The lab tests are positive Get our entire network of print and electronic media to work Blow this issue. And all the NGOs that we've been funding regularly.. tell them to file a public interest litigation.. against the Sehgal Group We'll bear the legal costs. - Done, sir And Archana.. - Yes, sir? keep an eye on the share price of Friscon Limited After this scam, it has to fall And when the price reaches the perfect level, we'll start buying Down with Friscon! Multinationals.. - Go back! Down with Friscon! Multinationals.. - Go back! Down with Friscon! Multinationals.. - Go back! Multinationals.. - Go back! Multinationals.. - Go back! l'll call you back. Down with Friscon! Multinationals.. - Go back! Multinationals.. - Go back! Down with Friscon! Multinationals.. - Go back! Down with Friscon! Multinationals.. - Go back! Down with Friscon! Multinationals.. - Go back! The controversy has put the Friskon lndustries into deep trouble. As the consumer group and the NGOs are demanding a strong.. ..action against the management of the company. This is Sania Khanna from Mumbai for.... The Police had to resort to mild baton charge to quell the unruly mob.. ..that had gathered outside the head quarters.. ..of the Sehgal Group of lndustries. The situation worsened when some of the protestors began to burning.. ..the effigies and breaking bottles of soft drink Just Chill. Yes? - Sir, we have bought a huge block.. of Friscon's institutional shares. - Good lf we've crossed five percent purchase in the open market.. send a written intimation to the stock exchange Officially, our holdings in Friscon is 3.5 percent However, unofficially, as of today.. it is 13.5 percent. - Good But not enough. Our holdings in Friscon must cross 20 percent.. for the financial institutions to back us Then we'll have the management control over Friscon lndia Limited Can we get another block deal? Ruia holds about 8 percent shares of Friscon, sir Hemant Parikh brokered it. - Sure.. but Hemant Parikh and Anand Ruia are very close to Sehgal Why can they sell? - They can, sir Hemant Parikh has immense respect for Devi Bapu lf Devi Bapu speaks to Hemant Parikh.. For their selfish motives, people of the corporate.. ..world can go to any extent Even if they have to use a Goodman When it mattered, Devi Bapu reasoned with Hemant Parikh.. and he struck a fat deal of Friscon shares for Marwah Well, following the controversy surrounding the Sehgal group.. ..the stock today once again opened at a lower target of 10%%%. There was heavy volumes on the counter.. ..and sellers to the tune of 20 million. With today's fall the market cap of the company has now been.. ..eroded to 80%%%. Vinay Sehgal, besides being a victim of the media attack.. his position has deteriorated with the.. ..merciless reactions on the bourses The share prices of Friscon as well as all.. ..its group of companies crashed To save its global image, Steve from Friscon lnternational.. threatened to withdraw the collaboration ln the capital, Finance Minister Ashwini Dayal was Sehgal's last hope But, even he declined Sehgal had lost. But Marwah wanted.. the name of Sehgal Group of lndustries wiped out of the corporate world Please every body calm down and listen. To investigate the Just Chill pesticide issue, our government.. has decided to set up an inquiry commission The inquiry commission will soon send a.. ..notice to Sehgal Group of lndustries Other details..? - Other details in the parliament Hail lndia. Hail Maharashtra. How serious is the situation, Mr. Jindal? Well Vinay, the situation is very serious. This notice.. has been very carefully drafted taking advantage of the public outcry We have to file a reply within 48 hours lf you go before the enquiry commission.. they will definitely recommend you to be prosecuted under section 328 Eventually you get bail However, if the higher authorities twist the case.. and charge you under section 304, procuring.. ..a bail will become impossible Mr.. Jindal, what is to be done now? Look Vinay, at least on behalf of Friscon.. you mustn't go before the enquiry commission There must be a way out Jindal must've suggested something Actually, there's a way out. - What? Ritesh, right now, the judiciary, media.. ..everyone is focussed on Vinay l mean, if someone is willing to own up for the pesticide scam.. we can say that, Vinay and the family members knew nothing about it.. we were not involved. lt'd work The focus will shift from Vinay.. and the company will be saved from more disgrace Sis.. you folks have done a lot for me So now.. to save the company.. l'm willing.. to take all the blame on myself. Not to worry You are willing to make such a huge sacrifice for our sake.. We really appreciate that. But try to understand, Ritesh. Please. Please. lf you own up, what good will it do? You are part of the Sehgal family. You are my brother lf you or Vinay own up the scam, what difference will it make? lt's still the same You know, there has to be someone else. Who else? Who? Ritesh, actually.. l mean, the lawyers have suggested that.. the second in command in this project.. if that man owns up blame.. You know the problem... Second in command is.. Nishi? - Yes. Sister, please keep Nishi out of this. Yes, but.... That is just not done, damn it. So what do you want? All this to end right here? Sehgal Group is worth 20 billion. 15,000 people work here Millions of investors have locked their savings in our shares.. ..their lives are tied to ours. What do you want? You want them to be ruined along with us? No, sis. This is not possible Ritesh, we have worked out all the other options. We have no choice, trust me l agree, it's my mistake l never tried to understand your relationship with Nishi l know you want to settle down. You tell me.. we have no choice at this point of time Ritesh don't worry. lt'll only be a matter of a few days The best of our lawyers will defend her Ritesh, l am giving you my word. Nishi will be out of the enquiry commission in four weeks That's a promise. l think they are right No other way to save the company lt'd be only a matter of a few days And they are saying they're going to use.. ..the best lawyers to fight the case Ritesh, don't forget that your future as well as mine.. ..is connected to the company's future Please, let me do this. Please. Nishi, before you sign it, l'll read out the affidavit Mr.. Jindal, l have implicit faith in my company and my people All right Here Here Nishi.. they.. Nishigandha Dasgupta? Pramod Bangara from Crime Branch. And in the latest development surrounding the Just chill pesticide.. ..controversy, Sehgal Group's CP.. ..Nishigandha Dasgupta was taken away by Mumbai Crime Branch.. ..for questioning. Though she hasn't been formally arrested.. ..so she claims she will remain in the custody as she has.. ..already accepted the full responsibility for the crime. Mr. Dayal, you are the Finance Minister of this country. And if you can not find a solution to this. We are going to be forced to withdraw our entire investment from lndia. Let me caution you. This will be seen in extremely bad light by our lnternational lnvestors. Ok. Ok. Don't worry Mr. Steve. l'll try to resolve the issue. You have it in you. You deserve it too. You can also make it Gulabrao-ji! Gulabrao-ji, Your phone is ringing. Hello! - Hello, Gulabrao? Hello? Ashwini here, Gulabrao. - Sorry, Mr.. Ashwini l was in a charity function How come Delhi remembers this poor man? Stop all that you started with Marwah Friscon's guy is sitting with me He's furious, he's threatening me. - Mr.. Ashwini, they are your people Handle them. - Try to understand, Gulabrao He is threatening to withdraw his investment from lndia lf a big foreign investor like him leaves, all.. ..the others will follow suit There'll be an uproar The country will lose heavily, imagine how much you and l will lose Hang on, sir Tell me. - Gulabrao, stop playing party politics Talk to Marwah, while l discuss it with Steve and Sehgal. Okay? As you wish, Mr.. Ashwini. - Okay We'll work out a compromise formula Right Vinay, if Steve and other foreign investors leave lndia.. ... all of us will stand to lose. - No one will lose. l'm at a loss Because of him! - Who started it? One of his executives .. Nishigandha.. she stole our project Or, we'd have been the first to launch the.. ..mint-based soft drink in lndia Stop digging up the past now My company's image is ruined, Friscon's share prices have crashed.. He bought our shares in blocks There will be no addition to Marwah's Friscon holdings The management control will remain with you As for the share price, l'll manage it with Hemant Parikh.. and the financial institutions. Just handle.. Friscon's next two quarterly results. What say, Gulabrao? As for your image, the court cases and public interest litigations.. that Marwah's NGOs have slapped against you, Marwah will withdraw them What say? - Why not? l have a huge stake in his company Fine, but what about my stocks worth.. ..millions rotting in the storehouses? Don't worry about that. l'll get you a clean chit from the State's FDA You just have to change the batch numbers to sell the same stuff No one will find out lndians have a very short memory anyway So Vinay, is everything all right now? Mr.. Gulabrao, just one more thing What about Nishigandha's case? Damn Nishigandha's case Look Mr.. Sehgal, State elections are four months away And this time too, our party is going to win lndications from the High Command are that l.. ..might become the Chief Minister Well, his party could make an issue out of the scam for the elections So, the people must also feel that our government too.. has taken very stern steps on it So, the girl has to stay in until then Besides, the court and the police will do their own jobs Ok. Ok. Shake hands. Go on, shake hands Congratulations. - Thank you. Vinay had come over. He and Marwah have reached a compromise. Ritesh, Nishi is pregnant. Besides, they have decided to keep her in custody for a longer period Sit You didn't tell me. You had given up on me. Bloody hell! l am going to be a father. You are such a fool, Nishi. Such a fool. Everything will be all right l'll set things right At any cost Everything will be alright, sweetheart. ls it true? You guys have reached a compromise? Sit. - ls it true or not? ls it true or not? Ritesh, you are getting too emotional l know it's a compromise, but it was imperative Look at the larger picture, Ritesh. We're getting a clean chit.. in the media, in public. We're back in business l know it's tough on Nishi, but it's only a matter of a few days She will come out Navin too left. There's so much work to do, who will manage it? You will manage it, right? Think about it l am thinking about it. l know you'd go to any extent for your personal gains, but.. l'm seeing this base and disgusting figure.. ..of hypocrisy for the first time Ritesh, what is wrong with you? - Shut up! Not a word from you. Because of you folks, l reasoned with Nishi l convinced her that nothing would happen And what did she do? Took all the blame on herself Do you folks even realise what she has.. ..sacrificed for us, for the company? What did you give her in return? Treachery Plain betrayal Nishi is pregnant with my child. God damn it. But now listen to me very carefully. lf you don't get Nishi out in 48 hours.. l will strip you before the media That's a promise Mr. Vinay Bloody Sehgal He lived on the top floor, alone Ritesh's death is believed to be a suicide But some people say it was murder Nishigandha was released on bail after some time After all the controversies surrounding.. ..the soft drink Just Chill.. it stayed off the shelves only for a few weeks Today, people happily guzzle it, as if nothing had ever happened Long Live Gulabrao! Gulabrao's desire to become the Chief Minister was fulfilled Navin set up his own consultancy firm Megha and Anmol assist him Devyani focussed entirely on writing Marwah still has high regards for Bapu ln fact, more than ever Sehgal is elated, because the white men are happy Two years have passed Nishigandha still does the rounds of the court.. regarding the same soft drink case ln this game of Sehgal and Marwah she's.. ..been reduced to being a mere pawn lt's a tight slap on her modern values For having used her heart in this corporate battle field.. ... she had to pay a very heavy price. Very heavy indeed.
