 

                        Based in the live of Countess Erzebet Bathory (1560-1614) History is a tale told by the victors Who are the victors? Barbaric warriors, mad kings, and greedy traitors Maybe most of our historis are made of fables fabricated by those glorious victors This is the story of Countess Erzebet Bathory. Not just history remembers her but also how I rember her Countess Erzebet Bathory was born into one of the Hungary's most lxxx families in 1560. Your future wife She was promised to Ferenc Ndasdy's at birth Erzebet, come here They stole a horse that deserved to be punished History tells us, from very early age, Erzebet learnt to be fearlss ...unfeeling... ...curious... The seed will turn into a big tree one day ...and pittyless Why is it? when you put someone under the ground they do not grow like seed? The seeds are alive, whereas people we burried under ground are dead - But if we burry them alive? - They suffocate and die So we get eaten by worms The body melts away but the soul passes onto heaven or hell You will go to heaven just like your Papa The soul is eternal my dear If it was not, I will have to raise an army to counque death He is so lovely, I want him to be my husband When he reachs his marring age, you will be old and worn Count Nadasky will be your husband I beg you not to harm him I love him, Mother The only love you shall feel is to our lord yuo should respect to your husband But for pesents and servants you must never fornicate with them Your pesent will die as he deserves - It is a boy - Leave But Mother, my child She was married to Ferenc Nadasky at she was 15 Her mother died soon after Erzebet managed her estate masterfully Soon many noble families from kingdoms of Bohimia to Poland were in debt to her and her husband She even lent a large amount of money to the king himself She gave Nadasky 3 children The first child was born 10 years into the union She hardly spent any time with her husband In less than 50 years The Turks has slaughtered and slaved half the population of Hungary Nadasky and his men were only worriors they fear Erzebet funded a hospital for the poor But xxx said, that many of them never came out alive There were devoted protestant. Erzebet believed many heretical theories Darvulia, who some claimed was witch, managed Erzebet's wealth so well that some believed she know the reciep for making gold The combination of Nadasky's military power and Erzebet's intelligence and unbending will quickly makes them the most feared, respected and powerful family in the kingdom bThe Countess/b - Good afternoon, my King - Good afternoon, Dear Count Nadasky. Your majesty, I have come to demand my pay for the last year of war. Of course, you are welcome to stay for a few days if you wish while we gather the amount - We'll having excution all day tomorrow. - Uhm, unfortunatly, I have no time to wait. - I must leave before night fall. - What a shame. Half in gold, half in dollars will do Good day, My King A gift from the King With what he still owns us, he should have got me the holy grail. Mother, Father is back - Please leave the room... Now. - Leave I brough you my pay. And... Oh, thank you dady. A bird. - I feel a bit sick - It is the wine My head hurts You're burning up Let me get Darvulia She will surely have good xxx for you I do not need the help of Satan. More You saved me, my love. I can see the beautiful morning light I am sorry dear, but he is gone. Count Ferenc Nadasky was a good husband and father. But above all, a great warrior. Today he's standing joyfully with Jesus at the right hand of the God Soon we will be with him at their side for eternalty. I will sent soldiers back to war. You will let them xxx while I am gone. I must bring the children to a safer place And show the Court, Ferenc's dead has not weaken me - Are we ever coming back, Mother? - Of course, but for now you will stay in Vienna. You will learn music, French and Latin with best teachers. And aunt Klara will take you to in theater and fireworks. - Fireworks? - Yeah. - You see it is sential to pay soldiers well - I know, dear countess. But the pesents who escape from slaughter are dying of hunger Please, have patiece and I'm going to pay you later. - To be difficult... - Should I assign a guardient to manage your estate? You know I disapprove of a widow handling her lands alone. I can manage perfectly well. You know, my husband had little to do with such maters. Well, then you can sell some land, hire younger men and pay them less. I am not too keen to unprivilege my estate and send children to war. But if you demanded, I will. I will keep the Turks out what left Hungary no mater what it costs me You are my best allies. Dear Miss, I'll be delighted you decided to leave your little ageles with me. It will not be fair to keep them in a cottage. Your husband's death must be a dreadful shock to them. Indeed. He died so fast, and in bed. He probably caught a shameful illness come from one of those Turkish whores. Last time my husband came home from the battle front, His little skin there was almost fell off. No great lost, or you've told me. Countess Bathory, I heard the king owes you so much from Nadasky He, therefor, could not afford to pay you for more than a year. Yes, the King owes me a fortune which is to my advantage. To allmighty you perhaps have take a fence for such wealth since you are a Protestant? Our king opened to tolerate Protestants. Thank you Count Thurzo It is my right not to share my posessions with the Catholic Church. For centuries your friends in Rome orchestrated countless... ...murders of inocents, especially women. It'll suprise me. Are you defending the witches, Countess? Please, this conversation is boring me! I appologize. I was just asking the Countess about her admirable wealth. Posez pas de questions que vous connaissez dj la rponse. My little niece knows six languages, including ancient Greek. It is possible for a woman's mind... - ...to be sharper than than a man's? - Of course it is. But I have heard that their emotions are... ...alway get best of them so their intelligence ultmately, wasted. I agree that most of women are weak. And it is in the area of heart that weakness seems to alive. A man's weakness is located in the lower part of thire body. At somewhat less noble part. I think men and women are both equal and different. - Equal? That is a very poor statement. - You might not listen, Bishop. My cousin said xxx different. We all have out strengths and weaknesses. What are your weaknesses, Countess? I am woman. I love beautiful dresses and gold jewelry. Just like you, dear Bishop. Are you sure the woman in xxx can manage your estate wisely? Darvulia is young but she is more than wise to maintaining my wealth. She is the most knowledgable woman in the land. - After you. - Of course. I've heard you've earned a large amount of money recently. Yes, a very profitable transaction. It did cost many the lives and freedom of many Bohemian peasants. Everything has its price. - Turkish lines are quite near your castle. - Indeed. Don't you feel endangered to stand alone near the wars? - I am not alone and war is my duty. - I've considered to marry you. Our union would make us the most powerful. Dear Gyorgy, you know very well, it would be inappropriate for me to marry you You are a Count by mariage whereas the nobility has be in my blood for centuries. I know their cosine. All I'm saying is if you feel yourself need you can always count on me. What maters is that we are all united against Turks. Of course. We must leave for the ball, Erzebet. Dear Count, will you join us? Unfortunately I am leaving for Prague early tomorrow. What a shame. Have a good journey then. - Did he dare to ask you? - Of courese. I knew it. He insisted of coming. I am not xxx his maners. He's always wearing last year's fashion. Do not marry him. Safe journey There is a French doctor I want you to meet. He'd like to visit your hospital. I am afraid it has become more of mass grave than a hospital lately. Also, they said an astronomer says that the earth is not moving in the circle around the sun... ...but all over the place. Maybe that is why I feel so dizzy lately. - Countess Erzebet Bathory. - Enchant de vous rencontrer. - Je tiens rendre l'hopital. Madam? - Il est la bienvenue. Excuse-moi Do you happened to know who that young man is? Istvan Thurz. Gyorgy's only son. - He moved back to Vienna recently. - He's a child just yesterday. Yesterday? Then do not wait too long. He might grow old and bald before the night is over. - Clare - Istvan We had dinner with your father, but unfortunately he could not join us to the ball. I would like you to meet my little niece. I do not think I have the pleasure meeting you before. Oh, would you excuse me. Please to meet you again, Thurzo. I knew your later mother quite very well. I am Countess Bathory. - Countess Erzebet Bathory? - Yes. Whatever you heard about me. That everyone respects and fears you. - Forgive me ... - I do not object to be feared. - Do I inspire fear in you? - Not at all. I'm so very honor to meet you. And are you. - I am awfully sorry about Count Nadasky. - It was a dreadful shock to my children Might a maner to ask but dose his widow forbid you to dance? No. - You are good dancer for one who's so young - I am not that young, I am 21 Oh, 21? - Would you care to dance next one? - I need a moment to myself. - He is in to my taste. - Much more exciting than his father, isn't he? - Are you going to have an affair? - Perhaps You must. - Everyone he speaks to was so sincere. - Well, he might be sincere. Ever since his mother died, He's being very devoted to study xxx. An Italian countess xxx died before they even met. Now, his father has found him a new wife from Denmark. This one has spent very little time in court. You mean he still has chance to go to heaven? He has not yet been corrupted by power? A genuin and virtious young man... How lovely. - What are you looking at? - Sorry. - Do you find them pretty? - Pardon? - My lips. - Yes. That is... - Do you wish to kiss them? - No! No? - Oh, yes ... - Then why do you not? - In front of every one? - Do you care? You have arrived. - Why are you shaking? - I do not know. You must rest. I do not believe I will be able to rest until we meet again. I have to ride back tomorrow. May I see you earlier so I can spend every moment with you before you leave? Every moment? It is only because I know what I feel. - You can meet me at my aunt's vila before noon. - Thank you I must go before I lose my mind. Wait ... do you have to go? Since we will meet in the morning, and we only have less than a day. I know what we've done is sinful, but it does not feel wrong in the heart. My heart feels warmer than ever. - Was I careful? - You have nothing to worry about. Kissing you feels like making love to you. - And making love to you feels like ... - Like what? I cannot find words to describe it. Is it not strange to think as we enjoying us today, warm each other's arms others are dying at war? We are in hand of God's Let us rejoice we are not ones dying in war. It is morning. I'm to leave soon. Must you travel today? I have many maters to attend to. I could to. War is a messy job for a lonely woman. I understand. I will have xxx bring you letter every week until we meet again. Be careful, they cost me fortune in Vienna. I have this one made for you, my dear. I have so much to tell you. I had an affair with a young man. It was so lovely. Good. Do you have more of that oil to make my skin soft? Soft for the young man? - Lust, it will gain you nothing. - It's not lust, not this time. I have never felt this way. Even when I was a girl. - I thought you were strong. - That is only love, not the sign of weakness. - It is the most noble feeling known to man. - Assuming he is the one. You should see his skin. So soft, so perfect. Is that him you're fond of or just texture of his young skin? Do not be witch! - How old? - 21 - Who is he? - Istvan Thurz. His father wishes for their bloodline to by tied to mine. Oh, you're planning for asking for his hand? Keep him as a lover, if you wish, but do not forget your rank. - He is 21 while you're soon to be 39. - He's very mature for his age. Erzebet, young people change thier mind all the time. He can have any woman. I am not enjoy your accompany today you old xxx. I am your servant as it always. But I remind you that I am younger than you. Enough! Time has no respect for beauty. Countess, a letter. Erzebet, you know I will marry soon. Yes, I have heard. It hurts me to even think I got to touch another woman. Istvan, marry her, have children... and be my lover always. But I will be so far away. And I want to be only yours. No other woman could mean anything to my heart. - Your heart? - Yes. I have never felt this way Is it sin to love someone like this mater? When I am with him, I feel joy and beauty. When I away from him, I feel pain as hundreds of tigers... ...tigers are tearing apart my entire body. - His soul is in a better place. - Who's? - Count Nadasky's. - Of course. It is such an honor to have you pray in our humble village church. And thank you again for your generous donation. It was nothing, father. God has giving me so much. Countess, you shouldn't be out here. It is so cold. - I'm waiting for a letter. - Must be a very important letter. - Very. - What a beautiful dress. - What's your name? - Pola. Here, take it. It's yours. Go now. Leave the Countess alone. It has been over a week and I have not received his letter yet. You have to be careful of what you wish for. Your two destinies are to be tied even maner that did you not expect. It is my desire. - And more if the magic work soon. - Gold is not main thing that binds me to you. And you can spend your nights with me. I will need something of his. Something he gave you preferably. Just for tonight. My beautiful love what a fool I was to worry. Your messenger was simply delayed. You will meet De von Varad at ball in a week. I shall leave tomorrow. - So soon? - I will visit the children. Dear Contess, You looked even more splendid... ...than in the paintings I've seen of you. - I am Count Dominic Vizakna. - Flattery is a secret enemy I've heard. Seduction is merely on of you hobbies or your lies of occupation. Forgive me for intruding but you seem somewhat xxx. I suppose I can not hide my emotions very well. Can I help you feel better in anyway? I am afraid the reason for my pain isn't cureable. Then it can only be that horrible sickness called "love". Truely this person does not deserve you love if he is capable of hurting such gracious women. A nobel man is looking for you, Countess. I missed you so. I'm not ba able to see you for long tonight. - I have important matters to deal with. - It's late, what is it? I will leave from Vienna with you tomorrow at mid day. To your castle. I would to stay with you. Very well I could visit my children early... I will be with you not late than mid day. I promise. Wait! Is there a reason for your haste you not tell me? I must know what is it. Is it that you do not feel the same as you did few month ago? I do feel the same. And the next few days will prove my true devotion. Dear Countess, he is not worthy of your love. - You are wrong about him. - Will you like company tonight? Do you not see the lines on my face? I have no time to play, good night! Dear Istvan. I have waited, and you've given me no sign. Young people often change their minds... because they think they have all the time in the world. Often death takes us before we have had chance to taste love. Because when love was right in front of us, we were too busy looking for it elsewhere. Please tell me I was not fooled, and your feelings were true. - You have no right to keep me in this room. - You disobeyed me and met her again. - She has being waiting for me since yesterday. - I've found out about your foolish plan to escape with her. She has countless mixxxs, you are just one of many, my son. I do not believe she feels the same about me as she does about her other lovers. You got what you wanted from her. - Everything that is conquered, destroyed. - Conquered? If the goal was to honor Countess Bathory, yes, the goal was reached, more than once. But unlike you, I do not see anything destructive in the act of love. We are not talking about a lands to conquer or a competitor must be bested. We are talking about a kind woman and very noble feelings we share. The same noble feeling you share with Baroness von Kraj? You know very well that I have not seen von Kraj, since I met Erzebet. I do love her, father. Love is a myth to keep the minds of young peasants and virgins occupied with a dream. - It has no place in our world. - In your world! I do not understand you though. It would be benifitial for you if I married Erzebet. So you could grand me a tiny portion of her land? She never marry you. Your blood is not noble enough. - You are leaving today for Denmark. - I will not. Would you like to know how grieved the Countess is? She is already in the company of Count Vizakna. - You know his reputation? - That is a lie. They met two days ago and not left each other since. You have already been forgotten. If you are wise, everything that is mine will be yours one day. Have a good journey. Guards ... This man will stay with you until he decide not to disobey me again. My father had arranged my marriage to the daughter of a wealthy Danish trading partner. I was married Hanne Aagesen against my will. It was only a year later, on his death bed, that my father confessed me some of the truth about Erzebet. But I arrived so late to decide, that I could only understand a few words between his sceams. I heard just enough to realize it was known the Countess is made of many lies. In fact, Almost all I know about her from that day on, I was told. Count Vizakna is waiting for answer. I am so honored you have agreed to spend time with me. and supprised you wish to ride. - Which part of the kingdon you were born in? - In the castle of Bekov. There are amusing rumors about the castle. A noble family that only lives at the night and eats new born so I've heard. It is because of a skin condition that flicks most of my family, we are not fond of sunlight. But do not worry. I do not feed on new borns. Have you read about the book about Turks customs? They drink the blood of our boys' to take on thire strength. I have not read it, but I am not surprised to hear such infxxx. Your young friend wasn't in such hurry the other night. Yes, I have not heard from him since. I concerned he may got him hurt or... I saw him just this morning near San Nicholas with a friend. He seemed quite well. - A friend? - Yes. - A woman? - No. She was too young to be called woman. - Probably his sister. - He has no little sister. - Oh. - Maybe you're right about him. I didn't even get a word of appology. Making me wait all day. You old witch! Your xxxsive look scared my horse. Powerful now, but soon you will look like me. - By then you shall see. - How dare you. Out of my sight! Countess, you can not let some who insult you in this maner go unpunished. - Did someone bring a letter when I was away? - No, Contess. Disdress me. This makes me look olden one. I wish to change, now. I wish to pray and fess until he answers my letter. Leave me to myself. Dear Lord, why are you punishing me? How can you give me this beautiful love and take it away from me so fast? Water alone will not keep you alive very long. Erzebet, it has been 3 weeks. If you let yourself die, what will happen to your land and children. I do not know. I do not understand how a strong woman can afford such weak young man? He is not weak. He is so pure and kind. Before I met him, my life was meaningless, I have no idea. News from Cachtice. - The Countess is ill. - Ill? - Sounds she got mad, she's heartbroken. - Istvan? Their silly love affair might infect service in some way. I thought it will be wise to take hold of this. Although it was no small cost. Soon my son would well fully into melancholy. He is natually like his mother. He is inheritate so little of my character. What I want is his proof of her lunatic... at all cost. I shall kill him! He just play with me. Who is he? A son of a whore in Bxxx He wrote about a young married woman. The Baroness von Kraj. Only 17 and very pretty. He says he love her more than anything in the world. That his heart will only be hers. He writes that he'd be sorry that mistook his feeling about admiration and respectful love. That I reminded him so much of his late mother! Look! Smooth and flawless. Even if she smells like hog shit, any man will choose her over me. Erzebet, forget about him. I beg you! How? A man dresed in black at the door, asking for you. - A young man? - Count Dominic Vizakna, he says. - Should we let him in? - Of course. I wish to see him alone. - What brings you here so late? - I do not like travel during the day. The frighten my maids. All my soldiers are at war. We are careful about who we let in here. I have brought you that book of Turkish customs I was telling you about. Traveled a long way to bring me a book? It concerned me to hear nothing from you ever since that afternoon. I've been quite busy. The truth is I could not wait any longer to see you again. Let me show you other ways to use this belt. And someone might find it's more suited to his taste. When my father first told me of the nature of her liason with Dominic Vizakna I could not believe she was capable of such decadents. - Did you truly enjoy that? - Yes. - How can you? - You do not now... ...because you do not have taste for recieving pain. - Did you enjoy inflecting though? - I do not sure. I wish to be your servant ... always. I am not young and foolish. I mean what I say. I wish to be alone. I came to tell you I did not like the man visit in the night. I was such a fool to believe Istvan's love. I was just too old to be loved. But it is not true. Maybe I should never have shown my face during the daylight. Look at me. I am rotting. - She was right. - Who? The old witch in the park. She put a curse on me. Your ointments are no longer effective. Make something that works! Erzebet, I will not have you talking to me with this maner. What do you looking at? Come and brush my hair. It's bad enough my face has wrinkles. Now you want me bald like old man? Look at what you've done! Leave! Leave! No one knows what she saw in the mirror. Is because of soft morning light merely illuminated in an unusual maner, xx xxx have wakend. Thank you, my Lord. You can stay at the castle. We'll take care of you until you're healed. This is for you from the Countess. The countess is a good woman. I did pulled her hair a bit hard. Dorothea, Susanna needs you down in the kitchen. - How old are you, my child? - 16 years. - Where is your family? - In Novky. - It is great far. Do you see them often? - I visit them once a year. Are you a virgin? - Yes, Countess. - Of course. Get better. - The wound is completely healed. - I told you to remove the scull every time. I did, but it healed anyway. Darvulia, come have a close look. - I have not seen any difference. - Nonsense. Helena, Dorothea what you see? - It looks smoother to me. - Yes, yes, absolutely. Yes, it is Lord's answer to my prayers. Not only the look, but the feel of my skin is incrediblly different. As if I was younger. I believe it is because she is a virgin. The purity of her blood seems to be the reason it does working. It really is a true miracle. It is for your own good. Did I kill you? Almost. I felt the cold breath of death and I saw two doors open up to a bright light. You mean heaven alway opens a door for you? I doubt you will go to heaven with recognition of these games. In fact I am sure to go to hell so why not do exactly what I wish during my time here. I am so fond of you that I could not stay away from you for than a week. To my behavior to that old woman, I thought you might have being frightent of me. For what I thought she'd put a curse on me. It's old and torn off. You looked exceptional ravishing tonight. - Tonight more than the other night? - Yes, more than the day we met. More than that afternoon in the park. Tonight it seems the sun itself is glowing from under your skin. Now that I look closely, It is quite magical. Tonight you looked no more than 20 years old. I know. Countess ... What is happening? You are giving me something beautiful. Something I had lost. But when will you stop? When you are empty, my child. It is God's will. It is said that it is how the murder started. To achieve her mad pursuit of eternal youth and beauty, she needed fresh blood, more and more. God, is it wrong to one to stay beauty and young? All around you is beauty. If only Istvan could see me today. You seem to be only one that can not see the blood is working. Fortunately, Dominic was there to notice... ...how different I've looked ever since I started. I will not trust a word comes out from his mouth. Will you stop this before it is too late. I tried to stop, but I already found it less alert. I applied the blood again and I found incrediable strength invading every part of my body. The blood is not making you any younger. On the contrary, you starting to smell of death. - Leave. - Your vanity will be your undoing. And you impudence will bring yours. - Leave and never come back. - No, I care too much. Is it true that you share loved only with women? It makes you virgin then. There have been so many maids died in the castle lately. They were clumsy little geese. Some cut themselves while cocking and got sick. Others fell down the stairs. - Here. - Thank the Countess for me. We shall stop bringing girls to church. I know the Countess wants to give them proper burials, but above all... ...the Countess want fresh blood. A quite invention. I want make sure the witches around here are bled before they are burned. I have heard that the moisture in their body keeps them from burning in the inside. It is said that the cages allowed her to bleed the girls... ...more effectively with very little blood wasted. The murders quickly multiplied. Witnesses said she used took ten girls a month. I wrote Erzebet many letters but never received one from her. After I was sured of her affair with Count Vizakna, I stop writing and resigned myself to my fate. What a staring jewel, matches your beauty. A token from the King Matthias for my armie's many victories. - Must be exhausting to deal with war. - Indeed. And it is costing me a fortune. It is a shame that a beautiful woman has to worry about such matters. After all, it is said that the Queen of England lost her looks xxx... ...because of her war with Spain. - Do you care for me? - No. You are not beautiful enough. Your features are almost like those of Turk. Oh, Unlike Istvan? - Do not say his name. - Would you like me to kill him for you? - Is he back? - He is visiting Vienna, with her wife. So, should I, be his death? No. - What are you looking for? - I thought the Countess has sent you away? I come her at night to watch over her. Make sure no harm is done to her. - You are a rat. I know who sends you. - I am just here to please the Countess. No, you are here to flater her worst side - her cruelty. You are quite a beauty. I did not know witches could have such pretty features. - Do not touch me with your poisonous hands! - Not poisonous, soft and loving. If you come back, you will die. I will die? How would I die? Will you ask Satan for his gracious help? Countess Bathory is the one who kept you from being burn at the stake. But now it's clear tha she is more fond of me than that of you. So, Let us see who dies first. Seasons passed and Erzebet spent less and less time at court. She would visited Vienna only to see her children. She claimed that she was busy with the war, but slowly the rumor spread that she stayed at Cachtice. Because her evil practices. Witnesses later claimed that the dead girls were left in the wood around the castle. And most of the bodies were never found. Erzebet delegedly kept percise record of every murder. Her jurnals were presented main proof against her at the trial. Even though she denied ever have written them. My Lord, perhaps what I am doing is wrong. The blood has given me rashes of late. Maybe peasant blood is too rough for my skin. Darvulia has called for you. She is very ill. Poisoned by her own venene no doubt. I do not wish to see her. Many girls have gone. I found a body last year in the forest, no blood left in her. There are demons in there. Maybe it's Bethory herself. You have to do something. Be sure you give it to the king himself. My lord, the demons are here. How can you let this happen, my loard? I gave you so much. He betrayed the Countess. The King must not be informed. Stop that messenger, Janos. Hurry. Count Vizakna left early, and one of you jurnals is missing. He will not come back if he knows. I should send one out to kill that villain. It would be wise. I came to tell that Darvulia is dead. She left a letter to you. My love, do not let another strangers into your castle. You have given them weapons to destroy everything you have built. I shall miss only one thing from your world which is no longer of mine. Your soft kisses. I have loved you always. Erzebet, you have gone too far. Everything that is alive must die, and you too. No mater what you do. There is beauty in leting time do its duty. I wish to leave for Vienna to visit my children. You killed our priest, you demon. Back to Cachtice! Make sure the general gets it soon. We need soldiers to protect us. An angry crowd can be more vicious than a pack of wolves. Where is Janos? He has been gone for weeks. You send him to get girls from far away. Give me a mirror. The blood is making me sick but without it I am dying. Bring me a virgin. Even a boy. No, no boys. God created them in His image. Countess. This is the the only girl we found. She is not too healthy, but she is a virgin. - How old are you? - Twelve, I think. - You do not know? - I was found, Countess. - So you have no family? - No. They feed me when I clean up the pig sty. Come Pola, I remember you. Come. I wish to tell you something. Pola, run away. Run, leave this castle. Run, or I will kill you. Pola! After my father's death, I found records of... ...large sums of money sent to Dominic Vizakna. As well as a letter mentioning women of lower nobility who... ...disappeared around that time. - Who are you? - I am Kasia from Rosenheim. My parents find you and punish you for this. - How old are you? - 15. - Are you a virgin? - Yes, of course. And you? I'm 22 and I am married. I am the Baroness von Kraj. Janos, I kill you. You have brought a married woman. She is of no use to me. And her husband will be looking after her. I would like to know why we have been brought here by force? I will punish the traitor myself who got us into this. - Did you say "Kraj"? - Yes. Kraj, how lovely to meet you. You are right. My husband will be looking for me. Not if I have a letter of farewell brout to him, confessing your run away with your lover. Istvan Thurz, is it not? You are mad. I have not seen Istvan in many years. But I remember a rumor... about a lustious countess, who was falling in mad love with him. And gave herself to him so easily. Are you possibly be Erzebet? Collect the blood before it is wasted. It was no maners to put us out of bed in the middle of the night. I did not want to wait too long because of ... ... smell. We are not sure how many of xxx this way. Maybe hundreds over the past year. Not a drop of blood left in the poor girls Your mother has been useing her hospital to justify the xxx's deaths. - I wish to visit my mother and see for myself. - This is just one of many. Woudl you widsh to see more? Most of them are in much poorer shape. - I am not going. - But you are a man, you must. - I am not going either. - Well I'm not going alone. Your Majesty ... There are reports that girls have been... ...disappearing near the Countess Bathory's castle for a few years. Many peasants have come all the way to Vienna claiming that hundreds have died. The girls have been tortured before their death. - I see nothing wrong in that. - And bled to death. Many are claiming Countess Bathory is assisted by witches and blood-thirsty demons. Witches and Demons? The Countess Bathory involved in witchcraft? Possiblly. Her strength always seemed unnatural. Her army is mysteriously invincible. Probably driven by some spell? It's fascinating. A priest was found dead as well. If the Countess is approved to be guilty of using witchiry, You will be cleared of debts to her and can seize her estate. Sign this and I shall send men to investigate murders in Cathtice. Every month, I signed dozens of death warrants for those witches. And it becomes worth than plague. When does it stop? When men become wise. Which will not be soon. The King has of the heard murders and suspected Bathory of witchcraft. We must send our men today. Her children signed the agreement. They are eager to get thire share. Perhaps she will be charged with murder. I assured her children that witchcraft would not be mentioned in her trial. So her estate can not be siezed by King. To alow her to decrease her possession to whomever she wishes. The king was going to hear of her doing soon enough. And her children would be complete destitute. She has little choice but sign this... ...in order to protect her children. The agreement entitles you to take over her land... ...and the extrordinary army she and her husband established over the years. I see you have doubts. But the truth is that hundreds of young women has died. Peasant girls first, but noble women have vanished now also right near her land. - You used to know one of them. - Yes. But why send me? As I recalled, you were once quite close to Countess Bethory. As I recalled, you were not very pleased about it. - Why not send him? - She will kill me. I believe you are the one too, to take care of this mater, my son. And she is very cautious. It is easier for you to approach her. - Can I say no? - No. You saw some of the girl I found near her castle. My body still bears the scars of her lunecy. - Would you care to see? - No. She is a murdereress. I want everything taken care of before King can get to Cachtice. It is for your my son. After this, you will be the most powerful man in the Kingdom. - After you. - Of course. We are leaving today. Do not feel remorsful. She begged to kill you, not so long ago. - Why did you you not? - She did not offer to pay me. It is strange to think that the hands that... ...once to xxx her was whom strike her. I will only strike her if she is guilty. You know which sin is worst? Murder or greed? We will soon find out. In hell. Be aware of her. She is mad. And she will try to kill you. Stop! Dismount. I wish to see her doings with my own eyes before we arrest her. They will stay here until we send for them. Do not fear, she only has few men protecting her. It is not fear of facing a murdereress that upsets me. The excitement of seeing her again mixes with sorrow of losing her forever. Horsemen, 2 horsemen riding towards us. Dorothea, my white dress. Hurry. You answered my prayers. Dear Count Thurzo, what a surprise after all this time. What has it been? Three years? - Five. - How quickly time flies. Yes. Let me ask you, how have you been, my lady. I have been quite busy with this awful war. So, what brings you here? I was riding to Krakow when... ...my companion pointed out your beautiful castle. I thought maybe we could stay one night... or even a bit longer. I appologize about the flies. My men left a horse rotting outside the castle... ...and we have not been able to get rid of them ever since. - So you're married now? - I was married for four years. My wife died one year ago bearing our first child. They died soon after. I am do sorry to hear that. She was a daughter of a powerful Danish merchant. My father needed a new trading allies. I am truly happy about your visit, Dear Istvan. I can not tell you how often I've wished for this day to come. Why did God have us 20 years apart? It will not stop me loving you. Come to my room. I have had a long jurney. Let me rest first. Then I shall come to you. I was so afraid you would say no. Why did you have to break my heart with that abominable letter? What did I write in any of my letters could have possibly upsets you? The one and the only letter I received from you... ...confessing your love for Baroness von Kraj. Kraj used to be mine but after I met you, I've never saw her again. And I certaily never sent such a letter. My father, he must faked my name. How could I have doubted you? I only trusted xxx to deliver the many letters I wrote to you. Begging you to forgive me. But I was sent away by force. Let us be stronger than your father's desperate... attempt to distroy our beautiful love. It's not too late. Come. No. Why not? Your hands are so cold. Why are you shaking, my love? It is the joy of seeing you again. Do you know how long I've been waiting for you? I once lost my mind. There is nothing more painful than feeling betrayed by someone you love so deeply. I once promised myself to take revenge me. But when I saw you riding from far. All my anger vanished all I felt was love. No mater how much I cared for her, another part of me believed what I had heard and seen. There was too much evidence, too many witnesses, for me to believe that she could be innocent. Have you lost your mind? You're here to find out about the cruel murders, not to spend the night with her. I'm so fond of her. I do not believe she could hurt anyone. Do not let her charm you. She will eat you alive. Perhaps if her heart was not broken, she would not become who she is. God made her this way or the devil more like. Her evil was forged this way from birth. - What if I disobeyed my father and escaped. - You didn't. So we will never know. Let us find out who she really is. Let's find out someting not good.. Master, you do not want to see this. A pile of rotting corpses, dismembered children. Their eyes're eaten by worms. The devil himself could not be more effective. Countess Bathory, you are under arrest. The accomplices have confessed to all the murders. The girls were bled to death in the cages. Erzebet's servants' confessions were made under torture. The Countess herself was absent for her own trial. It was decided to hide her uncontainable madness. And thus to protect her name. Death by strangulation is what they deserve. As for that creature, decapitation. He can hear but not speak. Countess Bathory is condemned to be wall up in her room to death. A small openning will be left to provide food and water. Many witnesses've testifed to the murders and xxx... ...committed by the Countess and her accomplices. Bodies were found around Cathtice castle. Some were partially eaten by the Contess. Also found with journals written by the Countess Batheory herself... ...documenting the murders in detail. As well as letters from Darvulia, the witch, heretical books, And finaly the cage she tortured the girls in. Even if it seems the Countess may not practice witchcraft, We do have one witness who has confirmed that... ...he saw her copulating with the devil himself. All evidence will be destroyed per the decision of County Thurz. In order to keep the countess' name as untained as possible. By signing this document, the Countess Bethory... ...bequeaths all her possessions to Count Gyorgy Thurzo. Cachtice will be xxx to her children. The king is now cleared of any debts to the Bathory Nadasky family. Now, if the devil allows you to. Sign This. You have orchestrated this masterful, I have to say. You have murdered innocent women. - Hundreds. - Lies. How many innocents have been sacrificed in you pursuit of wealth? I've seen presistance of denying the truth only come from.. ...that you are now be wraft of reason. Unfortunately, I am no. I will go to my grave completely sane. Your tale merely confirms that women are mad and vain. And should not be given the right to rule. Your fable will be keep populars occupied for very long time. They will be terrified of the blood-thirsty myth... ...that you made of me, and forget about the evils that are indeed very real. Of course, Erzebet, if it's not for me you would've been burned at the stake. My gratitude to spare me a quick death. And if it were not for you, I would have never felt love. Eternal love. Is it not strange to think that as I stand here today, sentanced to die alone... So many lovers are warmed at each other's arms. Proceed. God, you have abandoned me. In war hundreds are killed and tortured. And they are left there to rot and feed the xxx. And yet, we glorify our warriors. We give them laurel and hornors. But I get a xxx. I can not be humiliated this way. Give me a illness that will kill me fast. I can not do it yourself. I must go to heaven. Amen. God perhaps you are tring my faith. Perhaps you are punishong me because I loved him more than I loved you. Man has created God in his image, which gives them dominance over everything else. Birds, lions, trees and women. I wish I've been born a man, I would have killed thousands in battle... ...take over countries, burned witches. I would've been a hero. That is it. You are nothing but a myth. The Greeks created the gods for everything... ...because they could not figue out why the sea, why love, why death. Now we have created you to a peace and fxxx fears and ignorance. Because we have so many questions and so few answers. I have used you and prayers to forgive myself for my horrible sins. A proper burial or feeding the wolves is the same thing. Holy water is just dirty water. Why am I so scared to die? Because I do not belive in you or eternity of the soul. When I die, I shall rot. And nothing will be left of me. Love was the dagger that stabbed me in the back. If you are not a myth, obsorb my sins and keep me young. I Thank you, my Lord. - No coffin? - It's very cold winter, there's no wood left. xxx her legs. I don't want touch her, she's been dead for weeks. Earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust. History is a tale told by victors. That is what left of her. A tale of a mad murderess and a blood-thirsty devil. Was she really guilty of the murders? Or did my father fabricate most of the evidence? There's nothing in this world you can be certain of. All I know is whatever she was, whatever crime she might have beeb guilty of. I loved her deeply, and I believe she loved me. But history does not concern itself with that, for truth has be sealed behind the brick wall. And time will soon, buris all.
