 

                        THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO Thanks, thanks. Thanks, thanks. There is, healthy and saves. Congratulations, father. we go. A week behind schedule, but has arrived. Three months in the African ports, But has returned to your side. - Thanks. - You see it, Mercy? - Mister Morrell? - Yes, Beloved? The flag is to average shaft. Mondego, there? what will be past? Edmundo, darling boy, how much I am glad to see you! But what signifies the flag? Where is the captain Leclere? there has been a tragedy on board. The captain died in Civita Vecchia, of some fevers. Leclere has died? we bury it in the sea, mister. - AND the load? - TO save. I Believe that will find it all to its satisfaction, Mr. Morrell. Well, Danglars. Who took charge of the ship? You or Danglars? Barely had given the last sigh the captain when the Mr. Dantes assumed the command without consulting it with nobody. Mister, as first official was my should assume the command. Well done, boy. Compared with the death, all it others is insignificant. But there were other incidents that deserve my attention? Yes, mister, one. You bring al prisoner! Caderousse! they surprised it stealing supplies in the wine cellar. Is certain? you have added the theft to your other feats? If says it the Mr. Dantes, then I am a thief. we deliver it the police? I would not enclose anyone usual to the liberty of the sea. But it would not want never in my ship. Its ship, young? - I Speak... - As temporary captain, I know it. Which are its orders as such? You are free, Caderousse, but I do not want to see you again. Should not be so generous with the world, Mr. Dantes. God would be able to be guarded. Father, has said me Danglars that to the return the ship stopped in Elbe. Why in Elbe? My ships do not do business in Elbe. Orders of the captain he was the unique one that descended to land Is possible that had some matter with Napoleon? Did not tell me which was the purpose of its visit to the island. Strange? Is very strange. has left some document? Last will or testament? gave me this in its bed of death. does not have direction. it told me where should deliver it. I have instructions detailed. - Will be resolved all by itself. - Edmundo! Do not we entertain it more? it is expecting an a lot more important person than the old one Morrell. Go! Mercy! - Another member of the club! - What club? The Company for the Destruction of Edmundo Dantes. Truth that he would like, lieutenant? He would like to have clearance with its beautiful cousin Mercy? do not dirty its name with your mouth! be Sat down, please. be Silenced the two. Listen to me. I See the form to set apart this obstacle of our lives. The question is which is the destiny of a bonapartista in these times. Dantes is bonapartista? TO the return our ship did scale in Elbe. - In Elbe? - Descended to land the captain. Two days later, before dying, delivered an envelope to Dantes. - AND what? - It Utilizes the imagination. I Insinuate that the captain Leclere descended to land for conspirarcon Napoleon Bonaparte. I Insinuate that the envelope contains secret orders. AND I suggest that we take advantage of the possibilities of the situation. Bartender, Message to write! please, mister, a moment. - Edmundo? - Yes, father? I Am an old one without manners, but I should ask him something to Mercy. The what? That young lieutenant, its prime one Fernando Mondego... they Say that also the housewife. That love is passed water. Thus is the world, father. Fernando is unwoven daring, Is a Spaniard. do not I want that be thrown on you a night with its saber. My sword faces him cualquiersable Spanish. - But... - Father, we do not think about the worse thing. This night we bring him good news. Yes, dselas. Not, it is better than it writes you, Mondego. My letter is too elegant. This requires something coarseer. Dirjala al fiscal of the port of Marseilles. - Alfiscal? - Al fiscal. That commence thus. "Senor..." - Captain? - Yes, They have named me captain. by crossing they pay Me and a part of the benefits. my Son! you Count him the remainder. With my first salary, I will buy him a house. With garden, So that plants its larkspur, its roses, its vines. What do you see? Swims. Swims. I declare you husband and woman. Tomorrow, when pronounce these words, the boyfriend will kiss the girlfriend. Not, hedicho tomorrow. In the ceremony. it will sound again the organ, latomaris of the arm and you will conduct it porel walkway to leave the church. we go, you do it. Lafamilia and the friends will turn around and they will continue you for the walkway. Tomorrow, mister, not today. Tomorrow I have said. do not forget to return tomorrow, for the wedding. I have said tomorrow! Edmundo Dantes? - That I am I, mister. - You are detained. What does this signify? Which is my crime? Edmundo! - there has to be an error! - Edmundo! Fernando? What happens? you Set apart! Not the sounds! - you are the official of the Angus? - Yes, senor fiscal. Do not you go dress for a conspiracy? A conspiracy? Me there they are person under arrest in the trial of my wedding. Me case tomorrow. you have served some time under the usurper Bonaparte? Bonaparte? What do you tell me, Mister? I not... they have denounced the extremism of your political affinities. Affinities? Mr. Villefort, only I know about my work. Master the sea, I love my promised, I love my father. Those are my affinities. If are politics, then is certain that I am an extremist. I believe You. You recognize this letter? - Not, mister. - You are sure? - Is certain? - Not, mister. Your captain delivered you an envelope? - Yes, Mister. - Where is? - I carry it on top. - You deliver it to me. I gave him my word, Mister. In name of the king, I order you that deliver it me. If is in name of the king, clear. What says? Of to have known the content about this letter, you would not have it carried on top. you would have denied knowing nothing about her when I asked it you. That delivered shows it me clearly your innocence as the accomplice of this matter. - Then if I am innocent... - You Return with yours promised. That God you bending, Mr. Villefort. A thing more. - Yes? - The envelope not tienedireccin. they told me when and where should deliver it. - When? - This night. - In what direction? - 15 of the avenue Montaigne. - Aalguien particularly? - Yes, to a such Mr. Noirtier. - you Repeat me the name. - Franois of Noirtier. - That is all? I can go me? - Not, some questions more. - you Know to that such Noirtier? - Not, mister. you have mentioned its name to someone? Anadie save to vos. Well. I feel it, But I cannot leave you to go now. - Why not? - Yours is a political arrest. I should have you in custody a night. Unfortunately is thus the law. you will Remain at liberty in the morning. The main accusation against vos is this letter. Without her does not exist any test at all. Mr. Villefort, you are a good man. you listen to me attentively. If they interrogated you, you should not mention this letter. I will not do it. Yjams you have heard the name of Noirtier. - Never. - Splendid. you will be carried al palace deJusticia to spend the night. Tranquil, is a red tape. you carry. Noirtier! Noirtier! that name to the tomb will pursue me always? Pardon, but this is not the road al law courts. By the love of God? where do they carry me? I will give You a good counsel in name of God. Closes the mouth. But the Mr. Villefort told me that they carried me al... The youths should continue the good counsels. good evening, Mr. Noirtier. - is not possible! - Waited for a messenger? - can not be you! Is impossible! - I? Not. Summarizing the situation, its messenger was intercepted, father. - AND the message? - It destroyed. be Sat down, please. The role was destroyed. The message is writing here. The tactic, the dates, the names, the places, the details of it planned flight of Elbe of its small emperor. Do not I intend to count them to him? - I am glad to see you, son. - I am glad to see it, father. I Know that never would betray its comrades. But will do it if does not do exactly what tell him. Because then it would reveal its names to the police. Always an astute devil! Always so egotistical! You have been my secret shame since I am in the public life. My own father a follower of Napoleon! I have lived too much with the fear to serdescubierto. its days in this ridiculous cause have been finished. from now on it I will not lose sight of. Is night will come with me to Paris? TO Paris? Yes, I have news for the government of its majesty. Tranquil, I will not give the names of them implied in the flight, only the facts. Will Be sufficient to amaze the bureaucrats of Paris and to call the attention of the king. Quick will be the father of an important man. it is not pleased? It would owe. they will not carry me there! Help! Help! Eh, you, you silence you! Where I am? Tell me where I am! Friend, you are in the residence of the castle of If. there has to be an error. they sent me al law courts. Was an order of the Mr. Villefort! Notify al Mr. Villefort! you want that notify also al king? Or to the queen? Listen me! Return here! The Mr. Villefort is my friend! He will be put furious! Return! Al less carry him a letter to... TO my wife. What have I done? Which is my crime? The lunch! a moment listen me! Only a moment. Dgamequ I do to see al jailer. Some day. Some day? I have to remain at liberty today! - Are orders of the Mr. Villefort! - Who is the Mr. Villefort? Mercy! Already is hungry or will pass another day without eating? Expect. Expect. The stomach conquers once more al heart. Well, well. Hello? Hello? Is a prisoner? hears Me? Who is? Edmundo Dantes. Why is here? they Say that was bonapartista. Since when is here? do not I know it. They enclosed me February 28,1815. Ten years. how Much carries here? I will Push the stone from estelado. I Am the abbot Faria, born in Italy. In Italy I did me clergyman. I Am here since 1810,15 years ago. how great wisdom that of the politics, Mr. Dantes. You are here porquedecan that was bonapartista. Am enclosed me for being against him. The calculations carried me a year, Manufacturing the tools another year. I have been digging for 3 years. Yveo that I am guilty of inaccuracy. I confused this wall with the wall that gives al sea. I calculated 40 degrees instead of 50. it dug to arrive al wall that gives al sea? Accompany me. The mallet. - The chisel. - Dednde has removed them? I manufactured them. What is this? Simply says that it is 12 and fourth. A clock? Clock, calendar, astronomical map. Come, I will teach him something. My hideaway. Look at. My needle, fact with thorn of fish. The chisel I did it with the screws of my cot. AND the pliers. Yel knife. And the lamp. But needs oil. I do it with the grease of the meat of the festive days. How lights the lamp? I Say that I have an illness in the skin and at times they give me sulfur to alleviate the pain. With him surcharge the match. All for the tunnel of the hope and the salvation. A dead hope. does not carry to the liberty, but to another cell. Abbot Faria, listen. Sutnel goes in the direction of the exterior gallery. Yes. The wall of the sea is here. It is scrutinized since my ventanuco. Yes. The half of the tunnel is in the good road. Since the center we rotate. You say that 15 degrees. I would say that 2 degrees more. North, northeastern. we dig some 100 meters to the exterior wall. Half a tunnel is in the good road? how Much will carry us? TO the two,4 years. AND while we work,? everything that will teach me knows? Yes. Math, theology, philosophy, tongues you live and died, the history of the world. Praised be the sky. I will be able to teach once more! Today we will dedicate the lesson of philosophical logic to carry out a deductive reasoning in the case of Edmundo Dantes. First,? to who benefited your imprisonment, Your disappearance? you think it. they were going to name you captain of the Angus. Who would obtain the position if to disappear suddenly? Danglars! TO who would resort Mercy after the sudden disappearance deEdmundo Dantes? TO Mondego. Besides, a night you saw Danglars and to Mondego in a coffee. - Writing with... - Caderousse. Those three they could have written the letter that accused you? Danglars! Mondego! Caderousse! Teinterrog the public prosecutor of the port, that semostr comprehensive. Burned the letter queiba directed to Noirtier. Noirtier, Noirtier. I Knew someone with that name in the cut of the queen of Etruria. A fervent disciple of Napoleon. - How itself Ilamabatu fiscal? - Of Villefort. - What have I said? - You have alert the mystery! My friend in the cut of Etruria, the bonapartista more bitter, was called Noirtier of Villefort. - Its brother! - Not, was of my age. - Its father! - I Suppose. - Its father was bonapartista? - Therefore he destroys your letter. - Already me. - Already you. Danglars! Mondego! at times mearrepiento dehaberle discovered the truth. I See in its face something that not habaantes. Danglars! Mondego! The revenge lepertenece to God. you Move away of those impious thoughts before they destroy you. Caderousse! Villefort! Danglars! Edmundo! Edmundo! - my God! What happens? - I Am sick. I dwell. you should live! I will finish the alone tunnel! you should finish eltnel and to flee. It finds the treasure. The treasure? What is this? - A map! - Of the island of Montecristo. Is the map lost of I ceased Spada, whose death in 1498 caused disappeared one of the large treasures of the world. This fortune is buried in Montecristo since 350 years ago. Wanted that we found the together treasure. Now you should do it alone. you Utilize it to do charitable deeds. it employs of good way eltesoro that God kept parati. you should flee and to find eltesoro. My vocation impeded me to marry me, so you are my son, elfruto of my captivity. Do of your good works a homage to me. Of what serves me the treasure? My only treasure lies down here. you have enriched me beyond... The lunch. Yes, Is dead the poor lunatic. I am going to seek the bag. we will expect al change of tide. How weighs. - Is dead middle. - Is alive middle. - Awake, old. - Why do you know that is old? you look at. Where I am? aboard the ship Liggorne, near Corsica. I Am the captain. I call me Bertuccio. This is my official, Jacopo. Who you are you? How it is called? - Where they are directed? - To the island of Rion. With the currents we will arrive in there fingers hours. Knows these water? Bertuccio, Jacopo. What do some Italians around here? Believed that had guessed it. how the contraband now? Goes well? Fatal. We need a navigator that know to be guided in this forest of water. wants to be joins with us? Tell me,? who is and how he is called? Dednde comes? there is not remainders of shipwrecks, there has not been storms. The tube of the castle of If. - You? - Jacopo. In this ship the life of each one is of each one. Tienedientes of young man. - How old is? - we are in the year 1829? - Porsupuesto. Then I am 33 years old. Ycumplir the 34 thanks to you, my good friends. - The priest? - Was there. - Well? - Mercy married. - With Mondego? - With Fernando Mondego. Y..? Speaks! do not I know why do I should I tell it to you. Your father died. The to tell it burns me the throat, but fuede hunger. Your father died of hunger. Danglars! Mondego! Caderousse! Villefort! God meha placed in the hands of two smugglers burn they have returned the life. they have offered me their friendship without asking questions, to the day burn I felt with forces to comply the promise that I did him al abbot Faria. The fortune of Spada is buried in Montecristo desdehace 350a? os. Wanted that we found the together treasure. Now you should do it alone. you Utilize it to do works of carldad. Employs of good way the treasure that God kept for you. continued the play to an old very beloved lunatic? My visit to the island of Montecristo was only to grant him eternal rest al esprltu of the abbot? OR harbored some hope in the heart to find an immense treasure? Abbot Faria! Beloved clergyman, holy darling! I promise You for the God that so much time I have ignored, I promise you that I will build hospitals and orphanages. I promise You that there will be a river of good works in a hundred corners abandoned of the world, ytodos in your honor. I promise You ati, Edmundo Dantes, imprisoned in the prime of life, it erased of the world for 14 years, I promise you that you will be avenged. Jacopo! Bertuccio! The world is mine! - Said that would come to and fourth? - Yes, baron Danglars. What grace! it Occupies the most magnificent castle of the campi? afrancesa. What abandonment in the expense! How does it squander the man! so much mystery! The rumors say that has a harem in the high thing of the castle, that directs a fleet of pirate ships that await the Mediterranean. How was put in contact with the bank? Spoke with me its secretary. A type of dangerous aspect with a great scar. Dangerous? Typical! A secretary with a scar. Possesses all the symbols of the exotic thing. accompanies it so much the mystery as the scandal. has unfolded a breeze of mystery for every Europe in the last 5 years. A spy network with ramifications everywhere. An army of agents that ask without stopping, they ask,? and why do they ask? Nobody knows him. Yahora this king of the mystery, this sponsor of no place, it comes to see me. Aqu hour I am cited with the public prosecutor? at 11 o'clock, mister. - what happens? - The count of Montecristo. That even. My darling count, I am the baron Danglars. you Sit down, mister count. I came to Paris with the intention to remain me only a month. - there I Am determined quedarmedos or three. - Is a pride. up to now I have had the money in the pocket. But desire to open an account in your establishment. As initial income we will put... - Five million? Is marvelous the power of these gobbets of role, baron. so much as any creation of the man. Included the poetry, the music and the painting. The one that knows to handle the money is also an artist. Yes. Five. I will entrust me personally... you Advise me my assistants. Thanks. Se? orconde. impresses me your Im-Ho-Tep. - Is a good piece. Im-Ho-Tep? Yes, clear. Also I have this. An ingenious imitation. Many thanks, mister. I can be you of utility in something more? Some service? - The truth is that yes. - What desire the count of Montecristo. - I have a house in the country... - Yes, I know it. But by comfort I have occupied an apartment in the Elysian Fields. they Say that there has been many robberies in the neighborhood. Aquin I request him police protection? That all the they send him roles al real proxy. - immediately, Mr. Villefort. - Thanks. - The baron Danglars. - Danglars, You arrive late. My darling Villefort, I have the honor to present you al count of Montecristo. - The count of... - Montecristo. Beloved count, welcome to my house. - Mister. - Please, you sit down. I expect not to interrupt the daily matters. do not you interrupt anything. It is a smaller matter, already fixed. You will have read something on the murderous one Jacques Benoit, that killed al brother of the senadorGallimard. Yes.? They have dictated sentence? Thus is. The guillotine. If someone tortures and he kills our brother, to our son, or to our father, one of those beings that leaves an empty eternal one, a flagrant injury, al to be separated of our heart, you believe that the company gives us a sufficient repair causing passing the leaf of the guillotine among the trapezium of the murderer and the bone occipital? Doing that the man that caused us... a measureless suffering backup a few seconds of dolorfsico? you are suggesting the medieval custom of the torture? I Suggest the sacred remedy of the eye by eye. Yes, is certain. Very interesting. When the count mentioned that he sought police protection for his residence, I took me the liberty of... This department is al service of the condede Montecristo. we will wager agents in both streets of its residence. Before and behind, so many as desire. Villefort, you are very generous. Paris should be endeavored for pleasing its more distinguished visitors. Father, you promised me that this morning would be going to see al grandfather. Already is average tomorrow and you know that is frightened. good morning, Danglars. Good morning, mister. how Much you will delay? It has to eat and to rest. Since when we have such visits, father? This gentleman does not have aspect neither of criminal neither of lawyer. I am afraid that my daughter speaks too much ytiene few manners. - please, you excuse it. - Father! Valentine, I have the honor to present you al condede Montecristo. Montecristo! Mister, I will be the envy of all the girls of Paris. Is certain it quedicen! You are attraction! you are as rich as they say? Rich in experiences, young lady. Rich in years. AND to richer every single moment in my appreciation of the beauties of Paris. you are busy? - I am it? you would do me a great favor? You would come to see my grandfather? Valentine, not to say foolishness. will illuminate him the life during many days. Will Be a honor. The count of Montecristo! Extraordinary! How have you done to bring it here? Therefore has not been easy. Grandfather, I bring al count of Montecristo. you See it influyenteque I am? I Bring atu fourth al man that every Paris desires to know. Mister count, my grandfather, the Mr. Noirtierde Villefort. Is a honor. My grandfather is paralyzed by an injured old woman of Austerlitz. Only speaks with the eyes. What do you want, grandfather? Another pillow? Water? TO, B, C, D, AND, F, G... Barrois, it wants the eyeglasses. is glad to see it. Truth, grandfather? do not you need another tongue. Is hour to begin with the food? My grandfather is a prisoner of its body, but its will is like its mind, unconquerable. it Possesses something of what few can presume. The devotion of a to be loved. Is a sad affirmation, mister. - has arrived the Mr. Albert. - Albert! Mister, Please, return immediately! you excuse me for looking at fixedly. is not habitual that a man have before al great enemy of his life. do not seek explanations. touches me to my to leave you plotted, to the day that you review him me delantede your son. we go. Mister count, I present you to Albert Mondego. Mister, Is a great honor. The honor is mine. every Paris speaks of vos. Good morning, Noirtier. every Paris dies porestrechar its hand and here I am I. AND here you are on the verge of starting him the hand of the arm! The city is a hotbed of gossip on the count of Montecristo. - Albert, you control you. - My father, mister! To my father participates! Diceque you are an oriental! It says that knew you in Turkey. My father was an ambassador in the kingdom of Yanina. You have heard to speak of my father, the count of Mondego? Who has not heard to speak of the great general Fernando Mondego? Always I have desired to know it. My darling count, I am the father of Albert. General. My son amazes me. He did not know that he had risen so much in the social adder. I Am I who has elevated in the scale. Who has not heard to speak of the military feats of the general one Mondego? My darling count! I present You my mother, the countess of Mondego. Mister, my son still is a boy that is dedicated to play. tells me that we have visit but does not tell me its name. Says that I will remain pleasantly surprised. do not we know us,? truth, mister? Aquin I have the honorde to direct me? I Am its servant, the count of Montecristo. you have seen it? it knew You? Believes that knows me. But refuses to admit what believes. AND when creates it? Will Be too late, princess. we will Act as the divine sword, with an extreme rapidity. - Still the housewives? - Not. can not influence in you? It cannot convince you? you Answer me, porfavor. No divine neither earthly power will be able to dissuade me. Neither the angels neither the devils will avoid that avenge me. Well, my mister, well. Recalls that your revenge is mine. Al, the roles of Mondego. - Villefort? - We expect news of the doctor. - Danglars? - We have all the documents. Well. The people considers to Villefort an affectionate father, a devout son, and a faithful servant of the law. Danglars is the magician of the finances, asesorde large fortunes, the lion that protects the wealth of the country. Mondego is the hero of war. The favorite one of the boulevards, they known with the nickname of "peacock", by its many medals. Well, we know that Villefort is a wolf, Danglars a hog, and Mondego a hyena. AND porfin we will leave hunt. Well! Very well! The wrist! Well, very well! Already you are the teacher. I the student. you leave it there. - Us there is side a lot to find you. - Is used to occurring. to accused wagons of contraband. You fled, they captured you, And they condemned you by life to wagons. you fled again. Continue. I turn out to be fascinating myself. you have been a thief, smuggler, swindler, and possibly murderous. In the course of your travels you have learned to speak Italian. Perfetto, signore. from now on you are Andrea, the count of Cavalcanti. I am it? you are the son of the commander Bartolomeo of Cavalcanti, whose names are recorded in the guestbooks of Florence. you are very rich. Well! I spend a lot money, clear. of course. you will Occupy some apartments that have elected for you in Faubourg. you will have three servants. You will buy a carriage. Sees to seek it to Baltinte. The horses are of Devedeux. you will do the cut to a precious girl. do not I want that pay attention to expenses. over the coming weeks, when be not with her, they will see you everywhere with me. The count accompanies al count. Exactly. How call you? The count of Cavalcanti! The count of Montecristo! What happiness that you have come. It is a pleasure to see you, count. I present You my friend, the count of Cavalcanti, to whom you have had the amiability to include in the invitation. A friend of the count of Montecristo is my friend. I present You my daughter, Valentine. - Young lady. - Mister count. Cavalcanti is in Paris by family matters. - it has left its wife in Italy? - Is not married. - Does a lot that you know it? - A few days. was presented before me with letters of introduction of my agents in Rome. I Know to sufamilia every Italy knows to the Cavalcanti, that already were rich when the Medici were peasants. costs me to suggest it to him, but a great honor would do me if... I hope that its promised do not exceptions. My daughter is not promised. it is not promised Alberto Mondego? Not, at all. Only are friends. - My darling count! - Is a matter of two matters, baron. The first one, the newspaper "LeJournal du Globe". they Say that is for sale. I would like to possess a newspaper. please, you arrange its purchase. Well, I approve it! A businessman should possess a newspaper. Second, desire to buy Spanish government bonds. - What quantity of money? - A million. In Spanish bonds? can be done immediately? Immediately. AND confidentially. With the greater discretion. would not be advisable that to continue my example in the market. I Am unjugador, not an investor. good morning. Tomorrow I leave to London by business. you give him memories to that ciudadfascinante. Although the English never will learn to eat. there are places. As vos and I we know, the money buys cualquiercosa. Any thing. Girard! it Order the purchase of a million in Spanish bonds for the count of Montecristo. Spanish? AND another million for me, of my private account. But the Spanish bonds are... When buys Montecristo, I also. it has forgot the results of the last time that continue its example? But he knows that vos...? is Put in contact with our main clients. Delidia and Bolfa. Tell them that the house Danglars recommends that be invested in Spanish bonds. Do it, right now! By the count of Montecristo. Is this its station of signs? Mine? I work in her since many years ago, but never had had visit. How functions? there is another station in the distant horizon. Is my correspondent of the right hand. AND there is my left hand. When I receive a message of the right, I transmit it to the left. The messages of Spain are transmitted to Paris in question of hours. A miracle of the modernity! Are 3.000 franks. The salary of 5 years sitransmite this message to Paris. But is not an official! Is an insult, mister. Is an insult! Impossible! Is the official service of telegraphs. The king Mr. Carlos has invaded Spain by the Catalonian border. Explodes the civil war. The civil war! what will happen with the Spanish bonds? - Mister, I suggest that... - Yes, sugiera, sugiera. A fast sale. As soon as possible, better. Yes, that is. Vendatodos the bonds. as soon as it open the market. My reputation! The reputation of the bank! I Invest the money of my clients in civil wars, in cataclysms! will remain me some client tomorrow? - Has some suggestion more? - Yes, you cover all the losses. Yes, with the reserves of the bank. With yours. Is crazy. I can give already the order of sale. What do you want of me? A little sutiempo, that will be paid him. Avuestra disposition. Its name is Caderousse. My true name. How do you know it? it has passed 7 years in the wagons of its majesty. - Tried to escape once. - Yes. AND if was not by... By its companion of leak. It betraied it. Faustino! My life only has a purpose. to find it and to kill it. The revenge is something candy for which to live, or to die. Mister, I have other matters that will occupy me only a moment. would import him esperarfuera? Avuestra disposition. - Mister. - Mister. Faustino! Faustino! Accustom God is good. Dequ infernal hole you have returned to the life? Of the well in which you left me dying man. you have seen it? It attacked me! - What could do? - You carry it the police. you Know this man? Who you are, Montecristo? Who you are? you carry. One. is not of the house of Cavalcanti? it is called Benedetto. Its last clear, known name. Is a notable fugitive delinquent. Yquiere to marry my daughter. I should admit that him not value lacks. has escaped from wagons, among others crimes. Deceived! has deceived Us to all, even al infallible Montecristo. A Cavalcanti said! Upstart! Rabble! Has insulted me personally, what obliges me to be part in this case. in fact, is a moral duty. The extreme anointing? not Yet they have judged me. is gone, chaplain. Andrea of Cavalcanti? is gone! Faustino. Vos! My sacred protector. You are going to protect me of the guillotine? they will not condemn you if you do what I tell you. Memorizes well the first page. you familiarize you with the other documents. I will Be in the court. Me do not lose sight of. This man, Andrea, Benedetto, Faustino... therefore adopts a new name for each misdeed, is not a third-rate delinquent. Is a teacher of the subtlety, a magician of the embaucamiento. But they have trapped this murderer in the act, with the weapon in the hands, being licked before the corpse of its victim. Only there is a possible verdict on the future of this miserable creature. The death! Order in the room. Order! Order! standing the defendant. you Say name and surnames. Lordship, I will give you my name alfinal. The defendant can be denied. We proceed. Age? I Am 21 years old. I was born the 27 of setiembre of 1817. Where did you be born? In Auteuil, near Paris. Profession? I Am a professional. Falsificador and thief. from time to time, murderous. Some question, Mr. Villefort? The court has done all its questions, save a. you consent now in saying your true name? I do not know it, but I know the name about my father. Repeat the name of its father. My father is the proxy of the king. How do you say? is called Villefort. Order, order! Silence or eviction the room! Silence! In 1817, the Mr. Villefort rented a house in the 28 of the street Fontaine, in the village of Auteuil. for the purpose of maintaining hidden of the company to unajoven. After a year of secret life in Auteuil, the young woman, for anger of Villefort, gave birth a boy. The mother died to the few hours of the labor. That night Villefort caught al boy, wrapped it in a blanket, and buried the alive in eljardn of the house. Lordship, a servant witnessed the burial since one of the windows of the house. Was he who disinterred al boy. Al to see that still was alive, delivered me in an orphanage. at the age of 13 I escaped from the house and I initiated the criminal career that al final me hatrado before this court, lordship. The rent of the house of Auteuil signed by the Mr. Villefort. The death certificate of the young lady Emilie Goncourt, signed by Hippolyte Fleury, of Auteuil. A certificate of the same doctor that assures that the Mr. Villefort was the father of the boy. Statements, testament, sworn confessions, etc, etc, etc. Two. The newspaper of this morning. Would be advisable that... Not. - What happens? - Not, not! Not, not, not, not! Listen, Girard. The "Journal du Globe" published yesterday without any base the disturbance in Spain. The cause of the errorfue a telegraphic message badly interpreted because of the fog. do not there was invasion! there is not war! Spain is in peace! Danglars,? has read the newspaper? What is happening knows. therefore had the magnanimity to cover our losses? wanted to buy us the bonds. Gentlemen, I swear them that I have also sold mine. Lie! It do not I believe, Danglars! - Knows what has done me to lose? - I Suppose that has read the newspaper. - they have not lost anything. - When I do not win, I lose. - I want to know what is what happens. - I have covered to the last cent. - I Require to know it! - I will carry the matter before the Camera! - Before the Meeting of governors. - Danglars, be trusted that is a rabble. Is a good counsel. I will carry it to the courts. after me! I will carry it first. Not, I first! Accused of false representation, Professional ineptitude. Embezzlement! I will withdraw my money of this bank! Yes, I also. Before it harms the rush. The rush? If itself cannot be trusted in the major bank of Paris, in who can be trusted? - I will withdraw my funds right now. Not haytiempo that to lose. Three. Albert! how pleasant surprise. I have not come to exchange hypocritical courtesies, but to require an explanation. Aqu you have come? every Paris speech of the history that counts the newspaper. The one that puts in prohibition the name of my father. Its integrity, its military feats, its honor. Yes? Is in the "Journal du Globe". The newspaper that you acquired does little. you are in my house. Only I can raise the voice in her. you Deny to be the responsible for such history? Not. I consider launched the glove. Tomorrow. In the country of Mars, al to wake up. in the country of Mars. Why? you would not kill my son? it has challenged Me, lady. What you expected of a proud son? The general is its father! - I had father. - You will Know how feels the boy. you will Understand the jealous thing that is of the good name of the general. how general? My matter is with a lieutenant that knew. - What matter? - Revenge, lady. By marrying the woman that you loved? does not deserve your revenge. I I went! I was weak, it could not bear more the solitude! I married him because they told me that you had died in the castle of If shortly after the arrest. Why did I finish in the castle of If? Why did they arrest me? do not I know it! I Suppose that you recognize the letter. - How have you obtained it? - With bribes, lady. can not be. because of this letter I lived 14 years in a dungeon of the castle of If. So near vos, and without knowing that you had you married. Neither that my father had died, of hunger. Of hunger! did not know it! we had gone. you want that forgive for to have stolen the love with deceits? Very well, if you ask it me, I forgive it. you want that forgive that they have me stolen 14 years of life? Very well, forgiven. But that forgive the to have killed my father? Never never, lady. In dreams I have seen you dead person. Thrown alfondo of the well where the jailers throw the dead prisoners. AND medespierto of this recurrent dream with a horrifying and cold crying. you dreamed some time that your father itself mora of hunger? you dreamed that the beloved person gave the hand to a rival one while vos you perished in the fund of the well? Worse! I have seen the beloved person on the verge of murdering my son. Edmundo, please! What well has done me to cry you in it more hidden of the heart? When I gave you by dead person, I must have died I also. But I continued living foolishly, and during almost 20 years I compared to all the men with vos and none reached you. to lose you has been a daily torment, year after year. AND in that time my only consolation has been my son, my innocent son that must have been ours. Our son, Edmundo. Ready? it has said it You. All. I offer You my excuses. you have the right to unmask my father. again the providence. I Am the emissary of God. they have saved me to comply their will. General Mondego, this committee of the parliament is conscious of your illustrious past. we greet with respect the condecoraciones that you light up as memory of your extraordinary military career. therefore causes us great to weigh to read the revelations of the newspaper "Journal du Globe". Yesterday began threatening large revelations, and today continues with a long list of serious accusations. Says that in the war of Greece, when you were the embajadorfrancs in the cut of Ali Pasha, You betraied it with the Turks. Says here that... Lordship, I can proceed to defend me? Proceed. Documents. A letter signed by Ali Pasha in which places in me a great confidence. Tantafe had in me that the care of its woman entrusted me and daughter. Its woman and daughter! What was of its woman and daughter? I sought them without ceasing during the battle. My life was in constant danger, but I sought them to finding them. The enemy had sacrificed them. you have tests that verify the truth of it affirmed? Lordship, if is not sufficient test the word of Ali Pasha, I offer you my word of honor as French official. finally and not less important... this. you Asked witnesses and tests. I ask witnesses in my against. What tests there is? An article in an insidious newspaper? Who facilitated him those lies al daily? Where is? That come and a glove to the face throw me. Mister count, your defense has glints of validity, your arguments are gotten it right. You satisfar to know the content of the note that have just received. I been present in the death of Ali Pasha. I Know which was the destiny of its woman and of its daughter. Claim the honor of to be listened. Who has written those words? Is not signed, But we can cite altestigo if you approve it. Only if you approve it. That appear. That appear. Identifquese, please. I Am the daughter of Ali Pasha. you have before my birth certificate and baptism. Also is there the receipt of the sale of my person and of my mother. The sale, it says? sold Us as the slaves a French official for 40.000 franks. How that official is called? Fernando Mondego. My noble father trusted in vos. Loved you as to a son. trusted You the security of its daughter and its woman. But you are a liar, a traitor, a murderer! Murderous! it was your sword the one that killed my father! General,? you are going to respond? Are lies! Lies! you Accept the word of an infidel before that that of a general of the army of the king? That woman is an impostora! Who is an impostora? Is the daughter of the Ali Pasha. these documents they show it. They will speak for itself. Ycuando have itself verified, general Mondego, count of Mondego, hero of Yanina... Which is your relation with this woman? you Ask you which is my relation with a such Edmundo Dantes. Edmundo. at last the light is done. Our sailor has returned from the island of the dead persons. it Insists on carrying out its revenge. I begin to see it clearly. Caderousse dead, and Danglars dead. Villefort locked in a sanitarium. Is my shift, Edmundo? Yes. you have done it of exceptional form. you have unmasked Us one to one and have struck. you Ruin a man with exquisite elegance. But before kill to this dog, Be careful. Barks. Bites. Al to have ruined, you give me motives to avenge me. I will demand the right to return to the dead persons with the dead persons. you Know to defend you or only knife in the darkness? Gentlemen, Please! I entreat Itself it, gentlemen! Are stopped! Are stopped! Leaves the prayers. you will not escape to the jail with the trick to die you. you will comply your prison sentence in this world before going you al hell. General Mondego, you are arrested. Four. Mercy? Mercy? Mercy! Why is empty the house? Where is the countess? went to Marseilles. - When? - Yesterday. Mercy! Where do you go? Africa, to seek my son to be near of him. it was enlisted in the army. Albert soldier? wants to atone for the sins of its father. you leave me to accompany you, I can help both. My son never would permit him. you Said that must have been our son. Yes, he must have been. But has a father, and its father has name. The name that you have destroyed completely. Was an act of justice. Creme, me not happiness produced. I have completed my assignment. I have no special place in the world, no desire in the life save doing the peaces there where have done damage to the innocent. The avenging angels do not ask pardon to the victims. no longer I am the instrument of God. they have to plunge me again in the nothing. I am seeking something lost. My soul, to myself, to Edmundo Dantes. you will not find it never. Died a long time ago in the castle of If. AND with him good part of me was buried. I celebrate the return of the condede Montecristo al world of the men. Him desire of every heart that find the peace that so much desires. But never, never it will find the perfect love that lost inevitably two youths many years ago. Good travel, countess of Mondego. Good-bye, count.
