 

                        Butterfly!-... Butterfly!-... On the creepers, the flowers, It laughs gently, the butterfly. Tiny, colourful wings, It sways and swings, the butterfly. Her small eyes, shimmer and shine, Like rounded gems, the butterfly. I try to catch her, alas, She flutters away, the butterfly. Alright. Jagruti, Fill in the blanks. Dash is the largest state in India... Rajasthan. Dash is the largest continent in the world... Asia. Dash is the longest river in India... Narmada. Wrong, Brahmaputra. Sorry, Brahmaputra. Dash is the oldest mountain range in India... (Indistinct chatter) Don't forget to do your homework. Yes...I'm coming. Reaching in five minutes. WADGAON MASSACRE CULTURAL PROTEST MEE (Traditional folk song) Thank you Miratai... And now coming to perform for us is people's poet, Narayan Kamble. Listen brother! Oh brother... My dear brother! Pandemonium is here, Time to rise and revolt Time to know your enemy, Time to know your enemy Tough times are here, We're uprooted from our soil This era of blindness, Has gouged our eyes Agent appears a crook, An owl resembles a peacock A giant becomes babyish, A baby turns into a giant The good ones are forgotten, The good for nothings, praised The enemy... The enemy is all-destructive, Yet we sing his praise Time to know your enemy, Time to know your enemy Satan is blank and white, Your life trapped in his vice Colour is his weapon of choice, As death raises its voice Colours play a game of dice, The rules are divisive Humanity is in its cage, It burns, it disintegrates Colours that multicolour, Colours that discolour The colour, it breaks, Now it looks fake You are stupefied, How much will you forsake These dense jungles, These rusty jungles Religious jungles, Casteist jungles Racist jungles, Nationalist jungles On this deathly night, We lose all our senses Hands bruised and burnt... Hands bruised and burnt, Get a gift of boiling wax Time to know your enemy, Time to know your enemy The delusion of illusion, Money, it reigns supreme Has turned man into a mongrel, This mongrel has 17 breeds The blood is infested with hunger, Will this hunger be content, ever? The search for happiness is on, But all directions are blurred This razzle dazzle, Yes brother This razzmatazz, Yes brother This scam sham, Yes brother These fancy malls, Yes brother Free for all, Yes brother This great fall, Yes brother Scam sham, huge malls, Great Fall, Great Fall Malady and gluttony, Gluttony and malady What's going on? Stop this! (Indistinct) (Indistinct chatter) Where do I find Pradeep Shelke? There, in that mom. Pradeep Shelke? One minute please. Can you fill the rest of the form outside? Okay sir. But please look into it. I will. Hello sir. Hello. Have a seat. Tell me. I wanted to speak to you about Narayan Kamble's arrest. Are you his relative? No. His lawyer. - What is your name? - Vinay Vora. Can we meet him? No, we've sent him to Jogeshwari. We don't have a holding cell here. - You are the investigating officer, right? - Yes. On what charges was he arrested? Didn't you tell him? He was right there. What did you tell us? You didn't tell us anything. No, I told him. I had gone with the warrant. - Can I see the warrant? - Sure. One minute. Here. Abetment of suicide? Who committed suicide? A man from the Sitladevi slums. Who? A manhole worker called Vasudev. Oh? Just last week, Narayan Kamble and his boys had performed in that very slum. - Am I right? - Yes. In one of his songs, Kamble incited all manhole workers to commit suicide. No, he didn't say anything of that sort. That's what you are saying. But we've received complaints, we've got orders for his arrest. Okay. Then? Then what, two days later, that man went down the gutter and died. But it could be an accident... No, it's a clear case of suicide. We don't make arrests without proof. What proof? Show it to us. There's no point arguing here. We'll talk about this later. Exactly. Tomorrow you can ask the judge. Okay sir. Here. Okay!- - How about some tea? - No sir. Okay. Thank you. - Everyone clear the way. - Move along. Hello. Good morning ma'am. What do you need? Notary, stamp duty, affidavit? I'll do it all. Your next date is 5th September. Sir, I have to go to my hometown in September. In that case, take a date in October. - 13th October, okay? - Okay. Thank you sir. Case number 133, Radhanagar Police Station, Bankim Shah. Note... Stolen watch reported. The complainant claims that the watch has been stolen by his neighbour. Proceed. Sir, I want to cross-examine him. Okay. State your name. - Bankim Shah. When did you realise that your watch has been stolen? Our family had gone out of town... When we came back, we realised someone had out the window grill. - Why didn't you inform the police about that? - I did, ask him. - Had he mentioned it? - Yes, he had. Note down... He had gone out for a week and when he came back, he saw the grill was cut, and the watch was stolen. Forget the 'he informed the police' bit, that's not necessary. Proceed. Why do you think Rakesh Shukla stole your watch? Two weeks after the robbery, someone in the neighbourhood saw him wearing the same watch. But can't he own a similar watch? How do you know it's your watch? The watch is not from here. A relative had gifted it to me. He got it from America. Note... Someone from their neighbourhood saw Rakesh Shukla wearing the same watch, and the watch was a gift from America. Proceed. But my client can also buy a watch from America, right? Please read the report carefully. He has submitted the bill, the serial number of the watch. Yes, but can't he also buy a watch? Yes, but how can he buy a watch with the same serial number? It says here that the serial number is matching with that of the recovered watch. How does it maker, the serial number can be of the product itself. What are you saying, how will the serial number match? How can there be just one serial number? We need to look into that, sir. We need to find out more details of the product. You do one thing, take a date for the next month. 12th November. Till then investigate all you want. That's exactly what I was saying, sir. Thank you. Case number 134, Sitladevi Police Station, Narayan Kamble. How can I give bail? These are all non-bailable offences. Sir, I request you to use your discretion and grant conditional bail to my client. No, no...l can't do it. Sir, if you wish, you can put restrictions on his further performances. No, no. This is a Sessions Court case. 12 days judicial custody for the accused. Case number 135... One minute, one minute... what about these people? They were travelling in the handicapped compartment of a train. - Do you all plead guilty? - Yes, we do. Okay, fine them 500 rupees each and let them go. Don't do this again. Move. Move. Come on. MUMBAI PRESS ASSOCIATION [Voice on the P.A. system] - So I will conclude by saying that if our constitution believes in the right to life... then it is the single most violated right. Because the conditions being created today are not suitable for survival. There is another word for such conditions, but I will not use that word. Otherwise, I will be arrested for sedition. Thank you, thank you very much. Satyajit, thank you so much for sharing your experiences with us. That was very insightful, and also very disturbing. Next, we have advocate Vinay Vora. He is a practising criminal lawyer, who specialises in criminal justice and human rights. He is also one of the founding members of a legal centre called Nidaan. - Ninaad. - Ninaad, I am sorry. Good evening everyone. Today I would like to talk to you about the Mohsin Parvez case, or rather multiple cases in which I have been defending him for the last five years. Mohsin was first arrested in June 2007, in connection with the Kalyan bomb blast case. Now, the police doesn't have any conclusive evidence and they've rounded up 30-odd suspects, based on... Well, we know what. Mohsin has four alibi witnesses from his workplace. So we fight the case, we manage to get a clean chit by the courts, and Mohsin is released from jail. Now, two weeks later, he is re-arrested from his home on three entirely new charges. We file a habeas corpus petition, we manage to secure bail, and the cases go on for two years. Now it's April 2010, Mohsin is finally being released by the courts without a single conviction. On the day of his release, he is stepping out of the jail, and the moment he steps out, they arrest him again. Now, I asked the arresting officer on what charges is he being arrested, and they blurted some random charges, and before we knew it, they had just taken him away. And at that point, we realised that there was nothing we could do to stop the arrest. Now... What is to be noted here, is that this is the same modus operandi used with Vijay Ghagre in Giriagiri, Chandan Shirke in Malwapur, and countless others; Interrogation sessions lasting 12-14 hours at a stretch... -One minute sir... Proceed. The accused, Narayan Kamble, age 65, is charged under Indian Penal Code, Section 306, Abetment of suicide, in the death of Vasudev Pawar, age 25, who was a worker under contract with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. The deceased person committed suicide on the night of 24th August, 2012, by choking himself to death inside a sewer located at Ram Was Road, Andheri East. The police, after its thorough investigation, concluded in its report that it was a clear case of suicide. No manhole worker, with an experience of doing the job for five years, like the deceased, would go inside the sewers without any kind of protection to eyes, nose, or skin. These workers are fully aware of the various hazardous gases that breed inside the sewers, and know that they can lead to instant death if proper precaution is not taken. When the dead body of the deceased was recovered from the sewer, no safety equipment was found near him even after searching for many hours. No wounds, injuries, or signs of struggle were found on Vasudev Pawar's body, nor did the post-modem show any other cause for death, other than the poisonous gases which were inhaled. According to Section 306, if any person commits suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine. There is sufficient evidence collected through police investigation, as presented to your honour, that the suicide of Vasudev Pawar was provoked by a performance of accused party, Narayan Kamble and his troupe, that took place at Sitladevi Nagar on 21 st August, is the locality in which the deceased resided, and was seen in attendance of the performance in question. It should be noted that the suicide took place just two days after the performance. As the statement of an eye-witness, who is willing to testify in this honourable court, there was one song performed by the accused, which coaxed and encouraged manhole workers to commit suicide by deeply inhaling the toxic gases found inside the sewers. It is no coincidence that the song in question suggests exactly the method of suicide, that is, deliberate negligence of safety norms and regulations by which the deceased took his life. According to this song, giving up your life is the one and only rational solution for certain sections of the society to gain dignity and respect. Here, Narayan Kamble is openly endorsing and encouraging an act which is an offence under Section 309. I would also like to bring to the attention of the honourable court, that the accused has been previously charged under Dramatic Performances Act, and has been sufficiently warned to not perform any material that is seditious in nature, or harmful to the general society. In spite of these warnings, the accused performed the dramatic piece in question without the approval of concerned censor authorities, and with the deliberate intent of causing harm, inciting seditious sentiments, and corrupting people present at the performance. If the accused is granted bail for this non-bailable and non-compoundable offence, there is a risk that he will once again commit the same offence, as his track record shows complete disregard and disrespect for the court's orders. I'm done. According to the report filed by the investigating officer, the death of Vasudev Pawar is assumed to be an act of suicide. I would like to request the court to review this conclusion critically in the light of evidence that is highly inconclusive and subjective. As per Halsbury's Laws of England, Fourth Edition, Ninth Volume, page 686, a finding of suicide must be on evidence of intention. Every act of self-destruction is, in common language, described by the word 'suicide', provided it is an intentional act of a party knowing the probable consequence of what he is about. Suicide is never to be presumed. Intention is the essential legal ingredient. To attract the ingredients of abetment, the intention of the accused to aid, or instigate, or abet the deceased to commit suicide, is necessary. In this case, let alone intention, there is absolutely no logical reason or motivation as to why the accused would abet the alleged suicide. As for the Dramatic Performances Ad, which my colleague cited as grounds for rejecting bail- Your honour, it's a Victorian law dating back to 1876, and it's up to our judgment about its relevance in a post-colonial country. No, but this is not a valid argument. It is the law, it is there. Secondly, whether it was a dramatic performance at all is also debatable, because it was not a fictional or a dramatised depiction of events. In which case, whether it required a censor certificate is a grey area. But he has already been charged under this act in the past. So whether it's a dramatic performance or not, has already been decided by the honourable court. Yes, you are right. That has already been proved. That is not a valid point. Your honour, there is not a single witness in the chargesheet who claims to have seen such a song being performed. There is also no documentary evidence whatsoever to support the claims of the police, and the burden is on the prosecution to prove this case. I would sincerely request the court to discharge my client at this stage itself, and save him from further agony of undergoing the trial. In the alternative, I would request your honour to grant trim bail. Your honour, there is prima facie sufficient evidence to frame the charge against the accused, and I strongly oppose the request for bail. Note... Heard. Fit case to frame charges. Bail plea is to be rejected. Next hearing on 11th November. Have a look at the other side of the documents as well. Why are you doing all this on the dining table? You didn't find any other place? Where else to get hold of him? I asked him to sign the papers, he left them on the sofa. But is this the place then? The documents might get stained, there is food next to it, don't you have any sense? Tell him, don't tell me. He has ignored this work for many months now. But where have I come here in all these days? Then why haven't you some? Earlier at least you would come on Sundays, now you have stopped that as well. Mom, don't bore me, I am almost done here. I tell you anything and you reply with "Don't bore me"... For him it's all a joke. He is getting everything on a platter, so there is no value. You had promised I wouldn't have to hear all this nonsense. Don't talk about irrelevant things. You are jumping from one thing to another. Wow! Here I am taking your side and you are fighting with me instead? But why are you changing the topic? What's the topic? There is no topic. I am getting late, I have to go. Please just serve me the lunch. Now are you going to vent your anger over lunch? Serve him quickly or he will throw more tantrums. - Yes, Subodh. -Why are you instigating him again? One minute guys... I'm talking on the phone! Yes Subodh... Yes, I'll open the door. Just come inside. Mom, please open the door. Come in. Come, Subodh. No, I'll sit here. No, come join us for lunch. Get a plate for him as well. No, I just had lunch. Please, it's just awkward otherwise. Come. - The watchman didn't cause a problem, did he? -No uncle, nothing. The thing is, the whole building is ours. So if someone just mentions the name, we have ordered him not to let them in. - If you say flat 308, he will let you right in. -Yeah, he told me to say 308. - What's your name, son? -Subodh Kushte. - Are you Maharashtrian? - Yes... - Where is your hometown? - Sutarwaadi. Oh, this one I don't know. Sorry about all this. - We'll leave in five minutes. -It's okay. Are you his friend or client? He's a friend. - What do you do? - I am doing M.Com. Good, very good. - You want some more curry? -No aunty, I am fine. You have come home for the first time, we can't just let you go like that. Son, does he have a girlfriend? He doesn't tell us a thing at home. - Mom have you gone mental?! - Whenever we talk marriage, he gets angry. See? Are you out of your mind? Have you gone mad? I'm meeting this person for the fourth time, and you are asking him such ridiculous questions about me? But didn't you just say he's a close friend? You have all gone mad! - At least finish your food... - Yes, everyone is mad, you are the only smart one. It's not right to leave without eating you food. - Let it be. He won't change. - You please finish your food. He'll wait for you downstairs. He won't go without you. - Please eat. -No, no, aunty. I'll come another time. You shouldn't do this son... How many times have I told you! You can't stop yourself from instigating him. Calm down. This is how he is. He will never change. - Excuse me, where is room number 12? - That side. Thank you. Uncle, where is Vasudev's house? The fifth house from here. Sister, which one is Vasudev's house? You wanted to meet Vasudev, is it? Yes, is that his house? Yes, that is his house but there is no one there. Where have they gone? - Vasudev died. - Yes, we know. - What about the rest of the family? -They've gone to their hometown. Oh. - Who all? -His wife, two kids, and a brother too. - The brother left as well? -Yes, he did. Anyway, he would be ill most of the time. Did you have some work with him? Yes, wanted to meet him. We wanted to speak about Vasudev's death. Yes, they had brought his body. It was stinking so much that no one was ready to touch it. What had happened? No one knew for sure... Some people said that he must have slipped in the gutter and died. Some said he died of an insect bite in the gutter. - What did his family say? -They also didn't know for sure. He died... And within two days his family left as well. Did they say when they'll be returning? No, they didn't. Shall I get you some water? - No, no. I'm fine. - You? - No. Thank you. Let's go... Thank you... The next song is an old Portuguese song, which I picked up from a street musician in Brazil. I hope you all enjoy it... - You want to cross-examine him? - Yes. Begin. Thank you, your honour. Name? Narayan Kamble. - Age? -65 years. - What do you do for a living? - I'm a folk singer. I conduct tuitions for students, and a few workshops. - What kind of workshops? - For folk singers. - Where do they take place? - In Maharashtra; Jaitapur, Bead, Sangli... - Have you always been doing this, or something else as well? -Excuse me your honour, sorry for the interruption. I would like to request my colleague to converse either in Hindi or English. Actually, I will be more comfortable in Marathi. You don't worry, I will translate it for you if you don't understand anything. I used to work in a mill. Did you quit the job or did you retire? The mill got shut down. - Do you get any pension? - No. You write every month for a periodical called Tilak, right? Yes. So do you earn something from that? Just a token amount. What about getting paid for your performances? No. Who pays for the stage and sound equipment then? We don't always perform on stage. Then where else? On the roads, in slums, anywhere. Are you associated with any political or social group? No, not in the last seven or eight years. So in the past you were, is it? - Yes. Which one? Now there have been quite a few over the years. We have lots of time, tell us. National Youth Party, Dalit Progressive Movement, Swaraj Mill Workers' Association. Were you vice-president of the MFS party in 1976? Yes. You were accused of being an internal security threat, and an arrest warrant was issued in your name, correct? Yes. After that you went underground for two years, correct? Sir, I don't understand how something that happened 30 years ago is relevant to the case. If he was not convicted on these charges, I don't know why we are talking about it. No, no. I think the court should know the background of the accused. Because of him, today somebody has died... we need to know why these thoughts are coming into his head. Sir, my colleague is not bothered about whether it really happened, how it happened, who saw it, where is the proof, she's going directly into the 'why' of it. No, I am merely attempting to establish the background of the accused. It someone has a suspicious record and criminal history, then the court should know about it. Let's move on now. I have his records, I will look into them. You talk about the case. Okay, your honour. Did you perform your show on 21st August, 2012 in Sitladevi Nagar? There wasn't really a show or anything. But you sang there, right? Yes. Proceed. Why did you decide on that particular location? There was no specific reason. There was some open space there and so we decided to perform there. While performing, did you know that you were standing right outside Vasudev Pawar's house? No. - Did you know Vasudev Pawar? - No. Sukhdev, will you please pass me that photo? - Can you identify this man? - No. - Do you write all your songs yourself? - Yes. Have you ever written a song on suicide? Yes. Did you perform a song on suicide on 21st August, 2012? I don't remember. That means you might have sung it? Yes. - Do you sing often on this theme? -Yes. So often that you don't remember whether you sang it that day or not? Yes. Tell me this... "Manhole workers, all of us should commit suicide by suffocating inside the gutters Did you perform a song with this theme on that day? No. Okay then have you written such a song ever? Not yet. So you might? You don't mind wining such a song? No. We are not joking here, you are standing in a court. All of this is going on record. - Did you understand what he said just now? - Yes I did your honour. Note... The accused is claiming that although he has never written or performed such a song yet, he doesn't mind doing it either. This is tough. I love your saree. It's very pretty. Isn't it? And it's comfortable because it's cotton. What happened is, I saw it on display in a store, I liked it so much that I immediately bought it. Where is the time to go shopping otherwise? Anyway, the markets are so crowded. -True. You really can't decide what to buy. - So, what about tonight's dinner? - The same, will have to go home and cook. Since my mister was diagnosed with diabetes, we have cut down on oily and sweet foods. Obviously, the kids crib sometimes, "Why do we have to suffer" and all... - But once it's there, you are tempted to eat. - Yes, true. In our house, we don't have any illnesses but I'm still careful. For the bread, they have this multi-grain flour now. I have started using that. Let's see. But does it taste any good? You can't make out the difference. And it's good for health. Even Vaibhavi was telling me-.. "Mummy we should use olive oil, it's better" It's better, but so expensive. If we use it everyday, we will go bankrupt. But the one they sell on TV didn't seem that expensive. Oh, don't buy the one on TV. So many people told me that they got duped. - Not worth it. - Yeah. These days it's hard to trust anybody. Tara ma'am? Yes, one minute. Rohan, your mother's here. - Did he have lunch? - Yes, he did. Take your water bottle. - Bye. - Bye. See you. - Bye. Don't drag the bottle. What's your homework for today? I have to write an essay on the kite festival in English... and an essay on the New Year in Marathi. - What about maths? - No homework for maths. - This way. - Why this way? We have to go towards the station. Have to pick up groceries. Hmm. But I had warned her, don't trust anyone. Now she is regretting. Ultimately they are not blood relatives. No, why do you need to say anything? You don't get involved in this. You tell them, 'Get your papers in order and then I will sign" Sure, I will have a look at them. Yes, call me tomorrow. Okay, okay... Bye. The salad is ready. Enough. - You want some more gravy? - No. It's not good? Son, why don't you eat while the bread is still hot... I'll have it later, let dad finish. - What about you? - Get me rice. We are building a Hanuman temple in our neighbourhood. They are celebrating the Hanuman festival. I'm not taking part in the organisation, but I'm encouraging the youngsters... At least that way they will get together. Let's see how it goes... - You want some? - No, thank you. Okay, I need to get going. - Which case today? - That Narayan Kamble one. - Who's the judge? Mr. Sadavarte? - Yes. He's very sharp. All that's fine, but he should quickly pass the judgment now. But Sadavarte's speed is fast. Now, these judges like Gaonkar, Sarpotdar, etc. Their speed is hardly three, three and a half cases per day. But I have heard Sadavarte clocked in five cases per day last year. But things still take their own sweet time. For example, take this Narayan Kamble case... Simply throw him in jail for 20 years and finish the matter. The same faces, the same stories, it's boring. Madam wants to see new faces everyday. Let's make her a judge soon. Oh, please do. God bless. Have both your witnesses come today at least? Uh... only one has come. - What about the other? -He's ill. Okay, you can start. State your name and age. Shankar Bhoir, 41.. What is your occupation? Uh...I am a tailor. Did you see Narayan Kamble on the day stated in the report? Yes I saw him, he was singing. - Where? - In Andheri East, near JB Colony. Do you mean Sitladevi Nagar? Yes. What were you doing there? I had gone to meet my brother. Tell us about his songs, what was he singing? He was singing. The content was very obscene. - And? - And He was screaming and yelling. - What was he saying? - He was saying... "Die, die. Let's drown in the gutters, let's all die", things like that. Was he talking about any specific person or community? Objection your honour. She is clearly leading the witness, she is feeding him the location, she is telling him what to say. No, no I am not leading him anywhere. All this is already mentioned in his statement. You just ask him the questions, don't say anything else. Okay.!- So tell us in detail, what was he saying and who was he referring to... He was saying... He was talking about some workers. - Was this man present at the event? - Yes. At least give it a good look. Look at it carefully. Yes. - Do you remember seeing him for sure? - Yes. Note... Witness Shankar Bhoir heard Narayan Kamble perform a song, where he roused workers to give up their lives by drowning in the gutters. The witness also saw Vasudev Pawar attending this show. When will your other witness come to court? I'll bring him next time. He's been sick the whole month? Yes sir. But next time, I'll get him for sure. Okay, I'll give the next date then. 9th January. - Fine with you? - Yes Case number 375, Mercy Fernandes. - Your case will not be heard today. - Why sir? You have come wearing a sleeveless top to the court hearing. This is against the code of conduct in court. Only modest dressing and sober colours are allowed. - This isn't allowed in court. - Please reconsider sir. No, it's against the rules. Case number 376, Santosh Waghmare. Is it spicy? Chew properly. - Got the tickets? - Yes, we did. - Good seats? - Yes. Next time, we'll come to see this children's play. - Okay when is it? -on Sunday. - What time is it? -11 am. Dad! What are you doing? Relax! Please sit here. I'll explain everything to you. Just sit here for a moment. Dad, I've decided to get married. With this man?! Of course not! This is the father. - Prem? - Yes, darling? Can you some out for a minute? The bride will be taken. Taken home, by the North Indians. What are you doing? Shut up. This is my father. Prem. Sit here son. Ah, jasmine oil in your hair. Dear son... You call my daughter 'darling'... at least tell me your full name. - Prem Chaubey... - Chaubal! Where do you stay? - Bareilly... - Borivali! Who all are there in your family? Mom, dad, bro... - 'Bro'! - Whoa! Mom, dad, brother. And what do you do for a living? Snacks vendor. - Catering! He's done engineering in catering. Do one thing, Meenu, go inside and make tea for all of us. Move, move. You go with her too. Brew some exotic tea. Quickly, quickly- Come. You immigrants! First, you took our jobs from us. Then you took away our land. And now you want our daughters as well? Get lost! Get lost! Go! These immigrants tend to mistake our grace for our weakness. But if pushed, This Marathi man can easily show them who is the boss in this city. How did Narayan Kamble's name come up in your investigation? We had gone to Vasudev's house for enquiry, that's when someone mentioned it. Mentioned what? That two days ago, Narayan Kamble had performed the song, after which Vasudev committed suicide. Who told you this? Someone called Nilesh Tawde, he told us. Then, we got Shankar Bhoir as a witness. Nilesh Tawde lives in the same slum? Yes, he lives there and he knew Vasudev Pawar. Then why isn't Nilesh Tawde's statement included in the report? We had recorded the statement but later he withdrew it. Yes, he withdrew it, but where is the statement? That we'll have to look for. How does that make sense? - Why didn't you submit the old statement? -I'll look into the matter. When is that man coming to court? When is that man coming to court? - I'll get him next time. -Then what do we do till then? No old statement, no new statement, and no sign of the person either... We keep waiting on this one case for years? No, no, I'll do something. Continue. Thank you, your honour. So tell me... Someone told you that Vasudev heard Narayan's song, then how did you go about investigating? We went to Narayan Kamble's house and conducted a search. - Was he present at home? - No. Then how did you enter? His granddaughter was there. Did you have a search warrant? No. No. Your honour, the search conducted at my client's house was illegal. The investigating officer did not have a search warrant, and the search was conducted in the presence of a minor, who was alone in the house. How can you presume the suspect will not cooperate? You have been given the police procedure manual, right? - Yes. - Then what's the point of it? - You are right. -And what about the Ashwin Bhagat letter? - Do you want to question him about that? - Yes, your honour. Have you read the letter? Yes. Can you tell us what is written in the letter? Ashwin Bhagat had written it from inside Arthur Road Jail. Yes, but what had he written? In that, Ashwin Bhagat had abused the jail superintendent and other police officials. Abused them or complained about them? - The same thing. - And? There was mention of a plan. These people were going to do something in the city. Who exactly? Ashwin Bhagat, Narayan Kamble, and their associates. Your honour, I have a translated version of the letter here with me... In the letter, Mr. Bhagat is requesting my client to take care of his ailing mother while he is in jail. I don't see what illegal activity or planning the officer is talking about. No, but these people are smart. They write in code language. - What do you mean by 'these people'? - I mean extremists. Who told you Narayan Kamble is an extremist? Not Narayan Kamble, but Ashwin Bhagat definitely is. That has been proven. Okay, so what have they written in code language? That we can't figure out right now. Ashwin Bhagat has a proven record of doing such things. We've given the letter to the Intelligence Department... They will find out. 'Find out' as in when will they find out? It will at least take a month, sir. We will talk about it then. What's the point of shooting in the dark? You want to continue? No, I'm done sir. Okay. I'll take your leave, sir. And what about those books? Your honour, 40 books were seized from Narayan Kamble's residence. Out of that, two are banned by the government, and illegal to own. One is a manuscript called Goymar Manas, by Saint Kashinath, written in 1899. The other is a book called The Lotus and the Robot, by Arthur Koestler. Sir, I must tell you, The Lotus and the Robot is about oriental yoga, and Goymar Manas is about the history of the Goymari sect Goymar Manas is banned because it hurts the sentiments of Goymari people, and is considered to be offensive. What are you saying? Why don't you speak in English? It is considered to be very offensive. Sir, the book was banned over a 110 years ago, and in is time, it was considered a very accurate critique of some regressive Goymari practices. It may be regressive for you, but for them, it is still sacred. Yes, but it is still harmful and irrational. Your honour, how can he say that? This is very insulting. How is this insulting? Stop this discussion please. I will see what to do about the books. Take the next date... 25th January. Did you face problems with the customs officials? I did, daddy. I told mummy, they confiscated her phone... - I don't know a thing. - I didn't tell him anything. It was very problematic. They took away mummy's phone. - Oh, very good. -What very good? - We lost mom's phone and... - Yes, but why ask for it? I didn't tell him you bought the things, or that they got confiscated. Good he didn't know. He takes pleasure in these things. Moreover, they confiscated Magan uncle's daughter's gifts. That's why I don't call for anything from abroad. Everything is available in India. No need to import. But relatives don't understand. Mummy is okay... You didn't ask me for anything because you understand. But this Megan uncle's daughter doesn't. Kept calling me all the time... and if I don't answer, she'd leave messages on the answering machine... "Get me an iPad... " They think it's like travelling in local trains. No customs to deal with. Get him! Don't let him go. Get him! How dare you insult the Goymari sect! Blacken his face! All hail the Goymari sect! Long live the Goymari people! Madam, it's getting late now. No, they've just arrived. We can start. SR. Proceed... Your honour, I would like to call Sharmila Vasudev Pawar, wife of Vasudev Dhyanesh Pawar, to the stand. Permission granted. Come. Where were you all these days? In my hometown. Where is your hometown? Shiknapur. How come you left? Your husband died, there was a police case... After the autopsy, no one claimed the body either. When did you return? Last week. How did you find her? The neighbours informed her that we were looking for her. Then her brother-in-law brought her to the station. Why did you leave for the village? Because I was... What? Because you were what? Because I was scared. Who did you go with? With my brother-in-law and daughter. Now don't leave without informing us, till the case is on. - Ask what you have to. - Thank you, your honour. State your name and age. - Sharmila Pawar. - Age? - I don't know. Still, approximately? - Uhh.. .30. For how many years were you married to Vasudev Pawar? Seven. From the time you got married, did Vasudev always clean gutters? Yes. Meaning he was used to this job? During these years, there were no accidents or injuries while doing the job, right? He had lost one eye. - How? -Don't know. Was it an accident while working... Or something went into his eye, or something like that? No. So there was no accident while on the job, right? It was not as if he had ever slipped inside, or carelessly entered the gutters, right? Okay. Now tell me...how was your husbands mental condition? As in? As in, would he be happy, or sad, or how would he be? He would be okay. He would be okay? - He wouldn't fight or anything? - Yes, he would. - Would he ever beat you? Sometimes he would. - Would he beat the kids? - Yes. Okay, now tell me... Did he ever talk to you about suicide? - No. - No? Then did he ever mention a song or anything of that sort? No? Okay- How about a person, someone called Narayan Kamble? - Did he ever mention him? - No. Sir, what is happening? She is leading the witness. I'm not leading her anywhere. Okay...move on. Now tell me... Do you remember any person or group performing something outside your house? I don't know. Are you sure or are you just saying 'no no' for everything? I can't remember. Your honour, I think she is nervous, and not able to recollect any details. I request another date for questioning. Okay... Do you want to ask her anything right now or next time only? Your honour, I have a few questions I want to ask her, but only if she is okay with it. He is going to ask you a few more questions, is that okay? Proceed. When your husband would go to work, would he wear something to cover his mouth, eyes? No. Gum boots, or a mask, or something? No. - Then how would he enter the gutters? - He would just enter. But... Isn't it full of dirt and stench inside? Yes, but he would look for cockroaches. As in? As in, he would throw pebbles inside the gutter, and if a cockroach or a bug came out, he knew it was safe to go in. How do you know this? Sometimes he would come home and say, "The cockroach didn't come out today, so it's a holiday." What would he use to clean the gutter? Anything like a spade or a rod... Wasn't he given anything else? No. Just now, you said he had lost an eye... How did that happen? We couldn't know exactly. The doctor said it was because of the dirt that went in his eye. - Because of entering the sewers? - Yes. Isn't he leading the witness now? Please, please don't do this. Okay.- - Did he consume alcohol? - Yes. - How many times a week? - Everyday. - Before work or after work? - Before work. Why? To bear the stench of the gutter. Thank you. Your honour... No safety equipment was ever provided to Vasudev Pawar. He had to rely on alcohol to stand the stench in the gutters. And he had no reliable way of knowing if there was enough oxygen inside for him to- go in. Also, he had already lost an eye due to an infection caused by the poisonous gases. Note... The deceased... was not provided with any safety equipment. This is as per his wife's statement. This may have led to the loss of an eye during work. Please wear the seatbelt. On your left. There. - I should drop you at Sitladevi Nagar, right? - Yes. How many times will I have to come to the court like this? Maybe once or twice more. I don't have much work as it is. If I have to keep coming here, I'll lose whatever I have in hand. When I left for my village, I lost all my work here. If there is some work for me, please let me know. Yes, I will. I am ready to work anywhere. If you need some money, then I can arrange for it... No, I don't want money. Just let me know if there's work for me... Okay. Your honour, according to the autopsy report submitted by the hospital, the cause of death in the case of Vasudev Pawar was respiratory failure due to inhalation of the poisonous gas Hydrogen Sulphide, that was found inside his lungs in an excessive amount. There is a possibility that the oxygen levels in his body had dropped below six percent, resulting in unconsciousness, or a state of coma before dying. No injury marks or physical wounds were found on his body, and there were no signs of internal bleeding. The report suggests that the victim was in a heavily inebriated state at the time of death, and a significant amount of alcohol was found in the victim's blood stream. This negates the possibility of a pre-meditated suicide and indicates an accidental death. No suicide letter has been found, or any witness in whom the victim had confided about giving up his life. Madam... Your case has become very weak. The only witness you have is Shankar Bhoir. Sir, I have a point to make about that also. Your honour, Shankar Bhoir is a stock witness. He has served as an eye-witness in four other cases in the last two years. They are; State vs Mohammad Aslam, State vs Gajendra Kamat, State vs Krutika Modi. And in all four cases, including this one, the investigating officer happens to be the same, Pradeep Shelke. I have no idea about this, your honour. I will look into this matter. Please do so. Proceed. Apart from that single witness your honour, there is no conclusive evidence linking my client's performance to the death of Vasudev Pawar. In strong defence of my client are the statements given by his troupe members, Subodh Kushte, Sachin Jadhav, Pallavi Sonar, and Vidya Sawant, who claim that they had no knowledge of the song in question ever been written or performed by the accused. Most importantly, Sharmila Pawar, wife of Vasudev Pawar, has testified in court that her husband had not expressed any intention of committing suicide, nor did she know of any circumstances that would lead him to such an act. It anything, her statement only strengthened the possibility of the death being an accident caused under the influence of alcohol, and negligence of safety norms. Your honour, I would sincerely request you to grant my client bail, and also take into consideration his age, as medical reports show his health has been deteriorating severely. Bail granted. Thank you, your honour. Set at 100,000 rupees. Cash only, without sureties. Your honour, I'm not sure if my client can arrange for such a high amount. He has jumped bail in previous cases. Amount cannot be lowered. Case number 187, Abbas Ali Ansari. What's written in this? You have to report every week at the Sitladevi Nagar Police Station. You can't leave the city and you can't change your residence. - Who paid the bail? - He did. - Then arrange for paying it back. - Yes, I will see. Why did you pay so much money? We would have arranged something. Now this case is going to go on for years. Pay me when you can. But still... Here. Why so many pills? I just took some an hour ago. They said take these again. I have no idea what medicines they are asking me to take. Really? The doctor asked him to take an injection. He is refusing that, which is why he has to take all these pills. - Why is he refusing? - He is scared of injections. I am not scared, I just don't like it. Are injections meant to be liked? - Have the reports some in? - Yes, they have. His blood pressure has shot up and he has fever as well. Doctors are saying it could be jaundice... - Nana, please lie low for the next few days. - Hmm Otherwise they will cancel the bail again. - Hmm Don't just say 'hmm', listen to what he is saying. If they arrest you again and something goes wrong in the jail, what will we do? What's the point of being so scared? We will see what happens. But all of us get affected. Nana, I'll take your leave now. You please rest. Subodh... Come out. I'll be back. How blessed you are, O Lord! How blessed you are, O Lord, With love that's infinity Lots of pity, Lots of empathy Paeans are sung about your courage, But this is a ballad of your kindness I present this ballad of gratitude, So listen to this ballad of gratitude, O Lord How you wield the sword, That stabs the heart That smashes all life! O Lord, our master, O Lord, our master With one shot of your gun, The best of people are dawned Down in the dumps! O Lord, our master, O Lord, our master Yet you did not muffle me, Showed the courtesy to try me in court How you rendered a favour onto me, O, how you rendered a favour to me Admist all this noise about the arts, Truth has lost its voice Art is your hogwash, A deception in the name of aesthetics Screams from the funeral pyre... cannot be called a performance. We will genuinely be obliged... If you do not label us 'Artists'. And now for tonight's last item. Dance performance of under-15 girls. Big round of applause! (Popular film song) A History of Humiliation by Narayan Kamble Mr. Kadam... Hand over these papers to him. You don't have to come now. We will let you know if we need you. Case number 535, Paanchpada Police Station, Narayan Kamble. Three days police custody. Case number 536, Paanchpada Police Station, Amit Sawant. Proceed. The accused, Narayan Kamble, is charged under Section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code i.e. The Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, 1567, The Unlawful Activities Prevention Amendment Act, 2008 and Section 151, Indian Penal Code, 1860. He has been found to conduct seditious camps indoctrinating state youth members in various areas such as Beed, Sangli, Mumbai, and Jaitapur. These camps have been operating under the cover of workshops for folk artists and poets. Evidence has been found in the form of exchanged correspondence, poems, songs, and manuscripts, that these camps have very little to do with the folk culture of the state, and are instead vehicles of organising meetings for potentially dangerous individuals. According to the police investigations, the key members involved in helping Narayan Kamble conducting these workshops are Subodh Kushte, Swati Shirke, Vikas Saraf, and Anand Jadhav. All the above mentioned people have several cases filed against them in various parts of the state, and are known to be associated with outfits that have been tanned as terrorist organisations by the Government of India. The police investigation further states that many of the so-called artists, who have been trained under the accused, have been responsible for violent protests, property damage, and even attacking police officials in the above mentioned areas. Narayan Kamble has been previously booked under Dramatic Performances Act, 1857, and has been warned to not perform, write, teach, or publish any material that is seditious in nature. According to UAPA Amendment Act, 2008, a person can be charged if he does any act with the intent to threaten, or likely to threaten, the unity, integrity, security, or sovereignty of India, or with the intent to strike terror, or likely to strike terror, in the people or any section of the people in India, or in any foreign country, by using bombs, dynamite, or other explosive substances, or inflammable substances, or firearms, or other lethal weapons, or poisons, or noxious gases, or other chemicals, or by any other substances, whether biological, radioactive, nuclear, or otherwise, of a hazardous nature, or by any other means of whatever nature, or likely to cause: a) death of, or injuries to, any person or persons or b) loss of, or damage to, or destruction of, property or c) disruption of supplies or services essential to the life of the community in India or in any foreign country. Sir, where is the bomb? Where are the lethal weapons? No, no...bomb, or chemical, or by any other means of whatever nature, includes anything. That is not the point. What is the intent? The intent is to threaten, or likely to threaten, the unity, integrity, security, or sovereignty of lndia. Your honour, my client claims that the charges against him are completely fabricated, including the evidence submitted by the police. Now it is a very serious and convenient accusation. The inspector has authorised permission for arrest from his department chief. Sir, but there is not enough evidence. I've already submitted my client's medical reports. There is a severe risk to his health if he's in prison for such a long duration. I request you to grant him bail. The police has charged UAPA. How can I grant him bail when there is no bail provision only? Sir, today is the last working day in court. It will be a violation of my client's fundamental rights if he will be placed in judicial custody for an entire month, without being proven guilty. No, no, the summer vacation from tomorrow is for Sessions Court only. You can still go to the High Court. Accused to be remanded... in judicial custody... and... to be produced in court... on 7th July. Is that all? Yes. Court is adjourned for the day. (indistinct) ls everyone here? Everyone's luggage is in place? - Come ahead. - I don't think they heard you. Come, we're almost ready to leave. - Everyone ready? - Yes. All hail Lord Ganesha! All hail Lord Ganesha! (A game with Bollywood songs) Abhijeet had come home, he told me you've started your own consultancy firm... Yes. Got my business cards printed. For the time being, will juggle between my job and the consultancy. Let's see what happens. That means you're not quitting your job? - No - Very good. What are the doctors saying about him? Nothing clear yet. We have recently found a new therapist, let's wait and watch. Is he still not speaking at all? No, he does say words like 'ma', pa', etc... But not complete sentences. Let's see what this new therapist does. What about school? No school for now. He can't sit in one place for too long. He's very restless. These speech therapists and all are fine... But I've said this before and I'm saying it again... You must change his name. There is a problem with his name. Show him to a good numerologist and get an opinion. Understood? - Yes. And I will give you one more tip... There is a gemstone called Hessonite. Yes. Make him wear a Hessonite ring on his middle finger. - Tell me if he doesn't start talking soon... -Okay. Just try this. - We'll try this as well. You need to take advantage of these phenomena. 42. Anybody got 42? Anyone hit the middle or bottom line? Bingo! Has anyone got it? Are you guys paying attention? (Indistinct chatter) What's happening is, this growth in salary is seen only in a few sectors. For example, the IT industry. - Right? - Yes. - There is also MBA. - Yes, that's the same. If you have a degree from IIM Ahmedabad or IIM Bangalore... The minute you pass out, you get a salary of 400,000 rupees. - Per year? - Per month! Yes. 400,000 per month, in-hand. That's ten million a year. Just day before, I read an article in Times of India... The students who topped... They got a package of 800,000 rupees. (Popular film songs) What is going on! Get lost! Go! Bloody idiots!
