 

                        1 Say my name. Oh yeah, what's your name? Vivianna. Oh yeah, Vivianna. Oh yeah! Sounds French. Oh yeah, right there. Oh, you like that? I do. Do you like that? Yeah, I like that. What the fuck... Hey baby. Hold on a second, okay? Are you actually serious? Get my bags. Seriously? Hi, baby, how are you? Are you okay? I'm fine, why? No, it's just... your voice just sounds like you have a cold or something, no? No, I'm fine, are you at the ranch already? I thought you weren't getting there until later. - Yeah, I'm already here. - Excuse me. Where do you want me to put these, excuse me! No, Mel's party ended late... and so I figured I'd stay up and drive. Ma'am, where do you want me to put these? Just a second, baby. Where do you want to put these? Who's that? Sorry baby, that was the driver. Look, Vivianna, I have to tell you something. I miss you, I totally miss you. Will you listen to me? Yes, I can't wait until you get here. I talked to Alice, I told her. What?! I told her I'd been unfaithful. So she knows about us? No, not exactly. Jesus, I almost had a coronary! I don't think I could face her. I've got to go. Why are you going, no, stay on the line. It's over, Vivianna. Baby... It's over, Vivianna, do you hear me? Are you listening? Baby, don't say that! You don't want us to end. Goodbye. Don't hang up! Vivianna... You know what I'm doing right now? I'm playing with my nipple and it's really erect and hard. I've got to go! No, don't go, there's no law against listening. And imaging my nipple in your mouth. You know what I'm doing now? Vivianna, look, I'm hanging up now. I'm putting my hands down my panties. Vivianna! Mmmm, it's getting really wet. Do you wanna see? - Vivianna... - I'll show you. Goodbye. Does it feel good, Vivianna? Who the... Hey Katie, what's up? Hey, Mrs. M. I'm still good to watch Logan tomorrow morning. Oh, you know what, I postponed my trip. So I think I'm okay. - Okay, thanks Katie, bye bye. - - Belinda, come on! You move any slower, you'll miss your plane. Sorry! Could you take that please? Good Lord, woman, what the hell'd you pack? There better be some sneakers in there. I intend to do some hiking this weekend. Don't tell me, two suitcases and no sneakers? You said it was a spa weekend. I said ranch. Ranch, spa, it's the same thing, isn't it? Okay, wish me luck. Come on, Alice, I told you I'll make it up to you. You and Logan mean everything to me. I'm gonna make things right. Promise. I'll see you tomorrow night, Belinda. Try to behave yourself until I get there. I have no idea what you're talking about. Hi, buddy, awww! Vroom vroom, look, there's a vroom vroom right there. Well fancy meeting you guys here! A A A to the K, K K K to the Pi, A to the K, K to the Pi, A, K, Pi... Dorri! Wooooo! Great timing. How was that flight? I could get used to private jets. Hey, who's the sugar daddy du jour, Taylor? By the way, one of these guys you dangle your wares in front of is gonna get really incensed that you won't acquiesce. He's gonna freak out, and you're gonna wonder what happened. That was Alice, she's coming tomorrow now. Apparently Eddie had some unexpected business out of town. But it's her flipping birthday! We've been planning this for months! God, that man is ridiculous. On the bright side, does this mean we are spared an entire day with Belinda? Cassie! Oh come on, don't act like I'm the only one she annoys. Thank God she only had a year in college to annoy me before she graduated. Are these yours, Dor? Yeah, thank you. You know, if you think about it, she really doesn't belong in this group. Cassie, we don't pick our families. She's Alice's sister, she belongs. And besides, you graduated a year later, so we didn't have much time with you either. And we still like you. Volleyball court and it sort of turns you on. Yeah, that's it. I got dibs on shotgun! Ah, too late. What? I'm already in the front. So? So it's too late. - So? - You need to be in the back. Fine. Well hello there! I'm free you know! Oh my God, they're not... Oh my God, they are, they totally are. Gareth! What?! Oh for the love of God, Dorri, what have you gotten us into? I promise you they did not include that in the brochure. Oh, yummy. Down, girl. It's just disgusting. Disgusting is relative, Taylor. I wouldn't kick that out of bed. I hope his dick is in his pants before he gets here. Hi, we're here to stay at the Benton estate. Right, right, yeah, some of your group's already here. I'm gonna need a signature. I'm gonna have to charge you girls a cleaning fee to get the place properly opened up. Nobody's stayed here in like a long time. That's ridiculous, that should be the owner's expense. It's fine, just put it on the card I gave you. You ladies need a map? Taylor, give that to someone else. I wouldn't mind being in charge of the map. No, I don't mind either. I am perfectly capable of reading a map. I can follow a road to a little cabin. Oh, and one more thing I should probably tell you guys about... You are so directionally challenged. Is this upside down? Well North is always up. Oh dear God. North is always up? Ugh, we are completely turned around I think! I think doesn't get us where we need to go. Well excuse me, I'm not the one who got us lost. I'm sorry, but it is terribly drawn! This is classic, they'll find us slaughtered here tomorrow by a maniac with an axe. Oh shit! What in the hell, dudes, you trying to scare the pants off me! Not that I'd complain. How fortuitous! How did you know we were here? Oh, well you see, it's got nothing to do with for-tuition. You see, you girls headed off east, and the cabin is west and it didn't take a rocket inventor to figure that out. But follow me, I'll take you all the way, baby. Okay. Okay, Middle Forest, here we come. What do you mean you weren't invited? Dorri completely left me off the invite list. I had a momentary flash of Junior High when Alice and her friends would ditch me at the mall. Okay, I am good, let's do this. Right, action. Hello mystery hunters, and welcome to the latest installment of "The 72 Hour True Crime," this time the crime has an outer worldly theme. The sun is going down as I prepare for my first night in the infamous Vanity Killer Murder House. I gotta admit guys, I'm a little nervous. Hey guys, you made it! A to the K to the Pi, Wooo! Dorri, I got your stuff, go ahead and get in. Cassie! And get suckered into picking up the grocery bill? Who'd you stick it with this time? Taylor. I tried to stick it with Princess, but her card was declined. Apparently being a rocket inventor sounds fancy, but doesn't pay. I told you I had to cancel it because of fraud on the card. Just kidding, you're so sensitive. Honey, there's ice tea in the back hatch, would you be a dear and get that for me? Darlin', I'll do anything you want in your back hatch. Is the cancer back? Minnie, stop intuiting me, I'm fine. Is that why you didn't want me to come? You didn't want me to know the cancer was back? Alice told me you were working at the farm sanctuary, so I just figured you couldn't make it. But I'm glad you could. Oh, can you put that in the kitchen? Don't have to ask me twice. I got it. Wanna share? In your dreams. The only other option is the bunkhouse, Taylor. The what? There's a bunkhouse. I talked BJ into staying in the teepee with me, so that's taken. Geez, I'm like this close to just bagging all of you and just checking into the spa. I'll share. - Hey. - Hey. Coming through. You're like a tall drink of water with a great ass. Anyone ever tell you that recently? Really, you're actually trying? Hey Princess, get this cake, let's get the party started. Okay! Oh, hello! Right, we have to stop meeting like... Pretty hair. Thank you. You're not so bad your... Shhh. Wanna grab my dick? Oh! Come on! You're, you are something else! Swear, you're like a bitch in heat, girl. Well takes one to know one. Dorri, are you okay? Um, yeah, yeah, I'm fine. Thanks. Here. Dinner will be ready soon. Okay, thanks. Dinner's almost ready. Can I borrow the loo for a minute? Uh, sure, I'm done. Um, dinner will be ready soon. Great, I'm starving, thank you. Minnie, will you get the salad? Yup, got it. The evening starts innocently. The Alpha Kappa Pi girls back together again. Unaware of the evil spirits that haunt the... BJ, here, catch! Hey, bitch, watch the camera! Cassie! God... Stay away from the pot with that gook in your hair. I don't know what gook is, this is conditioner. I don't care what you call it, I don't want it in my spaghetti sauce. Oh my God, you can borrow it if you want. It really helps with limp, lifeless hair. I beg your pardon? Why would you say that, Princess? We all have things we wish were better. I mean my hair's never recovered from the chemo. You wanna talk about my hair? I was only joking. No you weren't. Just make yourself useful. Okay Minnie, I have to ask since Alice isn't here yet, what is going on with her and Eddie? Last time I saw them, all they did was argue. They're okay, Eddie's just had a lot of pressure at work. Uh oh, we all know how Eddie likes to work off his stress. BJ, seriously, Eddie loves Alice. That hasn't stopped him in the past. You would know, wouldn't you, Princess? Well they were barely dating. Anyway, Alice didn't even know. The whole house knew, Princess, including Alice, she just forgave you. We did. Well that was eons ago when I was young and puerile. That means childishly silly and trivial, Taylor. Well then why didn't you just say that? Cheers, everyone. Cheers. Amen! L'chaim! That was a good dinner. I can do this, I know I can. I don't think you can. I can, I know I can. Hey guys, has anybody heard from Viviana? Oh yeah, I'm sorry, I thought she cc'd everyone. She's not gonna make it, something came up at work. Oh, really, that's weird. Oh shoot, shoot! Princess, can I have the towel quick before it goes to the floor? Oh my... Oh my God. Oh my gosh. We did not do that. That's not wine, that's blood. I knew it. What are you guys all staring at, move. I knew there had to be something to your story, BJ. I just feel darkness in this house. Wait, what story? This place is supposed to be haunted by the souls of seven murdered girls. It's a fantastic story. I'm doing an episode about it on my show right now. In fact, why didn't I think of this before? This is the perfect environment. Why are you still dumping finances into that money suck? You've got no advertisers, barely any audience. Green is an ugly color on you, Taylor, and I make plenty of money, and plenty of people watch, how do you think I get investors interested? We all know how you get investors interested, BJ. And it's not the business plan. I am hurt and insulted. No you're not. Takes one to know one. Sticks and stones. Can we talk about more pleasant things, please? I really am not up for a story about murdered children. Sorry, Dorri, this is too good of an opportunity. Okay, gather round, girls. I have got a story to tell. 15 years ago, there was a family of mom, dad, and two girls. The 'rents, they head out for the weekend, and little girlie decides to throw a pajama party with all her little teenage friends. Dear mystic board. This table's a mess. Shaeda! Mother always says it's hard to replace good help. Your other maid was at least decent, too bad she took that nasty tumble off the cliff. If only she'd have obeyed orders. Yeah, and then she leaves us with her little bitch. I don't know what my bleeding heart parents were thinking adopting her. Between her and that, what's his name, the guy whose parents take care of the ranch? I wouldn't care to know. Oh whatever, it doesn't matter. But between them, they're turning my life into a trailer trash nightmare. So it's night, and the girls, they... They wake up to this awful screaming. They rush down to see where the noise is coming from... And they find one of their friends dead. Her implants cut out of her body, and one of them stuffed down her throat. The other one gone, completely gone. A trophy, they think. A teenager with breast implants? That's just not right. It gives the girl the wrong message that her worth is connected to her body, not her mind and heart. Really, there should be a law against that. Not the point, Minnie, focus please! So the girls try to bolt, but the only car there has its tires slashed, the house phone is dead, so there is no way to call for help. So the girls, they huddle in the teepee and they use the fire pit to send SOS signals by fire. Okay, seriously, BJ, smoke signals? Hush, Taylor! Go ahead, BJ. So the girls lock themselves in the house and wait for help. Still, one by one, each one of the girls dies a gruesome death. And with each, the killer takes a trophy. A lock of hair, an eyeball, things, it turns out, that each girl was most stuck up about. They realized they aren't safe anywhere, so the remaining girls, they take their chances and they hike up to the main gate. Only one of them ever made it out alive. And they found her mumbling incoherently, her little feet bleeding from running barefoot through the forest. And the only other person to disappear was the ranch hand's son. Popular rumor is that he's actually the killer, you know they found traces of his blood in the forest, but they never found the body. And some townspeople believe that he, or his ghost, is still out there. Somewhere. Waiting. God! Minnie! Belinda? Hi! Hi! Thank you, sir, you're too kind. Hello! I didn't... You're so, I was just... sorry. I am so glad I made it. What a long journey. Well I'm glad you came on despite Alice's situation with Eddie. That is old history, Dorri, we are closer than ever. Might feel like you have to wait and come with her. Oh, no, actually she insisted that I go to my audition, I had an audition in the foggy city of San Francisco. And they simply adored me, so I have really high hopes for this one. Well, it looks like everyone's retiring, so if you wouldn't mind dreadfully, would you... I'm gonna... No, no, I think it's probably about that time, but you're in the bunkhouse with Taylor, so you might want to put on some flats if you're gonna walk out there in the dark. Oh, I can manage. Honestly, Belinda, we're in the forest. I mean you're gonna kill yourself in those. Wait here, let me see if I can get you a pair of shoes. Okay. Cuckoo! Oh hey, honey bunny! Oh girl, you smell like a dirty old goat, where have you been? Petting the dirty old goats! Well you stink, please tell me you're gonna shower and clean up. Well maybe I'll use this. No, Minnie, please give that back, that's... Minnie, Minnie, - What is this? That's mine! Oh my goodness, this stuff is poison. Well I'm not eating it. Well this is inventive. Please, it's ridiculous, she made me. Hey BJ, what size shoe do you wear? Belinda needs sneakers. Well she's not getting mine, I only brought one pair. You have heard of pores, haven't you? Being absorbent, hence the term porous? What are you talking about? He's using skin lightener. I'm just saying, it can't be good for you. It's a little racist lightening your skin anyway, isn't it, BJ? I like to be lighter. I don't see what the big deal is, it's not like you or you would understand. Hello, have you looked at me recently? And I grew up in a tiny town and went to an all white school, BJ, you don't think I was bullied? No, no, no, you don't know bullying. Honey, you try growing up in Phoenix, Arizona. Black or Latino, but I was Indian, after 9/11, and gay. Now you may have broken a nail or two, but honey I had to fight every day just to get through high school. Okay, hold up, try being black at any time in any place, plain, with glasses and a weight problem. You don't have a weight problem. You guys, we all know what it's like to be bullied. Oh please, look at you! Not for nothing, but I gotta agree with Dorri on this one. Oh yeah, it's lots of fun. It's good to see everyone. When are you coming back to me? Wednesday. Miss me? Oh you know I do, I'm looking forward to continue our discussion. I bet you are! Taylor, are you still there? I've lost the visual. Taylor? Taylor? You done? Just one last thing. Yeah, yeah. Shhhh... Cassie, no. Shhh. Cassie, no... Yeah, get it, baby. Somebody's been a very dirty little guard. Oh yeah? You feel that? That's for you. Taylor, we both know you're not such a good girl. No Cassie, you have to go. "You have to go," you don't want me to go. No, time to go, time to go, time to go, time to go! Hey, Taylor! No! Fucking straight girls. Hey, not my hair! I like it, it's sexy. Look, it's gonna be all over your body in about ten seconds. It better be. Oh, you're a dirty girl, aren't you? For the love of God! Hey, Cassie. Hey. Hi. Oh, hi. Goodnight. You better hurry, it's starting to rain. What's this all about? Don't ask. Pajamas? Nah. What the heck are you making, Minnie? Quinoa with grilled tomato and scrambled tofu, mmmm. Okay, honey, I'm all for health, but can we please just have real eggs? I mean where's the harm in an unfertilized egg? We're not killing anything. Have you seen the way those chickens are treated? Shut up in tiny cages, sitting in their own feces, never able to spread their wings, their beaks clipped off when they're babies without anesthetic. Okay, stop stop! You're gonna ruin eggs for me forever. BJ, seriously, first thing in the morning? It's cinema verite, darling. I don't care what you call it, just stop it. Stop it, stop it! BJ, turn it off! BJ, quit it, quit it! Stop, stop it, you're like a child. Okay okay, is Princess still sleeping? Probably considering she had her workout last night, regretably I got an eyeful of it this morning. Was it the little guard? He can do so much better. Oh he could, could he? Well that stick is so far up your ass, you'll never have the fun of knowing. Just cause that's how you like your sticks, Princess. Girls, BJ, really, this is getting quite vulgar. You know Belinda, this whole lady-like thing is getting a little old. What is that supposed to mean? You really wanna get into this? Eddie! You gave up Eddie for you career on Broadway. Here a failure and try to steal your sister's husband to feel better about yourself. They were on a break, and no one thought that they would get back together, including you. And I did make it to Broadway. If by "Broadway" you mean community theater in Jersey. Come on, Belinda, how deep does your delusion of stardom actually go? I never said I was a star, but one can't ignore the popularity of my biotherm ad. Bio... Belinda, that was 20 years ago. It was a photo of your ass and your leg and no one even knew it was you. I'm sorry, it's time to face that you lost and just go get a real actor's job waiting tables or something. You're just a man-hating deviant, you know that? And I feel sorry for you because something really awful must have happened to you when you were a little girl to make you like that. You disgust me! Get back here! You don't get to just say shit like that and then run out of here! Cassie, let her go! She doesn't mean any harm, tell her, BJ. No, sister, I'm with Cassie on this one. That was just plain wrong! Give it back, Minnie! Cassie, just leave me alone! It's not funny. Who are you?! What do you want? Ahhh! Please! Ha, Gin Rummy! I quit, I'm tired of losing. Hey you guys, check this out. It's a spirit board. Let's try to talk to those poor murdered girls. I can still feel their spirits in the house crying to speak out. I don't wanna talk to dead people, I could be doing that soon enough anyway. That's not funny. Did you find her? I don't know how she moves that fast in those ridiculous heels. Morning. Hey, just want to let you all know it's gonna storm, gonna storm, hey. I mean yeah, duh, obviously it's gonna storm, but it can get crazy, you know, when the wind picks up, and I wouldn't want anything to happen to you girls. So thanks for the information, Gareth. We'll let you know if we need anything. Alright. Pretty pearls. Hands off! Oh please. If I wanted him, it'd be like taking candy from a baby. I couldn't be bothered. You know Princess, next time you are bothered, could you do it somewhere else, I'm not getting locked out of my bedroom again tonight, okay? You know, I'm getting stir crazy, who wants to get out of here and go into town? - That's a good idea. - That'd be nice. I'm gonna change. Sorry, I'm ready now. Are you sure we should leave? I'm a little worried. Oh please, she'll be back when she gets over herself, she's fine, really, I'm sure, come on. Are you okay, Dor? I think, I think I should probably lay down. Yeah, I'm sorry, please just go without me. Are you sure, I can stay with you if you want. No, that's so sweet of you, but I'm just gonna try to sleep. Bring me back some soup maybe? Okay. It was here at Newhall Refinery where the murdered girls ate their last meal. Are you coming, BJ? Would you pick this up for me, and I'll pay you back? Yeah, yeah, it's okay, P, don't worry about it. Ooh, beer, how quaint. Okay, so can I get you guys some drinks? I'm guessing the answer is no, but do you by any remote stretch of the imagination have a green tea? We have regular tea. I'll just have a glass with ice. I'll have an IPA, your favorite. Me too. I'll have a crisp apple. Do you have any Kom... Kombucha? You have that? Sure do! Okay. Are you guys passing through from somewhere else, cause you're definitely not from these parts. Yeah, we're staying up at the Benton estate, up by Middle Forest. Oh... Oh no, we already know the story. Really? So you know that we all suspect the ranch hand that lives there? Uh, the older one. Oh yeah, for sure. Pamela, there's not one jot of truth to that and you know it! I heard... Wait, wait, wait, can I film this? Sure. Okay, and action. Okay, so I heard from Johnny, who heard from his dad, who is friends with the detective who is investigating the murders, that the ranch hand was definitely a suspect. Someone was having inappropriate behavior with the stepdaughter, and the rumor is it was him. Anyways, it's just a rumor. Not to put too fine a point on it, but I wouldn't stay there if you paid me. Especially you, he would love you. Apparently he had a thing for red-heads with small perky boobs. Hey, babe. Looking good, Pammy. Spreading that rumor around is just wrong and you know it! Life without you heapin' a bunch of murders on top of them. I got to agree with her, you know. Come on, lighten up, you guys. I'm just having a little fun. Anyways, these snotty bitches could use a little fear of God on them. God... I'm stuffed. I need a nap. Yes, indeed. Food was pretty good though. Yeah, for a diner. Doesn't seem like Belinda made it back yet. She's probably in the bunkhouse. Yeah, sulking. I'll give that to Dorri. That waitress was really freaking me out. Yeah? You wanna sleep with me tonight? I can protect you from the big bad wolf. You are the big bad wolf, Cassie. You guys, Belinda's stuff is gone! There's no answer on her cell either. What do you mean her stuff is gone? It's gone! Shoes, everything! Maybe the vanity killer got her. And then stole her shoes? That's not funny! You drove her away, Cassie! What? What are you talking about? Did you hear what she said to me? You were poking her with a pointy stick and she lashed out. Minnie, come on. Hey. Oh God... Why are you always lurking? Uh, I had to feed the animals. The Benton trust says that we take care of the ranch, so I'm supposed to be here to do that. So do that. Alright. Also, a cab came through the gates headed to the house for a pick-up, and I didn't see it drive out, so I was just wondering who left. Oh, hey, cool, cool. My sister wanted me to bring by some umbrellas, I know that you ladies wouldn't want your hair to get all wet and all. They're in the car. Christ, ugh. What, do ya live in a barn? What just happened? What did I just see? This just happened. Let me help you with those. Do you think you're too good for me, bitch? Huh? Hey! Hey. What do you think you're doing? I'm just, I'm getting umbrellas. Oh, what a mendacity! M-E-N-D-A-C-I-T-Y, it means a falsehood. Just because you use big words like menadicy, does not make you smarter than me. No, trouncing you in our college debates did. Who gives flying flip about some stupid debate? Well it was your one chance to show you had a brain and you're not just arm candy, which is all you are! God, you can't even do that! You and your stupid virgin pussy! I'd rather be a virgin than a skank! Virgin, sweet. Gareth, in, now! What, hey, whoa! You did not just do that. Oh ho, damn, this is getting good. You have had this coming since freshman year! I wanna watch it. Oh my... that's a Varro. You are gonna pay for that! Oh no, my hair, not my hair! You and your stupid hair! It doesn't cover up your stupid ugly brain, and your mean bitch attitude! One of these days, someone is gonna knock you down a notch! I'm just a mess. Princess, it's just a little mud. It's not, it's not just a little mud. I lost my job. Oh shit. It was eight months ago. Stupid economy. So now you bitches can gloat because even my brain is worthless at this point. Oh my gosh, Princess, why didn't you tell us? Maybe we can help. Seriously, you should have said something, we wouldn't have judged. Well not much. I mean come on, if you can't count on your friends, who can you count on? She's right, I bet if we all pool our resources when we get back home we can find you a new job. Until then, I say we drink. Okay. I'm going to beat Belinda senseless. No message, no phone call, it's rude. Come on, Dorri, come play with us. Yeah, come on, Dorr. I think it's stupid too, but it's just for fun. I prefer to read. Suit yourself, go Minnie. Dear spirit board, please connect us to the spirits of the house. If you are here, give us a sign. Oh my God, the door just opened when the thing-a-ma-jiggy moved. There's a spirit here. I felt her pass. The door opened because Princess went outside. Your spirit was the breeze. And you moved the thing-a-ma-jiggy, BJ. I did not. Yes you did. Why would I? This is stupid. Forget the unbelievers, go for it, Minnie. Spirits of the house, we have come as friends. Let us help free your souls with the truth. Tell us, without fear, do you know who your murderer is? Taylor went outside. You know, I could give you the money to tide you over. That's very kind, but you know, I just don't want to owe anybody anything. Thanks though. I lost my virginity when I was 14. It was, um... A date rape sort of thing. Kind of felt like it was my fault cause I'm so pretty and sexy and all that. So it... It just seems easier not to start with a guy cause once you start, they don't want to stop. You know, just to say that... You're not the only one with secrets you're ashamed of. And if you tell anyone, I will kill you. Okay. You coming back to the teepee? In a bit. Okay, see you in a bit. I'm going to bed, Cassie. Really, you gotta stop. You're barking up the wrong tree. Okay, Taylor, open the door, come on. Come on, you know you want to. Go away. Taylor, why are you pretending... oh, I get it! You need an audience, right? Hey, what the hell?! How many times does she have to tell you, no means no. What do you care, Princess? I don't, I'm just saying, maybe you should respect her wishes. Whatever... [Princess[ Are you there? Gareth! Are you there? Do I excite you, Princess? Not my hair... Gareth! Ahh! Shit! Minnie? Oh, God! You really should not sneak up on people like that. Alright, let me see. Oh shit, Minnie, you're hurt. I'm sorry. Sorry, that was stupid. I just wanted to... Not that I'm a... You know. Because I'm not. It's just... There's just something about you. I feel it. What are you... Shh, hold on a second. Alice! Hi, how are you? - Good, oh my Gosh! - I made it! How was your trip? It was good. Yeah? It's kind of chilly. It is chilly. Maybe we shouldn't do this. Just promise not to tell anyone. What? Did I do something wrong? No, no. Minnie, when this trip is over... If you'd like to come and visit me and maybe go to dinner in public. I, I would like that. Fuckin' straight girls. Hi. Thank you. You look beautiful. You've lost more weight though. Are you taking care of yourself? Are you a little warm? Really, stop, stop fussing, I'm fine. Okay, okay. Cheers. Did you happen to see Belinda before you left? Why would I have? Belinda went back to LA. You're joking. Okay, what did Cassie do now? No, that's beside the point, I think, I think she was looking for an excuse to leave, to be back in LA while you're gone. You're wrong. Dorri, it was one time, I let it go, so should you. Alice... No, I know who Eddie is, and I know what Eddie is. And we talked, okay? And I told him flat out no more chances. He actually cried. He said he would do whatever it took to make it up to me, and I believe him. You know Guy loves you. He would be loyal to you. I care about him, I do. It's just, I told him it's one of the reasons why I needed to come here this weekend. To be away from both of them and figure out what I need. You know what, if you were being a friend right now, that's what you'd be helping me do. Okay. Well then let me start by telling you that the person who taught me to be confident and independent is anything but right now. Listen, I know you need time to work things out for yourself, but we all need help every now and then. And I know people, you know, so... if you want me to take Belinda out... What? It's not funny. I'm just saying. Mmmm. Hi. Uh, hi. Are you... how are you? I'm still thinking about last night. What happened last night? Oh my God, Minnie, honey, what happened to your face? I tripped and fell in the dark, what happened to yours?! Oh my God, oh my God, you made it! I didn't think you were coming. Oh my God, what happened to your face? Oh, she tripped and fell when she was out all alone walking around without a purpose. Dorri, hi! Are you okay, you look so tired. Yeah, you do, you kind of look a little peaked. Okay, well how about we stop commenting on how I look and let's just say that I'm fine, okay? Thanks, great, awesome. Okay, you know what, there are what look to be amazing trails in here. Who's up for a hike after breakfast? Guys, these are like raspberries or... Ow, and prickly. Hey. Hi. Hi to you too. What are you doing here? I'm sorry, I didn't mean to freak you out. I thought this place was empty. I come here to watch the animals sometimes. Rocky! Rocky, whatcha got there? Oh Rocky, drop it, drop it now! Ugh, looks like the coyotes had dinner last night. We could hear them. They really enjoy the kill. Turns into a symphony almost. They'll come around here and eat family pets and stuff. There's no justification for killing, Cassie. They're just trying to survive like the rest of us. Oh no, Rocky, come! Shoot. Nice to meet you, ladies. Have a beautiful day. Rocky, Rocky, stop! Oooh, who was that, and where was I? Forget it, BJ, he doesn't play on our team. Never stopped me before. Princess still isn't back? I left her a note, she'll catch up or not. He thought you were cute. He was totally giving you the eyeball. The eyeball, Minnie! You alright, Dor? I'm fine. Okay. - Oh! - Whoa! I'm sorry, just go ahead, I have to pee. Oh, alright, I'll hang back and wait for you. Jesus, is there nothing you won't do to see me naked? Really? I don't usually get off on watching girls pee, I was just gonna hang back and keep watch for you. Go please, I'm not gonna go until you go. Jesus! Go! Fine! Thank you. Dammit, Cassie! Dammit, Cassie. So you're a jackass? I'm a donkey, girl, shit. Oh, see, you don't want your skin getting darker either. No, I just don't want to add skin cancer to the list. Besides, haven't you ever heard of growing old gracefully, Darling. Well good for you, you can get old and wrinkly and it won't matter, but I am in the public eye. I am! I have to keep up appearances. Taylor should have caught up to us by now. I'm sure she's lost. She is truly horrible with direction. You know what, I think we should backtrack and find her. Oh for the love of God, Alice. No, come on, let's go. Cassie? BJ? You guys?! Let's split up. Alice, Dorri, you guys take the fork. Cassie, Minnie, and I, we'll go back down the way we came, we'll regroup at the house, and if we don't find her, she may have already made her way back anyway. What's that? Alice, I can explain this. It's okay, I already knew. I found the videos on Eddie's computer. Videos?! Jesus, how did he even do that? I don't know, Cassie, and I really don't care. Right. Alice, I am so sorry. Does he know you know? Yes, he knows, we talked. He confessed to all of his... Everyone, the list just went on and on. Honestly, it was just too much. Oh God, Alice, I'm so sorry, it just happened that one time, and it didn't mean anything! What? Oh, shit, well I thought... You were looking at me when you said... Wait, you mean he didn't list me? Oh, cause I'm a guy, sure, yeah, God forbid, keep me his dirty little secret! BJ! Oh shit, Alice, I'm sorry, I am. And it's not like we ever, you know, I mean, well, technically speaking, honey, I would not do that to you, I swear. This, this is what makes me so mad, Alice. I mean really, where's your self-esteem, honey? One is enough, but an endless list? Alice, I have felt insanely guilty. I'm so sorry. I mean even though I wasn't the one that slept with him. Are you saying Taylor? Taylor! Of all people, Goddamnit! Has anyone of my friends not slept with my husband? Well you guys were on a break at the... I'm, I'm done, I'm done with you and him! What does friendship mean to you guys? I mean seriously, what?! Which Cassie are you? Cause this one I don't wanna know. Shit. Let's go find Taylor before she gets irretrievably lost. Show yourselves, Goddammit! Holy shit! Alice, no, please, please, stay back, don't touch the body! That's not a body, that's my sister, she could still be alive! Dorri, please, can you help me here?! Minnie, no, no, no no no, Minnie, please. Well it was her own heel. Those were her favorites, 2009. The extra high heel season, it was a great season. This reminds me of a movie, what was it? With Jennifer Jason Leigh? Shit, bars, we had bars the whole time, Satellite blocker, I did a show where the killer used it. Here, Taylor, why don't you check your phone. We have got to get back to the house and hope for better reception, another night of rain and there won't be any evidence left to process. No, no no no no, I don't wanna leave her. There's nothing we can do for her now, you guys. We have to get out of here. I mean maybe, maybe she tripped and fell? It could have been soft of a freak accident, right? And her heel just flew off her foot and jammed itself in her eyeball. You guys, what if it's the Vanity Killer? They never found him! No, wait, remember Belinda? What was her biggest vanity, her legs, she was always lubing them up and wearing those ridiculously high heels. I mean who was she trying to impress anyway? The bugs? The coyotes? Oh my God, the coyotes! Don't think about it. Oh, I have a feeling I'm gonna be sorry I told that story. Look, why don't we all just go back to the house? I'm gonna take the car and go back to the guard gate for help. I'm coming too. Me too. Why don't we all just go back to the guard gate?! Oh God... Shit, oh this is not good. Oh shit. What's wrong? The battery's gone. Oh my God, this is it, we're trapped. He disabled the car just like last time. We're all gonna die, just slaughtered like pigs! BJ, BJ, what do you think you're doing?! She was freaking out, you were freaking out! And that's what you do to people who freak out, you slap the shit out of them! Alright, alright, stop, stop, this is not time to panic. Okay, everybody just relax for a second. I'm gonna take a horse and go to the guard gate for help, just everybody stay together and go in the house. Well now! And lock the door. Take this darkness away. Cosmic mother, take this darkness away. When I sit with eyes closed, enveloped in self created shadows, cause thou to blaze upon... We've got a problem! This is just gruesome. Maybe she's still alive somewhere. Why did he take the body? You guys remember that scene from Silence of the Lambs where there's that guy who has his skull removed and his brains exposed and Hannibal is eating parts of it for dinner. Oh my God, what if that's what he's doing? Remember she was always so full of herself about how smart she was? Oh poor Princess, it's just horrible. See, I told you guys that... don't you dare! We need to just get out of here. There's enough horses, if we share we... Well actually it appears there's only one left. Where did they go? How should I know, they were all gone when I got there. Maybe the killer drove them off. Yeah, the killer must have. What are you looking at me for when you say that? Not for nothing, but Dor has a point. It's kind of convenient that there's only one horse left. Plus everyone knows that you and Belinda were pissed at each other and you and Princess weren't best of friends. What are you talking about, Princess was my best friend! Still, do you have an alibi for last night? Do you?! I... You followed Belinda into the woods, that's the last time we saw her! Are you saying... Stop it, both of you! We are supposed to be friends. We need to stick together. I'm gonna stick to the plan. Cassie, I don't think it's safe out there. I have got to go and get us help now. I'll be fine, really. That's what you said about Belinda. Did we lock all the windows? A little forewarning, please, my heart can't take it. I'm sorry. Yes, I believe so. I made up the couch for you and Alice lent you these pajamas. Don't go out of the house for anything tonight. I won't. We'll all stay in and we'll stay safe, okay? Goodnight. You like this? I know you do. You're not as pure as you like to play. Oh my gosh, oh my gosh! Oh my gosh! Oh my gosh! Oh my God, she's dead, shit! I misread her! I should have done something. There's no sign of forced entry. There was something unclean in her body. It's bitter. Could be Special K, that has a bitter taste. I tried it once. For a show involving murder and Special K. I drank some tea last night too. Come to think of it, I dropped off pretty quick even though my mind was racing. Cassie! Go, go, go! What the hell! Oh my God, it was just here! Guys! It's a weak signal, but there's no danger in the energy left in the footprint, she must have made it. I love you Minnie, but this is ridiculous. How can you possibly know anything from touching dirt?! No no no, and it doesn't make any sense anyway. Guys, I hate to repeat it, but Cassie is looking more and more suspicious. No BJ! Yes Minnie! Ow, ow, ow! Oh God, are you... oh, hang on, it's a piece of glass. Okay, I'm gonna pull it out, okay? One, two, three... Oh God! Okay, okay, just stay still. - Are you okay? - Yeah. Okay, come here, I gotcha. Guys, we are not safe. We need to get back in the house, lock ourselves in until we can figure out how to get help, okay? Okay. Let's go. Get back from her! No no no, I was just looking for my brother, and I found her that way! No, no, get back! No, I was looking for Gareth and I found... Don't come any closer! Please put that down. Oh my God. No shit. There's rope under the kitchen sink, BJ. I've got something better. Alice, Alice, give me the poker, honey. You got him, you got him good. Are you getting any bars? No. Okay, I checked each of the rooms. All of the windows are locked for sure this time. Okay good, we're about 20 miles from the guard gate, that's gonna take us at least a full day of hiking and... Oh boy, with Alice's foot... I'd say we wait until the crack of dawn and head out. Alice, don't worry, we will all take turns supporting you. Thank you. Until then, I just say we all stay put, agreed? One more thing, if Cassie comes back, we can't let her in. You can't do that! My gosh, no! You could be risking her life. We have to, we don't know who the killer is, and we can't rule her out. Why, because Taylor, she couldn't get her in bed, or Belinda was rude? She may be annoyed, hurt, frustrated, and insulted, but she is not a lunatic. How do you know? Maybe all these years she's been on meds, and now she stopped taking them and flipped the switch. No, no! I, I don't believe that, I just don't feel it. This is stupid! Cassie's never even taken an aspirin! People always say, "Oh, he was the nicest "person, can't imagine him killing anybody," about some whack job who flips out and murders his entire family. No, no no no no, I'm sorry, Minnie, I'm sorry Alice, feelings aside, we can't take that chance and risk letting her in. Hey guys, I hate to be anal, but we can please not touch my creams? I have them in a specific order for a specific reason. Come on, BJ! Guess whose birthday it is! - Aw, thanks, Minnie. - Make a wish. You know what? Sitting here right now, this very minute, knowing I could die tomorrow... There's nothing I would wish for except for Logan to have a happy life. How about wishing Eddie had kept his thing in his pants. I know Eddie's caused a lot of pain. Without the pain, there wouldn't have been the love. And that was something. Even if he doesn't make amends like he promised. Make amends, what does he mean make amends? Belinda, Taylor, Princess, they all slept with Eddie, and now they are all dead. Then I guess all of us will be safe. Oh, well, except for you, BJ. Goddamn it, Dorri, I said I was sorry, and I mean it! I'm so sorry, Alice, I didn't know, you guys were on a break... Ow! Oh God, Dorri! Dorri... I'm fine. Dorri, for the love of God, stop saying that, you're not fine! I've got, uh... I've got three months at the most. Are the doctors sure? It's fine, I'm okay, I've come to peace with it. It's not fair. When is life fair? Oh my God, what, what happened?! That's a dead body. Oh, like you didn't know that! You people are lunatics. Okay, let me just say, if you are not the murderer, I am really really sorry and I promise we'll send someone for you when we get to the gate. Not sorry, and the law will be coming for you soon! Oh for Christ's sake, I didn't kill anybody! What's going on? We gotta go, come on. No wait, wait, don't leave me! Wait! Come on, don't leave me like this! Careful... Come on! Awww, come on! I think we've gone about five miles. What've we got, 15? This is worse than the Bikram yoga class we took, huh? Okay, wait, you guys, I gotta stop. Oh God... You know, the more I think about it, the only logical killer would have to be those two guard guys. I mean I think it would have to take at least two people. No, it has to be them! At least we have the one tied up. Now all we have to worry about is Gareth and I think if he comes upon us we can take him. Oh my God! Is he okay? Oh my God, he's bleeding. Is he bleeding from his... Jesus! I hit an innocent man with a poker and I left him to die! Oh God, Minnie, no, don't touch him! It could be the brother. Well if it is, he's secured. No, not that one. The family's kid, the one who the police couldn't find. Who was that guy who passed us the other day? That was weird, wasn't it? This is private gated property, what was he doing if he wasn't staying in one of the houses? I hate to say this, but aren't we back to Cassie again? Bunch, and she isn't exactly the daintiest girl. She must feel big and awkward around some of you. That was catty and unbecoming of you, BJ! She's beautiful! Just because she's tall and strong... If that tweaks your manhood because you're petite, then just zip your lip! Wow, meow, what has gotten into you? Or on top of you! Oh my God! Oh my gosh! Oh my Gosh! Alice! No, no, you leave her alone! Stay back! God damn it, BJ, what the... Oh my God! Stay back, stay back! Oh my God! Get off me! Oh my God... No no no no, she's alive, she's alive, she's breathing. - No! - - Dorri, stop! If she gets up again, she can catch up with us, we can't move fast enough with your foot. I have to put her out of commission! Dorri, I don't care what - No! She's done, I can't bear it! Let's go, come on! I can't leave her. Minnie, let's go, come on! Ow! Ow! Oh, BJ! Oh my God. Oh, oh my God, guys, what's happening?! BJ... Oh God! Oooh, guys! Ow, ahhhh! Help, guys, help! It burns! Should we check him? No, just no. He smells. I yelled at him. Why did I yell at him? He deserved so much better. Really? Did he? I mean he blew a friend's husband. Spit in her face by doing it. He got what he deserved. Dorri, how can you say that, that just doesn't compare. She's not saying anything. I don't wanna hear talk like that, Dorri, I really don't. Let's just get out of here. No, everyone makes mistakes, and everyone deserves a chance at forgiveness. This is why I didn't want you on this trip. I wish you stayed at the animal sanctuary. What? You're too good a person. You live your life respecting the world, forgiving those who don't deserve forgiveness, I just ...I didn't, I didn't wanna see the judgment in your eyes. Okay, Dorri, Dorri! Dorri, have you been taking your lithium? I needed to be alert and on my toes. I mean, I knew about Princess and Belinda, and you showed me the pictures of Cassie and Taylor, you know, Cassie I figure wouldn't have, you know, for obvious reasons. She was an unfortunate casualty. But Taylor, Taylor! That is a different story! And BJ... BJ, I didn't suspect him. You?! - Dorri, how could you?! - Viviana, I did! I suspected Viviana, and all it took was a phone call to settle that possibility. They were all your friends, what is wrong with you?! No, I couldn't die without cutting out the infection in your sister's life, Minnie. All those so-called "friends" with their selfishness and vanity, and it's like a cancer. It's insidious, and it spreads through them and it spills out and it affects everyone around them! This is seriously insane! Dorri, Dorri I love you for caring, but this, this... Trust me, you will feel better. Maybe not this moment, but in a few days from now? I know, I know kids, kids are cruel. Girls especially. When my mother died and I was alone in the world... My mother's employers took me in and I thought maybe my life will be better. I'd have money, respect, I would belong. Who let the cows in? Nothing changed. My mom was dead, and I was still the chubby daughter of a maid. The only person who was truly kind to me was the son of a ranch hand, he loved me. He defended me like a brother. If they had treated me just, just decently, you know, I wouldn't... But they were mean. All those little spoiled girls. They got what they deserved, and I most definitely felt better for it. You killed everyone I know, and for what?! Get off me! Minnie, no! I don't wanna hurt you, but I will. What happened to your "thou shalt not kill" philosophy, Minnie? You beginning to see how it might be justified? Alice... When I thought I was worthless, you treated me with value. You stood up and you told me, "No, you are worth more!" Now I'm telling you you are worth more. Please remember that when I'm gone. This will be one killing I think you'll agree is justified. Ladies. For hours, detective, no one's telling us anything. Imagine, we have more immediate problems to deal with. No, no! Now you say your friend there, she confessed to you? Yes, she did. I can't believe Dorri was capable of something like that. She was such a sweet person. That "sweet person" was a serious nut job. I mean maybe losing her mother in an early age pushed her over the edge. I'm not sure. When we interviewed the ranch hand's kid, he was pretty sure Molly, or "the little bitch" as he called her, had caused it, but we couldn't prove anything. I told her I could get up the face on my own. That's enough to make anyone bitter. When he disappeared that night, we did find a blood trail leading into the woods and common wisdom is that he escaped the killer, but was seriously wounded. Of course at that point he was coyote food. Now of course when Mr. And Mrs. Benton died a couple of months later in that car accident, we stopped investigating altogether. They left everything they had to your friend there. Speaking of, we did find another body next to a black convertible. Viviana had a black convertible. Who's that? Vivianna Huffington. And I'm sorry, but if you're through, I need to know, have your officers found our friend Cassie? She's in need of immediate medical attention. Well I'm sorry to say, but that's her. No, that can't be right. Well she bled out. I mean you don't survive having the back of your head smashed in like that. You're lying! She wasn't hit in the back of the head, she got hit in the front! She was alive when we left her! It can skew the memory, trust me, she's very dead. No! Officer Daniels! Yes, sir. When you and your friend are done here, Officer Daniels will take you back to town, okay? Please don't touch the body, Ma'am. Alice! Jesus, Alice, Jesus, you're okay, thank God. I got on the road as soon as I heard. Look, I know I messed up plenty. And you can be mad at me again tomorrow. But right now, let me take care of you. Please. Is that a yes? I don't think there's any fixing the past, Eddie. Go home. Logan needs one of us there. I'm sorry! Crazy bitches! You know it's not your fault that all our friends died, right, Al? Whatever you do, don't feel bad. No, I know. I won't.
