 

                        Paroxysm Of eroticism Paroxysm Of exoticism Eternal lesson in seduction Eternal pleasure in loving desire Seduction Baby buns is what they call me when l pass, all those fellows whistling, looking at my ass, lve had enough! Why cant a gal be left alone just cause shes theres always some dodo right there who blocks my way with his tough stare, l know my baby buns are cute, but its not fair! My dear Sir, please take your hand away. No, indeed, l guess its not your day. Youre just wastin my precious time. Guys like you arent even worth a dime. Step aside and let me by, or else lll blacken up your eye, you just aint my kind of man and baby, thats Baby buns is what they call me when l pass, all those fellows whistling, looking at my ass, lve had enough! Why cant a gal be left alone just cause shes theres always some dodo right there who blocks my way with his tough stare, l know my baby buns are cute, but its not fair! Open... Oh, open, do open your door. I have to see you. l must speak to you, excuse my boldness, but the door... Open... open, do open your door I have to see you. l must speak to you, excuse my boldness, but the door... Open... Oh. open, do open...your legs, kiss, excuse me, oh my boldness, open your legs, come on, open your legs. Come on. Open! Open your legs! Youve got to open your legs for me, baby! Open your legs! We are the girls from the Crazy, we sing and dance kind of funky, you might think were somewhat naughty, please, dont you get the wrong idea. All men with plenty of money, diamonds and rubies, are yummy, if you would like to be happy, if you would like to be in Paris, come to the Crazy Horse saloon. - Hi -How are you? Fine and you? Fine Hes here, right. Theres someone again. Whos that guy there on all fours? Volga! Thats a Volga! Thats Crazy. Can you start the Shadows film? The film of Shadows What do you call that film? You called it Bernardin. It works Please open the curtain completely! I love the clapperboard House lights off, please Its so hot Right Bend, bend Throw it forward Yes... Bend, bend... How much time do we have? Two hours? Koko, Lumina, Zula. OK. Once again So hot Stretch, bend So hot Thanks, girls. To the dressing room. Take a shower. Even two. It should not touch the strip of mirrors next to We need to work on the lighting. Could you please just come down? Should A, B, C and D be at the center? Yes. Is the backdrop centered? Maybe its not well-centered It is centered. It is? Are you sure? Thats what we agreed on That you finish this way Then you go up Turn around Thats right I take your skirt off. You slide down. Slide in this position I should first turn like this I dont feeel sensual with that. But frankly And then... Maybe I can help you like that... You catch it, then you sway again... And again. There... So after its the same. My body against yours. Yes but there I used to do something and you did I used to do something like this Yeah? Wait. Like this. Like this. Then we cuddle with each other Like this. And then backward, with the music There, backward with the step. We come back from further away. And there, once again and we leave. Go ahead, put your hand There...OK. Did you get it? Want to try? Lada took a break. Good, Zula. Closing your eyes is great Good idea. You let yourself go, you close your eyes. And you change position ...three, four Sensuality awakens And one...three... , yts hot, you open the helmet. Three...two, three, four...Four You stand up slowly. Youre hot. Its the heat that makes you stand up Yes... Now, Lumina enters You go to the window Go to the window, Lumina. You look at each other. It changes again. You leave the window And youre on the other side Now, first contact. Good! Second contact... Contact Stay in front of the window. Lumina, not forward. Zula, not backward. Back in front of the window Get out of the moving walkway. And kiss. On your knees. Well arched Buttocks Then it starts Here you go. Get closer. Yes... Move away Get closer again Now you can do that thing... that thing you do in the end. And... boom! That hook should be changed It scares me Good And please turn the work lights off on the set Girls, change places You, the three new girls Together, together Try to feel each other. Yasna, good on the right, bad on the left. Bend your right hand, Yasna. Bend your right hand Not too much. Higher Perfect Thank you. The main question is the lighting We cancelled Vestal in order to make more side lighting available. Part of the light plot was dedicated to Vestal Without Vestal, we can do better and play with the colours of the side lighting. This iob requires and I somehow speak in your We should first clean all these spotlights that all have a thick layer of dust inside And then we should check on the whole show and on with the costumes, to see the result to see what needs to be adjusted We may need more side lighting to outline the bod Its the basic lighting in ballet. It picks the bodies out and makes them more legib We must use it more and better. This reviewing of the show brings back my eternal please, lets try to close for some time Without closing Philippe, lm sorry, the answer is no What? I cant, we cant. Think about it, lets talk to the boss. I know that hell say no If you want to make a big step forward, and reach a higher quality in the show... We claim to have the best nude dancing show in th and that were renewing this type of show so give me the means to achieve it. If we want a dazzling premiere that will impress the intellectuals and all, let Some things cant be achieved if we never close I can only pass on the shareholders position which has been the same for a year. I cant believe there are no legal solutions to i I understand that paying 60 people for doing noth Wven if some of them may clean the spotlights. There must be a solution There are firms that close and... Take a vacation. And dont go bankrupt. It can be done. I insist that we find a solution. Im convinced that a break is needed to ensure a I just know that the shareholders said no At a certain point, they must understand - We also have constraints. - I agree. They ask us to deliver a quality show. And it involves quite a few things including clo If not, the quality wont be there Id be disappointed - The show works. - Right Its important. Im not blackmailing you, Im just saying its important Just look at how Evolution works This act has been worked on year after year! Giving me only one or two weeks to deliver is inh I need similar conditions to reach the same leve as Evolution, which has been worked on for year Even if I put all my talent and energy into it I may sometimes be wrong, I need to adjust and improve I agree on this. But Therefore I cant deliver I cant go on blindly to deliver 3 new acts The finale is very important we do need a new on Just give me a rough idea of your schedule. For the finale, end of July I already asked three times for extra time, and theyre on my back I keep my head down... We have to face what creation is about I agree with you, but... Once again, with a new finale and a solution to some problems of overlapping se we basically have a new show, dont you agree? We have a show with four or five old acts instead but the overall mood is really different After we changed the interludes and the overall p Right, Philippe, but the shareholders dont care. They said: Only three old acts - Ill explain to them - OK Thats all I can say They tell me: This is not what was agreed Because its creation and you cant control every I know they think in terms of a business plan, but still, its about art Suppose they ordered a painting of a farm and I think that the cows should be here even if they wanted the cows to be there A painting is art. I know that the cows should be here! You may have to justify yourself though l agree with you. Youll work all summer? Well do Venus. What happened with Venus? Didnt I tell you? Well the girls often come out of this act in tear They hate touching each other They dont like it Because of the bizarre culture they have here The girls are definitely not dirty They really hate touching each other... They are modest Getting closer than this... there seems to be an invisible wall they bump into, and they wont get closer And what if it was a solo? They do have a problem pretending to do things Very few like to pretend. So we should work on it so that it becomes technically possible. I like Zulas idea, even if l must check on it to put moon boots on the revolving cage The first cosmonaut would have to go like this It could be funny and interesting but it means work and another technical challenge Well see. Yes! Shall we have the second group? It,s half an inch short here Here we go On the third cha, off you go. Over here. Then you move on... You move on... Youre too... You have to do everything sideways Right, much nicer Its really good Yeah, its The shadows are dancing Go. And... one... and ...two... And then... a lesson in shadows. I place my body according to focus Like in front of a camera lens The focus is there. You always have to... even if its weird, you have to play like this, or like that, in order to make the body visible Sharper saut de chat A saut de chat should make you move to the side, thats the idea. Dont stay there. Right! You move to the side Its 6 oclock, girls. We should stop. Thank you very much, girls So France Billets, perfect. A Diamond package Francis? Right For two? All right. Your name, please? First name, please. Michel Perfect. May I have your mobile number? A pro forma invoice? Yes Good evening. On stage in twenty-five minutes. A dancer for stage manager. Any dancer? Zula, did i give you the invitation? Yes, thanks. I love the show. Some things need to be improved. We dont know about the wigs But I found the music really pleasant and funny. It stays in your head But now, I dont feel good with the ending Whispers? It needs revision. Even more than the finale Like what? It needs something Right now, it falls flat. Good evening. Perfect, thank you. I believe thats us. Yes, actually. So, somewhere... Somewhere here or over there... Or maybe here? Yeah, that will be good. Take this gentleman to number 417. Instead of number 212 Sir Youre welcome, have a nice show, Sir Good evening. Smile, please. Baby, cant you see? Im calling. A guy like you should wear a warning. its dangerous, Im falling... Theres no escape, l cant wait, l need a hit, baby, give me it, youre dangerous, Im loving it. Too high, cant come down, losing my head, spinning round and round, do you feel me now? With the taste of your lips, Im on a ride, youre toxic, lm slipping under, taste of your poison paradise, Im addicted to you, dont you know that youre toxic? And I love what you do, dont you know that youre toxic? lts getting late to give you up, I took a sip from my devils cup, slowly its taking over me. Too high, cant come down, its in the air and its all around, can you feel me now? With the taste of your lips, Im on a ride, youre toxic, lm slipping under, taste of your poison paradise, Im addicted to you, dont you know that youre toxic? Intoxicate me now, with your loving now, I think Im ready now, I think Im ready now. Intoxicate me now, with your loving now, I think Im ready now, l think Im ready now. Intoxicate me now, with your loving now, I think Im ready now, l think Im ready now. Intoxicate me now. lts getting late to give you up, I took a sip from my devils cup, slowly its takin over me. It must have hurt Hes a big star in Russia A Bolshoi soloist Hes very popular. Everywhere. He has some physical qualities. This is unique! You make me so No Just the way she got up... The floor looks slippery. These are dancing mats. It looks tough. It is tough. You can see it Great, no? We hardly see each other You see the darkness of a long coat trailing behi I catch the whiteness of a summer dress Im only a shadow and you youre a light Yearning for more than a blue day, I enter your new life for me, burning for the true day, I welcome your new life for me. Forgive me, let live me, set my spirit free. forgive me, let live me, set my spirit free. Losing, it comes in a cold wave, of guilt and shame, all over me, a child has arrived in the darkness, the hollow triumph of a tree. Forgive me, let live me, kiss my falling knee, forgive me, let live me, bless my destiny. Forgive me, let live me, set my spirit free, weakness sown, now overgrown, Man is the baby. Forgive me, let live me, set my spirit free. Weakness sown, now overgrown, Man is the baby, Man is the baby. - Are you in Scanner? - No. We should try it, if you dont mind. There wiil be a reversal of scenes. Maybe we wont deliver Infrared at the end of the week. Did you know? It was decided yesterday. Philippe iust told me Scanner is far from being ready, but well try to be ready. If this lady would kindly take this off... Then well try a new costume for Venus - For Venus - Yeah Well make it more like... a Formula One champ... rather than I was also told yesterday that we have to try the skirts on. Absolutely New skirts Yes For you. Do you have to change it? Because the one I have now is really great. The material looks very nice with the lights. It looks nice but something still bothers me. The material is so shiny that when you dance like this, leaning on the table with the lighting behind instead of making nice round buttocks, you get bony buttocks. The light draws a stroke like this on your buttoc And you end up with something bony Instead of something round, see? But with this new skirt made of a matte material you feel the curves It doesnt catch the light and its more elegant, like for a woman CEO Theres something more elegant about it I really loved the other material too, but with the lighting... it becomes Too bright It spoils your figure I really had the impression... while, I mean, the idea is to have nice round but It didnt do it We also thought that this material would be too fragile to be used long term, and so on Meanwhile, wear it Youll see the new one Daisy tried it on, and its lovely Come here, Jrome, I have a hard time undressing the lady. Go undress in the fitting room and then come to me Would you have some shoes for me? You want slippers? Thanks Ill find some. Baby buns is what they call me when l pass... Oh, hey! Oh, darling! Shes floating like a butterfly, so charming... Baby girl! She recognized the man in me. Number 1 in the world. Theres something in her eyes like a spell gett oh lord, she gave me one smile, two smiles, thre she got me going wild. Worth more than diamonds and pearl. So, baby, dont change your style. Sweet honey! Oh no, no, no! Tease me, tease me, tease me, tease me, baby! Till I lose control. Tease me with your loving until l lose control. Take all my body and soul, oh girl. Youre early again. You in the back, do something else. Woman, tease me till I lose control, me ball tease me and tickle up me fancy, right round the clock until me reach climax, and when we reach, me will tell fi stop, Will ya aim fi de sky and will not turn back, br you make me heart tick like a clock... Woman, tease me, And take a look me weak spot Only your touch can make me, holds me up I like this... what Lumina is doing You look like cheerleaders, but... Woman, your love is like fire burning inna me so Woman, tease me till I lose control. Tease me, tease me, tease me, tease me, baby! Good, lm happy we understand each other, were improving They want me to carry out a lot of improvements. Without closing? No way? Today, its no way. And no it is I keep insisting... Im rather... Stubborn But since l deliver what Im supposed to... I dont give up... When I talked to the boss, he sounded happy. Hes reassured. I went to see him and said: Fire me. I didnt fulfil our agreement I take full responsibility, but Ill explain why There are various problems. Lets sort them out. If Im sometimes inefficient its not only because of my being useless. We go one step forward, two steps backward We cancelled some acts like Venus and Scanner I cant be brilliant every morning and thats that Find someone who can and hire him. Apart from that, are you happy? Im passionate about my job. My job now is to do the Crazy Horse show, and it keeps me quite busy I see only whats wrong and I work on it The rest is normal to me. When its good, its just normal. Yet Im still deeply worried when I see a show like last night We had great dancers and great technicians compared with less fortunate shows But there still was one mistake per act. These constant errors frighten me. The infrared broke down the other day. All these little things can make the show good or First, the curtain for Infrared was slanted The image was blurred They forgot one of the tulles while screening Dai It was screened on the curtain and you saw absolu Were supposedly the best chic nude show on earth. Fine, we can do it But if anything breaks, you have to wait, the act has to stop and we all look ridiculous! Im worried because of the weaknesses of the team. Someone talked about reorganizing the structure of stage management. It could be useful. Im trying to do it. Ill see Maurizio about it Hes not convinced, I am Which means? For example, l would like Rico to be the stage ma Rico is very reliable. Ricos quite reliable. If hed be the stage manager I would go to him for any problem and he would ha Today, a wrong curtain is nobodys responsibility Its their stupid rule all jobs are interchangea It makes sense with the dancers not with the technicians I tried to explain it to Andre and to the boss Imagine youre the boss today, a secretary or an And the next day youll take care of marketing They are supposed to know how to do everything. They must be able to take over for each other. This system has to change If not, it will remain shaky and fragile They should know everything but with more precise Responsibilities Some of the technicians cant be stage managers. There are things that they just cant do Lets face it and put them in the right place. Right Were all faced with our limits For some things. Im just useless, I just dont d Thats why I wont do Que calor! Let me compliment you: youre all just great Speaking about Que calor... you were in it yesterday. I think that you dont like the act but you do it Youre funny and punchy. Thats generous. Lets keep it that way Today is InternationaI Day for Biodiversity Lets talk about the invasion of exotic species. This species digs burrows in the ground The water will therefore be much muddier We need a method to coordinate the design shops. We cant shift from one plan to another or give up one thing and go to the next Another idea. one girl instead of two... These constant changes in the organization we had led me to the complete madness I experienced the other day We do a sloppy job. Its not the tradition here. Nothing is green-lighted in the production meetin so I dont want to attend them because I have a job to do... Roselyne kept you posted though. She did, thats what we had agreed The new schedule My fault. I admit it Thats not it, thats not it. It changes all the time At each meeting, we change everything. - There are reasons. - I know the reasons! I try to be the most You must understand that we simply cant do a good job with the same enthusiasm we had in the beginning and for a result that would honour the Crazy And everybody. What we did was... shitty You cant do as you please with the girls They do the splits facing the audience... Or not. or whatever... You dont take chances with a naked girl. The costumes may not be important to you they ar But we dont have the time to validate anything with you nor with Andre At least you! We had a creation meeting scheduled weekly. Its been three weeks without any. No more creation meetings. The production meetings give us a one-week perspective, never more. What do we do? I cant go on like this. Its making me crazy My idea for the title Make Me Crazy was not me crazy but the men in the audience. The girls make them crazy, not me Me, lm happy to work, l love what I do making the girls look beautiful. I cant ruin Roselynes work ruin the image of the Crazy, I cant ruin myself Should I remain silent and act like a little mous Its not my fault. Its absurd! We have to be happy and proud of what we do In the beginning, I felt honoured, but in the end... I dont want to shame the Crazy. This meeting is about this: we should have a complete review from beginning t and then share the work out between us, so that the planning is completed within a week. If I cant have the full picture, lll give up We felt it was logica that youd oversee all the costumes of the new show to keep it coher Thats what they asked me at first, so Its much better that way, since myself I now should oversee the consistency in terms of choreography, music and structure. If I cannot supervise the whole show, it will end up being shaky. The same goes for you. You should supervise the costumes as a whole. As for the method to do it, frankly Im lost, I dont know We have an approval process which is normal for all the decisions. You have to approve Andre must approve, and Roselyne must approve. It became anarchic because at the same time we were creating a new s We should know who does what We are always in creation Its been going so fast that we lost touch with c OK. Yes Dont smile. Dont look at me, look in front of you. Let me... Let me see... Yes, perfect OK... OK... turn your head Turn your head a little bit on this side. Lumina, please understand that these women are like riva At first, they size each other up, they look each other up and down, they judge each other to see whos stronger, more beautiful more competent Then comes a phase of seduction with a touch of r They go into a kind of fight both lethaland loving and one kills the other Zoo be zoo be zoo be zoo be zoo... Here we go Push your hips up. Dont swing it, position yourself in profile. We dance kind of funky, you might think were somewhat naughty, but please, dont you get the wrong idea. Forward and up All men with plenty of money... Baby, go backward, keep in line with the others. Profile if you would like to be happy, in Paris, come to the Crazy Horse saloon. Lena, keep your hips up. Dont lower your head. Final pose Thank you, girls We take it from Is that it? ...Darling, what did you do with that pearl? What? Pam pam pam pam. l am a good girl. Hop hop hop... Hop Good OK! Pipimpipimpim... Good! Bang Backward! Turn around Oh yes! I know what happened. I showed you something thats not in it. This was good But when youre there... You have no retire, youre here. You dont lose time. I just saw that l taught you incorrectly. This foot down... and turn around. Right It gives you more time I showed it to you with a retire But it takes one beat more and you miss it. Leg down, foot down... it helps you turn around Right. Exactly. And you leave. There Its been an excellent rehearsal. Finale on stage, please Desire is on! I noticed that the good thing with Stars of Par was that the three rows of sidelights were on Sorry, but the problem is... were not in the lighting angle The moving walkway and the letters are not lit by the sidelights We could add more all the same for the feeling What worked well yesterday was that at times all these lights were on and anyway we had these two on... intermittently So, in addition to the basic lighting, well need these Not always, butiust to have some sort of progres so that you have more and more light. Youre doing too many things at the same time You decide on the lighting aesthetically while setting the lighting to the music What I would do... what I did for Jungle and with Dita was to try it first manually without recording th We have to record it, its for tonight Weve been rehearsing manually for two days. We can check it together Could I have an almost naked girl inside a letter? Almost naked? Yes This is beautiful Itd be more beautiful if the letters were animat Frankly, l... Thats sublime Right, but we cant have everything at the same t We said wed have an animation on the curtain, r And on the letters It stays when the curtain goes up But at that moment, the girls are just posing So youd cut the animation and light the faces To me, its madness, its much too quick When the curtain goes up wed see only silhouett Then the girls take their places, sing and stay there. This is when lighting the faces makes sense because it lasts. I understand your idea of the first image but it No animation of the letters It has to open, possibly with some smoke The opening could be a maxi-shock. Minus three, approximately... Two doubles... Silicone rubber Bust size... Ill see about the straps when youre on stage. Right now, theyre adjustable. Let me see the back. If the straps are too stretched the back sags down, one cant see the curve. So you should I think... its all right Lets try it with the fringes. Where are they? I dont know. Ill get the fringes from Roselyne Half an inch there Thats better. You were too close. Try to adjust, approximately If its too high, you adjust Look for the right position. Youre not centered, girls Same here: it,s nicer with only the buttocks pres Stick the bust out. You look like a pile of pudding. Right, thank you! Keep playing with your fingers sensual l ittle f Youre not listening! I am Diagonally means your forearm to the light and a Right! This is nice And here you have to throw your arm put the other on it As if you were designing the glove Dont do... It has to be fluid, fluid You pull it and you stretch it and then... off. Excellent, Liv Ive always been a devoted admirer of the Crazy It was more than admiration, it was an obsession Ive seen the show at least forty times I was always here, I sang the songs... I cant do it now that Im part of the team. I play the music at home and my assistants go cra theyre fed up with You told me Im a good girl. So Im just very obsessional Ive had various obsessions Saint-Laurent, Marlene Dietrich Helmut Newton, the Crazy The Crazy is one of my strongest obsessions. And when Im so obsessed with something I put my whole life in it. Im obsessed with details that may not interest P whos more about another vision of femininity. At a certain point he may have had some difficulties here Maybe because hes worked here too long with everybody interfering and having an opinion And since Philippe is very democratic, he tends to listen to everybody. I dont. I listen to maybe three people whom I believe in I may even be too much of a dictator So Ali, are you the co-director of the show? The artistic director. Philippe is the director Artistic director because... I came in much later than him, and also because most of the acts were already co The artistic director... takes care of the ideas Some acts we designed together. Others have been designed by Philippe My job is to look at things in a new light I come after him. Im not a co-director. Philippe is the director The one who conceived most of the acts. Im just an artistic director But these are only titles. At the end of the day, everyones involved in a way that we dont know whos the boss between us But anyway... its still Philippe who is... on top He deserves it because of his talent and experien the legitimacy that gives him rights. Once again Same thing, lets go. Go. You were late again Sing in playback, girls Youre right together with the one on the chair. The friends arrive Wheres the other friend? Theres another one. Number 6 Too early with the hand, Linda Screen Its nice if they continue to sing. Two acts will become classics. Theyre purely Crazy Theyre brand new and totally Crazy at the same t Youll have to see it to understand Philippe captured the essence of our brand While creating something... almost revolutionary One of the acts is... Mr Bernardin from his grave would say If I were still here, ld have done that one. Which one? Blushing with Desire Mr Bernardin had his own definition of eroticism Whats yours? The ultimate thing is to suggest To seduce, without offering oneself. Restraint. I agree with Mr Bernardin: it happens through frustration and imagination. Through dreams, also. Dreaming is important. And this is... our trademark, in a way. The Crazy has created, celebrated and refined a certain form in the art. I think... an art to enhance... to glorify and set off women and womens games of erotic seduction in a way that is extremely sophisticated and inspiring Inspiring for women Some may not agree with me, but I think that the Crazy, somehow... Im not saying that women like it more... its probably the only place today where naked dancers on stage... really attract women! We have many women fans, many women clients Theres a key here When women posess the key to eroticism and enjoy men benefit from it. Thats how it goes anyway, sorry, at least for me. The key to eroticism is the woman. It goes both ways Both ways. Absolutely Could we see now... Light blue instead of red? No Lets run through other colours to see which one would suit us best Can you scroll the colours of the sidelights to see which colour could be better? This is too much Too red Here you lose the red on the rope Not bad Dark blue. Congo blue is not bad. Its interesting. Well go with Stars of Paris This one is perfect One, two...OK Done. OK? Come on... Last one Ali, are you particularly interested in costumes? Not particularly. Im interested in everything I may be more interested in costumes than Philipp Hes mainly a dancer, and the bodies are his instruments Im more interested in the ways people transfigur Particularly in the way a woman can transform herself to look like the fantasy she has of herself Its amazing how women have the power, using what nature gave them, to display artifices, tricks and strategies They can transform themselves. Beauty counts less than what you do with it When a woman is over twenty-five, her beauty is something she earns and constructs My motto is: there are no ugly women. Only women who refuse beauty because they deny their femininity. There are lazy women I think that any woman with the right assets can go beyond what she was born with. You may see girls who are beautiful when theyre young but dont age well They rely on the beauty they were given without making any effort and they lose their lo They remain stuck to their image as little girls. On the other hand, as we see it here Well, theyre alleautiful. But I often noticed that those of the girls who objectively have a perfect anatomy are not the best on stage they rely only on beauty The beauty they are born with gives them self-con They dont have to go beyond that While those who maybe have had complexes have developed a strategy and a personality that help them transcend their handicap It makes them more fascinating and mysterious on Theres despair, a feeling that all the love on earth wont be eno ...Minus ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four Ignition Paris is at the Crazy And the Crazy is Paris The Sacred-Heart... There is a Sacred-Heart in every Crazy-girls he You see the Crazy-girls as soldiers They are the soldiers of the wrotic Army D-e-s-i-r-e! The girls of the Crazy taste like champagne Champagne tastes like the girls of the Crazy Champagne flows through your fingers The girls of the Crazy! Horse! Paris is at the Crazy And the Crazy is Paris D-e-s-i-r-e! Crazy! Best take. Right. Lets have one more. What is Nahia doing? She doesnt understand Is it because youre new here? Are you Spanish or what? Ive been working here for one year! Youre not like Nooka, Zula or Psykko... Do you want to be hop? On Thursday? Right? Put in costume. Im not going to put it there, I dont have enough space. Go ahead, they are not here. You freaked me out. But yes... Its mine, we are going to put this aw You really freaked me out this one Feel the air... Nice! Well catch a cold. Closed! On. Fall in! On! Steady right! Start steady Look up! Still! By the right! Quick mark... time And! Outside! Guards Eyes... up! Stand at ease Shut Salute! Down Zoo be zoo be zoo... Zoo be zoo be...means that l love you, Zoo be zoo be zoo... Zoo be zoo be...means that l love you, Zoo be zoo be...means that l love you. Zoo be zoo be zoo Changes No, no,no. There are no changes Its a diapo, there are no changes in leopards. But in Infrared But no I dont like it. Sorry, girls What? The choreography sticks too much to the music Thats good. This comes from Jungle. With a girl behind That comes from Evolution. Its a pitty because its really good And Lumi she turns on her left. - I love that. - Beautiful. Impressive. Yeah, its better with two girls. I like the idea of the leopard lighting on the Why is he mulling over the pursuit... Yes but its in the Prelude - The lighting is great! - Beautiful! Theyre like panthers. We cant see the girl behind! Too bad! Shes dead Shes spent. We should have seen her die I... yxplain... you all understand French? Let me explain how the audition goes Its very simple, dont stress out Its really simple Youll go on stage with just a G-string on And your shoes if you want. Youll be on our stage with nice lighting. Youll have music and youll improvise during one When youve finished, you come back here. OK? This audition is meant to see your body proportions and physical aspect. Its not about your dancing or performing capacit Well see whos a dancer and whos not anyway You dont have to warm up or to do the splits or whatever Be pretty, classy, relaxed, dont stress out. And push your buttocks out. OK? She fainted before the audition! The firemen came! - Today? - Today. What is happennig is that... Could you please come and watch a second I dont know. Thank you. Please stay on the stage Music off. Can you take off your shoes? Take position Put your knees together Profile Thank you. Next Oh yeah Yeah its fun... I saw his waist and that he hadnt breasts and I said wow OK, good. Thank you Maurizio Thank you. We dont hire transsexuals. I found it charming Please open the curtain, cut the house lights. All the dancers on stage, line up, no shoes. Quite a line Sorry, girls, you have to stay there We have to compare the heights I know you may feel idiotic So, one... - The third - The fourth. Next, not sure, not sure... that one The fifth, the one with the blue G-string And that one Have them step forward. Girls, I dont remember your names and Im all mixed up. So, starting from the control booth Right, there Number two... Number four... Number five Whats her name? Olivia. I remember one name Next one. Melissa, come forward And the last one, Tatiana We have six. Wont you keep the Italian girl? The one with the nice buttocks? Nice indeed Until the rehearsal ? The one who dreams ofjoining the Crazy? I dont like her - The Italian? - Right, true Those who are in front will remain, the others may go and Ill ioin them soon Get together Olivia, youre small, but never mind Small is cute. Its not pejorative The number two looks like Kate Moss True. Her legs are short. It doesnt matter Can you please turn around? Push your buttocks out. Backwards, bend, bend, thats it. More. - More? - Yes How many Russians are there? Theyre the best These two are the best, no? A gap between the thighs. Doesnt matter. Profile, please. Shes beautiful. Very cute. And shes got character. To the dressing room. Ill be right with you Not bad Its a supreme achievement of beauty under variou For us, it has been a huge joy to work here When Im in a rehearsal, l sometimes think: Not only do I attend a real rehearsal but were directing it I have to pinch myself to make sure l belong... to this place of ultimate refinement, beauty and - Did I answer your question? - Splendidly. And now, in English, with the same eloquence. Well its very difficult to... how do you say rsumer, to resume? Its very difficult to sum up the show of the Cra because its in fact a different er side of the woman and the erotism defined initially by Bernardin So, its not like a... total story its more a portion of desire that you receive, but the thing is that I always... when I first time I saw the Crazy Horse it was for me one of the most beautiful the most moving thing I ever saw in my life And I always think that everybody like really the French government should force ev and see the Crazy Horse once in his life, to understand how a woman can how the... what level of beauty a woman can reach how powerful it can be and how much its much more about only desire, its about emotions that go beyond your mind that touch your unconscious and go through your v I have goose bumps, and l bring friends here who had a preconceived idea of the Crazy Horse who thought that it was a revue for Japanese tour who came here, and people from the art, big actress great directors who came here and who were entranced. And I have friends who come here and who cry when they see such a level of beauty. And for us to be able to work on this place and sometimes realize that in fact we are at this highest level of... beauty and feminity that could ever be reached and we are in fact part of that is something that is really thrilling and we have to pinch ourselves to realize that it So its not... we cannot reduce the Crazy Horse t it really is something thats beyond any... I rarely see something... feel something You can have the same impact when you look at Sh or Fellinis or Fassbinder movie, or Michael Powell, who inspire us for the show - yes, when you are in front of those piece of art, you can have this thrill. And I had something similar with the Crazy Horse. In your eyes I shall drown. May I? To drown in your eyes is a happiness Ill come and say I love you so much May I? No, its not easy to love. Its hard. very hard. Ill come close to a steep cliff Will you catch me in time? If I go away, will you write to me? I cant be without you. I want to be with you. Not for a minute, not for a month. Forever. All my life, do you understand? Im afraid of your answer Answer me, but dont say a word Answer me with your eyes. Do you love me? If you do, I promise that youll happy with me forever If you dont, then I beg you, dont look at me, dont kill me If you want to love someone else, do it But remember me just a little Ill go on loving you. Agreed? Like it or not, Ill love you and Ill always be there for you whenever you need me. Crazy... Paris... Paris comes to the Crazy The Crazy is Paris The Eiffel Tower... The Eiffel Tower is all lit up like a girl of th The Crazy is Paris Paris comes to the Crazy What is your name? D-e-s-i-r-e! Youll dream of the Crazy naked in your bed The girls of the Crazy will watch over you D-e-s-i-r-e! The girls of the Crazy taste like champagne Champagne tastes like the girls of the Crazy Champagne flows through your fingers The girls of the Crazy! Paris comes to the Crazy and the Crazy is Paris. The Sacred-Heart Theres a Sacred-Heart in every Crazys girl! You saw Crazys girls like soldiers They are the soldiers of wrotica army, D-e-s-i-r-e! The girls of the Crazy taste like champagne Champagne tastes like the girls of the Crazy Champagne flows through your fingers The girls of the Crazy! Paris comes to the Crazy and the Crazy is Paris. D-e-s-i-r-e! Crazy!
