 

                        Ma? Why'd you marry Dad? He was one of my brother's friends; one day he just asked me That's it? That's it Nothing else happened? Really? No I don't believe you. You're leaving something out - Like what? - He had to fight for you - He was a fighter, all right - And he kidnapped you Didn't he? Yes Then what happened? Then he took me to a hut up in the mountains I was a prisoner there for three days Were you scared? Oh, Yes. He was so strong Then? Then he took me to the top of the mountain To show me the world He said: All that belongs to you and me And then he kissed me so hard, I can still feel it Just like a film Better... Much better And the tits of Mary Cobb have each one got a knob To play with, to play with... I got a present... From the boys at work I got something, too What? Later So? She's still got all her clothes on She's a princess. They always dress in white And the prince had to fight for her first Then he was allowed to marry her You believe that crap? Yes Want to know why grown-ups get married? So they can fuck You know what that is, fucking? Not really Don't know much, do you? - That's what grown-ups do? - If they're not fighting Your parents do it, too Look That's your mother And that's your father And that's fucking Like to try it? Listen To fuck well, you have to learn to kiss well I know how to kiss With your tongue? That's kissing... And here's where you learn it Don't worry. I've scored here loads of times You're lucky. That's Kathy, she's the hottest of them all Go and sit next to her, or someone else will get her - Look at her teeth! - Then look at her legs Don't tell me you blew a chance like that! I didn't know what to do And now, ladies and gentlemen! The most beautiful women in the world Step right up! Step right up! And let me introduce you to Tiger Rita! And right here the one and only Eva Pavlova, the terror of Warsaw! See their breasts? They're topped with nipples When you rub them, they get stiff And when they get stiff, you know you're in business. Got it? Here, this'll make you feel better I never saw a woman like that before - Beautiful... - No, hot! If anyone can teach you, it's her... What a woman! Come on. Now you'll see what fucking is Mummy! Can we go? - Play some more. Here - No... The ginger one is Theo. He's in my class Didn't know his mother was like that - Can I come? - Of course not... Bloody hell! That ginger bastard I thought they were really going to do it Right in front of us That'd have been worth seeing Know where Ginger lives? Yes, but I've never been there Then it's time we went there to play Tomorrow You sure it's here? Yes What a woman Theo? I never saw a woman like that before - I'm horny as a rabbit - Me, too I need to cool down That's better I need some water too This may be your big day, kid I can't Don't be scared. She's blind drunk She won't wake up What shall I do? Remember what that bloke at the fair did to her? Do the same as him Go on - She smells good - Because she's horny Lie down on top of her. Lie down I still haven't done it I'll show you something that'll make you feel better Watch now But make sure you don't do it too often You might get a crooked back Or go crazy Ma, dad didn't kidnap you, did he? No Why did you lie to me? Because you're so young Everything is ugly No. There are many beautiful things in life, son Go to sleep now - You must be nervous - Why's that? It's your last day at school I can still remember my last day at school The school dance The girls were sweating. And not just from dancing... - Do you use the cream I gave you? - Every day, but it doesn't help much - You must be patient - I've been patient for two years lt'll go away eventually And if you don't scratch you won't have any scars Here, try this. And come back next week So what do you want to be, later? Not a doctor, for sure Lisa Velani I'll fuck her tonight or my name's Harry Frankenstein Harry Voss Harry Voss - Didn't dare show himself, huh? - With that ugly spotty mug of his... Dreaming again? You think too much lt'll give you a headache Your diploma Wondered if you wanted to come to the school dance - Why you asking me? - Cos I don't want to go on my own And I like to be the best looking I don't like parties. Too many people - Then we'll go somewhere else - Where? Where there's no people What you doing? Let the wind carry my message. In my soul there is a song She's the answer to all my problems Though her heart doesn't know it yet - I didn't know you were a poet - It's easy when you're in love Know who I wrote that for? Read the first letter of each line I love her... I love them all, but they aren't interested in me So come to the dance and you can read it to her Are you nuts? I can't even talk to her It's easy when you're in love You think this is what women dream of? You don't know women. They can look right through men When Lisa looks at you, she won't see your spots... she'll see the poet in your eyes If you don't do it tonight you never will Congratulations! The Future Beckons See her anywhere? - Hello Marina - Hello, handsome - Will you dance with me later? - Of course Don't forget, eh? Friend of mine Hey, she's on her own - What should I do? - Ask her to dance - She doesn't dance - Of course she dances. Go on - OK, it's fixed - What is? You'll see. Come on - There she is - Who is? Marina. I made a date with her I'll go first. Then we'll swap - But I don't know her - That doesn't matter But I don't feel anything for her That won't stop you doing it She won't want me She's not like Lisa. Marina likes doing it... with everyone She knows you're part of the deal - Really? - Yes. I'll be quick, OK? I'll need some more soon You can have more right now Have you taken a pill? No, but I've got a friend. He's waiting outside Do I know him? He's a sensitive boy. A poet A poet? - All right? - Well, if you can't do it Your turn - You sure she wants me? - Yes, she's ready for you Come on, little poet. I'm getting cold Sorry Finished already? Look, Frankenstein. If you're trying to be funny... - Incredible! You did it - Yes, with shit paper Any whisky left? - In the car - Take me home Here, let me Go on Drive on! I live right there But I can't make it Can't you carry me in? I really can't make it Is that yours? It's my poem Where did you get it? On a train You can keep it. I don't need it anymore Have a heart, carry me indoors I can hear it beating... So you have got one - Bill! - Harry! - Where have you been? - Vacation For how long? Three months in prison, eight months in jail... And how are you? I'm thirsty... and broke Silence. Hospital I'm tired I live nearby. I'm looking after someone's house Someone? Who I don't know and who doesn't know me - Dare we? - For old times' sake - We never dared before - You never dared! Let me do it Nice place So we did it It weighed less than I thought It was mellow He's still warm She's dead But she's alive No Harry... I wouldn't do that Best woman I ever had You only ever meet one like that We'd better bury her or we'll get into trouble She's too beautiful to bury Where are we going? To a wedding And do you take as your lawful wedded husband Harry Voss For better and for worse Until... ...death do you part Until death do you part
