 

                        Hudsucker State Penitentiary No, no... Just fried Gurwitz You're next, Ajax But I'm innocent, innocent I tell ya Don't give them the satisfaction Ajax! Well, good luck kid, | give my regards to God Come on, I got a seat for ya! Say, you look like | a couple of reasonable fellows so let me explain what's going on here I'm not supposed to be here! It's all a big mistake It's not hard killing and these things do happen and naturally I can explain everything see I only worked for | Mr Odegard and Mr Trend I was an employee in the security shop and Mr Odegard wasn't | a very nice guy and... Don't sit up Vic! I guess he was planning to | sell the shop right up from under Mr Trend's nose Oh, tell me Odegard | dear l-o-b-e love it Did it die, did it... | trip your alarm? Frankly, Renaldo, what you do | with this shop after you bought it | doesn't interest me in the least Let's keep this little transaction | to ourselves I wouldn't want my partner | to know he's losing his business Somehow, Mr Trend | must have found out about it Mr Trend wasn't such a bad guy but he and his wife have spent... their whole life into that business | and...and... Mr Trend would have done anything | for his wife, anything Hello, exterminators, Trend? Are you there? Give me the word, | come on We Kill All Sizes Tonight, you'll be working late, alone... and make it quick I don't want him to suffer Do you hear that? | He doesn't want him to suffer! Helene, I'll never let that rat destroy | our happiness you can count on it So, sssooo you see... I had no idea Mr Trend | was up to something nobody did, | he was between the two partners :...I had nothing to do with it :f you could only find Nancy, | she's my witness if you could only find her | she'll tell you I'm totally innocent She'll tell you the whole time | I was across the street from the shop installing the video security system in Mr Trend's apartment building Mr Trend! Honey, I'm home Who is it? It's me Mr Trend! Oh, hi! | Vic, what's on your mind? It's only a stamp thing, | it's a broom closet! Well, one more camera Mr. Trend and it's... back to the shop Fine, back to the... You know Vic, | I'm glad we ran into each other in this amusing fashion For a long time now | we've been working hard with you you know you're always been | more than just an employee to Helene and : Honey, I'm home You find this work appealing | don't you Vic? And how, Mr Trend! But have you ever thought | about the grand design? You know, | there's something missing in there Vic A door Mr Trend? What's behind the door Vic? Oh,... Oh...Jeez,... Mr. Trend I'd love to have it | for you but on my salary a larger apartment is... I'm not talking about the anteroom, | Vic... I'm talking about | the little princess inside Lord knows I'll do anything for Helene Don't go back to the shop Take the rest of the day off, | now you go out and find a little princess that you'd do anything for her, | now you go out here and find yours Oh, Thanks Mr. Trend Just make sure that... | she knows who's the boss Okay-okay Mr. Trend How are you Colonel? Adequate One might be loving hell of a storm You know how I can tell? No, how? Steel plate in my head Yes sir, career was no picnic Word of advice son, | when you hook up for a gee don't fuck with the silly that lives out Shields with nobody but present arms Yes Sir, there is one a woman | I can take care of herself... all by herself... Taking care of herself, | that's important but two people taking care of each other, | that's romance...romance Let's see: How to Talk to Girls chapter one: | The perfect woman Of course the perfect woman | is not just gonna walk into my life, Gee... Ohhooooooooo. Holy bolly! Oh! my goodness, are you OK? Come on fuck, | you're in the middle of the road! You're a maniac! :ncredible, | I've never seen anything like that! Are you all right? | Oh, oh!! Oh you've got it in here... Jesus! One more thing child, | don't you ever call me a maniac Are you all right? Yeah, are you all right? Me? | Yes Excuse me? What? Oh, :... :...I thought you... | said something No Oh...you didn't? Well...Thanks again Oh! Would you... | Iike...to have... some lunch some evening? I'm sorry, No! Ah, or a cup of coffee? No, no, really, :... Ah, Ok! No, that's not...really... :... :f you're not hungry | maybe we could just chat... Hey, hey! ...I've got the rest of my day off and... Renaldo! Hi! Hey cupcake Say, where were you? I had to walk home from work Oh! :... Oh :... | ran into an old army buddy and I was detained Hi, I'm Vic Glad to know you Say, what the hell, | in the neighborhood what do you say you and I go out | and draw a couple of hours, huh? Well, I don't know... The date then | 8 o'clock Rialto Caf?, hey... Well, Okay! Socially the man's a genius, | I wonder if he's read this book Bye Baby! Good bye Renaldo, good bye! Nobody... in the city... | I ain't seen nothing like this... Storm! City in Chaos! Are you OK? Jesus, I don't know Did you see that? Helene, please come away | from the window :s that Mr Odegard's car down there? Honey, this roast is absolutely delicious :s Mr Odergard working late tonight? No, he went home, | to eat his dinner he was very hungry when he went home Ho, it looks like | there is a light on down there Helene, your food's getting cold He's still there honey | it's half passed 7 o'clock I didn't know he'd still there honey I didn't know that Mr Odergard | would be working late tonight Wait, I think somebody's with him I'm going down there Get off that fucking window! I'm sorry I'll go down You can't go out in this... | terrible weather Don't call anybody I'll see what's going on Remember what I said I didn't expect him in the shop tonight it's a complete surprise to me, | a total surprise...and... You'd like that wouldn't you baby? A thousand guys would give | a thousand bucks to have dinner with a girl like that Just look at that guy I'm not that kind of girl! Well, with a little of practice | you could learn to be Nice tie! Ooh! $ 76 Ok, here is forty you took the dinner, | I had the appetizer Call me a sport I'd call you a heel! So I'm a heel So whatever? So are you Maybe I'm just a guy who hates heels Maybe I'm a heel | who hates guys who hate heels Oh yeah? | Well maybe I'm a guy... Oh, ah... Loser Oh oh in the eye, noodles No one! No one! What the hell am I doing here? I got a Jesus Christ how do I get myself into this? So partner... Nobody makes a fool out of | Ernest Aloysius Trend now everything's hunky-dory No witnesses, | I know Officer I couldn't say where he is Enemies? Not that I know of, knew of... Yes | Donald was very much beloved by all Of course, sure he's all right Ah, ha, ha...! Ernest, is everything all right? Yes fine.... the shop Are you sure? ...back door... Ok, and come on honey, | your dinner is getting cold Ok, I'm coming home dear, good bye I used to think that the key to | happiness... was the insulation and | repair of small electrical appliances but...but I don't claim to know about the grand design but lately I haven't been able to shake the feeling that | something's missing and I'm not talking | about the four year at the anteroom Cherish is the word I'd use to | describe all the feelings that I have I didn't hear for you inside I don't know how many times | I wish that I had told you I don't know how many times | I wish that I could hold you I don't know how many times... I wish that I could | mould you into someone... I haven't seen you here before I like that kind of woman You're cute Keep talking baby, | maybe you'll tell me something I don't know about me ...I don't know how many times | I wish that I could hold you I don't how many times I wish... Arthur,... For all we know, | this is the guy that hired us Now it's a two for one sale So, I guess, what I'm trying to say is | that the perfect woman is is pretty much in the eye of the beholder Strange how some dames dick round where they can have frame rare Oh you're rare! No one can be perfect on the alarm Each person needs someone to believe them, to see them as being | someone special people shouldn't be afraid to | take care of each other Nancy, today, when I saw you fall all I wanted to do is take care of you I did... didn't you... Wow! Ernest Aloysius Trend, | what on Earth is keeping you? Have a cab? | You'll pay for that I don't want to break a hundred I take the bag sir Lady, you haven't seen nothing...yet! God mother's son, | what is all that work about here? Victor, you're a very nice guy and I appreciate what you try | to do for me tonight but this is one woman | who can take care of herself Vic, would you lend me $ 36? Sure! :f I had $ 36... I don't usually walk around with | that much money on me! So where on Earth | am I going to get $ 36? Ladies and gentlemen the winner of tonight's Rialto dance riot | will receive $ 36 Woman found torn limb from limb | in west side apartment Operator It's an emergency... | oh please, help me... there's a man...ah! Well you see my husband | was across the street and... ah...ah...before that, I've seen | Mr Odegard I've seen the car too late and :... Where am :? I like it that way Help! Help! Stop it you little punk I'll kick your ass Buckwheat I was going to | give you an advantage ...Iook at God sweetheart, | Mister or use the button what used to be and what made it Mr Yarman? Right down Mrs. Trend there's one way | to catch the rat in the dark you wait Rat, he just got to | show you his pink little ass You can't seem to catch this rat! I'll get you I even made what you could get away | from Mr Yarman You see? It's a long road that's got no end To catch a rat, you got to find him first Right A rat like me is hard to find Oh honey, look at that man! I'm not getting involved Hey, what's so funny of this rat to us Taxi Some night hah? Some night? | It couldn't have possibly been worst Look at the bright side You and your bright side? There is no bright side You're not being rational Nancy of course there is a bright side No bright side, no bright side, | no bright side, NO BR:GHT S:DE! Nancy, I'm going to pretend | I didn't hear that... Oh! I can take care of myself Of course you can, Nancy but taking care of each other, | that's what's important Your Gift Will Help A Needy Child | On Christmas You're ruining my day What did I do? What's all that noise? Car 9, car 9 | report to Watchtower apartments ...who are you anyway... POLICE Come on, come on You elevator Come on, God... I'm Captain in this elevator... and we are stopping at every floor Nancy, once we get you back | in your apartment and all cleaned up you'll feel like a million bucks, | here we go! OK Nancy, my eyes are closed you can hand me that dress now Can I open my eyes yet? Not yet! Behind you Open up please, Police Where did you get the Negro, Butch? Elevator What kind of paranoid schizo | could kill a man in cold blood and then jelly up his face | with shaving cream? My dad! Son! I don't know what I ever saw... in that heel in the first place... Oh, he's not such a bad guy, | just a little confused I'm confused too, Vic No Nancy, I think | your emotions are wonderful... I wish I could be as expressive as you you were so free when you kissed me in the restaurant and then you slapped I think you're wonderful... :... have to get some more Sudzo | for that dress I'll be right back Vic? I've just been thinking about | what you said... and it's very sweet but the truth is... I haven't been completely honest | with my feelings about you... Thank you for helping me tonight No problem Of all the men I've known, | none of them would have done what you did for me tonight Gosh! I just want you to know : | I think you're a very wonderful and a very special person It's not often I get a chance | to meet a girl like you Mrs Trend... you'd better get back to | your apartment there are a couple of maniacs | loose in this building I told you never to call me that Arthur! Every man for himself Ready or not, here I come Come back here Hey, baby, why don't you come |over to my pad? we'll have a scotch and sofa You heel So I'm a heel So what of it I'm not such a bad guy, or am I? Get out of the way Gotcha! I got him! Oh my God! A:R FRE:GHT / URUGUAY Would you cease immediately, | put her down this instant you filthy little man Who's gonna stop me you old bat Your little sad dogs? That's right Hey where are you going? Hey you're a real witch, son of a bitch Hey, what a drivers Wait a minute, I'm going to get you Nancy! What's the trouble son? Some maniacs are after my girl... and I wonder if you'd let me take your... Are you in love son? Yes sir, I reckon I do She sticks a little on third I don't claim to know a whole lot | about the grand design Those fellows are gonna suck | on some of you Arthur, go ahead, go on No, no,... Go ahead, take one No, no I don't need it Arthur, I tell you it's OK Go on Oh, we'll get her Silly, get out of the way Asshole! I'm coming Nancy! May way for my car! You're under citizen's arrest It's justice Should I stop? Not just yet Nancy, I need petrol What petrol? What? Oh, you're there! Right Mister! Look at your back! Medium or well done? I want my shocker Mister, you've done some bad things I'm gonna deal out some swift justice... this one's for bothering my girl... this one's for giving me this... this one's for ruining my date and here is one for | all the folks everywhere OK son, I'm out, please don't kill me... well...:... I'm sorry Sometimes, sorry is not good enough Wait, from now on I'll be good I swear it's the truth | just more gent, friend All right, | but just this once Put it there buddy Well it look like | it's the end of the road for you Vic Take a little... Arthur... Arthur! Victor! Nancy, Nancy I got you Nancy You still don't want stop to this? I certainly intend to This is a nightmare And away we go! Hold on kid, we're almost there You wanna play rough hey Let's go Eat guardrail, fatso! Fatso? Nancy, Nancy, jump! Nancy, jump! I can't make it You can make it I'm too far Gimme your hand Nancy Nancy! Hold on! Are you all right? No Nancy, please, oh, oh, ok not the hair, goodness, | oh, my goodness oh, are you all right? oh no! Oh who are those guys anyway? Oh, Gee.. I don't know I mean, where do they come from? oh, I can't believe... :...:...Well, how did they get you? Nancy, I came into your room and I thought you didn't care about me Oh! Vic, I do care... you save... And then I hit the water so you see I'm practically a hero,... oh thanks, so if it hadn't been for me there is no telling how many people | those maniacs might have killed Tell it to Saint Peter! Saint Peter? | Oh yeah that's a good one! But seriously, if you could just find Nancy she'll prove every thing I told you Nancy, Nancy, you probably | killed her just like all the others She is alive, I tell you, | she was on the bridge I don't know what happened to her but maybe if you ran a picture of her | in the paper Ah! sure! Yeah, | we'll run a picture of her? Yeah! Yeah! Next to your opening Yeah! Take my... Well, I still have five minutes Hold it! Hold it! Am I too late? No Oh! God, I didn't want to miss this Sayonara! That man is innocent! Nancy! Oh come on! Victor, darling, you have no idea When you fell off, I thought you were dead, I wondered for days What were you wondering about? And then, those sisters took me in Hi! I'm Vic I was about to take my vow of | eternal silence when I heard this horrible mistake in the newspapers Can you good sisters | corroborate this young lady story? They can't speak! They've taken the vow of eternal silence Too bad! Right! Hero executed...almost! Nuns break 40 year vow of silence She likes me!
