 

                        SOUND THE HORN Hour of count, hour of count. All up. Federal Penitentiary of Pelican Williams. Williams, get up or I will put you in solitary. It is this way better. Hour of count. All up. Hour of count. From 1934 at 1963, 28 lives in total they got lost in Pelican, already outside for murder, suicide or illness. But there was also quantity of other deaths that they never registered. What... what devils does it happen there below? Where devils are you? Show you. We go, convict. Behind, behind. Get up. What devils faces? Get up, convict. We go, convict. Up. Get up. What devils? Show you. The Pelican Curse Lngenieros body It Will Build Strong in the Isla of Pelican Isla of Pelican will Be Federal Prison I govern Investiga Deaths Horrendous in the Rock Revolt in Prison CERTIFICATE OF DEATH YOU CAUSE UNKNOWN ESCAPE OF PELICAN Pelican Guard Dies in Strange Accident. Pelican Closes. Pelican Transforms Into Property of National Parks - Not you did play anything? - No, I found this way it when entering. Very well, care. Salt of the road. I will hit. Very well. Does he/she hear, what does it happen there? What do you see there inside? What does it happen? He/she smells of shit. There, Mister. Greyson keeps to base. We have a situation in the island. Wool Campbell, Criminalstica, Police of San Francisco. You Were. the gamekeeper that it found it? Yes, they were remodeling the area when me... Has something played more? I cut the cloth to see what there was under. And he/she said that this cell was walled until today? Yes. I will need their name, personal information and their position in the park. Thank you... Greyson keeps. That will be everything. I am in charge of of here in more. This is not a scene of the crime. Not I know, Wool. I find that face quite fresh. It is because this place essentially it has been a mausoleum for heaven's sake he/she knows how many years. He/she takes an approach of the cloth. Do you see the symbols? They seem ceremonial. Maybe outside a funeral place. What there was here before that they built the prison? What you me. Good... at the moment I won't request support some. My preliminary evaluation it is that this is historical. Then we return it to him to Parks and Recreations? No. I Will Call to Hauser in the university. I will leave that him and their students be in charge of of digging. I am investigating of scenes of the crime, non archaeologist. - Students? - Of graduate degree. I have already worked with him. Their team is quite competent. And he doesn't find difficult a cent to my office. I will let them them to get dirty the hands. Will you need me no longer more? - No, you finished. - Very well. Do go view, not? I have lived all my life here. I am accustomed. I could never get tired of her. Ah, good morning. WARNING: PEOPLE THAT THEY OFFER OR HIDE ESCAPES... WELCOME INDIANS PENITENTIARY DE U.S. Devils, boys, all these girls are beautiful. Calm with the girls. We are working. We all should behave very well. There are good probabilities that this end up in the journalist. Not we need bad press. We facilitate a quick investigation for this people. I want them outside of here and to Pelican reabierta to the public as soon as possible. What difficulty is there, boss? It is easier that to fight with 1.000 tourists. Yes, good, those tourists pay our wage. The more time is closed the island, less opportunity has of getting increase. That came of up. Only watch over them, boys. Yes. It is this way. Michael, thank you to come with so little warning. They found remains in a secret dungeon in the heart of Pelican. How could I resist? When having known their boss of department, I understand that to you. they seem to fascinate him/her the mummified remains. I believe that these they precede to my jurisdiction. But if they find it, it would not bother me to stay a time... to see what they say. This is the guard Greyson. It was him who informed of the discovery. The and other two guards will be present during their demurrage. Good day, I am Michael Hauser of the department of Anthropology of San Francisco's State University. - But, please, call me doc. - Welcome to Pelican, doctor. They are the guard Vsquez and the guard Figgs. The island has been closed until let us arrive to the bottom of this. They stopped the renovations and we close it to the tourists. The guards are here as custody, but if they need something, they will be happy of helping them. Stupendous. I doubt that we are a great nuisance. Truth, Kurt? Allow me to present to the team that I have formed and their varied areas of experience. They are Andrew Dittmer, forensic anthropology; Tiffany Lynch, applied geociencias, and the anthropology student and black sheep of the family, Sr. Kurt Polsky; and finally, my assistant, Alissa Deerhorn, that he/she will be carrying out work post-doctorate in archaeology. All they are very capable, surely. I have fixed an exam room storm in the watch of the hospital of the prison. - I hope it is in the first floor. - Yes. He/she keeps, he/she can make that their men show them the road and do they help them with their team? In fact only we need address. Not it is very easy to walk here. I will make that the guard Figgs help them. Tiffany, you could help me with that, please? And Wool, if you like to show me the road... - We go. - Will we work, yes? Kurt, you could take a picture of this, please, before it exposes the face? Thank you. This cut in the cloth is recent. Who did make it? The guard Greyson. He/she said that there was a small opening at the beginning, but that he/she opened it a little more to see the content. That is understandable. Because we will begin the exhumation and he/she will end for ends of this afternoon what will put them on time at home to have dinner. Let us wait. Some initial observation? Good... definitively there is an agent preservative working here, possibly in the floor, the cloth or maybe the same body. The approximate year of the death... it costs to estimate it at first sight, but I doubt that it was a convict. - Why? - Their description for telephone it was incredibly detailed. He/she has indigenous origin. He/she costs to say it until let us discover it more, but I would say of principles of the century XIX. Can I look more than close? Please, yes. Not it is beautiful, not? What does it happen, Alissa? The teeth have been filed as eyeteeth. It is indicative of a tribe in particular? No longer. Of what tribe was it indicative? I have to see before more than it of being able to emit an informed opinion. Good, clear. - Clear, it is well, Alissa, thank you. - Sure. Obviously it is not accustomed to work with dead things. He/she hears. Slowly with that. - Please. - I sit down it. That was amusing. You believe that we could return to make it? - Of anything, Andrew. - As I said... I thanked you the. You were too busy panting, friend. Not I am your friend. What problem does he/she have? We are only about organizing them in this room. Are they clever? Yes, that will be everything. - Yes, thank you. - Any problem. We will be here. This will be interesting, yes. Doc, believes that we will take out it of here for tomorrow? We are lucky... the floor is relatively loose. Do do me a favor, yes? He/she Calls to Tiffany to see if he/she already prepared the room of exam. - Tell him/her that he/she comes to accompany. - Clear. Do you make progress? - Slowly. - Rays. Not I have reception. He/she won't have it. Low earth is and the walls are very thick. Not he/she will have reception in any place of the prison. He/she has to go out. - That stinks. - No, no, don't worry. I already spoke with her. I told him/her that it lowered. - Sure? - Yes. I requested information on the prison that he/she can help. It seems that they were adding cells here below. This was one of first o'clock, but they never finished them. That would explain the earth floor, then. Why didn't he/she end? Seemingly they retained to a prisoner here... temporary lodging until another location was gotten. He/she says that he/she went mad, it killed a guard and then he/she committed suicide. It is known why the place is it walled? No, he/she only says that he/she stopped the construction. The prison closed some years later. There is something buried next to the body. Very well, do you happen to me the marshy one? Thank you. Do you give me place? What do we have here? - It seems an axe. - It is an axe of war. Here there are gifts. What does he/she say of the devices, doctor? Not I know. I find unknown. Tribe chappa, century XIX. It fits with the shroud. What, now you are expert in indigenous history? No, but I am part Indian kutchin and it used to visit my grandparents in a reservation. So I know a little on the indigenous tribes of the northwest of Pacific. What do you know about the tribe chappa, Alissa? A peaceful culture of fishermen and merchants, more than anything, until an illness practically it eliminated them. An illness? Of what type? Between 1840 and 1843, the missionaries documented a terrible illness inside a coastal tribe. He/she says the legend that caused insanity and, in many cases, the death. The legend? With the due respect, Alissa, we need to try with the facts. The documents were scare on the original epidemic since only it affected to the natives. It cost to find facts. Nobody knew what it was or why only it affected to the tribe chappa. Then, in their estimate, are these remains of the century XIX? Based on what I have seen up to now... and in this axe of war, absolutely. Dr. Hauser? I trust the educated trial of Alissa as for the origin of these devices. As it is, I would like... Then this is historical. My work finished. I will request a ferry to return to the continent and I will call them for a summary of their discoveries. - By the way. - Thanks to all for their hard work. It is hurried. Is everything well? Wool investigates scenes of the crime. And... San Francisco's city it seems to maintain it very busy. - The exam room is clever. - Brilliant, excellent. You could take a sample of the floor as soon as possible - and to make an elementary analysis? - Clear. - He/she takes. - Thank you. - Doc? - Yes? Go to smoke. We Go, Kurt. You said that you would leave. It will kill you. Thank you for the advice, doc. Well, return all to work. Alissa, does something happen? No, Dr. Hauser... for anything. Boss, is some place here where it can get cigarettes? Do you give me one whistled, old? I die from desires. He/she takes this. I have another bundle in the station. - I thank you. Do you already know how it is, not? - Any problem. I take years being about leaving. - Yes, good luck with that. - Yes, equally. - Station of guards of Pelican. - With the guard Greyson, please. - The same one. - There Was Wool Campbell. I will leave Dr. Hauser and to the rest of their team as responsible for the rest of the exhumation. It can organize that the ferry does he/she come to look for me? I will request it for radio, Srta. Campbell. I will be waiting in the jetty. You. he/she has my number. Do call me when it is in road, yes? He/she can take a time, Mrs.. The ferry doesn't work in its schedules habitual during this situation. It is very cold here, so make what can, yes? She is unbearable. Alissa, makes while... you seemed very concerned for the teeth in the skull. What do you know about these remains? It is a warring otaktay. Otaktay. It continues. In sioux it means bush to many. " I believed that you had said that the chappa they were a nation of merchants and fishermen. Peaceful. Yes, until the illness arrived. It is said that those that didn't die they became totally crazy. He/she will see... the earth was near the water... and other tribes considered it property of first. Then the chappa was attacked. In order to be protected, the craziest chappa they were thrown against the invaders. And these the warring otaktay is? Yes. I say, they are only the histories that my grandparents counted me. It is only a legend. But you seem it bothers hence. Alissa, looks, I want you to know that the legend often it is based on facts and if you believe that there is more that you should say me, I request you that you make it. It is said that they made more that to kill their enemies. They tortured them, they quartered, they gutted... until there was cannibalism. There was less than 2.000 otaktay, but... they resisted to warriors' thousands. God. Tiffany, what does it happen? Anything. It was only a scarab. I hate the insects. I will take these samples to the exam room. I will analyze them there. Very well, Tiffany, ahead. We will see each other there up. It is well. It is well. He/she notices for me... to remember to make a formal complaint regarding the guard and their personnel. They are a heap of... Damned it is, Kurt. Don't get scared this way. I only believed that you would want company. We go. - Imbcil. - We go. Seriously, we will speak of Pelican, we will compare notes during the dinner. It will be very amusing, I promise it. - We go. - Yes, it sounds well. He/she waits... I forgot that it is the day of my sister's birthday. It is completely well, you can bring it. It will be amusing. He/she is 13 years old, sick. Maybe later in the week? Not I know. We can speak of this later? Yes, I don't know. You are really no longer in the university. And we used to throw looks. And it was really good, and sweet, do you know? He/she looks at this look... N - OR. You know that that is the mistaken answer? I find the correct answer. You will shave me the balls with that, Andrew? It is an idea. Yes, good... I would love to stay, but I should to return to the excavation. - Maybe later, hey? - Yes. Do we see each other then? Ass. Say it to me. Very well, we will work. God, God willing they had discovered the body in the basement of Macy's or something like that. Yes, during a liquidation, without a doubt. Very comic. Damned it is. Can we help him in something, does he/she keep? I understand why the youth it could be uncomfortable here. A lot of people died in this room. Does these tijas come in the wall? Each one of them it was extracted of the body of a convict or... of a couple of guards. Thank you, but we don't need the details. They also said that 15 men of Pelican they died for an illness. The registrations say natural" causes, but the truth is that they don't know what it killed them. Very well. We finish per today. Take everything up. Thank you, friends. A great day of work. Greyson Keeps, he/she came to look for it exactly. We can organize our trip of return? Unfortunately, doctor, we find a problemita. Did they hear of the ghost of Pelican, not? Sometimes, at night, I hear strange things, especially from this part of the prison. - As what? - Don't listen to it, Tiffany. In that place... they sometimes had to amputate members. In those days, there was not... Well, look, thank you. But like he/she can see we are very busy. We thank him/her for the information. I only thought of sharing the history of the prison with you. Most has to pay the visit. Because tonight we don't give visits. Vsquez Keeps, can he/she wait for me out? Very well, friends. I have news. Due to accidental circumstances, we will spend the night in the island. What? Why? The ferry has mechanical problems and we don't have how to return. Is he/she joking? Do we have to sleep here? That is brilliant. In fact, nobody has spent the night in these cells in decades. In the cells? Forget it. Not I will sleep in a cell. Lament to say that you don't have a lot of option. The ferry is the only exit of the island. And there is only enough place in the rooms of the guards for them. We have pillows and you cover. I believe that there is enough for all you. For sure it is sanitary? The mattresses are old. They should put them above a blanket. I will make that the guard Figgs bring beach for the young ladies of the store of gifts. He/she will have to go out, Mrs.. Among these walls, they only work the walkie-talkies. Out it is dark... and it is cold. If you will leave to call to somebody, I can accompany. As you will walk, brother? Kurt. He/she only said. The station of guards he/she has kitchen. I will fix that they bring them food. They already know where they are the bathrooms out. I will request to all that they don't go for a walk. Stay in the pavilion as much as it is possible. What will you make, Power Ranger? Will you contain us here the whole night? They are in the part of the pavilion more restored. All these cell doors they are totally operational. Good night. I know that it is not a lot of dinner, Tiffany, but only this could find the guard. What is, was hungry. At least it will allow us to begin early in the morning and to end up for tomorrow in the afternoon. I like it. Which of You. he/she will walk with me? You already heard what the guard said. We go, I don't want to infuriate it. And I neither want that they break the head. You believe that at least they have a washbasin to be able to take off the make-up? You put on make-up to come to the prison? Yes, not a lot, a little. I doubt that there has been it dilutes current in this building in decades. I believe that the nearest bathroom he/she would be the public of the jetty. Out? Not it cares. I will hold back. He/she looks, I know that it is not Ritz, but there are not a lot of people obedient of the law that he/she can say that it spent the night in Pelican. Sr. Polsky. It is only a prison, doc. What problem is there? In fact, this place he/she has a great history. It began as military strength in 1853. - Military strength? - Yes. To protect the coast to the other side of the bay when they found gold. And then it housed prisoners of Guerra Civilian and to criminals. Then, the Ministry of Justice charge was taken in 1934 and it transformed it into penitentiary. Doc, if it doesn't bother him/her, I will see the kitchen. - Yes. - Ir to penetrate the penitentiary, doc. You like that. Yes, go history. What he/she takes this place that you don't like it, Alissa? Why would you ask that? I have just seen the way in that looked on the way here. There is something in this place. Anything good it leaves never of this island. - Carlos, I have an idea. - Which? Only because our lives they are so boring and we don't have money, the man with better hand of these five letters he/she receives the last beer. - Agreement, friend. - Of agreement. - What do you have? - Two bosses. Two aces. Thank you for the beer, puto. He/she has to have true food here. Tiff, allow me to wonder something. Do you believe that it could achieve it? What thing? To escape... of Pelican. Kurt, you would not last 10 minutes in that icy water before drowning. Allow me to educate you one second. There was a couple of types that really they escaped of here. And those fond of the conspiracies they will tell you that they escaped, did they swim, and did they fish a boat, not? The government... and the guards of the prison will tell you that they escaped, they swimed and they drowned. I don't know it. I believe that I can achieve it. I believe that you lie shamelessly. You remember the Occupation Indgena of 1969? Ah, yes, it was very controversial. It was a peaceful movement, but he/she became a chaos. A youth fell and you/he/she was killed. What do you find this? If one day I decide to challenge to the elements, you have to promise me that you will go to an appointment with me. Very well, Kurt Polsky. If you arrive to the other side of that island, I promise that I will go in an appointment with you. Swear him with your little finger. Not I know you, but that food he/she would have known better if we were drugged. - Do you have grass? - Salt of here. Not you do smoke, not? What? Not I am so innocent. He/she says the legend that this place it is damned. Do you know what? There is a scientific term for what you say. He/she calls himself foolishness, my lover. Well, and how you can explain that a place attracts so much wrong? Alissa, you really believe that this place attracts to the wrong? Not believe anything of what tells you. She is only about getting scared. - Not it is this way. - Of course... No, it is not this way. He/she listens, at the beginning, the warring otaktay was to protect to the chappa of other tribes. But once the otaktay they defeated their enemies, they began to kill their own people. Then the old chappa they told to the otaktay that there was a Great Spirit awaiting them in this island that he/she would make them immortal. Once the otaktay they arrived here, the chappa burned their canoes. The otaktay was caught. The chappa calls to this place the Isla of the Madness. What did it pass them then? Nobody really knows... unless in 1853, when it arrived the American army, they killed the survivors that they were. How you explain the nature ritualista of the funeral place? Not it seems something he/she would make the army, truth? The American army then it used indigenous guides. They are who buried appropriately to the otaktay. And we were lucky of finding one. Not I know if luck is the word correct, doctor. The chappa said that the spirit otaktay is vengeful to be betrayed and abandoned for their own people to die. You really believe this curse, no, Alissa? What ridicule. Agreement. Do you hear that? What thing, Carlos, puto? Vince, are you well? Vince, are you well, friend? Yes. Yes. Yes, I am well. Carlos, allow me to make you an important question. What? How it is that, on the outside, you act as this Carlos enormous and rude, but inside, old, you are an enormous one... maricn? He/she only gives letters. Shut up both. Will give a last beat. Make sure that the lights be out. Already. I want this. - What do you make? - We go. I will take the pavilion D, the dining room and the kitchen. - You take the pavilions TO", B" and C." - Yes. Not I can believe that we are drugging in Pelican. I wonder if To Capone it was drugged. Of course that yes. The bad minds think equally. They come here. Kurt, I know good. Do we go, language? PROPIEDAD OF PELICAN Did you hear that? I swear that I heard something. Let us should probably return. If they fish us, we will have serious problems. No, what we need to make it is to stay here and to smoke the rest of this damned joint, and we need to see a ghost. I silence, the sound arrives far. Somebody will hear us. I am so flown right now. - You are drugged. - No, flown. - You are drugged. - I am only very flown. Did you hear that? It was probably the wind. That was not the damned wind. Tiff, you already read the pamphlet, and you know that Pelican it is bewitched. Be quiet. You know that they scare me the ghosts. Not say that. Damned it is. You killed me of the fright. Who did close this door, Carlos? I don't know it. Probably one of those boys. I believe that there is a rat inside. I will make them to open it later. We go, I will travel the pavilion D." You ascend to travel the perimeter. We go. Good morning, Kurt. Do you return to the place? I will only stay to... to categorize the pictures a while. Do you feel well? I gave turns the whole night. The damned bed is a shit. I will take the remains to the room of exam up in one hour, so I will need your muscles for that. That said her. Oh, God, we go. How did all sleep? It was a memorable experience. The ferry will arrive this afternoon, or that has told me. Well, we will take the remains up to the exam room to revise them superficially. After that, we will prepare them to take them out of the island. That leaves disgustingly indigenous. It is indigenous, yes. As I said, disgustingly indigenous. How crazy. Not I can wait to enter there. He/she looks at the eyeteeth. It seems man wolf or something like that. Yes, old, you will be a great investigator forensic. There is more money there that exhuming Pygmy bones in Thailand, friend. Are you well? He/she knew it. There... Not I know. He/she looks... I don't know. Allow me to lower... I don't know it. Will I only go below with the other ones, yes? Yes, old. You have to stop of smoking that shit. Guerrero otaktay. Ah, yes. It is incredibly well preserved. Probably of half-filled of the century XIX did say, Alissa? It is incredible. I am taking a sample right now to verify the preservatives. This is only a shroud, Kurt. The chappa didn't mummify to their deads. I will take an anyway, thank you. Friends, look at this. Look, the cavity of the chest is entire and all the internal organs they follow present. Dr. Hauser, how does he/she explain to it? I believe that the floor had something that to do with it. I found high you even so much of carbonate of sodium as of bicarbonate. The carbonate acts as blotter that it slows the decomposition. And the bicarbonate, when it is subject to the humidity, the pH level increases, and believe a half hostile one for the bacteria. Yes, but the cells were totally blocked. How did it get humidity? The crowd. The floor here is full of crowd, probably conduction of the island Angel, when this place was prison of the army. Excellent, Tiffany. Excellent. It is exactly what should be. Thanks to all... they have been making their task. I am really very impressed. But... however, this doesn't explain to it completely. Thank you. Thank you. He/she comes to see this. - Do bleed? - It is what seems. How strange. That cannot have more of one or two days. Are you well? No. Ir to take air, yes? Dr. Hauser, your work here did it already finish? Yes, we only prepare the remains to take them out of the island. Their hand... it is infected. - Allow me to give him/her a glance. - That won't be necessary. You. it was who cut the shroud and it is their blood in the cadaver. It is worse of that than it is. I will warn them when the ferry arrives. Tiffany, are you well? I don't know it. I don't feel well. I feel insolent. God. He/she keeps. What did it happen to you? Sacred God. He/she hears, stay with us, stay with us. Vince. I finished with my beats. Who did turn off the lights? What devils does it happen in this place? We go, friends. Stop to play. Kurt, are you? We go, we have work that to make. We go. We go, friends. Do light the lights, yes? Where are you? Alissa. Tiffany. We go. We should leave of here now. - What does it happen? - Only grab all that of the cells - and vaymonos now. - What did it pass with the lights? We go, listen. At the moment, please, we need to leave of here. Grab everything and vaymonos. We go, friends. This is no longer amusing. Hello. Rays. Very well, you won, of agreement. You scared me. You won. Kurt, show you, damned it is. Tiffany, you can walk for the corridor to see if you can find the control panel and to make that they open up these damned doors? No. No, I won't go there me. - Where is Kurt? - I don't know it. I don't know it, but he/she will already return. Tiffany, please, I really need that you make this for us. Notice if you can open these doors. He/she walks, you can make it. - Take care. - Carajo. Very well. What does it happen, doctor? I found the guard Tyler in one of the confinamiento cells and it had been... What? What? Had it been what? The brutalizaron terribly. Oh, my God. Vince, are you? The control panel? Not I know what a damned panel is of control. Carlos... We go, we go. Oh, God. He/she knew it. We should never have exhumed those remains, doctor. Apologize, I am not in a mood for fairy tales. There are other things apart from the sky and the earth, doctor. We go. Please... - No. Tiffany. - My God. Who... who does this make? What type of damned ass are you? Prostitute's son. When he/she opens this damned door, you are dead man. Who... he/she makes... this? Who are? Not I know that I made. - They come to me. - I want to leave of here, please. I know man. Who... does he/she make...? Oh, God. That somebody helps me. We go. Please, help me. Socorro. You know, it kills me to have to be flattened, Andrew. Carajo. Doctor, we won't be able to leave of here. We will die to the equal that damned Tiffany. He/she hears, he/she hears, calm down, calm down. Concentrate. We have that to leave of here. How's it going that it ventilates? llumnala and allow me to see if I can remove it. If I can... if I can to remove him/her the cover, do you believe to be able to enter there? Me not... Allow me to see. We Go, Alissa. Lower it, lower it. I not even believe to be able to enter here. The door opens up. Care. Descend. Be maybe good sign. Skies... Oh, my God. - What did it happen? - Did Greyson make you this, not? They should... to leave... of... the... island. - It is dead. - Carajo. Shit. What carajo will we make now? We have to get a he/she arms. The exam room. Very well. Not look, don't look, don't look. Carajo, carajo. Oh, not. That... it is of Kurt. We go, we have to leave of here. We go. We go. Not I will let him to happen you anything. I promise it. Now we go. He/she left. Oh, my God. What does it happen here, doctor? I Know Kurt. Not it would rot to have made something like that of horrible. When I saw Kurt this morning, it was very strange. Definitively it happened him/her something. Good, they maybe also murdered it. That we found it in Andrew's hand it doesn't mean that it has killed him. With the... that illness that it affected to the nation chappa, you said that it caused insanity in many cases, correct? Michael, that was behind 200 years... He/she looks, it follows my idea, only follow it... The guard Greyson intersected the hand in the remains otaktay. When I saw the wound, there was a small one infection in the tip of their finger. However, today the hand it was swollen and colorless, - only one day later. - And what? That thing could have been loaded of germs and bacterias and it takes hundred of years there... I know it, but seemingly, according to the... floor analysis... of Tiffany, the bicarbonate of sodium it would have avoided it. However, it would not have killed to the virus. Then he/she believes that the guard was it infected by a virus? I don't know it, I don't know it. Not I know. But if this way outside, it could be had him transmitted to the other ones, not? For example, there was vomit in the cell of Kurt this morning. And he was really sick. My God. Tiffany neither was seen very well. How does he/she know that he/she is spreading? I don't know it. The infection can pass of payee to payee in quantity in ways. Oh, God. Below, below. He/she already comes, he/she already comes. We go, we go, we go. Where do they believe that they go? They are in a prison. Now what? Carajo. Please, only... loose it, old. Loose it. The cut in your finger... you infected yourself with a virus. - You are sick. - In fact, doctor... I feel extraordinary. No, prostitute's son. Coarse. It is dead. It is dead, it already happened. It already happened. We need linen. Alissa, looks. He/she walks, let us be sensitive. I have an open wound with their vomit and blood above. I have to make it, Alissa. Have not maybe penetrated their sanguine torrent... He/she looks, I don't know what I could spend, but yes I know... that he/she could never make you I damage, so, please, he/she gives turn the face. - Please... it separates the head. - No, Michael. I am here, it is well. What did it happen? It is already safe. How do we arrive here? A ship patrols it arrived the following morning. It lost a lot of blood. Am I? If it is what a? Infectado? No, Dr. Hauser, You. he/she made the correct thing. And seemingly fair on time. However, he/she will have a scar very ugly there. I Am Dr. Olan Stanovitch with the Center for the Control of Illnesses. Both are lucky of being alive. The virus with which they entered in contact, as well they surmised, it affects the brain, in particular the system lmbico and the hipotlamo. We take years studying a stump mutada, documenting their effect in laboratory animals. - It caused insanity. - Basically. Essentially... it eliminates the social behavior learned in the fellow. In that moment, there are two results... or an event complete sictico, or a regression to our instinct more primitive... to kill. We know that the bud he/she originated in this area. For that reason we alert to the authorities when we find out. CDC has requested that both maintain this matter strictly confidential. We appreciate their cooperation. Somebody more he/she survived? There is a person that continues missing, a certain Kurt... Polsky. If it is in the island, we will find it. The currents would take it to him if it was about swiming of return. Srta. Deerhorn, good day. Doctor, I wish him/her a prompt recovery. What will it happen with the indigenous remains? Now they are the government's property American. Thank you, doctor. Good day. Alissa, what does it happen? I fear that we have loosened a terrible one bad in the world. You already heard the doctor. The virus has been contained. - He/she finished. - No. The science can only explain a part. Science? We Go, Alissa. Not there is curse. Michael, the wrong can take many forms. This virus is only one of their manifestations. And now it is another time I loose.
