 

                        Green Bay, China Ready Hey. What did I tell you? Darren. Police Boss, are you alright? Boss Boss? Boss Give me your hand Boss. Run. Boss Let go of me. Get lost Boss. Boss Jardine's Lookout, Hong Kong John, this is Uncle Fok, go watch the news on Darren quickly The wreck may have been caused by the leak Imelda Sir Cigarette I quit Damn it. Give it to me A diesel smuggling truck exploded in Green Bay China During a Police crackdown on bootlegged diesel A refitted diesel truck tried to break away It was intercepted after it ran 2 road blocks But exploded after tilting over and crashed into a passenger car The 32-year-old driver is Hong Kong resident Darren Shum During the bust Police have arrested 5 suspects on charges of smuggling oil and several refitted diesel trucks were found Uncle Wing I saw the news I'm sorry. Put everything on hold I met this cute guy at the gym We went home to have a good time Right in the middle of it, he seemed pissed I opened my eyes and glared at him But he was quick. He closed his eyes and started panting and moaning It's your imagination I've been doing this for years I play this game everyday I don't blame him, I just went along He moans, I moan. He rocks, I rock Believe it or not, after a while I was quite high I finally figured it out Whether you're happy with a guy has nothing to do with love What's more important? Cooperation We worked so well with each other We decided to have another go at LKF But never thought I'd run into Jenny and Jay from upstairs And that Beckham look-alike from the 25th floor as well That night at the annual dinner One guy picked me up and another one dropped me off You screwed them both? The fortune teller said it's in my destiny Why let a good thing go to waste? A woman should be faithful Derek had you pegged He proposed Valentines' Day in Grand Hyatt Ballroom Reception at 6, dinner at 9 I thought it's fully booked You need to book a wedding banquet? For me, it's the funeral home It's for my cousin She's only 20 But 3 months pregnant It works every time You plan to do that to Michael? When was the last time you got laid? He bought a box of condom in 1997 I think there are 2 left Hey Hey This is a shoe rack, not the fridge I can't help it I don't get it, I can't help it He cracks up every other day The doctor ruled out depression and he has an IQ of 140 It was my fault. I thought artists... are so cool After college, he promised to marry me after he finishes his first piece I thought it would only take a month I was so excited I tried out all the wedding gowns That was 10 years ago Come to Mommy Now I can't tell if I'm his girl or his mom Who the hell turned off the lights? Ladies, show time Who do I remind you of? Aaron Kwok? Ricky Martin Tonight, I'm all yours What for? You name it. I'll do it Are you sure? If he can't Let me Uncle, that's the table for seniors Missie, it's hard to find a good partner Toto and I work well together What about me, Momo? Gogo, Momo, and Toto, $5,000 each Now you can have us for $10,000 I only want him, that's $5,000? Come on. We're having such a good time $6,000 A real bargain Bargain? Of course Deal Vincent, it's me Bring the car around Thank you Thank you Police You're charged with indecent conduct Men on the left, women on the right. Get your I.D.s ready Sir, this is a social dance What kind of social dance, Fatso? Didn't you hear me? Left, right My left Don't worry. It's a routine check They never arrest anyone I'm Senior Inspector Maureen Szeto Hold up the money you received Just do as you're told Momo. Hold up the money You set us up, bitch Take it easy I want to sue for molestation Take him to the hospital for a check up Yes, Madam Very well Calm down Bitch Look the other way I cleaned it for you What? I still can't marry you, I'm worthless Don't say that. Work comes first A man cannot be like this You're telling me Actually I want to marry you as soon as possible Great. When? I said as soon as possible Not good enough. What would my Mom say? I'm sure she'll understand I am ready, baby Come on Yeah What's this bagel doing in bed? I found this bagel on you You are rotten, how dare you expose my secret? I have to go now. Put on the scarf Don't let my precious Jimmy catch a cold Daddy, I love you You want to play hooky again? No. You smell good 'coz you didn't smoke Keep up the good work Alright Have a good time No function for this Christmas No, last year many students went away Attendance was low, we're not doing anything this year I'm going away tomorrow With your colleagues? No, by myself Alone Bye Bye Where are you going? I want to come Stop horsing around, Boss Ask Jimmy to find out where Miss Chan is going you'll have your silent night, horny night Watch it. You're in the school Your wife just called Your relatives are waiting for you Really? These past few weeks, Bowie and Uncle Fok have been quite busy I know Tell them to take off their shoes Imelda, get some soya sauce John, you're the Boss You wanted us to wait, we wouldn't dare do anything else But it's been months What's our next move? Nobody will sell us any diesel We've been blacklisted We can't even get laid in Shenzhen let alone make a living The men are getting antsy Even the mole in the oil company is asking for the moon They want a $80 million deposit $80 millions, pal We have zero income these last months Where the hell can we get $80 millions? Uncle Wing, can you? What about you, Uncle Fok? I made a deal with Donald Ng He'll take care of the $80 millions and take whatever cut we give him The key is for him to get involved Getting a good partner is crucial He heads the largest triad in Hong Kong What do you think, Yammy? I'm his uncle, let me say something John John...what are you doing? Something wrong with your ears? I told you to take off your shoes John. John Come on You brought a gun Your deal with Donald is to take me out? That's a lie I told John about your deal with Donald You forgot how Darren died? Darren would be alive if they didn't swap shifts John already raised $80 millions We're family, what the hell is this? Put the gun away or you're not family anymore Are you nuts, Dad? He's here to raise hell John is family, he's not You are right, son Right. We're family Then let me warn you If there's no deal, Donald will come after you Damn it Come and give me a hand John mortgaged the house and raised $80 millions Now we're in the same boat If you rock it, someone will get screwed He's still moving Not the vein. Go for the aorta Donald thinks we're at wits' end Catch him off guard and get rid of him Your cousin thinks we're at wits' end Catch him off guard and get rid of him Call me back right away What is it? What is it? Hurry Maureen, are you alright? I think it's food poisoning You should see a doctor I'm 2 months late You suppose it's early menopause? You're pregnant? Did you and Michael? Your Condom is from 1997 He won't get away with it this time Get him to marry you How? Baby Baby Baby, chow time I get laid once every few years He's back to his old self the next day Come on Come on What? Come on Come on Come He didn't say a word to me in 3 months He kept sculpting away It's ok. It happened to me once before It stopped coming for 3 months and came back like a flood I know. Too much instant noodles Stomach flu or bacterial infection I'll be fine What the hell? Go see a doctor Why does the captain keep calling me? Shit. Everyone is waiting for you Let me talk to Donald He's out? You didn't check. Don't jerk me around You know who I am? Seen any strangers lately? No? That's your turf, pal What do you mean you're not up? I'm up at 7. What's wrong with you? Mitch? It's Uncle Wing What is Donald up to? I'm not asking you to be a rat Is that Jimmy? Hello Daddy. Daddy Give me the phone Jimmy, tell Daddy where you are I'll come pick you up Listen up I want $80 millions Cash. No Police. You copy? Who are you? Where are you from? Give me the phone Sir, Miss Chan What are you doing? Where the hell do you think you are? Zone A checked Pardon me Maureen Szeto, nice to meet you Maureen Szeto, nice to meet you Maureen Szeto The kindergarten called us They said your son has been kidnapped Now I'm in charge Madam, I think you're mistaken Jimmy is visiting his Grandma Vincent, give us the playback Yes, Madam Listen up I want $80 millions Cash. No Police, You copy? Who are you? Where are you from? For the past 10 years Case closed on kidnaps is 100% As long as you call the Police The Commissioner will give his order Over 20,000 Police officers will standby Your gang only has 1,000 members Don't do it, John It's their excuse to put us out of business They care more about making an arrest than saving Jimmy That's right, John What if they kill Jimmy after you pay the ransom? Over 50% of the cases are inside jobs Over 70% of the kidnappers are relatives That's why 80% will kill the hostage And 90% of the so-called relatives will hang around and offer to help out when in fact they're working from the inside Inside my ass Don't listen to her, John. We didn't do it That's right, John. I swear We're tracing the call as we speak Over 10 different departments are waiting for my cue We'll find the kidnapper in 1 5 minutes Case or no case, it's your call Yes All units, briefing in 5 minutes I want a full report in 1 5 minutes Operation : "Jackie" Whose is this? Mine. Thanks All these cops are polluting the air, let's go Hand over your phones Why? You want a date? If you want to leave By law, we must monitor your phones and put you in custody under close surveillance Unless you want to be taken as the mole I told you we didn't do it. Do we look like kidnappers? Ron, don't start any trouble John wants us to work with the Police Hear that? Cooperation Imelda Get me the video game Lao Xu, what time is it? Everyone's here but you Aren't you ashamed? The tombstone is really nice Want me to get one for you? Call me when you get this message Boss, this is a funeral You shouldn't have said that It's just a joke. He doesn't mind It must be tough for him Losing his wife and son overnight He probably doesn't want to be reminded of the tragedy Might as well. We'll bring him some wine and have a drink with him tonight Good idea No. He doesn't drink All he wants is to nail John Fok and nothing else The Commissioner wants us in the office Something about a HKSAR operation What operation? "Operation Jackie" Don't you knock? That's enough Come in How's the money coming along? $80 millions, brand new $1000 bills Bullshit. That's a Cartier 2008 special edition What? You seem to know your son will be kidnapped That's why I let you into my house Do the others know? What about Bowie Cheung? Ask him yourself What did you talk about? How is this related to my son? I know there are things you can't tell me What you're holding back is not helping our investigation I'll tell you anything that will help save Jimmy Good. Tell me about your suppliers your major clients the location of the ships and trucks who set up the underground pipes Who's the mole inside the oil company That's family affair Shit Why don't I turn state witness and you give me a bonus? Give me $10 billions Let me be the Chief Executive Is your cortisol level running high? I said is your cortisol level high What the hell are you scribbling? Are you here to shop or to investigate? You get a discount from Cartier? Are you nuts? Stop the nonsense Either tell me how to get Jimmy back or get the hell out Hey Hey What the hell? Transport Department just sent us this the highway surveillance camera picked up 186 vehicles that passed by the kindergarten A white van is reported missing Half an hour after the kidnap The tunnel and 2 highway D-cams picked up this vehicle in Sun Tin Call in PTU and tell CIB to follow up Vincent, set up a road block within a 2-km radius John, tell the cops to go to hell We'll do it our way They want me to testify for nothing Are you guys nuts? John, you gotta do something John, you must think this through I don't want to lose Jimmy Hello? The call is made from Carnavon Road, unregistered SIM sold on September 1 5 at 14:27 from a convenient store on Portland St OK. Team A What's the word? Madam I'm cooperating, give me an answer Like what? Do you have word? The answer is yes I'm asking you again Do you know what Jimmy's father does? I really don't know You taught him for 2 years, you must know The school record says he's a businessman And you don't want to know what kind of businessman? Why are you asking me this? Miss Yau in the next class knows every parent That's why I think you should know I think it's something shady But you just said you didn't know Why did you lie? What do you know? How much do you know? What does he do? What are you doing? Taking her statement You're picking on her Let me do it Move over. You're jealous because she's not fat like you? Fiona Chan Thanks Are you Fiona Chan? Fiona Chan You don't remember me? I was in your next class in Form I I used to spy on you during recess It's me, Vincent Lee Alright. We're cop-outs Let us go Where can you go? The cops won't let you leave What Dad is saying is Let us work for Donald Ng How? You killed Bowie The cops found out Jimmy is in Sun Tin Wai Sun Tin? That's Bowie's turf Where we park the trucks There are over 10 unregistered numbers on Bowie's call log I think he hired some Mainlanders The cops can't trace these numbers I want you to help me Hey. Open the door Hey Hey, open up Open it now Hey The pregnancy test can be conducted anytime during the day Hormones will become more concentrated over night The first urine sample in the morning will yield better results Which one is that? Madam, CCTV tapes from 3 months ago have been deleted What's this? A big fat happy reunion? Not as fat as your ass Have you checked with Immigration? Yes Bowie and Donald did not leave Hong Kong Bowie and Donald did not leave Hong Kong I don't care who's the boss Bust him every 1 5 minutes If he still won't cooperate I'll personally be there in an hour to kick his ass, understand? Find out what CIB knows Collect your urine sample in a clean dry container Leave the cotton tip in the sample for at least 5 seconds The result will not change if your test is positive If the test is negative You must finish reading the results in 2-5 minutes It should be my turn to jump, not you Roger. September 1 5 at 14:27 The ATM surveillance camera picked up the guy who bought the SIM CIB found a group tour checked into the Prince Hotel on September 1 5 Nothing from the hotel What about the travel agent? It closed down last month The hotel manager won't cooperate Maureen was fuming Because Maureen arrested him before Who let you in? Get out Your colleagues asked me over We had a fax from the hotel Some punks barged into the hotel and beat up the manager I can do things you're not allowed to Punk You want cooperation? A simple thank you will do I don't need you now Please get out The punks found the van in the suburbs CIB is there already I'll get out of your way Thanks Green Bay Police Station Lao Yang, is this "Operation Jackie" related to the Hong Kong film industry? Maybe it's a different Jackie Kidnapping Lao Yang We'll go to Hong Kong posed as tourists Kidnap John Fok and sneak him in Whose number is this? John Fok's home number Call him and invite him Hello? "Operation Jackie", retrieve the file. Report to me ASAP What file? Hello? Is that from Hong Kong? Some woman gave me an order The Commissioner asks us to work with her He didn't say she could order me around This is downright ridiculous Boss, a fax from Hong Kong Lao Xu? What's he doing in Hong Kong? He went there a week ago Boss Lao Yang is right. It's kidnapping Jenny, get me a gynecologist Sure, I know a good one I need an abortion You should discuss it with Michael Look The ATM captured more than the suspects It caught him going across the street twice a week He's been there 24 times in three months No wonder he stopped sleeping with me What the hell for? To get laid, of course The girls are quite something Your guy knows his way around Don't take it out on me because your guy is screwing around You'd have been dead meat if I had warmed up earlier Do this for me, Madam... Go away Calm down, Madam Let go You sadist sicko Why did you rub it in? I'd screw around if she's my girl Shut up Stay right there Stay away from me or I'll sue you for molesting me You. Follow me Maureen John found the kidnapper's car We arrived in 1 5 minutes We found new tire marks along with the van Looks like someone drove the trucks away before we got there Why did you do it? By sending away the trucks You have destroyed evidence You care more about the business than your son? My men told me one of my trucks is missing Jimmy might be on it Now they're looking for it We'll find it soon with your help This is the license plate of that car Donald Ng is behind this He sent his men after me Relax. I'm cooperating If you keep this up, get your son a coffin You need to special order a small one Did you see Stephen after graduation? When we went out for drinks Are you in touch with him? I couldn't call him back. I was under cover Like Tony Leung in Infernal Affairs? Of course not I closed the file, he didn't I've been worried about you all these years About who you're with, what you're doing You sure you're not seeing anyone? That's good Will you consider me? Consider you for what? This is Police business. Get lost I told you to get lost How dare you Get up Stop it Stop it I'm telling you to stop Stop it Stop it I'm charging you with assaulting a Police officer So what? Get the hell out Go ahead and kill him Horace, if you're dead, I'll close the Police down for good Go ahead Are we done? Get back to work What do you want? I'm here to work I want to go home after this Just let me do my job, OK? Keep him on the line Hello It's for you Hello? What are you doing in John Fok's house? Someone kidnapped his son? Confidential Don't forget you're a cop How can you work for a triad boss? How many are dead because of him? I want to ask you You have shit for brains or is it PMS? I'll pretend I didn't hear that You have anything to report? Anything related to John Fok is my business Nobody messes with my business Do you understand? Call waiting. Unregistered SIM Hello? Is the money ready? I'm still working on it $80 millions is a lot of money, pal Has my son eaten? He has asthma, he needs his medication Is he alright? Cut the crap Tomorrow at 10, either bring the money or bring a coffin I'll tell you where I don't have that much money Will you settle for less? Are you begging me? Can I hear Jimmy's voice? I want to know if you're begging me Fine, I'm begging you Don't you know how to beg? Your mother didn't teach you how to beg? Please. Let me talk to Jimmy First you want to hear his voice Now you want to talk to him Which is it? Let me hear you kowtow for your requests Make sure it's loud enough when you do it I'll give you the money We'll humor your sick games But listen If anything happens to Jimmy, you're dead I don't care how, but I'll kill you all You're dead. You hear me? Do you hear me? Commissioner Give me everything on "Operation Jackie" Everything on John Fok is my case This is a different case I know I promise you I'll catch the kidnapper He wants John Fok to bring the ransom money I'll arrest him and close both files How do you know he'll come? Xiao Dong but we don't know where he is now I'm not available to take your call. Please leave a message You know damn well what you did I'm giving you till 1 2 o'clock to give me an explanation otherwise start packing What's this? This is for you I don't want it You I said no Your glasses Uncle Wing, this can't go on Bowie is dead. $80 millions is gone Only you can talk to Donald This is not a good time You lined up Bowie and Donald I didn't tell on you this morning Don't give me this crap Not so loud. You'll get me in trouble I didn't expect the fool to come up with the money Thank God I played along Or you'll screw us up How do I know you won't screw me? I had to tell John to save my neck Do as you see fit in this mess Hello? "Operation Jackie", pick up the fax Sir, Cleared Let's get in, Boss I'm taking my medication Why the hell in such a hurry? Give it here It's worth $10,000; don't lose it John I knew it What? I told Bowie you'll fix him, he didn't believe me And he was only in his 40s How much should I chip in to his funeral? Cut the crap Where's my son? What? You kidnapped my son Is that what you think of me? I'm in the triad, not children welfare Bowie didn't tell you? Those men make bombs What the hell are you saying? Never mind Are those yours? Admit it? Wait Why would I bring a few men to see the doctor? When I bring an army to take a dump? Doctor said smoke is bad for my weak lungs Have a nice chat with my men You are surrounded by the Police Drop your weapons Come on. Get on with it Looks serious Horace Horace Earlier this evening Illegal diesel trucks exploded all over Hong Kong The Crime Unit is looking for those involved At 19:45 tonight What shall we do, son? Damn it. Have a show down with Donald Good I assume you're considered "involved" in the case You need Police assistance? Those trucks that blew up tonight were detonated by a cell phone Jimmy Fok's body is not found among the debris This missing truck is probably parked somewhere out of network coverage That's good Not really Among the wreckage, the bomb squad found more than remote detonators there's a self activated device set to go off at noon tomorrow Start burning joss sticks Pray that your son is not in that truck Cramps again? It's getting more frequent lately Jimmy gave me a massage last night Does he know how? Of course. He's 6 First time in years, he's not with us I used to think it'll be 20 years before he'll leave us Now I feel like he's grown up over night Don't worry, get some sleep I'm not I know he'll be back When he comes back He'll be all grown up Fiona's plane leaves tomorrow at 9 Bye Bye Hey Thanks for saving my ass I hear you're after her What is it to you? Nothing. Relax I won't ask if you don't want me to What do you want to know? Is it true? I wanted to quit when Jimmy was born but never did My Dad was a dope pusher He was afraid to have kids His worst fear was having a kid with no behind That's why he was in his 40s when I was born There was no ultrasound back then Mom said when I was born Dad barged into the delivery room to check my behind When he saw my big fat ass He was so happy he cried for 2 days You know him? His name is Xu Banshan Darren's diesel truck killed his wife and son You feel guilty? If I tell you he kidnapped your son Does that make you feel better? Don't know about that but one thing I'm pretty sure The onus of the family is on me no matter what That's the way it is for a man In any case, thank you If I have offended you Please don't let it bother you This soup is for you We made it for Yammy and the baby What are you saying? She found the pregnancy test in the bathroom Drink it, it helps the delivery and gives you more milk What milk? I never said I'm having the baby No? You want an abortion? You can't get rid of it like an acne Don't be so corny Everything is corny to people like you Don't you think about the consequence? Having fun is cool, responsibility is corny? Being all alone in your 40s is corny Bite your tongue. I'm only 33 You can't talk at 33? What the hell for? He's screwing around You want me to beg? Who says he's a cop? He's a sculptor He sculpts things? What's so funny? Nothing I never said it's funny That old man on the roof sells arts supplies One day I went there to collect his protection money He pulls out a knife Want me to send someone? Don't mess it up Call the phone company and delete all voice mail messages But this is Michael's phone Just do it Hello? Tell me something Who tipped you off about the diesel trucks? Confidential The Security Bureau spoke to your Commissioner I want an answer now Lao Yang, where did we get the tip? What the hell is your hurry? I'm Sorry. This is Zhao Tianhe I heard you, show me the way I see, thank you Let's go Xu Banshan is spotted at the highway toll Morning Morning Well? What's the problem? Nothing. It's a shame Monitor the phone Hello? Go to Tai Kok Tsui alone, remember Everybody standby "Lee", go Team A clear the runway, Team B follow Roger "Sam" called. He might have news for "Jackie" Roger, contact "Tony" and see if we can reach "Yin" "Lee", go "Lee", go That's you I said "Go, Lee" Please come in, Captain What's the matter? Sit down I was away the last couple of days I came home today and I found out I've been robbed What did you lose? Evidence against John Fok For 3 months Since my wife and son died I didn't want to see the place where they died Then one day, I had a dream They were standing across the street as if they were lost I called out to them But they couldn't hear me I woke up And realized my wife took that road everyday to drop off my son at the school At dawn, I went over there But someone else beat me to it I knew they were triad members I guess they were pals of the dead driver For some reason I decided to follow them I thought I was mistaken when I arrived in Hong Kong They were really tourists I got up early the next day and they were just going out I followed them to a kindergarten I couldn't figure out what's so special about a kindergarten But they soon led me to John Fok's house He has an impressive house A pretty wife and a cute kid I felt the irony of my sorrow and his happiness I decided there and then I must find enough evidence to put them behind bars The diesel trucks with dual plates are registered to a shell company involved in fraud Some of the owners of that company are the men I followed Lao Xu What's the meaning of this? You'll have my full explanation when we close this file I want one now Go to the New Territories "Yin" told "Lee" to get on the highway to the New Territories Tell "Bill" to take the boat out "Tony" Is the file open? He Fu, Wu Tiansheng, Lin Jian Did you get it? They went to Hong Kong last week He and Wu came back last night We'll arrest them If you want the kid, find Lin Jian Before I forget, that day at the kindergarten There's someone else Xiao Dong Fax it over, find out who he is What do you know about your company in the Mainland? Nothing. Uncle Fok is in charge Hello? Go to Kwong Lee Cheung Who are you? How do you know about Kwong Lee Cheung? "Lee", what the hell is Kwong Lee Cheung? A boat factory where we keep the speed boats for smuggling electrical appliances What an asshole "Yang" Lin Jian is Darren's friend in China Hello? Take the money on the boat and go to the "Grand Station" That's an hour from here Hello? Hello Where is the "Grand Station"? Where Darren died You can't go. They'll kill you Come back Madam Right, "Lee" has left for China "Sam" has located "Yin" Isn't that the punk we saw earlier? Let's crash it There's no time Do you know how to drive, asshole? He Fu Wu Tiansheng Hong Kong International Airport Did you let the kid go? Didn't we agree? That's good Didn't get the wallet, just the cosmetics Hey, be careful What are you doing? Vincent? Vincent has emigrated I borrowed his name I checked you out Your pal Stephen Lee told us you booked the karaoke for the gathering Your boyfriend Darren Shum owns it Don't say anything Then I'll tell you The Police went after Darren because there was a rat He thought it was John's shift but Jimmy got sick Darren took his place You kidnapped Jimmy to avenge Darren I know who it is. You want revenge? For emergency only We found "Jackie" Everyone is rushing to the scene The bomb squad will arrive in 10 minutes Next year is good enough Madam Anyone there? Hello? Anyone there? Help Don't be afraid, kid People are coming for rescue Stand back, kid Are you alright? Hello? We found your son, the Police made an arrest Someone is driving towards me, who is that? "Tony" Stop Or I'll shoot John Fok You're under arrest, put that down Raise your hands The money is ready, lower your weapon Police. Do you understand? Raise your hands Brand new $1,000 notes Crisp and sharp. Try it I'm a Police officer No problem $80 millions. Count it you still don't understand Putonghua Give me your hand Your hand Boss Boss Are you alright? Call the Marine Police Go after him Hurry Don't let him get away Be careful Don't worry, it's not the first time But you must be careful during the first 3 months I'll tell John to call when he gets back Is Daddy coming home today? Yes, he'll be right back I gotta share my adventure story with him I have to go So long Jimmy Daddy Madam Thanks We arrested your Uncle Wing He kidnapped your son and tipped off the Mainland Police Jimmy had the fever and his son is dead He's been after your business for years I'm getting off here Sure Keep the change Hey Hey Come with me to Tin Shui Wai Why? So you can push me off a building? They paid $20,000 for my first piece What is this? The lotus-womb is you Bullshit. It's a doughnut I've been there, that's what it feels like You know, this is art What's that? Implying what? Bagel, I love bagel Why are you wearing sunglasses? It's so pompous Don't remind me. I was mugged They got my phone What's so funny? This is funny? You like it? Yeah A riot broke out at the Stanley prison A 60-year old inmate was killed by other inmates during a clan conflict when he was hit by a brick That's him. He took my phone I'd recognize him anywhere Hey Fat Lady This is Auntie Maureen Maureen will do Hi there Good boy This is for you The teddy is for your sister Say thank you Thank you Boy or girl? That's none of your business Don't be testy you'll give birth to a little tyrant No one is worse than you Don't say that I quit the smuggling business I'm into stocks trading I bought China petroleum stocks More profitable than bootlegged diesel I'll buy it out later and be a real oil king Buy up Chelsea and hire Mourinho I saw on the news, your uncle is dead We visited him several times But he refused to see us He's family, I won't hold a grudge Now that he's dead My wife is still crying today He's her uncle after all Forget it. Now that you're here I got you a present The special edition you've been longing for ICAC will hang me Try it on, you're my best friend Don't Come on Just take it John, come over for the family photo Come on Maureen, this is Captain Zhao Tianhe He brought back the ransom money "Tony" Pardon the dirty hand Oil price is up to $140 USD a barrel lately Factory owners in the Pearl Delta are worried Their industries rely heavily on oil Suppliers are cutting supply to raise prices I think we should sell more I spoke to the oil company They'll give us more discount Uncle Fok, tell the clients not to worry Ron, you'll have a tighter schedule Horace, give them a hand... Happy delivery ...For the sake of inflation True, everything is dearer now Massage therapy is getting expensive too I didn't notice that though
