 

                        What to do for land? Your son is with us Bring 10 lacs and come to Verma factory this boy name is manish gupta and he is a son of chetan gupta kidnappers has asked 10 lacs ransom money this city is strange what happen? Its a mess they did not find anyone else except chulbul to transfer here brother did not get transfer, he took transfer himself what big works? You are crying because of your father he is taking time in bringing money what are yous saying? We are workers of chulbul pandey sir will come from that side my name is chulbul pandey government give me job to maintain laws its between you and me recommend me some idea so that boy will also enjoy first i take your kiss and then i beat them what is your father name? Chetan gupta you are sitting here? Dont worry about chulbul sir our sir is Kung Fu Panda who is calling? Its looking old. Give it to chaubay you can give it to killer but you cannot give it to saver he is not lazy like you you can hire a detective for me but you cannot hire bodyguard for son he is robin hood pandey I can also see it so that they will not run away how is your son? Give my love to him I think you like Kanpur I'm police officer's wife, I have to manage everywhere some other people also come with us from Laal Ganj is everything ok? This news disturbed me I got 10 lacs as a award. I gave 2 lacs to police and 8 lacs is for me I have bought peanuts for you what? You were sleeping? I disturb you why you always disturb him? Yes but after 4 whistles control your feelings she will not come I told Nirmala brother got transfer in kanpur come with us she said I will stay here for my father I said why? I will take care of my father I have bought zeus phone for you thanks. Now I can contact you let me listen this song are you forgetting something? I'm prajapati pandey we have to go to SP sir office he wants to meet you. He is a funny guy you are spoiling reputation of police lets see how funny is SP I love pizza I eat pizza atleast 2 times in a week company says if delivery is 30 mins late then delivery is free my officer engaged him for 10 mins I'm happy from your kidnapping case if anyone do good work then I like it thats why I'm doing less work and saving more money you eat sir you dont worry we are not scared of anyone I will come for hearing why you are in hurry? Please forgive us make me your lover your work is done for few days you go out from this city they decided to send me to jail new inspector is very famous he saved childrens from gangsters in 3 hours he killed cheddi. We are lucky that we are saved he is less inspector and more business man he has come to city to increase his business yes we are playing game they are so many cases on them your publice is so weak. Because of bacha brother we cannot arrest them we should kill them they are disturbing us and civilians since 5 to 6 years you were getting hernia operation what about it? You will not welcome me? What police will say for accident? Sharma got a call that some people are planning for robbery our sir is very kind hearted we covered them and told them to surrender what do you want? Our police officer could have died what are you thinking? If police will decrease then who will take care of you? I know this police officer, there must be a plan behind it you have become headline of this city tell me 1 thing both shooters were bacha brother's man and they killed shiv bala why you did not tell this to media? My experience is also same but atleast bacha would get some pressure who is the MLA? What happen? You did not sleep? You also think I miss Nirmala then you have to prove it. I ask you a riddle, you have to give answer who come back? Its a difficult riddle, it will take time its a very hard question chulbul asked you riddle, why I give answer? I will never do mistake again he will get bail I think he is gone. Bring biryani for him and beat him what happen? Why are you creating wild environment? Go there. If I teach you then you will get big loss I remember 1 thing, chunni is a male name or female name? Then why are you doing this acting? Marry someone and make him daddy for our children's bright future from chaubay now chulbul pandey will entertain us give me chance to serve you by letting me win this election he is saying to serve people and here is gangsters are forcing to give vote he is a old criminal he teach peole politics he is chulbul pandey i messed with 4 police officers i thought lets listen to you too SP and chulbul pandey both are coming here if any problem then go into his house and kill him tell him my name then he will know who M I? Before going to bar, we find out who is dancer? Your father has done 3 mistakes, including you your father died from dengue and your mother died from its happiness further knowledge is secret that I cannot reveal why are you going in that deep? Its not a small thing when everyone will be bigger than us, then how we will survive? Thats why I'm here since 15 years I have decided to kill him if you cannot sleep then tell me I met your mother in a wedding she dropped tea plate on me I was staring at her then I talked to your Patna aunty she talked to your mother then your mother agreed after marriage when you dropped me at aunty's home, which movie you went to see? Respect your mother mother was right there is no enjoyment in sleeping with you hey my love you will not leave this? You are my wife, not a slave when I give you orders, take actions against it where are you going? Come in car we serve old people we will drop you at home with respect your son chulbul pandey he has created problem for us my brother is not doing anything what is urgency? You are not alone police officer bacha should not do anything to our family my brother money is transferred this time its transferred very fast. Last time it took 5 days leave my way i have heard you are doing wedding drama at home wild dogs has increased in money let me complete she is getting married and a person said he will kidnap her. His name is genda I say sorry for this in which war you participated? Your fight worked for you and for me too why you stop music? Groom has come why you have come? Chulbul pandey has come do you know who M I? Here everything is me I'm behaving very calmly he cannot control his emotions why you want to die? You will slap my father? Happy marriage you are upset since 2 days and you are giving me tension I dont like it to make you sad. But I have to do in police job if you want then I will leave this job this is called crime my brother is killed and i want revenge i will investigate about it I come here to say I will take revenge I'm not cheddi singh, I'm bacha singh you will regret why you got transfer in kanpur? I dont know about me but you will regret why I got transfer to kanpur eat all do you work or not? You dont sleep every wife has complaint that her husband sleeps and you complaint that her husband never sleeps then I will go to my father your father died for your happiness now you have to take care of her I want to ask you a personal question you are shivering I want to talk to you I have put a request for your transfer I know bacha very well you have family and now you are becoming a father if anything happen to you then what will happen with them? Please sign here i have done my insurance and you are my nominee I do police job. Anything can happen to me. Why are you saying this? I can beat 100 bacha in 1 time genda's soul is still not in peace and we are discussing here you are not understanding control yourself I call media and tell chulbul is great tell them my brother deserve this? I respect police action no matter he is a brother of MP or CM it means pandey is right i want to congratulate pandey its not my political benefit, its for my soul peace i have done my insurance, you also do it i dont understand this game. An officer kill our brother i cannot do this my father came in my dream what are you thinking? I had a dream you give me respect your wife still not come back and you are thinking of her who has come? Give some food to him your cousin is same like nirmala you have engaged yourself somewhere else? I have come back from jungle did you get any problem? Why you come only for 2 days? What you will do with teacher training? I will do job and earn money you only love me i also want to do something i want to join police and make name like you i have lots of guts i will not give you chance to complaint do something. Any doubt? I enjoyed it any special plan for tonight? Send payment in the evening you did not go in funeral? He was your brother what you have done? You love us alot. We never missed father if father would alive today, then pandey would be dead you did not come in sitting, if you cannot manage then leave it resignation? It will take time go for work later first drop me to temple i did not marry with makhi, everytime you say go with makhi i will come after lunch what you have asked? Make me uncle fast he said he will come on time he killed my brother and increasing his family pandey your wife has given a birth to beautiful baby he killed our baby I'm badly hurt do really bad with him so that he will remember what he has done i promise from today they will never become father today you will realize why i should not get transfer to kanpur pandey is very dangerous you think i will leave pandey? We will cut him into small pieces you sit and watch drama he will think why he come to this world and fight with bacha? Did you get hurt? I told you pandey is very dangerous hit as much you can tolerate why are you killing him? If he will alive then he will be famous give me handcuffs its for few days only. I will come back i remember 1 thing, you hurt my wife what you have done? Atleast inform me who has done holes in you? Bring him to hospital and ask him where is money otherwise make 2 more holes in it now kanpur will be in peace i want holidays to bring my wife overseas. I want to make you uncle open eyes I'm your father you scared me he also dont like your compliment i have a family now. And a grand son too you are having tea alone? Last night mother came in my dream she told me to call you verbatim she said if you like her then marry her thank you you eat it. I go and kill him
