 

                        Brother Yuen. What's the situation? It's ready Get the car. OK Here's today's paper Will it be a wasted effort again? Well, if only this were tomorrow's paper we could find out what happens Fly calling Centipede A butterfly is picking up a car round the corner They're on the move. Everyone stand by Looks like we won't go empty-handed today Hey boss, there're 2 cops Damn it Hold it. Let's play by ear. Keep an eye on the butterflies Get out of the car You know what'ya doing? What have I done? Why are you backing into this space? Sorry, I was in a hurry You're not supposed to pull up here. This is a one-way street Sorry, I couldn't see the sign How could you miss such a huge sign? Sorry. I won't do it again No. Show me your license I just got my license All the more reason to teach you a lesson Please let me off this time Pleading will get you nowhere It's hard to make a living. The fine is so high I'll be in trouble if I let everybody off Where's your license? I got it. I'm a good driver I just missed the sign I was just careless. I won't do it again They're screwing up the operation Centipede calling Bee. Get rid of the 2 bugs Show me your ID card Please give me a chance Just cooperate, and show me your license Hey, Biggie. What? Are you trying to mess with me? What's your problem, man? You have an attitude problem. So? I don't like it What're you gonna do? They could never see eye to eye I had enough with you Want to punch you up! What's going on here? I'll drive away immediately. Please don't give me a ticket OK. I'll let you off just this once Thank you, sir What's in that bag? I say, what's in that bag? Hoi Cricket, get over here and help us Get on the car Let's go Hey, man Let me Calling Control Go get 'em Police. Move There's a gunfight on Kong Ming Street There are roughly 10 people on both sides Both parties fired shots. They are all armed We need back up Hop on Boss Breaking news: While following a traffic accident our news team chanced upon a police gunfight The suspects escaped in a hijacked ambulance Our team filmed a policeman with his hands up begging for mercy as a suspect pointed a gun to his head This has caused a public uproar Legislators challenged the police's ability to protect citizens I am flabbergasted Is Hong Kong still a safe place? What will befall us citizens if the cops capitulate? The Police Commissioner and Security Chief should come forth They have to answer to the Legislative Council Emergency meeting The Legislative Council is demanding an explanation That's how serious it is What's your take, Cho? Hong Kong is basically still a safe city Our crime rate is still low compared to other cities We have a PERFECT S YSTEM Bullshit. Jim According to our past experience we can nail the target in a week We have a 79.8% success rate There's no way they can get away Koh All frontline police shall join the hunt We'll make a plead on television for public support Eric We must act fast Intel is crucial in this case And the lady at the back? Image matters most We have to put on a show. An eye for an eye This is the age of the media The media got us, now we get back at them You guys get what I mean? Rebecca Sorry Sir Yes, we do need a good show You're supporting me, or just agreeing with me? Don't you believe in yourself? How's your dad? You know what kind of person I am It's either black or white. Simple as that That's how we were trained too But relationship is not all black & white Rebecca! Sorry, sir. I'll remember to knock next time I came in to ask if Fong is getting better After all, we're old-time colleagues I will nail those bastards Boss, OCB has taken over the case We'll nail those bastards alright Now we're really in deep shit I'm starving. Where can I get a bite? Sweet potatoes I have a weak stomach How much is it? $20 Boss, your phone is ringing Inspector Cheung is busy Please hold It's Madam Fong from OCB Hello? You didn't get the low-down from the informer? But my men sent everything to you I'll check again and get back to you. Bye Man Make sure Cheung stays off the case Send a memo to his superior If he messes up our plans, he'll take all the blame Yes, Madam That's it Got it Boss, we got something Everyone, get in the car Let's go Boss, do we have to notify Just be careful Ma'am, we're cops on duty. Please go back inside So many strangers these days The incense was just lit. They haven't been gone for long There must be another hideout somewhere. Check up on nearby real estate agents See if the suspects have moved in Yes, Sir Sorry, Sir I have a weak stomach Have any Chinese men with a Mainland accent rented two apartments in a row around here? Let me check No Please contact us if you get any information Sure. Thanks a lot If I were those bastards, I'd pick this place to hideout Shall we snoop around here? Didn't you hear what I said? I said "if" Get the car Boss, they're not sure where the suspects are What makes you think they'll be sure? Use your brain I'll go back and make more inquiries Thanks so much. Don't bother Shun, how're things at your end? Keep searching You should take it easy You only have 2 years before retirement, unlike me Well, you shouldn't see it this way I've been waiting for a hot case since I joined the force Yuen, we did a good show but got no money We can't keep hiding out like this Tiger's dead. We can't let him die in vain I have an idea The police are looking for us They won't expect us committing a heist The most dangerous time is also the safest Then when are we gonna do it? Now Tiger's death means we gotta alter our plan a bit Long, go get us a vehicle No luck with the last 6 apartments. Boss, do we have to inform OCB? Let some of our men sniff out the janitors Madam Fong It's Cheung I know I'm off the case, but I got wind the suspects might be in the vicinity Oh, what a coincidence Of course I won't take any action Yes OK Sir We must take action whether they're inside or not At least we'll do a good show for the media Arresting the bandits is not our only objective We also have to stage a good show for 6 million citizens It's your idea, Rebecca. Don't let us down Yes, sir Eric, give her your utmost support Yes, Sir Say it Intel confirmed they're in the building But CID is stepping on our toes again Just deal with the situation Yes, Sir Those CID guys are onto something I got leads Boss Get ready They're taking action Fall in Our mission is to redeem police reputation and to demonstrate Hong Kong police can bring bad guys to justice All citizens will see us in action on TV We will regain their confidence Every Brick IC officer will go into action with a pinhole camera attached to them FMCU The camera will start operation the moment... you go inside Be careful, everyone Any question? No, sir ETD 5 minutes Yes, sir Get down Go Police. Freeze Get down Get down Get down What's the situation? Stay down Suspect sighted. Guard the entrance. Inform your boss Yes, sir Yuen, the cops are here Meet us on the 8th floor Got it Split OK The criminals just crossed fire with CID What the hell are you doing? Madam, we just ran into the suspects We'll form a cordon until you arrive Cheung Are you here yet? I just got to the 8th floor Is it you, Yuen? Stay where you are Let's split up Xin will join you and Chung's following me Stay in touch and look out for each other Escape when you have the chance We'll meet up once we're out of here OK Let's go What's going on? Did we leak our whereabouts? Put away the gun. Let's run Everyone alright? Answer me Hoi, you're OK? I'm fine The bastards haven't cleared out yet Cheung, It's Rebecca. Are you OK? There was a 'minor' explosion on the 9th floor. No officer was harmed Stay away, police Stay inside Police found out the bandits' hide out and surrounded the building An explosion broke out on the 9th floor The police has not yet issued any statement We'll bring you the latest developments Madam, Sir All our forces are geared up for action The monitors above will detect everything Including wireless communication Suspects may use walkie-talkies Yes, madam Tell PTU to prepare a cordon and evacuate residents Prepare cordon Heard what I said? Want me to repeat it? Yes, sir I got it, sir Yes, sir. Thank you, sir What is it? What is it? Tell me It's nothing. We're just taking you to a safe place A large deployment of police and PTU squadron has entered the building Police cars and a fire engine are standing by Madam Sir, this is Grace, CI from PPRB Superintendent Yeung from CSP Morning, sir What's the media turnout? Around 80 reporters in total I've drafted some points for the press release OK You can have it in 10 minutes What about image of our grand arrival? The photos are ready The coolest ones are being digitally retouched I also got a movie director to edit the footage Then we'll add music and sound effects It'll deliver the punch! Good! Hurry up and give it to the media Yes, madam Tell the media... I'll feed them news every half-hour Yes, madam From the footage released by the police we can see forces setting out on their mission A black-out It must be the police Let's take the stairs Police, Danger, Evacuate immediately Take your wallets and ID cards I'll notify residents on the 10th floor I'll notify residents on the 10th floor PTU is onto it Come down with your men But I think the suspects, Now Yes, madam Check every residential unit. Make an orderly evacuation Yes, sir Dad, the cops told us to stay inside I've lived long enough to know cops are idiots Hurry up. There's nobody out there Why don't you listen to the police? You're cops? Cops don't point a gun at a civilian's head The boy's smarter than his dad My girl Don't kill my daughter! She's Christian What's that got to do with it? I dunno. I'm just talking off my head My girl. Sister Next time, I won't punch the pillow We wouldn't wind up like this if it weren't for you Hey, show your old man some respect We don't want to hurt anyone We just need to take refuge here for a while How can I cooperate with you? Turn on the TV, watch the breaking news Don't move around Chung, put away your gun Police has begun to evacuate the residents Let's check other news You must evacuate the building Bring your ID cards and follow me How do you rate the police evacuation? Excellent They arrived within 15 minutes and followed the right procedures Were you scared? Not at all. The police were by our side Were they courteous? The residents are evacuating orderly They were mostly from the 1st and 2nd floors Sources indicate police are bugging the suspects There're 4 of them, split into pairs We'll bring you the latest news Now back to the newsroom Take it easy. There's no rush Take them down Didn't you hear the news? Stay indoors and wait for police evacuation What? I'm dumping the garbage Boss, he has hearing problems Seen anyone walk pass? Haven't seen Annie for a while Ask him where he lives and take him home Boss, but we had an order from madam Where do you live, sir? Madam, the PTU Commander reports back The gunshot came from the 9th floor Shall we ask PTU to go up and take a look? Cheung Madam? We had a face off with 2 suspects on the 9th floor Didn't you hear me? Must I repeat myself? Take residents down the middle stairway Now. We're almost there Let's talk after this Call Cheung's boss. Let him get his ass fried Now? Sorry, sir You asked if we need to tell PTU to go up? No need Yes, madam Command post out to PTU. Stay put Continue evacuating 7th floor residents Two targets on ninth floor Yuen, we clashed with the cops on the 9th floor Don't use our walkie-talkies. It's not safe Remember this number. Switch SIM cards from time to time We're in 8E Stay in touch and find an escape route Sure I think they turned off their walkie-talkies So what How about the mobile network? But there're many networks Each base station handles multiple phone lines And they are digital What's your point? Best we can do is to find out which numbers are in use To pin them down, we need their passwords Bring me 2 coffees Yes, madam We want all numbers coming out of this building from the last time they used their walkie-talkies Tell Intel to stay on this Yes, madam But there're loads of calls Of course. Just deploy more staff Ever watched a telethon? There're lots of hotlines Yes, sir Answer the call Answer it Hello? What's taking you so long? It's Aunt Jenny I just saw your home on TV Are the kids OK? None of your bloody business I've tried my best to cooperate Good Stand right there Stay where you are All freeze Get down Yuen, it's Long Get inside Move Tell PTU to seal off the 8th floor completely All tenants must stay in their apartments Yes, sir Check out all the residents on that floor I want an exact head count Yes, madam Four targets on eighth floor Another two upstairs Yuen, we rescued the wrong guy It's all their fault. They dragged us into this shit Chung Superintendent, Assistant Commissioner is on the phone Patch him through CK, it's Eric here The feedback is so far so good The media is so keen to know how things are in there We need to show them some new stuff Rebecca will arrange that We got great footage of officers combating suspects You have my word for it. THIS IS A GREAT SHOW I'll be glued to the TV Good-bye. Sir They blew PTU to bits. How can we broadcast this? We've fixed it on the editing table We'll only show officers firing at the suspects and forcing them into an apartment That's all Will you say something to the press? Not right now Then I'll speak Are you Chun? If I hadn't come to the rescue, you'd be Who are you guys? Who cares? We're on the same boat If you want to call the shots get out now There're at least 1,000 cops closing in on us Wang What's your name? I'm Yuen. He's Chung We have 2 more pals outside So what's your 'line of work'? Getting paid to finish jobs for people I'm Yip Dad We're on the same boat alright This is the latest newsreel released by the police PTU officers are chasing the suspects forcing them to retreat to an apartment Police spokesperson has issued a statement: We tracked down the suspects and took action Police casualty is minimal. We are in control We have pinned down their exact hideout We're confident we can apprehend the criminals We'll bring you the latest development This is a psychological battle Can you upload it onto the web? Sure. My son is a computer wiz kid I won't assist bad guys I'll nail those bastards Let's split up Unit 8E belongs to a single-parent family Mr. Yip is a cab driver with 2 kids They should be in the apartment Have you checked their phone number? We called but no one is answering They don't want to talk Tell SDU to get ready Yes, madam Madam Switch to the news channel. Yes, madam The media received these pictures on the web They show PTU defeated by the bandits This contradicts the police statement earlier Presumably, it's the suspects' response to the broadcast The police have not issued any statements yet We'll keep you informed on any new developments Superintendent, it's for you Find out which server they're using. Hack into their system Yes, madam OK People out there are calling us liars Hello The talk show host wants to speak to the person in charge I'll talk to him Good morning, this is Grace Cut the crap The police has fed bogus news to the public What's your explanation? Let's not argue over a few blurry pictures The PTU officers in the film are being interviewed The truth will be out soon If you have other comments, please call me I'm Grace from PPRB. Thank you Contact the reporters we know Yes, madam Good It's still buzzing out there. I'll divert their attention We've hacked into their computer Someone's hacked in Hello I'm the Deputy Commander of this operation I'd like a word with the person in charge Miss Commander, I'm your man I'm Deputy Commander Rebecca Fong You must know the situation out there We have the place surrounded There's no use resisting Come on out Do you mind if I call you Rebecca? Not at all List your demands, but first, let the hostages go You look good on camera Women officers are seldom this pretty There must be swarms of male colleagues after you Thanks. What do you look like? I'm ugly But I have one up on you I don't tell lies Do pretty babes all tell lies? We just speak from different channels I don't mind that at all. I like pretty girls. So long Get me back in They're offline Jackie is HK police force's spokesperson We're grateful he's here to voice his support Hi everybody I stopped shooting today I can't believe you're still doing homework Just in case I survive today Damn it, Your textbooks give me a headache Wang Stop it, Wang He's starving Yip You know how to cook? Of course Cook something for 7 people No problem Go back to your homework Sit down Got an electric shock Little girl, how do you plug this in? How come you unplugged the wire? Can you cook? Usually Big Sis and I do the cooking Why don't YOU do it? Allow me Let me make a dish or two I'm such a glutton Most of the money I make goes to food and booze And you? I thought of opening my own restaurant Don't believe me? I had the same thought They must be deploying their forces My mind is especially clear when I'm cooking That's the best we could do It's destiny that we can dine at the same table Got any booze? Sure I couldn't bring myself to open it before But this is a special occasion Dinner time, kids "Uncle killer" and "uncle bandit" prepared it You know? Wait a minute Let's upload this for the press Nice food! They too know how to put on a great show Trying to show the hostages are not mistreated Communications technology has its pros and cons We'll break for lunch too Get the best lunch box for everyone Make sure the reporters get their share too Yes, madam I never broke for lunch during police operations We only eat when it's over This is not just an operation I want to show not only bandits and hostages have to eat Cops are human. They get hungry too You get it? Yes, madam Madam, SDU standing by Wait for the order What's the situation? Interviews with folks of officers killed in action will be aired soon We're still filming injured officers Interview the officer who raised his hands Yes, madam Why bring him back? We can make him a hero by manipulating the media Let's take a break Come on, Chun and Wang Let's drink to our chance meeting Cheers Who knows what will befall us? Let's drink I don't drink with thieves You're not afraid to die? I'll thrash you Grow up to be a cop and catch bad guys I wanted to be a cop when I was young Let's talk again if we survive today After the bandits uploaded footage of their lunch Police has responded with similar action Here we have the police's lunch box Chicken, pork, duck's egg... - what a feast! It's allegedly the best staff meal police ever provided Even reporters got a share My son wanted to be a cop since he's young As a kid, he even saluted policemen on the street He's only 21, and now he's gone forever We already bought our own apartment We even ordered the wedding gown But still, I'm so proud of him I'm a police officer too The robbers ran amok on the street with an AK I don't even know where I got shot I just felt severe pain and passed out When I woke up this morning the doctor said my leg had to be amputated What have I done wrong? I never broke any police code We're never asked to take unnecessary risks We're never meant to be martyrs I knew that if I hadn't raised my hands then those robbers would have killed me for sure But I have a duty to look after my wife and to bring up my son I have a clear conscience in this matter Even if I had the choice, I'd still have done the same thing I did nothing wrong If anything happens to him what will we do? Get to work Your pretty commander must have more tricks up her sleeve I guess SDU is moving in What are your plans? Hey kiddo, log-on to the Internet There's no more rice I'll look into it We're cops. Cops Exit the building. We're moving in Boss, should we go? I'll nail those bastards Madam, the suspects are online again. Patch me through Rebecca, having lunch? Got no appetite until I've arrested you Are you full? Yes Eating is good for your body How thoughtful of you One person's decision could hurt many people Don't you understand? I do. I know you're about to take action Go ahead. We're ready The Yip's are innocent Listen up Only bandits would hurt hostages. Not police Say it Yuen, SDU is here Someone's crawling out of the 8th floor We just saw a man falling out of the window He's luck for being tided and didn't fall Dad Is he the tenant? You want all Hong Kong to watch him die? Assault team, on your marks Madam, SDU ready Hold it Reporters have their cameras ready Tell SDU to retreat SDU has retreated. Do you hear me? SDU has retreated Beware of sniper Don't worry. We're on live TV Target in sight I'm sorry I won't do it again I'm back I won't, I promise I made a mistake It's great working with you Nothing we can't sort out if you surrender No I'd love to see you, but not in this fashion In what fashion? Face down, as a stiff? You'll see Just surrender. It's simpler OK Yuen. I have an idea Call SDU Action They're fortified. It endangers SDU and the hostages They're planning to make an exit How? Where there's a will, there's a way Some kinda instinct? I don't accept it I need your support, not your acceptance OK. Tell SDU to get ready for action Yes, madam Freeze. Stay where you are Freeze! Watch out! Grenades! Stand there Watch out. Grenades Freeze Stand there Hostages coming out of 3 units on the 8th floor Grenades are attached onto them I knew it Get Bravo team to cover them Yes, madam Don't be afraid. Stay calm Police! Freeze! Police. Freeze There're grenades. Request backup Any SDU on the 8th floor? No, madam Where's the Alpha Team? They're on the ground floor Tell them to go up Go have a look Police. Freeze I'm telling you to freeze Let's go Don't hang up. Keep this line open Go! You go first. I'll wait for them OK See you down there Everything OK? Fine Cheong Wai Street. 4 p. M All hell will break loose if there's an explosion Alpha Team opened fire on 4 suspects We'll secure the premise They didn't make it There're bombs in units A6 And C3 And in D4 as well I'm a civilian We've been had I'm Yip We had to come down or the grenades would go off They're moving corpses of suspects and injured officers CID agents came down with the bandits' corpses None of the grenades attached went off Yet there're multiple explosions on the 8th floor They won't make it. Let's get out of here Looks like you're all prepared We're pros Wherever we hide, we have an escape route Just like you plan your exit before making a hit Right? My associate Wang is from my hometown I promised to attend his son's birthday banquet after this I never get too close to my partners Cheung Madam Cheung This is yours It's too late. I was gonna do it today Where's Cheung? Where's your boss? He's still up there He just won't get it Hurry up. You go first. I'll cover for you Rebecca, can we tell the media yet? Yes. This is the most crucial moment in our show You do the talking then OK You seriously want me to do it? Every MC has a script to follow You too planned to make a move today? Any day will do. Armored cars come by everyday Cops will be after you everyday We're not the same as you lot If we miss the boat, it's hard to find another chance Why don't you become a robber instead? Why don't you become a killer? Ever thought of becoming a cop? I gotta give you your dues Why aren't you releasing the information? Is the police trying to hide something? This is the first ever collaboration between police and media Such a degree of transparency has never been achieved before Officer, if you move down any further I'll take you out You're a robber. Of course I have to catch you We can't wait any longer Chun, it's done We have own destinies You go your way, we'll go ours He won't be able to get down Other cops are on their way I just surveyed the premise Casualty is minimum thanks to careful planning Is this high-profile operation a success? It's a great success as of this moment Who's in charge? Set off the bomb There're 6. Where are the other 2? OK Another explosion? Isn't the crime scene secured? Sorry, this is an unexpected situation We'll make a public announcement later Bravo Team found a hole at the bottom of the shaft Sir Dispatch to MCU Send The cop is badly wounded. When would the ambulance arrive? Rebecca Fong Freeze You won't get away You're even prettier in the flesh I get that a lot You're a bit of an eyesore What kind of guy is your type? I don't have a boyfriend How 'bout a robber like you? I'm single too Keep driving He's really a dutiful cop But too rash The walkie-talkie You can't get away Command Post to Everybody The hijacked van turned out of Ming Tak Street It's heading to Fu Hoi Street So many people are watching Say hello Go to Cheong Wai Street Just turn yourself in This is the best ending for you and me You mean me being locked up? You have a choice? Yeah, whatever I can't see the way Don't stop It's not my fault I did my best to cooperate Let's go Attention all units. The suspect is holding Fong hostage Be careful. Don't fire without order Police! Watch out! Go, go away! Block the crowd! Don't come out! Watch the door! What do you want? The show's over This is a show for you? From the moment you pointed a gun at my colleague every part of our operation has been a show I'm the bad guy. How 'bout you? I'm the director of the show You can't Calling backup to Cheong Wah Street! Don't look, Police Investigation! Get away! Why don't you raise your hands? The show must go on If I could choose I'd cast you as my leading lady Madam, I'm Inspector Cheung You're the hero now I'll schedule a press conference in an hour Bring Cheung along. He will play the hero I'll pep-talk him so he won't run off his mouth The Police announced... The Police announced that the armed bandits had been eradicated The Chief of Police singled out for recognition Commissioner Fong and Inspector Cheung The Chief Executive also made a speech The Chief Executive also made a speech expressing his pride in the police force He vouches that Hong Kong is a safe place A gunman attempted to rob an armored truck but was shot dead by the police Police confirmed the method place and time of the robbery was the same as the armed bandits shot dead by police yesterday SkyFury
