 

                        "Damage" "...Said Pericner " "You are here for the procedures of your release" , I came here for " "The unintentional killing of a second-class "... The court ruled 7 years you" and will be finally released After that I spent half the time, is not that true? "Yes, Sir, this is true" -- "Prison Riverton" - "This is because the incident in February 2002" , I have been responsible for killing " "Matthew Reynolds, is not this true? "Yes, Sir, this is true" "Do you regret your crime?" "... not a day goes by where I did not think the man" "were not a crime, but a man" "... this requires a killer remote" "... use the guns about 100 feet" "was to kill a person without looking into his eyes," , however, that Elmejrd kill someone with your hands " "Is the worst thing a person could do "... It is changing, difficult to explain" "Why do not you try?" "... As you know, when you kill someone" "... be with you always" "... Ilazemk forever" "in conduct, in every act" "does not leave you never" "(Seattle)" -- "! This is something you can not change it" - "... I will do my best anyway" "! I understand" , then, tell me, at least, how " "You'll spend your time abroad? "Wim plans?" "... I'm going to Zzivp" "... but in the beginning should get rid of the position of the" "! I have no choice" "! must do what is right" "... I have read your" , I have been an example of righteousness " "I believe that a rational significantly "... Congratulations, Mr. Pericner " "I wish you a good life abroad" "! good luck" "Veltze for Architecture" I have the fun day with Dr. (Mike), okay? (Pericner) -- ! (Pericner) -- Will obey orders, and will not ask questions I pay the money and I, we agreed? Take the shipment up to 18 Is our mission? Do not think for a moment the absurd to me, do you hear me? "! It is" Do you speak English? ! Hello Is Tmaenain if I told you That ass of Wonderland? ! Beyond your hands, the concept of? Oh, what to order prostitutes today? You can ask for food first Are you okay? -- ... For -- ! This happens only once again ! You are, bar girl, come on, let's go ! Here I come Why do not you come here, my dear? Never touch me ... Hala apologized to the lady? ! I'm sorry What? -- Do you want a job? -- (Pericner) Do you have a problem, (Kamvek)? If ... How goes? It has become the function In fact, two How is all of them? -- ! Competently, but those weak kill me -- Well, you're clean, good work ! See you next week ! By your Lord, you guys ! Stop! Stop ! Lord, stay here ! Do not worry Well ! Calm down So, what do you think? ! I think we will see ! Do not let the door hit you out of it and ! See you tomorrow evening ... Wait, Well, what I did that ! That's great, great, you should contact me , If you want to make some money I can make you earn money the fact ! Thanks ! It is the place for you ! (John) ! (John Pericner) ! So, I think that my letters have reached you I did not know, because you are not on the deterioration of my -- ... Yes, John -- ... Have I received your letters ... This is why I'm writing a report your release I told them to call released, because you have no regrets And you want to correct things ! But do not commit cause errors Not for you, for my husband was alive today Olay and I'm for you You are still behind bars Thank you -- ... Do not do that -- ! I did not, my heart I had no reason other than Onaneaci ... My daughter, (Sara) in the 8-year-old ... May not even survive the night, because they want to grow a heart I have corresponded with all organizations in the country to donate None of them did not take into account the condition I do not expect another reply of them I am very sorry ! I do not want Hafqatk, John ... I was able to put you out of jail ... So you can do something about it ! You will save the life of my child How? -- ... Through the work process them -- Will cost 250 thousand dollars This amount was not I had a ... I do not have anything to sell, I -- You know? I do not care what you have -- I can give you what you can get it ! (I am not asking you to do so, (John "...(Veronica Reynolds) " "Street of Le Mans Online - Seattle - Washington" ! Take ! You surrendered? You know? It is time to do some things? ! My ass here ! We are beginning to smile Can I asked for something? This man who offered me another job Do you know? ! Yes, Renault Do you know where I can find it? ! Ends Do you mess with me, (Farris)? ! You do not have only those papers ! Send it Dash paper the "S", Siotwa here You know? ! I'll put ! Good luck ! (Frankie) Are you looking for me? For ! He wanted to talk to you Are you serious about that job? ! So, what is the job? ! Provided, I'll show you ! Come ! How are you? How are you, (and now)? ... Called Timmins ... Beat everyone here down the ground ! He was married, with a fatal blow to me and a friend ! No, Thanks ! Why? Are you afraid of this man? ! I'm not interested This man, Hassan Hattab, for heaven's sake ... This is his principal It is a small factor Are you telling me that is afraid of lumberjack? ! Wait Do you know how much money it will get If victorious on that person who, below? ! Not enough I'm not eligible to do so ! So, Tell, (Frankie) on the amount of money Six thousand, this is easy, fighting and one Six thousand, six thousand, one in fighting All we have to do is to defeat that person? Do you win the fight? ! Both I know you are under parole It would be easy ! It is a serious profit ... If I thought you might be intimidated my ass ! You're close to hell ... Listen, I'm sorry about your situation ... I also really ... But I can not help you Really? ! Yes, I'm sorry ! There is nothing to do, huh? Well .. What about those things? , I have sent many of them ... From prison, John If I can do anything you can tell me I want to help I can do something Do you know ...? Why do not you come out of here? You make me sick ! Mom ! Udi to bed, dear What's up? I have heard you Tsrgen -- ! There is nothing wrong, there is nothing to worry about it, go back to bed -- ! This (John), It is a friend ! (This (Bommer ! It is a good name ! It is my friend ! I bet it is also a good friend It is disturbing -- ! To bed -- ! Let me see what I can do ... I feel, I need only a longer period International), I tell you, I feel this man) I feel, I feel it through my bones Yes, yes, do you want some Parfumes? ... Lord, Prime If it helped me Sodhaaf Msttmratk ... Lord, if it's good as you say What I need you? Is not it, (Frankie)? I mean, we know you're a villain's eye Look around ... Store all of your dreams through the pseudo - The only reason for being had and still Is that no one wants You are wrong, Dewey ! You are wrong Listen to me, Renault ! Your instinct is nonsense If it's good from the beginning Were not here I come I have heard that (Hantler) wants Tkotaiek Well, to clarify matters, okay? I tell you, this man, it's luck -- ! Nonsense -- ... I'll tell you what is luck Those buttons metal love her a lot It brought me, and I will put you a good price It buttons Abi You are appointed to a very Can I help you? ! (Pericner) ! (Pericner) ! (Pericner) ! (Pericner) I told you to clean below the crane which Since hours ago Why wait? I am working on that as she told me ! Oh my God You are like a former worker Do you hear anything I say to you? I'll tell you ... Collect your objectives and get out of here ! You're Fired Did you hear that? ! Get lost ! You're Fired Are you okay? ! One of you to ask for help Has not been in the hands of you bastard ! Come on! Haya ! Haya Have saved his life, know that? Thank God for big hands ! He owes you also ! Come on, come on -- ! Come on, come on -- ! We must go ! Stop-motion, the concept of? The good news, I won -- For -- The bad news, you are still in front of you another fighter For -- Hala remained static? -- Us, five minutes -- I do not feel excited, man -- ! I can not talk now, wait Renault, you're going to see combat or not? Will be ready, do not worry about it You have five minutes -- ! A good -- Ever heard that? Five minutes? We have completed Are you ready? ! Stand Up, a hand to the top ! Thus, let us Ready? Do you have time to me now? ! Us Do you want people names in the fighting? -- If I lose, it will not pay you -- I understand? Do you want my advice? -- ! For, why not -- ... Expecting anything ... It is not a fight to the death But some people do not like the pullout -- ... See -- , All you need to know, John ... You did not have to kill that man Make sure that it wants you to kill him Well? Itbni ! To see that person What's his name? -- We'll change -- Will pull out, this is what you get Lord, do not worry about it You will get your share Well, not quite Do you agree? ! Enough of this nonsense I'm his manager, he will not tamper with me Lord, (Paul), I had to do the same for you Will you give me my money, man? See ... Ladies and gentlemen, do we have a fight here or not? Otherwise, I can go back to the house I want my money, man fucking Show me), you will get your money as soon as the kicking leg) The back of your leg, we agreed? ... So -- Listen -- I will bet your feet 3 to 1 We both know that this is the year Well, to you Well, to begin -- ! Thank you -- Well, what do we know about that person? -- ... Nothing -- Well? It is a coward It bites -- Must be received by the bite, the concept of? -- So, what you can do-it-to win, okay? ! Well -- ! Well -- Is close to the fighters You both know the laws .. I shall assume Onkma not know Fighting continued until the surrender of you Or be unable to continue The bloodshed does not eliminate the fighting If you stop the fighting be considered a Mnhsp You can not start fighting with a weapon But finding the weapons by fighting the draft Did I find the weapons? Except, of course, firearms Any questions? Well, the fighting starts when you hear the bell You can Edei, and we will be friends in the end Come on, Stand, (John) You can not win so Do nothing, (John), Lord This man's eye Come on, hell ! Uprise ! Great work, wonderful, come on ! Is Finished? ! Come on, man! Haya ! Great work, come on Hurray, I won -- ! This Fattai, John -- Do not you know the first move? -- What is it? -- ! That, my broken bone This was not something Let's take a look at you, come on ! I can not believe that this villain has Bedei How's the head? Is it okay? Double vision? ! No -- ! No -- ! To see your arm I will need to counter infections -- Well -- Hey man, you won? Do I win? ! That's funny No, I won, man I won, right? Overcame those big hand ! I thought it was ! This is yours -- What do you do the hell? -- ! You would divide that amount with the dreaded? Not to forget something, (Renault)? Thank you, man -- ! For -- I know what he is trying (Renault) said You must be thrilled Worth the money for Do you bring your money bag? -- For -- I have things to BORROWED -- There is nothing wrong -- ! You big man on campus ... It is a time to celebrate ! I think so Away from trouble? -- Yes, Sir -- What else? Has been expelled from a practical Really? -- ... Yes, it is a long story, as you know -- I was promoted in my work, Flabos I was also worried You are a clean, well - ! Get out of here ! You must acquire locks I like it What to do in my room? Are you afraid to steal something? ! (Frankie) ! I've got a lot of money, John Keep money in the air conditioning, I like it How much money do you think you got it? How much you gave me? I did not Ohsiha Two hundred and seventeen dollars ! Cash I will double the amount If you do not give half to the man Do you still complain about it? ! Let me explain to you how things would go ... To be a money bag And those that we will be passing us And we can put out what Rbhnah ... "And we must have the fight," Timmins ... We must go to the shop and, believe me ... To do so, we will need money Do you want to get some scratches? You want to get scratches real? -- I know, you must work to get the money -- ! I remember that Pack your bags, John ! Will come to stay with us And will leave the house ... "And you'll see" Deakin It is always in good condition in the morning Will pass it -- What do you mean, I've got the money? -- ...! This is not enough ... Everyone felt nice presentation done by lethal Will know that it is a decent money if they win John, good fighter And we can win from behind Including you In the near term But in the long run is not much With all due respect, you have What are you? A man at the age of 109? What is the long term do you expect? You have the courage, respect that But you should serve among the ages have I refuse to ! (Renault) ! Further away from us a little bit, let me talk to him Yes, let's go out To give them the opportunity to speak See, look like a nice boy But you are not famous in that game ... May we all want to dance with you ... For a little money Because they know even if they win Could lose So, what he does not deserve So, things are not only of money -- Almalmcklp, but not the biggest problem -- You are under parole, are you well? You can lie on, but when I look for your eyes I think that view Well, I am also So what? Are you a religious man? ! Almost ... Have you heard of the slave of others before the late "In" Babel, ! No -- ... Well -- ... About this person Saudi Arabia has been given to the person Who wants to be given to slave Why do think this rascal himself? Seems he does not want money This is the great villain It only protects the location There's nothing personal He said that we will fight and get the money It's not about that, man It is about respect It is about me I am, I get respect But these bastards want to get everything on their own How many times I'll tell you where the failure to Altkhaddin in my car, (Frankie)? I do not know, how many times listened by you? Let me tell you something about that city, John ... Track people raises All of this nerve pressure ! See it ... You know that thing that lies in the pathetic What's this? -- Anger, (John), Rage of the dreaded -- People charged with anger and Alhngah Life, nonsense I have despaired ... Trying to be non-existent ... Turning to the odd thing is Nonsense somewhat What does that to me? Want to win, right? Do you want to win? Must give them that Should be grabbing their attention ! (You are good, (John ! You are good But you are nice to have appointed ... Like all the time I was in the clinic Everyone gets angry, I'm angry Why do not you take me as a hostage to the sample? No one likes the same, John Everyone wants to be half-god ... And you like everyone else, John Let me tell you something ! Ikhald to sleep ! We want money ! Therefore, we must Nrtgel ! (Renault) ! (Renault) ! Wait, both ! Do not go inside No -- Iltqtti image, (Frankie), Iltqtti pictures -- I'll give you 5 thousand in the corresponding Five thousand? For -- Do you crazy? -- ! They Abi metal buttons You kill me ! Well I've got a good price, man ... But, if you place I did not I will be selling them Because there may be a useful But it will not detect it, right? He sold them will not know, right? I doubt that anyone can take them Bsari I'll tell you something ... Are you ready for the game? The big picture, Frankie The Big Picture Woe to those dogs That would be a serious They seem hungry Wait a minute, I have to Measure things here What does this mean? Everything is under control I am the manager of your business, is not it? ! Trust me Can I question? What? What do I do with (Renault)? What are you doing there? Just something special I've saved my life, okay? ! I owe him ... (Nester) ... I do not know what to say How Dogs ... (Renault) Let me guess You are here to give me my money damned Do you owe you money? ! (Iaod), (Jaime) ! Kill the fuck is this -- Lord, (Nestor), we are friends -- We need to solve things ! It is too late that ! You villain's eye And everyone knows this There are a lot of people owes them money , And I bet that each one of them Wants to know what will happen to you This is not true Most of them love me And dogs Sthabk -- ! Wait -- What do you want it? A lot -- I will fight before them, -- What? -- Let me fight for -- If you win will release him If I lose, it becomes a meal Dogs What kind of this drivel? If I lose, I think it will die ! An invitation to go ! Bastards He does not deserve Must kill the dreaded And now you want to bet You? ! Van This only! Forget it, let's go -- Ten thousand -- ! Let me see the money -- ! Here -- ! Ten minutes, warmed ! Come on, John -- ! Come on -- ! Stand Up, Lord you can win ! Come on, John You can defeat ! It is nothing, you can win It Msin Just a fat fucking This person has problems with his mother In the Christmas holiday Do biscuits feeds you? What feeds you you chubby? ! This rascal can not do anything ! Stand, John ! (Nester) Seventy thousand, this is a good time "I will talk to" Dekket To see if we can start now Is not it, big man on campus? Who is (Veronica)? ! Thank you for your coming It was fine all day I am tired but I am working on something I'm looking for a way to pay At least, I can help Yes, Well, it is the provincial hospital We have no choice How are you? Do not waste your effort on, John It is best to do what you have to do You travel in your mind, are you well? Yes, what does that mean? It's just money ... Lord, Frankie I was about to die I need a few moments of peace on my own You know, (John) is not Kalmqatl the past? I think he can take care of himself It is not only cash machine Is Thpinh? Thpinh, is not it? Thpinh? -- ! SHUT UP -- Is it your favorite kind? It appeared to be a good people only, the concept of? Lawful good people? -- ! For -- ... Let me tell you something about John Pericner I have spent 4 years in jail You know why? I'm serious, (Frankie), You know why? I do not care -- I have beaten a man to death -- ! Hands Elmejrd ... He looked in the eye And has taken the spirit of Does it seem to you that the good guys? Huh? Does it seem to you that the good guys? Look, we need to Well? Do you trust me? Do you trust me? Well ... See, (John), on Wednesday ! Forget it -- I do not want, I want to talk about it -- Forget I said its order, did not say so? ! Well ... (John) ! Good luck Come on, do not give him the opportunity -- ! Come on! Come on -- ! Kept him out of your neck ! You see that ! This Fattai Forty-five thousand ! This is good ! But not enough We need at least 100 thousand so that we can "To start talking with the men," Tennessee ! Well ! Just like new Hello, Renault I want to apologize to you on that night ! Do not worry about them ! I am serious Do not you , When I was inside the prison I did what I could to control my anger Money you can control the noise is Many prisoners make noise After a period Tatadin the command only ! Sorry ! This seems the stuff of Damn (Harris Tenet) No one wants handled it badly? I do not know how to stop this ... Do not worry you huge, this is a good thing ... Well, only Do not let this frighten you I need to have a number of contacts, we have agreed? If ... I hope you are well However, I must be honest with you ! Stendhishin How involved with this matter with the "Deakin"? I keep asking myself the same question ... Deakin, right ... It's like any other person Escape from one place to another researcher For something he believes in Is this yours? ! Not quite Hello, Frankie -- Hello, John -- How's the patient? Some dressings and would be fine "It's called" Perry Siuchr ! This seems fun It is estimated to remain closed now May be useful in the future Where he went (Renault)? Likely that he went for a walk Well, how are you? ! Fine Let me ask you a question How could they not become the post of Nurse So you? Did not believe I did not do that? What? You'll take care of persons For living? I think I understand your position Healthy enough to take what Patients take a long time ! This is nonsense You owe me something Anything, my God-Rahim ! To go along a little ... Yeah, I like to train a little Mr. (Val) wants the 50 thousand dollars, you know that? Things were fine when you pay installment And now delayed Not delayed? You know what I told them? ... I said it does not have the money ... Why do not you kill him? And will never seek for someone to collect the money ... Mr. (Val) says that it can be given a deadline You can stay here or leave Must be paid in cash, but will die ... Moved away from me you bastard fuck -- ... What? -- Do you pay money Or do you want to be Tkotaiek? ! You have one week I want a longer timeout After Week We will not negotiate with you Oh my God, I need a longer time than that ! Lord, I need a longer time than that ! Lord, I need a longer time than that ! Lord, I need a longer time than that What we do here, (Renault)? -- Do not worry, just a cruise -- Are you happy now All going to die at sea Lord, people like you will love the place What? -- What do you think yourself to do it? -- Did not we work with (Nester) again? How do I pay my debts if? I have to go there What to do (Daewoo) and (Fix) here? Will be fights Znntek said they wanted cash -- They do not want it, (John), we need to -- Must prevail on that person Should be looking for weakness And destroy ... I have known Mr. (Yayu) for years ... It has a weak jaw If able to do it, will remain in place, the concept of? Damn, how I'll do it? ! Discover your own way That person is what we must Thabh It is named for the Mexican ! Let's go! Haya Well ... (Pericner) against (Yayu) The fighting would be 3 to 1 for Yayu I think we are clear, gentlemen Sinking like anything ! Well, let's start ! Will Oahtmk -- Really? -- Yes, and then you will Odhadja your friend that there is ! And continued to talk -- ! Begin -- ! Do not say I did not warn you, John ! Kla What I told you bitch? ! Stopped the fighting -- I can not -- John, where is your anger? Where anger, (John)? ! Damn Come on, (John)! Enable him ! Yeah! For Why wait, man? ! Haya Is this the best you have? -- Yes, why do you think? -- ! Klaaaaaaaaa Frankie, wanted me to stop the fighting Is this true? -- Do not worry, (John), did not allow them to do so -- Because I believe in you ... (Pericner) Congratulations, man Toast ... Small elite L John Pericner Nkhbk And measured thirty You are the best wrestler in the corner I feel this In the corner? I prefer something else What are we waiting for? ... (John) ... They control the money It controls the matter, what do you expect to do? Is your question can you guys? What intend to do? This is not an act But in the beginning ... Hello? What? Where are you? Brooklyn "?" Hello? Veronica)?) Veronica? regret to inform you that the request for a heart transplant " "... For Sarah Reynolds "should get the money in advance" ! Damn Renault, equipped with the car ! (Renault) Renault, equipped with the car -- ! Come on -- ! Hello John, with all this? ... I know it is not my business, I just ... It's man's wife that you b Was the reason for parole The Okrjtni from prison ! That's very kind of them ... There was a reason to do so Her daughter must be a heart transplant Address the existing apartment Asked me to pay the costs of the operation But a lot of money Too many -- ! Oh my God -- ... (John) -- Do not think like a hero somewhat -- This is not good enough For Where he went, (Renault)? Yes, it does some things only Yes, I've noticed It freezes there ... Listen, I'm Does not pull its punches, okay? It also presents a dilemma Please, do not say anything ! I have seen the letter If you do, you understand No, I do not understand Damn, I am doing everything I can ... Is not supposed to go out Should not give up -- Do not you understand? -- My heart is identical with Can be given my heart No, no, no, not so I can do that Can Tthagi me only? Must be degradation to the speech Loud, my favorite Come on, dear, I'm here to see my children It's just a visit, but I will come back To Istrjallm very soon Reno, I have a view What do you have? For the buttons, I have a view Do you sell them? ! You are the son of Arhp You villain's eye, I told you not selling them Lord, how I know you I will return from them? I sell them, right? I am offered, Big Show, cash ! I have accepted it What? -- Of the Bhraihm? -- ... I can not give you that information Even if they did, I have to pay in cash -- Who paid for them? Would (co-)? -- Was (Nester)? Was (Nester)? Was it here? ! This is nonsense This is nonsense of the eye May be right, but it would be rational To sell something emotionally high value ! Too bad for you ! Too bad for you ! I'll show you the hell ! I'll show you How goes? ! Will live ! This is good Harsh things, You know that? ... John, I know you're not ready to play now, but We must maintain our focus on We must use the mind -- I will do anything for it now -- So, tell me What does this mean? -- Of heart transplants are not cheap -- I need to find a match Things of that kind Excuse me, but this is what I can do -- (Renault) -- ... I have Contact Nestor Hami seeks revenge for the game Do you want me to accept or not? ! Accept it So, how's it going? They run ! Great Is there anything else should I know? ! Certainly I have spent the last week I fight people for money ... Is a piece of them daily, but Should be saved the life of a person's daughter Who was killed This person, who resigned from the sake Good ... ! Your clean, see you next week ! Touch the chest and ass Sorkl Does not appear that the money which we have agreed It is 150 thousand dollars ! Damn Not ready to reach that amount higher I'm sorry I've come in the amount appropriate for the family name How much is required to feed this rascal? -- ! Too bad for you -- Bobby, to accept the bet, I can defeat this fool -- Lord, enough nonsense -- The Thecemtem to each other If you want to fight getting ready fighting So, stop crying ! Well, Well ! Let's start Hey guys ... Where is she? -- It is on your lot, I brought your property -- Well, give us them ... Well, not with me now, but I will Lord, man, wait a moment Listen, I swear to you, okay? ... I made a bet on the fight, Mali ... And my feet, it is lucky He commented about the fighting now, okay? So, Tmhluwa and you will get your money In addition to the interest Honestly You better not mess with us Because then things will be very ugly Where the hell are you? -- ... He -- ! Hello, Frankie ! I'm still as beautiful as I see We will wait there I want you to take your car only ! Get out of here, the concept of Now? -- Yes, in the case, do not you trust me? -- ! Be patient my What's happening? -- ! None -- What's happening? -- ! None -- Nothing happens ! You lie -- No -- ! It is not so What's happening? -- ! Nothing, man -- What to order (Frankie)? ... It is only There are people who are here Here? -- Do not worry, man, let's go -- ! Come on, John ! Come on, John Pericner ! Giant All of this for you, my friend Well, gentlemen Are you ready to fight for real? Calm .. ... When I signal, There are no tours .. No bells and whistles Good luck to both of you ! Come on, (John), let It will die, is not it? Really? From the mean? ! Come on, John ! Stand, John ! Stand, John ! Move, (John), move ! (Come on, (John ! Uprise ! Do not stop, (John), do not stop ! Come on, John My brother was weak, but not like me Will be begging me to stop ! Not quite ! Come on, John ! Come on, John ! Come on, John ! Idharbh in the face ! Face ! Come on, John Is Intihna? -- ! Do not expect that -- ! Come on, John ! I got him ! Stay there ! Too bad for you It's over Ends Tell your man to stay in the bottom ! Come on, it will not, John ! Kill him! Kill him! Kill him ! I'm done No, done! What do you mean? ! I'm done ! Wait a minute What are you doing? What did you do? Can not do that This is a retreat ... (John) ... (John), (John) Lord, man ! Deported me your hands ! John), stop) -- Moments alone, (Frankie), the concept of? -- There is nothing wrong, not wrong -- ! Leave me alone -- Things are not alright I have been spoiled everything ! I know ! Frankie, come quickly ! Damn ! (Renault) ! Dear ... Should be ! Well ! Avoid ! Oh my God ! Keep away from me How condemns this man? -- ! About 150 thousand dollars -- Oh my God, Merciful, Why did not you tell me this? Whatever you say, (John), this is not your problem ! You have your problems private What the hell happened? ! Is not important What is the important thing? You can not continue to protect me, the concept of? It was a religious ! I was He was only trying to help me An amazing thing, what I did there ! To go directly to the topic ! I like this I have encountered so much trouble to bring me here So, with all this? , I can guess You do not have the slightest idea about who I am? In any case, I have work I have "Feltz for Architecture" I think you saved his life ! Who? Soliman ! For Men have told me that he has suffered a heart attack And you kept beside him and prepared for life Do you discovered anything? Yes, he was a big pain in the butt Yes, Well, this is true It is a large pain in the ass But he married my daughter ... And she loves him, so What's up? ... What in my mind is I think I owe you Really? ! For ... So, tell me What can I do for you? ! Ask for anything I'm not sure that you can do something to me Well ... Let's start, there is a little girl There is a congenital defect in her heart And has only a few days in the life How much? -- ! Not a lot -- How long can this country be addressed The poor? This rough So, I fight in the matches of tunnels ... My attempt to provide enough money To assist in the operation, A heart transplant? -- For -- ... If those games come little money But I am trying to win the big fighting ... Will I get what I need So, what I want to say Is how I get on the 50 thousand dollars? ! This madness somehow But I had to ask This demand is great ... For what they are, but there is another ... You can give the big bet in fighting ... And the last fight -- Well, I've heard you fight on the last -- Really? So, you know how things are going? ! Akmal Forget something else fighting ... I've been a bit crazy You can bet in the fighting following And then you can recover your money ! (Mancin) I saw this guy fight, right? ! Yes, Sir ! Wait a minute Your name (Vtelz)? ! This is true ... What a company ... Public policy Is owes you money? -- It owes a great deal of money -- Money was to return it to me if they did not withdraw from the fighting Night If you do, know that I am a fighter ... I did not know, at the outset However, in order to ... I do not think that it matters There is someone in my mind Who is he? What do you say? Renault a friend of mine This is madness Renault does not have any friends ! I am a friend ! Well, I understood Well Well ... ! You're right, Mr. Pericner I always repay my debts I owe you kindness Would do so ! I appreciate you this -- ! No, Wait -- Both problems will not be permitted ! It's fair ! Will let you decide ... I forget the debt is Renault Or stand next to you in you fight for The heart of the little girl What will happen to (Renault) if not paid? Select Fighting Are you sure? ! For Are you okay? Yes, I'm fine Are you sure of this? For Do you know ... I did not smoke since I was in high school ! I have no doubt that Well, I was not close to the boys, if that's what you mean But I was thinking, I mean no, I did not Oqdahm ... I can not wait to prove myself I have been an ordinary girl and nothing happened I went to college Then loaded ... I know it would be something really stupid It was my whole life ... All those things no longer of interest, I just I was so appropriate for me ... And I got married Dreams of a boy I think he loved me I really loved me I know you did not intend to kill him I know that it was self-defense ! Know that Does not represent the bad things that we do The good things also ! We must start again Thank you ... Well, I prefer to enter ! Sit ! Sit -- I want to ask you about something -- I? Yes, the story on Al Any story? ! Al others the late ! It's not the story of young man ! It's like an old Well, she told me that story? I can not stop thinking about them You do not Mlakena, is not it? Alzerp you have those, do you tell one of this before? ! Yes, you told me so I told you? -- For -- ! I'm confused a little ! I want some help I try very hard to come with cash For the process of a young girl ... It seems only ... Every time I approach the Someone else pays the price All that is happening to him, boy You are not only Some people are sick of this What is meant here? .. I do not know, young man, I'm ! I'm not your pastor Probably should ask someone else ! Hello The much destroys the evidence Drawing great What do you think in the wheels of donations? To find appropriate homes Should at least know they are finished ! At the end of the night ... If -- Would you mind? -- What? -- Would you mind to look at the eyes when you talk to? -- This is the best So, I say? I can not stay here ! I have I received a call, John I do not know what to do to express my thanks ! I have been a tremendous friend to me ! I mean, we are friends, right We are friends? Yes, we are friends ... I mean, I have been splendid example The friend -- What was I supposed to do? -- Leave you to die You know .... ... I do not know if you know this, but ! I'm selfish ! I do not have many friends No, doggone it, man I do not have any friends Honestly ... ... Frankie probably ... And the only reason to stay next to me is Some mental illness ! This is not true ... You know, when I was bleeding after the fighting ... After the battles of ! I was thinking about me and I Frankie ... I think it saved her life ... But the truth, man ! They are saved my life The best thing to do is to let her go ... Only I am afraid only a very ! She loves you Which is afraid? I do not know ... The only thing in my mind is ... The time when I was in prison It's a fairly long All the time I wish God to forgive me what I did ... In fact, I must forgive myself In reality I did not do so I do not know as well as I think that this is just a reaction to the past ! For "Renault), said that the" Deakin) ! Tell him I would revert to contact her "It's about fighting," Timmins "Frankie, there is no fighting," Timmins Discussed the matter with him Hello? Do you depart? ! Yes, this was planned ! Thank you ! Thank you It is a question to save lives, know this? When he did (Renault) that Gave me back my life I am doing the same thing for him Can I tell you how it happened? It does not matter -- No -- I have to say out loud ... You are the reason that the power of the ... I "I belong to the" Valtz Were not related Had a working agreement I was young and miserable I have been in need of money ... He needed a place to put it Discontent with the life ... After a while, Rbanhm Renault and (Valtz) returned to work together When he saw me ... As you know, I've convinced him to sell me We wanted a written ... In the meantime, I was As you know, you have reached this limit I tried to finish off Over time, the (Valtz) Basally to Renault ... I Covered in blood and half dead But (Renault) had been paid a He did not get anything in return ... (Deakin) told me that the fighting (Timmins) .. Is selected for tomorrow evening And that there is someone who has a bet on you for fighting Anyone? -- Well, I did not tell me -- How will take? I can not answer now But Home So, do you agree? What do you think? Come on, say it to everyone once Are we together? ! Haya ! Come on, (John Pericner) great Come on, (John), enter here ... Ladies and Gentlemen, Tonight ... It is fighting old The greatest fight ever ... There are no tours The bells save you ... Oh fighters ! Begin ! You begin fighting when give you a reference ! Come on, John ! Come on, (John -- ! Move, John -- Must be out of here Get out of here ! Haya Should not be out of the ring Should Tqatlh ! Killer ! Killer What? ! Idharbh again ! Come on, John ! Come on, John -- ! Come on -- ! Uprise ! Uprise ! I got him ! (John) ! Stand, John ! Has fallen ! It's all over ! Damn Would you mind if we finished it? Well you guys We are back ! Come on, John !! Come on, John ! Come on, John ! I have done it, John From the commander now? ! (John) ! This was a wonderful .. Oh my God John, but reasonable Well, not a question malignant What do you think of destruction? Can we launch this name? Laugh at that name ! Congratulations, young man, I have done well Oblit You put the money? No, This is a lie I do not care at all Can you believe this? Well, I'll see the car This sexy Has been prepared to deal with your surgeon This is true ! Very cool now -- Keep a constant -- Is Thtmin this? -- ! No -- You're going to take the money? For You are inconvenient to each other You know that? ! I'm done Thanks ! Do not move ! Thank you Thank you -- Preferable to intervention now -- Well It's ok? In fact, Must be attentive to the work of the last What is it, (John)? What's this? Abu metal buttons ! You bastard I do not know what to say ! Thank you ! This is enough ! I have a call from Deakin -- ! Forget it -- One thing led him to want me -- ! This is something that does not surprise me -- ... Those things, we are here That is another question -- Know that the story should be safe -- It is not like an old story -- ! Whatever -- ... Tell me everything about her Well, you have the courage, is not it? -- For -- ... To call it Jack -- Jack? --
