 

                        Hello? Ilavarasu, this is Kamakshi speaking Kamakshi? Why're you calling from another number? Police suspicion is very high I'm forced to change my hideout location every single day I even forget where I am sometimes What should I do? I have made preparations to leave the country in 2 days Is the cash you owe me ready? Yes! It is ready Tell me where to send it to Flat number, F6, 6th floor, No 6, Lakshmi Garden, Aarumugam Street, KK Nagar. KK Nagar! That is a very busy place! There... Police will not find out in such a busy place Like was done before, pack the money and tell your men to leave the box at the doorstep after knocking on the door 3 times I'll look after, thereon You've instructed me. Now, dont worry about it! You'll receive the cash by Saturday morning [Music playing] [INTRO] Live your life, my friend! Dance, my friend! Sing for today alone Run, my friend! Go in search my friend, for all the pleasures are the same It's not the wind that blows, it's not the Earth that rotates, you're not running forward It's your life, my friend! No time to get drunk There's no profit together What has to happen will happen, close our eyes Past is past, move forward [INTRO] Shut the doors around you, tight! [INTRO] Shout out loud, let the God come knock on your door Whatever that expands, isn't the sky the road doesn't end you're not running forward There's a line (limit) for everything you and I are specks on that line Hey, even a stopped clock, tells a time and that time is right twice a day! [INTRO] [Music playing] Today's astrology prediction for people born under the star Kani, today, you will encounter something that will make you happy preferred colour for your star is grey [TV News Reporter] What is happening here? Can't normal people like us live? the medicines they provided made her condition terrible Petty pickpocketers are harassed by police, but what will they do, to these medicine manufaturers who play with innocent's lives Due to these medicines, people of all ages have been affected Look at the abysmal condition of my wife Being a poor labourer, how will I afford the expenses for her treatment now? Who will bring justice for all this? What do you think is the reason behind the drastic hike in prices in the city? I'm a lawyer having completed my degree and working as an apprentice for 5 years, I'm only earning a mere amount of 15k per month Prices have hiked everywhere and the reason behind this is the wasteful IT professionals They're getting an income, double of what they actually deserve Because of this, people like me, are getting affected now, house rent, bank loan, all these are soaring high It's all because of these IT professionals Get lost, envious people! [Phone ringing] Tell me, mom? will you come for your sister's engagement at least? Mom! How many times to tell you? Did you think this a job like the ones in our village? They won't sanction leave for Diwali I'll be there 2 days before my sister's engagement, okay? Okay, fine, your wish And, the bridegroom's family called they told that your sister has to definitely put on, 50 sovereigns of gold I told them that she'll put on 60 sovereigns! Mani, it seems the bridegroom called Nandhini, and told that it would be nice to have a bike also We're putting on 60 sovereigns, can't we buy a bike also? By God's grace, we have everything we have to do all this, at least to keep our pride Just like your father, don't stay without understanding the world Out! And, Ayyasami, told that he's leaving to Chennai, so I've sent with him the sweets I made for Diwali, get it from him Why do you do this, mom? There's still leftovers from what you sent me last time Don't shout! I've only sent a little [Music playing] These boys! Mom, I'll call you back in 2 minutes Let me see, how they'll play now! How many times do I tell? Don't you have sense? [Phone ringing] Mom? It's these brats in this apartment! They're breaking something or the other, everyday, playing cricket You tell me mom Leave it son, small kids will play around like that only Coming to our issue, the hall must be booked right now do send some money if you can.. I'll call you later mom Just one minute, son? I'll definitely call, hang up mom! Hi Meera! Whom were you talking to for this long? Really? Yep,everything's about Nandhini's marriage, now and then we talk And? What's Madam doing? Lying on the bed On the bed?! Can I come there?! Get lost, loafer! [Music playing] [Astrologer's prediction] today's preferred colour is grey [Music playing] Hey, I'm going to do something bold, wish me! What're you going to do? If everything concludes perfectly, I'll tell you, first, wish me! All the best! Careful! Bring it down slowly If anything breaks, I won't stay a human! I'm leaving to office, Bye What is it, boy? Why is a police officer here? It seems he is a troublesome person and due to a remark, he got transferred to our area He now lives in D-6 Mr. Ratna's flat Huh, I don't even know my neighbours and you're talking about some other flat You don't know Ratna sir?! What is this sir? In J-10.... Sir, bill What, bill? I myself collect money from people, How dare your boss asks for money from me?! I very well know about his illegal activities with that I can make him homeless by tomorrow itself! Get lost! Haha, he brought that on himself Brother,you know, a little something, if you could.... Here you go, okay? Thank you brother! Vasanth! Why are you running like a bat out of hell? Good morning boss! Good morning. I need to talk to you about something very important Tell me! It seems you have a lot of "that", isn't it? What does "that" mean? "That" only boss, "matter"! "Matter"? I'm talking about BF! BF?! Who told you this nonsense?! It was your friend, Krishna Krishna? Last week, he came to your house, right? That's when he told! It seems you have a huge collection after downloading via internet? Hey, that was all long ago. I don't know where they are now Do you know how hard it is to sit at home, idle? Do that for once and you'll understand about my troubles Hey, why are you adding me to your list?! I'll search during the evening and give you Car has arrived, leave me! You're my god! I'll wait for you in the evening Leave, leave fast! [Music playing] Jenny, where's Krishna? He's gone to the canteen Hey, bro, why're you late? What did you tell Vasanth? Who's that? That guy who keeps roaming aimlessly in my flat Oh, him! That fellow embarrassed me, asking for BF CD, in front of girls! Bro, that guy seems very interesting Haha, you must definitely meet him. He's an absolute joker! Krishna sir? You've been called to the meeting room Okay, I'll be there And tell him about the surprise package Yes, yes, I'll tell him! What surprise package? Last month, our CEO Ramachandran has invested crores of rupees in the US share market, through his son's company, Citrus Info Ltd. It seems they're planning to send lots of employees to the US If we get this offer, then we can all go to the US! I'm not interested Why?! Firstly, I don't have a passport and also, I'm the only male in my family so, I have the responsibility of conducting my sister's marriage ceremony Only after all this can I think about US What if they demand you to go to the US or resign your job? If that happens, I know a guy who can get me a passport in just a day! How's that possible?! Harvinder Singh can do it for me Manikandan sir? You've also been called to the meeting room I'll be there, you can go How was your day Mr. Manikandan? Fine, ma'am Do you remember the date, March 23rd, 2009? Your journey in this company started on this particular date How was your journey Mr. Mani? I feel very happy , sir. My status increased only after joining here You've been a part of the top projects of this company, is that right? Yes, sir! For the last 6 months, the top projects our company negotiated for, has slipped away to our competitors So, we've been ordered to sack the top 2000 employees throughout all the branches, in our company, all over India You're also included in this list of 2000 employees Sorry Mr. Manikandan, here's your relieving order The other concerned documents will be forwarded to you. You may leave now Try to understand, this isn't a decision made by the three of us It's the company's decision You should have at least given me a pre notice, sir! Your promotions, increments provided by the company, where they all pre-informed? It's the same case here also If you want to take a legal action, you can, Mr. Manikandan! But before that, it would be wise to check the agreement you signed when you joined In that, it is clearly mentioned that, we have the authority to fire you whenever we decide you're not needed here Shit! Sir, sir, I'm sorry... I'm really sorry, sir... My family depends on this job! Sister's marriage, house loan... lots of commitments still remaining Please sir! Please! Guards! Hey,what do I do, if you tell me to leave suddenly?! I've worked for you company day and night, without looking after my family, you thankless dogs! Guards, take him away! I'll sue your company in the court! Next Hey, what happened? It will cost at least 10 lakh rupees for Nandhini's marriage, okay? You've promised me that, for my marriage, you'll get me the necklace that Shruti Haasan wore What about this month's rent of 15k? Milk money for this month, sir Sir, paper bill, Cable TV bill, EB bill, sir, this month's EMI telephone bill, sir? brother.... [singing] Sir... Sir? Sir, any help......? What happened to him? Hey? Sir? Waiting for the lift, is it? Yes If you want to use the lift, you'll only reach tomorrow Why? Look down Thank you , sir [Gunshot sound] What's that, a bullet sound? Oh, is it the phone? Careful! Come on, up It's fine, I'll pick it up for you, come on up. Thankyou! Hey, which flat number? What's this? You told E6? This is F6! Kids broke that while playing Oh Spelling mistake? Oh, I kept that spelling according to numerology, sir Along with science, even superstitions is advancing in out town Come inside, sir You can give me the file, sir Own house? No, rented All this... I've decorated it for according to my taste You've spent money recklessly, huh? It's evident that this is a bahelor's place Anyone living with you? No sir, just me Where do you work? Sir, I'm a Project Manager at Sangam Infosys Yes, I've heard, it is a big company! My name is Rajendran Yes,sir, the watchman told me If you have any trouble, just inform me, okay? I'll leave now Sir, have some water at least? No, thanks, tidy up your place first It's worse than a jail Bye now Okay, sir [Phone ringing] Where are you? At home, tell me Home? Why aren't you in office? I came back soon My dad found out about our affair! Even I have to talk to you about something important Then, let's meet Okay Meera? What'd your dad say? Dad, his name is Moneykandan Mom knows about him He's working as Project Leader at Sangam Infosys Madurai is his hometown His dad is no more He takes care of his mom and sister well He's done all preparations for his sister's marriage already Do you trust him completely? Yes, I do trust him! He'll take good care of me He seems like a responsible guy Even if we had looked for a groom ourselves, I don't think he'd be this good Tell him to come, we'll talk and fix the marriage [Music playing] After 3 years of dating, we're finally getting married! I'm very happy! I wanted to tell this hapy news directly to you after a little suspense! Did you get scared? Another thing, my dad will fix a time to meet you directly Even if you have office at that time, youll have to take leave and come! Dad will worry, I'll leave, okay? Bye! Hey, you told me you had to tell something important no? Oh, that's nothing, its just a headache, that's why reached home early But now that you've told this, all my pain's gone! That'll happen, it's been our dream for so long Don't day dream, come at the correct time, okay? [Music playing] Bro, should we tell our families that we got fired? No, it'll hurt them No need to tell anything for some time We'll definitely get another job We're talented Then why should we be scared? [TV playing] [Gunshot] [Phone ringing] Hello? Today's prediction for the people born under the star Kani You will be very joyous today Your lucky colours for today are black and grey [TV News reporter] Chennai Comissioner Nyanavel's interview Criminals cannot escape from justice Kamakshi Sundaram, who is the owner of the medicine manufacturing company, that is responsible for the deaths of many innocent citizens will be arrested and brought to justice within 24 hours On behalf of the police force, I request the citizens to cooperate with us and help us arrest the accused A prize reward of 5 lakhs awaits the person who provides info about Kamakshi Sundaram [Door knock] Huh? [Music playing] Who kept this? [Phone ringing] Yes, mom? Ayyasami called me, It seems he has some work, so he's left it with the flat watchman Nandhini, take this What? Didn't I tell that I've sent sweets for you? That box Mom, why'd you send so much? I couldn't lift it myself, I have no idea how the watchman did it Don't talk a lot, that's not heavy at all. I can lift it singlehanded myself [Music playing] Yes! Someone named Ayyasami came in the morning and asked me to give it to you brother...... If mom sent this, then this?! [Music playing] Who are you? We had kept a sealed carboard box at your doorstep Did you see anything? No, I didn't see anything I guess, you didn't properly listen to what I said I'll ask once more, it's a very important box it has to reach a important person, think wisely and answer No, I assure you that I didn't see any box Hey, he seems like a gentleman He won't lie Sure, that [sarcastically] I'm going to believe what you said is true Cool down! Sorry, sir. Come on, let's go [Phone ringing] Yes I feel stressed, shall we go out somewhere? Can't bro. Leaving home, urgently We'll go later Okay, bye Bro, bro, bro... What? You'll have to reply to my question, okay? Tell me You wake up in the morning, you open your front door, there you see a box, when you open that box, you see large amounts of cash inside! What will you do? Hey, did you get mad cause you lost the job? Answer my question If the denomination on the notes is "9", only then will I throw it away Hey, will anyone ever leave 5 crores at your doorstep? Even if they do, it's the god's blessings Bro, stop talking about useless stuff I'm going out now, call you later [Music playing] [Door knocking] Are you trying to cheat us? This is only the beginning, gentleman, if I find the box, there's more for you Gopi, search the whole place! Okay! How dare you hit me?! Look... at what's gonna happen.. to you.. What's that noise? Gopi! You've hit him, you....!! I'll kill you! Money, money, money, money.... God, almighty! [Phone ringing] This is Kamakshi Tell me, Kamakshi What happened? What, what happened? What happened to my money? I've already sent it in the morning.. I did not see even a shadow of your men Are they trustworthy? Are you doubting my men?! If it comes to money matters, you can't trust anyone, Illavarasu Both of my men aren't like that And that too, Ravi! Definitely not. Do you know how many times they've gotten stabbed for my sake? Stop it! Stop, Illavarasu I did not call for this. I called to enquire about my money, do you understand? Drug trafficking, prostitution, for all your illegal activities, I've given you money without asking a word I'll be here for an hour more, tell your men to give the money within then Else, you'll have to come with the money yourself at night! Okay? Okay! Won't inform the association, if there's a lift repair, they'll trouble me first! The subscriber you're trying to call is not reachable at the moment Please try after sometime Hey! Yes, boss? Call Sekar and Pandian Okay, boss What is it, boss? I will ask a question You will have to answer clearly to that Ask us, boss! If, I keep 5 crore cash in a box, pack it properly, keep it in front of you, and give an address to you guys, telling you to take the box there Would you feel like stealing that money or not? Boss, instead of asking this question, you could have chopped us into pieces! Answer my question! Would you feel like stealing that money or not?! We would never feel like doing so, boss! Hey, Bald-headed Pandi, would you feel so? What is it? Do you doubt the answer? Trust is all good, boss, but I would feel like taking it, if I have money issues Huh?! His bad time has begun! Hmm... Does Ravi or Gopi have some money issues? Boss! Did they do this? Hey, don't get hyper Do one thing Go to Ravi and Gopi's houses and check if they're there If not, find out where they are, when they went and everything. If everything seems right there, go to the address I'm going to give you now Go to this address and find out what happened to them there Understand? Go! Sir, I've brought 5 lakh rupees, please take this Hey, keep the cash inside first! Station is under vigilance control, I'tell you when and where to bring the cash Now, leave. Okay, sir I do not have any relations and it's my shop that is the only source of my income, Please give me protection against the goons. This is what I've typed Please sign here Tell me what happened Sir, I was driving the car on the left side. He tried to overtake from the right I got scared and swerved my car He was the one who crashed into my car first Lady, according to traffic rules, you're supposed to go on the rightLady, Yes, tell her that, sir. For telling the same thing, this girl slapped me Hey, if you address me rudely, I'll whack you with my slippers, you waste fellow! Stop it! How dare you talk like that in front of me?! He's the one at fault. File a case over him and ask him to pay for the damage, sir You are the one at fault here! Are you going to file a case on him or should I give a complaint for Eve teasing? Are you harrassing a polce officer, coming to the police station?! If you don't file a case, I'll give an interview to the press, saying that you tried to rape me in the station itself Sir.... sir, I didn't do anything sir! Sir, I swear! If it wasn't you, who was it? Sir, please believe me. I didn't do it! Then what were you doing there, huh? How dare you lie to the police?! Sir! Sir! I didn't kill him sir! Sir, it was an accident, sir! Please let me go! Sorry, sir! Are you blind or what? Can't walk carefully? Isn't this Mani? Why's he here? Don't crumple the paper! Sister? What is it, Sekar? Is Ravi inside? He left in the morning telling that boss called, not here yet What do you want? Where's Gopi? He left in the morning, didn't see him till now! [Phone ringing] Near my house Why? Didn't you go to the office? I'll go in a while My dad has asked you to come at 6 in the evening Hello? Mani, can you hear me? Yes, tell me Okay, so be punctual. My dad is very disciplined. Okay? Okay, I'll be there Hey, how come you're here? Sheela's hostel is nearby Thought I'd go meet her I told her about me losing my job. That's why I thought I'll meet her directly We should never get involved in these stupid relationships Money is very important, bro! It's everything in this world If there's no money, even dogs don't respect you Didn't you ask in the morning? What I'd do with a box full of cash? If only I got that I'd leave the country without telling a soul! We'd be safe outside the country Come back after a year and tell people you earned it in foreign None's gonna ask you any question at all! We can only talk about stuff like that and that's it Okay, bro, I'm leaving I'll call in the evening, we'll go out somewhere Brother? How much? 12 Rs. [Music playing] Yes, this is Mani speaking I need a small help I had a friend in Bangkok He died yesterday His funeral is scheduled tomorrow I have to definitely attend that I don't have a passport Didn't you get yours in a day itself? If you could give me his number.... You won't be in trouble for this, I assure you! Please help me Mohan It's urgent Bro, don't you keep things like books, clothes in your cupboard? The lift breaks down again before you even leave the compund after repairing We're using the spare parts that you provide us only! What can we do? Okay, okay, talk softly! If they do that then it's your loss! When you are here they can't do that Hey, bro, look here! This means Ravi and Gopi are here only! Come on It's this flat Quick! Hey, keep watch Gilli, boss told us that they's keep the box and leave They're trying to go inside?! Yeah, that is my suspicion too Come Come on Hey, there's a sound, but why isn't the lift coming?! Let's leave by stairs then Pandi, where would they have gone, leaving the bike here? Would they have ran away? It's confusing. If so, then why would the leave the bike here? Something else has happened Bro, should we call Boss and tell him about this? Hey, here's another F6? Yes! Let's try opening this door too They went inside the flat instead of just leaving the box. Now what are they trying to steal here?! Doesn't this seem wrong? Yes it does, Raghu Hey, what are you doing? The subscriber you're trying to call is not reachable at the moment Please try again later Phone's not reachable bro! Shut up, let's go! Let's try Gopi's phone We need to leave before anyone spots us, come quickly! Hey, phone's ringing no, pick up! Didn't I tell you that I didn't bring my phone? Then?! The ringing sound is from inside! It's coming from within this! Stop screaming!! Isn't that Gopi?! Where's Ravi then? Kamakshi is a traitor! Tell me, did you find them? They're dead, Boss! Not only that. They've hidden ther bodies! That traitor.. Kamakshi...! I thought the same too, boss! Why did he do this? Boss, they must have done this to get another 5 crores from you! What are you telling?! When we went to the 6th floor, there's not a soul there! Not only that. They've killed Ravi and Gopi after receiving the money, with the help of someone else, hid them in 5th floor and now they're acting as if they know nothing! In case you thought that Ravi and Gopi ran away with the money, What would you do? To fulfil your promise you'd send them another 5 crores! Yes! Boss! Kamakshi's plan is to get a total of 10 crores from you and leave the country! Hey Do one thing Without letting them know anything, place everything as it was and get out of there quick, before anyone spots you If you get a clue or something of Ravi and Gopi's killer, then bring it here We'll show him hell! Okay boss Today is an unlucky day for me I lost people whom I trusted A person whom I considered a friend, Anything can be done for money These are all just routine happenings in my life When do you need it? Sir I'm leaving today night It'll cost a lot then You've trusted me and come. I'll do it for you Do you read the newspaper? Sir? Last year, 900 people who travelled under a fake passport have been arrested in India! 260 cases in Tamil Nadu itself! Yes! Give me all your details, 1.5 lakhs along with it and then you can leave The passport will be ready by 8 in the night Definitely Do I have to pay the 1.5 lakh Rs. now itself? but, we'd give our lives to keep our promises Brother, one important thing In case, you get caught at the airport, you should not to rat us out If you do, your people living in this address, will have a lot of trouble! If the address you give is fake, then Mohan will get into trouble this is how it links Be careful! Here it is 50, One, okay! Hey, try to smile a little Talk respectfully, else I'll beat you up! What are you doing?? Why're you hitting .... only for passport.. Stop hitting! Brother, go take your photo cause his mood isn't that great today. Haha! Go inside Shit, lost my count Do you need another person to make you go stand there? Go and stand there! Tidy your hair Lift your jaw Don't blink Smile a bit Hey, stop irritating me in the morning itself! Family photo! Your funeral will happen today night itself! Tell me son? Today they talked to me in the office Now I'm only earning 70k per month no? Yes, I know that But now they're offering me 3.5 lakhs per month 3.5 lakhs?! What are you telling?? This, if I work outside the country I told them that I'd ask you and tell my decision Will anyone get this offer? No mom, there's a catch If I say yes, I'll have to leave to US today night itself I won't have time to come meet you also before leaving What, today night itself?? Yes, mom Nandhini's engagement is coming up, you'll only have to coordinate no? If you tell this, what does it mean?! Mom, I'l have to leave if they ask me to I want you and Nandhini to stay happy, that's all I'll transfer all the money from my account to yours, take care [Music playing] Who are they?! What's the height for this? It's 5 foot tall Not this, what's your height? Is there a bigger box? Bigger than this there's a coffin, do you want that? No no, not that Why do you need this now? I need it for old books, DVD's... This wil be good enough for that, sir Come this side Brother, how much for this? It's 5300. But for you just 5000 Brother, my shop is very lucky You'll yourself understand in time Door delivery is free no? Have you brought this for vacating the house? No no, just for old books Okay, open the gate! Brother, did anyone come in search of me? No, no one came Okay Shit! Who's corpse might that be?! How'd the cigarette come here? He might be searching for me only [Door knocking] Sir, come in Shit! What is this, how long do I knock?? What were you doing? I was in the bathroom, sir Oh, okay I see you've cleaned your house? Yes, sir, because you told Is there a problem? I... I did not come there! Yes you did, I saw you there! Oh, that, my wallet went missing, I came for giving a complaint Then my friend called and told that it was in his car, so I returned Okay. By the way, did any of your friends come to your place? No, sir. No one came! I saw someone with a blue T-shirt on your balcony! He's talking about me! Noone came here, sir You need to be careful in the flat Caue, even if a murder happens, the neighbours won't know! Understand? O.. Okay sir Thank god! What's that shoe?! Sir, that's an old shoe... Hey, stand away! Hey! You've killed! Why did you kill him?! Who's he?! Sir, please listen to me.. I'll hit you! Go behind! Kneel down Kneel down, I said! Ha! A murder case on my second date after joining here Jackpot! Sir... sir... So, that blue shirt was your accomplice Where's he? Sir, noone's here. I don't know Are you going to tell, or should I find out on my own? Please, sir, Please listen to me! I don't know anything Huh, what's that sound? Bend, I said! Boss! Why're you laughing for that?! Idiots! Without knowing who we are, after killing our men itself, he's come to us itself for a fake passport! Boss, then we'll catch him first Then we can find out the truth easily! Shut up! He doesn't know who we are That's why, he'll definitely come to us for the passport The person who sent him, Kamakshi is our target He's told he'll meet us in the night Let's see what all he does till then [TV playing] [Doorbell] What, boss? How are you? What do you want? God, did you forget? You told you'll give me the DVD! I'm in between an important "matter" Come back later "Matter"?! Girlfriend's here? Yes, that only! Oh so, "that"! Isn't it?! Yes, "that" only! Will you please go now? Sorry, boss, I've disturbed you at an important time I'll come later and get the DVD Bye, boss! Omg, what might be happening, I'm curious! Huh, he's come out already? Boss! Why isn't he telling anything?! He must be tired You've locked your girlfriend in your flat and you're going somewhere? Yes, I forgot an important thing. Going to buy that Is it "that"? Raghu? Raghu It's me. Raghu? What happened? Top! How do I call him now? Raghu? I'll get down and look for myself Raghu? Can't find him. Where is he?! Raghu!! Police! Police! Boss, an important issue! A police officer has found our location! What are you telling?! Why do you have to worry when Im here! I've killed him! I can't believe that! Boss, I swear I only killed him! No, not that. how did police find out out location? This must be Ilavarasu's doing How do you tell that? Instead of keeping the money box outside, they went inside the flat! In the same flat, the floor below, they've changed a flat's number to F6 and stationed a police officer there They changed the flat number and hid a police officer?! What are you blabbering? It's true, boss! The police killed Raghu cause he found out about this Now, he was just trying to kill me! But, I'm the man! I killed him! What will Illavarasu gain from this? Boss, he knows that you'll come here at night If he rats you out to the police, he'll get a clean image! After doing that, he'll also get the cash reward! And, he also wouldn't have to give back your 5 crores! How's that! Ilavarasu has started thinking intelligently, has he? Okay Do one thing Leave from there immediately and come here We'll see what all Ilavarasu is going to plan Today night, I'll show him what I'm capable of! What brother, box? Didn't I tell you my shop is very lucky? Yeah... He's getting a lot of boxes. Looks like he's a nerd! Him?! Boss! You've come so fast! Looks like you bought that important "thing"! Hey, shut up! Who's this wooden box for? It's for this sir only For you? Why do you need two boxes? Umm.. that.. there were lots of books, thought of donating it to the library Brother, you can go. I'll help this boss Here Just a second, boss. Hey, isn't door delivery free? Yes Then why should we give you money? Is it mandatory? Doesn't this feel like bribe to you?! Get lost! These people don't give and they also stop people from giving These people are like this only! If you don't give money, they'll start swearing! I'll help you boss! Don't think, lend a hand Come on, lift it Yes, very good Boss. Did you see how I saved money for you? If you could give me the DVD.... God! Boss, let go, I'll take care God, it was tiring! Huh?! Boss! Two boxes over there too. Do you read a lot? Looking at this, I remember an incident that I read in the paper You know the Adyar Koovum river, right? A few days back, a murder, killed a person, put the corpse in a box just like this, and dumped it in that river! There's an important catch in this incident Do you know what that is? What is it?! Police found the box and also identified the corpse But they've not yet identified the killer! Look at the unfairness occuring in the city Who knows where the killer is, right now? Or whether he's comfortably roaming outside the country Looks like no one ever cleans that river It is so dirty! Just wait and watch, the day they clean the river, lot's of corpses will emerge then! Also, it seems that we can produce 600 Megawatts of power from Koovum river In the situation now, that would be very useful I feel like puking thinking about Koovum river! Boss, I'll use your toilet! Hey! Boss, stop! Is your girlfriend inside the bathroom? Yes Huh? Sorry, boss. I disturbed you a lot! I'll come later! I'll definitely come later. Don't forget to use the item that you bought! Call me if you need any help! Sorry, sir. The last available ticket is only on Monday, next week Please check properly. I have my friend's funeral tomorrow I definitely have to go! Look at you, it's only been 2 minutes and you want a ticket within Everything's confirmed. But I have to check Also need to check the details What's your name? m.o.n.e.y k.a.n.d.a.n Moneykandan Nice name, sir! Your flight is at 12, night. You only reach there by 10:30 [Music playing] [Phone ringing] Hello? Tell me, bro Need your car Come and take it Mr Mani, It's a normal thing for girls of my daughter's age, to like guys, working in white collar jobs, like you Even if you're a little good, they'll start trusting you completely! But over that, there's a reason I have to come to trust you for I've decided that you are the perfect guy for my daughter! If you could ask your mom to look for an auspicious date and come here, we can complete other formalities Thanks, dad! Thanks a lot! Mani, are you happy? Sir, the thing is, My company has offered me an offer to go to US Well and good. Both of you can settle there after marriage! What's there to think about? I've already agreed to it, I'll get the documents in some time I'll have to leave today, night. It'll take me about 1.5 years to return from US If, when I return from US, Meera still loves me as much, I'll definitely marry her then What?! Meera, are you both in love or not?! Please, dad! I have no idea why he's talking like this! Just a minute, I'll talk to him and come Mani, come on Why're you talking to dad like this?! What happened to you? What happened, Mani? Why'd you talk to dad like this? Once I return, if we still do love each other, I think, this gap would help us discover ourselves Bullshit! No one knows what's gonna happen in the future You knew this is the morning, why didn't you tell me then? I didn't feel like telling We already talked about this, didn't we? That's why I told my dad about this What would my mom and dad think about me now? What do you think will happen to my dad's trust on me? I don't worry about what you told my dad Because, I accept your decision Even if we meet after 1.5 years, I belive that I'll still love you the same way But why didn't you tell all this before? Meera, I earn 70k per month, well settled in life You've loved me, knowing all this Assume that I suddenly lose my job, knowing this, would you still love me? Won't you just go marry someone who's well settled, with a nice job? Get lost! [Music playing] Please don't go Please don't go If you leave, My heart can't bear the pain Don't separate from me Though a beautiful music plays softly in, my backyard when you leave me and go, go, go, go [Intro] Brother, what are you doing? Umm.. that....box...inside.. Yes, I know Yes, yes, that's it In my young age, I easily picked up my girl from hometown and brought her here, and then got married Picking up this box is nothing for me Brother, you can't even lift this box? Look now, I'll show you my true power My god! I can't lift this! What's there in the box?! It's the weight of a corpse! No brother, it's all books, I'm taking it to the library This doesn't feel like that alone, it feels like the entire library is in this! If you yourself can't do, who else will I ask?? Super brother, super! Thankyou! Only three left 3 more?! Brother? Brother? Brother?! Super! It's only because of you it got done so fast! I was jumping around! Saying this you made me look like a frog now! Brother! If you have 4 more also, tell me, I'll myself lift it! I'm sorry, Meera I know about you. That was a lie only no? If you don't want to get married now, I'm not going to refuse For that, why did you talk like that? Some things cannot be told to you, Meera What's there like that, that you can't tell me? Why won't I tell you? I definitely will Go home now, I'll call you later and tell everything I won't leave you and go Meera, listen to me! Your dad will worry about you! I'm gonna stay with you till 10 Go home! Please don't be stubborn It's really urgent for me, Meera! I can't take you to the places I'm going to! Get down from the car now! I'm going to stay with you Shit! Hey, what's that disgusting smell? Where are we going? Why'd you come here? Get down Mani? What are you doing?! Are you doing something wrong? Huh? Mani! Tell me the truth! What's there in the box?! I'm scared! Are you going to tell, or should I call the police? Get inside Get inside! God, you have to be my saviour! And.... [Phone ringing] Hello? Ilavarasu? Looks like you're waiting for me only? Yes, that's true Kamakshi I'm waiting for you only Is the money ready? Ready, Kamakshi If you tell, I'll myself come to F6 in the 6th floor I'll close your tab! So, it'll take that much to close my tab? I've not seen anyone as loyal as you But, Why? Me and that flat don't get along well You have the money, so why does the place matter! Fine, where do I come? This is my man, Ilavarasu! There's a paint factory in Rayapuram I'm right there now Come fast, okay? I'll come, Kamakshi I'm eagerly waiting to meet you Boss, what happened? All of a sudden he's told me to come to some other place Boss, Mani might have told him What are you telling?! Boss, didn't he give money for getting the passport? If he had told this to Kamakshi, he'd be wary then no? Hey, how does Mani know that we know that he killed Mani's men? It was boss who told that he talked to us for this! Hey, shut up! Stop confusing me! Having you all as my sidekicks is very hard for me! God! Please protect me from this troubling people that I have! Sekar Do one thing, Call our men up, and tell them to send a load to the Rayapuram Paint Factory You stay here If he does come, It's the climax for Kamakshi! Mani should come Why did you do all this, Mani? Don't you feel what you did was wrong? I'm a man, who would resort to giving small bribes, to get my work done! No one has the right to judge me Are you trying to justify your faults now?! The god gives everyone an oppurtunity to to come up, If you don't make us of that oppurtunity, this world will term you as a fool I'm not a fool I'm going to get my passport now, got my flight ticket too All problems solved! Yes, I'll have to stay away from my family and you for 1.5 years But after that, the money is all mine! I own it all! Listen to me, go to the police and tell everything Did you think police was your uncle? They'd harrass you even if you go for no reason So if I go and tell," sir, sir, a small accident in my house", did you think they'd be like, "Oh is that so? Please come, brother" and walk to the door with us? Hey, where are you leaving to? Mani, listen to me I'm not in the state to listen to anyone I'm going to leave according to my plan Wait for 1.5 years, for me once I return, we'll get married Mani! Mani, Mani stop..... Listen to me! Hello? Brother? Sir? Passport is here! [Music playing] Hey! What do you want? I've given it in the morning itself! [Phone ringing] Yes,tell me We got the man! Time to give them what they deserve Come fast! Hey.. hey.. what are you doing?! Stop it! Catch him! Let go of the hand! [Music playing] [Phone ringing] Hello? Ilavarasu, have you come? Yes I'm inside the factory Where are you? Yes I'm inside, I'll come How are you, Kamakshi? When I have people who want to do good, around me Why should I be scared? I get one thing, though No one stays a friend for a long time, with me At some point of time, everyone, turns against me! I don't understand why that is Today, I've understood how money can make people think Long time friendship is all secondary First comes money, right? What's this? He's blabbering Hey, who's blabbering stupid? Boss, didn't I tell you then? They are backstabbing poeple. Give me a word and I'll kill this dog Ilavarasu now! Hey, you! Afte killing our men, you're talking like this to us?! My boss is talking with respect and you're calling him a dog?! What.. what's this? Chill, I'm here What's it? Tell Not only have you informed police about us, you've also killed our man! How dare you talk in front of us?! Stop! What's this? You're inventing new stories? Are you producing a film? You've killed my men, Ravi and Gopi, who brought the money, and now you're acting as if you didn't get the money?! You killed Ragu and also hid a police officer in the flat Should I bring the corpse? Go and bring the corpses of both of our men Hey! Boss? Go get the corpse of our man and also his man Let Mani come, then there'll be a solution to all this That's what even I'm asking. Where's my money? Why's he hitting his head so much for giving my money? Mani, Mani! Looks like Mani's friends are coming The way they are going to have drinks, the flat itself will split into two! Hey, stop! Why're you going in the front to take the corpse of our man? Hey, that's the corpse of our men on the top! We'll only go first, useless! Corpse?! It's only because my boss told that I'm going silently Or else! What big thing is your boss? Your boss, Kamakshi, is equivalent to my boss's leg! Your boss, Ilavarasu is equivalent to my bottom! What?! Hey!! What's happening here?! Hey, stop it! First, we'll see to taking the corpses to Rayapauram Paint Factory Other things, they'll take care Come now! What do I do now?! Boss, it's Guna! Where are you? Did you arrive? Boss, Mani escaped after beating us all up! You idiots! Hello? What happened? Boss, their corpses are missing! What?! What's happening?! He's telling me that Mani escaped! You're telling me that the corpses are missing! What did you people think of me? Mani? Mani? Boss, just a moment! Hey, who are you people? What are you doing here? Come! You got the corpse?! Boss, didn't we see a girl and a boy in Mani's photo? Bring them here! Bring them! We'll show them today! The door's unlocked! Your lucky colours for today, gray and black [Phone ringing] Where are you running off to? In a bit of time, you have to bring the corpses of my men, to the Rayapuram Paint Factory! Only the officer's corpse is yours! the other is ours! Hey! Shut up! If you don't come with the corpse, your lover, Meera and your friend Krishna, will become corpses over here! I hope you've understood When Mani comes, truth will be clear! First we'll kill him, then these people Take them! Hey, walk ahead! Hey, run, run, run away! Hey, go in search! Money is the ladder a nail that pierces the ladder will shake and he will change and it will hurt you Listen human, I'm like paper I'll cut you into pieces Flood and money is the same flows through our hand If it does stick to us, it won't stop Whats even more startling even after you bake it, stone is stone Who tied me up and left me in a forest? Will it succeed or will it be a lie? Will your dreams come true? Only time will tell whom you will go against! Run, run. Run and go! It was your desire that made you run! It was your fear that made you go in search! I've written it down, so I don't forget TN22S5738 Rayapuram Paint factory? Yes they were talking about taking the corpses to this location! Kamakshi Sundaram? Yes, sir! Hey, come here! Boss, I've understood They're adding members to their gang Run , run and go! Go in search! It was your desire yesterday It's your worry today Life is startling and it comes to an end at last You bought your breath Sleeping on thorns What is pleasure? It is also a suffering In a forest of lions, you've been a trapped like a deer You made a plan, locking up your hearts content You've been caught like a fish in a hook Will it succeed or will it be a lie? Will your dreams come true? Only time will tell whom you will go against Hey, where's it? [Intro] Hey, there's 4 of them?! What's this?! Hey, what is this?! Let's take the corpses there. They'll see to the rest Lift them You've understood the truth now, right? I have not done anything wrong Tell me! Why did you kill my men? My man is also included in the corpses lying down Now tell me, Why did you inform to police about me? Why did you kill my man? There's a big confusion here Where's my money? Tell me that Here's your Mani! Mani?! Yes! He is Mani! Oh, Mani? Hii! Where's my money? What is he? Hey! He is Mani! I didn't ask for this Mani I asked for my money, cash! Okay I need to ask you something We're fighting for this long, Who's he? Staring at us, standing in the middle like an umpire? Hey, hey , hey! He is your sidekick! What comedy is this? He looks like an intelligent person If only your men had kept the money properly, there wouldn't have been a problem Would I think of cheating you, Ilavarasu? He is not your man You did not kill our men Accept that the 5 crores is with you, problem solved! Yeah! No need. I don't want that money No one who cheated me, will leave here alive! No one can cheat me You and your men will be corpses and only.... Kill them! Yes! Kill them! You're surrounded by police No one can escape If you resort to violence, we will shoot you Listen to us properly It's better if you all surrender If you try to do anything, we're not responsible for what happens next! So, all of you put your weapons down and surrender Hey, put it down! You also put it down! Ilavarasu and Kamakshi, you and your men, [Phone ringing] Fire! Hello? As Namakal Govindaraj has been arrested, we regretfully infrom that there will not be any news from this number If anyone's alive, surrender yourselves We do not want to use any more of violence Krishna are you coming or should I leave? Meera, look here Are you trying to involve us in the wrongs that you've done? It's apparent, how much of a criminal you've become We will not cause you any trouble Those who actually earned the money in the wrong way, couldn't run away with it. Where will you go? Tomorrow, someone from this gang itself, will come in search of this money And that will affect not only you but also everyone around you For getting this money, look at what all you've done today What all will you do to protect this money? Go and look at yourself in the mirror You'll understand how you've changed Just think about everything you've done in just a day with this money If you still think that money is your life,happiness,comfort, peace, then keep it yourself Come, Krishna then you own it If you're kneck-deep in cash, then it owns you
