 

                        My life has two beginnings One is my mom's birth canal, The other one is the red carpet of G-boy award ceremony. Can you believe it? Two months ago... Get him! Stop! Stop! What are you doing here? l'm waiting for you. Oh, my god! You went on a shopping spree again? These are presents from you. To celebrate us being together for a year and 147 days There's more... Not really. That's it for now, bye. Yong-Long, When you have a girl friend, you may take her home for dinner. l had already got married with your mom when l was at your age Oh~ l see Man all should get married first, and then start a career you're not a kid anymore... l'm done Man... same old story with my dad, he keeps asking me all these questions. When l was your age, l already got married. You have to start a family before having a career. You are not getting any younger. How do you know that? Cancer: Haha, this is what fathers all over the world will say. Fathers are always the same. lf only l had money... l could go to Taipei and follow my dreams. Ever since l was a kid, l wanted to be a detective, To arrest criminals, To help those in need, To maintain society's stability, just like Ken, become the synonym of righteousness. Excuse me, police business. Two cups of hot milk tea Three chess and egg sandwiches, two corn omelets, with fresh corn, not that canned stuff. and a large burger, put it on our tab. Thanks. What the hell? ls this how the law works? Stinking police! Hurry up! Your... Girl friend owes us money. How much? Ten million dollars. Dude, let go of me! He's splitting, get him! Stop! Stop! Why is this happening to me?!. G-Boy the prize money is Ten million dollars Ten million! Sweet salvation, Ten million dollars! Ten million dollars! G-Boy naked policeman: Do you guys know about ''G-Boy Contest''? G-Boy What's that? You suck. This contest rules! This seems a contest held for you! The champion alone will get a G-Boy Now l can go to Taipei and follow my dreams. Damn faggots with their beauty pageant, go to hell! Even though it is only a symbolic bill, but still triggered waves of heated debates. On one hand, G-Man magazine announced it will hold a G-boy contest, with a 10-million-dollar grand prize. but homophobic organizations also sent out hate mail, and are poised to foil the contest, while the police... The order just came, we are to investigate homophobic organizations which are trying to foil the G-Boy contest. the only way to be sure of their activity is to get someone undercover. Undercover? Does you mean like Tony Leung in ''lnfernal Affairs''? l wanna be a good guy. Stop fooling around. Undercover assignments are dangerous. Especially this one. Sir, l volunteer! Good! We need more young people like you Who are willing to dedicate and sacrifice themselves. Sacrifice themselves? Study this case file, and report to me in my office in half an hour, got it? Yes, sir! Jay, go get a haircut shave and get a facial, don't forget to shave your legs, Shave my legs? l'm at my wits' end. But the rules are clear, only gay can participate. lf you keep your mouth shut, nobody will know that you're not gay. Stop trying to make me feel better, l don't look gay at all. Do l look gay? Tell me one thing... Do you wanna win this ten million or not? Of course l do. But... Don't worry, we are pals, l will stand by you till the end. My god, this one looks like a monster. This one is out! See? Look at that guy, he's butt ugly! Look at this one! This guy is a perfect homo, Strong but tender, l love him! Guys, this one... is the epitome of gayness. Congratulate you on the success in the first election of G-Boy Contest l got picked! l got picked! l got picked! l got picked! First election of G-Boy Congratulation to all for your success in first election! these are... three death threat letters sent to the G-Boy competition, The perpetrators are extremely sly, Just think... the postmarks... of these three letters are all different, and not a single trace of handwriting... Nothing for us to work on! Jay... you have been undercover for a while, which one of the contestants looks suspicious to you? Well... Well... As a matter of fact, they all look suspicious to me. 'Cause they are all weirdoes. l don't need you to tell me that. Didn't they say you're cute? Turn off the lights! What's wrong? Look! These letters are all written on music paper So? This means... that the perp might be someone who knows about music. There is one contestant, A-Shin, he's a musician. Freeze, police! We have orders to arrest you immediately. Why? 'Cause you are posing as a gay for money. There must be some misunderstanding, sirs! Call us Queer cops! Queer cops, you got it all wrong, l am gay, l wore my mom's high heels when l was a kid, and fantasized dating with boys. l am gay! Gay! You have a girl friend. That's just a hoax. l am not interested in women. l don't even like women, 'Cause l am gay. l am gay. l am gay. l'm really gay. l'm really gay. l am gay. A-Hong, wake up! l am gay... A-Hong, wake up! What's wrong? A-Shin, l am gay. You're gay? l just had a horrible dream, l dreamt that cops are coming for me, 'cause he found out that l'm an imposter! What shall l do? Don't panic, relax. l'm gay, l'm gay. l'm a charming queer. l'm gay, l'm gay. Jay. Jay. What's up? You're gay? How do you know that? Are you really gay? No, l had a dream, l dreamt... l dreamt about a gay. l was on patrol, he suddenly yelled at me, l'm gay, l'm gay l'm a charming gay Scared me to death. You are too stressed lately. Yeah, l... That explains your sexual performance. You're shoes are filthy. Take them off before getting into bed. Filthy! Not womanlike at all! What? What are you doing? You're wearing cologne, and are wearing new underwears, What are you up to? l... You... l...thought you would like it. Are you having an affair? What the hell are you talking about? One woman is already killing me, l would never dream of having another. You got that right! Gay Style Handbook Gay. You've become gay? No, this... this is for work. What kind of work? Are you selling your ass? My boyfriend is gay! My boyfriend is gay! What have l done to deserve this? What have l done to deserve this? What have l done to deserve this? Tell me! You got it wrong, l am not selling my ass, l'm just going to... What? Going to... What? To be in a movie. Movie? Yeah! l am going to be in a movie, and work on location. l am playing a courier. l'm going away for a week. You're going away for a... What's wrong with the lights? GO GO G-Boy Greetings, all thirteen contestants. Today we are going to eliminate 6 of you. The rules are very simple. Each of you gets 30 seconds, to be on stage and show your best talents, the audience will be voting on your performance, when your time is up, and you don't have enough votes, you will be eliminated. l announce... the competition has started! ''False'' ''False'' Once upon a time there was this old lady... ''False'' ''False'' ''False'' l will still wait Till you go Seven semi-finalists are A-Shin A-Hong Kitamura, Siao Sih Young Long Daniel and Jay, Congratulations! Daniel/24/ Model Yong-Long/19/Student Jay/23/ (Undercover) Kitamura/23/ lnsurance Agent Siao Sih / 19 / Clerk in Clothing Store A-Shin / 22 / Rock Singer A-Hong /22/Courier A-Hong A-Shin Siao Sih Kitamura Jay Yong-Long Daniel You're not gay. Says who? You're not. Says who? You can't be, 'cause... No gay can resist my charm. You're not sleeping there. Not here, either. This is where you sleep. So what will it be? Sleeping in the closet ain't all bad. l can eavesdrop on others. Siao Sih. What? Can you help me put on some hair grower? Yanagiya Hair Grower? What the hell is that? lt will stimulate chest hair growth. Chest hair? Yeah. Wow, this is so sexy. Why don't you put it on yourself? lt's not that you can't reach it. l know! l have read it on some queer website, that this is a part of foreplay. You go online too much. enjoying music all by yourself? Come, help me with this. Yanagiya Hair Grower Come on, come one! Yanagiya Hair Grower You want me to help you put it on? Let's take a break. Tired? We've been hanging out since we were kids. The world is so colorful whenever A-Hong's around, no matter where we are. A-Hong, all l want is to be with you, you don't even have to turn around and look at me, just let me spend my days with you. Where is it? Are you looking for this? Thanks, l'm A-Shin. l'm A-Hong. Take this! Truly Madly Deeply This is my favorite song. A-Hong, can you remember it? Nice, isn't it? You can take Risa here. Risa isn't crazy about night scenery. the only thing she likes is shopping. Shopping isn't bad, either. She must have bought you a lot of stuff. Not a thing. Except this. She wore it a few time, didn't like it, made me return it, but the more l look at it, the more l like it. maybe it's because this once belonged to her. Risa wasn't always like this. Look, remember? What's this? lt's ugly. Your junior high's shop assignment. Really? l gave you that. l messed up that assignment, l was gonna throw that away, But it happened to be your birthday, so l gave it to you. bad luck being my friend. but the more l look at it, the more l like it, so l've been wearing it till now. Let's go. Get up! A-Shin, go! What's the matter? The ring has taken over me, go! l thought we were playing ''Lord of the Ring'', when did it turn into a chick lit? Gross! Here it goes again, l can't take it anymore. Though we cannot be together in this lifetime, but the next lifetime and the next after that l will be with you. Don't forget me then. Spit it out! Come on, good boy. l, A-Shin, swear to god, will be A-Hong's best pal in the next lifetime. Gatchaman?! Turn over the ring! l'll deliver it to Broke back mountain for you. Broke back mountain? What? Haven't heard of Broke back mountain? Shut up! Turn it over! Give me the ring. Give it to me! No! it's mine! Terra Cresta~~~~~ Why... doesn't the director say cut? Because we need to shoot the most important scene. Good morning. The Hobbits. Gatchaman, fly away~ A-Hong, A-Hong The pool is very shallow, don't worry. Help, help... l lost my necklace. Necklace? What color is it? Silver. Why are you guys standing around? Go help him find it! No way! l don't want to disturb them. Disturb? Staring at the street corner of Hoping west road, l have changed a great deal there. Risa is calling The botanical garden changes with the seasons, water lilies... A-Shin's back... Who ordered the chicken? Excuse me, sir, You might be at the wrong place. l am Young Long's father. ls Young Long there? Dad. Dad. You ditched me and came to Taipei, are you having fun with your friends? Wherever. Yeah. l like Paris. Right, we can add a few more days. Don't worry. Money is not an issue. Yeah. Yeah, please book the tickets for me. Thank you for your trouble. Bye. Where are you going this time? Wherever. We have 10 million dollars, we can go around the world. How told you that l have 10 million? Be confident in yourself. You can definitely beat those sissy gay Did they violate you? You have to protect yourself. l think you need to see a doctor. Why not go to Africa? What are you talking about? Tell you one thing You are a very selfish person. You... l see, This is A-Shin talking. A-Shin? Yeah, l bet he is speaking ill of me behind my back, right? Don't be ridiculous. A-Shin is not like that. Let me tell you one more thing, no one would ever treat me as good as A-Shin. l see... are you in love with A-Shin? Don't be silly. lt's nice to be loved and taken care of, right? We are just friends, OK? Just friends? Why is he accompanying you to the Gay Beauty Pageant? l bet he wants to assimilate you, that way... he can hold your hand on the street, he can even kiss you! Stop being ridiculous! Fine, from now on, you can do whatever you want. By the way, happy birthday. From A-Shin Still remember the beach we always went to? Come here. We're all waiting for you right here. That night, when he was sleeping He heard a noise coming from the door... That made him nervous, carefully he opened the door... Not a soul! A-Shin, lt's almost twelve, is A-Hong coming or not? The food is almost gone. So is the bonfire, and my hair style. Happy birthday to me, Happy birthday to me. Happy birthday to me, Happy birthday to... Happy birthday. This time you have to decide who is the next one to go. So you have to vote and decide who is the pain in the ass The two contestants with the highest votes will be eliminated. The remaining five will be the finalists. Think carefully, contemplate thoroughly. You have been together for a few days, there must be someone you can't stand. There must be someone making your skin crawl. Fire up your brains and figure it out, OK? A-Hong, you forgot to insert coins. Did you forget to bring change again? What got into A-Shin? He is acting strange. What wrong with him and A-Hong? You don't suppose he would jump off the building? Don't say that. What can we do to get A-shin back to normal l'm afraid that he would do something scary later. l have an idea. lt's finally my turn. Guys, This can be our team song. Ladies and gentlemen Seven wolves: Never look back. l want to get to the top, Before sunrise. look that the stars, and... Cut it off. Where are your manners? What? That's my song. l made up my mind, don't care what other people say, as long as you feel the same way. l would go to the end of the world with you, l know it's not easy. l try to convenience myself, you giving up is what scares me the most. Love needs courage, to face the rumors. Calling A-Hung Calling from Young Long lf l hurt you with my capriciousness ''can you remind me gently? l know l am impatient,'' that's because l don't want to miss you. Love needs courage, to face the rumors. all l need is a firm look from you, then my love would have meaning. We need courage to believe in us. l can feel you through the crowd, put your heart in my hands. A-Hong... Excuse me, do you have a light? What's this? Your necklace? What an ugly piece of crap, let me take it off for you. Hold on! ls my father back yet? What are you afraid of? Don't you think it's even better if he sees us? Dad! Dad... Dad, don't worry, l not be bad. Uncle. You're up early. Are you leaving? l have to go home and take care of my chicken. l walk you to the bus stop. Dan, come and sit down. Dan, do you know how to make the best stewed chicken feet? Chicken feet? You have to cook them for an hour and ten minutes. Listen to me First immerse the chicken feet in water and cook them. then stew them in boiling water, add some sugar, salt ,soy sauce, and spring onion and garlic, add some aniseeds, and some fennel. You know this? l looked it up online. Have you heard about Young Long's father? So sweet. Yep, and he taught him how to stew chicken feet. None of you guys know how to stew chicken feet? l'll make some for you. Are your chicken feet any good? They are the best. l bet they will give us the trots. Nonsense, my chicken feet are the best. they will give us the trots. All you ever think about is food. Come and take a look. Some one drop these off at the convention this morning. l guess we have been targeted by someone. Pass these down. But l think these photos can help you guys deiced whom to eliminate. ls somebody is taking our pictures? Muscle cramps! Muscle cramps? Wait up... My stomach aches, l need a bathroom break. Your stomach aches? You were taking ''bathroom breaks'' while we were preparing for the party! A-Hong didn't come anyway. You ate all the food, Would you care if A-Hong came or not? You weren't A-Shin anyway. l have counted the votes, the one who gets eliminated is... Jay, you are out! l got it! lt's a trap! He deliberately took a lot of pictures of me, to make you think that l am a scumbag, Who's gonna protect you once l'm gone? Who needs your protection? Don't flatter yourself. You can't make me leave. Why? Because l'm... Because l'm... Are you going to tell us or not? Not. Admirable, you have guts. Everybody, torture him! Fine, l tell you everything. l will. Really? You wanna send us presents to cheer us up? Who is Young Long talking to? Cancer: No Kidding! l congratulate you on the success for final election. You bangs! and Six of you are so great Thanks, you are the one who encouraged me to compete. Hey ''Cop'', Wuss up! l will get naked when l hit the hay, haha. Listen, l am now one of the G-Boy's finalists Cancer wants to send us some presents. Good for you. Going off line now, time for bed. What kind for presents are you sending them? lt's a surprise. How do you know where the competition is held? l know where it is and l also know they've kicking a loser out of the game And this loser goes to a stupid undercover cop who was kicked out of the contest only because he furtively ate a piece of watermelon That's it for today l gotta go lt's him. Where are you going? lf you're going out to pick up guys, take me with you. l can't sleep, wanna go out for a walk. A-Shin's necklace. lt's almost time for the final round, yet you look very unhappy. What's up? l don't know. l feel as though l have wronged somebody. Long time ago, l fell in love with a straight guy. l was very young, and was very much in love with him. You know what, falling for a straight guy is by far the stupidest thing a queer do. He was my colleague, tall the handsome. l watched women Chasing after him everyday, he never rejected any of them. The worse thing is, he used to ask me out for drinks after work, and told me what he did with those women. But you still loved him? l knew it was not going to work between us. But you know? Once l'm in love, l'll become a moth that is attracted to fire l can't help but burn myself. You haven't been gay long enough You probably don't understand that gay men can live for love, and die for love. Live for love and die for love. A-Shin... A-Hong By the time you read this letter l would be gone. l took part in the contest to accompany you. Now you are one of the finalists, it's time for me to leave. The teddy bear is your birthday present, hope you'll like it. l guess you don't know how happy l am when l'm with you. lt's not that l don't want to be there for you anymore, but l realized my love for you has crossed the line. l know my love for you will only hurt you. Therefore l decided to leave. Don't worry about me. Live for love and die for love. Loving you the way l do, is enough for me. The love relationship without enough understandings can't even pass the crossroads of life A love relationship contains strong attachment for each Could last so long till the end of time Hello, Jay! What? You know who the terrorist is? Well done! He uses the internet to monitor the competition? Good, very good. We will arrest him right now. Jay has uncovered the identity of the terrorist, let's prepare to bust that prick. Yes sir! Guys, someone sent you presents. Must be from the friend l met online. Dear Young Long, l guess you all got the presents l sent, Four of them are hand picked my me, hope you'll like them. As to the other one, l can only congratulate the one who got it, 'cause it's a bomb l designed. A bomb! Nowadays homosexual shamelessly hug and kiss each other on the street and now they are getting married... this is more than l can bear. Therefore l give you a time bomb, which will be activated by the slightest movement. Don't shake it! Good luck with the competition. Don't panic, calm down. Don't move. l'll get the police, you guys wait here. Hurry back. Wait, don't go. l'll be right back. What shall we do? The G-Boy competition is threatened by a bomber, The current situation is not clear... A-Hong... Don't panic. What is taking the police so long? What shall we do? Great, the police is here. l am Jay Shiu, SWAT Team member. Really? l am an undercover cop, l have been protecting you all this time. Stop chatting, save them. One of the packages is a bomb! According to my experience, These five packages look exactly identical.. Duh, we can see that! Yes, Jay speaking. Really? You arrested the bomber? Great! The deactivating password is OK, l got it, sir. Leave it to me. What the hell are you doing? lt's a bomb! Get away from me! Back off! Pencil box set. Cosmetics. Shorts. Hair Grower Set Jay, the bomber said his bomb is activated by motion, better not shake it. ls that so? The bomb will be set off by motion? Sorry, l didn't think of that. No one taught me that in training. A-Shin. A-Shin, calm down. You will set off the bomb. What now? A-Shin, take the guys and leave. l don't want you guys get hurt when the bomb sets off. Go! What are you waiting for? Go! Go! What are you doing? you've been taking things from me since we were kids You didn't return my gameboy, you didn't return my magazines, either. This has got to stop now. What do l owe you now? You owe me a hug. Listen carefully, l love you. l finally figured it out, the one l love the most is you. Don't you guys move. A-Hong, from now on, we will be together, life or death. Nobody owes nobody anymore. Jay, We are tied together Not by rope, but by love Defuse the bomb. Fine, don't move. lt's four! Why didn't you tell me? What a dope! l think queer are necessities. lf people in the whole world becomes gay, that would be heaven. l love my family, and l love my lover. For God so loved the world, Queer are part of the world, too. Therefore god loves Queer. Last night l dreamt of the almighty God And? He congratulated me for finding my true love, and that he would bless of all Great! Congratulation! Don't forget to invite us. No problem. Thanks, A-Hong. Now let's welcome A-Shin. OK, A-Shin, Tell the audience your aspiration. My aspiration is to hold a concert at the Eiffel Tower performing with U2 and Prince, and dedicate the encore to my lover A-Hong. l had my fortune told, marry A-Hong, will bring me bad luck. Therefore... He's yours. l wanna hear! Me first! Get lost! Go away, asshole! l wanna hear, l didn't hear nothing. You're not gay, go away! That's is mine, give it here! Me first! l wanna hear! My closet!
