 

                        Are you coming in, Mister? Yes, Miss! Third prize 0-0-6-2 Second prize 5-7-5-7 First prize 1-3-1-4 Once there lived a handsome prince and a beautiful princess They owned a donkey Talking about the donkey, here comes one Thank You Thank You Thank You Thank You Hey! Crazy! As it is, your face is so irritating Don't do things which are worse than that! It's disgusting! Why? You're not happy with me again? Everyday I got to see your cuckoo face Now I got to see you kiss a bra? At least my cuckoo face is better than your black face! So what if my face is black? Not like you, you bloody fairy! Hey! I pay money to rent your room every month Not for you to insult me! If you're not happy, move out of the house At least I can rent the room to somebody else Normal human being Not a transvestite like you! Hey! So the prince and princess killed the donkey and they lived happily ever after Shall we? Over... Over... Over... OVER HARDWORKING! Hey, Hainan-boy You're still around? Still working? So hardworking? "Qin lao" means hardworking Hardworking means working hard "Hardworking" I'm working very, very hard to be hardworking Though I don't quite get what you are saying I think you make sense Very good! Well done! Well done means done well Done well! Well done! Since you're so capable I have to work hard! Do well to have done well! Then please do your best I'll make a move first Have a safe journey Boss, even the way you walk looks good! Suck up... Suck up... Suck up... SUCK UP... Brother! You again? Can you give me some privacy? Brother, why are you wearing a bra? This bra brings me luck I won the lottery the moment I picked it up! Brother! A man wearing a bra is like a woman wearing a condom It's very weird! Why can't you regard me as a woman? But you're my brother! You were born in the year of the Dragon I was born in the year of the Tiger Have you forgotten we're the dragon and the tiger? Can you act more like a man? Have you forgotten what happened ten years ago? I didn't want to bring it up but you're forcing me to... Hey! That's enough! I don't wish to talk today Leave me alone! Pretty? The weather's so hot! You still wear such a thick jacket! Hey! What? Play one game? What game? Scissors, paper, stone Why? You're very free? No. If you lose, you don't have to do anything If I lose, I'd wash your underwear for you Paper, scissors, stone! You're so unlucky You dare to play scissors, paper, stone with me You never died before? Today you go out, you'd be very unlucky You'll step on dog shit Bird shit will land on you You'll run out of toilet paper Have diarrhea and can't find a toilet Your whole body will be full of shit! Crazy sicko Teochew? Not bad! Pretty... I'm sure men will drool when they see you They'll want to tear off your dress Let down your hair Like mine See who is the lucky guy who gets to touch it tonight You touch it! Hey! You got it wrong! I'm a girl! I'm not wearing it tonight Can you tell? Can't tell? I hate wearing bra Yes, I hate wearing bra too! So, how's life? Okay Who's your latest boy? What boy? I'm so old already... No luck, no romance Really? Really. I give up already I'm going to ask you one last time So, do you like guy, or girl? Actually, what I need is a partner Guy or girl? Someone who I can talk to Someone who can listen to me Someone who can make me feel safe A sense of security, you know? A sense of security? Just use a condom? You're a superstar! You can't say things like that! You must have class... Oh my... Are you the one looking for a lost bra? You've a problem with that? You made a spelling error in your ad! Busybody! Your name is Hainan? Who calls themselves "Hainan"? Hainan-boy Hainan-boy? You are Hainanese? I'm Teochew! My name's Miss Teochew! What's the big deal with one bra? It's very important It's difficult to retrieve items that drop from your flat! How did you know it dropped from my flat? Don't take it too seriously. Bye bye! Hello! I'm Hainan-boy. I'm Teochew's good friend Who are you? Can you talk louder? Can't hear you properly. Construction's going on I'm Hainan-boy. I'm Teochew's good friend Who are you? I'm his landlord Oh! He's said that before! Very handsome! You must be the one! Can you stop sucking up to me? What do you want now? Teochew asked me to come here to take something He's not home. Come another day Wait! Wait... Hey! So rude! Just walk in like that? She said the thing is in her room I'd just take it and go That's my room Nice room... so stylish... One look and I know it's yours Excuse me... Handsome, can you open the door? Of course not! How to open? I don't know you What if anything goes missing? I'm his good friend. I won't anyhow take his things I don't trust you Handsome Let me tell you a secret What I'm going to take from the room is something very exciting and sexy! Men who see it will definitely not be able to control themselves What is it? Something good. Something very steam. Really? Really! As steamy as a bird! What are you doing in my room? Why is my bra with you? Who says it's yours? This belongs to me! My sister bought it for me! Keep your hands off it! Give it back! Stop touching it, you pervert! Pervert, return me my bra! It belongs to me! Give it back! Give it back! Hey! This is my house! Listen, I have enough of the both of you! Get out of the house now! What? I'm not going to rent my room to you anymore. Get out! Hey, you let her in. Not me. So? You think I care? Get lost! Hey, this is not fair to me! I'm not going to rent my room to a bloody transvestite! Hey, why you scold me bloody transvestite? You're a bloody transvestite! What else to call you? You don't scold people like that You must show some respect Respect? To who? To you? Bloody butch! Hey! Butch is enough! Don't scold me bloody butch! Yes, are you crazy? Anyhow scold people? You bloody transvestite! You bloody butch! Bloody butch! Bloody transvestite! Bloody transvestite! Bloody butch! Bloody butch! Bloody transvestite! Enough! I've had enough! I'm not going to stay here anymore! Please go! You think I don't know? When I shower or change You'll peep at me. Sometimes even take pictures of me! You pervert! Pervert! If I go to the police, they'll surely arrest you Put you in jail and cane your buttocks! Come, let's go. Whatever, just go! Lecherous landlord! I'm so pissed! Sorry... Why apologise? I got you kicked out He had always wanted to get rid of me! He just needed an excuse to do so I gave him the perfect excuse Forget it I don't wish to stay there anymore Where will you go tonight? It's not that difficult to find accommodation I have a spare room Why don't you rent from me? Lecher! You'll step on dog shit Bird shit will land on you You can't find a toilet when you have diahrrea You'll run out of toilet paper Your whole body will be filled with shit! How do you like this room? Not bad. It's cozy Someone used to stay here? My ex You two stayed in different rooms? She wanted her own space That's Meihui You hooked up with a kid? Why did both of you split up? She found herself a new boyfriend that's why we went our separate ways Who's this then? Your boyfriend? Excuse me, I'm single! He's my younger brother Your younger brother? Why do you have a picture of your brother in your room? He's dead Sorry... It was my fault We were out one evening ten years ago A group of hooligans picked on us My brother got into a brutal fight with them and was killed I'm the older sibling but couldn't protect him I'm useless It's all over now I should have been more of a man for him but I wanted to be treated as a woman Stop mulling over that But if not for him, I would have become a woman by now! Stop! Stop talking about it! Come, I'll treat you to dinner to celebrate your moving from a lecher's apartment into another lecher's apartment! How dare you eat my bean curd? I'll treat you to delicious bean curd! Had a dream? I had a nightmare How about you? I also had a nightmare How coincidental Yes, isn't it? Back to sleep then! "Mother has a problem with her spine" "Mother has a problem with her spine" "Her knee is affected too" "Her knee is affected too" "So she can't walk" "So she can't walk" "We'll take care of mother" "We'll take care of mother" "Hope mother recovers soon" "Hope mother recovers soon" Both your Hainanese is so awful Our relatives will vomit blood if they hear it! Sis, how do you say 'first love" in Hainanese? "First love" is (gibberish) Do you know what you're saying? I'm a natural at this! "Uncle is tall, auntie is short. When he pees, she peeps" Sis! "I'm staying out tonight" is... "Tonight no home..." "no sleep..." "no home sleep..." "home sleep home..." "You two are driving me to my grave!" What's the time? It's half past three What is today's date? Today's the ninth How old am I? Mother, you're sixty How about you? How old are you? You had me when you were twenty that makes me forty this year You're so old already? How old are your siblings? Your son's thirty-three Your daughter's twenty-eight Mother, stop with your questions Just rest You have to take care of your younger siblings I'm the eldest. I'll take care of them Who's taking care of you then? I don't need to be taken care of You're all by yourself... Are you a man or woman? I'm your daughter, mother You're a woman living on your own How can you not have anyone taking care of you? Don't worry about it. I have someone taking care of me Is it a he or she? It's a guy Really? Really I've been getting closer to a male friend Bring him to meet me It's not convenient Bring him to meet me He's busy with work, mother! Bring him to meet me... Boss I have no other choice You're just too good-looking! Look at that bald patch... You're still look handsome You have a big paunch You're still look handsome You look like an uncle... but still, you're handsome! I know I look handsome But this is not a matter of how handsome I am It's whether it makes sense With my standards, why would I fall for you? Your mother wouldn't believe it My mother's short-sighted, she can't see well But I can't get past myself! Love is a magical thing Either you have it or you don't Anyone can tell at one glance Boss, please just help me Just give it a try Bear with it and it'll be over in a flash If your mother asks us to kiss what do we do? She won't, will she? We'll be embarrassed when we meet in the office I'll think of you when I'm kissing my wife I'll remember your tongue when I'm eating duck's tongue It'll be very tragic for me, you know? Some things you just can't try You are... You are... You are... You are... SHIT! Will your mother be okay if she sees me? Yes! Yes! If your mother asks if I'm your boyfriend or girlfriend what will you say? Can you dress more like a man Talk more like a man Style your hair more like a man? Hello! I cannot cut my hair! Then can you change your clothes! Dress normally Don't be so stylish! Hey, I'm a stylist All my clothes are stylish I don't have ordinary clothes Then you can wear mine! Yours? Your clothes are not ordinary. They're ugly! Extraordinarily ugly! You're so immature! I'll be upset if I'm your mother We haven't spoken in ten years Your son doesn't act like a man so it must hurt But you're really hurting me by not acknowledging me Oh my god! What are these? You'll wear this out? They're so old-fashioned And these? You dare to wear this? They're hideous! And what's this? You'll wear this to Mother's grave? She'll die again if she sees you in this! This is my friend, Teochew... Just call him Teochew This is my brother, Don and my sister, Sharon Sis, are you bringing him to meet Mother? Is there a problem? Have you ever kissed my sister? Have you ever touched her breasts? Has my sister touched you there... Hey! I'm not a prostitute! You friend... Teochew! Do you know how to change light bulbs? Did he pass you test? I don't think so Why not? He's weird How am I weird? Just weird Well, he don't look like a man, nor a woman How could you say that? Sis! He won't do! Mother will get a fright if she sees him! I'm so mad at the both of you! You two drive me up the wall! They say you don't look like a man, nor a woman! How can you simply walk away? You need to fend for yourself! Have you forgotten what happened ten years ago? I'm not going to say it again! You're my brother! Please act like a man! I'm just trying to put Mother at ease by bringing him to meet her! Who cares if he's a man or a woman? He's a man, you know? Can you be more understanding? Help me out a bit... You say I don't look like a man or a woman! Do you know that you sister and I can get married! We can apply for a flat together! If we're not careful, I can even get her pregnant! I don't look like a man, nor a woman? She's the one who don't look like a man, nor a woman! They said I don't look like a man or woman! It must be out of spite because I'm better-looking Don't you agree? Pa! I'm your son! Won't you speak up for me when others insult me? What do I have to do? I caused Ah Guang's death Will you be happier if I'm dead? I'll jump off this building if you want me to! I'm really sorry I know they went too far I've already scolded them I'm really sorry Don't talk about it! Just thinking about it makes me angry! How do you do, uncle? You look as weird as I do He won't speak to you How can you be so sure? Uncle, very few look as suave as you do playing chess How can this old man be suave? He's suave! Look! He looks so fit! He used to be a stuntman Stuntman? He's still as fit as before! Look over there What's that? He's old, yet insists on doing chin-ups everyday He's mad! It's so high up! He really does chin-ups? Why don't you give it a try? No way I don't do things like that Didn't you do chin-ups in the army? I was a clerk in the army I don't do chin-ups I stay in the office Drinking 7-up Just one chin-up will do No Just one No Just one! No Listen to me! Do it for your father! Do I have to? Definitely! I'll help you! Come on! Just once Come on! Go on! One Two Three! Use your strength! And again! You're nearly there Buck up! Buck up! Buck up! Buck up! You're nearly there! Buck up! Buck up! You're nearly there! I'm letting go on the count of three One Two Three! Congratulations! You did it! Congratulations! Success! Dad! I did it! Dad! Dad Don't worry. You dad's just acting cool In fact, he's elated Let's play chess with him It's my turn, uncle Six! Now it's your turn! Six! Look at that! Romantic comedies always have hunks and babes! That's right Look at that! Even the toilets and storerooms look perfect! How is that possible? Hunks and babes are more attractive to watch Who wants to watch people like us fall in love? [Falling in love?] [Us?] [Oops! What did I just say?] [How silent...] [Feels weird...] [Say something!] I knew it! A third party always turns up! Look at that! Coming...! Who can it be? Open up! Open up! Have you two stopped speaking? He no longer likes me Didn't I tell you, men are all alike! They open up like floodgates if they like you and clam up when they lose interest I'm okay He'll take me back once he realises I'm here with you Can I stay here for a few nights? I've rented your room to him You can sleep with me tonight You two are going to sleep on the same bed? What's wrong? Didn't you two split up? Wouldn't it be weird to share a bed? We were one weird couple When we were together, we slept on separate beds But when we split up, we share a bed Or else? You can share a bed with me tonight Be careful if he rapes you! Oh! Please don't rape me! Hang on! How will you rape me? Are you a man or a woman? What do you think? I'm not sure I'm not sure I'm not sure I know! Youre a man! Know how I know? How? It's because we have breasts He doesn't! Stop your nonsense! Eat your noodles! Come on! Taking a shower? You too? You go ahead! No, you! You're older, you first! You're younger, so you go ahead! The older one goes first! No, younger one goes first! The older one goes first! No, younger one goes first! The older one goes first! No, younger one goes first! The older one goes first! No, younger one goes first! Want to shower together? You go ahead... She goes first... She goes first... She goes first... Can you not come and go as you please? You gave me such a fright! Have you fallen in love with Hainan-boy? At first, I supported your decision but I realised that although she has a woman's body she's mentally a man! I have a man's body but am mentally a woman! Brother, you're a man! Don't you go liking another man! You're my brother! Can you be more manly? That's enough! You're still reminding me of that incident ten years ago? What's past is past I'm already dead What's done can't be undone Why don't you woo Meihui instead? At least she's more womanly She's prettier than Hainan-boy That's enough! You're such a busybody! Leave now! Don't disturb my rest! Are you Teochew? Miss Teochew I've heard that Teochew girls are all very pretty Of course! Haven't you heard? [Teochew] If you marry, you have to marry "6th Auntie!" [Teochew] If you marry, you have to marry "6th Auntie!" Who's "6th Auntie"? "6th Auntie" is a legendary beauty in Teochew folklore She's as beautiful as me! Teochew girls are usually beauties but Hainanese husbands are the best! Really? Of course! Hainanese husbands treasure their wives and are great cooks So please find yourself a Hainanese husband If you marry, marry a Hainanese man If you marry, you have to marry "6th Auntie!" If you marry, marry a Hainanese man But you're a woman! Teochew girls are beauties but you're a man! Both of you are so unfortunate... How did you two meet? It's all because of your bra My bra? Here! This is a complicated matter. You better not ask why So both of you met because of my bra? This is so wonderful! This is indeed a wonder bra! Move aside! Move aside! Autograph this! One cup each! Don't be shy! Come on, sign your name! Sign it! I'll put it on for you to see! Just joking! Hainan's cup! Techew's cup! You two are meant to be! It's fate! I'm Ultraman! Lee, the evil nun who was defeated? Wanted revenge and makes her way to the ice tomb Ha Ha Ha Ha! Without warning She strikes Yang with her trademark Five Poison Palm! Then attacks the Dragon Lady with her Heart Drilling Palm! An epic battle awaits... Ha Ha Ha Ha! Buck up, sister! Buck up! Serve! Hit it! You're fantastic! Hit it again! Love don't have to be too sweet Romance don't have to be too romantic Even if you're not fated to be You can still meet up by chance accidentally You can go for a walk without holding hands You can go for a date without dressing nicely We don't care about everlasting love Just want to grow old together Love should not be tied down to one perspective It can be between a hunk and a babe or an uncle and an auntie Love actually is... I love you and you love me Every man and woman... should have the right to love Let's say one day I waited and you came my way You may not be the prettiest I've ever seen I can give you my future You can give me your body Normal days... You'd be my umbrella and I'd be your raincoat Although I look 26 have the fair skin of a 21 year-old the outlook of a 16 year-old but my body is that of a 40 year-old I've really aged That's how it is As long as you have someone to massages you that's enough That's enough for you? Why not? Couples need lots of activities Then their life together will be exciting If not, they'll have problems! You think too much and you want to try everything Don't talk to me about trying! Your reluctance to try anything made our relationship very boring! Yes... yes... The best is to spend a few years abroad two years in London, two years in Tokyo You can try everything you like and not care about anything back home! You're extremely selfish! You've done many things when you were younger! I'm already 30 and there are lots I haven't done! If I don't try them now, when will I? So it's better for you to be with him All he cares about is sex. Nothing else! You'd be free to try everything! Go eat shit! You two can argue even during massage? It's normal to argue It's difference in our thinking that's the problem Don't worry, you guys will be alright Everything will be okay after a good night's sleep Are you free tomorrow? Why? Do me a favour. Meet my mother Again? Are you Teochew? It's best to eat a fish's stomach It's best to marry "6th Auntie" Auntie, you speak Teochew so well! You're tall and strong I'm neither tall nor strong, Auntie At least you're taller and stronger than Ah-Min Her name is Ah-Min? She's Lee Xiao Min Lee Xiao Min? What a feminine name What's your name? I'm Chen Hong Chai Chen Hong Chai? How manly! You have to take good care of her for me Then who takes care of me? You take care of each other Why don't you take care of her? My health is fading fast, I can't take care of her If you refuse, I'll take care of you when I'm dead Please don't, auntie! You have my word I'll tell her off if she disobeys you I'll lecture her if she disobeys me If she disobeys the both of us, I'll give her a good beating Good! Good! I have another small request What is it? Can both of you kiss for me to see? I want it to be a very passionate kiss! Mother! Can we not? But I want to see... Can we not, auntie? Please... Do we have to? I'm only joking! You'll make me miss my old man if you really kissed Well done So you prefer guys now? I said do you prefer guys now? Do you like men because you genuinely like men or because you need them? You like men or need men? How about you? Do you prefer men or women? You like men or women? I can't hear a word you're saying You like men or women? I've always like men Sorry, so it's me who made you like women! You brought him to meet your mother Are the both of you getting seriously? What? I said you brought him to meet your mother. Are the both of you getting seriously? What's up with you? I haven't even met your mother You weren't serious about us Why should you meet my mother? So I wasn't serious? And Miss Teochew is? My mother is not well I brought Teochew to meet her to ease her worry! Why not bring me instead? Why should I bring you to my mother? What should I tell her? That you're my ex? Do I embarrass you? Are you looking for a fight? Why would I look for a fight? You might just throw me out of the house Hey! You were the one who wanted to leave! You always called the shots! What can I say! You eat cockroach shit! You eat rabbit shit! Turtle shit! Cat shit! Bird shit! Dog shit! All kinds of shit! Not sleepy? Where's Hainan-boy? She's eating cockroach shit in her room Which DVD are we watching? I don't watch such war movies. I'm going to sleep now I don't like watching such films by myself. I need company I don't watch films without plots So you like those with plots? No, I don't watch such films Are you that decent? I'm going to bed now! Hang on! I have a question for you What? I need my beauty sleep now I'm asking you right now Yes? Does watching such films excite you? Keep quiet Don't make any noise. Relax or you'll wake Hainan-boy Does this excite you? Does this excite you? Does this excite you? Does this excite you? Does this excite you? Does this excite you? Brother, why are you crying? You are my brother. Please behave like a man Brother, forget about Hainan Can you stop bothering me? Brother, I don't think you can handle Hainan-boy this time She will do you a lot of damage If you keep spending time with her you will be become increasingly girly Brother, trust me You have to be more manly in these things Brother, if you can't manage this Let me handle it Hello, auntie Who are you? I am Ah Guang, Teochew's brother Ah Guang? I thought Ah Guang is dead? Yes, I am dead And you shall die today! What are you doing? It's fast and painless I'd stab you gently and it'll be over quickly You want to kill me? Just bear with it. You'll bleed a little, that's all Why do you want to kill me? You're turning my brother into a woman That's why I have to kill you, sorry Don't waste your breath killing me You're so handsome, even when committing murder! You're sucking up to me now? What else can I do? Stop struggling and let me kill you! Help! Help!! Help!! Ah Guang! What are you doing? Help! Brother, don't worry. I'll be done soon Ah Guang! Brother, I'm sorry. I'll apply a plaster for you later! Help! I'm actually bleeding! Brother, you behaved like a man! That's my brother! You did it! You did it this time! I will not return again! Goodbye! I can't believe it. Even a ghost can kill a human... I can't believe you killed your brother Hey, I was doing it to save your life! Yes, you are great! Courageous! Just! And now, my saviour I owe you my life Is that better? You're such a charmer I can't tell when you mean it or not Hey, I really mean it Thanks for saving my life Can you sleep with us tonight? Why? In case your brother returns Don't worry. My brother's a man of his word If he says he will not return, he will not return Just in case. I feel safer with you around! Why can't you just spend the night with us? How can the three of us squeeze onto a bed? What bed? You can sleep on the floor! No! I have to sleep on the bed and on the right! I want to sleep on the right! Then it's perfect I'm usually take the left, so you can take the right Men on the left, women on the right. Okay? Okay I wish we'll never argue again! You shouldn't reveal your birthday wish But I really wish we'll stop arguing It's normal for couples to quarrel But why do we keep arguing on and on... Do you know why? It's because I'm too old and you're too young To me, you're not old Come over... What? Look closely. I'm really old Have you really aged or are you tired from our arguments? You're the one arguing, why would I be tired? Remember my face every year on your birthday How can I forget this face? Good morning Are you okay? Are you crying? Why are you crying? Can't a man cry? Where's Meihui? She's gone Where did she go? I have no idea... She packed her stuff and left Tomorrow's her birthday I celebrate it with her every year It's okay You can still celebrate with her tomorrow Both of you are still good friends right? Did you get her a present? I want to make her a gift Can you help me? What can I do? Hainanese kaya This is homemade Hainanese kaya You have to try it Homemade recipe... I spent six hours helping you to make it How will you repay me? What do you want for your reward? Something simple Just a bungalow with a garden For six hours of your time you want a bungalow with a garden? That's asking too much! A bungalow with a garden isn't much I'm not asking for three bungalows four gardens and five swimming pools! Are you giving them to me? Sure... I'll burn them to you! You have such a foul, inauspicious mouth! Stop cursing me, you idiot! Shut up and eat! Quickly! Is it yummy? Just taste it Do you like it? It's surprising good! Of course Have a bite too Nice? This is six hours of perseverance! Yes, I know! Have another bite? Have another bite
