 

                        A French-Polish Coproduction What are you doing? lt's just wood - lt's only firewood for Paris - We'll check it anyway l want those books checked too! Take nothing for granted Spare no-one! Go away! Leave me alone! Spring 1 794 Year 11 of the Republic A good revolutionary must be hardy - Article One -''All men are born free and equal ''Social distinctions... ''...can only be founded... ''...on common interest - The principle ... - The goal... ''The goal of all political associations is the good of the nation ''Liberty is the right to do anything... -...not harmful to... - Your fellow men Why is there still no bread? They're blaming the war The bread shortage has nothing to do with the war. lt's a ploy... By whom? Those who want to discredit the government and make the people revolt - Or it's the government - To what end? Power corrupts, it's an old story You speak for Robespierre? They're starting early this morning - Who's that? - An emigre, caught on his way out He's so handsome You make them walk there now? - The walk back won't be so easy - Not with your head under your arm Give me your card - Why? What have l done? - Your card But l've done nothing wrong - will you cut off my head? Look! lt's him! lt's Danton ''The despot says: let many innocents die rather than have one culprit escape ''The Public Safety Committee sees despotism as a necessary measure ''They agree with Machiavelli that the greater good excuses minor evils... ''...that liberty, like a child, needs tears and pain to reach maturity ''ln fact, the mere desire for liberty is enough to make one free ''The people won their right to freedom the day they claimed it: 1 4th July ''The final safeguard against despotism is a free press ''lf Moscow had a free press it would be a republic tomorrow - ''lf it's destroyed in France...'' - Be quiet - Has it been distributed? - No, it's still at the printer's What are you waiting for? Citizen barbers, come in Greetings and fraternity! What a fine day! Spring is here at last You don't look too well Well, you've been ill for five weeks We'll soon fix that Hairpins... Tomorrow l'll trim your hair What are you doing? Hiron, you have no right You should arrest Camille Desmoulins He's right, he's just a printer Sorry, we have no orders to arrest you, Citizen Desmoulins No, l'd rather not look Come back tomorrow, as usual You're better How fortunate Danton is back He's plotting a coup - Have you read it? - Not yet Desmoulins urges the people to rise against the Committees All of Paris is talking about a coup d'etat and a dictatorship Who's the man? No name's been mentioned yet, but l think it's... Danton! Has he gone mad? The Republic will be spared much grief if we send Danton to the guillotine now Danton is an idol He's not really dangerous lf it isn't him... it's Desmoulins Real bread, citizen? - Yes, but there's no sugar - Never mind - There's no sugar - Thank you, l haven't slept l'm exhausted Danton is behind those attacks, Camille Desmoulins is in thrall to him - What is our true goal, Antoine? - The triumph of the Revolution But not at any price; why all this carnage? There are easier ways Such as? Desmoulins and Danton will be beheaded whatever you say ls it really so cold? Can l have my coat, please? ls your fever up? lt'll pass Don't you dare stare at him ''Committees Equal Dictatorship'' The attacks against the government are growing too frequent Desmoulins' newspaper calls for war on the Committees - l accuse Danton and his friends... - Forgive me, l'm a little late Just like school l accuse Danton and his friends of counter-revolutionary activity Would you deprive the Revolution of its best servants? You can't be serious You surprise me, Robespierre - Danton, a servant of the Revolution? - You're raving No, Billaud, l remember even if you don't You forget all that Danton has done in your eagerness to cut him down Citizens... lt was he who got the ball rolling... ...by setting up our revolutionary cell in 1 790 and 1 791 - remember that! Remember the Champ de Mars massacre? Danton instigated it Then fled to the country Let's stop all this The letter found in Mirabeau's safe openly denounced Danton's plotting Can we trust a traitor's word? Lawyers' tricks ln any case, we cannot base such a serious charge... ...on rumours alone l insist we call citizen Amar Amar of the Security Committee ln no case can l allow Danton to go on trial Robespierre, you're afraid l know it's easier to execute him, but l say that his good faith... ...is beyond question Killing this defenceless man is barbaric and senseless - Defenceless - Quite! His only weapon was that newspaper Was? l had the paper closed down Desmoulins will replace it with another - Then we shall... - Eliminate Camille! No, we'll win him over Camille's our most fervent propagandist Citizen Amar... You have evidence against Danton Go on! Read it! Are you praying? What l'm about to say must remain confidential Citzens, like all of you, l doubt Danton's good faith At last! And yet... Yet l object categorically... ...to his execution Justice is a divine virtue, hence unattainable The Revolutionary Tribunal cannot embody justice lt can only be a tool to punish the nation's enemies But it cannot clamp down on criminals Fabre, Danton and the rest are guilty of numerous crimes The axe will fall on Fabre who undermines the Revolution But we won't touch Danton who bears the most blame Executing Danton would only plunge the bourgeoisie into counter-revolution The Convention would rise against us We'd shake the people's faith in the Revolution And in that case... ...we'd have to rule by terror alone You know what that means? Terror is despair, nothing else Yes, l'm afraid So afraid of terror that to avoid it... ...l'll make any compromise, stoop to the basest humiliation... ...any lie The traitor, Danton, must be granted an exorbitant favour: amnesty For the good of the country, we must submit We can't afford to be just You're here, at last! - So you're back - Yes, l was bored - l've come for my orders - What orders? Here's what l say: first, free all the prisoners l'll summon our fighting men, raid the Convention and kill the leaders Splendid! l wish you luck But you don't understand, Robespierre's on the move The Committee is about to pounce on us, and you, after what you've done Why me? What have l done? Not much, but if the Supreme Judge is mentioned and your name comes up - Easily done ''Danton is after a dictatorship!'' One single whisper, and you've had it Who'd dare condemn me? The Committee, of course - Robespierre's on his feet again - Oh, that puny Committee You're so sure of yourself Use your head, Westermann, l have all of Paris behind me lt's now or never, believe me lt's a wonder you're still free lt's not a miracle, it's because you're my friend They cannot arrest my friends l have one thing Robespierre lacks: my newspaper lt makes me far more powerful than that powdered charlatan Does that reassure you? The paper's been seized, the printer arrested Very reassuring! We've had it Can't you say hello, Camille? And you, Lucille, how are you? Maybe we've gone too far lf you're scared, run to Robespierre, tell him l forced you to write Stop it, l did what l had to do! l urged the people to end the terror Now it's your turn to make a move, otherwise my action was pointless - We must act at once - Why? - The printer - l know - Don't you care for your life? - Of course What about yours? - We must strike - You talk like a butcher This is politics. Come, use your heads So Camille's humiliated Robespierre To salvage his prestige he arrests the printer and seizes the paper lt's a provocation He just wants us to show our hand. So we do nothing, we stay calm Understand? Calm - Philippeaux wants you - Who's he? Liberal? Moderate? A spotless record, he's perfect for us - You're for attacking the Committee? - Not yet l'm also thinking it over - l'd like to know what you're after - So would l - Would you end the terror? - Would you topple the government? l'd join you if l trusted your motives Don't you believe me? Why? You formed the Revolutionary Tribunal and voted to execute the king So did you This leads nowhere Did l ask for your help? Georges, Phillippeaux and his kind want to support you Reassure them you won't abuse your power - l don't want power - You say that now No, l don't want power. l'm 35 and l look 60, l'm tired l'd like to retire But first l must end the terror, because l'm partly to blame for it Fine words, but we know you too well You're rich enough to give up politics Take care, Philippeaux! lt's you who asked to talk to me Calm down, Georges All right, I'm listening, but make it short, what do you want? Disarm the Public Safety Committee, it has outlived its usefulness Do it without causing an upheaval. Only you can do it Frankly, you disgust me, but l've decided to back you Thank you, l'm flattered. How will you do it? With armed men, if need be - Are you worried? - Yes, everyone is - You really want to move? - Strike now... l told you lnsurrection is a terrible, uncontrollable force... no! Robespierre has one weakness: his secret police, loathed by everyone Bourdon, in the Convention today, attack a top secret agent - Hiron? - Yes, for example Accuse him, mention informers, searches - the nation will support you lt'll say this is its last hope for freedom, and we are that last hope - ls that enough? - Yes, they'll calm down So will Robespierre. Go on Georges is right Always heed your wife, it'll be the start of a new era Then back to our modest, quiet lives Yours will be quiet and ours modest lf you see poverty as a revolutionary virtue, join Robespierre And you change printers What can be more destructive, more anti-Republican... ...than this invisible police, with its numerous informers... ...that infiltrates everywhere, spreading lies and threats? This police which endangers individual liberty... ...which foments mistrust between fathers and sons... ...and sees itself as above the law? This police... ...is headed by an ex-criminal named Hiron... ...who, under the guise of... Who, under the guise of public service, settles private scores... ...and openly favours the rogues he recruits He seems in a rush, where's he going? The Committee, of course, got up as soon as Hiron was mentioned The Convention voted to arrest Hiron Our best man? Lose him and we lose control of Paris So much for your defenceless Danton l want to see him today See that traitor? Set up the meeting This session is over You'd lower yourself to ask Danton to receive you? When it comes to the good of the nation, l'd stoop to anything l've just spoken to the Committee Secretary Some members are accusing you of high treason - Just me? - The others too, all of them Robespierre agrees? - l don't know yet. l'm going - Afraid? l'd rather not be seen with you No, change all that, please Only blue flowers, he only likes blue New style turbot, formerly ''maitre d'hotel'' We'll start with stuffed cucumber Then vol-au-vents Vol-au-vents in ''Convention sauce'' Formerly known as caper sauce Quails ''emigre'' style with onions And to finish, fruit in Varennes sauce - ls it to your satisfaction? - Perfectly, thank you l'd have made him wait, dressed carelessly, anything... but not this - lt's a gesture, it's now or never - Just leave me alone! Go home Let me see him humiliated, please Go home! You too, Bourdon No! Certainly not! - l must know how to vote - l said go home! Everybody out Now that's blue, exactly Get rid of all these people, quick - l must be alone Right away Clear out, all of you Sorry, security Good evening. l kept you waiting, l'm sorry No matter, for once we're alone together Just you and me - ls everything all right, citizens? - Fine, thank you - Would you like some? - No, thank you And this? - Magnificent, isn't it? - No, thank you - A quail, perhaps? - No, thank you lt's not poisoned. Look Delicious! No? Sit down - You're really not hungry? - No, thank you What do you want? To talk frankly with you Haven't you always? Why did you attack Hiron? Why did you arrest Dessenne and ban the paper? l must protect the government, but l don't understand you They say that you are plotting lt's not true, you know l'm as pure as snow Your many enemies want you dead You too? Stop attacking me and l give you my word you'll have nothing to fear Because l do now? l thought you didn't drink? To our understanding What do you want? l like your directness State publicly that you're joining us - l can't - Why? Because l don't approve of the government, l have that right But not to proclaim it. Especially not you You expect me to bow down to them? You think you're above the government? The individual is above the masses We both despise the Committees, but l say so They mustn't come between us Not the Committee, not the government - nobody Divided, we both fall lf you continue your reign of terror l cannot support you, no one will The people, our strength, will destroy the Revolution Who's to blame? Not l, and certainly not you. So it must be the nature of things l've never believed in the nature of things Nor l ln fact, our convictions are the same Not any more We fought a revolution in the name of righteousness and equality Now you chop off any head that stands out - was that our goal? l defend the people where no one did Against whom? Men who grow rich from the Revolution Yes or no? You want men to act like the heroes in novels You forget we're made of flesh and blood You want to raise us to heights where we can't breathe And so you isolate the Revolution, you freeze it Even the most fervent recoil Your advice? Come back to our level, right away Stop the revolutionary impetus and you kill the Revolution People want to eat and sleep in peace Without bread there's no law, freedom, justice - no Republic To hell with the Committees l admire you l'd love to follow you, but not just anywhere I just want to provide normal living conditions for 80% of the people Come now, l know you We're not at the Tribunal That's not all you want Men shouldn't stay in power too long You dream of power? l don't have to, l've got it The only real power: from the man in the street l understand him and he understands me, never forget that l shan't, but don't forget that l'll stop at nothing to ensure his happiness You want his happiness You know nothing of the people How could you? Look at yourself! You don't drink, you're powdered Swords make you faint, and they say you've never had a woman For whom do you speak? You want to make men happy but you're no man l'll show you the people Let's take a walk through the streets Forgive me l've always been brutal and clumsy l woke up last night thinking: how could we two have been driven apart? How could we two be taken for enemies? lt makes no sense We must stop it at once Then do as l ask What's that? l'm asking you to join us l went to the country to think things over, and l'll tell you something Frankly, quite frankly... l'd rather be executed than executioner You're drunk lf you insist... You see this head? Do you see it? Feel it? lt's you who'll have to cut it off l'm sorry, we both made a mistake Good night l have witnesses who heard everything That's why l said nothing - Where did he go? - What happened? Now l've got him I've got him! So, l got it wrong? Now you see, we must put an end to the Committees You were wrong about Robespierre Come now! Quickly! - They're waiting - There's no point Your plan is childish lt 's now or never! - Come with me - No! No more bloodshed - that's what l'm fighting for That's what l'm fighting for You say that to me? Yes, to you You'd see your friends' blood flow? - lt's good to see you - How's your mother? Worse than ever This is Sophie... from Nantes Go to your meeting l can't come tonight Are you coming? What happened? Why are you silent? - Tell me! - lt's war - Danton forced the issue - What? Robespierre is due for a lesson Tell me what happened, everything they said l don't know, l couldn't hear very well That's what l've been dreading For three months l've had these forebodings ls your husband in? - l'm glad you came - Why? You've changed a lot l don't know... you're like a stranger now l've aged, if that's what you mean That's not it, but... Maxime, is he really in danger? Yes, he is You're my only hope Tell me, why did you reject him, why did you abandon him? lt was the other way round Really? Then l misunderstood How could you? Camille was your friend That's why l came l said l was out We must talk, it's serious Why bother? Listen! You're in grave danger. l came to warn you You don't realise, your life's at stake Your friend Danton is using you He's exploiting your talent, unscrupulously He's only interested in personal ambition That's not real friendship, it's a dubious alliance Enough! You don't frighten me He who fights for freedom does not fear the ultimate price: death By advocating charity and tolerance... ...you believed you were saving our country, did you not? But in fact you're aiding subversion, which is precisely Danton's goal You must understand So what should l do now? Address the Convention tomorrow Take back all your attacks Then, in the next issue of your paper... ...retract what you said in previous issues You're demeaning yourself like a slut Danton threw you out, so you come and crawl to me You're terrified Remember, Maxime... Burning a newspaper... ...is no answer This is your last chance, listen to me or you're finished You must believe me l swear it's true, Camille Get out What happened? You must tell me What was the point of this meeting? Danton and Robespierre have been at odds all this time They won't change now He's not here yet? Good No, but you're ten minutes late What joy, you remind me of my youth Forgive me for being so late Spoken like a king to his ministers Then how should l speak? ln one hour, at 3.30 a.m. you'll send the police to arrest Danton Tonight? So soon? lt's madness! Out of the question, citizen Danton and his accomplices too Without preparing the people? lt's political suicide We'd expose ourselves to certain defeat l say the Committee must first prepare public opinion Let me have my say Danton has the bankers' support, you yourself told us that lt will be the Committee's death and Danton's triumph You're right, Danton has support everywhere lt won't work l wish to speak Not about that We must strike swiftly Give him three days and he'll get gold from the bankers He'll raise an army and scatter leaflets all over Paris He won't hesitate to address the Convention You all know he's a great orator We must do it tonight, or never You're right lf it upsets the Convention, l shall intervene personally We need an indictment Who'll write it? lt's done Read it l'd like to read it over again first Citizens, we need the approval of the Public Safety Committee No argument! Call them in - Are they still here? - Yes, the session's just ending Ask them to come in What changed your mind? Who else besides Danton? Here's my list: Lacroix, Philippeaux... Totally innocent Their intentions may be, we're judging the facts Legendre, Bourdon... lnnocent puppets, let's avoid a bloodbath, please The first humane words of the night All right, let's spare them Desmoulins? Desmoulins is my friend... ...but l shall abide by your decision Perhaps we should give him an extra day... ...to think it over lmpossible Very well, those three will be jailed with Danton We've just signed Westermann's arrest - He was recruiting fighting men - Perfect timing The Committee's just decided to arrest Danton and three accomplices - Who? - Georges Danton - You want him arrested? When? - Tonight! You're all mad We need your approval - lf we refuse? - You're the secret police You can make preventative arrests That's our privilege, not yours You can delegate to us - That's illegal - Not if you agree to it - Who the devil... - Calm, Vadier - Do you know what you're doing? - lt's a heavy responsibility We are prepared to accept that responsibility, entirely Write! ''We, of the Public Safety Committee... ''...and of the Security Committee... ''...have unanimously agreed... ''...that Danton...'' Who else? Lacroix Philippeaux Desmoulins Desmoulins? ''These four members of the National Convention... ''...are under arrest... ''...and are to be imprisoned in... ''...Luxembourg Prison'' Sign it Your signatures, please Lindet, you didn't sign l was elected to bring revolutionaries to life... ...not to kill them The session is over l always said you were a great man. l was ready to die for you l take it all back, all of it! l was as blind as a bat. Now my eyes have been opened What are you talking about? What are you trying to tell me? Robespierre came to see you How do you know? Don't talk about him, you have no right - l hope you heeded his advice - No, l rejected it Poor Camille, you realise we're doomed yet you reject your salvation Why doomed? lt means the decree's been signed - What decree? - Our arrest You're the only man alive that monster still holds dear He tried to save you. lt's over What are they afraid of? They could stomach your insults But to condemn them in writing - that was unforgivable And you? l rejected a handshake and signed my own death warrant - You don't mean that - l do Why refuse? His hand's too bloody Fight back! The people are with you Can we complete the jury list? Renaudin Royer Collard - Sigur - Cross him off Sourboul Can we depend on him? Cross him off Vinot No, Vinot's out, is that all? No one else you're sure of? That's enough No, we only have seven jurors - What of it? - We need twelve, by law - Haven't you got twelve? - Only seven lf you haven't got twelve, seven will do Add a few criminals to the accused list... ...and include Chabot, Fabre and Basire - The charge? - Anti-patriotic activity Do you know them? Round them up That's all The Public Safety Committee has just come out of session Lindet sent me to warn you Run! What do you want? There's money in the safe Take it Just make sure our wretched Republic doesn't confiscate it l'm coming Citizen Danton, you are under arrest. l have the warrant ''By order of the Security Council you are arrested and taken... I know, I know! - ls it still raining? - No Then l won't need a coat Let's go then Citizens... Danton has been arrested Danton was arrested last night The terror strikes again We must act We could be arrested any minute - Bourdon, you take the stand - l can't, l won't know what to say lt's our last chance You're scared? Look, he's shaking You go l'm a poor speaker - Legendre, you go - Go on l'll put down my name l wish to speak The session is open Speak We've just learned... We've heard, to our amazement... ...that four deputies of the Convention were arrested last night Danton is among them Long live Danton! I demand... l demand that they be heard in this house You may then judge for yourselves... ...whether personal enmity or jealousy are the root causes... ...behind this outrageous decision Put down Citizen Robespierre's name - Whose turn is it? - Yours You have no right to speak lt has been quite a while since our debates... ...were fired with such passion The issue is of great importance, and the argument is this Do we place certain individuals above the Republic? Legendre demands that the accused be allowed to take the stand - We all do - Let's hear Danton's side So you are willing to grant this man... ...what you have refused all others On what grounds? Does Legendre maintain... ...that Danton is a privileged citizen who may be placed above the law? He deserves some consideration So say we all. Let's hear Danton! The Republic... ...was built by the people as a whole Who among us would dare say: ''l and l alone had the right''? No one merits the right to claim privilege For us, the privileged do not exist A defendant's right to be heard is not privilege, it is simply justice Justice? Have you lost faith in the Revolutionary Tribunal? The Tribunal is beyond reproach, we all trust in it We shall see... ...whether the Convention stands firm and brings Danton to justice... ...or whether it contests St Just's report - We challenge the indictment - No, you've done well Do those who shout ''Long live Danton!''... ...believe that he deserves a special justice? lf so... ...abolish the Public Safety Committee and try us instead - We find no fault with the Committee - Long live the Committee! Every day the world is watching us We must show no weakness, nor moral cowardice What would become of France... ...if we lost the trust of the French? l wish to have beside me... ...upright and just men For innocence, that primordial virtue... ...should not and cannot fear public scrutiny l propose that Legendre's motion be rejected Then St Just will read the indictment Who is for Robespierre's motion? Who is opposed? You're mad. lf Danton fails we all do Fools! You'll all be massacred Such statements make you guilty in my eyes After deliberation, the Convention has reaffirmed its faith in the Committee Only the guilty tremble This crime will bring you crashing down, Robespierre Of course, there we have the most common of arguments Well, what of it? Assuming there is some such obscure law of providence lf a criminal's fall must bring me down with him, then what of it? There is no instance... ...when personal danger outweighs duty for the revolutionary l never said Danton was above the law l never doubted you l wish to speak. Silence l wish to speak For a long time l was misled by Danton's duplicity But today... ...l at last see my mistake We should show our trust in the Committee Let us approve the indictment... ...without hearing St Just's report Stop snivelling or l'll ask for another cell Don't leave me alone, l'll go mad Shame on you - l don't know what's happening - You're going to die in five days Better to know it and give up hope When death is certain, suffering suddenly comes to an end We may win No, it's a political trial Politics has nothing to do with justice l don't want to die, l have a right to live Man has rights as long as he can hold on to them lt's Georges l was afraid you wouldn't be here You there! Let's have wine for the representatives of the people You're crying? Then you understood nothing - Understood what? - That we had to let them do it - Why? - To open the people's eyes To show what the Committees are capable of There was no other way That's why l let it happen Are we to drink from the bottle? They haven't even got glasses Not bad The Convention approved the charges The cowards We're to go to the Conciergerie - We're doomed - Why doomed? We still have our heads, fists, teeth and claws to fight with A political trial is a duel They'll accuse us, we'll accuse them, and let the people be the judge We'll sow doubt in the minds of the people - They'll execute us without trial - No, l have a voice - The people follow me when l talk - The people can be fickle We demand witnesses. lf they refuse we don't talk lf they agree, we can win You have a visitor Who? My wife? What is it? Follow me Robespierre's waiting for you Go, he'll save you - Go on - No one's stopping you, Camille Go We'll all die, but you needn't die with us What shall l do? Go to him, he's come only for you Go on Tell the gentleman l don't want to see him l can't tell him that Then say... Camille is not at home People of France What have l in common with this scum? Who dared put these thieves next to me? Are we, spearhead of the Revolution, to be tried as petty criminals? You don't hold the floor yet, Danton Keep the journalists out, taking notes has been banned l can't take notes? Has the Committee gone mad? l write for the Rheims Standard Down with the Committees! Chabot, Delaunay, Basire, Fabre You are accused of conspiring to bribe elected delegates... ...and foster a revolt of the nobility... ...with gold stolen from the East lndia Company... ...by your crooked financial schemes Desmoulins, Philippeaux, Danton... ...are also guilty of the crimes l have just described An indictment? You call this tissue of lies an indictment? Shall l sully my mouth replying? The accused won't reply? No matter - Let him talk - Answer, Danton! Have you anything to add? Add what? We haven't spoken yet Has the jury heard enough? You're in a hurry, Fouquier l'm not finished lf you hope to address the people... ...just remember, the law forbids it l founded the Tribunal, so l ought to know the rules Very well You may speak For the last time Yes, for the last time - the last time France... You may not address the people Five years l've led you, my name is stamped on each page of your history - True or false? - True! You're accused of corruption, you sold yourself l sold myself? There is no price for a man like me l'll have to adjourn Don't expect a revolutionary to argue coolly, l'll take all day if need be l will shout and l will be heard The law forbids you from addressing the public. Back to your seat They pretend the trial is at an end when it's barely started The braver the man, the harder they try to destroy him. lt's infallible When you seek to ruin a man you throw the book at him, an old trick l see it's been improved to fit the times Now it ignores the law it claims to serve... ...deluding those in power that fear, which comes with power, is banished The just have always hampered politics Today more than ever Why must l be killed? Only l can tell you Because l'm sincere Because l tell the truth And because l scare them Three reasons to condemn an honest man Guards! There's a reporter in court l am one of the creators of the people's justice Do you think you can pervert it without my noticing? This is another of your tricks Trying us with infamous criminals so people take us for thieves like them Congratulations! An excellent idea, too bad l saw through it What is this parody of justice? Where are our witnesses? We are entitled to witnesses People of France, you are the Tribunal Bring in our accusers, the two Committees No, you haven't the right Let it all be public and you decide Panis, run to the Convention Say we want the Committee Say we're being muzzled. Run! Count on me Down with the Committees Justice? lt's a massacre - What are you doing here? - You let him go on and on Shut him up You think it's easy, so easy We expect you to be more forceful - More what? Forceful? - That's right, more forceful Come on into the court and see for yourself We know what's been going on there - We know what you said - Or rather didn't say So you're spying on me? Well done Your diffidence worries us What are you talking about? What are you talking about? You understand nothing - nothing! We'll let them have their witnesses - We can't refuse them - Out of the question Then l can't answer for the consequences. Do as you wish Are you sure we can't bar their witnesses? No, not right away But the trial is in your hands The trial is in my hands? Fine, get out then Go on, get out Since it's entirely in my hands ls the trial going so badly? - Why do you ask? - l've never seen you like this Please leave me alone Not until you've told me The Danton trial is a dilemma lf we lose the trial, the Revolution is lost lf we win, it is also lost But l ought not say so Are they out to destroy you? No... at least, not openly Please, eat before you go - No, that's pointless - Just sheaves, then There'll be lots of fruit and carts of olives from Avignon We'll depict peace, happiness... ...and serenity The Supreme Being Try this Simple and rustic No, it's like a martyr's palm We're in trouble, the trial is going badly, Robespierre Danton's so sure of his public he's attacking the government We want Danton's death, it's up to you to justify the verdict He must not be allowed to speak out The people will rip our guts out, and another thing... The accused demand witnesses - Yesterday we sent a letter... - l know Where is it? Did you send it or not? The Convention will answer it after l tell them what l think of it We can't wait ln any case, the answer will be no Barhre, do you approve of this too? You can't do that Fouquier, if we retreat we're all lost l am a judge, l'm not your... Your private executioner You're an executioner! Not mine, no. The people's executioner, you serve justice We send you the Republic's enemies Your duty is not to judge them but to eliminate them The law is no longer with you When the wellbeing of the Republic is at stake, the law is totally behind us One more thing - lt'll be you next - We'll see about that We'll see Still working on the Pledge scene? What's Fabre doing there? - Come now, Maxime - l swear he wasn't on the list l say he wasn't there Besides, he's a traitor, remove him Are you a close friend of Danton? l insist on being identified, obey the law A pointless formality Like this entire trial Danton, you've already testified, be quiet l've hardly begun, this trial will not be over until l've had my say People of France! l, Danton, appeal to you! You alone have the right to judge me Why are the witnesses being delayed? l want them here l demand that the two Committees be tried by public opinion After we have both spoken, you, the people, will decide... ...whether the guilty party is me or the all-powerful Committee Stop addressing the public l am accused of conspiracy l admit to it l am guilty of having conspired Deep in my heart l have conspired, but only with myself l conspired for peace, for amnesty... ...respect for law and public order l conspired for happiness and justice These errors, since they are deemed to be such, l admit to them... ln fact l proclaim them l admit to them, but only them Another of my faults is being popular and strong... ...when only anonymity and pettiness can guarantee a long life lf you wish to survive, do not be loved That's one of our newly invented laws One of those laws that is all the more powerful for being unwritten Woe to the strong who are loved by the people Long live the mediocre, the taciturn... ...the bitter, who skulk in offices The Revolution is like Saturn, it devours its own children What forces us... What fate compels us to condemn rather than forgive? To kill instead of save life? What brought forth this bloodbath... ...and where will it end, if it ever will end? l thought l could calm the storm of the Revolution I believed it was desirable, I still do But in your cold eyes l can already read of my inevitable death... ...to which you condemned me before entering this room l wonder: was l wrong? Some men disagree with me Their thirst for ideals knows no bounds They no longer see people around them They see only speculators, villains, traitors Dazzled by the Revolutionary ideals... ...they have forgotten the Revolution itself Their dictatorship is more ferocious than its precursor Fearing the return of tyrants, they have become tyrants Fouquier, you said the people wanted blood Liar! lt's a lie! lt's not the people who want blood, it's you The people want only to live in peace Don't saddle them with your thirst for blood You've betrayed yourself, Danton - betrayed! Only a conspirator, an enemy of the government, could thus insult... ...the People's Tribunal The people have only one dangerous enemy The government Don't stop the trial! Set Danton free! Call the guards Soldiers, look! Seven scars on my chest Shoot me in the back People of France! Do not abandon your defenders They kill your freedom before your eyes and you let it happen Danton, come here So you've been arrested too So there is justice The Tribunal's creator condemned to death! I'll die, but so will you How can you bury the living in a hole like this? Where is he? Here You have his confession? l never said this l did it only to avoid disaster What disaster? Sign the statement Sign it - But it wasn't a plot - Then what was it? Just this Desmoulins' wife thought it would help... ...if Danton's friends got together Such a list amounts to a plot, doesn't it? lt wasn't a plot You will sign this statement unless you wish to die We have unveiled a plot, all Paris is involved, thousands of people What plot? Organised by Desmoulins' wife and Danton's friends Many took part, a great many They were planning to blockade the courtroom tomorrow We're done for Well, Robespierre, this trial was your mad idea What now, Maximilien Robespierre? What do you want? What do you want? - What do you want? - You ask us? We've won against Danton Open your eyes, citizens Your necks are safe, you've been spared the blade Listen, any plot poses a threat... ...to the safety of the Convention ln that case it must submit to the Committee's decision We must move fast to get this decree passed What decree? The Convention must bar Danton from speaking at the trial You must warn the Convention about the plot l can't, l have no strength left l'll go and get it then Danton insists on calling witnesses... ...but that is out of the question You know we're innocent but it doesn't matter to you lt doesn't matter because you're just following orders But you, Fouquier, you know well what those orders are, admit it So l too am to have the honour of tasting the kiss of steel But mark my words, Fouquier... ...you may cut off my head but the man who issued these orders... ...will soon be rotting beside me He knows that if he kills me he will die too You want to murder me without leaving any trace You won't let reporters take notes The clerks are sitting idle with their arms folded They too have been given orders to write nothing Am l to vanish into thin air? No! l will not! l shall talk and continue talking to the end, because l am immortal l am immortal because l am the people, the people are with me And you murderers, you will be judged by the people l'm talking now... ...and l'll go on talking Perhaps the air in this room will carry the echo of my voice, which you muffle Delegates of the Nation Here is the Convention's latest decree The Convention has voted the following decree The Tribunal will conduct the trial without interruption Any accused disrupting the course of justice... ...will be barred from the proceedings We have unearthed a conspiracy... ...to set free the accused and bring down the Republic The Desmoulins woman is in the streets inciting the people Beware! This room harbours agents of subversion lt's a lie! They want Lucille's death lf you oppose justice you'll be barred l ask you: have we ever opposed the Tribunal? - Have we ever abused it? - Never! Yes, you did - Well said, Georges - Thank God it's over Glorious Tribunal... ...nest of thieves, blackmailers and pimps l have one thing to say to you: you're not fit to spit at ln obedience to the decree... ...l bar from this court... ...the accused, Danton Take him away Murderers! You won't silence us, Fouquier The accused, Lacroix... ...barred Allow me to bar myself Me too, it might as well have started this way Now go to the devil Are you convinced that the accused took an active part in the conspiracy? Do you find Fabre, Chabot, Delauney, Basire and their accomplices guilty... ...of participation in a plot... ...to corrupt the nation's representatives... ...in order to discredit and destroy the government? We do We will proceed to announce the sentence Lacroix, Danton, Herault, Philippeaux, Westermann... ...Desmoulins, Fabre, Chabot, Delauney, Basire and their accomplices... ...are condemned to death Their goods are confiscated for the benefit of the Republic Execution is to take place in Paris within 24 hours... ...and notice posted throughout the Republic Without me it will all collapse, there'll be nothing but terror What shame on the Revolution - Hiding your fear? - No, l'm hiding nothing l'm scared too. l thought l could look death in the eye, but l can't lt will all collapse in three months at the most Three months, no more No, wait l don't feel well You're about to enter history and you feel unwell? Let him be Steady, l don't want to cut you l remembered what old Guillotin said: ''You feel nothing when the blade drops ''Just a pleasant, cool sensation'' What a fraud l am For years l yelled ''Long live virtue!'' with the rest of them, and they got me To each his own defence l was had by the civilians Get on with it, my life has been short but beautiful l have no regrets You'll follow me soon No one will remember you, your house will be razed to the ground Show the people my head, it's worth it lt's over, Maxime, our victory is total, and the people let it happen You must accept the dictatorship now lt seems to me... ...that all l've believed in, all l've lived for, has collapsed for ever l don't understand The Revolution... - lt's taken a wrong turning - How can you say that? l don't know what l'm saying You see now that a dictatorship has become a necessity The nation can't govern itself Democracy is only an illusion - l'm crazy - No, just desperate - So blow your brains out - Good idea lt would end my troubles l just want to sleep Sleep... Don't wake me when you leave My little brother has learned something for you ''Article One: all men... ''...are born and shall remain free and equal... ''...before the law ''Social distinctions can only be based on the common ground ''Article Two: ''The goal of all political associations is to safeguard... ''...man's inviolable rights ''Article Three: ''The concept of all sovereignty must emerge from the people ''No group or individual may rule... ...without the express consent of the people ''Article Four: ''Liberty is the right to do anything not harmful to your fellow men ''Thus man's freedom to exercise his natural rights has no limits... ''...beyond those that ensure the same rights to all other members of society ''Only the law can set such limits''
