 

                        Come in, Mrs. Sugrue. Katie, darlin'. Can you lend me the loan of a small pinch of tea? I'll pay you back Thursday. You can have it and welcome. I knew you wouldn't refuse old Sheelah, and I knew you'd have rations and leavings, for there's little that's lacking here, unless 'twould be a man to cook for. I have me father to cook for. So you do, so you do, but I meant a man of your own. -Time enough for that. -"Time enough" lost the ducks. There's many a lass that lost her market from waiting too long. Oh, you can smile now, but who in this town would have you? -Am I that bad? -You miss the meaning. There's not a man doesn't want you, but who among them dare look at you with the grand house you live in? A fine situation your father has with his lordship. Take my son Pony. He don't dare raise his eyes to you, and him the catch of the town. Now, I would have said that Pony thought no small beer of himself. Oh, he's proud. He's proud as a white-washed pig, but he needs encouragement from you. You should be looking ahead, Katie. Your father is getting no younger, and when the time comes that he must step down... who else will there be but Pony Sugrue who can take his place? Don't put me father in his grave just yet. Oh, the saints forbid. He'll be spared for many years, God willin'. That must be Pony now. No, it's not. Merciful heavens! It's Lord Fitzpatrick himself. Hello, Katie. Your Lordship, why didn't you tell us you were coming? I'd have opened the manor house for you. I'll not be stopping here long enough for that. Where's your father? Well, now, let me see. Um... I heard him sayin', um, something about cuttin' the weeds around the summer house. I think he'll have gone to have the smithy sharpen his scythe. -I'll fetch him for you, Your Lordship. -Well, that's good of you. That Katie's a grand girl. Almost makes up for her father. -What ails him? -Oh, nothing at all, but he retired about five years ago, didn't tell me about it. He'll be down at the inn now, telling stories. Well, let's go and have a look at the gatehouse. Oh, I didn't know anybody was here. I'm the Widow Sugrue, Your Lordship. -I often comes in to help. -I see. Begging Your Lordship's pardon, I'm the mother of Pony Sugrue. He drives the mail cart to Cahersiveen whenever the train comes in. I'm very glad to hear it. He's a fine strong lad. He's worthy of greater things. -Is he, now? -Aye, he is indeed. You'll never hear me speak a word against Darby O'Gill, but he's gettin' on. When the time comes for you to hire a younger man, give a thought to m'lad Pony. I'm not sure I want a man who is too well known to the town. A man from outside would be more respected. My Pony is respected and feared, too. He's whipped every man in the parish. Is that so? Thank you. Thank you. If it were Pony you had in charge of this place, he wouldn't let it fall to wrack and ruin whilst he sat in the pub telling stories. Well, I'll tell you, the first look I got at him was in the old ruins -on the top of Knocknasheega. -And what did he look like, Darby? Ah, just like any other leprechaun, only he, being king of them all, had a little gold crown on his head. Tell me something, Darby. Did he have a long tail and a cloven hoof? Now, whoever heard of a leprechaun havin' a... You don't have to listen if you don't want to, Pony, but you needn't make fun of those who do. But I do. I want to listen. I want to learn all about them. Here, Molly, give me another large one, and then maybe I can see a leprechaun, too. You'll get no more whiskey here today, but if you care to be sociable, you can have a glass of stout. I ordered whiskey, and devil a foot will I stir from here until I get it. Pony Sugrue, you're bloom old and for want of a beatin', and if I were 10 years younger, I'd give it to you. Ah, but you're... you're not 10 years younger, are you? No, I'm not, but this is my place, and while you're in the Rathcullen Arms, you'll sit quietly, or I'll have Father Murphy forbid you to come here at all. All right, I'll have the stout. You were sayin', Darby? I was sayin' this wasn't like any old leprechaun that you wouldn't say hello twice to. But who was he... but Brian Connors himself, the king of them all. But I got me eye fixed on him. They can't escape, you know, as long as you don't look away. Now, the night was dark and the mountain was covered with mist, and the moon was no bigger than the light from a wee penny candle, but it didn't hide him from me... for there he stood, with an angry little gob on him and his face as fierce as fire. King Brian, me old boyo, I've got you at last, and I'm not gonna let you go until you grant me the favor of three grand wishes. Wait now, wait now, maybe we can talk this over. -Will you have a pinch of snuff? -Aye, and you'll blow it into me eyes. I'm up to all your dirty little tricks. You've gone too far. You'll get no wishes from me at all, now. You'll either give them to me, or else you'll answer to the Church. I'll have Father Murphy curse you with a blessin' that'll shrivel you up in a minute. All right, then, wish your wishes and be done with it. I've work to do at home. -Ah, don't rush me. -Don't rush you? Huh. Mean to say you're not gonna wish for a crock of gold? I may in due time, but what's gold to a man if he be too sick or too sad to enjoy it? Ah, you're the thinkin' man. I am, and me first wish is you'll grant me health. -Granted. -Now, me second wish is a small wish indeed, but it means a lot to me. -I want a big crop of potatoes. -Granted. And me third wish is for the crock of gold. Granted. Now, what about your fourth wish? Me fourth wish? Try me. You'll find I'm a generous man. Then I'll be a generous man. I'd like a crock of gold like this for me good friend Tom Kerrigan and another one for that decent man Pat Scanlon and another one for that doorful of a woman, Molly Malloy. -Is that your fourth wish? -It is. Three wishes I'll grant you, great wishes or small, but you'll wish a fourth one, and you'll lose them all! Wasn't I the fool of the world, lettin' him trick me into the fourth wish, and me knowin' better. Ah, dear, dear, and we could all have been as rich as Midas himself. -A whole crock of gold for me. -The devil's gold. I wouldn't touch it if Father Murphy blessed every coin. Stay away from Knocknasheega, Darby. You moil and meddle with that little king, he'll put the come-hither on you and make you his slave forevermore. Do you think I'm a babe in arms? You are to the likes of him. 5,000 years old, he is, and every year of his life he's learned a new trick. And I've learned 100 of them. You're mad, mind you. You'll be caught like a rat in a snap trap. Now, I don't want your blood on my head, so don't wish any gold for me. I'll leave your share to the Church, Paddy, ...but I won't let Father Murphy know where I got it. No, no. God save all here. We didn't see you, Father. I didn't want to interrupt. I just dropped in to tell you the news. My friend Father O'Leary in the town of Glencove has a new bell that was given to him by Lord Bellinbergh, and he has presented the old one to us. -Ah, that's grand, Father. -Glory be. There'll be a chapel bell in our tower at last. All we have to do is to go after it. Now, if I had a horse, which I haven't, I'd go for it meself, which I won't, but I thought perhaps there might be somebody here with a horse and cart who'd like to go for the bell. How much would that somebody be paid, Father? Paid? I suppose we might be able to scratch up two pounds. Now, I would've said it was worth two pounds, 10, if it was worth a bob. Like enough it's worth three pounds, but since we're a poor parish, I thought perhaps you might like to take out the difference in the credit to your soul. Two pounds, 10, Father. Why, my goodness me, a deed like that might even absolve a man from the sin of using the priest and the Church against the powers of darkness for his own selfish ends. I'll do it, Father. I'll do it for nothing. No. As a reward, you may have the music of the bell. -The music of the bell for me? -Yes, and for your seed, breed and generation till the end of time. It's a bargain, Father. I'll do it in the morning. Father! Savin' your presence, Father Murphy, but he's needed at the house. Excuse me, Your Reverence. -Fitzpatrick himself... -Don't worry about me, girl. I'll get back. I'm coming now. What are you after doin' pulling me out, with Father Murphy lookin' at us, neither? I can't afford an army of caretakers for the little use I have of the place, but I don't like to see the weeds higher than the summer house. Someone's after poaching rabbits. Ah, that's a thing I want you to put a stop to. Old Darby couldn't catch a poacher if he tried. Like enough he helped to set the snare. Now, I don't want any bad feeling between the townspeople and me. I like 'em, mind you, and so will you, -but don't like 'em too much. -No, sir. No poachers. Well, well, well, sir. I never thought I'd have the pleasure of seeing Your Lordship so soon. Yes, it looks as if you weren't quite ready for me. One more day, and I'll have the whole place beautified. Darby, this is Michael MacBride, a Dublin man. I've decided to settle him here in your place. I know it sounds sudden, but I've had it in mind for some time. You've served me well, Darby, but we need a younger man here. When a man gets along in years, he shouldn't have to work so hard, so I'm going to retire you on half pay, let you have the old McCarthy cottage rent-free for the rest of your days. And leave the gatehouse? It's become our home. Well, so will the other in time. -I don't think Katie will take to this. -We'll give it a new thatch. But what am I going to do with meself, and me cut off in me prime? You'll be telling stories at the public house all day, and poaching rabbits by night. Holy old Finbar! What with the foxes eatin' the grouse, don't tell me I set a snare down a rabbit hole. You're an old fox yourself, Darby, but, faith, I'm fond of you and Katie, too. Whenever we have to open up the manor house, she can have first call with the cleaning. Pardon me, sir, but when have we got to leave the gatehouse? Can we give them another two weeks? Longer than that, sir, as far as I'm concerned. Good. Then tonight, when you finish today's work here, you tell Tom Kerrigan to let you have a room at the Rathcullen Arms. Please, sir, I'd be grateful if you wouldn't mention it to Katie. I want to break the news to her meself. Very well, but remember I said two weeks, Darby, not two years. When I return here on Monday week, I want you out and Michael in and everything settled and done. Yes, sir. Good day, Your Lordship! Well, goodbye, Mr. O'Gill. Now here, wouldn't it be a shame to put his lordship to the expense of a room in the pub and Katie and me fair rockin' around in the gatehouse? That's very kind of you, but I don't think his lordship would like it. Why wouldn't he? Sure I can instruct you on your new duties. Katie! Yes, Father? -This is Mister, uh... -MacBride. Mr. MacBride is comin' to stay with us for a while, so throw some extra spuds in the pot for supper and make up the bed in the loft. If it's any trouble, I can go to the inn. It's no trouble at all. Pony! -Come with me. -What's up with you now? I want you outside where his lordship can have a look at you. Why should he want a look at me? 'Cause you're going to be a consequential man and have Darby's fine position as his lordship's caretaker and Katie O'Gill for your wife. Huh, and when the sky falls, we'll all catch larks. I mean it, Pony. I had a talk with his lordship about you, and I tell you it's only a matter of time. I put a flea in Katie's ear, too. I wouldn't worry about her. With a fine situation like that, I could have me choice of girls. Katie might help you get it. -Maybe you're right. -Here he comes. Smile, me darling. Smile. This is m'lad Pony, Your Lordship, the one I told you about. Your servant, sir. Well, he's a big man, isn't he, now? Nice to meet you, Pony. "A big man," says he. What did I tell you? You'll get the job in no time at all. Ah, Katie, you should have saw the turf the two of us cut this afternoon. That was a grand bit of work you done. So it was, aye. His lordship thought I could use a lad to help with the turf before the rains came. And me doin' 10 men's work already. Come, lad, sit down. Take the air of the fire, and I'll play you a tune while the pot's on the boil. Ah, that's good. -Can you put a name to that? -Hmm? Uh, no, it's... it's new to me. What's it called? Them as I heard it from give it no name. Well, where did you hear it? In the old ruins on the top of Knocknasheega, and there were the little people dancing all around in the moonlight. Well, aren't they the bold creatures? Aye, they are. Supper's ready. Bold and cunning, they are, but I'm up to them. Once I caught King Brian himself, and he gave me the gold, though I'd no need for it. But, faith, I have need for it now. Shh. Don't breathe a word. Tomorrow at dawn I've got to go to Glencove to bring back a bell for the chapel. I'll have to round up the horse, now, before she runs all over the mountainside. I'll be glad to give you a hand. I was just going to ask you to go the rounds of the manor house and try all the doors and the windows. Right so, but after that, I think I'll go down to the Rathcullen Arms and see about a room. Now, why would you be doin' that? I don't like to take hospitality under false pretenses, and besides, two weeks from today, you must leave here. -I think your daughter should know. -Oh, she will, she will. Then why let her believe that I was brought here only for the cuttin' of the turf? You see, she was born in the gatehouse, and for 20 years, she's lived in it. It gives us a standin' in the town. No, I'll tell her when the time comes. I can't break it out of a clear sky like a crack of thunder. Well, when will you tell her? -The first good chance I get. -Then do it soon. I'll tell her, I'll tell her. Here, I'm used to the dark. -Watch out for poachers. -I'll do that. Come on now, Cleopatra. Wait now, darlin'. Devil take you! Come back here! Come back to your master. Wait till I catch you. Cleopatra, come on, now. Cleopatra, where are you? I'm lookin' for you. Can't you hear me? Cleopatra. Ah, there you are. What do you think you're doin'? Hop out of that. Do you want to break a leg? Whoa! Whoa, there. Whoa! Whoa, I tell you. Whoa! Whoa! Whoa, there. Whoa! Get down! Whoa! Get down! -So that's Darby O'Gill, is it? -Aye, it is. I wonder why his honor put the come-hither on the likes of that. Sure there's no more life in him than a potato vine after a frost. Well, either he's hard asleep or he's killed entirely. Let's find out. You murderin' little heathens! -Watch your stick. -Oh! Hey! Get off me! Wait, wait. Hey! Ooh! Come on, you blackguard, now we'll take you to the king. There's no tellin' what he'll do to you. No tellin' indeed. -Come on. -Hurry up! Darby O'Gill is here. He's come. Come in, man. Come in. All right, Your Royal Highness. Well, Darby O'Gill, 'tis pleased and delighted I am to see you again. Thank you, sir. It's a grand place you got here. Ah, it does well enough. Sit down, man. Over there. Drop the lid, man. It's only an old chest full of jewels. We took it from the Spanish ships when the Armada -was wrecked on our coast. -Is that so? Ship's gun, too. Oh, that's a fine piece. -It is indeed. -And the throne? By all the goats in Kerry, do you think I'd sit on a Spanish throne? This once belonged to Fergus mac Leda, ancient high king of all Ireland. -Do you say so? -I do. And over there, the gold cup of Cormac. And here's the sword of Brian Boru, who drove out the Danes. And over there you see the harp. Don't tell me it's "the harp that once through Tara's Hall the soul of music shed." Aye, it is that same. I declare to me soul, when I tell them this down in the pub, they won't believe a word of it. Ah, you can't do that, Darby. Once you're here, there's no going back. I've got to get back to Katie. Ah, you needn't worry about Katie. She'll give you a grand wake, and then she'll forget all about you. -Mind what you say about Katie. -Calm yourself, now. Calm yourself! -What have I ever done to you? -Nothin', Darby. -Who tells all the stories about you? -You do, Darby. Aye, and who makes the women watch where they're throwin' their wash water when you and your lads are out walkin' invisible? You do, Darby. And who makes the men tip their hats respectful to every swirl of dust? You. You've done grand. So you put the come-hither on me. That's how you pay me back, you ungrateful little frainey. Your heart's as cold as a wet Christmas. Blackguard! They better watch what they're saying. I speak Gaelic, too. -Now, you listen to me. -No, you listen to me. Phadrig Oge was standing under the white thorn tree by the summer house when his lordship gave you the bad news today, and the moment I heard you were in trouble, I swore I'd take you out of it. If you're the fine, decent man I think you are, you'll be showin' me a little bit of gratitude. I am grateful. Then you can say goodbye to the tears and the troubles of the world outside. There's nothin' but fun and diversion here. Now, what'll you do first, Darby? -Well, I don't know. -Would you care to play the harp? No, I'm no great hand with the harp... but give me me old fiddle, and I'll play you a tune -worth goin' a mile o' ground to hear. -Grand. Now, if someone will show me the way out, I'll go home for it. None of your tricks, Darby. I said you were here to stay. Phadrig Oge! -Yes, Your Highness? -Fetch the Stradivarius. Right away, Your Highness. It was presented to me by the emperor of the Italian fairies in 1700. It's a Stradivarius. I'd rather have me own. Ah, you'll have to make do with this one. Go ahead, man. Try it. All right, then, if it makes you happy. -Now give us a good one. -All right, then. Me grandfather Podge told me there were three things the little people were mad after: Dancin', whiskey and huntin'. Begorra! He wasn't far wrong. Then I'll give you the fox chase. Ah, the fox chase. First you'll hear the gathering of the huntsmen -and the bayin' of the hounds. -Grand. Away we go. 1, 2, 3, 4. Gone away! Give us full cry! A-ridling! Oscul! A-ridling! Wait! Wait, Your Highness. Wait! Whose side are you on, anyway? You'll find out who's the knowledgeable one. Come on, now. Oh, it's not for me. I'm expectin' company. If I can only hold him here till cockcrow, you'll see what'll happen to your friend when daylight comes. Aye. And... And how was the chase, hm? We were chasin' the wrong fox, but I've run you to earth at last. What do you mean, sir? -I've a good mind to break your back! -I thought we were friends. You've made a laughingstock of me in front of my own people! -I don't understand. -When his lordship kicked you out, -who took you in? -You did. And what did you do the minute my back was turned? Oh, I-I just went back for me pipe. You didn't think I wanted to stay here, did you? How could any man who's had one look inside the fairy mountain be content with anything else? Faith, I never saw dancin' so fine or heard pipin' so shockin' sweet or touched a fiddle so grand, and never in me wildest dreams did I dream I'd be sittin' on diamonds. No, indeed. All I want from here is me old didn. Well, you better make sure. We can't have you goin' in and out. No, not a thing else. -I'll not even be needin' this. -And what might that be, now? It's a drop of old poteen I found in the bog. Oh, it has a real smack to it. I'd offer you a drop, only it wouldn't be fine enough for Your Royal Highness. Let me be the judge of that. Well, very good, Your Royal Highness. Well, here goes. Ahh. It drinks cool and easy, so it does. I'm plenty glad you like it. Now we'd better be on our way. I can't wait to get back to all that music and fun and diversion. Now, just a minute. We've a fine bit of diversion right here. Sit down now and have one with me for friendship's sake. Well, if you insist, Your Royal Highness... -I'll join you. -Good man, yourself, and if it's music you're after, what about a song? -A song? -Aye. -Do you know the "Wishing Song"? -I do not. Oh, we better not try it, then. You have to make it up as you go. I can make up a thousand songs, so I can. Can you? -Of course I can. -All right, then. The "Wishing Song." # Oh. I wish I had time to sing you a song # But when I get started. I sing all night long Can you put a rhyme to that? -Try me. -Go on, then. # Oh. Singin's no sin and drinkin's no crime # If you have one drink only. Just one at a time # Oh. I wish all the rhymers were like Brian Connors # When it comes to rhymin'. He takes all the honors -Can you beat that? -Hold your whisht. # Oh. I knew you could sing when you opened your mug # So you carry the tune and I'll carry the jug That's a good one. Could we have another round? -There's nothin' stoppin' us. -Good. # Oh. I wish all barmaids # Were like Mary McCluskey "McCluskey"? # When she served you a drink # Why. She served you good "whuskey" Oh, that's a thunderin' good rhyme, "McCluskey" and "whuskey." Did you ever hear the like of it? # But Mary. She married poor Jimmy McQueen # 'Cause she wanted her name to rhyme with "poteen" -Oh, I've got a good one. -So have I. # Oh. I wish I was married to old Widow Tunney # She's ugly as sin but has beautiful money -Slinte, lad. -Slinte go saol agat. (# King hums the "Wishing Song") How many verses have we sung? -Well, here's the 80th for you. # Oh. I wish that all mortals were like my friend Darby # He's full of poteen. But he's fuller of blarney That's a tough one. -Well, here's 81. -Ha! Ha! Ugh! # I wish all the gentry were like the King Brian # If he can't beat ya drinkin'. # He'll fall down a-tryin' # Good mornin', me old bucko. Open your door. Can you not go through it anymore? Try again. Would you violate the sacred rites of hospitality? I would. How would you like to have me put a lump on your back? I know you can't work your charms in the daytime, and when you couldn't go through that door, I knew I had you. You murderin', deceitful, blind-staggerin' old truaillidh mran! When me strength comes back in the nighttime, I'll put an elephant's head on you and have you crawl on all fours and eat grass that won't nourish you -till you shrivel up and die! -Whoo-hoo, hullabaloo! Ah, good mornin', Ginger. Have you come for your breakfast? Well, there's a tasty morsel I've no further use for. Don't let him loose. Don't let him loose! Shrivel him up. Put a hump in his back. Have mercy, Darby. Spare me and I'll grant you your three wishes all over again! Do you hear that, Ginger? Now, go on, wish them. Sure now, I might wish for the crock of gold. -Go on! -Or I might wish for... let's see... -Long life. -Yes. Or I might wish for a carriage and pair. Granted. Granted. Granted! But I haven't wished a wish yet. I said I might. Get on with it, then. Wish your wishes, and since we've had such a grand night of it, you can have as many as you like. So that's good of you. "Three wishes I'll grant you, big wishes and small, but if you wish a fourth, you'll get none at all." Ah, what a memory you've got, you wicked old scut. But before I make a wish, I'll have to talk with Katie. -I'll make one. -Go on, go on. One wish to protect the other two. Now, me first wish is that you will not fly back to Knocknasheega, but you'll be at my beck and call for a fortnight at least, until I make the other two wishes. You thief of the world. Never in 1,000 years has a man taken such an underhanded advantage. Faith, never in 5,000 years have you ever met a more knowledgeable adversary. I am Brian of Knocknasheega, and never... No! No! Do you agree to the terms of the first wish? I do, I do! All right, then. Go on, Ginger. But how am I gonna protect myself while you're makin' up your mind? Now, don't worry. I'll take good care of you. Aah! No, no, no, you wicked old devil. You murderin' old hypocrite! Let me go! Let me out! Let me out, do you hear me? Now, what would she be doin' around here? Always scroogin' round to the back door, beggin' something, borrowin' tea or something. -Morning. -Good morning. -Did you sleep well? -That I did, thank you. Where's Darby? His bed hasn't been slept in, but he'll turn up. I gathered from something he said last night that he might capture the leprechaun. -He has great games with them. -When he's taken a draft too many? He's not a drinkin' man. But he's a lonely man since me mother died. When he goes to the pub, it's for company, and when he makes his rounds at night, the wee folk give him sport. Well, what about yourself? Don't you get lonely? I keep busy. Rathcullen's a small, little place, but there are dances and hostings aplenty. There's a dance on tonight. Maybe you'd care to go, Mr. MacBride? No, not yet, thank you. And, uh, by the way, my name is Michael. Well, so it is, but until I've known you more than a day, your name is Mr. MacBride... Mr. MacBride. What was old Sheelah doin' around here? She dropped in to pay back a pinch of tea. Well, I don't like to see her about the place. -Father, sit down and eat. -She and her son Pony, they're two of a kind, neither of them up to any good. She's only a poor old woman. Old woman indeed. Are you wearin' your holy medal? -I am. -Well, don't leave it off. -She could be a witch. -You'd better go to bed. I can't. I got to go to Glencove to pick up a bell for Father Murphy. 'Tis a shame I'll not be here today to help you. Oh, we can't let the cutting of the turf stand in the way of good deeds. Well, me boy, seein' it's for one day only, could you leave the turf and cut the weeds around the summer house? -I think I could. -And, listen, if you make a good job of it, I might keep you on. How would you like workin' for me, anyway? Why would he want to work for you? You haven't one shilling to rub against the other. Katie, me dear, there's been a change in our fortunes for the better. I'm thinkin' of buyin' the manor house for meself and shiftin' you out of here into surroundin's more in keepin' with your charm and beauty. Well, I wouldn't want to live in the manor house. You know as well as I do, his lordship would never sell it. What do you want? You've only got to name it. I don't want anything. Now, sit down. I suppose you don't want to hear about the great battle I fought with the powers of darkness. I do not. Now, sit down and eat your stirabout. She should be the caretaker. She's got a tongue would clip a hedge. # Have you ever seen the sea gulls # A-flyin' o'er the heather # Or the crimson sails in Galway Bay # The fishermen unfurl # Oh. The earth is filled with beauty # And it's gathered all together # In the form and face and dainty grace # Of a pretty Irish girl # Oh. She is my dear my darlin' one # Her eyes so sparklin' full of fun # No other. No other can match the likes of her # She is my dear my darlin' one # My smilin' and beguilin' one # I love the ground she walks upon # My darling Irish girl I called you when your food was ready, but you were makin' so much noise, you couldn't hear me. Faith, I know I can't sing a lick, but when I'm roarin' like Doran's bull, it works up a killin' hunger in me. What have we got here? Bread newly baked, butter fresh from the churn, and boiled eggs and ham. Well, now, aren't you the clever girl? You have enough here to feed the parish. I thought you'd be hungry. -I hope the bread has cooled. -Oh, I like it hot. Mle murder! Did no one ever tell you the hazard of hot bread? No, they didn't, ah... Sure you can see I need someone to watch over me. Did your father say anything this morning before he left? He said he would be back by sundown. Nothin' about me? -He said you were a good lad. -That's all? -Isn't that enough? -I suppose it is. Tell me, Katie, do you think I'm a good lad? I very greatly doubt it. Aye, you look fine, Darby! Hey, all right! It's a grand bell. You've done a great deed. Thank you, Father. Thank you, Father. Darby! -What have you got in the bag? -Well, uh, Father, it would be a hard thing to explain. Oh, now, you could try. Well, like, it's a kind of financial venture, you might say. A financial venture that you'd be afraid to tell your priest about? Oh, no, no, no. Sure I'm on the side of the angels, against the powers of darkness. What would you say, Father, if I told you I captured the king of the little people? I'd say you had imagined it. Ha-ha. Then I've nothin' at all in the bag here, Reverend. Nothin' at all. Glory be to the saints of joy. This is a great day for Rathcullen. You've certainly earned a glass of stout, Darby. Aye, it's dry work cartin' a bell. May we all live to see... -Would a toast be a kind of wish? -It would. Oh, well, then, devil a toast will I drink this day. What's in there? The renowned Brian Connors, king of all the leprechauns. One wish I wished already, but I'm not lettin' him out of this bag until I've wished the other two. What does he look like, Darby? Ah, just a teeny-weeny tawny little atom-y kind of gentleman with a beard on his face and a crown like a fistful of horns on his head. Let's have a look at him, Darby. Let's have a look at the little gentleman. Oh, never mind, then. Sure it's only Lady Fitzpatrick's prize hen, the one they gave the red ribbon to at the fair. Fill the little pannikin, 20 year old, the best in the house. I will, Darby. Thank you. Here you are, Your Majesty. -Did you see that? -I saw it with me own two eyes. Give me the glass, Tom. That's a story will bear repeatin'. And if any man doubts the truth of it, there's the very same glass. # Bum-ba-dum-ba-da-da-dee-dee # Da-dum-ba-da-da-da-dun # When the dew is on the hayrick # And every drop a pearl # When the geese are full of blarney # And the thrush is singing Gaelic # And standing in the doorway # Is a pretty Irish Girl # Oh. She is my dear my darling one # Her eyes so sparkling full of fun # No other. No other can match the likes of her # She is my dear my darling one # My smilin' and beguilin' one # I love the ground she walks upon... -Now, where did you hear that? -Michael was singin' it. # My pretty Irish Girl -Where are you off to? -To a dance. With Michael? No. Michael's goin' your rounds for you. He is? Why'd he do that? Well, he said you were worried about the poachers. If I hurry, I'll catch up with him. -Ah, the devil take you! -Darby! What ails you, lad? Is it blind you are? I am indeed. Sure when I saw man running in the dark with a game bag in his hand, wasn't I the foolish one to mistake him for a poacher? By the hokey, it did look bad. Will you forgive me? Faith, a stepmother wouldn't blame ye. No harm done. I'm sorry, but I promised his lordship there'd be no poaching, and I can't make an exception, not even for you, -so you'll have to let the rabbit go. -Rabbit indeed. I didn't intend to show him yet, but you've been a nice fella. I'll give you the first look. Bring him over here. Come on. Get ready for the grand surprise. It's no rabbit. -Rabbit or hare, what's the odds? -Rabbit or hare? You're lookin' at Brian of Knocknasheega, -king of all the leprechauns. -'Twas a rabbit I saw. Have another look. It's still a rabbit. -Try closin' one eye. -Closing one eye? Ah, you've had a hard day today, and a hard night last night. Now, why don't you go home to bed and get a good rest? How could I rest, and you thinkin' I'm a poacher? They take different shapes, you know? So I hear. Aye, you ought to see him with his little gold crown and his red beard and his two eyes leapin' from his head like flames. -I wish you could see him. -Granted. And that's your second wish. Why, you tricky, deceivin', connivin', double-dealin', -high-handed... -Oh, wirra, wirra, wirra. That's what comes of a man not yet threescore and 10 matchin' his wits against an intellectual gladiator 5,000 years old. Well, I still have me third wish left, and maybe me second one's not all wasted. Now, go on. Make yourself visible to him. But I am visible to him. You wished he should see me, and see me he does. -He sees me as a rabbit. -You're a cheat and you're a liar. -Don't tell me you can't hear him. -I'm afraid I can't. What's the world comin' to? I could have knocked a crock of gold out of this old chancer with that second wish, but I gave it all up for a man who can neither hear nor see. Darby, he can see me as I really am... in his dreams tonight. You can see him tonight in your dreams. Are you sure? I am. He promised me. Ah, the last reel was the best one. You know, Katie, you're so light on your feet, you could tread on cobwebs without breaking them. -Thank you, Sean. -May I take you home now? No need to trouble yourself. Katie can ride home with me. -I think it... -Can't she? That'll be grand, Pony. -Good night, Sean. -Good night, Katie. Come on. Hup! Hup! Thank you for the ride. Good night, Pony. Have you no pride, ridin' home with the like of that? He was only bein' civil to me, and I was no more than civil to him. Well, you'd better forget about him altogether. Well, maybe I will... when me father stops spyin' on me at windows. Oh, tare and ages! Isn't that a nice way for a girl to talk to her father? And she me one and only. She's a fine girl, Katie, but she's in mortal danger. -How do you mean that? -'Tis you, the way you're dillydallyin' with your wishes. Phadrig Oge, he's me lieutenant. He'll stop at nothin' till he gets me back. He might even put the come-hither on Katie, so's you'd have to wish her free again. If he lays a finger on Katie, I'll kill you dead and murder you entirely. -Tell your Phadrig Oge that! -Tell him? How can I give the order, and me tied up in a sack? I'll throw you in the river and drown you like a kitten. Do that, and you'll have a scourge that'll make the potato famine -look like a Sunday regatta. -Don't you threaten me. Your cows will die of the black leg and your sheep of the red water, and in every cradle in town there'll be a changeling! I'm not afraid of you. You'd better be. I'm the one that keeps my kingdom in order, and all the unpleasant spirits of the night will run wild unless you wish your wish and let me go. To tell you the truth, I don't know what to wish for. Then, uh, wish for the gold. I'll give it to you this time. Ah, she doesn't want the gold nor the manor house, neither. -Who doesn't? -Katie, I'm thinkin' of. Well, uh, what does she want? I don't know. We were happy here, the two of us, but when I catch her dancin' and whirligiggin' with a drunken blatherumskite like Pony Sugrue... well, I don't know her at all. Ah, she needs to settle her mind on a good steady lad with temperate ways. That she does. What if she found such a lad and fell in love with him, and he with her? Would you wish your wish then? I would. Good. Now, go to bed, have a good sleep. Leave all to me. Put your mind at rest. Michael. Michael. What do you want? I said I'd visit your dreams, and when I make a promise, I keep it. Well, I've seen you. Now go away. Ah, but I... -I'd like to talk about Katie. -How does she concern you? She's the one that's keepin' me here. Darby won't wish any more wishes until his girl is pleased. Well, what can I do about it? Marry her, and you can all live here as happy as three peas in a pod. I hardly know the girl. One look at her and you'll know her. She's a nice girl and I like her, but... Good. Then next Sunday after Mass, take her up to the ruins on the top of Knocknasheega. 'Tis a fine romantic view from there. Just lookin' down will make any girl so dizzy, she'll fall into your arms. I don't want her to fall into my arms. But then, of course, I can't very well blame you. Might mean gettin' your head broken. I know if I was courtin' Pony Sugrue's girl, I'd be afraid, too. Is it puttin' the coward's name on me you are? Ah, no, no, no. No, no. Go to sleep now. Go to sleep. Good lad. Go to sleep. Katie. Katie. I say, Katie. He's a fine strong lad with temperate ways. Hmm? Michael is a fine strong lad with temperate ways. He'd make you a grand husband. I don't want a husband. Not yet. Not yet? Oh, Katie, many a girl has spoke these words and lived to rue them. You know, when a girl is 20, her boy will marry her up in a minute, but when she's 30, doesn't she have a time trying to make him say the hard word? -I'll have me courtship first. -Courtship, is it? And marriage the bone and sinew of the country? What would you call a girl who'd keep her lad dangling through pure selfishness or sinful dalliance? I know what I'd call her. I'd call her... I'd... Katie. Katie. Yes? I returned as a matter of courtesy to give you the last word. Me last word... is no. That's grand. That's grand. Keep on sayin' that. Keep on sayin' that. Keep on sayin' that. "The ruins of old Ireland, how wondrously they stand "by the lakes and rushing rivers on the hilltops of our land." "Around these walls of battle, the Viking and the Dane, the Norman and the Saxon and the Cavaliers of Spain." Ah, it makes a man feel like the lord of the castle. I wonder now, is it the Danes or the Vikings swarming up the valley to storm the fort? -The Danes. -We'll both be put to the sword. But before we are, you would crave the favor of one last kiss. Mr. MacBride, I thought you could do better than that. Maybe I could. You don't care who you walk out with, do you? Get off this land, or I'll report you to his lordship. You do that. Get out of the way. Look who's talking. If you lay a finger on him, I'll never speak to you again! Katie... when I need your help against the likes of that, I'll ask for it. Pony Sugrue would have killed you. -Would you care? -Not in the slightest. You have no interest in me at all? You're certain sure? Kiss her. Kiss her. Go on, kiss her. Aah! And him a Dublin man! Look, look, look. Will you wish your wish now? -I will indeed. -Good. The bell. Listen to the music of it. Father Murphy gave it to me. But the wish, Darby. Ah, it would charm the fishes from the deep and the little birds down from the trees. You said you'd wish your wish. What? On Sunday, with my music floatin' over the countryside and Father Murphy himself pullin' the rope? Tomorrow is Monday. Will you wish your wish then? I will. Hush now. Listen to my music. Whoa, there. Hello, Joe. Morning, Mrs. O'Toole. There's the post. Did the tea come down from Dublin? The pails, too. Where's everybody going? To the pub. Darby is making his third wish. His third wish? The old fool. Old fool indeed. It's makin' too free with them, Darby is. When you sup with the devil, you need a long spoon. From America. Nora Cassidy's son. -Ah, there'll be money in that. -The pails, Mrs. O'Toole. -Right you are, Pony. -"Michael MacBride, Rathcullen." That's from the Lord Fitzpatrick. I'd know his fist anywhere. Look at the elegant swirls and all. So that's why his lordship left him behind. And now 'tis "Michael" this and "Michael" that. The Dublin jackeen. "And, Michael, go and open up the manor house -and get Katie in to help." -The dirty usurper! -Poor old Darby. -Poor Katie. I wonder, does she know? Maybe you should drop it by and leave her see it for herself. Oh. You think I should, now? No Christian bein' would do any less. Then I will so. Look, Pony, his lordship wrote it to young Michael MacBride, and nary a word to Darby, now I ask you. Ha! And you said you had an understanding with his lordship about me, and all this time, MacBride has the job. He won't keep the job if I have a son who's man enough to run him out of town. Well, Pony? What are you doing? I'm packing, and if you don't know why, you can read the card. Why didn't you tell me? Your father made me promise that I wouldn't. -When are you throwin' us out? -Oh, now, Katie. -When? -Well, today was supposed to have... -You give short notice. -I don't want you to leave at all. Why not? What does it matter to you if you break an old man's heart? You're a strong young man. You can find work anywhere, but, no, you must come here and take me father's place. No wonder he's chasin' the fairy gold, and him half out of his mind, tryin' to keep some little bit of self-respect in the town. Here, you can clean the manor house yourself. It'll be all we can do to move our belongin's out of your house this night. Now, you listen to me. I don't want your father's job at all, not unless I can have the both of you along with it. I want you to stay here and be my wife. I love you, Katie, and I think that you love me. I? Love you? -Everybody ready? -Yes, we're all ready, Darby. Run and get a turf creel, a big one. -What for? -For to hold the gold. -I'll not wish for the gold. -Why not? Nine times out of ten, it leads to unhappiness. Wish for happiness, then. Human beings need bitter with the sweet. When I was a young lad, knee high with a sod of turf, me grandfather Podge... God be good to him... ...he told me there was only one man in the town who was happy altogether... the village idiot. Were you addressing me, Your Majesty? What's all the speechmaking about? Are you standin' for Parliament or what? -Will I get you a drink, sir? -You could make a wish. -Get on with it. -I'll do that. You know what I'd wish for, Darby? I'd wish for a grand, big house on top of a hill, as big as the castle at Cong. -How would you look after it? -I'd have the servants, too. You didn't wish for the servants, You didn't wish for the money to run the house. There you'd be with a big house in your hands, as big as a church, and you the poorest church mouse in it. Did you hear that? Oh, he's got a head on his shoulders like Aristotle. -Think of the best... -Father! Then ask yourself, "What else might I lose if I had it?" Father, you've got to come and catch the horse. Not now, Katie. His lordship is comin'. We've got to move today! Move out of the way, Katie. I'm makin' me third wish. Not here, Father! Wait, Your Highness! Wait, Your Highness. Wait! Wait, Your Highness. Wait! Catch him, Darby! Catch the coinin! Darby, catch the coinin! Make him give you the crocks of gold! The crocks of gold! -Get out of my way. -Leave that horse alone. Do you think I'd stay under your roof another night? -I'll go to the inn. -You can go to blazes. I'm movin' to the McCarthy house. With night coming down on that mountainside, you could get yourself killed. Now, give me that halter. I'll get the horse. Ah, well, you look grand. Now, don't move a finger until his lordship comes. Katie! Katie! Katie! Katie! Katie! Katie! Is it drunk you are? -Who did it, lad? -I don't know, but I can guess. -Where's Katie? -She's gone after the horse. Did you let her go alone in the dark of the night? She was in a tearin' rage at me, and sure it was your fault for not telling her the truth in the first place. God forgive me. She'll be chasin' a puca. Oh, for goodness sakes. -The banshee! -Maybe it's just the wind. It's the wail of the banshee, the same as I heard the night that Katie's mother was taken. She'll be destroyed entirely! Katie! Katie! Katie! Katie! Katie! Katie! Katie! Katie! Katie. Katie! Katie! Katie! The banshee! Keep away! Keep away! Keep away from her! Keep off! Keep off, now! Keep off, now! Oh, me poor darlin'. Your daddy didn't mean to do you any harm. -Speak to me. Speak to me. -Darby. What have I done to you? We'd better get her home. Brian! King Brian! King Brian! King Brian! What is it, man? -Your Highness! -What is it? It's the ciste-bodhar, the death coach. Send it away! It's comin' for Katie. Send it away. But it's not within my powers, man. Once it sets out, it can never return empty. Then give me me third wish and let it take me instead. You don't know what you're askin' for. You promised! Don't break your word. Darby O'Gill, never in me born days... Give me me third wish. More's the pity. Granted. Darby O'Gill. Get in. Darby. Darby. I was on me way back home, and I says to meself, "Brian," says I, "'tis at his side you should be." Well, then, the truth of it is, I'm real glad to see you. Ah, Darby, me boy, -we've had great sport together. -Aye, we did. You've been a grand adversary. 'Tis sorry I am to see you come to this. I can endure anything if Katie was all right. Ah, you needn't fret about Katie. Her fever broke the minute you set foot in this coach. I'll be forever grateful to you. In the years to come, maybe you'd keep an eye on Katie and Michael. I'll do that. 'Tis a pity you won't be there to see them married. Ah, it's better for the old to die than the young. In the end, we all have to go. That you do. I wish I could go with you all the way. I wish you could, too. And you a knowledgeable man! Darby, you've wished your fourth wish. Goodbye, Darby, me friend. It's a miracle. She's fine and sonsy, like a baby woken from sleep. Michael, what a temper I have. Well... I like a lively girl. I suppose I'm the only man alive today to have rode in the ciste-bodhar and come back to tell it. Ciste-bodhar. 'Twas his lordship's carriage you saw. His coachman told me they found you rootin' in the mud of the road, so far gone in grief you were out of your mind entirely. Pony, I heard you were goin' to live in Cahersiveen. I am. Then why don't you be on your way and leave us alone? Don't worry. I will. I've heard enough silly blather about little people to last me a lifetime. What kind of man are you at all that doesn't believe in the little people? -Maybe you'd like to find out. -Indeed I would. You know, somebody beat me over the head that night, and I thought it was the little people, but when I spoke to King Brian about it, he said that you should take the consequences. What consequences? Indeed, that's what I asked his majesty, and you know what he said? He said, "If I were you, I'd clout the blackguard in the face." Oh! Ooh! Oh, gosh. Ooh! Come on. Pony, me darlin'. Oh, you poor thing. Hold your whisht. I'll have no more from you. -Well, that didn't take long. -Now I can get back to work. I even feel like workin' meself. I do indeed. Aye. How do you feel about bringin' in the rest of the turf? Well, lad, you took the words right out of me mouth. Come around, Cleopatra. Come on, now. # Oh. She is my dear my darlin' one # Her eyes so sparklin' full of fun # No other. No other can match the likes of her # Oh. He is my dear my darling one # His eyes so sparkling full of fun # No other, no other # Can match the likes of him # She is my dear. My darlin' one # My smilin' and beguilin' one # I love the ground she walks upon # My darlin' Irish... -# Girl # -# Boy #
