 

                        That was Lawernce Berg in North Carolina. And Mark you are next on the EIB Network, hello Rush... ... it is an honour to speak with you. -- Thank you, sir. I just find it ironic that, when we, uh, When we have street demonstrations. in favour of Amnesty, we've tried people for sending up the Mexican flag. There is nothing that could have been done to make this situation better. Other then to turn back time, so that it wouldn't happen at all. In this moment, there were two choices for me to give up or start a completely new life from the beginning. I chose the latter. And made this the day of my rebirth. From a sober standpoint, if someone were to ask me if I am an alcoholic. Then I would have to answer yes. When I look back at my life today... You could say that everything was just like in a story-book. Well, almost everything. My parents, Sabina and Bernad Stein. immigrated 15 years ago from Germany to America And settled in my California My father started a fast food restaurant. as if there weren't enough in America. But it did very well. Before long he was earning lots of money The only problem was. That I got pregnant. At the tender age of 14. That's Elisabeth, my first born. -- Wheres my orange juice. -- In the frigde where it always is. Well, I am late. You could at least have put it on the table. The early riser is never late, you have heard this before. Put it to practice. - Thats bullshit. - Don't talk to me like that. I'm not one of your girlfriends. Understood. -- What about Jeremy. -- He's still asleep. I thought I asked you to wake him up on time. you know that your Dad is... Coming after school to pick you guys up. -- It's boring. Listen, Elisabeth. We will get through all of this together. Soon, we will get a verdict. I want to be sure everything is going as planned. After that neither of you will have to go to your Father's. Yeah, but. No but's. -- At the age of 13 children are always a bit difficult. I've grown to ignore the crabby comments and bad attitude. At the request of my parents I married Elisabeth's father, Tim. Come on, sleepy head. Time to get dressed and brush your teeth. Besides my motherly duties. I continued with my profession as a lawyer. Tim managed a few of my Father's restaurants. And later after his death. He assumed complete responsibility for the franchise. Unfortunately, without success. I still do not know exactly when it started. But, eventually we grew apart. And then our fights and divorce. Where are the damned burgers. The guests are getting impatient, get moving. Sorry boss. But as you can see, I am the only one here today I don't give a flying fuck, if you are the only one here. Or only have one arm. I want the burgers in a minute. Or you can get packing. Get the fuck out of here. You are more trouble then your worth. Tim was nasty as it started and took every opportunity he could to make my life difficult. The irony is that I am a divorce attorney. And I'll be sure to leave him with nothing. Hi, hello, sorry that I am late. Sunday evening at 5, if you are not on time I'll call the police. -- Okay, I'll, be on time. -- And Timothy, have a good time its one of the last. I am sure that Tim knew I have a lover. After I told Tim I had filed for divorce. He flipped out a bit. He wanted to have full custody of the children. So he and his lawyer tried to Paint me as an alcoholic. Whose unable to take care of the children. It wasn't my objective, but I decided to use all my legal savvy, very quickly And I threw everything I had at him. Tim spent his last cent for his lawyer. And it didn't get him anywhere. He went from running a franchise to employee of the month. It was clear that we had a hearing ahead of us. And that he would lose. This meant that he wouldn't see the children unless I allowed it. After fighting with all my spirit. And taking everything from my ex. Suddenly, I felt sorry for him. I had no idea how bad it would get. Bonny. Bonny. Bonny. Bonny. Bonny where are you. Bonny leave the cats alone. I've just been threatened with murder. It is a letter with the word DARD written in blood. Of course it's a death threat. Well, whoever wrote it. Got into my house somehow. No, no one I know would play a sick prank like that. My dog also disappeared awhile ago. I heard her yelp outside. Thank you very much. I appreciate your efforts. Miss Stein who, or what should we be looking for? Do you know anyone who would want to kill your dog? I've searched all over, no dog, no traces of blood... and no sign of foulplay. Got to be honest with you. There's not much we can do for you right now. And there are some hunters in the area. And if they haven't seen any game. -- They might blame it on the dog. -- I understand, I thought that, too. But what does DARD mean. I'll take it to the lab and have it analysised. And if there is something. We'll certainly know by tomorrow evening. -- Hi Tim. How are the children. -- Good, we went to the fair then swimming in the ocean. Hey that sounds nice, I'm going shopping now. And I would happy if we could all meet... ...in Chinatown this afternoon. If you don't mind. I would like to invite you over for dinner. And lets just have a nice evening like we used to. What do you think? That would make me happy. And I think it would be good for the kids. OK, then I'll meet you at 6. Alright, I'm looking forward to it. -- Jake, sorry I'm late. -- How's my favorite landshark? -- Funny. -- Bad day. I'm really worried. Something isn't right. Are we going to eat or what? I'm afraid today its or what. I just got a call... Dan needs me back at the office. Nathalie, a judge is going to award you complete control of your children. Tim's broke, has a minimum wage job, legal bills a mile high. And a crappy studio apartment on the bad side of town. And he's had a couple run ins with the law. After Thursday's decision. He won't be able to see you or your children for quite awhile. Trust me I'm a lawyer. Why are you so worried. I can feel something bad. When he picked up the children. -- His manner ... -- For Tim to do something stupid. Would rule out any chance of getting visitation in the future. He's not stupid. Just lazy, tired and beaten. -- That's why he failed. -- I'm not so sure. Nallie, I got to go. But I'll take you up on this lunch, as soon as I finished milkshake case. Excuse me. -- Yes. -- This is Detective Carry. We found out what DARD means. It is a curse that translated means pain. The number you are calling is temporarily ... The number you are calling is temporarily ... I, I screwed up. -- Screwed up, what? How? -- They have the children. -- I am so sorry. -- What, what the hell do you mean. That is where the dog is buried ... Where is Jeremy, where is Elisabeth? My husband has been murdered. Yes, yes. Mads Drive 50. Yes. Mrs. Stein Forensics Group have checked this terrance for hours. And we found nothing. It's becoming a bit difficult to lend any believe to your story. -- You mean you don't believe me. -- I'm not saying that. I think you need to understand my perspective. This terrace is so clean that we'll never find anything. No prints, no DNA, nothing. What we have found however, are traces of cleaning fluid and plenty of it. That was then, Tim said that they were after him They removed all the evidence. Okay, if I may play the Skeptic. What you are trying to tell me is that from the time you called us, until the time we came here. A special forces cleaning crew marched in and removed all traces of the crime. Now you don't believe that. Do you? There's no body, no traces of blood, no DNA, theres nothing. -- You are a lawyer, right? -- Yes. Now I think you need to think about your testimony, or your statement whatever it is you want to call it. It's just not very believable. Okay, I think we are done here. Miss Stein. -- Yes. -- Hi this is detective Carry. -- Do you have my children. -- No, not a trace. -- Do you know anyone from Persia. -- No, no one. Think about it, maybe a client. Or someone you sent to prison. -- Whose been recently released. -- I was never involved in criminal cases. I only deal in domestic and civil suits. -- Okay, but what about your husband. -- We have been separated for almost 2 years I have no idea what circuit, he moved in. -- I just want my kids back. -- I know. Look, I am sorry I can't do anything for you. Okay. Now the only person who could possibly help us with this case -- It's your husband. -- How often do I have to say this. He is dead. why can't you get that through your head. Look, OK. As soon as we find something out we'll let you know. Alright, meanwhile, I'll send an officer. He should be there soon. -- What for? -- Well you received a very threatening letter. Now if someone really has taken your children. Other than your husband. -- Well they'll likely try to contact you. -- Okay. Alright, bye. I wouldn't do you any harm. Believe me. No one will harm you. -- My name is detective Warren. -- Yes, I know. Please come in. -- So wheres your telephone. -- Here in the office. Okay, thank you. What I'm going to do is to tap your telephone. Put a trace on it. -- So if anybody calls, we got him. -- Okay. -- Would you like a cup of coffee. -- Yes, thank you. -- With milk and sugar. -- Yes, please. -- Oh my god you just scared me to death. -- I'm sorry I did not mean to frighten you. -- Are you already done with the phone. -- Yes. Miss Stein. -- I think I have some bad news for you. -- Oh my god, what happened. -- I think its better if you sit down. -- Somethings happened to my children. No, but we found out that your husband Tim was involved with some strange characters. He working as a cook in the diner. I don't have to tell you that what he earned was not enough to live on. Let alone pay for a lawyer. The next time you're late don't bother coming at all. And you can get your things out of the dumpster. Now mop up the floor and get the fuck out of here. Loser. Yeah, we'll do the deal at eight o'clock in the morning. What, of course, I got the damn stuff what are you talking about. Don't worry about a thing. My boys are experienced. Hey, Tim. Stop by tomorrow and get your last paycheck. But don't come before 10, jerk. -- How could you possibly know all that. -- Your husband Tim, left the mess in the kitchen. One of the cooks had 5 slugs in him. Unfortunate for him, he didn't hit any vital organs. He's still alive. And he became conscience today, and gave me his statement. Where are my children? Do you know, it beats me. I think your husband fled with them. We've been checking the Mexican borders, but you know its a big border, so its going to take some time. A million dollars in hard cash, go's a long way in Mexico. -- What are you talking about, my husband is dead. -- What do you mean. He died yesterday, here on my varanda. In my arms. Then the body disappeared as I was upstairs and calling the police. Why don't you know anything about it if you are involved in the case. That would be the fault of my colleagues. I was reassigned to the case last night. So I am not caught up on all the details. I'm just a small fish. I'm not that important. You know if I do this case well, I'll even get promoted. Now, is there anything at all, I mean anything that you can tell me to help me solve this case. I would really appreciate it. That's strange. Your boss didn't even believe me last night that Tim died. No body, no blood, no murder. My boss is very precise in his cases. -- He likes to play by the book. -- What was his name? I am so bad with remembering names. His name is Gates. Detective James Gates. Oh yeah right. Something like that I think. Well, Mr. Warren. You see, I can't even remember your name after such a short time. You've been through a lot in the last few days. I understand how you can forget things I would like to be alone now, for a while. I am very tired, and I don't think someone will call this late. Before I go can I ask you a question. -- Do you have a cell phone. -- No, it is broken. -- Anyway, I would like some time ... -- Miss Stein, I think you should go lay down. I've been given strict orders to keep an eye on you. It came from the top. I wouldn't want anything to happen to you. -- You know, I could lose my job. -- Well, Mr. Warren. Or whoever you are, you are not a cop. And I remember names very well. And there's no detective James Gates, his name was Carry. And it is my decision if I want the police protection or not. So please leave now. You don't decide anything here. I'm the one who makes decisions. Do you understand me. You do not want to piss me off. You got that. Go to hell. You dumb cunt you want to play rough? I swear to god, I told you not to piss me off. You like that. That stuff about your husband dieing on your terrace. Don't beleive a fucking word of it. Now I know he was here. And I know that he hid my stuff here somewhere. Listen now girl. Tell me where my shit is. I don't like to repeat myself. You know I don't think you want me to hurt you. No, you don't want that. It's very easy. You tell me where your husband Tim hid my money and my coke. And you get with just a busted fucking nose. My husband said nothing. The only thing he said was that you have the children. -- So where in hell are they. -- You do not want to piss me off. I don't think you're in any kind of position to be asking questions around here. OK. Kiss my ass, you piece of shit. You want it you're way, huh. Now you tell me what I want. Happy now, see. I take one. Tell me what the fuck I want to know. I'm going to slice you to pieces. Where are my children? I know he has my stuff. And that dumb bastard left your rugrats in the car. Should I tell you what I did with your little boy. Okay, Tim you dumbass. You left a sloppy mess in the kitchen. One of the guys is still breathing. It didn't give me much time to get the information... I wanted before the police came. And I'll tell you what. I got your personal files from your boss's accounts So I know where your wife is. And I know that you know that, I have your kids here. Now, you want to give me my money and my cokes. Or I'm going to torture these bastards slowly until you do. You think I am bullshiting. You think I am bullshiting, huh. It was your kid. And you're next. -- You dirty bastard, I'm going to kill you. -- Kill me, huh. I don't think so. Actually, I don't give a shit about your kids. I'll tell you the truth. I didn't like them at all. Your daughter though. She's still alive. She's a sweet thing, sweet. But she's scared. Because she's got to stay there alone with her dead brother. I do not know where your damn money is. Just leave me alone. Leave you alone. Maybe I should let you go, huh? You know thats a good idea. Just let you go, huh. That's what I'll do. Give me that hand. You know what I'm going to do. I'm going to your cut fingers off, one by one. Fuck. Theres no need to be afraid of me. I'm not really one of the good guys but. -- I'm on your side. Can you walk? -- I don't know. I'm not going to harm you. That sadistic bastard. We have to bandage your wounds. And then get rid of this body. What the hell is all this. I havn't done anything to these people. I do not know what my husband did, and nothing about money. -- I just want my babies back. -- I know. -- My name is Daniel. -- I'm Nathalie. Nathalie, what a lovely name. I'll get my bag and then tend to your wounds. I'm a doctor. That should take care of your major physical wounds. You should rest for a while. This should take care of the pain somewhat. And they're from your medicine chest. Aricedimal 500mg, two should be enough. -- I'll get rid of that body. -- Why don't we just call the police. And just what do you want to tell them. You've got a mutilated body in your house. Besides, Phil this gorilla is one of nastiest pimps in California. When word gets out that you wasted him here, in your house. His boys will be out for revenge. And believe me, you don't want to know what they'll do to you. -- What did Tim do. -- Actually, nothing Well, nothing he couldn't avoid. Tim worked for Moha. That's what everyone called him. Moha is a fair but strict businessman. He gave Tim a job even though he didn't need him. I also worked for Moha. But you can Believe me he had his hands in everything. He dealt with this gorilla Phil, the Irish mafia and so on. Certain things that weren't quite kosher. Moha came to Tim 4 days ago. -- Where are the others. -- They left a half hour ago. I've told them about a 1000 times not to always leave you the dirty work. It's okay, I don't mind. -- Listen, this is no job for you. -- Boss, I need this job. You know that I'm going through a divorce and that I'm seperated. I need every penny I earn. These damn legal fees are taking up everything. If my wife wins and I can't see the children. I'm ruined. I know thats why I'm telling you this jobs no good for you I know something better. A friend of mine has a club and he's looking for a manager. Its a place for the wealthy. And I know you have what it takes. You'll be making three times what you are earn here... If you like you can start tomorrow night. - So how does that sound - Are you serious. I'll call him up right now and tell him. - Thats great. - And stop by tomrorow to get your last pay check. Sounds good. Ok I'm going in for a minute to get my pay check. Then we'll go get ice cream. Elisabeth what was that you were begging me for - Oh yeah, cabana jeans. - I want rollerbaldes. We'll go shopping after I get my check, OK. Sounds, good. --Get in the car. --OK. -- What the hell is going on Walter -- Shut up Tim just drive. Or I'll waste you all. So where? I'll tell you as soon as I know. Oh, shit. How do you know what happened. That bastard told me a completly differnt story. Phil is a goddamn liar and a psychopath. I got a call from a man who said he was Mr.Stein. He confirmed what Walter said with his dieing breath. I guess Walter couldn't say anymore as he was overwhelmed by the pain Any way I could hear the children in the background. Then they're still alive. I assume so. I don't think Walter could do them any harm in his condition. Tell me what to do damn it. His guts are spilled all over the back seat. Actually that wasn't one of Walter's better moments. Question is, How did Elvis leave the building? Or your husband wanted nothing to do with it and just left with your kids. Or theres a third party involved thats unknown . All we found was his car burnt out with a corpse in it. Actually you would come into question as well. Since this is about one million dollars of my money. I would assume you want nothing to do with the drugs. I would suggest you help me in this situation. An we'll find the whereabouts of your children. And I'd be prepared to give you half of the money. Why should you do that? Well, normally I would have paid a millon for the coke. If I get it for half, its a good deal. - Do you know what the problem is with these stories. - No what? Nothing I've been told is true. - And why is that. - The fact that my husband was here is true. But he didn't have a suitcase. Let alone two of them His right hand was badly wounded. And he held it tight ot his chest. - He died in my arms. - Then were is the body? It disappeared. I no that sounds stupid and unbelievable. But its the truth. You should take a nap now. And I'll clean this mess up. Sleep well my princess. Momma, Momma Please help me.. Momma, Momma Jeremy! Momma, Momma Where are you? What have you done? I can't feel my arms and legs. Well I put a tranquilizer in your water. Its amazing how long you remained conscious. As to your arms and legs I've injected them with a local anesthesia. You should remain still for quite some time. You see I'm not as foolish as Phil. I won't allow you to tap your motherly instincts and regain your fighting spirit. You see if I'm going to torture someone I like to work in peace. Usually they scream and pass out from the pain. I find it more efficent to work with a anesthesia. If you don't cooperate or scream I'll have to gag you. Would you like to know what I'm going to do first? I'm going to amputate all your extremities. Then I'll remove those beautiful eyes. And if your still silent. I will silence you. I'll cut out your tongue. Then seperate your vocal chords. Then I'll bandage all your wounds. And drop you off at a center for the disabled. Right, you know the question. - I'll tell you everything, OK. - That would please me. You have to believe me, I don't know more then I'm telling you. It started on Friday. Tim came to pick up the children. We are in the process of divorce and I don't want Tim seeing the children anymore. Yes, yes, I know all this please continue. That evening there must have been someone in the yard. There was my dog, Bonny. She barked and ran outside. I was in the kitchen. Normally she doesn't bark. Anyway, shortly thereafter, I heard something... Bonny was gone. I kept calling her but she didn't come. I was scared and ran upstairs to call the police. When I got to the top of the stairs... there was a letter with the word DARD written in blood. The police came but didn't find any clues other then a piece of paper. They found out that DARD is Persian and it means pain. In your case it looks like that fits. I was worried about the children so I called Tim. We were going to met later in Chinatown. But they didn't show up. Later on he appeared covered in blood and died. Just before he died he said he had screwed up. And that they had the children... and something like the dog's buried there. You see Nathalie I have a problem with all this. Walter died a terrible death. They found his body this morning in a quarry. Your husband supposdly died. Theres no body and your... ... the only one that saw him You mean to tell me that your children have the money, the coke and your husbands car? You don't believe that yourself, do you? I'm very disappointed in you Natalie. I made you a great offer. Lots of money. Your life and the lives of your children. I met your lover. Yes. First I thought he may have my money. He did have some cocaine and 5000 dollars. But that was it. Do you remember looking into his beautiful eyes. Are you scared sweetie? But it fits just fine. -- Peak-a-boo. -- What do you want? Do you like me like this? Wheres my money? Wheres my money? I want it! Wheres my money? Wheres my money? Heres a little coke for your pain. We'll have to do this again sometime. Well, Natalie you had your chance. Please, please don't do this. This is your first chance Natalie. You won't feel a thing. --Hello. --You really made it far lady. --Thanks who are you and what do you want? --Oh, I think you know that. Why don't you tell you just tell me. I have nothing planned for the next few days. You have become a bit cynical now haven't you. Its because I can't take it anymore. Why don't you just come in and shot me. It'll save time from this silly conversation that leads to no where. --Come on in the doors open. --Oh please, don't be so dismal. I have a little present for you. Maybe you'd like to see. --Then come to the kitchen window. --I don't believe in presents. Presents are a disapointment You always want something beautiful and come away with crap. I have two presents from your husband and I think you would apperciate seeing these. Ones named Elisabeth. I'll make you a very sensible suggestion. You know what I want and you know what I want. As a sign of good faith I'll send in your daughter. --Right. --If everything goes as planned you'll have your little boy as well. Oh god mom, what did they do to you? I'm Ok. Good, first I want you both to stand in front of the window. -- OK. Look at your daughters forehead. I'm an excellent shot. One false move and your daughter is dead. And if for some reason I miss then your son will be dead. Don't move an inch. If one of you moves then one of you dies. You shall not speak to each other. If one of you do this without my approval someone dies. - Understand.. - I understand.. -- I want the money and the cocaine. -- I know your not the first one. I also know you said your husbands died which no one believes. I know no one believes me, but Tim is dead I saw him die. He gave me some clues. just before he died. and I'm sure that I'm close to solving it. I just need some time. Well, you better make it quick, cause my time is precious and I'm growing impatient. The lives of my children are 100 hundred thousand times more precious. then either your coke or your money. I'll do everything I can to give you your coke and money. So I can have my children back. -- I have to speak to my son. -- Well thats not going to happen. Believe me may know something that will help me to find your shit. I'm warning you Miss Stein, if theres anything fishy thats the end of your kids. Please you must believe me, please. -- Hi sweety how are you? -- I'm OK. Honey how does that song go that your Dad use to sing at bedtime. I don't want to sing it now. -- Oh please baby for me...its very important. OK. deep in the cornfield, beneath the dark stars... I can't remember now... Thats fine honey, give the phone back to the man now. -- Well. -- I'm very close. Can I speak to my daughter. If I may play the skeptic, I've had just about enough. Do you really think that they know where it is? Now if I may play the skeptic... Baby! Get up... Get up please, we have to get out of here. Get up please Baby, get up. Get up, Baby! Get up... Is it not enough you've lost your daughter already? You want to lose your son as well. This house ain't very big, and its only a matter of time before I find you, and I will find you. Now stop playing fucking games and give me whats rightfully mine. Tim your dead... Come on lets show her the answer to the riddle. Riddle? You were always one to figure out riddles. Its about time I solved one. -- Dad said nasty men poisoned Bonny. -- Bonny? I think it time you went back to the car Jeremy. -- I don't understand whats wrong with Mommy. -- Don't you want to get a new dog? You see, Mom's not doing so well right now. And I have to take care of her. OK. Piece of shit. -- Don't get sentimental. -- Why did we have to go through all of this? I'm sorry but I didn't want that. The situation continued to escalate. And under the circumstances I had to wait until they took care of each other. I really didn't think you'd last this long. But you know what they say, He who laughs last laughs best. They were going to kill me. Could you at least tell me how it all came to this. Since we seperated, I mean, you know yourself. I wasn't doing so well. One day when you decided I couldn't see the children, you called the police. Coincidently a certain Detective Carry was talking to me on the phone. This is Detective Carry... He's the head of his department and one of the most corrupt cops you could imagine. It seems we had some of the same problems. And he's a full blooded woman hater. Carry did lots of business with organized crime. Drug dealers and pimps. I got a crap job at Moha's, but, it was a job. One night after work I went for a drink with Carry. Actually at this point I was just an informant, and would give Carry info... on what I heard at Moha's. It was hard to hide it if something big was going on. For Moha I was just another whipping boy. Carry got payed off by everyone. And in return he'd let them know if there was going to be a bust. But for Carry that wasn't enough. I told him about the million dollar deal that was going down at Moha's. Carry knew I had nothing to lose. So this time he sent me to do the dirty work. And he never liked to get his hands dirty. I hated Moha. Whenever he didn't like something he'd shout in Persian, Dard, or Mard or something... Thats where I first heard this word. And I knew their daily routine only to well. The first one there in the morning made coffee. And of course this time it was me. Its amazing what a little E6O5 can do to the human body. Are you cold? I left the children with Carry, that of course being the insurance that would make me come back. Well, he was way off. After I showed up at your place with my injuries. You can get these at film supply shops. Anyway, after you called the police, it was clear to Carry that I'd taken off with all the loot. So naturally he told his cronies, that I had been to see you and you had hiden the stuff for me. Carry waited till the end. He never thought I'd wait longer. Thats were the dogs buried. Theres the answer to your riddle. Sorry that I had to kill your dear Bonny. - How can someone be so despicable? - Actually I learned it from you. I saw first hand how to ruin and destroy someone. I always hated that song. I buried my dog in a place free from all these bad memories. Where we can go and find peace. I spent more then six months in the hospital. Dentists, Plastic surgeons, one operation after another. They tried to repair my face. I think they did a good job. My nose isn't croaked anymore. I gave the police the cocaine. But no one ever found the money. I think today is one of the most important of my life. And no one would know why. I'm buying for me and my children, a new dog.
