 

                        Revisions by Giacomo Persi Paoli and Marianna Moralis --- arrangement & sub converted(.sub) #Zairexx --- For many centuries after the defeat of the Empire. the galaxy remained in balance. Then, everything changed. Sorran, the most powerful Jedi Master of the Order, discovered some ancient inscriptions in a forgotten land. The prophecy told of a temple created on the planet Eron. Anyone who got close to it would acquire a great power and many wars were fought over its control. According to the inscriptions, one day a Chosen One would find the Temple and open its Seal, thus becoming 'The Living Force'. Sorran had a vision of the future, which convinced him he was the Chosen One and began a quest for that legendary place. During these obsessive explorations. many apprentices died for his misdeeds. It was a mistake to let him keep his light saber. you know what hes capable of. He wouldn't be so insane. He wouldn't dare challenge the entire Council! What if we are underestimating him? What if he were to oppose the sentence? Then we wont have any other choice! The Council have deliberated! The quest for the temple of Eron has to cease immediately! And you, Sorran, will lose forever the rank of Master! Knowledge is our highest aim! How come you cannot understand that? And how many others must die for your thirst of knowledge? It is a necessary sacrifice, my brother. You are not the Chosen One, Sorran! The future of the Council is at stake Aron, we have to stop him before it's too late! We may not have another chance. There are many of us, we must perform the Separation immediately. We never wanted it to come to this, but you leave us no other choice! For the crimes you have committed, you will be forever banned from the Order. and deprived of your powers with the ritual of Separation. Do not try to resist, Sorran! Even you know that it is necessary. Don't you dare get closer! We told you that they would never accept the truth. And now there is no other way to prevent the others from understanding. You did a very good job on this Hope; it's an excellent weapon! Thank you Master. You are almost ready for the trials. How did you feel while you were building it? I was anxious to finish it. and to see its blade. see its blade. And how did you feel when you finished it? I was happy, Master. Happy and nothing more? We'll see: get up Hope! Close your eyes. and concentrate. Now you must feel it. Catch it, Hope! Catch it! (Inner voice) The light saber...catch the light saber. (Inner voice) I don't feel it. Now do you feel it? Yes Master. Why? It's my light saber! The heart of the blade vibrates as my body does in the Force. And what is the heart of the blade? The crystal is the heart of the blade. The crystal vibrates even when the light saber is off. Its power was there even before you built your light saber! You have to feel its heart; its origin is in the force. Can you understand now? I think so, Master. Let's go. Announce their arrival. It's a pleasure to have you here, Masters. I hope the journey was comfortable. This ship stopped being comfortable long ago. Master Organa asked me to take you to her - in private. It has been a long time since you were here on Akiah, has it not? Yes, a long time indeed. What you needed to understand while building your light saber, is its true nature. The Jedi is the light saber and the light saber is the Jedi. When you feel your weapon as you feel your arm, then you will be ready. Control Your life depends on your skills with the light saber, and so does mine! Stronger! Remember what I taught you, Organa Remember...the nature of the Force. It permeates everything from the tiniest particle to the largest of the Suns Its essence is divided into equal parts: into dark, and into light. Past and future coexist within it. Only by going through what has been will you be able to understand what shall be. More than one future exists, but in all those we saw we didn't exist. Keys, the origin of all this, where the Order chose to survive. How many have sacrificed themselves to stop him and did so in vain? All our premonitions converge towards only one future. Sorran has discovered how to deceive death. He will open the seal of Eron - it's inevitable. And all of us will be annihilated. We must face a different truth from ours. Let the will of the Force be. No, Organa! We can't! Eron is an abomination! It was erected by living beings, remember that! So there is no other way and if the future is already written, we have no hope. Perhaps we have. What has become of our principles? We created hope. going against everything we believed in. You took your time! It was difficult. (On-board Computer) Warning! Core implosion in 140 seconds. (On-board Computer) Warning! Core implosion in 80 seconds. Theres something wrong. The code has changed. It's him! This won't stop him for long. They must have reset the codes, Nemer! He's getting in! (On-board Computer) Warning! Core implosion in... (On-board Computer) nine (On-board Computer) eight (On-board Computer) seven (On-board Computer) six (On-board Computer) five (On-board Computer) four (Door Security Device) "Access granted" It's open! She's very beautiful. She's also very dangerous. The vision has returned. The time has come. Eron, the centre of everything and he has almost reached it. Youve found it! Now we must send them there. What if it was...too soon? She still seems so weak. You know very well that's not true. Don't be so pleased about this victory. You have drawn strength from anger and that is a serious mistake. We must go now. Finally, after all this time, Ive found it. Let me go, Master It's not your time yet; this is my duty. Go to the ship and prepare it - Ill be there soon. As you wish, Admiral. One day you must explain to me why you are affiliated with such an animal. We are wasting precious time, Sorran. When the Seal opens, time will no longer matter. You will find an ancient construction emerging from the sea, that's all. Zui Mar, I know that youve always had every faith in my visions. But you must doubt me this time. Go! Wait! Hope, take care of your Master. He doesn't know, does he? We never told him. We feared it would compromise their bond. This was very wise; their bond will save us all. Sir, the Sith shuttle has just left the hangar. Is there anything else you want to tell me that I cannot see myself by looking out there, Commander? May I speak freely, Sir? Go ahead. Sir, I cannot understand your strategy. Our fleet is complete and we have never been so powerful, but instead of attacking were wasting our time following these fools. Do you know what the Battle Meditation is, Commander? No, Sir. Obviously not. Anyone who possesses this ability Can deeply affect the outcome of a conflict involving thousands of battleships. The Sith are only a weapon Commander, like those fighters out there, remember that. Sir, but how would we be able to control them? I have taken precautions, Commander! Order all fighters to return, we are moving! Sir, yes Sir! (Electronic device) Anomalous magnetic situation, impossible to continue. (Electronic device) Anomalous magnetic situation, impossible to con... I have a very bad feeling about this. You always say that. That's true. Admiral! Yes, Captain An urgent communication from the planet. Excellent! Alert Lord Drown and prepare his ship. Yes, Sir! A terrible battle was fought here. You cannot understand it, can you, what it is that can bring mankind to do such a thing. No Master, I understand it perfectly, because part of me is capable of it. I feel an echo Master, an echo in the Force. All these past years spent training, trying to control my emotions, to obliterate fear. You shouldnt fear the conflict you feel inside, you have to dominate it, get to know it without becoming its slave. One day your power will be too great to be altered by emotions. Remember your first lesson, Hope Fear...I am afraid! Ive always been afraid! Control doesn't work not for me. Maybe I'm not suited to being a Jedi. You are the most suitable of us all. Your uncertainties are the best possible deterrents. For as long as you have doubt, you will be in the right. For as long as you don't know who you really are, you will walk in the light. What if one day I found out who I really am and didn't like it at all? The path to the truth is very long. nly those who are close to death will know their true self. Its the will of the Force: once one understands one's true self, one stops existing as a unit. For that reason, Im in no haste to get there. Let's go now, we still have a long journey ahead of us. Who did you kill? My brother. Sir, a message from Lord Sorran He requests your presence on the planet. My ship? It's ready, Sir. There is no mechanism. Nothing. Or at least nothing visible. Shall we do it like on Goron? It seems you enjoy cutting all sorts of things. Here we go again. You lost your first weapon because of that misplaced bravado! This is not an emergency; we are neither suffocating nor are we about to be crushed, therefore there is no reason for melting down the door of an ancient building which might even be inhabited! Then what shall we do? Wait until someone opens the door for us? Let's say it's an emergency then, but this time, if a native complains I will say it was your fault. That's where the mechanism was. It's a recent construction I don't see any inscriptions anywhere. Organa was wrong. No Hope, you are in the wrong; we're not looking in the right direction. There are some symbols here this is not a platform. Master? Hope What did you see, Master? (Inner voice) Eron! This place is Eron! the prophecy! Eron (Inner voice) the prophecy of Eron! Eron, this place is Eron, I'm sure! Eron? That's impossible! You have to leave, Hope! Get out of here immediately! Go back to the ship and fly to Akiah, you must alert the Council! Master... Theres someone down here; someone who arrived before us whom you must never meet! That's out of the question; well confront him together. Curse it, Hope! The platform! Hope, you have to leave! Now! I don't want to, I can't leave you here! You don't understand Hope. If you stay here, both of us will die. I cannot let you die! You must alert the Council they need to know! What do they need to know? That this place is Eron! It's Eron! Go now, go back to the ship, go! I told you to go, now! That's an order! Go! Go! Now! Its over. Yes, its over. What have we done, Nemer? We should have found another way. What have we done? If only they hadn't imposed their will, we could have found another way. Weve stopped him. For now. You didn't find Eron, and without using the child, we will have no chance to stop him. Masters, the Order of Nirras command us to proceed with the original plan. They forced us to do it. It was the only way, Organa. Master, there's a ship here, looks like a Jedi transport. Destroy it! We are trying to contact you on this old frequency; they are blocking all our communications. Zail's fleet is immense! We need Organa as soon as possible; without her power our fleet is doomed. Weve sent a shuttle for you with an escort, you must reach Keys immediately or else there will be no oth... Hope For me its over. Master The others - you have to alert the others. The Separation is no longer active. The Force will now enter her. This moment is crucial. Everything could fail now. It would be the end of all hope. She's experiencing too many negative emotions, Nemer. This is Hope, Zui Mar. She will be your apprentice from today. She is not very powerful. She will be. Master Master, who is Sorran? Who told you that name? You will open the Seal of Eron. Take care of your Master. (Inner voice) I won't let you die ... I won't let you die... (Inner voice) I won't let you die ... I won't let you die... (Inner voice) I won't let you die! Commander! Sir! Yes, Sir! The moment has come, I want the fleet lined up and ready to attack. Yes Sir. This time we will wipe them all out. Open! Open! Open damn it! Open! Now! Now! You will learn the true nature of the Force. You will open the Seal of Eron. Hope He's getting in! He wants the child, you must stop him! (On-board Computer) Warning! (On-board Computer) Core implosion in (On-board Computer) Six (On-board Computer) Five (On-board Computer) Four He's getting in! (On-board Computer) Three (On-board Computer) Two (Door Security Device) Access granted...Sorran. Come on, let's go! Shes the One, isnt she? Yes she is. Is Sorran dead? Sorran cannot die. We can only hope for enough time. She's too powerful. Hope What have you done? Who am I?
