 

                        1 Football has given me everything. Now that my professional career is over, it's never been more important to me to give something back... so I've organised a major initiative for my charitable fund, ending in a game at Old Trafford. But before the match here in ten days, I want to be first person to play a game of football on every continent. On my travels, I hope to visit people in some of the most challenging environments. I want to see how the power of football can unite people around the world. (CHEERING) (DOORBELL RINGS) 'Joining me on the trip are two of my oldest friends, Simon and Dave.' - Morning. - Morning. Morning, morning. 'They work with me closely and I trust them completely. 'Well, most of the time anyway.' Is the chef working today? I can't believe you called Victoria "the chef." I'm actually looking forward to... each place and each game for different reasons. Obviously, the rainforest... I've never played in a rainforest before. Well, you don't have to worry about... More importantly, you don't have to worry about an egg for me. - You're not having egg? - No. - Why didn't you tell me that before I...? I got one slice of bacon so you might have to have an egg. No, you have no choice if I'm doing it. - You'll be eating bread. - Can you cut around the whites? I know you're looking forward to Buenos Aires. I'm excited about Buenos Aires. - You haven't been to Buenos Aires before then? - No. Are you slightly worried about going there in the sense of the reaction you'll get? Actually, up until right this minute, I hadn't even thought about that. Buenos Aires to the Antarctic, which is a bold move. A bit of a silly question here. What do you wear when you're playing football on ice? It'll have to be snow boots. - It's going to have to be snow boots. - Or skates. Can you skate? We are in the lap of the gods. If we can't get there, which nobody has been able to get there for the last few weeks, it ain't going to happen. We could always recreate it and go to London Zoo in the penguin bit and just walk past, kick a ball and walk out of London Zoo. No-one knows. Can you keep a secret? What next? Better get some sleep. I have just ten days to play a match on all seven continents. I'll be visiting places where people are being helped by various charities, including my own "7" fund. I will see how football is helping to transform lives. From Papa New Guinea to Nepal, Djibouti, Argentina, Antarctica, Miami and then finally back to Manchester. To achieve this, every single part of the trip needs to go like clockwork. Starting with an 18-hour flight to my first stop, Australasia. MUSIC: Movin' On Up by Primal Scream Papua New Guinea, I have heard such great things about the place and the people. Ready when you are. What if they boo? I shouldn't think they're going to boo. (CHEERING) I was blind Now I can see... - David, welcome to Papua New Guinea... - Thank you. I am the minister for sports and national events. - Thank you very much. - Thank you for having me. Thank you. I was blind Now I can see You made a believer Out of me I'm moving on up now... - Welcome to Papua New Guinea. - Thank you. Out of the darkness My light shines on My light shines on My light shines on... When we used to travel with Man United and Real Madrid, we always used to have amazing welcomes every time that we landed somewhere. So, obviously, since I've stopped playing, I don't tend to get too many welcomes like that, to be honest. PASSERS-BY: Hi! Hey, how are you? It's good to get it started, actually. The trip was kind of put together pretty quickly. Seven continents in a really short space of time is an ambitious one but I want to see places where we're raising the money for and that need a light shining on them. It's beautiful. I mean, the landscape is incredible. It's incredible. I'm looking forward to my first match tomorrow morning, but first, I'm visiting a farming village in the highlands. It's amazing to think that Papua New Guinea is such rich, fertile farmland. They can grow almost anything here, and yet they have a problem with child malnutrition. (CHEERING) - Welcome to Kumgna village... - Thank you. - ..Mr David Beckham. - Thank you. Gideon will be playing in tomorrow's game but first, he shows me around the village. Nearly half of the children under five in Papua New Guinea aren't getting the nutritious food they need to grow up healthy and strong. So, tell me, why is there so much malnutrition? Because the crops... You see, the crops are great. The vegetables that you have... Yes. - It's used for income? - Yes. No, of course. - Kids are playing football. - They are. In the rain. I'd like to go and see. - You want to see them? - Yeah. As a parent, it's very sad to see what goes on in communities like this one. Young children that are not being given the chance to live healthy, normal lives. Luckily, UNICEF and other charities here are helping educate local parents about the benefits of good nutrition. (CHEERING) (CHEERING) The challenge about this is, I have to be fit for the 14th of November so... I'm not worried about injuries but there's a few people on the trip that are worried about me getting injured, I think. Hello. How are you? Good? You might want to jump out of first gear. Do you want to drive? You sound like Victoria. It's more beautiful than I expected. I knew it was going to be amazing but, I mean, it's stunning. I don't know why I let go I want to be your friend. I'm on my way to pick up the team bus. What are you going to do if the game gets a bit competitive? Step off. I mean, I'll have to get involved. I can't not get involved. - I have to say, mate, they look a bit fit. - They do look fit. The lads I will be playing with are from intertribal teams, made up of policemen and farmers. With produce being the main source of income, there's been a history of tribal warfare over land. Football has gone some way in bringing communities together. Oh, I'm driving. I didn't know I was driving. (THEY SPEAK IN OWN LANGUAGE) (THEY SHOUT AND CHEER) (THEY SING) This is great. (THEY SING) - You are doing well. - Thank you. You drive like an experienced coach driver. (THEY LAUGH) The bridge? That ok? - Do you want to get out? - Jump off here and... (THEY CHANT) Ready for the match? (THEY SING) Looks like a German hat, this. At least the tea will be warm. This is not our look. This is exactly what my nan used to have. (THEY CHANT AND SING) Hello. - Are we actually going to play with a banana football? - Yeah. That's actually not bad. How's your touch with that? That's not bad, actually. - Bananas? - Bananas, yeah. When they dry down. How are you? Nice to meet you. Ok. As we're going to be playing with a traditional ball, the gaffer shows me how to make one. I don't think my ball skills are going down too well. - What do you think of the pitch, David? - Perfect. I'll have to stay on the right-hand side the first half and the left-hand side in the second half, by the look of it. It's a bit bare on the other side. Already knackered. (THEY CHANT) It's the first match he's going to be playing. The match will last for 40 minutes. I'm going to play a half for each team. Let's have a good game. Ready to play? (WHISTLE BLOWS) (CHEERING) Seeing the enthusiasm for the sport in this remote village, you'd never think Papa New Guinea's national team sit 203rd out of 209 in the football world rankings. (WHISTLE BLOWS) (CHEERING) (WHISTLE BLOWS) The yellows open the scoring. Not my most graceful goal ever, but we got one back. (WHISTLE BLOWS) Half-time. With the game evenly poised at 1-1, it's time for a real ball and for me to swap sides. (WHISTLE BLOWS) Gideon, who took me around the village yesterday, comes on and makes an immediate impression. With the game in the balance, it's time for a super sub. (WHISTLE BLOWS) Ah, take it right, then. Orange throw. (WHISTLE BLOWS) Penalty! (WHISTLE BLOWS) (CHEERING) 'The game finishes 2-1. 'Our matchwinner is six-year-old Noah. 'Noah lives with his family in the village.' Can you ask Noah what he had for breakfast and for lunch today? (HE TRANSLATES) (NOAH SPEAKS OWN LANGUAGE) His breakfast was weet potato... - Sweet potato... - ..and water. - ..And water. - They do have sweet potato every meal. - Every day, every meal. No protein. So I heard, to compensate for the children not eating the right foods, some of the parents provide them with fizzy drinks. Yep, they do. Do you think parents understand? They don't. It's just because of the low price. Thank you for sharing that with me and thank you for letting me come to the village and play, and be part of this game. It was special for me. My first game on this trip so... it was a good one. - We are the lucky ones. - Thank you. Good, Noah. Good? Ok. 'My brief visit to Papua New Guinea has been amazing, 'but we need to get going. 'We have almost 5,000 miles to cover to our next destination.' 'Stage two of the trip means a ten-hour flight to Nepal. 'I get my first glimpse of the Himalayas and Everest. 'In 2015, Nepal was devastated by two earthquakes, 'killing nearly 9,000 people. 'It destroyed villages, schools and vital services, 'leaving millions of people homeless. 'The country is slowly recovering. 'I arrive in Kathmandu 'and the preparation begins for my second match.' Hey, how are you? How many do you reckon you can do? With a bag on your back. Go on. - A couple. - Go on, mate. I thought he was going to say, "I reckon I can do ten." They'd just break. High altitude, isn't it? Come on, David, let me see those muscles working. Phew! That's enough. News of our arrival has been broadcast in the local media. It looks like the crowd are just as happy to be here as I am. David! Oh, my God. 'Nepal is facing a fuel crisis at the moment 'so I jump in an electric tuk-tuk.' These are great, by the way. I want one of these at home. Ooh! I'll tell you what - bit spongy, these brakes. (HORNS BLARE) We love David Beckham! I'm on my way to Bhaktapur, an ancient town on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Off road! Uncle Albert! Before the game, I'm going to visit Padma School, which was badly hit by the earthquake. (CROWD CHANTS): David! Beckham! David! Beckham! The crowds are getting bigger and bigger. (CROWD SHOUTS) But we somehow manage to squeeze into Padma School. I'm here to meet a student who is going to play in the game later on. - Hi, my name is Sarau. - Nice to meet you. Welcome. (HE SPEAKS IN NEPALI) Thank you. - This is our principal. - Namaste. Nice to meet you. This is our cultural welcoming where we greet. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Namaste. - Namaste. Yes. Thank you. Now away from the crowds, I really begin to understand the scale of the devastation. Where was you when the earthquake hit? - At home. - At home. - Yes. My mum and my sis... Was there any warning? (HE SPEAKS NEPALI) - Not. - No? Nothing? - Nothing. (HE SPEAKS NEPALI) - So you lost your home. - Yeah. - Can we go and see it? - Yeah. 'Sarau now lives here with his parents and younger sister.' - Here is my tent. - Ok. Here is my mum. Pleasure to meet you. And that is his father. Namaste. Nice to meet you. - You go inside? - Yeah, of course. After you. It's ok? Thank you. Your son was saying that it was you that went back into the house, took all the family into the open area. (HE SPEAKS NEPALI) - Yes. - Yes. Well done. How long did the earthquake last for? Yeah. - And that's the kitchen? - Yeah. - Do you want to see? - Yes. It's ok? - Yeah. - Thank you. We have no gas and we still cook here. So, like, as you can see, we are facing a fuel crisis at the moment with India so now, since they have run out of cooking gas, now they have to cut trees from the nearest forest which is just up there and then they have to burn wood, which makes life even more difficult. Like staying in a tent, like it gets smoky. - Do you cook? - Yes. - What is your favourite dish? - Meat. - Meat. - And your mama is a good... - She's a good cook? - Yeah. - The best? - Best cook in the world. Mums, always the same, everywhere in the world. 'Sarau's extended family also live in the camp.' Namaste. She is four years old. My daughter is the same. 'It's moments like this, away from the crowds, 'when people invite me into their homes, I find incredibly humbling.' Let's just go in here. Namaste. CHILDREN: Namaste! 'All of these kids have been affected by the earthquake. 'They're now being taught in makeshift classrooms.' What are you teaching the children? - To play basket... - Basketball, ok. Ah, ok. - Can I join in? - Yeah, why not. Is that ok? (WHISTLE BLOWS) One, two, three, four! Five, six, seven, eight! 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20! Being a parent, being a father, to see the happiness of the children really is incredible. 34,000 classrooms had been destroyed by the earthquake. 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50! The fact that UNICEF and other charities got in here very quickly and were able to actually give the children back a slight bit of normality actually brings a lot of happiness to the families. Since I've been at the school, thousands more people have arrived. So I slip out of the back. This is Taumadhi Square, dominated by a 300-year-old temple, the venue for my second game. People always ask me where is the best stadium that I have ever played in, I think this actually could be it. I'm excited about this one, actually. (SPECTATORS CHANT) I'll be playing against two mixed teams from Padma High School. This should be fun. (CHEERING) (WHISTLING) 'Sarau is captain of the green captain, I'll captain the red.' Ok. (WHISTLE BLOWS). Nice. Nice ball. - It was a good goal. - Thank you. THEY LAUGH. 'This is an unbelievable match and I am loving every second. 'While I enjoy the game, I'm unaware that the police are beginning 'to worry about the crowd in the square.' (WHISTLE BLOWS) We need to go now, all right? (WHISTLE BLOWS) Wait, we need to get you out, otherwise it's going to be a crush. 'With the scores tied, the game is cut short. 'But with just enough time for the children to give me 'a traditional Nepalese send-off.' Thank you, nice to meet you. (CHEERING) (EXCITED SHOUTS) It was hectic, to say the least! (LAUGHTER) (DAVID SIGHS) That was great. Everyone all right? Bit flushed. Little bit warm out there. I tell you what, I knew I should have put some sunscreen on. (THEY LAUGH) Two games down. I think it was 2-2. That could be one of the best, to be fair. That was amazing. I enjoyed it, personally. I could have stayed there another half hour and played. - If I weren't ushered out. - Are you kidding me? Have you experienced what we just experienced? I think it would be all right. I think to come here and see the reaction of the people here is kind of incredible, actually. Really incredible. THEY CHANT: Beckham! So, game two is done. We move on to Djibouti tomorrow, which I'm excited about, because again, it's another place that I've never been to. We've got, er... five more games to go, so onto the next one. With the fuel crisis in Nepal, it means we have to stop in India to refuel. It's a welcome chance for me to stretch my legs. MUSIC: The Look by Metronomy. By the time we take off, we're three hours behind schedule. My next match is in Djibouti, east Africa. A small country sandwiched between Somalia, Eritrea and Ethiopia. I'm looking forward to this game. Africa has produced some of the greatest ever players. Djibouti is a country in one of Africa's most troubled regions - the east coast. It's also one of the countries helped by my UNICEF 7 Fund. - Thank you. - Welcome to Djibouti. - Thank you. 'After seven hours in the air, it's nice to get behind the wheel.' - You all right back there, kids? - Are we there yet? - Yeah, we're ok. 'It's just like doing the school run at home.' So how do you feel in our third country? Excited to be in another place. (ENGINE GROWLS) And first gear. I think this is part of the trip that was always going to be more challenging than the other places we're going to. 'I'm heading to a refugee camp two-and-a-half hours 'away from my third game. 'The delay in India means I need to put my foot down 'if we're going to get there before sundown.' (CAR HORN BLARES) There's some shit coming out of that exhaust. What's coming out the exhaust? The joys, the joys. (SIREN WAILS) I'm not sure how long this Land Rover is going to last. Davver is looking slightly nervous. Different day, different country, same banter. Ah, the smell of Djibouti. The smell of your-booty. It's like Only Fools and Horses when the radio starts smoking. (LAUGHTER) Don't know where it's coming out of, but it's coming out of somewhere. Good job this is not one of the most dangerous roads in the world(!) (CAR BEHIND BEEPS HORN) Wait. 'After an hour, our truck has given up.' - Watch the car, watch the car. - I'm going backwards. - Going backwards. Seriously. 'We're already up against it, so this is the last thing we need.' What? It's this one here. Push it up. Ready? Go. Right, got it. Got it, got it. Engine blew up. It's not my fault. Thank you. 'We have no choice but to swap our car 'with the one carrying the camera gear.' - Good job it ain't hot, Davver. - Pardon? - Good job it ain't hot. No, you're right. Good job we're not broke down on a busy road either. This geezer is devastated he's had to give us his car. Did not want to give us it, by the way. - Did you just pull over and say, "Get out the car, please"? - Yeah. We've got a radio in this, and air-con. - Camel on your right, camel on your right... - Bump in the road. There's a hump in the road. Oh, it's a camel. (CAR THUMPS) There we go. So much hard work has gone into this. I think once people realise that we are hoping to go to seven continents and play seven games, the seventh obviously being the Old Trafford one, they will be pretty amazed by that. I think it is going to be emotional, to be honest, I think it is going to be one of those days that actually is more emotional, as it gets closer, than I ever thought it would be. Do you think that he might start you on the bench? There's every chance, actually. There's every chance. I hope not, I hope not, but with the boss, you never know. You never know. 'Once we get off-road, the going is slow 'and I'm worried we won't get to the camp before sunset.' Ohh. ALL: Whoaoh! Finally, the refugee camp is in sight. Ali Addeh was set up in 1991, around the same time I went professional. So while I was experiencing some of the best years of my life, the people who came here were escaping some of the worst years in theirs. There are over 10,000 refugees here. Many have escaped war and oppressive governments in neighbouring countries. BUMP. - Oh, ya... - Ohh. And I hear there are some pretty good footballers amongst them. Unbelievable. - Here they are. - To the right. 'Issa Ali is an ex-professional footballer 'from Somalia who has been a refugee at this camp for six years.' (APPLAUSE) 'He's coached many of these young footballers 'who I am about to play with.' - How are you? - I'm fine, thanks. - Nice to meet you. 'The camp has 14 official teams. 'Most are named after a Champions League club. 'This evening, Real Madrid will be taking on Borussia Dortmund.' Thank you. Ok, let's play. (WHISTLE BLOWS) (THEY SING) I've got my work cut out. Not only is this a gravel pitch, but these guys have a lot of skill. Taman, one of Real Madrid's stars, gives me a great pass. And I score the first goal of the match. The impressive Kadar scores a great goal for Borussia Dortmund. (WHISTLE BLOWS) Mohamed gets one back for Real Madrid. (FULL-TIME WHISTLE) The game ends in a draw - 2-2. BREATHLESS: Thank you. Thank you. Good player. - Hey, how are you? - Fine. - Good. It's a pleasure to be here and playing on this incredible pitch. - Incredible place. You have a lot of good players. - Yeah. Players that play great, good technically, and want to win. - And it's a pleasure to be here. - Thank you so much. - Thank you, thank you. 'I'm looking forward to coming back in the morning.' Toughest game so far, I think. There were some really good little players out there. They pass the ball around so well, obviously used to playing on that kind of surface. The way they control the ball and some of their movement is actually incredible. Managed to score another one, which is always nice. You can tell they love the game, and it shows the power of what this sport has around the world. It doesn't matter where it is we've landed, we have driven three-and-a-half hours to a refugee camp... and they're wearing Real Madrid shirts. I've taken it for granted that I have been able to play for my country, represent my country 115 times. These guys have never had the opportunity to represent their country, which... is sad. It's sad. This is my room for the evening. Very nice. Just, um, got my clothes ready for the morning. Of course, as organised as I am. This is my bed for the evening. With the net to keep the mozzies away, of course. Nice little fan action going on there. I had a quick shower earlier. It's been a long day again. The last two days have been really long. So... I'm going to turn this around. So... Yeah. The game was great. On a surface that really wasn't easy. I've got a bit of a sore toe, and obviously, with the other games coming up, and then the game at Old Trafford coming up, slightly worrying. But should not be a problem. I actually got some letters from some of the boys. I could read you one of them. "Hi, Mr David Beckham, my name is Taman." "And I am really happy to meet you." "In fact, I am a great fan of you," "and I have a dream that I want to be a professional player just like you." "I have enough talent and skills to get my ambition." "But at the moment, I am not able to make my dream" "because I am a refugee." (WHISTLE BLOWS) (CHILDREN LAUGH) See you tomorrow. (DOG BARKS) Morning. Come on, Neil, holding us up. 'It's 6am. 'I'm going back to the refugee camp to catch up with Issa and Taman.' This little man is coming with me, I think. 'I arrange to see them at Issa's home.' - Hello. - Hello. - How are you? - I'm fine, fine. - I'm very well. How are you, huh? - Good to see you. Thank you for having me in your home. - I have a friend with me. - Oh! That's good. You have some players that are very good, so where does this education come from, the education of football? Because you are living in a place, in a refugee camp, and to have some of the players that you had playing in that game yesterday... They're very good. Ok. - And you played for your national team? - Yeah, in Somalia. - Until what year? - '73 till '84. Why did you have to leave your own country? (HE CHUCKLES) - Which one David? - It's me. - You? Thank you. Live for us a strong life. Without the help of relief agencies including Unicef, refugees at Ali Addeh would be left without basic medicine. This weekend, polio drops were being given to children under the age of five. So this is Faisal. He got the drops yesterday. He got the drops yesterday? ok. 'I'm delighted that Issa's three-year-old nephew 'has benefited from the immunisation campaign. 'My time in Djibouti is running out. 'It's been a privilege to play here and to meet Issa Ali, 'the man who believes in these young football players.' He's been doing it from 12 up to 60 now. He used to play in Somalia, and then obviously, when he had to flee Somalia, he came here and became a coach, and coaches these kids now, and he's doing a pretty good job seeing some of those kids yesterday. A couple of them have got a lot of talent, so... He seems happy, you can see he is proud of that. I always say to kids, "Unless you enjoy it, don't play it." Not everybody is from Somalia in this camp, but there's kids out there that are just coming together and playing with the same colour shirts on against another team. It's a unity, it's a togetherness, and it is not many sports around that can do that. You feel that when you watch these kids. My next flight is the longest. 15 hours. (THUNDER RUMBLES) I'm going to need all my energy for continent number four. South America. (THEY SING IN SPANISH) I'm heading to Argentina, the country that gave birth to football in South America. It's sunny in this car, by the way, with you two. Sunny? En route to the match today, we get an update on the Antarctic leg of the trip. It's 90% weather-dependent at the moment. The chances are, it could be off. We've always spoke about Antarctica being one of the main reasons why we are... doing this trip, it was one of the things that we knew was going to be challenging, but it's one of the places that we want to do, so... I think that if there's a chance of doing it, we obviously have to do it. Without a doubt. (SIRENS WAIL) We're on our way to Villa 1-11-14, a barrio in the heart of Buenos Aires. (CHILDREN SHOUT) This was one I was actually really looking forward to. I knew, before we set off on the trip, that coming to Argentina was actually one of my dreams. When anyone asks me about regrets in my career, I don't really have any regrets, but this is one place I would have liked to have played. Villa 1-11-14 is one of the most dangerous barrios in Buenos Aires. Si. 'To help disadvantaged kids from the surrounding neighbourhood, 'local team Boca Juniors run a charitable foundation. 'I meet with a local priest, Padre Morelli.' - Hola. - Hola. IN SPANISH: The Boca Foundation encourages children to steer clear of crime and instead embrace football. I never thought I'd be wearing Argentinian colours. (CROWD APPLAUDS) The padre wants to introduce me to the future legends of Argentinian football. Messi es increible. I played... con Robinho, con Ronaldo, con Roberto Carlos, con Raul. Y con... Quien mas? - Ibrahimovic. CHILDREN: - Oh! In one match, I played against Argentina. I scored one goal. Inglaterra - uno, Argentina - zero. CHILDREN: Oooh! Today's game is between Madre del Pueblo in blue versus Boca Social in white. I'm about to fulfil a lifelong dream and play on Argentinian soil. MUSIC: Donde Suena El Bombo by Ondatropica. (WHISTLE BLOWS) (COACH CALLS OUT INSTRUCTIONS IN SPANISH) Did you ever think you'd see him in an Argentina shirt? I think he quite suits the blue and white. He does suit the blue and white. Maradona grew up in a barrio not far from here. Who knows? One of these boys may be the next to lift the World Cup. They've certainly got the skills. - Gol! - Chino scores for Madre del Pueblo. But the match is still tight. CROWD: Oooh! (WHISTLE BLOWS) (WHISTLE BLOWS), HE INSTRUCTS PLAYERS IN SPANISH A closely-fought game finishes 2-1 to Boca Social. (THEY SPEAK SPANISH) I love the passion here. You can see, the kids, they have that, they have that passion for football and it's not even an escape for them here, it's just life. Football's their life and that's why they have the culture that they do have. It's a special country. After the game, I take a look around the barrio with Padre Morelli. He's been the community priest for six years. I'm told if I hang out with him, I'll be safe. FROM WINDOW: - Hola! - Hola. It's dangerous? - So-so. - So-so. (MAN SPEAKS SPANISH) Hey! Hey! Un Quilmes! (HE SPEAKS SPANISH) Increible. Gracias. (WOMAN SPEAKS IN SPANISH) - Gracias. - Gracias. (INDISTINCT CHATTER IN SPANISH) 'Nel, who I had just played football with, is one of these children. 'He lives with his family in the neighbourhood. 'He's 12 years old, a year younger than my son, Romeo.' DAVID IN SPANISH: 'Nel's mum, Claudia, moved her family from Paraguay 11 years ago. 'She's now a street sweeper in Buenos Aires. 'Nel, who wants to be a professional footballer, 'shows me the bedroom he helped build with his father.' - Can you tell me about the trophies? - Copas. 'To come here and be invited into the house 'and be shown how they live and what their passions are, you know, 'and to hear the dad talk - it's all about his family. 'That's all he cares about.' You know, I'm a passionate dad myself and I feel that I am a good dad. You know, I work for my children. Everything that I earn is for the future of my children and it's the same here. You know, there's plenty of great dads out there and we've just met one of those. Back at the hotel, there's an update on the weather in the Antarctic. (HE LAUGHS) - It's like getting your exam results. - I feel like I'm in trouble. We can go to Antarctica. - We can? - We can. - We can? There's good news and there's bad news. There's bad news and there's bad news. - There's three seats, basically. - Three seats, basically. Right. When? - Tomorrow morning. - We have to leave tonight. - Right. Cos you could go as early as 5am tomorrow morning. You could be on the ice for as little as 45 minutes or a couple of hours, and you leave that night. - What kind of plane are we going to...? - A big one. - A big one. It's safe, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Ish. - Ish. We can't guarantee your safety. Cheers(!) We all leave Buenos Aires that night and fly to Punta Arenas in Chile. I'm gutted the boys can't come with me, but it's an opportunity I can't miss. There's just time for a briefing before we take off. The temperature at the runway this morning, we just saw, was -18, -20 degrees Celsius, so it's pretty cold. There's a little bit of wind there as well, so we're definitely going to want to be dressing up - when we get off the plane there. - Great. 'As the weather can change so quickly, 'the plane could get stranded out on Antarctica, 'so they have made some backup plans.' We've also sent three sleeping bags in just in case. Just in case what? Well, just in case there's a change in the climate. - Ok. - Yeah, just in case. 'But I'm also told some good news.' Davver, can you hear me? So the guy just said he can fit one more on the plane, so get your snow boots and your expensive hat. All right. No, I'm serious. Well, what are you going to tell Si? You're just going to run out and not tell him? All right. Five minutes, be ready. All right, mate. Bye. Bye. He's over the moon. I don't think he believes me, actually. 'So we pick up Davver and Si makes a last-ditch attempt to come with us.' - Lose the jacket! - Will I be all right like this? No, you don't want to see that. All right? All right. See you in a bit. Oh, I'm hot. Are you supposed to wear all your layers on the way there? I put everything on that was in my bag at once. I feel like the Michelin Man. 'It's 8am. Davver and I haven't slept for over 20 hours, 'but we're wide awake and excited. 'We're being squeezed on to a giant cargo plane 'with international guides and explorers. 'They will spend the next three months on the Antarctic 'in -30 degree conditions. 'This is their first flight of the season, 'so we're lucky to get on board. 'We have a four-hour flight ahead 'and our destination is Union Glacier. 'These guys have kindly agreed 'to play in the match against me and Davver. 'It should be interesting.' (CHEERING AND WHOOPING) This part of the trip had been hanging in the balance. But when we finally land in Antarctica, it is just perfect. 'It's like being on another planet - a windy, icy wasteland. 'I'm blown away, literally.' I'm actually speechless. I've never seen anything so amazing, ever. I'm so happy it's happened. I'm so happy. I'm so excited. It's quite emotional. It's quite... It's... It's amazing, it's amazing. Fifth continent. Fifth game. And the best, without a doubt. It was close, it was really close. I'm so glad we-we... we really held out. You know, sat in Buenos Aires thinking, "It's not happening, it's not happening," and I actually can't believe we're here. Cannot believe we're here. We're in the Antarctic, by the way. 'This is my first game of the trip against an international team.' That part of it is one of the most important things, for me. You know, we're in the Antarctic and we have different nationalities from all over the world, you know, about to play in one game. Where has that ever happened before? This is what this game is about - proves that you can play it anywhere. 'It's also my first game wearing a balaclava and snow boots. 'And then I see the pitch.' Wow. Unbelievable. - Great pitch. - I'm Hannah, pleased to meet you. Amazing, nice to meet you too. 'Hannah McKeand is a British polar explorer. 'She has skied to the South Pole more times than anyone in history.' - Are you excited? - So excited. I actually can't believe we're here. - Ok. - But first you have to build a goal. - True. 'I help them make the goals with cross-country skis, 'a cane and tyres.' This should be interesting. I think they probably just knocked it up this morning. I mean, obviously it's been groomed for months now, carefully prepared for this special visit... Yeah, we knocked it up this morning. SHE LAUGHS. These guys have thought of everything. We've even got pitch lines. Don't worry, it's only fizzy orange. We can't find any records of any official match played in Antarctica. So I think we're about to set a world record. 'Even though he's a bit rusty on the field, 'Davver's going to captain one side and I'll play on the other.' Heads it is. (WHISTLE BLOWS) MUSIC: Blue Monday by New Order. Tackle. 'If I wanted to injure myself before Old Trafford, 'I couldn't have picked a more slippery pitch on the planet.' Offside. 'Davver's team scores first. 'Then I make us even.' Ooh! (WHISTLE BLOWS) 'After 40 minutes, it's a tie, 3-3. 'It's my first hat-trick ever in my footballing career.' It means so much that you've welcomed us into your world for just a couple of hours, but it's so special that you gave us the chance to be part of your world just for a couple of hours. So we wish you all the best for the next few months. I hope you continue to have this amazing weather. (CHUCKLING) And thank you. I doubt you will... - Thank you very much. - But thank you. (CHEERING) Stop, stop! Ah! (LAUGHTER) I'm too old for this. (LAUGHTER) Thank you. (CHEERING) We're in a hurry, because there's high winds. We have a window for getting out of Antarctica because we have to be in Miami later on this evening, so... We've finished the game. Fifth game done. Five continents. The toughest one, without a doubt. Antarctica - it doesn't get any tougher than this one. This one is done, but we're now in a race against time to get on this plane. Fingers crossed, cos if we don't, we're stuck here. 'I've now been awake for over 30 hours 'and the cold and tiredness is really beginning to set in. 'But even though I can't feel my toes, I'm still buzzing.' As far as we're concerned, that was the first official football match played on Antarctica. Incredible. I'd never thought I'd have the opportunity to do something like this. I just wish my kids could see this. This trip was always ambitious. When we first started talking about it, I laughed. Physically, it's demanding, but we always knew it was going to be demanding. I was ready for that, physically and mentally. Someone was looking down on us for the Antarctic, because this was the only day that we could have done it. With only three days to the big game at Old Trafford, we head to our sixth continent - North America - and my second-to-last game in Miami. 'I've travelled 8,000 miles, and haven't had much sleep. 'My body clock is all over the place 'and I'm finding it hard to tell day from night. 'At least it's slightly warmer than the South Pole.' (DAVID YAWNS) I can't lie, I don't feel great. Maybe it's going around the world three times in four days has something to do with it. I feel exhausted, and I'm slightly worried about how I'm going to feel for the game on Saturday. People are going to look at me in Old Trafford and say, "He's gotten really old really quick, he looks so tired." 'Miami is a place I know really well. 'I'm going to set my own football club up in this city. 'I'll be spending a lot of time in Miami over the next 10, 20 years. 'And hopefully enjoying seeing a team that I own be successful.' COMMENTATOR: Donovan to the top. Beckham! 'I lived in America for six years when I played for the LA Galaxy. 'In that time, 'I've seen the popularity of the game grow incredibly. 'It's one of the few countries in the world 'where the women's game is as popular as the men's. 'I think parents see soccer as a game in the US as a safe game. 'The contact of the game is not as much as, say, American football. 'So, that's why a lot of young girls go into playing the game.' 'Tonight, for my sixth game, 'I'm playing with the Miami University team. 'I'm off to meet up with a few of the players.' Are you ok? Did you enjoy tennis tonight? Yeah? Good boy. Well, you should get to sleep. If your mum finds you're on the phone, she won't be happy. If you sing a Tottenham song to me, as an Arsenal fan, then I won't tell your mum. (HE CHUCKLES) You can't do that? Hey, girls. - Hello. - How are you doing? - Welcome. - Thank you. Good. - Welcome to the University Of Miami. - This is amazing. - We got you a shirt. - You did, ok? - So you kind of match with us. - Ok, good. Thank you very much. - For you. - Thank you. Ah. This is beautiful. It's unbelievable. It doesn't get much better than this. 'Coach and former international player Mary Munroe, and one of her star students, Jasmine, take me behind the scenes. This is our locker room. This is like a full-on, professional, you know, it's kind of what we get when we play for Manchester United or Real Madrid. It's amazing. 'Soccer scholarships help finance those 'that can't afford a university education. 'Without one, Jasmine, who's a 21-year-old criminology major, 'would not have been able to attend Miami.' Without soccer, I would probably be at community college back home. Soccer's really let me travel, as well as get a great education, as well as help me in my personal life, coming out of my shell, being more confident within myself. Um... I'm so grateful. Football should never be known as a man's sport. Over the years, living in Europe, it has been. But you come to somewhere like the US, and the girls are so respected for doing such a great sport. And that's exactly how it should be. Have you run into many challenges with your daughter playing soccer? Um... No challenges, actually, apart from my wife. - That's the only challenge. - That's a pretty big one. That is a pretty big one. But she's not saying, "No, she's not playing soccer." She's just like, "Come on, we've got three boys, they play soccer." "Let me just take her to ballet." (WOMEN CHEER AND APPLAUD) 'I've never played on a rooftop pitch. 'I'm excited about this one, 'the fact that I'm playing with two girls' teams 'which, I think, is going to be very challenging 'because I think that these girls know how to play the game. 'They're very competitive. 'It's going to be a difficult one 'but one that I'm actually really looking forward to.' 'Hopefully, I will get through this game without any knocks 'or any injuries. But I know these girls are very competitive. 'So, um... fingers crossed.' (WHISTLE BLOWS) (PLAYERS SHOUT INSTRUCTIONS TO EACH OTHER) (CHEERING) 'Only five minutes into the game, 'and I'm taken out by one of the Buccaneers.' (WHISTLE BLOWS) Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. (CHEERING) Former USA international Mary pops up and scores a great goal for Miami. It must be that lucky Number 7 shirt she's wearing. Jasmine gets on the scoresheet as well. (CHEERING) (WHISTLE BLOWS) 'It's half-time. I need to change shirts and swap teams. 'I hope I can keep up. 'The game is really competitive, and I'm knackered.' I'd love to go in goal, actually. (WHISTLE BLOWS) (CROWD SHOUTS) (FINAL WHISTLE) 'A high-scoring game ends 7-5 to the whites of Miami University.' - Good game. - Good game. 'I loved this game today. Toughest game. Most technical game. 'I think the girls play with passion.' You can see that the coaching that they've been getting has been great. And you can see the advantage of having a campus and a university support like they have. My body, at the moment, feels shot from the travelling and also playing games. But, um... you know, I've enjoyed it. Six down, one to go. It's been a hell of a journey. Now, to Old Trafford. I've travelled around the world in nine days. Remarkably, I am home for my seventh and final game in Europe. 'To arrive on home soil is a massive relief. 'Tomorrow, I'll be playing my UNICEF fundraising match at Old Trafford. 'It's kind of surreal, considering, a few days ago, 'we were in the Antarctic. 'And now, we're on the way up to Manchester.' Preparing to play the last game, the seventh game, against the Rest Of The World team. With the Zizou, and Ronaldinho, and Carlo being the manager, and Sir Alex Ferguson being the manager of our team. It's going to be amazing. You know, I'm so honoured and proud that the manager has given up his time to be part of this. Because it's such a special and personal thing for me. And, the fact that we have such a big game, without the boss being there, it wouldn't have been the same. So, I'm looking forward to seeing him. I just hope he starts me. TANNOY: Ladies and gentlemen, the train is now approaching Manchester Piccadilly, our final stop. Thank you. 'Manchester has always felt like home to me. 'You know, from staying in lodging, 'to buying my first house, buying my first car. 'Back to a place where my dreams came true. The best years of my life.' We are now in Manchester. The night before the game tomorrow. Seventh game. Seventh continent. And it's exciting. It's, I think, around 9:30pm now. Um, and I'm going to try and get to sleep. (BBC NEWS THEME) TV: More than 120 people have been killed in Paris, and more than 200 are injured. TV: Last night's attacks in Paris, in which at least 127 people died... TV: Police stormed a concert venue where 80 people died. Witnesses have spoken of their horror. How are you? Hello. Hello? - 'Hello. Zizou.' - Hi, Zizou, how are you? (ZIDANE REPLIES) No, no problem. (ZIDANE SPEAKS ON THE PHONE) (DAVID SPEAKS IN SPANISH) No. No, no. Thank you. Ciao. I understand. He just said it's very complicated for him. He feels bad. Nothing we can do. There's no issue. The game's got to go ahead, no matter what. No matter what. It's got to go ahead, no matter what. 'Unfortunately, my friend, Zidane, has pulled out of the game, 'out of respect to what has just happened in Paris.' - Nice to see you. - And you. - Zizou's just pulled out. - Oh, has he? Cos of the Paris thing. Literally. But I understand. Totally understand it. - Was he over here? - No, he's in Madrid. - Thanks for being part of it. - Absolutely, absolutely. - Like to help. - Of course. - Good to see you, mate. - Doesn't look like you much! A copy. (DAVID LAUGHS) Oh, we're going for a kiss! - ok. - Good. You? - Not bad. - Ok. - Good to see you. - And you. - You look good. How are you? - Not bad. Looking smart. - Zizou's not coming. - He's not coming? - No. Him, Vieira. Vieira, Karembeu. - All the French. - All the French. Match day souvenir! (HORNS HOOT) - You all right? - Yeah, good. - How are you feeling? - Not good. Started stiffening up over the last 48 hours, the closer it got. I was all right last week, then, I thought... It happened the other day, been getting bigger and bigger. The older you get, the bigger it gets! - How are you, boss? Good? - Yeah. - Good. - Terrible in Paris. - Unbelievable. - It's a bloody nightmare. - Nightmare. - Ok, if you wouldn't mind, we're going to do some photos first. - Ok. Then we'll do some filming. 'Every time that I am in close vicinity of the manager, 'he makes me nervous. 'Even from a very young age, I was in awe of him, as a manager 'and what he's done for the club, what he's done in the game, 'it's respect.' - We went to Papua New Guinea. - Oh, right. And we went to Nepal. - Bloody hell. - And then to Djibouti. Then Buenos Aires. Then the Antarctic. And then Miami. - This your last one? - Last one. We didn't think that we would get to the Antarctic. - We were there for two-and-a-half hours. - Yeah. It was amazing. - What was the temperature there? - -20. We used to get that in Aberdeen all the time. Despite last night's terrible events in Paris, a staggering 75,000 people have turned up to watch this game. (CROWD NOISE) (CROWD CHEERS) (CHEERING ECHOES) (CROWD GASPS) 'I was lucky enough to play professional football for 20 years 'with the very best in the world. 'And, today, though tinged with sadness, 'I still feel the buzz and joy that playing brings. 'These last ten days have given me another lifetime of memories 'of what football can bring to communities. 'I was constantly humbled at the strength of those I met 'facing, hardship and adversity, with a real generosity of spirit. 'They say it's only a game. 'But it transformed my life. So, for me, it's the only game.' (CHEERING ECHOES)
