 

                        The year was 1978 when the killing spree of John Wayne Gacy finally came to an end, as Chicago police arrested him and began digging up bodies he had buried under his Summerdale house. Many called it the crime of the century. Some of the bodies were clothed and three of the bodies had ropes around their necks. He killed 33 times and his victims were all boys and young men between the ages of 14... He says he's a victim for being found guilty and he says the families are victims because they don't know who the real killer is. Testimony provided a frightening view inside the mind of the worst mass killer in American history. When you have a child taken out of your life, it's like a huge piece being ripped out... Cook County sheriff's deputies investigating the disappearance of a teenaged boy made a gruesome discovery in the crawl space beneath a Chicago residence. The owner of the house is local contractor John Wayne Gacy. The bodies of 28 victims have been recovered... He knew exactly what he was doing; he planned it in advance; he carried it out and he enjoyed it. spree was initially uncovered on a cold December day when the first of his victims was found in the crawl space beneath his suburban Chicago home. In the crawl space, bodies covered with lye dug up a few days before Christmas, one after another. The bodies of 28 victims have been recovered; another five retrieved from the Des Plaines River... Tuesday, four bodies; Wednesday, six bodies; and today, six bodies. Skeletonized remains of human bodies. At one point he told police how he murdered his victims. Now he's telling me he never did. John Wayne Gacy was convicted in 1980 for the rape and murder of those 33 boys and young men, many of whom he buried under his Chicago house while others were found in the Des Plaines River. That was 13 years ago and today attorneys have filed their final appeal with the Seventh Circuit Court while Gacy remains on death row at the Menard Correctional Center in Illinois. The US Court of Appeals upheld his conviction and death sentence, a move that could clear the way for his execution within... Who are they talking about? Gacy. He just filed his last appeal. About what it's like to be waiting to die on death row. Due to be executed in six months... Feet off the coffee table. No, I don't sit around worrying about the death penalty. See, I'm a PMA kind of person... positive mental attitude. I don't have time for negative thinking and death... This guy's been in prison since '78 and they're just gonna kill him now? The reason it takes so long is 'cause of our appellate system. And refuses to cooperate with law enforcement. This thing that I did... no, if I'm guilty of anything, it's operating a funeral home without a license. And you want a career in law enforcement? These people are so incompetent. Okay, Mom. They had no confession. I'm an embarrassment to the criminal-justice system because it's easier to kill me now than to admit that they screwed up Authorities have tried on numerous occasions to elicit a detailed confession from Gacy, but he has remained tight-lipped about the crimes ever since his conviction. With time running out for the death-row inmate, the truth may never be revealed. Antisocial Personality Disorder, or APD, is characterized by a lack of regard for the moral or legal standards in a given culture. There's also an inability to get along with others as well as to abide by societal rules. Now individuals with this disorder are often referred to as psychopaths or sociopaths, but in fact we know... Yes, Jason? Doesn't the DSM have a broader APD category that includes people who commit illegal, immoral or self-serving acts, but they're not necessarily psychopathic? What's the DSM? Oh, would you care to enlighten the class, Jason? Sure, it's the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders. And although it has some problems with reliability and is considered culturally biased, it is the major resource for mental-health professionals. - Well, thank you, Professor Moss. - Mm-hmm. Well, that's not precisely correct, but I'd say it's close enough. Uh, okay look, we're going over, so why don't we stop there and we will pick it up again next week? Thank you. - I'll catch up with you, okay? - Okay. Professor Harris? Can I talk to you about the term paper? Term paper? That's not due till the end of the year. Yeah, I know. I just... I want to get a head start on it. Sure. What's your question? So I want to do my paper on John Wayne Gacy. Gacy? What's the angle? Um... Well, there's a thousand angles that could be explored... um, capital punishment from the perspective of a death-row inmate; does Gacy fit the typical FBI profile of a serial killer? And he's... he's scheduled to be executed in six months, so he might be more willing to talk to me. You know, Jason, I've read a hundred papers on serial killers and quite frankly, I think the topic's overexposed and trite. You're gonna have to demonstrate a really strong academic angle here. Okay? Okay. I'll work on it. I'll get back to you. And don't forget, this paper counts for half your final grade. Yeah. Yeah, I'm not worried. Hi, Mr. Gacy. So where's the big guy? He had to make a delivery but he should be back soon. What kind of damage is he looking to do now? I think he was talking about tearing down that back wall by the storage area. All right, I'll go take a look. How's it going, pal? Hey. Did you get your Christmas bonus? No, not yet. - You? - No, not yet. Well, it better come in soon. How much you make an hour here? $2.50. You know, I pay my guys $7.50. Really? You interested? Oh shit. Hey. Where the fuck were you? I know, man, I'm sorry. I got held up. Look at me. Hey. What the fu... Alex, why does that guy keep fucking with you? Just drive, okay? I want to get out of here. - Later. - Bye, Alex. I'm sorry I was late. You guys are late. I know, Mom. It's my fault. Alex, take your hat off at the table. It's not polite. - So how was school, boys? - It was good. Good. Did you hear me? Alex, do what your mother says. What the hell happened to your eye? - Nothing. - What do you mean, nothing? It doesn't look like nothing to me. Jason, what happened? It's not a big deal, Mom, okay? He just got into it with some kid at school. You should see the other kid. Alex really held his own in there. - I don't support violence in this house. - It wasn't in this house. Don't get smart with me. Pass the salad. - So guess what? - What's that, Jason? I'm gonna write a letter to John Wayne Gacy. And who is John Wayne Gacy? He's a psychotic murderer, Frank. You don't know who John Gacy is? So why are you contacting this psychotic murderer, Jason? For my criminology class. Cool. Does he write his letters in blood? Frank, are you hearing any of this? Come on, Valerie, what's the point? Let him write the letter. Probably won't even write back. - I don't care. The answer is no. - Valerie... - No, I'm telling you... - Dear Mr. Gacy, my name is Jason Moss and I'm an 18-year-old college student. I'm writing because I thought you might get bored or lonely where you are and might want someone to correspond with. I've been seeing you on TV a lot lately and I wanted to talk to you directly as I'm sure most of what the media says about you is a lie. At the moment I live at home with my family. And if they found out I was writing to you, they'd probably kill me. But my mom is pretty much against everything I do anyways, so what's the difference? I have to admit that I'm really not much of a student. I barely graduated from high school, so it's a miracle I even got into college. But I'm just gonna go for a year or so to appease my parents and then when I can get enough money together I'll move out. I can't wait. At this point, I don't really know what else to say until you write me back. If you should need anything like paper or supplies, just let me know. I'd be happy to help. I'm sure there are many others who write you, but I hope you take the time to write me back. You'll see that I'm a pretty nice guy. I look forward to hearing from you soon. Your friend, Jason Moss. Look, Sam, I need to know how long this habeas corpus review is gonna be. I mean on average... how long does it take? I know that, Sam. I'm just trying to figure out how much time it's gonna buy me, you know? I know you're working hard. I know that. Listen to me, buddy, you've got to know that I'm counting on you here, pal. All right, all right. All right, keep me posted. If you hear anything, get back to me. Good news? He's an attorney; there's never any good news. But no worries. You know me, Stan. I got friends in high places pulling strings for me. I'm sure it'll all work out then. Yeah, it's no problem, buddy. ...and his motive unclear. In the summer of 1985, Southern California was held hostage by a rabid creature of the night, a phantom killer who cloaked himself in darkness and soon became known as... What the fuck? Look at this. - What is this? - It's a questionnaire. Where'd you get it? It's from John Wayne Gacy. The serial killer? Yeah. I told you, I'm writing him for my criminology paper. No you didn't. I didn't? Really? Look, you know, I probably didn't think it was a big deal because I never thought he'd write me back, but... "What's your relationship like with your parents? Do you have a girlfriend? How often do you masturbate?" That's disgusting. Why are you writing to this guy? I just told you... it's for my paper. You couldn't think of anything else to do your paper on? No, this is what's intriguing to me. You're not really gonna tell him about yourself, right? No no. That wouldn't be the best approach, would it? So I see Victor Leon Carsenos is back on your most-wanted list. Didn't you guys arrest him in '92 for felonious homicide? Yep, but he got off on a technicality. So what's the urgency, Mr. Ross? Uh, it's... it's this, sir. And it's "Moss." - A questionnaire? - From John Wayne Gacy. Okay. I wrote him for my criminology term paper and he sent me that back, so I was hoping the FBI would be able to give me some more information on him. Well, unfortunately you're barking up the wrong tree, son. We don't have any information here on John Gacy. If we did have anything, it'd probably be at the Chicago bureau. Really? 'Cause, well, he lived here in '62. He worked part time as a janitor at a funeral parlor. And then shortly after that, he was convicted of child molestation for which he served only 18 months of a 10-year sentence. Mmm. Well, you know so much about him, what do you need me for? Well, I was hoping you could tell me something I didn't already know. Look, son, like I told you before, we don't have anything here on John Gacy. And the only thing I heard about him was about some kid that claimed he had an encounter with Gacy. But that was all over the news when he moved here, so I'm sure you already know about that. An encounter? Like what do you mean... he survived an attack? Who was it? I don't remember the kid's name. Have you guys ever tried writing him from a potential victim's perspective? All psychological profiling's done out of Quantico, so you'd have to talk to them. Yeah? Okay, do you have someone I can contact there? Listen, kid, you're what... 18? Go get laid. Find a party, have fun. Don't get caught up in all this shit 'cause it's only gonna lead to trouble. Write your term paper about legalizing marijuana and go be a teenager, for Christ's sake. Okay. Well, thank you. So tell me about your relationship with your father. I could never get along with my dad. I mean, he was always just too overbearing. I was always dumb and stupid. I would never amount to anything. So I said to hell with it. I remember one time I was rasslin' around with some older kids and I passed out. So I was always more or less a sickly kid, you know. And I guess that embarrassed him. Okay, so you continue to deny the murder of those 33 young boys, but how do you explain the bodies found beneath your house? The state wants you to believe this fantasy theory, right, that the motive was sex and that they were all killed so that they couldn't tell anyone what they saw. That's ridiculous. It doesn't hold water. The facts don't match the fantasy. Which raises the question who John Gacy really is... the 34th victim. Are you a homosexual? I would definitely not be homosexual. Now I have nothing against the things that they do and I openly admit that I've engaged in sex with males. But I would be bisexual. I mean the idea that I'm some crazed homosexual killer strolling around the streets stalking and murdering young altar boys is ludicrous. Hell, if you could have seen my schedule, you'd know damn well I was never out there. I would definitely not be homosexual. Now I have nothing against the things that they do and I openly admit that I've engaged in sex with males. But I would be bisexual. What are you doing? What does it look like? Since when does Jason lift weights? Since now, okay? Hey hey, go get your camera. I need you to take some pictures for me. Of what? Come on, let's go. - This is ridiculous. - Would you just hurry up, please, before Mom comes home? Why are you trying to look sexy? Because, buddy, Gacy's a homo so I need to look like a homo, do you get that? - Come on. - This is so disgusting. Just take the picture. Oh, wait wait wait. How are my abs? Are they good? I'm not gonna look at your abs. Alex, could you just help me out, please? I need to make sure these come out right, okay? - Your abs look fabulous. - Thank you. Okay, one more, one more. How'd that look? Gay. Perfect. Open D-32. Hey, Picasso, your mail's here. How's it going, buddy? Another clown, huh? Well, that's what the people want, Stan, that's what they get. How else could I be able to afford this lavish lifestyle in here? Speaking of lavish lifestyle, your Cubans came in. Oh yeah? Great. Well, back to the grind, huh? Where are you off to in such a hurry? I thought maybe we'd kick back and smoke a couple of these babies. You know the rules. Hey, Stan? Rules are meant to be broken. So why are you here? - Best to your family, pal. - Close D-32. My relationship with my parents is not the greatest. My mom is always on my ass trying to control my life. My dad's normally more passive. However, he has a temper and loses it once in a while and can beat my ass pretty good. Nobody knows I'm thinking about being a nude dancer to earn extra money, which is a bit tight for me right now. I don't even know why I'm telling you all this. I guess I just feel like I can open up to you. Well, I really want us to become friends. So I look forward to hearing back from you soon. Yours, Jason. One of the things you should know about me is that I'm open-minded, outspoken, not very tactful, nonjudgmental, liberal, and I say what I mean. The only thing I ask is don't assume anything of me. If you're not sure, then ask. Nothing offends me and nothing is personal. No subject is off limits as long as you're willing to be just as open and honest as me. I want you to feel free to say what is on your mind, good or bad. Even if it's 20 pages long, I want you to tell me everything about you. Don't worry about what I might think. I am truly fascinated to know about the ideas, thoughts and emotions that enter your mind. I am a very liberal person. And since you said you will not share my letters with anyone, I feel I can confide in you, as I hope you can also do with me. As far as sex goes, I haven't done a lot. I don't have a girlfriend or anything, but I have an open mind to try many different things. You want my opinion on something, that's what you'll get. I want to know all your innermost feelings and thoughts. What do you fantasize about? You say that you're thinking about hustling for money, I say go for it. But you have to promise you'll tell me all about it. Don't hold back. I want details... everything. You and I are gonna be real close, buddy. Professor Harris? Professor Harris? Yes, Mr. Moss? Hi. I wanted to share my new angle with you. - What's that? - Well, read it. A letter from Gacy? - You got him to write to you? - Yeah. Okay. What are you gonna do with it? I'm gonna get information out of him that no one else has been able to... not the police, not the FBI, not even his own wife. I'm gonna get inside this guy's head and figure out what makes him tick. Well, that's quite a lofty goal, Jason, but I still don't know what your paper's about. Well, my paper is about journeying into the mind of a serial killer. Is that a strong enough angle for you? Okay, Jason, you're going to do what you want anyway, so go ahead. But don't let your ego get in the way of your instincts. This guy's talent is fooling people into trusting him. Yeah, but that's also his weakness. He's so convinced he always has the upper hand, he wouldn't even for an instant think that one of his potential victims could be way ahead of him. I'm working on a strategy. I even found a guy who survived an attack. You give me a couple of weeks and I'll have him eating out of the palm of my hand. - Can I help you? - Yeah, Mr. Phillips? Hi, I'm Jason Moss. I'm a student at the university. - I'm doing a paper about John Gacy... - Not interested. Whoa whoa, hey hey! Just hear me out. Get the fuck out of here. I'll just take up five minutes of your time, I promise. Come on, you know him a lot better than I do. I just want to figure out how he operates. What part of "Get the fuck out of here" don't you get? Look, I wrote him, okay? And he wrote me back. Look. He's very interested in me. Yeah, of course he's interested. Listen listen, I didn't mean to make you feel uncomfortable. I just... you know, I thought you could help me figure out who I'm really dealing with here. I hope you never find out. Hello? I have a collect call from inmate John Gacy from the Menard Correctional Center. Will you accept the charges? Yes yes. Uh, yes, Operator, I accept. Go ahead, sir. What's up, buddy? Hey. Wait. How did you get my number? It's not listed. I told you I got friends in high places. What's the matter? You don't like surprises, Jason? No. Uh... So what are you doing right now? I'm just sitting around watching TV. Well, I was... I was sleeping. Oh, the time difference, that's right. Sorry about that. I don't really sleep too much. No no, no problem. So what were you doing? Out late banging your girlfriend? Uh, no. I told you, John, I don't have a girlfriend. That's right. That's right. I can't believe I'm actually talking to you right now. I know this must be awkward for you, but just try to relax, you know? Tell me about your day. How's school? You still flunking out? Don't feel bad. I was never much of a student myself. My teachers were all assholes. You asked about a sense of power. Now I think everybody feels that when having sex. The power to get somebody off with your tongue is wild. I could even see doing that to you and having fun. Holy shit, John, it's almost 7:00. Shit, my parents are gonna kill me when they get this phone bill. Don't worry about that, buddy. I'll send you money for the calls. Wow, that'd be great. Thank you. I've got your back, bud. Hmm? I know money's tight for you now. Yeah, it is. You should think about going out hustling like we were talking about. A pretty boy like you would make a lot of money. Yeah, probably. Well, do it. Talk is cheap, man. Why don't you go out tonight? Okay. Okay, I will. - Yeah? - That's a good idea. I'll give you a call tomorrow at 4:00. You can tell me all about it. - And Jason? - Yeah? I want to hear every last detail. Okay. Bye, John. Jason, you are a fucking genius. If you're hustling on the street, location is crucial. Don't pick an area that's too busy. And watch out for the cops, those fuckers. Wear something nice, like a pair of cut-off shorts to show off your sweet ass. And you want to walk in a way to attract attention. Be sexy. Try working your hips. And when you approach buyers, remember to be flexible. They've got the money so they're in control. And they're gonna want to do it all... fuck you in the ass, the mouth; want you to fuck and suck them... all of it. You're there to provide a service. It's nothing personal. But make sure you get paid upfront. There's a lot of fucked-up people out there in the world that are gonna want to take advantage of you, so always watch your back. Excuse me? Well, look what the cat dragged in. Meow. Um, I was just wondering if l... Oh, and he's shy too. What's your name, kitty cat? It's Ja... Jack. Cute. So? So how do you want it? No, actually, I was wondering if I could pay you just to talk to me. No, see, I'm a student. I'm trying to write a paper... - Oh, hell no. - Wait wait wait, hey hey. - Wait wait. - You a pig? No no, I'm not. I just want to ask you some questions. Okay? I have money. I can pay you. Look. Come on, "Ja... Jack." I know the perfect place. So is this... is this where you take most of your customers? Hey, this is my special friend. Get him a drink. So tell... tell me about your approach. Like what kind of language do you use? You know, the terms you use for describing your various services. Drink up. Ahem. Like what do guys usually ask for? Most guys just want a blow job or they just want to be the top man. Sorry, what? "The top man"? You really don't get out much, do you, kid? That's where they get to do me from behind. That costs the most. I get it all though... everything from guys paying to suck my dick to me fucking them up the ass. Anyone ever try to hurt you? I was sucking some guy off when he put a knife to my throat. I tried to finish him off and get out of there, but he fucking cut me anyway. Was he trying to kill you? This is fucking boring me, all right? Finish your drink. I want you to meet a friend of mine. I want you to meet a friend of mine. This is my special friend. Trust me. Go ahead. Trust me. Jason. Oh God. Hey. You okay? You didn't show up at class. You haven't missed class since third grade. Yeah, I was just feeling a little tired. Hey, come here. Give me your hand. Come here, sit down. You know, Jason, I don't think this Gacy thing is healthy. You know... oh God. Listen, if you're here to lecture me, I'm just not in the mood for it. No, I don't want to lecture you. I'm concerned about you, Jason. You haven't been the same since you started writing to this guy. I just don't have the strength for this right now. Can we do it later? - No, you keep putting me off. - Yeah. I want to know what's going on with you. This isn't fair. I just... I'm feeling... I'm feeling like I might throw up. I'm feeling really sick, so... maybe if... if you could just go? If you could just go, we'll talk about it later, okay? - Fine. - Thank you. - I hope you feel better. - Okay, thanks. - Hello? - You have a collect call from inmate John Gacy from the Menard Correctional Center. Will you accept the charges? - Yes yes, I accept the call. - Thank you. - Hey, pal. - Hey. So how'd it go last night? Uh, not good, John. What happened? Well, I picked this guy up on the street, right? And we went to the club, we had a drink. He offered me $200 to be his top man. But when I stood up, I realized that that fucker had drugged me. Oh shit. So what'd you do then? I ran. That fuck stole my wallet too. That pussy cock motherfucker. You want me to have him taken care of? What do you mean? I know a lot of people out there, Jason. They'll find this cocksucker and they'll cut his dick off. I'm very protective of the people that I'm close to. No no, John, don't worry about it. So why weren't you more careful about who you picked up? I told you you've got to learn to read people. You've got to figure them out before they figure you out. You've always got to be five steps ahead of everyone, so that you're the one who maintains the control. I watch people very closely when they don't know I'm watching them. I try to figure out where they're going, what they're thinking, what's really going on in their mind. By observing their behavior, you can learn what their weaknesses are, their vulnerabilities, their fears. And once you get into their minds, you've got the power. - To do what? - Anything you want. Well, John, thank God I've got you to talk to about these things. I'm learning from the best. We're a lot more alike than you think. I just taught you. Now it's your turn to teach me. What I want to learn all about is that little brother of yours. Hey! Hey. - What are you doing? - Nothing nothing. - What are you doing? - I just got out of class. Cool. Listen, I'm sorry about the other day. I was just... I was feeling out of it. I'm much better now though. Good. What are you doing? Do you want to go hang out? Yeah, I have to study, but maybe you could come with me and we could get a movie or something after? Yeah yeah, that sounds good. - Cool. - Okay, come on. Hey. So if opposite charges attract and two like charges repel each other, what is the nature of their mutual interactive force? What do I look like to you, an encyclopedia? - Hmm? - Jeez, somebody's cranky. Get out of here. Don't. Get out of here. We're in a library, okay? What the hell are these? Would you give me... give 'em! They're for my paper. - For your paper? - Yes, for my... for my paper. I posed like this when I first sent Gacy a letter so he'd write me back. I can't take any more of this Gacy shit, Jason. - It's gone too far. - Would you keep your voice down, please? - What is the big deal? - What is the big deal? My boyfriend is posing seductively for a serial killer in prison and you don't think it's a big deal? People already think you're gay, Jason. I don't give a shit what people think. - Are you gay? - Am I gay? You know what, Alyssa? You can go to hell. Fuck. - Hey. - Hey. You wanted to borrow this, right? - Oh yeah. Thanks. - Yeah, no problem. So l... Gacy was asking about you. - Gacy? - Yeah. - Why me? - I don't know. I don't know. I'm still trying to figure it out. - But well, he wants to talk to you. - I'm not talking to a killer. I know. Look, I think I can get around it if he just gets a letter from you. I'm not writing him a letter either. I'll write the letter. Okay? All you have to do is just copy it in your handwriting. Why do I have to get dragged into your shit? Come on, Alex man. My plan is working here, okay? I'm getting him to open up and give me a lot of really good information. I don't want to lose him now. Alex, please, man, just... just this one time, okay? Come on. Please? Alex, just this once, okay? Fine. Yeah? Thank you. Dear John, I am so fucking pissed off right now. My father beat my ass again last night. I fucking hate him. I'm so sick of feeling this way. I can't trust anyone. I'm not sure I even want to live anymore. What would you do if someone beat your ass? I've thought many times about killing myself, but the Bible preaches against taking your own life. Then again, sometimes it's the right thing to do. Jason, your life will hit rock bottom some day. And when the time is right, you'll know what to do and how to do it. But don't worry, Jason. I'm here for you. I'm your friend, your only friend right now. ~ Fall on your knees ~ ~ O, hear the ~ ~ Angels' voices ~ ~ O night ~ ~ Divine... ~ It's kind of tough around here. A guy can't even get off in peace. I got 24-hour whack-off patrol up my ass. So listen, John... can I ask you something? Do you feel any remorse for killing all those boys? Jason, I never killed anyone. Look, I took three and a half hours of truth serum and they found that I had no knowledge whatsoever of the crimes. Yeah yeah, but would you feel bad if you did? Why would I feel bad? Those hustling bitches got what they deserved. Nobody asked them to go out there on the streets selling their asses. They were just begging to be killed and that's exactly what they got. No, but they weren't all prostitutes, John. There were other kids too. What kids? I don't know what you're talking about. How did you lure them into your house? What was your method? You can get anyone to do anything you want if you play on their fear. And the feeling of energy you get from someone's fear is unlike anything you could ever imagine. Tell me about that. I don't want to talk about all this negative bullshit. What I want to talk about is that skimpy letter your brother Alex sent me. I thought you told him that I wanted more details. I did, I did, John. But he... you know, he's stubborn. I can't control him. He does whatever he wants. Oh really? Well, you said to me, and I quote: "My brother looks up to me like I'm a hero. When I tell him to jump, he says, 'How high?"' Well, he hasn't been in the best of moods lately, John. He keeps getting his ass kicked every day, so just cut the kid some slack. What the fuck is he getting his ass kicked for? What is he, some kind of a pussy? No, he... no, he's not a pussy. He just... the other kids are a lot bigger than him. Oh, fuck that. You need to jump in there, Jason. You need to be a fucking man. You get a 2x4 and you crack this cocksucker's head open if you have to. You don't want people saying that the Moss brothers are a bunch of pussies, do you? No no, of course not. Oh, Jason, you and I are a lot alike. But your brother Alex... now he's not as strong as us, you know. So he needs to be led by example. And the same thing applies to the bedroom. You know? I've been giving this a lot of thought lately: You know, you two, you can get each other off just as well as anybody else can. You know, your brother, he's in a bad mood 'cause he obviously isn't getting any. Don't you see what a waste that is? Nobody would ever have to know. All you gotta do is slip into his bed one night and start rasslin' with him till you get him hard. And then you let your head drift down into his crotch, and then you put it in your mouth. And then he'll resist and he'll fight at first. But after awhile, he'll get into it and he'll let you finish the job. You know what, John? My mom's coming. I gotta go. Fuck. This is Jason. Leave a message. I'm sorry, sir, there's no one available at this number. Please try your call again later. All right, that's it, people. Don't forget the due date of your term paper is coming up and I am expecting nothing short of brilliance. Goodbye. Jason? Can I see you for a minute? So what's up? You're missing class. And when you are in class, you don't ask any questions, not that I miss that. I think maybe you got involved with something that... You're not my father, okay? I get enough of this shit from my parents. You're gonna get your precious term paper, but in the meantime, just get off my back about it. What? You have a collect call from inmate John Gacy from the Menard Correctional Center. Will you accept the charges? - Yeah, I accept. - Thank you. Jason, where the hell have you been? I've been calling you for days. Well, I've been busy, John. Okay? I have a life, you know? What did you do? You find someone else? - What are you talking about? - What are you, writing to another inmate? What, I'm not good enough for you anymore? John, John, it's not like that, okay? You think you can just ignore me? That's not how it works. You don't play both ends against the middle with me, you little shit. - I won't tolerate it! - Hey hey hey, John, just calm down. Do you have any idea who I am and what I'm capable of? Because I know who you are and where you live. For all you know, I could have somebody sitting outside right now watching you and your family. What are you talking about? You know exactly what I'm talking about. Don't play me, Jason. Remember who I am. How could I forget? And don't go taking your friendship away from me and I won't have to take something away from you, you got it? Yeah, I got it. Remember who I am. Always remember who I am. Fuck. Fuck! Fuck. Oh, you think you scare me, huh? You think you scare me? Huh? Well, I got you, you fuck. FBI! On the fucking ground. Put your fucking hands up! On the ground! Who are you talking to? No one. Why isn't the car washed? I asked you to wash the car before we left for Grandma's. - I am not going to Grandma's. - What do you mean, you're not going? It means I'm not going! Look, I just have a lot of important things on my plate right now. I can't be worried about going to Grandma's house. - Oh really? - Yeah. Well, then maybe your father and I should stop worrying about paying the bills around here and you can start fending for yourself. Yeah, maybe you should. Fuck. Hey, where are you going in such a hurry, faggot? - None of your business. - Huh? - Fuck off, Marcus. - Come on, man. Get the fuck out of my face. Oh, you're fucking dead. - Hey hey! - Jason, what the heck? Jason, that's enough! Stop! Stop it, let's go! - Hey! Hey, you two! - Come on. Ah! Hey, Jason. Jason? - What's with him? - What else is new? Where have you guys been? You know I wanted to leave before it gets too dark. We got held up. Why does he get to stay? Because your brother's going through some teenage life crisis. Go get your bag. Let's go. Sure, let's just worry about psycho Jason. Go get your bag. Go! Hello? Hello? Hello? Jesus! What are you doing here? What are you doing with a gun? Well, there's been a bunch of break-ins, so we... we got it to protect ourselves. Oh. Hey, do you want to come in for a second? I mean, as long as you're here, you know? Okay, just for a second. Hello? I have a collect call from inmate John Gacy. Yes, I accept. - Are you fucking kidding me? - Go ahead, sir. Jason, they denied my appeal. They're gonna kill me in six fucking days. My fucking piece-of-shit lawyer said it would never happen. John, John, slow down. I can't understand you. - No, wait, Alyssa, don't leave. - Forget it, you made your choice. Jason, are you listening to me? They're gonna kill me in six days! Okay, John, slow down. Alyssa! - Who the fuck is Alyssa? - Jason, forget it! I'm done, okay? I thought you said you didn't have a girlfriend. - It doesn't matter, John. - I thought you were my friend. I thought I could trust you. Wait wait, what are you saying, John? You pussy-whipped little cocksucking piece of shit! John? Fuck! Fuck! The room is nice. I like it. I always close the curtains too. So? On the bed. How original. Take off your stockings. How do you want it? Lie down on the bed... on your stomach. On your stomach. - What are you doing? - Just stop talking. I'm not comfortable with this. - Just stay still. - Motherfucker, let me go! - Shut up, shut up. - Stop it! Someone... no! No! - What are you fucking doing, huh? - Stop! What are you doing? Just shut up. Shut up. Shut up. Shut the fuck up! Shut up. Jason, there's a lot I want to get off my chest before I die, and you're the only one I can trust. Yeah? Like what, John? I can't tell you over the phone. I need to see you in person. I'll even let you see my top-secret files. And don't worry, I'll pay for the whole trip. It'll be fun. It's perfectly safe too. I mean, there's cameras and guards. I can even have the warden call you if you want. - The warden? - Yeah, he can tell you how safe it is. I already spoke to him. He said that he would be pleased to talk to you. Would you like me to have him give you a call? Sure. Great. I look so forward to meeting you, Jason. Hello? Open up, please! I need to talk to you. Look, Gacy is gonna be executed, Glen. I need to talk to you. He wants me to come visit him. Aw, fuck. I'm sorry to keep bothering you. I know how hard this must be. I need to figure out who I'm really dealing with here. And nobody knows that better than you do. So you're gonna go see him? I don't know. That's why I came here. You can't go there. Why? Tell me what happened. You want another Scotch? - Yeah. - Bottoms up. Boo. What are you doing? Just clowning around, buddy. I'm just clowning around. Oh. You would be surprised all the tricks you can do when you're a clown. You want to see a magic trick? Here you go. Huh? Go ahead. Put 'em on. Make sure they're nice and tight. - Yeah. - Ready? Huh? It's your turn now. Go on, put 'em on. - Go on. - What's the trick with these things? The trick is to have the key. I've got something real special for you now. I told you to shut your mouth, you pathetic little cocksucker! No. No. Hey hey, relax. You're really gonna enjoy this. No! Let me out of here. Let me out! I got this specially picked out for you. Ah ah ah! - Come on, step that fat ass up. - Ah! Please. Please let me go. Please. I jumped from the car. And I broke seven bones in my body and I didn't feel a thing. I hope that this helps you make the right decision. Hello, Mr. Moss, this is Warden Michaels from the Menard Correctional Center. I understand you have some questions for me. Yeah yeah, I was thinking about visiting John Gacy and I just wanted to find out how safe it would be. Well, Mr. Moss, there are a lot of safety precautions here at Menard. Well, is he going to be in the same room as me? No, you would be in two different rooms with a glass partition between you. Mr. Gacy will have his arms and legs shackled and there's a... there's a camera in the room where the visitor is seated that is monitored at all times. And what about the guards? Well, there'll be a number of guards and you'll be under constant surveillance. If there are any problems, a guard will be right there. There hasn't been an incident here at Menard in many years. Security is just too tight. You trust me... you'll be completely safe. - Jacket too? - Mm-hmm. Okay. Step through, please. Arms up and out to the side. Follow me. He's all yours. Sign here, here and here. - What is this? - A release form. For what? It says we're not responsible. Excuse me? In the unlikely event hostages are taken inside the prison, we won't negotiate for your release. So what you're saying is that if someone were to take me hostage, you'd let them kill me before you did anything to save me? Exactly. Sign there, please. - Have a nice day. - Mr. Moss? Officer Thompson. Nice to meet you. Mr. Gacy is very excited to see you today. That's good. Right this way. Go ahead. Jason, oh my God. It's so nice to meet you. Nice to meet you too. Look at you... you look great. Hey, Stan, would you mind taking a picture of Jason and I? - Yeah. Sure, John. - A little something for posterity. Something to remember me by. Excuse me, guard? - Where are you going? - Have fun, boys. Whoa whoa, hey hey hey! What are you doing? Where are you gonna be if I need you? Jason, come on, relax. Everything's okay. Please make yourself at home. Sit down. I mean, seriously, sit. It's all right. Hey, can I have the guys bring you a pop or a chocolate milk or something like that? - No. No, I'm good. - You sure? Yeah. God. This is perfect. I can't believe you're here. I mean, look at you. Thank you for coming. You know? Seriously, bud. Yeah, no problem, John. You know, I just wanted to be here for you. I appreciate that, you know? So tell me about yourself. Hey, you're not out there hustling anymore, are you? - No no no, not too much anymore. - Mmm. So how's the girlfriend? Alyssa, right? Yeah yeah, she's good. She's still there. Yeah? Giving her the old hard one? What's all this stuff? Oh, this is everything I promised you. Here, check this out. Got everything... newspaper clippings, notes from my trial; I got letters from "Inside Edition," channel 7, all wanting interviews with me. Look at all these letters. I get thousands of them, you know? I get 'em from all kinds of people... movie stars, rock stars, porn stars, politicians, women. You know? Here, check this one out. See this trailer-park bitch? She's got two sons incarcerated right now. She says she wants to have my baby. Can you imagine? Why would I ever want to get mixed up with trash like this? Wait, it gets better. Here. This is her sister. They've offered to give me the classic mnage trois. Can you imagine? Between the three of us, all this blubber moving around? You look good. Really. This food's not so bad. The fellas treat me pretty good around here. Isn't that right, Stan? You got it, boss. Jason? I ordered this dessert especially for you. It's my favorite... strawberry shortcake. I'm full, John. Thanks though. So John, you know how at your trial, you said that you didn't kill all those boys under your house and someone else must have done it? I want to try to find that one statement. I mean, who do you think did it, John, if it wasn't you? Do you have any idea how weak you are? I could just tell you to fuck off right now... and you'd have no one. What would you do without me? I don't know, John. Where would you be without me? You know, if I was a bad guy, I'd tell the police what you do with your brother, they would take him away and you would go to jail. Yeah, but you wouldn't do that to me, right? Hmm? I didn't say I would do it. Just remember who I am. I know who you are. John, we're buddies, right? That's right. That's right. So... tell me, did you have a smooth flight? Yeah yeah, it was fine. There was no problems. And did you get that painting that I sent you and the travel money? I did. I did. Thank you for that, John. I really appreciate it. Of course. I've got your back, pal. Yeah. So, John, you said you had some things to tell me when I got here. You know, some things you wanted to get off your chest. Yeah. Do for me and I'll do for you. John, tell me about that kid you admitted to killing. Okay? The one that you picked up at the bus stop and had sex with. Oh. I woke up and he was standing over me with a knife. He was gonna rob and kill me. I didn't have any choice. Yeah, well, if it was self-defense, John, why didn't you just call the police? Well, the son of a bitch, he shouldn't have attacked me. But he wasn't attacking you. Right? I mean, wasn't he just making your breakfast? What the fuck are you talking about? You don't stand over a man with a knife when he's sleeping. So what happened after you stabbed him? Nothing happened. Let me tell you something, Jason: You can always tell when a man is dead because he shits all over himself. The little cocksucker stunk up the place so I buried him in the crawl space. How did it feel to kill that kid? Did you feel powerful? Jason, Jason, you have no idea the power you feel. - How'd I feel? - Yeah. I felt fine. I slept fine. I am fine, aren't I? Thattaboy. Let me tell you something. Do you have any idea how long it would take the guards to get here if you screamed? Maybe one or two minutes. I could kill you right now if I wanted to. You know that, don't you? Huh? You know that? Yeah, John. But I got other plans in mind for you. You see that table there? Look. That's where I'm gonna do you. And after I'm done, I'm gonna wrap my hands around this throat and I'm gonna squeeze until it breaks. John, John, John, why are you talking to me like this, huh? "John, John, why are you talking to me like this, huh?" You know something, Jason? In person you are really a disappointment. Oh, you know what you are? You're a little pussy boy, huh? A little pussy boy. A little pussy boy. Here you go. - It's black. Where's the cream? - Well, I forgot. Check out monitor 3. It's kissy time. That's fucking sick. Leave the guy alone. He's gonna die in a few days. Least we can do is let the poor fuck get his rocks off one more time. - Doesn't mean I have to watch. - Then don't watch. You bitch. You like getting fucked, don't you? Like when you're hustling and selling your sweet little ass on the street? Well, now you're gonna get what you've been asking for. What the fuck are you doing, John? Shut the fuck up! God! All right, that's enough. This is over! Who the fuck are you to tell me it's over? I'm not who you think I am, John, all right? Guards, open this fucking door! You know how many little pussy boys like you died for this cock? Huh? Get on your fucking knees. Fuck you. Now open your mouth. Open your fucking mouth. - I said open your fucking mouth! - God. You fucking piece of shit. It hurts to let the demon in, doesn't it? - But you feel good. - You mother... I'll fucking kill you. - Get off him, boy. - I'll fucking kill you. - Let him go. - You fucking little cunt. Who's the clown now, John? You fucking piece of shit. - You'll be there with me! - Fuck you. I told you we're alike. We're exactly alike! Jason? It's okay. Oh, Jason. This is Jason. Leave a message. Jason, it's me. Pick up. What's wrong? I don't understand. They're gonna kill me in a couple of days. Why are you abandoning me? What is it? What did I do? Was it the little fight we had? If it is, l... I'm sorry. I'm... I'm really sorry. John? You little cocksucking jackoff. Do you have any idea who you are fucking with? I should have choked the life out of you when I had your throat in my hands. You know what I'm gonna do, Jason? I'm gonna send your letters to the cops and the FBI. I'm even gonna send a copy to your parents; let the whole world know what a sick perverted cocksucker you are. You want to send those letters to my family, then the police, John? Well, go ahead. Because everybody up here knows that I was just studying you for school. You were an experiment, John. I was playing you from the start and you were too stupid to figure it out. What do you have to say now, John? Tonight I'm standing outside Illinois's Stateville Penitentiary where John Wayne Gacy will be executed for the 33 murders he was convicted of 14 years ago. Three drugs will be administered in 30-second to one-minute intervals: Sodium Pentothal, an anesthetic; pancuronium bromide to paralyze the respiratory system; and potassium chloride to stop the heart. If all goes as planned, Gacy will be pronounced dead within 10 to 15 minutes. Jason? Jason, come on. - Jason? - Just go away. ...from the scene. And some of the families of Gacy's victims are present for the execution. One family issued a statement saying, "Nothing will ever bring our son back, but after 16 years, justice is finally being served." Meanwhile, protesters... We've just received confirmation that John Wayne Gacy succumbed to lethal injection and was pronounced dead at 12:58 AM, nearly an hour after his scheduled execution time. Cheers from the crowd were heard when his death was announced while others continued their protest in silence. So I have read your term paper. And? And it's very good. Thank you. So do you really think you were able to get inside his mind? Uh... as close as anyone can get. Well, listen, obviously you've been talking to a lot of people about this because there is a lot of buzz on campus about your project. I know some of the other students have been talking about your letters and even some of the faculty are aware of what you've been doing. I was wondering, would you be willing to put on a small presentation for the department? Nothing too formal... just talk to us about what you learned and how you developed this rather unusual methodology. While this sociopath was trying to humanize himself to me, the images of the boys he killed never left my mind. Their innocent faces still remind me of just how unthinkable these crimes were. And the losses that these families suffered should never be forgotten. We live in a society that is fascinated by murder, killing and violence. So I thought I was just one of many with a morbid interest in the darker side of human nature. But I also wanted to conquer something that I truly feared. Instead of running away from this monster, something told me I should confront it and look it in the eye. When I first embarked on this journey to enter into the mind and manipulate one of the world's most notorious serial killers, I never imagined that the one who would ultimately be manipulated and controlled would be me. Thank you. Very good, Jason. Well done, Jason. Very good. Well, Jason, you really took me for a ride. You were right, I never saw it coming. Of all the people who fucked me over in my life, I never thought it would be you. But it must have been fate. Thousands of people wanted me, but I picked you. We had a real connection, the two of us. And now that I know the truth, I know more than ever that you and I are a lot more alike than you think. It's time to die now. See you on the other side, buddy. I portrayed an image to Gacy of this lonely boy that had no friends. I wanted someone to teach me or help me. I presented myself as very naive. I didn't want to just learn about Gacy. I wanted to actually talk to him, find out about his crimes, find out the things that no one else could find out about. I thought, "I'm gonna find the secrets that the FBI couldn't figure out. I want to do what the psychologists failed to do." And every letter I got back, I thought that was one step closer to finding out why Gacy buried those kids. But he was also a part of my life for seven months. He was my friend, my confidant, the subject of all my nightmares. But it's weird to know that he's gone. ~ Maybe I left you alone too much ~ ~ Maybe I didn't know you well ~ ~ Maybe if I held you a little longer ~ ~ When you were a boy ~ ~ Maybe I would have been able to tell ~ ~ You dance with the devil ~ ~ You'll never be the same ~ ~ I wish I'd have known ~ ~ I'd make you stay with me ~ ~ My forever won't change ~ ~ Like a wound I keep on paying ~ ~ Time won't heal this kind of pain ~ ~ I watched you walk down that road ~ ~ I saw a side you never showed ~ ~ Pretended like it was okay ~ ~ I never wanted it to end this way ~ ~ If you survive ~ ~ You'll never be the same ~ ~ I wish I'd have known ~ ~ I'd make you stay with me ~ ~ My forever won't change ~ ~ Like a wound I keep on paying ~ ~ Time won't heal this kind of pain ~ ~ My forever won't change... ~ ~ Won't change, won't change... ~ ~ My forever won't change ~ ~ Like a wound I keep on paying ~ ~ Time won't heal this kind of pain ~ ~ My forever won't change. ~
