 

                        Will be awarded this medal now. ... And he wants every police officer be worn on the chest This medal will be given each year to the officer ... ... And who just does not have a duty ... But he went further and flesh the law itself This year will be given a medal to Our officer promising ... Assistant Inspector Ravi Varma Mr. Minister, my superiors officers Dear Colleagues What I want to say is not new Due to the prize always say I do not deserve this honor. Of course it is different that they do not mean that But in reality that is the truth World that respects and honors the man who stands behind the achievement But behind this other man also .. ... And who remain anonymous and you do not know people And those who names are not written in the book or a book or a bulletin But before accepting the medal, I wanted to call the person who stands behind Mathrey. This person is Somitradavi Which fortunately happened to my mother Feat which honored for her without a doubt this has been hands But the force is with them from my mother That is why I like to let my mother to receive this medal Come, Madam, let me take your hand Today is our strike atheist ten But it seems that owners with deaf ears ... Did not understand after our demands Think we Snhrmanm of their wealth It is not true. They think we hope to be rich like them .. ... And make them poor like us and this is also true We just want to make it clear that the workers ... ... And those who extracted coal from the mines are looking for fuel for their stoves We also ask that the black nights That loom over our lives all these years ... Be removed and the dawn of a new This morning dawn today ... When the workers of their rights and receive their fair share of their And treated at hospitals and good schools for their children If you reached my voice to the owners of the mines .. ... If we do not let them hear complain about ... ... Why are the vases full of fresh flowers in their rooms We complain why the dishes in our kitchens are all empty? We do not complain why this coal mines ... ... Turn them into gold. We complain ... ... Why do we receive just copper? At this moment my voice ... ... Up to their ears, let them if they hear This strike will not end ... ... As long as the us of force. - It's a good speaker - Do you silenced? No, never commit this mistake If Matt is the leader in early will become a martyr Forever - Life is prolonged death - So what do we do? - And also can not bribe him - If not money, Vbshie last Everyone has his weakness weakness one ... Put your finger on the point that will make it sell all the principles of But the point is ... What are the weak point Anand Babu? The pain of the children after school? They will be here, you resent greatly if a bit late Hahm attended - Tala here, where things were? - At school - How was school today - Our teacher said ... - I said something about you - The fact, what he said? - I have said that your father ... - No, no, he said that Anand Babu - Yes, yes you are a man of principles, Dad - Is this true? - I can not say my son - Come Arkdha, I have made to as "good" today You must see Mzaham they read the paper like you Or when they stand on the podium throwing a lecture, you mean the world to them Me and others in this world - Has any one brochure? - Yes, I've been doing is He was saying the same thing you are the only hope to have Yes, tomorrow will demonstrate outside the headquarters of the owner Let's see what happened And agreed to our demands, they gave us our rights Please gentlemen Vamalikin willing to discuss things Sent your representative who will speak on your behalf - Regards, Sir, prefer - Sit I have all the papers ready for a settlement between us Is Oaddthm before you speak to the workers Read the papers first and then signed Is Astdaitni today even make fun of me? We have previously refused to sign important papers written in this You do not see the entire file after Turn another page and you'll see I am a businessman, I also do not like such tricks But sometimes people like you to do so Ergmonni - Where is my family? - Wherever they may understand the fine Do you notice you, Sir, you committed a serious crime? You can stop me from committing Signed these papers and your family will return safely to you tomorrow If you refuse to sign? Not much, just Somzk this picture into small pieces? Do you threaten me You do not know this man he called Bachchan Singh We have also entered the prison twice on murder - Time to stifle a child 7 years old ... - I hear you, Sir ... - I listen - I am ... - I want my family - I want your signature I have signed papers relating to our demands - We have agreed to all conditions - What do you mean by that? We have agreed that Nkdh all on the same balance of payments We have also agreed that from now on that if we strike ... ... It would be non-legitimate I have ... We have all Batkm All pulled down, and you that gird a single word on this subject ... ... You and your children the same fate as Stlqon and Zjk I know, I know why I did that? I did it for me and for your children I was unable to And each one whispered Anand thief Only some boys hooligans You'll see, people will soon forget and will forgive you And utensils you'll get their respect as in the previous Frankly, all of them respect you Bring these drugs, do you think? Do not seem very concerned I'll be fine I will go and bring medicine Anand Babu Sneaky See, the wife of the owner going there pimp - You have defeated the fact - If, of course that he had received a piece of candy For coal only in the hands prevail - His face was all black - It's sneaky dirty No, oh, no Aouchm the name of the baby on my arm, possible? A good idea, once and still did not flicker and remained forever Look at this boy is going ... What is your name? - That I'm Anand Babu - Uh, I understood If this is a descendent of deceptive, ah? - What is your name? - And the name of your father? Say a thief ... You say, that what Toshmh will not wipe at all and for all? - If Aouchm on his arm - What? My father a thief What happened to my son hit you from? Ba told me the children Why do not you speak? My father a thief Vijay and I have Will not stay here Now everyone is against us Sneptad from here will move away How do we live here? How shall we eat? I'm here, Mom Beware, my dear - Where Ravi was here - Sure he is somewhere, I'll see Here is my mother - Why do you cry? - So what should I do? I can not send the whole money to both of you to school You can not raise enough money to educate both of us, but ... ... Both of us can raise enough money to send to Almrsp Ravi, I also will work I have But you just child's work to be done? - In the second race? - In the second race I think, that we have a good chance here - The third race manga - Well, but not for long distance - The meaning - the horse that is running slowly at first, is for long-distance - And when accelerating suddenly officially replace ailing emir everyone behind him. - Tamam, Sir Push it I'm the brightest shoes, I do not beg for pick up this coin and give it up, - Do you hear this, sir? - Yes - Give him the money - why? - Yes, give it them? This is a race long distances Is his arrogance? It will not shine shoes rest of his life? Day to take off quickly in life will succeed each and every one behind Save my words well this will be an outstanding boy in the life Will make a name for himself will get the highest grades in the classroom Well done Go to your place Come on, boys, open your books Are you blind, you Got a Teixreha even those templates? - Sorry, sir - sorry my shoes like they are very weak and can not work Go tell you the work of national and capable of Adjust the tongue Look at that, it is sin, show compassion even in these days I politely begged to work. Now is a drunk, how will work? - Anasrvi from here - I have two children, to not have mercy I have seen many people like you who rent and those who are sharpening their children and Come on now Anasrvi I have broken a new template must be the safest accounts to the employer Active only to the money and when it comes time to work, it .. Blood of this boy? Took him - Why was cursing - For the poor to bear everything If you find a better job tomorrow Will I receive from you a whiff? Nothing will change with you to throw stones, my son What has been written in our destiny will not erase a See me, see how much I take all the nasty remarks silently. Ravi is your brother, but consider how much you both are different Yes, this is true we are contradictory The vast difference between us ... This is ... - Will not enter the temple - What nonsense you speak it? I do not want anything else from the gods would not enter the If you did not enter, you will not talk to you and never give you food Allow me, but please do not Tghebreh. To enter the temple A man should pray with sincerity, not by force on the day he wakes up the faith ... Will enter willingly "Now go and pray. - Come, Ravi Tell me what my mother Ttlpinh of the gods when you arrive here Do I tell you, you happiness and peace to your brother Whether you are talking about, seriously, or ... Does not take words seriously, for this reason I do not get a job Perhaps it is about giving you a good job that suits you Listen, if so, make sure to tell him ... ... That I do not mind even if they paid me 250 rupees, or the like - nonsense Otskaa a little bit. Other than that, I'm not hated the gods like him! It has been years ago now, but ... Why do not you speak with him? My mother ... You saw only that he did not enter the temple But you did not notice that it sits on the stairs, wait for the day in - Have you finished your prayers? Let's go have to go - to address this - Take it - Here we go again It gives him a sacred gift. You eat a treatment Both of you they will be happy this way. Give him ... I am also. All right, Mom, I am the person who will become obese, to deal with this every day. So I am without a job will go to the office of exchange career? If you are late you will not get a job with safety, O my mother, my brother, to the meeting - How are you? - Okay, my son. Come up to new trucks will use this Beware there ... New boy ,.... Will learn slowly Every day I intend to ask you but I forget, regarding the badge - Emblems? - Yes, Mano.ha? - 786. - True 786 "Islamic" means coming up well, such as Hindus have "Om" - What do they mean 786? - Means the name of God I start with the name of God It is the beginning climber lucky, my son It brings prosperity, always keep it with you - Take the load, do you do? - Hello my uncle - my uncle called me, right? Not like this, my son so, do you understand? I was also his age when it became a docker How long are you here? You must have seen a lot of change Nothing has changed! Has carried the load before, today also the same thing Must pay for local villains some money so we can live Also today, I pay them. People also say that the time change Perhaps, I have seen that people who have changed Eptzonna - Regards, Sir - If Peter? How are things going? Good, I hope so. Of course, sir, whether one dares not to pay money for a barber? Today is the day of payment of salary for port workers. - Money will come to your office - Give it to the Rana He will give you your share Take this pocket expense Thank you, Mr. What is all this, O my uncle? Why take money from us? - This bill we are poor - What? You're new here, but you will learn They are men hooligans Mahliyun It takes us Rubitan - But why take them? Why? One did not dare to question even now you also do not ask them - Just pay and go thy Alrubitan No Why should I? No, we will pay them Do I have come here to raise money for them? I have to send them home expenses My mother, my two sisters living there if you sent money from now .. ... Only then we can pay the dowry for them, otherwise, how will they marry? No, you're asking me to pay them - Why should I give them? I will not give - Come .. - Wim you staring at? Put your money on this not - What? Would not it pay? Huh - It's a boy again, you will learn - Come, my son, pay - No, why should I pay them? - You stupid fool - It takes financial A help me. It is money that is taken by my mother He died in a queue waiting for the hospital and for what? Only for ... - Only just Rubitan - Why did not pay? We all of us In this world the poor must be heard and get out a lot They are being questioned by hooligans who will? You're right, absolutely right I am about 25 years now I have not seen a cat refuses to pay My uncle, that has not happened since the twenty-five years is going to happen now Vest last will refuse to take part with his money in the next week - Your name - Your name? - Rafi - Rafi Why? Ravi Varma - You can say that I graduate - What do you mean by that? I mean, I holds a Bachelor of - Your height? - Five feet. 9.10 or 11 inch - What do you mean 9.10, or 11? - Five feet ten inches This is the problem. You become nervous if you want to do with me ... ... How to pay charge there? You did not answer me with confidence - You get panic - I become nervous ... ... And then discuss all the rotting and people think I do not know anything This time I will be very willing I will be stunned them by surfacing Considered in the eyes of the person who conducted the interview with me ... ... And said ... - What will you say? - Your education? - He holds a bachelor's degree and five linear merocrine ten - I did not ask about your height if you have your certificates ... We wanted a smart guy like you for this work Then, you think I will get on this post My lord Yes, I said Yes, I have met him in rejoicing the birth of your son .. ... We have invited me I also met him there also Of course, will get it done well, Sir He was Director-General on the line - Work on the Sir working This post has been granted to another person Awarded to someone else? But you've just ... Yes, I know, but I just spoke with the managers of the year His brother in law ... - See, do not take things very bad - No, sir How to accept things are bad? It is I, I'm bad I have a university degree, in addition to the other certificates But I do not have certificate of recommendation - Listen, Are you also come for the interview? - Yes Do you have any around here, like GM?, Or the director here? - No If you will not get a job here?. It is better to go home? - These were not the last job on Earth? - I will not get even on this All right, my dear, everything was fine until Colleges We have been in the same chapter, we attended the same lectures, and we had our tea together But this world is not our college is a front drawers in the closet - Have a different booths and you ... - Daughter of the Commissioner-General of Police ... ... It is true that you are in a skybox, you are at the bottom, is not it? Yes, you're wasting your time with me What am Gnith? Where are you going? Place the owner here? What to consider? Remove your money Are you drunk or something? This porter has the courage to strike two? Today one man refuses to pay, and tomorrow two, and so forth Just go and bring me all this villain here specifically And make hell beaten out of it, just go now - Did you see Vijay? - No, I do not know anything - Where is - I do not know - Are you here? Why? - Men are looking for you Peter - Where are you going? - Get out of the pavement, why? Go the back of my son - Did the sidewalk owned by Peter? - Will not listen to this Listen, you call on me my uncle, right? - O my son, please, hourly, from this point - Well - We did not find it anywhere - I think that he escaped - It will not come back - Where to go? Will find him Not Trahmoh, Spend it Well you've come looking for you on your own you You are you are looking for me, and I was Antzerkm here ... If this is what they look like things Keep these in your pocket This will open the lock only when the keys out of your pocket Caught Took him, beat him Break the legs of this rascal Will the lock huh? You villain, will open this lock Prepared the keys to your pocket, keep them Live Vijay Why you had to fight them? There are other workers, too? Where are the chosen? Do not you think so ... ... That if something happened to you, what shall I do? These rioters ..... .. Will Estelon knives without any reason - Ah, Mom, I have now been Shut up? Would you give me lectures if you are very intelligent ... ... If you share this with him and that he did not even let me die in peace When I learned that they Itardonk why I went and confronted? - Pain can distill out? - Do you want me to run away coward? Why was this? What I said? - What did you say? - Mom - Let me go What he meant by this? But whatever he did, he was in our favor All of us? That we are alive Will live Mr. Director, it is at 11 and this boy did not come after Why do you think? Do I have to give him a chance? - Of course See, I have decided on the sales man, but I think, the work was for you - If you will get the job? - You speak English well, is not it? - Yes, it is assumed - If the start of the day - Explain to him his work - Thank you very much sir - Sorry but I am a little late - Not a little but often I thought you would not come back, so gave him work, right? - Yes, sir - Do not do that, I really achy I really do not have capital expenditures until the bus today - I have been delayed because I walked - Well, but we have Zvnah - But you did not tell me sir how Sotkadhi salary - 350 rupees What! I would get a job in decades if I accepted the payment of this remuneration Bugger - If you refuse an amount of Rs 3500 - No, but even if it does not matter ... - I do not want your job - Handed him a job I say, sir, I am .. - Congratulations - I am ... What can I say, sir? There is nothing wrong. This world has become a wagon train of the third degree Little of the area, many of the passengers If I sat down, you will stand Did not you sleep after son? - Go and sleep, my son - What you type this? When there are vacancies, I sent requests The hour is late, go and sleep Look, I have approached the dawn It is not dawn as usual today emerge ignited ... ... When will each and every one home and profession, there will be no poor people And emerge at dawn today when the workers get their rights ... When seen the dawn of this day ... Oh, my Lord This is the problem with reading wanton become a preacher Well, go to sleep now These days, travel by train has become a nuisance I say, sir, where are you going I ask you, sir? Where are you going? Nowhere Hey You, Yes, you are The teacher wants - Is your name Vijay? - Yes - Do you flogged men Samant in their own homes? - Samant of this? To which funds go up in a safe port workers by extorting Samanat enemy as well. If you want, we can help each other - How? - Log in Log in, do not be afraid - Look to others - The names of their friends also My name Davar fill the car, my driver Addition to extort money from the hands of workers, shipyard workers and mills ... Samant and his men messing their fingers in other pies Such as liquor dens, and dens of gambling and smuggling ... ... Looting and other smugglers - From here you become a discount Gold comes from Dubai. I do not know how it came to him Samanat and his men stole the gold from me three times I need a man, who, after a dump gold, then ... ... Up to the stores, and protected from the police and Samanat I need you, and can take care of everything you need Do you agree? What do you consider? I look to the pavement there A woman with two children unable to innocent Weak and hungry and homeless I accept your position, sir Today is the first day you in your new job here. Keep it. Sir, many years since you attended the races And stopped the car at a specific place and you polishing your shoes - Yes, why? - I do not capture the money that is thrown to me, also the day Place this file and a hat on the table, do not forget to Briefcase Hello sir, we met today Where were you, Ravi? What are you doing these days? Did not hide from you, sir? That is not in place - Do not place? If you joined the police - The police force? I I'm not joking, we need young intellectuals like you - Did not see ad? - Do you think it will become an officer, police? Of course! But do not expect me to recommend any word about you Would not it do? If I will send a request myself tomorrow Make me a cup of tea also, my dear Sobdl my clothes and come, sit down, my son So, you will become a police officer also Holiday in AD Alojerkint certainly will become a gang member! My father in police ... ... And now you are! Why the police are always after me A shipment of gold will reach Versova beach at 11 pm All of you will you will be there and Darban Vijay Kumar .. ... Will be located at a distance from the place will continue to monitor all aspects Once you reach the ship Jaychand will go to these people ... ... And highlight them, and torn paper currency of this The second half of the coin will be with them. They will collect the parts - I give the gold to Jaychand - Sir ... I want that the first thing, the work Astojrtne for ... ... How do I go by it is also practical - I did not understand you - you want gold you will receive a safe But there is a requirement that leave this work to me - Do you want to do this work alone? - Yes, Sir - Do you think you can do on your responsibility? - No, sir I know I can do the work myself Ll I try was with you that you will work on your own Take a piece of criticism, but remember this ... The police will be behind you and also Samant Just My Luck Srdni, sir You will not need it. I want to speak with him on the work of Do you want to talk about the business to stop the elevator in this way I was told that the walls of the bumper does not have ears Sir, if I told you where and when ... ... Will be landing went Davar, how much will you give me? If this was a joke you will not live to hear it If you take this as a joke, you will live later to cry on This is equal to gold, 500,000 - How do you know all this? - You only all the fruits Why are you worried about the trees? Tell me, what will be my share? 500.000 only when I get the gold Well, send your men there Ship will be on the beach at 11 pm Varsova Take this You will get the gold when you offer this? If you lie it will be the last time you lie the Because it is up to you to receive the gold will be here as a hostage I'm ready. You keep the minds of 500,000 - is ready Listen, stop the truck in the garage And brought the goods here in another vehicle Your information was correct We've got the gold Now we must Onohsal to the 500,000 rupees his But of course .. You did not say who you are Tell me about it will not make gold prices cheap I want to work has been financial We have got the gold. Now what if I pay you money? Sir, I knew the story of popular when I was a kid A man had chicken, which Badt golden egg every day Once thought why not open the stomach chicken ... ... And take the eggs once and forever? And the slaughter of a chicken? Thought Do you want all the gold today? Or ... - You only pay your foot - I knew Here is the 500,000 th full - When Sthblgne again? - Very soon Kept your hands raised Thank you for all the problems ... That to endure to bring your gold here Now I'll take it to the stores from here, Mr. Davar Thought, this kind of hostility with Samant will cost you dearly When I purchase such problems you do not care about the price Your face to the wall, come on Look the other way If any of you turned to leave before this truck garage, I'll shoot This time, it will not draw the bullet to the hand - For the moment only, Vijay call you, me? - Vijay speaks - Congratulations, this was a film classic - Thanks - You started this game I promise that I Sonhiaa - Who was this? - Samant congratulate me How do you receive this hole in the pocket of your jacket? - Men Samant shot on? - What Yes, but by chance .. ... It was a badge in my pocket Badge No. 786 If this thing saved you? Come This is your share in addition to the 500,000 that brought - All this money ... - Yes, all of you Come on, Mom. This will be your living room Here is a small temple for you This kitchen, and ... ... This, dining room this room there will be Ravi Come Go up the stairs I will take a tour - But this house seems expensive - Do not worry, my mother in this regard People who work for them is give you a big house like that? Look at my mother. Terrace that will be here ... I hope you do not do something which should not be doing No, my mom, I'm not doing something that needs to be done - This concerns a mental - I think the concerns are part of our destiny - Has slipped from your shoulders to your mind - my mother - It is a wonderful brother - What happened to us - Why scream as well? - Why not? It is worth screaming for it It is simply wonderful. Everything will be in place at the right time I have been optional, and during the three months I will be a police officer - Barkini my mother - Tpricati always with you Perhaps God Ibarkma both of you success - When will my son? - Within 3 or 3,5 hours - Write letters to your mother? - Of course - Will you come on weekends? If I wrote you letters and come in on weekends ... When I will have time for training? And leave ... This is my mother, Ferro Mom, this Ferro and this is my brother My mother, my colleague in this study - Do you go, Mom? - Let the dropper goes It is not a child, will go Soouselk then go to my work - Well, my mom - Take care of yourself, my son She is beautiful Look how sad is my mom and you? You have come so late? And if I come late on purpose I thought of that brought you some flowers Well let's not fight with only one minute to go Say something nice to me faster now Are you going? No, I came here to waste my time and walk the train I was on my way I will go - Of course I'm going! What is the thing that you Stsolinh - Why get angry to this extent? So why are you asking that stupid question? Do you know how to reach Samant to see our actions? Dayal sure you've seen? I used to work for Msaljti? - He was a man Samant - Dayal Yes, yesterday, during the cut the road ... Run over by a truck .. Sir, just simply, he is a man Samant ... ... It was us Quach ... ... Why is there no men in our camp ... ... And who Sibulgonna his plans - OK Vijay ... .. And you'll overcome the Samant once, but you do not know. It is prudent Reality. Samant is not granted pursuant to Ohddon screening So it will be difficult for us to join him Suppose that a man .. Today, Samant, who wants more of everything? My life So, if a man and less like, you Draban here ... Darban Samant must be informed that tomorrow at 10.30 ... .. I will leave a bar certain unarmed, and alone My car will be parked on the other hand, while I'm going to my car .. ... Men can attack me Samant - When you do not leave at 10.30 ... Samant ... men will do ... - I will leave at exactly 10.30 Then they think that is our enemy Darban Discount enemy is a friend and for this ... ... Darban will get a job there - You forgot one thing If you leave at the time was the time of your life would be in danger - And they certainly Sechtaronk - I know, sir In this attack may have run away or I might die But in both cases, Durban is the trail ... ... Will have a place in the gang Samant Why does this tell us about Vijay? It is the guy who threw me out of work Davar If you kill your men, I would be happier you Secondly, if my Osaadtk you may Ptozivi If you tell the truth may Oozvk But if it turned into a trap, you will not walk again My information is correct Vijay night ... ... This will leave the bar alone and unarmed at exactly 10.30 No need to thank I was looking for an excuse to talk to you anyway I was thinking, that in such moments ... That there is a handsome, or too lonely like you in this bar Who would risk his life, and be with me at the moment You may of said this is why we will leave you alone Otherwise, you do not seem disappointed with yourself too, please This alcoholic drink is something amazing every person has reasons to enjoy it Some drink because it is tired after a hard day's work Some because they did not do anything all day, and feel bored And the others, because they are with their friends on this day And then some, because they are alone, it is true Why am I thinking? Because you're waiting for someone to And the person who waited for him sure that he is waiting for me outside For both of the two soft drinks Sorry, you forgot something in this bar? - Are you expecting these young men - Yes What can be the name of a strange man like you? Do me spark my cigarette please? - You did not ask me about my name? - What is the benefit of the question Your kind of girls who change their names on their clothes as Ibdln Yes this is true. This is also the fact that he told her the first time to a strange man; ... ... Those are my parents Smonni Anita I was really very close to the brink of death. But how do you run away? I survived once again because of this Badge No. 786 Vijay, come here Starting from the day you sit in this chair - Sir? - Let me relax a little and I have And you manage everything anyway. So why should I worry? Remember, Jaychand this happened years ago Money thrown towards polisher was rejected is picked up? Yes, I did, I also said that this boy will move the world in one day Did not prove I'm wrong Vijay really is the boy There is a call to you from a girl You are not related to the past three months and how brings you a call like that? Training has finished and tied up in Mumbai will come today I am very happy, I wish I'd see you here when I hope to see you So why Thrc in your head? Just look and you'll see Can a police officer Ravi Varma to enter? Leave me what to do Why did not you send a letter coming? I thought it was a police officer You are great! I'm not a police officer for real? I'll be in Mumbai now - Ziyi soon you will see where Vijay? What can I say? Since the beginning of his business, did not enjoy a moment of rest Comes after midnight, barely eating this if it happened. That even he does not sleep quietly turning in his sleep forever? - Does money bring insomnia, my son? - In all cases Possession of money brings insomnia and lack of ownership brings a deep sleep I think that this is Vijay - Once it has reached? - Just now my mom says that you come home late Check it alone in this house but I say that the house is looking great All of this furniture, decoration ... How Tdbernh so quickly? Become a policeman, right? Take a bath and change your clothes, come on Well, Sosthm I'm very hungry, so the feet of our food quickly Vijay, take a bath, too, will eat together - it's officer All the difficulties that we experienced Tkasemnaha my mother and I and Ravi After the walk this long road together, side by side ... ... I have turned away and Ravi aside much It is a police officer and you and you ... I'm afraid I do not have to hear that you are afraid to gird Rafi What do you think about it? I think you have given me this apartment, this car I bought me what I can buy accessories from Even this did not surprise me, but today .. ... Tell me your life story, you really Ahtmtni Why? Are you one of those others who share their joys, but do not share their grief I am surprised that your participation today worries me ... ... Why has given me this great honor I do not know why, but I think you're good Stvhemeni Give me all the information for those who suspect their police These are their names, but I'm sorry I do not know much about them One of them is Mr. Davar for the public is the owner of Hotel This is just a disguise, since the seventeen-year-old .. Spent a period of punishment for smuggling I have concealed himself for several years, but now it is the most respected among the smugglers There is another man with him. For several years he was a porter at the port, but these days .. Have a large garage ... I know ... ... To the garage only to throw dust in the eyes of the law and police In fact I'm sure that one of the largest partners Davar ... What name? There are some other men there are two other Such as Jaychand Santosh Mehta ... ... Snganya. There are only a small fish in the lake. Here, keep this Give this file to another officer - I can not give this particular case - What? What happened? Why can not you taking? Vijay Varma is my brother He's my brother, sir I'm sure you will understand my situation sir For this reason, please submit this case to another officer, sir I understand your feelings and I also ... ... And I respect Nzahtk for being very straight in this regard But despite that, I want you to be different in this case - But, Sir. - Yes, I want it this way We have obtained the highest scores in each test was chosen Today, you stand in front of the largest test, which .... ... And who rarely faced a police officer. And you evade? No, sir I can not bypass this test - I can not forget he's my brother - Think of it today If you do not wish to proceed you will need to take another person But before making any decision of any kind, just remember ... ... That this is a disease which is addressed by a police officer ... .. Overcoming all personal feelings, as does the doctor As of today not being a doctor for the surgery itself But if I said, it will first be thinking today Pause, stop, or else I'll shoot Stop wailing, you will not die, I Ospetk in your leg Tell me, what is stolen Only for a loaf of bread? Summoned an ambulance, what is your name? Where do you live? - Is it possible to enter? - Yes you prefer, please - I'm sorry, but did not know we have not met Aliko never If you're sure you friend Chander - Are you his father? - You see ...... Chander is not in the House I know and I know, it's in the hospital Under arrest, police If you do not mind .. ... I bought several things What is it? You did not say who you are? Well, I ... I am the officer, who shot your son? Get out and take this with you Zakat Left, man of the law my feet a great justice by Is Aadaltkm just shoot the poor? What did my son? I stole some bread for his parents, if you are the protector of justice such as this .. Go ... and shot them, who, in the store Seapop Soamahm Shot Oznehm so steeped in the black market I know that no one will punish them we just called us from the fire Ikrah of my house, Get out I would like to apologize My wife is educated, so it is ... But I have no complaint Theft is theft whether pounds or 100,000 rupees Chander, in fact it was not so Probably not likely to see us starving But millions are dying of hunger in India, you should all become thieves? I have nothing against you ..... Whatever you do it correctly What have you done for your living? I was a professor in the school? I retired last year I give some of the lessons We have absorbed these lessons, such as only some of the teachers houses - Yes, Ravi - I'm ready to receive this issue, Mr. I give Mr. Aggarwal check your tags Prefer sir Keep leaves this building with you Now that the deal was held Can I say something? You buy the eighth highest you asked ... ... I have taken you much less say please do not opposed to this - But you can not make deals - It's you who can not make deals Even if you requested a 100,000 increase them, we will pay you Reality? What is special about it? Twenty years ago when this building was held ... ... My mother carried bricks on her head Today I am presenting a gift to my mother What happened to my mother? Why are there so you Ravi? Vijay, I want to tell you something Today the police department gave me a list of It is a list of those who suspect their police ... ... They are involved in smuggling and illicit trade One of these names you Do you have anything else to say to me? - The impact of this paper? - Why do it? It says that you intend to become a prosecution witness You tell them all about your crimes tainted money, and the names of all partners I want your signature on this Do you remember the nights that we spent on this sidewalk. Starving, and we children? - Do you sign or not? - Do you remember .. ... How my mother must work until the congregation Rubitan for her medicine - Do you sign or not? - Do you relive memories of humiliation and ostracism? Vijay, you will sign or not? Yes, I will sign But I will not be alone? I will not be the first to sign? Otherwise, get the signing of the signing of the man who took my father? Or the signing of this man who was expelled from her mother? This man, too, which draw tattoos on my arms? After all that, will sign any paper required me to my dear brother Not less than the sins of man when he talks about the sins of others And prove the crimes of others does not alter the fact that you are a criminal This fact is the wall between me and you, my brother .. ... As long as this wall exists, we can not live under one roof I'm checking for this house is now the moment - Come on, Mom, you can go, but my mother will not go - Come on, Mom - - I said that my mother will not go - My mother would go No, my mom, can not leave me and go - I know you loved my mother can not leave me I am going - No, Mom, you do not - Who was this man who made your father's sign? No one. It is the same man who testified against me and threw me out of work And the man who tattooed your name on your arm also was not something But are you? You're my son, my flesh and blood How can Toshm on my forehead that I have a thief? But I did all this for you?. This villa car, money, all this for you? All this for you after this Ttkirnni?? A real businessman, I understand. Can I tell you something, in spite of this? Do not try to buy your mother You have not become very rich even buy your mother Let's go, Ravi, Come Twenty years ago, when it was established this building ... ... My mother carried the bricks on her head for the establishment of foundations Today I offer this building as a gift to my mother Vijay, Enter now Make me a drink - Is there a cigarette here - In the closet at home You also wear a sari This is not a valid This is a dream hold it in my mind And that a long time since crash Dreams, the waves in the sea ... ... Crashing on the rocks of the facts of life Well, Mom, I'm going to the Office Can you say something? I do not have the stomach to see you sad if you would like to return to Vijay .. ... You will not mind Soouselk myself there No, Ravi, I will stay here With you, did not always ask ... ... Who was beloved of my heart Will tell you today, ... Vijay .. I liked more. But my love is not blind It can be seen .. ... What good work or bad that I did Ten minutes later, a shipment from the ship had been sent in this store. - Two minutes later, two trucks Saudaowin have entered, and this means ... ... That the goods will leave the warehouse within five minutes This phone is dead go and summoned more police But what will you do on your own? So that the pistol is not Bhozatk It is better to speed up and I'll wait here Stay in your place. I Toguena Location It would be better if you recognized yourself to us I do not want any bloodshed and that I came here to Oatqlkm Before I leave ... If any one tried to leave the warehouse ... ... It will rain soon to take a shot of the outside So they threw Bmsdsatkm and stand as one How do we know that there are no police? Shankar Go and take a look Wait Why do not you go and you see yourself? Afraid you get shot? Go and open the door and see abroad But if you receive a shot, then you are responsible for the death I'll give you a minute to think about Are You Ready ... .. To arrest only, or do you want to ... ... To leave this place Kmassab, Kjtp or dead? Ponder We are ready to do as you say, the presence of the Inspector They gave me Msdsatkm You will also come - If there is not any police abroad - If not as well off Vsaisalon This is also backed by Ravi Varma was the sixth attack him Within two months also In our field sometimes wins, police and other times we win - This does not continue in this way - But what about work? I promised these young men that Ozadeh goods, but ... .. Thanks to Mr. Ravi Varma ... - If you can not provide us with goods ... Returned to us our money, we can not wait any longer - Did you see that? - This is a simple subject, Mr. Kill a police officer this is what you say Vijay? What's the use to kill him? Will last But he probably would not be smart just like Ravi Varma this Frankly, alone, without any gun is with him ... ... Arrested eight men, armed with - I still say, sir ... ... Send this officer to his Creator - Keep this advice for yourself stupid He said what could he But he should think about the consequences before you speak Each police officer will become a bitter enemy who kills a policeman for each Is this the only reason that makes you not want to kill There are not other reasons? - What do you want to go? - What is this nonsense, what are the other reasons? Vijay Well, there are not other reasons, tell us Yes, he's my brother And that I spoke with him again will pluck out your tongue Praise be to God, I thought you were coming here in uniform - I'm not late, right? - It does not matter Those who travel by car is always running late Do you know why Astdeitk to meet here, Ravi? It is that Tai Game to my house .. ... And against my principles to come to your home - We can only meet in another place? - No, not anywhere else, only here No matter how much you may disagree Childhood were not separate from each other Today, when it crashed all the bridges between us ... ... This was the only one remaining This bridge .... Who spent most of our childhood beneath Here exactly Before I say anything or ask ... This special moment ... ... Who listens to me? Brother or a police officer? As long as the brother who speaks Vok listen When he speaks, and the criminal police will listen Vdhabt We have created a lot of opponents have stopped by here today ... But tomorrow maybe I will not be able to do so Moved from here and go to another place Is the offender, after renouncing dress brother, to say this? I think that the wall between us is much higher than the bridge You do not know what can be output from the road Taktoh The way you chose, you may be the end of scary But the path you have chosen does not lead to nothing but misery I've already played all my papers? Now may earn or lose But still you have the time Go and look for some jobs No, my principles and convictions to do so Tmanani Your principles and convictions that are useful? All your principles and convictions can not devour the two meals Those principles that you are ready to sacrifice your life for it ... ... What they brought? 500 rupees is the salary of the job and a rented apartment and pocket This khaki uniforms, look at the I am that same boy, and you also have both of us grew up on the same pavement But see where I left you and see where I grew up I have a real real estate, villa, bank account ... Car What do you have? I have a mother Hey, wake up, this is the last station the train will not go further than that, I wake up - Anonymous? What can I say more - Body was found on a train No sign his name did not recognize one of the body, thus, unknown But he was on a train, so sure that he has some baggage This hub of some clothes and this is also The third person is a woman named Jamenbadi Forty year-old You do not write down this? Corpse not identified It is not diagnostic Is this you? How it happened and I came back early today? Why are you standing? Go and there is no water today I could not cook as well. Will be imperative that we eat surplus What a headache I did not even lit fireplace this morning Is this what it should be it human to die of thirst? - Mom - No, no, Mom, do not Of not less than this, my son We must do by decree last spark of the Holocaust, where the eldest son? Vijay, what should I say to you? Your brother and your mother may forsaking you angry Every time I told you ... Does not define that interest in But today ... How can I tell you that day? - What happened to you today? - Nothing happens Anita O? My father died twenty years ago? Today Mrasmh held, that's all Can I tell you something Vijay? Remove this surgery and beauty but will never forget this Clear if one of these lines from the comfort of his hands, how will change the amount of It's not on my arms only, but is also in my heart ... ... Spirit and mind as well. Thus it is not plastic surgery on the face of the earth learn to remove This can not be removed, you can not - After my mother - Are you a departing son? - Did you go to the doctor? - And when I go? - That's it I do not like such neglect leave all Hzz, sometimes Rest Concern that eats the heart is no longer present Now nothing, but the rest I - You're - I will tell the doctor on my way - Will come and examine you here? - The concern of you, son? - Is the recording of such calls? - Yes, come with me This is a copy of all calls that are made from these figures - Are you sure it is not losing any call - Recording device that automatically A call is made from these figures are running this operating system - Of these young men? - Obviously they are not respected young These days even the smugglers do not work for them on the phone only Algramyat Jaychand? Do you have this Aalmadp - Yes - Well, exactly at 4:45 pm .. ... Left the hotel (the sun and the sea) car In a way, at any intersection of men Dindayal ... - Left ten minutes before. - Come, O Ravi - Jaychand made a confession I want an arrest warrant on behalf of Mr. Davar and Vijay Varma I have an arrest warrant in your name - Can I phone the lawyer? - From police station Go up to the pocket, he informed the Commander General of Police, I have been arrested Davar Now I'm going to arrest Mr. Vijay Varma No information yet? Highways, train stations, airports keep tight control over all of these Vijay Varma sure to be hiding somewhere in this city So police are sure that Vijay is hiding somewhere in here This is what the newspapers say at least Police should not arrest Vijay I am that you must Hold I promised him, is the one who started the game ... Sonhiaa ... but if I caught the police ... ... How I'll keep my promise? Bad news, O Vijay Every police force in Mumbai, haunt me what the worst of it? It's sick mother in hospital There are police on every degree you can not access the hospital never How is your mother today? Vera, sometimes there comes once in a lifetime. ... When one can not distinguish what is wrong and what is the correct I am surprised sometimes how to make my son see his mother Then I also cordoned off the hospital until the police If Vijay attended to see his mother will be arrested in the case You know you for, but this applies where the arteries with the blood of my father ... ... Flowing milk also my mom and brother race also But after all this, what I'm doing is correct and I find the right thing Do you know what Krishna said to him? I know my son know But the person who heard the gods was someone other than Arjun Arjun and I'm not, my dear I think, it's difficult for you to link to the hospital .. Police suspect that you will link to here They have cordoned off the area - And my mother? - I asked the nurse. Very serious condition And I can not be near my mother? Is no way for that, Vijay My mother used to say, when it seems all roads closed ... ... There through Ahdo, and today will try this way Anita, Wait for you here You should be very happy today Look, the person who did not climb grades up to this temple today ... Which did not bend you up to today ... The person who did not create his hands for you ... Begging you today You must be a happy day happy day ... That I come But you know, I have to stand here this ... That this woman, which weakened her forehead Attabatk ... That those women who increased her prayers more sufferings Which had been oppressed all her life, and still, they kept burning lamp. That woman This woman today stands between life and death They defeated you, yes Defeat it because of you Makto perpetrated? What is the sin or crime that I did? Do it my mother? Is it because they bore me? Do you wrong I loved? What is a crime punishable by because of them? We are homeless? My father became a living body. And my mother ... ... Became a widow after her husband and did not ask you anything you But today I ask for something Lost in my mother does not punish crimes committed by that I submit myself to you Do what you want me, but Prepared me for my mother Give me my mother my mother prepared me My mother used to come to this temple every day We are brothers and we used to go on our way from here But Msarena will vary very much .. ... I did not know Before I go home I would like to go to the temple Well, my mom - How are you doing now? Fine - Your son has come here No, not this one but I have asked God to prolong your life Your mother okay, Vijay? It's in the house now? My mother's fine now? Really? This is good news brought by the - No, do not worry I have - Yes, come here to address this - Let's Eat - Would not drink? - I stopped drinking Why? Will become a mother Mother of the child, but will not force you to marry me Whatever it takes ... Going to give birth this child I will and I am life. Like my child ... ... And that compares with my life and your life also ... ... It would be better Marry thee, O Anita today, in the case After that the police Sostzlm Yes, my dear If we have a better life for Oldna time ... ... Must sacrifice to atone for this even for my sins I do not want ... I do not want to Yoshm one on the arm of my son, "his father a traitor - Anita What's this? - Oh How tears today? Come we will go to the temple Do you wait for some time? Sobus and I will bring? My mother gave me a sari My mother is not present, but the dream ... Is one of only stayed with me today, can I go now? Go tell my Anita, I'll wait Who speaks? How are you my mother? I have come to the temple, my mother? I want Tpricatk. After that I just want to Is the Staten Mbarkii? Of course, I'll come, my son certainly My mother ... You - Where is it? Who? - Link you to the person who - I do not know - Required by me and by the police? I do not know anything You do not define P, huh? If not tell us ... ... Die gruesome dead Where is it? - Everything completed - What is the time you have now? - 9 am - It's too late The boat had been hired and we all must be that we have left this place By tomorrow we all will be miles away from this place You all just go I come from a place as remote as is the case must go back now Do not leave me and go, my love, I'll be lonely, alone We have thought many things in a short time ago Our child, our house - And now all our dreams shattered, no, my dear Ahoudni strongly strongly strongly - Yes, Anita, Do not be afraid - I will not fear, Vijay I will not let you die will not let you, Anita I was a long time ago ... Vijay. Today is a kind of .. A new birth for me - No. .. Just tell me who they were - Who were these, my dear? - I'm scared I'm scared what might you do? I am .. Did not tell them something ... Anita No, no .. Samant Samant I want? Where is it? What would you say? Are you sure it was Vijay Varma? All this proves that the gold meaning house Samant Will obstruct house Samant Police today certainly will find on Vijay Varma Any price - Staten Mbarkii to my mother? - Of course I'll come, my son Perhaps God, not shaken hands when they shoot him Are you going? Yes, the women's duty Now the mother considered her son Who is this? The hell are you? You, why are you here? I kept on when your distance is not near me Come up with your men, and you all of you, surrounded the building Police had taken your You have no way to escape him yourself to the police Peace yourself Stop, my brother, otherwise I'll shoot Perhaps God, not shaken hands when they shoot him. - Staten Mbarkii to my mother? - Of course I'll come, my son Pause, stop, Vijay I have come, O my mother, Otren? I'm here What happened to my son? What happened to you? Tired ..... So tired of my mother .. Struggle with life has ended ... I'm too tired, Mom I feel so sleepy, Mom I want to sleep my mother You are not angry with my mother No, my sons I'm not angry at you Otaatzkrin my mother? On the sidewalk ... I used to sleep in your arms Tdjalini I could not sleep at all away from you I did not sleep the fact Today, once again, my head .. ... In your lap, my mother. Let me again this time I No, my sons, not less than this At least something like Everything will be fine, Mom - I'm not angry, is not it? - No, my son Mom, Barkini ... My mother Yes, my son, bless you You can not go and leave me, my son
