 

                        In mermory of Chi Mo (1973-1996). Chi Mo suffered from haemophilia. His blood was contaminated from blood transfusion. Which caused him to suffer from AIDS. He died in the age of 23. Brother My beloved brother is so far away just after a mere four years But somehow, he always feels near Like a guardian angel I loved to sneak under his quilt during winter Feeling the warmth of his feet... ...then fall asleep listening to his stories But one day, dad wouldn't let me into brother's bed That year, mom came back with brother from the hospital Mom was crying Since then, brother has his very own eating utensils... ...from cup to toiletries He become reclusive Hello? Yes... Where else can I go? Dad... I regret... ...not taking little Fu for holidays Yeah We never even played together It's my pleasure to present, the mother of Chi Mo Mrs. Tam Li Ming Chun Hello I feel a little nervous, standing before you Let's lighten the mood okay? Lets sing a little song Shall we? You all should know this one song Because this is... ...the favourite song of my son Chi Mo Let the sunshine... ...show me my dreams Keep me warm when I'm Ionely Guide me across the ocean Make my dreams come true May this sunshine enter your heart Bringing you warmth and light Let this sunshine... ...show me my dreams Keep me warm when I'm Ionely Die Hard? Hello, I'm Mrs. Tam Lemon squash, please - Anything else for you? - No Like to try... No one wants to eat here Excuse me You should stop smoking It's bad for you What else can I do? Be optimistic Optimistic? I'm so fine, happy, happy That's the spirit At least you can still say that That's the right attitude You are no ordinary housewife You think I'm Susie Homemaker? Die Hard? I can't tell what you're like over the phone Don't even know why I asked you out I seldom see others Miss Chan, the nurse told me... I don't care what Miss Chan or Dr. Cheung says... ...something cocktail party... I don't want to listen anymore You mean cocktail therapy? Or world campaign It's Global Campaign Against Aids You've left out the word Aids You're scared to even mention Aids? Okay, tell me then I'm an HIV carrier - Game over, I have no hope - Die Hard! Right, Die Hard, I'm dead Can you give up smoking? You thought... I'm a drug-addict didn't you? Seeing they pick it up so easily? No... I'm worried when I see you smoke so heavily Maybe you think I'm a prostitute? We usually call them... Whores? No, Commercial Sex Worker Commercial Sex Worker Sounds academic! Right, sort of professional People like you rarely call us especially women I really need... someone to talk to... I need a friend... I understand As long as you don't get upset or worked up ...you will find someone Aren't we friends already? Aren't you the happy housewife? This was written by my son Chi... Chi Mo He's gone now Read it if you have time He died three years ago, but... I feel that he's near Fu, now you try On the count of 3, stand up! Okay? Okay, 1, 2, 3, stand up! If you don't move, your legs will go numb Don't you want to walk again? What if mom pretend to be Bouncing Man? Like this, 1, 2, 3... Okay? Fu, be a good boy, 1, 2, 3... Here comes the Bouncing Man Fu, don't rely on this wheelchair anymore... Come on! Stand up! Please, be a good boy... Don't be like this or mom will get mad Come on... Fu! Fu, Uncle Wong is going to tell a story Over here - Your son? - Yes - You're Yung's mother? - Yes Cancer? No, hemophilia He was born with it Must be hard taking care of him all day Mrs. Tam Dr. Li says he'll be available in half an hour He wants to teach you how to inject coagulated blood medicine Thanks In future, you can handle... ...minor injuries at home no need to bring him all the way here for treatment Good, very good - Don't panic - I'm not Try to smile - It's that one, right? - This one Fu... Don't be afraid... Sit down No... wrong! Wrong? Pull it out, try again Sorry... Don't cry... Fu is a good boy, okay... Don't panic... Done! Fu... Don't open it Let mom do it No You always hurt yourself Please, back me up here You'll stand by me, right? That's a goodboy Mom Does it hurt? You are my darling Mom knows you suffered a lot But it hurts me just as much But let me tell you, ...hardship only makes you tougher... Will I grow up? Of course! ...as long as you look after yourself And not play too rough with your friends or do stupid things... you'll grow up to be just fine If that's the case, I want a little brother... ...one as cute as him Brother loves to write One day he wants to write a book But the year he entered university, he became very weak At night, I'd wake to find him trembling, almost as if... ...his body doesn't belong to him anymore How I want to hold him... ...but he won't let me fearing I have a wound I'd tell him not to worry because you're my brother What are you doing? Sorry, mom Louser, Professor and Sly are here Don't eat that, try this one Chicken wing, tongue-scorching hot! Uncle, you're an expert cook It feels good Leaves a good after taste too! Sly! Louser, don't just sit there, come and help A nick name sticks with you wherever you go Professor, now that's a great nick What kind of Professor? Don't be rude in front of aunt Miser Fu gave me this nick You dare call him a miser! But he's a real miser It's not inherited, is it? On my birthday, when I was in F.5 ...he gave me lots of presents A cake, sports car, a yatch, Rolex... all drawn by hand! He's so cheap, he drew it on one sheet of paper Ted, what do you want for your birthday? But can you draw as well as my brother? Aunt, I have something for you Miser Fu's album How come? Don't know why, I feel that he's near Me too Luk Chi Keung I'm talking to you, Luk Chi Keung You're the only one who haven't handed in your homework Submit it now I haven't done it Mr. Tang will be pissed? I don't care What's the meaning of this? Mr. Tang will kill you! Here, review of Story of Helen Heller I've summarized it for you. Just have to write it up It'll help This book was my first choice But Mr. Tang says it suits you, so I'll let you have it Asshole! Cripple! Asshole! You're nothing but an attention grabbing Cripple! A bloody teacher's pet! Shut up! You shut up! I can't help walking like this But you can help not being such a loser! I'm a loser! So what! I've repeated twice already This is my third. Expultion can't be worst. You know something... Mind your own damn business! While you are deciding your Uni... I'm still trying to pass F.4 and to find a job after I leave school I'm 3 years older than everyone in our grade It's pathetic You know what others call me? Gramps You hate me, don't you You don't have to say it You help me just to make yourself look good Well don't bother You're not Jesus Christ Don't drag religion into it? Listen... I know what I am doing Just want you to know, Luk Chi Keung, how lucky you are What the fuck! What the hell are you doing? Look Just like a Junkie Attention ladies and gentleman... Dotty the Drug-Addict! Hemophilia... Lymphatic gland I've been in and out of hospital since I was a baby A non-stop experience, once a month You know how I get this limp? From all those damn injections You think I wear long-sleeves in summer just to be fashionable! Lagging behind in my studies... ...seeing a hospital ward more often than a classroom I listen to lectures on tape like they're rock concerts! Don't have to come last you know But success doesn't come easy either You think you're get problems? There's an Uncle Wong in hospital He's been fighting bone cancer for 5 years He wrote this to me Money is important Yet money can't buy time, life... ...health or dignity You've giving up without even a fight There used to be a kid called Yung Though he used a crutch ...with it he could move like the wind His good friend ET... She wore a neck brace... ...but alert as a cat They had a friend I want to be a bird, I want to fly Wait You'll get me in trouble! Told you not to enter male ward I'll be sent to special ward tomorrow ET will be leaving Earth very soon You won't die, E They'll cut off my hair, will you recognize me? Of course we will Lets play Rock, Paper, Scissors. Whoever wins can have this I'll treasure it Brother, come, quick Behave yourself, sit and read here Okay? Be good Madam Children are not admitted in here You must be new here No one's available to babysit. He'll have to wait here He's used to this Nurse, I'm late already... Hello sweety Don't worry I'm fine, don't worry You have to be more careful than this Now you can't go to school for a month You'll have to repeat this year You always say God is testing me and makes me suffer Why doesn't God test other children, why only me? Because you're no ordinary child See, even mom can't answer your question This proves how special you are? Finish the soup Your brother's waiting. Have to take him to school now Mom I won't be naughty again Fu, with mom around You'll grow up in no time Because I'm no ordinary mother either Right? Very touching, I've read it many times already I really admire you. You're very... Strong Hey, you can be too Fu is... very... sincere ...how shall I put it I really hope he can convince you Now I regret it We never encouraged him to write We only worried about his illness But the rascal kept winning prizes You going to smoke? Can I? I've cut down already, just like you said I am now... how to put it? Waiting... to die? You're only HIV Positive You haven't gone full blown yet Plus, you still look great But when will I... Normally, the C-D4 cell reading... ...ranges between 800 to 1200 If it falls below 200, then there's trouble It means day by day I... That's why... ...you must stay healthy and in good spirit Don't let the virus spread If there's a new drug one day... lf? No, WHEN there is But don't worry I've learnt Fu's theory You know him? Not personally Men still notice you What do you mean? You being sarcastic? No, I mean it Fion F... I... O... N Fion's my name And you? Mrs. Tam, Tam Li Ming Chun Fion, you thought of telling others... Never No way! They won't understand - How do you know... - They just won't Okay... take it easy Just don't tell... okay Excuse me, what time is it now? Time to get lost Bill, please We're leaving, thanks Fu has a pseudonym, Chi Mo He told me: Mo means wild duck One which can't fly high, just like him You scared me half to death... You should get more rest Start again tomorrow Leave me alone Shall I make you ginseng tea? Don't worry, go to sleep Like father like son What? I say you're both alike Fu used to write late into the night... When I interrupted, he would lose his temper Now it's my turn Must be payback It's your fault You've disrupted my inspiration Why don't you use pen and paper. Computers isn't your thing Clumsy If Fu can do it, so can I I'm worried about you You know what worry is now? I know you've been blaming me No Yes If I could turn back time... ...I would know what to do I would spend more time... ...with our two sons I'd rather be poor and be with Fu so that he'd have 23 years of happiness Your son will understand He blames me more than you, look what he writes Narrow-minded Daddy, why don't you also start writing? You're crazy! Is our child in heaven now? Of course! Of course, where else can he go? I want to hangout with them They get good grades, good at sports Snobby too. We're nothing Don't feel sorry for yourself Never give up... Thanks What are you doing? You crazy? Come on. Does it hurt? What do you think? I started self-injection when I was in F.2 What about before that? Mom did it Dr. Lee, you have a boyfriend? Not trying to set me up with your teacher are you? Nah, only the head marker is good enough He's educated, has good taste... Okay, say no more Why? You've been busy at school? Lots of extra-curricular activities Why work so hard? Because I want to win At least the teachers care about me They're willing to stay behind to tutor That's good What's with the swelling? Basketball Didn't I write to your school ...excusing you from P. E? Now you have to stay here a few days ET... No.3 bed of Intensive Care Unit calling Dr. Kwok I'm back I said... Fu is back Uncle Wong Back for holidays? I've said that already What do you mean? What do you mean? Don't want you to get Ionely I don't need your company Fu is back Fu Hey sexy! I miss you All yours Don't worry I won't give you any trouble Put these on - It hurts more and more - Where? Here The cancer is out of control? How come? Dr. Kwok tells me every time... Pretty good but I know I must die They bring a bunch of Medical students to prod me They only speak in English What do they say? Who knows? Still haven't found your mother? Where shall we go next? - Who knows? - Tai Hao Wan! Let's go! I want the seat for the disabled I've Octopus Card I'll go to the upper deck I'll be on the lower deck I want to be an astronaut I want... to be Tchaikovsky No, I want to skateboard! I want to ice skate! Auntie - It's for you - Thank you. Why didn't you tell me you were in hospital? You scared the hell out of me! What's the point? I still have to come What do you mean? You should spend more time with brother instead You work so hard everyday I can quit that job any time I only took this job when your condition stablized Mom don't want to be left behind You're becoming more rebellious. Don't know what to do with you I just want to be ordinary Why did you work so hard to raise me up? Wouldn't it be better if I died at birth? Better than being like this Sorry, Mom, sorry... I know you've been blaming me But it's been hard on me too Sorry, I didn't mean it Since I gave birth to you... ...your grandma has been blaming me Our relatives laugh at me, I don't care I've been taking you to hospital all these years and yet you still blame me? Mom, sorry... Stop apologizing, I haven't finished yet Okay, go ahead... I thought you have grown up already I don't have to look after you as much I was wrong I'll quit first thing tomorrow My 2 years are up anyway No way Even Jesus spent 3 years before he brought happiness to mankind My only hope is that you understand how I feel But doesn't look like you will Time's up, name a song now Name a song... A heart-broken mother wants to tell her son - Go ahead... - Listen... You mustn't give up, no matter what happens Got it We're not afraid of the long road ahead We must plan ahead We mustn't be sad this moment for we are together The sky is bright as time goes by In a Ionely place Take me to a new horizon Let the sunshine... Bone cancer How do I say it? I have bone cancer. Very good, again I have bone cancer. Thank you! No need Can you cure me, doctor? Please? Kill me, doctor?! Kill him? It's 'cure', not 'kill'! Cure! How do you say extract bone marrow? Let me think It's a medical term... Hi! We want to... Welcome you to our team I don't need pity especially yours Go away C'mon, don't be like this What do you want, Sly? - Let's have a competition? - In what? - The results in the mock exam - You're on It's not fair, he hasn't been to class Okay, in order to defeat this bastard we shall tutor him after school We'll see who gets the highest mark Do you dare? You can still back out I don't need pity, but friendship sounds good It's good you three are here What is the term for extract bone marrow? Professor... How do you say bone marrow? Extract bone marrow By injecting a thick syringe into the spine ...extract To put it simply, take out... Bone marrow... Take out the marrow of the bone. Something like that Doesn't that hurt? Like hell! Uncle Wong, they still extract bone marrow from you, even at this last stage? Sure So they can study Though I can't be cured I hope I can help people in the future Sorry to interrupt. I better go - Don't go, you're not interrupting... - Welcome... My husband, she's Fion They're all primary schoolmates of Fu They come and visit every month They're so kind Ho Bok Hong, nicknamed Professor I'm Chan Man Sum, call me Man I'm Luk Chi Keung ...nicknamed Louser, hello Fion, I'm Lam Bo Fai ...nicknamed... Sly You must be Chi Mo's brother Tam Siu Ted I read in his essays that you're like brothers He's 19 years old now Come and eat something - Sit down... - No, I'd better not bother Come on I like their company Livens up the place Will I... Don't worry Relax Your biggest problem is that you don't trust anyone Can't stay like this, you know? He's Louser? Chi Keung? Chi Keung Chi Keung, come here Come here Come and chat to Fion Come here, sit down Shit, my legs are numb Are you okay? Hello, you're Chi Mo's best friend? Yes How did he describe that period? A time of friendship Mind if ask you a question? Did Chi Mo have a girlfriend? It doesn't mention it in his essays I find that the ones describing love... ...can't have been invented You're studying Chi Mo's work? I'm interested in Chi Mo Instead worry about... the living Sorry, this is mine No, this is mine, that is yours This is mine Sorry, they're mixed up Are you ill or something? You don't feel well? You can tell? No, I'm just asking I always make funny gestures when I get nervous I'm the nervous type I'm fine, thanks You haven't answered me, did Chi Mo have girlfriend? I don't know - What are you doing here? - Go away - What is it? - Go You distributing Maths paper? - Leave once you have read it - Okay Okay, go away... My God! Jesus Christ! I passed, I passed! Okay, congratulations... Why are you holding the tree? Go away, now... Go away There's a response. You're not blind then Watch your mcuth You can't be stupid either If you were blind, I would have to tell you ...that this is a tree, not a bus-stop I'm not waiting for a bus Okay, I know the answer to this one What answer? You're a psycho You're the devil I'm sure there're 3 sixes on your forehead or else you can't walk like this... Do you know how evil you are? If you're not a psycho ...why are you here everyday at the same time? Why must I tell you? You think you're special? Just because you're in a good school, doesn't make you special I wonder why your school only takes girl students in F.6 But let me tell you I'll get into your school in F.6 I talked to her at last Very blunt, but I like that Then tell her directly Forget it Not pitying yourself are we? Don't have to possess her to love her Oh no I must work harder I need to get to F.6 It'll be bad if she joins our school and I get expelled I only want a pass in HKCEE Say, if there's only one vacancy left in F.6 Either you enroll, or... That'll be bad! It'd be... catching butterflies... Many butterflies Mr. Universe! The year Fu was promoted to F.5 the doctor asked us all in for blood tests Because some sufferers of hemophilia ...had been transfused with contaminated blood ...and got infected with Aids I kept praying... I hoped this wouldn't happen to Fu Hello? Who are you looking for? I want to die, I don't want to live anymore... Fion? Fion, is that you? - I don't want to live... - Fion! The report is out It shows HIV Positive It means Fu had been transfused with contaminated blood Even though he looks fine but if the virus is provoked it'll spread quickly When the immune system cannot suppress it anymore it'll start destroying the immune system and then we'll grow weaker and weaker When we're physically weak, we will get sick easily Then, we'll be infected with all kinds of diseases This stage is what's known as full blown Aids Why does this disease spread so vigorously? As it has a long dormant period When one doesn't know he has been infected It's easy to spread the disease to others Fu... Fu, open the door Open the door, Fu - Fu - Fion! - Fion... - Fu, open the door... Fion, it's me Fu... How is she? Come in What's wrong? Fu, don't be like this Fu... Why did you look after me when I was small? Why didn't you just let me die? Why? Fu, don't be like this... Yes, you're suffering, but I'm suffering too Mom feels miserable, Fu Why did you give birth to me? You said I haven't had a good day... ...Since I was born Then why did you bring me here to suffer? Where are you going? Let me die Dying won't solve anything, Fu I don't care, just let me die! Fu, please... I've always been good, never had casual sex Never even had a girlfriend Why am I infected with Aids? Why... Fu, be good... You will say it's God's will I want to ask him too Why did he choose me... Why must god punish me and not others? Why? Mom Mom, blue is brother's favourite colour Ted Ted, this is a secret Don't tell anyone about your brother's illness Why not? Just don't Not even your friends Your brother will die once you tell others From now on, you mustn't use... ...his toothbrush Neither must you eat the apple he has bitten, got it? Why not? This will harm him Will it kill him? Mom do understand you I feel so sad, I blame myself Don't you know how much you upset me every time you loose your temper? Sorry You keep saying: Sorry I know you're suffering but compared to some... you're quite lucky At least you are goodlooking... At least you are handsome, right? Look at the other patients... ...those who are unjustly biased against, aren't they worst off? But they won't die Fu If you're useless what's the use of living long? No one knows how long you have Maybe there'll be miracle tomorrow, a new drug maybe You must cherish every single day I've raised you up till now have I ever given up? I'm quite optimistic. You're the only one that makes me cry Sometimes you make me so mad but have I ever blamed fate? There must be a reason God send you to be my son Fu When we meet God... ...I don't want him to see us fighting What are you doing? Mom, close the door Sit down We can create our own miracle Miss Lam, the nurse, has just called ...Yung is dead Yung asked me to give you this What is it? I keep writing about the hospital My view is really too narrow Very narrow... What about me... I don't even see the sky Once there was a team of brave warriors Who fought for their lives Their biggest enemy is the God of Death The warriors were cunning always quick to adapt never using the same move twice because the second time round... they will have another way to fight back Even flowers in a greenhouse... ...sometimes die Life is like a flowers Even in the best circumstances... ...there are still no guarantees Brother Life's not about long or short ...it's... ...what you make of it ...and whether it is meaningful If we can control life... ...and live to the full ...contribute to society then this is life Hey, coming... Coming Coming... Even romance has a price Your romance costs me an arm and leg Do you have money? For what? Forget it I have about nine thousand That's good! What're you going to do? I want to buy a camera I promised to take photos for the church I also want to learn hair dressing Grow your hair and be my model This money was gonna be your university fund I won't get to university anyway Let's wait and see We're buddies right? No matter how many hurdles ahead We will overcome them Don't ever be frustrated We'll be together always Herbal tea? $5 for one - No - It's hot and fresh, nutritions too I am waiting for my son Come in! I'm waiting for someone - Will I interrupt you? - Come in first... - I'm waiting for someone - Come in first... I want to wait outside You're weird Hi beautiful, first time here? Fu? Call me No. 6 What are you doing here? Let me give you a new hair style... What are you up to? When did you learn hairdressing? Don't worry, I'm experienced My instructor - Hi - Hi - You sure about this? - Of course! This is the hairstyle designed by your son This! Forget it, no way... No... Mom There's one more thing What is it? City University has accepted me You want to go to University? Doctor says... - Now he... - This is his wish Well... Let him go for it. How much? Figure out a way. Go to sleep. Sleep Asleep now Shit, how can I sleep in this hairstyle I've won all these, pretty? Yes I must try to be a successful writer I want everyone to remember me Why? Let me see. Take a look. Poor thing! Why are your eyes red? An infection The virus is taking over me Okay, enough already Last one, Sister Idiot I mean my sister I did ask her not to tell anyone but now the whole world knows it Everyone calls me a whore A dirty slut even Fion, take it easy My brother-in-law gives me shit everyday and all my nephews... fear me I have moved out I worry that my mother... ...will come to my office and then all my colleagues will know Come to the church with me I know, you're trying convert me What's wrong with that? I need someone to love me Will there be people like that in church? Of course God loves us Right... Your son has fallen in love with a girl Ted? Impossible, he's just a kid I mean Chi Mo Brother has finally accepted that he has Aids ...as a result of hemophilia He is now as active as before He takes part in lots of activities Every time he goes to the cinema or BBQ... ...he brings me along Soon I found out his secret That girl is called Wendy Ching Everyone laughs... Fion thinks that this part can't be fictitious This girl does exist, right? Does she, Chi Keung? In fact, Fu wrote this article from his brother's viewpoint... ...to describe a brother who is infected with Aids Which means you wrote about him Hang on... sorry That means he... He wrote... about you... Ah, I see... Right, I never thought of it this way Yeah, why doesn't he tell of straight? My brother always had a sense of humour Was he? He was joking with you? What do you think? Fu was only a teenager He looked tough ...but no one knows... ...what's in his mind Even Fu has moments of low esteem There were times when he couldn't face himself It must be sad for him... ...seeing you grow up... ...while he was withering away He wanted to look out for you ...but you are much stronger than him He really cares about you You have become his superman ...a continuation of his dream You understand? Only someone who has no hope can understand this feeling One must be brave to face oneself You... You must have seen Wendy Ching, right? Fu really had a girlfriend? I really want to know brother's taste Right, dare you not tell us? Madam, this is no police station Fu really had a girlfriend? No, I swore never to tell I'll beg God to forgive you Now tell me I didn't swear to God, so I won't tell... Come on... Brother become more religious When he was a sophomore, his illness suddenly worsened He was in the final stage of Aids but Wendy Ching still cared for brother a lot During the last days, she held brother's hands... ...and kept saying... Fung... don't die, don't leave me... You hear me, Fung? What a coincidence! You must be Chi Mo I've read your work, it's brilliant Thanks So we belong to the same church Don't give up, Tam Never say die! You came all the way just to tell me this? I've always thought of you as a friend Thanks Don't be like this You still have doubts about me? Never I'll be going to England soon I enrolled into British Royal Conservatory I'm leaving day after tomorrow, but I'll be back I'll see you when I come back - Don't give up - You too Try your best, work hard I'll play piano for you when I return Okay? Okay Goodbye My love... Daddy Daddy, something's happened to Fu I've been waiting here for two hours but he hasn't shown up yet... Here he comes, it's okay now Where have you been? You scared me You're two hours late, you know? Sorry I forget But we agreed to meet here I forget where we were meeting You could have called me up you didn't... You forget my phone number? Why? You could have called back home You forget... our phone number also? You forget our phone number? You ask me out just to give me these? My photos There are many Many precious memories I will teach brother... ...to send you a carnation every year on Mother's Day Mom, Happy Mother's Day Fu... But Mother's Day... is still a long way away I know but can I wait that long? This is 2, looks like a duck, doesn't it? Granny, one letter is missing Cloth is spelt, C-L-O-T-H and the last letter If you leave out the T, it becomes Clot - Yes... - Right? Now this is cloth Fu Are you free, Beautiful? Don't worry, I didn't... Fu... Fu You've known... for ages Yes, I learnt it when I was in F.5 Bastard So what if you knew? You think he'll be touched... ...seeing you pity him... Think he likes that? He's not me, he's Tam Siu Fu He'd rather you laugh at him ...than see you burst into tears Bastards, real bastards Auntie... His C-D4 reading has dropped to zero, his immune system has shut down It's a miracle he's still alive Remember to inform the university... We will Chi Keung As for the recreational centre, you must... We'll see to it He's taken up so many activities... I just don't know exactly... Really so urgent? Sorry But I must resign, because... there's really no time left Let me decide Give it one more month, okay? Sorry I must be with my son It's his last days Mom Can I do without bone marrow extraction? It hurts so much I know, but doctors fear you have an infection This'll be the last time I can take you home next week You mean doctor has given up Bullshit, doctor hasn't said anything Not bad I don't want to commit suicide anymore Right Just kill yourself if you want me to die before you No matter what happens in the future I'll always be with you Even... ...if I become really ugly ...or throw tantrums, or don't recognize you... ...will you hate me? Don't bullshit You're my baby, I can never hate you - You know? - Yes, I know - You understand? - Yes, I understand Mom will stay with you till the very end... I'll never abandon you Don't worry, I won't get angry like when I was small I haven't done this for ages You can do it You found the vein yet? Fu, how do you feel? Alright? I'm okay How's your appetite? It's fine Did you watch TV after dinner? - I watched porn videos - Very good - What!? - Yes Does your mother know? Of course, we all watched it together We call it dessert Dessert? Thank you so much, mom Don't flatter yourself How can you say such a thing... ...as watching porn videos? Just giving him shit Instead, you got me in trouble It was so embarrassing in front of Dr. Kwok He's such a prick So full of shit Mom I don't blame God anymore God has always been with me I now see his miracle I used to think a miracle is a cure ...but I never saw that his plan for me... ...was to be a writer Now I have lots of readers The publisher told me that I've changed many people's lives... ...by helping them understand Aids In future they... This is the miracle I did it Fu... Mom, though it was very hard... Mom... I made it Fu... Take it Fu Why don't you call me Sexy? I'm prettier I'm prettier... No, I am... He's smart What if... ...blink this eye if I'm prettier blink the other if she's prettier Don't blink both eyes though - Who is prettier? - This eye... This eye... Look, he blinks that eye No, he's blinking both He blinks both eyes Fu Fu, don't be afraid Don't be ashamed Chin up Son, be proud In fact... Fu, everyone runs out of time but always have dignity Son, lift your head high Stare at them if they stare at you That's it I'm useless... I'm weak... I'm not worthy of you Fu, rest in peace I know you care about mom and brother I promise you I'll look after mom... and brother I love you Son... Hello, congratulations Auntie - Hello, Auntie! - Hello! Auntie, take your time Okay... - Congratulations - Thanks for coming... Remember our dinner next week Hello... - Thanks for coming - May I have your autograph You want an autograph too? Sure, I want a big one Go serve the guests Okay, help yourselves Congratulations It's brilliant Thanks... - Congratulations - Thanks... - It's finally published - Thank you all - You're welcome - Excuse me, may I have your autograph? - You want one too? - Sure You want to follow Fu's footsteps? What do you mean? No? You want to do all the things he did... ...all the things he liked Because you loved him and still do You think so? Yes, till the end of time It's forever and ever, Miss Same difference You think I'm torturing myself? Of course not, I'm happy and content Really? Don't worry, I'm not lying It's my character... I managed to raise Fu Even though I miss him heaps but I'm quietly confident I wrote this book to finish what he started not because I don't want to move on She's here Who? The girl Fu fell in love with Really? The one in pink? - Hello - Hello So you're Fu's mother Yes, you must be Wendy Ching? No, I'm Fanny Ah, I see... Excuse me... how are you? Congratulations, Auntie Thanks, good to see you again Same here Tell Dad to come here You've just returned from abroad? I've been in England for 4 years I promised to play piano for him when I return but I didn't expect... Well, you can still play the piano now He can hear Let me introduce, this is Fu's father Nice to meet you - She is... - Wendy Ching? Fanny Right, Fanny Nice to meet you Likewise You want to play piano? Go ahead Sorry Tell her What? Go and tell her Fu loved her No way Why no way? I'll tell her! Are you okay? I'm fine Thanks Everything's okay now I am HIV Positive that means I'm a carrier For Fu's sake, no need to say it File closed Done This book... ...is a continuation of my son's work... Chi Mo's work While I still miss him a lot... I hope that everyone... ...from all walks of life who have fallen to Aids no matter what problems you face... ...or how overwhelming they seem Please think of Chi Mo Don't ever give up ...hang on to your dreams Treasure every moment and everyone... I think Aids is not a monster. Prejudice is If we are more... ...understanding, then... ...prejudice will disappear... Ever since childhood... ...I never wanted to disappoint mom Sometimes when I see her upset ...I become upset I love you, Mom
