 

                        November, 1942, Calcutta A world war was on The Japanese army was at the Burma border aiming for Calcutta We, the Calcuttans... ...were caught between our British overlords and the Jap invaders Are you deaf? You understand only one language Watch out! You... A message for Shanghai I'm taking what's mine Last table Whenever he talks, you feel like smashing his teeth in I don't care if Gandhi stays in jail I never donate I'm not asking for charity. I need some help I don't help either. Who sent you? What happened? My father's been missing for two months So, why are you here? Report it to the police - I did - So Daddy is not a big shot? Morgue? Hospitals? Maybe he came under a tram I've looked everywhere. Hospitals, morgues - I want your opinion - Forget it Forget it. That's my advice. Go - But he's my father - Sure a) Maybe he was kidnapped. But no one asked for a ransom Or you'd be asking for money, not advice b) He was murdered, corpse hidden Got caught in a shady deal. Came to a bad end c) He's alive. On the run. Involved in a shady deal d) He's run away with a woman Leela, I have spoken to Prof. Bose He wants me to apply for the maths lecturer's job I'll get it. I'll become a lecturer That's what worried you No money, no job, no inheritance There's your insurance What are you hiding? Let me see Whose marriage invite? You're marrying Atanu Sen? The Chemistry gold medalist? The guy with the great job at Hind Chemics? "Atanu weds Leela" You didn't tell me your name You didn't ask Ajit Banerjee I know Everyone knows you Did your father leave some money behind? Why? That would tell us if he ran or planned to go - I need to examine his box - You have it? Yes - Can I see it? - No No cash here Any other belongings? No Was he a chemist? Calcutta University Gold medalist. 1920 War bonds worth 10,000 In Kamalbala Devi's name. Who is she? My mother She lives in the village - ls your father diabetic? - Yes - Likes chewing betel leaf? - Likes? He's addicted to paan - Made his own mix - Where's his paan box? Didn't see it at the lodge What does he do? Not much Doesn't have a regular job I have no idea We didn't talk much I mean we don't But he pays your bills Either you've kidnapped your own father... ...or you're playacting with me - Or something is fishy - Meaning? A man with no steady job pays for his son's room, fancy cigarettes Buys bonds for his second wife. You failed to mention that How did you know? It's on the bonds. Kamalbala, aged 24 A newly married man doesn't leave his second wife for another woman Option D is out. Don't hide facts from me The insulin and the paan box. Something's fishy Why fishy? Maybe he just went away somewhere Nothing "just" happens in this world Look, it's no big deal for me Two days at the lodge and I'll figure it all out Your father could be alive and innocent Or dead and guilty Shall I go? Find out for you? Watch out, mister! Come here! Ok! Hold his legs down He was shouting "Free Bengal" slogans at College Square The police love thrashing students like him Let me see Your pulse I'm fine Doesn't look like it I saw the vacancy sign outside. I need a room - Your name? - Atul Chakravani I'm looking for work. First time in Calcutta From? Munger. Just got off the train Someone at the station said... ...your lodge is the cheapest and the best Go! If you skip class again... ...I'll break your other leg - You're the manager? - No rooms free I don't understand No vacancies for liars Liars? Mr. Atul So this is your first visit to Calcutta? Yet you wear second-hand shoes... ...sold only at Ghosh's on College Street The Munger train arrives early morning If you came here directly, you'd be here hours ago So many lies for one room? We rent to decent folk. Sorry Your hand Give me your hand Bakshy Byomkesh Bakshy Dr. Guha Anukul Guha Most impressive! Who is he? A detective? Not at all This is Praffula Rai. An insurance agent He's away half the month He was away the night Bhuvan vanished Travelled without a ticket. So no proof This is Mr. Ashwini I saw the New Howrah Bridge Stunning! Mr. Kauai He works close by. In Chinatown This is Mr. Byomkesh Bakshy He has some questions concerning Mr. Bhuvan I'm trying to help Police? - Not at all - What kind of questions? The nosy kind The kind that concerns Mr. Bhuvan's paan box You all right, Mr. Ashwini? Some water You think we hid him in his paan box? I think someone murdered him and hid his body Fried potatoes? Only on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays Air raid! Quite an entrance! Do you know Ching Ling? - Who? - Never mind - What brings you... - ls your name really Kanai? My Chinese name makes the Bengali tongue twist So I changed it A plane has been shot down. It's in flames - What do you do? - I sell opium Not what you're thinking. I have a license You should come to Chinatown Put this between your teeth You could bite your tongue if a bomb goes off nearby And you? No, it tastes awful I agree I didn't manage to talk to the man in the helmet Mr. Ashwini? He's Bhuvan's roommate. I mean he was Mr. Ashwini That was quite a meal Cigarette? Ah! You prefer paan Let's have one then Paan? No paan Weren't you and Bhuvan paan lovers? You don't have any? No What's in there? In there? - The window... - No, in the cupboard - What are you hiding there? - Nothing It's emptY I was going to return it I was about to... I did nothing wrong I'm a chief accountant I'm innocent He was murdered I'm not a murderer! Right. You're an accountant. Now let me think Bhuvan left behind his paan box, money and medicine He aimed to return the same night That was two months ago Tell me about that night I went for a walk after dinner He wasn't here when I came back I went to sleep. Mr. Bhuvan wasn't here the next morning I left for work. When I came back, he wasn't here When I came back... You stole the paan box I loved his paan mix, so I kept the box What work did he do? He used to say: "I'm a freelance genius" Paid the rent on time Sometimes he'd come back late. But never caused any trouble If what you say is true... ...we should inform the police It could be murder, Doctor. What could the police do? Luckily I knew the station chief Or we'd be in the lock-up. I mean a paan box and murder Sorry for the bother, Ajit If Bhuvan was murdered... ...and he was His corpse must be hidden somewhere You'll believe me when I find his corpse Are you crazy? I found this bus ticket in your father's book Bus 32A. Stops right outside He got off somewhere at the end of the line Look The conductor's punch mark. I could... You could what? What did Bhuvan call himself? A freelance genius. A genius chemist He may have worked in a chemical factory. I could find... Find what? My father's corpse? Listen The police chief says he's missing. Why do you want him dead? Case closed. Let's go Mr. Bakshy How did you know where Ashwini had hidden... ...the paan box? Easy. People can't help thinking about what they're hiding When I mentioned the paan box, he left the table I pushed him around a bit. Watched his eyes He gave himself away Simple If only I could learn to think like you Many talkers in this world. Few doers You look like a doer If you need help, you can count on me There's a room in my lodge for you It's your call Going somewhere, mister? Taxi? Let him watch, Ruby. Maybe he enjoys watching Ruby, ask him... ...how he got in here. It's private property "No trespassing" sign here ls there a sign outside his bedroom? Could I just walk in without asking? I'm sorry. I didn't know Finally... ...he apologises Who does that... Are you the owner? I own nothing Do you know the owner? Or are you trespassing, too? You really don't recognise me? Madam! Coconuts for you Put them in the car Mr. Sikdaar owns this property I know him Do you know Bhuvan Banerjee? Who? Thank you for the lift Are you Mrs. Sikdaar? Anguri Devi? Are you from Rangoon? Where can lfind Mr. Sikdaar? You have a talent for being rude, but must you be nosy too? Mr. Bhuvan is missing. I need to ask Mr. Sikdaar some questions Where is he? - Who are you? - Byomkesh Bakshy What do you mean... ..."missing"? He left his lodgings on 29 November But never came back That was two months ago I don't know any Mr. Bhuvan I thought you were a fan of mine. Or a Party member... Party? What world do you live in? Gajanan Sikdaar? The Council Member? Forever Bengal Party Is this his factory? She asked you to wait in her make-up room Gajanan Sikdaar Council Member? "I know what you're up to "You had better see me or everyone will know "Last chance. Tonight at the factory at 9" What do you think? Was someone trying to scare Sikdaar? Not scare. Blackmail What else? The letters are cut out from a newspaper Look at the post office stamp Chitpur Road That's our post office First letter 22 November, first post The second letter 29 November. Same time What happened that day? That's the night Bhuvan vanished - What newspapers do you get here? - They all buy their own - I read Basumati, Yugantar - English newspapers? - The Statesman - Who buys it? Bought it Puntiram Can't you keep the rubbish in order? Here! English newspapers December November - This means Mr. Bhuvan... - ...was blackmailing Sikdaar The second letter is dated 29 November Asking Sikdaar to meet at the factory at 9 Bhuvan left here at 8 and... ...never came back I must meet Sikdaar My uncle Gajanan Sikdaar has only one concern - his own skin We don't want him Or his Party. A leader must show the way Our New Bengal Party will show the way now Freedom is our right. We will seize it We'll pay with our blood Hail Bengal! Participants in the Spring Day Action, register now Aren't you the new boarder? You dressed my wound, remember? Who was that? Sukumar Ghosh... Sikdaar's nephew Where is Gajanan Sikdaar? Hiding. His nephewjust split his Party Special Branch is snooping around. I had better warn Sukumar I'm from Headquarters - Special Branch. And you? - The local station ID? - Why are you here? - We're Mr.Sikdaar's bodyguards Why? Someone is after his life I must question him. Wait outside. Don't let any idiot in Sukumar, you're making a mistake. You'll regret it You're saying that because he's backing my Party Fool! You don't know him. I do Uncle, say what you want. It's too late We're celebrating Spring Day Fool. He's using you Are you here to register? Registration for the new Party is outside I'm here to see Sikdaar Have you an appointment? Why? Are you his secretary? No My name is Byomkesh Bakshy So? I want to question him about a murder - Whose murder? - Bhuvan Banerjee's He worked at Mr. Sikdaar's factory - You knew him? - Who are you? I told you. Don't have time to waste N I baran! Try to stop us and we'll kill you Who's here from Special Branch? - I'm warning you - Gajanan Sikdaar? - What's all this? - Do you know Bhuvan Banerjee? - Go inside - Why? - Who are you? - Why was he blackmailing you? - What? - Hey you! I'm Sub-Inspector... Are you mixed up with Bhuvan's disappearance? Get out! - Who is that lady? - Satyawati Sukumar's sister These people are big shots Be careful Your help has no sense. I'll wait outside You felt no shame stealing from a woman's bag... ...so why be ashamed looking at her in her bath? Give me one Don't get jumpy. It's only a cigarette It's a cheap brand Why did Bhuvan's name scare you? A few weeks ago a man came to meet Gajanan They talked for hours behind closed doors Gajanan came out alone from the room He was pale I had never seen him so scared I asked him about the visitor He said he was Bhuvan Banerjee The next day Gajanan locked up the factory Was Gajanan at the factory on 29 November night? We'll end up in jail Despite Anguri's alibi... ...whatever happened, happened at this factory There is a guard around. Watch him We have the keys Have you permission? Are you from rat control? You're from Munger? Bhagalpur Terrific! Two-in-one Rats giving trouble in there? Plenty trouble. They die They rot. They stink Say something to me in English Anything. Sound strict My officer says he has a new poison Gets rid of all pests in a flash The paperwork for proper permissions will take a month Well? - Are you really from Munger? - Yes What about your family? Home? Cholera took my family. Cousins took my house Came to Calcutta when I was 15 A good lie is never far from the truth New machines. Idle for two months? This is no dead rat, Byomkesh Call Special Branch He's been murdered His throat was slit. Then a sword sliced through him - neck to belly My God! That's Mr. Bhuvan's wife. Second wife Why? But why? Why? May I? You weren't at the crematorium Want some paan? Don't eat paan Do you have Bhuvan's paan box? What was Bhuvan like? You would've got on well He made his own paan mix He gave it a name "Calcutta Kiss" Our first famous boarder Read it "A sensational murder and blackmail case was solved by Bengal's pride... "...the brave talented young detective Byomkesh Bakshy" Why did the paper come so late? Late? It's the usual time The paper comes now? Sometimes even later. Listen to this "Broad chest, keen moustache, eyes like embers... You fool "Our Sherlock Holmes..." Taxi! Police Headquarters Mister! Is this what we're doing all day? - DC Wilkie's office? - Upstairs Can I see the Dy. Commissioner? - It's urgent - You can't barge in I'm a famous detective Tell him I have a hot lead on the Bosepukur murders Your uncle is being framed. I can save him Wait outside Send a note inside, Sergeant I'm Sikdaar's niece. The Council Member? Now, Sergeant. Please A private detective? No...Yes - Who hired you? - The corpse's son I mean Bhuvan Banerjee's son - You say these letters are phony? - The stamp proves it The letters have been cut out from the newspaper of that day Look at the stamp. Posted at 7:30 am I can get 5 people to swear on oath that the newspapers don't arrive... ...at Bhuvan's lodge before 8:30 am I can read now, thank you Sikdaar's being framed The dates on the letters coincide with Bhuvan meeting Sikdaar Bhuvan vanished that day. The letters were dated after his murder - Now do you believe me? - When did you get the letters? Mr. Wilkie, you can call me anyfime if you want to harass me further Can I go now? - For now - Thank you very much Who is threatening you? Not you, Mr. Bakshy What is your take on the Bosepukur murders? Sir, this isn't the time I have a warrant in your name For impersonating an officer Tea? Going round in circles all day Not a bloody tram - Mr. Byomkesh - I'll deal with you later - Mister! - I'll be back The madman! He didn't pay me Taxi! Let's go. Hurry Where is Sikdaar? I must talk to you When did you get hold of those letters? May I see Mr. Sikdaar? Gajanan... ...can't see anyone right now No, he'll see me If it wasn't for me, he'd be rotting in jail If it wasn't for you... ...none of this would have happened If it wasn't for you none of this would have happened You wanted to know when I got the letters? When? The first day we met... ...that very morning Listen He wants to ask you something. He saved your life Did Mr. Bhuvan meet you in her flat on 23 November? N I baran! - Call the doctor - Save him, please Save him! Uncle... Did Bhuvan come to see you? Why? To blackmail you? Uncle 99% Strychnine poisoning Send the soup to the lab. The autopsy will tell us for sure I'll check on Anguri Devi. She's still in shock Wherever there's a murder... ...you're never far away - What is she saying? - Nothing - Trying to save her brother - Brother? In your presence, Sukumar... ...threatened his uncle Stop us and we'll kill you My brother is innocent He couldn't murder anyone I don't know if he could or not. But I know he didn't Did he know Mr. Bhuvan? What were Sikdaar and Bhuvan fighting about? Your silence may... ...send your brother to the gallows My brother doesn't care about his life any more Do you recognise this? Strychnine We found it in Sukumar's room When you see Sukumar thank him... ...for keeping the poison where anyone could find it And threatening his uncle when everyone could hear him You made my father and me famous They threw me out of the hostel A blackmailer's son Can I stay here? Dr. Guha went out of town. He'll be back by Spring Day He left this for you Your father was not a blackmailer So then? - What about Mr. Sikdaar? - He was murdered BY Whom? I don't know. But it's the same man who killed your father He framed Sukumar Open it! - He faked the letters too - Faked? He made a fool of me He even faked the postage stamp - How? - Nothing simpler Bribe a poor postmaster, write your letter And add the date you want And fool the moron Byomkesh Bakshy... "Yours truly, Dr. Anukul Guha" Byomkesh, open the door! He took off like a rocket and rolled back like a deflated ball He hasn't had a thing to eat or drink What's wrong? Tummy ache If only Dr. Guha were here to give him medicine Puntiram! - The police followed you? - I know how to lose them My mother left me this jewelry Just name your price But find my brother Why me? A maiden in distress Because you see things My brother and my uncle never saw eye to eye Things really fell apart in the past two months They fought endlessly over the Party Finally my brother split the Party, formed his own Your uncle implied Sukumar was under someone's influence My brother had changed a lot Even I could see it When did Bhuvan Banerjee start working with your uncle? Two years ago. He'd come to uncle's factory He had some new machinery installed there Bhuvan installed the machines? Yes What's this? Fries? You said he had an upset tummy Want to kill him? Boil rice in yoghurt. I'll come down and see to the rest Go When did you last see Sukumar? When you came yesterday You didn't pay the taxi fare He took my taxi. Did you tell the police? - I told no one - The taxi driver! I'm off The Whites call me bad names here The mister is nuts Don't you know him? The Dy. Commissioner's right-hand man Does Sukumar have bad teeth? No How old are you? 24 years 5 months I'm three months younger. I don't need a dentist. Do you? I know a brain surgeon - How old are you? - I don't need a dentist Sukumar is our age But he came to visit a dentist. Dr. Watanabe They left in a black car He's been here before. Why? Go home. I'll be in touch - Let me drop... - The helpless maiden - Ever had a toothache, young man? - No Ever acted? No Dr. Watanabe My brother is dying The doctor is at the temple We'll wait. He's in pain After the temple, lunch He doesn't treat anyone after lunch He teaches Japanese Come tomorrow My brother is dying... to learn Japanese Which temple did you say? Is that his style of pulling teeth or teaching Japanese? The question is... ...if Sukumar didn't need a dentist... ...why was he learning Japanese? I beg your pardon I was trying out my Japanese It's bad Your bad Japanese... ...is actually bad Chinese Sir, same to same for me This is Japanese It's different Who sent you? Sukumar Your former student We're from his Party We have little time before Spring Day Volunteers for the Spring Day Action, register now Dr. Guha will be back by Spring Day Are you ready to kill... ...and be killed? Answer me this How many could you kill... ...for your country? Byomkesh! You here? He says that Sukumar sent him to me Sukumar? But you're not on the volunteers' list Excuse me Damn it Let's go What just happened? Dr. Guha, Sukumar and Watanabe are planning something We almost found out what it was I have to think. I need some quiet ls Sukumar's plan connected to my father's murder? Utterly connected Something tells me - because of this plan... ...your father vanished... ...and was murdered And Gajanan Sikdaar was framed When I found out, Sikdaar was killed Then Sukumar was framed. Now he's on the run He's plotting something big on Spring Day The whole chain is connected to Spring Day It starts with Bhuvan and ends with Sukumar - Get it? - No What about Dr. Guha? Not what. Why? Why did Dr. Guha do it? And why admit it to me? Keep moving - Where to? - To see Badal - Badal? - Our college theatre dress man Why? I want to be an actor You wanted to be on stage, so why get me painted? Look towards the gate Shall we hunt the hunter? Let's go He's reporting to Watanabe He's heading to Sukumar next Watanabe is frightening How long do we wait? Sukumar's black car He's locked it and run Step aside He's destroyed the evidence and fled Take all the documents you can find Are you alright? Didn't you say that Dr. Guha was not coming back? He's back He's on the terrace. The Japs are bombing the docks...boom! Can you hear that, Mr. Bakshy? Nails being hammered into the British coffin You killed Bhuvan and Sikdaar I did everything You know but won't admit it - Why kill Bhuvan? - Bhuvan was a traitor Sikdaar a false patriot who was going to inform the police So you and Sukumar are plotting something with the Japanese? An enemy's enemy is a friend Why kill Sikdaar? Wouldn't you do a small bad thing... ...for the greater good? And the dead in the clinic? Where's the greater good in that? They're dead because of you It's the price We all want freedom. No one wants to pay the price And now? If you go to the police, I'll kill you If you survive, it's the end for me What shall we do, Mr. Bakshy? Byomkesh My war needs soldiers like you There's a car waiting Come with me Don't think Ajit Do middle-class folk like us... ...ever stand up for our country? No, we go to the movies Let's go to the Metro Do it for your country Why not join Dr. Guha? He seems to love you This map... This map looks familiar. How did the volunteer have it? You should've been my father's son He was ashamed of me I wanted to write I was the shy skinny type He came home drunk every night, ranting "The creator of India's top selling formula is cursed with a son... "...who failed High School chemistry!" - Hind Chemics make - They sell it My father invented the formula But you said you didn't know what he did I meant in the last 3 years Before that, he was... ...the head chemist at Hind Chemics for 8 years - Until... - What? Hind Chemics... ...fired my genius father Because one of the components in his formula was... ...opium People got addicted... ...without knowing Sales shot sky high - When were you going to tell me? - What's there to tell? - You're hiding facts again - But this is personal Personal? We're solving a case We decided... We decided that you'd keep nothing from me - You're soft-headed - You're soft-headed! - We're arguing. Later - One minute, Mr. Byomkesh What is it? Can I have some Bhuvan's paan mix? Just a little. Haven't slept for three nights Please! Your father had magic in his hands I asked Mr. Bhuvan... ...so many times... ...what's in his paan mix? He would laugh And say... "Pluck the fruit... ...don't count the branches" Carry on arguing I'm done Who is it? Can Satyawati be called beautiful? Young gun Young guns? What did Sikdaar say to me just before he died? What did you eat before going to bed? The paan mix Your father had magic hands Opened my mind Paan, lime paste, catechu How do you like my painting? If Bhuvan Banerjee was not blackmailing Sikdaar... ...why did Sikdaar need police protection? And about your father's... ...paan mix. Why is it magical? Genius, what brings you here? Atanu - I need your help - Unlikely, Byomkesh You sent me a note, so here I am But I can't do more I'm not looking for a job I want you to test something Test what? This paan mix And my blood They test your blood before giving you a job here? Never thought you'd stoop so low You shoot up heroin and then test your blood? What's the farce? Heroin? My blood has heroin? And this? A paan mix is a paan mix. Test it all you want Never seen crystals like these They are emPtY They're empty? I mean chemically A mix of hydrocarbons, salts Nothing in there. Useless No heroin in the crystals? Crystals? What crystals? You tutored my wife Leela so I helped - You smell bad - Your father was a genius Byomkesh, some paan mix for me - You're a heroin addict - I'm a chief accountant Bhuvan used you like a guinea pig A guinea pig? Mr. Kauai How's business? Dull Dull? How come? No opium in the market Can't buy any for love or money Heroin is made from opium, right? In your line of work you must know dealers... ...who bend the law a little You planning something that bends the law a little? Let's imagine We tell them... ...there's a kind of heroin that cannot be detected It's like hitting the jackpot for them I don't get it Doesn't look like heroin Smell or taste like heroin. Doesn't show up in a lab test But once you take it inside ...it's pure heroin What if this thing fell into someone's lap? He'd be very rich Or very dead You have this thing? You know dealers? Not a grain of opium in Calcutta Junkies wander the streets begging No opium for him either So where are your dealers? - Have you told anyone? - No Wait here. I'll be back Did Ching Ling just leave? - Ching Ling? - No Ching Ling? - What is it? - Nothing I know what you're doing What am I doing? You're playing and my father is your plaything Sometimes he's a blackmailer. Or sometimes a traitor And now he's a drug dealer Your father made the drug... ...and installed the machines at the factory. Why? Ask Dr. Guha Opium dries up in the market. Where did it all go? Add two and two Is it my fault your father expected more from you? SorfY Ajit! Don't fight, Ajit. They're the police Send my friend Ajit Banerjee to me Otherwise the police will never find out why... ...the opium in Calcutta has vanished Tea? What do you know about the missing opium? It's being cooked into heroin Following the genius chemist Bhuvan Banerjee's formula A kind of heroin that can only be detected... ...once it's in the bloodstream Heard of Yang Guang? And the Shanghai Green Gang? Who hasn't? Yang Guang was No. 3 in the Shanghai Green Gang He wanted to be No. 2, so he came to Calcutta He took over the Thailand-Burma, Burma-Calcutta opium supply He started running the South Asian drug empire Calcutta was in his grip Then? September 1939 A Green Gang team arrived in Calcutta from Shanghai They met Yang Guang at the docks There was a fight Yang Guang was finished His eight-year rule ended But now? We fished out four Chinamen from the river Locals from the Green Gang One man was still alive Before dying he told us... 500 kgs of opium belonging to the Green Gang had landed in Calcutta... ...and was hijacked - The hijacker... - Yang Guang They say he's back from the dead Know anything about it? No, sir Before I found out, your goons stopped me How did you know I was looking for the opium... ...belonging to the Green Gang? We... ...have our ways. I forgot. Sorry May I leave? If the heroin gets into the wrong hands... ...and you hide it from me... ...you'll stand before... ...a firing squad in Fort William Understand? Satyawati's gone? Where to? I don't know She got a letter from Mr. Sukumar at 5 this morning Someone came in a car And you let her go? I tried to stop her She said she was going to her brother She said: "Ask no more if you want our safety" Byomkesh, eat something I let you down. And Satyawati You need some fresh air It's staring at me in the face, yet... Take a stroll in the park This map is the key to Yang Guang Or else take a boat ride in the Ganges One clue. Need one clue What did you say? What! Ganges river Puntiram! You should be the detective and me your idiot assistant Where did I see this map before? The route map of the Ganges Get it? Sukumar, Dr. Guha and Watanabe... ...have a plan linked to the river Yang Guang is planning something with the heroin The two plans are connected But what is this? Where did you disappear? When I came back, you two were gone Sorry. I lied to you I'm not a drug dealer I'm looking for a gangster called Yang Guang He was killed by the Green Gang four years ago What if the Green Gang hears that I know Yang Guang is still alive? This opium den is run by the Green Gang I've spread the word you have information on Yang Guang You're playing with our lives now They're dangerous, Byomkesh Ajit, please don't start a fight today Yang Guang? Who? The man sitting on your opium, stolen 2 months ago That Yang Guang Why is he sitting on my opium, good boy? Answer! We're both looking for the same man Let's work together Kill them What is it? How did he know about the opium? Only Yang Guang knows. And we know - He's tricking us - Wait! The police know He's Comm. Wilkie's man. Kill a cop and we're dead He's a cop The police want to catch Yang Guang through me Kill us and forget about Yang Guang... ...and your opium What are these points? Sahibkuthi Ghat, Budiganga Ghat and... ...Kushi Ghat His secret landing spots He knew the river Ganges by heart - If he did, who is this map for? - Who did you get it from? A volunteer in Sukumar's Party He has links with the Japanese What is Sukumar's connection to Yang Guang's opium route? What is All India Radio doing here? These roads lead off the river Place this over the map of Calcutta and these routes lead to... Fort William, the Governor's House The dockyard, the Writers' building The scum "I'm taking Calcutta back," he said when he took out my eyes The rascal. The chameleon This is a plan for a Japanese... ...attack of Calcutta Yang Guang will give them full access to Calcutta If the Japanese know Yang Guang's secret route... ...no one could stop them How can a drug lord make deals with an army? The Japanese army deals in every shady business Opium. Heroin Yang Guang goes back a long way with them We have little time before Spring Day Run if you can... ...Calcutta finish Tomorrow is Spring Day. They attack When he came to Rangoon from Shanghai... ...we should've killed him then Big mistake Very big mistake Are you from Rangoon? - Yang Guang came from Rangoon? - The Sword of Rangoon In Cantonese: Yang Guang Jian What an actress you are All that talk of love Short on clothes. Long on sighs When did you fall in love with Yang Guang? The day I first met him I was only sixteen Then you ran away with him and came to Calcutta in 1931 I'd go anywhere if he asked me And poison anyone if he asked you You poisoned Sikdaar The day I came by... ...you were feeding him soup So you led me into the other room To give the poison time to kill him Four years ago he asked me... ...to wait for him. That's all Since that day we've met hardly four times The day you went to Special Branch to free Sikdaar... I got a message. Kill him That's the price for us being together. I paid the price I told you the first day, Byomkesh Love and loyalty This is neither love Or loyalty It's murder He told me to watch out for you Because if you thought I was hiding something... ...you were bound to find it Nothing escapes you Yang Guang told you that? You're risking your life, Byomkesh The attack is in 5 hours. No choice Tell the police. Don't go alone If the police know, Sukumar and his boys will face a firing squad My man, Kanai, said you saved his life And that you could give me Yang Guang Yes In return you must... ...blow every air raid siren in Calcutta at 4 am Can you? Good evening, Mr. Wilkie - Good evening, sir - What a splendid costume It happens to be my uniform, Lord Sen Do you want Yang Guang or not? The Calcutta police is not some Chinese gang We don't do deals I always believed the Calcutta police protected Calcutta - I did what I could - Which side are you on? Hurry! There's no time I owe you. What do you want me to do? "Dr. Guha, you asked me to join your war "Mustering the courage takes time "Ajit has accepted his father's death "Ajit is a loyal and brave man. That's why I send this letter through him "You've been betrayed. Your plan is in jeopardy "Leave the factory now with Sukumar and Ajit "I'll wait for you at the lodge. I'll explain later "Yours, Byomkesh" Don't let anyone down till I signal Do you have your service pistol? Byomkesh, has something changed? Only everything I need Mr. Wilkie's signature to get the revolver - Do you want... - No Just in case we get killed... ...when did you guess that I was a cop? Since Opium street Before we got arrested, the plainclothes cop asked... ...if I knew Ching Ling. When we first met you asked that too It's your secret code to identify your undercover men You knew but you didn't let on I'm learning. Now go Better late than never. I'm very happy V6! Where are the others? Gone home for the Spring Day break - Your letter worried me - I worry about you Let's talk I called you all here for one reason To tell you all... ...that you... ...have all been betrayed Utterly betrayed Betrayed? How betrayed? Betrayal No.1 Sukumar, what you take for your fight for the country's freedom... ...it is not that at all It's a drug deal A heroin deal Who betrayed us? He has many names Some say he's Chinese, or Burmese Some say he's dead, others say he can't die Demon. Devil. To me... ...he's an ordinary cheat A traitor A coward Where is he? Right here Amongst us Hiding Betrayal No.2 Anguri Devi You were betrayed too The man who made you another's mistress... ...made you lie and murder The man who promised you'd both leave Calcutta forever That man is going nowhere. He's staying right here Sukumar, have you heard of Yang Guang? No Before dying, my uncle... Tried to tell me his name Anguri Devi, have you heard of Dr. Guha? Amazing but you both know him very well The man you met only 4 times in 4 years... ...is running a lodging house 3 miles away from you Doling out medicine to the poor Your firebrand revolutionary guru... ...is a drug lord who's about to make the deal of the century While sending your boys to their death In the name of freedom I don't know your real name What shall I call you? Yang Guang Jian? The Sword of Rangoon? Dr. Guha, the drug dealer? Traitor How about a cheat? Bravo! That was fun Your hand Give me your hand, Byomkesh Puntiram, tea Time for the truth, Doctor The truth is that the people sitting here, Mr. Bakshy... ...shan't live to see daybreak Till then there's tea Fried potatoes And the story you're dying to tell us Go ahead So the story goes... Twelve years ago, the terror of Shanghai The drug dealer Yang Guang comes to Calcutta with his beautiful mistress For eight years he rules over South Asia from here The Green Gang attack him four years ago They leave him for dead That was some fight Two months later, Dr. Guha buys this lodging house Puntiram, the recipes! Bay leaves. Curry powder Then? You meet Bhuvan... ...who is mixing narcotics with medicine Then you both... ...make a plan together I make the plan Me What plan? Tell To cook a type of heroin... ...that's undetectable Cook it in Sikdaar's factory to avoid suspicion A child could figure that out Why? To what end? I have a theory Carry on. We're all ears The Japanese want your heroin, the Calcutta Kiss And you, your drug empire So you cut a deal The Japanese attack Calcutta on Spring Day... ...thanks to your opium route Sikdaar forms the government of Free Bengal A puppet government Under the control of the Japanese and you You export drugs openly Calcutta becomes the world's drug capital You took this proposal to the Japanese in Shanghai Not a proposal It's the future Scum! Spot on! Perfect, isn't it? No, sir Not so perfect You stole the Green Gang's opium... ...to make heroin in Sikdaar's factory But perhaps you forgot to tell Gajanan Sikdaar Politicians! Yes, today. No, tomorrow. Why risk it? What happened between you and Bhuvan? What usually happens Never mind So Bhuvan goes to Anguri Devi's flat to meet Sikdaar He tells him what's going on in his factory Heroin manufacturing scares him. He closes the factory Gets bodyguards But you gave your word to the Japanese The attack date was set You incited Sukumar against Sikdaar So the Party would split. You needed volunteers for tomorrow But no factory, plan collapses Then? Then I came into your life My biggest weapon The fool Byomkesh Bakshy After I found Bhuvan's paan box... ...you tried stopping me by taking me... ...to the police station Then you thought why not kill two birds with one stone? Throw me off And repossess the factory You cut out letters from the newspaper... ...and framed Bhuvan as the blackmailer Sorry, I got the time wrong on the stamp I was in a hurry Then you sent your secret weapon to the factory to see me Like tempting a dog with a bone You dangled Anguri Devi in front of Sikdaar... ...four years ago You did the same with me She pretended to hide the letters Because I told you... ...that I always find what is hidden After Sikdaar was dead, you sent me the stamp... ...to confuse me When I saw Watanabe, you appeared... ...as a freedom fighter So Dr. Guha takes the blame And Yang Guang is never in the picture We are tools for you We do your dirty work When I was your age... ...I was trusting too You've learnt your lesson You won't repeat the same mistake You didn't hear me right You've forgotten. I said you've all been betrayed You, too BY Whom? By me The river map for the attack The police know everything Wherever the Japanese will land... ...the army will welcome them Our volunteers? The police know everything Except for your identity Stop the attack and no one will ever know If the army knew... ...they'd already be here You're bluffing Let's kill the lot and go No Don't you know what a Japanese attack means? Darling They destroyed my city, my family. Everything You knew that and still hid it from me Who gave you the right? It's done What's done is done Whoever is to die will now die Stop the attack if you love me Stop the attack Would you shoot me? Stop the attack! Can you shoot me? Do you love me or not? Shoot Do you love me or not? Shoot, my love Do you love me or not? I do What do you want? To be together To live together Mr. Bakshy The colour of truth? Red No one could sing like her Should I kill you? End it here Too late, Doctor Mr. Watanabe That siren is for you Your surprise attack has lost its surprise What will you do now? Will you save your men or let them die? The army will be waiting for the Japanese at every landing spot Look up! An enemy's enemy is a friend My old friend! I asked Dr. Guha to come here I knew Yang Guang would show up, so I called them I want him alive Mr. Watanabe Stop the attack! You have lost Calcutta No one will stop him You all promised Why didn't you kill me sooner? - Our volunteers will die - I was bluffing No one knows I was bluffing The police don't know I just asked Wilkie to blow the siren Quiet! Japanese... It's 6 am. Everything is fine No sound of firing Dr. Guha? The Green Gang took him Thank Mr. Wilkie for me If he raids the factory, he may find the heroin Go I couldn't save her You saved Calcutta, Byomkesh I know your father was a good man He made the formula for fun When he found out what it could mean... ...he tried to stop it It may also be - he fought with Yang Guang over money And went to tell Sikdaar to rat on Yang Guang Puntiram The police must be on their way. Make tea With ginger? Ginger Wipe the blood Don't touch a crime scene Never mind the blood. Just tea Let me get something to eat You said if I helped your brother... ...you'd reward me I saved him. See? Reward? N ow? Ajit is all I have. I'll become a professional truth-seeker I have no property. No bank... A factory siren - Dr. Guha? - Forget it Calcutta looks beautiful at dawn Kill him Go on Avenge your father, son - Kill him - Relax He's a kid His hand trembles His heart races - Don't listen to him - Hear me Nothing to it There's only the knife and my eye Hold tight Strike! Between us... ...we have one eye left ...and one thing separates us You will be forgotten You couldn't take my love How will you take my hate
