 

                        I'm busy - Hi - There will be a show tonight - Ok, I will come - Please be on time Why? Did I do something wrong? Why did you kick me out of the band? Please explain! Why? Explain Why? I have never done anything harmful to others First, my mother abandoned me And now, the band abandoned me Can someone give me an answer? My fate is to be lonely? Why? Ok, don't drink anymore Hit me? - Piss off - Don't kill her - Let me do it - The boss said we cannot kill them Stop, don't do that I don't mean to do that Where is that bitch? Follow her! Where is she? Hi, it's Bikkamo Run! First, we must get their head down and then kick Come here, we don't bite Are we scary? Hey, you - She's fast - No, you're so slow We have to be polite with women Yes, that's right Can you please explain what is happening? Why am I here? What happened? Hey, say something Are you mute? Hey, explain everything to me You come so late We've been waiting for you Do you come here to find us? Come here! Hurry up! We don't want to wait any more You can't fight a drunk, can you? Hitting you makes me so sleepy Sanim Those who ordered me were very careful - Where are they? - Inside If he didn't rescue you, you would look like them now Thank a lot We are so scared Some women were taken away That's a waste of alcohol - It's not good to drink alcohol - That's our source of energy - Please - I never heard anybody said like you So, what are you gonna do? Please, don't do that That's the last bottle All right, you want us to teach you some martial art, right? Sanim, let us teach her some skills, ok? Please don't stop us You are the one who brought trouble here - But... - Shut up! - That's what you want - This is our style of training - Tying me up is training me? - This is the drunken martial art Consider that you are always in disadvantages - Get used to this situation - This is our condition of teaching Let's begin the studying time - Wine - Slipslop - Sake - Kirsch - Rice alcohol - Marc - Maraschino - Shrub Ratafee - That's why it's called the drunken martial art - You have to try every kind of alcohol - Remember all? - What about this bottle? No, no, please be careful It's the friendship bottle Only official members in the team can drink it Its taste is very terrible Not everyone can drink it But don't worry! You don't have a chance to drink it You mean I will never deserve to be an official member? Hey, untie me You must tie me up to train me, huh? Do you know what you will study? Understand why you need to know about alcohol? This is the drunken martial art combining with traditional martial art What are you thinking? Want to hit me? Are you training me or teaching me lessons? You need to know about the importance of what you will study - Because... - Because when studying something we must know what is it, what it's used for Then, we can study it well Am I right? Good, if you want to study this kind of martial art, you must drink a lot of alcohol - Drinking alcohol? - Yeah - That's easy Surprise? Please get out of here What? Didn't I rescue a lot of women yesterday? What's the problem? I did something wrong, huh? I don't like your style of action So what? I'm successful anyway - Everything is fine - You don't understand, we must be a team - Please get out of here - I didn't do anything wrong I rescued a lot of women and that is false to you? Do you know that will bring danger to out team? Ok, get off me - Do you understand now? - Yeah Want me to go out of here? I will but I also take this with me as a souvenir Now who is the one that loses his temper? Hey, you should not be angry with him like that Deu, you don't know about him I'm sorry - What are you sitting here for? Follow her! - Yeah I'm so useless I can't do anything - What? - It's a drunk Look like he is very sad - Don't care about me - What's the problem with you? - So how is his fiancee now? - No one know Like other women, she has disappeared since then Everyone here lost their folks Our only purpose is to destroy the kidnapping organization That's funny as until now we haven't known where they are However, we always hope... one day, we will be successful It was my fault You want to throw it away, don't you? Don't do that Maybe it's better for me to forget sad memories She might me dead by now - So why do you always keep it by sour side? - Because it was a present I gave her Every time I see it I think of her So, that's why you had to keep it very carefully Thank you for saving me last time I'm very sorry about your wound Sanim, Keemuu, Keemha Sanim, Sanim Actually, when we first met you We used you Keemuu knew you had a special smell as the women who were kidnapped So, we used you as a bait Our purpose is to find their place - But everything is not as expected - That was your fault It's not necessary to bring her here I cannot stand there and see her dead - You are so kind - And always bring trouble to us - You brought her here - So, you will be the one to solve this problem You know what we are doing is very dangerous Then, I taught you some martial art and you learnt well Yet, your action shown no respect to our team What she did is so careless and risky - We can't let her stay here - He's right If this situation lasts, both she and we will be in danger - So, what do we have to do? - We will set up a play ...and end this. We will move to other place and don't care about her anymore Keekwai is the fourth member in the team His girlfriend was also a victim He always acts decisively and with no emotion Enough, stop! I'm sorry for cheating you But what we are doing is not suitable for you We have no choice but to do this Please don't worry for us and I'm sorry again Why? My fate is to be lonely? Hey - You are still here? - Where's Sanim? That's not your business - If I can defeat you, can you let me see him? - Ok So, can we have a fight? You don't have the right to decide my fate I've just proved that my skill is better than you I will fight with them myself I have to drink this awful alcohol? Can we forget about this? After drinking this, you will be an official member in our team Sorry about last time - How long have you been joining the team? - Some months before you - I'm sorry about your girlfriend - That's not your business Mind your own business - But now I'm a member of the team - I told you to mind you own business How many times did you fight against them? - Twice - Those were just their henchmen The leaders are not as simple as those you fought with Don't ever think this is an easy job - I don't... - One second of carelessness can cost you your life From now on, you'd better not do anything risky After the death of his girlfriend he became like that I see I was abandoned when I was young Maybe that's why I don't understand his feeling Your folk... they are not human They don't know what the feeling of losing a folk is like So, what was your feeling when you lost your fiancee? I didn't want to live anymore It was my fault That was not your fault Hey, what do you think after becoming a member in this team? Happier? A bit happier And I will be a lot better if all of you are straight to me It seems that you all don't get used to having a new member like me I know it was my fault but I understood And I only want to soon find out where they are Yeah, we all want - But no one of us is as stupid as you - Are you kidding me? They are a secret organization no one ever see the leader You want to be a bait That's very dangerous They are very tricky not like others That's why until now we haven't known where they are - Even their henchmen don't know about it? - They only take the women to a place near here So we guess there place is on this area - It's near this beach? - Yes - Why do they kidnap those women? - To research some kind of medicine Even their henchmen don't know much about this - They kidnap selectively - Only some special women Those women have a strange smell They only kidnap this kind of women We know that you are one of the women who has that strange smell So, that's why the last time we used you as a bait - Unfortunately, they were just henchmen - How do they know who has that smell? They will know They have people everywhere If you have that strange smell they will find you - You can't smell it - What? - You must have a good nose to realize it I can smell it! Ok, my girlfriend also had that fucking smell They kidnapped her in front of my face and I didn't know anything about it Then, I found her having been tortured to death near there No one make you do this because it's very risky Don't worry about me I volunteer to do this - And you all will be there to protect me, right? - Ok We need to start discuss the plan They often appear in a crowd of women - They act very quickly - They can kidnap you in a crowd They can be anyone Even the foreigners It's very difficult to realize them - Where's Deu? - Sanim are protecting her - Why are you here? - And why did they run? - Shit, we run into their trap Sanim is our last hope I hope he can follow them and find out where they are Show yourself! I know you want take revenge for your fiancee Sanim, Sanim, wake up, Sanim Shit, no sign of them Deu also disappeared How come this one is so stubborn? The medicine has no effect on her Do it one more time Those women's tear has a special kind of chemical substance It helps improve the health with an incredible effect This is our system of extracting In other words, it can be compared with ginseng One bottle can cost above one millions dollars Billionaires will spend a great deal of money on this divine medicine Maybe this is their place Hey, remember us? I'm fine Once coming here, you will have no way out This place will be your tomb Those girls lose their senses I know this girl is your fiancee Give her to me No one can get out of here Mye Mye, Mye - Mye - Sanim - Mye - Sanim Mye Come on, Sanim Sanim, I can't hold any longer - Let me out - No - Please let me out - Never I would rather die than see you dead - I will let Mye out to save you - No, please save her Please hold on Our friends will come here to help us If she dies, I will die too Sanim, please come on Sanim! Sanim Sanim - Sanim - Everyone here also loses their folks Those who lost their folks could understand my feeling Sanim Sanim We did it Do you hear me? I saved your fiancee Sanim - Sanim - Who am I? What's my name? Where is this place? My name's Mye, right? Am I Mye? My name's Mye, right? My name's Mye, right? What happened to me?
