 

                        MEZHRABPOMRUS THE GIRL WITH THE HAT BOX Screenplay by V. TURKIN V. SHERSHENEVICH Directed by Boris BARN E Cinematography by B. FRANTSISSON B. FILSHIN Production Designer S. KOZLOVSKY Cast: Natasha Korostelyova - Anna STEN Grandfather - V. MIKHAILOV Cashier Fogelev - V. FOGEL llya Snegiryov - I. KOVAL-SAMBORSKY Madame Irene - S. BIRMAN Her husband - P. POL' Marfushka - E. MILYUTINA This film is one of film director Boris Barnet's early works. Made to propagandize the state loan, this comedy is interesting for its innovative efforts in characterizing the protagonists, and is attractive for its lyrical narrative. Natasha Korostelyova and her grandfather lived in a small house near Moscow. Each day, an enamored railway cashier, Fogelev, was rushing to the object of his hopeless love. Natasha and her grandfather earned their living by making hats. I'm afraid, dear Natasha, you'll fly away from me soon. You mean my getting married? Don't be afraid! Each morning Natasha took their orders to Moscow... From faraway provinces, llya Snegiryov was traveling to Moscow, dreaming of studying at a workers' faculty. Madame lrene's Hat Shop, for which Natasha worked. Marfushka - the shop owner's maid. The housing committee is here, ma'am! One room in lrene's flat was registered fictitiously in Natasha's name, though actually living in it was Nikolai Matveyevich Trager, Madame lrene's husband. And your tenant, Natalya Korostelyova, who is registered in that room, where is she? Since I had you registered, my dear, you should've spent a night here from time to time, because the housing committee is pestering me again! I'd like to know how big your turnover is. I'm a financial inspector. You idiot! He is a financial inspector! In search of a lodging. Excuse me, where can I find a room to rent? llya Snegiryov spent all evenings and nights at railway stations. What do you want from me, for God's sake? I'm sorry, I... Sorry, it was an accident... I dropped a ruble... was looking for it... I have nowhere to sleep... What are you thinking about, Natasha? I feel sorry for him... He has nowhere to sleep... Hoping for a new meeting. At Madame lrene's, they were expecting guests. I can arrange a room for you. llya Gavrilovich Snegiryov. Tula Guberniya, village of Lopatino. Peasant. Unmarried. Married. Natalya Petrovna Korostelyova. Bolotino Station of Moscow Region. Milliner. Unmarried. Married. You asked for it, so I've arranged it. This is my husband, he will live in my room! I won't let anyone in! You may be registered there, but the room is not yours! Do not offend my wife! Is it her room or not? Which way is it? You see, she's our tenant. And now she got married. Please, come to the next room! Oh, it's falling! Goodbye, husband! I'll pay you a visit some day... The first night passed with no incidents. The Trager couple declare a war. To the House Committee. From the responsible tenant Nikolai Matveyevich Trager. Statement. Tenant Korostelyova actually doesn't even think of living in the flat, therefore, it is evident that llya Snegiryov living in her room, is her fictitious husband, and is subject to eviction from the flat I'm responsible for. Nothing but bonds. Irene dear, give me some money. I've spent everything on this and that... You still owe me for my work. Pay this bitch! Oh beauties, oh beauties, oh beauties of cabaret, You've been born for sheer enjoyment... Stop singing! Ma'am, the house government came to see the new tenant! And where's your so-called wife? I'm here! Can you lend me 30 kopecks for the return ticket until tomorrow? Fogelev still hoped to meet Natasha with the last train. I'm late for the last train! The last train carried with it his last hope. You're not sleeping, are you? Yes, I'm sleeping! I'm scared! There's a mouse! Honest, it's a rat! In the morning... Forgotten are the kisses of late, The passion dozing, love is gone, And comes the joy of a new date... Here are the winning numbers of Golden Premium Bonds of the first State Loan... The winning number for 10,000 rubles is 7219, series 05... Winning 25,000 rubles... is number 1419963, series 03... Tell me Natasha's address! She won 25,000 on my bond! Natasha's address! Working with a hat block. Going to the station to buy a newspaper... I love you! Natasha, will you marry me? Give back my bond! I treasure it as a memento. I forgot it in llya's room. Here's your bond! You won 25,000 rubles! Goodbye... I wanted to tell you... that I agree... ...to be your wife! No, now I don't want it! Goodbye! To the Registry Office. Please dissolve my marriage to Miss Korostelyova, for she's won 25,000 rubles and I may be thought to have married her for money. llya SnegiryOV- I don't object... Your wife wanted money instead of the bond... It'll be my pleasure to do it! Natalya Petrovna has the bond! Give me my bond! Before it's too late, Fogelev decided to propose to Natasha. Sign the application for divorce... I OBJECT. Why are you laughing at me?! Here's your bond! Buy a hundred bonds, you idiot! The End
