 

                        Faith is where empathy is With rage there is sin Hatred finds place in hell Forgiveness is where He is Awaken! - Dawn is breaking... - Washing away the cover of darkness Dawn is breaking... Awaken! May Lord Shiva bless you Shake away the mist of dreams Focus on the task at hand It will take you down the path to salvation Every direction beckons you - Aboard the boat of life - - You'll be carried by the holy river's tide - Dawn is breaking... - Awaken! 'Accept this offering O Keshava' 'Accept this offering O Narayana' 'Accept this prayer, O Mighty Sun God' 'O Lord, creator of the universe remove our miseries, vices and sorrows' 'Give us the ability to lead upright, good lives' - The fluttering leaves point the way - The river flows as it cleanses your sins - - And the temple bells sound the presence of the Lord - Dawn is breaking... - Awaken! O traveler- - Life is passing you by- - Hold on to that faint string... - and do what is only right - Dawn is breaking Welcome I seek your blessings Punditji You're late as usual It's almost afternoon I reached home late last night after a wedding ceremony... My 3 year old son was crying relentlessly... due to an upset stomach I fell asleep, putting him to bed Before I knew it, the Sun God had risen The sun doesn't rise according to your convenience, Daya Shankar Leading life by the rising and setting of the sun is the duty of every Brahmin priest And ostentation isn't the objective of prayer You may find gullible customers... but you won't find God Forgive me Punditji, I didn't see you How dare you touch and defile Pundit Chaturvedi! I am sorry Punditji. Please forgive me Kalua! Mallah! Come here... Hurry! He's defiled Pundit Chaturvedi Beat him up Stop! Stop! Don't hit him 'O Lord purify my mind, body and soul' What's going on? We are Brahmins Lord Brahma himself gave us this most superior caste Even the shadow of that lowly untouchable shouldn't fall on us And he touched Pundit Chaturvedi! 'May this thread of Lord Brahma confer upon me knowledge and wisdom' Greetings Punditji That poor man was beaten up for your sake And you didn't intervene? Why should he? That lowly fool has defiled Pundit Chaturvedi The divine light created by the Lord is the genesis of all mankind Then how can one man be different from another? Our scriptures also state this. Don't they? Are you trying to teach Punditji the scriptures? We challenge you to a debate with him Shyam! Lord Shiva has blessed me with the knowledge of the scriptures What about the truth of life? Hail, the mighty Lord Shiva - Awaken! - Dawn is breaking I'm sending sweets to your house... offer them to the God sin your prayers Thank you. My daughter will bring the money Punditji, what did that mystic mean? Knowing the meaning is not enough To understand religion, one must live by its tenets The world is full of so called mystics If you want to grasp the true essence of the Hindu religion pay attention to Punditji's teachings Understand Mr. Paul? Goras Nath, I'm not going to change my mind, I will not to be a part of any religious propaganda My child, come back in an hour 'I recite the names of the places where you dwell' 'My sins from 7 lifetimes will be destroyed by this recollection' 'By merely looking at your image... 'I'll no longer be touched by sin' 'I pray to you morning and evening, O Lord' 'Detach me from Karma, so I can only live to please you' 'Hail, the mighty Lord Shiva! ' 'You are the incarnation of compassion' 'You're the very essence of life' 'Your eternal abode is the heart of your devotee' 'I bow to you Lord Shiva and your consort Parvati' 'My Lord Shiva is the one in eternal bliss' 'The one who is resplendent and omnipresent' 'The one who embodies the scriptures' 'The one who is limitless and pure like the sky. I adore you' 'O beloved Lord of all... with shimmering jewels in his ears' 'Your beautiful large eyes... full of mercy and a cheerful countenance. I adore you' 'Hail, the mighty Lord Shiva' May the mighty Lord Shiva bless you Be careful. Do not eat street food or take a helping from others Communal riots broke out in Bhadohi early this morning... persons from a minority community are reported dead Many homes have been burnt down What sparked off this Hindu-Muslim riot? Hindu-Muslim animosity is part of our history Any small scuffle... can trigger a riot Which means... father and son... husband and wife... relatives and brothers can forsake each other But Mother Ganges never forsakes... who-so-ever takes a dip in Her holy waters The River Goddess Ganges... washes away his sins and liberates him In this modern world... where virtues are disappearing... we are fortunate for the presence of Mother Ganges Are your students late today? Or have I finished my chores early? All you have been quick at, is forgetting, Parvati Will you teach the students... while I perform the prayers at Vishnu Singh's house? Today, is the fire ritual for Surya Prakash, let's hope the Gods drive some sense into his head He is unlike his father So hot headed This may take a lot of time Many lifetimes I believe I was referring to the fire ritual That won't take much time So, you won't be able to eat before noon I am a Brahmin. I feed the soul first But you must eat. Don't wait for me The doctor has adviced you to eat on time I am a brahmin's wife. I know what is good for my soul I will wait for you You're a woman You needn't live by the rule sprescribed for men I know The scriptures also prescribe that every woman be a dutiful wife - Pativrat Punditji! I read somewhere that a woman's... Pativrat Dharm dictates she must obey all of her husband's wishes It is written in the Manu Smriti In chapter 9, verse 154 - 55 Very good my child Paul, a woman without husband has no status in society What are you learning from Punditji today? We're on an interesting subject A woman's Dharma as a dutiful wife You've performed good deeds in your past life... to have the good fortune to come all the way to India... and learn about our religion and culture from Punditji And some unfortunate people, despite being born here... Shut up! Just shut up! Don't interfere, Prabha I have decided she won't go She wants to study. - Please let her go Keep your mouth shut! Punditji, do I have to be apart of the ritual? It was difficult convincing father to let me study further Today is the last day for submitting the application But my brother says... - You've studied enough! There is a ceremony in the house and she wants to go and study You keep quiet, father! Educated girls have neither virtues nor values Values! Good values require that you don't talk down to anyone... especially to your father As far as Mani is concerned... she is not required at this prayer Vishnu Singhji may allow her to leave You may go, my child Prabha will look after the prayer preparations Then, I will not be a part of this ceremony You'll do as I say! His ritual will take place... and you will be a part of it Pundit Chaturvedi is encouraging her bad behaviour If the elder brother is forbidding it, why does he need to butt in? He thinks he is God And father and the foolish people of Benares believe he is God He is not! And still he insists on controlling everyone's life You scoundrel! Don't I know you'd love the same You'd love to have Pundit Chaturvedi's job and status Welcome, sir. Come, pray. Peace for father, grandfather, your dead That is ridiculous! So what if he holds the highest post of priesthood... My knowledge is no less than his Welcome madam Perform the invocation ceremony, seek the blessings of River Ganges Ma'am, fees You're doing well for yourself You get to touch these sexy foreigners need to earn my living. Your father doesn't pay for my expenses like he does for Pundit Chaturvedi That's because you aren't the Head Priest of our temple Wouldn't you love to be the Head Priest? - Dawn is breaking - - Washing away the cover of darkness - - Awaken! - Whose baby is this? What's wrong? Vedika was playing outside. A woman was thirsty She gave Vedika the baby and went to drink water She didn't return What? You brought in a child from the street? Not knowing his caste, how dare you touch him? It's a Brahmin's child Vedika had asked the mother You shouldn't have brought the baby home His mother must be worried Go back and wait for her Vedika waited for 4 hours. She didn't return I hope all is well You did tell her that you were Punditji's daughter, didn't you? Then she'll surely find her way here You can go into the temple. Everything's ready Take him there. Play with him Will you do the morning prayers in the afternoon? I have to boil milk for the child He'll be hungry when he wakes up1 He'll disrupt Vedika's studies He has already disrupted your duties towards God What if he was our own child? I'm sure God will forgive the delay He knows everything You are right. God is omniscient You little brat! Mother, look what he has done! I'll iron another uniform for you Go, take a bath I rushed home after the temple prayers... to prepare everything for your father But this little one is intent on delaying me Vedika! Pick him up! I can't. I'm going for a bath. I'll get late I'll pick him when I finish preparing the prayer plate It's almost done I'll just bring the plate 'Salutations to the mighty Lord Shiva' Your love for this child has blinded you I will have to bathe again Has he made you bathe twice? Mother, I'm leaving I'll get your breakfast - Mother, I've had the gruel He was crying so much... I thought Mani would be here to mind him... but she didn't come I should've made your breakfast I can take care of myself From tomorrow, I'll wake up early and help you... That won't be necessary If the child's mother doesn't show up by tomorrow... Inspector Sharma will take him away It's good that you have come, dear Wash your hands and make some wheat pancakes for me Or I too will have to eat gruel or fodder meant for the cow - How do I open my heart to you? - I am devoted only to you - My lord and master - You are my world - The colour of your love... - Is the colour I wear - Oh my lord, my love - I am devoted only to you Bastard! How dare you take photographs of my sister! Please don't beat him. It's not his fault - All that I see is you Don't hit him so much that he dies - My words speak only of you... - - Even as the tears of love - Wash away the kohl in my eyes - You remain my beloved The fault lies with our own people They still suck upto these foreigners... in the guise of providing them knowledge Punditji has come You should get your daughter married immediately I will now tell you the duty of a father... as prescribed by the scriptures... which means... the groom's family, his temperament, health... reputation, knowledge, wealth and the good deeds of his ancestors Only by adhering to these 7 virtues... can a daughter be given away in marriage And it is the duty of the daughter... to aid her father in this task Have you understood that my child? Now listen to me! If you dare to venture out of the house... I will drown you and that foreigner in the Ganges Do you understand? - Like the river flows into the ocean - My being flows into yours - The sound of your flute - will lead me to you - Your presence saved Paul Had something serious happened to him... Surya Prakash wouldn't have got bail Any news of the child's mother? I checked with the Police control room No child has been reported missing in this locality Is there no way to trace the child's mother? I can check in other villages around Benares But that will take some time... About a week If no complaint has been lodged... it's unlikely you will find her The woman has abandoned the child It is your belief that... everything is preordained May be, God has sent us this child for a purpose Till Inspector Sharma gets more information... shall we keep the child? Lmprove your punctuation - Yes, father Come here, my child What happened on television today? Thanks to this little one... I couldn't go to Gayatri's house to watch T.V. Your little one could be a blessing in disguise All girls are born with a maternal instinct I wish Vedika gets married to a handsome young man... Vedika's marriage will not be according to your wishes... but where it is destined Fate preordains every relationship in the world You are lying to me She's eloped! And you have no clue? I'll kill you, I'll kill everyone I'll destroy this entire house Have you gone mad! Put that down! Mani has driven me mad! How will we face the world? You and Pundit Chaturvedi have caused this I've lost both my children, Punditji What should I do now? If Mani was your daughter, what would you do? I wouldn't be able to do anything A girl who weds by her own choice... is responsible for her own deeds Consider her dead Had Pandit Chaturvedi not entertained Paul you wouldn't have to see this day How dare you step on the holy flowers! These non-believers have sworn to defile our religion! I'll teach you a lesson Leave me Stop it. Relax. Calm down! Nothing can be achieved by what you are doing We need to protect our way of life, our Dharma Come join us in our fight against all non-believers Hail, the Mighty Lord Shiva - To protect our religion... - it's our duty to destroy its enemies - Our culture demands this from us Our religion is the most ancient and the purest Foreigners and non-Hindu forces are constantly attacking our religion Do not deviate from the path you have chosen to tread It is your path to salvation Pray that we continue to march ahead protecting our religion, our Dharma May our endeavors succeed! What happened my child? I'll be with you in a while... Have some patience Quiet my child. I'll sieve the flour and be with you. Have some patience I cannot touch you till I finish cooking I'll have to bathe again - Will you calm him down?! I can't do anything, till I serve your meal Do you expect me to entertain him? - Could you? It will calm him down You needn't touch him There has been no news of the child's mother. We can send the child to the government orphanage. The government orphanage will not be appropriate. It's God's will that a Brahmin's child has come to our house The temple orphanage is where he will be sent I don't know how to decipher God's will... but I've been thinking of something You've started thinking? Lord Shiva, have mercy! Don't let the thought weigh on your mind... speak out... else you won't be able to sleep tonight There is no one better than you at teaching religion and the scriptures Maybe, God wants this child to learn religious values from you... like you'd teach your own child Are you suggesting we adopt the child? What if his mother comes back? Then the child will be fortunate to have the love of two mothers Like the son of Lord Shiva. Kartikey! Parvati! Why are you wailing? You've disrupted my meditation! Do you think I'm here to entertain you? 'My Lord Shiva, I adore you' 'You're the one in eternal bliss' 'Limitless and pure like the sky' 'I adore you' 'My Lord Shiva, I adore you' - My Lord Shiva, I adore you - - You're the one in eternal bliss, I adore you - - My Lord Shiva, I adore you - - Limitless and pure like the sky, I adore you - - I'd left him sleeping on the swing - He must have said,"Bauji, pick me up" - Quiet. Your father is sleeping Kartikey - Father, look at me 'Hail, the mighty Lord Shiva' We have a swing! 'You are the one who embodies the scriptures' Quiet, father is praying 'The one who is resplendent and omnipresent' 'The one who is limitless and pure like the sky. I adore you' Father! Mother! Father! Hello! I can perform the prayer for your new house over the phone It won't even mess up your house Money? You can send it to my website address Ok. Good day Sorry. It must be good night over there Call from America - Here comes Punditji That was his client from America Pundit Daya Shankarji has become world famous We are suppose to serve and not sell our religion What's wrong with that? Everyone should adapt to the changing times The Truth doesn't change with time What our scriptures prescribe is the greatest truth But you won't understand that Coming, son! Come in, Daya Shankar No, I am fine where I am That child... that Vedika had brought home The one Punditji considers his son and you call Kartikey His mother is here to take him She had escaped to Benares from the riot in Bhadohi Parched, she fainted on the riverside People admitted her to the government hospital The loss of her child made her mentally unstable Where is Kartikey's mother? It's about time you met I met her at the riverside, looking for your house Please come in... Your entry into this house cannot be prohibited My name is Nafeesa I run Dar-ul-Mohsenaat, an institute for destitute woman And she is Suraiya She is Mustafa's mother May Allah bless you for sheltering her son How is this possible! He... - The child was very small They hadn't circumcised him - When the riots started in Bhadohi she ran away to save her child's life I found her at the government hospital - She was not in her senses - It took her a few years to even speak properly We visited many police stations in and around Benares We'd almost given up, when we met Inspector Sharma We bumped into Daya Shankarji who brought us to you Vedika Mother, no! Please don't let him go - Mother, I don't want to go - Sister - Sister Take him away. Father... I don't want to go Father! - Quiet, father is praying 'We pray O Lord... that you purify this home... cleanse our bodies, minds and souls' 'Accept this offering O Keshava' 'Accept this offering O Narayana' 'Accept this offering O Madhava' 'Accept this offering O Govinda' I want to... I don't want any justification I'll punish myself for your sins You couldn't control your tongue... so I'll hold back mine From this very moment... for indefinite time... I take on the penance of silence - Quiet, father is praying You've cleansed yourself God knows that it wasn't your fault You needn't break your silence... but please resume your duties at the temple - Father, I dropped the vermillion Pundit Chaturvedi! The purest! The ultimate in priesthood! Fooled by his wife! He ranks as a non-believer The Muslim child has defiled his temple and home. All the cleansing is a cover up! But what about Surya Prakashji's temple affairs? Do you still hanker for thatjob? You are wealthy now It's not the job... but the person who runs that temple... must be physically, mentally, and spiritually pure Pundit Chaturvedi, is impure now Are you in your senses? Pundit Chaturvedi has purified himself! He should be removed from the position Not as long as I am alive Once again, you're wrong I have endured Pandit Chaturvedi so far But, not any longer Will you remove him forcefully? For that con man, Daya Shankar? Con man? I'd rather have a con man than an impure man run my temple And if you don't agree, father... I'll force him to step down Alright, Surya Prakash You have Daya Shankar, Gorasnath... the power of your organisation And Pundit Chaturvedi... has the strength of his faith I challenge all of you! - If you prove Punditji's impurity... - I will end this relationship with him God, you are the omniscient I'm unable to purify my thoughts and my heart Despite my penance... I am tormented Give me the strength to surrender to you completely The kind of strength... that will lead me to you Father has broken his silence On this moonless night... I take on the Chandrayan Vrat Where is Punditji? He can't talk to you Is he hiding behind the oath of silence? He is doing his prayers To atone for his sin she's taken on another penance Another one? What penance will he do now? Chandrayan Chandrayan Vrat? - Are you sure? What's this penance all about? The Chandrayan Vrat is the most arduous penance in the scriptures After the moonless night, the devotee has to eat... increasing 1 morsel per day... reaching 15 morsels on the full moon night After the full moon night... the devotee reduces a morsel a day till the moonless night Apart from this, he can not eat or drink anything O Lord, with Your grace... I complete the Chandrayan Vrat today Any trace of sin in my deeds... I surrender to you in this fire Give me the strength, O Lord... to continue to walk your path... despite all impediments Forgive me... for committing such a grave sin I'll never stray from my duty again I forgive you I've prayed to God with all my heart and soul I hope He forgives me The penance is over, right mother? Yes, it is over A petty squabble amongst a group of Muslims and Hindus... has turned into a communal riot... in Sewapuri, a small town near Benares To control the situation additional forces have been deployed Some bodies are charred beyond recognition Paul Gordon, a foreign journalist, has been killed in this riot Paul was writing a book on the Hindu religion - Who are you? What are you doing here? - I am a journalist, please leave me alone - Surya Prakash is right - Mani can't live in this house - Where will she go? - Your stubbornness has caused this nuisance - She is my daughter. I will not abandon her - Wait till Punditji arrives He'll drill some sense into you This is an emergency It is true that... Mani had abandoned this house... but, being the father of a widow... it is your duty, according to the scriptures... to provide for her food, clothing... shelter, medicines etc - The communal violence that originated in Sewapuri... - has spread like wild fire to Benares - To control the situation, a curfew has been clamped... - in the Muslim areas of the city - Rioting and arson have been reported from many areas... - in the ancient holy city of Benares Mother! 'My Lord Shiva, the one in eternal bliss' 'You embody the scriptures. You are resplendent, omnipresent' Mother! 'You are limitless and pure like the sky' 'I adore you' - Please listen! Open the door Mother, Kartikey is here - 'O benevolent Lord of the Himalayas' - 'O eternal soul' Riots have broken out in our area It was tough bringing Mustafa here - Kartik, he's your Kartik - 'You are beyond human knowledge' - Only you can save him - 'O destroyer of evil. I bow to you' - Please protect him - Open the door! They will kill him - 'The Ganges is Your crown' - Please open the door - 'The cresent moon Your ornament' - 'You dwell in all living beings' - Allah is watching you! - 'O Lord and Master, I adore You'- Please save this innocent life You are his mother! He is your Kartik! How can you beso stone hearted? - 'O beloved Lord of all' - 'Your beautiful large eyes are... ' - For God sake, help us - 'always full of mercy' - Please don't let him die! Let him in, mother Call your mother Call out to her Call her again! - 'I bow prostrate to You' - Call out to your father Quiet, father is praying! 'O my Lord Shiva... I adore You' Hail, the mighty Lord Shiva By not taking him back... we've fulfilled our duty as Hindus Haven't we? Another prayer ceremony... to calm my restless mind With a calm mind... - I shall perform my duty tonight - I've heard, one of them tried to escape - No. He was nabbed! - The real task was done by Pandharee - What did he do? - Like those Muslims stabbed the Hindu to death... - Pandharee did the same... - Women, old men, children, he spared no one - Our religion is being destroyed... - by the non-believers - We will teach them a lesson tonight - Not one will be left alive - We'll kill them all! This is a very auspicious day Today, as a Brahmin, you pray for our faith and Surya Prakashji... will protect our faith, as a warrior It's time all of us fulfill our duties... to protect our faith, our religion It's not easy to abandon the one you love The divine light created by the Lord... is the genesis of all mankind Then how can one man... be different from another? Hail, the mighty Lord Shiva! Surya Prakash... violence is a grave sin! This is a do or die situation Sermons won't work here. Only the sword will Goras, get him! - Mustafa Love for that child has misled this priest! I'll kill him! From the day you were born, I have tried to teach you the meaning of religion I will not let you tread the path of sin Religion is not only devotion... but also duty and deeds Religion is unity and brotherhood Religion means looking beyond caste and creed Humanity is religion This... This... this... this is not religion 'As You lead us... to the place you dwell... our sins of seven life times... will be destroyed' - Oh Lord of the heavens - Blessed is thy name - Be it God, be it Allah You are the same - Grant us all this wisdom -
