 

                        Hey, No buddy! Please listen to me How much time it took? Super boy! You've bettered all your previous trials by over 50 seconds Buddy! In a month, you're sure to become an S.I. Then, me? You'll definitely become a Gurkha Give me 50 paise Who's that? Son! Is it good on your part? Oh! Saree is very good! Where did you buy it? Don't touch me, silly boy - Aunty, didn't ask about that She's asking about trouble you're creating everyday Are you allowing us to dry in Sun peacefully home made goodies? You boast about yourselves as if you're going to achieve something great Aunty, don't get angry Don't touch me, boy Aunty, today, you'll talk like this only But, once we achieve something You'll say, I knew it earlier itself they'll become Police Officers ...Do you know a thing... They practiced their running on our home made goodies ...Like that, you'll boast with your neighbours You'll have a repartee for every word There's nothing short in that Aunty, stand like that only I'll take your photograph Come on take it! - Photograph me ...Not a shirt is found here If anyone wants to go out early, nothing happens properly in this house ...l'm coming Have my clothes come? It'll come from the laundry only in the evening First, I must wash this laundry man clean What'll I do if there's not a single shirt to go out in the morning? Without listening to me, you put all your shirts to laundry If you lament now what am I to do? If I don't lament with you, can I go & lament with neighbour's wife? What's this father? You're wearing Brother's shirt There's no other shirt to wear No problem, you look like Hrithik Roshan in this shirt Is Hrithik Roshan going everyday like me to office to collect arrears? Where's your brother? - He's filling water ...I said he's filling water from the pump That's it, what Hey Armstrong... - What? Armstrong! His Arms are strong isn't it! That's why I called him as Armstrong Using this bore pump to draw water has made women of this area also Armstrong Will you pump a pot of water for me? Ask me that, I'll draw & fill up a big drum for you Get lost mad boy! What? Keep it here Father, definitely you'll get your arrears today Let your words turn my luck today What's it son? Nothing... father! What? Cigarette is in the shirt father's wearing ...What's it? - Nothing father Damn it! - Father, I want Rs.10 Why? - For Bus! Morning, I gave you, isn't it? Why do you need it again What's that on the shirt? - What? Hey! Are you smoking cigarettes? Did you ask money for that? It's not me... he only... Oh! Is it that Lord's cigarette? Father, why're you staring? Today's youth lean up on it Don't they have tension Just for relaxation only Tell him, it's enough if he gets tensed 2-3 times, not pocketfuls Tomorrow he's having a physical fitness test - What? What's that noise? Why to hide it when the cat's out of the bag? You must have it... it's good for you - I needed it Anyhow, you'll come back to home in the evening isn't it? What did your father say? What do you mean by why to hide when the cat's out of the bag? Really want to know it? Hey! Who's that man? - I think he's the Selection Officer Call them! What's your name? - My name is K. Natraj Andipatti Constituency! We both belong to same caste sir Association President has given me a recommendation letter also How's the Leader? He's fine sir, I met him before coming here Sir, file... - Go & stand there My name's Saravana, Trichy District I've been trying for 3 years Do you've recommendation! - No sir! Go there! Go man... go & stand there Hey! Stand properly man! Greetings sir! Sir, my name's llavarasu, I'm coming from Coimbatore My father's District Secretary Sir, this's letter given by Coimbatore MLA Keep it there He had written it personally Sir, phone from the Minister ...l'll take care of him sir! What did you say, was his name? Move! Hey! Move man! Who's Muruganandham here? - It's me sir! He's here sir... yes ...You're... - I'm Minister's Relative I'll take of care him Go & stand there What's your name? What's all this? Sir, they're certificates of my achievements in School, College & NCC Do you've recommendation? - No, sir Did you pay money to anyone? Then, on which hope you've come to the selection? I've confidence in myself Why do I need a recommendation? I've talent and I'm qualified Go there! Go and stand there man Stand steadily man! Though, we've all the requirements like Height, Weight... We don't have the "qualification" which they're expecting from us ...Sir, candidates with recommendation letters... ...Ask them to go out! Then, what about them... Ask them to take to the ground What to do with these? Throw everything into dustbin We're very grateful to you A policeman should never use that word The moment you get this thought it's starting point of decay If I had be grateful to caste Leaders & Ministers, MLA's ...You would've been out by this time If a Policeman is grateful to a wine shop owner ...Then, he must turn a blind eye to spurious liquor sale If he's grateful to a Rowdy! He must turn a blind eye to his Rowdyism A Police should be duty bound grateful to the Department only You answered me bravely without even getting afraid of me being an officer The courage is very important Still there's Written Test Examinations Do it well... One needs a courage to play with fire in his heart Speed to win again and again is known as courage In Hitler's period Charlie Chaplin was courage... In British period, wearing Home spun cotton was courage There's nothing in the lines of your hands, your hand needs Courage Fly a flight with an 'L' Board That's what you call it as Courage Swing at the tip of Eiffel Tower That's what courage is You need a Courageous heart to see a make up less beauty... It's courage to go alone into a women's college It's courage to make a kite & fly the degrees earned by you It's courage to open a door on Pakistan Border You need courage in heart to consider this world as a small ball A Deaf Beethoven creating a symphony is Courage We need Courage to face any consequences Courage is a blessing which we get from our mother's womb Fear not to tread, the untreaded so said Bharathi, that's courage Is it thread that's woven in our National Flag No, it's C O U R A G E Shall we reverse that English film? They'll spit on your face Greetings sir Why has this Northern Indian Businessman come here? Have these guys taken any loan without my knowledge? Please come in Greetings sir! - Greetings I'm a T.V. Serial producer - Sit down... sit down Is it? Please, sit down sir! Greetings, I'm Amitabh Bachchan speaking from "How to become a Millionaire" Yes sir! Prashanth & Meena are sitting infront of me - Yes sir! And I've asked them a question - Oh! God, sir Oh! God! Sir... unable to bear your trouble sir... Take it ...Wrong number please You have this Tea... Special Amitabh Bachchan wanted me to write a serial for him I said, I don't have time ...Yes, come on tell me sir ...You must make a serial - I'll do it But, no one should know what'll happen next week? As a writter when I myself don't know it Will I allow them to know it? How many Episodes? A girl is born, attains puberty, she'll marry and becomes old, dies... till then Why're you beating around the bush? You could've asked me straight to write a Mega Serial Wouldn't I write? Oh! Time has come for us to write for a Mega Serial Pick up Pen & paper and start writing dialogues Oh! You too! The title itself is ready Did you see! The eloped women Room No:9,Woman born to live ...Slipped woman, Are these titles okay for you? You must write & give 1000 episodes for me 1000 Episodes? If we take Rs.5000 for each Episode we'll get Rs.50,000 for 1000 Episodes Let your maths go to hell we'll get Rs.50 lakhs boy You carry on sir But one condition This must be a serial that must fully mesmerise women Only 1000 Episodes isn't it? I'll write & give it to you in a week No... No... First write & give me 4 Episodes ...lf I like them, let's continue - Yes sir! But, you must write by understanding Woman's heart - Yes sir! I must understand woman's heart Where are you going? I'm going out to understand woman's heart Rs.5000 for each Episode! Rs.50 lakhs I'll arrange to earn it now itself Who's speaking? We're calling from "Banu on Steps" Serial - What's the matter? We've not yet received this week's dialogues It seems they've not yet received this week Episode's dialogue Ask them, where did we end the last Episode? Where did the last Episode end? Banu was climbing up the Kundrathur Temple steps It seems Bhanu was climbing up Kundrathur Temple Steps Tell them to picturise Bhanu coming down the steps slowly As soon as she reaches down tell them to end this Episode Tell them to picturise Bhanu coming down the steps slowly As soon as she reaches down tell them to end this Episode Next week sir!? He'll tell himself what's it next week? Next, when Bhanu is walking on the National High Way She's hit by a National Permit Truck and gets killed, End the serial like that ...Finish the story there itself Hereafter, I'm not going to write small serials This Mahadevan will write only Mega Serials Oh God! Someone's coming here ...Hey! Close everything Hey! Useless bunch! It's me Don't break the bottles Hey Little Devil! Why're you troubling us like this? ...They all got afraid fearing father is coming ...I came here to tell you all a good news and you all are on a drinking binge How do you know that we're drinking Old Monk? That's not Old Monk, that's Old Cask Look, it's written on it Hey! Shut up boy! - What's that Good News? ...He's... Monkey Hey! Come on tell me, do you love him? Nothing like that... Mother & father... Are you trying to elope with him without telling your mother & father Are you going to listen me or not? I've a doubt! - What? Whom do you love in these two? Oh! He's gone over board put him to sleep Broker gave the photo today morning ...I thought of showing it to you... Okay... Okay... do you like him? Mother & father like him I too like him Brother... What's this strange, she's calling you as Elder brother? ...Shy... shy! Hey! Give me the photo I've given you bribe of Rs.5000 isn't it? Why're you still keeping it pending? Hey! You don't seem to understand anything which I'm saying? Do you want your pension papers to get signed or not What's this sir? If you give another Rs.10,000 only then, your papers will move Again? - What again? In Govt. Offices papers won't move with signatures They'll move only with currency According to rules, you should've settled my pension last month itself What, you're talking about rules? Go... go... and get your work done according to rules You're talking too much about Law Where I'm to search for you? - Come sir! Your file is ready I'm coming I gave money in your home Come & finish my work Sir, I've fixed my daughter's marriage also If I give Rs.10,000,the work will be completed, isn't it? ...Come to my way like that ...You were talking about Law Hey! You said you worked as a Teacher for 40 years Looks like I've to teach you about practices of the Modern Times What happened father? - Nothing What's he saying? Hey, Subramani, you know my residence address, isn't it? ...Bring it without fail - Okay sir What does he want you to bring? He's asking another Rs.10,000 as bribe And insists it should be given at his home Isn't Arivu at home? - What? He says isn't Arivudainambi at home? Look at him, he's walking staticly at one place Dear, someone's here to meet you - Who's that? I'm son of Subramanian Teacher Oh! Son of that man! Did you bring money... come in... come in... Why? Why?! Your father wanted to move his file isn't it, for that? That's your duty! For doing that Govt. is paying you salary Bloody salary If I depend only on salary I've to discuss with my wife & make a budget even to buy a shaving blade Coming here without money, he's making silly arguments Hey! Do you know the cost of this T.V.? Do you know it? I bought it earlier In this more than the programmes only advertisements are shown Asking to buy this & that For that, I'm taking bribes Look, this CD, VCD's they all are very expensive items Look at this Dining Table The top is Belgium Glass Rs.30,000 Can I buy this with my Rs.7430 salary? The one that's hanging here I asked him what's the price? - He said Rs.8000 Just because it's costly, can I leave it? I bought it That's... hanging down... Hey, what are you doing? What's it dear? Begging from people of Tamil Nadu Are you eating on a Belgium glass? What? Don't you want me to do it? Shall I leave it? Okay! What's this? Call the Police Let the police come, before they ask me why I broke all this? They'll enquire, first what is your salary? How did you buy all this? Is it no problem for you? On this T.V. only they show regularly isn't it People going to court for income beyond their means isn't it? You're watching it all isn't it? No... No... It seems, he's not seeing it! Why do a person needs T.V. who doesn't see it Oh! God! They're breaking the T.V. Hey, to move files in Govt. Offices it shouldn't be pushed by currency It should be moved by the hands What's that? - Gold Teeth Only yesterday I had it made Gold which should be in the safe locker he has kept it in a Septic Tank What's this sir? You've come personally to house and... If you sign here as amount received after receiving money... I'll go away Without bringing cheque or Demand Draft you've brought cash I'll take care of all that trouble First sign it! What happened to him? Unable to get anything Greetings, Junior Sir Do you know him already? ...My son I know him, I saw him once ...I saw him only once ...But he'll never forget all his life What happened? They were feeding a poisonous snake ...I removed it's teeth - What? Cutting a block of Gold... Putting into the mouth Hey, don't ogle too much boy Shortly, we are going to become Police Leave it, we're running short of money even for our cigarettes Look, how happily he's walking up & down I'm not able to get even a tune for title What type of tune do you want? I want a tune that should be like that popular tune that's running for 3 yrs What's that? Oh! Poor boy! I think he's an Educated Beggar - Yes ...lt should come like that Buddy, we were struggling for even Cigarettes You've arranged for a quarter whisky also Thank you very much buddy Uncle! Are a rich man or a beggar? Oh! Very good looking Aunties are inside ...l'll also join them It's cool here, can I sit next to you? Hey! This is Ladies special Bus The woman next to you is a Policewoman Oh! My sister Am I your sister? Do I look like your sister? Look what am I going to do you? He's the Monkey man of Delhi Take him away to Police Station Get down man She's beating him black & blue Oh! I've missed the bus Everything is getting delayed since I got up today morning ...Got delayed bathing ...having break fast... Sir, when will the next bus come? City Buses are like Superstars! No one knows how & when they'll come But, they'll come definitely at the appointed time Oh! I've an interview at 10.30 and it's already 10.15 AM And I've missed my bus Why're you getting worried? Get on to my bike, let's go & catch that bus Look, he's starting the vehicle with first gear Looks like, he'll go to the Top Gear also You come... let's go ...I go only in a Ladies Bus I'll travel only in a Lady driven Auto If I come in the bike, there'll speed breakers on the road ...There'll be ups & downs ...You'll apply break Vehicle will give a jerk ...Our bodies will touch each other ...l'll feel shy! What happened to them? They've T.B. Poor boys Then, take my bike & go I'll collect it later I don't know to ride a bike Hey! It seems she doesn't know to ride a bike Then, there's only way for it What shall we do? Only back to back touch Giving such an idea, he has blown away youth's sensuous feelings Are you going to follow this Idea? This is a good idea Are you going to follow it? Do you know how many buses are plying a city roads? Before I count & come, your interview will be over? Is it okay for you? As far as I know, there's just one bus going infront of us This man doesn't know the answer for such an easy question also Hey! Look there! Isn't' it great idea? We can also follow isn't it? Only now it'll be a relief for our hearts ...l've heard that wife & husband will turn their backs to each other Only now, I'm seeing it Sorry sir! We're not husband & wife Is it? Then, don't worry Somehow, I'll compromise you both and get you both registered married ...Mind your own business man ...This is my business Do you know my father is a Butcher Look at him We are buying vehicles on financial loan only to hug girls & travel Looks like he's out to spoil that happiness also You'll catch the bus isn't it? I've to attend the interview on time Will you come quiet? Why're you getting angry? I don't like anyone talking behind my back Super Technic We can send our daughter also without fear with the neighbour boy Naughty! Hey! Stop... stop... stop it! We can catch the bus in the next bus stop The place I'm to get down has come Here... here only If we keep another head between them ...They'll look like the 3 Lions on our currency Will you talk bad about the Minister? Who do you think I'm? If you hold a mike in your hands will you talk as you like? People like you can talk only from street corners ...You can't do anything else Do you know who am I? You're a dog which wags its tail for bones thrown by Politicians Will you dare to beat me? Do you know about my Party? Being a public servant who should be serving people ...You're acting like a Henchman for the Minister Just because you're a Policeman will you do anything you like? ...l'll do man! Sir... sir... don't shoot him, there you may have to give an account for the bullet Hey! The Groom has arrived! Greetings sir - Greetings Welcome! How's he? He looks a dumb! My sister Asha! Greetings - Greetings Why has this girl come here? May be she's groom's sister Agreed it is a bride seeing function! For that do you've to go on stare at each other ...Please, will someone open there mouth & talk Respected Ladies & Gentleman - Hey shut up Since we are gathering here like a public meeting Bride & Groom are feeling shy to talk with each other We'll all stay out for sometime... come... Come... Come. let's discuss alone & settle it... l'll also come Hey! Sit down What? Stay here only Are you scared? Why? That day you had dropped me isn't it! For that only I forgot to thank you in my urgency I got a job with T.V. only because I could reach there on time Okay no problem, at least you had said it now You? I'm going to be a Police Inspector I'm waiting for Training! Do you know to sing? Normally groom will ask the bride do you know to sing? You're asking in reverse with them Who asked that man? I had asked that girl only What? Isn't there a girl sitting next to the groom I had asked her? Did you like? I asked whether did you like my sister? I like her Did you like? I asked whether you liked my brother I like him Not able to judge, what's going on? and what's going to happen? What had happened has happened for good Where? At the bus stop What's happening now is also happening for good Here! What's going to happen will also happen for good only I didn't see it, isn't it? You'll see it in future ...Next... Am I or you, who's getting married here? Both of them Groom & you! Finished! Have you finished with your talk What does the groom say? What's there for me to say? Our parents are no more Whatever it may be, I've to decide it myself The broker would've told about my job, salary & back ground I've a younger sister When I search a groom for her, definitely I'll expect all good qualities What we expect from others we must also be that only isn't it? I'll be like that only I like the girl very much What do you say? For you, Velu? It's double okay for me We're very happy with this proposal I'm also happy Meet again - When? No, you said we'll meet again I asked when & where? Tomorrow morning watch T.V at 11 AM On T.V.?! Greetings! - Greetings! Today in our programme "Taste Time" Shall we see making of Ice cream? We can see! Greetings Miss Asha! - Greetings How to make Kulfi Ice-cream? I'm going to make & show you What's that? Kulfi Ice-cream? Hey! You'll get it for that! Hey! This is woman's matter Selvi, you watch If we do as they show here lt'll not taste good, lt'll be a waste You mustn't say like that! To be married girls should definitely watch it carefully If you want to reach the hearts of your husbands You must cook cool things and calm him down Brother Selvi, watch it carefully If you go to their home & say you don't know to make Kulfi You'll get spanked! Okay... Okay... everyone help me please Selvi, I'll manage Ice cream powder Do you need any help from me? Hey! Shut up man! Take two litres of milk Take... Take 2 litres of milk There's only 1 litre Can you give a litre of milk? I'll give How? Take it Did you hid it as soon it was brought here? We must boil this milk till it thickens ...ln that add 500 gms of Ice cream powder Come quickly... Where's the Ice cream powder? Come quickly... quick... Give it! Pour it without tension Did you mix it? We must add 2 teaspoons of sugar after mixing the powder Add 2 spoons One spoon... two spoon - I've put it Go on stir it warmly without getting it burnt Okay I couldn't understand what did she say? Shall I explain it to you? What's that she's talking in a masculine voice? Now, if you put this in a Fridge And take it out after Half-an-hour! Tasty Kulfi will be ready! Here also it's ready! She told it to put it in a fridge you're pouring it into a glass Who has a Fridge in our entire street? Thinking it as free porridge given in temple... Let's all drink it You've all learnt how to make Kulfi, isn't it? Hey! Give it to me man ...give it to me You'll definitely impress your husband Your future husband is definitely a lucky man Hey! What happened to you all? Open your mouth and tell Who has taken the starch powder I had kept here? ...Rain water man! Hey! We may catch cold Buddy! Look there Kulfi Buddy! Rain... water! You just said we may catch cold if we get drenched in rain You're running like a fridge on seeing that Kulfi Hey! It seems her name is Kulfi! Hey! I'm calling you only What's this? You're calling me as Kulfi on the road I didn't get your name I called you as Kulfi only once you called 3 times I watched your programme, I came to say it was good ...Don't lie! Since the person didn't turn up! I had to do it myself Velu, do you know a thing! We couldn't eat the Kulfi made by us I can understand it Even then, there was a good message in what you said You said her a wife can win a husband's heart? But your never said how to win over a girl's heart? Don't you know it? No! When we move with a girl, I'm unable to judge whether it's love or friendship Why can't you differentiate it? Salt & sugar both appear white But we know the difference isn't it just like that only Umbrella... it's raining! Oh! This is your umbrella isn't it? Am I salt or sugar in your kitchen? Am I eyes or books in your Library? Am I a nail or Ring, if you're a finger? Am I a kiss or smile if you're lips? Am I a poet or painter if you're the beauty? Are you the pink or cheeks if I'm shy? Are you a finger or sensation if I'm the touch? Am I the cradle or Lullaby if you're a child? Am I your lap or pillow if you're the sleep? Are you the heart or beat of life if I'm the heart? Am I the roots or ground if you're the seed? Am I hunger or taste if you're the feast? Am I the prison or sentence if you're the prisoner? Am I Tamil or sounds if you're Language? Am I Bharathi or Bharathidasan if you're modern thought? Am I your partner or far away if you're loneliness? Shall I talk or think if you're going to be my partner? Shall I stand here or go away when you turn back? When you go away shall I call you or cry? Am I right or wrong if you're Love? In your Right hand there are 10 fingers 10 fingers In your left hand you've 10 fingers ...10 fingers! As far away clouds shower rain ...We burn ourselves in fire in the cool rain drops Don't fall flat on her feet! I never expected that all of you will come But, you'll come here definitely I was saying we too never expected Yes! He loves his sister very much He literally brought her up in his hands without letting her feet touch ground Yes! He has plenty of dreams for that sister How can he allow such a sister go alone in broad day light in this city? ...l'll scratch myself When she was a child without wearing... - Shut up He's a dialogue writer for Serials once he starts he'll never stop ...Thinks himself to be the great Sindbad How can I be a Sindbad? Greetings - Greetings She's Asha! Keep it by all means! I never objected to it isn't it? Auspicious thread is ready shall we go & see it? Certainly! If you come near, I'll shred you Great saviour How is it? Fine There's a difference between the Auspicious thread and other jewellary Do you know it? - What's it? Rings & other jewellary can be worn and selected But Auspicious thread can't be selected like that Look he has made a great new point! With this just one point, watch out I'll create sensation for 10 Episodes Watch there! - Where? How's it? Do you know why do woman wear earrings? I don't know! Look, you're getting a new point after new point Yes! I'll catch all these points and I'll start a mega serial "UNCLE" ...l'll give everyone a run for their money! Watch out Do you know it? I too don't know that's why I asked you Uncle! Shut up, Man Is it nice? When Gold joins Diamond it'll definitely be good Sir has given his assent isn't it? Buy it madam ...Just Rs 1 lakh only Rs 1 lakh!?! It's original Diamond ring! Sir, please buy it for her Sir what do you do? I'm going to be a Police Inspector What's there to think? Won't you earn it in a month's bribe? Hey! Watch out your words I'm not that sort of a guy ...I know about police men What do you know about policemen? - wait... wait, don't fight! ...I'll remove it ...l'm not able to remove it What happened? You show me, I'll remove it Got stuck up nicely, he's going to shell out all money for that ring Today he's a rich man! - Tomorrow he'll be a begger Unable to remove it Sometimes it'll happen like this for which we have a way to remove it Are you going to cut the ring & remove it ...No... finger No need for it I'll remove it & give it! Kulfi has melted down ...We have a doubt! What? You took a knife to cut a finger for a stuck up ring? Suppose if I buy a golden loin thread and put it him And if it gets stuck up on him How will you cut & remove it? I've a way for that also - What's it? Look here ...Long sickle! Is he a jeweller or a killer? That's what! People are coming thinking no making and no wastage When life is itself in danger Vanish from here Brother! - What? It seems he doesn't know the way to the Hotel ...l'll come with him Then, are you going to come with me? Where are we going to eat? We're going to eat here? You could've gone with them, isn't it? Buddy, what's your programme? We're going to meet the Governor What're you asking us? Your programme is our programme We're going as a family If you're family then was I picked up from a garbage? Am I sitting on the threshold of a temple like this? Or am I a pick pocketer? You need friends till you get a girl friend As soon you get one you cut your friends short Did you say anything now? Swear on your dead grandma didn't you hear anything? I didn't hear it Come on you get on the bike Why should we talk with strangers? Come on hop on Hey! Don't you know us? What is he saying? I'll not stay here for another minute If I stay here it'll be a matter of my family honour Wait! The next scene is important We must see how she'll sit on the bike only then we must go Hop in! Go! I must know a truth now Now, won't there be any ups & downs on the road? It'll come Won't there be speed breakers? It'll be there Won't the bike give any jerks? - It'll Won't he apply sudden breaks? What will you do now? I've an idea for that also What's that idea? I'll hold him tightly like this He has left fooling me Smiling like this she has fooled me & went away Unable to judge when they'll join hands or when they'll leave it How can you become a serial Director without knowing a woman's heart I'll understand in near future & show it to you What? How could you remove the ring easily which everyone tried & failed? Any girl will feel elated on the touch of her lover The food was excellent isn't it? Shall we go for a small stroll? ...I wanted to ask you... Brother, he wants to go on a small stroll ...Tell him to go! - Brother ...Go! I was saying something what was that... Sir, do you want anything more? ...A Hot bill! Sir, our Hotel's Kulfi will be excellent What? ...Do you like to have it? ...Yes... she wants a dozen ...I like Kulfi ...Hey, get me just the bill... quickly ...Sir, why're you hitting a small boy? Get lost man You go & pay the bill ...Why're you in a urgency? He's getting it isn't it? We'll also go for a stroll ...Go man... l'll go sir Buddy! You look great If you find any chic... Hey, stop... What's this nonsense? Is this Beach your father's property? Don't you ever get it? Hey, Talk respectfully You've come to Beach to enjoy Should I give you respect? Are you waiting for a customer or have you brought one already? Come on tell... come on tell What happened? Look... He in a inebriated mood made nasty comments... ...ls he your Paramour? He's a Majnu and you're a Laila Hey, Behave properly in Public What public? What great public? Look! Behave decently otherwise I'll have you booked for nuisance Will you get me, arrested? ...No... No... Rogue! ...We'll go away Bash him like that That's a great shot Bash him up Leave him brother What's this brother? Gave him a super coating What happened here man? Isn't there... Inspector Shankar! As usual be got drunk & misbehaved with a girl Will the boy accompanying her keep quiet? He bashed him to pulp Will the curses of all people here go to waste? That's why he had him fried up nicely If we use an Anesthesia you'll not feel the pain No I must feel the pain, only then I can remember his face very well If we know his identity... That's what, I don't know... Search for him He'll be between 25-30 years We must find him wherever he may be in the City Search all Mafiosi and small time Rowdies in those areas ...Search them thoroughly Arrest, peanut seller, sweet meet seller on the beach ...Go... go... go... ...Stitches may peel off Doctor, it'll get healed without leaving any mark isn't it? Give me a mirror Didn't you see his face? All his life whenever he sees into a mirror he'll see only my face not his Add some more Buddy, why're you adding so much of weight? Hasn't your anger not yet cooled down? If only yesterday, Selvi and her groom weren't there... ...Bloody ...That Rogue dog... ...Add on... - Why? Lord Muruga Look at me instantly ...Remove all my hurdles Look so, that all sins get burnt to ashes Let all bad men and rogues chant my name, come Lord Muruga ...Who's Velu? - lt's me ...Last night... had a scuffle on the road... Sir has called you Wait here, sir will come For this, had you brought us so urgently Why did you beat him like that last night? I regret for leaving him like that I should've taken him to a police station No Police Station will register any complaint against him Why sir? Is he such a dreaded Rowdy? Working in tandem with Politicians & Rowdies He's the one who'll kill the people he doesn't like in the name of Encounter His name itself is Encounter Shankar What? Come I want my child! I want my child Give my child to me... I want my child I want my child... I want my child My child ...Coming sir Pick up that syringe - You calm down Which bottle sir? I want my child... my child Inject... Inject... ...She? My wife What happened to her? Golden Leader... Long live Tamil Nadu's Prosperity Long Live I toiled for him? I toiled for this Party This time also, he had cheated me by no alloting me a seat Whenever I ask him, he always says you're my heir apparent... If you keep quiet, you may end up as a second fiddle all the life ...l'm warning you Till that man is alive you don't have any chance He must die How to kill him? Despite his many commitments honouring our invitation ...Leader has graced our function... ...I invite him on behalf of our constituency people... Look, you're arresting me, without knowing who am I? ...Rogue 16 people have died beyond recognisation in the bomb set by you Many more are in serious condition ...You rogue Hey! Without knowing my power don't show your high handedness on me ...What great power! Sir... Leave him ...Sir please leave him Did you see? The moment you arrested me ...The whole of Tamil Nadu State is ringing Lift the phone... ...Saying like that release me Not only just Tamil Nadu, even if entire India rings ...No one can save you Don't lift the phone Sir, he's a big rowdy in this City ...He has Political influence Tomorrow you may face trouble from higher ups We don't have any evidence that Leader was killed by him ...I have it ...An Eye witness of the murder Even if there is, they'll not dare to give evidence in Court against him My witness will come anywhere to give evidence Because... she's my wife! Who are you? What do you want? I want your life ...Should've attended the function watched the fun & gone away Why did you witness the murder and want to die now? ...He's trying to kill me please save me... Don't be afraid Hey! Do you've sense? Aren't you ashamed to call yourself as a Politician? Will you kill people by keeping all doors open? Will someone please pick it up? - Oh! God! Breake it! Dear, please pick up the phone Dear it's me They're here to kill me for daring to give evidence against them Hey! Wait man! ...lt's Election time I've plenty of work We'll kill at least her without any witness We'll open the Gas cylinder and set fire to it It'll appear like a wife getting killed while cooking Where's the Match box? Hey! Catch her Go that side! No Priya, don't go Mother... Mother... Mother... Mother! Mother! Mother! Why did you kill my child? I want my child Why did you kill my child? I want my child... I want my child Accusing me of Arresting Aadhi without any evidence ...Shifted my department ...And put me into the Selection Board Aadhi, Shankar & Minister, knowing all three are criminals Since, I had to release Adhi I couldn't do anything If I can lay my hands on him I can wipe out the black mark on me I can prove what exactly they are Not only that, my wife's condition has restrained my anger Sir, we mustn't spare such men To defeat the enemy, strength alone is not enough We must have intelligence and patience also Taking a hasty step, you mustn't end up as a failure That's why, I'm saying... I had wished such men to join Police force You're one like that Everyone will just look at height and weight only But, I look out for good clean character ...You've that character ...He's a wounded snake Till you become a Policeman you must be patient Who's that? Who's that? Who's that I'm asking you isn't it? Who's that? Sir, please don't beat me... Don't you know him? - I don't know sir Hey, what are you watching fun? Come here, don't you know him? Come on tell me Come on tell me Hey, you were in that area only last night, isn't' it? Who's he? - I don't know! Which area does belong to? Really, I don't know sir - Come on tell me She called up the name... Hey, come here! Arrest all Velu's of that area Hey, you don't know isn't it? - I don't know! Hey, why do you get beaten unnecessarily? You could tell the truth and escape isn't it? What's this beatings? ...Last night the way he beat him... ...Lightening flashes ...Will it be 10-12 stitches? - 8! Just 8?! - 18! Stitches mean that is stitches Where's Asha? So early marriage? Making fun of me... Sister's She's inside Oh! Maiden! She has a live fish always in her eyes She has kept the wick of the bomb fired always... Memories of future wife will always give red colour to betel Sparkle like laugh has lit fire to the bush The one way track has became the parting of her hairs The vehicle going up hill slips down to become her two plaits Dancing water is the patch of dark clouds striking her heart Like a tied typhoon, when neared she'll send shivers down your spine Neatly carved waist Little fold on it will weigh my heart The protected beauty will squeeze life out of me ...Will stay lingering in my eyes The sesamum fields will not bear your departure Neither security will lapse nor your vermillion will melt Sir... sir... Jeep has broke down can you give a lift sir Okay, tell him to come Found him sir! What? I've found a man to give you a lift Yuck! Shut up! Hey, what man? You're wearing a helmet on seeing me? How did you find it sir? This is not for us! It's for your safety only Okay, start the vehicle Velu is his name Whoever may be there in his family Father, Mother or Sister, arrest everyone In whichever corner he may be in this City search & find him Let him come into my grip Then, I'll show him my true colour I'm his God of Death ...Go quickly! What's all this checking? Sir, we've information that a Terrorist is on prowl in the City That's why we are checking sir Is it? Who's he sir? Any relation? No... No... just gave me a lift Check him also Sir, will you please remove your helmet? Please remove it sir! Watch out man! It's Govt. Property Am I the person you're looking for? - No, sir! You may go! Isn't he that man? - He isn't that man sir What? - Have you found Velu? You go Velu is caught... Velu is caught Hey! Elumalai, why're you praying? We've come to a Temple, isn't it? Hey, when I asked you to show me the depth of a woman's heart ...You've brought me to a Temple Are you going to show me the depth of the Temple Tank? Don't talk ignorantly? - What? Our Country women, whether they're scared of their husbands or not... ...They're afraid of Gods If we ask them in Temple We can fathom the depth of a woman's heart Is it? Thank you very much Look there! What's this man? Are Temple's getting converted into Free Meal Centres Women are eating to their heart's content like Saravana Bhavan Special meals Hey! This is what you call as "Mud Meals" "Mud Meals"?! Woman make a vow for their husbands This "Mud Meals" is for fulfilling that vow - ls it? Come let's go near & talk and get to know, their depth of heart Man, when he's born as a child eats mud When he dies, he's buried into Mud pit & mud eats him Atleast in this period without the distance between man & Mud Again, you're eating food with Mud? Is it justified? Hey! Wastrels! Are you making fun of fulfilling God's Vows I had already told him but, he didn't listen to me Don't stare at me! Talk with them Madam, don't mistake me Even if there's a stone in the Rice supplied by Ration Shop You're going all in one voice and fighting with them, isn't it? Now, you're eating 'Mud Meals' How can it be healthy? What's this sound? This is known as 'Sound of Rejoice' They're turning their tongues so expertly With that only they can produce the sound isn't it? ...I had come here to understand a Woman's heart But you had made me to understand about a woman's mouth Such a sound in such a beautiful mouth Is this called as 'Sound of Rejoice' Not only raise sound we can kill too What do you think of yourselves? Hey! Stop... Where's money? I don't have money with me, now Don't you've money? A husband is roaming around without money to drink Why do you need to go to a Temple? Dear, don't beat me... don't beat me... ...No... No... Hey! What's this? Hey! You're cheating me, by keeping money with you Wait, I'll come back & take care of you after having a few pegs You must forgive me, Manjula! Did you eat 'Mud Meal' for the well being of such a Drunkard husband? Hey! Are you talking bad about my husband? Looks like, they'll never get reformed Velu, what are you searching here? First go to Function Hall and check whether all goods have come or not? Otherwise, it'll create a problem tomorrow morning with missing things ...I was searching this only ...Come early to the Function Hall Okay! I'll come! Hey, you're going away forgetting this? Velu, come here I've bought this dress for you - Khakhi Dress If I wear this & come to the function hall I'll definitely look like a watchman there I had bought you this very fondly Didn't you like it? I just said it for fun Wouldn't I like the dress which I had wished to wear all my life? That too bought by my Lovely mother Hey! Go carefully! Hey, will you get my dress from the Tailor? Yes! I was born to do that only, isn't it? I'll punch you Without fail come to the marriage tomorrow - Go man Hey! One minute - What's it father? Have you taken without forgetting all Jewels and Auspicious thread? I've taken everything - Go carefully Father Aunty! We'll go What? I think there's some problem - No need! Didn't I warn you earlier not to take friend's car? Come... come... let's go It's getting late Look there Turn the vehicle... turn the vehicle Go faster Hey! Stop Go faster-faster Come! Home Minister is coming! clear the way please Look at me Hey! Stop! What's this sir? You're crossing like this - Get lost! Did you find him? No, he'll be in this area only Go & search! Okay sir I must find him in 24 hours ...Go! Go carefully Priest has asked for the Auspicious thread Auspicious thread I will give it now Take it out quickly What happened? It's missing - Missing?! - Don't shout What happened? Nothing! - Nothing! I think I may've missed it in the car Please come with me we'll get it from the car What's this your game, at this nick of the moment? Don't shout! If Velu comes to know about it he'll get tensed up Hey, where are you going? That's... it seems she doesn't like the breakfast served here We'll go to the hotel and have breakfast Joking?! Keep quiet man She wanted some guilt jewellary I'll buy in the near by shop You carry on with your work Here only! Stop! You take it out, I'll fill petrol in the vehicle & come - Make it fast Yesterday, you ran away like P. T. Usha Let me see it today, you deceive me & run away Where's your Lover? I don't know Push her into the jeep Come on tell me Who's he? I don't know Don't know Then, that night you were with him was it a one day match? Hey! Beat him One minute Auspicious thread is missing What? Asha & I went in search of Auspicious thread which was missing Inspector Shankar came there and took away Asha with him I'm going to the station Till the marriage ends no one should know about this If you tell me I'll release you respectfully Otherwise I'll file a case of prostitution on you And bring disrepute to you Tomorrow morning's paper will flash news 'A beauty arrested with photo Hey, will you say she had called you? I'll say sir Did you see? If you try to protect him I'll finish you off Hey! Nageshwari please take care of her Come... come I'm asking you to come isn't it? Come on tell... come on tell - I'll not say What's that bag? What's there in that bag? Come on tell Is it stolen bag? Am I not asking you to give it? Auspicious thread If you get caught in some hotel the one which you tie it yourself Is it for that? Is your full name Kanagavelu? Invitation has come to the station itself Everyone get ready to go there We'll create a terror in the marriage function hall Come... sunny... come... come Have you come on yourself? Hey! Useless, release her Release her... make it fast boys send her out Otherwise they'll say police... Rape... Send her... send her Go... go... go... Carefully... Carefully No one should know about this till marriage is over Go! Nothing happened to you, isn't it? Nothing! First go & give this Auspicious thread Where's Velu? - I'll tell that later Where's brother? He'll be somewhere here only Sit down... sit down Sit down Did you see my face? My face was also clear like your face! Policemen like you deserve such a face only Where's Velu? He's talking there! He isn't seen there Outside... outside... At this moment... he'll be somewhere here only Auspicious time is nearing... watch here Fast beat... Fast beat! Where's Velu? He'll be here any moment Hey! What are you looking at? Are you scared? I feel pity on seeing you What? Kill me here only If you spare me alive... ...You'll regret for it why did I spare him? Is it? Throw him on Railway tracks Protect me Lord Muruga look at me at this instance Lord Muruga Please be here only It's been long since I saw you Where's Kanagavel? Kanagavel? Who's he sir? Anyone known to you is missing? S.I.! Take a written complaint from sir ...Take it! Hey! Don't play act Where's Kanagavel? What are you saying sir? I'm not able to get anything Hey! Did you arrest anyone known as Kanagavel? - No sir! No sir No sir I know very well about you Are you going to hand over him to me now or not? Sir... please come please come here... No one can escape from me Look at this! This was the shirt worn by Velu Come! Narrowly escaping from near death we've found you again To let this marriage go on without any hitches You've undergone so many difficulties Brother nothing will happen to you you'll be fine in a short period If I'm to say I've to say it's his second birth There's a lot of internal injury So till the bones set again he must be very careful Bed rest is most important from now Why're you in such a haste? Father I must walk at the earliest I... I... must avenge him Are you still harbouring anger on him? I can understand your anger on him You beat him He beat you like this and took revenge on you Enough! Leave it here itself Everyone talk's only bad about that policeman If we see a bad man we must only move away from him Not only that we all are from middle class We can't bear all this Right now! You must get up and walk properly That is more important You must join the police Till then you must be patient This is a swear on me Has he regained the consciousness? - No He's still in sound sleep! What did the doctor say? He said nothing to get worried But he can't join the police as he had wished What are you saying? Velu has received an Interview card Doctor says it'll take at least 2 months for him to walk But, there's only 15 days for the Interview Can't anything be done for it? If it is some other job we can try! But in police selection it is impossible Physical fitness is very important for it Kanagavel who's not in a position to get up & walk also There's absolutely no chance for him to get this job Oh! God! One may face any number of hurdles to achieve what he wishes Only few people have the strength to overcome them and emerge victorious I don't know whether Kanagavel has that in him or not ...Take care of him Now I'm okay, Doctor If the medicine cures half the disease of the patient And his will power cures the other half You'll win Oh friend... Oh friend... You're always the "Friend of Victory" Carve your name one day on the moon Hereafter Himalayas will become the inscription stone singing your praises What paintings! Won't your moustache paint them What poems! Won't your silent reveal!! I saw the bravery! I saw the fire in both the eyes I'm in Love I saw myself in you You're enough for me always I can't be there without your breath My Love! Shall I sleep by making your saree as the cradle? My Love! Even you're my child Shall I sing lullaby like a mother? I came us a depression and got caged in the dove's cage I become your wings for you to fly anywhere Fragrance of flower... honey... milk I saw the womanliness in you Mother is mummy and father is dummy, how's it? They've already kept it You people will look fresh like tomatoes Today, why're you all dull like fried Brinjals? Did anything happen in your life? Because, I'll deal with the women's heart We 4 use to eat in the same plates & sleep on the same cot We're close friends Oh stingy! That's why, we 4 have decided to commit suicide in the same well This is our written statement, can you handover this to police? Statement... Suicide... Why do you make me to read your script? What has happened in your life? Then what, sir! In our college, all girls have boy friends But we 4 are not getting boy friends Are you all committing suicide because you don't have boy friends Did you see? Women are suffering due to water scarcity... oil etc... Since there're no boy friends should that be the problem of young girls? I'll note this It'll be okay for you all if you've boy friends, isn't it? Is it okay, if you get a Bhai(Muslim) as a friend, isn't it? You consider this Bhai(Muslim) as your friend He's a good person - Are you kidding us? We asked for a charming boy friend You're showing a Muslim with Frankincense, as a friend After having breakfast If I fan the Frankincense in 2-3 shops I'll get 5-10 rupees I was walking on the road you brought me in And are you troubling the college girls? Rascal I'll tear you apart ...Look everyone is going May you get good thought Why do you get scoldings like this? To understand the minds of women It'll be a problem if we question them in a group Look there One is standing there alone Go and ask her! Then you can understand their mind Will she say? A Tamil girl with an English Magazine That too it's "Outlook" magazine That too, Miss world Aishwarya Rai's photo on the front page Then, how much general knowledge will she be having? If I ask her, she'll tell everything about the mind of women I like to know about the minds of women You Idiot! I'm suffering, since I couldn't understand the minds of men & women At this moment, you're asking me about the mind of women I'm asking you because I don't know There're different seats allotted for men & women in Theatre Do they allot any seats for us? No! Even if we go to a toilet There's a separate toilet for Gents & Ladies Do we've separate toilets? If we go to a Temple We see separate queue for Gents & Ladies Do we've a separate queue? No... When we are already suffering with this dilemma You're asking me about the minds of women You brainless fellow! do you've brains? Then what'll be my condition? A man's mind is No.9 Intentions hiding inside is 19 Since you were promoted in the office Can, I say proudly that it was only because of my sister's arrival? No problem for me What do you say, Asha? Our company is going to open another branch in Bangalore If we join there in the beginning stage Then the future will be prosperous and life will be peaceful Why don't you apply for that? It's my duty to get you the appointment order Brother is saying for our good, lsn't it? Say "yes" Why do you say this now? I feel that Asha should lead a peaceful life So that... So that... Instead of trying for this police job You can join that job in Bangalore Why take a risk? What are you saying? He said something in a hurry don't take it to your heart Did you call my brother to say this? Risk is not only in the Police profession It is everywhere We don't know what'll happen next That's life So what I am trying to say is... You have every right to decide about your sister's future Likewise, my future wife should be only my life partner She shouldn't be the one to decide about my life Selvi, I've my interview tomorrow I'll leave Brother... Come! What "Vettu(cut) Shankar"? Only rowdies will be named as 'Blade Bakri', 'Chain Jaipal'... Even your name has become like that Take care of your health Come! What is she saying? Everyone will talk behind your back But she said it on your face What are you saying? Those who were calling you "Encounter Shankar" out of fear Immediately you got this cut They're calling you as vettu(cut)Shankar Since this name suits your cut Even I didn't tell you Hey, shut up & come Where's I.G.? I.G. is taking interviews Sir, he's not here he's upstairs How did you answer? Buddy, I did well - Is it? We should try to get posting in the place where we can get bribe Hey, I said it for a joke - That's it... Hasn't he died yet? He's going infront of us How's it? We're conducting a Valentines Day programme on T.V. What do you think about love? It's divine Sir, what do you think about love? There's no religion for love Oh! Are you loving a girl of a different religion? I'm loving a girl from each religion Sir, one minute What's your opinion about love? It's fraud Hey, I think it'll be interesting... come on listen You ask... Sir, one minute You clapped for his opinion, isn't it? Then is love a fraud? Sir, why're you going silently? Then, did you clap without knowing anything about love? What do you know about love? They say, love is blind Do you know one thing? That's only till we start loving After that, not one or 2 but 1008 eyes will sprout out Brother will ask, where are you working? Mother will ask about the salary Father will say that you were smoking cigarette on the road Like this, it'll continue It's justified, isn't it? Shouldn't we ask for our safety? If you want safety, ask your parents to deposit 5 Lakhs in the bank Why do you ask us for the safety? Don't turn the tables Why should we turn the tables? Before expressing the love to a guy Ask for his Bio-data If you're rich, give a tender notice in the paper Through that, know about their Job, Salary & safety... Only if these suit you express your love You can love by looking at their status But we're not like that If we like her, we won't expect anything else Love reforms the pick pocket murderer & rowdy The one who tries to achieve something Only if he sacrifices his ambition, he'll get her If they put condition like this How can it be called as true love? A girl can decide whether she can fall in love or not? It isn't wrong But if she hesitates to marry her lover It's absolutely wrong I can't understand, sir The problem is that you people don't understand Clarify with the madam Where's Kanagavel? Where's Kanagavel? Tell me... Tell... Sir, please speak respectfully... who are you? Don't you know me? 'Khaki' uniform Do you know what that rascal did? Rape? What? Is it rape? Why do you speak nonsense about him? Look, I think you've come to the wrong place I know He has committed a murder Do you know Drugs? What a serious crime? He's smuggling Drugs 10 more similar cases I won't spare him without filing 10 cases against him His results are coming tomorrow Results will not come Did you see this? ...His certificates I won't leave him Did you see this? See this! I'm Encounter Shankar After hitting me, will he come to my department? Sir, please, don't do it Sir, please listen to me this concerns his future Please listen to me remove your hand Don't do... don't do Go... Sir... Oh God! Till I'm alive, there's no future for him Mother, why're you looking gloomy? Is there any problem in Selvi's house? Did father scold you? Why? No... son... Inspector Shankar came to our home and... Your father... Father Father - No... man... You'll not get that job Inspector had burnt your certificates Hereafter, your wish won't be fulfilled Father? Are you going to tell me or... He had hit your Father Hey, be quiet Velu, where are you going? What? What now? We're Middle Class people We don't have Status He can do whatever he wants but we should keep quiet Is it not? No, father Hereafter, I Can't be quiet If we stay quiet like the dry dung which is on the road They'll stamp us and go away I was wrong to stay quiet by listening to you Enuch! Has he come to show his bravery in my absence at home? Every day... Every day, he should cry by thinking of me He should suffer by realising his fault? Father He didn't slap you on your cheeks But here... Father, he has committed a mistake Immediately, we should question him? Please don't try to control me hereafter Bless me Where's Shankar? He has gone for the security for the Caste party meeting Where? You? God of Death! The members of our party Watch properly & go... Hey, he's lion... he's a lion... Okay, go... ...I like to say... Not only that We'll prove the majority of our Caste in this election Next it will be our Government I like to say we're going to organise a big procession in Chennai We'll make this forth coming procession an excellent show Even let it be the Parliament or anything else Whichever Assembly... It'll be all ours Come king... did you see where I had trapped you? If public hits police, now do you understand what'll happen? Did you see, I made you to come in search of me Will you tear apart by wearing the uniform infront of me? Why are you staring? Hey, why are you staring? Will you tear me apart? Get lost You escaped that day But hereafter, I'll kill you slowly This is just a beginning still there's more Hey idiot! Leader! Stop it, leader He's speaking badly about our Caste Leader? Hey, who's the one who spoke badly about my leader? My leader is the "Lion of Self Respect" Police down... down... You dog! Opposition Party rascal, are you speaking disparagingly about our caste? Come on, hit him! Did they come for this? Is this the matter? Hey come on hit him tear him apart How cruelly you hit me in the Police Station?! Hey, shouldn't leave you hit him They'll say, we'll get hurt on the old hurt And he also got hurt on the face where he was hurt previously If we give him Anesthesia he won't feel pain, isn't it? No need anesthesia, put the stitches as it is Only then, he will remember him...! When they're asking for it why do you object? Okay, give him anesthesia Why're you insulting me? - Then, don't want Hey, what's all this? - Sir, greetings Won't you people reform? Instead of returning back after doing duty properly Should you've to show your Castism even there? Not that, sir Why did you scold their leader by attending their meeting? Not that, sir He's responsible for all these He means...? Was he, the 500 people for you? What are you blabbering? In the forth coming election, their party was to join our alliance But you spoiled everything You're suspended for 15 days for the work you've done They were to suspend you I'm coming after cancelling it Hereafter, don't do any foolish things - Time is up Take care of your health! Be careful Okay - I'll leave You continue If fate asserts, even science will be wiped out, what a dialogue! Hey, why did you give her alms? Why're you stopping me from giving alms? So sad! She's a pregnant lady Is pregnancy the qualification for begging? If lorry hits her & she loses her hands, we can provide alms If bus hits and she loses her leg, we can provide alms After enjoying with her husband she has become pregnant Can I see all these? Look, in Brazil, they're producing coffee seeds In Dubai, they're extracting oil But only in this country they're producing children & making them to beg We can't finance for this? You're talking about this 10 months burden very casually Can men bear this burden? Why are you people repeating this for so many years Don't we've burdens? I'll show you the burdens of men now Look there Look there Look there Hey Udumalai, bring those 3 godowns here? You bring them, man With whom are you... Hey stop, open the show rooms & show Hey, open them Did you see, are these stomachs or this is the one? Look, you can lessen your burden after 9 months But these people... these are the stomachs which were developed at the age of 25 Do you know, they'll bear them till they die Out of them can anyone bend and look at their toe finger Leave that, man Whenever they sleep baring their stomachs Children will use them as slide Now look at their difficulties and say Isn't their burden greater than your burden? You sinners! You people have spoiled my livelihood, you'll be ruined Hey sinner! Even this is fraud I've disturbed you, button your shirt and carry on your work Hey, you've exposed our stomachs publicly I was supporting for men, isn't it? why're you getting tensed? Do you know, who are we? Who are you? He's Assistant Commissioner I'm Inspector they both are S.I.'s Hey, we are roaming in uniform You've opened our central place By looking at your stomach I had a doubt, that you may be from police department I did this just out of interest No doubt... l'll confirm it & show you Hey, show him the beatings of Tamilnadu Police Which baby do you like? Ammu, we'll decide about that after our marriage Hey, get lost, mad fellow I'll tell you only baby girl should be born to my sister-in-law No... only baby boy Only girls will heed the words Whose? Their brother's words? Superb! Whoever says, you should listen if its good Oh God! Have you started your fight? Baby girl or baby boy It's enough if my daughter's child is born healthily isn't it, dear? Velu, can't find the bangles which were in the box? Thief in the policeman's house Not thief but woman thief Who's the woman thief? I just wore those on my hands for safety Buddy, she's saying it in reverse She had put her hands in the bangles Aunty, take them... remove them... aunty Oh God! How many times she's calling aunties Why're you telling me? Why're the bangles so tight? Aunty, careful... or else they'll break They'll break the heart of a man but the bangles shouldn't break Let's see, you remove them without breaking When we ourselves couldn't remove them? How can he? He can... Mother, this is like cricket match fixing She'll wear and sir'll remove Son, please come and remove them Auspicious time is elapsing isn't it? You + me = us You + me = us Buddy, nobody can question him what he does while loving? Look, how he is removing bangles... If Aadhi hits, it will be a strong hit... Why were you not seen in the slum area? Only now you found this way? What's this on your face? Did you drink & fell down? Without knowing about me, one person has hit me Is he still alive? Hereafter, he shouldn't be alive... That's why, I came to you... Wipe the lamp carefully... otherwise devil may appear Keep quiet... Here devil has come... Hey! If you call brother as devil I'll not spare you... You play... - Be careful... Go carefully... don't get scared by seeing the devil... My child, uncle & grandpa has come... Shall we have dinner? What happened? What? Selvi, who's it? Selvi, what happened? Who? Who's it? Ashok, what's this? Oh God! Selvi, come... come... Ashok, you also come... Yuck, in this city, I'm the agent for the God of Death To save that family, why do you want to die? By revealing him... You would've escaped & gone from here, isn't it? What does the hired assassin like you know about friendship? Buddy, it won't come for money... ...lt comes out from the heart... it should come from here He's my friend for 15 years For his family... I'm proud even to die... What are you going to do? what will you do? Come on... hit me. hit me... If you're still alive, till your friend comes... Tell him that Aadhi came here... Sir, this room Vasu, what happened? - Mother... Mother... Hey, nothing has happened to you isn't it? You were all present there then how this? Nothing has happened to them... But, they had stabbed Ashok... ...Buddy... Nothing has happened to me... Who did it? what's all this? Nothing has happened to sister also I know... who has done this? Leave me... l'll... Don't take any hasty decision... Buddy, after seeing you I wished to become a police man... Hey! What's this? Velu, you should become a police man You should become a policeman... You should become a policeman Velu, you should become a policeman...!! Should become a policeman ...Buddy... Sir, call for you... ...Here... Population has increased in India That's why, I decreased one... Are you happy? You've touched a high voltage wire... See how you will be tossed away... You idiot! Go out & play... Why are you scolding the child on the Auspicious day? Dear, go out & play... ...You go out & play... Child, be careful... be careful... My would be's moustache is like a sharp sickle Every young women will crave for him... Does my would be has magic eyes? I spun like a Top... Without charging making and wastage charges They've created the entire universe? What will you give? My would be, what will you give me? Oh dear! I'm a 'Chikku Bukku' train... If you come & hit me... what will happen to me? I'm a peacock of the place 'Marudhamalai' You're the cyclone of the place 'Machilipatnam', will I sway? You become fire... Shall I come as water to extinguish you? I'll become honey... and you come in search of me like a house fly Because at your remembrance, my heart is feeling something Will you buy & give me a saree & pearl beads? Will you write the sugarcane crusher & jasmine garden on my name? In the east & in the west... It'll be a problem if paddy ripens There's no need of Gold bangles It's enough, if I get Diamond earings... I'm ready to play the game 'Kabadi' Buy & give me, what I have asked for... I'm Inspector Shankar speaking... Is it Aadhi? Brother... brother... Who's it? You fool... Why are you disturbing me on my birthday? I want to talk an important matter with you Start immediately... If you want, you come here... Let both of us enjoy the spot... I can't talk to you in the crowd... This is the matter of your life... Where should I come? Immediately come to the 'Kalparai' I'll take care of other things Hey! Come... What's it? He called me & he's not to be seen? Look over there... Hey! Look this side... With Inspector Shankar's Gun... Vellu has gone in search of Aadhi long back I'm very scared... Sir, leave me... Sir, we shouldn't leave him alive... Listen to me..., Vellu... First shoot me & then shoot him... If you're so angry because he has killed your friend He, who is the cause of my child's death... How much anger will be generated in me? Till now, I haven't been able to trap him Otherwise I would've made to reveal the entire truth I want him alive... All these days, without knowing where he is... I was searching only for this Aadhi Only if he's alive... We can prove infront of the law Minister & Shankar had instigated him Hey! You want a job, isn't it? You want, isn't it? Even that you can get if he's alive... The tragedy which has happened to us because of him If noon should face it again I want this man alive... Where have you started? Where is your revolver? Shoot... Are you deceiving the Government by showing the toy gun? No... sir... How it came here...!! Here is your original revolver... We found this at the place where you went to shoot Aadhi's group We came here to confirm that it was your revolver... It is confirmed... Sir, there is some confusion... We'll talk about remaining things tomorrow in the enquiry... Buddy, you don't worry... You can easily read women's mind How is it possible? Doctor had given you Anesthesia for 1 week & done major operation Major operation?!! Was it to join the military? Not that 'Major'... this is different... Don't confuse by saying 'Major' & 'Pager' Tell me the matter... You can't understand by hearing... Remove your blanket & see You can understand it clearly I myself should remove it?!! What operation you've done inside? Doctor, without asking my permission Why did you do such an operation on me? I did the operation after getting permission from your guardian... Who's that guardian? There's no doubt it's me... You idiot... Udumalai was it fair on your part? You had done the right thing, but why did you leave my moustache? It seems it'll fall off within one hour For that, Doctor has given a special injection... Why are you so tensed? How can I be without tension Hereafter, how can I go by standing in the city bus? Oh God! Youngsters will pinch my stomach... When I return after seeing the second show... Young men will have eye on me... oh! God!! Even on emergency cell use, police will arrest saying come(cell)beauty Rowdies in the bus stand On my beautiful hip... If the play top on it & enjoy Oh! God! It'll get septic and stitches may loosen... Doctor, I had a solid life And you had changed it like this?!! Why are you so tensed? As thorn can be removed by a thorn As snake's leg can be known by a snake... Hey! What are you trying to say? What's your problem? You wished to read women's mind... Only woman can read another woman's mind... For that? I changed you as woman Doctor... My Darling... Doctor, Thank you very much... Doctor, they say for the human being... If God closes one door he'll open another door You've done the same thing to me... my dear...!! You look like Actress Jyothika? Really? You too look like Actor Madhavan Shall we go for the evening show? We'll go... but, we should go only to that film which I prefer? Which film? Clouds are black & lightning comes Yuck! Why did you shoot him? Sir, I didn't shoot him... If you didn't, then, how your revolver was there? That's what, I also don't understand... But, I swear I didn't shoot him... Sir, did you call me? Who called you? My full name is 'Sudali Raja' At home, they'll call me as 'Sudali' I thought you had called me by that name... Hey! Shut up! - Okay... Is beggar there? - Yes, he's here... Sir, call for you... Who's it? I'm public speaking... I only killed Aadhi & his group by taking your revolver... You can't say that revolver is missing... Because, they'll ask why you didn't complain? Then, you can't accept that you had only killed him Because they'll ask you why did you shoot him without superior's permission? Isn't it? Have you heard about Thirunelveli's sweet? It'll just slide down the throat... But there is another type of sweet It'll get stuck to the teeth & is difficult to chew But I had given you a sweet You can neither chew nor swallow it... Hey! What a big sweet! Where are you? Hey! Give me the phone... Give... I'm minister speaking... Sir, greetings... I'm speaking from 'Sweet stall' Sir has ordered for sweets... where should I deliver? Sweets?!! Do you have sense? Do you want sweets at this time? Sir, not that... he's... Tomorrow what are you going to reply in the enquiry? All these bullets were taken from the pockets of Aadhi's henchmen It's confirmed that all these were fired from your revolver Without getting permission from the superior How can you shoot Aadhi's group? I've not shot great men or great freedom fighters I've shot traitors... I've shot criminals who used to kill people for money Sir, look at this... Cases on them... For that, why did you go to the extent of shooting? I got the information about their illegal business I went to arrest them They tried to kill me... So, in self defence, I shot them... Sir, it's okay if you take any decision against me... I'm satisfied that I've eliminated rowdy group That is enough for me... Then, where is Aadhi who came with them? Sir, I've shot him... He tried to escape with the wound and jumped into the river 'Cooum' Sir, but... he may not be alive... Body will be in river 'Cooum' So, immediately you find the body & send it for postmortem... No... I went this side... No... I went to catch fish in the sea... I know the truth... You didn't shoot Aadhi What do you mean? You didn't shoot Aadhi properly If you had shot him, he would've died in this place Joking? Normally we'll search people now, we're searching the body... Is madman there? He is there... Sir, call for you Who's it? You're searching for the body as though you've killed Aadhi Is it an eyewash for the Department? You've understood it rightly... For what? You've done the job which I thought of doing... What do you mean? Thinking that I've killed Aadhi & his gang Department have decided to promote me Had you not killed him? I would've killed him on the middle of the road... Do you know why? If Aadhi was alive, he would've been a problem to me... Hey, stupid! You've shown your Policemen's attitude, isn't it? Who's it? It's Aadhi Aadhi, Are you still... I'm still alive... Aadhi, lt's not that... Hey! Stop it... I've killed many people for your sake without caring about me... ...But you... To get promotion, you dared to kill me...? No, you've mistaken me... Hey, you've seen only one part of Aadhi Hereafter, you'll see the entire Aadhi... Aadhi, please, listen to me... You wastrel... What all I, you & the Minister have done I'll reveal in the Court with the evidence Where is Kanagavelu's house? - Here it is... Sir, I swear, I don't know... Tell me... Tell me... Sir, I'll tell the truth... If you want to remain alive Tell the truth... Tell me... Sir, I'll tell... From the Anna Fly-Over... If you go straight & turn right... Poes garden will be there... Madam's house is there... From there, if you go straight Nearby, there's Superstar Rajini's house... From there, if you turn left & go right... Doctor Kalaignar's house is there... From there, if you go straight & turn right... Yes... There you'll find an ADMK'S office Yes... From there, if you go straight it's dead end... Dead end... "Goddess Shakthi's" temple... Yes... "Goddess Shakthi's" temple I swear on that Temple Goddess I don't know where he is Look, lf Aadhi opens his mouth tomorrow in the Court My post & your Police job will go... Sir, now, what can we do? I don't know, where Velu has kept him... So, Aadhi & Velu has close relationship from the beginning By saying, he has RD X Gelatin & Pipe bombs We should brand Velu as a terrorist We didn't find Aadhi's body... because he's staying with Velu... With this information... We should make the Government to believe that, both of them are Pals... If we establish like that The entire Tamilnadu will be prepared to shoot them at sight Frequent bomb blasts... Who are the new terrorists? In a short time, frequent bomb blasts have occurred Sir, what was behind it? I'll tell... Recently, lnspector Shankar, had shot the rowdy gang in the City You know that, he was praised & promoted In that shooting, rowdy Aadhi had escaped A new man called as Kanagavelu has joined him Kanagavelu & Aadhi are the cause for all these things There's proof for it... We're investigating, how they got the latest explosives Kanagavelu, because he got distressed for not getting a job He has formed a group against the Government He's doing all these things... Destructive forces from outside that are trying to ruin peaceful TamilNadu Should be eliminated with an iron hand So, Velu alias Kanagavelu Aadhi alias Aadhibhagawan... Government has ordered to shoot them at sight... Buddy, what's this? He has turned the Government against us... I had arranged special squad headed by DSP Shankar to catch both of them I believe that, with the help of it we can eliminate them & entire terrorism If Law & Order is good in the country... Sir, look, how they're inventing stories because I've become an approver We can't do anything against his tricks Sir, what's this? He's saying that he'll shoot us... Don't worry... we'll take Aadhi to the Court... It's alright, even if I die But, tomorrow, public will see Aadhi's statement on the same T.V. Everywhere, Police is watching us... You take Aadhi to Chengleput I'll come there... That car... Check properly... I'm DSP Shankar... Madam, where're you going? Sir, I'm going for the coverage for T.V. News Check all the vehicles... Ask all of them to be alert at the check post They may come by any way... It's not necessary to catch them alive... Shoot them... Who ever kills them, immediately he'll be promoted... Tell them, that you're going to interview C.M. at the function? Is C.M.'s Secretary speaking? Is C.M.'s funtion going to start? Sir, they're checking here on the road Inspector's name... Can't you tell, you're going to C.M.'s funtion? Go... Policemen should have eyes not only on their faces... But, also on their backs Only then, we can catch them... Listen properly... Somehow, we've to catch them... Where is that vehicle going? Sir, they're going to C.M.'s funtion You idiot, it's since 2 days that C.M. has gone to Tanjore Catch that vehicle... Go... Go... I'm alright... You go ahead... Asha, you take the camera Not that... Hey, take the camera... Judge sir, I'm talking in full sense This statement is not meant to save myself But to save an innocent For the only reason, that he had clashed with them They declared that, Kanagavelu is a terrorist They're trying to shoot him I don't know about Holy books Sir, but I swear on my food Kanagavelu is innocent... Sir, please save him... Sir, don't leave them... You're finished... According to the statement of Aadhi It's proved that, Minister Vedanayagam DSP Shankar & Aadhi are the criminals So, we're acquitting innocent Kanagavelu... And we're requesting the Govt. to give Police job as desired by him Brother... Come, give an Interview! Sir, being an ordinary Middle Class man How did you win against Minister & Officials Courage... If you've Courage, you can win over anybody...!
