 

                        New to Mumbai? Been here five months, but it still feels strange - Where are you from? - Malihabad, Uttar Pradesh Malihabad is famous for mangoes. l'm from U.P. too - Jaunpur. Do you know it? - Yes, l've been there Come home soon Look lmran, the famous Marine Drive and up ahead is Chowpatty People throng this place every day to eat bhel puri, pav bhaji. . . l think people come here more for fresh air which is in short supply The sea air is so different it smells of people's desires Give me two rupees, l'm hungry, please. . . Are you shooting? Take my picture! Please! lt's exactly your kind of flat... Yes, a gas connection, 24-hour security Yes, there's water... most of the time Just take a look Okay, 6 o'clock Do you like it, Mr Arun? lt'll be perfect after a coat of paint You 're a painter, you 'll know what l mean Think about it. The lease is unlimited There's the view you wanted of the old city. That's the Aga Khan Tower The station is nearby... and you get a private toilet, rare for these buildings Yes, the kitchen is small, but you 're not exactly a chef What an actor! l want to meet him Johny Lever? l'll introduce you Shut up! Ma, if l fail this time, it'll be their fault He's right, Salim. You illiterate! Just you wait. . . Karim will study and become a top class gentleman Right, Karim? Off to work again? Damn filthy job, that Why do you do it? At least l'm not a crook like you My job is better... right, Aunt? Don't... stop it! ldiot - Shit! - Damn... missed! What did he think he was doing? Shai, don't be such the NRl. You know what traffic here is like l'm so late, man, Pes... My mum left for the show an hour ago Nothing important starts in Bombay before 1 0, love There's Arun... delightful that he could make it to his own opening l like the new work. What do you think, Jatin? l think it's hard to be apolitical when you are referencing the working classes Ladies and gentlemen...friends. . . The artist has decided to make an appearance... Finally. . . Thank you all so much for coming... and l take great pleasure in presenting 'Building', Arun's new work And now the part that Arun hates the most... Arun, please say a few words. . . Everybody, T. Arun. . . Arun, be nice Well, there's not much to say. . . This is a tribute to the people of... Rajasthan... U. P. . . . Tamil Nadu , Andhra Pradesh and elsewhere who built this city in the hope that someday they will find a rightful place in it So, to Bombay. . . my muse, my whore, my beloved - To Bombay - To Bombay - Fantastic - Thanks, thank you - We really love your work - Thank you We'll have a huge painting of yours... - You know the old style you used to. . . - Sorry to intrude... This is going to be a really important show and l am told your solos are much later Arun, you have really outdone yourself this time Miraj Hussain, l need to talk to you How long does it take to return a phone call? That bad? Don't ask... Thank God for Pesi - Hi, l'm Arun - Hi... Shai Guess l thought you looked a bit stricken there Yeah So are you an artist too? No, l am an investment banking consultant What... something to do with money? Yes, broadly speaking Essentially, l study investment trends in South Asian economies What... here in Bombay? No, in New York, but... l've moved here for a bit Why? l guess l needed a break from things, you know ... a new perspective, some fresh air in my head - You plan to get that here in Bombay? - Yes. . . Well, maybe just a change of scene then Cool, l could do with a holiday too Actually, l'm not on holiday. l'm on a sabbatical Really? What's that supposed to mean? lt means l've received a research grant to submit a project about small and marginal businesses and shifts in traditional occupations Basically, l have to write a few papers and spend time doing what l love doing most... taking photographs Rat... rat... ! Oh... l'm so sorry l just saw a rat... l am serious l'm so sorry Well, now my show is truly open Cheers! Cheers! Early morning, and everyone's racing against the clock Look how quickly she cooks her curry Like she's in a race Who knows what it'll taste like! We have a maid. Out here they are called 'bai' How quickly she does the dishes, cleaning and laundry! Won't stay an extra minute! So unlike our Zubeida back home. . . who'd insist on staying back, to oil my hair, or a massage Poor dear... how is she? You 've been up long? A couple of hours... - Tea? - l'd love some Listen, l just helped myself to a shirt that was lying on your chair because mine was trashed with that wine stain Yeah, that's fine Milk and sugar? Yes, please l had a lovely time last night So tell me... do you always live like this. . . out of boxes? Moving house. . . Really? Why? Lease has run out. . . So you found a new place then, have you ? Yeah You know, l found your opening last night to be quite an experience Are they all like that? My mom loves these arty do's... she's quite a collector We have a lot of art at home ln fact, we are running short of walls Are you hung over? No Hey, is something wrong? No, actually Shai, l'm really. . . l'm really sorry about last night. . . l mean, l was so drunk and l had no idea. . . Hey, what are you sorry about? Don't be sorry l had a really great time No, l'm quite a loner and. . . l keep to myself and. . . and l don't usually do this you know Hey, it's cool. . . l'm glad you don't usually do this l mean, hey, l don't either. . . No, actually what l'm trying to say, Shai is that. . . l'm not the relationship kind at all you know... and l'm really sorry if l led you into believing... that this was something more... something more... more than just a shag l'm sorry, Shai, l don't mean to. . . Look Shai, what l'm trying to say is that. . . Look, l have no idea what's going on in your head right now. . . and l'm not sure l want to know Arun, you know what... lt's cool. . . Take care, l'll see you around Yes, Munna... come in Any clothes for washing? Sir...? No, there's no laundry. l'm moving house - Can you come there? - Sure, give me the address, l'll find it Wait This is the Gateway of lndia, Bombay's most famous landmark - Can we go? - Let's take a picture together for lmran Who will take it? - Could you take our picture? - Sure How does this work? - Point it towards us... can you see us? - Yes, l can - Done? - Yes Go, take the camera Thanks l guess you are right l don't know, Pes... l really thought he was special You know... l mean... we got along so well the night before Well, it wasn't just the sex, Pes Yeah. . . Like he was really into me and he was so intense. . . and then, suddenly in the morning. . . he was like a completely different person... hold on a sec... Yeah...? l'm the dhobi Come in Pes, l'll have to call you back This dhobi guy just walked in and l don't know where Agnes is Okay, bye There were 1 2 clothes, please count them This has turned blue! lt had a big stain, so l tried to whiten it l should've told Agnes to put this is in the laundry lt's completely ruined now Give it to me, l'll correct it No. . . who knows what colour it'll become next. . . Damn. . . Madam, my mistake. l'll fix it What's your name? l'm... Zohaib Zohaib, l'm Shai First Letter, Second Letter, Third Letter Rakesh, the people who lived here have left some stuff behind Some tapes, a ring... ...no, a silver ring Can't you return it to the landlord? What if they ever ask for it? Cool, l'll throw it away, but don't ask for it later Okay, bye First Letter - Which college do you go to? - l don't go to college Who has time for college? He works in the movies Really? Which films were you in? Hey... Zohaib, right? - Which film are you here to watch? - Yuvraaj So are we! This will be my first-ever Bollywood film See you ... Zohaib... huh? - She's a friend of mine... Shai - Do l look like a fool? Come on, let's get to the bottom of this ls it switched on? Bring it here Look, when this red light flashes it's recording lt's recording now This is great! So cool! Say something, l'm shooting your picture - What should l say? - Just smile This is wonderful! But tell me, how will lmran see this? l wanted to send him photos of us. Can he watch this on his TV? Salaam Aleikum, lmran... all well? l had promised l'd send you our photos. But l didn't have a camera So he got me this video one instead l thought l'd send you this, to watch on your TV Show it to Mum and Dad as well How am l looking? Just the same, right? Bombay hasn't changed me yet l'm still the same Yasmin Your exams are round the corner now Study hard, do well, and come here soon You 've always wanted to visit Bombay l'm here now, we'll have lots of fun We'll go to Juhu beach. . . eat bhel puri ! Maybe l could give you a tour of Bombay with this camera Good idea, isn't it? Goodbye for now She stole my heart. . . and slipped away. . . The full-grown male weighs about 3 tonnes l'm into fashion designing... What a rotten breakfast! Have you lost your mind? Don't you remember, l like omelettes for breakfast? Would you like some tea? - Agnes, 2 cups of tea, please - Yes Come in Have a seat So you like The Doors? Are you a photographer? No, this is just a hobby l work in a bank, in America Why did you leave America? lsn't life more advanced there? Who told you that? Yes, some ways it's more advanced but. . . - Are you from Mumbai? - No from Bihar Darbhanga district - So why did you move here? - To fill my belly, why else? ls your family here? No, l came alone, when l was eight. l stayed with my uncle - Ever go back home, to visit? - No, never Why? Don't you miss family? Were you unhappy at home? lt was okay. . . less to eat, that's all We were always hungry When l first came here, l worked at a hotel There l had my fill, of food and thrashings! Can you take a picture of me? Yeah... sure Not like this. . . Can you take pictures for a portfolio? Why? Want to be a model? No... actor Well, l can try... l mean. . . never really done that sort of thing before What was that? l mean, yes. . . But you have to return the favour You have to allow me to take pictures of you at work What work? Your washerman's work, what else? Munna, whose shirt is this? Sir said it's not his - lt's Mr. Arun's. . . - lt's mine. . . You know Arun, the painter? Yes Do you know where his new house is? Yes Could you show it to me? l want to return this shirt l can do that No, l want to surprise him So, is Munna your nickname? Yes... you can call me that The rain here is so different unrelenting... falls incessantly. . . Like a lullaby at night. . . its sound engulfs you . . . drowning out the neighbours' TVs But l feel sorry for my maid, bai whose house gets flooded She says, she has to bail out the water by hand l must go, l think he's back Need to heat the food l've made lamb with beetroot today, the way Mum taught me l hope he likes it. . . Then l'll watch some TV, because he doesn't talk much l hope there's a good film on And anyway, why are we even here? l thought you claimed you are not into this guy l don't know There's something we left unfinished, l think Couple of positions you haven't tried yet? So go, ring his doorbell l can't l don't really know him and... who knows, he might have somebody up there with him right now That's possible These artist types, they get a lot of action Such a crummy neighbourhood Hey, this is one of our buildings This neighbourhood is getting posh then Oh, wait. That's him, isn't it? - What? What happened? - Get down, he'll see us He's not that cute, really Pes, come let's go there - To that South lndian joint? - Yeah Pure Veg? No, thanks - Who is going for the food? - l am l can't spy on an empty stomach - Come, l'll find you a nice Parsi boy - Yeah, right ls there a problem, Munna? Actually, l was hoping we'd shoot in a studio No, studios are so artificial l thought we'd get some natural shots So you want to shoot on the streets? Yes, natural, you know... like you 're standing or sitting somewhere No, no, please shoot in a studio. l'll pay for it! lt isn't about the expense lt'll be very different from other portfolios. . . totally fresh l don't want anything ''fresh''! Are you sure you know how to do this? Smile Nice Something else? Can you lose these glasses? Hands down Okay, Munna, don't smile Hold it Better Do you have another T-shirt? This one's too bright No. . . Shall l take it off? ... let's try Really nice Hold it lmran, this lady is our neighbour For some reason she never says a word Nor does her expression ever change Something must have happened with her Poor thing Hello... how are you ? Yes, Vatsala What do you mean... fourth floor, why? Yes, why? No, l was meant to but. . . One second. . . Yes, l meant to call him, but. . . l was really busy, so. . . l couldn't find the time and... l'll probably call him some time today So what have you been up to? Should have known. . . holed up at home, watching porn - Mad or what? - Really? Then what's that? Some stuff... Stuff? What stuff? Why are you so cagey? First... letter... Give that to me... Yasmin Noor? Who is Yasmin Noor? V, give it back. Stop it Who is Yasmin Noor? Come on, give it back What? Not in the mood? We didn't sell much... l mean, the market's a bit slow, but l was hoping we'd do better You didn't really talk to anyone at the show Except for that girl with Pesi Who was she? Shai? She's a banker or something Shai... she's Perwin Edulji's daughter Perwin bought more art last year than anyone l know l hope you charmed her This is so much easier with paper You haven't asked me why l came Why did you come? l've wangled a show for you Ask me where Where? Sydney l wanted to surprise you You know, there's this gallery l've been in touch with about Medha's work and Gagan's work l slipped in a catalogue of your work They seemed to really like it ln fact, they want to open their lndia section with you This will launch you internationally, l'm so excited And of course, you 'll get to see Shiv How old must he be by now? Almost six So, did you like my work? What do l say... l think it's great Great, thank heavens Tea? You 're my first ''client'', so l was nervous No, your work is superb But... tell me... What? How do you like me? ln the pictures... l think you look great Now you have to take me to Dhobi Ghat - Show me the pink ones - Here, madam - How much? - Rs 75 for a set Did you hear that, lmran? No, that's too much Don't worry, l'll knock down the price Hey, dad Yeah, l am here Yeah, it's great Yeah... What's his name... your site manager... ? l think it was Harish or something... he set it up for me Yeah, it's great... thanks, dad l'm getting some great shots Okay, bye - What are you shooting? - l'm new to the city so... So what? Don't you know all this isn't allowed? New to Mumbai? See all you want, surely that's free! What are you looking at? What are you staring at? At the camera Look straight ahead! Never seen a camera before? lt's none of your business where l look lt is! Look ahead! Tell madam she wants to shoot me returning the clothes She wants to take pictures of me working Why? You come inside Ma'am, actually l'm shooting him at work from washing to delivering So if you don't mind, can l shoot him handing over the clothes? Take the clothes One salwar ... One kurta... Madam wants you inside Tell her l'm in a hurry. l'll come by another day Did you see how she glared at me? Forget about her But she won't forget about you ! Second Letter Smile for me, bai Oh dear... Just a little Where's your daughter? - Over there - Vanita, come here Vanita, come here... Come on... Come, don't be shy lmran, meet Lata bai and her daughter Vanita Say hello to my brother But where is he? Ma, she's recording our pictures to send to her brother She's a smart girl Which class are you in? Class 9, English Medium Then say something in English for us Go on, recite that poem ''The Brook'', by Alfred Lord Tennyson l come from haunts of coot and hern, l make a sudden sally And sparkle out among the fern, And bicker down the valley By thirty hills l hurry down, Or slip between the ridges By twenty thorpes a little town, And half a hundred bridges ... l've forgotten the rest Wow! Bai, she's very smart A bit too smart Watches TV all day. Dancing and singing with songs... so her grades have dropped Wow, then dance for us... Go on Some other time then... - Should l get back to work? - Yes Can't say, sir, my shifts keep changing l don't know when this lady lived in your flat There was a maid called Lata bai who worked here Do you know her? l've heard the name. But l can't say for sure Please ask around She might still be working in this area - Please find out - Okay, sir How long have you known Arun? Why? Just... curious Around four years Has he always lived alone? No, earlier he lived with his wife and son What? No way Yes, why? They split two years ago Divorced He was in a bad way then Just wouldn't open the door One day l shouted, ''Open the door, or l'll call the police!'' Then? Finally, he opened the door Thank God he was alive l made some tea, we drank it, and then l left Then? Then he got okay What was his wife like? Nice Fair... tall... Taller than Arun Aren't you married? Boyfriend? ln the past Not anymore And you ? Why not? You 're so handsome What can l say? l... haven't really liked anyone... as yet You 'll find someone - Hello - Hello, Shai Edulji - When did you arrive? - This evening, darling - Where's mum? - She's already gone off to bed - So, having fun? - Yes, it's been great Like today, l shot in the Dhobi Ghat You know what your mum would have to say about that, right? She'd probably say l needed a vaccination shot or something That Raju is a real bastard! He did me out of 50 grand And here l was trying to help him l gave him a good thrashing And warned him l'd complain to Kale Bhai That's when he got scared Just because he's Lambu 's brother he throws his weight around Munna, l need some cash l've got to put down 1 0,000... for that apartment in Jogeshwari Look... l've got 7,000. Give me three l'll return it next month You still owe me 4,000 l can't loan you any more l swear l'll pay you back. Don't worry Kale Bhai is giving me a big job next month And l'll get my share out of Raju For sure. l promise But Salim, don't mess with Lambu Yes, mom! What? Why are you laughing? Did your Ma'am take these? Just look at you ! l mean, you look great But l don't know why l found it funny You look handsome, buddy What a body! When will you introduce me to that producer? Do something for me, fatso! You think l won't? l'll take you tomorrow. For sure l have to say... this Ma'am of yours seems really nice Why don't you tell her? What are you scared of now? - She's already seen you half-naked! - Shut up! YASMlN NOOR Nothing lasts here... The sea claims everything l can share everything with it, tell it all my secrets, and they'll sink softly to its depths The sea will keep them safe Nice to see you again, how are you doing? l'm good, how are you ? Good, very good Moved house, working on a new project l live right here, in fact. On the fourth floor - Really? - Yeah l was just going in here, this building Are you going to shoot something? Yeah, just shooting the construction work and all that... it's one of my dad's sites - So, you are... - Well, l should... - Sorry - No, it's okay... No, do you want to have a coffee or something? l mean... do you have the time? Yes... l have time for a coffee So, do you want to come to my house? - Okay, yes - Come So how's the sabbatical been going? lt's been pretty good, so far Been seeing a lot of the city? Yeah... kind of... Have you been spending a lot of time in this area? Mohammad Ali Road? Well, not really l guess one needs a guide to see all the really local stuff Yeah...one needs a guide... And you ? You 've been working? Yeah, kind of... There is this... something that l am quite excited about... That's great... You look a lot happier, l have to say You know, Shai, l really want to apologise for being such an ass the last time Oh, no...not more apologies... Just forget about it, okay, please lt's really not a big deal. Really Although l was really pissed off with you , for a while That's me at my best.... pissing people off And when l get drunk, l do these random things lt gets so embarrassing l know what you mean, l'm hoping you don't remember half of the things l did that night Apart from the headstand, you mean... Hey Munna, what's up? Nothing today, come tomorrow Hey, have you been to the Elephanta caves? That's another great place No... Listen, l have to go... Oh, okay... l just remembered l have to meet someone Thanks for the coffee... Sure... - Show me your photos sometime - Definitely - Where are you going? - l have work What work? You said you 'd take me to Nagpada today And we'd see a film That ''Hello'' or whatever Come on, Munna, you promised l've even bought tickets Please My ancestors came to Bombay and set up shop in 1 905 We are the 5th generation, and we're still here But now it's the machine age Young people prefer bottled perfumes Why are you doing all this? l want to understand... to see... See what? These filthy places? American streets too clean for you ? Look... there... the King of Lalbaug Where? Which one, Vanita? - How much was that? - 40 Rupees No, please let me get this You 're my guest, it's on me Hello, Salim... Not today, l'm a little busy Hi, mom Good, good, and you ? Yeah, still doing my mad shooting Well, l am done l'm done with dhobis, and ear cleaners, and the circus and l'm soon going to be doing the night rat-killers No, no kidding Of course, l'll be fine mom And when do you come next? Good, so l'll see you soon then? Okay, bye Shai baby, you stay away from this dhobi guy - Why? - He's not a good boy He's just extra smart, got no education, totally worthless Third Letter Bakri Eid is ten days away You know how much it frightens me l always feel terrible, that we sacrifice... those who we raise with so much love Remember, how l used to hide at home? He's out of town, but his aunt has invited me for the ritual l've already thought up an excuse... Diarrhoea! Remember when we were kids... how we'd find excuses to skip Koran class? lt's the same thing with this aunt That's it for now lt's taking me ages to finish these tapes All the news will be stale Anyway, better late than never, right? She was like, ''Mrs. Fonseca, l want to be a nun.'' We were like, ''What?!'' Listen, l know, let's go to my place in Khandala - Now? - Yes, totally, it's gorgeous in the rain Actually, it's not a bad idea Anyway, l can't. l promised Munna l'd go with him to that Dongri place tomorrow - lt's Munna time - What is with this Munna fixation? l mean, how much can you hang out with your Dhobi? Yes. So? So, it's just slightly weird... slightly? l know you guys have things in common and all but after a point, it's like ''How many clothes did you wash today?'' Stop it - Just kidding - Sorry, sorry... Listen, listen. Forget all this nonsense - Let's have some real fun now - Okay You 've changed, you know You 're in love Lay off Have you told her? But her parents will never agree You 'll have to elope Are you nuts? Sorry, first you have to propose Hello, sir! lt's been ages... Sure l have some 'A' grade stuff Where should l come? Now make a right l'm over here Forgotten me, sir? - How much? - Seven When l bought from that Raju ... - Come on, sir... - l got better stuff at five Raju 's a cheat! Six is what l buy it for. Nothing less than six Nothing less, my ass Here's two more Special rate just for you , sir And please don't go to Raju again Look at me Don't come if you don't want to. l've never forced you l don't know what's come over you suddenly Something's up between you and that girl That's not true You 're in love with her, that's what ldiot! The truth is never pleasant, is it? That American girl plays you , and you go crazy Munna, don't forget your status! Now get out of here And don't come back when she dumps you Get me a Coke with ice And Munna won't be coming anymore Tell the watchman and find a new dhobi Why do people make so much of marriage? l should never have got married But no one listened to me l used to be so happy Shall l tell you something? He has another woman l wanted to ask him something so l called his mobile phone A woman answers and asks, ''Who's this?'' l said, ''His wife.'' She started laughing She gave him the phone saying, ''She's so nave...'' Where did you find her? Well... forget all that That day when you called, l was so excited l forgot to ask... How did you do in the exams? And how's our kid sister? Back home, it must be mango season now l really miss that taste Yes, V. Tell me Yes, it's going well l'm not sure l'm not sure means l'm not sure, l don't know Look V, l can't work with deadlines anymore When l'm done, l'll tell you . Until then, quit hassling me - Please take off your T-shirt! - Cut it out Yes? Lambu is sitting with Kale Bhai - Kale Bhai has sent for you - l'm busy - What does he want? - Maybe he wants to have dinner with you Now? lt's almost midnight So shall l tell him you 're busy? - Where...? - ln the shed behind the station Go ahead, l'm coming - Shall l come along? - No, l'll be back soon You finish your filthy job, then we'll have breakfast together Madam, this is a large area Two men cover it There's one of the workers This is my last letter l don't know whether it will reach you May Allah keep you in health and happiness This is my last letter l don't know whether it will reach you May Allah keep you in health and happiness Don't be angry with me l've tried my best Explain to Mum and Dad as well Brother Move... You have to be strong for your mother Don't worry son, we are here for you We are here to see the apartment - May we look around? - Yes Hello Aunty, l was wondering if l could leave this packet for your neighbour, Mr. Arun How did it happen? A fight between the two gangs Salim became the scapegoat - Did you go to the cops? - You kidding? They buried Salim within hours, and moved us to this apartment in Jogeshwari What would the cops do anyway? They'd harass us, not them Brother, help me out Any bit role The family is my responsibility now Can't you see! Are you angry with me? You 've been avoiding my calls. Have you changed your number? Salim is dead They say he was knocked down by a train Bastards. Killed the brother l had All this happened and you didn't tell me? Aren't we friends? Of course! We are friends! And now l can't find Arun either Bloody painter You fancy him, don't you ? He must have gone to Australia to his ex-wife Who knows? They might get back together. They have a son too So. . . Call me sometime Keep in touch...
