 

                        Let's Shikdum When no one's around but you and me... is a moment I cherish, so you see... let's get naughty the rest, we'll see No one's around but you and me, magic moments I cherish, so you see... let's get naughty the rest, we'll see Come on darling no more teasing go easy don't be crazy Sweetheart shikdum-shikdum Windows wish curtains... would hide us... I wish you... wouldn't punish us Leave me alone Please don't push me What's your crib? Why are you evasive? Crazy you I know you Sweetheart shikdum-shikdum No teasing with smiles Only kisses and cuddles Okay, okay I give up I'll do, what you want Don't talk... this moment away Then lose yourself in me Sweetheart shikdum - shikdum Speaking Yes go on What? When? Okay coming Stupid Cruel Work-work-and-work all the time and no time for me So why do I bother? Don't you get back home Don't come back to me Reporting from Marine Drive A Safeguard security van was ambushed here Suspects are members of a four-biker gang... who allegedly pulled off heists like this one Where? In there In there what? TV wallah? Mechanic? Yes, everyone around is a policeman This is a police barrier Expected tomorrow. Come later Four bikes sir. Imported There was a police patrol at the intersection Some malfunction in traffic signaling... still malfunctioning What...? Find a computer expert. Check out the signal May have been tampered by someone in that gang Not tough. Little chip. Anyone can reset timings Sir... I only heard about you. Now I see... sorry sir... I didn't quite make you out. And you'll make out thieves? Who are the guys who'd use bikes like those? Catch one You've caught them all Where's Ali Bhai? (Bhai: Big brother) Trailing Uncle... Yes? - 500 from my side On Sunny? - Ali Bhai - Ali Bhai? You're a loser, kid You cracked every record. Fencing the bike... couldn't have cashed so much. - Yes Now let's have a fun party - Yes fun What's problem with me? Why won't ladies give me looks? They're just sisters cheering their loser brothers Rotten bad luck. God gives everything but this mess up in ladies' department Even I want to become family-wallah Sure Mummy, you hearing? Ali, that's your name? God just heard you. Mummy's up there Ali myself I'm a great fan of yours Actually, you ride so well You're great. Mention not You also sell bikes? You want a bike? - Yes You need a bike, you got mine. Welcome to take a ride No actually, it's my gift to Polly. Polly's who... sister? Great sense of humour Polly, My boyfriend Ali Bhai, not to feel down. Yes, not to feel down Oneday, you'll find someone. Yes yes, you will Not oneday, I want one now. Mummy, send me someone. In a day or two No, right now Job or wife? Lunch on time or heartburn. Radish-in-bread Yogurt shake in the flask. Not for charity Isn't worth the pain when I'm told that you never got to eat any Bye baby Okay. Listen... you can get home early for cauliflower-in-bread Listen... Come on Sweety My sweet baby bye Who do you think you are? One lifetime in jail... then you might improve What? Don't what me. If I didn't stop you you'd run over this poor soul But it isn't hurt, is it? What'd you do after it got hurt? If an accident never happened never means accidents never happen Okay, my mistake. Now what? Say sorry to it - What...? He won't say sorry to a man who escaped a brush with his car? Correct. Sorry, you must say Sorry Hello... anyone heard anything? - No - I said it... You should say amiably, right? - Okay Sorry Loathes even your sorry Save the dog. Dog bhai... stop Why are you staring darling? As long as I'm around nothing's happening to you Don't be afraid. I'm a vet Sweetheart Come darling How are you feeling? Your name? - Ali You're very brave. You've saved a life His...? - Yes Sorry about your accident... - Stop Please, not to be formal So sweet Sit, I'll fix a dish for you What? - Carrot souffle Carrot souffle... how caring Your name? - Sweety What a four-stroke name Thank you Mummy for sending me a full-beautiful bride Perfect Sweety, puppy and I. Small family, happy family Who's there? - I'll take it Yes? Jai, he's Ali Ali, that's Jai My husband Why does this happen ...to me all the time? What've you brought home? - He's darling Darling? You call him that? Because he's so cute Poor little thing was out on the streets I've put up with all kinds of animals for your sake. But I never imagined... you'd pick up a guy off the streets. Guy...? How silly of me; no not he, darling. Darling's him. He's Ali, poor thing How true... no? Hello So you live off the streets or do you do something? Engineer-type jobs, I run a garage. Ask in Bandra, every soul knows Ali Ali... for you. Anytime you want carrot souffle, just come over, Okay! Promise - Yes sure You'll want the box back? - Whenever you come next time Bye Darling Poor soul - Poor...? I think your Ali has thief written all over his face God! Will you ever change? You're always suspecting everyone And it's terrible of you and I've told you that Good morning sir He's... He's Ali. Operates out of a garage in Bandra Quick on bikes And a thief? Sure? Sure sir! I trailed him for two days. Also fences stolen bikes I'm sure he belongs to the gang Ali's Bike Point, Bandra Lake Red CBR Fireblade Blue CBR Someone rapping? How are you? - Cool. And you? Carrot souffle. From Sweety Send in two teas. Special Nice Fond of bikes? Sure On bikes, he'll work any original into... a more powerful machine - Really? Makes Ali Bhai world-famous in Mumbai. You never told him...? Your bikes... Calm up Yaks crap Then you're also a biker? Biker? He makes a bike fly. No touchdowns, Ali's bikes fly He just won a race. On that bike... 2 km lead... left the rest clutching You mean, here's the fastest bike? In Ali Bhai's hands... - It is Can I? A bike interest? - Yes of course Been mulling over buying a bike, fast racing-type And Sweety likes bikes too Want a bike? Why not? But I want a new bike. Fast Fast, like this New, but... no papers Will do? No papers? Means? You want to ride a bike or papers? Takes two minutes to make paper But where's the bike? Right here. You'll find anything Hi Rafik, all fine? If you're new in Mumbai you won't know. Here's Flea Market Only name more famous than mine Out of my way Stay here. Be quiet. - Why? Around here everyone's a loose cannon Speak no evil, hear no evil. - And you? I got source codes, my settings No one's afraid of the police? Bloody copper who walks in here leaves his neck behind Afraid? Worry not. So long as you're staring at only dirt... nothing happens to you. I'll be back Sharp? Or blind? Who are you eyeballing? Eyes down... Down In dirt Don't... turn me on One flick Lands you over there Do it What? Come again Slap me He's mad! Doesn't know who he's taking on I'll save him after the first few Stay right here Want to take on Mad Anwar? If you're not a bastard son. You'll wait. I'll kill you... right now Run What? Run Run You're in Shetty's gang? - Who...? Or Manchekar? Rodrick's? Billu? Which gang do you work for? - Copper gang Cop... you? Shrunk him in one swipe ...no such spunk in cops Ever faced off cops? Spent my life making ass of cops Whatever you want to make, never make a cop One quirk. How you got this interest in bikes? Come clean, yes? Any idea on bank-loot? No! Too scared of the police Cops? Can never catch up. Never fear so long as Ali rides even a bicycle Is it! Some faith in yourself I trust a cop not to catch a thief when he knows a thief. Stupid These policemen are so stupid... so damn stupid Go right in - They're fun. Once I conned this one ...shined him bright That was one solid wallop, I'll give you that Pull over What's this joint? My office You're police? No. Hitter Scribble - What? How long you've been stealing, dens, hideaways, accomplices, etc., come on Right from start I had doubts about you. I save you and you give me a back-kick? We're both short of time Admit your guilt I'll try a plea bargain Hey sahib... wrong rhyme. I'm no thief Look, I'm being even with you. Just tell me what you're planning Who are the others in your gang? Only Chhotu, Munna and Vinod Vinod is green, can't even ride a bike, how can I pull off a heist? Look you can't harass me Not like this... why is he taking off his specs? Stop him, no illegal act Stop chatting the phone. - Ali... Look I'm losing my mind Your plans Next robbery. When? No idea, sahib Next heist - Happened Next robbery... - Just happened What? A robbery. A while ago. In Andheri Taking the highway Welcome to Pizza Place What will you have? Good evening sir Any leads Jai? Any clues? Camera locations, police positions, our reaction times, they knew everything They left no clues They're professionals Jai, what's happening? This is too much Getting away with daylight robbery ...it's a slur on us Sir, I think we're going wrong. - How? All along we were thinking like policemen. Now... we got to think like thieves. If they're sharp, we got to get sharper They use bikes for getaways We use bikes to get them But our riders are on it. Not our men Someone else. - Who? Jai hit you? - Who else? And I tell you this, please don't mind. For what law-abiding policeman he is... he's really a hood Such a terrible grinding. - Don't be afraid I'll give him a hollering. Let him come I'm not staying on. He'll put me through the grind again If he lets go, I lose face value. I'm quitting My home is no jailhouse. He'll face me if he touches you Meanwhile, carrot souffle. Excuse me I knew I'd find you here Just returning the box. Bye. Come. Where're you going? Carrot souffle before you leave? What's coming over you? Not another con? Who is it? Shall I tell Sweety that you fence stolen bikes? She despises thieves. If she knows, no more carrot, only stick No entry for you in here - Who's there? Jai... big brother Jai, what's this I hear? You hit Ali? I... can I hit anybody? I hit you? - No I fell off the bike Why would I hit this poor guy? He didn't get what I was getting at I took him to the police station because he's working for me Yes, I was telling him how he can help us For that I took him to the police station But poor guy got me all wrong How wonderful Ali, you're scared for nothing Great Jai See Ali? Jai isn't all that ugly he'll take good care of you Darling, let's go inside Good care of me... sums all my fears Working for you? Doing what? I'm doing nothing You guys work life's dangers. I'm not into it For you Sweety gets to see it; then others Getting at what, big brother? For a minimum of 3 years... your boys get to manage your garage. Why are you after me? Don't peel the specs. You're fine how you are Tomorrow you're on the job, correct? 6 am sharp Six am...? Morning prayers? I'll give you a rosary. And I'll take off my specs, go Photo...? - Glasses? Say bye to Sweety. - Out There he is! So that's your surprise? Grand car, no? Get in and you're getting looks. - Not him, the car Price? Never mind. Only takes... a couple of jobs Yes Kabir? Nice? 3000 cc Zero to hundred In ten seconds You should buy a car... like this Careful Good brakes too Stops in 5 seconds This is scary Jump - What? Jump What have you done? Are you mad? Brand new car You're very lucky Rahul. You could've been in that car - What? It's no waiter's car We bandits got to vanish like smoke The day cops get wind, it's all over No one bends my rules Not even I Colour Oh Daddy I got a trio Thank you Mummy I got some luck, no? One more, one more We're raising stakes now. Per head... 500 Quick If hotshot Robin Hood finds out he'll grill me. He puts me off Tenner? Big brother - For Band Aid Next heist is here. This area How can you be so sure Jai? There's a pattern November 20, Borivali November 26, Kandivali November 30, Malad December 5, Andheri December 8, Vile Parle In each of the five heists the robbers and their bikes vanished without a trace All in a trice. But how? Five incidents... one common factor Western Express Highway Always... within a 2 or 3 minute drive from the highway. So I think, the next target... is here Any intelligence? On identities or allegiances to gangs? This gang works for themselves. No past record or history In this city... they can be anyone, anywhere They can only be caught in the act. Because after the hits... how they masquerade we shall never know How to know when next? Soon enough, sir. Five hits in 20 days They're rewing up for a finale before they go extinct I think that's their plan But this time, we'll be staking it out Shekhar come in Shekhar here sir Shekhar, cover my position. Copy? Copy that sir You're here, I know it Show yourself once Flower wallah Make me a nice bouquet for 10 bucks. A whole bouquet for a tenner? Okay, for whom? - Now you're asking For my wife to-be. I got to be a family wallah No joking on duty. If the boss gets to see, we'll have a problem Who's scared of your boss? Mind your business. Sell me a bouquet Make do with this rose. - One rose for 10? Just... Shekhar, you take a break. Get back at six tomorrow - Okay sir Me too Home. Sweety has cooked chicken Until we've caught them you aren't going anywhere, got it? We stay rooted even if they don't turn up for a week? You are too busy? Want to inaugurate a jail? But Sweety's chicken... Never heard of contact lenses? I'll eat on time Okay. Bye Sweety, I'm working Okay Yes I love you too. Bye What? Go on First, promise - What? Not to hit me - No What no? You won't hit me or you won't promise me? Can't promise I won't hit you Then I'm not telling Okay, you can tell me You ought to know, Sweety would've married me, - What? That's if I had met her before ...but it's okay She was more ravishing then or now? You want a bashing now or later? Must've been arranged marriage It was arranged for you, yes? Admit it Hello sweety There's an envelope on the table My photos inside it? No please, Sweety mustn't see It's there? Big brother... My reputation She won't see my face - Who? Sweety... your wife What else? Keep it in my study, thanks, Bye Yes I love you too Don't cry for me, Mummy. His heart has turned to stone - Will you shut up? Sit tight - What? I mean... public Public distress. And sleeping police? This is catastrophe Public help! It's a police slogan. You're making her helpless Some guy, by God Okay you sit tight. Let me help I'm a mechanic. It's my religion Starting up stalled cars ...is religion Excuse me My car is broken down, Could you... help please... Sweetheart You're mine I'm yours With you lovingly Making my family My heart's wish, only Started it all over again. Forget. Not happening for you Yes you only you I'm yours Incorrigible No family I'm lonely My home's lovely; heart's lonely I'm lonely; no family My home's lovely; my heart's lonely My dreams... so far they seem... in a life, without wife You're lonely even I'm lonely You're lively, So hopefully... you and I... make a family If I step out... I think you're silly But your lies are lovely You're silly But you pack your lies lovely Still how can I fall for you? I still don't know you Wait for another day I'll decide what to say Fast girl Gone. Back to work Yes sir, hello sir Over here. - No pranks You'll do one turn for me. - Which? I got to find this sweetheart. - You need addresses, photos Given all that, even I can find her. You police guys are hopeless, really I warn you Take the left gate. Post me every 5 minutes One question, sir I got to improve my general knowledge and you're what a walking law school Shut up No, shut up Keep shut, do the job Bikes. Coming Not coming... moving away from us Go. Get them Don't let them escape At 260... I'm doing full throttle He's over 300 Serve table 12 Must do something about him Not here Rohit is my brother. He could've died I said, not here. Fetch the order for table 12 - Damn table 12 I'm not sparing that cop I'll do what's to be done. You don't tax your brains Good evening sir. - Good evening. Table for 2 please. Rohit, upstairs Fighting the spurt in crime... is supercop Jai Dixit You're on TV You solved your cases in record time Except this bike gang What's taking you so long? You've seen rats stealing? He grabs a steal... and runs for his hole. That's how this bike gang is ...like rats They wear masks Then they vanish We foiled one of their operations Hopefully... this gang won't bother us for long A message for the audience? You'll see the defeat on their faces soon For the gang... what's your message? Maybe they're watching TV right now - No madam I don't talk to criminals Thank you sir. - That was supercop Jai Dixit For rest of the news, watch 'Aaj Tak' I feel... like... - Be cool Don't bill him. Men like him don't drop in every day. Take care of him - Yes boss Must take care of him I'll take good care of him Well done Jai So what if we didn't catch the thieves, their loot... we retrieved That bike will tell us why they're so fast Hold Dr. Ali's operation successful. Wonderful engineering Main thing, nitrous oxide cylinder Know what it does? Flick of a switch... bike becomes a rocket Another highlight Trigger for timer. What's more... - Good, very good Jai, what's our next step? - They've taken a beating It's their turn to make a move For you Didn't call for hello-hi - Who? If I'm telling it all, what're you doing? How will you give grand TV interviews? Then you heard me. I don't talk to criminals See you in jail - Thanks for the offer But I'm not destined for jail Got yourself one grand destiny, great brains too; but... future looks somewhat shady Really? Yes. You took the pains to call me It's my duty to keep you warned I like your style Perhaps you're too confident, no? Tell me your address. I'll deliver the bike and the money Will help your confidence too Say what you will you'll never catch me Don't play hero. You're a thief. You'll run, I'll catch you I'll walk right through you you won't even recognise me For once, show up. You won't be worth recognising anymore I'll come right up to you. I'll even tell you about my next hit Where will you find thieves like me? You find thieves only in jails. I'll see you right there My next time, my next target you'll know beforehand If you nab me, it's my neck If I escape... - Impossible I love the impossible Mr. Dixit But one little clause If you fail... you'll drop the case What happened? Afraid? - Where? Oh, I'm sorry. - It's okay. Where are you headed? Up ahead I'll take you I'll manage. Don't waste your time. Helping is no waste of time. Careful Very few like you around nowadays Untrue Not exactly the age of good Samaritans No matter how rapid the evil strides the good is always a march ahead Saying something? - But how, Kabir? The police will be there in force; politicians are coming It's a high security zone Getting inside will be tough, as for pulling it off... We steal Right in front of everyone And we'll make a getaway in public Trust me Bullets... can outspeed our bikes Not in bullets. Speed is a shooter's spunk Rock Love Want it? Make. Love Do or die Love Is liveliest Love. Just do it Love. To do or die for Love. Never comes again Love... is life Love is... joy. Give in to love... and swing Pump the rock Rock What's in love? Ask someone. Who's wild Sways you? Why? Makes a smile? Why? Ask fireflies Why Love's life is short Begin with a flirt... Then give in to the spell kiss... and Pump the rock Rock Lonesome lives go unlived Every soul here knows Dear stranger, you don't know What desires you stir in my core For one lively sin... I'll ask you for more Make every loving moment rock Love's rhythm makes your heart rock Up love's blind alley... come... pump the rock... Over? No, won't do. I've only arrived Guys... what's the vote? Once more - Once more Ladies & gentlemen The proceeds from this show goes to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund The amount is... 42,50,000. Have a look The money...? - Where is it? Sweetheart... Ambulance What happened sir? I saw them in Pizza Place. |They were waiters. Are we going there? No use. We won't find anyone there How much did you sell out for? This sweetheart... she swooned How much money? - Not my fault I tell you... No discounts on courtesy Brother, if I let go you'll get a changed face On the bike It's your job Not the girl Once again... the mysterious bike gang has struck... sending the city into a tizzy. Sources indicate that... the police were tipped off... well in advance As usual they could achieve nothing Jai Dixit, despite all your efforts... the bike gang got away with it? Not because they're exceptional. The mistake was mine I made a very big mistake Therefore on moral grounds I am dropping this case And I'm resigning And that mechanic? - He's no longer on the team Clarify I think you know Excuse me That's Jai Dixit Rahul Where are you going? Not a cop any longer, so no sparing him Foolish. Killing him won't bring back Rohit We've lots more to do. Get on the job Who does Rohit's job? Without him, the next job isn't getting done Get ready to quit this city. I'll take care of loose ends What's wrong with Ali Bhai? - Very early lead Too late... the race is on. What are you racing for? Who's that? He's fast Sorry guys Never mind, happens. We've made loads out of you One race makes no difference. - Still, you lost money Luckless day Scrapped with Jai; then Sweetheart vanishes from the hospital Made me want to burn the track. Here, I'm run out I really want to wreck that guy in black What man? I don't take charity - I'm not racing for money What I'm looking for money won't buy Am I game? No way I don't fancy getting shot by the police The police can't even touch you and you know it. Or are you scared? If I could, I would drown every cop in the sea... beginning with Jai; after pumping him so hard Harder than I care to tell you Then why hesitate? How to find confidence in you? You can be a cop Not a copper has set sight on this face. Never will you might not think so but I know you're worth millions Don't waste your life, Ali If I tell the cops that I've seen you I'm up for the reward I think you already got a reward for working with the police I'm sure you aren't going anywhere near them 6 am tomorrow, Khopoli. At the crossroads See you I'm not an early riser Your luck is changing You'll change Mummy was always telling me Ali, you're smart and you're fast You want to be smart and fast? - Sure Just open up Now close it Tony Bhai Ali, something's odd about my bike. What? - The firing. I'll change my name if I can't fix it What will you name yourself? Rohit? - Mummy gave me a great name So why change it. Sorry Tony, no changing names. Rahul is right Rahul Bhai, you can tell me whenever your bike sneezes Don't touch it You'll take Rohit's place? He's dead. Because of you. I'm on your side now, brother I'm no brother I fly off my handle, you end up a sissy You bloody Boys Take it easy I don't like his face And I don't like your face Nor you like mine We're not friends But we need each other That's it After we're done this time, no one will have any need left Neither to steal nor to tolerate each other So stop the infighting I want all six of us over here at sunset Let's get down to some serious work Kabir Bhai, listen... you're a great guy. But one little mistake We're five of us, not six. Mannu, Tony, myself Mr Boom-bastic and you. Five. - Not five. Six Start counting Mannu, Tony, myself... Look Thank you, Mummy Topclass acting. Dance, romance, works I sent you on an ambulance ride And I find you riding waves Wonderful sweetheart My name is Sheena And whatever I did with you was part of my job My job. So you and me... Never think of it What Mummy... you send me one girl and she's a hood Too many hassles in life Taj Exotica. Largest, grandest hotel in Goa Yes lovely hotel But we're thieves, not tourists What the hell are we doing here? Look at it through a thiefs eyes... and you'll see 180 million bucks India's biggest casino Fortunes are made everyday and... lost Whatever a gambler's luck... the casino is always... on a winning spree Last year, December 31... raked in... 16 crores Takings Trucked away To a special vault once every hour under tight security They are so confident about the security system No video cameras are installed This year on December 31 the management expects... the casino will rake in 180 million, minimum 180 million Six thieves Split evenly How much for the two of us put together, sweetheart? I'm bad at arithmetic It's our final hit Afterwards, we're free We will never see one another again nor will we try to contact each other Nice idea. But it's a hotel, not a bank. Teeming with people. So more risk Mannu says that the security system was designed by an Israeli company Opening the safe won't be easy. - Infrared alarm at main door Goa police will be after us in 30 seconds Kabir must've worked all that out What I want to know is How we go about it. I'll second that question Whatever we do... we do in style Four-stroke joint We got reservations - Name? Prince Ali Akbar Fateh Khan of Secunderabad Of course Suite 101? Hi Austin... Austin Powers. You lodged a complaint? There's a virus in the system. - I'm here to fix it This way, please We offer a choice of suites Any reason for your choice? - We're honeymooning Royal astrologer says, book into room 101 for Baby-Prince-coming-fast Listen... I want my money back. - What? It's my money. - It's Kabir's money Then give me a loan Why on earth did Kabir take him on? - Because he knows you love me secretly Keep that gibberish here. Downstairs, remember you're a Prince Exhausted your English vocabulary? Should've saved some for tonight Hello Room Service 101. Room service order. - Got it Good you're here Taking charge of the bar? What's your name? You play like a seasoned gambler. If you're so good who needs thieving? Ali, you're a prince. Don't forget Sweetheart, no yakking. Daddy is eavesdropping Good evening. Everything okay? - Yes yes. Thank you. Very okay One problem. We're leaving tonight. - At 13 past 12 Have we caused anything? - No, not yet Royal astrologer called and Daddy insists. So... got to go. - We're back next week Wonderful Our luggage is packed. Please have it put in the car - Don't worry my dear Your luggage will be in your car at quarter past twelve By then we've robbed the place I told you. Never use the word Who have we to fear? No cops around One whisky please What are you drinking? Forgot Anything will do Make it quick Else, my wife will find out Will you have a drink? - No thanks I don't drink What? Really? You... a bartender who doesn't drink? How? With... all the booze around Very bad All around, money's flying too. But I never steal Very good You know... I used to be a cop Was Never tell anyone. They'll run scared I won't tell anyone that you've had a drink and you're a police officer Was - Okay. Was Thanks buddy Happy New Year Now...? At midnight, no? In case we don't meet Happy New Year in advance No my friend Of course we'll meet In Happy New Year of course we'll meet I like you My drink Was... what I was Jai Dixit is in the hotel How could this happen? Now what to do? I warned you It's serious Kabir Where is Ali? Let's get our luggage - What? Let's slip out quietly Kabir Bhai, you start out first. - Relax Ali It's time we ran. No one knows that psycho more than I know He'll crunch every bone Alone, he's no threat to us Don't underestimate him. He's the last samurai I don't give a damn Anyway, it's New Years Eve, the whole world is here, maybe he's just a guest So, we change plans? - No Sheena I waited a whole year for tonight My plans. Mine No change 180 million. And steal it all by myself Anyone who isn't with me isn't coming with me Take in this wonderful night It's all in this moment it'll never come one more time To another night... to another time... to a new tomorrow Cheers It's wild tonight... in drunken delight Earth spins at our feet We're so full of life You've only so long as you're still young only so much fun Just a little flip Get a taste of the real thing To another night, to another time To a new tomorrow Who cares what the world thinks We're carefree Who cares where This trip ends We're wild and free We're free, we're different We can do what we want Whatever you hear Whatever they say Nothing's stopping us today To another night, to another time To a new tomorrow Cheers Been a pleasure having you here Same here Everything to satisfaction? Privacy etc? Yes Your luggage Congratulations boys. We've done it Like I said we meet in the new year Happy New Year Now...? - Your wish You can try running, then chasing, then blood and gore Or we can depart peacefully. Get in my car, then jail sweet jail It's upto you Let's walk You do a good bit of acting. - And you're good at stealing But the good is one march ahead of evil You're good Were you a thief, we'd be friends Kabir you break my heart I thought we're friends enough for you to write me letters from jail Between friends... you got me but what about the loot? You don't have the money I do Right now Ali is delivering the cash, nice? You're wasting your time with the police You're very good Ali was with you. You planted him Don't blame me. You took him on That fight was a sham? He took real blows. Sorry if that hurts you After Rohit, I'd go to Ali looking for another rider. You knew it? No. I hoped Mind blowing Ali and you You got me man It was a perfect plan - Not was It is a perfect plan One thing Jai Nothing is permanent Not you, not I Neither plan, Nor time See? Time changes What happened to the lights? Check the lights Run Kabir Run for your life True sweetheart There's lots of money in crime. But respectability? Not a shred Kabir won't spare you - Kabir has become mincemeat You know Jai? One danger-full guy For a 3000 buck job...? - Please sweetheart Not just for the money. The starched uniform is a perk After being with Jai, I admit. It's a respectable job Once we're mister-missus... you will... say it with pride. My husband, police Just say you love me before you run for it I'm not running Even if I run I won't come back to you Guarantee! Our marriage certificate was stamped up above. You will come Mummy has even thought up names for our kids. Want to hear? Sweetheart, here comes their Uncle Jai Kabir bhai, happy new year You took long I was just telling Sheena You're late. She went off to sleep Bored What...? Everyone warned me. I never heeded First ever time I failed to make out a man Sheena, I guess you hate him the most Sweetheart. You'll kill me? Not here. Let's move out. Come on Sheena Come on let's go She isn't coming Sweetheart... they're gone You didn't Now I'm relaxed Move Ali - Now...? No I'm staying here Crazy I'll be back Sweetheart, don't vanish again Yes yes. Thank you Very okay very okay Your timing's all out. First time in life... I start on a love scene. And you get shooting I could've been shot. - Were you? Where we you when he was grinding me at gunpoint? Didn't I save you? - My good luck. Mummy's blessings Thank you Mummy You didn't take the bullet. - If I did... I'd end up in a police station. Martyr in a photo frame Police station? - Yes... I'm a cop no? Until we've caught them, you're only Ali. Get it? So I get to die for free? - Are you dead and gone? But I'm going. I resign. No life guarantee, so I resign You swim? I'll resign when I touch base. Take me ashore. - There What are you trying? Why? Hold on Buck up Boating on streets Needs a driving lesson fast Faster Jai overdrive. Overtake him Drive Come on Bye Boom-bastic Hi. Big Brother All fine? You're blocking my view Why aren't you stopping? Stop Mistake. Sorry Sorry Jai Idiot Driving this mac was fun. So... You can't see? - No... I was dangling... Like I said... you're thief You run. I get you Like I said... I'll walk right through you You'll never catch me What a waste of life If you weren't a thief we would've been friends Now I'm a policeman? We'll see - Means what man? I ought to get a chance to become a decent guy Like I said, we'll see Sub Inspector or Inspector? Who's higher up? You'll find out Okay don't send Sheena to jail. - Why? She isn't a thief? But she's marrying a policeman. She deserves a discount? A reservation in ladies' jail. - Only if I'm posted there Yes...? - Shut up
