 

                        AlKaKo Oh! Dear I've lost! Oh! Well can I have the gun please? Thank you dear ahh! Got you you're a silly stupid thief you got caught can I be the thief now grand ma sure love but only afteryou cut your cake draw the curtains please with all the due respect your majesty we are in the middle ofthe desert no one can see from the outside ifi can see the skies in it then it can be seen from th skies happy birthday to you happy birthday dear Harry Sir, the crown do you ever hold it? No one can touch it shhhhh you cant get me I am gonna get you grandma's gonna get you ahh those little devils are they in there are? Ahh you majesty your were just in here your majesty is everything alright there? Ali? Yes I am good's payment's i have heard that you work with police Ali and police dont get along do you understand? Origional origional ok brother I am leaving Ali somthing's fallen of your's this is not mine this is of my friend he works in police, its not mine his name is Ali brotherthis powder is fake brotheryou asked for powder what difference does it makes ifit's cinthol or cocaine there's a transmittortoo that's not mine either I'll leave Ali sorry sir, I am sorry, I am very very sorry please I am like you people a small thief Jai is stupid he sent me here he's in Police he forced me to come here i told him I cant do this I cant cheat people of my own league how can i, even ourface cut is similar right brother shall I leave now ok wait a minute from today onwards I'll join your gang we'll work togetherfrom now onwards my all body parts are ill legal dont think I am a police man hand cuff, hand cuffthiefis hand cuffing police no! No! I am not a police man I am a thief right brother brother's right no ok then but you have to promise one thing to me please promise me that after shooting me you will shoot Jai dixit too from the day I saw him my life has turned into a disaster shoot him! Wait a minute I cant see myself dieing i am closing my eyes i am leaving this world mother I am coming to you hey anyone please stop them ya! I know nowyou'll say that you have saved my life but if your water scotter would have stopped after two minute's my head would have become a tomato you cant do one thing properly in every operation I have to leave the crimnals and save your life hey I killed three people myself it was ajoke brother without you I am like un welded cylinder a cylinder without gas a monkey without sence Jai where are you? Sweety! Sweety's dead! I am at work shall we talk later? Later, lateryou'll find my deadbody here remember one thing Jai this condition of mine is because of you what are you saying what condition? This condition Sweety ifill keep on talking to you hello, yes yes thank you thank you very ok very ok ya hold on Jai brother Alka Mathur is calling from the bank she is asking for if you are intrestred in making a credit card shall I tell herfor both of us hellow Alka what are you doing in the evening let's have a meeting give me your number hey this water scotter is really cool shall I ride it you are not going on this so how am I going Jai brother save me! Jai brotherthe water is cold Jai brother I dont know how to swim Jai if you are taking this long to fry fish then howlong would you take to change the nappise ofthe baby Sweety is this the way to talk ok tell me what will you do tell me? Affair i am not saying this Usha aunty say's it Usha aunty know's everything she does the delivery of every child in the whole area of nagpara how sick Jai you'll do this can I do this? You can do it but who would like to do it with you? Sweety got trapped uptil now she is bearing what do you mean? Menas that to love you is like to sit on a neem tree and eat bitter gaurd he's right Jai apart from me you have no option so I am not affraid of any seeta or geeta forget about seeta or geeta even papaya will not be intrested in you Mr. Bore actually you fail to impress women when you open your mouth 3 not 3 bullets come out ladies like guys like me, poet's right you poet? Ali is a poet love's age is wild listen dont laugh! This is my good nature that I dont do anything or ifi wanted I could have an affain'too understood ok then have an affair but with whom are you going to have an affair A.C. P Sonali Bose reporting Sir! Welcome to Mumbai you wait here I'll send the officer incharge ofthis case he's our best man sir! Hellow how are you who are you? Stylish i have to agree you are hand cuffed and asking me for introduction? Tell me clearly what wrong have you done? See I am a soft nature man see everyone makes a mistake but if you'll co-operate my heart is very clean i belive that police and crimnal realationship should be really close like husband and wife so one day all the crime will vanish from the world shut up i am not a crimnal darling tell me in the begining cause when Ali intarogate's intarogate exactly what you said when I do that crimnals accept crimes which they havent even commited now tell me did the tubelight swithced on you are a police man? Yea... dont I look like a hero Ali Akber Sub inspecter just open this this came into my hand by mistake dont make me a fool darling it's is a hand cuff not a flower ring that it came into your hand by mistake ok tell me how did this mistake happen? Because of you i was taking it off you opened the door I suddenly turned and this dam thing it doesn't happen like this darling I'll put it like this then ill do this and then Jai brother I was intarogating she has done somthing wrong she is not admitting her name is eh ahh Sonali Bose Jai Dixit I dont belive this Sonali Bose roll no 23 Jai Dixit Mr Long legs who because ofhis long legs never came to the swiming pool i didn't wanted to give you competition everyone use to come to watch you Ms. Show off show off me? Who met us in the girl's hostel, in Puja Mehta's room so good to see you-After seven yaers and seven months wow! You remeber alot! A girl who dance's with yourfor once cannot forget you dance he? I mean Jai brother you dance anyway what are you doing here? A world's most inteligent and cool thief intelegent because all the thefts he's commited were practically impossible cool beacuse he leave's a clue behind every theft he commit's his signature apart from that we dont have any clue or and any way no description no sketch nothing sir from Argintina to Japan every theft he's commited he's done it in a new get up he stole queen's crown in queen's get up he's a master of disgusie how he vanished from the train no body know's it excuse me ifhe stole at the train then it's a railway police case forthe last two years I have been following the case ofMr. A he only steals things that are unique almost priceless diamond from London, painting from Paris Istampur's prince's necklace but these priceless things could be sold somewhere? Unfortunately what he does with these things, how he does we dont knowit but every year he is only active fortwo to three years only and then he vanishes have you noticed any pattern or special thing about this thief? Sir his specialty is in his way of stealing he has done so many different and random theft's that it is difficult to find a pattern there is a pattern sir! This thief's speciallty is his clue his signature he leaves his signature at the place where he commit's theft but his ambition is somthing else he wants his mark on the whole world and that's not all next date when he'll steal will be 14thjuly 2006 how can you say that Mr. A not only likes antique's but is fond of number's also see all 5-4-2004 if you add all the digit's total 15 next theft 15-7-2004 total 28 next theft Australia 28-9-2005 total 44 as soon the total gets above 30 he add's the total next theft happened in 8-1-2006 every theft's clue is in his earliertheft's date Mr. A is challenging us the problem is that nobody understood his challenge apart from you Jai fantastic and the queen's crown was stolen in 1-5-2006 total 14 next theft will take place on 14th July 2006 Mumbai how's that cause the A he wants to make on this world the line passes through Mumbai we should get alert imdiately before he enter's the city ifi am not wrong he has entered the city if my idea is right then he is a step ahead then us in his mission Mr. A steal's in Disguise but wants the whole world to recodnize him his signature he thinks ofhisself as an artist and not a thief but an artist who being in centre of everyone still keeps on hiding he cannot be looked for but can only be caught but to catch a thief as smart as him its tough perfect he's the perfect thief its going to be alot of fun meeting you Mr. A i think we'll have fun i neverthought in college that a girl like you will join Police your pepper's thank's why what was there in me dressing no! No! You were so proud you know that I mean never use to talk to anyone use to consideryour self supperierto other's but I use to talk to you that's because secretly you were in love with me i am still in love with you whatever happen's dont think of getting divorced divorce is poision in family life i am not thinking of getting divorced but thinking of a murder ah you mind ill just be back sweety your husband is too sexy he even makes food oh you gotta see this oh you use to look like a lizard me lizard! I use to be the bomb in the college you all use to flirt with me give me a break did you see yourself and look who's this who's looking dum here anyone would look dum wearing a serome you wore a serome? Must would have bet bingo yes 10 rupee's bet but who's serome was it her's naturally sure you remeberyour parrot green dress do you still have that what? Tomorrowis the reunion of class of 96 in bombay and everyone's going to wearthe same clothes they use to wear in college Reunion yes now that you have come to Bombay we'll go toghter it'll be fun but I dont have anything to wear no problem wear somthing of sweety's come I'll showyou come on, come on shall I murder one person ortwo the punishment is the same no sweety i promised Momy that I will not do any thing wrong and will not get involve in ladies problem's but only foryou and yourfamily Ali part two what are you sayinga Ali? Before she gets involved with Jai she will fall in love with me AlI's magic will takeover her and naturally your husband and yourfamily will be fine but how will you do all this? Like this all camera's working Samar? Yes mam good there are two snipper's in that building all runaway route's are covered but ifhe doesn't come here then? Jai you said that he will come to only two place's in Mumbai and we have covered them both hello bombil fry orthesra masla what? You might would have had tea of Taj Mahal Hotel but you wouldent have had Sheaty hotel's Bombil's really good we'll have a cold drink in sumri and then we'll eat as much as we can if you want you can have an ice cream too no extra charge sheaty's my student but please make sure that tall bitter guard should not know about are plan ok I am waiting here foryou come quickly i am really hungry and you'll really get good beating too momy you should have warned me atleast hey you are on duty and not on picnic do you understand thiefis not going to ask you that if you've had your lunch so he could steal then ifhe would have wanted to steal anything here you would'nt have sent me here cause I knowyou dont respect me shut up and stay on duty ok shall I eat a Wara pao be quick what's the problem Jai? I dont know sure but there's somthing wrong i canjust feel it come on Mr. A where are you? Coming unit one everything ok on your side? Ok keep on reporting me see ther's no need for explanation's followmy order's do as I tell you no no no the briefing I gave you it's beautiful isn't it? Very but I have heard that the one who use to wear it was more beautiful then this oh absolutely and very tempremental it's said that once she was so upset with her husband Mr. Shahjahan that she threw the necklace and she threwit so hard that the diamand in the central part went missing sure he's not going to come here he's fond of stealing perfect thing's and this necklace is damaged he's not coming let's go you go Jai suppose if you are wrong there should be someone here to welcome him Ali the theft is going to take place at the museum be there quick oh God I am coming right now Ali where are you? Close the gate's secure all the exit point's and stay in contact sorry baba to whom are you saying sorry to? Old cleaner when I talk to you I get afraid and then I cant see anything stop him what? Stop him now! He is a cleaner brother i cancelled the clening staff duty he shouldent be there wait baba Police shoot him knee cap now come on i said stop him stay there baba he's stopped check his id and keep him in custody I am coming baba I was about to shoot you in your knee why didn't you stop before use ear machine your life would have been finished yes son I have hearing problem but when police stops you you have to stop what are you doing here your shift's cancelled today at this age I forget my own name shift is somthing totally far away ok now showme you identity card identity card baba identity card! What's your name? It's written at the back where did he go? Oh God he showed A and vanished like Z do you knowhow to swim? Open the gate! Ali come in! He has gone in traffic, block him from north ok Jai Brother i am going back i am resigning so you and thiefboth are levaing the city bothof you have alot of simalrities intresting you know what Jai if I would have been following him so mouser 9mm the bullet speed is 3000 feet per second in human and bullet race bullets alway's wins Sonali my job is to catch the thief's not to shoot them one thief dead is one thiefless power should'nt be here but here we are standing and talking here and that Mr. A will be laeving the city excuse me mam this is my ticket I am in the waiting list sorry but the flight is full mam tomorrowis my tennis match mam listen I have to have to go there excuse me I have said already the flight is full ifthere's any cancellation we'll let you know now please will you wait there you are wasting yourtime if father would have been God then i would have been in that flight forthe last three years I have been winning this cahmpionship God knows that but today someone else will win it afterthe theft ofthe diamand worth doesn't matter if police fail's to tell you that we can tell you T. V some time back Mr. A called at our News Desk that next he will steal the 600 years old sword which is lying at the Junaghar's forte before the phone could be traced Mr. A disconnected the line the thiefis very stylsih i think we should give him 1 or 2 diamonds and let's compromise we wont be able to catch him Ali to say there's only one champion and no body can take his place not even God sometime's it work's by itself mean's you are going to cold blood me? If you want to sleep then why not forever haha Joke but please tell me what can we do while staying awake when he slips like a wet fish in day so how will we catch him at night? And by the way I doubt it that he'll come we are sitting here and I know that he might be doing something somwhere else nowifhe'll come here the he wont go back that I promise ifhe is Mr. A the for sure he'll come here the question is howis he going to come? One is origional and one... but to see and differentiate its very difficult yes! To reach till here was hard but now what we have to do it a little hard then difficult No No dont even think about it yeah infrared beep's as soon as you touch them an alarm will start within 30 second's all the guard's will be here see the pillar's electro megnatic stuns i love these thing's these small points are very deadly as soon as you will pic the sword a current will come out ofthem around 2000 volts your eyes will either open injail or in hospital here confused how did the theft happen? Shall I tell you lucky one foryou this one for me when ill tell you then pick it up you should'nt have done this nowi have to meet you stop Jaii caught him what momy one thief was enough you have sent two now without ticket now we'll be in serious trouble, sorry I'm so hot dont you feel hot like in all this are you like checking me out you behind the mask I hope not cause if you'll do that then I'll feel very sad and you'll feel alot of pain you'll have problem walking and you work involves alot fo running and walking was there a special reason in using my name in this theft you the reason are you you're the best anybody in my place wouldent have agreed but Sonehri no no no no Sonehri is a fan of your's like forever but afteryou who is the best thiefin this world? Sonehri ok Sonehri the golden girl who lives in dark but thinks Amsterdam, Australia America even but what does Sonehri think's? Do you play cricket? I mean who's the best opening batsman? Not Syed Anwer, amir sohail not Hyden Gilgirist Tendulkar, Shewag hey guy! Not only you steal diamond's but you know how to steal thought's cool anyways I have a motto less talk more work so tell me from when do we start? Start you and me Tendulkar, Sewag like partner's we'll steal toghter and we'll show the world thakyou but I am happy alone everybody need's a partner in this world you'll also need one one day golden chance sonhera chance So-neh-rah get it? You've seen my work i am good right come on take me i am a very use full thing trust me i dont trust anyone there are a fewrules for robbery the loot is ofthe person who's name is used forthe theft funny guy hey you can have it like charity but think about it today sonehri has stolen Diamond on your name tomorrow she can steal cucumber even last chance ther still time foryou take offthe mask and shake hand's partner's like you are not a bad thief so ill advice you thief's shadowis even not its partner if you'll stay alone you'll stay alive cause alone a thief can't betray anyone not even hisself hey are you like checking me out? Funny guy Tenuka you? I heard after every robbery you fly away from the city? Is there any special reason foryour stay? I wanted to see if you'll copy this game less talk more work not bad for a girl ohh no no no Sonehri was wrong about you i thought that you'll be different than other boy's but all boy's are the same funny guy's you know a lot of guy's? Jealous? I know that look you were about to say something but you fogot right? It's not yourfault everyone forget's thing's after seeing Sonehri i think you are forgetting somthing? What? Game is not over had enough-no way funny guy you are not a bad player so I advice you to look for a good partner you'll be able to play more it's an international game it's played with mind not with anger if you'll keep on playing like this then you'll keep on playing in the dark no Amsterdam, no Australia and definately not America if you'll teach Sonehri will learn everything think before shaking your hand I am not making you my partner I am making you my shawdow you wont be able to seperate from me even if you wish too what happened Sonehri doesn't have anything to say? Shadow's doesn't talk only walk's quitely quietly- You? This one I have got to see hey what do I like call you? Funny guy there was no need forthis Jai april fool i have bought flowers in april Joke the difference between flower and fool is like the difference between you and Jai do one thing stop thinking about Jai he's in trouble he said there is only one thief and steal with his signature but I was doubtful from the start there were two thief's in Nagpara like this one Bheem and Nadeem one use to pick pocket fromn the back the other use to steal the chain from the front what is your point? Point is that there are two thief's so we need to officer's too really strict officer's like me and you and Jai? JaI's future stinking and lying in the gutter no see you also got hurt the thief also ran away Jai should get suspended no? Where is Jai- He's in the hospital for Sweety's check up Sweety is about to have a baby do you want a baby mother no no baby late as usual why do you always come so early i like seeing from the start wether it's a film ortheft so did you come to know anyting else? Ask him yourselfhe's about to come here i am sure if you'll ask him nicely he'll tell you his life story six month's back a girl was about to go tojail but she dint go cause she asked a kind hearted police man that she'll do anything for police but please sir, I dont want to go tojail please- But I am working foryou what more like? And I am good he has made me his partner nowyoujst arrest him in crime of making you his partner? Sonehri please dont use your mind already its not much just rememberthat a thief can be caught while he is stealing not before that and not afterthat and suppose ifhe come's to know that Sonehri is with you? Then? The end what? He'll kill you there is a gap between police and a thief one Sonehri's gap Sonehri got trapped in the gap how's the movie Sonehri you changed yourface again Sonehri was not able to recodnize you a man's not recodnized by his face but by his work and I am on a holiday so dont worry i knowyou popcorn after interval you'll take a cab and go to the airport the ticket and passport is in the popcorn packet passport? I told you that this game is international are you 100% sure this is the place? Ali asking me the same question again and again will not change the answer shoo gave us this address cococabana so this is it first time that slick tongue have said sumthing good cocacabana right otherwise from the day he's come life's turned into hell and here too we have to stay at that bore shoo's bore sister's house no we'll stay but where is her sister? Here everywhere are beautiful women around cocabanana I am here coca banana I am here brazil hellow from Ali shoo said ask anyone everyone know's her but from whom shall we ask? Can you give me the ball please? Oh God are they allowed like this? Can you give me the ball please? Oh well I'll ask this yellow one her costume's coclor is similarto my bike's I'll ask her ok? Hellow hi Sonali's sister Monali Bose you knewit -what? That here's a double role hellow how are you my darling? Did you miss me my sweety punkin pie? I say hello to my house some people find it wierd but hellow you can say hi to people you live with then why not houses? And I mean I live with my house what do you think? Hellow house, how are you? Is everything alright? Actually I do the same in India? I say hi to my bike my toothbrush, my fridge really we are so similar but you didn't introduce me to your house how will it recodnize me? Ohh I am so sorry this is Ali and Jai jai brother say hellow come on say hellow house you know guy's I love India and Indians and you know what we all have to hangout toghter because hellow we are all Indian' but ther's one sad thing shall I tell you, you dont know how to speak in hindi God how did you guess that? Are you an astrologer or something mechanic he's a mechanic have I been looking foryou or what? I am very much in demand internationally can you fix my hair dry please? I can even fix an Aero plane while I was coming there was a problem in the plane's cylincer so I fixed it there and then dont even think about it she cant speak in hindi and your english is MashAllah it will take you 10-15 years only to learn hellow how are you? What matter's ifi am weak in english I am a professor in love Ali you have come here as a police man not a lover boy where are the room's? Bring the luggage is he ok? He's stupid you know he doesn't seem right he's mental you knowmental? Mental Ali I am so glad that you guy's are staying with me you knowi have not been to India for so long and with you guys around I feel closerto home thank you such an emotional girl thank you momy what a daughter in lawyou've sent Monali her name also has Ali in it not bad dinner the food is fantastic like really nice dont force yourfood do you want something else? Can I get some origional food? Like totally unhealty sure you dont look like a cook by face even you dont look like a thiefby face and by the way this is not my origional face Sonehri should I ask a little truth? You are at an unknown place with a stranger aren't you affraid? Even if Sonehri doesn't recodnize a face she recodnize's a person you can change yourface but your eyes dont change i am a thiefi can steal eye's i am a thieftoo the first time I sawyou I just sawyour eye's even today I just recodnize them you are a thiefbut your eye's are trust worthy really i could be wrong but there is somthing that tells me that whatever may happen you wont hurt me Sonehri has faith in you i trust you can I ask a little truth? Do you trust me? Talking time is over time to sleep have to start the training at 6'oclcok tomorrow ya 6:00 am sharp funny guy hellowyou guy's haven't even started come on hot bread hey isn't she looking like an Indian mom would have been happy to see you really I would love to meet her you knowi love indian food delicious this is cheese makhni, this is butter chicken and this is my favourite black bean's it's my favorite too and poison didn't you bring some poison? Sorry I miss something? You knowi keep forgetting your name all the time Jai he's saying that this food is his favorite too but cause he is not use to of foreign country so his stomach is upset ok you take one more if we'll have to eat this food for another two orthree day's then ill shift to a hotel and you will go to a hospital tell herthis what's he saying? This poor guy has a problem i know, you knowi understand everything you say but him I just don't get him is that what's called mental oh you learn quickly get you more bread ill just be back what are you seeing? Are you in love? No that happened in morning Jai I am sorry but this is my last case cause after catching this thief I'll stay here cause Monali wont adjust in India so because ofthat both of us will stay here we'll make a small room up there me Monali two- Three kids happy family export family is Monali aware ofthe happy moment's which are about to come in her life no not right now tomorrow momy alway's told me that poty and love work should be done in the morning totally fresh and early morning theft is commited at night and we very different from today onwards nor my eyes will change and nor my face will and nor my name Aryan no body has seen this face ever and I haven't had more faith in anyone else from today onwards our life and death is in each other's hand's Sonehri you are my shadowyou have to become my mirror from today on ward's there will be my eye's but you'll see through them i trust you do you trust me thenjump jump excuse me may I sit here? Ifi have disturbed you so I am sorry forthat Indian it's hard to recodnize by looking at yourface Vijay-Amit my secret ingredient difference between normal and perfect coffee's you really like coffee does your work include coffee too actually I collect coin's money you are looking for money i guess you are right funny I was also thinking about a coin reminded me of my grand father every Sunday he use to give me a 10 rs coin and use to say go and have a ball that coin too looks like this dime they dont make those anymore that's a rare coin that's a rare Grand father that's foryou thank you so what's your obsession? I write stories which type- Of every type right now we are also in a story two Indians 10,000 miles away from there country coffee conversation i like that but for a popular story you might need a girl i have one but what is she doing right now, where is she I have no idea excuse me hey I'll be a little late i can be two hour's late even should I come straight to the villa? Sure cool I m waiting alright girl? Why is it so that without a girl a story cannot be written life cannot be spent without girl's every one need's one another everyone need's someone before I use to think different but nowi think I agree with you excuse me i have made an excuse fortwo hour's can you meet me now same place one hour girls listen thanks forthe coin and next time we wont have coffee but something different if we'll meet again then definitely i hope so cheer's see you i know him I can recodnize him anywhere i have seen his face good a thief can only know about otherthief Aryan is not only a thief Aryan nice name didn't you asked him his sun sign for me Aryan isjust a thief and to catch that thief you are helping the police right offcourse Sonehri was just saying it like that you asked me to know him better i asked you to know him better not to think of marrying him where is Aryan's eyes that only you can tell very soon he is about to do something big I can sence it after arresting him ill be over with the charge right we'll think about it after he gets caught you know he's a thief but is trustworthy but you from inside seem's that you can betray to whom do you want to side trustworthy thief or betraying police now go from her and rememberthat in this case you are Aryan's weakness and my biggest strenth i am counting on you bye cocabanana, bye beautiful women Bye Monalai i am leaving if you'll drive like a bull cart I'll miss my flight Ali -Ali is off, Ali is dead a fraud like this will cause a haert attack to a lion even Ali is stupid guy i thought you as my brother i use to carry my life foryou in my hand but you my respect is not even worth 5 paisa's ifi don't respect you then ehy do you think I bought you here for comedy cause I am ajoker you thought lets take Ali along he'll make me laugh everything will be done by that thief girl Ali will be fooled and bought back Mr. Jai she will cheat you really bad that I dont have word's to tell you Ali I think you'll look nice with the cap see with in two day's she's so emotionally attached to me and you aftertwo years even hitting me with a knife on my back Ali I was about to tell you -when? After arrest or afterthat thief girl would have got the medal Ali! I am not talking to you it was my dream Ali for both of us to catch that thief but un fortunately the thiefhad seen yourface if the head quarters would have come to know about this they would never let you come to this mission i had to involve Sonehri cause I wanted to save you to save this mission you'll hand cuffthat thief you'll get the medal you'll get married you'll have kid's even clapping will be foryou i amjust happy dreaming but what's the point injust seeing a dream in your dream I am playing a hero's role after all you have taught me how to dream Jai brother hellow guys somebody hug me too nice place like cool but why have we come here? To steal steal but what are we going to steal here isn't he a little small this why? This is the first chapter of money's history this is where all it began first human hand made coin's the first ever and it's priceless price ofit would be very less I can bet on that i mean I could get coin's like these in Andhere even what was the need to coming all the way to Brazil hundred and fifty billion starting will be from 150 billion and where would it end you can imagine it yourself what are you thinking when? Tomorrow that's quick ya he does everything quickly youjust arrest him quickly you will stay with him while he is stealing afterthe theftjust signal me but how just press this and the rest ill take care of from today onward's our life's in each other's hand's i trust you what are you doing i am making coffee allowme ok tell me when I'll die how will you feel? Sorry stupid question everyone have to die but ifthat day would be tomorrow then? Why are you thinking like that you are the best i dont know why Sonehri today forthe first time in my life what will happen tomorrow? Come on tell me what will happen tomorrow? What will happen Sonehri doesn't think that far ahead see now that's what I like about you coffee i have learnt alot from you and ther is one I am who thinks more and lives less think think think and look at you that's the way to live fantastic no more boring stuffthis coffee this cooking this health food nothing safe now whatever is to happen let it happen so what do you say let's party let's party Jai dixit ACP Mumbai police original name original work Aryan name is original and you knowmy work have been following you for long friend you made me run alot now when you get after someone he has to run and then again I like being chased i was thinking if you could drop the idea of stealing how would it be then? Bad idea ifthiefis not going to steal then what is the police going to do and after all something's to be done in life yes but ifthat work will lead to losing life then what's the point i mean ill really feel bad if I'll have to kill you yes I will also feel very bad if you'll kill me but ifi wont die the do I have to kill you? I guess you'll have to do your work and ill have to do my work funny thing is that one's work becomes his destiny and your destiny isn't looking to good my friend dont be to sure ofthat i like your confidence i like you may the best man win but who's going to decide who's best we'll do what my dad use to do coin your's but I'll win what day is this Sonehri? It's beautiful it's a perfect day perfect day perfect fraud perfect death just perfect all this talk and all this why? Sonehri do I have to take permission to talk from Jai Dixit what you are understanding it's not like that trust me ok so you make me understand Jai Dixit sent you to me yes and Jai is going to catch me through you if you would have been on my place would you have trusted no this gun's partner is this bullet never betray's where ever it goes it takes life and I love that only you have the right to kill me Sonehri and not Jai so please do this for me i cant you have to fraud and trust both have some rules and after a fraud someone has to die so why not Sonehri after all Sonehri did betray you're right shoot me come on sonehri pick up the gun pick up the gun Sonehri i said shoot dammit even death betrayed me why are you doing this every work has some ending what you did it's ending is this don't make me do this you can't escape forthe first time I am not afraid of death if death is going to wearyourface then Sonehri's ok like for ever last bullet finally death is mine i am a thiefi have changed alot of face's to do fraud's but one face changed my life i had like to die watching that face so I will be very happy please don't cheat me this time Sunehri will die but will not cheat you i love you the thing which is not your's how can you take it i hate you i hate you i know till when are you going to support me i am your shadow where ever you'll go ill go along with you quietly quitely me and you this one I've got to see hellow everone and welcome to children's day specail ther should be proper security like the way it happen's every day no tourist will be stopped nothing out of your clear clear clear like mineral water come on sonehri bring him to me yes Jai brother everything is clear and no gun's children are here yes we have hide them dont worry hey everbody stop, stop no movement no no no Ali stop them I want this place clear hold hold hold Ali block the place Check every one yes Jai brother let the children go but check adult's ok ok go go go why is her phone off everyone's checked nothing found how cab that be did you check them properly? Yes Jai brother apart from children everyone's checked Ali I said that wait a minute snow white had sesven drawf's I'll check out there hi the whole house is empty both ofthem have left hellowyou said betraying police oftrust worthy thief Sonehri's have made a decision i am coming foryou look for a place to hide nowyou both wont be able to steal or cheat anyone now these two are in serious trouble you have ran alot Aryan let's go now have you ever loved anyone madly hand's up and start walking can anyone love someone to an extent that he kill's his lover i dont care Aryan but if you love yourselfthen start walking can anyone ver love somebody this much that he takes his life why? Because I loved him get lost sunheri your life is your punishment you'll stay alone so you wont be able to cheat anyone not even yourself hey nick here's your coke and burger with pickle's just the way you like it enjoy hey my order chicken and vegetable's coming up funny guy sorry mam but cook is on strike what? My contract say's that after every half an hour I'll get a kiss and one hour have passed and no kiss yet i quit really i am not that type of a girl well the lets find out and how's that all I think is a little bit ofthis and a little bit ofthat how about a beer? Can anyone love someone to an extent that he could kill his lover dont fix up cause who loves dont take life but give's life and that day Sonehri gave you your life as in that bullet master stroke you were falling offthat cliff and forthe first time in my life I was feeling bad i thought what a man what love but then I felt what the hell this cannot be the ending ofthis story and because ofthat I left Sonehri and I came here following her master stroke oh thank you but nowi am tired i have been waiting for six month's in this small city waiting foryour next theft i am tired ofthinking where will I find A's sign so I thought I should ask you myself have you changed your sign i have changed myself but I havent cahnged i know i knewit one day you'll come here all my theft's locker detail's code's password's all are in here now we dont need them shall we take our car or shall we go with you to the airport excuse me is this place still open ofcourse this place is alway's open you guy's are forgetting but Mr. A named thiefhas died and to take a dead thieftojail is not a brave act i am leaving cause it's a love story but ifthe thief gets alive then it will be lover's funeral will come out with Dhoom forthe beer two beer's please go and get the beer's cause I am on strike funny guy hellow abbuse me what? For six month's no body's abbused me shut up Ali please abbuse me 10-20 times in hindi i am missing my country pick up your bag right now and come to India now we've got our next case AlKaKo
