 

                        1 A certain morality colours... ...every portrait that is tragic... ...and renders what it depicts abhorrent Barbey d'Aurevilly Headmaster... it's about time for the bell Go ahead. l'll do the unloading -This stuff's rotten -You're not paying Line up. No talking -Delightful brats -Roll on end ofterm Eyes giving you trouble? l stumbled getting up You're very early At four a.m. l heard raised voices from your room A virtuous woman does enjoy the sunrise You spent too long with the Jesuits We teachers can't all get sacked Bastard! Thank you, my dear How pretty We need holidays to cleanse our systems l'll spend our three-day break naked. How about you? l'm going home to Niort l know the place Keeping cool, Headmistress? lt wafts me the scent of my native land These rainy days, l prefer my old umbrella ln my country you'd exchange it for a straw sombrero, and recline in a hammock Was that true ofyour teacher, Jos? Yes, sir, and he rode a horse l'd never get used to that l was being nice to him lt was really a mule Go and play, Joselito What's up with you? Ofcourse Michel; who else? -Quarrelling again? -He came in at three a.m. How did you stand him so long? He made me happy at first You got your money's worth Don't try to be nasty; it's hard enough for us both l may be old-fashioned, but l'm amazed by this attitude The lawful wife drying the favourite's tears l must go; l'm supervising break today With your heart, you should let others do the work l've something to show you What are you up to? Nothing As the boys always say Kiss me -Haven't you noticed? -Still cross about that? No kiss for hubby, Cri-Cri? Aren't you supervising break today? -l said not to; she isn't well -Fresh air is just what she needs Look at those shoes l always tell her to buy good, stout clod-hoppers -Pretty things aren't for invalids -l'm not an invalid You know she's delicate Arriving from Caracas, she was Now she's a ruin She'll bury us all; ruins are indestructible Go away and play She was sniffing a little brown bottle, and it wasn't scent They're boozers; that's why they're always together -What was in the bottle? -Whisky, stupid Please... l don't want to talk about it Patard, ifyou want to draw, you can spend the holiday here Monsieur Patard, you heard the Headmistress; no holiday for you l didn't mean to punish him Then you shouldn't have made the threat He did an excellent English composition That's no excuse for defacing buildings l'll feel no remorse l can't... l hadn't even the courage to divorce him So you do still love him? -No. You wouldn't understand -Am l so stupid? Divorce is a mortal sin Carrying a knife about... wasn't that a mortal sin? l was mad with jealousy. Plotting like this is different Please yourself, but we'll never have a better chance Everyone will think you're in Niort with me -You don't believe in hell, do you? -Not since l was seven l do -More fish? -lt's not more, it's leftovers Fry me some eggs l've doused it in vinegar and shallots The fish still stinks pretty high No, thank you. l'm not hungry Sauces are too rich for my liver May l crave a glass ofwine, Headmaster? You've had two Only one, Headmaster Very well -What's wrong? A bone? -No, l told you l wasn't hungry Swallow it l can't get it down Swallow it Fish good, Monsieur Raymond? Excellent, Headmaster l find it... extremely nourishing Restive, aren't they? Silence, or no holiday! Everyone's looking... swallow it lt's revolting l'm not referring to the fish, either Get those hooligans out of here, Monsieur Drain What's this Bolshevism? Eat your fish and be quiet! l told you to get them out of here Go and help, Monsieur Raymond Growing boys must be properly fed They should eat what they're given lt's like a soup kitchen here l do my best Making them ill We couldn't afford delicacies when l was a kid l try now, but things are so expensive Buying cheap, you don't even get value for your money lt's not his money; l pay for everything here l pay for his women, for you, Nicole l accept that But l can't let him make the boys suffer... l won't stand for that Calm yourself, darling; you know it's no use l wish l could die and be rid of him Hurry up, then. We'll arrange a nice funeral and be well rid ofyou The school won't notice; l'll feel much better Well, have fun. l've an early start; l'm offto pack l leave at seven a.m. Enjoy the holiday, darling. Good night, you As for enjoying the holiday... three days of honeymooning l'll be right down What are you doing? Look out below! For the Pont de Saint-Cloud bus, raise your hands -Will your sister be in the bathroom? -Until ten; there's a peephole -Give me back my fags -l'm letting you see my sister starkers Aren't you coming with us? We're sharing a taxi Money to burn, eh? -Where's your suitcase, De Gasquet? -lt's the chauffeur's job to carry it Our chauffeurs aren't doing theirjob Enjoy your holiday, Headmaster lsn't Madame down yet? The ladies left as l was ringing the bell Madame, and Mademoiselle Horner. l thought you knew, sir Yes, ofcourse... l had forgotten lt's annoying, though One ofyou gentlemen will have to remain in charge ofthe boys being punished Do you mind going back... after your trouble in Niort? l resigned from the school, that's all Are your parents alive? No. l let the first floor to teachers, a married couple Someone's living in the house? l've considered that. There won't be any problem, l promise you -You're tired; want me to drive? -You don't know how l couldn't afford a car -Anyway, it stops me from thinking -Good; save yourselffor tomorrow -We'll never have the courage -You don't know me Yes, l do... very well You couldn't kill anyone; but you must sometimes have wished l were dead He did, not me "With that heart of hers, it won't be long", he'd say. "lt'll be our place" -That's horrible! -Don't you believe me? What did you say? -You want the truth? -lfyou're capable of it l hardly knew you... Don't; l'd rather not know Mind the step Mademoiselle Horner... ...what a pleasant surprise We'll manage So much luggage! My husband grumbles if l have more than a small case Madame Herboux, this is my headmistress, Madame Delassalle Are you remembering the rent? Forgive me; l was hoping, in a day or two... l was banking on some payments l'm due But l'll see you tonight, without fail l'll come up for it tomorrow; we're rather tired tonight Madame does look poorly Make yourselfcomfortable lt's good to be home Switch off; no use wasting electricity -So soon? -Get it over with Saint-Cloud, please. This is 242. Molitor 2745, please l like to go barefoot l use ski socks when it's cold Go ahead lt won't bite, won't slap you Who is it, for God's sake? Oh, it's you. ln Niort? Well, congratulations Do you think l can afford petrol for weekend trips? l said it's best we should separate. Yes, l want a divorce You're healthy enough to earn a living l'll claim the school, naturally; my dowry paid for it We can see to the papers after the holidays Wait... l'm coming He'll be here tomorrow Really, Germaine! You'll catch cold l'm stifling -You're feverish -No, l'm just too hot l thought he'd get here before you lt wasn't easy... the shops are closed You've got a tablecloth? A nylon one. Waterproof -lt's a bit big -Not for him 2,500 francs Some profit they're making We'll open it, make it look more natural No, pity to waste it This'll get you going Not bad; l've never had it before -Water's added, usually -Shame to do that Hand me the little bottle Won't he feel anything? No, this will put him out like a light Won't it leave traces? He'll digest it He won't come There's his train now, at the bridge Put this in there Please stop; it's horrible lt must be filled l can't do it, not today You know we have to; it's now or never Never, then; l'm just not up to it As you wish, but l warn you: ifyou don't get him, he'll get you l just don't know Help me, Nicole, please What's the use? l shouldn't have trusted you. l'm in this, too, and you're letting me down You're right. l'm hopeless, a ruin, just like he said But the ruin will do what she has to, in order to get revenge... ...even if it kills her lfonly he could know it was me doing it You're going from one extreme to the other What we need is to be very calm... calm and cold-blooded l will be. l swear l will lt's time l went upstairs Can't you stay with me? The Herboux mustn't see him from the window -You'll come right back? -As soon as l can, l promise Buck up; it'll all be over in half an hour We didn't expect you so late My friend's resting. May l come in? We were listening to the radio The play's over. Zapi Max starts in thirty-five seconds You have been listening to "One does not trifle with love", by De Musset Proud ofyourself? -Not so loud; the neighbours... -Don't worry, l shan't make a scene A man running after his wife is pretty ridiculous Sneaking around, hiding from my own concierge, it's humiliating l couldn't say where l was going Well, now you've got me here, go on... Get your bag No... l'm staying You refuse to come back? l thought you understood: not till we're divorced You've decided on a divorce? With your religious convictions? l just won't remarry lt takes two to divorce -My solicitor doesn't agree -You have a solicitor? Matre Berthoux, 64 rue Victor Hugo Look him up He told me this morning l'd have no problems Going just by your looks? Funny sort ofsolicitor l explained, naturally You told our intimate secrets to some lip-licking bastard? You, convent-bred? You know what l think? lt's disgusting You told your mistresses, didn't you? Do we have one secret that Nicole doesn't share? Do you believe that liar? Some things she couldn't make up She could make up everything. God knows what she told your lawyer l'll see him... you can't stop me Go tomorrow. lt's dinner time... he won't see you now He'll see me, all right There isn't any solicitor. l lied to you You, too? lt must be catching So this divorce business was just another lie? No, l want a divorce. lt's the only solution For you, too; a divorce would be best for you You can't be serious. Do you know how much it would cost? And the scandal? l'll have a lawyer to defend me Once the two get going, parents won't want to entrust their kids to you You mean, l'd lose pupils? You'd ruin your school... not that l care l'd have sold it and gone into business We could have made a nice living But you insisted on the school lt meant security, didn't it? Oh yes, switching to a cheaper car, giving up my profession... ...wearing out old clothes, living in poverty l sold my encyclopaedia, my main teaching tool, to pay my fare here l did all this for you, and l've no regrets But when you throw me out, it hurts, Cri-Cri. lt hurts deeply But you made me so unhappy We quarrelled a bit, as most couples do You girls do yourselves proud! Don't lie to me now. You made me very unhappy Maybe you didn't realise it, but you did. Ask Nicole That bitch knows you're unwell, so she's set you against me She has taste and experience, but a bad attitude l'll get rid of her... ...hire a good man My Prince ofWales suit! l'll reek of alcohol Kindness is a waste oftime with you Get busy Use hot water We're leaving right away How long was the drive? Ten, twelve hours? Pour me another glassful, Milady l feel dizzy Lost your touch? That's more like it Lovely colour What are you staring at? lsn't the Princess paying? Where is she, anyway? Hiding away, scared? Upstairs, with her tenants She never told me about any tenants Thatjourney did me in Lie down -Your bed, or hers? -Ours Take my shoes off What's wrong with me tonight? l don't want to go to sleep We're leaving What are you up to? Go to sleep Why are you putting the light out? l'm so tired -What's that? -Nothing; go to sleep -Where did you come from? -l came straight in here -How much did he drink? -Three glassfuls How obliging of him He's dreaming We can move him now Remember his shoes -What's she doing? -Taking a bath At ten? Oh, hell! Can you tell me where the Mozambique Channel is? Between Madagascar and Africa Between Madagascar and the African coast 32,000 francs Will you take the money, orgo on? l'm winning 32,000 and l can't hear! Poor dear The bitches! Didn't even hear the question. Midnight baths, Roman decadence! lt's a violation of rights. l could make a formal complaint... maybe l will The 17th at 10.05 p.m... no, 10.06 -What are you looking for? -His return ticket Here it is, with a bill from the dining car Burn these You take the feet, it's easier Get the bronze from the mantelpiece Now get the tablecloth Did he suffer? He didn't even know Why not take him back now? After they find him, we have to be able to prove we were here when he died They're our alibi, upstairs -She still hasn't emptied her bath -So what do you care? l can't sleep with those cataracts gushing out -You won't get drowned in bed -lt's like Niagara roaring away -Will you stay up all night? -l'm sitting down l'll give her till midnight Here they are They've taken their time l saw them at the caf at midday Doing themselves proud lfwe owned a school... We'd treat ourselves a bit, too Time for my siesta There go the floods! He looks hideous l wish to hell they'd clear off Such a shame, you're leaving so soon Classes start again tomorrow for us all l just came for my crockery lt's some weight Have you any string? No, l haven't Would this do? -lt's too full -Why not take something out? l've got an old chest upstairs; start unpacking We'll manage. We're late already, aren't we? That's done it On the count oftwo... l'll start up You've been a great help, Monsieur Herboux Here's a little something for the road. Mind the holiday traffic There'll be gendarmes everywhere -We made it this time -Sooner or later... lt can only end one way. We're monstrous You can say that again about him; the rest l'll keep for Sunday School -Everyone else is sold out -Not surprising with this traffic Come along, l'll get your change -Are you going to Tours? -No Couldn't you help? The bus driver wouldn't let me on He's anti-militarist, like me We've no room A private doesn't take up much room lf l'm not back in time for muster, it's the cells for me Go away, you're drunk Listen, l asked you politely Just for that, l'm going to get into the back Don't you dare. Will you get out? lt's all right, l know him. He's drunk, but harmless Aren't you ashamed, Robert? Out, or l'll throw you out The dirty beast! l'll mop that up for you Never mind, we're in a hurry The nylon tore -Sounded like the Headmaster -So he's turned up, has he? ls all that noise wise? lt's Michel's signal; ifwe just ring, Plantiveau won't open up -He sleeps like a log -l'll wake him l thought it was the Headmaster ls he away? How should l know? -You look tired -ls that so surprising? Sorry we woke you. Good night We don't need spotlights for our scene Or music The lavatories Pasquel... he goes every night He might look out Can you see him? No, the water's too dirty, or it's too far away There's nothing to see Why stay there? We don't find him lt stinks in here -The Head's not back -He's out chasing skirt -Aren't two birds enough for him? -l'll have heaps when l grow up Just like Napolon and Louis XlV -Think you're Napolon? -Me? l'm Hawkeye -Stop playing the goat, Moinet -l'm not a goat, l'm a redskin Take twenty lines: "My foolish remarks rouse my fellows to hilarity" What's this l hear? The Head absent? Yes... three meals with undoctored wine Where can he be? l saw him at eight a.m. two days ago; by midday, he was gone And hasn't reappeared? How strange; that isn't like him Poor Madame Delassalle had problems enough lfshe feels like me, he can stay where he is. But he'll be back soon enough So will our watered wine You'd think he was not seeing it on purpose The body sank -Will it come up? -l'm sure of it -How soon? -Who knows? Tonight, tomorrow l can'tjust wait We can't have the pool emptied Why not, ifthe water's dirty? With what's in there? l'll take the responsibility You're being childish This is hopeless: no marks You're so calm... l've marked this wrongly -Rub it out -l haven't a rubber All right, l'll have it emptied tomorrow l hope we won't regret it Don't bite your nails That's what l've been waiting for -Don't look -Do something... you promised Give me your keys; we'll get things going You'd better get the vaulting pole Here, Soudieu... ...let's see how fast you can run Not much good at throwing, are you, Mademoiselle? lt's lucky l'm a champion frogman -l forbid it -He's a champion -He's taking his time -Maybe he's drowning l saw this shining The Head's lighter? No keys? lt's dark down there Get dressed before you catch cold l think we'll have to empty the pool That's right Send Plantiveau to me The bell's gone; offyou go -lt's deep where you are -l can swim lt's swimmers who drown; non-swimmers keep away l want the pool cleaned Now? l'm not dressed for it; l was going to the barber's lt's urgent. Do it for me, Plantiveau Very well, but it takes an hour just to drain Behave yourselves; she's upset Why are you staring at me? Now we'll continue with the problem about the hexagon l'm waiting Get out your exercise books l'll be right back lt's impossible; l must have been mistaken You weren't mistaken -He's not there any more? -No, he's not The doctor lt's the void, the empty pool Agoraphobia... makes you dizzy Nature abhors a void Better a full bottle; right, Plantiveau? ls the Headmistress feeling better? Doctor Loisy's with her Prep for her class, Monsieur Raymond; keep an eye on mine, Monsieur Drain Madame Delassalle may need me She's giving the orders, you notice Wear and tear: comes to all of us Where's her husband? He'd better hurry back Meanwhile, no excitement; keep her very quiet Do you think a specialist... l'll call Bridoux, ifyou like Not young, but a good man. Keeps a good table, too You can give her digitalis -The doctor said... -l don't care. Close the shutters. Go Oh no, that's too easy Do you think a bodyjust walks away? Someone moved him, and Plantiveau says he didn't open the gate -Why should he lie? -l didn't say he lied But l've searched everywhere Attic, cellars, garden... no body, nor signs ofdigging The whole thing's insane lt has been all along. lt was one ofyour silly maths problems... ...about taps running and tanks filling, and you turned it into a crime That's what's insane: baths filling and pools emptying in real life l was mad to have listened to you lt's the suit the Headmaster wore these last few days His Prince ofWales -Who brought it? -A dry cleaner l don't know which one. A delivery tricycle, it was Conscientious lad... made sure he had the right address From Monsieur Delassalle, he said "You saw Monsieur Delassalle?" l asked "No", he said, "l was just told that it was urgent" Shall l hang it up? Leave it there lt's his lt's enough to drive one mad Wait... Did you deliver a suit in Saint-Cloud this morning? -What name? -Madame Delassalle ls something wrong? No, but who left it? A Prince ofWales suit We get lots ofthose l remember: a thin gentleman, very dark, with a bamboo cigarette-holder Wait... that foolish boy forgot to take this lt was in the hip pocket Eden Hotel Room 9 Funny life your husband leads The boy could return the key -Do you know the hotel? -lt's furnished apartments; very plush First on the right, number 27 -Suppose they ask questions? -Unlikely in this place lt's a trap... a blackmailer At least we'll know who he is -What are you doing here? -l'm looking for Monsieur Delasalle He's never here in the daytime When does he come in? Who knows? His bed's never slept in You see? No clothes, no suitcase. Nothing Funny sort oftenant Have you seen him? Never; nor has the night porter Why all the questions? He's my husband Poor lady... you won't find him here He's somewhere else What's happening to us? l don't know. lt makes no sense An unpaid bill, two years old. l can see the bailiffs in the offing Send them half, keep them quiet -Was he really dead? -You should know, better than me -What do you mean by that? -You killed him, didn't you? You planned the whole thing We planned it, and you telephoned him l wouldn't have known how to get the drug -But you got him to drink it -l didn't want to, you know l didn't You could have let him sleep it off Who pushed him under? And who brought the heavy bronze? You'll see in court which of us comes offworse l'm not afraid ofthat; we'd get what we deserve -Go to the police, then -l've thought of it So you can blame it all on me? Well, l'm going to call them first Go ahead; l'll tell them the whole story How you killed him out ofjealousy... ...and l helped because l pitied you You were the jealous one, because it was over between you. You killed him What are you waiting for? Have you my paper? The ink's still damp l've nothing to say -Where are you going? -To Confession You think you'll get absolution? l can go to the police -lnvolving me? -l can't leave it like this lt's over, don't worry. He's been found NAKED BODY lN THE SElNE -Why in the Seine? -The main thing is, he's been found lt all fits: the description, the location, the time ofdeath Our alibi will hold up The morgue l read this and l think it may be my husband ldentity card Can you describe Monsieur Delassalle? Medium height, thin, dark eyes... That's all in the paper -Can you give more precise details? -Such as? Well, an appendix scar, for instance He has one -His own teeth? -All ofthem, l think -Fillings? -One or two, probably -Any moles? -Yes... on his shoulder No bracelet on his wrist? He never wore one Anything about the right thigh? -Nothing -Above the knee, remember? Nothing... l must be wrong, then Bring up 4702 You were right on both points Come with me, please, Madame -lt's not him -Are you sure? l'm sorry, this rarely happens Saint-Cloud at this hour? You don't catch me missing my dinner Still a bit shaken are we, dear lady? lt gets to you, doesn't it? At least it wasn't him Feeling better? l'm Alfred Fichet, police superintendent, retired l didn't go to the police You didn't even inform them? You should have; that's what they're there for l didn't think of it; l'll do it Oh, l can take care ofthe matter myself The police are so busy; we mustn't over-burden them We'll find your husband, shall we, you and l? l've forty years experience, and time on my hands There's really no need lf l find nothing, you owe me nothing lf l do find something... well, you be the judge -How long have you been married? -Eight years. But l don't see... l know what l'm doing. So, eight years... lt's boiling He had keys... came and went. After all, he was the boss lt was a holiday, too Monsieur Delassalle... depressed? He wasn't the type, not complicated at all Feeling ill, perhaps? Sound as a bell; used to be a tennis champion Did he get a telegram on Sunday? A phone call? Things often start that way l couldn't say. l'd taken the wife out, to enjoy the holiday An accident is possible. Did Monsieur Delassalle drive fast... very fast? The ladies had the van in Niort Could he have drowned? He was like a fish in the water. That man could really swim l think you may have been too hasty in your alarm He's been gone only five days, and already you're running offto the morgue lt was that article in the paper, the description... That could fit 100,000 men in Paris, not to mention their country cousins You suspected suicide, l suppose? Yes... l don't know A suicide doesn't usually strip naked l'm inclined to a much less tragic theory -By which l mean... -A woman You're right. lt was foolish of me to worry and bother you No. Our agreement was that if l find nothing, you owe me nothing But find something l will lt's been so many years... Our council school at Charonne was nothing like this lfwe'd had that... You've had it emptied -So you thought ofthat, too? -Not at all What do you mean? lt was emptied because l dropped my keys in... yesterday morning Mademoiselle Horner, our most loyal associate So it's nothing but a coincidence All the same, you do seem to have water very much on your minds in this house May l see his correspondence? -You'll never find him -How do you know? -He has a typewriter, anyhow -To take care of bills True, Monsieur Delassalle is no writer; perhaps he mistrusts his spelling l don't see him as despairing Well, let's do things properly Delassalle, Michel, age 34... Height... 1 metre 70... yes, l know. Dark hair -Eyes? -Brown Nose... average Normal ears. You wouldn't think such a description would turn someone up They'll find him, though. Those devils are good How was he dressed that day? We weren't here Ofcourse. What am l thinking of? What we'll do is look in his wardrobe and see what's missing What was the seventh pair? Brown suede -Tie? -Dark red with white stripes You've sharp eyes; there are two dozen there Now, the suit You're more familiar with his ties? A grey Prince ofWales, l think Like this? Madame Delassalle has a weak heart You should have told me. There's no hurry, l've plenty to get on with Rest, dear lady, while l go and look in on my friends at Headquarters l'll be back, don't worry Plantiveau says he's a detective Private eye! Lemmy Caution! Ritberger, ifyou've finished, l can find more work for you The Church knew the importance of Latin, l can tell you that Every last village priest knows Latin But isn't particularly intelligent lt isn't his business to be... Not in class, Moinet? The Head's punishing me What nonsense! Why would he punish you? l broke a window Could the Headmaster be back? Tell me the truth. Who punished you? The Headmaster -Don't lie to me -l'm not lying You're frightening him Be good and tell me everything, and l'll let you offyour punishment -How did you break the window? -With my catapult The Head opened the door, and said l was to fill the wheelbarrow with leaves That's impossible, you know he isn't here He's a born liar; last week he said he fought a lion at the county fair No one else has seen the Head, but there is indeed a broken window He can't have invented the story A case of auto-suggestion, perhaps He breaks a window, expects punishment Darkness and his subconscious do the rest -Do you really believe that? -Yes, he imagined his punishment l say he's just trying to pull our legs The catapult The Head confiscated it Enough is enough, Moinet Excuse me, l feel rather tired; l must rest You may leave the matter in our hands, Headmistress We've been very patient with you, Moinet You may go and stand in the corner until you decide to tell the truth We'll see who weakens first l saw him; l know l did lt wasn't Moinet who put the catapult there. Who was it? Someone, l don't know... -Just chance? -Yes, chance Just chance that Fichet was at the morgue The suit, the hotel, now the boys... ...is all thatjust chance? Calm down. l'm nervy, too There must be an explanation. Miracles don't happen... unfortunately l keep expecting to see him walk in He must be in a dreadful state lf he's dead l've seen bodies before; Michel is dead, believe me -Lie down and stop worrying -How can l? You must sleep. Doctor Loisy is very worried Professor Bridoux is coming tomorrow What's the use? l'm done for now Keep your voices down; the Headmistress is very ill You may go, temporarily Go and be photographed lt's no good without the Head and Headmistress Better luck next year -Bench in front ofthe window? -Why not the door? Can't you see the car? A professor's up there l must go and attend to myjob l'll see the professor out We've been a little unwise, so we're going to take a long rest -Can l get up? -We'll see in a day or two Will the stairs be too much for me? You're to stay where you are until further notice -My clinic is rather costly, so... -There are no heirs, you know l know, but l don't care to see hearses at the door Nor do my patients What luck, no one moved lt's quite good of me... in the place of honour for once People will think l'm the head -What's this in the window? -lt looks like the Head l didn't see anything Just a reflection, or damp spot... ...shaped a bit like the Head's features Maybe it was him... not wanting to disturb us, or having a little joke l don't see him playing hide-and-seek Did you notice anything? l was too busy Let's settle the matter Moinet, did you see the Headmaster? No, l've had enough So, no one was here Good; a concierge likes to know who's coming and going -l'm frightened -So am l We must get away Get dressed l'm supposed to stay in bed. Where would we go? My house ln Niort? Don't you think he'll be there, more than anywhere? Then we'll just go lt won't do any good -l can't stay here -You go, then But l can't leave you You'll get on fine without me, and l don't want to see you again l'd rather face what's coming... is bound to come... ...on my own You hate me? Not even that Where's the red case l lent you? ln the bottom ofthe wardrobe -You really think we should part now? -Yes, it's best l wish you well "Tremble," she said, "daughterofmine "My fearfor you is vengeance divine" -What are you doing here? -Watching you l came to report, doing what l'm paid for But you were so fast asleep... Go away; l'm very ill Then you'll start feeling better; it's all cleared up now Can't you have a little mercy, and let me die in peace, in my own time? Come now, this is no time for dying, dear lady l've found him; he'll be here any moment now You know he can't come back... because l killed him -This afternoon? -Five days ago -There must be some... -Five days ago, in Niort -So you went to the morgue? -The body had disappeared -ln Niort? -No, here We brought him back in a wicker trunk, and put the body in the swimming pool So you weren't alone in Niort? Mademoiselle Horner was there, too Did she see? She was his mistress; she helped me So that's how it was l must talk to her She's gone l thought so lt's Michel's; it won't work Not after a day in the pool Aren't you arresting me? You mustn't let your nerves get the better ofyou A nice sedative is what you need Good night l'll put the light out, shall l? You'll wake up tomorrow feeling acquitted Head gone, wife raving, Nicole takes off. Doesn't that suggest anything? The dole queue for us? l fished it out right there -ls there a wicker trunk somewhere? -Above the garage -lt's beginning to smell pretty bad -Delasalle... an accident, you think? You can testify that l knew nothing -l don't know what, but... -Someone's been up to something? Who's there? Did it work this time? She was tough, for all her complaints about a weak heart You're all wet, poor darling Last time was worse... an hour before l could get out And the trunk must have been awful Not to mention the pool. She really put us through it -l got scared sometimes -lt was worth it, though We're rich. What will we get for the school? Between fifteen and twenty years, depending on your lawyer Wait there for me! Aren't you ashamed ofyourself, Moinet? With the school closing, too. Who gave you back your catapult? The Headmistress She opened the door and gave it to me "Enjoy yourself," she said You're incorrigible, Moinet The Headmistress died and was taken away She didn't die; she came back Go and stand in the corner l saw her; l know l did Don't be diabolical! Don't spoil the film for yourfriends by telling them what happens Thanks on their behalf
