 

                        First Act LOUISE, the older sister. The audience, eagerly awaiting the sensational devilish number, was entertained by a fantastic dance. Frederick looked longingly at the audience and the expressionless, pale green eyes of the Countess ... DURING THE BREAK Adolf had no idea that his brother's zeal to be the groom for the horse was only due to his desire to get as close as possible, as the mysterious "Habitu." This horse is already very weak ... It just happens to thoroughbreds ... The blood must be strengthened from time to time! Are you afraid for me? Why do you behave in such a way every time you see me? I do not know, madam ... But I'm happy and I suffer when I see you ...! Aimee found Frederick to be very charming. But she had learned to suffer in silence in her life! ... But Frederick was thinking only of what for him had become an obssession: this woman with the pale green eyes! One night the young man had taken courage. A simple suggestion had encouraged him. And it made him confused, confident, and waiting with a light heart! He dared not ... yet. He doubted for a moment, but the inner urge was stronger than his shyness ... How innocent and naive you are! ... And you are called a "devil" ...! And in the arms of this woman, who was far above him, the young man remembered his sad childhood, as vulnerable orphans ... And the young man felt dizzy in his leap From great pain to great bliss which he had never felt before ... And he remembered that morning, when old Cechi, his acrobatics teacher, adopted the children. These are my grandchildren, sir, who are without any parents! ... I cannot provide for them ... Maybe they can discuss with you a way to earn the living that they need ...! Where did you come from, children? ... Have you no home? Why have you come here? Have you no mother? Is she dead? And Aimee remembered the pain when she remembered the boy who had opened her young girl's heart, but who had never noticed her...! And the night went by ... And Frederick seemed to begin a new life. Look! It seems that your illustrious ancestor would look upon us with amazement! There, a footman robbed my great-grandmother of her reason! And because of her, an aunt, A king was ruined and an empire was destroyed! What do we care that they look at us! They are the dead, the past. We are life, youth! Meanwhile, Aimee saw the new day, without her eyelids having received any rest. Will it really be possible? Will I lose my strength? Will I be unable to work? That cannot go on, Frederick! I assume that you understand ... This morning, on her trapeze, Aimee felt as if the voice of Frederick, from below, was calling out for help ... Aime ...! I'm coming ...! Wait ...! But on the day when there was no safety net, it's all right because you can trust the devil! It is a terrible height, if he does not feel safe and if his dizziness is not overcome ...! On the eve of the charity event of the four devils The caf was well attended by the people of the circus world. But what are you doing, girls? ... Would you like something to drink? Hello, I've ordered for myself, I invite you to do the same! ROYAL CIRCUS CHARITY EVENT OF THE FOUR-DEVILS extraordinary acrobats Premiere of an exciting event: THE SOMERSAULT WITHOUT A NE It's an eye-catching poster ...! It will attract a big audience! THE SOMERSAULT WITHOUT A NE But on the day when there is no safety net, it's all right because you can trust the devil! Until tomorrow, Frederick ... Sleep well ...! And in his feelings about his confused state of understanding, the young man felt Disgust for his life and a hatred of a woman, her superficiality and inner coldness, with the green color reflected in her eyes. This woman had darkened his soul and weakened his strength, But it was still in him to take his revenge and become free. He would go to her, would accuse her of her guilt and would expose her soul in front of the illusory world in which they lived! Here I bring back to you your wife, your Lordship .. I, an acrobat, a vagabond, who can overcome all dizziness from height! Yes! ... That's what I will do ...! And I will do it now! And he went back the way he had traveled so often during the night, but this time a shadow followed him, A woman whose every breath was devotion to him. I love you, Vera ... I want to run away with you, But I cannot, I cannot ...! You suck me in like an unstoppable maelstrom ...! And in the soul of the poor Aime her last hope was extinguished and the eyes of the palace windows were closed in the night and in their secret ... The day came and the time of the charity event ... The Somersault Number, with no safety net, attracted many people to the circus, and tragedy that seduces the audience by its mysterious magic. This is a daring number ... Friedrich has already missed four times during practice. Something has deprived him of his strength! Be careful, Frederick ... You know, the distance is great and you have to have a lot of momentum! Very dear audience: The acrobats, Frederick and Aime, Will now perform the sensational somersault without a net! We ask for complete silence! And then they started their duel with death ... Then came the dreaded moment of the jump ... Aimee's arms should catch Friedrich in the air, who came like an arrow shot from one trazeze to the other ... Now! ... The Countess had the car wait until the ambulance Had taken away the two bodies ... She unobtrusively dried the single tear she shed in response to this sad spectacle. END
