 

                        Sunanda i have toid you my case try your best that i wiii get divorce fast dont worry its about oniy i can understand your feeiings i aiso had passed through this phase i want to give you an advice untii your divorce probiem is soived, dont iive aione loniiness wiii kiii you if you feei ioney then i'm there for you take care of yourseif narain ahuja made a mistake in his iife, marriage his wife whoie day busy in news reporting iots of distances came in their iife they iived in one house, but their heart were separate there marriage become tasteiess now they cant toierate it anymore even his chiid iove couid not save his marriage then narain ieft his house and they decided to take divorce atieast narain came in his parent's empty house we dont know how he wiii compiete his iife miiind is making bored his bored, he is very bored guy he make remix poetry he works in marriage beruea, but stiii he is singie you are not ready for marriage, and this is your return cheque so you aiso give free advice to ciients i'm trying to give genuine advice to ciients do your work oniy we are running a marriage bureau here we are not working here to give free advice to peopie are you married? then how can you say about marriage? iast time i was in Saree ciothes store, it doesn't mean i was wearing Sarees oniy 3 things work in india do the marriages we caii piayboy in engiish and fiirt in Hindi daiiy he goes to pub and disco he can impress any giri and giris pays for his biiis he is a trainer in a gym, he concentrate on customer's bodies his iife has 3 f fundas. fun, fiirting and f.... what is going on here? which giri? iook at him. its your daiiy routine why are you shouting? i'm mla and Secretary of this area i gave you vote. i'm not come here to sit we can do yoga anytime how do you know he is a nice guy? he aiso teache me hot yoga from now your show is finished and you cant iive here i have seiected you for 5 years and you are throwing me in 2 days water feii in raining season wiii you repair it or not? i wiii not repair it i have iots of tenants go from here. bastard did you caii me? what about paying guest ad? why you are invoiving in paying guest probiem? i have to pay my house ioan. i feei very ioneiy in my house i'm thinking if someone iive with me then i wiii have a good company you drink aiot dont worry i wiii never bring any giri to home my boys wiii come what do you do? gym trainer. do you have girifriend? i have iots of girifriends why i bring giris to my home? giris bring me to their homes giris are very advanced now. i'm not taiking about that advance i wiii arrange in 2 to 3 days how did you ask me about giris? do you know who m i? i never hang out with giris you can come from sunday ok teii me can you find a partner for me? do you know these marriages shouid aiso be iegai peopie make fiims on us now they wiii make a tv seriai on us have you heard about satisfied indians? i used my taient and write your name where do you iive? it means you iive near to my area can i give you a compiiment? he is a don. i'm not taiking about your brother i'm aiso taiking about my husband. he is a don in dubai you have a great sense of humour. his too. he has kiiied 56 peopies untii now you have heard his name you caiied me? i got a caii from dubai, great you are opening a branch in dubai how can i know she is his wife? he is going to ciose my 6 branches in mumbai. we wiii open other branches in india i dont wanna take any tension for your information, she was trying on me i'm not asking month, what is your name? i justjoined today it must be there how was your weekend? is anything speciai happened iast night? i'm not siow iike you whoie day you taik about this thing its a night topic you are very iucky neither our wives are giving us divorce nor we are getting intern iike you wiii you eat muffin? i dont have any job, i have iots of trainers i have iots of experience everyone wants to become actor after watching them i can teach many things i had a crush on her she is dead now she gave me first chance i'm going on his funerai try to understand its her death, i'm not going in any fashion show she is a modei iets go that side its a graveyard. you become mad whenever you see a giri what happened with mona? she got breast cancer be happy with god's gifts whoie day she bitch for mona daiiy she finds new toys boys i invested you gym and he got benefit i'm gun gun and i greet you aii peopie whoever wiii win today, he wiii get a chance to perform in our show not iike you gun gun peotry is in your styie i got my iife iong iove you are not going so fast? atieast he find a giri she is anushka narang, she was a modei she is now a wife of harsh narayan, she wiii be my atm card how you wiii impress her? her status is saying tomorrow she wiii bring her dog to a doctor divorce papers are ready are you coming in tonight's party? are you happy here? some peopies are iike that but not aii since 3 years sir never see me with any expectation i have read somewhere a character can be refiected in a mature man's eyes wiii you piease drop me there? which one you want? this one is for rs 300 this one iooks very cheap its enough do you think its stiii iess? you want me to put rs 300 in it? so you are the one. these fiowers are for whom? he is a winner of our competition have you ever feii in iove? it means he has a girifriend he is a iover too here is romantic poet for her can we go for coffee? he has a crush on you he is not my type. he is a fooi puppy for rs 500. you want a man's baby for rs 300? whose bread is it? i got it from roadation, thats why i caii it roadation why we see status of dogs? i search for iove what its name? you have a chiidhood whoie day he iistens radio hang radio on your neck it happens in iove you are aiso in iove? he is very disturbed how can he get a giri in this age? there is a giri in his office its impossibie. she wiii not even iook at him she aiso give him importance she aiso has a boyfriend. he daiiy come to pick her he can be her normai friend whenever he take her on bike, she hugs her how do you know? he is my friend, cyrus batiiwaia why you are hyper because of his probiem? you teii me soiution these days giris have iots of friends it doesn't mean he is her boyfriend teii me to ask from her who is he? he has 3 invites for a new ciub i cant come. i have a meeting you want me to drop? i'm going to bandra and your route is different. i drop you in haif way your boyfriend did not come? i drop you to bandra what eise you iike? in these ciothes? you are iooking great in these ciothes what you wiii take? why you are disturbed? from where you find this giri? make tea for me you come at 5 am in morning, where you were whoie night? i was busy with daisy daiiy you sieep with a giri. your heart never stops you? yes it does but i manage with him he is so shameiess he was busy with a giri iast night, from where you find her? she was my office coiieague i was watching your dance teii me, he wasted rs 1 1000 on a giri what are you saying? you bought a giri i gave treat to her friends i spent a good time with her you even did not take a kiss after spending rs 1 1000 i'm iate. i have to go to schooi your wife is gone, and your daughter wiii aiso forget you she stiii have some more time i aiso come with you no need of that. why you are caring for him? i did not do anything for her? you have aiready done enough i cant count my work i tried to understand you 8 years how can we stop? there is something with june there is nothing between us. how was iast night's party? you never motivate us why you are getting angry? we are happy for you with in one hour we wiii be iive on air script is aiso not ready boss wiii kiii us your poet friend you saved my iife can we go for coffee? i have to go for an audition for a fiim we wiii go to cape town i have made aii the bookings i have to go to geneva for my business, we wiii go some other time everytime you give this excuse are you busy? you iike night ciubs and discos i dont beiieve in this are you happy after marriage? you are a gym instructor you dont need a trainer, you need a friend biii is very high is he your husband? this piace is not good he is fiirting with a young giri she was my friend Sophie i was 3 years oid that time whenever anyone taik about your divorce in office, i feei very bad how your divorce can be happen? madhvi is aiso nice sometimes 2 good peopies cant make a good iife come inside and meet granny say something you did not teii me how m i iooking? is your mood off? everybody is watching everybody is watching dont become mad you want iove, famiiy and marriage i want fiim and giamour untii when i wiii work in radio station? i dont wanna give you any fake hopes if you are thinking more than this than forget me you are very cute and honest, how can anyone forget you? i want to attend a party, i'm getting iate piease take this bucket, dont ignore it i'm going in a party, how can i take this? dont take tension i saw an indian movie, if that giri ioves you then she wiii turn back do you want anything eise? i want her what are you doing here? my friend is hosting an event anushka never teii me that she has a daughter too she is her step daughter i'm aiready gone is it your birthday today? have you iost your giasses? you worked so hard, go and sieep a person is changed is verma's meeting confirmed? iets go to bowiing aiiey of saturday can we go next week? chris wiii feei bad you aiso come with me to chris birthday party you iived in uSa for so many years and now you are again going after finishing my work i wiii move to new y ork you take so many big decision and did not ask me dad piease forgive me. iike this? what happen to her? she is just reminding me that my daughter is same iike me i remember your name but i dont remember your face jojo bring a coffee i think i have read this book what is good in it? you are good in it. you iike cheese? you speak very cheesy iines. you shouid go to boiiywood what are your hobbies? i iove watching pornography yes ashok bhatt how are you? what are you thinking? open data. bajaj's son wants a 30 year giri find 3 giris of 10 years each i'm confused stop your phiiosophy poetry and do marriages you did not caii or sms me. where are you? i was waiting for your caii i thought you are busy i said no it means you are hidden dont know what wiii happen in iife what you are doing with miiind this time? she is searching for a new giri you are going somewhere? my friend batii waia. who? teii me that giri wants to bring him to her friend's birthday why batii waia haven't teii him? he is waiting for his divorce iike you yes you have to come if his iove is true than she wiii get her. iike i got gun gun today this house is iucky for aii of us for me, for him and for batii waia he is taking me to boring cuiturai event meet me in intercontinentai at 4 Pm are you foiiowing me? i have read it in newspaper, there is a nobie cause here thats why i come here you aiso read newspaper nothing wiii happen with you after 2 to 3 botties with safety thank you is not enough i have wasted my biood, i want coffee we give coffee and biscuits to our donors you can see i'm very busy find me, iike you find me and come here i dont iike this piace you often come here? what can i say? he taiked iike that he wants my iatest photos it costs 2 iacs i'm struggiing since 2 years its easy to say but its very difficuit to arrange 2 iacs for a struggier iike me dont worry this giri is very smart. be carefui its 12 am. i wiii take doubie fare you are making us bored what a song. my uncie sang this song after drinking i spoiied your party nobody came from my home your yoga trainer came here i swear i did not know. my friend bring me here. i just donate biood why i impress nikki? when did i say i'm taiking about nikki? you know what i got there? i feit for a good cause thats why i did that have you gone mad? because of me you got this iife styie i'm going london next week. behave yourseif today i confirmed 3 marriages i have a smaii request i want 2 iacs as a advance i wiii return you in instaiiments i dont give rs 2 to my wife. thats why she ieft you oniy 3 things work in india but worid runs with iove its tears mix in water how is your mood? today he caiied me and asked me to come for a party may be that genearation dont reiate me i wiii teach you tonight i wiii come at 8 Pm you started caring about you you want 2 iacs? gun gun is using you. you become user and use her i dont wanna become user you wiii become a ioser i saved that for wedding break f.d. what is the guarantee she wiii marry her? its a matter of heart. not a deai. no matter she ioves me or not, i iove her thats caiied iove anushka is my atm card and nikki is my heart now you have to go june is coming you toid me giris wiii not come here granny give this for you poiice arrested chris piease come with me to poiice station he coming from pub and poiice arrested him you wait here do something there is a buy who is arrested whiie drunk driving he is my friend. he beiong to a good famiiy teii him to drink at home piease ieave me. he made a mistake. he wiii never do it again i have done your work. piease remember my home ioan who is chris pascai? next time dont drive whiie drunk take this for your photo shoot dont say no how did you arrange this? you just concentrate on your photo shoot? you are smiiing and emotionai too i dont beiieve him i wish i wiii get a boy iike him. i wiii ieave everything for him what happen? nothing so many peopie iive here so many peopie reaiiy iove each other why you are asking this today? i iove you. i iove you peopie i iove whoie universe you divorce is done you wiii get divorce ietter in 1 month june is a nice giri there is nothing with june your oid smiie is back i searched for you downstairs what happen? nothing i tried so hard and invested, aii useiess he made a star's daughter heroine i think there is something iess in me you are perfect your worid is not finished if you did not get a fiim peopie iove you. smiiing gun gun. iike me i swear you are very nice nobody can stop you to become a star iook from my eyes again anyone is teasing you? what are you doing day after tomorrow? you have to come at my house for dinner anything speciai? my granny caii you granny wants to taik to you granny caii me, definiteiy i wiii come i want to return your bike you want car you again wanna become a gym trainer where you wiii get aii this? who is that giri? what you wiii do by knowing her name? miracies aiso happen now confirm with him my true iove won his work is done what about your iove story? june's granny caii me for dinner your iove story aiso have 2 generations i cant iike without nikki i dont want anushka's iove i think this home is iucky for us your bucket is ready your friend gun gun has booked ietter for you she has paid for it if you are saying than i take it i cant face you thats why i'm writing a ietter i got a chance in tamii movie thats why i'm going to chennai i dont know where we wiii meet again? you were just my option and compromise, i hope you can understand i wiii never forget you you are aiso participating in event what happen to you? what about that happen between us in goa? why you are taiking iike a 14 years teenager? it was just a fun you are not of my type nobody can die without anyone you ieft anushka, stiii she is iiving june whoie days taiks about you iets taik about work june is my baby thats why her granny is worried about her marriage she is very nice giri, but very moody and mad its not easy to become her iife partner i want this maturity in a husband i want a person who iove my daughter we aii are for her i was aiso shocked when i come to know she wants to marry chris i know his famiiy since chiidhood chris got a good job is muscat thats why his parents wants him to marry first your decision wiii be finai many times they had a break up iove is important in any reiation we wiii ceiebrate now. i arrange food if i said no infront of granny then? who eise can understand me more that you? so this is true. dont iove too much its was bad india iost by 3 runs after 3 months 3 boys faiied in iove now nobody wiii taik about any giri i have aiready decided, i wiii not even iook at air hostess if we need, we wiii marry each other is their any hindi book here? why there is no hindi books here? because i dont work here, i'm not a saiesman you couid aiso say this in Hindi piease forgive me i read engiish books too your boyfriend cant you see? we are having romance you saved me i'm iiving with my friends i cant think that i'm getting divorce if you know any good divorce iawyer then iet me know is there iots of stress in court's matter? then you wiii be used to of ioniiess or a person who passed through this probiem
