 

                        London. The greatest city in the world. For22 years, l've lived here Every morning l take a walk down this street Every morning, the street asks me my name... Chaudhary Baldev Singh? Who are you? Where are you from? Why are you here? Do l have a reply? After half a lifetime spent here... this land still remains alien to me; and l to it No one here knows me. None except these doves. Because they're like me Neither do they belong to a country. Just drop down where you find food Have your fill, then fly on When shall l fly? l don't know. Of necessity, my wings are clipped l'm shackled to my bread. But someday l'll surely go... to my land. To my Punjab ''When the koels sing in spring, it's time again for memories'' ''lt's time again for swinging underthe boughs'' ''Come home o'wanderer, your heart beckons'' ''The mute soil doesn't read your letters'' ''Come, kiss your soil, bring back the earth to life'' ''Yes, you have your dreams; but we are yours too, your kin'' ''You are so forgetful, but we miss you so...'' ''Come home o'wanderer, your land beckons'' Glory to The Goddess Yes Lajjo, l'm here safe and sound. . Good Why is my little one giggling away? . Mom! Every day for20 years... Dad has been walking down the very same street... to his very same destination. Yet every day, you call him up... just to ask him, ''Have you reached?'' . You won't understand Just assume it's a habit. . Habit left unchanged... tends to become necessity.like. . Philosophy, again? You're twelve Talk like a 12.year old! Why all this big talk? There's no childhood, no adulthood. One is as grown.up as one feels All right! l lose! Now go to school, chew yourteacher's brains, okay? Why d'you forget the almonds everyday? What to do? Just assume it's habit Will you get out? ''This is the first time it's happening in 18 years'' ''Some stranger l have never seen, comes to my mind'' That's my diary! . So what...? Only l can read it. . That was so funny Let me read some more. . No way! This is a private diary. Why hide anything from me? When a girl is grown up... her mother becomes her friend. Show that to me You won't tell anyone, will you? . Never All right. l'll read. You listen. . very well ''This is the first time it's happening in 18 years'' ''Some stranger l have never seen, comes to my mind...'' ''shadow.like before my eyes'' ''Someone raps on my heart'' ''Deep eyes want me to give myself up'' ''When l look at my hands, there l see a face etched'' ''A silken breath brushes my cheeks'' ''My hair still smells of the odour on his hands'' ''Yes, it's happening for the first time in 18 years'' ''l've never seen this stranger who comes to my mind'' Simi, you've begun writing Quite well,... and the boy seems lively. Who's he? Ma, l've yet to set my eyes on him So there's no one? l was wondering. One doesn't find such boys nowadays And you dream of someone you haven't even seen! quite mad No Ma. This is no dream l may not have met him, seen him. But he's there. Out there, somewhere ''The one who comes in my dreams...'' ''the one who teases me...'' ''just ask him to face me, once'' ''What's he like? Who is he? Who knows where is the one...'' ''my lips will say yes to?'' ''ls he someone l know? ls he a stranger?'' ''ls he for real, or just a legend?'' ''He stares at me, from far, far away'' ''Tell him not to rob me of my sleep'' ''The one who comes in my dreams...'' ''the one who teases me...'' ''just ask him to face me, once'' ''Some kind of spell is overcoming me'' ''Oh what do l do? My heart yearns so'' ''My heart tells me it's mad for you. Then why do you keep hiding from me?'' ''He makes me blossom, it's all his fault'' ''Tell him, l'm asking forthe Moon'' ''The one who comes in my dreams...'' ''the one who teases me...'' ''just ask him to face me, once'' raj! This partying all night! Party all night and you don't sleep And how do you get up in the morning? Late for graduation! Hurry! ls it a holiday...? What raj...? Late for your graduation? What to do? Last night... What's wrong with him? Has he had one too many beers? l hear someone has failed. The Dean has decided... to announce his name in public You've made Dharamveer Malhotra stand an inch and a half taller in his shoes! l don't think you heard it right. . l knew, someday you'd make me proud! And not only me, the whole dynasty is proud of you! Look, they smile at you My great grandfather Diwan Brijnath neverwent to school His son, my grandfather Diwan Dwarkanath failed... his fourth standard examinations. My father, your grandfather... Diwan Pushkarnath, failed his eighth standard examinations And l, your father, failed to matriculate Not having an education, failing, are family traditions. l'm happy... that you have kept tradition alive, and indeed you're two steps ahead We failed back home in lndia. You came to London and failed! Are you really happy? . Glad Education is all useless. Filling your head with books... won't fill your pockets Look at me. runaway peasant.boy from Bhatinda.turned millionaire in London So, whatever happens is forthe good. Join my offices from tomorrow Offices? From tomorrow? . Today, if you wish l can't attend office now. . Why not? Pops, you're a man of experience You know what amount of hard work it takes to fail. And l'm tired, Pops l want a little rest, you know, like a long European holiday Long European holiday? How long? . Month or month and a half Will you hold this for me? And turn around Moron! Did l bring you up to see this day? No, don't drop that Are you all right, Pops? Pops, you're right. l ought to take care of your business You've become so old. . You tell your fatherthat? Pops, l've decided against Europe. l'm joining the offices from tomorrow ln this house, only your father decides. You're going to Europe No. l've had enough of a good time. My years of youth are over for me Never say your youth is over. All my life l've slogged to give you whatever l couldn't do When youth came and went, l never got to know But l wasn't sad, because l knew that my son will have my years lf you think you've had enough of a good time... if you think the years of youth are over for you, well no problem Just go and live my years for me Ajit's letter? Lajjo! Look, what's here Letter! From my friend From Ajit Just smell it, lady! The fragrance of Punjab! The flavour of mustard curry on leavened maiZe bread Those long tailed shirts, the short knickers ''My dear friend Baldev, We're fine here'' ''We hope to God that you, yourwife and the children are well too'' ''You will be pleased to hearthat my son has graduated in arts'' ''He has joined my business. By God's grace, it's time now... for us to let our childhood friendship mature into a relationship Let's make good the promise we made to each other20 years ago. l hope... you will come here at the soonest for Simran's wedding to kuljit read on She's shy! See Lajjo? That's our etiQuette, our culture My daughter is still so shamefaced. l'm not a failure ln the heart of London, l've kept lndia alive! Still staring? Lajjo, your daughter's wedding! Celebrate it with sweets Chutki! l'm so happy today Can l say one thing? . Say fourthings lt'd be betterto ask Simran once. . What are you saying? Ever since she was a baby, she has known that she is engaged to kuljit That she knows. But 20 years... . Don't you worry! Simran is going to be so happy,... you'll pray that she never gets the evil eye! l'll write to Ajit right away. God! At last, comes the day Simran, what are you doing? l had forgotten, Ma. l haven't even the right to dream No my child, of course you may dream But don't expect them to come true And who know, kuljit might be the man of your dreams l don't care. l've bought yourtickets. You're coming to Europe with me . l can't Babuji won't let me go to college alone. Will he let me go away... touring Europe for a month? l have lots of work here. . You've known me for years Can't you make up an excuse? An excuse, l can find. But l don't feel like lying to Babuji You must come. Dolly and Payal are coming too Let me talk to Ma tonight Europe? . Yes With friends? . Yes For a month? . Yes Chutki, call the doctor. Tell him that our Simran has gone stark mad Will you at least take a look? . Check out your brains first You talk of travelling by Eurail? lf he hears, he'll bring the roof down A lone girl mustn't travel like this. . Mom, l'm not going to be alone My friends are going to be with me. . No good arguing with me l'm not going to object. But you will need his permission Ask him when he's home God, please keep Babuji in a nice mood lt's just beer. lt's overthere. . l told you. The store is shut Get out Got the beer? . Didn't find any Can't even do such a simple job? . That was an angry man l'll get it. . You won't Can l have an Aspirin? . The store is shut My head is about to crack up! lt's sinusitis lf l can't find an Aspirin, l'll faint. All the other stores are shut Please let me have one Aspirin. One Hindustani ought to help another Glory to The Goddess. . Here you are l'm feeling bad about forcing you to open your store for a small medicine l'd like to buy some otherthings from you l'll pick up some beer. Not for myself. My friends out there, they drink Put it down. . Why sir? Are you trying to con me? You aren't getting anything. Put it down You're getting worked up over nothing. This is for your profit Will you put it down? . Not that umbrella Here you are. A pound eXTra? No two. keep it, okay? Shameless! You call yourself a Hindustani? You give lndia a bad name You're a liar and insolent! Get out of here l'm off. l'll keep this rev up! Babuji What is the matter? You're late. . Bloody shameless scoundrel They call themselves Hindustani! Blot on lndia! Ought to drown themselves rascals! No shame, no decency. How to respect their elders... they don't even know. . Have you had a fight? Scum! He came for beer. l told him the store is shut. He took it perforce He even broke the statue of The Goddess! Bloody half.caste! l say Lajjo, thank God that you and your daughters... haven't been marred by this Britishness! Else, you would've been nowhere! Damn these scoundrels! Set sail in stormy waters, and you're in danger of sinking You were so little when we brought you here. And now... They said that a grown.up daughter is a burden on a man But a daughter like you, makes a father's chest swell with pride! You're my good girl Will you give something if l ask you? . Whatever you wish l want to take a look at Europe Eurail is offering a month's tour. All my friends are going Please don't be cross. l have never disobeyed you, Babuji l'll be going away to a land l have never seen The man l'm going to marry is a complete stranger. But... l have no complaints. You must've considered it in my best interests But l won't get a chance like this ever again. l don't even know whether l'll ever come back,... whether l will have these friends later on Besides, it's only for a month. ln a month, l will have lived a lifetime Forthe sake of my happiness, won't you let me have a month of my life? Please Babuji, give me one month Go. Live it up My baby Where's Simran? Where might she be? . Has she slipped in the loo? l told you to wake up raj Did you? No Open sesame Do you have the keys to this? Anybody home? No one at home Haven't l seen you somewhere? At robbie's party, no? l don't go to parties. . Great! Nor do l, ever Your eyes... What's wrong with my eyes? reminds me of someone. . Of whom? My grandmother. Like you, her eyes too had hues of yellows and blues keep reading. l only wanted to find out how you read upside.down This is the limit! Simran, you're here? l heard you've missed the train. . No, l took it l was afraid... . By the way, what's your name? Sheena Here l am. Shall we...? . Take it easy Pump it up . lt's pumped. Look lt's nothing. . raj, where have you been? As usual. Caught up with a girl Girl...? . l help her onto the train And she falls for me. . What...? He bored me. He had me all alone, and he began flirting Same old hat.... haven't l seen you before? She sidled up to me. . What? l was scared! Only so much space, and there she was with me Then? . Then what? She was lost in my eyes He was after my eyes. Wouldn't shut up. Boys these days... These girls! l just managed to come out unscathed What's that? . lnvitation to a party l told you. lt'll be a bore. . You prophesied a train crash And then we'd all be charred alive after supper in a dinner.hall fire Look, boys. . Where...? He's the one Where have we landed? Was this your idea? us? Orthe waiters? . For me. rocky shut yourtrap Why did you have to call him? You know Sheena, haven't l seen you before? Me? really? Where? . At robbie's party? You might've. l go to so many parties You know Sheena... . What? Your eyes remind me of someone. . My eyes? really? Whom? My grandmother ls she singing or crying? And l can play better piano You know how to play the piano? l was born on a piano. Been playing the piano ever since l was a baby You know, l've magic in my fingers. No soonerthan l touch the piano... it starts playing lsn't that voice familiar? Was this necessary? Doesn't the magic in your fingers make pianos start playing? ''Stop, my wild lover'' ''l've got to ask you something'' ''What are you, girl or magic?'' ''What are you, fragrance or poison?'' ''Come, let me touch you'' ''Wait, my wild love'' ''l've got to ask you something'' ''Look at me, smiling, unknowing'' ''l'm waiting for you, holding my heart'' ''She looks subdued'' ''But she has lots to say'' ''lf you say yes, l have something to say'' ''Wait, my wild love'' ''l've got to ask you something'' ''What are you, girl or magic?'' ''What are you, fragrance or poison?'' ''You aren't the only pretty woman around'' ''Why are you the only one who's cross?'' ''The one l've fallen for, is someone else'' ''lf she says yes, l'll take her in my arms'' ''Wait, my wild love'' ''l've got to ask you something'' ''What are you, girl or magic?'' ''What are you, fragrance or poison?'' ''Come, let me touch you'' About last night, l'm ashamed l misbehaved with you l wanted to tell you something else What...? . This run First come, first served Hurry! The train is about to leave. . Where did l keep my money? One minute, l don't know how to count this currency... lots of small change Can you tell me one, two's, eighths...? Stop Train's gone? The train is gone! Don't cry, Senorita But you just stopped crying lt's raining! Don't cry, please! l'm with you, l'm here! Look Okay, l'm gone... gone! Here's your bell The neXT train is very late. To catch up with the train... at zurich tomorrow morning, we can eithertake a bus or hire a car What would be your pleasure? Bus or car? Where's she? Ever since you met me, you've been harassing me What are you saying? . All along the trip... you've been chewing my brains. . l...? Something's always the problem with you. Today, l've missed... the train, thanks to you. . To me...? l wish to make it to zurich on time. So you go yourway, l'll go mine Strange! We're fellow.travellers, on the same destination, same train Why split up? Besides, a man like me ought to stay with a girl like you Wrong! A girl like me doesn't need a guy like you. Stop pursuing me l'll sew it up. l have a thread and needle. l'll buy you a new dress What have you got yourself into? l told you not to pursue me! Who do you think you are? What do you think of yourself? l wasn't pursuing you And l don't fancy touching you. Thank your stars l came in the nick of time Else, you would've been in jail. l help her, and she says this Hey, take her away What did you say? l got carried away Never mind Senorita, never mind. ln big places, such small things happen What's about this Senorita? . My first girl friend was from Spain Why did you dump her? . She hated lndians You like lndians, don't you? . When do we reach zurich? What's in zurich? This is the real Europe So beautiful, so pretty. Sometimes, l fear, it might become dirty Here forthe first time? . Yes Will you drive faster? . What's the hurry Senorita? Train leaves zurich at 11:30 tomorrow. We have a whole night and half a day We'll be there on time. . Still, if we could... What had to happen, has happened. Now you're with me Nothing can go wrong Europe is best done on foot Just the four of us. Chutki is way ahead of her years And Ma's more a friend than a mother. So l never felt the need for a friend You can't live the rest of your life with friends. Sometime orthe other... you will need someone who will walk by you all your life Can't walk anymore. l'm tired. . Do l pick you up in my arms? l can't afford a hotel. Let's try that house. We might find lodgings Come. Arrangements forthe night is done Which is your room? Situation is somewhat like this. There's only one room And we spend the night in the same room? You presume somewhat like that? How compelling! . Not Quite so compelling l'm not staying here one minute. . You take the bed. l'll take the sofa No problems. . No way. l'm leaving l'm not joking. l'm going away. . And l'll have the bed all to myself? So nice... so romantic! And these curtains... so nice! And the view! No horses? lt's so warm in here There! You have a fire going Granted. You have a great sense of choice You couldn't find a better place to spend the night, right? We were getting a nice room But you'd rather spend the night with me in the stables. Not in the room Eat . l'm not hungry All right. Don't eat. How am l bothered? Eat it l told you. l'm not hungry. Come on now. Eat What did you say? l got carried away Never mind. ln big places, such small things happen You were right, Senorita. The spirit of adventure in this barn... you could never enjoy in that room. . But how do we get to zurich? No, not zurich. Tomorrow evening, we entrain at Berne. Tomorrow morning... we take the first bus at eight. l've found out everything Now, nothing can go wrong What's that? . Life Aren't you ashamed to drink in the presence of a lady? Betterthan dying before the lady! lf you wish to live on... you too should have a bit, Senorita. . Don't you dare come near me All right, don't l'll see you tomorrow morning if you're still alive. until then, goodnight ''May l have a jig? . Oh no!'' ''May l try a pirouette? . Oh no!'' ''How about a kiss? . Goodness! No!'' ''Let me fly with the wind'' ''God! Help me'' ''The chill in the breeZe sets my body afire'' ''l feel like...'' ''making love to you'' ''This never happened before'' ''l've taken my first step'' ''Let me fly with the wind'' ''God! Help me'' ''May l have a jig? . Oh no!'' ''May l try a pirouette?'' . Oh no!'' ''Give me a kiss? . Goodness! No!'' ''Where do you think you're going, my darling, my love...?'' ''You're a pretty girl. l'm a handsome young man'' ''Come into my embrace'' ''Let me hold you in my eyes'' ''Oh, l'm drunk'' ''God! Help me'' ''May l have a jig? . Oh no!'' ''May l try a pirouette?'' . Oh no!'' ''Give me a kiss? . Goodness! No!'' ''Oh, l'm ecstatic'' ''God! Help me'' up in the mornings, you look even prettier How did l get here? With me. Last night l don't think you've ever had a drink before And you had one too many Have this What happened last night? What happened last night, was bound to happen But l didn't imagine it'd happen this way Tell me the truth, raj! What happened last night? How do l answer this Question, Simran? Look, look into my eyes. Aren't my eyes telling the truth? No! This could never have happened This could never have happened. . That's exactly what happened, Simran Who can stop what is to happen? You're lying! You're lying, aren't you? No Simran. . Please tell me you're lying Granted! l'm lying, my eyes are lying. But are these love.bites lying? Speak Tell me Simran! Are these yours? Or someone else's? Don't cry! l was just joking Those aren't real! Look! l used your lipstick You only had one too many, and you were dripping wet l had no options. l had to bring you here. l swear, l'm just joking You were all alone on the bed. l slept out there. l'm just joking! l swear Don't cry, don't l know what you think of me. You think l'm a wastrel l'm not scum, Simran. l'm Hindustani And l know what honour means forthe Hindustani woman Not even in my dreams can l imagine doing that to you. Trust me, Simran l'm saying the truth. Last night, nothing happened. Just a joke Please, never joke about that. You don't know what l would've done Please, no jokes like that l promise neverto crack a joke like that Get changed. Fast. We got to catch the bus May l have my shirt back? Fifteen minutes before the bus leaves. You want to eat something? No, l'm not hungry Come on, let's take a look inside. . Churches aren't worth a look l'm not going Go on. Take a look What? . Hurry up. We'll miss the bus Shall we? . Why not leave aftertea? What did you ask for? . You aren't supposed to speak of it Then you must be sure about being given what you've asked for Whatever one seeks with a pure heart, one is surely given Go on. l'll be back in a minute. . What happened? Go on. l'll join you l'm raj l'm sorry, l don't know how to pray. But l want nothing for myself But that girl Simran, she's nice. very good at heart Give herwhatever she asked for Where have you been? ln the church? Half a teaspoon of sugar, one spoon of milk, bit of cream. Your coffee You want a postcard to send home? . Postcard? For home? lf that postcard reaches home, my Pop will give me up for dead When were you last serious? . Till now, never lf ever, it'll happen only once. . When? When l'm in love A boy like you was never in love? . l've had many affairs But l was never in love, Senorita. Never found one What kind of girl are you looking for? Want me to tell you? The moment l look at her... all my heart's desires, all my dreams will come alive Has never happened. But now l hear a voice, behind the clouds, calling She's a stranger, a face l've never seen before. When will the clouds part? Has it never happened with you? . No No stranger ever invaded your dreams? No place for strangers in my dreams l am engaged to marry Engaged to marry? . Yes Where's the fiance? ln London? . No, in lndia Looks...? Don't know. Never seen him You've never seen the man you're going to marry? Not necessary. My father has seen him. His friend's son You'll spend your life with someone you've never met? A complete stranger? That's how it happens with us. . And you're happy with this decision? The train is here Lovely photographs. Send me a set of copies. And yourwedding photos too Won't you be there at my wedding? . Who's going to travel so far? Sheena, you must! .Just joking. Of course, l'll come l got to take a look at your groom. Who knows what idiot she's marrying? You dropped this What happened? Why are you staring like that? l have something to tell you Simran Go on l'm in love with you Just look at your face You thought l was saying the truth? Strange Simran! You've known me for so long,... and you still can't make me out? remember? l've never been serious All this love etc. is beyond me. Still haven't been able to make out... how some men spend a lifetime with one girl! lt's a world full of pretty women Someone has beautiful eyes, someone has good lips, someone has nice hair... You boys are all the same. . But you're one up on all of us You're about to spend a lifetime with someone you haven't even seen That must be true love Forget it. Think for a moment, what if you're in love with someone? l mean, imagine you're in love with someone you've met on this trip... why someone? Say you're in love with me, and l'm in love with you too Then what will you do? Will you go back to marry that stranger? Or, will you have the courage to have an affairwith me? What will you do? l don't want to miss the train again. . l want to miss it again and again What...? . Nothing lf she's in love with me, she's going to turn around Turn Turn Back in London. How a month passed by, l didn't even notice raj, you haven't given me your address. l'll send you my wedding invitation You'll come, won't you? No, l won't come ''What's come over...'' ''my heart?'' ''Have l lost it?'' ''What's come over my heart?'' ''Where have l lost it?'' ''You're in love, my love'' ''Try refusing a million times, but you're in love'' ''You're in love, my love'' ''Try refusing a million times, but you're in love'' ''Darling, this is love'' ''You're in love, my love'' ''Try refusing a million times, but you're in love'' ''Darling, this is love'' ''You didn't care to turn around,...'' ''but l was still waiting'' ''By the time l wanted to stop you,...'' ''you were too far away'' ''What happened? . l don't even know'' ''Why is my heart... . ln love...?'' ''You're in love, my love'' ''Try refusing a million times, but you're in love'' ''You're in love, my love'' ''Try refusing a million times, but you're in love'' ''Darling, this is love'' ''Oh time! Stop, tarry,...'' ''go backwards'' ''l've left myself behind...'' ''at the crossroads of life'' ''Where am l...? . Where are you?'' ''What is this...? . Magic'' ''You're in love, my love'' ''Try refusing a million times, ''You're in love, my love'' ''Try refusing a million times, but you're in love'' ''Darling, this is love'' ''What's come over...'' ''my heart?'' ''My heart was with me always'' ''Have l lost it?'' ''l've lost it'' Ma, you rememberthe dream l wrote about in my diary? That face l imagined holding in my hands? The one, l wanted to face l've found him What...? What are you saying, Simi? . Yes Ma. When l was leaving... l was clear about what l was getting out of life For a month, l wanted to be as happy as l could. Then l'd come back... and go away to my country to spend a lifetime with a stranger l had come to a compromise with my destiny, Ma. But little did l know... this was in store for me. Like a storm he came... and he swept me off like a fallen leaf Love's like this, like that, l had read, l had heard But l never understood. When, forthe first time, he offered me his hand... l still didn't understand. l was with him for so long... still l didn't understand anything. But today, when we were parting... forthe first time l felt that afterthis moment... l'm not going to see him ever again. l kept looking back. He was going away l wanted to stop him, l wanted to say something, l wanted to hear something But he didn't stop. l understood. This is what love is like And to him, l've given all my dreams. l don't even know whether he loves me All l know is that for me, he's life. l can never be anyone else's, Ma You're up? Simi and l have been talking She's back after so long. l even lost track of time l told you, not to betray my trust l took a promise from you. And you've deceived me? No Babuji... . Listen, first ask her l don't want to listen to anything! Pack. Tomorrow morning, we leave for lndia For good Let her cry She has writ it on her own destiny She will have to learn for herself how to get over it. Let her cry What's her name? . Simran What girl, Pops? The one whose face you see in the moon. l'm not one of them... who will go craZy about a girl. . Yes, l forgot! Some have good lips, some have beautiful eyes... Lives where? . Who, Pops? This... Simran Don't know . How is she? very lovable Then what's the problem? Problem is, she's about to marry. . How about stopping the wedding? ln yourtimes, it was different. Times have changed Love is still called ''love''. That has never changed, norwill it ever change She's going to be someone else's. . The bride goes to the man... who brings her home. l didn't sire you to play that fiddle. We aren't... those who stare at the moon. You reach out to the moon,... you bring her home. Go And come home only with your bride. Get it? Gone. The daughter is getting married. They've sold out and moved to Punjab l'm coming, Simran l'm coming ''When the girls go to the riverbank, you'll heartheir anklets chime'' ''When the ripe mustard sways in the farms...'' ''you'll know a year has come to pass'' ''Come today, come with a smile, bring me a song, l've been waiting...'' ''forthe whistle of the chugging train'' ''Come home o'wanderer, your mate beckons'' ''Come home o'wanderer'' ''Your land beckons'' Bless me, Ma.ji No Ma.ji Son, 20 years l've held back these tears Today, they won't stop, son. Not today Simran, my child My baby doll How have you been? . l haven't changed a bit! You're the bride's aunt now! Time to find a good groom for yourself Lajjo, l've been ready all these years! But in this village... there isn't one who's a match for me. So what do l do? For me, l think... it'll have to be a foreigner! . You haven't changed a bit Not a bit! You did keep us waiting. Anyway, better late than never Wife, will you excuse us a moment? . Get lost Come on. Baldev, who's this? Go on... You don't know? My daughter Preeti kuljit's sister. . May you live long Wonderful, isn't it? ln 20 years, the whole generation has come of age She's beautiful. . Father's daughter, right? Get lost Where's kuljit? . Yes, where's kuljit? Bhaiyya (Brother) is out for a hunt. He should be back soon My respects. . May you live long, son My respects. . May you live long, son That's a strong lad from Punjab. . Whose son is he anyway? Get lost Come, breakfast is ready. . Yes hurry. l'm famished Come on kids For you, for you and for you You must take me out tomorrow morning. Sure Didi (Sister) kids, Grannie wants everyone downstairs You know Simi, when l was a kid, my fatherwould tell me... there's no difference between man and woman. All have eQual rights All my childhood, l lived believing it's true. But as l grew up... l realised what a lie that is l wasn't given an education, because it was more important... that my brothers be educated. That was my first sacrifice Then, at every step, sometimes as daughter, sometimes as sister... sometimes as wife... l went on sacrificing my own happiness But once you were born... when l held you in my hands forthe first time... l made a promise, neverto let happen to my daughter, what happened to me No more sacrifices at every step as daughter, as sister, as wife So what if she's a girl? She'd live her life as she wishes She'd have her share of happiness. But l was wrong, Simran l had even forgotten that a woman hasn't even the right to make promises She is born to be sacrificed for their men. Fortheirwomen... men will never make sacrifices, norwill they ever make sacrifices Therefore l, your mother, come to take from you, your own happiness Forget him, my child. Forget. Because your fatherwon't care for yourtears Forthe happiness of everyone,.... l beg of you. Forget him, my child You're right, Ma So naive of me. l don't even know whether he loves me And after all, Babuji is my father. He has always cared for my happiness Forthe sake of his happiness, can l not make this little sacrifice? Go Ma, go and tell Babuji that l'm ready forthe wedding He won't have any problems from my end Your girl is beautiful Not the girl. kuljit is plain lucky And my name is rajeshwari. Miss rajeshwari Singh lf the little one is like this, what will the older one be like? l'll tell you, afterthe wedding Listen The day aftertomorrow is the engagement The wedding is on the 25th Sweets l'm worried about something l don't know why l see this sadness in Simran's eyes. Even her smile is hesitant. ls everything all right? lt's nothing, Ma lt's a new place, it's a change. ln a few days, she'll adjust Don't worry for nothing Here you are, kheer Simran hasn't forgotten him yet? . She has agreed to get married By and by she will forget everything. . lf she remembers, she'll regret it ''l saw you, l realised...'' ''what madness love is'' ''When l saw you, l realised...'' ''what madness love is'' ''From here, where to?'' ''Just let me die in your arms'' ''My eyes... dream of you'' ''My heart holds memories of you'' ''Nothing's mine. lt's all yours'' ''My life, my breath is yours'' ''When l weep for you, yourtears...'' ''my sorrows begin to smile'' ''l saw you, l realised...'' ''what madness love is'' ''From here, where to?'' ''Just let me die in your arms'' ''l don't feel like anything'' ''What do l say, what do l do?'' ''ln front of me... just keep sitting'' ''Just let me look at you'' ''You called out to me, and look, here l am'' ''What greaterthan the promise to love?'' ''l saw you, l realised...'' ''what madness love is'' ''l saw you, l realised...'' ''what madness love is'' ''From here, where to?'' ''Just let me die in your arms'' Take me away from here, raj. Take me away from here! What...? . You don't know... what's going on in there! Day aftertomorrow is the engagement The wedding is after a fortnight. All arrangements are in place Babuji gave his word to his friend. And he lives by his word He can do anything, but he can't go back on his word We have to run from here. We must! . No Simran. l'm not eloping l haven't come here to steal you. l might have been born in England But l am Hindustani. l've come here to take you as my bride. l'll take you only when your Babuji gives me your hand You don't know my Babuji! We have to get away from here, raj. Please raj, take me away from here Do you love me? . More than anyone else Do you trust me? . More than l trust myself Then listen carefully to what l'm going to say. From now on... we're strangers. l don't know you and you don't know me. Go back Let things happen as they're happening. Leave the rest to me What l'm upto is daunting. But l have complete faith in our love. But alone...l cannot tread upon this path. You will have to be my strength You must co.operate. Tell me, will you stand by me? remember one more thing. l'm here only for your sake. Till l have you for lifetime's sakes, l am not leaving Listen, what's the name of the one you're marrying? kuljit Singh Help! Anybody here? Somebody, help me! Where's everyone? Help! Anybody around? Had raj not arrived in the nick of time, l would've been the prey raj, l'm sold out! . What are you saying? . Where are you from? l've never seen you before . l'm from London Our guest from London! What have you come here for? . To achieve something To achieve what? Do tell us Land... land. . Land...? Yes, if l could find a good stretch of land, l want to set up a factory Factory, making what? . Beer Tell me something, kuljit. Will 8.10 million pounds... be enough to set up a factory? What happened? .8.10 million pounds? Too less? l can get more. . No! That's a lot. Enough God is great! He makes us meet. We'll get along fine together You want to set up a factory? As good as done Done, my man By the way raj... where are you staying? . You see, l don't know anyone around So l'm putting up at the Circuit House. Strange! Now you know me l have a palatial house! And you'll stay at the circuit house? No way! Binda, go and get his luggage from the circuit house. Drop it home What are you doing, kuljit? . Not a word You've saved my life, saved kuljit! Can't l do as much for you? l know, you're from London. Here in Punjab, we're lions You're going to enjoy yourselves. . Well, if you're forcing me... as you wish. . That's like it! What about babes? We'll have a blast! You haven't gone yet? Go on Binda, hurry up. Get a Black Label for raj l'm going to have a scotch with raj Show me a cigarette, man. Strange! The lightertoo You have done us a great favour in saving kuljit's life No, it was my duty. . May you live long, son Preeti, give raj some sweets Enough you tell me before? l was about to... . raj! My son! The sweets. . l have some Let me feed you. That's like it! You want to set up a factory, no? We'll set it up for you. . What was l telling you? Get dressed fast. We're going to Baldev's for lunch Who's Baldev? . He's my friend, man! His daughter is marrying my kuljit What am l going to do overthere? . That's true. What will he do there? But if you insist, l'll come along. . That's like it! Baldev is a bit British. He'll mind it if we're late Let's make it on time. . That's like it! You get dressed fast. We're always getting late because of you kuljit, l have something to tell you. . Don't worry about the factory l have... l'll take all of it Compliments My compliments Listen... . l...? How did the shopkeeper get here? l've seen you somewhere before. . Not me. l never step out of the house ln London...? . But l haven't been beyond Ludhiana Have you met my friend raj? He has just arrived from London What are you saying? . Balli, the doctor... raj is the one who saved kuljit's life yesterday You know who this is? The oldest of my friends. My kinsman to.be What are you staring at? Touch his feet My respects Hurry! The doctor has been asking for you for ages This doctor is a wonderful fellow. Come on, man Old foggie has Quite a memory. . What happened? Nothing. This is great! Lovely house! . l told you This is raj. My friend. He has come from London This is Simran Namaste, Simran.ji Were it not for him yesterday, you and l wouldn't be here together What a thing to say... very glad to meet you, Ms rajeshwari What is this? . A little gift. For a little bride Mr raj, folks l like can call me Chutki And folks who like me, call me raj. Only raj Namaste, Simran.ji. . Namaste Come on now This is raj, my British friend The one l told you about. . My respects May you live long, son. . Coming Have some. . Thanks Ma.ji (Mother) Let me do the rest for you. . No, you belong to the groomspeople You're our guest. . How strange of you A moment ago you called me your son. The neXT moment, you disown me? Allow me Just try this lassi. l made it with my own hands! Here you are, Aunt Here you are Parjai.ji (Aunt). This is for you, Aunt That's a lovely dress Excuse me... After you Why are you taking all this trouble? We kids can manage. Allow me That's what l've been saying all along. But no one will listen to me l've been given all the work. . That's my point Hey... who are you? . l...? l'm raj raj, who...? . Your son.in.law to.be kuljit is your son.in.law to.be, no? l'm his friend Darling boy! Put the glasses there. . Sure Such a darling! Today l see the best sign! Forthe first time... l'm seeing Simran laughing with such mirth! Give that to me. . l won't True, Ma.ji. Simran looks very cheerful Sweet? Salted? Nothing's happening for raj here! Get ready to leave Son of an Englishman! Get up! Hurry! We're going hunting Look at him Aren't you coming? Get up. l'm sick. l have high fever Caught such a chill last night, l slept in my shoes, you know You're wearing only one shoe. . That's the leg that caught the chill Sorry friend, l just can't go hunting with you You British are so feeble. l'll send medicines for you Make sure you're fine by this evening. We're having fowl for dinner. Don't worry, you'll be fine. Hey kuljit... Come on raj, get started What's this? . keep moving What's all this raj? . Wonderful thing happened today Met a minister on my way. Turns out to be my Daddy's childhood friend He gave me all this. Let me take care of that. Don't tire yourself l'm a lone fellow you know. What use this sugar, rice and wheat for me? So l thought l'd bring it over. There's a wedding in the offing here Could be useful, no? . Maybe so, son But we're the bridespeople. Can't take anything from you Not again. Once and for all, decide what you take me for Either you don't call me a son, or you treat me like a son How do you treat sons? . You don't argue with sons All right. l won't argue. . That's like it Now listen to the real thing, Ma.ji. My mother used to say... one who helps out with a wedding, gets a pretty bride All this, for a pretty bride? . What else? Only lucky ones... find good brides nowadays. . What kind of a bride d'you want? Say, someone like you Don't say that. Give me your blessings. Granted. You'll get a bride you want All right, l'm off. . Will you please open this? lt's going to open Aunt, don't keep looking, don't even think. Just take it Stuff like this is hard to find even in Delhi or Bombay Just wear it and step out, and you'll make the girls stare Don't even ask me about the boys . lt's nice Not special You show me that one. . Okay. Here you are Superb stuff. Just take a look at the borders. On you, resplendent Such bad ones! lf you have something special, show me l have to wear it forthe wedding. . Here you are This is forweddings. lf you aren't pleased, l'm no connoisseur Pure gold thread. On you, looks exotic! Don't talk rot! lt's not that good Not that bad either. l'll keep it Pack it. And put a good price You've worn me out raj, let's have a song from you. . l can't sing Coy like a girl? Sing. . Oh no Grannie... Sing... please l'm in love, why am l afraid? l've loved, l haven't stolen anything Why should l weep secretly? l'll live for love, l'll die for love What else have l to do? . l'm in love, why am l afraid? You've got your aim all wrong Forget it, you can't even sing The loverwill carry his bride away The bridespeople will be left gaping The loverwill carry his bride away What are you doing? Everyone's out there! Let go! On one condition. . What? Give me a kiss Senorita. . Are you craZy? One kiss . Ma might see! Let her see Chutki might see! . Let her see Aunt might come by. . Let her come This Babuji is going to get me killed! What are you wondering Baldev? There's no countermove First time in 20 years, l have you checkmated Good move, indeed. This once l'm checkmated That's check. And mate. . Wonderful! Yes Babuji, l'm wonderful How did he checkmate? No, l'll put it back. . No, let me take a look What happened? You know what's about to happen tomorrow? What? Tomorrow, l'm going to be engaged to kuljit Tomorrow, kuljit will put a ring on this finger You know why the engagement ring is worn on this finger? Because the artery from this finger leads straight to the heart l can't wear anyone else's ring but yours, raj lf you want me to walk up in front of everyone with a ring... and put it on you, l'll do it. No problem All this is a great joke for you, isn't it? What l'm going through... you can never imagine . Look at me Look l feel everything Simran, the way you're pining, your pain, yourtears But why don't you understand? This is just the beginning These people haven't even gotten to know me properly l need more time, Simran. And l need your support l want you to smile. And listen, no son of a gun can take you... away from me, using just a ring. You're mine, only mine Chutki might wake up. Go away Listen Didi... Can l say something? . Go on l don't like this kuljit one bit. Don't marry him lt's very late. Go to sleep Didi, l like the one who was on the roof What did you say? Didi, isn't raj the one you met in Europe? Yes l like him a lot! You marry him. . Don't you worry He's the one l'm marrying Yes Grannie? . Pistachios forthe sherbet Done raj, where are the flowers? . You put them beside the staircase Oh l forgot! Were it not for you, everything would be topsy.turvy That's what l'm saying. The loverwill take his bride away raj, weren't you with the groomspeople? Have you switched... overto the bridespeople? . Someday l'll have a bride too, no? Just putting in some practice. Get it? . Never mind. Get lost Son of a gun kuljit is so lucky! . really Now give her yours Simran, offer your hand Simran, put your hand out Come on What's this? Last night, while taking off my bangles, l hurt my finger Never mind. The other hand ''These girls are poison pills'' ''These boys are rogues'' ''Poison pills. . rogues'' ''Make sure you're painted with henna'' ''Make sure the bride's palanQuin is ready'' ''To take you away, o'beauty, your lover is coming'' ''Make sure you come with your face hidden behind the bridegroom's sehra'' ''lt's a matter of hearts. keep it in your heart'' ''For a signal from your flying tresses...'' ''with bated breath, the bachelors await your suit'' ''The maidens will go into hiding out of shame...'' ''forthese are all madmen from town come to our village'' ''keep your eyes downcast; keep yourself chaste'' ''keep your eyes downcast; keep yourself chaste'' ''To take you away, o'beauty, your lover is coming'' ''l'm a young boy; you're a pretty girl'' ''lf our hearts are swayed, what's my crime?'' ''You should've held your heart. This beauty is magic'' ''lf the magic is working, what's my crime?'' ''keep up for me, leave the door ajar'' ''keep up for me, leave the door ajar'' ''To take you away, o'beauty, your lover is coming'' ''Say no more now, do no more now'' ''Say no more now, do no more now'' ''lt's a matter of hearts. keep it in your heart'' ''Make sure you're painted with henna; make sure your palanQuin is ready'' ''Make sure you come with your face hidden behind the bridegroom's sehra'' ''O'my precious one...'' ''O'my precious one... you know not...'' ''you're still pretty, and l'm still young'' ''l could still die for you, my love'' ''Make sure you're painted with henna; make sure your palanQuin is ready'' ''Make sure you come with your face hidden behind the bridegroom's sehra'' Babuji, yesterday you were wonderful! What a dance! Bested all the others No Babuji, just a speck of dirt. Now it's clean Too few doves, don't you think? The whites ones... look... one, two, three No, maybe same like yesterday l've decided. Today l'm talking it overwith raj ls it something to be ashamed of? . raj is here Back? So early? raj! My precious son! Come here. We were just talking of you l've something important to tell you. . Sure, go on This ought to be discussed by elders. But since you're so close to us... l thought, why not talk to you? . Tell me l wish this friendship to become a relationship Why not, why not? . For my daughter, Preeti... l seek your hand raj! Betterthink up something fast! Else, they have you trussed! raj, have you any objections? . What...? Oh no. How could l? My son! . But l can't take... such a big decision all by myself. So you will have to talk to Pops Pops...? . Father See? What a good boy! . l never do anything... against my father's wishes. . No problem. Give me his number l'll talk to him overtelephone He's away in America on business. . Great! Gone to America! Let ask him to come over. . No problem My country, my soil, my raj! Here l come, son Step out of the country, and you'll find everything... but the matthri yourwife serves up. . Compliments, lady Neitherthe language, northe culture. For one who loves the Ganga... what's a Thames? So l told raj to return only with his bride That's like it! . Such conviction What do you do in London? . Back in London... London...? . Forget London. All l know is... Go East, go West, Punjab is the best! Son! Don't you worry. l've got it all tied up You don't even introduce me to your Daddy What a wonder! Just this morning, we were talking about him... and l find him in the marketplace, armed with a photo, asking about you Whatever anyone says, this marriage was made in Heaven! right, lady? right. . right...? You're strange! You don't need my permission for a good deed What do you mean no? Have l ever refused you anything How about sweets? Your son.in.law is waiting right away! . Go on! The wedding must be done right away! A good deed can't wait l was thinking of kuljit and raj getting married at the same time What was that? lt's final! . raj, are you happy? Give me a sweet! quick! My son is happy! Now you're marrying Preeti. Her brother is kuljit... the one who's about to marry Simran. And you love Simran. Not Preeti What was Preeti doing in London? . Not Preeti. ln London, it was Simran Yes, Simran... who's this Simran? . Pops! Just give up thinking! Please Can anything be done without giving it a thought? l'm here. Everything will be alright. . By now, it's done already! Wedding must be done right away! Good deed can't wait! Why did you come? lt was a mistake! Won't happen again. l'll tell them that l forgot... about your mother's death anniversary. Matter laid to rest for a month May l come in? . Sure, come right in You're going to live very long. raj and l were just talking of you Sit You sit too. Milk for me? Thank you! Tomorrow's karwa Chauth. . What's karwa Chauth? l'd like to keep fast for raj's well.being. May l...? Sure, no problem! . karwa Chauth, Pops...? karwa Chauth...? No! Never! Why...? . We consider it a bad omen... for a girl to observe the ritual for her husband before her marriage Besides my child, we can't discuss the liaison for a month lt was during this month that raj's mother passed away We have to fix another date forthe wedding. Let's talk to your father Ajit... raj, you know what day it is tomorrow? What's it now? . My first karwa Chauth l want you to give me water and food after my fast Hands off. . What? l told you. Hands off Simran, if you don't love me, just tell me straight. l'll go away Then you can marry kuljit. lt's going to save me this everyday melodrama ls it something l said? . But you never say anything, no? l want you to give me water and feed me the first morsel... of food after my fast Are you out of your mind? You expect me to make a grand entry saying... ''Hi Simran! l'm your husband.to.be! Here, take a drink of water'' l don't care! l'll even die of hunger! But the first drink of water, and the first morsel of food,... you will feed me! Get it? Just like her father So why should l be the butt of the joke? You're uniQue, Mr Malhotra. Your dress doesn't indicate... your affinity to Hindustan. . The dress has fooled even you? l keep Hindustan in my heart. . Wonderful! Wonderful...? Ajit was saying you're here to set up a factory? The factory is just an excuse. lf you ask me the truth... l'm here to choose a bride for raj Then men are all out in the outhouse They say, they don't want to disturb us on Ladies' Day Are you keeping a fast too? . Yes May you live long, my child. My kuljit is lucky to get... a bride like you. Come Ma.ji, this is my Pops. Father Your son has cast a spell over everyone here That's my son l'll join you Pops, this is... . l know She can only be Simran May you live long No one even watches his step. Hold this. The flowers...! ''Let it rain flowers!'' ''My beloved is here'' kammo, where are the flowers? Hurry up l'm raj's father. From London. . From London...? Actually from Bhatinda. But l've been in London for many years. You? l'm Simran's Aunt. . You can't be! What...? . You could be her sister Listen... aren't you keeping fast? . No. l'm still a maiden Nothing could've been better. . What...? One of your flowers. . Maybe it's for you. keep it When is the moon going to rise? l'm starving l hope it kills you. Did l ask you to fast? Eat this on the sly. No one's looking Don't The moon is up. . Where? There ''On this night of prayer forthe wedded woman...'' ''l look at the moon, l pray with folded hands'' ''Then l break my fast'' ''Give me the water, take your slave for your Queen'' ''Tonight, give me what l desire'' ''Come home o'wanderer, your beloved beckons'' What happened? . Water Simi, my child . Drink water What happened? What happened to her? . She swooned Get up. Come, my child What happened? . lt's all right. She just swooned lt's nothing. Come on, let's eat She's so fragile, no? Why are you anxious? Are you fasting too? No... . Then come along lt isn't easy for him to get away. Everyone's asking for raj all the time He won't be able to come, Didi. Please, eat something l won't! l'd rather die starving. . very well, kill yourself l'm sorry, l'm late. But what to do? They weren't about to leave me lt was tough getting away. Here, eat Eat it l said l'm sorry. Now eat. Else, you'll swoon for real Chutki, tell him there's no need for him to worry for me l was about to faint of hunger. And there he was, filling his stomach Anyway, it's my first karwa Chauth. Why should he get so worked up? Whether l live or die, is he bothered? You don't know this. But raj hasn't eaten anything all day either He wanted to break fast with you. And he told me not to tell you Sorry raj, but l couldn't keep shut any longer Come here Talking to me? . Come here l got carried away. . No matter, Senorita ln big places, such small things happen My turn Senorita. Feed me l told you, not to betray my trust. Simran hasn't forgotten him yet? lf she remembers, she'll regret it What happened to me won't happen to my daughter No more sacrifices at every step as daughter, as sister, as wife She'll live life as she wishes. She'll have her share of happiness Come in keep this Ma, this...? . Not a word! l know everything l've seen everything. raj is the one you met in Europe. l know l also know, the two of you love each other dearly l was wrong Simran! My daughter won't sacrifice her happiness She isn't going to sacrifice her love l know raj, you'll make my daughter very happy. You have my blessings Take my daughter away. Leave No one here cares for your love. Take her away from here l'll take care of everything. . No Ma.ji l don't want to hear anything! No! Please go away from here! l beg of you, son! . l will Ma.ji. l'll take her away Come... sit here keep this Ma.ji, l was a little boy when my mother passed away But whatever l am today, is because of her To this day l haven't forgotten something she said. She'd say... ''Son, at every turn in life, you'll find two roads. One right, one wrong'' ''The wrong route will be easy, it will draw you. But the right path...'' ''will be hard, with lots of haZards, a lot many troubles'' ''On the wrong road, initially, you might find success, happiness'' ''But in the end, you will lose. upon the right path, initially...'' ''you may trip at every step, you may face haZards, difficulties.'' But...in the end, you will always win'' Now you tell me, Ma.ji. Am l on the right, or in the wrong? Yourway is absolutely right, son. But you don't know my husband And Ma.ji, your husband doesn't know me lf l wanted to elope with Simran, l could've done it already But l want to be given Simran. l don't want to steal her l don't want to take her away on the sly. l want to do it openly lf l have come, l'll surely carry my bride away But only when Babuji gives me her hand, of his own volition Now Simran isn't your problem. She's my headache As for you, you have given your daughter away Just a matter of time now before the bride is carried away ls this crying illness in the genes? How strange uncle.ji! Tell me. . The girl... what's her name...? Yes Simran. l don't approve of the match Why uncle.ji? . Girl's fine. But no match for you You're a strong young Jatt d'Punjab! And this girl is frail, subdued ls this any match? Match for you is a girl like a sparkler! Just come with me to London. The girls l'll introduce you to... will drive you craZy! What's the problem, uncle.ji? Afterthe wedding, Simran stays here And we're going to be in London, meeting your sparklers! Pull out all the stops! . You son of a gun As a little boy, l'd ride out to the fields on my father's shoulders Ever since, l struck up a friendship with these doves. l find it... so peaceful out here. l love spending time with the doves Tell me Babuji, are the doves here different from the doves in London? Difference there is. The doves here know me, they recognise me They belong to my land. Even the doves out there are alien Could it be that you perceive it differently? Maybe a dove out there... took to wings from here, from your land... one who knows you... one who recognises you. Maybe you don't recognise him? What happened? What are you doing? . My Ma used to say... the soil of our land is very powerful. lt's going to be fine But this is outrageous! Who might've done this? Babuji, look Let's go. . Babuji... Are you still angry about my beer act? l was childish. Won't you forgive me? l forgot that long ago l was wrong about you. You're right l didn't recognise. Come, let's go Ma.ji, what is the matter? You asked for me? Son, whateverthe doctor might say, l know my time's up Speak of nice things, Ma.ji. What a thing to say? Not to be anxious. l'm of the age when one leaves l've had a wonderful life. Son, l have nothing to complain about But now that l see Simran... after years a desire wells up in my heart. l want to see Simran married Before she marries, l wish l don't... . How can you talk of such things? Listen son The bride's palanQuin has just got to cross over from one house to another Now that everyone is here, what difference would it make if... the wedding is pre.poned to tomorrow? . Absolutely correct! The wedding happens tomorrow. Yes Baldev? right tomorrow Yes Ma.ji. Tomorrow We will have to take Simran away on the sly Nothing else is going to work. Don't worry. l have it all worked out We're taking the morning train out. l'll wait for you at the station Somehow orthe other, just get there with Simran Whatever happens neXT, we'll see Are you listening? l know this isn't yourway. You don't want to take Simran away like this But son, it's too late now. lf you love her... if you want to spend a lifetime with her, you must elope. understand? Please raj, take me away from here! You don't know my Babuji! We have to run from here. We must! . l've come to take you as my bride. l'll take you only when your Babuji gives me your hand What is to happen tomorrow, l don't know What l'm going to do tomorrow, l don't know But you must trust me Whatever l do tomorrow, is going to be for both of us Do you love me? Do you trust me? Then it's just a matter of time before the bride is carried away, no? ''Oh heart's love'' ''Oh my love'' ''l give you...'' ''to God to keep'' ''So strange are the ways of the world'' ''The heart is craZed, yet so helpless'' ''What's left to be heard? What's left to be said?'' ''Just let it lie between us'' ''The hide.n.seek is over. l'm getting married'' ''How l wish it doesn't kill you'' Simi, come down, Quick! Time for the ritual body.painting with henna ''Oh my love'' ''Oh my Moon'' ''You are my life...'' ''my beloved'' l wanted to tell you You were right. l failed to recognise You enter my house, and before my family... you play with my honour? You have deceived me! You have taken advantage of ourtrust! You made a joke out of our cordiality? How dare you have an affair with Simran? Did you imagine you'd marry Simran? You aren't even worthy of yourself How can you be worthy of Simran? l was right about you. Liars, wastrels like you never improve They only become worse No Babuji! No! Didn't l tell you to take me away? No one cares for our love! Didn't l say, let's elope? . No Simran, don't You can only run from strangers From the ones we call our own Our elders are our parents All our lives, they've brought us up. They gave us so much love About our lives, they can decide betterthan we can We have no right to make them sad forthe sake of our happiness Babuji is right. l am a liar, a cheat Even if l lied for your sake, a lie is always a lie Babuji is right. l'm not worthy of you And so what if l can see nothing beyond you? And so what if l can remember no one but you? Babuji is right. l'm a wastrel. How did l think of marrying you? So what if this wastrel loves you like a madman? Love isn't everything, is it? Babuji is right, Simran Babuji is right Here you are Babuji. Take your daughter l didn't come here to break anyone's heart l just wanted to win hearts Maybe l fall short of expectations Maybe that's why l couldn't win you over lf you think kuljit will make Simran happier... then you're right. What's best for Simran, you know best Forgive me Forgive me Preeti l know l have hurt you Where's Simran, raj? raj, where is Simran? She will come, Pops. She'll come Babuji will bring her. Personally He will have to l wish to hear no more. Go away from here Your son has deceived all of us. He has shown us where he belongs l won't let my daughter marry a liar! . Enough! l am proud of my son. Don't incite me to passion kuljit and raj are fighting at the station We must go there! One might kill the other! Come on Come with me Simran Stop Let me go, Babuji! Please let me go raj means all my life! Without him, l can't live Let me go to my raj Please let me go to my raj Go Simran No one can love you more than him Go my child. Go to your raj Go on Simran. Live your life Go my child, go ln big places, such small things happen The loverwill carry his bride away
