 

                        lts a story from motor cycle to car We are Duggal family Our story started when Papa got income refund Mom was making chicken in dinner we were celebrating like we got bonus Duggal family got Rs 7600 extra We were discussing that what we will buy from it We always have discussions like this l will buy iPod how do you know about it? have you ever bought it? l also did not buy lPL team still l know Shahrukh has bought for 400 crores we will buy a new fridge its fine, its sounding whole night it creates sound, l cant sleep at night we did not decided that where we will use it and phone rang phone is the responsible of all problems how are you? father's one and only sister we call her Phupho she lives with herjoint family in Meruth she called in the morning for a exclusive news it means we have to attend it compulsory forget Dish TV, iPod and fridge we dont have to fight today chicken is cancelled, you have to eat vegetables tonight yesterday potatoes were not fully cooked yesterday potatoes were not fully cooked no matter how complicated problems we have, Duggal sir forgets everything and attend his class what is going on in class? it belongs to Aryan now principal will return you this he will take my class because he will get zero and his father will not say anything if you get 60% then take from me otherwise principal will give you TC then dont blame on me l'm giving you extra classes do study, you will get good marks you just think about your result l was arranging for new t-shirt while bunking of class this is my life l have to do many things for a new t-shirt tell me how much money is in Payal's pocket? only Rs 60? if its more than Rs 60 then you will not get t-shirt is this the question to ask? if l take out the wallet then whole college would knew l have Rs 45 l dont wanna show. go to hell you would get t-shirt l have only Rs 45 in my pocket l dont have a single original t-shirt thats why l have to take participate in this stupid competition why a teacher is my father? why your dad is not my father? take this. lets go for drive you have done one good work in life you bought this car how many friends you have on facebook? my brother Sandeep or Sandy can you say that he is Duggal's son? take this for auto take this for ice cream tomorrow its my test, can l go to bunty's house? its an english paper, how papa will teach me? Kumar sir is coming at bunty's home for teaching l'm calling from PCO l will be fail our Deepu is very brilliant student we cant afford a tutor thats why he go to his friend's house for tution make it 4 put my Rs 100 on it Sandy's rs 100 on it he was enjoying go enjoy with your mother come here if you do it next time then l will kill your whole family what deepo was learning we know when we had a big crisis answer is right, why you give me zero? do we have Rs 2500 extra? how can l tell this? l have to check it she will take your whole salary why you are shouting? its just the 21 of this month my bike is spoiled Bitto singh is small in size but his car is very big and his anger.... you are taking free coaching since 15 days you have to give exams and become engineer duggal sir haven't come thats why we are doing disco you do practice by yourself papa's half life spend in school leave this poor bike dont say anything to my bike then l call it BMW? students will get bad impression by looking at it l cant do its painting before 1st sell it and buy a new one. do double shift in 1 shift l reach home at 9PM and in 2 shifts l will go home at 12 AM my childrens will forget my face there is a wedding in my sister's inlaws in the morning she gave a explosive news and in the evening she came to our house you all have to come in car lots of traffic is on road, it takes so much time to reach in car my bike gives an average of 60 km/h then papa took out his favourite red file papa shown her all the papers of red file if you cant buy then take it on rent we come in anything, what is so problem with your family? then we will not come what l will say to father? who will trust you that you had mercedes? when l will die, still l cant afford mercedes if you will not come then l will die by feeling ashamed and if you come on motor bike than they will say lots of things to me please save me we all will come yes in car new clothes for wedding with a problem of renting a car do you want to go to toilet? l have read in a news paper that there will be a tax on taxi your brother has a taxi business very good. last diwali he has increased 4 more taxis l have also invest some money l get side income from it these days side business is must its easy for you if anyone need taxi in school then they will take from you if anyone want to go to Merut for 2 days then what is the rate? for you its only Rs 5000 you want to go? l'm asking for general knowledge whole day you watch foolish channels sometimes atleast watch national geographic channel dont awake whole night l cant sleep nobody is ready to give car in less than Rs 5000 l could not see her condition tell her that we cant come you promised to her, l have to do something 1 7 years ago your basic salary was more than me these days they give official car to head with driver leave it and read it its very bad hand writing what people do for marks they are not afraid? if anybody complaint then? then my mother got a brilliant idea every people use bike or car for normal things all childrens should go to army its only my name or you are inviting my whole family? this coming sunday? its your car you can take it whenever you want if you bring it to highway and if it stops then you will have problem once it come from mechanic next week then you can bring it anywhere he give lots of respect to your family these days teachers are asking for 1 .5 lacs for nursery admisison you have to go until Merut. its very near you are saying it cant go if you are saying then we have to take it test is going on? drive it carefully thanks alot. you sit behind l think driver should concentrate on road if papa sit behind then l will not go its very cold your car is perfect dont worry. everybody is saying thank you to you why you are sleeping? look outside cheese paratha Rs 45? do one thing bring one plain paratha for me l will also eat potato paratha its very expensive where are you taking the keys? whole day you fight say sorry sorry mummy come here l sit behind you have bought a new car its not new. brother thought to give us a surprise he is urmi's elder brother bring them to room lets go brother how are you? if car is good then we dont know how long we drive why you lie to them? keep quiet if they will know then? its only a matter for 1 day l'm having very bad feeling what are you doing in ladies? lets have some beer you come in school uniform? you should wear good clothes in wedding he organized all the wedding tents in wedding were you shifting theives into jail? he did not do anything l'm a good officer nobody cant do anything when you are here give car documents to farooqi baraat is about to come you handle the wedding, l handle farooqui you check whether its a stolen car or not? inform bomb squad l have heard you are looking for me l'm the owner of this car l was in washroom we have informed bomb disposal squad take these documents you even dont know driving then what will you say to farooqui? you should do something for me i say thank you to you give me some money you are teacher and l have to teach you my salary is only Rs 8000 l have only 5100 call Sharma go from here. where are you going? Sharma ask for lots of money 5000 is enough for me, take this 100 go from here, wedding is about to start this is for you l take it 3000 for you and 3000 for me remember the car's number how he know Farooqi uncle? who will buy a new jeans for you? today l drive let me drive what happen? tail light and bumper is broken there is no dent on car farooqi sir gave his car to Duggal thats why we never take another's thing you should drive it why you are interfering in it? if l wont then you will run away from here we will pay for the damage who will allow you to go? l told you dont give them car look our car is broken its a car, not your papa's car you are saying sorry take this for damage l will send mechanic, you will pay it its 6000 you are running business for admission you are earning lots of money then why dont you buy your car? why you come here to ask for my car? if l will not buy a car in 15 days, then change my name now its settled already didn't you hear? we are also buying a car your wish is about to complete how we will buy a car? because of you, we all will get insult i was doing job now salma will daily tease me because of me everyone is insulted? we should know what is our limit? we will buy a car l have to prove my family? no matter what will happen, l will buy a car nobody saw my glasses? in the morning we forgot that car accident but papa remind us again l forget my glasses in farooqi's car please bring my glasses from farooqi's car last night we got insulted dont go to their home, buy a new glasses she is saying until car is repaired l will not return glasses l never decide to buy a car which car you will buy? my mechanic was saying he will find a good old car for me dont go for used car there is no use for used car you cant buy a new car go l have told you many times dont say to sit on bike only one week left in our car when car will come and park infront of our home then l will trust you will look 10 years more younger l'm 51 years old. but you look like 41 l want that car dont you have Nano? its showroom is behind, you will get it in 2 hours l want car in 15 days dont you have Maruti 800? still people are jealous of Maruti 800 if l give you Alto in 800's price? we have a special scheme for it only 5 days left dont waste time, drive it your daughter, you want to test drive with your family when payal will come then we will go for test drive its not an ordinary car, its more better than Maruti 800 we are buying a car l will not sit in it come downstairs bye payal we are testing car and your son is sleeping they are strange l will call you later now its my turn for car whenever a new thing come in our home, someone is upset everytime my mother goes in it to buy vegetables how you got so much money? they never bought a car for them its my own earning let me interview also what happen? you got bathroom? you went to bunty's house? kumar sir did not come? did he ask for tution fees? are you ok? let me check your fever i'm having stomache who opened its cap? where you kept it? why he is not opening door? l got a job where are you going? dont walk Payal duggal got a job starting salary is Rs 10000 what is this call centre? she went to her friend's call centre now our both salaries will bring my choice car you will look 35 in the age of 25 we will not think about your marriage thats why you were happy lets make program to buy a car you are saying no to me? what is problem in it? whole world do job in call centre what is this? lots of money you have a hidden personality so much savings it will take out the down payment of our car l save my saving in rice box i swear i was about to flush all the money police will catch me you learn this? beat him first we move these money you put me in probem papa bring deepo on his bike with betting money deepo was so scared papa distribute betting money to beggars my papa and his punishments are weired its a Rs 100 note it was just a reharsal, you will get it in final why you did not scold me? its my mistake, why l scold you? l did not know when you become deepo to sandy? you were sucking your 2 fingers you cried alot then you wash your fingers and put your fingers again in your mouth one day you took out your fingers from your mouth or you will leave by yourself? we were hungry until you complete your MBA, you will not talk about yourjob not for once, sure these are car loan paper, give them after college this book is original, take care of it we started from 2500 per month then we reached 3400 per month and now its 3800 per month and what about down payment? papa's duty is not completed by paying fees only papa's duty is to look for children's happiness you have become very smart if you did not pay for fees then l will cut from name from school l want 3 months advance for what? l want to buy a car move your hand fast i want advance, i told you to hold your hands how much salary you have? do the double shift if you want advance then teach in government school i will approve it you cant take advance for luxury items you should think it before that from where you will bring down payment? l thought i will get 3 months salary in advance now we wont buy Alto even? if teacher cant buy then... i will show u how teachers can buy a car open it sir cut packet, take out the slip its the last one my hands are shivering l have never won any prize because l will win a car wait a minute. now what happened? l did the calculation l will win a prize in 1000 packets so it will make my down payment money i knew it we will not get any car in washing powder you are not allowing me to join call centre dont talk about call centre dont wake me up before lunch time why you are not allowing him to do job do one thing, give me charan's shop number it will take 2 months i wont allow you to do it i can also find his number maths teacher is not a joke where is my telephone diary? i promised to urmi i told everyone that we are buying a car and the solution in any answer sheet and l'm searching it in packets do you remember the number? 1 march 1993 you always give me tension what will it use? they will find the correct number please bring a tea for me we are not making any mistake l'm not giving him 100 out of 100 l'm just giving him any passing marks his future is in father's money and my childrens will remain on scooter my students earn 150000 starting salary and l'm 51 years old whole Delhi is moving in Metro whole world can buy a car if teacher's family want to buy then they ask many questions dont we deserve a car? we are not doing anything wrong, dont feel guilty yes we are buying a car who give you my number? no. l'm going for my work. call me in the evening they call me for car loan you are looking like my hero today we are about to reach who is calling you now? call me in the evening, l'm busy you order non veg 60000 are about to come why you only asked for 60000? l only need what l want we will sit on different tables if he will be scared then? l want loan but l told you call me in the evening we are at mc donalds why are you keep calling? you are very intelligent betting trap saved me, now why he went for it? they will eat him i'm having a bad feeling look at his face dont worry. l will handle it l'm saying you good morning you called us? you are waiting for us call me later l'm in a meeting you are very busy these days he is my brother we all 3 come together in every deal tell me how much marks you will give? thats why l bring him here to say thank you we are paying for it, no need to say thanks you tell everyone in class to dont eat pizza and burger show me the copy i was in your class she is my daughter asma he is my maths teacher he has started a blog named Duggal express he lives with his family in New York we start to chat on duggal topic your scooter is still fit? l still have a bike you gave us lifts so many times show me copy and take money we dont want their money she is my best student you come here to buy marks, you will not understand if l give you fake marks then we both will be failed you will learn you can buy everything you will remember me for my cheating my students remember me for my good teaching they will introduce me to their childrens to say he made me good boy he will get those marks that he deserves tell me how much you want? he did that? take back your money l dont want it so everything will look like normal nothing will happen. you did not do anything l raise hands for taking nothing will be bad is everything ok? come out they are not looking good l come down look at his face he is selling teaching i surrender myself, i will talk to them and do the settlement its because of me because of my their tail light in broken i pushed him he is innocent we will not do it again, please dont arrest him you also take my card no problem let my grand son fail from now you will take his tution and teach him alot and make him pass take this 12 months advance its your tution payment school gives me salary for teaching him what you can do in salary? i understand everything we also do hard working and we sell it for Rs 150 per Kg but you make human being before he will become bad boy and destroy my country. i'm giving you this for me and for grand son we did not moved into 3 bedrooms from 1 bed room mother did not get fridge now l proudly say to everybody that my father is a teacher Deepu also left betting so many good things happened for buying a car what will happen when we will buy a home theatre its our car how much its increasing? 10% on petrol rates are increasing, not salary its not express you have become a car man it means you have become a car lady why i will return it i dont know what will be its condition
