 

                        This is not the usual place who expect to find in it some excitement but one of my friends was lucky here last night There is definitely something going on here So Sarkin car There are people here Jamehon You can not be too careful these days but let's see if the people in this car would offer us continued in view hello, do not you mind if I photographed ? I'm going to hand other revealed window hello wonderful Do you want to feel this? No, my hands Bardtan Are you sure? Yes thanks, I photograph clearly gorgeous I would like to join Yes enjoy it right You you enjoy this, right? Hello guys God's sake Would one of you has so hello, can I ask you a question that quickly? Yes Do you know what is Alduquenj? Hear about it all the time Good morning Do you know what is Alduquenj? Come on, man, honestly I've heard of it you're wondering, my beautiful Dakota If what I have heard about Ahaddakma Alduquenj? Yes Do you know someone who was practicing Alduquenj? Do not know what it is specifically, I saw him Baldokinj Have you heard? Yes Do you want to practice Alduquenj me? My girlfriend does not like to go out with strangers Baldokinj Have you heard? Do you know any one of you What is Alduquenj? I respected person in the community frankly, when Thacrh inside and everyone is watching, this is very Do you know what is Alduquenj? It... Let me is how Ark O hello practitioners Alduquenj I conducted research for an article hello ladies Jordi exciting girl entered the room hello sir eight inches hello, girl Jordi erotic Are you sure? Why? Eight inches Yes, Tqaysina You want that? Probably do you're so much Why? Alduquenj Yes I bet you doin I'm doing What is the thickness Edok? Good morning, my colleague Good morning What to do stupid? Nothing What is the thickness Edok? Curse on this Do you want to smell this for me O deviant Do you still exist? O normal, you measure the width of your penis This is a clear difference It's just a conversation Did you go to school Yes I do recalled more than you Do thickness until the middle or even the end Do you use my card banking again? Yes wonderful Until the end, until the middle is the radius refund you money, do not worry Why? I will refund you money Well, when? I hope someday I'll be rich east England eight inches It's good name not well I press but this strange if you will, or would only Tdhadjaha exchange measurements with it? I get up and I'll show you how it is nothing wrong I get up and I'll show you how it is nothing wrong with my colleague O I get up and I'll show you how it is There is nothing wrong I get up and I'll show you how it is must play with it a little bit should arouse curiosity ask her meet me + Discover yourself I do not want to write this You should send you sure you want to Yes sent What do you do about this? Strangest Me Let me see what will answer may be dirty words Laura Laura Have you seen my car keys? It is next to the phone Are you sure I looked it up Yes, it is there Dad Yes those elegant tie too much Yes you are right What do I do When / Where? Strangest Me Why there, not you in a good mood when / where Lord created an eight? Are not you in a good mood Get away from me you behave strangely Yes, so what What do you know about it Is your answer yet? Yes, I did maybe it's time to conclude a deal with them Snhdz her room I conducted searched-for searching for what, about? Yes you are doing well there .... I'm new in town, so hello? You want me to clean the house Do you want to live on the street as It's your table Do you want to leave and live with your girlfriend did not live with this Miss O youths hello dear I'll go Well Jordi exciting girl left the room Oh man you're with me on the same wavelength I see the future, man with four bedrooms with a bed all in one And includes a large master bedroom bed and a large marble and then she took me to practice Alduquenj you lie we do, where you are sitting You see, this is not about the practice of journalism What was going to do editors? They will experience it Do this now To be frank, my friend is not my idea of ??a good night to go out somewhere crowded such as a strip club and touch upon the rage You are not a man Press What is the real story? What is the title Where is your idea? What is the angle of seeing you? Come stupid Do you understand me Go of the tunnel over it, stupid It's a business trip I think that there is a big prize in her mouth now I did not go on a business trip by not this exciting This is not remarkable, right? Wants to Asabgueni? I I own the road I own the road My name is Rob and I own the road focused on the road Hello Sir How's the isolation you stupid What if, just lights up her Massabag Why? Alduquenj I have rear lights Why? Why, as well as the idea No, you're No, you No, rear lights are gay I will write Note Lighting Lights interior is inviting for spectators and Akhvad window moment, interior lights I thought it headlamps Akhvad window is an invitation This complex should I write waiting exercise sex with sexy girl and you do not have that invites them to drink first This is excellent for you because you will not have to stop to urinate will not have continued, stupid You're in a room full of Balogbea idiots me down here I want to do some interviews on my way you will be an interview with me? Are you Will? Well should send this to my girlfriend to see I'll do Well Rob Why exercise Alduquenj? Baldokinj Have you heard? Yes, I've done and what do you know about it? Sex in the car sex with an unknown person Alduquenj first thing fucked with him and his two legs this question in order to be able to write an article about it Yes I'm trying to know This will not come out to talk to whoever was will not tell one If you will not receive any calls from neighbors I'm more worried about you you're trying to Tsorne How do you know? You're trying to Tsorne Alduquenj is sex different style It does not have sex in the car and to try to control things Alduquenj is sex different style When Tsfha the Fastback Tsfha when the stern, this is not true when the girl slapped her ass and is dragged interview on the road? Not with him not mean, of course with some of the duet, but as fellows May do this not, are you gay? No no desire to speak to me about the fun with men What are you talking about? I did as requested by me with 98 Girl I'm happy for you to Rob I can not be happier You can go out girlfriend Sanzaaj why when people see me spank on the rear of my girl fat and have sex with her waiting for the moment she is not fat make sure they'll see this and are drunk probably should not see this If you Watching this and you're not drunk I unfortunately C, aides told me you Do not go to the club to work I do not want to go to the club Why? Because I do not like clubs C in your case specifically remember a long time ago Ataltk Mnavek continued to rely on going to the club No one wants to go to the club should go to the club for three ten week and must be enough time And must stop Jawkinj and if successful in finding what is wrong will be able to continue your business and then we will be able to give you a loan Is money not money will be able to buy a few equipment that will help you I want to do anything we'll give you a notice of cash that you need in order to work Yes but you were not active recently I've been active What would you do I was following my work and any business is this? It is in the prostitution trade Prostitution Yes basically I brought the girls I want to see Amy, Donna, Emma and Susie Is this true? Yes, this must be the first I am not without ties to Mr. Dube But how'll take care of my job = If you are on the list of work I understand what I mean club work Sorry Here's my papers thank you if what you're doing at work? I was doing different things you train as a journalist so that I could write letters of You and a few interviews Sataba you some of my work weeks km think you walk away from work should write something so five or three five or ten five or ten Well I am a journalist, so as you know, I travel a lot order to write about stuff Do you have e-mail? Not'll want an Okatronya? Are you planning to send your business because of Oktrona through the mail? Yes you does not see this I understand what I mean maybe we can act now hello, talk Tania someone taking a chance practical I'm afraid I'm a little busy now unfortunately, do I have to speak to you later? Yes please, tomorrow will be a good time I was hoping to know how things happen Is there an emergency? I work out so I 'll let you go Do you include your business online? Yes, as you know, this practical does not work on the Internet without Work is going out and doing something so your boss does not work properly hello Aaaftiat Are you okay? Can I get your number, please? No Why not? Because we do not know you so what? You'll be able to identify Ali no Are you okay? I asked you if you're okay Do you want any help in carrying books Can I get your number, please? No Do Tmaenain you if you go to the University Unfortunately, my friend. You you go to the university this clear Come on, just give me your number Ahrjk will not, and will not bother you Do you want to digital? Yes stupid No, no I was wondering when the game will be in the following Alduquenj Are you going to be tonight? Will you come? Perhaps today I thought that I could come Mekma you and Sarah Why? I'm watching Rivers Bakri you're in the back seat and are controlling things and is moaning and screaming waiting for the moment Yes, this would be a good How will rise and face my penis ugly in the car I understand what I mean not realize that there even exists a withering I do not hear you Well, tonight nine o'clock In the car park in Sodox Well I must go I have a lot of homes to show her for its customer How did you start it? How did people start to do it simply must accompany the person to do so Well, and you go on your own or with the Some people No, the situation becomes complicated and more feminine more feminine? Yes, you lose control over it unfortunately Do I had any bad experiences? Personally, but this did not happen with the police Arrested Ali and I pee What happened? They come all the time to look for the crimes of child molestation Well It's a beautiful garden, is not it? I saw you at the university and you feel you are very beautiful You feel you are so beautiful Although you from the inside and very rude does not mean you're a slut from the inside Maybe I'm not a nice inside as you are from abroad C You remember my name Me strangest this beautiful car What's going on here? My name is Jim C I do not care what your name is What to do when my door Can I speak with your daughter please No, you can not talk with them = = Why? Because I am a fanatic for these things Well I am her father and I talk to her Omnek Now I leave I have encountered a hard days do not want to see your face at my door Now I leave leave, Do I can speak with her please kill you Well Stupid Where did you get them? From newspapers I see you in the future as a nurse what your boss will think your Well just so Thus stop Sanzel this little do you want me to be dressed so Yes, and go to work Should look nice Yes nice, not nice and accessible must show feminine Do you think that you can Tertdm particular measure does not come right? Extra things to make the man of the Nile easy Winston, is the head of my and has no opinion in my work Do not start I do not know the young man 've followed me home from this young man was C How do you know that named Jim If you do not you know because it told me How do you think You know Dad, I can take care of myself no You are young and beautiful but I do not like your friends bitch Jordi exciting girl entered the room east England eight it established? Hello = Are you okay? Why? I think about you Well you as well what you're thinking? I was thinking, Are you an old perverted Laura I was thinking, Are you an old perverted what I did for the doors locked? You do not tell the truth I do not want my character as well Tko They're all behind one thing I bet you were one of those Alegaoiat Listen, I know it is hard for you to be my understanding mother but were not a good woman I was born you too well You do not have to go in the same way Laura You do not have to go in the same way Do you still exist? Jordi exciting girl left the room Yes, Yes Do you see anyone = Are you okay? Show me some respect Odaioa light or similar I would like to enjoy a little look at him that he was sitting there hello someone there someone near the truck not believe this stay away What are you doing here? What are you doing here? I'm here with my friends I am with my friend DJ Did you see it I'm not in the mood to talk kept here and I'll buy you a drink strangest Me hello ladies there Something is definitely going on there Hello, Here Comes The other person I'm not deaf man see came from, abnormal It askew still in front of that truck exactly This is the problem in Alduquenj you crazy , me out Well Sakhrjk Did not come here to see you enjoy Atmanon that....? Prefer we practice Alduquenj you can do it back to here Yes this wonderful beautiful enjoyed Bliltkm away I am looking for girls Do You okay not What do you think of this if not improved disposition will not go on holiday What a brawl going on Yes brawl It's a bad joke I'm here only for girls Gosh ... But here is the order By the way I don I'm Laura I was pleased to meet with you this embarrassing It also Yes Is this your friend? No Yes, it is no sorry Do not look to them I do not see them I did not see Yes, you I try to avoid considering Come without done it before Why did before? Why did before fed you must duck must leave, beautiful shoes Thanks I'll give Digital Do you bring this with you? No, you're scrambling I did not do You inflicted really Yes I've done know After a few days we will go to my house If you find it fun, all of us we will go there If you like to exercise Alduquenj Do you act so Well = = No, do not go Thank you 'll See you at home later Yes I was pleased to meet with you I was pleased to meet with you I'll see you later I'll see you later Laura hello Laura, are you okay C, Get out of Here I met a girl Can I ask you about something important? Well Are you a man? There is a meeting at the home of the torch soon Are you going darkness covers the trees to bury them in the yard like Wait but this journalist violates Opinion Alduquenj is life All you have to do is click on the window and to get what is inside sex is love this is not love it easy for you to know that is true think so Dear Yes, for a woman like you What is this? Hello! Do you disappear again?? What will be the this nonsense practitioner who is usually Alduquenj better to ask from not so O people guys O doctors and lawyers And Constructors and of every action in life come but Alduquenj British as they are old alcohol veterans and maids Duquenj, Duquenj, Try it 'll love it or maybe I've loved before It's related to the way in which you read them Duquenj, Duquenj Do you like it? Spite of this effort Alkpier you still can not find work as a journalist I was shooting when I do not know anything about him I'm usually awake Adaab ladies 're playful in the past You playful right I still to this day as well really Yes made me believe beautiful girls = = I mean is impressed me more than my admiration for her , But I do it because it is beautiful Is it? Yes Do Tzlana, if you understand me feel euphoria inside and Baldgdgh and warmth I understand what I mean Yes It's a very beautiful girl, believe me Can I ask you been asked? What may shake a nice girl and beautiful? What are you doing? Where is your girlfriend, then? True you have a girlfriend Yes Well, Well I say that there is no way to answer the phone properly ? You have to be ordering where you are anyway Club Alduquenj this sudden Do not start, know that I do not like it Why? Take care of me, but as you know Yes I know it lets you sleep on his feet And there is no opportunity for you in order to sleep on my legs you is the owner of the certificate and you should take care of my I'm just a local clumsy Yes Why are insisting on this? Why? This really bothers me Yes Tonight Where? In the usual place Yes I'll see you there love I also Well bye you are suitable boat Is fallen How can Tdhan Girl do not know who she is Qillk small so you can not And if you do not you're going to do a small I've done things if you do not you're going to do a small she was going to do is able to expand this in the forefront of the car had to do it = = was to do it Come dear, Go up to the car will not ride in this Come not there a lot of filth it Go up to the car Are you okay? You're better off Sorry sir Is this your car? But you do not do this and you are in the Age So what people will think? Some will think that my friend from doing it do not, will not do they think that my friend claims that the reason for that Why do not you place a sign on the car that I agent so Bank Everyone knows my friend and you do not have work not everyone knows Do you know it? No Sorry my friend without Sorry mute She does not know O you children of the eye child eye This was bad really In fact, it is getting worse Do you want me? Do you want to know how the daily no this funny How is work? Why? Do not want you to ask me because you are compelled to do so ..... I want you to ask me I asked you how your business is going I want you to ask me how the work was but do not ask because you think it should be you have to ask I did not think he should Ali I asked you how the work was what the Alkhti for you I felt that you should Do not want you to feel that you should I want you to want to do it I asked because I wanted to know how it was working why it Tdkhmon I'm not the biggest thing You did not ask me why you I do I know what you're doing Sex This is all what you do Why? You sit at home all day and looking at Internet this very exhausting hello, Can I get you anything Welcome, what Ibaek Hi, can I help you Can I help you? Hello, Fuck you hello, good job km wall painted What was the color Did you take a lunch break Was your feet cool Where is the excitement you have not? Where did you go? Some exciting things continue to be under What do you think should go to an Indian restaurant last do not, we'll go and do something What do you do? Will not stay here Come Come with me Honey, let's go Well What are we doing here? Well 'll Know when the time is right Do you have a cigarette? Without Why? Not Tadhai light you behave Btafolah I do not behave Btafolah So what is the cause of all this? I do not want to I light the light This is everything Do not start Why? Do you try to kiss me I want to kiss you no, no See, we are no longer in seventeen anymore Yes, I know it Maybe if you had work will have Some money and then you will have an apartment And then you will have a place take it from you want to be married instead of complaining all the time and can drive to the parking in a deserted place This was like True not Tnzle window Why? Hello = How are you? What he wants? You can come to our place It's big truck in that direction Miss, you will love the marriage of the two If you understand my intention Bring your friend, you may want to view without If you..... Have you heard about Alduquenj? Why? Brought here because you want some excitement This guy seems like Freddie Assad not seem like Freddie Assad Well, my friend It's nice Is leaving him so? Oh my God, you want me to open his legs Do you know what this means What are you doing? I am beyond Tania Do not scream my name you said you want some excitement I can not believe this I have obtained Here you = Can you be quiet this public bus, have a little respect Laura you Laura? I C Otzchrinni? Not Tkatrthe them They come from places ugly neighborhood such as Brooklyn you understand my intention Can not allow that Laura, they are not bad people They just do not have anywhere else to go to have fun and Eskeroa You look really great You're Beautiful = = In fact, you look amazing You like the light in the middle of the bus you radiant and beautiful Are you hungry? Are you hungry? I am starving Let's go down together possibly I'll pay we can go to the library if you want not getting off here? , Has not yet reached Not getting off here? Hear Jim I really find it difficult to forget some of the things deceived me and one of them has to go home for the night torch So I went and I thought it I I Ocyrhm and have sex with a stranger = Can you stray out of my way please hello this phone Tania sorry I'm not here Come Hear my friend Where are you? I have encountered a problem with Tania and I ran away and I do not know where she is It is time to go Salami claimed to have without sending Salameh Rob Fuck There's nothing to see here Go, Nothing to see here no Did not you hear Get out of Here It is very difficult Of course it is also dear but not as you think The men..... must Terclehm in the rear hate to say this but this is about the young may become very mean to when they want it it was similar with both of us It was also So we started practicing Alduquenj There is some excitement occur there but they do not know the existence of Chimera I do not know what's going on here but.... What do you think the last Cup of Yes I want to see pictures of other grandchildren That's enough of photography Tania Tania Tania Look at this I did not see anything like this It's a wonderful not this Mimur No, not Mimur You're right it is not girl and she is very interesting know It's great Otrida have to go on a journey with us No thanks it with red hair It's rare very rare I fled willingly us without Laura hello = How are you, are you okay? I told you I will get Well Brought a condom for this purpose without Thus Are you okay? Lesson you learned tonight Fuck you What a beautiful mouth Thank you very much such so I hope it Maybe in another time I'll see you Laura Tania Laura Where were you? Enter the car Jim, I'm not in a good mood for this I just came to see if I was okay I'm fine Are you okay Where were you? I'm fine Are you sure Yes, I'm fine not bother you any of these? Not Jim I'm fine I swear to God I Sankgm O Ghuraibi eccentric delinquents Tania Stop wailing as a girl and ride by car I think it stayed with me some bacon of the park = Do you want to come with me and feed your dogs There are more than one How much is strange to do so? Know should not laugh Well I was thinking What do you mean you're thinking? Where were you? You're probably wrong what? All this What are you talking about? Shut Tania Wait I know when I see a beautiful rear I know when I see a beautiful lip It is I, dear future lover Tania Wait Tania, there Michrdan abroad without, we practice Alduquenj just go from here Shut up and helped me turn off the light Tania Stop weirder from here Well = Ask your question = What do you think? On buddy? I am excited you excited yes without enthusiastic, well jump out of the plane raises enthusiasm I try something new and exciting and different Hamas I return and I want to once again I do not try to find us a new hobby I'm trying to get information for research This is everything I've had an incident I did not mean it to happen did not mean to does it happen? I drove the car to a place dedicated to the practice of Alduquenj and did not intend that to happen I did not think you Strhalin with the first stranger approached the window I'll show you what I'm doing I'm glad you came and you saw research And I want you to know that it has finished If you will not go back there? You're not serious? Yes, I am serious, and I think that you should can do it too Why? If it was important to search and go looking for it This is not possible if you are looking for the serial killers what I'm going to the street and kill You are not looking for the killers without you're looking for practitioners Alduquenj All I'm saying is that the search important If you want to be a journalist to go there and do it and if you want to have sex Mann This is not journalism right? If you want me to Okhzki Tmarsa Aldokiq again in order to complete the article Yes Well I'll find people doing it Thus Are you going to a great meeting? Do not think so You are one of the stimuli Why not? You Takbrenna lies do not have to threaten him would not open my home to you It is a complex I will not do it It's also me too complex? , How? Practice Alduquenj people change people? I loved the people more than before practitioner Alduquenj the only one who liked it humiliates me It's not easy, is not it It police It's the police car It's a great experience Do you know there No one here Are you sure? Yes I can see people Get out of here stop I tossed on my window Avoid I found this on the passenger seat How old are you? Busy again meet me and Discover this is the last opportunity for you Enter and proved to me you deserve to be here Do you understand? Do you understand? Showed me you mean it Enter there and proved to me that you are worth the money weekend this is the last chance you Rob admitted to there and do not let me see you Why? What do you mean what? I take a shower and you have left something True, you're going away do not know who you think you yourself Dwarf What do you know about me? What do you know about anything? Rob wonderful man Yes but I like to exercise more Alduquenj So, I'll have a taxi And I'll go to the lake so Otary night Of course I love her Why? Halonha were practiced in Alukinj What do you mean, You mean your girlfriend? Do I asked you about Tanya? Are you serious about this? Let me ask you a couple of liquefaction. Let me ask you a couple of liquefaction ... listen, did you Can I ask you a few ask? Have you heard anything about that Sara Lee sincere ... but not but not without In fact... give me a moment The answer is no So = Can I get your number, please? You If you are with a girl cause you problems? Why? Well listened to I will tell you everything you need to know and you want to tell me what was wrong with Tanya And I do not mean that I feel badly but that convinced me that you are with Tanya order right reasons I apologize Saqublk and on your lips you lie No, I want to put this so I hear your reasons right And I cousin I want to know why you're with someone treat you like dirt I'm not doing this in order to be a dingy I am doing this because you allow me Otafiha No, Do not, for one moment Tell me three things you like them I will not do this Ask Me About three things I like in Sarah are nice and sensitive to the feelings of others and people respected I do not mean to be rude but you Alduquenj practiced with her four years ago And is a nice girl is not shy about sex in the car park, enjoy strangers all night It's as simple Why? O you dreaded I do not follow you I'm here waiting for Girl = I is the girl Jordi erotic this is not it funny Wait a moment Wait just a moment I'm sorry I did not mean to run away I'm sorry Wait, do not Trhali Ajok another chance if we talked Fuck = Are you okay? I came home early unfortunately You know, Laura, when your mother... beg Dad Listen Please Listen I'm not good at talking but must I say this fled when your mother Dad Well When you let your mother Dad, I do not want to talk to this Let me try to say this please when you lose someone This does not mean you know how to Thpinhm and when you realize your mistakes it may be too late And would not want you then .... your mother mother did not let me leave and have her away and I'm doing the same thing with you I do not blame your mother O from me A man without the benefit of Laura I want you to know that I just love you do not always know how Give me another chance, okay? Dad Come here Let's talk about Jim, is a dear friend to you? Not Dad I almost kill him for you hello hello Well my strong Where is the car? Do Rkintha somewhere? I've forgotten How Alduquenj go to practice without the car? Hear without seriously Where is the car? I freeze up ... I'm not going We're not going I do not want to go I do not understand Are you saying you do not want to go to practice Alduquenj Yes no .... command only I'm going to somewhere Come gave her a flower and accepted by must They flower from Habib sweetheart Yes because they liked Really? Yes Laura, I Oahdik friendship blossoms best to be your friend for years instead of a few hours hoping he would not leave me you can not say this I'm sorry Do you know anyone involved in the I'm sorry I do not like cement I do not like cement, but I say this this compliment .. So you seem like cement No, I do not like cement I say this in the song I'm just trying to talk to you I swear hard to talk to you .... Well not cement No, not this again I'm sorry I was wondering if you want Tqablaney that night? If this is appropriate If you do not change your mind or whatever I do not change my opinion Of course you change your mind All the girls change their minds How's that? I do not know, but this is what you do girls C Yes Hist hello my friend I have bad news I'm not coming tonight Where are you going? Do you have a car? Not Laura Wait, Wait Wait Laura Laura Wait Where do you think you're going? Laura Where are you going? Is it a friend or what? I do not understand We have put sex you had sex We we practice sex Attention for the road Are you sure you know how to lead? Yes, of course I know since I was a kid Why did not you tell me? I told you you can that you write to me or to send her a message You do not want to stay with it I told you not for you, we would not be in this problem Scurry shut your mouth read map Why did not you tell me to turn left I told you I Adoor in rings Told me where to go Thank you, man Fuck 've said you're a nice guy She said she loved I am tired of people who are doing it Do you know if anyone is practiced Alduquenj in this place Aadak Thus says the map What do you say? I'm sure of it here I'm sure it's here where should it happen A Where I do not know if it was a house to practice Alduquenj or to urinate This is definitely the place Oh my God... If let's do it we can not we close the road here... whoa whoa here This is a good place .. whoa here Well Jim mute Where are you going? What are you doing? Do you want my coat? Not Too cold Look to the stars Ptozaaha wonderful people say they see it as a beautiful I like were not by Now, after Wright Stars you kidding me Do you exercise sex with a tank car? Those dirty bitch people say that the bear claws scary I did not see Dibba never Come Jim.... I'm ready What are you doing? Why? Cold Can we please leave? ... Jim Allen practiced with me Alduquenj not our clothes if we Snkhala What happened? Do not want to freeze up Are you okay? Do you mind if I photographed this? I do not care who you are, man I'm in the middle of a conversation Let's leave Do you abandon me C? I really admire you I Love You .... but thank Jim I'm not here for this reason you can not walk a single place full of Balmchagbin It is raining = = We are different, man we are different Well you are going to do...? Just leave, please Well, Well Do not mind if I filmed this, right? Well, Well leave, unfortunately leave, unfortunately only tribal dear This is what I'm talking about hello Welcome leave, Unfortunately, I I do not mean to interfere, but you... .... Yes you It's a dirty whore... is not it? Leave, oh man Well curse on this Attention where they came from all of them? How a young man to have there? May Oh man move move Did you know you ? Move... seriously I leave brakes fuck you you stupid... what do you do? Where is Laura? Laura... Where are they? I was looking for ... I hear there was a minute ago Why? 've Gone when? There? Are you going to look for it? Of course I'll do wait... Come here You come here .. when they ask you to wait .. wait I know parametric Oh man she asked me to have sex with her Come without Finally Finally hello dear hello How are you? I'm fine thank you Do Tsorne? Yes Do you bother? Yes Well Satafiha It's a cold night Yes, it is also It's really cool Where are your friends? I've left them I wanted to stroll around cool atmosphere and I wanted to Ttjola? Yes What do you think should go on a trip? Well Come did not fight like this before? It was like I was fighting for Sex with the girl in the twentieth You know what I mean I also like I was twenty and you You know this is not what is going on in my mind but I wanted you to know We have come to a dead end I will look for lights Front I'm going in the woods you kidding me? Are you shocked or something? The cool air condom with you if you? I just do not want to stroll around... I understand Well, so we'll talk a little bit after that I just... I grabbed my and I'm trying to think a little Yes ... my name is We are back to the same car We turned around in circles wait , you are in the car? Those bitch without Do you think it is going to ride in a taxi Yes Do you going to ride in a taxi she imprints her nipples this annoying I think you'll find the light is off I do not care, man these fingerprints for my girlfriend give me some privacy Privacy spoke to me, stupid Sarah ... What are you doing here? Sarah Excuse me... Did you see a beautiful woman large open mind running here? I leave from here If this dog named Oder It's nice I called after the father was named dings beautiful Do you have any pets? No not? If you do not like animals Yes, I love her but I did not get one ... if you do not want to do anything because you are not ready I wanted to bring and to do a few things and then I realized what you mean Why do you want that you leave Do Stgaderan? Yes because I want to have unprotected sex with you and watching video I want to see pictures of my kids I can give children you baby I'm not a kid I'm not a kid You whore Well I am a whore and everything Tredenh is entertaining people in positions and all What can you do is look at what rod to I do not care Enjoy and go Marcy sex Onkahi anyone want Sarah, I got angry let me know you to the beautiful Laura Laura, these young men here Can you Taatsai with all of them Laura hello Laura hello, glad to meet you happy to meet you You look fantastic I love your feet I love your shoes itself is beautiful, is not it? Yes can Amtaek is without any doubt I do not know what happened the last time I was hoping to celebrate for a longer period this time It is a member of a beautiful and gentle Yalk of Villain does not release the names not again air cools Do you have any whips = = Do you want some chocolate chocolate Sarah hello Sarah Sarah Sara I'm sorry I lost my temper ........ I brought bottled water for all thank you Give me one I thirst grabbed her Did you remember to bring some towels brought towels = Can you bring Ms.? Brought Ms. Do not you mind if I waited here ... Have you seen master must Sener What do you do here? .... What do I do I'm here What are you doing here? Without Laura Fuck Get Out Come Dear despicable Laura None of your business Wait here What did you say? Think twice before you do anything stupid I'll do something stupid O dreaded O Sasourkm now Perverts I will discuss commanded all of you Laura Who is he? Do you know Do you want that you move from being with people to a place where there people even if you want me for me to be in the neighborhood and to laugh for you You know what I used on saying You left me behind and I It hurts I'll tell you what I feel Sarah hello... Sorry Is Sarah... I'm looking for someone O Come damned .. sorry to bother you, but you will not leave True ? Good hello, young man I am young Yes you well My name is Jim Sarah Where do you want to go? ... I do not want to go Well this wonderful You see that dog he recorded observations Do not look to him O fools kill you Do so Go up to the top you both this wonderful hello all my name is Tania Thank you for coming to the conference marketing skills Samrr you these papers If you have any problems with Hands Off Or if you have anything else 've saved me last night no I've done I did Do you want to give me a kiss? Do you want to give me a kiss? I asked first Well stop this Amazing what can be done first page What can happen now? Okay? Now everyone knows about the practice Alduquenj I did not say it was a bad thing it can start with something worse translation
