 

                        In the village of the region of La Mancha who's name I don't care to remember it, there lived not so long ago one of those gentlemen who keep a lance in a rack an old shield, a lean horse and a swift hound. Gone to isn't, an early raiser and lover of the hunt. They say his name was Don Quixote da La Mancha, who's spent his days reading books of knight iron tree, which he loved and enjoyed so much that he completely lost it. Now, all the fantasys in those books, became such an obsession that he thought of nothing else but duels and chairmans, battles and impossible love. Until the day came when he have the most extravagant notion of all to call himself a knight and go and search of grand adventures, just like all the heroes in his books. But Don Quixote needed a esquire so, he decided to work on the neighboring farmer And that wasn't easy. He persist it in traumas so much, that in the end poor Sancho, for that was him name, agree to go with him, leaving behind his wife, his land and all his possession. Now or he left in his search for eternity. Was a lady to fall in love with and knew in for. You see, a knight without love is a knight without a soul. He's suddenly recall the farm girl from a new by village, although he didn't actually know her he been in love from a far. And so was inspired to create that dreams and although that lady never existed she would always be for him, his Dulcinea. Dulcinea del ta Boso! Not again! I'm fit up with this! Who cares anyhow? It's always the same old yard! -What're you saying? I mean, the book says very clearly. Why I should badger with some old book when I was there to see at myself? You mean, you're Rucio, Sancho's donkey? Hold right there! The only talking donkey I know is friend of mine named some Green Oger! I'm a horse! And it's about time the world knew the truth. -The truth? What truth? It all begin quite some time ago after we got back that first adventure. Don Quixote, Sancho, Rosinante and yours truly DONKEY XOTE It's stink on donkey around here! So, where do you think youre going, donkey? This road is for horses only! So, what this pig doing here then? Are you blind? Can't you see what a wonderful steed he is? I wasn't talking to you! One day I'll be a great horse and I'll do all kinds of important stuff, you'll see. Just remember, you'll have to pass the pony's exam first. I'm afraid, he'll have tough time with practical! No one will humiliate me, ever again! Right, left, right, left, right, left! Squad positions! I don't believed! Yes! Three to line! And what exactly do you think you're doing, James? It's perfect! A hurricane would even not enough to slug down. You're safe! I got you! -Off, James... now! Everything is under control! You won't believe this, Rocinante! It's incredible! But... -Not acceptable... excuse us... -Stop! Hey you, you don't take another step! What do you want? We not even meant to be talking to each other! Our masters might not be speaking but you and I are horses. -Negative! His already made a clear, he doesn't want to talk. Look, buddy! When I was working as a body guard for Bobby else since horse we are riding at the middle of shut big scene... Besides, it was Sancho's fault. -No, it was Quixote's fault and his absurd obsession with sugary and love, which don't even exist. -Don't exist for you maybe! Horses like you turned a life into big fat lie. Look it yourself here and this all barn, sent in a ridiculous office with the handful hands and some little squirrel like a body guard? Rocinante, you became a coward! -Now you gone too far, pal! We have to stop Quixote from seeing this! -Stop him? But this is our chance to get some dignity back in our lives. Make our dreams come true! -Yours dream you mean, but then you just the same as Quixote... Say it, why don't you? -A fool! Losers! One more word from you and you're mess meat! Don't you even think about it! Give that back! This is really important! Very, very important! This I think of yours dreams! You haven't spoke in a months and now all of the sudden you got to talk? Well, just make sure you'll remind him to pay the rents, that's all! This time it's different! We're meeting at the Baclor Carasco's place, neutral territory. Who knows, what trouble get you in the now? Please, what do you think you're doing for the God sake Sancho? What's wrong with this? Ten years and still light me! It's like a glow too. Hey, my friend! Where I would be without you? And you are not riding that broken down donkey! Take the new horse! Just her way of showing a affection. My dear Sancho, come in. We were waiting for you! Where is Quixote? -Sancho! Let's get this over with. I got to donkey double part. Gentlemen! We have know one another from since childhood. You Don Quixote, you are the most famous in the village. After you, Bachlor! And you Sancho, wealthy and respectable man you followed him for a dream but it all went sour, didn't it? He said I get to be governor on a island if I went with. Yhaa, but we didn't find Dulcinea you saw her, but I didn't. Because you left me alone! As you can see it been quite a few left concern that book about you two you even got a fun club, which isn't bad especially when you considered that I for example haven't get a letter in years. And, on the top all of this flooded the region with this pamphlets. "I, Knight of the Crescent Moon, having learn of the adventures of the knight Don Quixote challenge him to dual in Barcelona this full moon. If I should win, Quixote will hand over his arms and renounce Dulciena for ever but if Quixote will be the winner I promise to reveal the true identity of Dulcinea and will give her all my treasures and possessions. So, what all this got to do with me? My dear Sancho, do I have to remind you that you were the one who with up with him to resurrected this all shivery thing and now, you're Quixote and Sancho, Sancho and Quixote and individual symbol of this beautiful village it's main heretic, the pride of La Mancha. You're everything! And your point is? The truth is, Quixote asked me to intercede trust shake hands, can't you go along with him on a new adventure. Help him as I do, for the sake of friendship. Well, he can forget about Barcelona for a start. I can not intrude forget about Barcelona if where I so find the beautiful Dulcinea, queen of my days and princess of my nights. For you, Quixote! That old pail of junk? -Extraordinary! Looks like Tourists girl! If I not mistaken this magnificent jam is nothing less than Bandiara. the armor of the mystical Plandium. You seem to know everything, Quixote! Everything is in the books! -Please, take this is a small sign of a Bachlor Carasco's commitment to our beloved hero. -What about me? Ha! Nothing, for me nothing! Hurry up! This is absurd, we can't go on like this! Pay me and we are even! -But of course I will! As soon as we come back from Barcelona. Oh, not again please! I already said, I not go back there, didn't I? I mean, what do you want? Need to follow one another man escapade, just to get dumb on again? We will show the world, how to live an exception life. Forget it! -Lets this is a yes then! Look at them! Barely patience to be off! -Get off! But we honoring money! -Are you with him? Didn't I make myself clear? Come on! -No! My friend, a knight Aaron is not want who just dos it to worth expects, no! He must live as his heart dictate. You forget I'm not like you Quixote. I'm not a knight Aaron. I'm just a simple man. Can I suggest something? It was good to see you again. Good luck and have fun! But I need you Sancho. You're the only one who ever saw her. Look Quixote! I don't... OK! Give me one good reason why I should go! The treasure? -Not bad! That treasure, how much we talking about? I mean, is it say any where? I need another reason! -Is that you sweetie? Just in time to clean the house! Hurry up! There's a lot to do today! OK, sweetie! But I get the treasure, you keep the girl! God! Little Sancho, how I should put this? Have you got any spare cash on you? Here we go again! But what about me? Does my opinion count anything around here? Sweetie? Are you there? But if you don't want them to rich Barcelona, why do you help them? To play to the gallery, of course! If I want to be famous, I have to start with my own village. Here everyone worship Quixote and they'll believe I supported him. And now? We have to stop him get to Barcelona at all cost! I want to humiliate them, to get rid of them, I want them vanish forever. Quixote is already wearing the first trap That armor is a dangerous is a damn madness. And now I'll have the services of sinister at knight and you will help execute my full proof plan. Is that clear, Adalanida? But does sinister really exist? My little chickens! No, I said no. I'm not going... Excuse me! Excuse me, would you like to be authentic knight? Build your own armory easy and stormans? Windmill or China! Check for yourself what is today a special offer. For sure it is... -Horrible! Magnicifient! -Or buy here your own copy of Don Quixote! So, that book was true. You absolutely have to one of copy in pretend to avoid of it if you want to be anyone around here. A bargain! 10 euro crowns! -But I'm don Quixote! Of course, you are! They all are. -What are they doing here? They want to see Dulcinea before dual of course. -Can this be... possible? So, who is written that? Miguel De...Cervantes! There is that great story about how Sancho found Dulcinea... OK!OK! I'll take it but forget those speeches about Sancho and Dulcinea. Is this by the secret law of sugary home of the peerless Dulcinea? Hey, hey, I don't need autograph. Don't think I'll sell the original for 20 euro crowns, do you? But we said 5! -That was before I knew it was adaptation! What's all is about the book then? What is in the book life will teach you? Hey you, get in line! I'm Don Quixote De La Mancha, my beloved... Get in the line! Relax Sancho, soon as they see us they'll sent for us. Invitation, membership card? -But... No sneaker! Next! Noble guardian at the virgin peerless Dulcinea Please, announce the arrival of Don Quixote! Let him in! No, no, he's Quixote! Actually my squire here present and Dulcinea all ready equated. A great honor, 100 euro crowns. -Just to see her? Per person, discounts only for babys, pensioners and veterans of the battle of La Panto. YOU!!! And the other gentleman? I'll see you in Barcelona, everything is free there. But how I'll know is truly her without you by my side? Nice to have business with you gentlemen. This way! Hurry along now and no pushing! If it's her, just give me a sign! Is it really you beautiful lady? Move back! Well... -How...should I know. I can't see your face. Move it to the line, pelecho! Are you crazy? -Well... technically, yes. Could you possibly draw that curtain back a little, my friend? I wait to calling to five: one, two... You dare sounds me! They are in trouble, we have got to help! No way! I can't stand fight them! -Coward! So, I guess this is where we will all get bitten to a pope! What's wrong with that piece of junk? Well... according to a legend, the sword live inside in this armor. Is there room in there for two of you? Allow me to express my sorrow for all of this. See how my heart beats in torment. My beloved one, I always... Perhaps you gonna too fast for her? Can I come in? -They kidnap Dulcinea! What have you done with our little Dulcinea? No time to waste! I must save my love! Confess! Are you not at sinister service? How dare you claim such a thing? If I were you, I would run! Oh, I'm with you, let's get out of here. That old piece of junk, gives me the willies. Brothers knights! Gentlemen, who is Don Quixote? -I! -I! -Me! -I! Then I say, why been Don Quixote? Why not Lancelot, Perceval, Amades? King Arthur or his friends? What kind of knights are you? Because, of all you are knights, aren't you? YES! -YES! -Pursuing justice, protecting widows, helping orphans and seeking true love. Yhaa, Yhaa! Absolutely! So why not do so each on your own way? You, sir... what was your name before you becoming a fake Quixote? My name was Peter! Peter the Panmaker, but there's got to be more to life than that. Quite so but why not edit yourself? Sir Peter, the Panmaker. Sir Peter Pan! Sir Peter Pan? Yes, I like it! Before you know it, that name will be famous is... Don Quixote. You think so? -Ridiculous! And you... what's your name? My name...Remisio and I sell the balloons! They call me Globus. -Sir Globus is...globe. Then... who is Quixote? -Not me! -No,no, not me! I intrude heaven, to protect you my friends! The world will remember your deeds! And one day we should get round the fire and with great joy recall our adventures! To adventure! -Yhaaa!!! To adventure! And now what? They all nuts! You are a genius! I would never thought of that! -What do you mean? That nonsense you made up to get rid of them. It was no trick, my friend! Perhaps you too join us one day. Come on, Sancho let us free my love from evil jaw of sinister. We don't even know it was her! She was! Trust me! Enough! My olympic days are over! But wasn't that guy blind! I do so hate the country side. Not to get occasional picnic or anything but... taste like a dish cloth. How do you imagine her? Who? -Dulcinea? I told you before, I don't want to talk about love. So, far I'm concern it's not such a thing! Can you imagine someone searching the world for you just because youre the way you are. I think I prefer to eating on a dish cloth! One day I'll be a horse and Dulcinea will kiss me. You don't said. Now if you'll excuse me, I have an important business to attempt to. One more time Sancho, tell me again, what was she like? One in a million! The fairy is damn who ever took breaths! Quixote, what would happen if Dulcinea didn't exist? My life would be mean less! Well, it wouldnt be so bad, would it? And how was her voice? Was it bright? Look, Quixote! If I was a woman, I think you're a good man, and I give you a chance. -Seriously? Of course not, I'm just saying that to shut you up. It's time to sleep. Good night Sancho! -Good night Quixote! Sancho? -What? Thanks, for believing in me! Hey, boss! You want to scare me to death or what? Everything is under control! If that chicken can't keep at the piece it's his problem. There so far ahead do we I see it we have to gallop all day to until sunset. A great plan! Wake up, Sancho! We must free my love! Day is for work, night is for rest! It's already daylight! -I say it's night! There's nothing wrong and stopping to eat. Everyone needs to eat and so many people can... Help! Attempts only distract! -So! -We must help her! I can't have opinion? Can anyone help me? -I'll take care the lion and you save the fair lady. But I didn't even know her! -Forward my brave steed! Who? Sorry! I never heard of him! OK, so, what do you do when you come face to face with the wild lion? Tremble? -Tremble? And that's it? That's it! Ok, Ok, step aside. I'll take care of this. Everything is under control! Hurry, is no time to waste! -Listen lady, take it easy! We must act immediately! She's in a great danger! But the lion coming straight torch us! Did we have to come all this way just to make fools ourselves? Get lost! O, my... Is...is he... dead? He's killed my Rucio! Is he dead? Stay it! Stand it if you dare! Thanks for the escort. -Your wish is our command. Unfortunately, we can't detail us further as we pursuing at the language who kidnap my beloved Dulcinea. How romantic! Let's go to the castle! I'm sure my husband will send out fears some ovy after that villains and beside that's mean you will be able to rest a little. Attend to my guests and take care of their... Take him for supper! Isn't that the lion...? -Never fear! Bartoluis is only aggressive outside the castle's walls. A little insecurity problem! My respects, your grace! Don Quixote De La Mancha. At your faithful service. -Darling! I told this brave knight with help catch the kidnapers of his beloved lady. I guarantee that waggon will never leave this land... because, I imagine they traveled with a waggon. Many thanks, but I can't possibly let anyone else perform the duty, that is mine alone. You saved my love and permit me in the name of the secret laws of chivalry to do the same for you. If you vote the law of chivalry then I have no option. First, we should sent my army with Bartoluis, a great tracker, and once they'll find the witching miscreants it will fall to you to free ha. But if you wish my men can beat them, to whip them, delight them on along the ground to until they'll scream and please about the mercy... Darling! Your commitment is all true clear! And your reward, ask whatever you wish and it shell be yours. I considered myself already pay it for. And you my friend, from all I possessed choose what you wish. So, for example, if I ask for food, you'll give it to me? Done! What else do you wish? -Money? Can I ask for money? -Done! It is said, that the wish of the noble Sancho is to be a governor of the island. -Yhaa, right! Can I ask for one of those islands with water all around it? By luck! In my dominions there is just such an island and it's need a governor. An island! They would water all around it! But how I can leave you on your own? After all the sacrifices you of made I insist you take immediate possession. I have to tell Teresa! Don't worry! We will take care of everything! My friend! Forgive me if I ever doubt in you. All you ever promise is come true! To a new governor! Governor Sancho Pansa! Yours eyes... yours eyes like... two eyes! This is go too far! Yours voice... Now let me see! How is your voice sound? -I don't believe this! You're such a seducer! What the...? Well, well, you not know mares like I do know mares. If I were you I gonna check this out. -O, get lost! My dear governor, forgive me for calling you like this but I need your help. Oh, right! Governor! Your wishes, my command, duchess! Take this! I understand, you actually seen this Dulcinea and I was wondering what she's like. Why do you ask? It's all there in the new best seller, you see, everything that happened and Cervantes sure us you never even saw Dulcinea. And another thing! Quixote is in danger from the sinister knight and only you can help him. -But Quixote made in ma! Oh, no, his real as real as they can and he plans to destroy Quixote. But we know how to get rid of him and doing so help Quixote find his Dulcinea. But she doesn't exist either! Listen carefully Sancho, if you want to save Quixote and keep your precious island... As midnight is past and yours values soldiers not return I beg you leave to depart. -Don't be so impatience! I'm sure they will be back soon. But Barcelona is my final clue to meet Dulcinea and the full moon is two nights away. Forget such forwardness my lord but I must abandon you fort ves because... Oh, yhaa, I thought I heard the guardsmen, perhaps they have news. -Dough you go! Tell me Quixote, is it true you never actually saw Dulcinea? Not with my eyes it's true, but with my heart every second of my life. But Sancho has seen her and his eyes likes mine. So often blinded by passion! -I think I get enough! Ser, the constable has... -The wagon? ...the wagon has brought to the castle... -Here? Sorry? -Oh, yhaa, a wagon with two man and a woman in the back, and they ask to take refuge according to the secret law of chivalry. Ok, can I go now? -What's wrong? Under law of refuge... we can't touch them! Hard to believe that would Dulcinea and her captors right here and you planted do nothing? Do men make laws only to the knights justice? But nobody even notes what she looks like! Except, the governor! What if it really is her? -You're right! Justice should be above the law, if is the governor willing to help! Is it she? Is she or she's not Dulcinea? Quixote, the truth is... -This is not behavior of governor! Is it possible? Is this by the glory of the secret law of chivalry? The place... Come on! Come on, let us not waste more time! Don't get me angry, pendeho! I shell respect you on the refuge on the condition you immediately release the beautiful Dulcinea the queen of my days and princess of my nights. O, that's nice! Release me, you say? The macho man hasn't be warn looking get a better of me. I have no words Dulcinea! Love weakness my voice and my will. And you are? -Don Quixote De La Mancha! At your faithful service! -Ah, not another one! Don't waste your time, sunshine! Well, I never imagine the moment quite like that. Why don't humans understand what we say? They can't be too intelligent, can it? After all, we understand everything they say. It's all for the best, Rucio! Your master got his island, mine is Dulcinea and I got a mare, with a magnificent apartment. But it's all lie! It's always been a lie! Where are you? -Crap! Not as long we believe in it! -Hanky? Hanky? Rucio, we are off, right now! -Not now! I said, no! What I have done? What I have done? I'll never be able to look Quixote in the face again! Hanky, are you deaf or something? My dear Don, cool your eking heart, Dulcinea will speak with you or else... Without her I'm nothing! And your thoughts now are on marriage? Marriage? So soon? And how long you been searching her heart? For all eternity! Time goes by Quixote! I married duchess without knowing her. Well, I don't suppose I know her now really! Yhaa, if you put it like that! So, you except? We still far away! You could brought a horse! Still a good way to gone to until rich Alabantaria, governor! Good! The further the better! Queen of my days, princess of my nights, I'm your faithful servant. Must you keep repeating yourself? So, what's an offer, exactly? True love! Something a little more tenantable? One must married well, you know! I haven't ask her yet! What pretends of love is this if you can't show how much you care? Don't I deserve a diamond necklace? Aren't I worth a house in a country? A private pension? Paid holidays in Palm Beach? A weekly face shop? Get him out of my side! How can this skinflint possibly be true Quixote? But I am he! Yhaa, the one who fight the windmills and travel the world for love, without even knowing me. -Chance! If they would giants! -Look! I never ask a thing not battles nor adventures and now all we want is a decent wedding. The true Quixote wouldn't reject me just because I wasn't up to his strings. He wouldn't treat me like some toy! Wisdom was never so painfully game. I have been selfish Dulcinea! Let's us do what you say! Immediately! All that is mine is yours! -Great! Tonight, a party! And you give the wedding new clothes even we braided for you with all my love. Sweetie pie, where are you? I tell you sinister, they'll never rich Barcelona! They are finished! That is supplements for your serve! Looking them self get walp by central exclusive rights in case you decide to sell to sury some day. Is that clear? Now let me see, we have to pay rent on the set and the castle. My husband has to conductive very expensive wedding tomorrow. And you come begin to imagine the amount top quality meat that beast eats every day? This is what we agreed, the rest later. Are you going to say anything? -Yes! I want to keep Bartolomus! -Oh, what for? To eat people! -But he is vegetarian! I want to keep Bartolomus! -What about me? That Quixote don't look like his so loaded after all. But his friend is my dear and he feel so guilty he won't deny a thing... Who was it? Are you OK, hanky darling? Don't you like my new hair style? You really think a somebody bright like me would be interested in some cheap tranter. Uh, now I am angry! You are like so... pathetic! Nice out Don Quixote! You have to admit Disidora has impeccable taste. Who? -Did I say Disidora? My friend, forget Barcelona! You got your Dulcinea now! The truth is, I wondering my good friend Sancho will be back in time to the wedding. -Of, course! How could he miss this? I have got this funny feeling we been go around in circles. It's a trick, can't you see? Now I understand! Of course! -Great! Listen, they give me a wrong map! -Oh, really? How can be this the island Beriteria if doesn't got water all around it? And did you figured out all by yourself or did the donkey help? Thanks for your help guys but I heading back to the castle! Quixote needs me and I don't think I be much a governor anyhow. What I would owe you? You're not going back any place! I'm a free man! I'll do what I want! -No! You won't! Roasted over a slow flame, I think! Wait! Rebutted was fer enough but burned alive? Don't worry boss! Now you making me dizzy! Oh, a great plan! Really effective! No! Smoke? No, thank you, I don't smoke. -FIRE!!!!! Rocinante! Couldn't you even wait for us to be properly cooked? Don't you touch him! We have got out from here! Everything is under control! Sorry but I am too young to die! What's all this? Him! -Him! O, my love, what did they done to you? If I don't get married tomorrow someone will have to confessant me. Dum's OK but not a vegetable! Rocinante! My brave steed! -What about me? Who's more important me or some stupid horse? Queen of my days and princess of my nights I have many wished way to bit. This wedding... Enough of this childless pranks! What do you two waiting for? Sorry? -Why waiting to until tomorrow we have such a magnificent full moon. It isn't quite a full yet... Who cares? Why not get married right now? Disi... -Dulcinea! Do you take Quixote to be... -YES! And you Quixote, do you take this beautiful lady to be lovely wedding wife? This isn't a way I imagine this. Did you understand a question, Quixote? I... Well, I... -No! No! Sancho? Governor of... There'll be no wedding Quixote! I lied to you! I never saw Dulcinea all that time ago. I look quite enough, day and night, day after day for you, for the best for my only friend but the truth is, she doesn't exist. Then this lady... -Ha, lady? Some jumping magic comes along and says I am not your Dulcinea and you believe him? -I invent it all! And this one's just another adventure! Try inventing knees, buster! This is a real woman! Come along my dear! Better luck next time! Yes, my love! Rucio, I hope your insurance covers it. I never thought to be so glad to see you. James! James! Wake up! This isn't funny! Too late! James! Nor you are be happy. We're going home! You know, I am not sure about anything anymore. Rocinante! That way to the village! Teresa will be hoping mad but at least we will get something to eat. After all, Barcelona is a long way and it'll just be more the same, right? This is the end, Sancho. It's over! All my life I been a coward, run away from reality, but you can't live an illusions. A coward? You live the great life! Are you serious? I never meet a braver man a man who dares to live as he feels and thinks with his heart. At least Dulcinea was a beautiful illusion. Dulcinea! So, a home? Are you thinking what I'm thinking? Come on! "Barcelona 198 km" Quixote, that duel between you and the Knight of the Crescent moon wasn't it... -Aha! alone, face to face it dust... -That's right! then, could you explain something to me... Well... O, look who is here. Ser Peter Pan. I'm not Peter Pan any more. It never catch on! I decided to be a Quixote again. Ser Globus! -And me too! Tent, helmet, armor and one set of the lances. The sort is optional! The social security number? What's that? -A photo of ID? It's not my best but... -OK, in a case of accident. Sancho! Sancho Pansa! -That's all! Sign here! Don Quixote, 163. But first! Where is my book? I'm gonna go broke! Well, this is the end of us! -Never fear, Sancho! It's all going to work out just fine! The light, I can already see the light! And... what are you planning to ride, exactly? Good question! I just saw some pretty good redeem horses outside. What about me? -All right! I'm free! What do you say Don? Can't you hear me? Hey? Hallo? -Maybe! Forget it! Why not? Yes! I got it! Rucio shell be my steed! YES! -Rucio? -Let's hear! There you are! -Yes! Rucio! -YES! -Would you... - YES! ...to be my horse? -Can't you understand a simple yes? That's right! Just finish me off! Don't take offence Quixote but Rucio is only a donkey! Don't ruin it! This beast is showing a great courage. His strong and resilient. His a surviver! Kneel Rucio! By the authority vested in me, by the secret law of chivalry, I named this horse of the highest rank! It's the battle of the century! And remember the just, the truth, the wining Quixote will have right to fight with the Knight of Crescent moon! Quixote 26, entering in arena! His opponent is Quixote 13! Yhaa, that's hurts! Let pick up the pieces and move on, 'cause here comes Quixote 76! You know, I'd fighting Quixote's place if they let me. Bigger ball! Watch out! Holy cow! Forget I said that! Do we have our winner then? -He'd better be! I entreaty, dispatch me to the illusion feels of cowardice I show. I pray also for the night explandian, son of Amadis and Oriana he would meet today. Show him the way to courage and help free his soul from such a cruel punishment. Surely you'll not gonna wear that old junk! It's my armor! It's for real out there Quixote and this thing, well, I don't know what's up with it but it's not good. The spell will only be broken when the soul of this knight takes part of active courage. Impossible! That's impossible! I believing in you! I suppose, they do need someone to pick up the helmets around here, donkey! I'm offering to the battle any moment! I am Don Quixote's steed! You're going nowhere! You're donkey! If your Quixote needs a horse he could rent us! That's we're here for! -Exactly! And it's not fun week on the beach! On the beach? -On the beach! Let's go ser Rucio, it's time! What did just he call him? It's only to put down to me! Look, who is come to see you! Can't we talk about this? Sure, here's a deal! I'll just eat your legs that way your master doesn't get it take part in a chaste. I don't know anything, I'm retired! Rucio is Quixote's horse now and... What did you say? You want me to repeat it for you, pal? Hey, boss! -James, you're alive! You are safe! Off, James! Well, I'm going to learn something! Lion! Lion! -Lion! Dure the circumstances beyond our control will be passing directly to the semi-final! Peter Pan, Don Quixote 25! Rubicio, Don Quixote 26! Don Alanco Cihano, Quixote 163 and the last minute entry, Quixote 666. Well, at least we should be home for super! Hell, Cezar! What would I get in to? Rimidio, lost! What? Me? And you hared this hopeless failure to get rid the Quixote? Don't worry! He's not in the final... yet! Alanco Cihano! Whats this his riding? This is ridiculous! I suppose you had to inhered something from me. Not bad! Not bad! -That's my boy! Incredible! The winner is Alanco Cihano! The one and only, Don Quixote! Damn all of you! And now, we give you the battle of the century, the queen the truth, the one and only, Don Quixote De la Mancha! ...and the Knight of the Crescent moon. Sinister? I mind would known! Must you always ruin things? -Baxler? What are you doing here? And dress like that? -Damn you Quixote! From the since I was a child I have been nothing. I studied, I tried... oh, but in our village, Don Quixote and Sancho Pansa are the only one to count. I tried to stop you when I put the olient into your face in danger! So, it was you! Just you wait! And now, I finally get a chance to be someone, a chance to be famous and you humiliate me in front of everybody? Come along, my friend! If you really want to be someone, someone important, why not be a knight? Maybe they'll write book about you too and you'll be immortalize for all eternity. A knight, you say? Fare well, champ! I got to go! You... This everything to play for! Be the best man win! Oh, no! -Is this really end of Don Quixote? Careful! Watch it! Hang on! Forget it Quixote, it isn't worth it! To the better end! I know my destiny! And mine! They're still standing after that! -Bravo! All right! He did it! Yes! Go! I believe in you! Enough! Come here! Must still have a few score to settle! You win! I hanmaerable Dulcinea, but she deserves the best and the bravest of knights. I must renounce my love, for the sake of... a pure love and what is best for her. -Renounce? Only the true Quixote would take honor and courage so far. Only Quixote would renounce love for the sake of true pure love. Which is you're the winner! The best of the knights! For I'm Dulcinea! Much like you, I had to know if Quixote was real or just a fragment my imagination. So, I set all this out! -Can it be possible? Is this... Is this by the glory of the secret law of chivalry... Cut the crap! Bravo! Congratulations and all that! What about the treasure? Treasure? You know how much it cost to organize this? You made it! -It was nothing! But you're a horse, a real horse! A horse? And of the best of breed! -I put you're on no less! All right, all right! Ok! Enough flattering, make way, give us some room, everybody back! Sancho, asta la vista! We'll be together again soon my friend! Just don't come without the rent! What's that? Everything is under control! You must meet his wife! And this my friends is true story of Don Quixote! Sancho returned home happily to Teresa and Rocinante went back to his dear dusty barn to care for his beloved hands. For taking care of Don! Did you see that? It's no surprise Quixote lived happily ever after with his adorable creature. Of course, I stayed with him too, I get not paid much but he does understand me. PREVEDEL: REO
