 

                        Is the air conditioning off? Why is it so hot? Do you want to hear a scary story? If you see two moons at night, there are ghosts near you What? If humans and ghosts meet, it means this world is meeting the underworld So there are two moons, one for each world There was a nursing home in the middle of the woods The family living there killed themselves and became wandering spirits But then... Oh my God! Please don't hurt me Help me, please I'm not a ghost You scared me to death! I'm so scared, mister Hold on a second Do you know where we are? I have no idea Just sit tight What are you? I'm not a ghost, either I'm in the same shoe Same shoe? Just like you, I don't know why I'm here, either Wait, How long were you awake? About 5-1 0 minutes before you woke up I'm not sure Anyway, I woke up and it was pitch dark And? So I just stayed down and reached out my hand then you were lying there! Me? I thought you were dead! What about you? How did you get here? I told you I don't know anything I woke up because you were screaming Hey, look! Your clothes... Is this blood? What? Oh My God! what's happening? Hey, are you crazy? We don't even know where we are Why are you screaming? Is this really blood? Maybe I'm hurt! You don't look hurt Then why do I have blood on me? Maybe it's not your blood Oh my God! then whose? Come on! This place... It looks like a shed Why am I in a shed? I think someone locked us in here Are we kidnapped? Hey, here's a door Must be locked if we're kidnapped It's open! Where are we? Where are you going? Let's take a look inside Are you crazy? We should run You just wanna run without finding out what's going on? Whatever's going on can't be good We were locked in! Technically no The door was open Yeah... I need to find out what's going on first Man... The Sleepless What is this place? You scared me to death! I'm starving There's no food here I'm starving! Will you keep quiet? Why? No one's here You don't know that yet I don't think anyone else is around What is it? Nothing You told me to keep quiet, I can't even breathe Do you hear that? What is that? Can't we just leave? You wait here, I'll check it out Please, let's get out of here Wait a minute! I heard something I know, right? What noise? Did I imagine it? Huh! What is it? Someone's out the window! Really? I think we'd better get out of here It looks like someone's watching us It doesn't feel right I told you Let's go! Yeah, let's Let's just stay here Why? I noticed on the way in, we're in the middle of the woods So? We can't get through the woods in the middle of the night What if we get lost? What would we do then? Maybe the woods isn't that big We could find a way out or find another house No! I mean, I don't think so When did you have time to notice all of that outside? I just know Let's just stay in until the morning You're really weird Why do you insist on staying here? Let's just go by ourselves But, shouldn't she... Wait, hold on Isn't she weird? What do you mean? She was rather calm in the shed And she talks like she knows this place You said you were the first to wake up in the shed, right? Yeah What about her? What was she doing? I didn't even know she was there I was awake, but it was too dark and I was disoriented I might have heard someone come in the shed Really? That's so weird How come there's no way out? I'm so cold and hungry Hang in there! How come there's no way out, when there's a house? I know exactly! Hey! What is this place? Where is she? Yo, high school! Hey! Hey! Hey! What's wrong? What are you doing here? I've been calling you like crazy! I didn't hear anything Were you here the entire time? You were right behind me You went in the woods and came right back out What? Right away? What are you talking about? I was lost in there for like a half an hour No. You were gone for like a minute or two, max What? What's wrong with you? What happened? Did you find the exit? Come on! No, I couldn't What do we do now? What? About getting out of here! Hey... She was right It's too dangerous We should wait till the morning I don't want to stay here Hey! Hurry up! Where'd she go? Maybe she went looking for us Wait! Was the candle lit when we first came in here? I'm not sure? Think about it I didn't light it, neither did you Wait! That noise! It's the same noise I heard before Sounds like a monster breathing No! What are you doing here? What's wrong with you? Ah, I just came to check out the noise In this dark? I've got a good night vision Hold on Hey, don't go in there Why not? I have a tell for these things That place doesn't feel right Usually in a damp, dark space, you can find ghosts Ghosts? You're really scaring me I'm not sure, but... People who lived here probably didn't rest easy How can you tell if there are ghosts? I just get an eerie feeling in places like this I'm leaving This is messed up! How come there's no food in such a big house? Are you hungry? Hungry is an understatement I'm famished Where are you going? I'm gonna look for some food I just told you there's nothing! Are you ignoring me? Hey, calm down We're all starving here She's irritating me! Look here I found some food Whoa, it's bibimbab! It looks delicious Awesome! Hey, we should share No, I'm okay Go ahead, eat Are you sure? Hmm, it's really good! You know I saw a scary movie, where there were people like us, stuck in a house turns out those people had something in common Same date of birth Maybe... we have something in common, too Like a birthday or name or a job, even? No way My name is So-hee Lee I'm 28 years old I am a novelist Whoa, really? What'd you write? I don't think you've heard of it It's a horror story So, that's why you were so calm You write horror stories Well, I am more used to this kind of situation But I think you're braver than I am So, when you said you can feel eerie presence... Yeah, I often experience and grew interested in the underworld Even started to write about it That's crazy! How can a girl write horror stories? So, what's your name? How old are you? My name is ln-jeong Park I'm in 1 1th grade - 1 1th grade is 1 8 years old, right? - Yeah Why? Nothing Not really All I do is study and study I'm going to be a idol when I grow up If I do my hair up like this, cute, eh? But my dad is really bugging me about going to college and getting a job Shouldn't he be more supportive of my dreams? - So, ln-jeong... - Yeah? You must be really good at singing? No, I'm a dancer My name is Seok-ho Choi I graduated from college and currently, is of no party What? You don't have a job Hey! Then, how old are you? I am 28 years old You two are the same age! Do you have a girlfriend? Why would you ask that? Do you have a girlfriend or not? - I don't, not at the moment! - Great! I'm single too Look, ln-jeong, is there anything you remember about getting here? Nope I'm drawing a big blank Memories are like a skein of thread You unravel one memory, and the rest will follow Think about it What did you do today? Today? In the afternoon... Hey! I'm so cold - Remember! - No! Recall your memories! What are you doing! Remember! Hey! Wake up! Bring her some water! Water! What did you do? She'll be fine now In-jeong, are you okay? What did you do to her? I studied about energies for a novel I'm just trying that out Didn't you just say a spell? A spell? No... What was that earlier? What? Why'd you do that to ln-jeong? She was almost dying, and you were pushing her to the limit It's all because she can't remember I thought if she could remember, the seizure would stop I have a similar scene in one of my novels So, you think, everything can be explained by scary novels When I get out of here, I'm going to use this experience as material for a new book I'm sorry if I made you uncomfortable No, not at all I must have missed human touch I'll go get some air Hey, are you okay? What happened to you? It was really weird When she covered my face, I could feel warm energy enter through my body I could have died if it weren't for her Huh... What's that? Did you hear that? What is it? I don't know Hey! Hey! Are you okay? die... What? Going to die... Who's going to die? The killer... The killer is coming! The killer? I told you there was something here The killer... please help me What are you talking about? Where's the killer? Here... In this house Very close... How do you know that? I just know... What should we do? If there really is a killer here we're not safe anymore Let's go back to the shed We can wait there till the sun comes out What is your name and age? Why would you ask that? I was just wondering, that's all What are you! She writes novels Then why is she asking questions? We all shared our names earlier You gave her your name and age? Yeah, why? Stay away from that bitch! She will kill us! That's why she's asking That bitch! That bitch is the killer! Name and age... That's proof she is going to tear you to pieces! That bitch! You have to kill her! Look! calm down Kill her! Lady! Chill out! You can't fool me Your body reeks of blood! Kill her! kill her! Kill her! You have to kill her! Kill her! Kill her! Kill her! Fine, I'll go outside Kill her! Kill her! Seriously, So-hee's weird Like that lady said, she kept asking about our name and age Haven't we met before? What? We've met before Think hard! No, I don't remember you What about you? Me? Have we met before? I've never seen you before No. We've met before Hey, it's that noise again! That noise... What is it? The killer is over there Nah, we went to check out the noise before There wasn't anybody You don't know It's there! The killer is there! Go! Get rid of it! Kill it! Or we will die first Don't go! Didn't you leave to get some air? Why do you keep coming here? That's not what's important right now It's important to me! I need to know what's going on! In-jeong! Are you okay? Come here! No! No! What happened? What happened to you! I'm not sure I wasn't doing anything Then I heard the lady scream Did you see someone? No, she went away What? You didn't see anything? Seriously, I'm not lying! How do you explain this blood? I don't know. Really! Seriously, how do you not know what happened? I'm so scared Please, let's just get out of here Damn it! Fuck! You have to remember! What? How you got here! I can't! What the hell do you want me to remember? We have to know why we're here to figure out what's going on We don't have a lot of time left We're running out of time... Hey, Seok-ho! Hurry up! Okay... I remember now I went hiking with some friends One moment, I looked up, I was by myself wandering the woods Here! Help, help me! Help me! Help! Hey... After that... I really can't remember anything What about that person's face? Wait a minute... There was a girl in the back of the truck That was me! Really? What is going on? Someone tell me! I went to see my friend from middle school It was more fun when we went to school together After you left, I became a loner Hey, loners can still wear makeup Yo, if I put on makeup, I will become Miss Popular Shut up! Hey, how much longer? We just gotta go a little more I can't walk anymore Hey, let's hitch a ride Yo! Loner! Stay back Watch and learn It's a woman Hi, could you give us a ride to downtown? Didn't you say you were going downtown? What's taking her so long? She's pissing me off Let's go in! Lady, what are you doing? You said you would take us downtown Lady! Why are you ignoring us? I'm so tired We shouldn't have hitched a ride You wanted to. It's your fault Okay, I apologize from the bottom of my heart Wonder if she's done chopping radishes Are you alright? Fuck! I'm pissed! That crazy tried to run us over! I know right? Has she lost her mind? Hey, don't go there Bitch like that needs to learn her lesson Why? It was her! The same woman who tried to kill us What? I'm sure of it It was that lady! What's that sound? I can't believe it... Gone... She's gone... What do we do now? So-hee... Where is she? What happened? I think she's risen What do you mean? She heard the two talking, and figured out who she really is And that revived her? So she's the murderer I think so. Do we know anything about her? Young-wook is asking about her to townspeople Someone will know something We need to hurry It's not safe here I know... Be careful! We don't want to get us in trouble Don't worry This isn't my first rodeo She's gone... How... How can a dead person move? I don't know what happened Maybe she was never dead to begin with What do you mean? Hey, ln-jeong! What! you scared of me now? Stay alert! We're all going to die in here You know every time we heard the noise, So-hee was over there... What about her? I'm not sure But I intend to find out her involvement born in 1 969... Okay, Young-wook, what else? The murders took place on the same day? Okay! I think we've hit the jackpot here Stay on top of it, okay? Name, Yeon-soon Kim Born in 1 969 After the owner of this house killed herself she came to work everyday as if the landlady was alive She would talk to herself like a crazy person I think she figured it out We have to hurry! I knew it! Tell me! What have you been doing here? Do you even know what's going on? What, what did I miss? I'll kill you if you're lying to me What are you? Who the hell are you, bitch! Listen, we're on the same side Same side? Yeah, right... No, don't go there! Why, are there more ghosts? Ooh, I'm scared Fuck! Why isn't she dead! It's gone... She's gone again! The moon... I see two of them! Come clean now... What's up with two moons and who the hell are you? The moons... I really don't know I will explain everything else, but first, I've got to kill her Didn't you see she keeps coming back to life? Just find her I'll take care of it from there Stop scheming! Come here! I don't get it... How are there two moons, and how come dead people come back alive? How is any of this possible? That's not all! Shouldn't the sun be up by now? It should be morning already When we first woke up, it was 7:23 pm and it's still 7:23 pm now Explain that to me! How is this possible? you know what? Hey, you know what? What? You were dead too! What the hell are you talking about? Have you lost your mind? Huh? Just think about it When you were fighting the lady she stabbed you to death Hey! This isn't funny anymore I kept quiet, but you know? When I saw you in the back of that truck, you were dead too! What do you mean? You... were dead! No! No! What are you doing? I will tear apart your traps, you whores, and spread apart your crotches No! No, I wasn't dead! I saw it! No! You had this huge knife wound in your back No! See? No! I'm so sorry Please don't kill me Holy... I thought you were the killer lady Yeon-soon Kim? Where is she? I was watching the monitors, she was staring directly and approaching me Those eyes... I thought I was going to die Wait, how did I see Yeon-soon? I think the spirits are getting stronger So-hee, In all my years of spiritual TV production, I've never felt the spirit this strongly Yeon-soon Kim... Hey, Mr. Jeong, Let's just finish up after those two No, we have to take care of Yeon-soon Kim for this whole thing to be over Listen, listen! So-hee... If we do this right, we can solve the mystery It is not the time to worry about our TV program! The spirits of this house are getting upset with us We can't stay here anymore I thought you put a spell around the house Aren't we safe then? The spirits are too strong I've never handled such strong spirits Okay... I'm sorry We will wrap it up now Okay! Now that you know, stop it, okay? Hey! Stop it! Don't be afraid I will set you free from pain What are you doing? What is that! You two are grudge spirits who can't leave this house You must stop hurting people Stop repeating the tragedy Are you kidding me? Hey! Am I a ghost then? Look! I'm fine! You died 7 years ago Remember that day, Hey, over here! I'm not dead! That's right! You were the killer! Right! No! Don't come close! Please... I beg you, leave me alone! I beg you! I am relieving you from your burden Don't fight it Yeon-soon Kim, born in 1969 Grudge spirit stuck between two worlds for 7 years I know more than just your name and age I know you murdered your husband He was the devil! Why did you kill ln-jeong and Seok-ho? I... I don't remember that Why'd you kill them? I will tear apart your trap and spread apart your crotch! Now, Leave now Put it all down, and go... Mr. Jeong Mr. Jeong... Mr. Jeong! We have to get out of here! We can't stay here! Mr. Jeong! Hey, this place is so creepy So-hee, this is perfect for our opening scene, right? - Hey? - Yes Why do you look so confused, never seen a moon before? Hey, what's wrong? What? No, nothing Oh, Young-wook! What? What's with you today? Don't just rely on the cops Meet the townspeople Dig something up! Even if it's evil, we should wish it well Okay, let's go! One-Two, Cue! T onight on Late Night's Whisper, we came to 347 Mok-Chon village three bodies were found I am going to go in the shed The rumor that the murderer was one of them If the rumor is true... Are you feeling okay? I'm not sure It's so creepy today Hey, listen! I guarantee you there is something inside here Can you feel it? A guy and a girl... Okay You sure, you're okay? I'm gonna close the door So they were all ghosts? Grudge spirits don't know they're dead, so they keep on living the same day That's scary! Not scary, it's tragic...
