 

                        Around 90's in hyderabad... Shankar Nagar, Shankarnarayan is the man behind its name, around 10000 families live here, ln 1992, it was identified as Railway land, Central Govt. used force to vacate the place, Shankarnarayan went on a fast unto death and brought Central govt. to him in 16 days, he got the land registered to displaced people, and stood by them, hail Shankaranna! When the entire neighbourhood got flooded due to heavy rain, he gave shelter to the affected people in his home, and took care of them like his own family, with that incident Shankar became Shankaranna, and became a God to people of the area. hail Shankaranna! Even when NTR wave swept the state, Shankarnarayan who contested as an lndependent, people voted him as their MLA with great majority. Shankarnarayan who was a great fan of NTR, NTR who recognized his honesty, invited him to join his party, Shankarnarayan who wanted to serve people without any party support, refused the generous offer gently, Shankarnarayan got still closer to the people after becoming their MLA, he used to personally go to any function to bless. his name is Meka Narasing Rao, Shankarnarayan's political follower, Sivaiah, not only Shankar's right hand but a great devotee too. Amberpet Ganesh, another close associate. Sathyam, Shankarnarayan's younger brother, though doctor by profession, getting attracted by the ideals of his elder brother, he has become his follower, Shankar is fond of his son Ajay, who lost his mother as a child. Today is very special as it's birthday of Shankarnarayan, not only to the family but it's a festive day to the entire Shankar Nagar. hail Shankaranna! Throw him out, boys! Stop! Let them in! happy birthday, brother. Thanks l've done many illegal businesses, l troubled you a lot and faced many troubles, had second thoughts, you were right, from today l'm shutting down all my illegal businesses. promise Pleased to hear it, Malleshanna. Better sense has prevailed, please have food. You're inviting me to have food with heart, but your people seem to angry on me, l'll make it next time, brother. - Okay. Never trust him, brother. lt's our tradition to respect even an enemy if he comes to our home. Brother, we would've been lynched by now, thank God Shankaranna was there. Why did you come here? Nothing My father said wherever l go or who ever l see would get ruined, that's why l came here to meet him. happy birthday, father! happy birthday brother! - happy birthday brother-in-law! What's this, brother-in-law? he was planning something special for your birthday. The little boy got a big idea of making his mother wish you. Brother, you're his life. - Yes brother. Brother-in-law, give this cheque to clerk. Send it to Mother Teresa Orphanage and Baba Amte Old age home.- Okay. hi uncle! - hi! Are you coming from school? Yes uncle. Where's your bag then? Mallesh doesn't have books, uncle, so l gave it to him. Brother-in-law, he's following your footsteps.- Yes. l don't have much more expectation from him. l don't expect him to become a doctor or a Collector, its enough if he stands by the people after me. he'll be in their hearts. Father... What son? Mallesh is very poor, father, when Bablu was making fun of him for not having books and non-payment of fees, l got angry and slapped him, for that my teacher said l'm daring! What do you mean by daring, dad? ls it good or bad? Daring is devil-may-care attitude to do a thing that's right, that's a good character, the character runs in your blood, never ever give it up. Those words got imprinted in Ajay's heart indelibly. By the way, l'm going to attend Yadagiri's marriage, l'll be back by night. What's this brother? We've come to stay with you here No dear, he'll feel bad if l don't make it. l'll be with you all the day tomorrow, okay? - Okay. Bye brother-in-law. - Okay.- Bye son. Bye dad! Brother! Would Chinna stay in hostel? he'll come back in 2 days. he can't live away from us. Present...Mumbai... Starting life as a street goon in Mumbai, and raising to become the biggest gangster, the most wanted criminal... ...a special story on underworld Don Nayak, With hand in every illegal business, ruining the economy of lndia, Nayak is public enemy No:1, nobody knows where he stays, but police say his network runs in several countries, two men are most important people in Nayak's gang, one is Nayak's younger brother Bunty, second is Guru Talwar. You've constituted many teams till now to catch Nayak, but without much success Daddy Your reply? We'll definitely catch him. You've been saying this for a year now. You want me to say something new, we're inefficient. Are you happy? This is our police department! Are you feeling sad for the comment on TV, daddy? No dear. l'm sad for failing to act against him. Can't anyone ever harm him, daddy? No criminal has ever escaped from punishment in history, there will be a man who would finish him, he'll come like a missile to weed out the criminals, death stands six feet tall before him! Why are you watching it on TV? Look at me directly. hey, who are you? Bloody idiot! l should ask questions not you. Bhai, he's a police officer! You are sharp, guessed my profession rightly with just one punch. We've bought many police officers like you. Killed many others. hey, throw him out! hey get out! Police officers killed by you may be weak, bought by you may be fallible, but l'm different. Do you know what people in my department call me? Lion! You don't know about us, we'll hack you. lf l start hacking people, hell will put up a houseful board. Wasn't my one liner good? Excellent! Then what? One more wicket has fallen down. What do you want? Now, you've fallen in line. Guru Talwar where is he? When ever Guru Talwar comes to Mumbai, he stays with Sunny Supari. Mirchibhai, can l trust your word? l'm telling the truth, l swear. Leave me. Okay done. We'll meet again. My father told me man with eyes would see what's before him, but man with brain would see entire world. l think attacking is better than waiting here, sir. l don't need you to tell me what should l do and when. Suppose if Guru Talwar is not inside as you say. Confirmed news that he's here only, sir. What you hear is information, what you see is confirmation. Why do you want to take the risk of going alone, sir? Shut up! how many risks l would've taken to reach this position? wait for my signal Signal? What's the signal, sir? I'll whistle. What if we don't here it? I'll shout. How sir? l'll shout like that, is it enough? Look Sunny, explain him, Nayak is very angry. how can things happen if you do business like this? Okay bhai, l'll manage that bastard. ............ Nayak's name mustn't come anywhere in the property deals bought on proxies. Got it? We must apprehend Talwar today alive at any cost. Careful No sir, he told us not to come without getting signal from him, he may feel bad. lf anything goes wrong, he won't be alive to feel at all. he's shouting like Tarzan. Tarzan is in trouble. hey bastard! Who are you? Why did you come here? Don't beat me sir. I'm a real estate agent, l've asked a buyer to come to see the property, l entered this building by mistake, sir. l beg you sir, l'm a family man with kids. Please sir, Please leave me sir. Good story but l don't believe it. Hey you idiot! Do you've any sense? We're waiting for you in the next building for an hour, what are you doing here? Who are you? Buyer... He fell on my feet promising to show a good property, So I came here. What the hell are you doing here making me wait there? Why are you staring at me? Bloody ego too for you lousy life! Kill him sir, it'll be a good riddance. Ajay You cannot talk like this .................... ....................... You think that I cannot do anything to you? ................... ............ Well done Ajay Guru Talwar is important man in Nayak's gang, we can get information about Nayak's network. Good morning sir. Mr Murthy, What happened? Bullet wound Sir Who shot you there? Why would they shoot there sir? he shot me there sir. Couldn't avoid sir, else he would be dead sir. Don't cook tales, didn't you abuse me before those goons? I didn't have any other option to cover you. You did so to cover or want only, don't I've brain to understand it? l don't know sir. hey police dog! l'll come back for you. l'll not spare you, l'll kill all of you. Did you see sir? Shot him dead like a dog. I shot a dog only. he has no control sir. lf you don't give up this daring attitude, you'll not survive in this department. lf we don't dare, there won't be any difference between policeman and postman, sir. Your dare... Who can match it? Taking on enemy straight head on... hitting the target perfectly stylishly... Always with knock-out punches and creating a flutter with your fights... Without bothering about the consequences... Come on everybody, let's go, go go, go idi Your dare... Who can match it? When poison raises it's hood, you nip it immediately... Showing mercy is useless... wiping it out is necessity... Leave laziness... lt's calamity always... Wage a war swiftly continuously creating catastrophe... Let your fists turn into thunders and knock-out them... Come Again This Is What We Called Dookudu Everybody Stand Along Say Dookudu ..... Nee dookudu Saatevvadu Nowhere can you find a man like him... Epitome of cleverness... Wiping out the evil is my duty... That's my responsibility and my character... l'm a man who never lost a war... l'm mercurial... l'm different...taking out wind from the sails of enemies... Penetrate...aiming... taking head on... Beware of him, idiot... he'll take you with him... his dare is amazing... his dare never stoops or stops... Taking on enemy straight head on... hitting the target perfectly stylishly... Nee Dookudu Saatevvadu Aunty, coffee. Uncle, send these cheques to Mother Teresa Orphanage and Baba Amte Old age home. Young men of your age save or spend money on themselves. half of your salary is going in charity. lf l say anything you say living for family is till death only, living for society will make life carry on beyond death also. What do you call people asking questions though knowing the answer? Pain in the neck! They will! Bye. Be careful, dear. he's totally after my brother. You're too much, you'll say he's like your brother even if he yawns. Serve pickle. Dubai lndian RAW Agent Anil Sharma's home... Swapna, get the milk quickly, how much time! l'm coming, just a minute. Mummy is here, she'll bring milk. Swapna Swapna Tradition of God presiding from temple... Wife is the lifeline of this world... ........... You sent information him to Mumbai police. To make police dread about working on me, l've decided the punishments must be harsh like this. Leave...leave... ............... Swapna Come. If Guru Talwar sings in police custody? how did Guru Talwar die in your custody? ls it lock-up death? Would you say something? We've already suspended the team working on this case. We'll inquire thoroughly and take action on the officers. Killing him in head quarters, we gave them a solid message. Bhai Why are you so cool, Let celebrate the victory Chotu, I got fed with victories. There's kick only when we've a strong opposition. lsn't there one officer in entire police force to touch or dare take on me? Not even one? When l was reciting Gayathri hymn today morning, my grandma said my life is in for a turning point hearing the vibrations, l expected something else, sir. So this is it. This is not turning point but dead end. My dad used to say always, man who lives taking risk needs only courage not the way. What makes you so confident? A day before Talwar died... What would happen if we increase it to 180? No Ajay, he'll die. Anyway he's not telling us anything, all our efforts are waste. Murthy sir told us to produce him in court by tomorrow. We must escort him between court and jail. Waste of diesel and food expenses. lt's better to bump him off. l'll tell you... Go ahead. Not only me nobody knows about Nayak's whereabouts. Nayak never trusts anyone. Nayak's brother Bunty keeps in touch with us. Where does he stay? Wherever he may be, he comes to the club. Bunty has a girl friend there. If you disturb a sleeping tiger and sincere police officer, it's hunt down. You mean? Operation Istanbul lstanbul, Turkey The girl stays in Jehangirsoha. Apartment, flat number ... l know you can speak local language what's that number? Hello I need your help Bye! What's next? Let's wait till Bunty turns up. What? Did Sivaram bring any file? Yes, l've kept it on the table. Chinna mustn't know about this under any circumstances. Yes, we must raise him far away from this. The man who was responsible for you to lose your life, your son has gone in search of him. l'm sure he'll hunt him down. This is God's decision! Ajay. They Turkish women are the best in the world, We mustn't miss a body massage by them. Are we here to catch Bunty or for body massage? My grandma used to say always you don't get interested until you get that. My great grandma! Do one thing, Shastry? Quit this job and become a fortune teller along with your grandma. lt'll be cute. Don't Please don't brush it aside as silly. My grandma didn't get much publicity so she's not famous, actually she's equal to Puttaparthi Sai Baba. You'll know if you get a first hand experience. Okay, l can't see your crying face, l'll try once. get your grandma on line. That's good. I'll Prove it l think wrong number. - No, my grandma's number only. hello grandma. Tell me dear. I'm Ramanujam here. Seeing the vibrations in your voice, l think you're fighting with someone for me. Did you see how she guessed it right as if she has seen it? Yes grandma, my friend is suspecting your talent. Is It? Show him your power. l'll show. Give it to him Greetings grandma. - Greetings. What's your name, dear? Ajay l'll ask you few random questions, answer them instantly. Punjabi, Gujarati, Marathi, which language do you like among them? Marathi, grandma. Gautham, Krishna, Ramesh, which name do you like among them? Very tough question, grandma. Answer is...Krishna! After decoding your voice, l've come to a conclusion, dear. Your future life partner is very close to you. There's an opportunity that she may appear before you any moment now. She may walk up to you. I think she's coming, grandma. Excuse me You're looking for someone? He is the one What a rubbish! What happened to your grandma's prediction? history is the proof. Will she walk up to him? Don't make fun. Yes...l'm coming. Coming alone. he called me, l've some work, l'll meet him. You go to the flat and watch the girl. We'll also come. - Amjad asked me to come alone. Why did he call you alone? I'll ask him and tell you. Mood off, let's go. Let's go l knew it! My grandma's prediction will never go wrong. Sooner or later it'll happen, that's all. Excuse me Pack this This? Not this We don't believe but there are certain things. What's that? Astrology. Astrology. Even that is also science. Planets, their movements, it's affects, everything is based on it. If not how could your grandma predict like that, and a girl dropping from nowhere with the same qualities, surprise! That is expected but thank anyway l'll be grateful to your grandma, Shastry. When she dies, l'll personally conduct her funeral. What? She predicted good for you and you wish her death. That's the only occasion left in her life, right? Can l arrange her marriage? Ajay. l think your focus is shifting, ........ ls my focus shifting? Did l go after her and took her address? l don't know if l can see her again or not. .............. You'll definitely meet her, my grandma said so, right? Watch out, she'll herself come searching you. She has come indeed. Where? here! Coming. See! Why is she here? Because she's Bunty's girl friend! Please move. What's this Shastry? l think black magic is dominating my grandma's prediction My foot! how dare you and your grandma try to link me up to this second hand lady! She made a rare mistake, she predicted perfectly about my grandpa's death. May she would've killed him for publicity. Just now you said its science! My foot! l was suspicious watching her crooked walk and ghostly eyes. You diverted me with your grandma and her lousy prediction. That girl with ghostly eyes will come to the mall tomorrow, keep a close watch on her movements. Did Amjad bhai informed you that she'll come there? Your grandma told me We must finish her too along with Bunty. he wants to avenge her. Did you see how many bags she's carrying? She's spending money like water. he's robbing the country and she's robbing him. Oh no! She has seen us. what's your problem? Yes You Why're guys following me? Looks like too smart girl, must deal her carefully. Why? Please use your brain, Shastry. She doesn't know Telugu. l know. So what? We're not following you. We're here for coffee. Shouldn't we come? Don't try to cover it up. l know very well about guys like you. Basically boys are of two types, type one, if they see any girl who is little beautiful, that's it, they'll chase her with a cheap gang like them, and behave cheaply, type two, if they like a girl, go directly and daringly tell her, l respect such guys, Guys like you irritate me. Stop following me You're hardly few feet from ground, what's your bloody confidence? lf l stand next to you, you're looking at as if l'm in first floor, am l following you? Look at yours and my complexion! Bloody silly face! Shut up What are these bags? What's this shopping spree? Where from you're get so much money? That's none of your business l know that too! l know your business and business of people behind you, and business of people behind them also. Get lost l'll make you spell out entire truth. Bloody rascal, must punch on her face! l don't mind leaving Bunty, but mustn't leave her. Ajay, you're taking it too personal. Excuse me Bill sir How much? how much is that? Ajay That's the girl's flat number, No no It's 505! You said it's 405! That's what l'm also confused. That means, She's not Bunty's girl friend, right? Obviously You went overboard unnecessarily. A slip of feet can be taken back but not slip of tongue. You go immediately and watch Bunty's girl friend. Will you take care of her? No, l'll meet Amjad bhai. Where did she go away? Shall we go, mom? Where did you go away? We're getting late to the boat, right? Not a boat but ferry, mummy. Boat is also English, right? Okay, let's go. ........... ......... You are telugu? I'm Ajay I am Padma This is my smart daughter, Sushanthi And that is my big daughter No need to disturb her. Like the little girl, your names too are very cute, sister. You called me sister? Don't want me to call? I'm happy I wonder ...? People go to Switzerland for holidays, why did you come to lstanbul, sister? Not holiday There's a fashion show going on in Marriot hotel, right? Prashanthi is a fashion designer, right? She's going to present her costume designs on models here. That's why we're here. Why models? Why not on you, sister? No need of that, brother. Okay, if you're not interested, leave it, mustn't force anyone. Your elder daughter... What are you doing here? Prashanthi, listen patiently what l'm saying. Did you tell him my name too? She told me everything. Delete what had happened earlier between us from your mind. What had happened? A small misunderstanding, sister. Listen Prashanthi, basically l'm also a type two man. What's type two, brother? She knows it, sister. Looks like you both know each other very well. She's very intelligent unlike her older sister. Shut up Mom, Let's go Bye brother. Mom, one second What did you just say? Should l look up as if you're in first floor? lt's your comfort, it's not a rule. Don't our complexions match? I told you to delete all this nonsense, right? Go to hell Even my grandpa never abused her. But you were so harsh on her. Will you kill her? Calm down Shastry, why are you crying like a girl? l did abuse Prashanthi too along with your grandma. how do you know her name is Prashanthi? Ajay, Bunty's girl friend! Candidate is very dangerous, keep all your focus on her. Wll you focus on Prashanthi? l don't know what your problem is, your dad sent you to Delhi to prepare for Civil Services, you gave it up and doing fashion designing course. Aunty There are 1200 student in Delhi University, but only we two have been selected, Please, try to understand our talent. He thinks we're in Delhi now. His heart will stop if he comes to know. Mommy, Daddy. l can't, you talk to him. Why Prashanthi is so tensed? Who could be on the phone? It could be her daddy. lf she's so scared, how tough that man could be! Very tough But l trust you'll pass. I've got your name board Prashanthi IPS also ready, dear. I'll try my best Daddy. It's ok, take care. Bye Shastry As your grandma's representative you're feeling so much, l told everything on her face, how much more she would be feeling? I can understand your sadness. Say sorry to her. Why should l say sorry for someone else's mistake? But l can clarify. People talk about Turkish girls only, but boys are amazing here! What a great looking man! Just now a man entered here, he's alluring like a Turkey chicken. he's very tempting! Just like a Simla apple! l feel like taking a bite of him. Why is he so handsome? Why do such great guys take birth here? had he been in lndia... l'm from lndia. Stop! Are you a girl? Will you bite me? Will you make juice of me and drink? Are you a human or man eater? I've understood your loud mouth. Mine is also same problem but not to your extent. Think about from which country we belong to, what's our culture Girls have become very fast. Hello Hi I'm the best Thank you Actually l shouldn't have said like that. lnfact l fell in love at first sight. But my loud mouth spoilt everything and l hurt you. I'm really sorry I hope you understand Of course I understand Hey girl I'm so happy Please listen to me. I'm .. I'm so happy No, please listen to me. hey girl... Leave me, what's this nonsense? You're not just loud mouth but too much of flab too. I came for her. For her? What a lousy life! After living like king, now l'm following her! Can't avoid it, it's duty Leave me, she's going away. What's it Shastry? Day before yesterday it was me, yesterday it was her, today that lady, what's your story now? Say something. l'll tell the truth. Actually, you, her and that lady are different. Situations and persons are different! l know very well about you. l hate men like you. Come. Why the situation is turning against me, Shastry? ls it wrong to do our work? lf you don't brush aside your ego, nothing will work out. Just tell her the truth. l'll do it, if not our position will weaken. Look Prashanthi. Why are you following me? Excuse me Don't create nuisance, situations are against me, just listen to me patiently. Actualy I'm a cop l'm here to catch a criminal. A while ago you saw his girl friend. l though l'll find him if l follow her but l got caught with you. Trust me, l fell for you at the first sight. l mistook you for her and had a tongue slip. l was happy on coming to know it wasn't you. When l tried to clarify, situation turned worse to paint me badly. l'm fixed its you, so l've taken this extreme step. hoping you'll understand me, l'm removing my hand. Thursday March 1, 5.40 pm I saw you for the first time... Fell in love at first sight, my eyes have stopped sleeping ever since then Thursday March 1, 5.40 pm I saw you for the first time... l'm talking and thinking about you only all the day You appear before me instantly as l think... has my entire focus turned towards you? What magic spell have you cast on me... You've made me chant your name... Please listen to him, O dear... This mad man loves you with all his heart... his heart is full of love for you... Think and convince your heart with love... Say l love you to him, O dear... When l remember the perfume you use... lt thrills my heart with unknown happiness... My world is filled with you only... Your image never leaves me for a moment too... May be climate has also fallen in love like me... lt's crazy like me... You've turned my world upside down with your magical spell... You've made me chant your name Please listen to him, O dear... This mad man loves you with all his heart.. his heart is full of love for you... Think and convince your heart with love... Say l love you to him, O dear... Sorry l'm ticking like a clock needle expecting you'll express your love any moment... l'm far ahead of calendar expecting the day you'll unite with me... My daily routine has changed because of you... Watching and following you has made a decent boy like me turn into a road Romeo You've made me chant your name l'm taking my first steps in love Shall l unite with you as your love? Whatever it is am l not your love? l'm presenting myself as a gift to you... My life...everything is yours... Why are you so tensed? Today is final presentation of our designs, right? l'm worried about it. Till now we've been selected in all preliminary rounds. don't worry Where's our bag? Oh shit! We left it on platform. All our effort is wasted. Prashanthi Please calm down. For cheating my dad I deserve this punishment. Girls get irritated if boys follow them. Did you see its advantage? People in my department say l'm a lucky hand. l'm giving it with my hand, l'm sure you'll get selected. No use just cat walking with her, we're in an alien place, be careful, getting late, go. Thanks Ajay Will Bunty come here? he'll come Shastry. Police man must have patience also with focus. Look at me; l focused on Prashanthi with patience, didn't l get her or not? Did you get her? Any doubt? lt's very easy to trap girls for men like me, Shastry. l got it. lf we use the same colour dress, they'll feel same pinch, just a song and she fell flatly. No sir... Let's talk it openly, Shastry. how can her fashion designing set with my police department? l'll encourage in the beginning and then force her to give up later. You'll say like that now, watch out, you'll take her personally after marriage. Would l? l'll break legs and make her sit at home. Infact, I must abuse her parents for supporting this. her mother makes me remember, l can't tolerate her Butler English! Just for fun l said why not wear modern dresses yourself, she was feeling shy saying why for us, brother? Is she really thinking of wearing it? No need of all that now. May feel bad if hears it. She'll feel bad if only she hears, right? She's hearing! - Where?- There! I came here to thank for your help. But you don't deserve it Now l know who you are and what you are! Look at me, girls are of two types, type one are those who fall for cheap tricks like this and follow you like dogs, type two, it's very difficult to get them, you've to sacrifice for them, Wage wars for them, put life at risk for them, still there's no guaranty that they'll fall for you, I'm type two. Goodbye When did she come in? She entered when you said it's easy to trap girls. Couldn't you've told me? how can l when she's watching me? Couldn't you've scratched me? Anyway, why did l discuss this lousy thing with you early in the morning? Why did she slip in like cat and hear it? She's so short, she talks about wars, is she great Jodha Akbar? l did compromise a lot for her. Moreover says she's type two, watch out, she'll get some typist only. lf not she, l'll get another. What's the use of scratching now? She's here again. Lost her permanently, right? how can anyone help a loud mouth? l'm the sufferer, right? Ajay, Bunty is here! Hey my darling Baby baby my baby Hi my darling Why are you so late, Bunty? Who are you? Bloody! Would fans be waiting for you? Police No, leave me. Bunty Bunty? ..... Who are you? Police You killed the evidence in custody and invited trouble from us, l'm here to show you how the result would be. Brave Entire department couldn't harm me. What the hell can you do to me? hey criminal! lnvite trouble from anyone in life, but there will be one man, when you invite trouble from him, you'll feel sorry for coming into this world from your mother's womb. l'm that man! how did you get hold of Bunty's phone? Where is he? he's exactly 10 centimetres away from my gun. Talk to him. Bhai Bhai, save me. B. .B. Bunty, don't be afraid. Did you hear? I've decided to finish him. Please don't harm him. Once l fix up my mind, l'll go blindly! l'll not listen! Brave You don't know about me. You'll die! hey scoundrel! My bloodline doesn't know the meaning of fear. Brave lf anything happens to him, l'll come for your life. Say it again. l'll come for your life! Say it loud! l'll come for your life! Bunty Goodbye Bunty! Ajay is coming. have you come again to say sorry? I'm here to say good bye. To tell in your language men are two types. Type one, see, fall in love and express it, type two, half of their life is spent to express it, the other half is spent to get okay if she refuses, l'm type one. We are not made for each other. l'm deleting you from my mind now. You too delete me. Bye Come sir. Why did you break off so abruptly? When things don't work out straight, go reverse. lt'll start there now, your grandma's prediction will come true. Death is inevitable to any life form! Those who die can't avoid birth again. lt's futile to mourn this inevitable circle. What Ghantasala said is correct! Though Bunty was my brother, l raised him like my own son. Not a revenger because of .... how does the man who killed my brother look like? he appears like hollywood action hero, sir! he's fearsome! You asked if there isn't anyone to take on us, he's that one man to do it. l told you to look after my brother, leaving that work, how dare you call him a hero before me! he has hit my weakest point. We must know his weakness before killing him. I can't believe its 14 years since Shankaranna died. l can't forget him. My life, my position as Minister, I owe everything to that great man. Shankaranna lived and died for us. Don't know in which world he's now. he's in our hearts for now. Shankaranna isn't just a leader but God to us! God has no death! Long live Shankaranna! Doctor ... Doctor Your father coming out from coma after 14 years... When temporal part of his brain damaged, he fell into coma, the more such patients are happy the faster they'll recover. lf they're affected by emotional stress or shock, They may fall into coma again. lt could be dangerous to his life. Keep him away from things and incidents that may hurt him. l don't know if this is boon or bane. as suggested by the doctor how can we keep your father happy Your father loves his people, people love your father, he wished that you too would look after people after him, we don't know what has happened to those people, his wish that you become like him isn't fulfilled, more than it, your uncle is not alive, can your father bear this truth? The strong determination of seeing us has brought him back from coma, with the same determination we must protect father. Please do as l say. Once upon a time Shankaranna's home... Yes, l killed the owner of this house and usurped this property. Crime and ice cream are same to me, l'll lick it cleanly. At least stick remains in ice cream, for the crimes l commit, there'll be no proof. Nobydy can scratch me Cut! cut cut how many times do l've to tell you? Do you've sense? lt's not scratch me, its catch me. l mean catch you. Scratch means itching. Bloody Length is same, right? Adjust while dubbing. Use technology! how dare you advice me! Bloody short man! You insisted on playing negative character. l gave you and you're eating film. This is 30th take. No use in putting on weight like a pig, improve your brain. Why do you recommend such idiots to me? Who is an idiot? how dare you shoot film in my place and shout at me! how dare you say pack up! l'm the director here! l'm the owner of this place. l'm giving a superlative performance and you dare call me a pig! No more shooting here, get out. Sir, please don't say like that. Shooting will be over with today's scene. lf you want l'll ask director to say sorry. Who wants his bloody sorry, I'm hurt. lf you get hurt, l'll get a heart attack. What do you want me to do now? Why are you asking me? Think it yourself. Please take Rs.10000. Why are you paying him Rs.10000? Calm down, director, please take care of your shot. ls it small incident like yesterday to compromise with Rs.10000? he called me a pig. This is gross injustice, sir. You're taking extra money under some silly pretext. You were like a pigeon when l started the film shoot, now you've become like a snake. how dare you call me a snake! I'll get hurt again. Again? No! Sorry sir! Please accept Rs.25000, sir. Okay, l agree Rs.50000 for your sake. No more argument please. But l've few conditions. Conditions again? Yes You must lace a chair next to the hero, l must get the same food you serve to him, if l can't deliver my lines properly, you must adjust it while dubbing, if you agree to these conditions, film shoot will go on or else no. Did you see? That's his character! Your uncle sold this property to a gentleman Ranga Rao, he's Ranga Rao's distant relative, he came to visit him, trapped his daughter and became his son-in-law, later on he shifted them to a small house, he's living by renting this building for film shoots. More over he's mad about acting. Bloody scoundrel! Somebody should teach him a good lesson! Why somebody else? Let's do it. What brings you here, Prakasham? Who is the boy? he's shining like a star! he wants your house for film shoot, so l've brought him to you. Greetings sir. Are heroes themselves selecting the locations now? he's the hero, director and producer of the film ls it? Carrying so many responsibilities at this young age. What's the subject? You know ex-MLA Shankaranna I know. His life story. Shankarnarayan once owned this place, right? Yes, That's why l want to film it here. lf it's his story, you've to film it here only not in your home. You must film it here only, you've no other option. I got it. Sir, if you tell about the payment... Come with me, l'll tell you. l've come from pavement, would l think about payment? Sir! What happened? Pavement and payment, what rhyming! Prakash! What a great artiste! Unbelievable Why is he so shocked for this? l've plenty of one liners like this. Didn't you tell him about me? l told him sir. he told about the actor in you. Aren't they using me? Who? The actor in me. ... his timing is extraordinary! l've decided to use him fully. I, Padmasri like your excitement. Padmasri? Did they award it to you? Didn't get the award, l've named myself. Padmasri I'll make you perform to make everyone feel shy, and ensure you get your screen name as an award. Thanks, Take care of house. l'll look after it like my own home. No need, look after like my own home. he has done it again! What a great counter! Can l use the comedy angle also in you? Use all the angles in me. The more you use the more you get. You gave permission, right? l'll have a ball with you. You won't have anything left in you, l'll squeeze out everything from you. Talent only, right? Your timing too! Thank you very much for helping me personally too. Thanks a lots Don't be formal Ajay We're all with you Babu Prakash Nobody outside must know that father is alive. No formality sir. Your father helped to get a junior artiste card. Today l'm a junior artiste supplier, it's all your father's mercy. l'll do anything as you say for him. After years Nayak arrives in Mumbai... What a song! My younger brother loved this song. Bhai, you shouldn't have come to Mumbai now. I hate to do like this l told you to find my brother's killer, you have failed completely. What the hell are you doing here? Situation is very tight in the department after Guru Talwar's murder. Commission is doing everything clandestinely. l don't know what you do or how, l must know who is that police officer immediately. Uncle! Grandpa has opened eyes! Brother-in-law, look there! Your son Chinna! he's now MLA Ajay Kumar. Brother-in-law... What happened brother? What happened brother-in-law? Where's Sathyam? What happened to him? l'm asking you, what has happened to him? Brother-in-law, he is... Why are you hesitating to say he's in America, uncle? Would father feel bad if you tell the truth? America? Yes father, uncle got a good job there. he didn't want to leave you, uncles forced him to go. he tried a lot to come after hearing about your recovery, father, but there's some visa problem, so he couldn't make it. Okay, don't trouble him. Please call him on phone, l'll talk to him. lt's night to them now. he'll be sleeping now, let's talk when it's morning. But then it'll be night time for us, right? Right! lt's been years since l've talked to him. Call him on phone. You unnecessarily said something, how will he manage it? Do you want me to do something? Enough of what you've done already. lt's ringing. hello uncle What dear? Father wants to talk to you. Hello Sathyam Brother! how are you doing, brother? What do I lack? Everyone is here for me. how are you doing? I'm doing fine, brother. l feel like seeing you now, brother. But l'm unable to come due to visa problem. Please take care of your health, brother. Please don't worry about me. Please come after settling the visa problem. Okay brother. l'm peaceful now. l'm confused, brother-in-law. How about ... Where are Sivaiah, Ganesh, Meka? They made a vow to walk to Kasi if you get well, father. They've gone to fulfill the vow. They're mad about me! What great affection they've for me! Brother-in-law, l want to meet my people. That's their problem with you, brother-in-law. You're just learning to walk and you want to run. Forget about going out, you're not allowed to go out of home also. You'll get infected. hail Shankaranna! People are here to meet you! Come father. Long live Shankaranna! Brother, he's just like our Shankaranna! lf they're making a film on Shankaranna, he'll be his look alike not like us. Shout slogan! Brother will speak now. how are you people? When we've an MLA like your son, what's there to bother about? We're doing great. ls your MLA getting all the govt. help like me? lf you don't mind, Sir. he's looking after us better than you, Brother, don't worry about us. Get well soon, that's enough for us. Yes sir, that's our wish. You've stood by my people leaving your personal ambitions. l'm proud of you son. MLA sir! Ajay Till now we were sad for not able to talk to brother, but whatever we say are lies. We can't cheat brother anymore. l don't like to tell lies, aunty. When doctors told me to keep father in a happy mood, we can keep him happy every minute he's awake in hospital, but to keep him happy even in sleep, l thought it was better to make his dream come true. l don't have the power to bring down the moon for him, aunty, that's why l trying to show it in a mirror, please keep this a secret from my father, please aunty. What's going on here, Prakasham? Shooting or cheating? Why did you get that doubt sir? Any man with brain will get that doubt. Where the cameras are if it's a film shoot? Where's the unit van? Where are the production boys? Where are the production managers? No coffees or teas! Where is my juice? This is not a film shoot for having all that, reality show. Is it a reality show? Yes did you see Big Brother TV show? Why not? Shilpa Shetty participated in it, She won Rs.3 crores as prize money. Exactly Our film stars are showing great interest in reality shows. They'll put all of them in a house, give them a concept and ask them to act, right? He's awesome, Sir. I've seen such TV shows! Padmasri You're humbling me with your sharpness. Sir Tell me the concept of your reality show. If Shankaranna is alive today, if his son is the MLA, How would he be feeling? how happy he would be? That's our concept. We're capturing visuals using secret cameras. Secret cameras? Look there! Here too There Since the reality show is on Shankaranna, All cameras are focused on him only. Actors in this must react spontaneously according to the situations. You can relax when he's not there. It's clear to me now. What's my character in this? how are you going to use me? Do you want negative or positive character? what's there in positive character? Negative do me 100% performance Use the talent of the artiste. You'll see from tomorrow how we'll use you! Rocks the Assembly! Young Leader Ajay's war on people's welfare Brother-in-law. Enough of admiring it, Come and see live! Live? Come and see! Ready, father is coming Are you doing fine, Ashok Reddy? l'm in a very bad position, sir. l took Rs.25000 loan from Champak Sait for my daughter's education, he charged exorbitant interest and took over Rs.1 lakh from me. he's troubling is also, sir. We're all his victims. Where is he? here! Move...move l say! Do you think l'll get scared if you complain to him? Such threats are routine to me. Champak Sait, what's the matter? It seems you're troubling people, l'm not a ballad singer to tell stories, l'm Champak Das. l'm not troubling them, I'm doing finance business. Why are you raising your voice? If not rising do you expect me to wet my pants on seeing you? This is business. ls it business to plunder a poor man? You devil! That's my business, I charge interest on interest, l'll charge as much as l wish. I'm here to tell you that, I'm not here fearing you. Am l weak to watch you harass innocent people in the name of business? Will you beat me? Beat me! What's this silly meeting here? With few useless henchmen! Is it old times of Village head? To pass judgements. This is modern time of rogues! Why is that old man watching us? hey you! What's your problem man? Tell me How can I know if you don't come out? Tell me! Why did he beat me now? You're over shadowing him in acting, he's trying to damage your image. If you don't attack him, you may get eliminated. Go Listen What ever you may say or do, that's the style of my business. That's it! By this time tomorrow, you must return every rupee you took from them. Will you repay or get fired? Looks like he'll kill me really. Life is in risk if I don't escape. Tell me! I'll repay I beg you sir, please leave me. Go. Okay. l'll pay tomorrow. Go now, come tomorrow to collect your money. For your action he almost dirtied his pant in fear. This is nothing, you must see him speaking in Assembly, brother-in-law, the floor shakes with his attack! Assembly brings to my memory, how is NTR doing? NTR? he's gone long back. has NTR gone? When? how? Gone means he has gone to Delhi, father. Yes, he's the Prime Minister now. he's in Delhi now. What? has NTR become Prime Minister? he was a PM candidate long back. Somebody else got the chance instead of him. We all together... Father don't stay out for long. Uncle, take him. l told you then itself Uncle, you know father is NTR fan, right? lf you can't cover properly, keep quiet. l want to keep quiet but my tongue lashes out. This is what you call loud mouth! Watch out today, l'll give them a shocking twist, They'll swoon! What are you planning to do, sir? What's else? As usual, I'll ask double payment for shooting or else no, they've committed the location, right? They'll pay at any cost. This is injustice, sir. What injustice? he slapped me so tightly. Didn't you see it? l couldn't chew the country chicken last night from unit kitchen and had curd rice. They deserve some punishment. lt's wrong sir. What wrong? Shut up Follow me. What's injustice in it? You're right but how will you tell Padmasri? Unless we shift the shooting from here under some pretext, l think he'll take home the prize money of Rs.2 crores. When so many are here, I don't know why Nagarjuna liked Padmasri's performance. lt seems Nagarjuna feels he gave exceptional reactions for the slap, I see moreover he owns the MAA TV, he'll give the prize money to the man he likes. how about cutting away Padmasri's character? What are you saying? Would he allow us to shoot here if we cut off his character? Moreover he's mad about acting. So, we'll not be in trouble if we shift the location. That's the correct plan. You know what to tell him, right? hey guys What are you discussing so seriously? Aren't you starting the shooting? We want to cancel the shooting. Stop? I mean what's the problem? Nothing sir, location cost has become very expensive, we're looking out for a smaller and cheaper location. We heard everything he said on TV. ls that your problem? That's all, nothing more. I know what you've and what you don't, infact you needn't have to pay any rent for the location, use it free, is it okay now? Okay but...how... Why are you hesitating? l should know your problem, right? Next scene is you must distribute money to the people, we didn't get duplicate notes, what do you want me to do now? You're in big trouble really! What shall we do now? Let's cancel the shooting. Please don't rush. Let's distribute original notes. We must have to distribute, right? l'll give it, sir. l didn't expect that you'll co-operate so much. Padmasri is always like that. B & D expectation Let bring in the show Rs.1 lakh to Ashok Reddy. Greetings. Greetings. Silly not for you, greetings sir. Next Bye sir. Rs.30000 to Sathi Babu. lt seems Nagarjuna feels he gave exceptional reactions for the slap, he'll give the prize money to the man he likes. Thank you Sir. Go away man! Why did you stop now? l don't feel like giving. You don't feel like giving? Yes That's it. l know why you got yourself slapped now. Shut up. You please sit down sir. l'll continue it. Sir, I repaid their money as you had ordered. If you permit me, l'll take father's blessings. Go. Sir, I was too rash yesterday, please forgive me. Lead a good life at least from now. One moment What a great performance of acting as if you love people! how great your performance may be, Nagarjuna is impressed with me only. Chinna, he's not yet reformed. Bash him! Come. Whole set relax Why did the old man beat me? he's mad, why are you beating me? Ajay Nee dookudu (Daring & Dashing) Oh, Shit! l'm still playing the character. Sorry Sir. Father character, right? Very Sorry Sir. Please follow the game rules. When they say relax, can't you relax? What did you tell the elderly man to get slapped? What did l tell him? l said you're acting very well. That's the problem, how can you tell an actor you're acting very well, won't he feel bad? What should l say then? You must say you're living the character. That's okay, the junior artistes left with my money, won't they return my money? This is not a film shoot to return your money. This is a reality show. So what? You reformed and gave them money, when they get reformed, they'll return it to you? What if they don't reform? They'll not return it. You mean situation must demand and l shouldn't, right? When l see your grasping power, it makes me jealous of you. Let's have Padmasri for dinner instead of chicken tonight. Rs.5 lakhs for the house, Rs.5 lakhs distributed to them, total is Rs.10 lakhs. Prize money is Rs.2 crores. lf l cut this Rs.10 lakhs, l'll still have Rs.1.9 crores. What are you calculating sir? Nothing You liked my performance, right? It's Nagarjuna and Audience who should like it not we. Make your SMS request. Hi If you like my performance, give a space after small boss, type it 5535 and send it Please vote for me Thank you Raids were conducted at the same time in all the cities. We've arrested important members of Nayak's gang. We've confiscated in large quantities. Very soon we're going to arrest this criminal and bring him to justice l'm sure it's the same man who killed my brother is behind these raids. Who this man is? You caught Guru Talwar after a great struggle, The day Guru Talwar died in police custody when he was killed in our custody, what should we do now? You must suspend us. This incident show there are moles of Nayak in our department. So? We must catch Nayak's brother Bunty with the information given by Guru Talwar. Before that make people, our department and media about our suspension. l'll take care of the rest. We've suspended them. Operation Istanbul The day Nayak was made to believe Bunty was shot dead What's his condition? Doctor says he'll up in an hour. Why did you make Nayak believe that you've shot him dead? Bunt knows entire lndian operations. If he knows we've him in our custody, he'll get alerted. Place where Bunty is being interrogated secretly You said you don't have any network in South lndia, what's this? hyderabad is main base. l don't know other details. My brother deals directly with tem. Do you know why I gave the details of North which is under my control? For my brother to know l'm alive. he'll come for me. he'll not spare anyone. Am I a coward to shiver if you threaten me? Sir Sir What is he saying? he has no information about South lndian operations, sir. l'm reporting to Commissioner. l'll inform him, don't forget the protocol. ls there a protocol to the call also,- sir? Yes. Please go out. If you don't mind ...... Yes Murthy Good morning Sir. We know Nayak has a network in South. I know that Give the phone to Ajay. ... Sir No problem sir, please carry on. Talk to him, sir. He wants to talk to you only. Ajay With the information you got from Bunty, Nayak's north operations are completely washed out. But his main base is south, sir. What are you planning to do now? If we check the back ground of criminals in hyderabad, We may get a clue, sir. Good Ajay how is your father doing? He's fine, Sir. OK Take care Sit properly sir, why are you sitting side? l'm comfortable like this. Still not yet healed? You're happy, aren't you? What's this sir? Oh Shit! Having problem for that too, sir! No! My daughter is waiting near Sai Baba temple, We must drop her at home. If you don't mind I don't mind, Sir. What's your daughter doing sir? l'm planning to get her married next year. I' seeing proposals. See Sir. But it's not the answer to my question. If that's your intention, I've a girl friend. Girl .. Girlfriend Shastry told me everything. What's so funny in it, sir? If not funny, what's it then? lt seems entire family are cheats. lt seems they've come to Turkey without her father's knowledge. Are you angry on me? No Sir. We've reached the temple. Baby Get in Daddy, take offering. You too take it. Give him too. Baby, He's my subordinate Ajay. My elder daughter Prashanthi. I didn't expect it. What didn't you expect? I didn't expect your daughter to be so traditional. That's how l raised her, She finished IPS coaching in Delhi recently. She's not cheating her father like your girl friend. doing fashion technology Girl friend, daddy? lt seems this handsome hero found a girl friend in Turkey. The girl has foolish father... No need to discuss about them dad. lf he's not careful, now she's playing with her dad, in future she'll play with me Am i right? You feel like that? Then what? Then, l must be careful. Will you stop now. What happened? We've reached home, dad. Come in, you've come for the first time to my home, have a coffee. Hey Get two coffees. Okay sir. Prashanthi Why are you going away? Please sit here. We've lot to discuss. Please sit down, young man. l want to go to super market, I was waiting for your permission. Why are you waiting? Why don't you go? Did l ever step out of the home without your permission? Did you hear that? The head that bowed 22 years ago in marriage, still hasn't dared to raise it. Please tell her to raise, sir. Prashanthi, does he know it? No, please don't blurt out the truth. Did you raise aunty too, sir? Ajay No satires please, it's not raising but respect. She's not the type like your mother-in-law to cheat husband and go to Turkey. Hi Daddy Hi hi hi. My younger daughter. Please have coffee. Sir, you didn't tell about my uncle to aunty. You missed it. What's there to tell about him? he's an idiot! lt's his mistake. lf he had been right, why would they behave like this? Useless fellow. Damn fool! Damn Fool Stop it, Daddy, Please There's a limit for everything, Ajay. You're instigating my dad wantonly. What happened, dear? Sorry Daddy l can't bear to see abuse yourself, dad. What are you saying dear? I'll tell you sir. lt was your family which came to Turkey not someone else. You were right, it was father's mistake. l mean it was your mistake. Your daughter has talent to come first when 12 countries participated, it was your mistake not to recognize it, but aunty didn't commit the same mistake, Prashanthi who was afraid to tell you about her profession, today she has opened up because of love and respect she has for you, l crossed limits to make you understand this, Sorry Sir. l want to talk to my family. .......... Sure Sorry Daddy, Actually l wanted... No need. I've understood it. l thought l was strict, but l failed to realise l was so strict that you feared to share your wishes too. Please feel free to do whatever you want to, but please tell me and do it, don't let others to inform me about it. ....... My dear jasmine, you're my Kohinoor diamond My dear, you've attacked me like a tigress with your beauty With intoxicating words... you follow me... l want to see your power... Come to me dear, get yourself caught, l want to change your surname... My dear, there's tumult in my heart... My dear, my heart is sacrificed at the altar of love... With a thin petite waist, you made me go sleepless... You chased me like an enraged rogue... Aimed me with soft arrows, spell bound me with your charm... You made me lose balance, lit fire of passion with your fiery looks My dear, you tempted and invited me with your eyes... With intoxicating words... you follow me... l want to see your power... Come to me dear, get yourself caught, l want to change your surname My dear, there's tumult in my heart... My dear, my heart is sacrificed at the altar of love... Shall l come like thief of Baghdad and steal you? l'm waiting for you all decked up... Won't I cross 7 seas to reach you? l'm falling for your dare and courageous words... You're mine always, you're destined to be my life partner... With intoxicating words... you follow me... l want to see your power... Come to me dear, get yourself caught, l want to change your surname... My dear, there's tumult in my heart... My dear, my heart is sacrificed at the altar of love... Brother-in-law! Brother-in-law! Janaki, please come. Sit here. Don't know what he remembered now? First time we're having tension in installments. l think he has come out of coma to send us into a coma. Brother-in-law! Coming. What's this urgency, brother-in-law? Asking me why? What's today? August 15! lndependence Day! Shall we hoist the flag? Why should we? Prime Minister will hoist it, who is our Prime Minister? ........... lsn't it Rama Rao? he's not asking who is the deputy Prime Minister, he's asking who is the Prime Minister? lt's Rama Rao, brother-in-law! Yes brother, he got little confused. Yes, how many things can I remember? his speech will be telecast live, let's hear him. Prime Minister's address to the nation from Red Fort in few moments... lt'll be shattering in few moments. That's what l'm also worried about. Don't know how will he react seeing Manmohan Singh? Can't we cover saying NTR is sporting a beard and wearing a turban? You mean we must say Rama Rao has morphed into Manmohan Singh. Brother, I want to tell you something. Later dear, First NTR's speech. Not that brother, Rama Rao... He has come! Where did you go away? We wanted to see it together. he came just now. My hearty wishes to 90 crore lndians and 9 crore Telugu brothers and sisters, That's NTR! Did you see? Though he's Prime Minister, he's speaking in Telugu. What's there to feel proud on hearing any country's history, entire humanity is filled with difficulties and troubles, so said great poet Sri Sri, Though we've so many projects and industries, but I'm unable to feed a poor man, Well said NTR! l'll bring back the billions of black money hidden in foreign banks, and satiate the hunger of the poor, l'll handcuff the corrupt people, and wash out the corrupt politicians, victory to lndia! Victory to lndia, brother! Brother was rocking! Victory to lndia! Brother-in-law, they said film stars can't become successful politicians, what do you say now? l'll shut my gob. That's it. Those days Rama Rao, Ranga Rao, Nageshwara Rao... how is Nageshwara Rao? He's fine Dad Though he's 87, he still looks young. Tough man! how is he? Who father? Super star Seetharama Raju I Know Still same complexion and same glamour. Goodness is his glamour. he's daring and dashing too. NTR was thinking about making film on Seetharama Raju, but Krishna made the film and created a sensation, Rama Rao appreciated it later. Why are you feeling sad? You haven't done any mistake. You're taking care of your father like a little kid. My brother is really lucky to have a son like you, dear. Long live Ravi! Long live Ravi! Why you are so tensed, Ajay? lnterpol has informed about Nayak entering lndia, unable to get Commissioner on phone. Hey Police, You've seen the MMS, right? lf you want Commissioner alive, come alone with my brother to Mumbai. l'll come alone, If anything happens to him meanwhile, not a man would be alive there. First right OK Next left come ..... When my man told you're like a hollywood hero, I thought he was exaggerating, you're exact like one! l would've been disappointed if you were shorter even by a inch, you're stunning to make even an enemy jealousy. l think of killing anyone who disturbs me, but l wished to see you, do you know why? When you talked to me on phone, the pride with which you talked, l liked the intensity in your voice, till now l've blasted 26 bombs, l've killed 24 police officers who tried to catch me, pending on me, lnterpol is searching for me in 13 countries, all of them together couldn't even touch me, and you too! Release Bunty! You crook! l'm not here to hand over your brother, I'm here to take you, ................. eliminated 46 gangsters in encounters when l was in Anti-Gunda squad, and it's unlimited in undercover operations, everything is... This is just not my ... What makes you so courageous? That's my blood group. Your Commissioner is in my custody. hey you scoundrel! Look here! When people like me enter the scene, you've to be very careful. Ok lf you give me a minute, l'll think, if you give me 2 minutes, l'll get into action, if you give me 3 minutes, l'll finish you. Ajay Drop the gun Drop it! If not Commissioner will die. Ajay Don't leave him because of me. Ajay Police mustn't bow to the criminal. No Ajay, No My son asked can't anyone harm Nayak, l said there will be a man to finish him, l'm going away with the hope That you're that man! Bhai Come here Leave me...leave me Ajay... Once I fix up my mind, I'll go blindly. Forest area near Mumbai Mumbai is on red alert with Commissioner's death. Situation is very tough. You're safe to hide with Cool Babu for sometime. Ask they stop the music, will you? Cool Babu, stop the radio. l was living like a king, he has brought me to the streets. he killed my men. l'll not spare him. Cool Babu, cool ... Be happy that he spared your life, sir. he came alone and destroyed your entire gang, can't you still judge the potential of his power? how dare you praise him before me! I'll kill him lf you kill him, it'll be very difficult to get out from here. Calm down. Babu gave you shelter and you're pointing a gun at me, but still l'm not angry, Cool ..... l'll make hot lunch for you, Eat coolly. What a fate! Even guys like him are playing with me coolly. I don't know how you do it, Qadir. l want him. Brother! What? Are you working for Nayak? Do you know who he is? Shankarnarayan's son. Ajay Babu! What a sin l've committed! Sivaiah, you revere my dad as God, why are then working for Nayak? l'll tell you. Babu We gave medicines as prescribed by the doctor, by morning he's dead, Shankaranna. Brother, doctor said duplicate medicines killed him. We've information that Mallesh Goud is making these medicines with a Bombay man. A child lost his life because you wanted to make easy money. You can't bring back his life even if you spend all your wealth. Stop this duplicate medicine business. lf not l'll send you and the man behind you to jail. I've businesses in many cities, if any politician anywhere stops me, it means he's expecting a share, how much you want? You may have seen many politicians, Shankarnarayan is not a politician, he's a leader...mass leader! You don't know much about mafia. lf anybody stops us, we'll go for a compromise, if it fails, we'll kill him. Stop! l think you've come without knowing about me, l'll give one chance for anyone to reform, stop your business that will harm people and leave this place, if you defy and try to continue, l'll not give you a second chance, I'll finish you. You and your business. Out We were going to Srisailam to attend Yadagiri's marriage. What happened to you? Sorry Brother I'm feeling sleepy. l'll wash my face. hyderabad 184 kms Brother! Brother! Brother! Brother! Sathyam, take your brother away! l'll take care these men. After I came out of hospital, I came to know your father and uncle died. I came to your home to meet you. But they said you sold the property and left the place. I decided then not to leave the man responsible for this, Till now Shankarnarayan was a big hurdle to our business, now, he's no more, people think Shankaranna died in a car accident, so no reaction, if they know you killed him, reaction would be strong, how dare you join with these bastards to betray our Shankaranna! I was in jail for 14 years for killing a policeman. I spent all the years in jail planning to take revenge on them. One day I came to know from a criminal David That Nayak is coming to lndia, so l decided to kill him and came there, but Nayak had escaped by then, so I wanted to use his brother Bunty to bring him to me. Sivaiah, as you think Shankaranna is not dead. After you called us, we went in search of brother-in-law, he was on the verge of death, we saved him with villagers help, but your uncle was dead by then. Why did you keep this secret from me? You lost your uncle, your father is in coma, we feared something might happen to you, so we raised you away from this. Sivaiah Brother... Brother .... You've grown old! Where are Ganesh and Meka Narasing Rao? They've gone to visit other holy places from Kasi, brother. l couldn't stay away from you, so l came back. ls everyone doing fine? Brother couldn't make it due to visa problem, he'll come. They killed your uncle brutally, They left your father in this condition, we mustn't spare them. l'll not spare anyone. Nobody in the history would've faced such death, they'll face it. Like how they cheated father with trust, likewise we must gain their trust and cheat them, each one should see hell before death! Presently Municipal Minister in the state cabinet. People are still voting him though he's a crook because he's your father's man. Settlements, land grabbing and extortions, facing 13 murder charges, Mallesh Goud if they're crook and criminal, this man is a scoundrel, all three are business partners in any deal, all of them still have connections with Nayak according to information, these two dogs next to him are Mallesh Goud's sons, Terrible womanizers, Dinesh Goud, while trying to rape a college girl, she broke a beer bottle and stabbed in his neck, it damaged his vocal cord, he can speak with the help of special machine imported from Germany. Good Ajay Mo mercy I agree with you Even if we arrest them, they still can escape They'll use the loopholes in system prove that rules apart, a police officer can catch anyone or do anything, kill anyone who becomes a hurdle in this operation, mustn't miss Nayak at any cost. I'm giving you full force Thank you Sir Sir, normally his plans and schemes are dangerous contents if you give him more powers, l can't work with him, sir. Don't worry, Mr. Murthy l've transferred you to another department on deputation. Which one sir? To office Who is this Venu? he's so smart! he's Bokka Venkat Rao, with an ambition of becoming a film hero, sold his property and went to Madras, made a film with himself as hero and fell into debts, unable to fend off the lenders, he has joined as PA to Minister as he's his distant relative, his wish of becoming hero is still intact and waiting for an opportunity, that's why this smart look! Then, he's our first target. When a man beats and it blocks your mind, he's automatically Pandu! Cut lf you deliver like this, you'll get brickbats not bouquets. Say it with intensity. how did l deliver it? Like you're in intensive care. One more ready action ... action When a man beats and it blocks your mind, he's automatically Pandu! Cut By the time you finish it, theatre would be empty, intensity doesn't mean stretching the dialogue, say it short and sharp! Nobody can say it better than this, sir. Everybody can say it except you. Ask them to deliver. l'll say sir. Go ahead. Say action! Action When a man beats and it blocks your mind, he's Pandu! Thank you Shattering! Fantastic supper, my lord, unbelievable This is intensity, modulation and diction. This is heroism! To hell with you and your film, make the film with this old man! he'll give plenty of variations. No need to tell, l'll make a hit film with him Sir. l committed myself in an emotion, are you really interested? l've interest, that's why l'm still paying interest for the loans. I'm very happy Sir. For paying interest? No because you've an interest in acting. I'm very lucky You're getting excited for just one dialogue, l've made a show reel covering all my variations, what would happen if you see it? What's up, Tiger? lf you feel like seeing tiger from far away, see it if you want to take a photo with tiger, though little risky you can try, if you take chance for this and wish to play with tiger, it'll hunt you down! Why are you seeing elsewhere? See there! l'll leave you alive! l'm also giving you my word, Sherkhan! hand over the traitor to me. l'll spare you and your army. What's this sir? Select and send warriors who wouldn't turn their backs, don't send one at a time, Sherkhan! Send 100 of them at a time! Where? You're rocking sir! When the farmer reported of adulteration, he was made to drink the adulterated pesticide and done to death, no police, when they took away the lady officer who called tenders and raped her, no police, when 60 innocent infants died because of adulterated milk food, police didn't come to pacify the mourning parents, No Police the voice that didn't raise then is raising now for killing a criminal. Did you see that Shastry? he did exactly like uncle Balaiah! lt's over! That's all? We've found our hero! I'm so happy Where were you hiding all these years, sir? l was hiding in Kerala for 10 years fearing money lenders, l came back after my brother-in-law became a Minister. l'm telling you now, if l make a film, you're my hero. But producer is backing out. Who are you? lt's me director. Producer backed out after hero walked out of the project. how long this will continue! Same heroes, same films, won't they give chance to new heroes? Why are you getting tensed? You can produce film if you decide. how can l produce? Your uncle Singapore Rajeshwara Rao wants to sell granite land in Bellary, if you sell it yourself, you can complete the film with the commission, sir. what did you say? l'll beat you. For your good only. What good? No sir... What no? Please shut up, Shastry. Babu Who said you're not a creator? You need money to prove your creativity, right? What do you want me to do for that? Do as Shastry says. Listen patiently. For my sake, for your hero's sake, and for our future! Okay, l'll agree for your sake. But we need a buyer, right? I've a buyer Who? My brother-in-law Meka Narasing Rao! Will he buy? he keeps on buying, that's his weakness. So we don't have any buyer problem. What's the percentage of commission? Even 1% would get us Rs.4 crores. Let's make it 2%, we'll get Rs.8 crores. lsn't 2% unjust? Unjust? he has made all this money through unjust deeds only. You don't have any such feelings, just keep your framings. Where's your uncle? Right here. Stay here or go out. Son-in-law What man? Nothing, a dog took away my false teeth, l want to buy a new one, if you give me some money ls there any money bearing tree with me? Why do you want false teeth now? What do you want to eat? lt's not fair to talk like this enjoying my property. l'll talk like this only, stay here, if you don't like get out. Go away! l'm tolerating your harassment because of my daughter. But God will not spare people like you. Truth! My foot! Hello l'm Nagarjuna here. Nagarjuna? Akkineni Nagarjuna? lndeed l'm Akkineni Nagarjuna speaking! Sir Sorry Sir l didn't expect a call from you sir. Money for my false teeth. Shut up. You want me to shut up? Sorry Sir. Not to you sir. Last night l watched your tapes with my father, Fantastic performance father said SV Ranga Rao has come back again. Please hold on the line sir. Sir. Will you please repeat what your father said, sir? why not? Father said SV Ranga Rao has come back again. I don't believe it. Don't believe it, go begging. Father feels your character has been reduced in Shankarnarayan reality show. Yes sir, l too feel it. People who can't act are getting big roles, sir. That's why We've planned a reality show with you as the central character. This will be on air before that one. Okay sir. Prize money is double. l'll ensure you get the prize money. promise My boys will meet you shortly to tell about the concept. Thank you sir Did you see the offer l'm getting? You'll get such things before bad time hits you. Truth again! My foot! Open the door. Please come in. Greetings. Greetings. Tell me the concept of the new reality show. how do you we've come here for that only? By any chance got a call from Nagarjuna? Not by chance he called me on phone. Did Nagarjuna called you on phone? Why that surprize? Nageshwara Rao too will call me. Tell me the concept. The concept is land dealing with mafia. Title is excellent. By the way what's the character l'm playing? Your characters name is Singapore Rajeshwara Rao. You mean rich. Very rich! Little innocent too! Short tempered man! Unbearable happiness! Terrible humanity! Little cunning! Awfully proud! Character has many shades. l think you've decided to use me fully. You guessed it right. One more important thing some real players act in this show, for example our Minister Meka Narasing Rao. Why is he joining? he's making money is politics, right? Does he want to take the prize money too? Certainly Let anyone try their best, the winner has already been fixed. Fixed? l mean l'm fixed that l'll get the prize money. When will my character enter? Tomorrow. Auto Appa Rao wants to blow horn... Auto Appa Rao wants to blow horn... Scooter Subba Rao presses the beep... All the rogues are after me, what's this tension? Saidulu wants to teach me driving in a Maruthi car... Abbulu wants to gift me an lnnova car... Every one gets tensed at the drop of hat... Tension of mischievous men... Tension of creepy crooks... Auto Appa Rao wants to blow horn... Passengers give me tension to board a share auto... Passengers give me tension to board a share auto... Cheap men give me tension if l go to watch film in theatre... O girl! Why are you getting so tensed for everything? l'm tensed fearing what if they like and crush me... l'm tensed fearing they may pinch my thin waist... This tension started ever since l started wearing half sari... l don't see people with limited resources... l don't see people with limited resources... l'll put a tender to a man who could be next superstar... hey ordinary girl! Why are you so arrogant? l'll show you my power... squeeze you out... l'm tensed till l find a man like you... l'm more tensed when l fall into the hands of a rogue like you... l'm tensed about what could your daring attitude do to me... l'm tensed you could jump on me... l'm tensed you would rock me... Bokka uncle, he's throwing away wads of money! Not everyone is like your father. My foot! lntroduce them, Thanks for your help. My father has changed completely. He's fighting crimimal l'll talk to you later, go now. l'll not go, what will you do? Listen to me. No, l'll not. Am l afraid of police? My father too is a police officer. He could've been here I said go I said no Why did you beat the girl, director? She wants to be your heroine. She's fine, right? What fine? l'm planning to get Genelia or lleana for you. First film, l too need padding. Come, l'll introduce my brother-in-law. l'll never talk to him again in my life. lf you enter at wrong time, this will be the result. he's amidst some police operation. You should understand he's my friend Bellary Babu, brother-in-law. Nice to meet you he's nephew of Singapore Rajeshwara Rao. his word is rule to his uncle. What ever l say is rule to him. happy to meet you. babu Shall we meet your uncle and discuss the deal? he's immersed in entertainment, he'll not think of anything else. Arrange a meeting with all your partners, let's fix the deal with one sitting. Then, let's meet tomorrow in my guest house. Done Done Done ln Mumbai police head quarters... Who are you? how was performance in pub? Rocking! The girl was item bomb and you were atom bomb. ................ You'll see peaks in future. Sir, please keep this pen camera. Pen camera? Like you've pen camera, others may have in shirt buttons or key chains, whatever you do there will be recorded here. This technology is good, no need to worry about camera. l can concentrate on my performance. lt's our good fortune that you've come to our guest house. Nobody is letting a chance, everyone is performing very well. To get the prize money. l'll introduce my partners. please come in Tell me sir, you've come here for the first time, tea, coffee, whisky or brandy. he's overacting, is he a child artiste? Uncle is asking if you're child labour. Yes. Like you've pen camera, others may have in shirt buttons or key chains, whatever you do there will be recorded here. .................. he looks like Tyson, is he your son? Good joke...like Tyson... Mallesh uncle you missed yesterday, Rajesh uncle was rocking in pub last evening, he filled the pub with money. There's a talk that it was around Rs.10 lakhs. Stop that nonsense and get coffee. Okay. What's this sir? he's asking my hero to get coffees. lt's wrong to do like this while growing up, in future it'll be a good story to narrate to the media, you don't feel bad for it. Coffee or tea? Shall we start? My uncle is building a seven star hotel in Singapore, he needs liquid cash, so he has decided to sell 200 acres of granite land in Bellary. lsn't it uncle? Yes Though market value is Rs.7 crore an acre, l've decided to donate for cash parties at Rs.3 crore an acre. lsn't it, nephew? Right uncle. We're in difficulties sir, if you reduce another crore, we'll keep your poster. Please Sir. Please l like your poverty. Thank you Fix it at Rs.2 crore. Uncle! he's lovely! Pinch on this cheek too, sir. You're too much, sunny. lsn't the entire land on your uncle's name, right? lf you doubt him, he'll feel bad. lf he feels, l'll get hurt. lf l get hurt, deal will get cancelled. As you wish now. he's just a kid, don't worry about him. Get the documents, let's finish the deal. Getting documents isn't big deal, l've a doubt if you can get so much cash immediately. Not just three of us, there are some big guns behind us... No need to discuss those things. Trust us sir, we'll honour your word. Promise Can we trust them, nephew? l think we can trust them, uncle. Then, hand over the documents to them. You get the cash ready by then. Cash is ready, spot payment. Babu, your tea. l've made it specially for you. Please have it. Bloody idiot! Are you blind? This is too much, The deal is cancelled. Don't get angry, look here! What's this? Mole! lf l curse, he'll get ruined. he'll die like a dog. You must tell about this on TV. l'll tell. Shall we go? Who made the coffee? l made. l served you sir. take this l'll remove the empty cups sir. They'll pay you. Come nephew. Come uncle. What's this man? Rs.2 lakhs for a coffee! lt's Rs.3 lakhs with your payment. You missed it, Padmasri's performance was rocking inside. We saw it here. No use seeing there. l was scared watching him live. how could you make them believe you're Singapore Rajeshwara Rao? Making others believe is actor's character. l'll make SMS request. No requests only revenge here. You must throw a challenge to the others. Already Bokka has challenged you, know that? Did he? Come on, action hey Bokka, if you cross my path, l'll crush you. You're a worthless artiste, l'm a high worth artiste, if you challenge me, l'll flatten you. Let anyone make a try, l'll be the winner! Bhai, they killed Bunty brutally as we suspected. his name is Ajay, he's in hyderabad for his father's treatment. he has operated undercover from there. That's his team. Babu! have you invited trouble from him? he's no ordinary man. he's very dangerous. Once there lived a sharpshooter Sanjeev, l gave him shelter, he requested 'Bisibelabath'. l prepared for him. Before the first fistful reached his mouth... Before it reached mouth, he was dead. My food preparation went waste. he packed away 10 people in 10 seconds. So give up the idea of revenge and think about escaping from here. You suggest l must leave silently leaving my brother's killer. You're sad for losing your brother, your brother isn't here to feel sad for your death, right? Go and get some coffee, hot ....... he's irritating me coolly with his comments. he's showing hell with a smile. l'll kill Ajay before his eyes and then coolly kill him. Talk to bhai and release the funds immediately. The police officer who made me run is presently in hyderabad, l'll come to hyderabad in near future, inquire about him meanwhile, l'll fax you his photo. Send the fax, we'll take care of him. but it should be very confidential Nobody must know about this matter. Other than our partners l'll not tell even my sons. You don't worry. Don't get tensed always, be cool. Fax this photo to hyderabad. Number is behind the photo. You don't take advices, right? Cool Don't ever bow to anyone... l want to fax a photo to hyderabad. ls he the policeman who is troubling Nayak? how dare you point a gun at me. Watch out! l've given you a twist. Cool, l don't know who you are! thanks Not just Nayak, he looks like he'll trouble the entire world. l think l've seen him on TV. Off late police are appearing on TV quite often. Why didn't you tell about this land deal when Nayak called you? Shut up! lt's deal with Nayak. lf we trouble him without knowing the matter, if anything goes wrong, we'll be in dock. Ganesh, you've contacts in Bellary, right? lnquire about Singapore Rajeshwara Rao and his lands. Ajay, Ganesh has made call to Bellary. Listen to it. Brother! Do you know Singapore Rajeshwara Rao in Bellary with 200 acres of land? Singapore Rajeshwara Rao? No one by that name, brother. Anyway l'll inquire. Don't just do it, l want correct information in 10 minutes. Ok Brother Ajay .... What if he comes to know the truth? Tell me Sai. There's no one here by the name Singapore Rajeshwara Rao, somebody is cheating you, brother. Okay, you cut the line. l'll take care. hey Bokka! Give the phone to Minister. he appears tensed, let me play with him. Tell me the matter sir, l'll decide whether to give or not. Bloody fool! Singapore Rajeshwara Rao is not in Bellary. l know. You know? One who was with us 10 minutes ago, how can he be in Bellary now? How? l'll kill you if l come there, give the phone to Minister. l've told you already. if you tell me the matter l'll give him. There's no matter in what you say. How can i give to him .............. Ajay Why are you so shocked? You slapped me yet l'm talking to you. Do you know why? l understood you were in some operation. Why are you so tensed? Police operation again? Don't you police have any other job? Always after some criminal. Police? You always enter at the wrong time. Please call an ambulance immediately. how did he fall down? Why are you so tensed? Without anything... l can judge you're tensed. You didn't even tell on phone... l said there's nothing, right? No sir... Just a minute please. What happened, Chinna? Nothing father. What happened? l'm worried about your reaction to it. l can't see you tensed. Nothing will happen to me, l've a strong heart, tell me. Ganesh has met with an accident, father. Father...that's why l... Where is he now? how did it happen, Ganesh? how can l understand if you just make sounds? Tell me clearly. lf you remove it, he'll die. Please tell us clearly about his condition, sir. he can't move since he hurt his spinal cord. Chest ribs are broken so he can't breathe properly. But no danger to his life. he'll be normal in a month. We got a good deal and things have turned like this. That's okay, did you inform his family? l gave, they'll be here by morning. Sir, senior doctor is calling you. They're here, quick... Careful...start action... Please doctor we can't bear to see my father's condition. Please do something We're doing our best. Nothing is in our hands. Greetings Shankaranna! Brother! Ganesh' son. After my father's return from Kasi, we all wanted to visit you, but meanwhile this... l'm there for you, right? Please sit here, they'll call you sir. Tell him l'm Minister Meka Narasing Rao. Okay sir. What's his condition? Brain is totally damaged total nervous breakdown, he's going through hell sir. Can't speak or breathe, sir. he has to live all his life like living dead. Ganesh Are you shocked? You're in this condition for knowing l'm a police officer. What if you know l'm Shankarnarayan's son? Shall l give you another big shock? Father! l never expected to see you like this. There's a paper slip in his hands, father. What? Shankaranna, l know you'd come l can't bear this hell, please remove the oxygen mask with your hands and liberate me. This is my last wish. Sir, we can't bear to see his condition. Please kill him, sir. how? Ganesh is unable to bear the hell, please fulfill his last wish, father. how can l with my hands... l can understand your pain. Chinna, chant holy hymn in his ears. Ganesh Do you know why l left you alive? To get you killed by the same hands that took care of you once. Not only you, l'll not spare anyone who has betrayed my father. lt's over, father. May God bless his soul! You said Minister is waiting, Should we wait if he delays? Come. You took me saying senior doctor called. he used to gulp a full bottle in one go. lf he decides to kill anyone he never took rest till he killed him. he used to eat two family packs easily, great man! ls he great man if he eats family packs? l'll feel sad for losing a partner, right? Why feel sad? One share less in the deal. ....... Where's your brother? he's missing since yesterday, father. Don't know with which woman he's lying? l think you gave him birth at bad time, always... he's just a kid, leave him. You did as you said. What did l do? You said if you curse him with a mole on tongue he'll die, he died! True! Now l've understood it. Don't say it loud, if they hear it, they'll kill me. he left us! he was strong like a rock till yesterday, today he's dead. he promised to arrange a grand feast after this deal is over. he left midway. l can understand your pain. But what can we do? We can't die along with the dead, right? Yes. how can you get dejected with such a profitable venture in hand? Muddukrishna, Babu you must give them courage. l've some land work, l'll go. What? They're mourning a death. lt's not fair to discuss about business now, land documents are in this, show it to them after they've recovered. No urgency. Good news for you! What? Genelia has agreed to do our film. Really? She fell flat seeing your show reel. She has dropped 3 films for our film. You play... What's up, Chinna? You're quite busy now. l don't know when you're coming and when you're going out. Police job is like that anytime is duty time. Police job? Who are you talking about? Not about Chinna, l told about his father-in-law. Father-in-law? l mean future father-in-law. Father of the girl Chinna loves is a police officer. Do you like a girl? Who is the girl? She's there. No, l must see her. l must see my daughter-in-law. Will you bring her here? Okay. Can't you tell me this earlier? First time your tongue slip has done a good thing. Yes, you're struggling a lot to keep brother happy, but brother's real happiness is in conducting your marriage. What brings you here? We've parted ways, right? We both are in different wings. l want to talk to your daughter. My daughter? What? Personal matter, sir. There's nothing personal here, say it openly here. Prashanthi, beating around the bush is waste, my people are seeing matches for me, we're getting good proposals, people are ready to offer whatever dowry we demand, for good or bad we got connected, right? l'm fixed with you. lf you too wish the same, let elders settle it. What settle it? Did you see how he's proposing? lf he's like this before marriage, think how he would be after marriage? So, say no he'll walk out. l like him, daddy. lf l ever marry, l'll marry only him. Will you marry a man who proposed so badly? Daddy he's confident that he's a better police officer than you, he's proud that he's better looking than me, l must marry him. To bring him down from that high pedestal ldea is good but what if he tortures us after marriage? Nothing will happen like that, trust me, daddy. Okay, since my daughter agreed, l agree to your marriage. .......... l must meet your family and l must like them. Why not tell him the truth and ask him to co-operate? Impossible People breathe air to live and he breathes rules. he'll spoil everything accusing me of cheating my dad. Tulasi uncle did this he always creates problems. he created the problem, so he'll find a solution too. What's this get up? Are you police officers or actors? l must tell you something before you meet my family. l expected this, you'll not do anything without a rider. Come out. Nothing sir, my elder uncle is little different. Different means neither male nor female... Different doesn't mean that, sir. he's mental patient. he's recovering now. he'll fix a new thing every day, we must follow it. lf not, he'll bite. What has he fixed for today? That l'm MLA of this constituency and they're my followers, and thinks l'm my father's real heir. That's all?Yes. No other riders, right? Nothing else sir, you must handle him carefully sir. l've handled so many criminals, can't l handle a mad man? Why are you all so happy? he's... My elder brother-in-law Tulasiram. ls it him? Greetings. Greetings. Why is he asking if it's me as if he knows me well? Chinna has told him you're the man behind this marriage. Did he? That's true! One must give credit to the deserved one. has he told him about brother-in-law? he has told him, you be cool. ...... l'm not saying this because he's my son, he's rocking the Assembly at this young age. Oh Yeah Not only that students want to enter Assembly directly from University. he's not only mad, his eyes too are weak. Yes, we've been seeing it on TV and in news papers, role model, youth icon, he has many titles. What do you say, brother-in-law? he's different, he's winking at me. he's not different, he has some eye problem. lt's good for this country's politics if youth enter it. Why is he winking at me? Did he wink at you? This looks like his felicitation function. Please change the topic. The sooner you fix the marriage date the better. Yes, if you fix the date and inform us, we must start inviting from Delhi. First invitation must go to my Prime Minister brother. ls your brother Prime Minister? Yes, our prime Minister is NTR, right? So he has decided late NTR is our Prime Minister. he's getting worse, if we stay longer he may bite us. Yes, our Prime Minister is NTR! Okay brother-in-law, l'll inform after fixing the marriage date. Tulasiram, look after you MLA nephew carefully. Okay. Father-in-law, cancel this proposal. Why? Didn't you like that girl? the girl is beautiful but her father is winking at everyone like a Romeo. lt seems he affected with OCD disease. Chinna told me. ls it? Did you see how l managed it? ls she also suffering the same disease? She's winking at Chinna. Brother-in-law, this is not that winking... Your style is rocking... Your smile is deadly... Your walking style is classy mass dance... Come here, dear... My heart is after you... Come here...its chaos here... You've rocked me... You've mashed my heart... You've caressed my waist... You've chewed away my little heart... Watch this French Violin... You're dashing handsome man... Life without kick is salt less food... Youth will not accept love without kiss... Give me a kiss... Come here, dear... My heart is after you... Come here...its chaos here... Pin is there... To prick only... Ant is there... To bite only... l've a heart to give you only... Look it's crawling for you... honey sweet boy... Don't try dipping your finger in it... l can't hold on anymore... l don't mind if anything happens... You raised a ruckus till yesterday, what happened now to act decent? Won't it create tumult if girl expresses her desires? O my dear... Come here, dear... My heart is after you... Come here...its chaos here... The dot is there... To get disturbed only... Sari is there... To slip away only... For you to see and lay hands... My youthful bounty is all yours... Youth is there... To create trouble... To jump over the fence... Why this play of fate now?\ String my bow like body with your power and break it... Milk and honey is flowing in the beauty of your youth... Let it unite, dear... Come here, dear... My heart is after you... Come here...its chaos here... You've rocked me... You've mashed my heart... You've caressed my waist... Mumbai to hyderabad highway... Stop, Lift please .... Get down. Why did you stop the car? What's the matter? We want your car. We've to go to hyderabad. What the hell are you saying? We want to go hyderabad. ls it any taxi for you? Tell me bhai.- We're coming to hyderabad for the police officer. Keep Meka's farm house ready. Ajay Did you cheat me by saying your uncle is mad? Please lower your volume. Why should l? Will you make this world believe your father is dead though he's alive? No sir... Don't tell me anything. l'm a police officer, can't l get to know this much? he would've made crores in some scam, trying to escape from it, you're spreading new that he's dead. Sir. Please don't talk bad about my father Not just talk l'll tell on his face that l'm refusing this marriage. l don't want to marry you daughter who talks without trying to know what truth is. Go away sir. he doesn't know the truth. lt's useless to get angry. What's the truth? What's it Chinna? Why are you all so serious? What's it, brother-in-law? l want to talk to you. Tell me. Your brother lives in America, right? Yes. Since he can't make it to the marriage date l had fixed, your son is insisting on fixing a date when he can make it. Auspicious time is fixed to unite two hearts and for their happiness, if not for marriage, uncle will make it to the reception. Listen to me. Okay father, as you wish. That's it, problem is solved, right? Smile at least now! Please come and have lunch. Ajay Till now I thought you were an efficient officer only, l couldn't imagine you've such a soft heart, entire family is struggling to keep one man happy, it's my daughter's good fortune that she's entering such a lovely family. God bless you my boy Why is Nayak staying in my house? lf people know this link, l'm ruined. Forget about that, he'll first ask about that police officer. Think about answering that. Catching police officer is like catching livewire. We'll get electrocuted. Let's get our job done with some lame excuses. Greetings Nayak. Why have you grown so thin? Would he put on weight mourning brother's death? Stop this nonsense and tell me about that police officer. We're on it ever since you told us, bhai. We've stopped drinking and searching at nights too. Bhai, we've an important matter to tell you. What? A super deal has come up, bhai. are offering us at Rs.5 crores for cash. Straight away we'll make Rs.1000 crore profit. lf you say okay, we can register immediately. We can share the profit. Yes. Check all the documents properly. Let's close the deal. Bye. We mustn't trust these guys. Take care of the police officer yourself. Why did you call me urgently? You'll know it now. Well said, this deal has many meetings, when are we going to start the shooting? These meetings will take us to shooting. Ajay, Dinesh has escaped. We can't understand what you're trying to say. What's it? Listen to me... Stop sir... how can we understand if you shout like that? Use the machine and talk. he lost it. he's killing us with his gestures. Can't understand a word he's trying to say. he's barking like a mad dog. Can't understand a word he's trying to say. l'll explain it to you clearly. Tell me. Nothing Sir. we're doing a big deal, right? I took him for dinner with my uncle to get closer, he eyed my uncle's second wife, and tried to rape her in his absence, and she's a smart lady, moreover a gymnast, she broke the machine throwing it on ground, she didn't stop there, she threatens to tell my uncle about this, l almost died in convincing her not to tell about this. Won't this deal get cancelled if my uncle comes to know this? how much you'd lose? Look, he's threatening to throw from rooftop and kill for telling the truth. Don't make noise. Beat him again, father. he's trying to help us, are you trying to kill him? Please forgive me. No problem, uncle. Shut up. Why all this trouble? Put everything on paper what ever you want to say. Write it on paper. What will he write? he's illiterate, thumb impression only! Can't use that too! Shut up, don't make noise. lf you get so excited you may damage wind pipe, even machine can't be help you to talk. Do you know why did we call you here? lf you give the documents, we'll show it to lawyer. What? I gave the documents long back, right? When? You were mourning Ganesh's death, so I gave it to Venkat Rao. What are you staring at? Did he give you? he gave but l don't remember where l've kept it. Forgot it? Stop...stop... What? Sir. Already you've had two heart attacks, very danger if BP raises, you please be cool. uncle Don't worry about documents, l'll get it again. But it has to come from Singapore and may tale some time. Let's see the land by then. Land... Okay, let's go tomorrow. Good. I want to advice your elder son. I too want that, put some sense into him. Come Pedababu. - Come.- Go! Whatever you may do, nobody here can understand you, if you overact anymore, you remember the coating I gave you, right? Next time no coating, encounter! Why did that old man slap you like that? My hero has become cheap to everyone here. l want to cancel the deal. Don't get emotional, you saw how Ganesh has a nasty death. You mean he too...? yes he'll get sacrificed to my curse. he'll die will blood flowing out from mouth, ears and nose after BP raises. lf we go so slow, somebody else would buy that land. Listen to me, register it quickly. You're faster than your father. We'll do it, when times comes, nothing can stop it. Sorry, l didn't see you coming, l'll move away. Why is he having fits? Father, we've to go out. Where? You know Mallesh Goud... Mallesh Goud...? Brother the man who used to do illegal business. We had warned him once. he's dead. how? heart attack, father. ...... Luckily you've made it. had BP increased one more point, you would've got a stroke. lf you get stroke next time, nobody can save you. So please be very careful. Never get tensed. Got it? Please sit here, l'll find his room. Father, be calm, we'll take care of everything. ls this what you'll take care of? Senior doctor is calling you, will you please come? Coming! They're like dogs in heat! Senior doctor is calling you! Sit here, l'll inform doctor. Don't go away if there's little delay. You?! ....... Please stay with me till my sons come back. Why are you getting so tensed, sir? Same thing happened just before Ganesh died, we went after getting a call from senior doctor, when we came back. he was dead Are you afraid of dying like that? You've guessed it right. Are you teasing me? Are you my friend or brother-in-law to tease you? Who are you? Police Son of Shankar Narayana We can forgive people who commit mistakes, but those who commit sins mustn't be pardoned. lt's very easy to kill you all with bullets. But you all tried to kill a God like man, so l want the same God to punish you for your sins, Ganesh was killed and you'll get killed, and all others would get killed by the same God! Would you like to see that God? Can you bear to see him? Look there! You promised to show God and showed me death, right? Shankarnarayan gave birth to a good son! Ready? Go! Father...father... You've left us, father! his son! Don't feel sad he reached God! May God bless his soul! Come...come...they're coming! Quick! We'll be here only, she'll come again. You be patient. Father! he was fine till then, uncle, we went out for few minutes and he died. Don't know who put this garland so quickly? My curse did it, man! l'm already in sorrow over father's death and you're troubling me. Why the characters are dying in this reality show? mafia backdrop, so too much of violence. Are you really sad or acting? I'm acting as if l'm sad. Director... ls this also your tongue's job? Then what? No way. You can see before you eyes and still don't believe it. What did you say that day? What did l say? You said he'll bleed to his death. Where's the blood? They've cleaned it. I wanted powerful hero for my first film, but l've got a hero with powers. Just a second. Ok Are you thinking how your father died? Can't understand who put the garland? Don't think too much, you too would die. he's living in the role of a dead body too for prize money. how great you may perform, from Nageshwara Rao to Nagachaithanya are on my side, prize money is Padmasri's, that's final! What's your uncle talking to him? he's reciting a holy hymn. Won't you relax even after l've told you every thing. lt's your fate, l can't help it. Narasing, uncle wanted to discuss about land deal today evening. Okay, come with him to guest house. You know the concept, right? You must pick up some fight with them and cancel the deal. Then the mafia behind them will come out. Only then the title of Land dealing with mafia would get justified. l got it, why are you explaining as if l'm a kid? l've a second wife, where is she? She's not ready ........ ......... Coming! You? Please come in... come in, uncle. Greetings aunty. Greetings sunny. She is...? My uncle's local wife. Local wife? lt sounds new! Where ever my uncle goes, he takes a new wife there. here it's Kaja aunty. Kaja? Yes, my name is Kaki Janaki. My Raja fondly calls me as Kaja. You're Singapore Raja and she's Tapeswaram Kaja. Welcome! Take it please! Please get juice for Kaja madam. l don't drink juice, l'll have it raw! What's it Raja? Why don't you add soda? lt'll be very strong. Stronger than you? Why are you not having drinks? No need to drink, just smelling, it can give me kick. lf l take near, double impact! This good without any expense. Let's come to the real issue. So much of devastation in just 5 minutes! What happened, Kaja? What happened? Kaja aunt! Who dared to molest you? Who molested you? Don't know who did it but they did what is supposed to be done! Bloody bastards! how dare! how dare you molest my Kaja aunty! lt means you think my uncle is a coward, right? You think he can't harm you, right? You think he's useless, right? Why are you discussing about my ability now? l don't want to do business with these rogues. Go Please don't say like that, uncle. Will you cancel deal for such a silly matter? ls it a small matter to molest my Kaja? You can take action if you know the culprit. You don't know, right? On behalf of them, l'll fall on her feet. They tried to molest her and you want to fall at her feet. Won't you leave her? No more discussion, deal is cancelled. Babu Don't get so angry, if deal is cancelled, our film will get stopped. Last night uncle saw your show reel and promised to produce the film. ls it? You must also support my uncle. Okay. Meka how dare you call me by my name! Not just call you by name, l'll beat you with slippers. What? l'll kill you. You need a gun or knife to kill me, just tongue is enough for me, l can kill you with my tongue. l'm saying the deal is cancelled not him. Enough...enough of it. Shut up. Every fool is shouting at us. She's some cheap street girl catering to lorry drivers, and you accuse us of molesting her, is there any meaning to it? What do you eat food or grass? have you gone mad? Deal must go on. how dare you're shouting on my uncle! l'm saying now deal is cancelled, do what so ever you can. Okay uncle? Yes nephew. You don't know about us, Bellary Babu. Mafia is behind us. lf mafia is behind you, l've my uncle behind me. Just one phone call will bring Nayak here. Get him, let's see! My uncle is not a coward to fear Nayaks and Khalnayaks. he's a tiger! Tell him to come. Let him come. Room number 306, Park hotel Let him come in car or walk to the hotel, don't mind if he comes in day or night, day and night the doors will be open, come uncle! Kaja let's go how dare you molest my Kaja aunty! Anyone who dares to touch her will get ruined! ........ What's the next scene? You must wait in the Park hotel for the mafia goons. Booked a room? lt's ready. Ever since doctor said we must keep him happy, we tried our best to keep father happy, the real happiness he gets is from my marriage, thanks for understanding me. Brother! Rama Rao has written a letter. lt seems he's preoccupied with some work and can't attend the marriage. But promised to come home when he's gets time. Did you see how much he likes us? After marriage, people of Shankar Nagar must be gifted with clothes and feast. Don't forget it. Brother-in-law, l've ordered for flower decoration and dinner. lf you don't mind, l heard you're little stingy, don't worry about money, we'll take care of everything, my only son, marriage must be very grand! Marriage in our home is glowing brightly... lt's uniting two hearts to become one... Dreams have forged this bond... at this auspicious time... Let the marriage drums beat and rock the place... Let the trumpets reverberate the entire place... To make people see that this is no ordinary marriage... Let this marriage be so grand which nobody would've seen before... Guests from the bridegroom's side have reached the guest house... We've come carrying the palanquin too with us... We'll take the new bride with us... No need of any further delay, l'll tie the knot... l'll come to ln-laws place holding your little finger... Let the trumpets reverberate the entire place To make people see that this is no ordinary marriage Bride is fair with golden glow... Groom must pay dowry for her... Our boy is lightning... winner hands down... Even if you offer Swiss bank, it's still very little... We're offering a girl worth like diamond... With her luck will bring everything else to you... Groom is waiting eagerly for the moment to tie the knot... The bride's cheeks are revealing the same thing unabashedly... They're putting up a brave face as if they're not eager... No need of any further delay, l'll tie the knot Search entire world, you'll not find a girl like her... Your apple of eye wished to be his partner... My son is a dazzling like full moon and a great warrior... My father is God incarnate... l don't have any wish other than his happiness... l think Lord Rama would've been like you only... Marry little Seetha... See the glow of happiness in your father's eyes... No need of any further delay, l'll tie the knot l'll come to ln-laws place holding your little finger... Let the trumpets reverberate the entire place Brother...brother... Your father has regained consciousness. You can see him now. Thank you how are you now, father? I'm fine. Doctor said you can go home today. What has really happened to me? What's the problem? Nothing much, you fell unconscious in excitement and raising BP. You must be careful. I will be. I was never afraid of death. But from very young age l spent my life for people. In this I missed your childhood. But after seeing this fun, I want to live. l want to play with your children. Take them to school. Want to hear them call me grandpa! No problem, right? I can experience all this, right? You'll see everything, you'll be fine, father. I'll not let anything happen to you. Is Shankarnarayan still alive? Is Ajay Kumar son of Shankarnarayan? Not only that he killed your partners, and he'll kill you too! Not only professionally, have you got personal fight too with him? Not even God can save you now. Land party cancelled the deal in the last moment. Unless you come things will not move. First see this! What is Bellary Babu doing here? he's police officer Ajay Kumar not Bellary Babu. Shankarnarayan's son! he killed our partners. l faxed you his photo. You sent another man's photo. he was different. What nonsense you're saying? To postpone your death for few days, l changed the photo. ........ You're breaking the promise. You promised to kill Ajay first and then me, forgot it? Meka Why did Ajay come to you as Bellary Babu? What had happened? l'll tell you. I want Bokka and Singapore Rajeshwara Rao immediately. Hi Nayak How are you? I told we don't have any connection, right? Why did you bring me here? Where is Bellary Babu? he's on location hunt. Location hunt? Yes That's his duty He is the film director director? Of course, he is the film director he's making a film. Who is the hero? lf it is some other hero why would l get involved in this deal? l'm the hero. Are you the hero? Any doubt? Shall I give you another shock? ...... Care for one more shock? Singapore Rajeshwara Rao saw my show reel and is producing this film. ls it? he's here! Why are you pushing me? ls he the mafia don Nayak? Why are you staring at me? I told you to come to me, right? Why didn't you come? Got scared? Where is he? Who? Your nephew Bellary Babu, where is he? Why do you want him? l said deal is cancelled. Once l say cancel, l mean it. lt seems Nagarjuna feels he gave exceptional reactions for the slap. What do you think of yourself? l've made dons like you in Singapore to wet their pants. Mad man! Are you a human or beast? Why are you beating so harshly? Who is responsible if l die? Why are you feeling yourself like a real don? You're just playing the character of Don. Don Character? Am l playing Don's character? Have you forgotten that too? have you gone mad? This is a reality show. Reality show? What nonsense are you blabbering? Wait! Am l mad? l'll take you to task. Nagarjuna sir! Look at him sir! l can't take it anymore sir. Since you like my reactions to the slap, l've shown maximum patience, has absolutely no sense of timing, looks like he'll kill me for real, please don't encourage such people, sir. l beg you sir. Who are you talking to? Who am l talking to? have you forgotten our boss? have you forgotten our king? have you forgotten MAA TV owner? have you forgotten the creator of this reality show? Did you see Nagarjuna? lt seems he doesn't even know you. Entire episode has gone waste because of him. You've to re-shoot it, how much you would lose in this? Please eliminate such people, sir. Is Nagarjuna in this pen? Camera is in the pen, Nagarjuna is in studio. Don't you know this also? What's this Meka? he says hero and this man says reality show, and says l'm playing a Don's character. What's their concept? Still didn't get it? Babu used these people with a plan to send you to hell. You will get trapped holy trap l've found my hero! Genelia has agreed. he's the type of man who will make the hiding rat to come out and kill it. lf you come out in open and dance, would he spare you? he would be here at any moment. lf he comes here, opposition will be wiped out. lf my guess is right, we'll hear a sound now. Nayak You're surrounded. Surrender! Didn't l tell you? This place smells death! Shut up! Cool Surrender yourself! Nayark Surrender! Go back l'll kill him. Hey boys, hold the fire Go back, i said go back Go back. If not he'll die! .... Please forgive me... l raised you with these hands. l don't have any part in the plan to kill your father. l joined them to save my life. Don't spare Nayak, kill him like dog. Where are you going? lf any bullet hits, you'll die. Go away! Everybody is overacting. This is reality show, those are not real bullets. You fool! Still didn't get it? he's real police, he's real don, he used you for this operation. You'll see how l'll use you. ls this the meaning of use? ldiot! l believed them for the lure of money. how could you believe if they you're a hero? With those carry bags under your eyes. They'll remove it using graphics. .... lf l target anyone, it means confirmed berth up there! Stop...listen to me. Leave me...please leave me. l should've escaped when Cool Babu told me. l made a grave mistake. Give me one chance. Give me one chance. Bloody! Am I a film producer to give you a chance? l beg you. Your berth is confirmed. But ticket will be issued by the great Shankarnarayan. l beg you, please leave me. Once l fix up my mind, l'll go blindly! l'll not listen. Morning Murthy Nayak escaped. he could focus on anything, situation is under control, right? yes sir. Our leader whom we thought died is alive and coming to participate now, it's all God's grace! lt's time kill him, father! he meant Ravana! Don't miss the target, brother! Lord Rama is the ultimate truth! Grandpa! What's it dear? Please give the kite. Grandpa! Father, uncle was very happy seeing you in the marriage CDs. What's this? What's all this? Why did you do this? Why did you create a non-existent world? For my sake? To keep me happy? ls it to keep me alive? Why do you hang your head as if you've committed a mistake? What I saw may have been a lie, but my happiness was true, l wasn't with you when you needed me the most, l didn't do anything to you as a father, why did you take so much trouble for me then? Why did you create so many wonders? What have l done really for you? You have me this birth! Any father would wish little love from his son. But you've given love enough to last hundred births. What more can l ask than this? All of you for my sake... Enough...this is enough for me. Why are you afraid? Worried about anything happening to me, how brave should God be to take me away from such a lovely son? What would he do take me away? he'll send me back to repay my gratitude as your son. lf parents do anything for children, they see happiness in their eyes, if children do anything for parents, they'll see tears of happiness in eyes, My best wishes to everyone who toil for the happiness of their parents.- Srinu vytla My mind is at peace after returning the house to Shankarnarayan. Please have coffee, father-in-law. Flash news for you, Padmasri. What's it, father-in-law? From tomorrow cook will not come. You must cook from tomorrow. how can l do all the work alone, father-in-law? Shall l make a call to Shankaranna? No need of that, father-in-law, l'll do it. One of my friends is planning a reality show, he asked me about you, are you interested? l beg you, father-in-law, l don't want any reality shows. Just allow me to live in reality. l got you... Father, doctor called me just now. Reports have come from Germany, if you go to Germany for you'll be fine. l don't need to go anywhere, be my side, that's enough. how can you say like that brother-in-law? Doctors must also make a living, right? Commissioner has asked us to deal this case too. Greeting Sir. You are...? I'm Venkat Rao. Sir. Venkat Rao...? Your hero Sir. ls it you Venkat Rao? Why have you become like this? l was like this only, I was covering it up. Now l've removed the cover. Why did you call me now? I wanted to give you a shock. Aren't you satisfied with the shocks you've already given me? lt has been decided to give you the Rs.1 crore reward on Nayak's head. What are you thinking sir? Where can l find Genelia?
