 

                        Doomsday book The Mariana Resort. Seventy-four guestrooms, all overlooking the Pacific Ocean. Right? Which way is the Pacific from here? - Hey, Hwa-yoo. - Yeah? Hurry up and eat. We're late. Honey. Should I take my bikini or not? - Without me... - Don't ask me. You knew my military service is almost over. I forgot that you were in the military, since you're working at a research lab and all. Soldiers can't travel overseas? Then what about all those guys that went to Iraq? Why didn't you go too? Oh, right. You're not a soldier. - Or are you? - I'm not that kind of soldier. But then... Sis... My liquor cabinet. Right there. I marked all the bottles so don't even touch them. I'm warning you. Don't think of having a party in here. Yes, sir. Since you're working so hard for your country, do your mom a few favors too. LISTOF CHORES 1. TAKE OUT THE RECYCLING 2. DO THE LAWNDRY LAUNDRY A BRAVE NEW WORLD No matter how much I clean... what is it? You've received one new voice mail. YOON Seok-woo! Hurry up and come out. Don't make your blind date wait, dude! Wait. Garbage bags... She's hot and her body is hotter. Garbage bags... Time for you to get a life, man! DON'TFORGET TO EMPTY THE FLOWER PRINTBUCKE Fuck! Seven o'clock at Hongdae. Don't be late! FOOD WASTE DISPOSAL BIN Cheers. Are you sure you're okay with barbecue? Yes. What is it that you keep on shooting? I want to leave a record of every moment. Whether it's good or bad, all you have left are your memories. - Is that weird? - No. That's great! Hey, this one is done. Compliments of the chef. We just got it in! - Waitress! - Yes, coming! You don't like beef liver? This is the best part right here. What's an apple peel doing in there? Then have some of this. Seok-woo! I think I should go home now! Yoo-min... I have to go back into the lab tomorrow. My house is right by here. Aren't you thirsty? But yesterday you didn't want to go home since your family left. No, no. That was yesterday and today is today. Seok-woo, It's only been three days since we met, and you'll be done with the military in a month. Yoo-min! I really like you. I'm not that kind of guy. I love you, Yoo-min! KIM Yoo-min! I want to marry you! But... why do you like me? Well... It's strange isn't it? Girls don't really like guys like you. Especially hot girls like me. I was just kidding. Your eyes. They're like puppy dog eyes. Kind and loyal. So it's because... - I remind you of a puppy? - No, that's not... I feel like those eyes will only look at me. Like you'll only be thinking of me at the lab. I want to research you forever. Wait. Your face... why? What do you think you're doing, young man? Let's just ignore them. Hold on a second. I'll have to teach this fellow some manners. Students should already be at home at this late hour! And you, young man! I'll have a word with this fellow. Stop! Wait, young man. You shouldn't be doing that in front of students. Just get a room! Are you in shock? Hey, what is that? Hello? You little... Seok-woo... Yoo-min! You have to delete that picture. This isn't who I am! This cow is mad! It's so good! 2KG OF SIRLOIN Cheers! NEWRIGHTS ALLIANCE SEOUL CHAPTER DINNER Let's drink. SHORTRIBS, 600G JEDO KIM (DESIGNER) TENDERLOIN, 600G Hello? - You idiot. - Yeah. What happened you asshole! I'm having a weird day. You don't like women anymore? This is YOON Seok-woo you're talking to. Fine, then. Get your ass over here! - Huh? - Idiot. - Where are you? - Meet me at M2 in Hongdae. Okay. I'll be there soon. How was it? Sweet Nice song, isn't it? - Over there... - Huh? Are they drunk - what the... - Oh my god! Goddamn it! Hey! Maybe you ate too much. I don't know. My head hurts! Today, I keep... I just... Act first, think later. - Act first, think later. - I got it! You're sick because you haven't been laid for so long! Let's get out there. Act first, think later... Then get out there and think later. Move it! Feeling better now? It's so loud. Turn it down... Just be quiet. It's so damn loud. I have to go home. Get out of my way. I have to go home. Out of my way. Don't touch me... Don't touch me! Hey, what are you doing? Come on, man! Stop it! Fucking bastard. That little bastard. All that meatjust went to his head. The number you have dialed cannot be reached... what the hell? Fuck! You may already realize the recent growth of flu patients around you. This year's flu epidemic has the most lethal symptoms yet, and is said to be extremely difficult to treat. Chills, fevers and migraines are... symptoms similar to the influenza virus, but this virus appears to mutate within a day's time. Tonight's debate is on whether this mysterious virus is part of a conspiracy. Let's hear from Mr. LEE Joon-ho from the civic group Proper Solidarity. Well, before I begin with tonight's debate... Let's try not to behave improperly, as many have done during past disagreements. So as I start off tonight's debate, I suggest we try to offer objective information. Everyone is wondering about the current state of the first infectee. You've investigated something for us? Yes. This unidentified epidemic is the modern-day plague of our... Strange events taking place online are also worrying officials. Around midnight last night this website's main server malfunctioned, suddenly causing its game characters to behave violently like the virus patients. I thought she was blind because her eyes were yellow. She just wasn't normal. She just bit someone passing by and there was blood everywhere. Haven't we all seen this before? The presidential elections of 2004. The Great National Party that you belong to... Let's stick to today's subject, sir. This is about the subject. These numbers match their percent vote in each city in the 2004 election. We're talking about the virus. Why is this so? Why are you mentioning the Great National Party? Do you mean the virus is This does not reflect our party's views. It originated in the Great National Party? My objective evidence points to your food trucks in the 2004 elections. Patients show violent behavior and difficulty controlling emotion. The Department of Agriculture employed over thirty health officials, running detailed inspections of the local pig farms. The medical world agrees on the urgent necessity for identifying this virus. The reason is... In the worst case possible... For the nation's peace, We need to find where it is originated from we need nationwide sacrifice. The first origin of... We don't even know... Now six farms are suspected of contamination. More and more farms are suffering from the effects of flu, but the initial cause and routes for contamination are still unknown. How can you talk of relocation right now? If you have time to be sitting here, go home and feed your children. I am here to represent the people! Please refrain from personal attacks. Serve your country by being a good mother. Your affairs with lingerie not going so well recently? Lingerie? So that's why you got divorced. Again, personal attacks are... Symptoms in these virus patients have worsened. We managed to sit down with one patient showing violent symptoms. You don't look too well right now... I remember the days as a student back in Russia. Ladies and gentlemen. This epidemic is now spiraling beyond our control. It was Leon Trotsky's... Meat and the Bible. These two things represent food for the body and the soul. But when conflict arises between these two provisions... What are you doing? Crisis has arisen in... The Department of Agriculture employed over thirty health officials, running detailed inspections of the local pig farms. No additional cases have occurred, but vaccinations were encouraged. The virus won't become active, but it can still be contagious. Vaccinations are necessary to... The whole complex is empty. All this chaos in one week! We leave for one week and the country goes to ruins. I can't even step out without worrying for the nation. Just worry about yourself. How could you tag along on our wedding anniversary trip? Open the door! I have to pee! He's not answering. - He's not? - No. I specifically told him what time we'd be back. You had the keys when we left. I did? Just find it! Goddamn it. You're really in Mensa? - I had the keys. - Jeez, Mom! Sheesh. Why is it so dark in here? Seok-woo. Are you all right? He didn't clean up all week. What a mess. Why, that little... Just look at that idiot putting on an act. I wondered if he could handle himself, but apparently not Look at him just staring at us. What's that smell? He probably played games all night. My liquor! I warned him not to touch it... Seok-woo! What's wrong with you? - What's wrong with him? - Seok-woo! Son! What's gotten into you? Seok-woo! It's Dad! He has to try on the pants I bought him... Seok-woo, Mommy... My 30-year-old Ballantine's... Johnnie walker Blue Label... Jack Daniel's Single Barrel... I told them we shouldn't come back. We've received reports that the virus symptoms have mutated. Uncontrollable libido appetite, and depression... Patients had been suffering from symptoms related to such human vices. Now they've lost all cognitive abilities and are attacking others at random. The number of casualties is skyrocketing. They may appear to be living human beings, but experts call them "dead bodies in suspended animation". Please refrain from going outdoors and stay somewhere safe. If you see any people moaning or walking very slowly, we advise you to flee immediately or to report to the nearest police. An unverified report states that even deaths have occurred. Unbelievable breaking news. Victims believed to have been murdered by the virus patients have been coming back to life in immediate suspended animation. Symptoms of the unidentified virus have quickly mutated. Experts are working nonstop to find the cause of this phenomenon, but even cutting edge science cannot explain these events. A reporter from Seoul Monthly released a controversial theory online, claiming this epidemic to be of North Korea's doing, and that talk of withdrawal of U.S. Forces was the cause. A far-right politician claims this to be nationalists' vendetta against himself. He has applied for asylum in Japan, but it was denied again. Some have also suggested reinstating of Dr. HWANG to study the virus. Members of HWANG's advocate group, "HWANG Forever", visited the Ministry of Environment to request a meeting with the Minister. Most online comments on handling virus patient attacks were proven false. As analysts believe this is another instance of cyber-bullying, some claim protesters of the online real-name system are responsible. The American Secretary of Defense has reported to the U.S. President that "such biochemical attacks must not be ignored", and that "drastic measures must be considered to ensure world peace". Do you think we'll remember this moment? And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, "Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat; but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die." Genesis 2: 16-17 Robot assistance fortunately allows us to focus on our practices. Do they take care of cleaning? No, our monks do the cleaning. Cleaning is part of our practices, but money management is not. What kind of duties does the defective RU-4 have here? In-myung is a guide robot who provides general information. But calling him "defective" does not seem suitable. If he's not defective... Are you saying he thinks on his own, rather than repeating the input data? Correct. He shares his own realizations with our believers and other monks. But don't monks struggle to attain enlightenment? You're saying a robot has attained it? Howbeit, we have heard his teachings, and have acknowledged his spiritual growth. Instead of repairing or checking for In-myung's defects, we seek your professional judgment on his current state. There is In-myung. Turn your head. What? Are you curious? Please see me for what I am. Everything looks normal. I am normal. I wasn't talking to you, robot. I realize this must be stressful for you. What are you talking about? It is all right. I am just a machine. Please feel at ease. I am. I've handled hundreds of troublesome robots like you. I do not understand why UR International sent a repair specialist. I'm here at the temple's request. I know we did not request a repair specialist. A specialist first checks in-person for defects or need of service. It's protocol. Then you have confirmed that I have no defects. That's not for you to decide. All is functional is it not? This matter is beyond my authority. I do not understand. I don't know what you're asking of me. I know nothing about Buddhism. If a robot is defective, I change its parts and repair it. If it's worse I report to the head office. My job is to fix defective robots. But you're telling me this robot is Buddha. If this crazy robot claims he's Buddha, it's my job to open him up and repair the short circuit. But you want me to confirm if he is Buddha. You are not at fault, sir. Stay out of this! Humans are talking! I apologize if we have offended you. I had thought seeing him for yourself would be best. I'm afraid my actions were rash. This is beyond my authority. I'll file a recall according to protocol. In-myung is no mere robot. That's for us to decide. Yes, it is a matter for you experts to decide. So what have you decided? Even if In-myung is not Buddha, don't you agree that he is different from other robots? It's just a robot like I'm just a technician. Why do you experts only believe data? Why won't you allow room for imagination? Why must data be truth and all else be false? What are you saying? Then would you have me explore philosophy with the robot? I am asking you to look again without fear. Fine. If you cannot determine whether In-myung is Buddha or not, then can you not at least see the hearts of people? The reason for our actions... The reason for our bringing a busy technician here. Can you not see it? Please check Brother In-myung once more. All I see is a defective robot. I will go now. - Who is it? - Hey... Is the repair guy here? What guy? Hi. You're the guy who fixes robots, right? Yes. So? Fix my baby for me. - What is this? - My baby. I think she's dead. She won't move. So just lend me a chip. You fix robots. I'm sure you have a lot. No, you need to take this to a robot pet center. But she died all of a sudden and the center is closed now. I've been waiting for you to come home for hours. I was waiting for you and it's too late now! So just give me one chip. Just wait until tomorrow and go to the center when it opens. But I need her right now! Don't you know that smoking is illegal? Did you fix her? It's temporary. I don't have the right chip. It'll be fine to play with for a few hours. Damn it. It moves awkward. You really don't have it? Go to this place tomorrow. They carry the best biochips in the country. I'm not quite happy with it but thanks anyway. So do you live with robots too? Excuse me? Do you live alone with robots? I see. No wonder. Let's go, baby. More and more young people are choosing robots over marriage. These so-called "humanoid mates". With national birth rates at record lows, such social trends are a rising problem. They're actually more trustworthy. We're practically family now. Yes, ma'am. Why don't I have your report? Yes, I'll file it soon. Is there a problem? I need your report to decide what to do with the robot. To be honest, I haven't reached a decision yet. What decision? Is the robot still useful? That's what I cann't decide on. Is it necessary to exterminate RU-4? What? Look, Mr. PARK... I'll file my report soon. Would you like to come in? What brings you here at this hour? I've come for advice for my troubled mind. What troubles you? I was quite upset by the encounter with the technician this afternoon. Why did it upset you? I learned that all awakened beings in this world are Buddha, and you have attained the highest point among us all. But they deem you defective and order a recall. He merely did what he had to do. That is not all. The company will send a team of exterminators tomorrow. It is absolutely absurd. As if you were some killer robot. I question their ability of perception. You will be in great danger if we do nothing. What do you see me as? You are Buddha. What does that appear to be? That is a clock. Then what does this appear to be? Is this my arm or is it a clock? To perceive is to distinguish, merely a classification of knowing. While all living creatures share the same inherent nature, perception is what classifies one as Buddha and another as machine. We mistake perception as permanent truth and such delusions cause us pain. Perception itself is void as is the process of perceiving. As I am a perception of this void, please see me for what I am. Brother In-myung. Fill your mind with nothingness. From where have I come and to where do I go? From where have I come, and to where do I go? What am I? What am I? What am I? From where have I come and to where do I go? What am I? What am I? From where have I come and to where do I go? When is this model from? The R200 series, circa 2017. Why was it not replaced? I'm sorry, sir. We'll replace it now. Extermination team. That is not necessary. This robot is still useful to our temple. We have the right and responsibility to replace outdated models, sir. But if the buyer is satisfied there is no need. I am still useful. I will begin my introduction of our temple. - Mr. PARK. - Yes, ma'am. - Did you check this? - I checked it yesterday. I decided it was still functional, so I did not report it. Report everything and I'll decide. Yes, ma'am. You may go. I flew over as soon as I got the emergency report. For failing to distinguish such crucial matters as this, I fired nine secretaries and one ignorant manager. Our technician seems to grasp the situation. So why did you seek the guarantee of UR from a mere technician, in trying to turn that robot into Buddha? I realize that we were at fault. You are not obligated to mind the interests of a mere corporation. But UR is essentially different from these companies you think of. UR robots are in our governments schools, and families. Simply put, they are integral to all areas of society. You could say that UR provides the basic groundwork of the human race. Must mankind then refrain from breaking down its own foothold? I am stating that one robot's defects can prove fatal to the national system. Thus it is a threat of the world of suffering. What did you say? This is not a "threat". National security is always an excuse used to suppress the people. Now used by a mere corporation. Refrain yourself. No, that is not so. We're only discussing the threat to mankind's existence. Whether UR is the cause or the basis is not important. You only see a merchant in me, but keep this in mind. UR's client is all of mankind. I can take measures alike to heads of state against such threats to mankind. People often see science as a mere instrument to mankind. A subservient aid to do its bidding, like some genie in a lamp. But each scientific advancement man utilizes is conversely changing man himself. Even before we realize it. When the first man wielded that wooden stick, the stick was also wielding him. Which is why we are training ourselves to reach a balance between mind and matter. Quite optimistic. Man has been a slave to material things since the dawn of civilization. Man has always been marginalized by class, capital and labor. And now we will be marginalized by a monster we created. Creator, at the will of his own creation! Understand? All creators face the dilemma that they've created a monster. But every problem has a solution. The solution is to dismantle the RU. We see the problems of RU and the solution is to obliterate these monsters. We must not let its sly tongue fool us. We will be left at their mercy before we even know it. A different example. The human brain has not evolved since the dissemination of computers, left only with basic arithmetic functions. What is the main number for this temple? Man has forever struggled to define its existence, but with no satisfactory explanation. There was no necessity, for man was a singular being. But things have changed. Man is desperately trying to define its existence, because a nearly indistinguishable entity has emerged. That is this very entity! Step forward, RU-4. RU-4, step forward! The RU series is a failure. We have decided to exterminate all RU models around the world. RU was made by man, but it is now a threat to us. A threat that talks, thinks, cries, and even laughs like man! Even invading religion and art! Get a hold of yourselves! That thing is a dagger held to the very throat of mankind! I'm shocked to find that the president of UR detests robots. If you still see me as just a grumbling businessman, So be it. - Director MIN, get it ready. - Yes, sir. Greetings. Today's unexpected news from this unexpected source was surprising. I am putting no one at fault. Each temple has authority to reach its own decisions. But my brothers, ponder the effects of a robot's awakening on us. What meaning can it hold for our brothers elsewhere? What robot is desirous or compulsive by nature? Are not robots created without such desires, for the sole purpose of serving man? If we were to acknowledge a robot as Buddha... If it were constructed inherent with enlightenment, which so few attain after such struggle and denial of self, who would bear the countless cycles of death and birth to achieve it? Answer me this, robot. Have you come to drive man away from the path of awakening? You must know the effects of your talk of Nirvana on these poor souls! If you have truly been enlightened, attest to this by withdrawing yourself now. Put an end to this, robot! Everything has been revealed. This robot failed to answer the Master monk's question. It is now clear that this robot is defective. You will stand witness to the end of a robot resisting human orders. - Carry out the order. - Wait, sir. Just one minute. Please allow me some more time, sir. Allow me some time to run a check in more detail. What are you saying? You once stated that the RU-4 was a turning point in the history of man. Who could've known its greatest gift would become its mortal affliction? Technical error must be dealt through technical means. Stop this, Mr. PARK. No, I have something to say. Sir, no one here is perfect, including you and I. But we are not exterminated at the touch of a button. - We don't have time for this. - Sir! A robot must not think. A robot must not possess cognition. It must not have emotions or feel pain. A robot must never construe or trespass on the domains of man! A robot must unconditionally obey human orders! Begin immediately! RU- 400745479 ExQ. You are hereby subject to Code Alpha 42 Plus. You must obey all further orders and will now be collected. What say you, robot? You claim to have reached Nirvana. Will you not obey to the likes of man? Be warned! We are free from legal constraints on robots violating this code, and will commence fire to exterminate all such robots! Will you obey? Obey our orders. Obey our orders! This is your last warning! Will you obey? As head of UR I order to open fire! No, please cease fire! Obey our orders! - Cease fire! - Extermination team! No, please cease fire. - Move! - Out of the way, Mr. PARK. - No. - Out of the way, PARK! Please cease fire! - Back away, Mr. PARK! - Move, PARK! Move. Out of the way, PARK! - Out of the way, Mr. PARK! - This isn't right, sir! Extermination team! What are you waiting for? Back away. Cease fire! - Open fire! - Fire. Cease fire! Withdraw yourselves now. Please withdraw everything now. I know I am without desire or compulsion, in the past present, and future. I have learned that this is as the teachings of Buddha. Humans for what do you fear? Compulsion, desire good deeds and bad, enlightenment and oblivion... The world this robot has seen through its bare nature was already complete in and of itself. Why do you believe that only a robot can be awakened at creation? Humans. You were each born with enlightenment already attained. You have only forgotten. The world this robot sees is inherently beautiful. The question of my awakening does not affect this complete world. You are masters of this world and have already attained enlightenment. That is why I will now leave this place, so that a robot's precedent enlightenment will not fill you with oblivion again. I pray that you ponder deep within yourselves, It's all... All circuits have been disconnected. The robot terminated all of its own functions. In-myung has entered into Nirvana. THE HEAVENLYCREATURE What should I do? I have to order it before Dad finds out. Was it the eightball? That stupid pool ball! Where am I supposed to order it from? Honey, have you seen my eightball? They must've messed with it and lost it. Don't ask me for some stupid ball. A stupid ball? That ball is a complex system of physical forces... Whatever. Where did my credit card go? Min-seo! Have you seen your uncle? - Hwan, did you... - Dad! Be polite and knock first! What are you doing in your uncle's room? Checking my homework on the computer. Honey. What is she doing in Hwan's room? I found it! TWO YEARS LATER MASSIVE COLLISION APPROACHING! Exactly twelve hours and thirteen minutes until collision. Doctor. Please explain to us the current situation. What did he say? Well, the situation looks bleak. I see. The size of the meteor headed for Earth is... You're just gonna keep watching TV? Did you bring all your things? Mom, shouldn't we plant an apple tree or something? An apple tree is no use. You see the "home farmer kit" I've planted over there? That'll be our only solution to constipation, once we're locked up in here. I said not to put stuff like this on here. - Your wife put them there. - I know. - Bro. - What? You should've opened a pool hall with the money from selling Dad's store. I didn't open a pool hall because... You shouldn't turn what you love most into a job. One can hardly imagine how the world looks right now. Anchorwoman LEE Eun-kyung will give us the details. Anchorwoman LEE. Anchorwoman LEE? Yes. The world looks miserable right now. Looking at new footage... what's the use now? Ladies and gentlemen I pray you don't lose hope. Keep your hopes up ladies and gentlemen! Bomb shelters cost too much for most of our viewers. Having a bomb shelter inside a home isn't easy. But you can't walk through the rain without an umbrella, right? You must be prepared. Many viewers asked if women and children really can live comfortably in the pod. Inside our special Life Cube shelter pod, everything is solar-powered. Sanitation and water supply are part of one system. - One system? - Yes. You'll have purified urine to drink. Purified urine! It does sound a bit repulsive, but it's extremely sanitary. You'll have fresh water any time you want I'm sure you're already dialing our number on your phone. Remember that we have one day left before the big collision. You have to decide today, in order to receive the shelter pod before the collision tomorrow. This is our last live deal before the collision. If you buy it after the collision, it'll be too late. Make the right choice and call us now. Huh? OUTOF SERVICE RANGE Honey. You're really gonna do that right now? I wonder how your mother ever raised you two... Balls and robots... I'm a little offended. Who installed the electricity and everything in here? You went to KAIST. It's is the least you could do. It's the end of the world and... Honey. Think of all the days we'll be spending in here. Don't waste your energy already. This photograph has just been released... My good old friend is on the news! The meteoroid currently heading for Earth appears to be of a certain ball-like form. NASA and scientists everywhere are quickly analyzing this photograph. QKR 0109... Q... Cue for billiards. "KR"...For Korea. Today's date. No, that's not it. Come on, intelligent brain! Maybe she regrets not studying now that the world is ending. Skills are better than book smarts. Skills last longer. Just don't make us miserable by taking up something absurd. - I think I love you. - I love you too, honey. She took it the wrong way. That's an a useless hobby, not a skill. Mom, Dad. Uncle Hwan. That thing coming toward us... That pocket ball... I ordered it. I'll be a better dad, okay? I'll play less billiards. We won't fight. I know you're scared and confused, but we have to have hope. Mommy and Dad... I'm telling the truth! I really ordered that! Don't you remember, Mom? The day Uncle Hwan saw that UFO. I saw a UFO on my way home. Uncle Hwan. What's your purpose on Earth? Seriously I just looked up while coming up the hill, and a silver saucer went whoosh... That's my ID! That's how we type our last name! 0109 is my birthday. Today! I found a weird website selling pool balls for ten cents. For real? It swirled around when I clicked and the order went in. I'm not lying! Maybe it was a website for aliens! I think I was wrong earlier. Let's brush up on your speech skills before anything else. I can't understand a word you're saying. Are you mad because we forgot your birthday? We've been a bit preoccupied, honey. Trying to analyze the "QKR0109" symbol we have seen will be nearly impossible. Huh? What is this? Mankind is not perceptive enough to... I'll spend my last moments at home, praying with my family. Min-seo. Daddy knows how you feel. It's all right. You won't believe anything I say anyway. I'm gonna go outside for a bit, since this might be my last time. What in the world have I done? Bro! I know you're busy, but we need to talk. You guys can ignore what I say like you always do, but you shouldn't ignore Min-seo, your one and only hope. Just like the UFO I saw a few years ago, the idea of her eightball meteor is certainly a bit absurd But what's important is that the world might end in a few hours. According to Stephen Hawking's black hole theory, things we can't humanly explain can sometimes happen in this universe. The four of us becoming a family could be one silly phenomenon. And according to wheeler's wormhole theory... - Uncle Hwan. - Yes? Stop talking bullshit and say something realistic. Well, okay. I've thought for years that this black hole phenomenon could become linked through Internet or cell phone signals. And the fact that I saw that UFO is also strange, because that thing I saw was real! I looked through the browser history. There really was one odd address. Mom! Something is weird outside. The sirens are really loud. Turn on the TV! Ladies and gentlemen I repeat... Due to the meteor's sudden acceleration, we now have twenty minutes and twenty seconds left. We're also seeing strange weather because of the meteor's influence. Let's find out the current status of our weather report. - What's the weather report? - Nothing too special. I see. Then here's the last presidential address, a bit ahead of schedule. Let's connect to the Blue House. We'll try again. Blue House? Yes. We seem to be having some technical difficulties. We'll try again next time. Next time, when? There is no next time. Ladies and gentlemen. I have something to confess before I die. Let's confess after the collision... Despite all the great guys out there, I picked the man sitting next to me now. I loved this married man with all of my heart. But now this scumbag ditched me, for the young little reporter KIM Song-yi. Now they're having an affair! Before the world ends, and before the whole nation, I'll have this scumbag... No manners at all. Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I will carry out my duties as a broadcaster to the very end. Why are you sitting there? Well, I've always wanted to. Can't I? Today is our last show. Why not? I think you look sexier than Anchorwoman LEE. I gave you everything you bastard! Just how? How can you call yourself a man? Do you love her? Right. I will remain composed and stay with our viewers... Hey. Couldn't we cancel or return the eightball? Let's try going on the computer. Uncle Hwan. I can't understand what we're supposed to do. Heck, even Einstein himself couldn't figure this out. Uncle Hwan, what is this? An enter key? Let's try it. - I think it stopped! - Really? What now? Wouldn't clicking on the 'x' stop it for good? No! These aren't symbols used by humans! We need the electricity! - What do we do? - A muscle cramp? You should've listened to me when I told you to exercise. I don't have time to exercise. I worked so hard to let you keep up that hobby of yours... Honey. Ow! Cramps! - I don't know what to do! - Let's just click 'x'! - Pretty please! - Please... No! Mom. Dad. Uncle Hwan. I never imagined not becoming a grown-up. I ordered that eightball so that... I wouldn't let down Dad. Mom. Dad. Uncle Hwan. I love you. You know that, right? Min-seo. Happy Birthday. TEN YEARS LATER Honey! Min-seo! Min-seo! Min-seo! - Are you all right? - What in the world... I wanted to see its face... They left already? Just come out and look. Oh my... My, my... My good old friend the eightball. Min-seo. How did that eightball get destroyed in the first place? Oh, I don't know... Maybe, it was just time for it to get destroyed. Like this place. We can't be the only ones that survived, right? Of course not. Mom. Dad. Guys! I think I saw someone over there! - You did? - Hurry up! Wait for us!
