 

                        Hey, guys. Just watched a video sent to me by a follower. Hey, everybody. It's Jen and I wanted to make this video in response to... That sleep experiment video that's on YouTube. This... this video of some strange mad scientist guy. Hungarian doctor doing, you know, tests. - Experimenting on students. - Younger Asian male patients. They have, like, wires connected to their heads. I don't know what to believe on the Internet anymore. What's going on, everybody? It's your man, Alpha Cat. Welcome to this episode of "Ask Alpha Cat. " This crazy viral video that has gotten thousands of views. Apparently, it's this viral video that's been going around the web. - It's gotten tons of hits. - Some people have also said that this is related to, like, a more recent rash of deaths. Those deaths over in Kentucky. Some people say that it's dangerous to watch it. After watching it, they start hallucinating. It's kind of creepy. I'm not trying to have some real-life "Ring" experience where I watch something and then I'm cursed. - Bump that. - It's pretty scary. People just think I'm crazy. - Obviously, this is fake, you guys. - This is something real. This video is creepy as hell. Like, nobody knows who uploaded the video. We have no information. We have nothing. This is a video that wasn't meant to get out. I'd really like some answers. Teng. Teng? Teng? Teng! Teng! Teng! Hi, Charlie. My name's Alex. - Long-time listener, first-time caller. - Hey, Alex. What's up? Well, there's this girl and I really like her. So go up to her, start a conversation. We really haven't met in person yet. We just Facebook each other, but I thought it was starting to get intense, and then she stopped responding. I remember hearing a story about a girl who fell in love with a guy on one of these sites, and when she found out that the guy was actually one of her friends playing a prank on her, she killed herself. Now, what does that tell you? It tells me that the bullshit we make up in our minds can be dangerous. It's got us living in a world where we're falling in love with ones and zeros, with fake people, when the real world is just outside. You know the thing we still can't get online? Chemistry. That primordial thing, that animal instinct that draws us together. And without that, you got nothing. Just a fake relationship with a fake girl in a fake world, with nothing to show for it but real heartache. So turn off your computer, Alex. Go outside, find yourself a real girl. Good luck to you. Next caller. You're on KZTO's "The Night Shift" with Charlie Crowe. Hello? Am I on... on the air? Yeah, you're on the air. - My name's Jeff. - Mm-hmm. - Jeff, what's on your mind? - I'm seeing things. - What kind of things? - Shadows. Shadows of people who aren't really there. Oh, what, you mean like ghosts? No, they're not ghosts. These are something else. Uh, Jeff, no offense, but we get a lot of interesting callers on this show, but this is not a nuthouse. So please direct all your local insanity to your local psychiatrist. And what do we say when people waste our valuable air-time? - We say... - Thank you very much. Well, that's about all the time we have on "The Night Shift" with Charlie Crowe. We have a ton of people on hold. Thank you for trying. Try again next time when Charlie Crowe unveils the mysteries of the unknown universe. We'll be back on Monday. Until then, good night, sleep tight, and don't let the bedbugs bite. - Big City Value Furniture... - Any word from Philadelphia? Uh, yeah, man. They're not looking to syndicate us just now. Maybe next year if our numbers come up. You know this is the worst damn market I've ever worked in. Night, Tom. My name is Tom DiMartino. I am producer and engineer for "The Night Shift" with Charlie Crowe on Z104. Charlie got this slot in the evenings and needed a producer/engineer person, you know, somebody to screen calls. And so he said, "Hey, you know, you've got some experience. Would you be willing to do this for me?" You know, I was game at the time. Seemed like a pretty good ole boy. Last time I talked to him, anyway. Like I said, he leaves a good tip. How many times did he come in here? Before or after 4:00? That was a good show, Charlie. Wish my programmers thought so. If they ever can your ass over at that radio station, you can come work for me. No offense, Sparky, but... I think I'd rather suck the end of a double-barreled shotgun. Hey there, kiddo. What's the word? Hey. - How's Dr. Robert? - He's fine, I'm fine. Thanks for asking. Maid's day off again? Um, what are you doing? - Checking your fridge. - Why? To see if you have anything healthy to feed my son with. Hey, that's still good. It's expired. You know, I'm perfectly capable of taking care of our son. - I don't like him eating junk food. - Yeah, so we'll go out. I don't like him eating fast food either. All right, then I'll have the butler whip us up something. Don't be cute, Charlie. This is serious. Can't I be cute and serious? Don't you think you should stop wearing that? It's confusing Preston. Well, maybe I don't like throwing things away. Clearly. What about you, huh? Is it better to throw something out after you're tired of it? Trade it in for something new and shiny and rich? I was impressed with the fact that he took an interest in my son. Hey, wait. Hey, no. I take an interest in Preston. He just doesn't like the same things I like. Hey, Charlie. How's the DJ business? I'm not a DJ. DJs spin records. Lovely to see you. So what do you want to do? - Nothing. - Eh, come on. Let's go out to the park. We can throw the ball around. Yeah, that would be fun... if I was 10. Oh, all right. - What are you playing? - Zombie Killer. Yeah, that looks pretty violent. Is that rated for adults or something? Yeah, but Robert lets me play it, so... Well, um, Robert is not your father, and I would prefer it if you didn't sit around all day looking at that garbage. It'll rot your brain. Yeah, you would know about garbage, wouldn't you, Dad? It's not garbage. This is all perfectly plac... - I need that there for later. - Good. Bed-time, buddy. Do you want me to leave that other light on for you? Why, you think I'm scared of the dark? No. I'm sorry. I just... I... you're growing up so fast. I forget sometimes. Since when do you care? Since you were born, buddy. Since you were born. Preston, your mom's here. - Have fun? - No. - You beat my high score? - Yeah, look. Yeah, I love you, too, kid. Hey. So that kid from the other night, the one with the shadows. - Yeah? - He drops a package off at my house filled with photos and lab reports of some crazy experiment from Camden College. - Well, you better make a copy. - Why? Because when the CIA confiscates it, no one's gonna believe you. No, man. He's just some conspiracy nut. Oh, please tell me you're not buying into this crap. No, you know, it's just something interesting for the show. Besides, you know, if my body ends up in a dumpster, it would probably be good for ratings. Yeah, actually, speaking of ratings, I talked to programming today. And? They said if our numbers don't come up, they're gonna start running reruns of Raunchy Paul in our slot. Raunchy Paul? You gotta be kidding me. I wish I was, man, but that's what they said. Son of a bitch. All right, we're on in 10 seconds. Now here he is, the king of the late-night mic... the one, the only Charlie Crowe on your radio. This is the tri-county superstation KZTO, and you're listening to "The Night Shift" with Charlie Crowe. Welcome, all you people of the night, all you maniacs, brainiacs, and insomniacs who won't hit the sack. Let's open up the phone lines and hear what's on your mind. First caller, you're on the air. Have you seen them yet, Charlie? Oh, it's Jeff. I thought I might hear from you again. Did you get the package I left you? Mm-hmm, I did, Jeff. That is some interesting stuff. - What is it? - I don't know. I'm trying to figure that out, but I'm afraid if I go to sleep, I'll never wake up again. Why exactly did you send me that package, Jeff? It's evidence. I'm not crazy. They come when you sleep. Every night, I close my eyes and they come. And I'll wiggle my toe or try and move my arms just to wake myself up, but it's like they don't want you to be awake. Mm. Well, now you're starting to worry me, Jeff. How old are you? - 17. - 17, I see. Are your parents around? Can I talk to them? My mom works nights. I'm here alone. Jeff, if you're afraid, you should go to a friend's house - or... I don't know. - I have a gun. Uh, what do you need a gun for? You can't get away from them. Do you understand me? It's your thoughts. When you think about them, that's how they find you. It's like sharks drawn to blood in water. The only question is, how do you stop thinking about something? Uh, Jeff, are you still with us? - They're here. - Okay. Now, uh, just... just calm down, Jeff. I want you to call someone. Uh... Uh, let's... let's just put that gun down and... so we can talk, because, Jeff, I know that you are not crazy. Jeff? Jeff? Hello? Yeah, we're gonna go to a commercial break now to, uh, make sure everything's okay. Now nobody panic. This could be a hoax. We will find Jeff and, uh, make sure that he is all right. Tired of that slow computer, those inevitable crashes? Save costly repairs and downtime with the best solution to your problem... And I've got a gun here. Oh, listen, that's... you know, that's not the answer. Is there, like, a friend or... They're in the room right now. I see them in the room right now. - What... who is in the room? - Charlie... Who's in the room? Do you want me to call... oh, my gosh. Well, I'll tell you what. Details are very sketchy at this point. We arrived just about a half hour ago and we're told that the radio host here took a call from someone right around 17 years old, and that person through the course of the conversation is heard firing a weapon. We don't know if that person fired a weapon, we don't know if somebody else in the room fired a weapon, but a weapon was fired live on the air. He didn't kill himself. He shot the wall. His parents checked him into a hospital. Man, that had me freaked out. Yeah, me, too. He wants to take your statement now. Hi, Officer. People are already speculating that the call may have been a hoax in an attempt to boost the ratings of the show. Now, if that's true, host Charlie Crowe may be in a bit of hot water. We tried to speak to Mr. Crowe following the broadcast, but take a look at what happened. I didn't call him. He called me, all right? I've never met him. I'm just an entertainer. Now, if you'll please excuse me, that's all I have to say about that. - It's been a long night. - Sir? Mr. Crowe, are you gonna be on the air tomorrow? Do you have anything to say to the family? - Yeah? - Hey, listen, Charlie. You know, that thing last night with the kid, um, I really think this might be the break that we need. Our numbers are up this week. I think people really respond to this kind of real-life drama. No, people think it's a stunt. I had a reporter at the station last night asking me about it. I'll tell you what it is, it's an opportunity. And it's got a lot of people talking about it. Programmers think it's a good idea and, actually, I think so, too, if you go down to the hospital and you talk to this kid. - You know, meet him. - No, no. Oh, don't make me do that. I'm not good with kids. L... I mean, come on, especially if he's nuts. No, no, listen. You go down to the hospital, okay? You meet with the kid, you show that the station is sympathetic, and it's good PR, right? Yeah, all right. Good PR. Hi, I'm looking for a patient... Jeff Pyatt. He was admitted here. Oh, I'm sorry. He's not here anymore. He was transferred? - He passed away in his sleep. - He's dead? - How did... - We don't know yet. They'll contact family with the results after the autopsy. You don't know how he died? - Yeah? - Hey, Charlie. Are you there? Yeah. The kid's dead, Tom. They said he didn't kill himself, though. He didn't. He died in his sleep just like he said he was going to. You're shitting me. Do you know where Camden College is? Yeah, it's just off 127. Why? Oh, no, don't tell me. I thought you said the kid was just nuts. Well, then why did he die? Please, Charlie. You know what? You're gonna end up in the dumpster, man. I'm tellin... At the time that he actually... when you... what you... pronounced dead, yes, there was lots of people. But when you actually say it went down... it's what we call, you know... what they call coded... nobody was there at that moment. There was nothing out of the ordinary at his residence. He seemed to be a healthy kid. There is times that... truly you say we missed that. You know, I could name several... of course, I won't... but you think, you know, this is... we truly missed something, but this time we did not. I mean, this was not... it was truly a mystery. Hi there. Hi. Can I help you? Yeah, I was wondering if there's a teacher here named Dr. Ravenscroft. Never heard of him. Oh, okay. Um, can you tell me where I could look up information on someone, like, scientific papers he might have published, that kind of thing? Right there. Science periodicals. But you're not allowed to check them out unless you're faculty or a student. Yeah, but I can make copies. Not unless you're faculty or a student. Yeah, well, I'm neither. Thank you very much. Say that again. - Thank you very much? - Hey. I'm sorry, but are you on the radio? I am, actually. - Charlie Crowe, KZTO. - "The Night Shift," yes. I listen to your show all the time. It's the coolest. And you have the sexiest voice. Well, uh, thank you very much. You just don't really look the way I imagined you would. Yeah. Thanks again. Wait, question. That kid on your show, they say he died in the hospital. - Is that true? - Yeah, he did. Freaky. Yeah. Well, I'll tell you what. Go ahead and use the copiers. I won't tell. Shh. Maggie, somebody jammed the copier again. This is KZTO's "The Night Shift. " If you've been listening, then you know we had a rather dramatic incident on the air the last time I was with you, so tonight we're gonna take some time to talk about what's on everybody's mind. We'll open up the lines. Caller, you're on the air. Hey, yo. Hey, Maggie, you gonna lock up? I'm just finishing up a couple things. Good night, Carl. - Mag! - Jesus! Brit. Jesus. You scared the shit out of me. Oh, my God, that was so funny. I seriously just pissed. Why did you do that? I'm so freaked out right now. - This kid just died. - No, no, don't even tell me. I don't like scary stories because they give me nightmares. But there is a huge party tonight at the Sigma Chi house. Everybody is gonna be there. Please tell me you're coming with. I have to study. Oh, my God. You never do anything. And don't wake me up when you get home. I have an 8:00 a. m. Class. No promises. I think the kid sounded like he was on drugs. I'm sorry he died and all, but I think it's an overdose. I mean, I don't mess with that stuff myself, but I know people that do and they sounded just like that kid. Okay, we have another caller here. Hey, Charlie, I just want to say it could be some kind of government thing, contamination of our drinking water they're trying to cover up. It sounded to me that what the boy described was a classic abduction scenario. You see, the Greys, they're the aliens from Alpha Centauri, and they abduct people for their genetic experiments. And the thing that tipped me off... he said he was paralyzed. Psychiatrist on the line here. Dr. Perkowski, what do you have to say about all this? I'd just like to say, from my experience, that there are a number of different types of mental illness which could go undiagnosed for long periods of time. The caller on the air may have had an episode of extreme schizophrenic paranoia. In these instances, the victim can often see things that aren't there, react to them. The world of the imagination and the real world blends so that they cannot distinguish the difference. In such a case, it's natural that he could have believed that a man or a shadowy figure of some kind was stalking him. It's important for your audience to be aware that these delusions are fairly common, but we must remember that they are only in our imagination. And no matter how frightening they seem, they can't really harm you. All right, that is a wrap for "The Night Shift. " Good night, sleep tight, and don't let the bedbugs bite. Ace Auto is your headquarters for used... That is the most callers we have ever had. - Any word on the numbers? - I don't know. I'm gonna have to check them tomorrow, man, but I have a really good feeling that they're gonna be good. - Like to get syndicated good? - Like we could get syndicated good. - What's your name? - Brittany Daniels. - And what year are you? - Sophomore. I came home and normally I'm kind of loud, so I make a lot of noise. Maggie, you missed the craziest fucking night ever. Okay, so, I'm, like, still drunk right now. We're taking all these tequila shots and they dare me to streak, so, of course, I did, and I'm like halfway back from the fucking oak tree, and I totally puked. Oh, my God, it's like the third time I've puked there this year. Hello? Oh, God, don't tell me you're pissed at me. Hello? I mean, I just felt awful for her parents and just her friends having to go on and her roommate. I knew about her roommate a little bit, but that's pretty much it. I mean, they were all... it's pretty... it's pretty sad, it's pretty intense. Not gonna lie. Holy shit. I have noticed... not that I'm a nosy neighbor... but I have noticed, um, he sits in that window a lot and is doing research, he tells me. Tom: The circumstances of the kid's death has really affected him. We had a caller on a previous show who believed he was seeing things. For all I know, they're unrelated. I mean, I just... I don't know. I think some of it's rumor and speculation, conspiracy theories... that kind of stuff. He said he believed if he closed his eyes, he might never wake up. And, in this case, he was right. Nobody else got sick. I mean, these few people have died and under strange circumstances. It's all he talks about. I mean, now, since that kid called up and talked to him on the radio. People go in for that, especially in the middle of the night. I mean, that's... that's our market. Who hasn't felt like someone was watching them in their sleep or, like, a shadow moved in the corner? We usually dismiss this as paranoia, that you're seeing things that aren't there, that it's a trick of the eyes, but let's assume, for the moment, that it's not. We'll open up the lines. Caller? I was sinking so much into my bed. - Eventually I woke up. - I felt like I was suffocating. I felt something hit my legs or jump on the bed, that weight change. And I just... I felt this presence. You're yelling at yourself, like, "Do something, do something," and you can't. Just people moving in old houses and they say they hear doors creak 'cause somebody died in the house. Thinking they're seeing things, but not really seeing anything. Some people have reported it sounding very raspy. It was like this buzz sound. It's increased listenership. People want to talk about it. - People want to hear about it. - I listen to Charlie Crowe quite a bit. Yeah. Yeah, I've heard him. Don't know about him, but, yeah, I've heard him. He was involved in a lot worse, though, Mr. Crowe was. Ah, hell, that's just Charlie. People say these things come to us when we sleep. Is there something we do while sleeping that calls them to us? It's almost like insanity. I just have to have an answer for this. - It's so freaky. - A long time after that, I was terrified to go to bed. They can't move, they can't speak, and they can barely breathe. It feels like there's a pressure on their chest. They feel like they're suffocating, and it's terrifying. Sleep paralysis is the experience of awakening unable to move, and it's produced by a physiological mechanism in the brain that's well understood. This is a normal human experience. One in five of us will have it at some point in our life. It wasn't like I was paralyzed, because I think when you're paralyzed, you don't really feel your body. who have sleep paralysis experience some kind of hallucination. It's not actually like a hooded person or like a floating black cloud. Out the corner of my eye, I could see these dark shapes. I have a maybe, like, nine-foot ceiling and it nearly reached that. I know nobody's in the house. You can imagine how freaky that is. I don't think it was anything I wanted to really look at for very long. It's interesting how many people are coming together and discussing these things now. I'm really fascinated by all the stories coming in. There's so many people calling in with their experiences. The numbers keep growing. Are they all making it up? I don't think so. The shadow people... can it all be real? Oh, shit. As the first EIS officer on the scene, I went to the coroner's office and was able to examine the second victim... a 21-year-old female. So the tissue sample showed no pathogens? No. White blood cell counts: Normal. Died in her sleep just like the first victim. Two cases like this, two days apart. - Did the two have contact? - Don't know. Why, the CDC think this condition may be contagious? Well, that's what I'm here to determine. No heart defect. Toxicology's negative. Which is odd because the male victim was reported to be hallucinating. - Hallucinating? - That's what the police report said. He was checked into the hospital where he saw, like, delusions of shadows moving all around him. Hmm. Strange. Maybe hallucinations are a possible symptom. - What about brain biopsy? - Normal. And we're looking for someone who's possibly overweight or someone who has high blood pressure or someone who has, like, diabetes or just a history in their family of stroke or heart attacks. So these victims were, you know, young, they were completely healthy. You know, we checked their blood, and there's nothing in their blood that shows that they have any fatty deposits in their heart. No history of diabetes in the family, you know, no history of stroke, no history of cancer. If this was in Cambodia, the diagnosis would be easy. Very scared? It was first noticed in the Hmong immigrants who came from Vietnam to the United States right after the Vietnam War. We did get a team of microbiologists, pathologists, epidemiologists. We did blood cultures, urine samples. We did sputum cultures, we tested for heavy metals. The most disturbing part of this is we did not find a biological agent. In the archives, I found a condition called sudden unexplained nocturnal death syndrome, and I believe that this is very likely a resurgence. This condition had very similar circumstances to these young people who have died here in Eastern Kentucky. Did anyone do a trip report? If I remember correctly, the first EIS officer went on-site in 1981. Initially, we thought the disease triggered cardiac arrest during sleep, yet more recent studies indicate that lack of oxygen to the brain may be the cause. The victims showed no genetic history of myocardial infarction or sleep apnea. And we're still unclear on a cause? The data was inconclusive. It seems hundreds of healthy immigrants just died in their sleep without cause. One more question, Dr. Lacombe. Does the syndrome appear to be communicable? The truth is we really don't have enough evidence to make a conclusion either way. Well, I don't think that explanation is gonna fly with the public. - Mr. Crowe? - Yeah. Hi, I'm Sophie Lacombe. I'm with the Center for Disease Control. I got your address from Tom at the station. Disease control? What kind of diseases? Well, I'm here investigating the local deaths and their causes. It seems there may be some new cases of a disease that we call sudden unexplained nocturnal death syndrome. Okay, I'll save you some time. Those deaths weren't caused by a disease. In fact, they were caused by... Shadow people? I was just brewing some coffee. - Thank you. - You want a cup? No, thanks. Come, sit. So I'm looking for a link between these deaths. After interviewing some people about the victims, I was told that some of them were listening to your radio show before they died. - Can you explain that? - No, I can't. I'm just reporting what people are telling me. I'm trying to give them a voice. If anything, I'm trying to help. Well, so am I, Mr. Crowe. That's why I'm here. You see, the victims reported hallucinations, sleep paralysis... symptoms that you talked about on your show. Perhaps if I could get your call logs, I could track the infected victims. Yeah, I'll give you anything you want, but it's not gonna do you any good unless you realize that what these people are seeing is real. A lot of people think just 'cause they can't explain it scientifically that it doesn't exist, but I can tell you that our ancestors knew about nightmares and how harmful they are. Well, I'm certain that bad dreams can't harm you. I'm not talking about bad dreams. I mean nightmares. The actual word nightmare is an Old English word that means evil spirit. A maere... M-A-E-R-E... that comes in the night to attack its victim. Now, in modern times, we've changed that meaning. I think we've changed it to cover up the truth. Look, here's one. A real one. A real nightmare. Now, every culture documents this. The Native Americans called it the Raven Mocker. It was a shadow that comes to steal your soul. In the Middle East, they call it jinn, and they believe they were created at the same time as us by God, but to live in a different dimension. Now these are cultures that are far older than ours, but they've all reported the same thing from different parts of the world for centuries. And now, for the past 100 years, we've started to deny their existence. I think it's us who's being naive. I think it's one of those things you're not ever gonna truly believe... Until you see it for yourself. You got a knack for finishing people's sentences, lady. Well, that's the point, isn't it? Seeing is believing? Yet there's no proof of these claims. - I have proof. - You do? These don't really prove anything. I mean, for all I know, it could be a hoax. That's what I thought, but this Dr. Ravenscroft published a scientific journal. Huh. I'm gonna have to get over to the college and talk to someone about Ravenscroft and his research. Maybe he found something about this disease that I don't know about. Yeah, but I keep telling you, it's not a disease. It's more... it's like a... - Curse? - Yeah. Like I said, lady, you have a knack. - Bye. - See you tonight. Professor Fisher? Hi, Sophie Lacombe. Oh, yes, from the CDC. They told me I'd have a visitor today. - Please. - Thank you. What can I do for you? Well, I'm looking for some information on Dr. Ravenscroft. Do you know where I might find him? Resurrection Cemetery last time I checked. Sorry. Well, I'm looking for some information on a research study he did in 1971. A sleep study, if I'm not mistaken, and hallucinations. Ravenscroft was a bit of a loose cannon back in those years. What was he researching? The story that I heard was that he was adamant that he could prove that the mind could influence matter. He wired several of his subjects to a door. The goal was to use their minds to open the door by getting them all to concentrate on the same intention at the same time. To do that, he had to get them to a very intense brain wave state, a state between wakefulness and sleep. A most intense signal. He would amplify the brain waves among several subjects and, channeling it to the door, he hoped to produce a result. So what happened? Well, he produced a result, but it was not the one he intended. All of the subjects died. Really? I'd guess it was either the equipment or the intensity of the testing procedure that disrupted the normal brain function. But the truth will only be in his write-ups or any films that he may have made of the experiment. And do you have no idea where this material might be? He said it was too dangerous for mankind. I'd guess he'd have destroyed it, - except that... - Except what? Well, you're a scientist. You know how difficult it would be to suppress your own findings. I mean, it's what we live for, right? He wasn't that good a scientist in terms of his methodology. In terms of his thinking, he was incredibly creative. With what we know now, we could look back at what he discovered and what he was working on and maybe make better sense of it than he was able to at the time. I suspect it is lost. I think so. If he didn't destroy it, then I think the college might have. He lived in this big old house... on the corner of Elm and Maple. I went down to the house to see him and there was no furniture in the house. The house was completely empty, as though the movers had been in and cleaned it out, yet he was still living there. That's it. Charlie, hate to kick you out, man. I gotta go. Outside under the window. You know where. You're not afraid, are you, Raymond? Who, me? Scared? It's just that I don't think that there's gonna be any murder here done after all. If that's true, then why did you declare her dead? I had my own good reasons. Would you give me one reason why you like to go around getting hit on the head? That must become a little monotonous. Mr. Lee, are you sure that you saw what you thought you saw? - What's it say? - Aw, come on, Doctor. Don't hold out on us. I didn't understand it at first, but I do now. There were no marks of violence on the body and we found no internal disturbances. What does this all add up to, Doctor? Yes, let's have it. She was literally scared to death. There's radio waves going through this room and I can't hear them now, but if I pick up a little device like this called a radio and I turn the knob to 28.6 FM, there's music playing on my radio. There's so much more energy in the atmosphere, in this... what we perceive to be empty space. You've got what's called the visible light spectrum, and it's, like, 5% of all of the other waveforms that exist in the electromagnetic spectrum. You've got Wi-Fi, cell phones, radio, television, satellite... it's all there. Well, if there were something in your environment that had a color that was outside of our visual range and it stood in front of you, it wouldn't be invisible, it would just look black. So it's possible that these things can grab your favorite radio station's frequency and say, okay, here's something I can latch onto and I can manifest myself with. Where the hell have you been? You were supposed to take Preston this morning. Oh, shit, Ellen. I'm sorry. I overslept. - Yeah, big surprise. - What are you doing? Getting a video game Preston left here. What is up, Ellen? I overslept one time, okay? - I'm sorry. - It's the least of what you've done. What's that? Exploiting that poor kid's death for your radio show. That's low... even for you, Charlie. Whoa, hey. Hold on, okay. - I'm doing that out of concern. - The hell you are. You can't tell me you actually believe that crap. The shadow people? What is that? You know, what does it matter to you anyway? Whoa. You still listen to my show. No, Preston does. Hey. Radio. It's cruel, you know that. You were with me. Working all those crap markets all over the country, trying to make it big, and now... I have a chance to really reach people. Reach them and give them what? This is my shot, Ellen. One day Preston will know that. Can we talk to you about your ex-husband Charlie Crowe? - No. No. - Can we talk to you about... - Nothing to say. - We just want to ask you just a couple questions about him. We just want to ask you a couple questions about Charlie. Miss? There's that expression, "Speak of the devil," that you say when someone you've been talking about shows up, but that phrase is really a warning. Speak of the devil and he doth appear. Did you play or were you on the bench? I was on the bench. - Was your mom there? - Yeah. She was there with Robert, but I wish she was there with you. You used to go to all my games before you and her split. Yeah, I know, dude. I'm sorry about that. Wish we were back together. Yeah. Maybe our brains are like my broadcast tower, sending our thoughts out through the universe, but, until now, we didn't realize that somewhere, someone is listening. Jeff Pyatt died right after he called in on this show. He certainly wasn't making it up. No one seems to have a rational explanation for these deaths, but in every case, people report seeing the shadow people. Now, what if these things really can kill us? Jeff sent me evidence. These experiments concluded, but there is a possibility that there was some attempt to measure or contain one of these beings... It's the third mysterious death in three weeks. is the latest victim to die in her sleep. All three of the deceased were apparently healthy with no previous illness, and an investigation is underway by the Center for Disease Control. Probably part of being scared is all these people running around with these badges. We know that we get people calling us and telling us what they think they're hearing or seeing or whatever, and it sounds strangely consistent. But for all I know, it's mass hysteria. I don't know if we'd call it hysteria or not. It's, I don't know, just... a chain of events, maybe. We've got the outbreak in the '70s and we've got the current outbreak in Kentucky. This outbreak has a lot of people pretty frightened, as the transmission properties of the disease are still unknown. Some new disease that they're coming to investigate or something. I think there's something fishy going on. I'm not positive. It's hysteria. I don't give any credibility. There's no scientific basis in fact. Oh, shit. See there. That, right there. W- What is that? Yeah, this is a big publicity stunt. The problem with people like you is, is that you get in people's heads. You're poisoning kids' minds. To tell the truth, my friends think you're crazy. Oh, I doubt that very much. - I'm sure they're all big fans. - Oh. - They're really big fans, Dad. - Now, what else did they... They don't think you're crazy. They don't. I'm being sarcastic, of course. The shadow people know when we think of them, and then they come for us. And that question Jeff asked me still haunts me. How do you stop yourself from thinking about something? Hey. - You okay? - I've been better. I met with a professor about Ravenscroft's experiments. They were real. You were right about that. He also told me that all the test subjects died. I was wondering if Ravenscroft died from the same experiment. I wanted to exhume and examine his body, but the strange thing is his death certificate says that he was cremated. - What's strange about that? - The professor told me that Ravenscroft is buried in a cemetery near the college. If he's cremated, then what's buried in that grave? - That's what I intend to find out. - Give me five minutes. - What for? - I'm coming with you. We're gonna need more coffee. - Are you okay? - Oh. I just keep nodding off. I'm sorry. I can't help it. - You're welcome to lay in the car. - No. Go ahead and try and open that if you can. Oh, my God. What the hell is that? Here, hold that. A film. Great. Got anything we can watch this on? In the 16th test group, we have given all subjects the same intention. A device was affixed on the head and the lead wire terminated at the actual intention point. In this case, a simple metal door. As they repeated the intention to open the door, we monitored their brain activity. The subjects then repeated the intention in their mind until they reached a sleep state. At 12.3 hours, subject number seven experienced higher than average heart rate and sporadic jerking indicative of NREM of stage one N-1-6. Jesus. It's real. He filmed one. - This is a hoax. - How can you still say that? I'm taking this to the press in the morning. People have to see this. People have to be warned. This is evidence. L... I'm not crazy. Listen, I have to get up early and start writing my report. I'm probably going to have to turn that over to the CDC. No. I'm keeping this. You can... you can tell them the grave was empty. I won't tell anyone where I got it. You're not... you're not taking this from me. There's nothing on that film, so... as far as I'm concerned, it doesn't exist. Oh, God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Would you raise your right hand, please, Mr. Camfield? Do you solemnly swear the testimony you are to give to be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, - so help you God? - Yes, I do. I represent the family of Jeff Pyatt, and we have filed a lawsuit against the... radio station, relating to the death of Jeff Pyatt. In early November of 2008, were you scheduled to appear on the Channel 5 television station? Yes, I was. ...from Russell Springs in fierce competition today. So let's go, fighting Koalas! It's on to the championship for you. And for those of you who are fans of "The Night Shift," our own radio host Charlie Crowe will be on the Channel 5 News tonight at 6:00, where he claims he has evidence of the supernatural to show. So be sure to watch that. I know I'll be. And a lot of people thought he was pulling a hoax, but I'll tell you, Dan, it's... We have a special treat coming up for you at the end of the hour. A local radio host claims to have evidence of the supernatural. And it seems he already has offers for a book deal and movie of the week. Hey, I got a transfer of that film made. Syndication, here we come. Oh, I really hope Preston and Ellen are watching. It'd be good for him to see me do something extraordinary. I'm sure they are. Knock 'em dead, buddy. Hey, this is it. Hi. Do you have any ibuprofen or anything back there? Rough night last night, huh? Yeah, I guess you could say that. Let me tell you my hangover cure. I drink a can of tomato juice, suck on a lemon, and smoke three cigarettes. Works every time, guaranteed. Better than aspirin. That doesn't work. It's an old wives' tale. Aw, hell, works for me. - It's a placebo. - A what? A placebo. The mind tells... oh, my God. Ma'am? You want your change? Many primitive cultures under... Just relax, buddy. You can do this. Ahem. Up until several hundred years ago, many different cultures... Charlie, you can't go through with this. - You can't show that film. - What are you talking about? Okay, thanks for the story, Barbara. So now in just a little while... Listen to me. The body responds to what the mind tells it. It's called the "placebo effect. " If you give a patient a sugar pill and you tell them that it's medicine, in many cases the body will heal itself. So if the mind tells the body that there are shadow people and that they can kill us, then, by God, they can. I don't know what your agenda is. I don't know if you're trying to squash this because you don't want it out or now someone from the government wants to keep a lid on it. No, I want to keep a lid on it. We're actually creating these things in our mind. When you sleep, you can't control what you think. Two minutes. Charlie, listen. Charlie, all the people who died, they were believers. If you put this on national television and you say it's real, a lot of people will believe. As recently as 2002, the CDC is investigating a condition called Morgellons disease. And this was a condition in California where people became ill after watching television. They would hear about a rash, develop the rash, the skin biopsy showed dermatologic irritation, but absolutely no source. Due to the fact that when people believe they are sick, they will actually make themselves sick. And if that happens, the end result in this condition is mortality. Let's get him spinning it around. - All right, hold it. - Camera one, crop the top. One more. Let's test camera two. Okay. In 10, nine... Camera three, let me see your shot. All right, we got that. Roll in five. ...five, four, three, two... We're here with radio talk show host Charlie Crowe. Okay, I'll just say it. Well, all this shadow people stuff is a pretty hard pill to swallow, you have to admit. Uh, yeah, I know. But we're told you say you have proof of them. Is that right? Are you ready to show us that proof now? Here is your forum. Mr. Crowe? - We are live. - Uh, yes. Ahem. The proof I have of the shadow people... is... that... there is no proof. Um... this is all an elaborate hoax. It's a... a stunt I pulled at the station. It's a ratings stunt. L... I should apologize to everyone. I'm very sorry. This is a huge mistake. So you're admitting on live TV that this is all a hoax and there are no shadow people? Are you worried how this might adversely affect your career, Mr. Crowe? I'm not sure, to be honest with you, if it was a great idea to even be here today. Thank you for your time. We'll be right back. And there you have it, folks. Decide for yourself. Hey, buddy. Let's go. Come on. Are you still working for the radio station? No, sir, I'm not. You're not? Did you leave on your own accord or were you fired? I can't comment on what the circumstances were of his termination. So he was fired? I can't comment on the circumstances of his termination. Did he leave on his own, then? Charlie doesn't work here anymore. I was like four when we went fishing and you taught me how to fly-fish. That was... that was fun. Good memory. In the '70s and '80s, these conditions were relatively self-limiting by the lack of media. They were limited by the lack of communication. And now with globalization of social media, Internet, e-mail... that sharing this information would cause a public health risk. My strong recommendation is that we keep this information sealed until further research can be done. Are you sure you're lying about having any evidence or are you just keeping that to yourself - to maybe... - I don't have... ...write a book or something after this? Objection, objection. Asked and answered. Are you instructing him not to answer, Counsel? I've instructed him not to answer that. We'll certify that question to the court, then. Hey, Dad. R- R-R-Raunchy Paul! I hate that show. Me, too. I want the truth and I want it on this deposition and I want it now. - Who sees this? - Oh, well, this is a public record. Anybody can see this deposition. Anybody can see that you're... how you're answering... I'm sorry. I think I've given you all the information I'm gonna give you today. - I'm sorry. - You don't have a right to... - now sit down in your seat. - No. We're not through with the deposition. You don't have a right to get up... - Hey, what's up? - Dude, I found the DVD. It's real. No. No way, man. You're so lying. No, I'm not. I'll rip you a copy. No, no. Load it on YouTube. - Do it right now. - Okay, fine. And that's how the shadow people spread... from person to person around the world... whether by word of mouth, a book, the Internet... or a movie. My hands kind of like paralyze. I can't move the minute it walks into that room. And when I opened my eyes, there was these three solid black shadows. I'm talking solid. Point to the ceiling. Can't you see that? Can't you see that shadow or that person? And I was in that paralyzed state where it was just my eyes moving. That's all I could see in my room, but I knew something was there. I felt like something had jumped on me. Whatever was there had jumped on me. It was holding me down. And the next thing I know, I'm just wide awake and there's this sound, like, resonating in my ears. Sorry. # Stand down # # Ride that preacher train # # Stand down # # Ride that preacher train # # You've been looking for love now # # Rolling fire and rain # # Light the burning heart now, higher, yeah # # Keep on breaking the cage down # # Grant this bird its wings # # We are all together now # # Come and stand by me # # Stand down # # Ride, ride, yeah # # Stand down # # Ride, ride, yeah # # Holy One who come down # # Drop your heavy weight # # Brother, don't you be shouldering # # All that heavy hate # # Holy One who come now # # Truth in the sounds I play # # Keep on burning the cage down # # Lover, stand by me # # Stand down # # Ride, ride, yeah # # Stand down # # Ride, ride, yeah # # Stand down # # Holy, holy, holy # # Holy, holy, holy # # You been taking the road I'm heading down # # Proud maker alone, my head bowed # # You been breaking the code, come break it out # # You been shaking the whole damn world # # You been taking the road I'm heading down # # Proud maker alone, my head bowed # # You been breaking the code, come break it out # # You been shaking the whole damn world # # You been taking the road I'm heading down # # Proud maker alone, my head bowed. #
