 

                        == Sub By PROMiSE == After Midnight Directed by Davide Ferrario Where are our stories from? Where they go? These stories are like dust in the air Rise through airflow, interweaved for some time... Then disappear, nobody will know them At night, a man ride motorcycle The story begins in this way His job is to rob others with the motorcycle He comes from Farrchina Which isn't a good place for most of the people in Torino But actually, people don't know where is it at all All the people in Farrchina call him Angelo He is a man which attracts girls But tonight is not the best night in his life I know you want to know more about why should you stay here Whom does he hurt? Is it serious? In fact in the cinema... What audience cares is the story of the roles But, at the beginning, there is only lantern on the screen Nobody shows up Sight of city shines in people's eyes Maybe it's this place that tells these stories exactly Moreau is the most famous building in Torino It earned some money But not much People in Torino don't know if they should be gald or sorry for this Anyway, Martino works here To know the story of Angelo, actually We need to relate his story with him Martino is a simple man, but he has a secret We will concern on it later We only need to know now He has a bike and an old handcinematograph He thinks these two Are more advanced than the modern machine How are you, Grandpa. -How are you Starring: Giorgio Pasotti Starring: Francesca Inaudi Starring: Fabio Troiano Grandpa said, you like this bike? Yes, I like it Bye, Grandpa. -Bye (Every evening, Martino will meet Amanda in noshery. She asks Is it the same as before? (He nod, pay, get a snack, and then go back to work) (Amanda's life is as regular as Martino's) (Every afternoon, to earn more money) (She hands out ads for a loan company) (She is seeking the satisfied relationship with Angelo everyday) (She is his formal girl friend but not the only one, of course) (Usually no results) (Amanda hopes to improve her life) (But she is only settled for imagination of such a life, day after day) (She needs to realize it with a normal attitude) She see that there will be 12 5 minutes later Yes, but I have to clean the kitchen, probably miss the last bus You take a taxi. -I live in Farrchina It will use up all the money I earned today You need to explain me one thing When we were in school, we keep the two stresses of hair like this Two plaits, but, I am still crop You are still in blowzy long hair Actually, it's the matter of spirit and body Because our jobs are hard We always bear the coldness, lumbago, and always stand I'm not like you as a watchman which is comfort and warm I promise to you, it's for my wife and child Especially child, really Do you know? I'm so happy to chat with you How long have you with your grandpa? I've told you You chatted very much You were not very quiet, silent Bye Anyway, it's not good for your liver eating there (Bruno, tha watchman is not totally wrong) (You needn't any talent to be on night shift in cinema's museum) (Just that Martino has his plan on his job) (Door opened, creaky) (Martino works well in the museum) (In the world, between the reality and fancy) (He needn't anything else) (He find a room totally for him in an empty storehouse) (He sleeps and lives there in the day) (Can we say Martino has a good living?) (Happiness can't be importuned Hello! I come to receive you New scent? -It's new hamburger I'm leaving, bye.----What You're leaving? Where are you going? I'm leaving, as you know, I have my things to do Yes, your business Can you stay, a whol enight At least once You know I want to stay very much But---Then that's it Friday, let's go dancing after the work Friday? How about saturday? Angelo says, great Friends, let's meet in the bar tomorrow (The city is full of stories in the night) (story for luxury, story about the man in the moon) (Beautiful story, blue story and discomforting story are interweaved) A car?-All are robbed Then, please help me to call a taxi It will be comfort You can try, but there is no taxi here My god, how should I go home? I drive a car for you at six --Please let me go home! You take the bus --I hate bus! Excuse me, just move your ticket front? (160 meters outside city) (Martino doesn't sense the difference of the people beneath) (Exactly, what interests him is far away from here) (Symbol of wisdom- teacher said) (But, usually, ) (It block him from seeing the things nearer to him) Do you like the rouge? A bit more colourful-Strange. It's popular in the shop Did Angelo come tonight? Yes, but gone, as before (Sign)Ah, Angelo,  If I were you, --I must Shall we spend the weekend like this? ---Really pity! What's the result of augury? (Barbara lives with Amanda She works in a varber's shop in the central of city) The result said she will have a great love) (Even if it's true, but because the person like hers) (doesn't open the eyes to pray to the God, ) (Does augury in the newspaper really bring people comfort?) Hello.-Hello, Martino (Maolizio, Martino's brother-in-law) (And he likes sports much) (They are good, and another kind of augury) (Martino is good to Maolizio) (Although they are of different interests and charactors) Do you usually drive the car? The "titbit"? I watched a movie last night, Do you remember Monica Bellucci? Her legsare sexy like a cat! She is just in front of me, like this If it's you, here, close You stand in front of the screen, put it in front of them I know you don't want to touch her. Even, shy It was splitted, look (Actually are some stars and directors Martino doesn't swallow the bait at all) (The opinion are directly from Lumiere brothers) (Film the world into all kinds of forms, for example, at the beginning) Before the films turn into those things) (It's full of guns and unlucky loves We've been used to these (He restart the old machine patiently) (Those forgoten machine in Moreau) (He starts the machine, films, prints off) (the whole afternoon till the sunset) (To achieve what?) (That's his secret) Do you still do do these? Ok, enough -It's better to steal cars But I must to earn money to buy a Jaguar, do you know? Then why do you tell me? Why not steal one like others? No, not Jaguar. That's principle Then borrow one Ok Don't keep me waiting No, no- At most 15 minutes. Bye Ok, borrow one -Bye Have you forgoten? -What's the matter, no You forgot (Friday, saturday or other days are the same) (Buses, traffic light) (Double hamburger) (Amanda begins to worry about her future in there) (She forgot the stories Those not about person's) Goodnight---goodnight I've told you We close at 12 at night No other customer -Just a minute, I will miss the bus I ever went to Wall street, Not far away, do you want to go there by bus? If you still want to go early to catch the bus, I will fire you Ambulance, and police car, come on My god!!!! Over there Have the bastard gone? Where should I go? My god! He should come and go dancing Now my situation... It's his fault, all his fault I live with a car thief I'm in trouble, I'm trying to solve the problem. It's absurd, isn't it? I will be angry thinking of this I want to go out for a walk Ah, wait! Listen, first In a word I'm Amanda -Martino Your purpose of coming here You works in museum Are you usually here alone? It's large here Nobody else will come at night? My god! Do you never fear? NO I'm comfortable here Mine is twice larger than yours Nothing to drink? ..Yes, beer? It's really Thanks I have a small question I've got an accident, I can't go home Can I stay here tonight? -Yes Thank you, Martino Ah, but can we really stay here? But no beds! (Martino likes Buster Keaton's movie) (Because the movies are mated with reality tightly) (He thinks there are many thought in the movies) That can improve daily life) (In a word) (A good movie) Toilet Food, drinks Kitchen Goodnight-Goodnight Some music? No thanks (In the morning, Amanda dreams of running along the street in Farrchina) (No exits) (We can know without psychologist) (You dont' intend He gives her some suggestions) Breakfast Hello-Hello, it's me Ah, how are you! I can't talk with you now My situation is very bad -What are you saying? The police are here They are hunting you You are really in trouble! Are you in the safe place? Ok Where are you, I call you My mobile phone is out of power Then I call you at 8, can you hear? 8 Ok, bye -bye, bye Business man These business men are really annoying Angelo,  Tell your girl friend is good to all (Sobs)Of course, of course They call me "exploiter" -I know (Although a bad guy, but because of this (Angelo is a person of no principle) (If something is wrong) (He can't control the situation) Brother, anything unhappy? No, what's up? Everything is fine Tonight on time. -Ok Will you be on time, too? I can't ignore this I can't look at the ardent eyes quietly Don't shiver, cry together I love you Let's restart (At the moment) (He exhibits the firmness of man's) Are you ok? I want you to do me a favor I told you I want to leave, But now it's not ok Ok Ok? Yes No, you'd better find someone to be with you Tell him what I've done in your home Nobody else, only Ewan Who is Ewan? -The one who works in the pavilion I'm waiting for him to have a cup of coffee If you want to sleep, I wait for him I'm be back soon You stay in this level No TV here? -Only movie Any book? "Human and his activity in the world" "The secret of harmonious psychology" Is the requirement of human exsitence, like the key element In his three dimensional world Bbeyond the plane, he study it in a stereo world Bye -My god! Is Martino around? I'm Ewan -Yes Bye It's really great to see Martino get an accompanier (Not the problem of Martino's getting along with firls) But his opinion of love is similiar with Keaton's movie) (After a lot of things) Finally he ans she are hand-in-hand (But this opinion of love is not popular among girls) He booked two Don't put your thing on me, Why you never tell me about it? Because no need I know, but if you don't tell all the time, how could you let others understand ? Are you doleful or glad? I always don't understand this since I was here I'm usually alone aActually, staying here alone is good for you Do you think so? Anyway, I don't want to be alone tonight, I want to have a walk with you May I come? I promise, I don't make any voice -Alright Of course yes Hello, it's me. How are you Are policemen still there? They've gone, but I think they will monitor home (wheeze)Really bad Anyway, you've tought your bastard boss a lesson Where are you? It's hard to explain Maybe I don't tell you is better The phone is monitored -Monitored? What did you say? Don't be Bin Laden! No, of course not But another guy is involved. Better Nobody know where am I... Even not me? Um.-Ok, I call you Ok, I power on the mobile phone all the time, You can call me any time -Bye A safe place -Ok JUst can't see the central district Ok -No, I said that just now because I want to Anyway, when you want to come, it opens for you I augur for you with poker Look, it says, --we can have a talk, but Thanks -Welcome For example, are you free tomorrow morning? Yes (In 1895, Lumiere, the father of the famous brothers, he is an inventor) (He annouced that "movie has no future") (This means that even the wise could be wrong some time) (If there is no movie, Martino and Amanda perhaps don't exist) (Now maybe you and me don't exist, too) Even the damned noshery is more beautiful than here What's that? A kind of lottery A kind of mathematic game With obvious rule The third number is the sum of the two numbers before Look? 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21 You can try to pick off a piece of chrysanthemum Or count the number of squamas of pineapple Or the seeds of sunflower If the amount of petals of flower is large, that's the number of lottery Those numbers will show A serials of mathematic rules in the field It directs us to guess the world, a kind of feeling It's not rare I've said it Look, if we crowded together we both can sleep in the bed Come on, I don't mind Where did you go just now? I called you four times) I can't answer the call, what's up? Where were you when I needed you last night? Ah, what happened to you again? No, don't worry I will settle something down tomorrow Then tell you. I 'll call you at 12 at night Ok, bye -Bye Oh my god, it's almost 12 (In his story, the first time with Amanda) (Angelo feels he is lossing something, but he doesn't know why) (Is it relate to lottery?) (or relate to the rude tongue Denish) (Denish) (Denish) ( Thanks, Miss) Are you fine? Am I fine? I washed the clothes, may I borrow yours? Maybe it's better I do it. Do you mind? Alright It's the cashier. We close at 12 In addition, please pay attention to the boiling oil -Of course Excuse me, We closed Open tomorrow We need have a talk Ah, Andrea ! What's the matter? No, nothing Do you hear something Yes --let's go, nothing! I must work now! --Where are you from? Can you speak chinese? --I'm from Indonesia We live in Farrchina That's similar with Indonesia If you want, I can take you there to have a look Let's drink something Please trust me Ok! --don't worry Ready? --Ready Do you want to see one thing What? -A movie I produce Is it about you going to noshery to eat double hamburger? I really don't like double hamburger. I like apple Sorry What happened? No If no problem, you may go up You'd better drink something to warm up Ok (When love comes, ) (Beautiful melody arises in their hearts) (If their respective melodies arises the same time) (The song will be harmonious) Hello? Where on earth are you? Wait! What happened? Everything is done I've talked with your boss, he cancelled the accusal You can go home --I know Thanks for your help Where on earth are you? Where? Inside Moreau Inside Moreau? It's too complicated, explain to you later Receive me tomorrow.bye, it's almost out of power Bitch!!! At that time I wanted to tell you something about... Don't say now! (Fate lets Martino live in the real world) (lets him feel the great time imagined in the movie) (Now he wants to produce a movie about his life) (But love is not a return ticket) (It's of course very complicated, and deserves to large price) Hello. --Hello He is the watchman, the one who helped me Is it in the movie? --No Fall from the top of the church. Peng! Angel can fly, isn't it? Let's go home Bye!--Bye Why are you wearing so funny? Um a moment, ok? Barbara is so nice, nobody else here I asked her whether it's ok Is it beautiful, isn't it? With all the candles We won't feel it empty at least. --Exactly I bought something like this in the shop At least you laugh Sorry, I'm not hungry Promise me, ok? What? We don't talk about what happened these days Alright Will you stay here the whole night? I stay here (Not because it's difficult to steal the car) (But you will feel it one day) (All the things you've thought over have changed at that time) What's wrong with Angelo and you? --Still the same Ah, so hot! --Good or bad? Dunno, not the same as before Ah, I see How about the guy working in Moreau? He lives in a world belonging to him totally Do you plan to see him again? Do you want me to augur for you? I tell you, the results of the augury are Love, yes, money, no, career Do you see that girl again? We should have a talk --You said yourself He said himself Alas! Love You said to me "I love you", I said to you "Wait for a while" I said to you "I'm here" You said to me "Ok" Do you know? Come, come up Come on I've thought of these things these days, It's not real I haven't thought of them I'm not gasconading I can solve the problem I can't solve it at all I can't understand something about Amanda I don't know You guy You guy I don't know you, If I don't understand you, what should I do? I hope she is happy But just it Do you understand? I knew that at that time The problem is: I didn't want to lose her But I didn't want her to stay constrainedly So I asked you at that time whether you can You can let her make a decision. Ah? That's a deal? Apparently, I need to face them Do you understand? Don't be angry Brother, congratulations! --You are so great! The guys offending me would be like this Let's go (Should he make a wise decision on love?) (Amanda has a unhappy feeling, whichever she chooses) (The other one will be upset) Do you want me to decide? I decide not to choose What do you mean? I mean I choose neither But you can't! Do you also think so? It's really hard! How about the three together? I don't know Try OK (Can three person fall in love together? Isn't it too complicated for just two persons?) (For a long time, people try to) (apply the mathematic rules to solve the mental problem) (But nobody succeed) (No matter what formula was chosen) (They can't get the correct answer) When he said, what did he say? Bye, Barbara, I'm going to work No, Martino, yes I know, I promised to you I will go But I didn't. Tomorrow. I will go tomorrow What're the result of augury? Snow? How great it is to travel! Just like gas and polution, isn't it? What? --The two supplement each other It breaks the world, but people can't find the better I once watched a french movie in museum The story is about two boys and a girl. Just like us How is the end? Perfect? Very bad! Now both of them hate me even you don't support me I just hoped we are all happy, no one will be hurt Actually, you just hoped the happiness and didn't care anything else But the truth is that if somebody is happy, there will somebody else unhappy Where do you hear it? Magazine? No, a customer told me before the trial of divoice I must tell you When you were not around, I slept with Angelo And I must tell you, too All the makeup on your face are disgusting What should I do now? --Waiting Many things are fated --Yes, just like the lottery Who is it? Is there another? --No, there isn't! (If, like what the lottery number suggests) (there is a feeling in the world, Now Martino himself doesn't know which one is) (But movie is not life. It needs the choice) Why I hate movie? Movie actually lets people see one side of the reality But not as you imagined It's exactly what it is In fact, they let you see what they want I.e. the ideal side But not naked and heartless They decorate and re-decorate In order to show people their ideal things. Do you understand? If you are in love, you will how to do You can't understand anything here Do you think it clearly? Are you sure? It's interesting You are always a good member Somewhat silent, but resolved It suits you very much In a word, it's suitable you are with us But you want to leave Why? Ah, change! Change! Lottery, give me some lucky! Hello. --Hello Maybe I don't take care of you enough You know all the things about Amanda and work But Of course, , there is something about love between us I asked you whether you want to leave together with me for a while at that time Together? You and me? For something else? ---No! Do you know, you are more beautiful without makeup? Ah, really? (Expectation, self-respect, dedication) (The most amazing thing in human nature is) (there is same melody in the hearts) (It seems that their logic and intellect about something) (have to be decided by instinct) (While Amanda? She is waiting for a direction) (But maybe waiting all her life) Radio: 12, 63, 7, 30. Rome's Oh my god (If you ask Angelo how is he) (He will shrug "no problem") (Actually he is following the guest in Balbala) (The only rule of love story is) (Somebody happy, somebody sad) (Just like the mathematic problem of emotion (Plus one, minus one, keeping plusing and minusing) (But abandon all, the result is still the same) (But something must be changed) (Just like the movies of the same stories for a hundred years) (But audience in the cinema are the same, they need the surprise) Hello, you stop! Are you saying to me? Of course Stop! Let him lose his way, it's not evening anyway I stop to shoot you Do you really want to shoot me? --Yes! Are you really stupid? --No! Take off the helmet Take off! Still come? Come Sorry, not in this way Stupid! (Now you know the person who shot Angelo it's Bruno, watchman) (Although mistake, is it really important?) (For Angelo, it isn't at all.) (Now, at the moment, he loses her) (He realizes what he really want) (He smokes the last cigarette) (He only wants to leave gracefully) Is it the last thing I should look at? Take care Take care He usually said angel is for flying We should wait for suitable wind Why suitable wind? If wind blows that way his ashes will be all in the river Yes, will be in the river How about it blows in that way? --Switzerland Let's wait for a while Martino! Martino, I'm nether! (Story is like dust, story is dust) (Floats in the air, fly over with the air) (Here, for example, ) (We stop our story here, leaving you to begin yours) (I know "end" is the least suitable word) (Because movie could end, the art of movie could never end) The end
