 

                        This story is a fiction Please do not imitate the driving scenes in the movie Please follow the traffic rule when driving Drift 2 Hey, you're so slow! Yeah! He makes me sick! There are loads of troublesome street racers on the road lately How vulgar he is to drive a red car! A new star called the Red Lightning appeared recently Many street racers are imitating him They're so tedious! Yeah You know, you look brilliant when you're driving Really? You're a great driver! The best of the best! Only the best in these region What? That car is... the real Red Lightning? Dominate Japan? Yeah And my first target is you, the Black Shooting Star Can you see it? I'm being disrespected! I choose you to be the first target because I respect you You arrogant fool! Cheeky boy, see if you can do it! Shut up please, outsiders Do you accept this challenge or not? You drive a Camaro? Can it run well on this mountain pass? That's why I changed into a normal engine A rotary engine is too powerful while the performance is not so good A rotary engine is not that good I don't know what are you talking about Anyway, let's go That's great Here... Stop Here... Stop Are you ready? Of course. I can't wait any longer Ready Go! He failed at the very beginning! No. He did it on purpose He's late in starting The game is over What? Nonsense! Now! It's the Camaro! The Camaro? Darn! Hoshikawa chose the uphill slope for a competition on the car power However, our Black Shooting Star lost! Darn! I lost See? We're not in the same level You cut down the weight of your car? Yeah. The only disadvantage of it was the weight Why do you want to dominate Japan? Because I decided to be a professional racer But it seems that... I can't find any capable competitors here There is one Who? He's called the Red Lightning The Red Lightning? What do you want? I want to race with you Do you know what you are talking about? Answer me! Okay, I'll take up this challenge He can't keep up with me anymore I don't care if he's the Red Lightning or anything He's the loser What? Nonsense! Stupid! The Red Lightning... See? Dad, welcome home! Mina... Brother! You haven't driven for a long time, how's it feel? With the softer pedals the control is easier, isn't it? Mina, enough The revenge is over I know Let's start over again You return to being an office lady and fall in love with a normal person I'm thinking about selling this place and saying goodbye to the S13 But I'm... Who's there? It's you? You're the Red Lightning, aren't you? I'm Yuuichirou Azuma I want to race you, Mr. Shinichi Minami I'm not a street racer anymore You wanna run away? Are you so afraid of losing your reputation that you run away from all challenges? I don't care about my reputation Then you should accept my challenge! Excuse me You're only a loser What? I've heard many of your rumours I don't think you can drive fast like that Well, rumours are always exaggerated You are too much! I accept your challenge I was listening to your long speech Shinichi is not a loser! You're too much! Who are you, madam? I'm... the mechanic of that car Tell me, where? Stop it! Just ignore him! It's none of your business This is a fight between me and him! Don't tell me that you won't race with a woman! - Okay, I don't mind if... - I've got it I'm your opponent You mean it? Mina, if anything happened to you, I'd be... Shinichi... This is my last race Alright! It's fine as long as you accept my challenge Where? The Yabuki Pass. Don't run away He's here! He's your opponent He drives a Silvia too Who are they? The witnesses, witnessing our battle Long time no see! You were the big mouth who told him about me, am I right? It's because he wanted to know who was faster than me! An uphill slope may be unfavourable for you therefore I chose a downhill slope I hope it can help reduce our distance As you like. Let's get ready #NAME? - Let's start! Who will take the lead? The S13 is in the lead! I knew it! American racing cars are nothing! Japanese spirit is the best! The Camaro made way for the S13 How do you know? He hasn't shown up his real power yet You've become a professional The engine power of that Camaro is absolutely the best That's ture for an uphill slope Let's see if it's also capable on a downhill slope He wasn't just talking big He's fast! But it's merely a Japanese car! This is its limit Great! He can conquer the downhill corner like that! I'm surprised The S13 is still in the lead It seems that the victory is in our hands! But the Camaro is right behind the S13 It's fast, as I expected You mean the S13? I'm talking about the Camaro There are many short turns on the Yabuki Pass It's difficult for a powerful Camaro to race downhill He should find the car hard to control However, he can still keep up with the S13 Easy. The road is narrow It's hard for overtaking But it's possible Can he overtake the S13? It depends on his courage We will soon see They will be here in any moment What? He wants to overtake me from the inside lane? How come? Now! Gosh! It's the outer lane! The Camaro took the lead by the outer lane at the short turn! Asami The result is clear Gosh! I can't keep up with him! It was a wonderful battle! Yeah. But the winner is the powerful American car Our Japanese spirit lost Say something Tell me that you didn't take this race seriously #NAME? - You're a liar! You were only half-hearted I saw it I know that your S13 can overcome that corner You didn't need to step on the brake! I tried my best The Red Lightning? I'm disappointed The first half of the race was joyful I treasured this race and chosen the downhill slope which you're good at If you want to beat me, call me again Anytime I'm sorry It's terrible Did you win? Well... He's courageous And his car is powerful How do you feel? What? Do you want to beat him? Do you want to or not? Tell me I'm not a street racer anymore I left the world of street racing the moment I avenged Ayami So did you, didn't you? I thought so I know that Ayami was killed by those street racers I know it But that guy keeps calling me He told me that he wants to run faster Did you hear that, Shinichi? You are like a dead body now A dead body? You don't have any goal or direction Wondering about every day I don't want to see you like this! I'll go home now. And the S13... I'll leave it to you Hello, Mr. Shinichi Minami Who are you? I'm Asami Hoshikawa Hoshikawa? Your family name... so you are... Yeah. Takayuki Hoshikawa is my brother I'll give you a lift What do you want, Hoshikawa's sister? You drive a Silvia too although a different model So I wanted to meet you This should not be the only reason That Camaro is fast Power is one of the characteristics of American cars Yeah I want him to pay for my brother As you like It's none of my business Really? You seem happy Don't you feel happy when you're driving? I never feel happy when I'm driving The setting of your car is nice It's fast. Faster than your S13 Do you feel humiliated? About what? You know! The Camaro! You've won my brother too It's a coincidence I'll make you pay for it too My brother told me that... you drove faster when racing with him Am I powerful enough to race against that Camaro? I hope you can hold a test for me You want to... race against me? Yeah I will spread gossip about you if you don't accept my challenge I will tell everyone that you don't dare to race against women Sinichi Minami is a coward Thanks for giving me a lift See you there You are like a dead body now You don't have any goal or direction Wondering about every day I don't want to see you like this! Don't you feel happy when you're driving? Next time we organize a racing tour would you like to join us? Highway racers and street racers are racers too! So, what's wrong with wanting to drive faster? Because once a person has tasted the delight of racing he cannot get away from it All street racers are like that You looked a little bit strange today I'm sorry I was distracted. I will work harder Come on! You're a helpful partner I rely on you Thanks You work so late Don't worry I took some rest in between Moreover, this guy keeps telling me that he is not reconciled Wait and see I'll help him run faster Will Ayami forgive me... if I become... a street racer? What Ayami loved most... were the times you tried your best to achieve an objective So, she should be happy about that I want to beat someone The Camaro? An S15 It's a Silvia car, too Yeah You must not lose this race! Aikawa Park Will he come? He will come See? So you accept my challenge? In fact, I'm not sure... if I like racing or not What? I'm thinking that I may get the answer if I race with you So I came here I don't care the reason I only care that you've come The course this time goes uphill first and then comes back again, back to here Remember to come back after you've reached the hilltop Alright Well, let's start Okay Take care It's okay. I'll do it When you were racing against the Camaro you might've found that at the corners the acceleration had reached its limit and couldn't go faster Therefore, I changed the accelerator pedal and brake pedal You can make a turn at an extremely high speed now For the maximum capacity of these new changes you can check it on the track Okay This course has only a few places suitable for overtaking If you are outstripped the last low speed corner will be a good place for striking back This fellow is capable for that now I trust you See you later It looks powerful The S13 can run very fast now Winning or losing depends on Shinichi Wow! His car can turn at such a high speed! It can turn in this high speed now! I can't shake him off! This is my home ground I can't lose here Are you worrying about your partner? I believe in him I believe in his techniques and sense Alright He didn't slow down! And he's still accelerating I can hear you S13 I can hear your voice Darn! I will overtake you here! You will lose control of the car due to speeding! They're near! Who will come first? They're there! Shinichi! You have a nice car Thanks to my excellent mechanic I give up the chance of challenging the Camaro I'm so sorry that I can't get revenge for you You've done very well Thank you Hoshikawa I would like to have a race with you again someday So would I! Thanks Are you alright? I remembered something The feeling I got when boxing And? I can feel the happiness of driving now It's not a wrong thing Ayami would agree too I want to race against him Next time we organize a racing tour would you like to join us? Highway racers and street racers are racers too! So, what's wrong with wanting to drive faster? And the one who picks the fight... should give out some attractive conditions I know him, The Black Leopard #NAME? #NAME? I don't think so You should drive carefully! It's you? You are the Red Lightning, aren't you? He's your opponent I want him to pay for my brother But you will meet him if you keep racing Because once a person has tasted the delight of racing he cannot get away from it All street racers are like that You are like a dead body now You don't have goal or direction Wondering about every day Mina... Brother! Hey! My dear red car driver has come at last I've come here for revenge I'll refuse your challenge if you are not serious this time In the world of boxing there is an unknown realm... that only people who've been there can understand They can sense when their opponent will punches There must be a similar realm in the world of racing I haven't been to such a realm before Would you like to be there? Sounds interesting Don't lose, Shinichi This course includes both uphill and downhill slopes Do you want to skip the uphill parts? No. That's okay for me Your car is not good for uphill slopes On power, your car is better But on cornering, my car is the best Really? You'll suffer from a great loss if you underestimated it That's interesting Let's start the countdown Three Two One Go! From the outer lane? He's great, isn't he? However, uphill slope is my world! He must be finding a suitable place for overtaking Where will that be? The inside lane is mine Gosh! He uses the outer lane! My Camaro can still overtake you even if I lower the speed Here comes the real battle It's exciting! I'm glad to meet such a brilliant rival Therefore... I cannot lose! Never! He can turn at such a high speed! Great! He's forcing me to keep accelerating Gosh! I'm shaking! See? This is the unknown realm I mentioned I've come here too! This is the unknown realm! Where will he come from? The inside lane? Or the outer lane? Come on! See if you can do it! Now! Oh, no! Thanks for showing me the unknown realm Let's race again in the future Good Mina Good morning How about the race? It was fantastic! Great! Would you mind checking the scratches on the side of the car? Of course not! Street racers... What? No. Nothing
