 

                        It is said that 20 men were sent there to build the tunnel. He came from Agua Prieta, in Sonora in northern Mexico Here was created a legend Just south of the border with Arizona, where all the gringos live They enjoy the goods we send there in our carriages There, south of the border, where we dig our tunnels popularly known tunnel for "Cocaine Alley" The best architects were involved in the construction The man behind the construction was a certain Chapo Guzmn Sadly for workers he paid never charged anyone salary Sadly for workers he paid never charged anyone salary I believe that Chapo Guzmn is the world's most dangerous criminal. Joaqun Guzmn Loera, also known as Chapo Guzmn- trying to keep away the most persistent police hunt ever. Chapo Guzmn has built up a powerful empire. So far as his drug reaches, that far extends his power. Joaqun Guzmn, known as El Chapo, or Shorty- being chased by the police in Mexico and the US since he escaped from prison in 2001. Even so, he has managed to build the biggest drug empire ever. With the British filmmaker Angus MacQueen- I have filmed the drug trade for over ten years. I have witnessed the terrible violence that had taken over my continent. We have ifrgasatt everything we have been told about droghandeln- so we decided to do the impossible. We would find El Chapo Guzmn, the world's most wanted man. We started in Chicago, where El Chapos Sinaloakartell has its headquarters. He has been appointed as public enemy number one. The same epithet Al Capone got for more than 80 years ago. This man has most of the Americans never heard of. We use the same name as at Al Capone on the 1930s. It's the second time this has been necessary. So vicious and powerful is this man. Just in Chicago has over 90 percent of marijuana, cocaine, heroinet- methamphetamine and other synthetic drugs being sold out on gatorna- come here from Sinaolakartellen. El Chapo controls the cartel as a terrorist group. His many distributors in Chicago works as individual cells. We found a family that imported drugs from Mexico for several decades. Just like on the movie he came in a private aircraft. Turn right when you can, soon. It's all about family. We are still cowboys who takes care of our own. In principle, all dedicated to the same man. Most do it. How he manages to build up so much power? Ask him. I do not know. He's smart, a smart little bastard. I do not know how he manages to, but he does it well. I take care of the logistics, I plan and find solutions. I'll get the keys, handles supplies... I'll take care of everything. It'll go simply to receive drug deliveries every day. It is not we who set the prices, they do. That depends on how much people buy, it could be several tons. The prices vary, but they put down there. It's like working for any business. It's the same thing. One employee to perform its task. It asks no questions, it takes is a handshake. You never know who you work for. He may not even exist, he might be just a myth. You have not been able to find him? Not even the world ablest officers find him. If you search on Google you can find him easily At the top on the list, the enemy number one For singletons, a man of rural family His mother's name was Consuelo Loera, and father Emilio His first wife Alejandrina gave him three sons - some say five Then he found three - or was the five - with Griselda Lpez Prez His third wife, Miss Sinaloa yourself, she called Emma Coronel They recently got a beautiful pair of twins at a hospital in Los Angeles I have to go through this. Take it easy. They're everywhere, but he's sprlst missing He pays millions to keep the underworld They have offered a reward - but too a penalty He instills fear and loyalty, a real businessman since young years Coke in your nose, the strainer in your arm He is the people's friend, he eludes law prosecutor and fans agree, and no contrast Chapo Guzmn is a true legend of the world's junkies at their feet Now it's clear enough, you got into everything. This, too... I started to unravel in Sinaloakartellen and had no idea what I was getting into. The tentacles extending throughout the world. It has hubs in Chicago and close to Montreal, Canada. Containers shipped to Hong Kong and then Australia- and provides the market where 200000 kilos of cocaine. One kilogram can cost 18000 in Los Angeles. Once in Australia profit margin is absolutely huge. The power structure is changing, but Chapo Guzmn is left as leader. Lebanon talks with Belize, which in turn talks to the cartel. All ingr the same criminal networks. This is from a crackdown in Mexico City then $ 200 million were found. It woke people up. $ 200 million? Yes, enormously. In an apartment in Mexico City, the walls, closets... Unimaginable sums in US dollars. Everything was profit at chemicals to methamphetamine production. It acts like any other undertaking helst- with the president, managers, Finance Department... These companies serve tskilliga million for the Chapo Guzmn behalf. You do not end up in Forbes Magazine without being a skilled entrepreneur. We decided to follow the money back to Mexico and El Chapo. We set off against grnsen- to find the one who we know have met him. Is the line secure? -Yes, It is. I pick up the driver at 17 in the morning. The first time we met El Flaco was four years ago. He violates the smugglers golden rule not to use the goods himself. In 20 years, he has driven the drug to the US during the one they call El senors patronage. It's El Senor who set the prices. Some want to set their own prices. They say that El Senor can drag ate forest. They think it's their goods. But what happens to them? First, they warned. They are encouraged to take it easy and keep to El senors prices. Second time they become of the goods. The third time, they are killed. El Flaco work on the violent bakgatorna- just some kilometers from the border with California. I have witnessed some of the thousands of murders that take place here- in the battle for the world's most lucrative smuggling routes. An American police officer said he was waiting to Tijuana tumbles together- all El Chapos tunnels under the city. El Flaco trust us- and tells the cartel we're looking for El Chapo. We become locked in a garage with a car and a lot of methamphetamine. A half kilogram of methamphetamine. It's clean. There should be treated one more time to crystallize. We'll bet it firmly to hide the smell. We take a bag to the precaution. It is worth about 5500 dollars. A half-kilo. Holy shit... $ 5.500. it can feed many. Now junkies take it. We're receiving seven packets with three half-kilo packages. There you go, this will be the last. So... And then lead plate, which protects against x. It blocks the gamma ray, too. This car I have been lucky with, I've had it for six years now. There have been a lot of laps over the limit. It gets around 300 kg a year. Now we run over. There are many ways across the border submarines in the water, aircraft in the sky But no catapults or godstg 'm going up against the tunnels deep in the mire Smuggle in the car - in jalapeokonserver Smuggle in the air - the whole 30 tons! Smuggle at sea - the submarine under the water Or in underground tunnels - the genius Guzmn As you can see, the tunnel is lit and it shows that there is good ventilation. The fresh air supply is good. Smuggle in the car - in jalapeokonserver Smuggle in the air - the whole 30 tons! Smuggle at sea - the submarine under the water Or in underground tunnels - that genius Guzmn We have somebody at each vergng. With money can buy anyone. Jesus was the only one who was not for sale, but him crucified. The government protects him, he has so much money. If the reward is at five million, so he offers the double. It is better to be loyal than being a traitor. He has eyes everywhere. El Senor is omniscient - that God. He sees everything and knows everything. El Chapo may not even exist. If somebody said he died in Sinaloa for for six months then I'd believe it. He puts no money on to boast and on appear. Not at all. In Mexico raises El Chapos name fear and admiration. Let by those who met him dare say anything even about his past. The only one who had him in handcuffs dared invite us. El Chapo became known for allmnheten- in connection with the spectacular the murder of the archbishop. Were it not for that, he would have been a criminal, among others. The Cardinal Posadas was murdered at the Guadalajara airport, 1993. It is said that he knew of the government's involvement in the cartel. El Chapo was at the airport, but denies that he killed him. Before that felt hardly anybody to him. He ran out of there after the shooting, that was all. A reward at 15 million pesos or five million dollar go to the person who can provide information leading to gripande- by Joaqun Guzmn Loera, also called "El Chapo". He disappeared in Mexico City. He showed up in Puebla, but then he disappeared again. He went up in the mountains of Chiapas, probably in Tuxtla Gutirrez- then he disappeared again, and appeared in Tapachula. He was arrested near a hotel, which we were informed. From there I picked him at the time he stepped off 727 employees so moved he did not flinch. EL Chapo Guzman born April 4, 1957 in La Tuna, Sinaloa 20 years in prison El Chapo was shown to the press. This is the only film that you know are on him. He showed no emotion. Could not read him, he revealed nothing. Why did you have? -I Did not. Why did you leave Guadalajara and gave you of Chiapas? What? Why did you choose Chiapas? I was in Guatemala. did you get to Chiapas? -Guatemala. You were in Guadalajara, too. While he was in jail killed many of his rivaler- so he had a clear path to the top, although he sat behind bars. What is it in his personality that makes him so powerful? No betrayed him while he sat inside. Instead, he built an empire. Ten years later he was drug trafficking greatest leaders ever. Here we have his testimony. He has written over on every single page. El Chapo Guzman. For over 14 years, I have a lawyer brought the Church talan- in the question about the murder at the Cardinal Jess Posadas. Year 2000 we went there to interrogate him. The hearing did not take place in the usual interrogation room. We were referred to a private office with VIP service. We had got the time at 10 o'clock on the morning... ... but could not start until at 23rd El Chapo explained quietly and sober for us: "I've had conjugal visit today." "After that, I had to put me in ngbastun" - "to unwind." "After that I took a short nap" - "to be able to receive you properly." Then I realized that it who decided at that stllet- was El Chapo Guzman. He was head of the prison. I was worried. I was afraid that my frgor- 'd El Chapo to regard me as their enemy. Are we crazy trying to find him? You seek you into the wolf's den. They do not know if you are only nyfikna- or if you come from some authority. You can be spies from other cartels. Clearly that it can cost your life. Three journalists I worked employees are some of the 60 who were killed here last rtiondet. Anabel Hernndez 'm not going anywhere without a bodyguard. Good morning, I am looking for Lia Limon. My name is Anabel Hernndez. Anabel Hernndez, I am a journalist. From what organization? -I Freelancing. I am a writer. Thanks. Anabel has accused the authorities of to have helped El Chapo to power. Alltifrn prison liable to Mexico's last four presidents. The government's response was a death sentence. They promised that they would kill me. I've learned to live with it for two years now- that one day it will happen. I live that doomed. Mexico is one big swamp of korruption- and from there the Chapo Guzmn risen. He was so mighty on the Puente Grande fngelset- that he took there all his family for Christmas. He had done for security prison to a hotel. They were there a whole week. The government is so korrumperad- that security prison, which is only meant for men... Puente Grande is no women's prison. Although it took the man into three female prisoners. Two guerrillas and a young woman named Zulema. The only thing she did was to rob an armored car. Later, asked this Zulema up on an interview with a news- papers where she described everything in a pink shimmer. She had met Chapo Guzmn, who had fallen in love with her. He had written love letters and everything was so romantic. After a while, it had not just been about six longer- but then shared the bed as a happily married couple. Zulema revealed what El Chapo had written in his letters to her. Honey... I dreamed about you last night. It was so real when I woke up... ... it felt so beautiful inside. But at the same time I was sad because it was only a dream. I understand why she repressed how things really were at the prison. The truth was that when Chapo had tired on her, so he let her go around his companions at the prison. This girl was severely emotionally traumatized. Deputy Director wherein said that she seemed to have gone mad. She started to put himself in his cell... ... pull down her panties and parting her legs. She showed womb of all who passed by. She had become El Chapos dustbin. According to the doctors and the Commission Human rttigheter- she was forced to have an abortion with only one nurse on the scene. It happened twice at the prison. One time she almost bled to death. So passport romantic El Chapo Guzmn. Give me the stand. Have you found it? What's it say? "No one can die as long as it's being alive in someone else's heart." "You will always be in my heart." It seems to be well looked after. There's got to pay. Who pays? What happened to her? -She Found in his luggage on a car. She was tortured. -To Punish El Chapo. El Chapos rivals in the Zeta Cartel believed their romans- and kidnapped Zulema shortly after her release. Her body was found desecrated in the trunk on a car. She had been raped and got Z as the Zeta engraved on the body. Joaqun Guzmn left his cell and went to the garbage room. There were expecting a garbage truck at him. This is the way we think Chapo took from the cell in block three. The official version is that the cleaners had rkat Pass and pitied poor Chapo and helped him to escape. On 19 January 2001 It was then that El Chapo Guzmn slipped away The prison guards slept plain and simple None saw the cart with laundry In Sinaloa, the engine warm The King slipped away teams lnga arm The version has been repeated so many gnger- that people believe in it now. But I guarantee you that somebody from myndigheterna- Maybe somebody skerhetsansvarig- held up the gate and said: "You could give you by now, my lord." Last time he was seen was at a gas station Not far from his hemnation He is free The King of chips and blinding white salt 've checked out from his lyxanstalt A million or two is the price of freedom It'll keep his fill if it fattens his pig On 19 January 2001 That was when as El Chapo Guzmn slipped away In ten years he held to Culiacan, a city as legendary as he A dangerous seas, and he is the biggest fish Everything's on the menu if you stand on the counter In Culiacan are El Chapos Sinaloakartell- which provides the whole world with drugs. You do not know who work for VEM nor who killed whom or why. During the years here, we have learned not to trust anybody. Just like many other journalists we are offered the official rundturen- to show that the government is taking the hunt at Chapo and his cartel seriously. Cocaine, methamphetamine, heroin opium paste, marijuana seeds... This is an assault rifle for nrstrider- with armor-piercing additive. We have this car here because it's bulletproof. Here, there is room for arms, money and dope. This button let out trgas, to protect all here. Here, sit nozzle where the gas comes out. Mexican government is doing everything to find and imprison him. Chapo Guzmn's on the run. He tries to avoid the biggest and most persistent pursuit... ... ever. The hunt for him is unparalleled. It could end in three ways of Chapo Guzmn. Either fngas in, and fngslas- or I'll kill him while he tries to get exemptions or I'll he be on his guard the rest of his life. We will never give up. With luck, he will sit in jail the rest of his life. The truth is that it is El Chapo and Sinaloakartellen that control in the standard with the help of money and fear. Here are governors accused to the eaten lunch with El Chapo. Politicians and police officers that really works for him. It even said that he used to go out to dinner. El Chapo lived in Culiacan before he was arrested 1993. It took a lot of persuasion to get the driver to drive there. The house stands abandoned, there is no one who dares to buy it. It took some time before we found somebody who knew him well. Adolfo Salazar is something so rare as a retired kartellboss- and he is therefore willing to be interviewed. All my close friends are dead. Did they die of natural causes? No, hardly. They murdered them all. My boys... 24 years... ... and 31 years. No; 32. Nothing scares us anymore. People have become accustomed to death. If one son becomes mrdad- can send the other one of working for the killers. People have become completely callous. He called Chapo, but so terrible cards he's actually not. A friend invited me to to a wedding in Nogales. It's the only time I have eaten with him. Then he asked if I wanted to work for him. I was responsible for loading on flygplanen- and fly them across the mountains. I can very well in the mountains here. I do not think that so many people get to meet him. There are only two or three people per village who have direct contact with him. They may be engaged in some kind of business... So spread the money out. It's the same in the cities. Adolfo said he did not have any idea where El Chapo is now- but was sure he could say we are looking for him. While we waited, we wanted to visit the mausoleum El Chapo byggt- ate his son Edgar, but nobody wanted to drive to get us there without permission. Edgar murdered at a parking lot of a rival cartel in 2008. When we got a warrant was the first sign PL that El Chapo knew that we sought him. Without permission we would not get to visit the city. We would not be able to approach kyrkogrden- without being stopped by the armed guards. But now they know that we come? -That They said anyway. Guard told us that we were the first outsider who dropped out. Then we hear a totally different versions of the murder of Edgar. The murder was apparently a mistake. El Chapos guys killed him by mistake at the shopping center in Culiacan. It feels like this mausoleum suggest on feelings of guilt in him. So he killed his own son? -His Gang did it. We were driven out from the grave of some relatives. Relatives of Griselda - mother. While we were filming the last thing we had to hear that El Chapos ex-wife Griselda- the boy's mother, did not want us there. Then we were told that she sent armed men and police after us. We went straight to the airport. Tell me, what we fled from? It's probably not the only ones who understand English here. We're actually still in Culiacan. So we'll continue to be afraid? -Yes, Absolutely. Clearly Edgar dead is an open wound from El Chapo and his ex-wife. He felt totally destroyed and had great sorrow. El Flaco was with El Chapo When Edgar was murdered years in 2008. He came by helicopter. He said he was channeling anger of his son. "That's what I'm focusing on now." Where is Edgar's cross, it was here that he was murdered. It was very hard, everything became extremely messy. It was not about to kill people in hemlighet- but to behead them and then take on the blame. It was about power. Another cartel was accused officially mordet- and Culiacan turned into a war zone. Rival cartels had placed corpse with messages rebuilding that El Chapo and the government collaborated. It took more a trip to Culiacn- and secret meetings with kartellbossar- before we managed to take the next step towards El Chapo. Hello, sweetheart. The plane stands ready, we'll just go for a ride. We were warned to themselves take us up into the mountains. So we got to meet El Chino, who was playing the song on his life for us. I take off and land as easy as getting I live life high in the blue Here I was born, here I go down I'm the pilot that everything looks I fill the tank on my Cessna Plane And fly towards the border another day Flight Routes are, as you know, conceived in order not to leave traces You take me never, a winged Latino I am the best pilot - El Chino What happens now? Do you have passports? -Yes, I have my passport here. They were filming for television. One's from London and one from Lima. They're going to fly a little. Do you want to be on television? Yes. I thought so! Thanks. See you, buddy. I will indemnify you later. why he stopped you? They're on their guard. They take care of us, as I said before. Look, the car looks suspicious. So here it is in Culiacan. He deserved it. No one is innocent, live here always dangerous. You take me never, a winged Latino I am the best pilot - El Chino Neither weapons or the threat of violence has scared us half as much, like sitting in the plane with El Chino without really knowing where we're going. Do you have fastened you? To understand who is El Chapo's gotta trip- to the "golden triangle". There will not be in the way that anywhere, there are cartels of land. The children who grow up where do not understand that drugs are prohibited. Their dads, using them and grandfathers likas. The mayor, the police... Well, it can not be illegal. For more than 50 years ago was one of those kids El Chapo Guzman. Look there, that is where we will land. Here we are, gentlemen. That night we slept in the heart of the Golden Triangle. Angus was supervised by armed men who just speaking gringos on television. Our host was the local Sinaloabossen who owns the area around it. Set your questions, we'll get to see if I answer. There I decide. El Senor is important for many people. Yes, that's right. Why do you think he admired so? He admired for its ability as a leader. We who live here depend on him. His home in La Tuna lies not far from here. It takes only a few hours there. We're just minding our data. We have great respect for our managers. Can we hear that something is wrong 'll solve it. There's never any rebellion. There's no point to rebel against El Senor. One or a couple of times there have craft somebody does not have wanted to obey El Senor. That was the end for them. If, for example freight products to border on his own hand and pay his own business... If you make it so you become alerted. Other time will be killed. He's a good friend. He treats everyone the same. Children, the elderly... Everyone is treated equally, so it has always been. To him, everyone is equal. He treats all of this as part of his family. Everyone thinks highly of him. The children, too. They've known him since they were kids and he is kind to them. But he never forgets anything. He never forgets if anyone behaved badly towards him. Lunchtime El Chapos army, some of Mexico's most hunted men. It was served meat, beer and cocaine. Our identities were checked up on their speed internet. We know both of you that El Chapo is very close now. Why is he called El Chapo? His parents told him when he was little. He called Chapo because he was short. Their GLRD over there and ours here. We heard they called him Chapo, so then we did it, too. He has been kind to me, he's a good man. He sits ill on planes to Culican for treatment. He did this with my one son. He was in an accident and got's care in Culiacan. He did not want anything for it. He solves everything. Moreover, he never drunk much. He talked and danced with everyone, but never chose out a girl. He danced with one, then he went on to the next. Then he said goodbye and left. We were told that the military often come here with Helicopter- and we were afraid to rka bad. Then they said they always warned three hours before. The soldiers here are calm, thank goodness. They come here sometimes, but they let us continue working. Then bothering us no more. They do their checks, then we'll continue. The enemy comes here sometimes. They killed my brother. So we do not carry weapons for no reason. Sometimes it feels like to have to do something to cope. If they kill my son or my brother I gotta give back. He is everywhere. In Mexico. -I Throughout Mexico. They say they are him on the tracks... ... but he has places to hide on. It was awesome that he escaped from security prison. No one takes themselves out of there, but he did. Just like that. He escaped from those fucking gringo area that had him. These men smuggle cocaine and methamphetamine across the world- but heroin and marijuana as cultivated here brings in billions of dollars. So it all started, from oranges to greener crops The family was poor and tired after the grass trampled Association tribulations A lot of work, but barely anything SCREW No wonder that conscience is bent Unpaid wear, it can probably flinch to save is to wipe maja Business is all I can It is they who have made me man I dropped out of school but hardly stupid I got enough of to sell fruit and began selling... something that gave fruit And before I even had time to react the company was suddenly so much more I have never left my Sinaloa My crops are pastoral And the whole world gets some of my products is illegal In every village, every city can you buy my powder and leaves I have 150.000 own agents, far more than all the presidents Since 2006, 50.000 dead will probably be more - it has been necessary All the leaders are eating out of my hand and no one can find me in this country It's the only language they understand and they give me everything they frmr I say that Pablo Escobar that those who do not want the silver... ... get paid in the lead! It felt strange to fly over Mountains- on the hunt for El Chapo and his men now that we knew what was going on down there. We wondered which of the soldiers and their command who was working for the cartel. He is still free. While we are sitting here talking he goes free. He goes where he wants in Mexico. He's in the cities, in the mountains... He'll go on vacation... The police know where he is. It's clear that they know it. He's in Mexico. The police can find him, they can do what they want. I can assure you that Chapo Guzmn- do not visit restaurants and enjoying themselves. Without leaving any details he lives more like Saddam Hussein. He's hiding in small hlor and constantly moving around- for fear of being found. It's going until we get him. -How Do you know? That I will not answer that. We know that, but I can do not say how we know it. Just when we would make contact again found the military a phone. On it were a movie at El Chapo who interrogated a man. He was bound with his pants pulled down. Where are all from Zacatecas? -In Los Mochis and Los Limones. You're lying, you said that they were in Mazatlan. They called to him. Who? -Emiliano And he you killed yesterday. Where the bastard boss? No, he received orders from the Colombian. Where is he? -I Los Mochis. Are all those bastards in Los Mochis? Well, I have to kill that bitch to scare them. Here we saw the brutal man we were looking for. We were constantly worried that someone else would get there. He is one of the world's most hunted brottslingar- drug lord Joaqun Guzmn, also known as El Chapo. He's been on the run since he escaped from a high-risk prison 2001- by hiding the dirty laundry. Now it is rumored that Guzman may have been killed in a firefight in Guatemala. I was worried and called our contact person. He laughed and invited us at lunch. Not in Culiacan, but in the mountains. In La Tuna, where Guzmn himself lives. We do not know anybody who got to come here. To come here without permission is pure sjlvmordet- but if you have a warrant waving to the police until one. Will you already give you in? We're gonna go with Cristobal. Thank you. -Thanks Himself for the good food. God be with you. You too. Thanks for the visit. I call him Chapo, my son. Even as a boy he had big ambitions. I believed him. I remember he had an awful lot of notes. He counted them again and again and put them in great heaps. Then he said: "Save these for me, Mom." It was just colored paper, but they looked so real. He put them in great piles and ties on. "Save these for me, Mom." I have done. Ever since he was a kid has had great ambitions. He wanted to get something out of life. He gets blamed for everything. If anybody get caught, they say he has been involved. If anything happens, blaming all on him. He is the authorities' scapegoat. They took very badly up when he ran away without alerting them. It was a crime, he killed not somebody to come out. He did not break up some doors and did no harm. None of the guards and no one else. That's why they are upset. Only one person can be arranged so we got to eat lunch with wife Guzmn. Two hours later we were running up the mountain to "Heaven". After he had ordered it. Where are we now? -PL Terrace. Here tend to El Senor eat breakfast. The kitchen is located there. As you can see it is very simple, after all. Despite what? He's tight. What happened? -Nothing, Really. They said... They just said he can not talk with us now. He said yes, but not now. It feels strange, because we feel his presence. They called him on the phone, so he's gotta be here somewhere. If he does not we'll go from here? -No, Then they would say that. Well, they would not keep on like this. It is not in their interest, we'll be back. It might give them trouble. So, I do not think. He's somewhere between his birthplace and Culiacan. Yes, this is where he is most. Strange, it's the most obvious. Yes, and perhaps the safest. Over the next few months we were invited here two more times. Every time resolved El Chapo that he did not want to be filmed. The authorities claim that they've chased him for twelve years. We found him. Are you ready? -Yes. How did we catch him in 1993? Why, we succeeded then, but not now? I have no idea. For them, perhaps he is more useful as an ace up his sleeve. A wild card they can play out. For he will be well gripped people will not be satisfied with it. High-ranking people will be named. It can be about 30-40 executives, bank officers... Bde guys like active now and who are retired. Much will be revealed, and then collapse the house of cards together. After lnga nightly conversations with his closest we got a clear picture amortization that Mexican and US leadership have agreements with El Chapo. As we say in Latin America: ms vale malo conocido que malo por conocer. The evil one knows better than the one you do not know. It is neither the US or Mexico authorities he's fleeing. El Chapo is on the run away enemy cartels. The authorities fear he is not, to those he owns. If they try to justify it here- to say that the United States has sheltered Sinaloakartellen of strategic reasons- they've created a real monster. Thousands of Mexicans die every day. ?? Girls, women, young men, fathers... Honest and integrity of people die because of this. Because no one is willing to hunt on this criminal. He was called the Saviour, a savior for their group He knew what he did, he stuck Never They told him to lay low, so low that one can They told him to lay low, so low that one can We are all part of a game We are all part of a game We are all part of a game We are all part of a game Sinaloakartellen, Tijuana Cartel Jurezkartellen, the family from Michoacan Gulfkartellen, Zeta cartel Together we stand united in our struggle He was trying to pull his gun and then everything goes ate woods And now they shoot back... Lie flat on the floor, baby. Shall we sing a song? We sing... Now I know! Where the raindrops turned into chocolate Here, I would like huh ' Do you need chocolate? -Yes! Then I would gape and... Lie flat on the floor! I said to my son: "You gotta be able to forgive everything." God has taught us that whoever does not forgive myself never frltas. You have to forgive. God knows everything. He sees all that is right and all that is wrong. Better judges are not. Do you think he is going to be arrested? When they do not have the benefit of him more. Is everything as it was Have hope flown and gone Nixon declared already -71 and we listened then The war rages still in the south, no one cares anyway One way or differently the people's ideals on shame Among the Mexican mountains people always muddle its way Translation: Martina Nordkvist
