 

                        Pomp and Circumstance" As you ladies go out and conquer the world, remember the words of our dear Eleanor, you gained strength, courage, confidence, by every experience in which you really stop- to look fear in the face, you must do the thing you think you cannot do. Congratulations class of 2014. Hey. Congratulations, baby. Dani, I can't believe you wore those. Oh Mom, after four years of the same uniform, these shoes are my declaration of independence. Tyree quit playin'! Well, congratulations, baby cuz. So what's the 911? We can't be late for my party. We all chipped in for the best. What? Woo! Ahh! Oh! Look at you cheesin'. Whatever man. I cannot wait to play with the line in college. Still can't believe your parents are cool with you going to ANT. I mean, don't they need you going somewhere like Harvard, Brown or Spelman for dinner party cool points? What? I mean, c'mon D you know they're all about public image. - It's not true Ty. A blank image in the house. Happy graduation, baby. Oh my god, this is so fly! And you gonna look even flier when you driving this right on Spelman's campus. Is this car supposed to make me change my mind? There is no such thing as a drum line in the real world, Danielle. You have to start preparing for your future. We'll handle everything. I got a doctor colleague of mine, he's going to let you shadow him at Emory. You guys have no faith in me, no faith that I can make a decision on my own, even if it's about my own life. As long as we are funding that life, we will help you make those right decisions. Then I'll except the partial scholarship they offered me, and I'll get a job to cover my extra expenses but, I am going to ANT. You will not get a- No, no, she thinks she can do it, do it. I need to take control of my life without you guys planning everything for me. I'm stronger than you think. Danielle- It's official, this year's On the Jamboree Classic Battle of the Bands is gonna be hosting on ANT's campus. Now the Panthers haven't won a classic in years, but they're trying to turn it around with a new director. Atlanta native and ANT alum Sean Taylor. Back in the day Sean and future superstar Devon Miles were unstoppable. Yes, he's the Panther's great black hope, welcome home Sean, leggo. Man, I can't believe you guys round up here in my momma's old car, when we could've been stunting in that new ride. I have to prove that I can do this on my own, which means no extras from my parents. Hey Tyree, can you help us with our bags? Oh, let me get with y'all in a minute, let me just get my cousin settled real quick. That drum solo you posted on YouTube, it was hot. D, I told you. Woo, I get much respect for being section leader. This is our year to take back the championship. Woo hoo, you know, if you get the orientation and make the line, you gonna have to bat out too. Okay, not only will I make the line, but I will be- the first female section leader. I know, cuz. Just slow down, all right? All right. All right. Dani Raymond, right? Yeah. I looked you up on Facebook, I'm your new roomie, Tasha! I know, I tried to look you up too. I deleted that account, college is all about reinvention, all you need to know is that I'm country, I'm clean, and I don't plan to kill you in your sleep. C'mon, I like the new outfit. - Thank you, girl. Ripped jean situation. A lot has changed around here since we were on this field together, Sean. Well Nia, oh, I'm sorry, Dean Phillips, it's gonna take some getting used to. And you think Dr. Taylor won't? Welcome home. What it is, I have you to thank for that. Me and the recession, a lot of black colleges need money, and both of us know, a good band puts butts in the seats, and butts in the seats puts money back in the schools, so that's why I told the board to do whatever it took to steal you from GRD. You know I was only the assistant band director there. Well, I guess you better bring it then. I was hoping we could get past what happened between me and you. You mean what happened between you and me and my brother? - We never talked about it. That was a long time ago... it's a new day. I hope so. Welcome to band dorm orientation. I'm Bulldog, drum major. For the next three weeks, I'm your momma and your daddy. McKinley hall is co-ed, now that may sound like you can go buck wild, but I don't play that. Ladies, keep your music boxes closed. Fellas, keep your instruments in their cases, 'cause I don't play that. He's preaching like my pops on Sunday morning. Oh, ahh, Dani, Leon, sixes, Leon this is Dani, my roomie. Whats up? So, did we miss something? Bullet points, no hooking up. But that's my major. I know. First party rule of the south, shake your ass like you got rent to pay. From where I stand, it is a beautiful thing. Oh, I like a little junk in the trunk. Oh, no JFK didn't. Hey look around, all this fresh meat just waiting to be tenderized. Oh, yo, I'd rather feel shorty over there lookin' like she need some home already. Uhh, I got dibs. No, no, no that ain't dibs, that's family, that's my cousin Dani, she's off limits bro. My bad. - Yeah, it will be. Hey yo, isn't that? - Yup. We got a celebrity here, ANT this year y'all, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo! My man J is officially in the building. Damn, dude is fine. That's my roomie, Jayven Lapierre, his daddy is- Jimmy Lapierre. The singer? Yeah. Everyone samples his music, I love him. Music is in his blood, so you know, they put him on the line. Do not pass go with his fine ass. Yeah, we don't all snap our fingers. That's what's up. Okay. Dr. Sean Taylor. Look at you. You know you got the folks talking about you. ANT's great black hope. You got some big shoes to fill, man. ANT hasn't won a classic since what? Since Dr. Lee left to conduct the Chicago Philharmonic? That's six years ago. Six years. What you want, Kevin? What I want? I want to see my brother! You know I shouldn't feel bad directing over at Southern State, considering I did my marching right here at ANT. Yeah but, loyalty was never your thing, right? Loyalty? Were you feeling very loyal when you challenged me for section leader? Mr. Big Shot Junior, just couldn't wait in line. Kevin, I took section leader from you because you ran along with your ego. No, you took it because you always thought you were better than me. Oh... man, is that Nia? Mmm, you know Nia still look good, I divorced that woman five years ago and she still do something to me man just, mmm. I guess we both lost a lot. I'll leave to your unpacking. See you on the battlefield. So, uh, I'm supposed to be taking roll of all the finest honey's in here, so I know I got to shake off your name. Oh what? - No name? Okay then, what's your section? I mean, not that it's not obvious. Oh, is it? Oh yeah, I mean, AN always has the baddest dance team of any band. So, I'm a dancer? Yeah, no doubt. What the? Hoo! Welcome to hell week. Craps. Bags off craps! So, word around campus is y'all think y'all good enough to drum for ANT. Get 'em. As of right now, I'm known to you all as 'big brother run tell that.' - Greetings big brother run tell that. You know why? 'Cause when I play, I play so good, it makes people want to what bustin'? Run tell that! - Run tell that who? Run tell that big brother run tell that! All right. And I am your section leader. You will refer to me as 'the storm chaser, ' because I'm gonna be raining down on your ass all during orientation! Now, let's see what I'm working with here craps. Jayven Lapierre, you come on pedigree with your famous pops. Strap up. Danielle Raymond, strap up. We bought to have an old fashion drum off. Not bad... for craps. So whats up? Dani the drummer. Looks like, my skills. All right, listen up craps, you're all wearing white, because right now you are invisible. You're nothing, you have to earn your blue. And you do that when we see blood, sweat, and tears. Now, who's band is this? Your band! Who's band? Your band big brother oh-ra, sir! Oh-ra. Oh, I beg to differ. Right now, this band belongs to no one. This band will never belong to anyone, you must belong to the band to become champions. You hear that? That's ANT 2002. You serious? Back when the Marching Panthers stood for something. And you, my friends, are coasting on the reputation built on the back of the old school ANT. I'll have no identify, no one knows what ANT stands for anymore. And a team with no identity, is no team. You have to know who you were to understand who you are. With identity, comes purpose. With purpose, comes change, and with that change, you will rebuild this band and win the classics. What is the ANT creed? C'mon, let's go. Y'all do a push up, c'mon down, c'mon, c'mon soldier, let's go. There we go. - Yeah. Score, c'mon, c'mon, c'mon. Get up there, get up. Let's go, let's go, let's go. One drops, you all drop. Move it. Dani, don't be the reason we start over, let's go! Dani, that's not fast enough, let's move, let's move. C'mon Dani, you can do it, c'mon. Man, y'all are sleeping out here. Yo Jay, wake your crap brothers up. Yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo stop playing. Raymond, who told you you can play? I was just- You play when we say you play, you got it? Dude, Dani, fall back in line. Ahh. Ugh. Oh my god. Someone needs to remind "ass-mondi", that hazing is illegal. He's treating you crazy, D. No, he's treating me like a drummer, I knew the drum line was hard core. He is just trying to get in my head. Damn. Dang girl, that envelope is hella thick. My parents stopped paying my cell phone bill. You need to change your plan. Ugh, I need to get a job. Just do what I do, I run up other people's phone bills. Boy, give me my phone back! I'm taking a selfie. Before you lose a finger. Excuse me, Dean Phillips, I read online that you were looking for an office assistant. I'm sorry, but most of the work study positions go just as quickly as the notices go up, you have to be fast. How's the band going? Easier than trying to find a job. Oh, I remember struggling being a Marching Panther. You were in the band? Dance co-captain by day, dishwasher by night. And the owner did not believe in running dishes through the machine, so. Look, if you're willing to work hard- I am. Then I'll put in a call to my old boss. Thank you, Dean Phillips! I'm just saying, how are you going to be a soul food spot and a coffee bar? It's too confusing. May I have a two piece dark and a soy mocha, no whip? See, that doesn't even sound right. You say something? Guys, Dean Phillips is awesome, she talked to the owner, and he's gonna try me out on a trial run. A trial run means, I better not see you hooking your friends up with free food. Let's celebrate, I'll get the table, you guys get this check? Well. Hey. So, uh, you're the real deal out there on that field. You know, that's what I'm looking for. Maybe you should put in your application. You must hate that there's one girl whose not fallen under the Jayven Lapierre spell. Ah ha, really? I wonder what she trying to prove. She could ask the same thing. You know, when you have me play, I ain't got to prove nothing. Are you sure? Because all you do is throw lines at me and probably every other girl in here. I bet you can't say one real thing, just one. Okay, so what? You think you know me? Boy, I know about 20 of yous. Well okay, Ms. Raymond. It's been a long three weeks, tomorrow we'll have the tree shaking, auditions to determine your rankings. P1, P2, you're guaranteed to march, P3, P4 stick with it, you want it? You'll earn it. Jayven. Hey, hey, sorry I didn't hear you. Wow, you're here late. Trying to be ready for tomorrow. Ahh guilty, guilty, that's why I've been practicing here each night. Why do you look shocked? C'mon Jay, you know you got this. But why? What? Because of my pops? Listen, I got hit because of my skills, not his connections. You know, people talk like they know about my life, but they don't. Bet they'd shut up if they knew the ugly ass truth. He ain't all that. I didn't mean- No. You wanted me to tell you something real, well there you go. You can add a room. My parents used to argue a lot when I was younger. They almost got a divorce once. So, I used to spend a lot of time at Tyree's. And, he had this drum set, and at first I was just messing around, but then it turned into something. It felt like everything I needed to say was in those sticks. It still feels like it. So now you know something real about me, too. Guess we all gotta bring our A game. I plan to. Now as is the ANT tradition, a senior line will determine the rankings. Leon, you're first up. Try to impress me. P1. P2, Mr. Murphy. P1. P1, congratulations Mr. Lapierre. Dani, it's you. Seniors. Ms. Raymond, you're P2. You D, I know you wanted P1, but you'll get there. I was good, I played my ass off. Oh really, oh that's funny 'cause I can still see it. All right D, I know you good, there's no doubt about that, but maybe you're just not ready for the senate. Did anyone hear the forecast this morning? For the next few weeks, there will be a constant unrelenting roaring sound. Can you hear it? Can you hear it? You are officially a part of a legacy. You are this year's Marching Panthers. With identity comes purpose, and with purpose comes change. Knock knock. Big day tomorrow. Yeah, first game sets the tone. Yeah. Wow, is that us back in the day? Back to Lee, wearing a tight shirt. Well, word around campus is you do too, so you don't have anything to be nervous about. I'm not. I dated you for three years, I know you... enough to remember your pre-game tradition. Two piece with hot sauce, and a cherry coke. Woo-hoo. Sean, I umm- I know, I should eat. Right, right, you should eat. Well umm, good luck, I don't think you need it. Wow. Huh, so you didn't go to home grown with everybody? I wanted to be ready for tomorrow. Mm, okay. Hey, you alright? I mean, I know I'm sexy and all. Boy, please! Please what? What? You think I'm like what? Scared, nervous, in awe maybe? You know what I'm learning about myself lately? I'm not afraid of anything. Now who's scared, Mr. Lapierre? Good night. Yes sir, today is the unveiling. I'm trying to see what Dr. Taylor and this new ANT band are bringing to the table. I got my cooler- C'mon, I'm not gonna miss the bus. Shoot, I forgot my hat, go on without me. Okay. She been ready, I told her to come through after the game. You already know. Woo boy, we about to kick the Glorie's ass. And the senate is tight as hell this year. You can thank me for that, son. Yo, what you do is dirty yo. Man, I ain't having no bitches on the line, I don't care who a cousin is, we ain't that desperate. I hear you. Bro. Look, here comes that football player that keeps checking me out. Y'all tear it up out there, I'll be watching. We don't have enough bitches on the line. And I ain't having no bitches on the line. Yo, ruin your period? Yo Armondi, chill out. Let me handle this. Yeah, handle her. Tyree, I was just trying to show that a bitch can be on the senate, that's what I am right Armondi? He got the line to block me. Is there something I need to handle, Mr. Raymond? No, sir. Get your line together, Mr. Raymond... or I'll do it for you. Ty, he... It's going to be okay, girl. So, you gonna let them run you? Look, this is my line, all right? I know we're family, so I'm gonna give it to you straight, you just messed up, D. Why don't you help unpack the drums, P2. Hey. So what happened on that field? I just got so mad after I found out what Armondi did. Setting her off on the field. So you think I set it off? Oh yeah, no doubt, on the field and in the hallway. Devon Miles. Oh, I remember that hard head gave you a run for your money your senior year. Yeah, then he graduated and turned into P-Diddy. Mhm. Music, clothes- Yup Vanity water, my boy is everywhere. Oh god, he was cute. If he wasn't married, I'd ask you to hook me up. Y'all still friends right? I don't think you need any help from that department. You'd be surprised, after the divorce I just, I needed a break from men. I had to get my head right, you know? So, I started dating my career. Shut up. I'm just saying, I can't remember the last time a man picked me up in his car and offered me some Boone's Farm wine and swept me away to some real R&B, grown and sexy music. Wait, hold up, Boone's Farm? Don't act like you don't drink Boone's Farm. That's a long time. Don't- Don't remind me. Grown and sexy, huh? But, I still got the moves though. Can you move to this? Ohh, woo! Yeah, I still got the moves though. I do too. One lows. Did you just body roll? Oh you know, that's it. Hey, mhm. Mhm. Awh, you still got it. Dr. Taylor, you listening to fifth quarter? Southern State is talking smack! Oh. Big Southern State and ANT match up this weekend, any concerns about the Bears' long standing rivalry? Oh yeah, I'm terrified. Look here man, my brother's a good leader, and from what I've heard they had a decent show this weekend. But, ANT hasn't been a force in years. Mmm. So, from what I know, the Panthers are about to get declawed. He's just trying to get in my head before a game in the classic. Don't let him, this school needs this band to be great, and you can do that. Oh, don't worry, I still got some moves too. rivalry goes back years, and we will show that ANT can reign supreme. You talk about identity, this game this weekend, this is ANT's identity. So, I want your undivided attention, when you wake up, when you're in line at the cafeteria, when you on the phone begging for money from your momma, run your music, live in it. Well, I hear you're doing well. It's a good thing, since I put my dishwasher rep on the line. Thanks again for this. You're welcome. You okay? Truth? Mm-hmm. Not really. It's just band stuff. Well, as dean of the students, you can tell me anything. Let's sit. I just don't know how to feel about it. Yo, can I use the iron? Yeah, but I'm gonna need you to put all that chocolate away, if I can't have none. You know better, okay? C'mon. D girl, don't even worry about Armondi, I heard he barely made the line himself. He's insecure, so he lashes out. And that's because he thinks he can break you, 'cause he do that to me all the time. Skinny, black, gay preacher's son with the big ass curly 'fro. Damn, how many crosses did you have to bear? Enough to decide to put them all down when I stepped foot on this line. Look, let him be stupid, you just keep doing you, all right? Oh, I am. I already handled it. Hey. So, uh, some of us are going out tonight, and we were, well I wanted to see if you wanted to hang. Well, mmm, I don't have to work tonight. Yo, we partying or what? There goes Josh, trying to get to Tasha again. That is so not happening. I hope the universe is taking notes for my new man. I can take my own notes. Not tonight, JFK. C'mon. Hey don't worry, look, I'm sure the line will come around and so will our money. I'm not worried, I'll make them recognize. Is this the brand new Dani? I like the sound of that. Okay, okay, but let me ask, do you think she's got enough room for a guy who's kind of sexy? And real cocky? We'll see. C'mon. Yo Jay, whats up player? Rizzy. I ain't even know you was comin' man. You pops is about to do a set. Oh yeah? Yeah, I was just kickin' it with some friends from school. Oh right, you're Mr. Joe College now. So, you coming in? Um no, I'm sure he's got enough fans for himself. It'll be fun. Y'all Jay's dad is about to perform. What? Let's go. What? I'm down. Yeah. Let's do it. All right, let's get ready for some old school, get in your blood type music. From Atlanta's very own, Mr. Jimmy Lapierre. Is your dad okay? He's good, nothing new. Too bad I'm cool. Woo. Ugh, how y'all doing? Heard my boy was here, where you at son? C'mon put the light, put the light up, I want to see you. Ha-ha-ha, that's my C right there, ha. Uh ah, give him a minute. I was worried. You ain't got to worry about me. Seriously? What? I'll open a window. So you're just gonna put that wall back up? Cool ass Jayven, ain't afraid of anything. Okay whatever, but this ain't you. You know, maybe it is. I mean, you saw my pops tonight. You know people think that I live this strong life, but it's not. The great Jimmy Lapierre ran through all his money thanks to drinking, drugs, and women. Damn and I tried to help him but, now he tours just so he can get his fix. So you know what? Yeah, I do what I gotta do so I can make my own money. Okay, but selling weed? Yes! I'm screwed up Dani. But, I'm trying to fix it, being here, earning my spot on this senate, that was my escape from all of that. Until tonight. Maybe you should go. Hey. Hey. You're not gonna get all clingy on me now are ya? Oh, I planned to get real clingy, I've told you too much. Daddy. Hmm, hi. I got a call from the cell phone company, your bill is late. I was, I was gonna pay it when I got paid. Yeah well, this is real world stuff honey, due dates matter, you want me to cover it? No, I got it, I'm mailing it today. Okay, how did you make out? Umm, make out? Yeah, tree shaking, you said you were shoeing for something. Yeah, the audition, umm I made P1. I hope studying fits in there somewhere. Yeah, I'm handling it, trust me. Baby look, now there's plenty of semester left, Spelman is a viable option. This weekend, we go to war, on our own field, against Southern State. Now, I'm all too aware that ANT has suffered some casualties in this war the last few years. That all ends right now. Who are we? The Marching Panthers. Who are we? The Marching Panthers! That's right. Get some rest, dismissed. Percussion, stay on the field. Dean Phillips has just brought a situation to my attention, and as a result I will allow a challenge from a P1 snare. Ms. Raymond, step forward. Dr. Taylor, that means she's part of the senate. Yes it does, Mr. Mason. As is the rule, you challenged the last drummer placed on the line. Mr. Lapierre, step up, step up. All right then. Not this time, Mr. Lapierre, don't be discouraged at this moment, learn from it. Welcome to the senate, Ms. Raymond. Dismissed. Jayven, Jayven. I'm sorry, I didn't know that that was gonna happen, I talked to Dean- You knew, what being P1 meant to me. But it's cool, brand new Dani, right? Yay P1! What? Look you had a problem, you took action, you didn't know you were going to de-ball your man in the process. Tasha. We just got together. So, I guess you guys heard about me. Ain't no body heard nothing about you, JFK. I can't march until I get my chem grade up. You know, who the hell knows how many confirmed elements there are in the periodic table. 118 as of 2012, 98 of the 118 occur naturally. What? What are you? Some kind of sexy genius? Maybe. Umm, I have a date, so I have to go. But, if I see Jay in the room later, I'll talk to him okay? I've been texting you. Who are you, his momma? Look, what's going on? What did I do? Oh, oh yeah that's right, you, you wanted me to say something real right? Well this is me, just like you're a daddy's little girl who had to run to the Dean's office in order to get her way. Jay. Jay. Y'all go on ahead. You better bring it tomorrow, trying to roll with the senate. Give it up for the unstoppable Southern State. And now, presenting the Atlanta A&T Marching Panthers. Focus. Under the new direction of Dr. Sean Taylor. Remember what we're here to do. Okay, okay. It actually looks like A& has gotten their groove back. They just killed Southern State. The crowd agrees. Oh but wait a minute, Southern State is not giving up that easy. Their drum line is making a call to war. They want more. Dr. Taylor, they wanna battle. No. We do what we came to do. Where you goin'? Come on. You scared, baby brother? Senate, fall in. You heard Dr. Taylor, Senate, fall in. Hell yeah. Yo, Jay, you in for Dani. What? Should be my spot anyway. Yo, Armondi, this is my line. Dr. Taylor, we want to win, we need our best. Jayven. LaPierre, take the field. Miss Raymond battles too. Yo, Dani, keep up on the beat. Lets go, y'all. Whoo! Are we watching this, ladies and gentleman? A&T's drum line is killin' it. Oh no! She dropped the sticks, ladies and gentleman. Automatic win for Southern State. Looks like A&T should have quit while they were ahead. Stupid Bitch! Man, watch your mouth. Ugh! Whoo! Hey! Lets go. Yo, yo, yo, stop playin'. Mondi. This aint football. This aint football. Man, some bands act straight ghetto. What's up? Brutality on the field. Tyree, are you... Not now, D. Yo, what was that fight all about on the field yesterday? I know y'all seen it by now. Southern State and A&T, it's all over You Tube, so we know the classic gonna be fire. I will handle the band. So who's gonna handle you? The director of the classic is threatening to pull it from the school. Sponsors are wary due to the show of violence. What the hell, Sean? There's some dissention among the senate. Come on. This is just as much about you and your competition with your brother. Oh, comin' from the woman that played us against each other? Oh so you... finally wanna talk for real? Well lets talk for real. Your identity was all wrapped up in this band. You broke up with me senior year. Yeah, and you landed in my brother's bed a month later. I will not let the school suffer for this nonsense between you and your brother. We need the profit and the exposure from the classic. Nia. If you can't fix what you broke, then we're done. That fight was a disgrace to your history, your school and yourselves. I'd suspend you all, but A&T's got too much ridin' on the Classic. Miss Raymond and Mr. LaPierre, step forward. What is our motto? One band, one sound. And yet, it was all about you Saturday, wasn't it? What happened on that field wasn't me. Who we are at our core is a series of actions. Of all the actions you could've taken, you chose to turn your back on your line. And in that moment, Miss Raymond, you were exactly who you are. Until further notice, you two are both P4's, meaning you participate fully in practice, but no performance. You wanna show boat? Why don't you show boat while you clean drums, haul water, and try to gain some respect back? 10 laps. Or do you want 20? Talk about identity and all I saw on that field was ego. about extended practices until further notice. Dr. Taylor got the biggest ego out here. Shut up. There might be a slight change of plans, people. I hear the Classic might be held at a different school. I'll keep you posted, just stay tuned in and turnt up. Hey. It's Sean. I know, long time. Now, save your strength, still gotta clean these drums after practice. And I want em squeaky clean. All right, man. We got it. No, no, no, no, no. I want her to do it. She started this, now she can finish it. Yo! What up big homie? I'm sure you all know Devon, especially since every other song on the radio is his. Oh, don't forget about the Grammy. Now, you know how I feel about disruptions during practice. Man, you called me. Plus, I am not dressed to be doing no laps. These is my gelins. Tasha, wait up. I got a business proposition for ya. Not sure I wanna be in business with ya' JFK? Look, I need a tutor. I'm trying to get back on the field for the Classic and the chem is kicking a brother's ass. What brother? All right, I have a test on Friday, and as much as you try to hide it, I know you're smart as hell. I wouldn't say all that, but I aint gonna turn down no good money. And I want it in quarters, cause laundry is kickin a sista's ass. Yeah, you got it. All right, deal. All right. D, I really appreciate you offering to MC the Classic. It's gonna be A&T's best shot at keeping it here at the school. Come on, it's nothing. It's my pleasure. I owe so much to A&T. I owe a lot to you too, big dog. What about you? You good? Yeah. You sure? I don't know man. I always dreamt of coming back here and leading this band. I was gonna teach teamwork, squash egos, let em' discover who they are, the power of what they could do. I don't even know if I should be here sometimes. Come on, man, you was ready when you graduated. The band just think they the center of the world right now, you gotta show em' that they not. Show em' what work is. What would Quentin say about you? Besides, Quentin definitely aint gonna help you get back with Nia. Nia Phillips is lookin' mighty delicious. You married, bro. Yeah, happily. But you aint. Devon Miles. It's been a long time. Too long. Oh my goodness. Oh, thank you so much again for agreeing to MC the Classic. I mean thank you. I always gotta represent for A&T. And my boy Sean. You know what, I gotta make a couple of phone calls. I'm gonna go ahead and step out. The work of a mogle's never done. Thanks again. Yeah, no doubt. You know I still got it. I see. Get out of here. So, you called him? I broke it, I wanted to fix it. Well, it worked. The Classic sponsors have unanimously agreed to overlook the A&T and Southern State fight and Devon's appearance is gonna be a huge draw for the Classic. So, thanks for helping out the school... Nia, what I said about you and Kevin, it was low. You know, you had a role in this too. You think Kevin is all about ego? Well so are you. And truthfully, that man I saw on the field the other day is the same boy that ran me off years ago. They always question me try to bring me down I took AP Chem in 10th grade. Some of these study aids should help. Damn, in 10th grade I was trying to step out of my brothers shadow. All seven of them. So you came here to stand out. You noticed me. And the way they look at us when me and you touch I do Is this high school Tasha? Did you look cute in glasses. You still do. Uh uh. Head in the books, Josh. And, thanks. I'll be right back. All right. Hey. What's up? You takin' orders? Let me get the wings. That all? Yep. So are we never gonna talk again? What do you wanna talk about, Dani? How you tryin' to be brand new came between us? Actually, that chick on your arm is what came in between us. You said you came to A&T to get away from all of this. This anger. This image. But you're slippin' right back in, Jay. Y'all done? Yeah. We're done. Oh my love, my love I know I may have changed Oh my love, my love I may have lost my way Hey. You okay? Um, I'm fine. You know what? I'm gonna go talk to his passive aggressive ass. You said you were sorry. No. I'm just letting it go. Hey. I see you're here feeling charitable too, huh? Yeah, you know Alpha Beta's all about community service. Yeah. Oh, sorry. This is my girl Dani. Hi. Want a lot of things that I couldn't have I've done a lot of things that I shouldn't have And uh, this is my girl Cree. Hi. I'll see y'all around, okay? Maybe he's just... I know what he is. I was just hopin' that he wasn't. Leon. I gotta go. Tyree. I'll catch you later, bro. Yeah man. Tyree, come on. I can handle everyone else being mad at me. I know I messed up at the Southern State game. Can we truce this? Please? I need you to help me get back on the field. Damn. Them boys were right about you. You got bigger balls than me. What kind of misogynist B.S. is that? Listen, Dani. I don't care what Armondi and them think they did. You didn't make P1 that night. The call was fair, and I know because it was mine. But I deserve... But you don't get it. You don't just deserve to be out on that field. I mean we all feel like we deserve it, but the difference is, we aint all used to getting everything handed to us. I have to believe that I belong here. Well maybe you don't. Maybe your dad was right, you should go to Spellman. There aint nothing for you here. And that aint just me talkin' neither. Spellman? Girl, Tyree is family. He was just trippin'. No, he's right. I messed things up so badly, and I can't fix them, so I should just go. Have you talked to Jay? My Pops is gonna be here soon. I got so much more to pack, so. All right. All right. You guys better get to practice because I still want a Panther victory. Since day one we've talked about identity. I wanted you to know where you came from, but I also wanted you to discover who you are. Now in New Orleans, my band, we had Jazz. It was the sound of thriving in the face of defeat. But what's our sound? Who are the Marching Panthers? Maybe we aint tryin' to have a sound. We just tryin' to win the trophy. Mr. Mason, there's a whole... Got a whole lot of mouth. Sean, let me holla at him real quick. Y'all suppose to be the Senate right? You know it. Section leader, where you at? Sup? Meet me on the field in five minutes. All right, lets do this. Lets see if you can keep up, youngin's. If you can. Hey, my bad. They're pretty good. Kind of reminds me of us back in the day. Of course, they aint as pretty as we were. Na, na, na. Never that. Never that. Man, how long it's been since we've played together? 12 years. Think you still got it? We'll see. Lets do this. Damn! Yeah. We still do that. One band... One sound. We know each other because we're a team until the day we die. Yeah. I mean, there's a lot of talent in this band. Talent, aint get me to where I am today. Work ethic, drive, team work. I learned all of that right here. Until y'all learn that, you aint gonna get no where near a trophy. So, stop bitching and be about it. Truth. One. Two. One, two, three. They got a business program. Not only will you learn how to be in a drum line, you'll learn to own your own line of drums. Monetize that which you love. That way, our baby can call the shots herself. Dani, sometimes the fun path for today is not the right path for tomorrow, and it takes a lot of courage to recognize that. And I am so glad we raised a daughter with courage. That's more than I had. This is not about your vegan cake business... It was a pastry company, honey. Those cakes tasted terrible, baby. And I only quit because you wanted me to follow you to medical school. And look at where we are. And I resented it. I can't go. Danielle. I needed to prove to you guys that I could do this, but the truth is, I had to prove this to myself too. And you did. But I can't run just because it got hard. Spellman would be easier. You guys would make it easier. But then I wouldn't know what it's like to work hard for something on my own. Is that what you want? Yeah. All right. I guess I'm unpacking the car. Sorry I'm late. Don't mind that letter I left on your desk. What letter? Strap up, Miss Raymond. Join your section. Tyree. I thought you quit. I almost did, but then I remembered that membership is an honor. Marching is a privilege. We value to uphold that privilege with honor and excellence. We acknowledge our past and... Stop. You know I say some dumb things sometimes, cuz. Must run in the family. From the top. One, two, three. So, you're going to keep your job? Yeah. I got used to making my own money. Guess who got a C on this test? Oh my God, you failed. No. A C is a pass, Tasha. It's enough for me to march with y'all at the Classic. What? Yeah. Yes, yes, yes, yes! Yes! Oh yes. I'm his tutor. Tutor. You never even crack a book. That's because I'm a minister scholar. I'm a straight up nerd. I just don't like to talk about it, cause the dudes I like to kick it with don't like girls with big brains. They like big asses. Then you are kickin' it with the wrong dudes. You need to give me a shot. JFK, I done told you... What is it? Huh? Is it cause I'm white? I've dated white dudes. It's cause you're corny. Tasha, he's not that bad. Oh, then you go out with him. Look, I'm just gonna keep asking, and I can be super corny when I'm trying to get my mac on a fine ass honey, such as your self. Oh, Lord, help me. Come on. What can it hurt? Please? Okay. One date. I am one piece of a whole. All hands at my house, on my tempo. Now that was old school A&T. That was heart. A&T's in your blood now. I can feel it. Now, I know many of you might think my ego's as big as some of y'alls. It's okay. We all let ego get in the way sometimes. What I just heard on this field right here, that is the result of your hard work. Now, one more thing before practice is dismissed, two P4's have earned their way back on to the field. Mr. LaPierre, Miss Raymond, you will march in the Classic. There's still the issue of the one spot left on the Senate. Mr. Raymond? I believe they both deserve a shot. Your section, your call. All right, you'll both compete for the spot after practice. Jayven can have the spot. He earned it fair and square. I know I'll get my shot. Then it's settled. One band... One sound. Dismissed. Leon. Look, about Cree. Come on, you know how that is, right? I'm not like you, man. All out with mine? I can't have everybody up in my business. I promised myself I would never go back into that closet for nobody. And it sucks cause I really like you. I gotta go. Leon. You started runnin' at night? You should have a stick, or some pepper spray, or something. Nia, I'm sorry. No matter what I do, you're gonna hold me to what I did a long time ago. And I get it. I married your brother. How? How'd you let that happen? We bonded over being mad at you, and I mistook it for a deeper connection. But I remember that look on your face when I said I do and I know that's why you took that job in New Orleans. You're angry. And I don't know if you can get over it. Good luck at the Classic. And I have pepper spray. Jayven. Tomorrow's the Classic. Why are you doing this? Someone sold pictures of my Dad buying drugs. Now there's proof. It'll be in the tabloids tomorrow. Everyone's gonna see the truth. I'm sorry, but that is not your truth. You said you wanted something for yourself. Well tomorrow is your chance to prove to the world who the real Jayven LaPierre is. Unless you're scared. Of what? Maybe you don't really know yourself. Wassup ATL? It is the 5th quarter. We are at the Southern Jamboree Classic, here on the campus of A&T. It is going down. The turn up is real. Oh yeah, special guest host, Mr. Devon Miles in the building. I'm gonna let the applause die down first. Let me tell you, it is an honor to be here, man. You know, but it's not about me today. Honestly, it is all about the band. They comin' from all over the Southeast to get it in. And I hear, as usual, Southern State is the band to beat. Dude, we beefin' already? I'm just sayin' what I heard. Come on, man. You know I'm A&T all day. Quit playin. All right, we're gonna see what you're gonna do though. Disrespect my section. Leon, you seen Jayven? He wasn't in the room this morning. Give it up for the Marching Bayou Tech, Glory. I was paralyzed by those pair of lies but those pair of eyes brought me right back, back, back to you I gave up my pride for you by my side I just want you however I can You're right, I was still angry at you. I know. But I would rather be with you in the present then mad at you about the past. That was real smooth, Dr. Taylor. Oh, I know. Will you still hold my hand when we're alone will you still kiss me Now lets go kick some butt. Lets. No, no, no, no, no. You're missing the down beat on the opening cadence. Don't play on my drum. I got this. Didn't sound like it. Yo, you need to check your cousin, Ty. Uh, no one needs to check me. Yo, I'm just glad your ass is behind me. Where it belongs. Hey man, ease up. I thought you bailed. Not when I have something to prove. Awe. What? You hittin' that again? You must be smokin', like your Pops. Mondie, squash it. Hey you know what, I got this, Ty. Lets go, right here, right now. Head to head, you and me. You up for the challenge? Cause if I get your spot, I'm keepin' it. Man, get out of here with all that. Then I guess it's squashed. Give me my sticks. Baby brother, I hope you got your band together this time. I guess you'll find out on the field. Indeed we will. Sup, Nia? Oh I see, we're having ourselves a little, little reunion, huh? You know, I knew this was why you really came back here. Good luck, Kevin. Luck is when opportunity meets preparation. Plus, I always win. Aint that right, Nia? And now that the sun has set. Ladies and gentleman, coming to the field, under the direction of Dr. Kevin Taylor. The reigning Southern Jamboree Classic Champions, Southern State. Boo. SSU. Boom! All right. That was all right. I'm not mad at that at all. All right, come on A&T, this is your moment. And here they are, on their home turf. The one, the only, A&T Marching Panthers, directed by... Hey, let me do the honors. Directed by my friend, Dr. Sean Taylor. Are we watching this entrance, ladies and gentleman? Is this how we feel? It's working. It's working. A&T is turnt up. Hey, it's real out there. It's a little different. A&T is back! The Panthers came to battle! I see what y'all doing. Not very traditional, it's different. Whatever the outcome, it's gonna be close. They brought it today. Absolutely Oh, Lordy. I don't know y'all. And here it comes! The winner of the 7th Jamboree Classic and $75.000 cash, for the first time in 6 years. Atlanta A & Marching Panthers. That's what I'm talking about, baby! I knew we had it. Didn't I say we had it? I was right. Oh, wait, wait a minute. Southern State Drumline is calling for a Drumline Challenge. Looks like we've got ourselves a little sore loser challenge. I say we go out there and we spank 'em. You already won. You've got nothing else to prove. We know that. But we think Southern State needs a little lesson. M hmmm. So say you all? A&T, A& Then, spank 'em. Yeah baby. Dr. Taylor. I have an idea. Wait a minute, I've never seen this before. I've never seen this before. That's what we do, ok? As you know a lot of folks say, Drumline is where you actually find a champion. Well, we're going to find out today. We got this. Get some. Get 'em Southern State. Wow! Come on A&T. Woohoo, The Senate is here to battle! Yeah, D! A&T's drumline is still killing it. Woah, woah, wait a minute. Whooo. The panthers are on the prowl tonight! Are you watching this, ladies and gentlemen? That's what I'm talking about! Shoutout to A& ladies and gentlemen. Victorious. Can alumni be proud right now? Be proud. You should be. Hey, yo, A&T is back. Not bad section leader. Not bad at all. Thank you so much, Dr. Taylor. Congratulations. Thanks you, Dr. Taylor A& I knew you were the only one that could turn this around. Oh, girl, I'm just getting started. And I'm not talking about the band. You ok, Dr. Taylor? Hey, you were pretty nice on that snare. You too, Mr. LaPierre. Nah, just Javon. Ok, Javon. So you gonna stand there or you gonna cut to the good part? A&T, A&T, A&T, A&
