 

                        Back in the 18th century when romance was in bloom And Louis XV wasn't just a sofa in a room A simple little country girl who knew a thing or two Got very, very chummy with His Majesty, King Lou The people disapproved of her in no uncertain tone Still, they'd agree that Madam D was a power behind the throne Behind her back, they called her names On that we will not tarry But to her face, with elegant grace They said Madame Du Barry Madame, Madame They said Madame Du Barry Perhaps she was a gorgeous little hussy from Bordeaux But there's one thing we positively absolutely know Du Barry was a lady No matter what they may say Du Barry was a lady The fairest gal of her day She had to pull no strings for the King's blessing He fell in love with her French dressing To marry this Du Barry was every nobleman's goal And put them all together they'd fill the Hollywood Bowl I couldn't tell you how, but she got along And if she was no lady fifty million Frenchmen were wrong Though she started out in squalor And though her past was shady You can bet your bottom dollar She ended up a lady Du Barry Du Barry was a lady Oh, Rami, isn't she wonderful? Just another female woman. Take away her eyes, her nose, her mouth and her ears and what have you got? A blank expression. She's wonderful. - You never look at me like that. - You never look like that. Louis, if you're not doing anything after work, I'd like to take you home. No. Not after last night. Oh, you could never be happy here. Please marry me and let me take you away from all this. And after we're married and settled down in our little love nest, maybe the stork'd come to our house and bring us a lot of little... Cigars, cigarettes, chewing gum. Du Barry was a lady Oh, what a lady was she The men still raved about her the last time I saw Paris With wealthy knights she was chummy... Please be very careful with this. It's kolinsky. Would you give me a check, please? That's May Daly. - Who? - May Daly. That's May Daly. It doesn't matter now how she got along If she was double-dating Du Barry was okay And if her life was shady Well, who are we to say? But if she was no lady maybe twenty - Thirty - Forty Fifty million Frenchmen were wrong Madame, you are about to meet a handsome man. - Not too young, not too old. - About my age? I see both of you meeting in a secluded, moonlit, romantic nightclub. But I've got to polish up the crystal ball. Have you got a soft, slightly used $5 bill? - Do you think this will be soft enough? - It will have to do. You will meet this man. He will be wearing a tuxedo, eyeglasses and some hair. This is the man, your soul mate. Marry him, madam, and you marry her. $5, please. That's a good one on you, Swami. We were married last night. - Weren't we, Mr. McGeehan? - McGowan. Oh, yeah. McGowan. Marry Mr. McQuinn. He is so charming, so debonair. He reminds me of that well-known actor. You know, the one who makes love to beautiful girls like Hedy Lamarr. You know who I mean. Hedy. My name is Pepe le Coco. And I come from the Kasbah, Hedy, the Kasbah. You know what is the Kasbah? It is right next to the delicatessen. Hedy, I love you, I adore you. I love your visage. I love your face. I love your eyes, and your lips and your hair, Hedy. Let me run through your hair barefoot. Hedy, I love you, I adore you. Look across the sea and what do you see? Paris and the white way, and the Rue de Montmartre, and the Champs lyses. Hedy. And this one thing, this one question, runs through my mind again and again. And it wants to know this one thing, this one question, this one thing. And my temples throb, and my... doesn't know what to say, my throat clenches tight and my heart beats faster and faster. Faster and faster beats my heart. And it wants to know this one thing, this one question, this one thing. Will you go with me to the high school prom? - Louis, old pal, I'm glad to see you. - Hello. - Louis, I got bad news for you. - What? The cook out there just said you were the tightest guy in the place. But I stuck up for you. I told him you had a heart as big as Texas. - The cook said that? - Yeah. And he bet me 5 bucks I couldn't borrow 5 bucks from you. - Oh, he did, did he? - Yeah. How do you like a guy like that? Well, wait a minute. When do I get it back? Just as soon as I see the cook. Oh, now do you think I'm as dumb as I look? I'll give it back to you Saturday. This is the cook's day off. How sure can I be I'm gonna get it back Saturday? Just as sure as she's alive. Oh, no. I gotta have better proof than that. Look, Louis, I don't want this dough for myself. I want to spend it on someone. Someone we both admire. May Daly. - You got a date with May Daly? - Nobody else. She'll turn you down like she did last night. May was tired last night. She went straight home. Oh, she did, huh? Hey, I'll tell you what. If May goes out with you tonight, you don't have to return the 5 bucks. But if she don't, you owe me $10. Are you kidding? Sucker. You're wrong, Rami. He did lend it to me. - Fly specks. - Hey. That guy's a friend of yours, isn't he? I, Rami, have only one true friend, Baldor the Omnipotent. The voice from the beyond. But I've got to admit, me and the kid is pretty chummy. Yeah? Well, tell him he's wasting his time. You know who Miss Daly's going out with tonight? Don't look in that goldfish bowl. I'll tell you. Him. - Handsome chap, isn't he? - There's the rest of him out there. - Cigars, cigarettes. - Give me a cigar. - Keep the change. -20 bucks. Gee, that entitles you to a match. Cigars, cigarettes. Ladies and gentlemen, the Club Petite presents three boys who will give you their vocal impressions of well-known bands on the radio. May I introduce to you the Oxford Boys. Let's dance a while to the original Kay Kyser style. Evening, folks. How you all? Presenting Mr. Harry Babbitt. I'm always thinking of you So long, everybody. It's pleasure time. A cigarette, sweet music and you A perfect blend for dreaming come true Light up and listen to the shortest 15 minutes on radio with Fred Waring and his Pennsylvanians. And this is Fred Waring and over half-a-hundred Pennsylvanians saying even in sleep, a song is the thing. Good night, all. From coast to coast it's Horace Heidt, the trumpeters and the singing guitar. Here's the country's number one trumpet player, Harry James, playing Sleepy Lagoon. The sweetest music this side of heaven, with Guy Lombardo and the trio singing. You are my sunshine My only sunshine You make me happy When skies are gray And here's our own sentimental gentleman of swing, Tommy Dorsey, his trombone and his band. Oh, I forgot to tell you. Willie the wolf man's out there waiting. Yes, I know. He sent in the evidence. Oh, six orchids. My, my, my! What's he trying to do, landscape you? What a catch. Filthy rich, too. They say this man's got more lettuce than in a Victory Garden. And marriageable, too. Now, don't you worry about me. I'm not falling for anyone. Not until I see the whites of their checkbooks. - Maybe that's your rich guy. - Maybe that's my poor guy. You mean Alec? You better forget about him. Don't you go passing up no golden opportunities like rich Mr. Willie. Opportunities like him just tap once, and gently. It's your poor man. - Hello, Niagara. - Oh, hello. What are you doing? - Playing one-nighters in dressing rooms? - Mais oui, Madame. So sorry you are leaving. - Was I leaving? - Yes, Niagara. Well, I guess I'm leaving. I see you take the baby everywhere. And she just learned a new song. I wish that I could hear it, Alec, but I haven't time tonight. Sorry. Well, the song can keep. I'm trying it out with Dorsey tonight. I wanted you to be the first to hear it. You got a date? I guess I got a minute. - One chorus, huh? - One chorus. Do I love you, do I? Doesn't one and one make two? Do I love you, do I? Does July need a sky of blue? Would I miss you, would I? If you ever should go away If the sun should desert the day What would life be? Will I leave you? Never Could the ocean leave the shore? Will I worship you forever? Isn't heaven forevermore? Do I love you, do I? Oh, my dear, it's so easy to see Don't you know I do? Don't I show you I do? Just as you love me Say, the song's better than I thought. Now, look what you've done. - What have I done? - Hit me when my guard was down. Do I love you. - Do you, May? - No. I've decided not to fall in love right now. As if it's up to you to decide. - You're human, aren't you? - I hope not. - Now, May, look. - I'm looking and what do I see? A nice guy with brown eyes who writes great songs and hasn't got a nickel. - Maybe not now but... - Yeah, I know. Things will get better. That's what my mother and dad said. She was the prettiest girl on the block and he was the nicest guy. It was love at first sight and when they took another look, they were hitched, on $20 a week. Yes, and only a few years later, he was making $25. Before you know it, he bought Mom the nicest ironing board and washtub you ever saw. And then Mom started raking in as much as 5 whole bucks a week. Wasn't that swell? Now you don't think I'd let you take in laundry? Well, my folks didn't start out with that idea, either. They were married. That was their first mistake. I was their second. They had to eat. That was their third. Maybe your dad didn't have my prospects. I'm a rising young man. Yes, you are and you'll rise a lot faster without me. - You'd help me. - Yeah. I'm all you need. My dad had ambitions, too, but he kept holding onto a job he hated so there'd be some security in the family. He finally forgot his ambitions. - My dad was a nice guy. - Sure, he was. - So are you. - Thanks. That's why I don't want to see you come to what my dad came to. I love you too much. You said you loved me! - Gosh, I never said that before. - Go on, say it again. - Alec, you're on. - Coming. I'll be right back after my number. Don't go away now. Do I love you, do I? Doesn't one and one make two? Do I love you, do I? Does July need a sky of blue? Do I love you, do I? Oh, my dear, it's so easy to see Don't you know I do? Don't I show you I do? Just as you love me Say it again. - Say what? - That you love me. All right. I love you. What's the matter, honey? You don't sound like you mean it. I don't, so get going. Hey, what goes on here? What's the matter with you? Nothing's the matter with me. Are you mixed up. In one breath you can tell me you love me, - in the next breath you... - I can say get going. All right, I will. What are you gonna do? Live on a desert island? No, but I can't afford to marry for love. Maybe I can find a guy with money in the bank. Once I'm married, who knows, maybe I might even get to liking him a little. Well, I wish you luck. But get this straight, I don't agree with any of your phony philosophy. The only part that makes any sense is where you said you loved me. Well, I love you, too. Plenty. Enough to hope you get those screwy ideas out of your head and get yourself straightened out. Louis, you never give me a tumble. Can nothing ever come of our beautiful friendship? Not if I can help it. But we could be so happy together. Can't you see I love you and want you for the father of my children? I didn't know you had any. Well, if that's the way you're gonna act, then give me my ring back. Okay, you can take me home. But remember, we say good night at the door. - Now, does that make you happy? - Does that make me happy? Well, don't overdo it. Is that the fly in the soup? - Don't worry, I'll get rid of him. - No, Rami, no rough stuff. Sahib, I have a personal message for you from the spirit world. But I can't give it to you here. We must step outside into the alley where it is dark. The vibrations are much better out there. Take your hand off me. Now go away. Don't bother me. But this is about May Daly. Well, there's nothing you or that phony crystal ball could tell me about May Daly. Now get out. You clumsy fool! Why don't you look what you're doing? I'm sorry. It was an accident. Terribly sorry. You're sorry? You ought to be sorry. You dress in good taste. You clumsy idiot. You'll pay for this. I'll have your job. What do you want his job for? He only gets 20 bucks a week. Look at me. Look at me. - I am looking at you and I can't stand it. - Shut up. - Oh, May, your new boyfriend's waiting. - Thanks, Ginny. You know, that guy tips 20 bucks every time he buys a cigar? Why don't you take some along? It can't hurt. Baldor tells me that Miss Daly's date has been canceled. The chef is about to serve Willie on the dollar dinner. Why, Willie, whatever happened to you? How did you get like that? I was sitting here waiting for you and this stupid waiter spilled a whole chef's salad all over me. Willie, it's too bad, but... Well, you just can't stand there. You better go home. Well, we've got a party arranged. What am I going to do? We're supposed to go to the Rainbow Room. - Like that? - Well... You better get that suit off before it turns sour. Well, that's a good idea. Come up to my apartment. It's nice and cozy. Oh, I mean, while I change my clothes. No, thanks, Willie, I think I'll just run along. - Well, I'll drive you. - No, it's all right, I'd rather walk. The air will do me good. Good night. Well, I... - Good night, Louis. - Good night, Miss Daly. - Good night, Ginny. - Good night. - Good night, Miss Daly. - Good night, Charlie. - May, I mean, Miss Daly. - Oh, hello, Louis. Are you going in your direction? I mean, are you going in my direction? Look, I don't mean to be chasing you, but I heard you say you wanted to be alone, so I figured you wouldn't mind if I walked with you. This coat. I'm two payments behind on it. It sort of resists me. Here. Let me help you. - There. - Gee, thanks. Come on. Oh, excuse me. You'll have to pardon me if I seem ignorant, but... Well, I never expected to be walking up 52nd Street with May Daly. - Who's she? - Just a superb artiste, that's all. - Just a nightclub singer. - No, you're awful pretty, though. I don't mean to be rude, but you remind me of one of those beautiful girls in Esquire. The ones with clothes on, of course. I hope you don't mind riding home on a subway. Compared to the boarding house I live in, this is privacy. Yeah, I know what you mean. The boarding house where I live is so crowded, you have to take a bath piggyback. Yeah, but you won't always be riding on these things. Someday you'll be riding back and forth to work in a big limousine. Tell me more. Say, you know, Miss May, you've got to develop confidence. Who do you think pulls in millionaires in that club every night? May Daly. Some millionaires will go anywhere. Nah, don't you kid yourself. They're all crazy about you. You could marry the whole bunch of them. Well, I'll settle for one, better than that, half of one. Half a millionaire's no good, taxes will eat him up. May Daly's got to have a whole millionaire or nothing. Well, suppose she can't find one that she likes? Likes? - Oh, I'm sorry, madam, sit here. - Oh, you shouldn't have gotten up. What do you have to like them for? That's for ordinary girls. You can have anyone you want. - Suppose I want to marry a poor guy? - What for? Well, you marry a rich guy for money. What would you marry a poor guy for? - What? - For love. Do you love her? Well... Well, who wouldn't? But, gee, I... - You love him? - Louis is a sweet boy, but I don't... Got anyone else in mind? Hey, you're not thinking of Alec, are you? Are you? That's who it is. It's Alec. - Has he got money? - No. He's so poor he don't have a pair of shoestrings that match. My dear, when I was your age I could've married money. But instead I picked a very poor man whom I loved dearly. John and I have been married for 50 years, and day by day our love has bloomed into the most wonderful hatred. Next time I get hitched, it's for dough. Let's go back two thousand years or more perchance Before Delilah Before Godiva Before Gypsy Rose Lee was alive Way, way back Before they ever heard of Oomph Girls At that time there lived a dame who did her dance Without a bubble that blew to smidgens Without a fan or without a flock of pigeons Way, way back Before the Greeks had a word for Oomph Girls With seven veils she wowed the males And made the hall of fame And this modern swing and stuff and thing All dates back to this dame Salome was the grandma of them all She had the stuff that makes your motor stall This babe took Babylon by storm And handed down that magic formula That takes the wallflowers off the wall Yes, they swing and sway Shimmy shammy, but they show me No matter how you slice it Boy, it's still Salome On Samson and Delilah here's a tip She got her man, but with no barber's clip She merely went into her dance The day she found him with his panzer unit And her blitzkrieg was a pip Yes, it's box office Minsky gives them a diplomie But no matter how you slice it Boy, it's still Salome You can slice it thick You can slice it thin Or you needn't slice it at all You can cut it long You can cut it short You can hang it up on the wall But when they claim it's something new It really doesn't throw me For no matter how you slice it It's still comes out Salome - I'm looking for a Mr. Louis Blore. - That's me. Will you sign right here? What's this? - Hey, what's this? - That's a check for your hat. - Give me hat. - Yes, sir. - Well, give me your check. - Give me hat. - Now, let's not lose your head. - Let's not lose your teeth. - Give me hat. - Well, give me a check. - My hat, please? - Yes, sir. - Get in line. Give me hat. - My hat, please. - Yes, sir. - Give me hat. Quiet. I'm sorry, sir. Ambrose. - My hat, please. - Check, please. Oh. Here's your telegram. - What's that? - I don't know. Where's its head? - Give me my toupee. - Check, please. Oh! I shall never come here again. Here's your telegram. You know, you just cost me one of my best customers. - He's a millionaire. - He didn't even tip you. Just the same, if I had his dough, I wouldn't be in here checking derbies. I'd be in there using $20 bills for napkins. Hey, why is it all the rich people have all the money? Well, maybe some day my luck will change. - Hey, ain't you gonna read that? - It's probably from the finance company. Unless, of course, I've won the sweepstakes. "This is to notify you that you've won first prize of $150,000 "in the Irish Grand National Sweepstakes. " You know, I've been parking fedoras here for five years. I never made a mistake until you came along. Now, I've won the sweepstakes. Sweepstakes! - Oh, thank you. - Well, that's all right. Well, Mr. Blore, won't you say a few words to your millions of new friends? Well, thank you. Hello, Mom. It was a tough sweepstake, but my horse won. You know, all my life I've been kind to dumb animals, but this is the first time a dumb animal has ever been kind to me. And we're glad you won, Mr. Blore. But I'm sure our listeners would like to know one thing. Were you very excited when you received the news? Well, I started off to be, but I put a stop to it quick by collapsing. Well, I don't blame you, Mr. Blore. You must feel like a king. - King Louis, that's me. - King Louis? Oh, very good. Well, Your Majesty, who's the lucky girl to be your queen? - Haven't you read the newspapers? - No. Well, I'm figuring on marrying Du Barry. - Who? - Du Barry, that's if she'll have me. Well, I'm off to break the news. Oh, by the way, dear friends, if you'd like to have one of my pictures autographed, absolutely free, just send in a $20 bill to cover the cost of mailing and wrapping. Well, Your Majesty, because you've been so kind as to participate in our broadcast here, I'm going to present to you, with the compliments of our sponsor, a special tube of our De Kay toothpaste. Oh, thanks. Oh, by the way, do you have an empty tube? - No, I don't. - Oh, I'm sorry. Well, how do you like that? - Did you ever say you'd marry him? - No, of course not. That's what's so funny. Nothing that funny ever happens to me. May. - Did you hear Louis on the radio? - Yes, I did. - Did you see the newspapers? - I did. Very, very funny. Go ahead and laugh. You've given me plenty of laughs. Yeah, I guess I have. But what about this poor kid when he finds out? Finds out what? That you don't have the slightest intention of going through with this? Why shouldn't I go through with it? It's what I've always wanted, isn't it? I said that love doesn't count and it still doesn't. And I said that money does and there it is. You don't mean you'd wreck your life and Louis', too, just because you're sore at me? Oh, don't flatter yourself. You don't even enter into my plans. One moment. One moment, boys. Tommy, you must do me a favor. You know Louis is taking over this place for tonight and I want you and the boys to give him a real entertainment. - Please, you'll do it for me, Tommy, huh? - Okay, Nick. Fellows, you know, Louis won a lot of money in the sweepstakes. And he's taking the place over tonight to celebrate. Hey, slim. Hey. Keep an eye on your Kelly? Watch your lid? Park your derby? No, no, that's not the way. This is a high-class place. When a gentleman walks in, you smile and say, "Check your hat, sir?" - That's it. That always slips me mind. - It'll come to you gradually. Say, how's business? I ain't had a customer yet, but I sure love the work. Is that my old uniform? It's too small for you, ain't it? No, I'm just in it too far. Well, maybe we should have given this job to a girl. But you can't get any. They're all working in shipyards. Louis. - Louis, you look wonderful. - Do I really? Everything is just as you ordered it, Louis. I mean, Mr. Blore. Oh, you can call me Louis. Money ain't changed me. I'm still lovable. Here, hold this, will you? Here's a couple of thousand bucks to cover the brawl. How'd that $5 bill get in there? - Now, if you run short, let me know. - Yes, sir, Louis. The place is yours. It's your night to cut a rug. Gosh, Louis, who'd have ever thought you was gonna marry May Daly? Oh, I could tell. That's on account of me feminine institution. - Is she here? - Who? - May Daly, my fiance. - Fiance. I want to hear that from her own lips before I believe it. You will. You will, don't worry. Hey, how do you like my glad rags, huh? Hey, did you get two pair of pants with that suit? Louis, I hardly recognized you. You look like something out of Esquire. When I buy an Esquire The bible of the well-dressed man My pulse jumps ten points higher But not because of each Dapper Dan I don't go in for fashions I forget the authors names The only thing I go for Are those beautiful dames I love an Esquire girl If you don't love an Esquire girl You won't like steak, apple strudel Angel cake, soup with noodles You would eat an oyster but you'd throw away the pearl If you don't love an Esquire girl I love a Varga girl If you don't love a Varga girl You'd laugh out loud at Whistler's Mother Frankenstein is sure to be your brother You would buy a Persian lamb and cut off every curl If you don't love a Varga girl Those lovely pictures by Hurrell I hang on every wall They're so swell I have to yell Hurrell for them all I crave a lovely girl If you don't crave a lovely girl You've got a head, but what's below it? You're half dead, but you don't know it And if Lana Turner doesn't set your brain awhirl Then you don't love a lovely girl If you still don't love a lovely girl There's something you should see The calendar that we present For 1943 January, you resolve to start the year out fine February, you make every heart a valentine March, you're just a bit unruly April, you're so April fooly May, you're so romantic with your magic touch of spring June, you have each couple hoping wedding bells will ring July brings out that good old Yankee Doodle in me And August, what a wonderful vacation you'd be Sweet September, you arrive and disappear too soon But you bring October and a lovely harvest moon November makes us thankful for the blessings we hold dear December makes us realize it's been a lovely year I crave a lovely girl If you don't crave a lovely girl You've got a head, but what's below it? You're half dead, but you don't know it And if Lana Turner doesn't set your brain awhirl Then you don't love a lovely girl - Are you Mr. Louis Blore? - No, that's him there. Hey, Louis. Just leave it there. Louis. Gee, it's beautiful, isn't it? - L and M. Get what it stands for? - Sure, ladies and men. No, Louis and May. - Take it to her dressing room. - Yes, sir. - Be sure and put it in water. - Water? - Here, put it over here. - Oh, isn't that lovely? - There's a cake for a king. - Must have cost a fortune. - Good evening, Louis. - How are you? Well, good evening. - How are you, Miss Daly? - Miss Daly. - Come on, kiss the bride. - Yeah, kiss the bride. Kiss him, Miss Daly. We'll hold him. I wish to speak to you, Louis. Sure. Alone. Sure, just the two of us. Sit down, please. - I've seen the papers. - Yeah. Have you? I see you wish to buy me. Oh, gosh, no, Miss Daly. I want to marry you. Hey, talk to each other or something, will you? Well, I'm going to be very honest with you, Louis. You're a fine boy, but I'm just not in love with you. Well, if I was in your place, I wouldn't be, either. But you're in a position to give me a lot of things that I want, so all right. But it'll have to be purely a business arrangement. - You know what I mean? - Sure. Sure, you... Hey, dance, will you? Mill around. Talk or... So, if you're satisfied with... If you want someone who... I mean, I'm marrying you just for your money. Sure, you'd be marrying me for my money, but maybe you could learn to love me just a little and, well, I might win another sweepstake and... Well, if the terms are agreeable to you, Louis, I'd be most happy to accept. Hey, everybody, guess what? May's getting married. To me, of all people. Well, what are we waiting for? Drinks for everybody. And none of that 1942 champagne. Give them the old stuff, the 1940. You bet, Louis. Oh, I almost forgot. This is for you, Miss Daly. I mean, honey. - That's a beauty. - What a ring. Hold it out. - I guess this is part of our bargain. - Well, come on, kiss her. Oh, she's just excited. She's never married me before. Check your hat? Oh, sorry. May, I gotta say something. I just gotta. - What? - Check your hat? I love you. Of course you don't have to say it because I know you don't love me, - but I wanted you to know... - Louis. You're very nice, and I know you mean everything you say to me but... Well, I was just thinking that maybe I... Well, maybe I... Alec. Come on in and join the party. Hey, what do you think? May's gonna marry me. Louis, why don't you get wise to yourself. - She doesn't love you. - I know that. She's gonna marry me for my money. Will you please keep out of this and attend to your own affairs? This is my affair. Tell him the real reason you're marrying him. Go ahead. Hey, don't talk to her like that or I'll smack you. Yeah? And there's plenty more where that came from. Hey, I want to talk to you. - How's about that lug. - Hey, he's insulting the almost Mrs. Blore. We'll fix him. I'll slip him a Rooney. - A Rooney? What's that? - That's a high-powered mickey. Look, I slip this powder into his drink, and what happens to him should happen to him. Oh, no, wait a minute. Those things aren't dangerous, are they? No, they ain't displeasant. He goes into a comma for about a fortnight. Maybe longer. Maybe five days. I beg your pardon. Which of you gentlemen won the $150,000 sweepstake? - That was my pal here. - Well, I'm from the Treasury Department. - Treasury Department? - Yes, I'm a collector. Oh, you want my autograph. Well, look, I'm a little busy now. Could you stop around later? Yeah, see us the second Tuesday of next week. Alec is the jack, May is the queen and Louis is the king. - I was right. May marries Alec. - You're not even warm, Rami. - There he is over there. - Yeah. Now, look, here's what you do. You go over to the guy and say, "Look, I ain't sore. Have a drink. " And while the bartender ain't looking, I'll... Well, how will I know which drink is his? Well, I'll print. No, I don't think we ought to. But you gotta. You gotta for her sake. - Go on. Go on. - Okay. Hiya. Hello, sucker. Oh, look, Alec, I'm not mad at you. What do you say? Let's have a drink together. Sort of a loving cup. Who's loving who? I'm loving you, you're loving me, so let's let bygones be bygones. - Okay, I'll have a drink. - You will? - Hey, Cheesy. - Yes, sir. - Two drinks and make it snappy. - Yes, sir. I guess I'm crazy, but I'm glad May turned me down. I could never give her all the things she deserves. Yeah, sure. You know, it's too bad May couldn't marry for love and money. You mean sort of a double wedding? - Here you are, Cheesy. - Oh. Hey, Cheesy, is them the drinks that Louis ordered? - Yeah. - I forgot to tell you. - They want you on the phone. - Phone? Long distance. - Long distance? - Yeah. - Well, I... - Oh, I'll serve it for you. - Will you? - Sure. - Thanks. - Okay. Why don't you go where you're walking? Look where you're... Well, here they come, pal. Cheesy was busy. He asked me to serve. - Some drink, eh? - Yeah, I'll bet it is. Nothing too good for me old pal, Alec. I want to thank you for tipping me off about May. - Oh, you finally got it. - Yeah, I finally got it. - No, he got it. - What? The... Nothing. I was thinking about something else. Well, bottoms up. Any minute now. Here's to I, May and you, the eternal rectangle. If this was back in the glorious days of France, I would be King Louis, May would be Du Barry, and you would be one of the common folks, a pheasant. I guess you won't take my advice. You'll marry May, no matter what. - Well, thanks for the drink, anyway. - It was a pleasure. - Good luck to you and May. - Thanks. - I guess it won't be long now. - Nope, it sure won't. - How long does it take it to work? - Well, that's debatable. Well, come on. I want to be there when it happens. You know, we're really smart. We used our heads. - What's the matter with you? - Nothing. Alec is the jack, May is the queen, Louis is the king. Alec is the jack, May is the queen, Louis is the king. Alec is the jack, May is the queen, Louis is the king. I don't feel well, fellows. Hey, where is everybody? What's the idea of them funny looking clothes? - The party turn into a masquerade? - Your Majesty had a nightmare? What's everybody staring at me for? - What's this? - Your breakfast, sire. Well, who eats who? Cheesy! I've been looking for you. What'd you put in that drink? You tried to poison me, didn't you? I, poison Your Majesty? I, the Count de Roquefort, Your Majesty's dietician? Diet? Oh, I get it. Now, you're trying to starve me to death. Look, Cheesy, what's the rib, huh? Where am I? Surely Your Majesty knows this is Versailles. Versailles? Could it be that Your Majesty is fatigued after yesterday's trip to Paris? What? Paris? - What was I doing in Paris? - Your Majesty. Really? May I retire, my lord? I have some new taxes to levy on your subjects. Now, wait a minute, bub. I don't mind my pals ribbing me but... Hey, Cheesy, who is this character? Why, the Duc de Choiseul, the Minister of Finance. Minister of Finance? And he is the Duc de Rigor, your Prime Minister. Oh, last time I saw you, you were a chef salad. If Your Majesty pleases, I am the Prime Minister of the Empire of France. Oh, sure, sure, you're the Prime Minister and I'm King Louis XV. Yes, Your Majesty. That settles it. Where's my pants? I'm getting out of here. - Hey Cheesy, call me a taxi. - What's a taxi? Oh, I get it. It's a plot. You're trying to drive me nuts. You're all after the money I won in the sweepstakes, but you won't get it. The FBI is gonna hear about this. I'll call my own taxi. "His Majesty, Louis XV, 1743." What a setback. Sire, if you're displeased with the portrait, I will have the artist beheaded. Listen, bub, if there's any beheading, I'll give the okay. - Say, who's king around here, anyway? - You are, Your Majesty. You sure I ain't the queen? Good morning, good morning Good morning to Your Grace We are here to brighten up your not-so-very-bright face Here's the brush to scrub your back And here's the soap for lather Here's geranium bath salts Or lavender if you'd rather Brush to scrub, soap to rub, salt to dub Schnitzelbank Now, pray thee tell me, pretty maids your duty to the throne After Your Grace has washed his face we squirt you with cologne Oh, tra-la-la, la-la, la-la You've come to wash my face Tra-la-la, la-la, la-la We've come to wash your face We've come to wash your face That's very good, girls. I liked that. You can all expect an extra mink coat in each of your pay envelopes on Saturday. Well. Katie went to Haiti Katie heard a band Swing wide, please She cried, "Hot potato, hey" Jackson, this is grand Katie liked the band Thought she'd found the promised land After a week in Haiti The island began to thrive Like a beehive Katie showed each local lady Quickly just how to make with the jive They came from miles around To watch old Katie go to town And after a month in Haiti She decided it was time to move Hit the road But the people asked her not to leave 'em 'Cause Haiti was in the groove In the groove So Katie stayed in Haiti Her life there, it was great 'Cause Katie went for Haiti And practically all Haiti went for Katie From Haiti Katie, Katie, Kay Hay-de, hay-de-hay Hi-de, hi-de-hi Ho-de, ho-de-ho And practically all Haiti loved Katie Very good. Very good. Very good. Very good. Tommy. Tommy Dorsey. The Duc d'Orsay, sire, your court musician. Really? But I swore that was Tommy. Hiya, Pop. Hiya, Pop. - Hey, where have I seen him before? - That's the Dauphin, sire, your son. - My son! - I'm sorry, sire. You're sorry? The stork that brought him must have been part wolf. - Hiya, Pop. - Hey, men don't kiss men. They do in France, Pop. What do I do now? Let him wear my fraternity pin? Hey, where'd you get all those beautiful girls? You give them to me for Christmas, and all the time I wanted a pony. - Hey, how old are you, son? - Thirty-two. Thirty... I'm only 28. Hey, this don't make sense. Come here, I want to talk to you. Hey... Will you come here? I want to have a fatherly talk with you. Oh, now, I know all about the birds and the bees... No, no, not that. What's the setup around here? Am I really the king? Anybody that says you ain't, dies. Will you put that thing away before you put somebody's eye out? - Now sit down. - No, I gotta go. My wife's waiting. - Your wife? Who's she? - Marie Antoinette. Well, if you're married, why are you chasing around those girls? Because I want to be like you, Pop. Now, is that the way to talk to your father? Sit down. - Tell me, have I got a girl? - Have you got a... Are you kidding, Pop? First there was Madam Pompadour, then the Duchess de Chateauroux, and then Countess Jailbait. How about the queen? - Gee, I've had quite a past, haven't I? - I like the girl you got now best. Yeah? Who is she? Anybody I know? - Everybody knows. Madam Du Barry. - Du... Du Barry's my girl. - How am I doing with her? - How are you... - Oh, Papa. - No kidding. We are nearing Madam Du Barry's house, sire. - Gee, I hope she's in. - He hopes she's in. - Hey, do I look all right? - Does he look all right. Hey, would you say she was crazy about me? Would he say she was crazy about you. Look, sonny, I want an answer, not an echo. He wants an echo. Thank you. - A thousand pardons, Your Majesty. - Oh, it's not your fault. Cars 200 years from now don't have running boards, either. - Here, Pop, you might need this. - Thanks. - What a defense plant that would make. - Beautiful, isn't it? It's the nicest one you've bought Madam Du Barry. Yeah? Let's see, how many have I bought her now? Two palaces, four castles, 10 chateaus and a cottage. Oh, no trailer, huh? Good luck to you, sire, and I'll call for you at the usual hour. Oh, the usual hour. Of course, you'll let me know when you get here. Greetings, chum. Open her up. Sire. - Du Barry in there? - Yes, sire. - You think I ought to knock? - Not you, sire. Well, take the afternoon off. I'll see you around sometime. - Thank you, sire. - Fools! You blundering fools! Soldiers you call yourselves. You're more like schoolboys. And the next time I give a command, I want it carried out. - Yoo-hoo. - Shut up, you idiot. This is your last chance. You find the man I want and bring him here, to me. Well, personally, I think you have enough men here now. What is this, the boudoir or the barracks? Search every house in France. The Black Arrow must be found or I'll have your head. But, Madame, this man, he's very clever. I don't want excuses. I said I want that man for the last time. Well, if I were sure it was the last time... No, you've already got a man. It's me, and I'm against hoarding. Hey, take a furlough. Left face. At the double, forward march. The royal flowers from the royal garden into your royal arms. And right in your royal kisser. How dare you insult me in front of the help? Well, how would you feel if your girl used your army to catch men for her? - It ain't ladylike. - So that's what you think of me. I'm sorry. I'm just jealous. I haven't been myself lately. The whole world knows I'm madly in love with you. - So they tell me. - Louis, listen. There's something been going on lately that I think you should know about. Last night, a man sneaked into my bedroom while I was asleep and pinned this note to my pillow. "Madam, you have ignored our demands. "Before we take definite action, we warn you the longer you delay, "the greater the price you will pay. " The finance company. I used to get a lot of these things. "Be wise, Madame. Save the honor of France. "End your scandalous alliance with the King. " - That don't sound like a finance company. - I'll tell you who it's from. It's from that rabble-rousing, jealous, night-riding sneak, the Black Arrow. Can't place him. This rebellious dog has been threatening me for months. Ever since you and I became friends. Oh, that's a good one. Could His Majesty have a little kiss? - What about the Black Arrow? - Let him get his own girl. So you refuse to deal with this menace. Look, he left right after pinning the note, didn't he? He's no menace. He's nuts. - And so am I, about you. - Oh, Louis, don't do that again. Oh, now, wait a minute. I only want a kiss. Why don't you stop this stuff? We've got to get together. According to history, I'm supposed to be the greatest lover in all France. - Oh, Louis, what's gotten into you? - Love. There you are. Louis, you must control yourself! Here's an apple, a nice red one. Louis! Don't you know the king can do no wrong? That's my plan. Sit down, will you? This ain't a love affair, it's a track meet. Louis, this sort of thing must stop. Every time you come here, you chase me all around the room. I do? I'm sorry if I rushed you, but I may be dreaming and I wanted to catch you before I woke up. Well, this must stop. It's wearing me out. Ain't doing the carpets any good, either. Oh, honey, you're just unstrung. But this ain't. Oh, Louis, are you gonna play that thing again? Would you accept this little token? Oh, darling. You really shouldn't have done it. - Oh, Louis, I just can't accept this. - Oh, please, do. - Oh, no, really, I just can't accept this. - All right then, give it back. - This must be worth a fortune, isn't it? - Sure, but I can afford it. All I do is tax the people. - But there's no tax on kissing. - Oh, Louis, I'm afraid. Suppose the Black Arrow makes good his threat. That guy is a rut in the road to romance. Someday his head will decorate the steeple of one of my cheapest palaces. I defy him. - Can't you see I'm hungry for a kiss? - You're just hungry. Come on, Louis, let's have a crpe suzette. No, thank you. No, thank you, no. I don't mean to be rude But I'm not in the mood for food It's lovely, it's tempting Fit for a king, I know Your cooking's a work of art But when you're with me Why be so la carte? Madam, I love your crpe suzette I think your crpe suzette is wonderful But for the moment, let's forget All about your crpe suzette Madam, I love your cheese souffl I think your cheese souffl is marvelous But when you look at me that way How can I eat cheese souffl? I regret to say I'm unable to partake of your table You'd be more delish Account of you're my favorite dish Madam, if I don't touch a bite It's not because I've lost my appetite I want what you've got plenty of Madam, I came here for love My head! I've lost my head! Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Come here, you fools. - Why are you never here when I need you? - I'm sorry, Madame. We have been searching for the Black Arrow. We thought we saw him climbing your balcony. Well, he's hiding somewhere. Surround the palace. Search the grounds. But find him. Do you hear me? Find him. Yes, Madame. Follow me. - Thank you, Madame. - You. How embarrassing, to be found hiding behind a woman's skirts. This time you've gone too far. You're trapped. They told me you were dangerous. Perhaps the guillotine will amuse you, too. The guillotine. Little did I think that I, too, would lose my head over Du Barry. I trust my appearance pleases you. I expected nothing. - I know the King's taste. - Of which you do not approve. - His Majesty can do as he wishes. - How generous. I shall tell him. So long as he doesn't rob his hungry people to pay for your pretty feathers. That is the blood of France. We shall see if yours is as red tomorrow. You can't call them, can you? I've sworn to drive you out, yet you're afraid to call them. I am not afraid. You know that if they kill me, it ends the only excitement in your dull, wretched existence. Dull? Wretched? You fool. I rule France. I have everything. It is I, Madame, le Capitaine. Let them in. I can't. If you regret letting me escape, tell them I'll be at the Black Tavern tonight, a secret meeting. The password is, "Down With Du Barry. " There he goes. What happened? The Black Arrow's escaped from Madames boudoir. - Is my palace that way? - Yes, sire. Poison ivy. Help! - Password? - We are friends of the Black Arrow. Password? Down with Du Barry. Oh, you are friends. Enter. - All right, what'll it be? - Champagne. - Champagne? - The champagne of the poor, beer. - And stale bread. - Yeah. So these are my enemies, the jealous dogs. Not so loud. Quiet. Quiet, fellows. Quiet. Quiet. Quiet. Well, folks, it's great to be back again. Glad to see so many loyal faces in the audience. And now, without any further introduction, I give you a man who comes direct from the palace, the star of our revolution, your favorite and mine, the Black Arrow. Friends of freedom, foes of iniquity, sons of liberty, arise. Not yet. Why can you no longer find bread for your babies? Why is your barn empty of grain? Why is your bottle empty of wine? - Is it because of you? - No. - Is it because of him? - No. - Is it because of the King? - No. Yes. Yes, the King. But is it your king? No, it's Madam Du Barry's king. Du Barry, that jade, that Jezebel, that spoiler of kings. Isn't he wonderful? Does she love the King? No, she loves rubies so your children go hungry. She loves silks and furs, and your wives go naked. Look at his eyes. And who is this Du Barry? She isn't a mother. She isn't a wife. She isn't even a woman. Hurray! Hurray! She is only the friend, the friend of the King who taxes you, and taxes you, and robs you. He puts a heavy tax on every penny that we make It's getting drastic! It's too fantastic He robs our very ovens of all the bread we bake It gets absurder Hey, Jack, it's murder And don't forget Du Barry the royal beauty spot What has that Du Barry got that this poor thing has not? She sits and drinks the best champagne with others of her ilk While this poor starving creature can't get a glass of milk Shall we stand for it? No, we won't stand for it Then shall we rise to it? Yes, we'll rise to it Then gather sticks and gather stones We're out to break his royal bones Allons, enfants! Allons! Rise, rise, daughter and son Servants of France There is work to be done Fight, fight, throw off the glove Fight for the country that we love Up with the downtrodden Down with the up trodden Smash our way to victory In with the outbred Out with the inbred Might is right So fight, fight, fight To make a great democracy Rise, rise, strike at the foe Call out to arms from Calais to Bordeaux Fight, fight Fight for the chance of freedom and glory for France - He's mad about me. - They're all mad, about you. Come, we must warn the King. We want the King. We must save France. We want the King. We must save France. We want the King. We must save France. - We want the King. - Here I am, boys. We want the King. - We must save France. - Here I am, boys. - We want the King. - France is saved. You know, you fellows saved my life? One for all and all for one. - Are you with us? - Am I with you? I'm one of you. - Where you heading for, the palace? - We are. Good. When we get there, I'll open a bottle of wine. - We'll open all the wine. - Yeah, what do I care? - Hey, how about staying for dinner? - We're all staying for dinner. Sure. Well, I eat when you eat. One for all and so forth. Say, I don't see the lights of the palace yet. Palace? When we're through, not one light will be left burning. Oh, air-raid wardens, huh? I'm a fire watcher, myself. Hey, are you sure this is the right way? We'll get there. Just follow the Arrow. - What Arrow? - Our leader, the Black Arrow. Oh, is he with us, too? We want the King. We must save France. You said you were with us. I'm with you, ain't I? I was just taking a shortcut. Traitor. He wants to get there first so he can kill the King. Oh, don't be silly. When you kill the king, I don't even want to be there. We want the King. Take cover! So your followers must find a new leader. Hang him to that tree. Stop it. Stop it. - Who dares interfere? - Me. My Majesty. Your Majesty, how did you get here? I've been out feeling the pulse of the public. Alec, I should have known it was you. So you're the boudoir kibitzer that's been trying to wreck my romance. Well, that's why we captured him, Your Majesty. - Now, may I hang him? - Sure. No. What kind of a king do you think I am, anyway? We'll give him a fair trial, and then we'll hang him. And you, too. - Your Majesty knows this scoundrel? - Sure, I know him a long time from now. I was going to give you a trial, but my ministers said it'd be just a waste of money. - You're a fine one to talk about waste. - Ain't I? - Hey, what do I do now? - Sentence them, Your Majesty. "Whereas two lawless subjects of His Royal Majesty... " Hey, we may as well skip the dull stuff, huh? Yeah, just read the good part. For parading without license, each of you get 30 days. And for planning to knock me off, you get the guillotine. Your Majesty. I've decided to give you a break. I'll cancel the 30 days. To the Bastille. Prepare the guillotine. Long live France. Long live Taliostra. - Long live Louis. - Down with Louis. You can't talk to my pop like that. Get it out! Get it out! Get it out! Get it out, will you? Get it out! Pull it out! Pull it out, will you? Take it easy, sire, the doctor will be here any minute. He has a wonderful reputation. Never mind his reputation, has he got a pair of pliers? Oh, my little back. My little back. - The doctor will be here any minute, sire. - Is he any good? He's the best backfield man in all of France, sire. - He'll have you on your feet in no time. - Oh, that's... I can get on my feet now. When can I get on my back? Here comes Dr. Pull it now. Good morning, good morning, good morning. I'm sorry to be late, but I saved a man's life this morning. He was sick and sent for me, but I didn't go. Now, what's troubling my little man this morning? I got a sharp pain in my back. Guess what it is? We'll find out. Stick out your tongue. Further. Further. Further. It's hooked on back there. What do you want me to do? Lay it on the floor? No, the floor is dirty. How do you sleep at night? Sometimes like this, and then sometimes... What do you care how I sleep? Get that thing out, will you? It's been picking up radio programs all day. That's it. Liver. It's your liver, all right. If it is, it's protruding. Just as I thought, too many white corpuscles. Dye them, brother, dye them. - Now, when did you feel this coming on? - I didn't. It kind of snuck up on me. - Well, don t worry. We'll pull through. - Yeah, I might, but you won't. Here, take one of these morning and night. What do you think I am, a pinball machine? What about that jumbo splinter? Oh, that. That's nothing. - A little anemic, too. - What'll I do now? Just put a beefsteak on it. Beefsteak? Be brave, my friend. You are dying for your country. Yeah, but I was born in the city. Louis, stop it. Stop it, you must stop it. I'm not doing anything. Hey, what are you doing here? Louis, I implore you. Please save his life. Who, the Black Arrow? Why? Because I love him. I don't get it. Here I've been squandering jewels and palaces on you. All the time he's been plotting against the both of us, and you fall for him. I can't help it. I love him. What's he got that I wish I had, and how can I get it? Get your daily chopping guide here. Get a program. You can't tell which head is which without a program. Get your daily chopping guide. Get a program. - Oh, hurry, Louis, there's no time to lose. - I can't do it. If I pardon him, I'm left holding the bag, while he's holding you. Oh, if you spare his life, I swear I'll never see him again. - Oh, gonna meet him in the dark, huh? - Oh, please, Louis, let him live. I'll do anything you want. - All right, I'll do it. - Oh, thank you, Louis. But 200 years from now, history books will say, "King Louis was screwy. " - Quick. The knife will drop in a minute. - I'll save him if it takes a week. One moment, sire. Yes? Eave-drooping, huh? I would rather the little affair went on just as scheduled. But I've got to save the Black Arrow. Du Barry may kill herself. Let her. If I can't have her, no one else will. Now, wait a minute, bub. You're talking to My Majesty, King of France. And you're talking to the best swordsman in Europe. En garde. En garde. Well, what do you... Darling, do not lose courage. Wait, the King is coming to free him. Please. Please, hear me. The King says he shall live. You know, a thing like this is liable to stunt your growth. Help! Help! Stop it! Stop it! Help! Stop it! Stop it! Help! Help! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! That's okay. He's lapsing back to abnormal now. Grab him. Grab him. He's trying to kill me. Why, what's the matter with you, Louis? Don't you know me? I'm Willie. You are? What happened? That mickey you got must have been tainted. Hey, where have I been? Right here in my arms. No wonder I had a nightmare. - Here, have a drink. - No, thank you. Oh, no. The last drink you gave me set me back 200 years. Oh, what a dream I had. I dreamed I was the greatest lover in all France. But, folks, I want you to meet the real champ. - Louis, you're a prince. - I used to be a king. - You still are, Louis. - Nah. I found out you can't buy love. I know. But I can buy you kids a wedding present. $10,000. Oh, no, Louis. Thanks, but you hold onto it. No, I got plenty left. I only bought a ring, a car and some war bonds. No, we want to start out broke, Louis. Then anything that happens to us will be an improvement. But I still have $80,000. - How much? - $80,000. I'm from the Income Tax Department. This will just about cover the tax you owe on your winnings. Suppose I take it now. It'll save you a stamp. - Well, wait a... - Of course, there's still the state tax. - You'll have to sell your car to cover that. - Oh. There, sir, is your receipt. - Well, at least I got a nickel left. - Oh, hoarding, eh? Louis, you can use this now. No, no, that's a friendship ring, and nothing's ever gonna break up our friendship. All right. We'll always be pals, huh? If you ever need anything, just SOS? Gee, thanks, May. If you're ever in a jam, here I am If you ever need a pal, I'm your gal If you ever feel so happy that you land in jail, I'm your bail It's friendship, friendship Just a perfect blendship When other friendships have been forgot Ours will still be hot If you're ever in a mess, SOS If you ever make a flop, call for Pop If you ever take a boat and get lost at sea, write to me It's friendship, friendship Just a perfect blendship When other friendships have been forget Ours will still be it If you're ever down a well, ring my bell If you're ever up a tree, phone to me If you ever lose your teeth when you're out to dine, borry mine Thank you It's friendship, friendship Just a perfect blendship When other friendships have ceased to gel Ours will still be swell You know, Ginny, I never appreciated you till now. - Can we still be friends? - Absolutely not. If they ever black your eyes, put me wise If they ever cook your goose, turn me loose If they ever put a bullet through your brain, I'll complain It's friendship, friendship Just a perfect blendship When other friendships go up in smoke Ours will still be ok Good evening, friends
