 

                        My name is Heiyi Ho When I was dead, I was 11 years old The story is fictional. Any similarity to any person, living or dead, or to any actual events is coincidental and unintentional This is a real story Two years ago, I heard it when I dined in my friend's home In order to conceal the identity of the people involved And the need of the storyline I've made some changes in the script All the characters' name is fake And all are performed by professional actors and actresses In fact, the story is... On the night about 2 years ago I've an attorney friend named Herman Lee He hosted a dinner in his house He just learnt how to cook Japanese cuisine And he'd like to show it off We planned to meet at 7pm Yet I was in a meeting with lots of buyers in the office, so I was late Slightly jammed up in traffic When I reached there, I was 2 hours late Kei, wait for me here I'll leave at around 2am Yes, Mr. Law Herman! You so late? Why don't you come tomorrow? Excuse me, jammed up in the tunnel Just kidding... Why so formal? Become like this Look professional? Yes Uncle Dennis Katty, why are you in Hong Kong? It's my term break, that's why I come back Let me introduce two of my friends Ruth and Grace This is my dad's friend, Dennis Hello Hello Enjoy it... Thank you That's right, let me introduce George, Dennis Hello George's mama Hello Come on, let me introduce Cat to you Cat is a police inspector, my neighbor next door Dennis is in property business as well as a film director I've seen you... in the newspaper Have a seat... This was the first time I met Cat Cat is the inspector of DCS (District Crime Squad) at HK West Herman has a high level of cooking skill Especially the snails in wine and chilly sauce I got along well with Cat; we chatted in everything To boast and flatter In everything Usually, no lingering in the subject Lost impression very soon However, what we chatted on that night... Now I still remember it clearly I've never tasted such a sweet fruit You better eat more Dad Very sweet Cat Great, try one. Taste it, I made it That I really need to taste it Of course you need to taste it, yelling on weight lost all the time I'm still fat no matter how I eat You know, HK people talk about weight lost Leaving so soon? You really... Cat, what district are you in? HK West, DCS DCS Responsible for robbery, murder cases? Yup also as well Is rape also under DCS? Yup From the police point of view What's the difference between raping a virgin and a prostitute? No difference, they are both women The most important point is the evidence What if under age? That's another story Even there's a difference between under 13 and 16 years old What if commit incest and the girl is under age, so how? So how? Catch him into the police station, beat him up ruthlessly As a matter of fact, it has quite a lot child sex offending cases lately Involved with biological father, brother. Teacher security guard, priest It includes all sorts of people In fact, how could a father molest his daughter? Convenience Convenience? Prostitutes in HK are more than rubbish bins Prostitutes ask of money! How expensive? In general, around 300 dollars It can be as low as 50 bucks I caught it before You won't be unable to pay 50 bucks, right? Yet for 50 bucks... probably without a nice body but a filthy drug addict Or old hookers in her 60s Men can't have any passion with such. Those old pops may like their "clean" daughters, virgins are clean You know, guys always fond of virginity Virgin your ass! Virgin his ass! Worse than a beast! A beastly pop raped his daughter in Tuen Mun not long ago Her mom told the police that... it was better to be molested by her father than strange men. Is there such kind of woman? In fact, it does! Through my experience Mom knows or tacitly consent in 70% to 80% of the cases Mostly, they refuse to admit when they give statements I came across a child abusive murder case two years ago Even now, I still remember it clearly The mother accidentally beat her daughter to death That girl's name is Heiyi Ho Good Morning, Madame Wong! Good Morning, Madame Liu! Good Afternoon It's 3:30 afternoon I was really scared that day. Josephine Wong suddenly showed up Who is she? She is the Assistant Commissioner She was the Chief In Charge at HK Island at that time. How high is her ranking? We have one Commissioner; that is Tang King Shing Two Deputy Commissioners Follow by five Senior Assistant Commissioners Then Assistant Commissioner Within the top ten? Not really We have more than ten Assistant Commissioners Inspector Lam, Heiyi Ho's child abusive killing case I think the case isn't completed I want to interrogate Becky Lee again Yes, Madame Arrange it for me quickly Let me know when it's ready I'll be in Commissioner's office Yes, Madame Thank you What's it? Stir-fry noodles in Singaporean style Not from today I won't care if you drink a beer at lunch But straw? Ridiculous! Hurry up, Inspector Lam! Yes, Madame! This Josephine Wong is really cocky She was an University graduate from England Very few people with high qualification Applied for police twenty years ago Those University graduates were automatically enlisted As inspectors when they first got in Their shoulders soon have 3 stars To be promoted as superintendent Had she ever on beat? Of course not Solely lead the whole team out for a general patrol. Besides, that Barbara is even more extraordinarily She got her PhD. In Criminology in England Already a Chief Inspector when she had not yet reached 30 I've already said so No matter how hard it is, you must let your kids study overseas What about afterwards? To interrogate the criminal Where does the criminal sit? Over that side Tell them the criminal is here This way, Madame Madame Wong You all go out Yes, Madame You stay Yes, Madame You're Becky Lee? Yes What did you say? I can't hear Yes You're very ill-upbringing! Who gave birth to you? Raise your head when you talk to me Look at me, louder! Yes Answer me in a complete sentence! Yes what? Yes I'm Becky Lee And? And! I'm Becky Lee Yes Madame! Lam Bec... ky... Lee Yes, Madame! I'm Becky Lee You're polite now Let's start our conversation Take a black cotton bag in Yes, Madame You're Becky Lee, right? Yes, Madame I'm Becky Lee You beat your daughter to death, right? Yes, Madame I accidentally beat her to death accidentally? You consider this as an accident! What about I clean the gun here and accidentally shoot you to death. Is that okay? Is that okay? Is that okay? Answer me! No... Madame... I beg you, don't... Begging me? Did your daughter beg you? Did you let her go? You beat her up in much fun? Lock the door Barbara, what's this? A black cotton bag? Turning off the light, covering the head, beating... still work? You bitch, listen carefully I'm Josephine Wong, the Assistant Commissioner The Chief In Charge at HK Island Now I beat you and I'll beat you again later Complain me if you've guts You better complain me until I lose my job and let me fight with you How many lives do you have? This Madame is a nuts Beating, threatening, carrying a gun inside the interrogation room... Almost violating all the rules Yet this mad Josephine Wong is excusable She took out all the bullets from the gun before the interrogation Premeditating She knows clearly the difference Between serious and extreme serious Beating, threatening the criminal is serious She is able to handle it If the criminal snatches the gun and kills a cop How could she handle it? No doubt that Josephine Wong is a nuts Not a dolt How much lies have you put on this statement? No Madame, I didn't lie Becky Lee, how old are you? Twenty six, Madame Still pretty young You have big boobs I'm flattering your boobs, say "thank you" Don't dodge! Sit straight! Are you a triad member? No Madame You're a young girl with a very nice body No triad background, not under anyone's protection When you get intojail, you think you'll be alright? For sure you'll be in jail A woman like you, indulged your lover to molest your daughter Then beat the little girl to death. When in jail, you will be tortured by the other inmates. Don't think that women won't rape women They're really bored inside with no toys. If they don't toy with you, who else? If you tell me the truth. I grant you a peaceful life If not... I'll make them rape you everyday and feed you shit No... Madame, please don't... Don't think that they will use fingers I promise you, they will use broomsticks No... no! Madame, no... No... Madame! I beg you... If you can get out of the prison in one piece I'll chop off my head for you to sit on I dare not dare not I apologize Madame, let me kowtow What kowtow for? Do you think you look pitiful this way? Your daughter was even more pitiful! You and your lover live in a small, old type public housing The unit has no partition, only hanging curtains The man molested your daughterfor two years You dare say that you know nothing? Who can you fool?! I don't know... I don't... Hey! Open your eyes Answer me Shake your head? Still telling lies? No... I didn't lie Still dare to tell lies No... no... Tell the truth! No... I tell the truth I really don't know I dare you to repeat that you know nothing Make a body search! Hands off Hands off! Bend down Open it Wider Wider You can stand up I'm waiting for you to tell the truth. I'm waiting Madame Madam, jacket No need Cold? Put thejacket on Thank you, Madame Madame, I wanna go pee Go ahead Thank you, Madame You have a very high tolerance level Ok, let's continue Madame Smoking? Wanna have one? Is the criminal a talker? She is tough, unwilling to speak Understand Don't you wanna pee? I finished That soon? No more pee Madame, let me have a word Yes? I've a way to make her tell This Becky Lee is tough In fact, I don't believe that she didn't know anything However, she confessed for child abusive killing Under this circumstances We've enough evidence to charge her with murder Despite other minor details Even if we sue her for concealing knowledge The most is putting her in jail for a few more months Serving the term simultaneously, it's meaningless They're cleaning the tables; let's talk inside Don't you think the mother had molested her daughter too? No That man has already confessed for child sex molestation How could he confess so easily? Because there're lots of evidence Do you both want tea? Let me make you tea No No, we got whiskey! Uncle, we're leaving. So early? Yes, already very late Okay, bye Bye Hello where's your mother? She is still playing majong upstairs What is it all about? That woman went shopping with her daughter Her daughter suddenly fainted while they're walking The pedestrians assisted to call the ambulance The first-aiders arrived And saw the girl's body was full of scars and wound They called the police immediately We reached the hospital five minutes later than the ambulance They released the girl's brain pressure and blood Prepared for an operation Dr Au, the girl is dead When you saw the girl's body was full of scars and wound I knew I needed to take action immediately Jack, you return with the uspect for a search warrant When you get the warrant, meet me at Sai Wan Estate at once Yes, Madame Ricky, we dash out to Sai Wan Estate Yes, Madame In order to save time, I urged my boy to get a search warrant And I led the other boy to the crime scene... I'm scared that someone will destroy the evidence How's it going? In time? The victim's wound are so obvious, no problem to get the warrant So I dash to the scene promptly In order to avoid anyone to move anything away from the unit Fellow Madame Anyone got in or out? No You didn't knock the door? No. We follow the instruction to keep lookout over in a distance No one goes in or come out Good Stand still! What're you doing? Where to? To dump the garbage To dump the garbage Too new to dump it? What prove? I live here You should have utilities bills? No Go get it inside Hey! Why did you go into my home? Dude! Who do you think you're? How could you call me "Hey"? Not to know what's best for you Check it out? Inspector Lam! Now you know? No more "hey", moron! We continued questioning the suspect Until the search warrant arrived. Inside the washing machine, we find some washed bed sheets and little girl's underwear It is obviously that the floor hasjust been mopped Inside the toilet, we find some burnt video tape Jo may have destroyed partial evidence Yet the technology in police force is very advance Even when the tape is burnt we're able to recapture a lot of video images. Besides, the most important is that computer From the deleted files, we can. Iocate Jo forced the girl to take more than ten videos Five of those are sex scenes Now the people love to video it After autopsy, it stated that the girl has already lost her virginity That bloody moron started molesting the girl since 9 years old No problem to nail him down Jo has no previous crime record Still the judge sentences him for eighteen years Eighteen years! That's a lot! What about the woman? Seven years for second degree murder So short? She really did so by accident. Cat Let's go back to Barbara What good idea does she have? Her idea was evil! Dry your hair Sit Drink it Becky Lee, don't you understand? Madame isn't in enmity with you We don't intend to beat you up Wejust want you to tell the truth Everything will be ok if you tell the truth In fact, even if you confess. That you know Jo continuously molesting your daughter That's not a big deal indeed I guarantee that thejudge won't give you a heavy sentence If you're willing to tell the truth, I'll intercede with thejudge for a lighter sentence Madame, I didn't lie What if you do? If I do... I swear; I swear to God for thunder strike You still don't want to tell the truth? No, Madame... What I told is the truth If not... I deserve thunder strike, to die in a terribly way To die in a terribly way? Then you remember what I just said Take a look at these pictures Your own daughter. Don't you have any feelings? Don't you have any feelings? You stinky! Wanna get your mama into trouble? Wake up Dreaming? Who let you sleep? Ivy Keep on looking No... Not necessary to use force under interrogation Tell us! I turn off the machine if you are willing to tell the truth Come on, say something So... Becky Lee, you wanna confess? Answer to Madame If not, she really beats you to death Speak up! That Babara's psychological tactic is extraordinary She didn't let us soften or show a tag of sympathy Do you sympathize her? I grasped her hands Don't know why I feel Somehow unhappy A sense of sadness Hello everyone, am I sexy? Comfortable? Comfortable Are you comfortable? You slut, have sex with the old man at 14! Who is the better lover? Me or the old man? How's that? How is it? Are you comfortable? Answer me! Are you here? Confess, confess that you're telling lies You slut, not a human at all! As a mother, gave birth to your daughter How could you let her suffer like this? Don't you have human nature? Why don't you speak? Why don't you speak! I don't want to... Don't want to! What's wrong with you! You lust for money. You can be a hooker if you want money How could you so bad to harm your daughter? I don't care how you use your body Not my business whatever you do with men But you can't harm your daughter! She is only eleven! No more interrogation! Resume tomorrow! Stop! No Joey, it's mama Joey, it's mama Waking you up? Come on, it's alright... It's alright Now is very safe; no one can hurt you, understand? Mama is here It's fine, okay? Do I forget to take pills? What's up? Eat it Who's it? You don't answer call? Commissioner? Yes, I'm Who're you? I'm Inspector Lam of DCS at HK West Inspector Lam, what's the matter? Becky Lee commits suicide at the detaining center She bled heavily, just starts on an operation Shouldn't have any risk in life Understand I'll wait until she has passed the critical stage Madame, you don't need to come over Okay Inspector Lam, if there's anything, you call me again Yes, Madame Thank you No thanks, I ought to do Bye Bye Something happens at the police station? A suspect commits suicide Go away! Go away! Are you crazy? Don't be like that! No! Don't come over! Go away! Joey... Don't come over I'll kill myself Joey, don't... be silly Papa is only playing with you Go away! Open the door! Open the door! Help! Josephine Nope I don't I can explain it Trust me, nothing happens Mama, are you okay? Okay You looked blankly? It is busy in the station Where're you going? I want to drink some water Let me accompany you I just want to pour a cup of water Joey, let's chat Joey, is it good if mama takes an early retirement? You are only 47, that soon? So I can spend more time with you I'll be graduated this year If I can get into the Department of Justice... I won't have time to accompany you You're right You should catch more thieves; let me help you to prosecute them Mama... Because Papa was a prosecutor, that's why you don't want me to work in the Department of Justice? No Your papa is no longer a prosecutor He is a prisoner now Don't worry I won't follow his steps I must be an upright, diligent prosecutor I know... My Joey is good and capable Good morning, Madame Wong. Good morning, Madame Good morning Where's Becky Lee? How is she? The suspect is fine She had an operation last night, with blood transfusion She woke up early this morning Madame Good morning, Madame The suspect made use the sharp corner of the bed to cut her artery There is a bite mark on her wound too At 0018 last midnight The on duty policewoman, her number is. Okay All of you, get out! Yes, Madame Including you Yes, Madame Becky Lee, you wanna die and case closed? It won't be that easy You're pretending deaf and mute? Bite off your tongue if you wanna be a mute To earn sympathy through commit suicide? Idiot! Only the most useless and cowardly people will commit suicide Being a mother like you is really hopeless You should protect your daughter but you beat her, harm her I won't have any pity for your type of rubbish! Hey! I'm talking to you! Response! Answer me! You're right... I'm rubbish. I deserve to die I named her Heiyi The word means dawn, The word is very difficult. I'd like my daughter to begin as bright and warm as the dawn comes up However, through these years. She only kept on suffering with me Heiyi never had a good day in her life In fact, I always knew that Jo molested her How could I don't know... That silly girl thought wearing nine panties... and hanging a bell were able to protect herself Why didn't you save her? Women... is born to give their bodies to men For their fathers at home or guys outside... are the same What's wrong with you? Where did you get this false concept? My father hated me since I was young He always beat me And he peeped me showering and changing clothes He came inside my room when I slept at night Fondling me as well as masturbating himself I was scared. What I only knew was to pretend sleeping I just wanted him to finish and leave quickly I met my first husband when I was 14 In fact, I didn't know if he was my husband or not He was more than 10 years older than me He duped me that he loved me and would take care of me I was stupid to trust him Thought I could leave home this way He said he wanted my virginity so I gave him He said he didn't like condoms so we didn't use them Never thought of this man... Not only did he has a wife but his wife was a PR manager at a nightclub. That woman brought a bunch of club girls to beat me up That guy not even helped out but left I was kicked out of my father's house at that time In order to live, I lived with another man Heiyi was his daughter He sold illegal drugs After Heiyi was borne for a while, he struck up relationship with a woman in China And he never returned Afterwards, my daughter and I lived with. Many different men But we never had a long lasting one They disliked the stretch marks on my tummy which I get from giving birth to Heiyi Because I've daughter. Who was willing to take care of two? All my life, I've only been to the city a few times. In fact, I knew all along. Jo was molesting Heiyi. But I... Dared not say a word I pretended I didn't know anything I pretended to be stupid Madame... If I die, will I go to hell? Why didn't you seek help from social workers? Social workers? Don't know Have you ever collect social welfare? No How come you accept guys to treat you like this? Nothing really Everything is okay after a man have his way with sex Only if you don't say a word, don't resist... You won't get into trouble No one will beat you Your father will feed you. No need to suffer from hunger Guys from outside are even worse You should stay home, that's better Be good and no one will beat you This is good In fact, if you shut your eyes, it'll be over in a flash! What can I do? I don't know. What you did is absolutely a big mistake Do you believe in Budda? Dunno No idea The Budda says if you don't solve your problem in this life This problem will follow you to the next life You don't correct your mistake in this life You'll make the same mistake and continue suffering in the next life For sure you'll be in jail Maybe you can think it over what you've done Maybe you can understand more Heiyi is dead, there's no way she can come back to life. Yet you can reform yourself after correcting your mistake Is it useful? Not sure, but better than not doing anything You think it over Madame, you still haven't answered me When bad people die will they go to hell? Hell? I don't know I don't even know where I'm right now Katty, are you tired? Keeps on yawning A little bit Already four-thirty? Yes Sorry for keeping you so late Let's chat sometime later Time to leave Okay, bye Bye Bye Hello, Eric? Yes Who's speaking? I'm Josephine Wong. How're you? Josephine? What's up? I just want to ask for a small favor What's that? I know it's kinda redundant to inform you this early Yet I'd like to keep you post Okay A criminal, Becky Lee will serve her terms at your site I'd like you to instruct your colleagues to take care of her We don't have any relationship. You don't have to give her any privileges What I mean is... if someone bullies her seriously, please help and protect her Okay, I know what I should do Thanks, Eric, let's play tennis sometimes? Sure Okay, see you later Bye Joey? Mama, is there anything you called me? I just wanna hear your voice Wanna hear my voice? Mama, are you okay? I miss you In class? No, just off class Are you coming back for dinner tonight? Yes What about you? Me too. What do you wanna eat? Anything, take out again? Or you want me to cook? Yes You haven't cook for me in a long time I need to go to the market Miss, what do you want? I want crabs, black beans crabs Good and... what's next? Let me think about it THE END
