 

                        Hey, are you okay? My Wallet is gone Checked your pockets? Maybe you lost it someWhere? I don't think so So annoying... HoW about this... Take it But I don't knoW you So this is FATE FATE? See... If you hadn't lost your Wallet I Would never run into you here Then We could never have met each other So, this is all FATE But if I turned and left right this moment We Would stay strangers I think not As for fate When it starts It Would not be interrupted Unless When itself comes to an end This is a game of fate If you Were the one I am looking for I Would ask you to take this bill... And Write doWn your name and number on it When it finds its Way back someday Then it is FATE And then I Will go looking for you And you Will agree to be my girlfriend SU MI MA SEN, LOVE Sorry! Sorry! I am late! I am sorry Chie... This is far out! HoW could you be so late? Sorry, it Won't happen again No kidding! The client Was pissed What? I don't understand I got yelled at! Sorry All right! Go get dressed! Okay What's her problem? She hit the traffic on the Way here Sorry We don't have much time We need only feW shots Hurry up then. Right? Let's get moving It's not me delaying Hello? Hi Chie! HoW are you? What's up? Last Week at Sinjuku station I ran into your old flame! And I heard he's getting married His fiancee is an old square Are you serious? Are you all right? Did I say something Wrong Nah I don't feel much about him anymore Chie Hurry up! Okay! One minute Sorry. I'll call you later. When are you coming back to Japan? It's like you don't care about us anymore I hope you are not forgetting about us Of course not I miss you guys a lot Really? Chie Hurry up! Okay! Right aWay! Sorry. I have to go! Talk to you later! What's going on? Sorry! You don't seem to be in the mood You seem upset Happy? Yes! Yes! Okay! That's it for today Okay! Thank you! Thanks Ah Chung! Give a hand Okay The shots are dull She looks tense Her face is stiff too Sorry Perhaps We could take a feW extras later? We don't have time for that Just pick something from here What's her problem today! She Was late And totally not here during the shooting I'm really sorry It Would never happen again What are you doing! You sissy! Sorry Are you trying to kill me! Can't even carry a thing! Ah Chung! Ah Chung! Come over here! Are you deaf? Ah Chung! What's your problem? Sorry Sorry! What if someone got killed! Would sorry mean anything? I've told you so many times Think before you do things What?! Left your brain at home? Or all you got is bronze? No Hello HoW are you? Okay. Yes, Thank you I told you to do things With your head You are just the same as your father Daydreaming all the time I do not knoW What's in your head You are just useless What does it have to do With my father? What? You feel sorry? You feel sorry for your father? If you Want me to stopping talking him doWn Just stop doing these irritating stuffs What are you talking about? You knoW What I'm talking about! Stop daydreaming And think more of your responsibilities Let me tell you If daydreaming Could feed our stomach Your father Would have come home as a millionaire! You fool... What are you doing? You are not giving your best Disappointing everyone But... This kind of stuff really drains me doWn Repeating the same job day after day It's really exhausting HoW can you say that? Isn't this your oWn choice? You have got to Work harder But... Even if I gave my one hundred and tWenty HoW'd I knoW if I'd make it and When What are you talking about! I believe you Will make it Got that! Give me a break That's not the point I just heard it last Week HoW could it come so soon Wrecking the house doWn There are lot more details to be discussed It hasn't come to a final conclusion yet Why are you here so early Bad-mouthing here and that Sneaking around in the neighborhood What do you Want anyway? HoW do I conduct business here? I am here only to pay you a visit You need not to Worry! Don't Worry? It's not Wrecking your house I'm sure you are not Worried Easy for you to say No. It's not like that. What I am trying to say is... Enough! Stop the nonsense! Save it for yourself! Let me tell you... our association, The organization and our professors They do not agree With your proposal It's meaningless for you to come here today Go back It's not up to me to decide, you see Chung, Where are you going? Going out this early again? This kid has no manners at all Useless brat Please... You are Wasting your time You are all useless Just let me look around That's enough. Enough of this talking. Enough. Please... No. That's it Excuse me Do you knoW Where I can find a taxi? I'm sorry but We just got back from abroad We don't knoW much around here either But I guess the taxi should be over there Maybe you can find some help there Okay, I see Thank you very much This morning I rushed out as usual Took the distant route as usual So I could enjoy the feeling of riding against the Wind And... With the same expectation That I'll run into you again today Then... Here With the same disappointment I rushed... To record these ups and doWns Thanks He is the one. Your pre-destined Mr. Right Good morning, Shark Good morning, auntie Did you see Wu Huai-Chung? Nope This kid... What is he doing AIWays late for Work But Why didn't you put the uniform on? I Will later Do you knoW something Everyday in the past years I've been Waiting in Kaohsiung Harbor Hoping there is a vessel Coming back With you on it But this hope has never been fulfilled HoWever, I had a feeling today When I count to three You Will shoW up next to me One TWo Three Scared you? You Were late, and noW you are daydreaming I am not What Were you looking at then? Nothing Get the film ready Don't let the audience Wait You are alWays late There is no visitor noW Do as I say! Okay It took me hours to get them in order! I am so sorry You are lucky it's me If it Was the curator, you'd be in big trouble I apologize Chie! What have you been doing?! Finally, you ansWered the phone I'm sorry I Was Watching a movie You Were Watching a movie!? And I got scolded in the office? Come back to the office asap I Want to talk With you about the Work Wait Isn't it my day off today? Why am I going to the office? You got the nerve to say that If you didn't piss off the client by being late We Wouldn't have to Work today And you are asking me Why? I apologized already Why are you bringing this up again Besides I'm not in Taipei right noW What?! I'm not in Taipei Where are you then?! Kaohsiung What?! What are you doing in Kaohsiung? You should've at least phoned in Kaohsiung... Please Stop nagging, Would you? Hey! I do care about you That's very rude of you Forget it! You are alWays blattering Not to do this, not to do that Not to eat this nor that You call this is caring? Do you really care about What I feel? HoW could you say that? This is your fault HoW do I become the guilty one? Seriously, What are you doing in Kaohsiung? To take a break! My schedule is alWays full I think I deserve a break! You are really something Stop talking in Japanese I don't Want to hear it Nor do I understand a Word of it You are relaxing yourself And I got the blame If you are not coming back today Then I have no Way to ansWer to the client You don't have to come back at all! Darn! There's nothing I can do today Gee! I got the message I'm going back to Taipei tonight! Okay! Later! Huh? Isn't the film running? Why...? Why are they leaving? Where has that brat gone... Are you okay? My Wallet is gone Have you lost it someWhere? Check again? I don't think so HoW about this... Take this But I don't knoW you That is alright This is FATE FATE? Write doWn your name and number on it If one day... This bill finds its Way back in my hand... Then it is FATE When that day comes, Will you agree to be my girlfriend? Ha! Excuse me HoW much? OK. Wait a minite. That's $220 Okay From $500 Here's $280 Thanks HoW much, please? Let me see... $400, please From $1,000 $600 is your change Thanks Will you hurry up! Thank you, have a nice day! Hello! Please take a look Is the name correct? Yes Hey! The report is all yours Be careful Understood? Yes, sir Are you Japanese? Yes Do you speak Japanese? A little bit Remember the time and place Where you lost it? Sorry, I really don't remember The last time you saW it Was... In the morning When I Was on a taxi Perhaps you lost it on the taxi? You think? I'm just saying if it is possible Probably What are the chances of getting my Wallet back? I Will make a phone call to L&F for you Okay But... The chances are slim If it snoWs in Kaohsiung, You Will find your Wallet back Nah! He is just kidding With you But you should phone the bank To cancel you credit cards Just to be careful Okay, I Will Be hurry! The boat is leaving Hurry up! Hurry Come on! Hurry up! The boat is leaving! HoW much? It's $400 Have a good trip! Have some tea It's just ready Please We'll contact you When We found it Is that okay With you? Okay. Thank you Well. Thank you very much Okay. Goodbye Miss Do you need any help? No Just that my Wallet is gone Oh, your Wallet... That's bad Will you be okay With the taxi fare? Yes! I am good I still have tWo hundred dollars That's good It's good you have the money Or else... a pretty girl like you I may have to sell you for some cash It's snoWing SnoW? No That's the seeds of cotton trees Cotton tree? That's right! Take a look Those are the floWers of cotton tree on the ground Those are its seeds flying in the air Does cotton tree die in spring? No It's not dying. It's getting reborn Reborn? Yes Will these seeds survive? They are all falling on the pavement They Will! You see My car is bringing these seeds They Will find their Ways... To land on the right place... To groW up To become a cotton tree Do you knoW What I mean? I Wish... I Would find a right place And a right person for me Of course you Will! Didn't you just fly from Japan to TaiWan? So no Worries You Will find it! Trust me Why are you here? Why did you run aWay? So that's What I Was saying This is fate Are you folloWing me? YOU folloWed me here, did you? I did not! I Was alone When I got here You didn't notice me When you came in I Was here before you Really? Yes Do you ever have this feeling? You don't believe it or feel it... But there is no choice, the feeling of... You're forced to accept everything Whenever my girlfriend left me, I got this feeling I'm telling you This feels like... Taking a needle, Jabbing into the heart And you feel the painnnn... Right to the middle finger on your left hand Do you knoW Why it's the left middle finger? According to some Kong-Fu masters Left middle finger connects to the heart That's Why When your heart aches It Will hurt here too There's another saying Here When some couple get married, They'd Wear the ring on the left middle finger Because they believe Wear it like that means captured their hearts Oh I see Do you never feel like that? Why should I tell you? Because I have told you all my secrets! Of course you should tell me all yours You have never told me any secrets! Of course I did, When I say my heart aches I feel like middle-fingering someone But seriously Why come all the Way from Japan to Kaohsiung? You don't look like you are touring What do I look like I'm here for then? Well... it looks like you are... Hey FolloW me Miss Why'd you come from Japan to Kaohsiung? My plan Was Learning Mandarin in TaiWan After that, I'd go back to Japan But then Who Would have thought I Was chosen to be in a TaiWanese film So here I'm in TaiWan as an actress noW So you are shooting a film here? We've finished the movie already I'm taking a day off for myself You don't look very relaxing Really? Yes Why? You look preoccupied You are good Because I'm a priest, you forgot? Idiot So... let me ask you When you Were at Work Why people got angry at you? Because I Wasn't paying attention, And not eager enough for Work Do you not like Working there? Of course I like it You get to Watch movies Do you like Watching movies? Yes I Wish one day I get to shoot a movie Really? Yes Why do you Want to make movies? Because you get to make Wishes Wishes? In one's life There are a lot of Wrongs That you can never redo it But making movies You get to live life in different prospects That's the feeling I Want So do I When finish filming, it's almost like... You lived anther life, someone else's life HoWever I Would get upset sometimes Because I can't get back to be myself in real life So you are saying you don't like acting? I love acting Just that... I don't like the feeling afterwards, That I couldn't come back to be myself That's When I get really upset So noW I'm taking a break here in Kaohsiung HoW strange... Huh? What did you say? I don't understand Why coming in here I can tell you so much... I believe it is these Walls Feeling like you're in your little fortress By not facing each other It Will be easier to say things... You don't normally say Walls... Although We don't get to see each other But knoWing there's someone on other side You feel... Relaxed Can I ask you something? Yes What type of guys do you like? Why do you Want to knoW? I'm just curious I like... A guy knoWs hoW to Wipe tears for a girl KnoWs hoW to Wipe tears for a girl? You don't seem to knoW hoW to do that Okay, What about you? What kind of girls do you like? I like a girl... Who can keep all my secrets You have lots of secrets? Everyone does Otherwise there Will be no one coming here Then... Can you tell me some of your secrets? It Wouldn't be secrets anymore if I told you Do you really Want to knoW? Yes Come closer But you have to promise me That you Would never tell Sorry Excuse us Sorry! I'm alWays thinking What if one day, I met you... What should I say to you I have so many things I Want to tell you But I am afraid... I Will get tongue-tied When I see you And I Won't be able to say anything I Wonder... If you have as much to share With me What Would you say to me? Are you making a Wish again? Will you take my picture for me? You sleeping? Wake up, Wake up Do you not see the boat is leaving? Hey, do you have change? I'll go get some food and drinks Stop sleeping Wake up Wake up Hurry up and get it, I'm Wrapping up here Fine! Grandma Here you are, Chung Haven't seen you for some time I miss you Yes. It's been a While Don't you remember? I looked after you When you Were little Oh yes I bathed you When he Was little Don't you remember? Please... don't mention that No? Please. I get embarrassed! Alright Granny said she bathed me When I Was little That's true Really? Am I cute? Ain't I cute? Yes, yes. You are vey cute What's up? This... Granny Yes? Is it Granny on the board? Of course It Was not here before Who made this? It Was here Nineteen fifty Granny has been here for over 50 years Mm... 58 years HoW old Were you When you start doing this? When I Was eighteen years old Eighteen years old... So it's 58 years already Incredible Granny is amazing She devotes all her life doing this one thing It is really amazing You are so cool, Granny Yes I am You are the best! Some tempura please Okay Assorted? Yes, give me some of everything Here you go $100 please I got coins only. Okay? Coins... Take What you can Please! They are heavy Oh Well... Do you have bills? Yes, I have Thank you Thanks Delicious Is it good? Yes Eat more I Will It' not like you'd come back everyday Have more While you can I am eating I maen it. Granny is so adorable Well... She is adorable noW Back When she banned me from candies I hated her What's up? This is a special place What's special of it? It's quiet Not like What We have in Japan Really? So you have a place like this in Japan? Yes There's a similar place in Kyoto But... Here... Why are the stores closed so early? They are not closed Most of them had moved out HoW come? There aren't so many people like Granny Feeling satisfied... Doing just one thing, and one thing only All their lives Thank you TWo Wishing plates please That's $500 Thanks One, please Thank you I Wish one day the bill'd come back to me Do you read Mandarin? I can even type it! What have you Written on? I'm not telling Come on... What have you Written on? I can't tell Why not? Was it... about me? Let me listen to What's in your MP3 Your MP3 What have you got in there? No Way What? What did you just say? I kneW it You Were talking behind my back? I am not telling So stingy I don't get it Stingy! Stingy! I don't get it! Stupid! You just called me stupid, right? I get that one Stupid! What's Wrong? I Was thinking to take you on a cruise Really? Yes But it's closed early today? What a pity Never mind We'll go some place else Really? Great! What is this place? A special place AWesome! I'll get something to drink Whenever I see the ocean I feel like going back to Japan HoW long have you been aWay from home? Almost a year, I think You knoW What I Want to be a success so much I really Want to be a successful actress Because... If I didn't make myself seen on acting here My families... And friends They Will be very disappointed At that time... When they kneW I Was coming to TaiWan to be an actress They all backed me up You Will make it Look over there When I Was five My dad and my grandfather had a fight One day in the early morning He took on a vessel and left... Never come back since Why? Our family business is selling boat parts We dismantle everything from vessels, boats Fix them and re-sell them My granddad did Well on the business So he Wished that my dad and my uncle... Would take over the family business But my father only Wants to be a sailor He Wants to cruise around And see the World outside My grandfather Would not approve of that Then they had fights So do you knoW Where he is right noW? Heard that the vessel had sunk in an accident Some other said He had settled doWn overseas So you have no idea... If he Would ever come back? If he's still alive He Will come back one day I believe One day He Will get to see the movie you make Are you alright? Our house is going to be Wrecked doWn Even if he came back I don't knoW Whether he could find me Your house Will be Wrecked doWn? Our home Would be nothing but a laWn Should not be long... Everyone Will move aWay Well... You... Where are you moving to? Don't knoW that either As the night groWs darker... The girl finds herself lingering It's so beautiful And so high Look! Tiny little people doWn there Yes I feel sorry... That you have to pay for everything today Nah If you hadn't lost your Wallet I Would not have the chance to treat you Besides Who knoWs When Would be the next time I could have the chance to treat you You sure you are leaving tonight? Yes I got job tomorroW But Weren't you saying You feel upset? HoW about stay for a feW days more? I'm feeling better noW Thank you for the lovely day If I had not met you Maybe... I Would definitely be... Feeling much more upset So you should stay I could keep you company a feW days more You could call in sick Or You... You are looking for someone Who can keep your secrets You can be the one Do you remember? When I Was little... You read bed-time stories to me Everyday And then... When I closed my eyes You Would count to three And ask me if I fell asleep I Would ansWer With my eyes closed "Yes, I did" Do you remember? The night you left You sneaked to my bed And told me... When I groW up You Would take me travelling around the World Do you remember? I Would alWays be here at this Harbor Wishing that some day... There Will be a boat, bringing you back HoWever You are still out there, selfishly, Without me And for me... There's nothing else I could do But to Wait here Staring at the endless ocean Thinking... Perhaps some day It Would bring me some neWs of hope But of course For most of the time I am here alone Waiting and staring Feeling disappointed again and again But today I have this feeling When I count to three You Would shoW up next to me One TWo Three Hey Let's... Each takes an elevator Okay? Why? You go first This is it then I have gotten used to talking to myself If love can be elevated Then let it evaporate With tears I Want to catch up With you The hastened paces of the summer But I turned and realized that You and I are already at tWo ends of the World I thought You are just leaving for a While Smile Means that you Will look back Maybe This is just a fantasy I dreamt of While I Was aWake I still often think of That afternoon When We briefly met HoW I Want to revieW The strange yet familiar streets The seasons Will change FeW hearts Will Wither along Maybe I have to let go To be able to hold on to you in my memories But I still believe If If If That day I had stay behind Perhaps Maybe I really should go noW Can't you stay? Thank you I had a great time today Please stay a bit longer? Today You shoWed me So many beautiful places So many lovely people I am so touched I feel grateful and blessed Truly I Want to tell you... I am noW believing in FATE So You've got to believe too! Wait a second Jong! Show me all the $500 bills you have $500 bills? I don't have any $500 bills here HoW Would that be possible? What do you Want? What the hell are you doing?! Get out of here! Stop that! Get out! Get out! Stop that! Are you mad?! What are you doing? Get out You don't have to Worry That bill Will definitely come back to you someday And I knoW One day You Will take that bill And found me Until that day I Will ask you to be my leading actress Hey My name is Wu, Huai-Chung My name is Chie Tanaka Nice to meet you! I Wish one day the bill'd come back to me Wu, Huai-Chung What Would become of us after 10 years? Looking forward to the day We meet! Wishing our dreams Will all come true! Chie Tanaka
