 

                        HEAVE-HO, CARRY THAT LOAD Three things in this world... ...bring tears to my eyes Papa's shoe English exams And singer Kumar Sanu's voice All painful You... You are the answer to my every question You are the heart of all my stories Didn't I tell you? Don't record with headphones. You'll burst your ear-drums - What did you say? - What did I say? The Rishikesh priest asked us to see the girl He wants us to come to the temple tomorrow Finish the recording today What is this mess? Throw this out Yes, Papa Here's 20 rupees Yes, Papa Don't let the cows get into the shop Yes, Papa Jaya! Did you bring the lemon pickle? Have you got money for the temple? Prem, get in the back. There's no time Hurry up! Ma, my saree is untying I told you to tie it with a pin Hold it Let your father pass Hold your breath in Tuck your saree in Cover your head. We're going to a temple, not to your college I can't find the saree end - What are you doing? - Why didn't you oil your hair? Tell him... ...to sit with confidence No need to misbehave You're our only son, our pride Don't chomp on your food. Don't spit when you talk You talk as though I'd never seen a girl before You want some water? How far is the temple? Someone's getting restless to see the girl Let's introduce ourselves The girl's father, Madan Pal The boy's father, Chandra Prakash Tiwari His wife, Subhadra Rani Boy's mother, Shashi Tiwari Boy's sisters, Jaya and Hema and their husbands She's my younger sister. Prem's aunt, Naintara I think the boy and girl should introduce themselves Absolutely Sandhya Sandhya Prem, introduce yourself You've done it, Papa One person missing, Samar. Sandhya's younger brother He has exams, so he isn't here - ls Sandhya educated? - A degree in teaching She's wanted to teach since childhood She even taught her dolls maths Ask him yourself She asks if Prem is educated Prem has a degree in Commerce He's always been keen on accounting He's more interested in bank notes than books Think it over and tell me I already have What do you say? The girl is lovely. Did you notice her good nature? She didn't speak. You talk of her nature Being silent in front of her elders is a sign of a good nature So you prefer the girls who waste time in your shop... ...recording songs? You listen! She's a nice girl. That's it A nice girl! And her appearance? What's wrong? Is she blind, deaf, mute, crippled? Saw her size? Huge You're no movie star, you high school dropout It's the food these days Your sister put on pounds after she got married Her husband still loves her They chose each other. What choice do I have? To hell with your choice Your choice will turn your parents into paupers Papa, talk to him gently, he'll understand so, you try Listen, son If she was attractive, we'd have to buy her cosmetics She'll earn money. She's going to be a teacher - It'll help us - I will not marry her - That's it - How dare you! Do it, Prem. For the family's sake I'll look for a lovely special girl Not temporary, someone permanent I'll look for a big earner, sober and sweet Not temporary, someone permanent Eyes like a golden fairy A magic wand in her hand I'll look for the perfect bride He'll have a bike and a car, good manners too I'll consider him, that's if he's faithful She'll go with me to visit Shimla, Kullu Manali But not forget to buy veggies on her way home from work That's the one for me I'll look for a graduate, a lively, cheeky type Not a fellow who looks old and grumpy He's a man who masters household chores No, no ordinary type, you see A deluxe model will suit me Are you ok? My head is about to explode Take a pill. You'll feel better You want to die at your own wedding? I told you - don't drink milk after Chow mien Papa, it's his allopathic meds. He's throwing them up No one stops him Give him some soda, he'll be ok I really like the scent of marigolds Welcome See how beautiful the room looks Prem's aunt hand-picked the flowers - Prem loves them - She sneezed You have a cold? I'm allergic to flowers We'll get rid of them in the morning The room is decorated with a lot of love Remove all the flowers Where is it? Don't rush things in bed Let her get ajob first. Babies can come later On paid maternity leave You feeling ok? The bathroom? Change here Ok Wait. I'll go out You can come in Sandhya - A call for you - Coming, Mummyji Hope I didn't wake you - How did you get this number? - So, how was last night? He behaved like a child... abandoned somewhere He slept in one corner of the bed, me on the other Listen, I'll call you later. Bye Wake the Prince of Celibacy out of his slumber Don't talk so loud She can hear you You worry about being overheard. But not about your son Don't blame him. She could've made the first move She's arrogant Just because she's educated She didn't even greet me at the wedding Giggled away with her family Sure! We aren't in her league Why blame the poor girl? Think of how she must feel Our son is work-shy. He's so arrogant A boy like him should be taught a lesson Good morning, Mr. Groom - Where to? - The Youth Club The Youth Club will ruin you You want to become a freedom fighter. Can't kill afly - We'll talk later - Wait a minute Yes, we'll talk later. Look at me Look at me. Well? You can hit me if you want. I'll do as I please One whack will son you. Where's my shoe? Don't hit him How sweet! She's made us tea Prem is at the Youth Club. He loves working out, since childhood Is your family into fitness? Only Papa. I do yoga at home It shows We salute those great men The great men who have given us the wisdom of life We bow a hundred times to those great men Remember the martyr Bhagat Singh The leader Subhas Chandra Bose Shivaji Maharaj and Vajpayeeji Do you think any of these great men lacked focus? No So, let's promise ourselves To let their lives inspire us To follow in their footsteps Of course! - I have news. Prem is married - Congratulations! - That calls for a party - Yes Papa is against inviting riff-raff I agree with him. I'm against parties too So be it! Study hard, ok? Give it to Jaya - Take care of our Prem - Sure Give us a missed call. Ring once, and you ring twice Go safely I don't know what's happening to me So run away Who is stopping you? I couldn't make high school The computer course was in English. I'm zero at it Papa pushed me into marrying And you're saying I must run away? Mom, it's the first day. Things take time I woke up late today The alarm didn't ring No action and you wake up late If this goes on, your in-laws will send you home Mridula can't keep anything to herself God has been kind to you. You married a video tape guy Ask him to show you an erotic film It'll give you ideas Rebel Rebel until you find a way out I can't rebel. But in the bedroom I can It's my battlefield If he is a little shy, make the first move Pleasing your husband is your responsibility too Walk slowly, please I've finished engineering. Have some sweets Prem! Straight and first right. You'll see Vijay's shop. I have work Aren't you coming? Just take one piece - not the whole box You know Vijay. What will I do in a ladies' store? - See you later - Listen! Namaste, sister-in-law - Will you have some tea? - No, thanks Where's Prem? He's busy I need some stuff - These bangles are lovely - Not bangles Something like that See this No. Next to that - This one? - The one above Sister, show them to her. I have work Can I help? A nightgown? - Sure. Any undergarments? - Only the nightgown It will really suit you That's fine And this is the inner... All right. I'll take it Tell me when you're done inspecting them I was looking at their handbags Sure you were Hey Prem, is that your wife? Yes - You brought your wife shopping? - I'm Sandhya That's Pervin Very pretty. Visit me some day I live nearby. Drop by sometime - Hurry! - Just shut up and wait Tehmina, get my purse - Let me talk - Why do you want to talk to her? Have some sweets. I've just finished my engineering degree Easy. I have to give some to the others What was the big hurry? You didn't let me talk Why are you getting angry? What have I done? I am talking to you Take me to the government library Ok, I'll walk home - I'm telling you straight - This is a library I don't like talking to people Who asked you to talk? I was talking What's your problem? I don't like chatting with all those shopkeepers I don't like being interrupted either Does it bother you if I talk to someone? You don't know these people When I am alone, they will get after me Where's the celebration? My father was right People here like keeping their money locked up Sandhya wants to see a film. Papa is setting up the VCR She should've got her own TV. Why must we miss the soap? Nothing happens in those soaps. You won't miss anything I'm hanging up. Ask Hema to call Can I please close the window? Sure. Lock it Listen Please close the window The window Can you set up the VCR? Are you ready? "Ma,-tyrs' DaY" Aren't you watching? Not in the mood Send the TV back - I'll tell Papa... - Why tell Papa? We'll watch it together Put the light off Quilt? Wate r? Our child just became a man Bless us, Lord Where are you going? I want to share the good news with my daughters Tell them tomorrow Did you see the whole film? I don't get tired halfway like you I saw it till the end Who heats the water at your place? We have a geyser - Did you have breakfast? - No How did your exams go? Maths was tough as usual Make sure you pass No one in our family has failed. I want top marks You talk like your family inherited the world's brains She is Prem's aunt You leaving? She's going - Let your brother eat - I've eaten They don't eat much. But every grain shows It's called metabolism My respects Where's Prem? What are you doing? Help her with the luggage Give my regards to your father Travel safe I left a list of songs on the table - Record them for me - If I have the time Come on the 4th - Why? - Why do you think? Let's go, Samar I couldn't say no to Papa about marrying I couldn't stop myself last night Domestic life is going to drag me into quicksand What can I teach a person who has no will power? I feel suffocated. What will power do you mean? Don't live in denial. Just accept the reality How can I accept someone I am not attracted to? How do I look? Do whatever, you will always look a witch Want a slap? This is my life now A gravitational pull is sucking me Accept defeat then It's not gravity The pleasure in bed is pulling you Don't be ashamed of pleasure It is not pleasure. It's compulsion So enjoy your compulsions. Why else are you on earth? All objects in this universe are drawn to one another The law of gravity So why do some objects not meet... ...and stay fixed in their place? Although... ...they want to reach out to one another, they cannot Pl3Y - From here? - Press Listen to the sound Son, is this a CD? A CD - a compact disc. This is the future Give up the old stuff Listen to the sound Really good I'll get you a good deal. About 150K. Plus a CD player How much for this lot? There are no buyers for this Cassettes are only sold as scrap No one cares for them We'll have to start the business from scratch Why can't we get a loan? I haven't repaid the loan I took for my daughter's wedding I told you No borrowing money Suggest something then I suggest you put the radio under your pillow Listen to Kumar Sanu's love songs We'll manage somehow - When do you get Sandhya? - On the 4th That's today She's waiting for him and he's busy hogging Give him more food Why don't you call him? He could call me Are you keeping score? Anyway I'm better than he is Papa, please eat Samar, come and eat Don't give me too much. Leave something for Prem There's no need I'll go check Prem, welcome We were expecting you - God bless you, son - Get him some snacks Hello, brother-in-law - Give him a plate - No, thanks - I have an early start - Eat something No thanks Shall we go? Prem, keep this money No, please no Take it. It's for good luck Keep it. Buy something for me Hold on to your bag - What's wrong? - I'm hungry But you said you ate Sit here. I'll sit over there Give me some kachori with onions You eat onions? - Yes. But my family don't - My family eats onions Must you go on about your family? We eat onions. We don't sleep before 12 What can I do if you all lie? At least I know something about you now You smoke? And drink. No one drinks in yourfamily? No Don't tell anyone Will your father hit you? I am not scared of anyone You're the fearless warrior of the family Eat up - Want some? - No, thank you The threads of endearment... ...are entangled in your fingers I cannot find a way... ...to untie the knot My life is like that star... ...that passes through the clouds You must be a little crazy To have chosen me How did you hear... ...my unspoken words? What's wrong? I want some water I'll get it The girls today know every1hing What's good or bad for them Good or bad... they also enjoy their youth more But what does Prem know? Weren't you excited when you were young? Wasn't I? It's their time to have fun Need something? He was feeling hot You're shameless! Hush Here Did you record my songs? What? The spices are on the top shelf - Sugar and tea down below - Where's my medicine bottle? I threw it out. The meds had expired You threw it out? I bought it two months ago Expired pills are not good for the health Don't show off your education. I know what expiry means I was trying to help Why do you keep taunting me? I asked about my medicine bottle If you must, here it is Answering back, eh? We'll talk later The way you talk. Making a mountain out of a molehill You should be grateful Without me... Prem wouldn't have married a fat girl like you As if Prem was some movie star If you made him marry me... ...you should've taught him how to treat me Listen to her! I was married too I ran a house, but I never answered back Don't talk to your elders like that No one cares about me. They only think of themselves - What is it? - Ask your dear aunt Where are you going? Just ask me to unpack Why did you marry me? Get my clothes. I'm late Here. I'm late Greetings - Raghubir, what brings you here? - For you - What is it? - Sweets And an invite A wedding invite? Nirmal's wedding? Congratulations! Listen, everybody. Prem They met at college? So that's what they teach nowadays She's a dentist Prem got left behind because of English. Otherwise... Stop it! Call Sandhya She is busy. Why call her? I called out for you But Prem took you away You must come to my party Ok Saying okay won't do Sandhya, he won't listen to me, so... ...grab him by his ears and bring him there Have your tea. It's getting cold I told my father-in-law... ...to hire a community centre. We'll have 500 guests or more A 21-gun salute for my family They agreed. Their gift. Made in Japan Amazing sound What song do you want hear? - Any song - Which song? I am a cut from the old matrimonial school Prem is the new generation I fancy matrimony, but my girl's father doesn't fancy me Our Youth Club leader said we must avoid domesticity Why think now? You're halfway there Marrying Deepti is not wrong Show her photograph to Prem That's Deepti. Fresh as a rose Anyway, tell me how's married life? Can't you tell? - If Sandhya sees you drinking... - She can go to hell Prem, you're drunk. Give me your glass Sir, I respect you... I listen to your advice. Don't say anything now Leave me alone My father ruined my life. I stood no chance None of you help me one bit Control yourself, Prem Nirmal, my friend. You got it right You worked hard. You're a gentleman. I'm illiterate And your Deepti - she's perfect - She'll make you happy - I know No one asked if I wanted a life like this Papa hitched me up. We're like oxen under a plough Wait, Prem Sandhya is a good girl. Looks aren't every1hing Then why show me Deepti's photograph? Why do you love Suman? You're like my brother Drop in She's so fat. I don't feel like touching her Sleep with Sandhya one night... ...you'll know what hell is Stop him! I'll kill him You hit me I hit my sister, thanks to you Stop him Where to? Let's sit down and sort things out Papa has hit him enough Prem's father knows what's best for him - Take my shoe and beat him - Never mind, Papa It's not his fault. It's yours You should've helped him study, instead of getting him married Don't go What are you doing? Tell me, will you? You gave my room to Samar No phone. No letter. How come you're back? I've left Prem. No more questions Left him? Are you crazy? Did he hit you? I'll son him out Look! She tore up my school files How will I get an A+? Don't eye my room! I'll fix you too Why are you waiting? Call her in-laws - Ask her what happened - Don't dare call them Over my dead body As if you were sparkling with life. Why are you here? He does not need me. I do not need him He wanted a wife He has no manners He insulted me in front of the whole neighborhood He called me a fat cow, and other things, mother But you are a fat cow Men are men. They talk nonsense when they're angry Why argue with him? Even if he was rude, you're smart. You should've kept mum Kept mum? I gave him atight slap He won't talk to a woman like that for the rest of his life This is what too much education does to a girl No need for your tears, mother Nothing happened. I am intact Have some shame Be modest in front of your father Explain to her Listen, women have to... That's enough Please listen The warhorse Chetak galloped, setting the earth on fire When Chetak rode into the battlefield, the enemy was destroyed Now it is time for you to run. Fly with the wind Enough Time is short and the task is hard We have to win Sure Being sure will not make you win Sure Ok Use your brawn and brains to win this race H ow? Hop on, son That's it This is how you'll win Son, get off now Stan exercising Why, sir? Are they avoiding me? Nothing of the sort. We're busy preparing for the contest Am I not invited? We wanted to invite you but after what happened Yes, sure You hypocrite. Lecturing me and licking Nirmal's boots Mind your language Just because my wife left me, everyone is ignoring me Calm down. Let's talk I know you people They're enjoying my predicament Stop talking nonsense Let go. I'll slap you You'll hit me? Scum - Showing me your pretty wife's photo - Don't drag her into this I'll drown you What's all this? Go He's upset. I'll talk to him I've had my eye on him No unruly boys here - He'll be ok - Take him away Throw cold water on him He's too hot-headed Aunty, you don't worry at all These days the law is with women You should believe in yourself and the power of women You know there are many amendments favouring women these days Sandhya's case is super strong - Will they stay together? - She's talking about divorce - Then why is she smiling? - Must she cry? Water Move! Did you change your surname on your passport, or...? No Did you give any dowry? Any TV, VCR, sofa scooter, anyihing? - Who is giving us a TV? - She asks if we gave anything Let me talk We spent about 20,000 Jewelry, clothes, etc Madam, we spent very little cash - Herjewelry is still with her mother - In the bank locker What about my humiliation? Who pays for that? Sandhya, that's not how you speak to your parents They also want your good Say sorry Stop stirring up my daughter. We educated her She wants sister to apologise - To whom? - To you, for being rude Sandhya, don't lose heart, ok? Just concentrate on your exams Aunty, don't take tension Divorce is very cool these days It's the means to a happy life I did not study law But I know we had a happy marriage lam sure Come with me Are you drunk? Don't be stupid. Go, get your wife back Like hell. I won't I'm won't be a loser anymore. I'll make something of my life Good movie lines, that's how film heroes talk People like us must live connected to reality I'll re-sit my high school exam I will not live with my gloomy family Are you nuts? You're a married man Your wife will soon be a teacher and you want to carry a school bag? Look at me Don't I dream of becoming an actor? Look at the ham actors today My father forced me to live here. I'm wasting my life My only hope is that Suman's father accepts me Then life is set You love Suman, right? If her father marries her to someone else, would you do nothing? There's a big difference between reality and the movies Do you know the truth of my life? ...36B.. "Sister, 36D. The elastic is strong and long-lasting" Dog! Siding with my enemies. I'm better off alone Do as you please - Saraswati Coaching Centre? - Yes I want to re-sit the high school exam Show me your certificates She's made bland food Don't interrupt. Let me see the recipe She'll make us sick, dieting I won't stop you. Eat what you like. This is for me This is the last straw. First she left her husband Now she's dividing the kitchen - What are you cooking? - Poison. Want some? No. You go ahead Papa? - A new CD shop is opening - Whose shop is it? It's here - Isn't this Nirmal's shop? - Let's see How can one market have two recording shops? Is this Nirmal's shop? Yes, it is When does it open? The opening ceremony is over We're in trouble What will happen to our business if you open a music store, Nirmal? You have every1hing A decent wife, too He misbehaved at the Youth Club. I came because of my father Be polite, Nirmal Don't act pious, Nirmal. It took you no time to ruin us Have pity. His wife dumped him Not surprising You got him married to that hippo against his will I'll break your head See how he behaves! - Think before you talk, sister - What did I say? The shop is our bread and butter We are not here to do charity either You must be happy. Bankrupting others You're just jealous. Jealous of our success Success? My foot! We know your father paid a bribe to get you into college Who is stopping you from using your brain cells? The only thing that's free is whining. That's all you do Stop taunting me Have some cake first It's her birthday. Some respect Happy birthday Happy birthday I'll give you a chance to save your shop Take part in the wife-carrying contest Win and the shop is yours Nirmal, don't talk rubbish This is too much I'm serious You'll never learn. Go, open your shop! We have 15 years of experience recording tapes If I was married... - ...I'd take part in the contest - Naina, keep quiet That's enough from them Take part in the wife-carrying contest I will not. Let my father carry you You will carry your wife and run It's your birthday, but don't talk rot I have told him. He'll run - I won't - Yes, you will Has she gone senile? Haven't we been humiliated enough? What's wrong? Why is she lying down? - She tripped - How come? Are you ok? What's wrong? The divorce notice The bet is off No Yes, we get it Hurry! Thejudge is leaving Hope I don't leave this world before him What is it? I'll sit in front - What shall I do? - Take my hand Push me Going to bring the girl back? You must wish us bad luck, right? Drive carefully Sinister man. He curses everyone Your sister's husband went to the mountains looking for God Pervin's husband is in jail The bra seller can't convince his girl And Prem has a divorce notice Chant in the name of your mother, not God She keeps talking nonsense What did I say wrong? There'll be lots of crying Stay calm So cry once and for all I'm very proud of you, Sandhya ls everyone here getting divorced? - Is that right, Prem? - It's a divorce court Stop talking Is there anything I should know? - What's that? No need to beg Sandhya. Papa will carry you and run No way Why is God punishing us? A disaster Don't cry. We're the guilty ones Who wants a "divorced" sign outside their house? Look what happened to me Sandhya Varma, Prem Prakash Tiwari. Divorce Petition Tiwari is accused of insulting Sandhya Varma in public Hurting her physically and emotionally She asks the court to grant her divorce The Tiwaris must pay a divorce settlement of 50,000 rupees But she filed for divorce. Is it mutual consent? Yes Was it a love marriage? Just a marriage, no love Then why did you marry him? I liked him And you? Financial pressure. Sandhya would teach and earn Papa wanted a bride who earned a salary So I agreed Anyihing happened - kisses, intercourse, etc? - I won't discuss private matters - He loves humiliating me in public - Hitting me made you proud? - I am ashamed of that - You humiliated me - As though you didn't do the same And what's this ridiculous settlement demand? - Don't you know our situation? - What about me? Did you think before slapping me? Quiet, please! Do the family members want to say anyihing? Your Honour, what can I say? You're wise. Misunderstandings are commonplace That doesn't mean separating. Just come home Prem's father and I fought too Once I added extra salt in his mother's food He hit me hard with his shoe. But I didn't leave home Am I talking Greek? I'm asking her to come back Do only men have the right to talk? Must we just cook and clean? This is your chance. File a case of domestic violence Discuss your emotional matters outside the court As per the Marriage Act, the court asks you to live together for 6 months If matters are not resolved by then... ...the court will approve the divorce papers Sandhya, come back. We're pleading with you I'll get my room back Forget the law. Just come back - Ask him to say sorry - Prem, come here The one who slapped first, apologises first Who insulted me in public? Apologisel All right sorfY She's your new mother. You'll look after her now Hold this Please come I'm already feeling better The time has come to carry your personal load Right here in the heart of Rishikesh All husbands! Flex your muscles All wives, lose some weight The winner gets 10,000 rupees "Heave-ho, carry that load" The wife carrying contest Can I say something? It's not "of" Monday. It's "on" Monday And we say "in" August. Not "on" August The preposition is used differently Why did you touch my book? Iwasjust... But why? Don't show off your education Ok. I know you're very smart. I know nothing I'm a fool and uneducated But stop putting me down Listen, bear with me Better we accept the farce happfly I'll go in six months "In" and not "on" Leave this in room 12 I am a student... Roll Number 317 - Take a seat - Thank you Dear Teacher... I am 25 years old This is my third attempt at the English exam My father was right. I'm a loser My struggle to make something of my life ends here If you feel any pity... ...or this letter moves you, or your eyes moisten... ...or if you're unmoved and want to throw away my letter Or give me a zero Remember you are zeroing the fate of a family Today I accept... ...that I have failed my family, my wife... ...and myself Prem Prakash Stan serving Give Prem some of this tasty steamed food Why the long face? Sandhya has made a delicious meal We'll eat together - I am not hungry - We've been waiting for you Papa closed the shop early today Have you already eaten? You're drunk? Freshen up. He is coming I must say boiled vegetables taste delicious Spices cause acidity Sandhya has made great food Lentil broth - It's really tasty - I forgot to add carom seeds It'll taste even better tomorrow - It's fine - Have more then Let Sandhya have the cottage cheese No, Papa. Let him have it Eat up I was thinking - Prem and Sandhya should partake... ...in the wife-carrying championship Great idea No, Papa It's embarrassing. It's too strange What's strange about it? Prem's father carried me and ran four times That's another thing we didn't win Prem is very keen to participate in the contest. Right? Sure. Why do you think that I brought her back? He's always had a sense of humour See that? Couldn't you have played along and had your meal? I can't pretend You all know the tricks You must know me by now I know nothing of the world You must think I am blighted - Come here - What are you doing? My family's affections are a sham. Lies! They are eating what they prefer We were hungry It's my fault. I tricked her into coming back She'd run the race, save our shop, get ajob too It's all my fault Let me end my life - What are you doing? - I'll kill myself You've been sweet-talking Sandhya, she doesn't care about us Where are the matches? Sandhya, diet or exercise... makes no difference Someone will love you as you are It's all a sham The whole neighborhood can watch me burn Where are the matches? Prem Prakash Tiwari - Roll No. 317 What happened? Well, he wrote his English exam in Hindi He had planned to commit suicide This is all family matters. It's ok Suicide? He couldn't even kill a mosquito Did you really want to kill yourself? Did you really love me? You never gave me the chance To express myself or to feel I am unworthy of being loved You know... I was very keen on marriage But no one told me what marriage really is As if anyone told me. I was misled too Be smarter the next time Will you invite me to your wedding if you found someone? Who will marry me? I'll find you someone... ...who loves and respects you, cares for you That's what I thought you'd do sorfY It's all right I'll find you someone you are not ashamed of Who doesn't brag about her education Where's a girl like that? As if there were dozens of suitors for me Papa, let's sell the shop Your call. You wanted a music shop I'm off, aunt - Bless you - Wait I'm coming See that? They wanted you back for their selfish reasons A team spirit is needed True. We aren't a team nor are we as one Never mind Listen Best of luck Go straight Namaste Sandhya Varma? Documents, please My file? I had it with me You came for an interview and forgot your papers? I can't understand. I had the file Can I come back tomorrow? The interview is for today, not tomorrow Namaste You forgot your file Your file Who is he? My husband Your husband? MY Papers Quite impressive Have you gone through them? We have no vacancy here But there's ajob in Meerut If your family allows you, you could work there I'll persuade them. Don't worry - Is it possible? - Yes 12 feet Business is bad I've been saying that for a while I know. Put the shop on sale at once Inform us soon "Wife-carrying contest" I've made your song tape I've left the tape here Welcome Did you hear about the interview? No I'm sure you'll get the job How do you know? Ijust know May I say something? You can leave whenever you feel like No one will stop you My family is jinxed There is no point suffering on our account Think about your future Ok? It'll turn out fine I have the job In Meerut So you've decided? There's no one here to stay for There are very few buses to Meerut from here If someone wants to see me, they'll find a way Have you lived alone? No Never had a broken marriage either I am Siddhesh, your husband's brother Yes? How come you thought of me after so many years? Sister-in-law? Sorry, I didn't recognise your voice. Bad news Your husband has died He went to the Himalayas on a pilgrimage. He died in a landslide He died the day he left me, 15 years ago Can you come for his last rites? What connection do I have with your family anymore? Did he ever call or write to ask if I was dead or alive I thought I should at least inform you Who was it? Siddhesh What did he say? I am a widow I've been a widow for years anyway Meaning? Greetings, uncle Where's Prem? Are you ready for the race? As long as you race when you carry my funeral pyre What's wrong? That's enough Come Can I come in? The door's unlocked Vijay came to take you for the race Your Papa told him to go Look, I never got a chance... ...to be a wife To have a family. I've just lived as a widow This is your time. You both should make the most of it No one is running in that race What's the use? Thinking of what's useful has done nothing for us Doesn't matter if you win or lose. Do it for yourselves Forcing never achieved anything He doesn't want to As if you do Why ask if you don't want to race? Haven't we lost enough face in the town? We've lost every1hing Nothing left to mock If there's nothing to lose... ...then why not run for yourselves? Can't you carry me? Of course I can I didn't go to the Youth Club for nothing Shall I ask your mother to phone your sisters? Why not? "Heave-ho, carry that load!" I'll be back You're here! I've signed you on Our honour is in your hands God bless Make sure you win Don't pressure us. It's enough that we're running Why are you negative? Look who is here Can you carry her, Prem? Or do you need your Papa's help? Well, sir? - What are you doing here? - To hell with... ...my father and her father too We got married this morning Well done! Brothers and sisters The time has come to shoulder the responsibilities of marriage Let's see who makes it to the end You'll face many obstacles Who will win 10,000 rupees? To inaugurate this race we have with us the voice... ...that has captured the heart of millions I request Kumar Sanu to ring the bell and start the race One... Run, Prem Prakash Tiwari! Open your eyes, tie your shoelaces Fire your breath like a bullet Be careful Both feet in one tyre, then the next It's not easy If you were in my place you'd know Hold tight I knew the Youth Club leader was a fraud The flying horse was no help Prem Tiwari and Sandhya Varma... ...are advancing slowly You look good together - You too - Can you talk later? You never learn Run like a true man, kick up a dust storm Will you make it? Aren't I doing ok? - Don't let go - I won't. Look ahead Scale all walls, cross all rivers - What's wrong? - It tickles Ok? Are you ok? Deepti - Here - I'm hurt You crazy? - Hurry - What the hell? What happened? - What's so funny? - Just look at you face As if you looked lovely If people are jealous, so what? No need of modesty If anyone tries to sneak away, show him up The thing that knows no end, soak forever in that madness The ground trembles wherever your foot treads I don't want to leave. Keep me with you There! The winners of this year's contest... ...Prem and Sandhya Looks like they're not done yet My heart was never as carefree as now Like a letter... ...that found a new address We walk on empty roads With our eyes closed Ending up in a faraway place. Aimlessly The threads of endearment... ...are entangled in your fingers I cannot find a way... ...to untie the knot I don't care about my tears But there is someone whose tears I cannot see Sandhya Now you will see a song composed by Anu Malik Lyrics by Varun Grover Sung by Sadhana Sargam and Kumar Sanu
