 

                        mobra films presents beyond the hills Stay there! Ok, calm down. Alina... Alina, let me go, people are watching... - You wrote this? - No. - It looks like your writing. - No, the priest put this here last year. Be careful, I haven't told them anything yet, so don't speak about it before I do. Why didn't you tell them? The priest was busy and I didn't find the moment. THIS IS THE HOUSE OF GOD FORBIDDEN TO ANYBODY OF A DIFFERENT RELIGION BELIEVE AND DON'T DOUB Here. Electrical candle. Oh, thanks but there's no electricity here. I'll keep it like this anyway, it's nice. This is all your stuff? Everything else I had I gave away. - Do you have any suitcases? - Mhm... I have these big plastic bags. You want to lay down a bit? No. Ok, then... come wash your face. - You want me to help you? - No. - This is my chore since I came here. - What's that? - Fetching the water. Everything is strict here. Daddy tells each of us in the morning what we have to do, and then he helps us if we need anything. - Why do you call this priest "daddy"? - When there are strangers around we call him "priest" too... This was made by a painter brought by daddy to paint the church. It's more just a trial, cause the money finished and finally this painting is all we got. Pity... Bless us. God bless. - Mummy, this is Alina. - Welcome. - Sister Elisaveta. - Mother Antonia. - Mother Justina. - Voichita, take this bucket and give it to the priest. - You'll stay a few moments with the girls? - Come on, nobody's going to eat her, go. Bless me. - Take a little clay and put it around that, it cracked and it smokes. - Yes. - Finish it before tomorrow evening, because maybe Mr. Dima will pass by. Clear? - Yes. What? Daddy, I wanted to ask you something. Ask. About my friend, Alina, from Germany. The one that I've been in the orphanage with in Birlad. What, she's not here yet? She is, she's in the kitchen with mommy and the girls. She's... how should I put it... She's... it's very hard for her there in Germany and... She's very tormented being alone there, with nobody near to share her problems. - Is she a believer? - She goes to church from time to time, but not too... Does she confess at least? I don't know, daddy, but I don't think so, as she's in Germany for so many years. How does she want to have peace of mind and soul if she doesn't confess? All that she wishes is to not be alone any more. We got used to each other at the orphanage and now it's very hard for her. You can have all the people in the world beside you, but if you don't have God in your soul, it's for nothing. I told her, daddy, but she keeps telling me that I should go with her, to Germany... - That YOU should go? - To go for a while, until she gets through the bad times and she calms down. I thought you already chose the path you want to take... I chose it, daddy, I was just telling you about her wishes. I would turn back as soon as she feels better... On this path with Jesus it doesn't work that way... ...that today I'm devoted to him, but tomorrow I've got something to do... There must be a continuity in this spiritual life of ours. It's not possible like this, with pauses. You get it? Yes, daddy... And moreover, the one who goes and the one who returns are never the same person. Do you understand? Yes, daddy. Priest, Mr. Valerica says he found a painter for the church. How much does he ask for? About 100 million. He can whistle for it. We don't have that kind of money now. - Should I speak to Mr. Dima? - About what? - For the painting. - Leave Mr. Dima alone. For building it's one thing, but now for painting... He says he'll send somebody tomorrow for the concrete casting in the back... if he finds a car from the building site and if it's not cold, because if it's cold... ...he said that better than casting and cracking, we'd better wait for the warm weather. - It has to be done before Easter. - Mhm... It has to... If God also helps us with some good weather... It will be warmer from now on. And we also have to change the gas can. This one is empty. Tomorrow when you take the food to the children you can change it. - We need money, Father. - You have nothing left from yesterday? - No Father, I bought some towels, some chains for the dog, it keeps breaking them... - You'd better buy some padlocks, so we can repair the old chains. - I bought padlocks too. Listen, did those people pay us for the vinegar? No. Mr. Valerica said that we have to give some eggs too. How many do we give to the orphanage? I don't know. As many as we can gather. Tell them that the eggs will come after Easter, because now we don't have enough. - But they need the eggs for Easter, not after... - Where from? We have to give some to the children now. (Alina whispers): Ask him. And with the gas can? What do we do? Ask him to charge it on credit if he wants. If he doesn't want, God bless him and we'll make fire with wood. We don't have too much wood left either, daddy. We can take wood from the forest ourselves. Daddy, may Alina come with us to town tomorrow? She has to take care of some papers. - Is there room in the car? - Yes. We can put the food in the car trunk. - You want to change your ID card? - No, daddy, she needs some papers for work in Germany. In Germany... I never left the country. But I'm not sorry. I would go to see the Saint Tomb if given the chance. But in the west... And I'll tell you why: Western Europe has lost the right path. There's nothing sacred left out there. In the name of liberty everything is allowed. They marry men with men, women with women... Yes... Drugs everywhere... Even the church is no more as it was supposed to be. I'm in favor of tolerance, but with some reasonable limits. But there where you've been, was there a church? - Yes, but not ours. - Sorry? Not Orthodox. You should know that for a true believer, even to enter a non-Orthodox church is a sin! But poor people don't think about this any more. They go wherever they can to get some money... ...for the children, and meanwhile the children grow up by themselves, without mother, without father... ...and we wonder how come so many unspeakable things happen. Sure they do, if that child has nobody to guide him, to get him to the church, to teach him good from bad. That means you also didn't have a place to confess. You have to come to confess... We enter into Lent and it's not proper this way. I'll wait for you tomorrow morning. People find their inner peace when they're forgiven for their sins. Let's pray. You have a fever. From the cold in the train I think. Will you rub me with alcohol? - I don't have alcohol. - I do. We'd better go on your bed. Why, we don't sleep together? - No. - Why? It's not allowed here at the convent. Why is that? It's not proper. Lent is approaching and we have to be very careful. - And that girl, Antonia, why was she looking at you like that? - Like what? - I don't know, it seemed like... - It just seemed to you. - Are you two better friends? - I'm not better friends with anybody here. We just help each other and that's all. Why did he tell me to confess? It's good for you. It calms you down. God is good and forgives your sins, but first you have to confess so he can forgive you and you can move on. And you have to tell everything in the confession. Did you tell everything? You don't have to tell all the details. You just say your sins and... - How old is this priest? - Daddy? About 30. Stop calling him "daddy". They say that the priest saw an angel, and so he became a monk. - Where did he see it? - He used to work at a thermal power station and... ...an angel just appeared. - And how did it look? I don't know how it looked, 'cause the priest doesn't speak about these things with us. I had a very hard time without you, Voichita. Ok, I'm tired now. Put this on so you don't catch a cold. - I'll pray. - Pray. Wait here a moment. - Daddy. - Yes. - I came with Alina. - Just a moment. He comes right away. - Why are we not allowed trousers at the confession? - It's not forbidden, it's just not nice. - Do I have to kiss his hand? - Don't worry, the priest will tell you what you have to do. - What does he do in there? - He's preparing. - They say that the priest has a miraculous icon in the altar. - Does he? And if you pray at it, it makes any wish come true? Just tell everything, ok? How was it? What's wrong? You've got a fever. Come lay down a little. Come on. - Are you ready? Come on, it's getting late. - I'm coming. You'd better stay and rest and I'll go alone. OK? - And the diploma? - Leave it with me. I'll get it. Come on, go. - Are you coming? - I'm coming. - Call Vali, they came with the food. - Hi, how are you? - Fine. - How are you, Mother Superior? - God bless. - How are you, Camelia? - I'm fine. Come on, let's take this food. Mother Superior, did you speak to the priest? I did. The priest would receive you open-hearted, but there's no place for the moment. Maybe if Mother Pahonia leaves, we'll see then. I have to leave the place here next month. I don't know... can't you speak to the manager to allow you to stay a little longer? It's already a year since I exceeded the legal age and she can't do it any more. When we finish the new cells we'll receive new people. - When would that be? - It depends how much money we can raise, but for the moment... Why, does Mother Pahonia want to go? She says she doesn't, but I saw her talking with her husband... I think she'll go back home. Didn't she say he beats her up? He beats her up, he doesn't... finally he's her husband, isn't he? And if she goes, will the priest accept me? I think so, because there's work to be done for twice our number. As for work I don't complain, but money... if they ask me... I have none... God forbid, why do you think the priest would ask for money from you? You're from the orphanage, the priest knows that. How's Valentin? - They took his hand out of plaster, tomorrow he comes home from hospital. - Really? I put a cake he likes there, don't forget to give it to him, ok? I will, Mother, don't worry. - Mommy, I'll stay a little longer, I have to get the papers for Alina. - Fine. Go with God. - Bless me. - God bless you. Watch out for the mud. - Is Alina here? - Yes. - Is her brother here? - No, he went to work at a laundry on Decebal. - Did you speak to Mrs. Form Master like I asked you? - No, her husband is in the hospital, he's ill. - What, you missed the orphanage? - No... - Mother, will you pay us a visit? - No, I have something to do. - So long then. - Bye. - Where do you want to travel? - To Germany. - What for? - To visit my friend. - How long do you plan to stay? - I don't know yet. - Did you take that file on my desk? - No. You know you may stay three months at the most, then you have to return to Romania. I don't plan to stay that long. - Do you have any money? - What? - Money to show at the border, so they let you pass. - I think so... My friend takes care of that. Today is Luciana's birthday, guys, don't forget to wish her happy birthday. Isn't she Libra? It's her name day, because she's "Valentine" too. - And how do you plan to support yourself in Germany? - Well... I'll work. Where will you work? I don't know yet. Waitress on a cruise ship maybe. - Cruise ship?... - Yes. - With legal papers?... - I think so. Will you please give me that file with the photographer? - Which Luciana did you say? - From accountancy. Oh, Luciana from accountancy... I thought Mme. Nistor. No, darling, not Mme. Nistor. - Have you heard that Mme. Nistor is getting divorced? - Don't say... - Her husband found one... 25 years old. - I think that one put some spell on him or something. Poor Mrs. Nistor sees all kinds of old witches to lift the spell off her husband and put a bad spell on her! - God forbid. You're not far, with that belly of yours, your wife will soon find a younger man and leave you. - She won't leave me, I tell you. She put me on a diet. - You see? ...But wasn't Nistor's husband denounced "against nature"? My dear, where there's love... - Do you know a German citizen named Pfaff? - Yes. Where do you know him from? From the orphanage, I was raised at the Orphanage Iulia Hasdeu Nr. 4. What did he do there? He came with aid. - Did he ever propose for you to work in Germany, this Pfaff? - No. Did he take photos of you? He took some pictures. What kind of photos? All kind of photos. I understand. Do you want to press charges against him? No. You see? None of you want to declare a thing, and when something bad happens, you come to us to help you. - Fucking laptop... - Throw it away! - How can I throw it, I paid 14 million for it. - What do you do at present? - I'm a nun at the convent up the hill. - Nun... - Yes. - Then what do you do in Germany? - I go help my friend. - I thought that nuns kneel and pray. They do that too, but... Here, down. Watch out who you trust. There are all kinds of people. What's up? Do you feel better? What's all this, Alina? Your luggage. Why do you pack my luggage, you know I don't like anybody to touch my things. Do them yourself then. And why do you walk around undressed like this, do you really want to catch a cold? You have any cotton wool? On the other side. Alina, you went like this to confession? This is a big sin... - Did you get my diploma? - No, they didn't want to give it to me. - I need it, it's very important. - I'll get it on Monday. - The tickets are bought for Monday. - We'll give the tickets back. And the bus tickets from Sibiu? Voichita, Thursday we have to be at work. If not, the ship goes and we lose the job. Alina, I spoke to the priest and if I go, there's no way back for me. - What? - That's what he said. So what? What do you mean "so what", Alina? Voichita, didn't we decide that we stay together from now on, no matter what? Why would you come back? - We decided that, Alina, but not to go on a boat. - And where should we go? Alina, I chose a path, I can't just go out the door and forget about it. What's that path? A path never to be alone again. You'll be with me. I will... Alina, if you don't have God in your soul, you can have all the world beside you, but you'll still be alone. What are you talking about, Voichita?!... You're all I have and I don't need anybody else in the world. That's not good, Alina. People come and go. God is the only one who's near you forever. You think it was easy for me when you went away? VERY hard it was, not just hard. ...But God helped me and I found comfort here... mommy, daddy.... Voichita, you said that I'm your family, and now I need you, to help me. I'm really going crazy all alone there. I helped you too in the orphanage. And I didn't help you? Voichita, do you still love me? I love you, but not like before. But how? I don't know. Different. How different? Why different? Because I am different now, Alina. - I have somebody else in my soul now. - Who? Who else do you have in your soul except me? Voichita, what happened to you? People change, Alina. The one who goes and the one who returns, are not the same person. Voichita, do you love this priest? - What are you asking? - Do you fuck him? Tell me, is this it? ...Or what did he tell you that he screwed you up like that? I pity you, Alina, that you don't understand, but I don't know how to help you. You have to help yourself, Voichita. Yourself. Unpack my things, please. Come, Ursu. # Jesus's body... The Holy Communion of your creature Elisaveta with the blood of Holy and honest St. Peter and our God and savior Jesus Christ forgive her sins, and give her eternal life... What's wrong, Alina? Anything funny in what we do here? You came for the holy communion? No... I'm dirty... What? She's in those days, priest. Then please, wait outside. - You're throwing me out of church? - Alina... - What? God is everyone's, not only yours! Alina, if you're tormented, please, go out and calm down. And I'll come to talk to you in a moment. Go close the door. What's with her? She's tormented daddy, but she'll be fine. Sister, I wonder if she told me everything in the confession... or not... I don't know, daddy. Mother, go see what you can do. Give her a glass of water and talk to her, I think it's from the confession. Come quickly, she wants to throw herself in the well! She hit her head on the well and then she leaned over it. Alina... Get back from the well... Come on, get off there. God forbid, what's wrong with her... - Alina! - Leave me alone! Alina, get out of there, come on, let's talk, maybe you forgot to tell me something in the confession. Did you? Come on, Alina, if you speak you'll see it'll pass. OK, Alina, calm down. Leave me alone! Hold her down. Ok, ok, ok... Calm down. God forbid... What's with her?! Daddy, I don't know what came over her. Let's take her into the cell. You calmed down? Give her some slippers. You're ok, Mother? My glasses? Do you know, maybe she has a bigger sin not confessed?... Alina, did you tell him about masturbation? - Oh, my God... - I'll kill you! Bring me the rope from the bell, quick! We have to get her to the hospital, so Mr. Valerica can see her. Go call the ambulance! Hello? Madam, please, send a car, we have an emergency here, a girl that feels very bad. She can't breath and she's very agitated. Ringhis Alina. Sminghelschi Voichita. The girl with the problem is Ringhis. Sminghelschi! Yes, exactly. The convent on Dealu Nou. Yes, madam, this is the address, The convent on Dealu Nou. We can't bring her there, we're a convent, we don't have the means. What? Tie her up better on the ankles. Tie her up. They said we can pray for her, 'cause they don't have a car to send. Antonia, you speak, maybe you... Hello? Madam, I was a nurse and I tell you, this girl has to be seen by a doctor! No way, madam, we can't give her injections here! Yes, she has spasms, like epilepsy. Yes, and she is also bleeding, she hit herself. Priest, what's up? For God's sake, what happened? We have to take her to the hospital, she's in bad shape. They say there's no available car right now, that we should call later. Priest, let's take her there ourselves, if we wait for them she'll die on her feet. Let's do it then, help me take her. Come on, we'll go to the hospital. - Gina! Gina! - Yes. Ask the doctor to come down please. - Who spoke to the doctor? - Good evening. - Good evening. - Tell me please. There's somebody very agitated, they turn them back to psychiatry. - Where is she? - In the car. - Bring her here. - They say she's violent. Bring the stretcher. Come for a moment. - Good evening. - Good evening. - What happened? - Madam, we came with a girl, she's very agitated, she almost died. - Where is she? - They're bringing her. - Who tied her up like that?! - We had to, she wanted to throw herself into the well. - And the mouth? - She bit us, spat, cursed... - How old is she? Pity on her, poor girl! Take care doctor, she hit all of us. - What's up with her? - She started all of a sudden. She said she saw I don't know who... She cries and then she laughs... Ok, make some space for her in the ward, ask Sanda to prepare a Haloperidol with Diazepam to give her now. Come on, calm down... God, she's strong this girl! May we can untie her now? Leave her a little longer, so she calms down. She's fifteen, poor girl. Jumped out of the window because she missed her period. God forgive her... - Gina, do you have my phone? - I put it to recharge. - Come after that to write her file. - Yes, madam. Will you please come to give me the data? Go give them the data. Why did you bring her here... Better to keep her at the convent, to pray for her. At the orphanage they didn't get you to church? They did once, at Pasarea Monastery. Other than that.. no. We went Sundays if we wanted. She went too? She went, but not that often. Who knows what hidden sins she has that she has to pay for... You should know that she has a cleaner soul than a lot of girls that spend most of the time in church. - Didn't you tell us that the boys took the girls by force? - Yes, but not Alina. She beat them up. Nobody put her down. That's why she learned karate. She beat you up too? She protected me. - What did she ask from you for this? - What could she ask? We were friends and that's it. ...She's so tormented... I had a neighbor back home... One night she woke up... and found her husband sitting and looking at her. And his eyes were changed. Normally his eyes were brown, but now they were black. And he was speaking with a voice that didn't sound like his. And she was asking him "What's wrong with you?" But he didn't answer and in the morning he didn't remember anything. He worked on a building site where there was a graveyard before. - God forbid!... - Yes... Where did she work in Germany? She worked as a housekeeper, and after that in a bar... Who knows, maybe she joined some sect there in Germany. What kind of bar? Don't know.. Bar... Waitress. And she didn't find you any work over there? Why, you want to see me gone? No, I have my cousin who's very devoted and wants to join the convent too. In Bucharest they wanted money to accept her, and she didn't have it. - You should ask Mother Pahonia. - What should she ask me? They say you're going to make up with your husband. I don't make up with my husband, who told you that? He keeps coming, hoping that I'll return, but I don't need another child anymore. If that was God's will, to take my boy away, what can I do... At least here I'm closer to him. - Poor soul... - God bless. - God bless. It was Mrs. Dima. Arcadia... Go with Sina and Laurentia and put that table. Come on. And if you need more chairs, take from Mr. Valerica. - Yes. - The new towels, where did you put them? - In the bathroom, on the wire. Antonia, go fast and put them on the bindings. And don't forget to put clean towels in the bathroom for those people.- Yes. Mommy, after the feast may I go to the hospital, to Alina? Elisaveta, Take these and go hitch that dog, it broke the chain again. Come on, go. Voichita, please don't bring any more dogs here, the courtyard is full of them. - Yes. - Take and clean. Come on. About the hospital, what can I tell you... Let's wait for the priest. Let him decide. - Mommy, but these ones are alive. - The fish is good when you put it in the frying pan and it jumps. - Madam Form Master, how good to see you! - Hello, Voichita, how are you? - I'm fine... - I understand you went to take Alina's diploma. - Yes, she's in the hospital now. - What's wrong with her? - I don't know, I'm go to see her today. - You want me to take you to town? I have the car. - I'll ask Mother Superior if she'll allow me. - What about her brother, how is he? - He works now. - You know Irina gave birth? - She did? What does she have? - A boy. - Congratulations! - What did they call him? - George. So it is either way. - She waits for me to go abroad and help her with the child. - When do you go? I had to go already, but now I have this problem with my husband and I stay with him as long as I have to... - What's wrong with your husband? - He's very ill, poor man. - And at the hospital they told me there's nothing they can do, so I should prepare... - Sorry to hear that. Don't despair, madam, God is great and a lot of wonders can happen if there's faith. My husband has throat cancer and metastasis already, madam. My sister in law had cancer too. Breast cancer. The priest came, prayed for her, read from the bible, now she goes to the market on her feet. Who knows how it was in her case... The priest is a holy man, talk to him, maybe he helps you. It takes a little while until the priest comes back. He's at the diocese and he sent word that he'll be a little late, so he apologizes for that. Well, we're not in a hurry. What can we do? Since he gave up their salary they don't love him too much and they're picking holes in everything he does. The church too, why do you think they don't want to send the bishop to sanctify it? Because it's not painted?... ...That's it, we move ahead as we can. Let there be the will of good God. But sit for a while until the priest returns, please. - No, I think it's better if I come by some other day. - As you wish then. Mommy, may I go with Mrs. Form Master to town, she'll take me in the car. - All right, you may go. - God bless. - God bless. Ionut! How are you? Fine. Why don't you put an apron on you? You want to die? Never mind. - Listen, do you have any money? - No. Your sister is in the hospital, we should buy her something to eat. Go ask for some money. But they won't give me any. - Do you want to come see her? - Yes. - Would they allow you to go now? - I think so. Go and ask them. Still, maybe they'll give you some money. Listen, tell the boss I'm off for a while. Go call the nurse, tell her she's awake. See if you prayed?... How do you feel? - Want some water? - No. - Does anything hurt you? - No. Don't leave me alone any more. I won't. - What did you tell her to wake her up? - I don't know. How are you darling? You put us into a flutter... Tell me what's your name? - Alina is her name. - Let her speak. - Alina. - What? - Alina. - And the family name? - Ringhis. - Where are you from, Alina? - Razboieni, Iasi County. That's why you're such a warrior... ("razboi" in Romanian means "war") - Are you hungry? - No. - Thirsty? - No. - Does anything hurt now? - No. What do you do there at the convent? - I came to take her. - Louder. She came to see me. We were colleagues at the orphanage. - Where do you live now, Alina? - She has an address at a family... - Let her speak... I have the official domicile at a family here in Sintesti. Lately I lived more in Germany. Germany... Good. What did you do there in Germany? - I worked. - Good. - And now you are homesick... - No. - No? - I'm here for her. - So you return to Germany, right? - We will go to work on a cruise ship. On a boat? Amazing!... Could you tell me, Alina, why did you beat up the nurses? ...or don't you remember? Come on, each one at her bed, I want to talk to the girl. Tell me Alina, do you hear some voices from time to time? Or does it seem to you there's somebody following you? Sometimes, yes. It seemed to me I heard a voice. - When was that? - Some time ago. - Recently did you hear it? - No. What did the voice say? It told me what to do. So, you heard it even before you came to the convent. She heard her father speaking to her. - Where's your father? - He died when she was six years old. He hanged himself. - Could you untie me please? - Yes, we'll untie you, just a little patience. - I have to go to the toilet. Marcela, take these belts off. No, doctor, I won't take them off, you don't know how strong she is. Did you hear me? You take them off right away. You give her a Haloperidol and take them off. Doctor, wouldn't it be possible not to give her any more pills? - Just to see how she is without. - Incredible, now you're teaching me what to do... You behave, ok? - Come on, eat. - Thank you. I spoke with Mr. Valerica to take him at his place, to work. Maybe he could even keep him there. Tonight just put him a blanket in one of the new cells to sleep there. Tomorrow, we'll see. - Yes, mommy. Thank you. Come on now, let's go, the priest is waiting for us. - Yes. What did the doctor say? He said she'll be better, but she needs silence and rest. But what does she have? He said that you or mommy should go and speak to him. - Go and speak to him, Mother. - Yes, Father. He said that with these diseases, God knows... - The doctor said that he knows you, you were colleagues before or... - Possibly. Daddy, but when they release her from the hospital, could we keep her here for a while till she's better? 'cause she has no place to go, poor girl. We're at the limit with ours. How could we take care of others now? I will take care of her, daddy, just to allow her to stay. - Where will she sleep? - With me. - And the medicine, the food? - She has some money put aside at this family where she lived. This is not a hotel or asylum. This is a place for those with Jesus in their souls. And if you don't have Him, or even worse, you have somebody else, it's better that you don't come at all, cause you can bother the other ones who DO have Him. You understand? Yes, daddy, but I was thinking that if we allow her to stay here maybe she eventually finds the Lord and makes peace with herself. And what if she doesn't? I like her and I want to help her, but I don't want weird stories with our monastery. All the people have their eyes pointed at us, you know that. Daddy, she has nobody else to take care of her except me. At least till she's a little better, Father. All right, but you're totally responsible for her. If she makes a scandal again, both of you have to go. - Be very careful! - Yes, daddy. - Now go. - What time is it? - Eleven. - What day is today? - Monday. I brought you oranges. Mother Elena sends you wishes of health. I called her from your mobile. - How's my brother? - Well. The priest took him to us to work and he said he can send him to another monastery. - Anybody called from Germany? - Nobody called. - Did you speak to the doctor? - Yes. How long are they going to keep me here? Mommy is waiting for him now, they say he'll come. What did he say? What do I have? He said you have to rest. But he gave me some pills. Yes, but you need quiet if you want to stay out of trouble. Here there's no quiet whatsoever. Alina, I spoke with the priest. You can come to the convent and I'll take care of you. But you have to keep quiet, or he'll get angry and throw both of us out. And we'll sleep together? ...If you'll behave... But first you have to receive God into your soul if you want to calm down, to get well. What do you mean to receive Him? Well, He doesn't come by force. If you want to receive Him, all right. If not, he leaves you alone. Until one day when you'll see how much you need Him. And what do I have to do? You have to pray, to know the sins so you can avoid them. And then you'll love me again? I love you Alina, but it's much more important that God will love you. And you'll see how well you'll be then. But I want your love more. I love you too, Alina, but you can't compare my love with God's. Wait a moment. Tell me Mother, you'll take her home? Is she well, doctor? She's not well. But even if she stays here, she won't be better. But what does she have? Something she has... But what is more concerning is that besides her suffering, she also has a lung infection. But I don't know from what. But did you see her behavior? She gave us the creeps. For the moment it's under medication, it seems under control. She needs a quiet environment and she has to be under observation. But is it something serious that she has? Serious... The problem with these diseases is that they don't kill you, but they also don't let you live. Then won't it be better to keep her here a little longer? You see, Mother, I'd keep her longer, but in this hospital the new wing is under repair, The wards are crowded, and for what she has, to stay with somebody else in the same bed, is even worse. She will rest much better at the convent, I tell you. I think there is much more peaceful than here. I don't know. It's the same medication, here and there. - As you say. - What does the priest say? He allows her to stay there? If it's necessary, he does. I believe it's much better for her this way. Here are a lot of sick people, agitated... Some of them die from time to time... She has to be kept as far as possible from any stress. Very well, doctor. That's how we do. I'll give you two medicines. You can buy them at the pharmacy. One's more expensive, one's cheaper, you'll manage somehow. Ziprexa I give you... and Levomepromazin. You buy them at the pharmacy, Stefan Cel Mare 103. - What's your name? - In my ID? - Yes, I have to fill out the forms. - Arvinte Domnica. - Arvinte... Domnica... Sign here please, that you took her. Ziprexa you give her one tablet... a day, Levomepromazin three tablets. And get her to read from the Bible. It helps. I say the alphabet.... A. - Stop. - T. - T... tava (tray) - VA... varza (cabbage) - Zavor (fastener) - OR... ornitorinc (duckbill). I locked you up. What's that "hornitorinc"? "Ornitorinc"...! - God bless. - God bless. That's it, you're off? Could you put some water to warm, please? The doctor said that from now on she's better here. Very well. Sit down a little, please, while I prepare it. The priest didn't have time to sanctify your cell, he was busy. - Where's the priest? - In the church. Wait here for a second, please. Did she say she wants to confess?... Yes, she did. That she wants to calm down... But if she comes to confess I'll have to give her a canon, there's no other way. I told her, daddy. I think she's too weak now. Yes, daddy, but maybe this helps her. What did the doctor say? He sent you this. For his family. Wait a moment. - Look, you'll read to her from the Guide Book. - Yes. If she doesn't understand, explain to her. Give her pencil and paper and make a mark at each sin. - When you're done, you come to the confession. - Thank you. And I'll sanctify your cell too, so that all evil goes away. Thank you, daddy. Having this sin list ahead of us we can discover especially the hidden sins that we committed and we didn't know they were sins, or you don't realize when you sin. - How many are they? - 464. You see, that's why it's better to have a piece of paper with you. Because at the confession you can't remember all the sins. ...As Father Cleopa says, the devil takes your mind and you forget them. - Should I begin? - Yes, say it. The safest and simplest way is if you have something to write and a piece of paper. And as we read all the sins, mark those ones that you made. But before coming here, did you confess from time to time? No. If you think you can't say everything, it's better not to do it at all... If you don't say everything, not only are the ones confessed not forgiven, but they say they even double! - She will! Come on, read. So... I didn't believe in God's help and mercy. ...If you doubted that God exists and might help you. If you don't understand, don't be ashamed to ask. Ok? You should be ashamed when you commit the sin, not when you admit it. I said that God won't help me, because I've sinned too much so I'll end up in Hell anyway. It's better if you write the numbers, you know... - Write just like that... 2... - Let her, she knows... - All right, just say the number at each one, ok? - Ok. I said that if He wants... 3. I said that if He wants, God delivers me, if he doesn't want, he doesn't. Even if you didn't think at all about deliverance, this is also a sin, you know... that's why he doesn't help me. world and God just sits and watches, doing nothing. So? Why doesn't he do anything? So, you thought like that... Mark that down. Don't stop, read ahead. - You read, I'll mark them directly in the book. And after that we erase them. You have an eraser, right? - I do. God, Heaven, Hell, angels, devils. I doubted there are God, Heaven, Hell, etc, because I didn't see them. I don't believe some stories, wonders, told in the Holy Book. threw away the Holy Books. hear people talking about God. I had dark moments when I didn't want to hear words about faith and God any more. The Holy Virgin, the Holy Sacraments, etc. will forgive me anyway, no matter how much I sin, because He's good. moral author of somebody's suicide. drugs is suicide. I sold cigarettes and/or drugs. "votive light", "God", "Jesus", "frankincense", "dead people", etc. I was angry with my neighbor. I argued and I wished to argue with others. of calming myself down and forgiving them. and my children learned it from me. with anger, I spat on others. Will you sing something, please? # Sleep, my baby, sleep tight. # An angel comes flying. # To watch you through the window. # The butterflies are singing you a song from a branch. # The fire burns out now, # Only ashes and dust. # You become sleepy as you fly, # Sleep, my baby, sleep tight. # Tight... - Did he absolve you? - Yes. - And the canon? A thousand "paternoster" and fast. Look, you pray to the Holy Virgin, make 33 "paternoster" and you mark one line. Take this piece of paper, pencil... And so on until you finish. - When you're tired, you stop and rest. You understand? - Yes. - Good. - Where's the priest? - In his cell. Priest, come quick, Mother Antonia has passed out. - Fetch some water. - What happened? - Mother Antonia has passed out. Priest, Mother Antonia was splitting some wood and in that piece of pine she found a black cross. That one! And priest, it's been three days since the chicken laid an egg. Go all of you to your chores and stop with all this crap and the fake signs. And what should we do with this piece of wood?! You put it on a fire, what else... What time is it? - Two o'clock. - It snows? - A little. - You want me to stay with you? - As you wish. # My God, my God, please listen to me... # Why did you leave me? # Far are from my redemption the words... # My God, I'll shout in the day and you won't hear me, # and in the night and you won't think of me. # ...... Alina... What's with you? Why don't you sleep? What are you doing here? Reading from the Bible. Now, in the night? This is my canon. And you read together? - Alina... - Leave me alone. Alina, I thought you were sleeping. - Don't go away like this again. - All right. Come on, go to sleep. You don't come? I have to read. I'm not going alone. - Alina, I'm just here. - No. - You want to stay with us to read? - Mhm... All right, come sit. Put this on you. - Sister, the stove still has some cracks, it needs some more clay. - Yes, Mother. - What's up? - She has the devil in her. I have to tell the priest. Let the priest alone, calm down, what did she tell you? She was saying crazy things, and she wasn't speaking with her voice! - I'll speak to her, don't tell anything to the priest, please. - God help me... The priest said to take Alina and go to talk to him. - Where's the priest? - In his cell. Come in. Take a seat for a moment. Alina, how should I put it... anybody who decides to live in a monastery, has to free himself from all the earthly things. To have his mind to the Holy One and to live in cleanliness and holiness for real, he leaves behind everything, the house, the money... because, you know, it is not in vain that they say that "money is the eye of the devil" And leaving everything behind also means not to have more love for people than for God. Why? So there is nothing left to pull him back to life. ...To give him needs. Because the devil is very cunning. He knows how to make you have desires, soften you and forget God. And you think that it's your flesh and your desires that you fulfil, but in truth it is HIM you serve and satisfy. Now, if you ever decide that you want to go on this path, we will receive you here open-hearted, but before that you'll have to give what you have to give... what you have to bring here, if you have money or other objects, so bring them, because you see we're all like a big family. Each of us contributes with whatever he can. But now it seems to me you're not prepared to make this step. So I say, you go and think about it, calm down, reconsider... and when you get to a conclusion, you come here and tell me "priest, this and this". But what did I do, priest? It's not about what you did or didn't do. The convent is for those who want to go on this path. And you are midway. You'd stay, you'd go, And this torments you even more. Understand? I spoke to Mr. Valerica and he's waiting for you. As soon as you're ready, you're on. Wait a moment outside. You come with me, right? You may go with her. Daddy, where is she supposed to go? Doesn't she have a family where she lived? She hasn't lived there for a long time now. She only has some things there. I don't know. Go there and see. Daddy, but with God's help she'll find her way if she stays here, you'll see. Mother, you can't put God into somebody by force. Understand? Yes, daddy, but... Mother, I told you something, right? Let her decide and as God wishes, that will be. Come on, go. Bless me. - Help yourself. - No, thank you. - Please, they're maigre. - Thank you. - You? - Thank you. - May it be received. - You help yourself, ok? - Yes, thank you. I'll take one too, they're very good. So, what did they say at the hospital? That she needs silence and rest... That's why we were thinking that she should stay here for a while, to get better. And after that we'll see. I said that's not good with this Germany... That she works too much. But she never listens. - And there, among foreigners, who knows what bad influences she had... - Yea, that's so true... It's very hard with them, from the orphanage, but we thought we should help, after all they're all children. When Alina came here the first time and saw that she had her own room... She was so happy, you know! She took showers every day. ...Until my husband told her: "Hey, slower with that water, that too costs money, it's not for free." But she's hardworking, I can't complain. Here, Mother Elena, from Alina. Electrical. Eh, thank you, she shouldn't have bothered. Where's her room? That way, by the hall. - I'll go for a moment to see her. - Go. Straight ahead. All right, you'll get there. This is your room? Yes, here is my room. Nice. It's good, we have our bathroom too... Alina, I'll have to go, Mr. Valerica is in a bit of a hurry. - You want to go with them? - Yes, Alina. And me? It's better if you hang around here for a while, you calm down, you think about it... And for you wouldn't it be better to stay a while and think about it? I'll pass by to see you... If you want, I'll speak to the priest to come Saturday to stay with you. And I'll stay over with you until Sunday. We'll talk, we'll think it over... but now I have to go. And you behave, ok? Come on, I'll be back soon. Ok? I won't even say "bye", I'll return that fast, ok? Come on... be wise. When Alina parted for Germany, we didn't agree. But eventually we thought... If this is what she wanted... she should go. And her brother came instead of her. He's kind of dazed, comes, goes, you can't count on him. Our priest talked with somebody to put him in a monastery. Did he? Good to know, so we won't wait for him unnecessarily here for working. Won't we go, mommy? Won't you stay for lunch? We won't stay, it's getting late. Wasn't it be better if you stayed a little longer with her? - Here? - Mhm... Father Nusu will also be here soon from fishing... You eat something... Come on... Thank you but we should go, the priest is waiting for us. Let's move then. Mother Elena, whose are those clothes in the wardrobe? They belong to this girl who helps us with the work around here. You took another child in my place? For work, dear. And you gave her my room? Didn't you say you'll stay in Germany for good? And my things?... We put them in the summer kitchen. And my clothes? Your clothes are in plastic bags, nicely closed... ...they were gathering dust in that wardrobe. If you need them, just go and get them. Take them out because I want to give them away. What do you mean "away"? I move to the convent and I have to give away everything I own, "money is devil's eye". What are you talking about? Alina, I say don't be hasty. Just hang around here for a while, calm down, rest, and when you're getting a little better, the priest told you he's waiting. No, I already made the decision. Mother Elena, please give me my money too, they need it at the convent to sanctify the church. God forbid... Alina... Alina, I say you should stay here for a while. Mommy... if she decided she wants to come to us... Come on, Mother Elena, we should hurry up to get there as it's still light outside. Wait for Father Nusu, he has the money. The summer kitchen is unlocked? The key is in its place. I'll come and help you. Alina, what got into you? Mother Elena, you can't imagine how many sins I have. The priest had to give me a thousand "paternoster" to be absolved. For God's sake, Alina, what sins could you have? The colored ones, give them all away. - And the black ones? - The black ones we'll take with us, won't we, "mommy"? Alina, the priest told you something. What did he say? He said that if I give away everything I own, I can come. Didn't he? What are these, trousers? Give all of them away. It's not only this, that you should give away. With the money they will sanctify the church and that's it, right? Give this too, Mother Elena. Or you can sell it if you want. You won't take it with you? No, this is from Pfaff. - Remember Pfaff, right? - Look, Father Nusu is here. Come on, go make him a nice surprise. - God forbid, what's wrong with her? - I don't know, madam... The confession she did... the communion she took... Madam, maybe you and your husband could convince her to stay here for a while and rest. ...There's not too much space left for her here... Father Nusu, we're in a hurry... - Did Alina tell you this? - What? - That she wants to go to the convent. - She told me. - And that she wants her money back?... My money that I put aside. I didn't say anything about the rest... It's yours, but you gave it to me for keeping, so you don't give it away on all kinds of crap and now I see you give it away. God, Alina, and that piece of land you said you wanted to buy? I don't need that any more. Didn't you say you wanted to make a house there with your brother? No, Mother Elena, better if I give them my money, so they can make something for the soul with it. Mother, I beg you pardon, but this is not possible... Madam, but we never asked for anything. As she decides, so she will do... Alina, you don't think about your brother? Mother Elena, you can't love anybody more than God if you want to be loved in return by Him. This you should give to a child. What are you talking about... When you enter into a new family, each should contribute something, right? As long as I lived here I paid rent! Ee... what rent was that... Alina, I still think it's a pity to lose that place in Germany. I already lost it. And after all, you're not convent material... - You've got an edgy nature, you get angry, you change your mind fast... - You like warm water... Come on, Father Nusu, give us the money, so we get there while it's light. Go get her money... Take her then, Mother... If this is what she thinks... I'll take her, but the priest will decide eventually. Come on, Father Nusu... Here's 500 euro. What do you mean 500? 'cause we didn't know you'd come... and 500 I sent for you to the hospital. For the medicine, Alina. What do you mean for the medicine? As long as you were in the hospital, we had to buy you medicine, pills... And the gas for the car as we went every day to see you... Wait a minute. What does that mean? You gave them my money? We gave it to your brother. One day he came with Mr... that you need money at the hospital. ...and he wanted more, it's ME who gave him only 500, I thought that... I don't know who how much it took, but everything we spent was for her. Mother, take the money. I put you some apples here... and a picture, so you remember us... - Hello. - She's that one? - Yes. - How is it, you like my room? - Sorry? Be careful, they'll try to trick you with the money. Goodbye. Father... ...they're here. - Good evening, priest. - Good evening. - Kiss thy hand, Father. - God bless. - God bless. Mother, I sent you there for something. I know, Father, but there was no way. She decided to give away everything she owned, just to come here. God must have some thoughts for this girl, Father, it's a test for you. Won't you come to sleep? No. Voichita, let's get out of here. - Where? - Anywhere, just to get out of here. Alina, why did you come back if you think like that? Voichita, how long you think you'll stay in this cave, your whole life? This is my home now, Alina. What are you afraid of? You're afraid of living? The priest once told us a parable, about a man who traveled all the world to make sense of his life. ...And about another one who just opened the door and he found peace of mind and God in an instant. Could you just please spare me with this GOD of yours... GOD this, GOD that, it's the priest talking with your mouth, not you! Alina, if you want to stay here you have to give up this hatred and this way of behaving... God doesn't come to angry people. Stop talking as a lunatic, can't you just speak like a normal person? What do you mean "normal person", Alina? Cursing and dirty words? - What did you tell Antonia? - I said nothing to Antonia. Alina... It would do you so much good if you'd succeed in believing. Voichita, but I believe. All the time I was there I prayed every day to God to bring you back to me. ...But why He doesn't want this, I don't understand. God gives each of us what we need, not what we want. But I NEED YOU! Let's go to sleep. I want to be alone tonight, to pray. Then please go and leave me here. I'll pray this God of yours gives you better thoughts. Me too. He's traveling abroad... All right. Please, tell him when he comes back that I want to pass by and have a word with him. Whenever he's available. Thank you, God bless. What did the Bishop say, Father? He changed his mind, so he won't come to sanctify the church before we paint it. Anyway, priest, it's not for the painting that people come to listen to you. It's not about the painting, but we can't stay with the church not sanctified for so long... Priest, don't anger God, 'cause the church is up the hill and there are more people at the divine service than down in the village. I want the church full. And it will be. When people see how many things can be done where there's faith, the Bishop will cross himself. Mr. Valerica, will you stay to eat with us? No, Mother, I have some things to do. Good appetite and God bless. - God bless. Where's Alina? She prays in the church, Father. She prays, but now it's lunch time. She said she doesn't need to eat anymore, she's Black Fasting now. She prays since last night. Who allowed her to do this? Go tell her that fasting is by the rules, not by anyone's mind. Priest, she entered the altar, and it seems she's not herself! What are you doing, Alina? What did you do? Alina, did you enter the altar? Alina, this is a big, big sin! Why is that? What do you mean "why?" It's a big sin, do you realize what you just did?! Priest, I just pray to God to make my wish come true. How do you want God to help you if you enter the altar? Priest, is it true that there's an icon in the altar that makes your wishes come true? - Who told you this? - I did. She told me that you saw an angel and there's a miraculous icon in the altar. Alina, a true believer doesn't need any miraculous icon to believe. But I really, really need that, priest! But there's no way you can enter the altar! No way! No matter what you need! Priest, but this icon is there, isn't it? Sure it is. But this is not a reason for you to enter there. You have a canon. From now on you move into the new cell and do 1000 "paternoster". May I see it, priest?! - What? - May I see the icon please... Go make your canon. And you don't get out before you finish it. - Priest, there's nothing in the altar, am I right? - Did you hear what I said? Go! You're not allowed here, don't you get it?! There's nothing in the altar, right? Why do you lie? Why do you lie to them?! Why do you keep her here? You like her, am I right?! - Alina, nobody keeps me here by force... - You shut up! Shut up! ...You won't trick me. Why did you take my money?! Why did you take my money? Speak! What do you want to do with my money?! SPEAK! Why don't you speak?! SPEAK! You're tongueless now, right?! You thought I was stupid like these crows?! Come on, show it to me if you have something to show, but you've got nothing! Oh... God!!! What's this, "daddy"... You think you can fool me with this? Mother, please go take care of madam as we settle things up here. Wait outside, please, we'll start in a moment. Priest, there are other people coming too. Take them to the kitchen and ask them to wait. Why, Father, let the people enter the church... Come, people, come inside! Take your hands off me, priest! You want to fuck me like you do with these faggots?! Say it! Why don't you speak? Speak! Get out of church. Get out! God forbid... Let the people come in. She was shouting at us, threatening to kill us. She threw us out. She said she won't move into the new cells to live like animals in the stall. She said she waits for the priest to talk to her, if not, she will come. I told her now is the Holy Liturgy and it's not possible. And she cursed me. Oh, God have mercy, here she comes. Close that door, they will see her in this state! She wants to come like that into the church. Go call Mother Pristina to calm her down. # ...Any mistake he made by word, by deed or by thought... # As a loving people God, forgive him. for there's no human to be alive and not to make mistakes. # YOU alone have no sins... Priest, she started to pull the bell's ropes and she said she wants to speak to you. Get out, Mother. Daddy, don't lock her up, daddy... Prepare yourself to leave, we can't go on like this. Enter the church. Where should we go now?! There's no place we can go. I understand, but this girl can't stay here any longer. And what now, just throw her out in the street? Mother, speak to the priest to help her. To make her a special liturgy. The priest cares for you a lot. What kind of liturgy? To read her the special prayers. And maybe with God's help to exorcize the Evil One! The priest would keep her here open-hearted if she would walk on the right path. But you see it can't go on this way. Will she recover if he reads? It is God's will. But if the priest dares to do that, I think he will succeed. Our priest has great powers. Just ask him. Father, if we don't take care of this girl, she's lost. Do you even know what you ask of me? All my hopes are with God to help her. I don't know what else to do. You can't stay here any more. Daddy, but I don't need anything else in the world. There's no other place where we could take her? Where, daddy? - This family where she... - No Father... they already took some other girl in her place. Some relative, something? Her mother is alive, she was once at the orphanage, didn't want to hear about her after that. To the hospital they didn't want to keep her... And the orphanage? She can't go back to the orphanage after she went away. Father, we can't throw her out in the streets. Sure we can't. But we can't go on like this. There are a lot of people coming here to see the light, Easter is close. ...And we have The Enemy in our church. Father... ...do a good deed and read her the special liturgy to help her get rid of The Evil One. Mother, this is not done just like that, alone. - I know, Father, I know. Daddy, please, don't throw us out. There's no other place where we can ask for help. This has to be asked by someone from the family. It's a big decision here we're talking about. If she doesn't have a family... She has her brother. Ei, Father... Will you call him? Ionut! The priest calls you for a moment. Come on. Kiss thy hand, Father. God bless. Ionut, listen to me carefully, this is about your sister, ok? She's very tormented and we can't keep her here any more. She torments everyone around her. Either we take her to the hospital and we leave her there... Either we read to her ourselves from the Holy Books to take the Evil One out of her. You're the one who has to decide for her, because she's not very clear minded now. And there's no mother, father, to make a decision for her. Ionut, do you at least understand what the priest asks? Understand? You have to decide what we'll do with your sister. Leave him alone, Father, there's no way you can ask him this. - Let him speak. Ionut... Do you want us to read the special prayers to Alina to exorcise the Evil One? Ionut... Let the priest read, maybe it'll do her good. Mother, we all pray tonight to God to give us good thoughts and tomorrow we'll decide what's to be done. - All right, priest. God bless. - God bless. # All your commands are the truth. # They judged me unjustly. # Help me! # My life was hanging by a thread on Earth, but I never gave up your commands. Come quickly, she's breaking everything in the cell. - God forbid. Call the priest. - Mother Antonia went to call him. She wanted to get out by the window and the cell burst into flames. Where are the other keys? Give it to me. - Leave me alone! - Help me here! Mother, this for everybody to know. Starting today, we're all Black Fasting. We have to read to her, if we want to defeat The Enemy. Bring her into the church. We should finish before people start coming for the divine service. Priest, she wouldn't stay by herself in the church. Tie her up if she doesn't stay. Has she calmed down? - Do we get her? - We get her tied up, like this? Are you quiet? If you're not, we can't untie you. Look, Alina, the priest talked to Ionut and he will read to deliver you from Evil and calm you down. Will you calm down? Will you come by yourself to the divine service if we untie you? If not, we have to tie you back up. Come on, help me. Give her some water. - Be careful not to cut her with that rope - Did you calm down? - Oh... God... - We don't bother God any more, ok? I'LL KILL YOU! Is anybody coming? What are you doing? Mommy told me, go fetch a bowl. - Hold this. - Yes. - You got a nail? - Yes. Bring her, people must start arriving for the divine service. Calm down. Put her down. Slow. She won't stay, Mother. She has to stay, to read to her. Put her here, come on. Tie her up with this. The other way. This one is no good. Take this one. Use this one for her legs. I need one here too. How should I tie her up? - Not like this in the back... - But how? We need another piece of wood... Like this. Calm down, Alina.. Calm down. Come faster. These ones are okay? This one is good. - Underneath. - Hold her. Give me that hammer. - It's not okay like this, we can't use the hammer. - Hold her up for a moment. These are no good Mother, they don't hold. - Give us the rope. - The rope is no good, it cuts her hands. Where did you put those chains for the dog? By the dog's cage. Go quickly and bring those chains. Bring the padlocks too. Faster! Put them carefully at the wrists, so it doesn't cut her. - It's okay, Mother? - Wait to finish here. Calm down, Alina, it's for you we do all this! Come on, the priest will read to you and you'll see you'll be better. - Mother, the people have started coming. - Oh, my God... Open the window a little, so she can hear the service. Go out quickly and clean up, hurry. We should bring her a blanket. She doesn't need one, it's warm in here. Hold her a bit more. Calm down, Alina, we'll come and take you to the prayer. Be quiet and listen to the liturgy, ok? Look, she's calmer now. God, have mercy of her. # ...Save me from all Evil deeds. # The seal of the heart's joy, eternal happiness. Put under her hands too. # To deliver us and rescue us... # Now, and ever, and forevermore, amen. God, poor girl, she's so tormented by The Evil One... When I tell you, take off the gag. # God, as a weapon against the devil, your cross you gave us. # Seeing it he flees in terror... # Holy Father, doctor of our bodies and souls, # That sent your first born, our Lord Jesus Christ, # to heal all disease and ransom from death # your slave, Alina. (take that off) LET ME GO! Yes. Mother, I think she peed herself. We'll wash her. But how long are we going to keep her like this, mommy? We'll untie her, when the priest sees that she's calmer, at least a little. - Mother, I'm afraid she could be sick... - Let her be, she won't be sick. - She didn't eat yesterday all day. - For the moment we're not allowed to give her food. The more we feed her, the more The Evil One gets more power. ...And we have to weaken him if we want to defeat him. But how long will it take for her to be better? God knows... For some the effect is faster, for others slower... I can't stand looking at her tied up like that. But we don't hurt her! We try to deal with the Enemy that torments her, not with her! It's HIM shouting and whining trying to impress us. And you stop fussing like this. You take us all the power we have left to do what has to be done. For you we do all this. And for her. Not for us. Come on, go and warm up some water. Oh, God, Alina... Poor girl... She feels us. Sure she feels us, cause when she's conscious she realizes. Only when Evil takes her mind she loses herself, it's not her who wants to do harm. Calm, Alina, we'll change you and you'll be clean. It's not proper to meet God like this... Alina, but you have to fight too... The priest reads to you, but if you don't fight to overcome the devil, this is not enough... Alina you were so calm until now, why do you do this? You just want to annoy us? Sister, go now into the church and pray. Sister! You go now! You don't let yourselves be impressed! It's the Evil One who shouts through her mouth. But the Evil One, where does he go when he gets out of a person? This nobody could know. Anyway, he goes where he finds a weakness. There he makes a nest. Please, read to her so we can finish this up. Calm down, Alina, come on... # God of Gods and Lord of Lords. # Make that this curse, that is made in Your name, the Fierce One, # let it terrify this cunning adviser # I curse you, the beginner of all Evil # master of animosity and weaver of intrigues # get out and go away from God's creature Alina! # Be afraid! Run away! Stay away, Devil, Sheitan, Unclean Terror! # The One under the ground... She must have such a big sin that she pays off right now... Poor girl... I so pity her! Where's Alina? The priest told us to get her into the holy water room as we clean here. Isn't it cold in there? It's warmer than here, we made the fire. - Wait a moment. - What? Mommy and the priest, they suspect something... What do you mean? They see you so doubtful, agitated, and they worry for you. Why would they worry? I don't know, I just told you. But think about it well. Mother, wait a moment. I also spoke to Mother Superior... And we decided it's better if you don't come to the liturgy when we read to her. Why, priest? It seems you're not strong enough for this trial. The Enemy is very aggressive right now. And hits those ones where he feels a weakness. So better you go to the door and tell us when people start coming to the divine service. Come on, go. - God bless. - God bless, Mother. Do you know a piece of land for sale around here? Beyond the hills, that way. Thank you. All the best! Leave, Alina. Sister! Sister! Come quick, she's up. - What happened? - Alina has recovered, she's well. Thank God! She knows us, she's quiet... Come quick, she calls for you. And bring some water too. I'll go fetch Mother Superior. You go find the priest. Where's Alina? They went inside the church with her. She doesn't want water, I already gave her some. - How is she? - She's fine, Father, she's calm. Thank Heavens... Are you well, Alina? Shall we go? It'll be fine now. - O, God... - Lay her down! Let her get some air. Untie this. She's sick, Mother, listen to her heart. She passed out... - Let's call the ambulance. - Who spoke to her this morning? - Mother Pahonia, and she told her to call Voichita. Give me that water. Hold this. She's breathing. - Do you know if she has diabetes? - No, priest. Might be just a calcium fall. Go quick to Mr. Valerica, tell him to call the ambulance. And wash her a little, change her, we can't keep her like this. - Good day. - Good day. - Where is she? - Inside the church. - What happened? - She passed out now, in the morning. Let me pass. - God, she's so young... When did she pass out? - Now, this morning. What is this? She was a little agitated and she injured herself. And the mouth? - She didn't drink too much water, doctor. - She was Black Fasting. - That's not from the fasting. - Listen, who's the last one who spoke with this girl? Mother Pahonia spoke with her this morning. She said she was thirsty and I gave her some tea. Quiet, please. It's around 3, doctor. You won't give her anything? We'll do something in the car. Doctor, there will be trouble if we take her in this state. God, just do something! What do you want us to do? Please, let's take her to the hospital! Let's take her, quick! Turn the car around. Come on, help me take her. Take care of the head! Easy. Prepare adrenalin. Give me her ID, ok? Make way... Move aside! The end of the hall. Careful at the door. Wait in the other room. - What did you give her? - Adrenalin. - How much? - Five ampules. - Why did you give her so much adrenalin? - The vital signs were very low, so we thought we should try. What did you want to try, don't you see this girl is dead? God forbid, she's so young, doctor, we thought maybe you could help her here. What do you expect me to do, woman, to wake her up from the dead, or what? I thought, who knows, maybe she still has a chance. You thought... Doctor, if you can't handle the situation, ask for help, now the hospital has to account for this. - I told you we're in trouble... - You wait outside. Did you see the bite of this girl? You want to try and open her mouth? - What are you talking about, this girl is dead for... - But at the convent they told me they spoke to her this morning. Really? Will you come here? What's up with this girl? What did you do to her? We didn't do anything, what do you mean? Why is she dead then? God forbid, madam, believe me, she was still alive when they took her from the convent. See what you did? I took her just for you to see we did everything possible, but... She was alive, she spoke to us in the morning! What do you mean she spoke, woman... Why did you give her so many injections on the way if she was already dead? You see? Now it's your fault! What's this? What are these marks on her wrists? What did you do to her?! She had some crisis from time to time, she was agitated. Why didn't you bring her to the hospital if she had crisis? We did bring her to the hospital, to Dr. Solovastru. ...and he said we'd better take care of her at the convent. ...And you took care of her... God, doctor, do you think anybody wished her ill? Why did she die then, 'cause nobody dies of natural causes at this age. Don't you see how this girl looks, woman?! - She was tied up. - You tied her up?! She was harming herself, madam, she wanted to burn herself down. ...so you tied her up... Here at the hospital they tied her up too! She was very violent, you know... She was violent and you were very gentle... You will rot in prison, listen up! This is called "homicide", what you did. You're just murderers. We just wanted all the best for this girl. You wanted all the best? I see how you did that. I'll tell everybody. Police, press, everybody. God forbid anybody gets into your hands... And in your hands too, doctor, if you don't mind... Go into the other room, be quick! Sit and fill the form in, come on. Write this: "I found the patient deceased" "With rigidity already onset," "with wounds at wrists and ankles as a consequence of being tied up" - You wrote it? - Yes. "Burnt lips, impossible to move the lower jaw," Don't pray for me, you got it? Better I burn in Hell than have you praying for me. Do I sign it, doctor? Magda? How am I? Not so well. No, Matei is well. He has an appointment for 16:15. I'll beep you when I'm downstairs. No, don't buy him anything, please, the house is filled with toys. I called you because I have here a death by violence. She was brought from the convent. Give me her ID. Ringhis Alina. Moved to Sintesti, Buzau County. for some time now. Two nuns from the convent brought her. What should I do with them? Keep them here? Fine then. All right, bye. God bless her. Ionut! Come, they want everybody to be present. Is everybody here? Yes. - So, you held the liturgy in the House of Holy Water? - No inside the church. Come and show me the exact place. So, she was lying down there and I was reading. What did you read? The Holy Prayer, The Prayer of Holy Vasile and other prayers. And she was quiet listening? The nuns were staying with her. - You held her by the hands, or what? - No not by the hands... - She was stretched on a board. - How is that? Can you show me? - Like this, just that she was on a stretcher. - What stretcher? We were bringing her with a stretcher into the church. Bring that stretcher here so I can see it. Go bring it. So, she was lying at the liturgy on this stretcher? She was tied up. Did you tie her up, priest?! She was very agitated and we were afraid she might harm herself. What was wrong with her, priest? I don't know, Officer, she was highly tormented. - Satan was inside her... - She had a lot of strength. I don't understand how such a thin girl had so much strength. She practiced martial arts at the orphanage. How do you know? We were colleagues since the first grade. This girl came to visit her, that was the beginning of all the trouble. Don't tell me, priest, you tied her up on this? Yes. Don't break it, this is evidence, all right? What did you tie her up with? With some towels, and on the towels some chains. You tied her up on the cross with chains, priest?! What cross, man? Looks like a cross to me. Cross... The cross is something sacred not this... She was harming herself, Officer, that's why we tied her up. She wanted to throw herself into the well one day, she was shouting to us that she'll kill us... So we gagged her to stop her shouting. - She was tied up just when we read in the church. - Yes, that's all... And after that where did you put her? There, in the back, where I showed you. And there she was staying of her own will? No. She was never released. How long did you hold her like that? Well, I think Thursday, we begun reading the liturgy, right? - Yes, right. Thursday. Did you give her water? More Holy Water. Food? I gave her some bread with tea in the morning, but she didn't want to eat. Why is this cross stinking like that? We washed her, you know, but if she was stretched such a long time, you can imagine. Priest... ...this sounds nasty. "Confinement followed by victim's death", that's over 20 years in jail. God forbid, but for what?! - We prayed for her and all we wanted was her best. - That's true. You might have, priest, but you can't just tie people up like that... If she was banging her head on the walls and almost burned herself, sure we tied her up. The doctors at the hospital tied her up too, you know. All right, Mother, but this is not a hospital. It isn't, but we take care of people too, you know... Priest, nobody said it was on purpose, but when somebody makes a mistake, they have to pay, no matter what. When there's a mistake, yes... What do you mean, priest? The girl is dead. People don't die from prayers. Neither from tying them up. Then why did this girl die, priest? I don't know, this is your job to investigate, but I see that you already know. What should I investigate if she was tied up? If you give a medicine forcibly to a child, to cure him, how do you do that? With a child it's different, priest. This girl was also just like a child. ...But not YOUR child. She had nobody else to take care of her. She didn't have relatives, anybody? She has a brother, we spoke to him before reading to her, but he's in his own world, he's more... Priest, if this girl was ill, do you realize? How could I not realize? Why didn't you take her to the hospital then? We took her to the hospital, sure we did, and they gave her back to us. And you thought you're more experienced. Not for illness, Officer, this is a doctor's job. I tried to cure the cause of the illness. Not all illnesses are in bones and flesh. And yesterday morning she finally was calm! You don't know how she was, this girl. Priest, I ask you: Do you think it's anybody's fault that the girl is dead? Only God knows, He's the only one without fault. We all make mistakes. I might have my part of fault, I trusted too much in my powers and I wasn't good enough. Priest, it looks like we can't solve it talking. We go... You'll explain to the prosecutor everything in detail. If you succeed to convince him, all right. My job ends here. Let's go then. Somebody else that was present should come. Mother, give to Mr. Valerica what we put aside for the orphanage. - Yes, Mother. Among you, who was there too? Those ones who tied her up then. - I think that's enough for the moment. - Yes, we'll see after that. - Should we take anything with us? - There's no need. May I come too? All right... You should have your IDs with you. Sister, please, go and get them. Don't be afraid! God knows we never meant harm to anybody, priest. It seems to me you're afraid. I'm not afraid, priest. If God is with you, you have nothing to be afraid of. - Shall we go? - Let's go. - You mind if I smoke? - No, you can smoke. We have to wait a while for Mr. Prosecutor. I just stepped out and you lit the cigarette. I thought you'd be gone longer... I met Gelu on the stairs and he told me Mr. Prosecutor is away investigating a crime. A boy killed his mother and put her picture on the internet. God forbid. When, today?! In the morning. His cousin called me, must have been an hour ago. Evil everywhere, you see... Yes. Yes, sir. I'm downstairs, in the street. Yea, I just have to wash it up a little, it got really dirty. Yes, I'll do that, yes, yes sir. Will this winter ever finish, sir? It will pass, it will pass. It will break all the asphalt before it passes. Eh, that's it now. Yes, but... Script and directing: Cristian Mungiu inspired by non-fictional novels of Tatiana Niculescu Bran actually inspired by a true story that happened in 2005 proofreading TheLittlestJellyfish
