 

                        ...and that's my confession St Ciprian calls virgins fragrant flowers of the church Embellishments of human nature The perfect work of that nature lmmune to corruption, images of holiness Thou art indeed pretty, but that is not thy doing Yet, to achieve a beautiful soul is within thy power Try to make thy soul... ...as beautiful as thy flesh Close your eyes to the sight of sin But what is sin, Father? Sin is an evil deed But how will l know it? lt must be a deliberate act He who does wrong raises his hand against God Sin is an offence against God lts inner cause is imagination and lust lts outer cause is another man... ...or Satan Satan clouds man's mind Quickens his imagination and incites lust Never read books which spread sin Look not at obscene paintings Avoid things which may be charming outside... ...but filthy inside Now, finally; when thou walkest in the street... ...men watch as you pass them Am l right? Yes The looks of these strangers arouse in you a strong feeling A feeling it is hard to describe You must not respond to those looks with joy Do this... ...and you attain what St Paul calls ''Love and the spirit of meekness'' But father, isn't that selfish? Can love be selfish? Enjoying wealth and happiness in the face of misery is a selfish thing Pray, and thou willst not be deprived of mercy... ...if you make now a solemn promise to reform THE STORY OF SIN Based on the novel by Stefan Zeromski With.. Directed by.. Walerian Borowczyk Are you angry with me? Angry? Of course not - Did you see father Youtkievich? - Yes And Holy Communion? l'll go tomorrow Can you last a whole night... ...without sin? Come quickly! What's up l can't tell you Are you trying to annoy me? All right, l'll tell you Horst has a whore in there with him You know! That red haired creature! Lead us not into temptation Dear Lord, l am unworthy St Ciprian said of women.. You ruin your neighbours... to whom you are worse than poison l can't be that bad O Lord, aid my humility How are you, dad? Get your absolution... Did you? Why not share some of that holiness ...with your old dad! Why not go to confession? Er..l will go, sweetheart l almost went the other day Trust me Trust me you went to the coffee house You grudge me one cup of coffee? It's not just coffee Don't start telling me... ...how to live my own life Good morning l was told you take lodgers Yes. Come in The room faces south west and is always warm - How much? - Fifteen roubles a month Hot water? Of course Service? Included in the price Fifteen roubles... You said how much? Fifteen? Fifteen a month I'll take it I'll pay in advance l'll have my bags brought up l'll fetch your bedding Mind the paint. It's still wet Don't worry, l'll be careful. May l introduce myself? Lukash Niepolomski Pleased to meet you Get off! The new lodger I'm sorry, l believe your father does the registration? l want to show my papers Please do Come in Our other tenant...Mr Adolf Horst You lived in Wilcza Street? Yes It's quieter here Maybe... Perhaps you prefer it more lively? Some people do To be honest, l don't really care Good. Then you're a healthy man... ...in these neurotic times Did the servants fix everything? I've done it myself. l have everything l need l see you are married Yes, l am Where is your wife? - Will she stay here? - No If you need a bigger room or another bed... No thanks. My wife is not coming l am in Warsaw to arrange a divorce Divorce! No easy thing Particularly with our Catholic church That's a hard nut to crack Don't l know. l found that out... -...when l was looking for a job - You want a job? Yes. I've looked everywhere All l seem to get are promises Even from former friends What line are you in? l can turn my hand to anything Believe me l used to own a farm Then l worked in industry and various offices Now everyone says l'm too old... ...but l can work harder than the Devil himself! l don't know anyone here. l study overseas... You're a student? Yes. l'm an anthropologist... Where do you study? Paris. The best place for science Also Geneva or Berlin About your job...l have a friend who's a factory owner. Name of Kraft - Kraft? - Yes Kraft! l know him. An idealist and a complete fool! Really, Mr Horst! How could you? - Where are you going? - To church - A penny for your thoughts? - l thought of you Why's that? Some things a wise man tells no-one Really? Yes, really Who's a wise man? A happy one, of course You know.. Sapientem Solum Felice Esse... l know that's Latin Please wait. l don't even know your name Why do you want that? To tell tales about me?... - About your name? - Yes! So, what is your name? Little Sun, Blessed Lips? Is it in the calendar? l don't read calendars Your name! First close your eyes Eva The first sinner Eva in Hebrew means ''to exist''... A charming word in the infinitive Eva means life which was is now and ever will be Eva is the immortal woman The heavenly Isis, who dwells... ...in the realms of infinity HEAD OF EXPENDITURE - Two full sets? - Almost three... Twenty seven pages, six hundred lines, sir l shall check it l shall check it Father isn't back? He will be soon Shall l serve? He's not here yet Stay there! ls Eva back? Have them come to the table See how sweet she can be? How are you? Good afternoon So, you took that job at Kraft's? Yes, l did. Sixty roubles a month... ...thanks to a little personal... ...introduction Bon appetite! No more talking, now, you two The soup is ready! Please... No, l insist, after you, sir reason is everywhere In all human souls In all human eyes reason is as common as breathing But in your eyes I see no treason I walk across the park... ...under a strangely transparent... ...and I wait for you... ...blue sky... ...I see stars shining... ...the little lanterns of longing i raise my eyes to look at them And my thoughts are happy and radiant the san1e shy/s above n1e... - What means the world without you? -...and above him... Should this love be lost forever. What would happen then?... No!Th/s would be the end... Without love there would be infinite waiting Without hope, there would be listening... ...to the noises and sounds the beating of a heart moving without knowledge and understanding l've got something for you, Miss Thank you! Good morning Good morning, Eva Good morning, madam Good morning... When you wrote there was no treason in my heart... i't was the happiest moment of my life You are right. There is no treason I will never cause you pain We are walking towards each other. Space and longing... One day a miracle will happen and we will be together the only living creatures Lost in space and time My breasts are covered in roses I rest on fragrant fabrics In a Iong high room I pass the time with the cult of my memories Please send your letters with a margin like before J can bind them into a book A marvellous book... ...such as the world has never seen I have no future. I have no past... I've burned all your beloved letters Yesterday I lost my law suit I have to pay my wife higher alimony Divorce is out of the question now I had expected it I must leave Warsaw I'll get a job somewhere else I won't tell you where this is my last day My last farewell I am not a coward. I am not I saw despair in your mother's eyes Here's the truth.. she begged me not to ruin your life This is the monastery in Kalvaria Zebrzydowska The Holy Virgin... ...painted on canvas, after the painting of Myslenice - Lunch, quickly... - Why the hurry? l'm busy Has Lukash Niepolomski gone? Yes, he did Has he left Warsaw for good? Yes Did he say good-bye? He did When did he go? To-day Where to? - l don't know - Didn't he say? - No - Why should he? Who cares? Don't you? Don't you care that your breasts sag? That you're a broody hen who goes where her husband orders That you're an old bag and l'm young? Take care! One word from Niepolomski and Kraft will sack me! Are you scolding me now? You at least... ...should think of my hard found job Niepolomski and Kraft! Shut up! ROOM TO LE Mother, have you advertised the room? l have That room! Yes Lukash's room! Are you crazy? l won't allow you to let that room lf you let it to some stranger... l'll become a streetwalker l'll go with anyone who comes along l promise you, l'll do it! You must forget him do you hear? You must lf you don't you'll be ruined l can't forget him! l won't! l'd rather be dead Do you think l'm as stupid as you? l've checked everything. l spoke to his lawyer He'll never get that divorce, do you hear me? l don't care about the divorce Don't be silly. Think of what you're saying Keep your advice! He'll never come back for you lsn't that what you wanted? Please, please, Eva... Never! You must forget him! Never Even if her beat and kicked me... ...dragged me across the floor... l would kiss his hands... ...worship him with my last breath Oh, God, how l want him SCIENCE JOURNAL By Lukash Niepolomski SCIENCE JOURNAL EDITOR Can l see the editor? The editor is busy Go in, please Can l help you? l am terribly sorry to bother you. l know you're busy... ...but it is very important. l'm a student from Paris Pleased to meet you And am returning soon with my friends One of them is studying anthropology She needs to contact Mr Niepolomski She used to work with him He was planning to join us l was told that you, sir, know all the scientists in town You're in luck, you really are Mr Niepolomski just wrote to me. l have it somewhere He's at the country estate Zglische Lublin district, near Pulavy He's due in Warsaw on Wednesday On the 7pm train You can meet him here Our office is always ready to accomodate... ...young, pretty pioneers of science And so am l! Mr Niepolomski has his own estate? A Polish scientist and writer own an estate? No, Mr Niepolomski is staying with Count Szczerbic... ...to...teach his sons Well then, he has no plans to go abroad - Sorry to have bothered you - It's nothing - What are you studying? - Medicine l'll be sure to tell my friends how kind you were Hotel Lipski! Lukash! Stop! Why did you do it? Why? Why did you run away? Why that horrible letter? l had to Where's this? lt's where l'm staying tonight Single room. l'll be right back lt's eight o clock. l'll take you home l'm in your room now l'm so unhappy. l can't bear it What about you? l shall borrow money from the Count and go to Rome l might get my divorce there Rome? When? - In a couple of months - When will you be back? l'll be back, Eva Go now! Don't leave me! l'll write you Back to the hotel! Dear Madam...My patient, Mr Lukash Niepolomski... ...who has been hospitalised here asked me to write He wants you to come at once. He has been shot in the lung I fear there is little hope for him Yours truly, DoctorJ. Wilgosinski l need some leave. My aunt is dying Are you serious? - Unpaid leave? - Are you serious? l ask again l've a right! l've not had a day off in 27 years Just two days? Out of the question ..400 plus 1 02... Five hundred and twenty eight Well, hello there Coffee, please We only have tea Alright Take a seat You from Warsaw? Yes l knew it So are we Good for you Are you working? Mind your own business! Just trying to be friendly You're a smart girl We're not so bad As for money... l've got plenty! Look at it So, come on then! Leave me alone Ha! Think you're a countess? You'll beg for it! lmpossible...lt's against our rules We'll just look at each other, Doctor l must prepare him first l'll leave as soon as you say My God, these romantic lovers! l got a letter for you What about? - She says she'll come - Show me! Take it easy. She's here now Where? Gently, gently. Calm down... Where is she? Please don't get agitated Eva! Eva, my darling! Don't talk too much. Take it easy l had a duel with the Count. Someone stole your letters... ...he laughed and made fun of you Don't talk... Just a few words...he mocked me... l slapped his face... there was a duel... He hit me...pierced my lung... Don't worry my sweet, everything will be all right lt won't lt will l'm going to die, Eva Then we'll die together, my love Would that be wrong? My defender! Where did he hit you? Shh! Don't talk... l'll stay here. l won't leave you alone How are you, Mr Niepolomski? Who's she? Comes from Warsaw... Water's boiling A Warsaw Lady! Once bitten twice shy... Shy of the kettle, see? Good evening, Mrs Niepolomska Good evening Cold today, isn't it? Someone broke the window Get in bed now! Jesus, what cold hands! Playing at being a glazier! Never fear...l'm here... ...to look after you That should keep us warmer Are you divorced? Your husband in one room... ...you in another My husband mustn't be disturbed Does a wife disturb her husband? He can't sleep with someone else in the room Well, l wouldn't sleep much either... ...if l was in his place Diderot says... ...happiness only exists... ...in countries where law recognises the basic instincts He's right ln Japan, for instance, young girls bathe in front of men That's in Japan! - Japan is a great culture - Japan! Japan! Always the same! Can you imagine a Polish girl bathing in front of us? Yet shame's only an invention, like clothes ls a blush on a girl's cheek an invention too? l'll prove it How? Missionaries on the Iles des Pins ordered the girls to wear skirts But they kept taking them off! Consider the animals We're not animals and your argument.'.. ...is very weak lm trying to teach you anthropology Woman's shame is man's invention. l can prove it Tonight I arrive in Vienna by train The sooner the better You didn't kiss me when I got on the train. You wept I miss you so terribly Your letter...I know it by heart, like a wonderful poem It's not a letter, but a kiss Remember in the park last year? I loved you so then. And I love you now Tomorrow I leave Vienna I'm no nearer to Rome, just further away from you I stayed one night in my beloved Florence In the Hotel Porto Rosso I can see the Duomo Water... If I were this card I would be in your room soon With my head resting between your breasts Ah! Your breasts so soft and white There I dreamed life's golden dream Now I have lost all hope... ...that I'll ever put my lips to that divine line... ...which both separates and unites them Rome. A date palm under my window Unripe fruits lie among the leaves far away I see camellia shrubs, likee lilac or hazel groves today is May 25th I had an audience They're dealing with my case O, priests, now I'm in your hands She'll be all right Silly girls! Have you no sense? This is no sickness, you'll see There's another little Lady on the way Wait here Mrs Rosa! Mrs Niepolomska, why so sad? Why are you crying? Such beauty shouldn't cry Open the door. Come on l can't. l'm ill Sick with longing, eh? Why are you always alone? You never go out Where is Mr Niepolomski? He'll be back soon Good morning, sir Can l help? l'm looking for Mrs Eva Pob... ...Niepolomski l believe she's staying here lf you mean Mrs Rosa Niepolomska... Yes, Rosa. Can l see her? Knock on her door. She may be in l wouldn't know Thank you Excuse me is Mrs Eva Pobratyns! ka here? She is ls that you? Yes l came on behalf of Mr Lukash Niepolomski Where is he? Niepolomski is in Rome ln Rome? Please sit down Mr Niepolomski is in jail ln jail? Allow me to introduce myself My name is Szczerbic Count Szczerbic? The man who shot Lukash? Yes. It was a matter of honour l wounded him in a duel So, it was you He asked me to visit you He wrote to you? No, to one of my friends in Rome He passed it on What did he do? l'm not sure. My friend's rather vague Niepolomski worked for the Austrian Embassy Making copies of important documents He took the most valuable ones... ...and sold them to an American antiquary He was sent to prison in May ln May? Please take this l'm only doing what he asked me He'll pay me back when he's released Whenever that might be Anyway, here's fifty roubles lf you need anything more... ...please write to me Zygmunt Szczerbic...Zglishche Estate That'll find me Jesus Mary! Mother of God! Stop screaming Miss Eva! Where've you been so long? ls mother in? No...l mean, yes...Of course - And Dad? - The master's out -Where is he? - l don't know Tell me ln the pub, of course Get out, you slut! Out! l'm not a slut yet. l may become one Don't you speak to me so! You whore! Then stop calling me names Shut up you whore! Shut up! l came to see father Please wait, miss! Don't go to the pub Can't she see her own father? What a mother! Get out both of you Don't you dare take her back Don't you dare! l won't have it, do you hear? Shut up! Shut up! Shut up or l'll kill you! l mean it l'll beat the life out of you! Good morning...Good morning Poland's always bred prigs. We call them cloth heads Plica Polonica Woe to he who cuts off Poland's plica The peasants'll get them. So much for theory... Now, let's examine some examples l don't know if you remember me? Can we talk? It's important May l ask when you're free? - Evenings - Tonight? Yes, tonight l would hate you to get the wrong idea... ...but l do need to talk with you l'm only free on Sundays Sunday, then Allow me to leave a little tip, miss His case has been heard He's serving his sentence Tell me the truth, please l give you my word it's true! The prison story's not just made up? - By whom? - By me! l see...poor girl l'm not poor, l'm just suspicious They are asking after you at your former lodgings You've been there? Don't worry. l paid the landlord off He knows l'd kill him if he utters a word What about? Why... ...the money you stole from him, l suppose Why do you meddle in all this? My dear Eva... l know this is very painful for you But l had to at least... ...let you know l realise that, from a stranger... Stop! For God's sake No-one'll ever mention it again l promise Why are you working in that place? We'll go together... ...as far as Rome l'll go on to the Riviera... ...and you'll wait in Italy for his release l'll cover all expenses l owe it to Lukash, and... ...and l give you my word of honour, there's no trick Sorry lt's nothing Pay me back when you can We'll travel in separate coaches l'll get your father a job... ...at the store l own l'd better go Somebody might see us - We'll meet at the station - Good bye l'm worth more than a dozen Counts You're here? Though l'm only a course bourgeois A liaison here? Rather shocking! None of your business So... What are you up to with this Szczerbic? How dare you? Let go! Listen, l want to save you from ruin l know about life and l know what's right l too know life and l know what l'm doing Signorina Eva Po... Pobratynska To see Lukash Niepolomski What? He was released a week ago Where is he now? He was deported to the French border Don't be upset. l'm sure he's gone to Monte Carlo... ...to win some money You'd better go via Nice l'll look for him elsewhere in France What luck to find you here! Have you any news? Nothing. Although l wrote to Paris - Are you here alone? - Yes. l am - Playing? - l've bad luck Let's go. It's stuffy here - Don't you want to try? - l've bad luck You never can tell Do you play? l had good luck and won a lot! But l gamble carefully So now l'll stop Really? Going home? Yes You're staying here? Well... what do you think is the best plan? He might be looking for you in Poland But do you think he is? l'm not suggesting anything nasty... ...but you don't seem sure of him any more To tell the truth, l no longer know You poor girl! Stop that! l meant nothing Then why say it? l'll try to find him He may have returned to my place Yes, yes... - Or your parents - Please don't go there All right, l won't So what should l do now? Enough! l'll risk all l have! Bitch! Wait, Peter Ivanovitch! Count? There's a lady to see you What lady? She gave no name l'll be right down Count! You did win! Yes - Here's 1 O,OOO francs... - But...! lf l don't owe that much... ...give the rest to Niepolomski l've a suite in this hotel. Stay here with me! So this is why you helped me? Yes! What did you think? Count Sczerbic! She's from Berlin Vienna, l'd say Be quiet. Her knight will come and give you a kick! - l bet she's a virgin - The Maid of Orleans... ... Joan of Arc A raving beauty Guess the colour of her hair Red! On her head? Be serious, my friends... ...faced by such beauty Look at this boat The boat of a nouveau riche Poles only marry for money There he is with his Rylska... ...off to the Ile des Pins! Like a careerist marquis! l tell you, Niepolomski is no loser He didn't give up after that Rome scandal Friends, look! Observe our beauty Quick, lads! The first there gets her What an unfortunate accident, madam l'll call the doctor No thanks You speak Polish? So you understood everything? l'm embarrassed l wasn't listening Good. Are you hurt? No. l'm fine Pleased to hear it Can you row? Of course Let's take this boat So nice to hear such lips speak Polish Concentrate on the rowing Those two, are they newly-weds? Yes. Lukash Niepolomski and Miss Rylska - You know them? - Yes. But... Studying here in Berlin? Anthropology. Stanislaw Liwicki l never saw eyes like yours before You lied, Mr Liwicki l did? You did. Niepolomski is already married You know him? Money can buy many divorces Anyway... ...l was at their wedding Yes, but l need written proof to show somebody All right. l can get a copy of the marriage certificate l'll bring it to you Tonight All right. Hotel Astoria My name is Eva Pobratynska Not Niepolomska? Certainly not! l'll see you later Come in Hello... Give... You see. Just as l promised Good morning... You're alone? Yes. Are you still living in Paris? - l may go home soon - l'll go to Vienna - l'm sorry to bring this up... - What's that? Have you seen Niepolomski? No No? Very strange lt is strange l met a man in Paris named Horst Horst? One of those bankrupt factory owners l didn't like him What'd he say? Talked a lot about you About me? Said you were...old friends He said that Niepolomski'd been in Warsaw When was he there? Just after we left Horst saw him at your parents... ...and told him that you were my... You understand? l do Apparently Niepolomski went mad and attacked him Next day Niepolomski left. Nobody knows where l see Nobody? l'm sorry to tell you all this You did me a great favour Really Now l understand Niepolomski is just a victim of circumstance. Like all of us Have you a ladies compartment? Of course. There are three ladies there already Where am l? What's this town called? Schuttenbach You want a room? This way, please Not a word! Where's your money? That's it? Make a sound and l'll kill you Understand? Stop screaming! Lie there... ...and wait! Help! Must l rape you? You can't escape me now l wanted you for years! ln Europe, America, at sea... l always thought of you We'll make love, baby. You can't escape! lf you scream, l'll tell where the little creature lies buried Lukash's souvenir Who are you? Your master from now on Just tell everyone l'm your husband - Understand? - Yes - You're mine now? - Yes Look at that. Not bad, eh? Don't worry. We'll have fun and see the world People like us don't need children l'm born to wander, and so are you Good evening Count Plaza-Splawski, my wife We fought together in Transvaal Thanks, l don't drink Thanks, l don't smoke Doesn't drink, doesn't smoke... ...but he's a genius for making money from nothing Jn youreyes Jsee no treason Reading his letters again? Leave that to the forger! We are going to Plaza-Splawski's Do l have to go? No moods! l won't go to that den! lt's business. You can understand that Can't he come here? He has moods, too. He's a count A nobleman without a shirt to his back Damn his bloody eyes! He won't come here But if you visit, you know... ...he'd be tickled pink You'll be there all the time? l might have to go out for a few minutes l can't really tell Then, no! To fetch paper or ink Whatever he needs And he hates women So you've no worries l know his Asiatic tastes. Prefers sour apples So...Come on! Look - l'm broke while Sczerbic is loa'ded l said it wouldn't be easy You must do your bit l read those letters He's crazy about you He'd sell up and follow you, even to America if you asked him What do you want from him? l suppose you have a plan Write, asking him to come here to Vienna Tell him to sell his property... ...or borrow against it Write passionately, tenderly And what if he turns me down? l'll tell how you killed your baby - You've no proof! - That's what you think! Don't be so rough with a lady Look, why not have some fun with the Count? You're not in love with Mr Pochron here But if you hate Szczerbic l do! But he loves you To be loved by people we hate... lsn't that fun? All right, he does love me. So what? Well, then... ...you can be loved by a Polish count... ...and help out your friends He'll pay a million for you We Polish nobles are very lavish He'd give his fortune for a taste of you But if he tries to force you... ...plunge the syringe into him and press the piston ln the arm, in the face wherever. It'll contain a powerful drug What kind of drug? There are many kinds We can decide later Then what? At your signal, we will rush in... ...and save you from the brute No! l won't do it! Keep your voice down! We shall read it and post it You're going to read my letter? lt's business, not love. Will you write it? Write! You slut! Write! My beloved... Exclamation mark l'm in Vienna. Full stop How incredibly beautiful the world could be... ...comma...if we could see each other now. Full stop Walk together in the streets... ...in this city where the moon is shining Yesterday I went to the country, with a crowd, alas But I left them, to walk with you alone... ...in perfect stillness I felt that we were together Your estate may be lonely... ...but I don't belong there. Do I? Shall I ever see you again? Why not come to Vienna while I'm here? I kiss your sweet lips... ...like flowers which I press to my mouth, my eyes I love your dear eyes and your sad soul My dearest, come quickly! I love you so terribly. I miss you so Write to me poste restante Tell me if you're coming My dearest, dearest beloved! Your, Eva PS. J think if you sold everything.. ...and tooh a big loan We could go away forever... ...and begin a new life What joy to devote myself to you in America Do come quickly, I'm waiting! No! Tell me... He's a businessman, owns some mines l'm going with him to America Then tell me what l should do now Shall l go back to Warsaw? Tell me What do you want? l'll do anything you ask me You're a weakling This man you're engaged to... Do you love him? l wish l could understand you You are killing me, Eva! l'll always love you, darling Only you understand me Tell me, darling... ...do you still love Niepolomski? No! l don't Go now. Soon we'll be together... For the whole night...naked Eva. Oh, Eva... Evie... Look, if you do everything right... What? We'll bring your man here for you Who do you mean? Niepolomski, of course! This guy's worth a packet - The door's locked? - Yes That man won't be back? Never l don't want you to see him again l love you so much l love you too... l hate thinking of him here... lt hurts me... lt burns a deep scar in my brain... You're crying? lt's nothing Just... ...l'm so happy We'll go to Italy first And then to America You shot Lukash, didn't you? Count Sigismund Szczerbic of Zglishche Show me where you hit him l'll kiss the spot Here at the side Curare's the best Paralyses the speech organs... ...the larynx and the power to move lt leaves absolutely no trace Not a drop of blood. Nothing He'll be gone in a minute Wait till he's dead! What's your name? Anna Winter ls that your real name? Why do you need my real name? l want to talk... ...to a real human being and not a flower of the street A do-gooder Please... Don't be angry lf you only want to talk... ...then l'm busy l'm going out - What is your price? - 25 roubles Very well, then - You're expensive, nymph Calypso! - That's the price Take it, my sweet, take it We can talk without having sex lt's not the same But l only want to talk Then take your money and go! Either have fun, or get out All right! Strip, if you want to You want it too Lover boy! Go on. Just get your clothes off What's your name? Surname? No surname Right, why soil your father's name What's your name? Ciprian Bodzanta l like the way you do your hair Like the wife of Septimus Severus l got it from Cleo de Merode Such a vulgar model A terrible dancer too - Are your parents alive? -No - Been long in this profession? - Yes Can you read? You idiot! l can speak French, Mr Missionary... l've lived in Nice and Paris l've led more than one Count a merry dance l could see you had style Why not come and work for me? Full board and a salary - Where? - The country - Your place? - Yes, where l live A job...l know all about those kind of jobs l never touch a woman l don't love And l don't love you. All right? Welcome to Utopia! Cut out the irony ln Poland, any progress is Utopia Co-operative farms make more sense l ask nobody to give away their fortunes Aren't you afraid they might damage those beautiful paintings? Such work shouldn't be shut away in a museum lt should travel the world speak to the people That's the point of art We show our paintings in the market Was it difficult to give up your wealth? Of course. But only he who gives up property... ..may conquer the universe And l'm eager to conquer it! lt's easier to attain virtue through sin... ...than through ignorance Bodzanta dragged me here by the hand... Now l'm the happiest woman on earth Are you really happy here? Very We could return to our old lives But who wants the tyranny of men? We're happy here without them You all do what you want? Yes. We can work, or rest... stay or leave Do many leave? Some of the girls have married Then you do see men here? You can see whoever you want But marriage isn't all it's cracked up to be in any case Families are just a burden when you get down to it Have you had children? No Through the pain of possession, you attain the grace of loss Through the grace of loss you attain the pain of possession l'm bored with virtue And that's the truth My only property is one secret How l long to attain the grace of its loss Tell, it to me. It's what l've waited for! l killed my baby... You knew Count Szczerbic? Yes l killed him in Vienna You... You...killed him Let us lift our hearts to the sun Let its light resurrect our spirit Out of the way! Old baldie! Lukash Niepolomski sent me Lukash Niepolomski? A letter for you From Lukash? You're a/ways atn1ys/'de. Jneedyou J cannot//'ve w/'th these thoughts Since you were in love, we'll forget your arson Will you come with me? To Niepolomski? - You know where he is? - Of course! - He wants to see me? - He sent me - You're sure it was him? - Certain Lukash Niepolomski? Yes My God!...Plaza-Splawski! How do you do? Have you come to pay pennance? Not yet You fight boredom with debauchery You're more bored than me How are your mines in America? Come and see them. We'll have fun l know your kind of fun only too well Ah ha! And your idea of fun is picking through human refuse So? You're like an Arab colt that lets its forefeet be bound... ...so that it can only hobble like a common carthorse Your humour is hollow l thought your enemies had killed you To kill a tiger you must be well armed You're like those old men who believe that Mandrake will help them... ...to conceive children with young, passionate girls Come, Eva She's going with you? She's sick of your moral tales My name is... Stanislaw Kozielski l'm a sick man Please take care of me like a wife l must leave you now Where's Lukash? On the Isle of Celebes. He'll be back soon l'm just off... ...to meet him Go if you want... Go back to the country But if you do... ...you might miss Lukash again lntroduce yourselves, gentlemen Batasinski Grzywacz Come on, the lady's waiting Faytus Evie... Evie. Is it you? Let go, you scum Come and drink a brandy Don't you remember me? You stink like a corpse! Not for money, but for old times' sake l'm temporarily broke But l always loved you You dirty clown Do you remember me? l remember you were a randy bastard Do you have to be so vulgar? You could have had me back then But you were too stupid to know it You're lying! l made mother ill and father a drunk No! You were pure Ah! Go to hell Don't you want me, then? No, l can't bear to look at you. And l'm broke l'll go with you Just tell me what bar father drinks in now l'll show you. l promise Come with me, Evie We are going... We are going, my dear, to Marshalkowski Street Number 305 Make yourself beautiful We'll go separately You first Eva...Look at this The famous case of the late... ...Ciprian Bodzanta... ...the mad Count... ...ended in court yesterday The court ruled void the reforms done by the mentally ill man... ...and gave back all farms and lands to his widow Who cares? He's dead meat now Don't cry. It'll leave marks on your face Faytus! Leave the tobacco! My coat! You go first Walk up the marble steps... ...and you come to an entrance door with a brass plate You'll see the name Lukash Niepolomski Precisely. Precisely... ...the same What's he doing? lt's his home and office l see Niepolomski will be there You distract him We empty the safe Just the four of you? Yes, my sweet. Just us Will you kill Lukash? Not neccessarily... But no tricks, or it's curtains Lukash! Run quickly! They mean to kill you! That woman is innocent She only came to warn me. You must release her! l'll give my fortune for her freedom THE END (PICTURE)
