 

                        lnside please Sir, what would you like? Good food and wine Made a mistake, he is not Luo Hong Xun Luo Hong Xun, nicknamed The Sword of the Southern Sky Are you afraid of him? No, l suddenly thought of a plan What? Since he is coming to our Village of Tigers let's enjoy the show and let the people of the Ba family deal with him Ba family? Let the 9th Miss of Ba family fight with him Great idea This girl looks familiar You don't know her? She is the granddaughter of Granny Ba Don't underestimate her; Within Wild Date Peak she is a marvelous heroine Where's she going this early in the morning? Brother, look who's here Hero Bao Brother Lei, long time no see You're also going to the Wild Date Peak To celebrate granny Ba's birthday? l have to take care of some important business first, and then head for Wild Date Peak That's why l have asked my daughter Ying Hua to pay her respects first Ying Hua, come and say hello to uncle Uncle Lei Good girl l'll take care of your daughter so don't worry Thanks a lot lf l could make it to the Ba family l'll drink a few bouts with you Sure, look forward to it, please Farewell Ying Hua, follow uncle Lei Brother Lei, thanks for everything Don't worry Here're the noodles See what's on his table? lt looks pretty valuable Come, drink Oh, you're drunk again Still a long way to go Where are you going? Let me go...come Don't... Let's have a drink Don't drink anymore Come... Don't cause trouble Damn you Why did you hit me? Damn, what if l did? l'll hit you back You hit me? Let's go You haven't paid for your wine Thanks, miss Please What's your name? That's alright You may leave lf you don't accept my kindness, forget it then How much? Waiter, how much? l'll settle the lady's bill as well One dollar twenty Bill please Coming Where's my purse? Miss, someone paid for you Who? The gentleman you just talked to You know him? No, he's merely a passer-by Have you lost something? He stole it Mess with others yet can't even take care of one's own interest Come out, let's have a fight Miss, you helped me l would never dare to fight with you Miss, am l right? Come out if you have guts lt's just ajoke, don't be mad l'll be careful next time Come out if you have guts Farewell, miss My silver...it's more important Hurry... Master Ba, come and look You men of the Village Of Tigers do have some good kung fu This is your territory you should have a bigger share Bury the bodies quickly lf we were seen, l might be accused of conspiring with you What's to fear? lt all belongs to the corrupt officials The corrupt officials have so much wealth Wonderful Master Ba, master Hu ordered to carry the silver back to the village Sure, Ting Hu Jian, handle this Okay l must hurry back and attend my Granny's birthday party l'll settle it with you personally tomorrow at the Village Of Tigers Don't worry we won't touch it till you come Right, a deal Come, let's tidy things up Sister, you're here? Look what have you done What do you mean? What is this place? Tell me Wild Date Peak Wild Date Peak? lsn't that where our family lives? Yes Aren't you ashamed to conspire with those men from the Village Of Tigers to do such deeds? We do this at the risk of our lives Don't meddle with our affairs Right, stay out of it Alright, move it The silver stays What? Give master Ba some face lf l didn't, not one of you could return alive Move it Okay Don't move What do you want? Give the silver to the poor Don't worry l'll do it Move it Do you even give a damn about me? My brother would know better than to do such things You dare lecture me? You guys move it, never mind her Stop, come to your senses Don't get on my nerves You dare Let's go... Go, hurry Mother, sit here Many happy returns of the day Thank you You are so kind... Long Er Mother Go and serve our guests Yes Go on Make yourselves at home Who's here? Miss Bao Hero Bao's daughter Ying Hua lnside please My best wishes for a very happy birthday Many joyous returns of the day Thank you...help her up Haven't seen you in 3 years, so beautiful! Your dad? He has some business so l came first What a nice girl! Where's 9th miss? How come she isn't around? Ask her out to serve the guests She went to the town to get something Serve Miss Bao inside Please follow me Haven't seen you for a few years You are getting more and more pretty You are too kind My congratulations on your birthday Thank you, arise Thanks, this way please Uncle, dad Where have you been this early in the morning? Granny is looking for you; go on, hurry up Granny Why have you gone to town this early? Please sit l went to burn incense on your behalf What a filial grand-daughter Look l wish you'd be like him, living to ten million years Look Go inside and join them Brother Miss Who is he? What do you mean? l ask you again, who is he? My friend, master Hu Jiao Brother, are you crazy why do you consort with men from the Village Of Tigers? Bullshit Miss lt's Granny's birthday How could you fight here? Don't be rude to our guests Granny, sister slapped master Hu for no reason Master Hu? Rubbish See how fierce she is You dare utter one more word Shut up and go to the back Come on Master Hu, they are childish please forgive them lt's not necessary Master Hu... Good that you have driven Hu Jiao away He has such a repulsive face and it's disgusting Right, none of them is good in the Village Of Tigers lf it weren't for Granny l would have taught them a lesson Bravo Brother, what's up? Nothing Just want a few words with you Go on Miss Bao, practise on your own Brother, say what's on your mind we need to practise Miss Bao, l'd like a few words with my sister Please excuse us l regret what happened today l am glad you realise this Let's not talk about what happened today ever again Sure You promise? As long as you don't consort with them again l'll never bring this up Done Everyone knows Hu Jiao is a villain scum of the earth You have been used by him he wants to harm our family through someone else Don't you see? But he treats me well with sincerity What? You're still on his side? No, don't misunderstand l am determined never to consort with him again Sister, let the matter rest You are my brother and l just want the best for you My mind's at ease then This piece ofjade was given to me by Granny l'll give it to you l want you to be a good man always My sister, l'll listen to you Mother, l want this lt's fun Nice Master Ba Mei Xiang Madam misses you, you haven't visited her for long time Hasn't she moved? Where does she live? l'll take you there Wait You go back first Master What? l am not a prisoner, why are you following me? Master, we are not. lt's just that old madam asked us to wait on you Alright, wait for me here Yes You moved but haven't told me Where am l supposed to find you So it's my fault Let me kiss you, and subdue your anger lt's so embarrassing This dummy of the Ba family has walked into our trap again Boss, that stick of his is nojoke That's why l want to use him ''Fu Lei lnn'' Stay here for the night Chief Hurry... Master Luo Are you busy? A bit, where are you off to? Yang Zhou Be alert, the roads are not safe Thank you Ying Hua, your dad told me he was arranging a marriage alliance for you l wonder which family it is Tell granny lt's master Luo Hong Xun There is no such thing A woman should marry; nothing to be embarrassed about Any decision made yet? Speak Uncle Hua is interested l hear to take master Luo as son-in-law So your dad has put aside this matter l presume Master Luo is an extraordinary gentleman, right? l wouldn't know He came to our place, he is a handsome man l hear, his Deadly palm kung fu is quite famous C'mon, could you keep quiet? This kid... lt's late, please rest l will Has Xiao Jie returned? Just about, don't worry l must go back tomorrow You're not waiting for your dad? No, he must be engaged with some business l am not waiting for him Since you're leaving tomorrow keep me company tonight Get up, someone's robbing the goods Stop them Attack Go Go, hurry Chief Liu... lt's painful He was hit by Luo Hong Xun's Deadly palm strike His injury is serious Master Hu, try and get some medicine to cure him l want to go back home... Don't move Don't let him leave or our plan will be exposed Damn, why did we run into Luo Hong Xun of all people Let's be ruthless Er Niang, take me back home You have been seriously wounded, how could you leave? l have prepared medicine for you, take it first Let him take his medicine Alright ''Ba residence'' Brother Luo Hong Xun killed me l only have you as my grandson Mother Brother! Granny You must avenge my brother Don't cry, don't worry Help me up Long Er, Hu Er, come here Get Luo Hong Xun and bring him to me Yes lf you fail, don't come back l must avenge my grandson you must bring him back Go in front and take a look Uncle, there's no one in sight Search again We must find him, go We are destined Damn kid, you still recognise me Why not? You are my life saver What? According to my sincere opinion you're my benefactor What a hypocrite! Please sit here lf you don't accept my kindness forget it then What's your name? l am not your benefactor You came to my aid the other day at the restaurant aren't you my life saver? l was down in luck and met a thief You are barking up the wrong tree You think too highly of yourself; lf l didn't have more important business, l would teach you a lesson Where are you off to? Wait, let's go together Let's go together ls there anything l could help you with? Miss, who are you looking for? Luo Hong Xun What? Looking for Luo Hong Xun He was with you just now What? He's Luo Hong Xun? You don't know him? She came with him and doesn't know him!? Hand him over Why ask me? You saw him just now You warned him and let him escape Escape? Don't underestimate him You are no match for him Shameless Who is he to you? Don't be too cocky, l am not afraid of you l'll kill you if you don't shut up Come right on Come on Don't fight... Don't fight... Don't fight, we're on the same side We're on the same side Let's talk this over Go away, or l'll teach you a lesson You might kill someone Chase... l was easy on you, but don't press your luck Let's try again Stop Miss... Go back, l want to know if l could reason with her Ying Hua, what are you doing? Dad, she's unreasonable Help her up When did you start fighting? You... l want to see your master You are... l am Luo Hong Xun Alright Bring him in Yes Heroine Ba, your fame precedes you At your service You are Luo Hong Xun? Yes Come on, tie him up Yes Tie him up Wait, get things cleared first before you do Back off, you can't escape anyway, speak May l ask, in what way have l wronged your family You knew it clearly l really don't We have no grudge against each other why did you slaughter my only son? You are very cruel l'll tear you to pieces Kill him What? You are so unreasonable You killed my grand child and yet you say we are unreasonable Tie him and bring him to the altar l wish to avenge my grandson with my own hands Granny Sorry for not being able to welcome you No need to stand on ceremony Please... Stay calm Sorry l couldn't come in person to congratulate you on your birthday, hope you'll forgive me You're too kind, it's good enough that Ying Hua is here What? Master Luo is here too? You're still here? Don't be mistaken, l'm not here for the birthday party Long Er, please accompany old hero to take a rest Yes l'm sorry, l've other business to attend to No need to stand on ceremony Old Hero, please What happened? Please stay away from this Yes Please Look He's the one who killed your brother Bastard, l thought you've run away l have a clear conscience, why'd l escape? Luo Hong Xun, speak so that you can rest in peace We martial arts folks are here to serve the people We kill only rascals What has it to do with your Ba family? Granny, he's right How can you trust what your enemy says? Then this means there'll be nojustice in this world Sharp-tongued You killed my grandson, l won't spare you so easily Granny, didn't you say to let him die with no regrets? How could you speak for your enemy? This is just being honourable Old madam, Luo Hong Xun is not the murderer Not him? Come, let me show you something Watch him for me Yes Take a look Mom, look Old madam, look Old madam, look very carefully Do you see this? lnternal bleeding He must have been poisoned Old madam, you shouldn't blame Luo Hong Xun Who's the murderer then? Who killed my grandson? Tell me Brother, l must find the murderer to avenge you Miss... Miss, let's discuss about this Granny Don't cry, get up l'll listen to you, whatever you say Hero Bao, you'll be the witness To clear me of the blame l must find out who the murderer is A real man should do this Farewell Step aside Granny, l'll keep a close watch over him That's right, don't let him run away before the whole matter is cleared up Yes, l'll go and get something Where to? l'll follow you Are you afraid l'll run away? You wouldn't dare to See if l do Why are you following me all the time? No reason, l just decided l will Are you hungry? No Then l'll go and have something to eat What? No money? l'll treat you Look, is this the piece ofjade? Who is it? Why are you here so late? To see you Did Master Hu send you? Guess Master Hu asked you to sleep with that useless it should be my turn now Bull shit Damn, you don't know what's good for you From where did you get this piece ofjade? Master Ba gave it to me Speak, who killed Ba Jie? lt's Master Hu Jiao Miss, did you hear that? Master Hu was killed by Luo Hong Xun What happened? You ordered me to deliver some money to Er Niang l saw Luo Hong Xun and Miss Ba fighting with Master Hu Master Hu was killed by Luo Hong Xun's flying dagger Retreat Yes Brother, the Ba family has joined hands with Luo Looks like our plan to watch them kill each other would not work They might know Ba Jie wasn't killed by Luo Hong Xun l feared Master Hu might spill his beans before he died lf the Ba family knew that l was the one who killed Ba Jie then we'll be in trouble What's to be afraid of, let's kill them all That's right Besides, we have four martial arts experts here Hold on Brother, by the four of them What? l'm afraid they cannot handle it lt's very tough You look down on us, is it? Not bad Farewell Wait, please stay Just now he failed to recognize you Please forgive him Sure You are experts in martial arts l'd be most grateful if you could stay and help All this needs is sincerity on our part By the ability of us all and together with Master Jin Ling who will be here soon, there's no need to fear Luo Hong Xun Miss Are you afraid? Afraid? Are you praying for god's help? l'm praying for god to protect you Really? Having wrongly accused you, l'm a bit worried about you But l'm worried about you l'm not scared; Great martial heroes are on their side But l believe good will conquer evil eventually Don't you believe? Let me show you One side's black & the other is red; l'll toss to you Red on top means you'll win, black means you'll lose Let's try God, please bless us l'm asking too much, God might become impatient that's why it doesn't work perhaps Alright, let's first capture their leader Hu Jiao That's right He is not Hu Jiao Attack Bravo Hero Jin's swordsmanship is really commendable My respects l've also practised the lron Palm technique lt's me Brother Hu Luo Hong Xun and Miss Ba have broken in Don't worry, Master Jin is here in time That's great, but those two are not easy to deal with Lead them to the Treasure House That's right Hu Er, go and have a look Yes l'm going too Someone's here Brother was killed by Hu Jiao l'll be going to defeat the Village of Tigers Where's Hu Jiao? Don't know Go, hurry Hurry... Granny Granny, l'll go back first
