 

                        More Erotic Cinema Anna, my love, I won't leave until I've finished writing you, even then, l may no longer be able to look into your eyes. At times l feel a trembling inside although it's not cold and outside it's still summer. The man before you isjust the shadow of what you imagine. He's not what you think, there's nothing behind him, nor in front. You won't make him better than what he is. He'll never stand by you as you hoped. Hi. lt's good ! Feel the heat today ? It's airless. How do I look ? Wonderful. With these ? Wonderful. Dino and Anna have always seemed like a perfect couple. Anna met Dino with me at a beach party, back then she was with Alessandro. At that party she and Dino started dancing, at a certain point I left them alone and joined other friends. l thought she'd leave with him, instead, when the party was over, she was at the car, alone, waiting for me. She had a strange expression, l didn't ask her anything, but it was the first time l'd seen her really in love. There are vacant rooms, come with us ? Why not ? l had a strange dream yesterday. We were alone in the desert, walking along... Then we take an elevator, it stops suddenly but we aren't afraid. And then ? We manage to get out, an old man helps us, you say he's your father, but you're not so sure. And then ? Then he leaves on a tiny bicycle, and I realize l'm naked, you caress my head and say l have beautiful hair. And then... did we make love ? No. Now, don't think about anything, relax. Close your eyes. Count with me: five... four... three... two... one. You bit my lips. You're a bitch, you shouldn't kiss your customers. Are you alone ? Any brothers ? No, and you ? Yes, one. What's his name ? What do you care about his name ? When will I see you again ? l don't know. lt's less noticeable, see ? Let go... stop it ! Keep the change. How can you tell if l lie to you ? We took these pictures in Rome, she looks happy here. She suddenly said one day, "You don't give me room to love you..." She said she'd filled all the spaces in her life, she had nothing else, just my suffocating love. She'd met Dino at a beach party with a friend. He came looking for me months ago at my club, he said we'd met on the street, with Anna. He was really unpleasant, with all those questions. l thought he was jealous, but no... that wasn't it. Excuse me, you're Alessandro, aren't you ? - Yes, why ? - I'm Dino, remember me ? We met one evening some months ago. No, l'm sorry. l was with Anna, you stopped us on the street, you wanted to say hello. Yes, l'm sorry. May l sit down ? Please do. May l offer you something ? Coffee, thank you. Paolo, two coffees. l heard you manage this club, it's nice. Your father is the president, right ? What do you do ? l'm an anesthesiologist. - Ajob with great responsibility. - I know. You and Anna were together almost three years. Three and a half years. That's a long time. l'm not sure it's long, depends. Why do you ask ? Simple curiosity. l didn't mean to be indiscreet. We've been together for almost a year. l know. l know when you met, Anna told me almost right away. What did she say about me ? Nothing. l didn't even know your name. Did she ever look you up again ? No, and neither did l if you really want to know. Maybe she needed someone like you. How do you know what l'm like ? l don't. Do you still think about her ? Listen... the evening we met on the street was pure chance, it ends there. Excuse me, l have to go. l think Anna has never forgotten you. You should look her up, call her. You have my permission. You're crazy. No, l'm sincere. Does she know you came looking for me ? No, and she never will, l love her too much. A man in love doesn't talk like you. l'd like to see her happy. Actually not, l wish she'd dump me, it would all be different. Never come here again. l wonder what would be of us if we'd done like those who love, if l could bite your lips, kiss your neck, stretch out under you, feel your sex, it would take all of me, even my soul. Maybe it would be all the same, or all different, l don't know. Maybe l wouldn't feel you as close to me as l do now. l'd like to stay here forever, forget everything, even you. l love you, Anna. lt was the first evening of ourjourney, we'd met a short while before, it was love at first sight. "l never knew love before l met you", that was his declaration of love. l didn't believe one word, but l felt he was sincere. l felt it from his eyes. We spent five days together, without ever making love. One morning l went down to the beach, and was alone for a few hours, not seeing him arrive, l went back to the room, he wasn't there. A short note was on the bed: "Don't look for me, forget me, l'd just hurt you". Now, don't think about anything, relax. Close your eyes. Count with me: five... You're both still dressed ! Pull it out for him, Emma. Like that... Now lick his balls. Great... shove it right down your throat. Like that... Drive him crazy, drive him crazy, come on. Come to me, Emma, come to me... The next time we'll see the footage together. Who says there'll be a next time ! There will be. l know you liked it, and so did my wife. l have your number, so till next time. Next time you can bring a woman if you have one. No, l'm alone, if l'm enough, okay, if not, forget it. Alright, good night. l was walking in a park, he was on a bench, stretched out, like a hobo. He was sleeping in broad daylight. Some kids threw a ball at him but he didn't move, he stayed there even when it started raining and everyone left. l didn't go up to him, l didn't have the nerve, l left without turning back. lt's such a vivid dream, maybe it really happened. Mr. Laudani ! Yes ? ls it for the technical files ? No, l'm Dino, l called you yesterday, you said to come by. l thought l'd never seen you. l hesitated to call, l didn't know your reaction. Actually, you were a little vague on the phone, anyway, if l can help... Not everyone wants to talk with their ex's companion. Why not ? lf I'd wanted to avoid you, why would l have said to come ? Come with me, I left my jacket and cell phone down there. Are there many building sites here ? Too many, I'd say. All these buildings have altered the wind direction. How long till it's all finished ? Two months, but l'll be at another site by then. That's how it always is, others will enjoy the best moment. You said you were thinking of buying an apartment... l'm not sure, l'd like some advice. This is a place for families, but it depends on your needs, yours and Anna's. Want one ? No, thank you. You haven't even asked how she is. That's true, but l suppose she's fine. - Is she still in the tourist field ? - No. That's what l thought. Has it been long since you've seen her ? Years, actually l'm surprised she still has my number. She didn't give it to me, l looked it up myself. l'll give you the builder's name, use my name, explain everything to him. lf you like, l have the blueprints in the car. So, you never tried to get in touch with her ? - Who ? - Anna. Why should l ? lt's normal, isn't it ? Even if a relationship ends there's always a need to... you keep thinking about it. l think Anna has never forgotten you. You think wrong, l assure you. Anna is one of the few women who left me no memories. Let's go down, l'll get the blueprints. This was his brother Gianni. He was a year older than Dino, many thought they were twins. They were very fond of each other, Dino modeled after him. Gianni was a promising lawyer. l remember that Sunday very well, we'd fooled around all day with Dino and him, and we'd organized an evening soccer game. Before he left us, Gianni said: "See you later". lt was Dino who broke down the door and found that scene. The autopsy confirmed he'd taken a large dose of BZD before he hanged himself. Hi. You don't know me, but l know you. What ? l was often tempted to go into the shop, pretending to be a customer, but l never got the nerve. Since l first saw you, all I do is think of you, what you do, how you live, if every morning some lucky man wakes up... Don't follow me anymore. Relax. Count with me: five... Hi. l thought you were sleeping. - What time is it ? - Almost five o'clock. l did the night shift, l substituted a colleague, he'd asked a favor. At a certain point l thought of you, l wanted to call you. Don't explain, there's no need. Are you tired ? You have no idea how tired l am. Come here. You're so good... You pretend this is enough, our bodies close, those innocent caresses. You'll end up hating me someday. Anna... get yourself a lover. l'm pleading, get yourself a lover. You're all I want. lf I close my eyes, all l see is you. At times l feel a trembling inside, although it's not cold and outside it's still summer. The man before you isjust the shadow of what you imagine. He's not what you think, there's nothing behind him, nor in front. You won't make him better than what he is. He'll never stand by you as you hoped. He'll go on like this, doing what he's always done. My words might seem ridiculous and senseless when I say I love you more than anything in the world. Hi, l'm not working today. C'mon, let me in. - I'll have a drink and leave. - Come in. Don't worry, he's a friend. Who are you ? l've never seen you before. She's my guardian angel. l was right to tell him, wasn't I ? Fuck off, you and that dog. Where's your brain ? l knew a girl who walked the streets with a German shepherd. For defense, she said. What shit are you taking ? Want some ? No, l want to drink. All l have is beer, but you'll have to go in a minute. Why ? We want to be alone. For what ? To lick your pussies ? l already know how it ends up. Send him away. Get out. No, l'm staying. Take this. Take all l have, but l'm staying here, to screw you until your bellies have nothing more to give anyone. Then give me your watch too. Dino's father died two months ago in a clinic for Alzheimer's. His mother's still alive, she's been in Australia for 20 years. When her son Gianni died she wanted to go back there, she shut out the world, never asking about her husband, not even when he fell ill. At first she'd call Dino, then less and less. l think no one's told her about Dino yet. Why did I accept it ? Because l loved him. Even if he never screwed me, l always felt l was his, totally. Even when I discovered all his smut, l felt I was the only one at the center of his thoughts, like he's always been in mine. l've never felt so alive as with Dino. l was in his life, more than I could imagine. His desperation made me feel unique, loved. l'm not the reason he did what he did, l've told myself every day these months. Now l don't need to. Why not ? l don't know. l can't stand this, I want to leave. Hi. What's the matter ? The man before you isjust the shadow of what you imagine. He's not what you think, there's nothing behind him, nor in front. You won't make him better than what he is. He'll never stand by you as you hoped. He'll go on like this, doing what he's always done. My words might seem ridiculous and senseless when I say I love you more than anything in the world. You're so beautiful... too beautiful for me. Hello. l'm very surprised you decided to come back. The work we were doing takes courage, but you were frightened. You have to have faith in our work, Dino, faith in yourself. Why do you think you're worthless ? Why do you hate yourself so ? Piss in my face. Why did I accept it ? Because l loved him. Even if he never screwed me, l always felt l was his, totally. Even when I discovered all his smut, l felt I was the only one at the center of his thoughts, as he's always been in mine. l've never felt so alive as with Dino. Hi, Dino. - How are you ? - Fine, you're looking good. Are you alone ? Anna's not with me, l was around here for a conference so l called. Let's go inside. - You've met Teresa, haven't you ? - A year ago at the airport. Of course. Anna ? She's in Bari, l was in the area for work and I thought I'd drop by. Come, sit down. - It's lovely here, my compliments. - Thank you. - Did you take the upper road ? - Yes. lt's a beautiful road, takes longer, but it's worth it. - When's the conference over ? - Today. Then sleep here, leave tomorrow. Thank you, but l'd rather travel at night. - Where are you two going ? - In the garden. - Say hello to Daddy's friend ? - Hi. Hi, I'm Dino. - I'm Aurora. - I'm Nina. Two earthquakes. l didn't mean to bother you. What bother ? We like having visitors. Since we moved here we have fewer visits, but at least we can breathe. The city's close, we did it for the girls, in fact, they're growing like two primitives. ls everything alright ? l'm just a little cold, this shirt is all l came with. Carlo, lend him a sweater. C'mon, l'll show you the rest of the house. There are several families around, and what I did in the city, l can do here. No regrets ? No. - Here. - Thank you. What about Anna ? How is she ? l often wonder the same thing. l think you both work too hard. You should take some time for yourselves, why don't the two of you come here for a few days ? This is the girls' room. Doesn't Anna want a child ? We've never talked about it. She's over forty, it would be normal, you should think about it too. lt's a huge responsibility. l said that too, it turned out to be the best thing l ever did. Why didn't you want kids with Anna ? She was very young, l had to finish college. - It was far from my mind. - It would be different today. l don't know, my wife changed my life. Why all these questions ? You were her first love, an important person. You're the only one she talks about. You know women: they talk about others to make you jealous, but it's you they want. Anna says you're a solid, concrete man. You'd do anything for her. Tell me, really anything ? l'd do everything within reason. Would you screw her as a favor to her ? - What ? Are you crazy ? - Why not ? No one should be denied a screw, especially an ex. Stop it, please. Your wife would never know, she trusts you. l'm a nothing. You could continue as a good father to the family. You don't know what you're saying, stop it. What's wrong ? Would you rather a blowjob ? Sorry. l'm destroying the only beautiful thing in my life. l can't bear it anymore. l'm going crazy, l'm disgusted by what l do. When she looks at me, it's like she knows. Help me, please ! Someone has to help me ! Go downstairs, girls. l'll be right along. We'd both better calm down. Go into the bathroom, wash your face, meanwhile l'll go downstairs, then we'll eat. Who knows why this picture was in the phone memory. l should have reported him when he beat me up that night, the bastard. l learned from the papers about his end, l must say, it didn't surprise me at all. - Nice evening, isn't it ? - Yes. Want one ? We're hosting a couple from Milan for the weekend. We'd like to organize a surprise, just selected people. lf you like, you're welcome. - You'll come alone, won't you ? - Yes. Why don't you trust us ? Don't make that face... l saw you both, at the bar near the station. lt must be about a week ago. l'd seen her before, she works there ? She was at the bar, you came in and kissed her in a way... l knew right off she was your woman. l followed you, l was curious. You hugged as you walked, holding her tight under the umbrella... nice. l got your picture with my phone, l'll show you next time if you like. Anyway, l thought: "Look what a gem that son-of-a-bitch is hiding from us". lt's not right. Earlier, as you were working that whore, l thought for a moment she was your woman and I got a hard-on like a rock. l thought: "He finally brought her", but when she turned around... Piece of shit ! lf it had been up to me, l'd have stayed with him forever, locked in that house, in that room. Where he went and what he did didn't matter. He was everything, imagining him was enough for me. He got me to think just of him, he made me thinkjust of him. Wake up, Chiara. Wake up, the operation is over, it all went well. Don't worry... don't worry. l was in the water, it was dark, it was cold. lt was just a dream, it's over, relax. l was going down, in the sea, down and down. lf you cry in the water, you don't feel your tears. This is his expression, or at least what l remember. He had a full laugh, funny and contagious. He loved his work, for him it was almost a mission. With us, his colleagues, he was kind, generous, helpful, but thinking back, he never talked about himself. l was saying, we went out for dinner, then l took her home. You have no idea what l had to invent for my wife ! An amazing prime babe, eighteen. ln the car she said she likes men with some beard, like me. She caressed my cheek, and my dick got hard, it blew my mind and l dove in. As soon as I could, l gave her no time to breathe. She'd busted my balls saying she'd never done it... bullshit ! She kept saying l was hurting her, all lies ! She loved it... The man before you isjust the shadow of what you imagine. He'll never stand by you as you hoped. He'll go on like this, doing as he's always done. My words might seem ridiculous and senseless when I say I love you more than anything in the world. You're so beautiful... too beautiful for me. I'm hurting you and l'll never forgive myselffor it. No one would have been happier than us if l were not what l am. - Hi. - I thought you were sleeping. No. - What time is it ? - Almost three. You didn't go out this evening ? l heard your message, l wanted to wait for you here. How was the dinner ? A dinner with some girlfriends... And you ? l had dinner, watched a film and fell asleep. You're so beautiful this evening. Turn off the light, l'm tired. What's his name ? Turn out the light, please. Dino's in the center of the picture. We were really good friends, then with college, we lost touch. l remember he disappeared during the party, but that was Dino: when he was having fun, he'd leave at the best part. l never understood him. Maybe no one has, but l was fond of him, he was always there when you needed him. Hi. - Been here long ? - A while. l called in sick at work. l wanted to think only about you. l wandered the city doing nothing, just waiting for this hour, this moment, for when you'd walk in that door, and all the things l'd have said. But now that you're here l can't think of a thing. Nothing. But l want you to look into my eyes. I was literally crazy about her, nothing like this had never happened to me. These are the pictures we took with my phone at the disco. She didn't want to come to my house, so we went to a hotel. We made a date for the next evening. At a certain point the bed was empty, she was looking out at the emergency stairs. "Never show up again, if I kept seeing you, l'd feel even more caged up". She had no mercy as she said those words. Recently I ran into her on the street, I looked her straight in the eyes like I'd never met her. I think l still hate her. Because she used me, because it's women like her who turn you nasty. What did you do ? You shouldn't have come back. Hi. l saw you on the street, you were leaving a shop, and I followed you. l was a few meters from you, but you didn't realize it. l never lost sight of you, not even for an instant and l thought: "l'm the happiest man in the world, l have her". You were so beautiful, so elegant... l was crazy with love. l said to myself: "How can l resist till we get home ? l want her right now, l want to make love here, in the middle of the street, before the whole world". - I'm crazy in love with you. - Tell me again. My words might seem ridiculous and senseless when I say I love you more than anything in the world. You're so beautiful... too beautiful for me. I'm hurting you, and l'll never forgive myselffor it. No one would have been happier than us, if l were not what l am. What can you get from a man like me who sees only a great void inside himself, and is afraid ? What can I give you ? l'm nothing, and l live only for you. l'm not the reason Dino did what he did, l've told myself every day all these months. Now l don't need to. Why ? l don't know. More Erotic Cinema
