 

                        AND THE SHIP SAILS ON They tell me: "Do the news, tell what happens!" And who the hell knows what happens? Whoever might have accidentally wandered onto Pier Number 10 one July morning of 1914 would have seen that... I must hand over the ashes of Edmea Tetua Mr. Partexano! Permission to bring the ashes of Edmea Tetua aboard - Permission granted. - On the broadside! - What are you doing, Monica? - It's very hot, Mommy! Wait for it to cool! Even if my husband agreed, it doesn't mean anything My husband is a great artist. But don't get mad, darling... he's simply a child in business matters I wouldn't say so. However, I'm here to defend your interests That's not true! You didn't act on his behalf in that contract! And I'll tell you why. First: advertising. It's not to his advantage Change the soprano, she's more prominent than my husband Charity or not, I won't appear before a stupid bunch of kids I'm Ricotin, a sophisticated comic! Children are not my audience! - Intellectuals appreciate me! - That's what you think, darling! Your last reviews were disastrous - Gilbert the French critic... - Comply with your contract! You're here to advertise my film, nothing else! Well, the Hindus around Bombay say, even though I don't know if it's true or not, that if you look a tiger straight in the eye - She won't attack you. - Is that possible, Sir Reginald? - What? - I asked if it's easy to do No, quite the contrary. It's the hardest thing on earth especially if the tiger looks at you straight in the eye Where are all these beautiful people going? How is it that we see them all together aboard this - Fabulous... - Excuse me for cutting in, but here you're in the waiters' way Could you please go into that corner, for example? - I see. - Thanks, that's kind of you I'm grateful. Excuse me As I was saying, where are all these characters going? They represent, as it were, the highest values in the fascinating world of show business, of the arts Now I'll tell you who they are The talented superintendent of La Scala in Milan his illustrious colleague of the Rome opera the one involved in the scandal of cats, of rats And that one is his second wife, the former singer Rumena. The one with her back turned is his first wife's daughter His secretary, a medium with amazing visions and by the window, the legendary conductor Von Rupert the child prodigy, slightly more child than prodigy, holding on as always to his terrible mother's skirts Out there is a seagull, it beats its wings like a conductor - In the style of... - My work as a chronicler is hard due to the amount and accuracy of the information I must provide Now let's see... oh yes The famous tenor Aureliano Fuciletto That would be the bearded one feeding the seagull - Do you want it? I'll eat it! - How witty The two superintendents of the Vienna opera, born in Warsaw Ah, a toast, thank you! The feared columnist, Brenda Hilton How are you, Ziloev? He is the deepest bass in the world The mezzo Valegnani and the ever so nice Ines Ruffo Salitin The singing masters Rubetti. And finally, she who after the death of Tetua became a well-loved queen among today's voices: Ildebranda Cuffari - What's your name, sir? - David Fizmaier. - What do you do? - I'm a conductor - Ah, an orchestra conductor? - Precisely Thank you. And the lady? - She's a famous dancer! - I see - And what's her name? - What do you mean? Svetlana! - Everyone knows her! - Thanks Oh, it came in! I didn't know it could fly inside! It's obvious that it's a domestic seagull! Go to the tool room, have them bring a ladder! - Partexano! The net! - What? The net, in my cabin! It never happened! Excuse me! It was a stupid incident I'm really... - I'm scared. - Don't be afraid, they'll catch it Without a doubt, they will! Take it there and be on guard By the way, who's going upstairs? - Be quick! - Captain, let us try They will only frighten it more. That's right, the net! Watch the chandeliers! And the bird was free to look for its birdcage - Do I know you, sir? - I wanted to interview you - Then talk to my secretary. - O.K., later then - Come on, go out. Through here. - Have they caught it? Go out. Fly away. Bye, beautiful! Close the window! Tomorrow I'll change my table Captain, the seagull has left, sending regards - It didn't like the menu. - He should change his table - The feather fell on your neck! - Get it off! - Please, get it off! - Don't get excited, my dear - But lldebranda, it brings luck. - I don't see anything The bird wanted to pay its respects to you. Here we are! I don't want to see it! - Maestro! - One, two... A 5-meter-high equestrian monument! It was his dream! And now that he's got it he cannot see it, poor Papa! Long live our prince! I'm a journalist, I must interview the Grand Duke, please The noble person we've awaited is the Grand Duke of Herzog How old is he? Judging by his political ability, I think about eight He is followed by his sister Herimia, the blind princess who lost her sight while still a child. Have you noticed? She walks at the side of the Premier so confidently! She doesn't want compassion and she doesn't want help, as if she could see! Consomme Vichyssoise, turtle soup. Yesterday's excellent cream soup, can we have it today too? That was vegetable soup Yes, it was vegetable soup Do you want to know why they're making this trip? It's a funeral. You'll ask, "What do you mean, a funeral?" Yes, ladies and gentlemen, a funeral All these famous characters are here to follow a funeral It was her expressed wish, in her last will and testament "Cremation and dispersion of my ashes when the sun rises "around the island where I was born." That's the island of Erimo, where Edmea Tetua was born and where her soul wishes to return Edmea Tetua, the greatest singer of all time! A vocal miracle! The voice of a goddess! Light blue Light blue and white. Ultramarine blue Light blue, ultramarine blue Emerald green. Green. Light blue Music makes her see a rainbow White, white, white My sister says that each note has its own color The scientists of Sotierre say some people have this power by which they have a chromatic view of sounds Excuse me for interfering, but I don't think that anyone can prove such a thing Anybody can say he sees colors Mr. Kuntz, it's obvious that not everyone can have such a sensitive soul! I wouldn't dare to doubt it! I'm just saying that it's almost impossible to prove Once when I was ill, all faces were green to me But we can all perceive the colors of music And not only music. Voices are colored too You say my voice is grey! But is it always grey? Not always. When you are worried your voice becomes rusty Brownish red. But the police chief's voice is always the same color. Yellowish, matte, not clear! And what color is the voice of our general? I'd like to hear it, General This is my voice. I'm unable to sing with it Strange! I see no color. A voice without color, like a void, an absence A void as head of the Armed Forces is troubling! Here, her ashes are all here For this small casket, so small, and yet so large, friends and fans from around the whole world chartered the most luxurious liner, commanded by the fearless captain born in indomitable Genoa Spezia! Spezia! Spezia! Born in indomitable Spezia, Captain Leonardo De Robertis It's the other way round, Roberto De Leonardis - What did I say? - Roberto De Leonardis! Right. And he shall lead us to the island of Erimo so that all of us can solemnly perform the funeral rites, spreading the... Sir Reginald! Excuse me Sir Reginald! Sir Reginald! Excuse me, just a couple of questions Is it true that you were the one who asked our divine singer to make her debut in London? - Of course. Please excuse me. - Thanks Look Rudi, he's looking for her This is the second wheel, should the one in the main deck fail This is the mechanism used to maneuver, without the other one - And when do you use this one? - For emergency cases, as I said - And what is down there? - Please follow me He's an Egyptian. They say he was our great artist's lover He owns all the railways in his country It seems his penis is enormous, violet colored That's something I heard, of course Ah, here he is! He hasn't found her There are strange rumors about our baron and his gentle wife Did you see it too? Really upset Upset and longing, what? That F wasn't right, didn't you hear it was off-key? What do you mean, off-key? It was perfect, didn't you hear? That way it doesn't fall. If you remove a single drop of water - It becomes a different note! - This way it doesn't fall but you, being tone deaf, go on with your pa, pa pa You rise instead of going down. How marvelous! It looks as if it were painted! Oh, look, Lisa! Look! The moon! The sun, and the moon, together! The overture of Barber of Seville gives me goose pimples! And that's Andromeda, and that small star on the right near Orion was discovered only 50 years ago Correct, Sir Reginald. You're giving a lesson in astronomy! That star is known as Cauda Pavonis Its blue silver, see? But now it's emerald and now bright orange And do you know who discovered it? A well-known surgeon who was an amateur astronomer Guess what his name was? Reginald! Besides the myth of a great singer, she was a sensitive girl, very Ionely. One felt one had to help her, but maybe you're interested in a few events in Edmea's life? The lady is her cousin, why don't you ask her? Yes, I could have sung - Captain! - Mr. Orlando - How are you, Reverend? - What a view! - On one side the cold moon. - Good evening - Divine! - On the other the sun's heat Absolutely beautiful. Between light and darkness, and fire and ice, there you are, lldebranda - How poetic. - Can I accompany you? - It's too humid here! - Thirty years have gone by I haven't seen her since then I don't remember anything. Sorry, we were children Thank you, madame. Anyhow, you've told me something When there is a moon, he says that nightwatch makes him nervous Hi! Who knows you, dear friend? But I have to write about you and that one there, for example, that fatso waving at me Who knows him? My job is a bit ludicrous, isn't it? - She never read the contracts. - Is there a place for me? Nor signed them. Whatever was practical offended her deeply But we're creatures of habit, we are on it, all of us And yet she knew her contractual rights better than any attorneys Before going into the theatre, he once told me: "Couldn't you remove my name from the billboard?" No, I think she was conscious of her personal charm Whoever came near her was conquered! It might seem that way. But she was terribly insecure She was terrified of strangers But you should stop telling stories about this girl At least as a sign of respect. Excuse me, which girl? She may have been intimidating, but she didn't scare me! - You say she was aggressive? - She threw things at people - Didn't she throw things? - Aureliano! Actually, I never had problems - I'd like a glass of red wine. - Of course, sir - But Lambrusco, mind you! - Lambrusco She was the perfect partner, she liked me a lot and this made our collaboration ideal She always said I was the best, the best Italian tenor True! Tetua always said so: to sing with Sabatino Lepori is glorious! At my house, she wept before a small painting "It makes me cry, madame" she said with her eyes full of tears And you, haven't you anything to tell? The most extraordinary fact of those we have heard was that in the last act of La Traviata she was feverish She fully identified with Violetta's character Mommy, did you love Tetua? Not one of your best evenings, was it? I caught him leaving the cabin I thought he had an air of satisfaction. Was it worth it? Answer me, Violet I'll go to sleep right away tonight. I'm so tired Well? I want to know everything, every detail Did you spot him on the dock? - Be nice, Reginald I'm sleepy! - Oh, did you go too far? He came to repair the light, it did not work properly You can do better than that, Violet! You know I'm afraid of the dark! You whore! You're amazing. Say it with your little voice "Yes, Reginald, I'm a great whore!" I won't stand for it! - I can't bear it! - Yes! - Give me that stupid bear! - No! Anything but him! - Crazy bitch! - Give it to me! Why? Why do you treat me like that? Yes, I've earned it. Do it, do anything you like! You have needs... you're a queen, my child, my boss Please, Violet, do it always, do it like this, more more "A vocal phenomenon" "A divine voice." "A hundred singers in one" So many definitions, so many words They've written so many stories about you But no one said who you really were Your favorite flower. You'll never be without it No one ever discovered your secret, my love I'm the only one who knows who you really are. You're a child who came from the sea Remember the poem I wrote for you? "Born from the sea, like a goddess" Who is it? Who is it? Your Highness, I'm a journalist - Excuse me! - Good night - Thank you. - Oh, of course Count Bassano. A romantic guy Very romantic For years now, he always brought her a very rare flower: "Rubens Pistila." You've seen it in his cabin, haven't you? But I deny that he was ever in love with her Perhaps he's in love with her, since her death An ambiguous guy! Really ambiguous! Under the pretense of setting up a museum he managed to have them keep him for years! Excuse me, These are notes that I have been jotting down for one of my newspapers: "I write, I tell... "Well, what do I want to tell about? "A sea voyage? "A voyage through life, but it is not told "It is made" Trivial, isn't it? Has this been said already? And better? But everything has already been said and done! We're in the famous and smoky boiler room What is it? This is the large boiler, it never goes out How many hours do they work in here? They are used to it Captain, sir, we all have a small favor to ask - What did you say? - Ask Madam Cuffari to sing! Scream louder! - We want to hear Cuffari sing! - Are you crazy? This is a crazy request! - Friends, don't, on your life! - Sing something, beautiful lady! Bravo, bravo! Bravo, bravo! The keeper is a Turk. He loves the big beast - What did he say? Who understood? -What a stink... He says since he came aboard he has had nothing to eat! He needs to get some fresh air! - How can you heal it? - Who will stroll it on deck? The other day you said the beast was lovesick - What name have you given it? - See how humiliated it is! Don't you ever wash, boy? - You're having a bad time, eh? - We made it go down All animals on board suffer due to the pitch and roll Even when they're not with their cage mates - Pardon me. - What? - You have to take her out. - Just a moment! I'll take her! I was saying that this little man was taken aboard in Genoa We're taking him to Amsterdam These pachyderms are always a handful on board Remember, Mr. Partexano, when we took an elephant in? No - Do you? - I wouldn't know. Yes! No! The "City of Brescia". A small rodent had the bad idea of visiting the elephant The beast, terrified, broke his chains and threw two sailors into the sea Even here we have rats? Rats, dear madam, are inevitable guests They love sailing on the sea Yes? He's in love. And that's the effect it has on it? - Love is debilitating. - What are you saying? When I'm in love I feel stronger, get fatter, become twice as big Love is healthy! Who's this girl? He's in love On the guard And now... Daydreaming during the watch! You're nuts! Who is it? Help! Let me go, you're hurting me! I'll explain, I'm a journalist I've used this disguise to meet the Grand Duke I must interview him. Can't you help me? He says he's a journalist, wants to interview the Grand Duke Listen! I'm a respectable passenger aboard this ship A famous journalist, performing his professional duties, informing his readers of world events! I'll complain to the captain. A journalist in here! Awful! He's a journalist, wishes to interview the Grand Duke He's an Italian journalist who succeeded in getting in He wants to ask you a few questions Your Highness! - O.K., but with a translator. - Let go of him! Let go of him! - I'm sorry. - Never mind The Grand Duke grants you an interview with a translator You'll ask your questions and I'll translate them - Thank you! - You may start! An interview! He doesn't know I'm less than anyone else We know you were a great fan of this sublime artist, and the fact that you wanted to pay your respects in this trip with your august presence has touched everyone In the name of your extraordinary humanity I would like to ask for a few words of comfort, of hope for those who live without knowing what fate has in store for us and feel threatened by the international situation Thanks The Italian journalist says that most men are unhappy and it seems he wants a word of comfort What exactly is he asking for? He asked, "What's your question?" How does the Grand Duke see the international situation Thank you. He wants your comments on the international situation We're all sitting on the edge of a mountain H.H. says, "We're all sitting on the edge of a mountain" Excuse me for interfering, but the Grand Duke said "the mouth..." and then the rest. Count Kunz corrects me. He says Y.H. said "mouth of a mountain" I though he said "edge" What mouth? He asks Your Highness "what mouth?" Excuse me. The Grand Duke used a metaphor He said we're all sitting on the edge of a mountain Count Huppenback says the Grand Duke used a metaphor and that the problem does not lie in "edge" or "mouth" However, I understood "edge" - No, you see... - No, no, edge - However, you know... - Edge - He meant mouth! - German is my 2nd language... edge! Oh, my God! - What does he want to say? - I think H.H. wants to say... Does he want to renege his duty? Do you wish to leave Italy to its tragic fate? Your Highness, the journalist... Pum! Pum! Pum! Translate The Grand Duke says: "Pum! Pum!" The mouth of a mountain? That's the crater of a volcano! We're sitting on the mouth of a volcano! Perfect! Now I got it! It's a tragedy. Thank you The mouth of a mountain! Undoubtedly, a catastrophe The interview is over "The interview is over" Of course, I thank His Highness. Gentlemen! Look at Mommy! Look! Maestro, let us rehearse! - Mr. Orlando. - Thank you, my love It's the second day, and all is well and in order to remember this day, photographs are taken Two, no three! Four! They're there, there Our tenor, Fuciletto, would like to be a dolphin and the two song masters, whale hunters This is the funny thing about sea voyages After a few days, you feel as if you'd been sailing forever You feel you've always known your fellow voyagers Captain! Stay put, like that! Just one minute, please, get ready My grandfather always wanted to have his portrait painted He spent half his life sitting for painters! They had to sit longer than we do! Am I all right here? How much happier our people would be if they were ruled by these delicate hands We're all waiting for that day - Smile, Daddy! - I am smiling! Have you noticed that whenever he deals we lose? Mr. Orlando, we need the press here! Come with us. Our Russian says his voice is so deep that it causes catatonia Good morning to you all! A hen! - Please. - What? A live hen! - He wants a live hen! - Yes, dear friends, we're sorry to interrupt your gastronomic activities, but we really need a hen - We have to perform an experiment. - I need to put it here Quite unusual but very important You all will attend. We've got the captain's permission I won't tell you what it's all about because if it succeeds it will be an extraordinary surprise! Does the chef agree? Thank you all - Thanks! - You're welcome! Come, we must document this event for posterity - What are you doing? - Put it on top No, turn it like this, turn its head this way Now please be silent Maybe it'll lay an egg! Look, it's sleeping now! - Right, it closed its eyes! - Incredible, poor chicken! What's happened to him? - My God, he's sick! A doctor! - Take him away from the fire! - Hold his feet above his head! - There, near the air! A bit of water! I noticed he was pale, take him outside! Take a glass of water and pour it on his face Breathe deeply, sir You have to be acclimated to be down here He's better. It's over, everything's over The hen's sleeping! Look, it sleeps! He succeeded! True, it sleeps He made it sleep! you sleep too I doubt that you're satisfied with the rehearsal for the Oratorio in Memoria Singing in remembrance of Edmea requires your talent & technique, but also your gratitude to the great artist whom we all loved Undoubtedly she was the greatest Soprano of all time. Are you ready, lldebranda? What is that funny smell? - How old am I? - What? - I didn't understand - Well, how old? I couldn't say, I can't even guess your age Don't be afraid, try! Come on, tell me at least how old I look I don't know The same as my father And how old is your father? To me, my father is forever young Excuse me, Mother Go get your cape, darling, you can't stay like that - I'm not cold - It gets damp when the sun sets Look at these colors, darling Every sunset bearing the stamp of divinity! You know, Mr. Orlando, I spent all Saturday painting I don't know what I'd give to paint such a picture But how can we compete with the Creator? Now I'd like to rehearse the Domine Deus They're rehearsing. Excuse me a moment Sit next to Fuciletto. It's the Oratorio! Captain, I want to ask you one thing. Last night I was awakened by a patter on my porthole - Is that possible? - It's our seagull, Icarus We gave him that name because he broke a wing Don't you smell that horrible odor? Why does it stink? Don't you smell it? - Mother, where is it coming from? - Yes, it's the fish I can't breathe! - What's this stench? - Are you looking at me? I'm not looking at you, there's quite a stench! You talk of a stench and look at me! I don't stink! - Idiot! - You're the idiot! I'll tear off your moustache and make you eat it! What are you doing? This smell is in the air, outside Yes, gentlemen, the air is quite fetid but Dr. Lamela guarantees that you cannot get infected - Absolutely! Stay calm! - The discharge is lessening and before night it shall cease completely Following our physician's suggestion, we're trying to get the pachyderm out of the hold - We'll hoist him on deck. - It's being done, captain Some ship-boys will sling the rhino on the scales and a winch will hoist him on deck We can assure you everything'll end very shortly Prepare the pumps! Keep the ropes taut! Increase pressure! - You'll throw him into the sea? - No, on that lifeboat! The doctor said he needs fresh air! Here! The stink! He's getting better, however - Like a flying dragon! - You could use a bath! Everyone is looking at you, get up! And she went from natural F down to E flat to natural E to upper F. A miracle The orchestra was almost silent, the audience stopped breathing, and I was paralyzed hearing her I'll remember it all my life! Excuse me, Maestro, but how could she? Almost three octaves without making an effort... - That's not human! - Why not, Edmea was just a woman So many racked their brains trying to understand her! She must have had a secret and that's what I wanted to ask you, Maestro ...as I would ask a father... what... - What can I do? - Listen One evening, Edmea told me something, she said that when she sang, she saw a snail - A snail? - Yes, she said so "I see a snail "and with my eyes I follow the spiral, curling up "and my voice comes out without making an effort." Do you understand? My dear, it wasn't only lungs, diaphragm and vocal chords It was an energy-catalyzing phenomenon I only know that Edmea was different from anyone else She was unique. There'll never be another like her! Why are you so quiet? You look like a marvelous Egyptian sphinx You're superb! The third night of our voyage, things started going wrong Everything became more and more strange You interrupted me It's her fault, she didn't want to come Be quiet. He's already in a trance - Is he all right? - Sit here, close by Hold hands, everyone. Maestro, give your hand to madame - Me too? - Yes. Sit with us Thanks, I'd rather stay out If Sister Angela knows I'm here she'll feed me only bread and water for a week! Come on! Ask something! Edmea, excuse me, but I always wanted to ask you Which opera made you suffer most? What a stupid question! No, once you told me that - What fell? - I don't know Don't break the chain! It's dangerous - For God's sake! - A book has opened! The icy hand Look! It's La Gioconda! It opened in La Gioconda! Look! It's La Gioconda! - Right! Incredible coincidence! - How come? I can't stay. This is awful. I can't stay. Excuse me! Could I also ask a question? He says no because he's afraid. He understood that since I knew her well, I'd ask a more intimate question Look, she always used that gesture to thank Oh, Edmea, Edmea! Who is it? Who are you? Switch the light on! You idiots! Who was it? Tell me who it was. Who was it? - Who was it? - Someone played a joke! What's the matter with you? Come to, you idiot! Ines, come on, get your bearings back! Is it you? Look at him, come here, show yourself you clown Look who our ghost was! Leave her alone! We must applaud him, bravo! For a moment, there, even I believed it! You had us all fooled - Damn you! - Even you are inspired Excuse me, I thought you still had the shivers And Ines, where's Ines? Is she still unconscious? If you talk, you can't breathe to the beat of your feet - Where did she come from? - I've never seen her! What are you doing here so late? Who are you? - She's a darling! - Yes You're very pretty, look at your pretty braids - You're a real darling. - Wolfgang, let her be What's your name? - Do you want to cause a disaster? - Exactly I don't understand you You can't light fires on deck It's the grandmother, how are you? Scram! Harder! Come on! Good day! Where were you? - Krassavitza! - Ilia, who are these people? - I don't know them! - Ildebranda! - They're Serbians! - Come up! Serbians! Let's go listen! We're getting things ready in the hold so as not to interfere with activities on board or the privacy of the passengers! But captain, how did it happen? How did they come on board? When the Austrian Archduke was murdered in Sarajevo, Austria declared war against Serbia and the people fearing the arrival of the enraged troops tried to escape by sea, and get on a ship sailing Italy's coast - I don't understand. - Call a doctor! They're Serbs, how did they get on board? We rescued them from the sea tonight We believe they are Serbs Do you want water? Good morning, young lady. Still sleepy? Our physician is checking them, one by one And my officers and myself, by means of an interpreter, have talked to most of the men They are shepherds, peasants, gypsies We rescued them at sea tonight There are also students, maybe unjustly chased by the police Captain, no one can force us to travel with these people who come God knows from where He's right Their rafts were sinking due to the great weight To rescue these women, children, these families in despair, was a duty I could not forego Yesterday's Pommard was not one of the best I'd like to suggest a white wine for my wife and friends A Chablis, let's say. Let's give it a try But I'll still have a Rayon de Soleil champagne You! Scram, scram! - Look there! - You're not worthy of the spaghetti Sit down, Monica Turn around and look. What does that pretty one want? She's beautiful! Krassivaya. She has savage eyes! I'm frankly embarrassed, eating while they look at us like that! Divine providence will look after them! - Right! If you're thinking... - Finally they've decided... Why? I'll drink to you! No! What're you doing? I want to see my fiancee Violet, please Andrew, what do you think she'll do? I think she wants to bring food to the horrible people on deck! Violet, this philanthropic gesture of yours is admirable, but a bit too much Sir, I'll try, Sir Please, Andrew, make her come back to the table! - Sir Reginald wishes... - I don't need any help Waiters, please follow me with the trolley Mrs. Dongby, wait Mrs. Dongby. A table is being set outside Good, so they'll have something more today. Come on - I insist! - Please open the door! - Excuse me. - Thank you - My lady, please - Can I bring them my soup, Mommy? - Do you think I should do it too? - No, lldebranda, not at all - Mommy, please, let me take it! - Not another word! Give me the tray, madame, I'll carry it Now I've got to go with you. Please Stay back. Sailor, tell them to stay back. Let's come here, let's see if you're a singer too Say "Aaah". Come on, open your mouth! Stay back! Stay back! - Excuse me? - I'll do it! Go back to the salon, madame! I'll take over here How much do you want? Cut the cake and distribute it to the children, to all of them! Yes Why are you laughing? What is it? What? What did you see? Why're you laughing? It's inadmissible for a ship to be boarded by Serb anarchists without the captain doing anything to prevent it! Please. The captain must rescue shipwrecks following a basic principle in the Naval Code: - The duty of assistance. - You probably know, Captain that among those you kindly define as refugees there are professional assassins That's right! This is very serious. The Grand Duke's life is in jeopardy We'll protest before the Italian government! We'll protest before your government! I'll be responsible for His Highness' safety aboard this ship around the clock As soon as they came on board, I've ordered my officers to control them, to isolate any potentially dangerous persons Control is not enough if those so-called refugees can move freely throughout the ship, on deck, in the bar, in the halls, in the salon Cuoco! You speak their language, they cannot stay here They have to go! Captain's orders Leave, all of you, scram Hello! I'd like a box of cookies. Good ones. Right! These are chocolate - Are they good? - Yes, thank you How much? How much? Here you are! Don't make us evict you by force! You must go back on deck, come on! Sailors, take them on deck Whoever knows the language, tell them we're getting them a place You may not cross these ropes without asking permission from the sailor on duty. Translate! Stay behind the ropes, do you understand? Did they understand? They may not leave this place Olga, little one, come here, come here, beautiful! Do you like cookies? Take them, darling. They are all yours. Taste them, put them in your mouth What a lovely dress you're wearing! Is this your daughter? She's lovely, Klassivaia! I was giving her cookies. Take them, little Olga This is further proof that one cannot trust the Italians Your Highness, I was right predicting trouble in this voyage - Aren't you going to make a move? - Let me think, if I make a move... Your Highness Excuse me, for safety reasons I must ask Your Highness not to leave this cabin till this situation on deck is under control Isn't that a bit too much? But thank you anyhow Excuse me I don't feel in danger. Ah, right Checkmate! I can't play with you! You always win You move the pieces saying you want to "look" at them What is it? - I'm afraid! - What of? - I don't know, it's too complex. - It is not Listen, do you remember? In the 5th century the Serbs descended on the Balkans and then invaded Epirus and Thessaly Can you imagine if they're confined to the stern area? I see the thermometer, I've got a fever of 103! What shall I do? Spoil the show? The audience had come to see me - Change the topic. - No, I sang and gave 7 encores! You build a mystic gulf where there are hardly 50 players... The strength of character and the grace of warm feminity make English women... Let's not waste time beating around the bush, O.K.? She's so expressive, she almost seems to understand what's said My brother is asleep, fast asleep Your Highness, can't we change our decision? The voyage is getting to its end and Count von Stauffen is getting more & more suspicious No, everything'll turn out all right without us doing a thing How can you be sure, Your Highness? I've had this dream: I was in a garden with my brother and an eagle swept down from Heaven It flies towards us, catches my brother and flies away But he, poor thing, is heavy, so heavy So the eagle lets him fall and he is swallowed up by a hole in the ground You can always set my mind at ease make me believe every word you say Bravo! Hasn't she lovely color in her voice? Who was singing? Like acrobats and monkeys! - Even the old people dance! - They don't know anything This is a very ancient dance, a pagan one! I've studied it! They dance it mixed up with Hungarian Czardas This is a ritual dance, a rite, and it goes like this Bravo! You're good! Go down, I want to see you dance! Attention! I'd like to present two great dance masters! They'll show you how you ought to dance This dance is meant to bring rain on the country The women lift their arms so as to pick up the water The men beat the soil with their feet because the seeds must know that the dance has started and they open their mouths and drink the rain from heaven Like this, like this I don't have anything to teach them, but I think I can learn something from that one! Excuse me, excuse me! Music always seems to be about to tell you a secret, but then... Eugenio, Eugenio, what are you doing? Don't make me afraid! Answer me! Eugenio Is it over? The object of this dance is to befriend the elemental spirits who control the growth of the seeds Please, don't lie to me. Don't act like a child. - But I didn't sign up, I swear! - Don't swear at your mother! She's not my protegee. I don't care about Righini Biagetti But you do. I don't question your taste! Everyone wonders how a handsome man like you can lose his head for Righini B.! - What about us? - No Mrs. Dongby, may I have this dance? Listen, I think I've got the right to do what I want and to give all the lighters in the world to whoever I wish That sailor reminds me of a cousin of mine Can't I give him a present? I won't have my feelings checked or be controlled day and night as if I were a child I'm forty years old, leave me alone! - Dorotea! - Good evening Sir, miss - May I have the honor of... - No! Please! Thank you Stop it now, Mother. Sit down, please Piltro, Piltro, a battleship! Open, Open! What are they signaling? It's the flagship of the Austro-Hungarian fleet they want us to surrender the Serbians we picked up We'll send them a telegraph The refugees will be taken by the officers of the battleship Why are you so worried? It's an Austro-Hungarian battleship, so? What does the youngster say? He says we'll all be made prisoners that you'll have to deliver all of us Excuse me, now let's see Captain There is an exchange with the Austro-Hungarian battleship - What do they say? - I haven't intercepted them Why are these people so afraid? They tell me to bide my time. To keep them in the forecastle - Yes sir! - Captain The situation is as follows: we're signaling but I don't know the contents of the messages We should calm the gentlemen down The captain seems calm to me, doesn't he? You, Mr. Orlando, how do you interpret the events? - Are you also being mysterious? - Look, right there! On the forecastle of the battleship You can see the signaler's flags moving I cannot accept their demand to hand over the refugees Transmit that "Hand them over immediately!" - Ah, the Grand Duke. - Good day The captain is waiting for you on the forecastle Y.H., the Austrian ship demands immediate delivery of the Serbs Indicate that I'm on board and the object of this trip His Highness wishes to let them know the object of this trip Signal to the battleship that we must get to the island of Erimo - Yes, sir! - Please, Your Highness Please, I want to see They allow us to get to the island and send the Duke greetings "They allow us to get to the island and send the Duke greetings" We go back on the course towards the island, Your Highness! That battleship, too, knew and loved our Edmea? The Grand Duke obtained from the Austrian admiralty a truce to let us perform our funeral rite In a short time we'll see the island of Erimo - And remove that daisy! - You're in a mood One day she told me this: "You always talk of my voice, "but sometimes I'm almost sure it's not really mine "I'm a voice, "a diaphragm, breathing "I don't know where the voice comes from "I'm just an instrument, a simple girl "who's even been afraid of this voice that all my life and "forced me to do what it wanted - Squad, halt! - Excuse me, Mr. Dongby, - The ceremony's begun! - To your left! Mr. Partexano, proceed Attention! Hats off! Psalm of David: "The Lord is my Shepherd "I shall not want "He makes me lie down in green pastures "He leads me beside quiet water "He restores my soul "He guides me in the paths of righteousness "for His name's sake. Lord, "listen to my prayer "You know Man is only dust and ashes "Dust to dust, ashes to ashes "The Lord will protect my exit and my entrance "From now on, and for all eternity" - Proceed. - On the broadside! Sailor! Come, madame Proceed, madame. Spread the ashes on the cushion Hats on! To your right! On the left row, go on, march! Count von Huppenback please go into your cabin and stay there until further orders - What do you mean, sir? - By Order of the Princess, you're under arrest! It would be lovely if at this point the commotion would've also touched the hearts of the Austrians and their battleship would sail away sending a touching salute But it didn't happen like that They wanted the Serbs back, and how! And it would have been even more beautiful if we, faced with such arrogance would have said: "No, we won't give them up!" No, we won't give them up! On the other hand, the battleship had to arrest the Serbs It was an order from the Austro-Hungarian police and the Grand Duke of Herzog was aboard, representing the Austro-Hungarian empire! Mirko! As I was telling you It's almost impossible to recall the sequence of events It seems that everything was caused by the rashness of the young Serb terrorist who hurled the bomb against the ship Can such a primitive and rough hand bomb hurled by a youngster cause a historical catastrophe? Are we certain that it was the boy who threw the bomb? If he was living a love story, why did he run towards his own destruction? Apparently he did. The bomb seems to have been thrown into the ship and it exploded under the barrel of a gun, automatically causing a fire Others say that they're sure that automatically the first gunshot triggered off the fire in the whole battery of the enormous battleship Others say that it wasn't the Serb terrorist, nor the bomb, but the battleship did it on purpose to bring about an international incident There's a fourth version, which I haven't got the guts to tell Apparently Gentlemen, listen: you can save yourselves, follow our orders! Just a few remarks before I finish: I want to tell you that many of the people you met were saved A ship rescued the survivors in the lifeboat The lifeboat was the "North Star" and appeared miraculously Unfortunately, I've heard nothing more of the others As for myself I've got great news Did you know that rhino milk is first-class?
