 

                        1 Under Japanese law Today will execute the said to death with his Open your eyes out Please look at our time Here this Coffee Yes Sorry, okay? An Minh An Minh Nhan Festival The area in Shanghai The communications and intelligence were all dead The death of them Make contact line breaks The Japanese were on Dec. 7 Raid on Pearl Harbor the U.S. game? Crude oil is the blood of Marines Paint The wait is not certain the blood was dry before attack In place of refugees in The Gender Both walls full article application is to find relatives Seekers and People are looking There are about 80%, 90% had separated the two worlds If this intelligence not be taken out There will be many very More death charges But the war may will end earlier than Japan, China and his Nazi Against each other has been 4 years Intelligence can also be transmitted out of it? E that can only be use only the police line This is the Party's money to me In the bottle For people living in the squad but said Rotation and death launched Do not know who's next? People are gambling Thise not run Remember the time before I asked him Why the Japanese love do not eat puffer fish? Taste, but can death Do not spy like that? Wait for the war I have invited him to come home I see the cherry flavor The life of the cherry blossom is very short But very nice The beautiful summer flowers have bright Autumn leaves must fall silent Who? Their children with measles She and her fever Tomorrow night 9 pm I have the show in question First Us Community Mon Should be invited Mr. Lam yourself to pick up something Got it Mr. Powell In his newspaper, he posts Japan and the U.S. will not should war The worry him too there Dared to declare war on Japan Why America stronger? Now go buy a cup of coffee Yet we get separated and then The sinking of giatc dream Do not move Can not shout out Light damage at home and Could not find the candles Neither one evening, I think only one of If there is one day He is not subject to First Us play the piano again E that you can not find him anymore We can date the If you do not like em thisao appointment? How can I date him, but We went to the United States now? Finally, also announced that took him through it I fear her in a room No lights Night covers around In the United States may be an all-star? In the United States is not safe game? Then cooled Why? Just a little cold, they also Where he does not drink I then turn Let's go Having him there, or are you new song Can mix a wine name Shanghai does not? There are many others call it sin Ma creating natural building Shanghai At the base of the building is hell Yes As the shark leaving her Tell him to give certain Yes, thanks He also drinks Shanghai wines that But all is because I pay Ms. Sarah How high a price She has a stomach of the elephant back? Every second of the Hilton Are destroyed European civilization The UK can How long to hold out in this battle? Having fought alongside Americans the non-good thing? Japan really want U.S. hands back out with? Mr. Sakamoto ... ... Sure not to drink Children to say what sake? Officer Smith He is not lighter? Sorry, I do not smoke Sorry I have not lighters? Let me borrow Thanks Smith, killing him kill password America is like the momentum bird heads in desert They do not bite it would not hurt I do not get commission? Then The way the news is Lin only get information but did not see anyone Thus before organization ... Investigate the causes of death of communication and spy Will not communicate with us Organizations are suspect living in us? We are clean The one deadly touch and spy here? She went into the front We have dangerous? Office of the newspaper Japanese Man Set Hello Mr. Midwest This is new information received today Thanks Westbound On day five Thieu Hoa No. 16, December 4 Please note Following is information on the meteorological Coastal East wind, rain Again East wind, rain Since this afternoon Radio Tokyo using microwave To repeat weather East wind, rain East Wind is America Rain is only war East Wind, Rain meaningful notice The Japanese and all those who work at the consulate building around the world War is imminent and the U.S. Japan How is the intelligence of He is correct I received a letter password sent from Japan What content? Westbound This is a warning signal for his report Told him to quickly leave from Shanghai to Yan'an Where can I go? He must go Is anyone prepared to replace the My position at Man Set .. To get intelligence from Japan? 1 month, Vy States T It has Notify me ... There is a scroll "key note talk college "will be taken to Shanghai When to come? There would he want to stay Why wait start here? He was such a small team must also not go back? First born, he assured Whether I was arrested I will not say a word any disadvantage to him Thanks I believe he Please believe me he Chan Da Best That I was to from Tokyo We have defeated file spy team of international communism Richard Sorge and It's Tu Vy States was secretly arrested In making a competent We found Vy Ky Tu It Will take a roll of paper to Shanghai The contents are confidential The fact indicates that The Midwest's Huyen Man Set Report is closely associated with Vy Ky Tu It He is the recipient roll in Shanghai How to Shanghai? Trans States Danish ship suddenly crashes Ship leaks oil, to cultivate a month He told Tails States on a big roll I'm very impatient But do not dare send mail I received confidential Told me to go west But not autographs Tails of the States And who sent him? Perhaps the first such birth Tails States has happened already? Hopefully he is only concerned ... To the failure of the guard cabinet He was not more than 1 month contact me then Please This is a sushi chef by Trans States ship to Denmark Maybe his sense of home 2 Leave the stars? For many in the ... ... To signal warning told his accomplices ? Mau back then The Japanese that spill northward Soviet Union would be Germany Japan 2 crushed the fascist Siege Mode The headquarters of the Republic Communism and human world Are subject to a period of darkness If some of the South The brothers Slovenia can force On the morning of December 6 Reaction in Moscow already started Thank you and the Japanese At the time of the great Soviet This leads to intelligence An "International" can not sing the two families This is a knife Specialized Navy Losing a piece of sushi So who walked through us Can be the "people from Tokyo" He came to roll Investigate recent days Japanese ships to Shanghai It's Tu Vy States Secretary of guard He's not hard to imagine Scrolls were he ... Turned into intelligence notice how most secret Go to this star? Yes Go to the brighter Yes Go to the sunrise Yes An Minh At dawn Do you hear it? On the way to hear other people say this Unlike the Japanese are exercising This is not a rehearsal Japanese artillery fire on U.S. warships in the British team Huangpu River British warship sunk on the spot U.S. warships have unfurled a white flag of surrender Do not gica God His God is not welcome My four stars? This is a Christian church This is the public sector The priest, afraid that he was dreaming Japanese Navy Are bombing Pearl Harbor the U.S. I won Father I must confess to his father In fact, the British learned Japanese intelligence raid on Pearl Harbor To make the United States to combat Sarah killed her children I'm sorry Those on board the British died a tragic way He survived But I still can not for the escape Father John We can not Along the last meal I ate? Bread and wine with meals that It is the body and blood of God No final God forever our side 7 hours 50 minutes 7 December, Japanese raid on Pearl Harbor Pacific War broke out, Human Prussian emperor to fight cancer Britain declared war - America at 11 pm Who? Meet Mr. Lam Ha? Who are you? No person No Powell's newspaper editors were arrested Hoang said the Midwest Today I'll be at church To guide Locking children sing in church Should have an appointment But he did not come Never before occurrence of these? I call the his home Someone catch them, but no one spoke He calls to text Man Setting His Room No one heard the Perhaps he was not arrested then? Makeup shop made to others Intelligence organizations I was off Here's how to contact finally our organization We abandoned it She quickly went away At the very least can cover giatu status And he thisao? I will wait again Missed as superior to find us Find thithe does not? U scared? I am afraid of being arrested Until now I have not beaten I know Japanese Torture does not Few can withstand Missed as she was arrested Give me a little more time to flee How long? Longest time she can hold is How can I run away a bit She, also a spy People should have taken a good man, be happy Do you know how to warn me You know I used police records As a principal member This is the only intelligence he does not let me encode it Navy and Japanese ships Will Pearl Harbor raid on December 7 I know she'd say Why the war on boom - Read to - Yes Bank withdrawal limits Each account of the Chinese A week is not taken beyond the 500 copper The British, American, Dutch Each day one person only get the 20 co Invite If you dare ... violation of the terms of Japanese banks set for Locking the enemy to withdraw Definitely will be using the His home in Beijing stars? Face looks very familiar No, I was just in Beijing was only 7 years Hoang Trung Chinh West arrested From now on I was the liaison between him and the superior He used the piano generate intelligence Even organizations that night will Shanghai TV station From radio They traveled Chongqing Chongqing will soon Washington travel news But Pearl Harbor Also many people have died not worth dying Obtaining intelligence is a story Can use or not In the game of war Not a chance I can decided a draw Moreover, our team As a child she has been experimentally The people quickly out of Shanghai May betray Other members of the team must quickly spread out This is defined organizations If the Hoang Trung Tay I want to sell out Thida early for work and He is Japanese But while he was ... Also a member of the Bolshevik party The death of contacts and intelligence Hoang Trung Chinh West arrested So what is vicai? Investigating We are clean To side Looking through the other You have to go? She no longer then Island I would not want that artist piano became so dehydrated slave? Japan began to sing with the stars? You want to go? From Shanghai to go abroad The remaining ships of France The board of Banama Come to the mainland I went with him He preceded Why not go ahead? We can not go together? English Only one ticket There can be two panels back? He always wanted to tell her She was summer, he is the winter 2 of us ... Like the fire in warm a few scattered snow cloud To celebrate the empire Japanese raid on Pearl Harbor successfully Shallow cup The people must come from Shanghai Go with the Can only be sure Y Van message back to him There is a young man TASS He told him to come from Tokyo The person he needs to find I was arrested in Shanghai So you want to find this person He has previously told him If you do not find her TASS is possible to get help Now he is where? 3 hour lunch tomorrow I date him to Mon club Tien Us Cues is the poetry of Pushkin Table No. 7 You have to go? She went ahead On his way carefully New England would manage to break Ton Now do not go Others will feel strange Let me go What he left me Only this He called into two compartments Cha is the Manchu Mother is Japanese As the mate of the vessel Trans States Complete Captain Wood said Cao in Tokyo you have a loved one Every boat dock UK are visiting relatives He Is Vy Ky Tu It First he asked him to bring ... Midwest for the wild in Shanghai The knife in the victim was identified he sold out Sushi chefs train that Trans States completed as The Japanese to Shanghai There are not many skilled people as In addition, around TASS Does not have a mosquito Maybe out of sight detachment of the secret He need not deny We have watched him ... A roll of paper and contacted him This material is the first refuge of 5 She was the one who passes No. 7 of the table into two compartments May Wood how he discovered clue Outside the residence of the contact There have also been looking for information people of the 5th of refugees So I suspect that this Second is to transfer gido I get it Which is not the same as is often problematic If not caught the Intelligence No. 17 This is the interrogation of Laos to the 76 I do not believe Intelligence that the Japanese set Click on Pearl Harbor As the Communist Chinese to find Our network has spread to Tokyo The four domestic To Name Intelligence spy It's Tu Ky Vy Every Tuesday to appear at dinner morning party of Prime Minister Vy Ky Tu It took a roll paper "great record the conversation" Get someone to go to Shanghai People come Get it yet? Who have not met? Most went to get Bich Nhu The roll was taken arrested on the spot She chidem of a wine cork Which does not gica He did not feel about This is questionable how much room? We clean I will report on this organization He let go quickly to leave Shanghai Not getting rolls I will not leave Shanghai where The arrest came from Tokyo Roll paper can have fell to the Japanese If not thisao? He contacted Almost Bich Nhu how? I have to go find her There are story times Foliage, she will find someone on the wall of the refugees Into two compartments not open mouth We can only take the employees Japan is not the message Jesus Colleagues in Man Set admitted Tay Hoang Trung Chinh Christianity does not follow But why on shelves have his Bible Also If only to treat Skin wounds Why buy a bottle of disinfectant to the world? But I used up a half In the Bible book in a few pages with a few drops ... Is antiseptic The Bible is the book Midwest encryption between the Royal ... And Chinese espionage team You have to fake autographs The Hoang's Midwest To spread an intelligence In the spring, the blooming In the spring, the blooming Wind blowing vi vu The sun shines its rays warmth from the sky Shed tears on my clothes Through all the way There is a new man put on it He was for me a little money I must have told her The informant into two compartments is assumed Most have been exposed Bich Nhu She helped me on the wall find people to go I have work out a little Insert the paper roll On May 24 in Korea Lac Mon In your closet Halloween In the jacket of 147 The Midwest reported the Hoang Stay away It can be said Into two compartments is plotted spy by the Japanese arrangements For example almost Bich Nhu Then try to let her run away Through her to break Communist China's message But the Midwest was arrested Hoang How can he put This intelligence is The son of the Midwest Design team leader of the Manchu Can fully benefit the relationship Annunciation us on endangered The stars he again put thitai for almost Bich Nhu not he? Every time I and the Midwest Chinh Hoang meeting Have an appointment time and location for next time Meet critical situations He will find foliage the wall of the refugees Bich Nhu Almost certain concerns that I'll go find her Knowing your status were then exposed Should intentionally run off the road To divert the four agents I get support intelligence But Unexpectedly I met her He does not worry the Midwest Hoang back on stars? This is a unique opportunity to get a roll of paper Tu Vy States It is possible know all the news from Japan Most of the dead lived not clear Bich Nhu If she is alive Thianh will be arrested Japanese Torture A girl like her can bear it? People that dare to die vianh He doubted her? Christmas fun You clean But you do not have everyone clean You know why I told everyone people from Shanghai are not? The team of people continuously happening to If between him and almost Bich The need is a map of the contrast The rest is given will not run out of Shanghai Almost arrested Bich Nhu Only now he is the most suspicious This time I did not him go free Someone will take him to Christ North To submit to the jurisdiction of organization Can I put a scroll ... Back to the Festival label? There really know the fate of Complete the label? Chibang this point Thito entirely possible official handle his Not knowing her fate It is the omissions in the work His intelligence He knows her body parts Yet still to roll She fell to the Can only say you are in conspiracy I and Hoan Gaming Chila relationships between men and women in love The world of espionage, non-users, not ma ma Why can men and women but love? Complete Gaming offers roll assigned to? He is old Van Eradicate international space charge He'll take you away I can even add a so- coat thicker again? Top Car Guns Left Why here? Jump Residential road Jewish refugees in Shanghai Who are you? In fact who you are He knew then that Dog Day at the racecourse He told to drink coffee In fact, the example I want to leave the place And call the contact person give intelligence The fatal shot fired Contact the em I found an agent Japan to track him If you do not like four shot him Thithan his fate will be exposed Intelligence will fall into the hands agents Sao em know you have intelligence? Chongqing side broke the solution is A large number of private telegraph system between Sandalwood Mountain Japan and Tokyo Analysis in the Pearl Harbor .. Will be targeted of Japan to the U.S. But the specific time is unknown Moreover ago Military member national convention People soon know Chinese Communist Party property in the headquarters of Japan So I approach his new Above the balcony In his coffee I gave up on that anesthetics Why not let him drink? It is vain for their intellectual His superiors in the dark brought intelligence to the people If not Otherwise, the em kidnapped him He did not give any gicho th em Where paper rolls? Where paper rolls? He has lost contact Lost its purity I also lost all I was rather annoyed for this Russian girl It is at least a relative of Tsar Lao Di, who is not afraid raising pigeons The new fear of raising women I make the national party How many stories I am not afraid But he also killed a lot People's National Party Himself who finish radio at Bund Road I have trained for the class the party's national radio term 2 How coverage of the Academy I am by heart I know the messenger Intelligence is known The intelligence reports of 17 U is his friend? He is pressing his interrogation He was declared out China has found Japanese intelligence raid Pearl Harbor An intelligence which is not effective Why listen to America Chinese instead? Four agents contacted the Japanese track Communist Party of China at the dog races Also the intelligence he sold four Japanese Back a few more lives Why Can not afraid? Nhan Festival Missing and He doubts me? His superiors do not know love yourself We do not get a roll of paper But his accomplices do not get They took a roll I assume the disguise of paper They also said that who are imposters I still want to know the contents roll in which To exchange I will drop him from the cage set If not The nail will hit his body Intelligence in the hedge bank of a neutral Only myself .. Where the new bank roll out I agree to use the network his life in exchange Stay curfew stars? Above all is the Japanese way They want to catch opponents Began to search Thanks for letting us stay Ourselves to thank you Hitler wanted to kill Jews Shanghai has given us I'm a shelter He's dead Who? The person that night drinking with her Try to escape by Japan to jump from car Concrete is dead When we come across What night? The night he now let us listen to there Is he the ... Was arrested the next day in Us not the subject? Yes Do you have coffee? Why he must commit suicide? Because we are vianh to put a scroll He's dying to tell you Proof of status his true If it thisao? He is real That is a scroll in the jacket No. 147 is a fake The Japanese are good the intelligence we are dealing How do you know about the scroll? Laos to the 76 previously at the national party After the surrender thigiet many of the national party Named in the list referred I watched him our time Vide protection of life He helps us work Become a spy double People to roll the shirt Who is wearing the number 147? He absolutely did not believe him us back on Is not he always asked me whereabouts of the roll star? This is a list of spyware that the Chongqing government organizations ... Become the official Japan's high level at the headquarters If the roll is intelligence being used to Source of information then provides intelligence transferred to Chongqing Ability Now began large-scale purges Soon the Japanese will search every house Just him out of here To be able to eliminate the realm I had the ability to Source for Industry Why is he ahead? He must verify that the Midwest Chinh Hoang there is no traitor And to judge whether the scroll paper is real or fake How can you confirm it? If the roll is assumed Then when you get Status of children has were then exposed They are not caught em I was assigned to roll out I own net just sa That because they have Khai to scroll to the old Di If the roll is true The Japanese will not let go Laos to dispense If nothing careened The roll is assumed I can not go This is the path of death, death time There is no on going But given his ... Can go without the stars? Too cold I drink a cup of coffee now? Of course Thanks I add sugar to coffee The thitoi through the neighborhood to lend In my bag So yes em Help me with 2 of us Was not to be come together and Only one person can go ahead If you love me Thianh unable to em go ahead. Right? But he knew I do not heartless let him go ahead Coffee is drug is em This time he wrong He can see the bats in the night Half the fun, half the birds You and I together It is like the bird Bay to where the light Asked him to cafes Apolo find Sinuses Let the enemy see my lipstick After I walk 10 minutes Let him take this Thise provinces soon Take care Stop This is the first born here They know to call coffee Special Apolo Looks like a spy in Shanghai Customs are taking over this type Wanderer rumored to taste delicious Maybe you heard a rumor the other People here are brokers This place is really good Go here is clean Out here no one even dirty In this Everyone naked So there is nothing explicit thitoi I'm going through the sinuses let people know ... Will buy the news of the Midwest Chinh Hoang high prices I will lower its prime Laos to close monitoring Maximum 3 days 7 hours He went to the club Mon Tien Us In front of the bathroom Someone will contact you Cues are disciples We are your goals The other is at this time But we are certain this ... Will live and die together Here bath Those who so easily disguised then do it Who should disguised wolf Then every team But at this moment here We need to stand on one side Do you think the This action is the Hoan Gaming dead action I hope she is alive Gaming Hoan lipstick left him She was released in the U.S. do gico Japan attack Nanjing A 13 person Only her own life This Alive? The Japanese told me to visit her Early tomorrow morning as I was used to turn the I never take passes I thought I would say Guest said then done I did not say gica See me My legs are not? In In full They break even My knees ... Then resume The break Help me Help me This capital used to take me back Finally ... ... I had to endure to the longest The artist named Hoan Gaming Visible crime Other torture Not to do anything declared all out and She declared that nothing She confessed to have worked for intelligence of the Communist Party in Shanghai Lao Di is the inside that they set in Shanghai You handle careened how? If want to intelligence the author transfer out Then careened to be safe If not Roll of paper into his hand The advantage of backward design intelligence report will be broken out Japan was the first country in the world ... Translated into "Respect French prisoners" In seven years of military school Always thought it was talent training policy That is the secret of the indirect team Japanese messages In particular, the program uses "time" has five types of time Cheat Interior space Reaction time Death and birth period of time He did not feel she This is why time element? Mr. Di He said in Shanghai Apolo did not have a bar? That is the market of four black spy Just have the money Thianh can buy any intelligence on which he should If the seller knows His true intentions One can give a higher price To bring his intentions sold to rivals Someone in the pub Apolo .. ... The high price to find the whereabouts The Hoang's Midwest Definitely into two compartments by the suicide warning to his accomplices Makes them suspect rolls Without this I would believe Hoan girl identified as the life and fear death Anh Nhan on how to handle? Next I would like next to her achievements New cars in northwest China e is the time Between the nest and Qi Then the royal treatment falls to death Sir The Japanese too much then Mau's go Where to go instead? Where no free run Just can not stay here Fortunately, this is where A retreat of the profession It is time we made promises to the people and Yes He is the Source of He is an important character investigation team of the national party in Shanghai We spy Not Killer He insisted on living Mr. Di Please advise him of his I am a disciple Dove's contingent to the intelligence Tay Hoang Trung Chinh no betrayal Do not believe in the Bible No password should contact Our "bible" Japanese are breaking solutions and benefits the traps to us? Roll is fake I found it tip for Chongqing Source of what? He and several brothers dead Hoan Son of Time Gaming Japanese have been known They killed the old Di In newspapers proclaiming this message Security is surrendered Nhan Festival Regulation of natural royal Nhan Festival being held in prison Where are aware of this She still says his appointment with Extend your actions He bats see in the dark One half is interesting, a half a bird You and I together It is like the bird Bay to where the light Shot her to Go I found a scroll This is the interrogation room of the house Phoenix jail Tokyo Could you please answer the questions The person is my enemy Why you may ask me scheduled timing of the enemy but I am not a traitor I own the Japanese vicuu out plight of war Those who put Japan on path of fascism Like Britain's The Tokyo New true that betrays Japan Why did I offer intelligence China tells By vitoi a member of the party Communist China Assigned to the Party I have to complete certain I do not have to stop join the Communist Party of China Join the party First there must be spirit of sacrifice Which at first I was a coward person A farmer .. I am Japanese But now I'm the world's Communism attempts vichu Mr. May Carpentry Our plan has failed Watch out should return to the old way Find ways to get back roll I went to place into two compartments jump off He was arrested at the club Mon Tien Us Choose to die at the plate billboard club Thus the stars? He uses death to show Giatu rolls are in Touch the subject The enemy can be found coiled paper we If you do not like Thise that needle in a haystack I have informed us first subject Tomorrow will return to normal operation Everyone Only can not be allowed into the If the maximum is not get a roll of paper Thita will blow up that place This is a bottle of whiskey This wine is very much people drink? Except for a few names that men Who can take a time out whiskey We often get alcohol not out Names of people who take up For the counters I want to find the bottle not drinking alcohol But I do not know what our customers to leave your name The name of the hotel on the bottle There are also many types of Do not know the name E that you will not find a The arrest that Just drink the wine as Gaming Hoan stars? Yes How much they drink? Drink no more But she is very sad So easy to say Not drinking the stars! He also does not take other Chikhieu dance with others Yes He used the name of the girl To write to the wine In the myriad creatures Scrolls were soon met Nhan Festival I've told her She is the summer I am winter She is still king of snow on the stove But inside I know Complete Gaming for me As the first flower in winter She told me Some cold winter There will also be passed only Give me a glass of Shanghai Add 1 cup more Be Let me see his hands He has a hands playing piano Only one hand I want to playing piano A person if you want to play the piano He can use the foot A pair of hands playing piano But the sound emitted Forum not sound I used to admire him the pianist By vicac people I'm also doing a different job I guess that He is using the piano pieces Communicating intelligence Yes December 7, Navy Japanese warships and Raid on Pearl Harbor the U.S. This is a part of intelligence greatest For him Is also a time to act Most failures By the end of war vichien also broke out along Drinking a glass of Shanghai Nhe I invite I invite you to drink whiskey Sit Why candlelight Burn her Why do you drink .. Of another outstanding wine in the bar? Complete Gaming is my girlfriend She's dead I replaced her drink wine out of space E that he will not take all Still have to leave the counter thisao? But it takes bottle and I accidentally lost it Not Is in his pocket Did not he want this so? The home of a first birth not in Beijing He's only been 7 years in Beijing Tokyo emitted Service Force intelligence I gave him a medal Guess that he understands Which the pianist combustion is a fake scroll He uses death to First release enclosure at Lac Mon New real roll can bring out the Seniors This medal is clearly insulted him Just insult the Japanese Empire The lights go Can not see the light? It took Tu Vy States the Japanese in September, October Conference of money and managed important meeting god There are articles on the "imperialist war" and "critical point in the war Summary of the empire " As a strategic intelligence Mean? Japan has decided to attack south Not up North The time limit to end on January 1 If failure to negotiations with the U.S. Will go to war with Britain Pearl Harbor As the target of Japanese attack How is it more a part of love report related to the Pearl Harbor? Long Theatre will play Million orphans market Everyone knows the story As a child Everyone died Japanese intelligence raid Pearl Harbor It is this child Dong Phong Vu In 1941 Change the world each Pacific War drag throughout 3 years 9 months There are 39 countries participating People up to 15 billion Troops which two parties use in excess the number six thousand The number of death and loss hard statistics Please swear I swear
