 

                        In 2011, a scientist from the University of Cambridge William Tunstall-Pendoe input over 3 hundred million pieces of data into a supercomputer in order to determine the precise date of the single least meaningful day of the last century it was a peaceful day, with not much happening of international import except that by some strange coincidence I managed to be born I've been spending over 30 years ignorantly passing through this tunnel called life I see the same people every time when I get drunk they tell me to get out of this tunnel as soon as possible and go to see the outside world I'm Sammi I do makeup for the dead What Fortunately modern Chinese culture still has room for shrimp dumplings and shaomai When I see them together, inseparable I can't help but think of Romeo and Juliet Iove and hate mixing together So powerful! Well here's a discounted package for you then It's a set menu. Night Lovers For Two When shrimp dumplings meets shaomai on this honeymoon banana split the original price was 26.8 now it's only 20 for you because fate had us meet here I didn't ask for a banana split Miss, this banana is mine Please get a new bag of shaomai for this lady It's quarter to midnight only 1 5 minutes to March 1st that's when these shaomai expire fate doesn't have to be decided by god it's managed by our company mostly "Table for 6" it's a speed dating service specially designed for singles keep changing till you find the right one, no 10% service charge You shut up Hey Miss, don't leave yet You really need our service You know why?. take a look, according to our database the women who come to convenience stores at this time of night... ...are sad, why?. They must be workaholics - Of course not - Well, even worse no boyfriends taking care of you it's ok to refuse me but don't refuse fate My first name is Seven Last name is Eleven Then I'm Circle K - Hey Hey! - don't follow me You're a pro, perfect! don't move! freeze! What are you doing?. Let me check you out first I just want to see if it's love at first sight According to the theory of the psychologist professor Pandora from Harvard the first time two people meet if one's body temperature stays a constant 38.6 degrees Centigrade there is an 80% probability of love at first sight bullshit I don't believe in either love or marriage Well said Having sex without love, living together without marriage Either is ok with me Alright?. Hello? what's wrong dad? Huh? Shenzhen? What are you doing in Shenzhen? Just watching her move I can tell she's no ordinary woman what's more she absolutely is no ordinary woman "1 980's pop sensation" "the Wynners" "Kenny Bee as the Zombie"" Look at your dead looking face, goofing around your whole life What goofing around?. It's my job to be a zombie You called me urgently yesterday I called back but your phone was off I called your home and no one answered Have a little common sense I'm up to my ears in debt, how can I turn on my cellphone? You're kidding me?. you're in debt again? Not me this time, it's your mother I'm sorry, it's stepmother We broke up seven times within two years It's getting hard to keep her in line Harder than raising a daughter You deserve it She is the most vain of all my classmates and you picked her? if you hadn't called her up to fix the computer how was I supposed to make her your mom? I didn't call her I called her boyfriend Tommy and she invited herself What are you reading uncle? Horse Racing Tips Those tips are a scam Here's my tips for you I'm off now uncle Scarlet, where are you going? Back to home to wait for a call Wait for me ok! I'm going to Betting Center Wait What is it?. Race 2, 3 hooks 38, 90, 12 What's Scarlet running away from this time?. She promised a businessman Charles from Guangzhou to hold The Wynners' 38th anniversary concert and already spent the 500 thousand deposit Just have the uncles come out for help Hey! aren't you supposed to scare people as a zombie?. You can't just stand around Jeez! You scared the shit outta me! You think I didn't call them? they all have work to do That's right, I just can't understand why every one from the Wynners has work only you could end up like this What? Like what? at least I stand on my own two feet Being a zombie is a perfectly respectable occupation I beat three students from Hong Kong University when I had my interview I didn't scare those last two guys, I'll try harder next time Is there any point so low that I haven't seen it with my own two eyes and yet with millions of Hong Kong citizens watching me I can't make a single wrong move for fear that I would let them down Showtime Hello! Is Bee with you?. Scarlet you stupid bitch Not answering Mr Charles's call? where's your wife? Stop! freeze! - You're at Art Capital? - Ah!! Go! Tell your dad to meet me Art Capital Was it Scarlet? Yes! said she found knock off Wynners Jump... What are you doing? They told us to jump Who? Roger. The fourth bird from the side next to her is his cousin Elaine My God, you understand bird talk now Yes, I do understand It's been happening a lot recently Get them back to see Mr Charles Yes! Don't say I didn't warn you Wow! I can't believe we survived the fall It's God's will that I go to Guangzhou to chop that bitch They are down there The birds are pecking them It's mutation of bird flu Dad Thank you Roger Daughter, I've heard there are lots of singers staying in Art Capital hoping to be discovered Well, your wife is "lucky" this time, let me tell you I'm here to chop her up I'm heading back to Hong Kong after I'm done! Got me? No way! If we could just handle this concert I could turn over a new leaf What if those knock off Wynners get popular I am their manager Art Capital, please Megan, here's my chance If I become an actor I could finally get close to you Roger I am Wen from Foshan I graduated from the movie Yip Man and the sequel Hey Driver Don't drive so Donnie Yen Just a little more Lynn Xiong please Hey! We have no money but talent and strong will I am a policeman weeding out the bad and protecting the good is my sworn duty It's Method Acting I just turned Yip Man into a policeman using only my imagination and a gun but his name is still Yip Man Fantastic Well, I'll give you a chance Alright, character, role, personality? taxi driver Ok! sit tight This is crazy, does he has driving license? ...You two talent scouts, I could take on it's just like flying a plane! ...ten Donnie Yens! What are you doing? I'm looking for singers, not circus performers dad What do you want? I'm looking for my wife Scarlet What you said has inspired me I'll sing a song for you You are not the only singer here, I can sing too manager Go Miss Jade! Miss Jade! It's too dangerous here they're just jealous of your music talent why don't we just go home?. I scarred my face and ran away from home you think I'm an idiot?. OK, dad would make me to be his CEO if I go back but now I just need those two managers to give me a chance I want to sing Bravo why don't we invite managers home then talk about the details?. home my ass hello, My Dear Lord, how are you I almost persuaded her to come home I am Noah and this is my ark we are family from now on and your business is mine and my business is yours don't go manager! come on! come on! hurry up dad, we're running out of time! Bing, hold me tight Yes, and you hold me tight too, Miss guys I just wrote a song it's called Don't Be Jealous of My Talent, wanna hear it?. not necessary - Hello - help me where are you honey?. we are at Art Capital you son of a bitch, you are a good troublemaker and a great swindler but not much of a wife your husband got his ass kicked because of you son of a bitch, how could those bastards find me if you didn't lose the phone?. bitch, I'm looking for my husband, it's none of your fucking business where the hell are you?. I'm coming over to chop you up now hey, be quiet, where are you?. she's at Shengshi Financial Center see me at 9AM if you don't want anything to happen to your wife who are you?. I'm Charles the boss who was cheated out of you leave her alone excuse me, you two are scouts or gangsters?. they look like scouts, actually they are gangsters this character has so many levels I'm following the right person, bro I'll drive you to chop... there's a man! about to crash! dad We can't find your mom, kid I'm not surprised hurry up I can't imagine what that Charles could do to Scarlet why are you caring about her so much?. when we see Charles later we have to make the first move, stun him first Xiaofang it's a miracle it can't be explained I'm telling you I've never believed in miracles your father was dead but somehow he came back to life again I can't accept this to prove that there are no miracles I'm asking your dad to jump off the rooftop OK?. If he survives this, I'm a believer dad I'm warning you! I'll be really angry if you push me away again next time ""dad almost killed you by not paying attention"" "I saw a woman just looking like your mom,"" ""so I lost my mind and ran out to the street"" "I was trying to get you a new record on your video game"" "but I didn't only lose the game I deleted your save as well" "I'm so useless, no wonder your mom left me" it's not true you transformed into superman when you hit the car "you read too many comics" it's not like that I'm a run-away, I can't give you my address are you on twitter?. Email?. and them too a man and a lady both flew out of the car and transformed into super heroes Listen, Xiaofang... Every time the Eight Heavenly Dragons return to the mortal world there is always a witness since the Dragons lose their memory from previous lives you will be the one to pass their secrets on in this life At the beginning of the world, humans were good by nature so God sent the Eight Heavenly Dragons to the mortal world to protect mankind from turning to evil but one of the Dragons called Yaksha couldn't resist the pleasures of the mortal world he killed the other seven Dragons before they even knew what was happening but Yaksha only destroyed their physical bodies he couldn't destroy their souls so they returned once every generation to fight with Yaksha for revenge unfortunately they lost every time I hope in this life they can find a way to dissolve this hatred and the eight of them could reunite once again and carry out the mission of guiding the mortals to the path of goodness finally he said bye bye to me, and that was it did you record it on your cell phone?. I want to post it on twitter for Megan Fox No! he said this was confidential he couldn't get involved damn! this crazy boy is bullshit! their story truly inspired me Bing, guitar this song is called My Talent is Bullshit how great a father's love is hello?. Dear Lord Father Yes! Yes! I've successfully convinced her to come home See you then, bye-bye You two, you guys knocked her out Yes A-men Hey, kid, you have quite the imagination you should be an actor! He's so good at making things up you should encourage him to be a scriptwriter. Such a waste think about it, what kind of a dad are you?. dad, he doesn't believe me "stop lying" even you don't believe me?. I'm not speaking to you ""reported this morning-"" ""six miraculously survive car crash- more on A4" I can come up to talk to you today it means we are brave and determined Well! In a word, I'll return the half million deposit in five years otherwise we die together...! OK, you need time to think about it I count down from five. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 it's a deal sweetie sweetie my ass you are Mr. Charles now, not my dad could you try getting into character?. whatever you really think this'll work?. it works every time didn't you lose your tour guide license Iast time you tried to intimidate your customers into shopping no one would marry a woman like you give me break, I don't believe in love or marriage Mr. Charles is waiting for you two Whatever, I'm not scared of you he didn't follow the rules, he attacked us first He thought he could get the upper hand by striking the first blow He will know the meaning of badass William Shakespeare used to say during difficult times one can tell the real character of a person today you dare come talk to me with empty hands it shows bravery and determination it proves sincerity and willpower in a word, get me the million in five days what?. isn't it half a million?. I know, a million, you need time to think about it dad?. a pro is a pro you can give two people a haircut at the same time but why did you give me a Beatles cut?. I used to be a hairstylist ten years ago everything I have now I got from a pair of scissors I'm an expert at everything, finance, real estate, trade I want to try my hand at entertainment this year, my first case is The Wynners and you're telling me it can't be done?. I'll lose my reputation if people find out my stocks will plummet Mr. Charles, it's not that we don't care about your reputation I did ask my old buddies they are really not available, I tried my best did you?. - honey! - Scarlet! I spent all the money there's still a handbag I didn't pay for I know you need time to think about it One second, OK or not?. OK! Let her go Yes, boss didn't you say you came to chop me?. birthday cake?. son of a... Iet's celebrate our getting back together for the seventh time bastard surprised me every... time I did want to chop you up, bitch but the cake saved you Ha... surprised me again surprised me too, if it wasn't for getting you out I never would have promised Charles to manage this concert I am doomed this time don't worry, one must bear the consequences of their own actions the worst thing is to be sold as a prostitute plastic surgery, breast enlargement will help get a good price but I don't want to sell you sell me?. aren't we talking about her?. - you bitch! fuck you! - Peace, peace, peace somebody call the police Lord will out in 1 5 minutes get the car ready, over! Copy! Lord Bing, ask Miss Jade if she'd rather study medicine in the US or study law in Britain?. Miss, My Lord has compromised already you don't have to be CEO of the company he only begged you to go to college, please show some respect did I ask you to beg her?. Iove well, hate well I completely felt your fatherly love from the slap but did you feel any filial affection from the back of my head?. Get out OK I am fine it was fine to make mistakes when you were younger now you're grown up, you can't make any wrong moves wasting youth is a huge mistake, one you have to recognize you always make the others apologize which woman were you with the night my mother died?. considering my social position now I don't have to apologize to anybody apologize for what?. I feed a lot of people I contribute to this family and this society! I'm not like you you are still wearing your dead mom's crappy scarf playing that crappy music daughters always belong to others, My Lord don't worry My Lord, I'm with you I will be tough and mature have you thought about adopting me?. what the hell are you talking about?. Only if I lost this unfilial daughter Oh, I see My Lord We are getting in the car OK - what are you doing?. - get in or I'll kill you dad, Ah! you don't blame me The Lord asked me to do this Ah...! what are you doing?. Ah... Oh My God that kid's heavenly dragon story is true Miss, I spent days and nights thinking of ways to make you transform and came up with this idea it was to stab you and it worked what did you do?. Yeah, I think it would work on you too where are you taking me?. scared?. you'll be free once we get the ransom the money is not a problem as long as you let me go a ghost Ieave me alone! what do you want from me?. what are you scared of?. I thought you were fearless?. beat me I'm warning you don't you ever stop your daughter from playing music, you hear me?. no matter how much money you have, no matter how many people you take care of out there you have never taken care of you family including the woman standing behind you that makes whatever you've done out there meaningless You heard so many women saying they loved you but have you ever said that to the woman you loved You selfish bastard! it's easy to lose one's temper after a transformation don't blame her, bye! I did exactly the same thing as the others how come I transformed into a one armed swordsman?. even worse...a lefty Cousin Cousin Da Xiong A Qiao knows you've been upset ever since you two separated So we came by to visit you Why don't you just move out since you are not happy here "Move out?. I don't have any other place to live" Just rent his place that way it's easier for you to take care of Xiaofang And my three daughters as well Then he can focus on taking care of me "Where can I get money for the rent?. " Here! I bought some contracts from the usury You'll get your money once you sign these papers just sign it, make it simple! I can't be your wife but it's fate I become your landlady Sign here Here, sign here, and here, here you are dad! dad! "Why did you get into a fight?. "" The kids at school beat me up because I said you were Superman Su... Superman?. Stop with the nonsense, Xiaofang I'm not lying, my dad is Superman Right! He's not lying. I'm telling you his dad is a Superman Kid, I'm with you Let's find the taxi driver Wen right now How are you?. Are you alright?. You did this?. are you the driver?. I remember your license plate Your pained reactions need some levels. You didn't show it And...your blood as for the blood, you should be spouting Really?. Are you getting paid for all of this teaching you're doing?. Horsy Just exchanging some acting tricks, and who are you?. I cover this area for extorting money. Got a problem?. No problem, very clear, no problem Wen My friend is calling me, I'm off Ok! I know this place very well, let's see how far you can go What's up?. Do you remember him?. Of course, the great screenwriter We truly are gods... What?. no kidding?. - Shhh! - Why are you dressed like this?. So they can't recognize me You stupid bitch trust me, you are not going anywhere dad, sneaking out like this isn't your style Scarlet must have forced you You bitch...Shh! Shh! I'm part of this, I'm an accomplice dad, you gave him your word you keep saying millions of Hong Kong citizens are watching you how can you break your promise what's the big deal with Charles if you and I work together and put on a great show then we can settle down huh?. immigrate to Guangzhou?. She blinked! damn it What?. Her eyes are blinking What are you doing?. Every time she cheated on exams, played hooky, lied she never blinked before she is blinking now What are you trying to say?. She wants to stay and seduce Charles Impossible! no one knows her better than I do she doesn't believe in love and marriage I'm sorry I had the wrong reaction My baby! I'm so happy you found Mr. Right but I can't find the Wynners Don't worry, dad, it's enough to have you and we can find people to fake the other four fake?. Hmm! Well. This concert is going to have a theme, Wynners in Space so everyone needs a mask how can the audience tell the difference?. Ha...! You think the audience is as easy to fool as your dad We can tell the audience that the climax of the concert is to have those spacemen take their masks off and you take off first, dad, and then the other four once they take their masks off I'll cut the power and set fire to the stage, start chaos After the concert is over, Charles has nothing to say Good idea Get to the point Hey...! Right The point is that I want to get a chance to meet Charles a Harvard psychology professor once said if a man and a woman stay in a room alone and their body temperature stays at 38.6 degrees Centigrade there will be an 80% probability of love at first sight Dad, you've got to help me It's not that I don't want to help you but we don't have enough people to fake the Wynners Manager You have to believe we all are supermen and space supermen It's God's will Yeah! Boss, why the Wynners?. aren't they too retro?. We are making a good image for Shengshi stock nostalgia is the mainstream to support a Wynners concert will help build a positive image, understand?. We want our money back! Get away! Boss! Mr. Charles, let's shake hands, best of luck but we will succeed even without shaking hands Excuse me, Bee how can you go to the concert with that haircut?. I'll just put on a wig and be as handsome as I used to be You've got to be kidding What are you up to?. I'm up to the things that I do before I know what you're up to Good! I like cautious man so what are you up to exactly?. You cut my hair the other day I thought you...you know...me so I want to check your body temperature. According to what... the Harvard psychology professor, Pandora once said if a man and woman stay in a room alone and their body temperature stays a constant 38.6 degrees Centigrade the probability of love at first sight will be 80% So... you really fell for me... fifteen years ago before I became a barber I lead the life of an intellectual I worked my way through Harvard's Psychology Program through correspondence Love at 38.6 Degree was the essay I wrote for the entrance exam Pandora is my pen name and I made it all up for those ignorant fools After that I realized I made more money by cutting hair than writing articles so I decided to be a barber, understand?. In the future, please don't touch random womens' hair it gives people the wrong impression Didn't I only cut your hair that day?. why didn't your dad misunderstand?. I'm very sorry to leave you alone in the elevator I should've been with you it wouldn't be boring if I was with you Wynners! Wynners! Wynners! Stop looking at me like that I don't think of myself as Juliet now I can live without Romeo these days you still have to work, eat and shit even if no man wants you that's a heroine come on are you screwing with me?. I'm not! I just don't want to be screwed with mask off! ARE YOU READY?. Today's masquerade is not just for myself but also for my dad - take it - 4! - what is it?. - 3! - I don't want my dad to be controlled by you - 2! damn bitch! you are good I know Ashura! You hate Gandharva so much in this life did you know that you sacrificed yourself for her in a previous life?. You should cherish your karma this time I am able to communicate with animals the kid is on the level "Naga" ""Kinnara"" Yeah! ""Deva"" "Garuda" Ah, what's up?. Wow! The Crippled Master?. I know, last time I lost a hand this time, grew a leg never once has it been normal Let's see if you're making any progress?. Help them! Ok! Ok! "Mahiraga"" Huh?. It's soft, didn't hurt at all it's made of flour Flour - parachute Bee, I love you! Grandma, you like Bee so much you'll live forever I love you! Ultraman! my baby! Huh?. free milk?. This god is so considerate who are you?. You bitch I'm no bitch I'm Ganharva "Ganharva" ""Ashura"" who are you?. Sammi told me you're the type that only thinks of themselves so I'd be wasting my time explaining it to you Don't leave God! God! You left so early last night without calling me dad help me! I'm doing a test on him I think your son is Yaksha since we are the Eight Heavenly Dragons when we aren't busy saving people we can find something else to do as cover, like having a band, or playing music to carry on the spirit of Woodstock Iove and peace wrong! we should be flying around shopping for smuggled goods Europe first and then Japan for cosmetics with our power we could definitely get the limited editions You dummy, we are gods not gaudy millions of Hong Kong citizens are watching me I can't afford any mistakes, right?. Right! Not only millions, all of China now so I say we make a Chinese Avatar We'll beat James Cameron! Why?. we'll do real stuff instead of special effects You guys are not united at all how can we find the eighth one?. I have reasons to think the woman in green is the eighth Why didn't she reunite with us?. - Why?. - I know why - have no idea?. - Why?. tell me calm down, sis ""IMPASSIONED FANS SAVED BY IMMORTALS"" what do you want?. Iast night's concert made headlines today so what do you think?. Alan Tam and the band have gone already how can we sing with just a bunch of assistants?. they are ok But your friend is the important one, the goddess who saved me I've never done business with Gods just ask her to name a price Hmm?. how come your ears are turning red?. anyway you get these gods for me Heee, he is in love with my double! Haha one-two-three-four! freeze! stay away! freeze! I've saved you seven times, so you won't become sashimi you just keep swimming back just inform the whales to stay away from the Sea of Japan it's radioactive We're out of money this month, what can we do, son?. don't worry, I'm here I have lots of gold, here you go I'll change the bars into cash next time, sorry Wow! all four limbs that was a perfect transformation Really?. Congratulations Running away?. You thieves I ordered this handbag a long time ago They paid for it! Not thief! Give it back to me! Someone call an ambulance, we got a brain-damaged god here What?. You got my signature last time, and now you want an autographed photo?. why would I carry my picture around with me?. Hey at least I'm a god You think I am your son?. do everything for you This fan is crazy, got a name?. Jackie Chan You're dead Forget about it, I won't make movies with you Jackie Chan again?. Stephen Chow You piss off so many big bosses you don't have a future Ah! Stop! it hurts ""After she comes back, you have one hour" "to tell A Qiao about all your evil deeds" "and break up with her, the harsher the better" Brother, the cops are everywhere "Why make it so complicated?. "" ""Why not just kill the thieves?. " We're better of saving than killing them Iet them see through the veil of life and death and become enlightened people the most important thing is to see through Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?. Thou art more lovely and more temperate "Good poem! but what's the meaning" Brother, are you Ok?. I'll avenge you! I'll kill all those cops Su Junior Su Junior Who is it?. Doctor Zhivago What are you doing?. You're losing too much blood, anybody got type O blood serum?. Yes! Take it! What?. what are you doing?. - What are you doing?. - Giving him a blood transfusion awesome, isn't it?. Ieave Su Junior alone calm him down try to think about something else just don't about...you know otherwise the blood will spout out of your thigh Why are you saving me?. Don't you like being thief?. I want you to keep having fun Right! Iet's play I'd-rather-die Ah! it hurts Brother Wow, his kidney's like a sieve change it right away! just a minute Yes! use yours Awesome! surprised me again calm him down again now you can think about it that way you won't feel any pain Yes, I just transplanted one of your kidneys to Su Junior and removed a kidney stone from the other one Stop saving me It's alright! Let's play again I'm not going Go Get ready for a face replacement! Got a face?. Yes, doctors are kind-hearted take mine I don't want his face, mine is fine Maybe he doesn't like this type Iet's help him find his inner beauty Well then, you don't appreciate it No! I won't be a thief ever again, leave me alone Su Junior calm him down Yeah?. You like that?. take your time pick one out for Su Junior You're kidding?. you can make him look this good?. Alright! Beautiful Brother Who are you?. Bro, I'm your younger bro Su Junior Ah?. what happened to you?. Those seven oriental gods not only stop crimes but also save the environment many young people are copying them suddenly they've become a focus of media attention all over the world ""HOT GODS" Come down here if you have guts You made so much dirty money, Charles You'll die before you can spend it all. Come down here if you have guts Always complaining, I'll fire all of you! Boss, actually the spit just now... Boss! Look Have you ever thought what if you died like that just now everything you have would be meaningless I'm blessed and lucky all the time And I have a friend like you, what am I afraid of?. To people like you, everyone below you is a slave whoever is against you is an enemy and whoever you can benefit from is your friend If I'm so terrible why did you save my life?. there is no good, no bad no rich and no poor in god's eyes mercy is our most basic obligation We've saved so many people in the last seven days there are a lot just like you they think because they have support of the gods they are important and as a result they become more selfish, more careless someone said that there was one day that was the last century's least meaningful because nothing important happened on that day I don't agree, it was a nice day Hey Hey Hey! Don't you leave me! Take me down! Iove at the first sight is real I'd been drinking so much iced water the other night, trying to reduce my body temperature but it didn't work I'm still feverish Hey! What are you doing?. I watched The Omen again last night. It's so scary What are you scared of?. we watched it dozens of times The lead in the movie Iooks just like the woman in green the other night It's a bit of an Omen What do you see?. Underwear Omen! Nothing Omen! Nothing! Hey, I just wrote a new song It's pretty good Give me a break, could you sing for the others?. They all listened, you are the last one Why did you save someone like him?. just leave him to die Thank you for building a school for our kids No, they thank him The Shengshi protests had been getting worse until last night the Chairman Charles announced a package of amendments to put down the protest In addition to raising their salaries the company also will also invest 80%% of their profits every year on employee welfare "Do you think it's a con?. " Could you just find a pen to write it down?. I can't understand you ""This is a con"" I see ""He is much smart than you" Will this decision affect the other companies?. This is his personal business decision, I won't do that. I bet the stock of Shengshi will drop profiteer It seems your new decision is not popular with your business associates William Shakespeare said The time of life is short To spend that shortness basely were too long You wouldn't have said something like this before, what changed?. A friend of mine reminded me Is your friend one of your business partners?. My friend isn't a businessman but I have learned from her values Iike how young people nowadays don't know how to share their success with others As a man I am able to sense that he is chasing after a pretty young thing Boss, the God Imitation Competition we sponsored has been opposed by the most of our shareholders. Care to give it a second thought?. Whatever! I will not change what has been decided All the girls playing god tonight will receive a 1 00%%% annual salary bonus! Thank you boss Think about it, boss It's late, go home Let's get out Come out Come out Playing with me?. save it the party is not over yet, go ahead "Your decision is helping people"" "Don't let this passion down" "Please keep it at 38.6 degrees Centigrade" Say something, Mr. Charles why did you sponsor this competition?. I hoped the young people could imitate something good the whole city is imitating those gods You call me every five minutes, aren't you tired?. I need sleep even if you don't I know I am annoying, but I don't know what else I can do Could you do me a favor?. The god came to see me the other night but I missed her I wanted to say to her...hello?. hello?. Mr. Charles ""The God Imitation Competition" GOD BE WITH YOU God Imitation Competition I've informed them already, what else?. Nothing I just want to see the god I've been busy these days I'll tell her next time when I see her. Wow... What are you doing?. Why are you calling me right in front of my home?. I, I just see that... You don't see a thing! Exactly It's a feather, and it's pink You got me I'll tell her to see you tomorrow at sunset For real?. Hello! Sorry, I'm late It's ok, saving lives is more important Mortals are different than immortals we lack confidence most of the time, that's why we drink alcohol we can say anything after we're drunk It seems you have a lot to tell me Sammi and you are right I should be straight I fell in love with someone at first sight I have a letter here I've been writing for a week Iet me read it for you The first time I saw you, I remember my temperature stayed a constant 38.6 degrees Centigrade but I didn't have much experience and was too proud and afraid of being hurt To hide my feelings I cut your hair Are you alright?. It's ok, keep going When my fingers touched your hair I felt a tingle so I had to cut your dad's hair to distract myself Shakespeare said A murderous guilt shows not itself more soon than love that would seem hid In the whole time I've known her I've never found it as easy to speak with her as I do with you Why is that?. I grew up an orphan you saved me last time it was like being with my mother, I felt so safe with you Mom, how should I tell Sammi my feelings?. OK, after mom freshens up a little bit Silly Boy! I'm not your mom I'm your girl! Hello?. This is Jade! something has happened Da Xiong's Son and my dad have been kidnapped How did this happen?. I have no idea They just left behind a souvenir from the TV tower I thought I would never have a chance to tell you... actually I was the god in your office the other night I know, I knew it a long time ago It was a setup, otherwise how could I have trapped all of you idiots here?. What's on your lips?. A Love Poison made especially for the gods you succumbed to me like this in the last life but you've forgotten mortals lack self-respect and an immortal with a mortal's feeling even more so I saw every one of you fell for the ones around you and I realized that what these mortals called love could be better used for deception daughter! Do you hear me?. How did this happen?. My shadow caught them all do you want to meet my shadow?. Omen! Omen! Who are they?. Every single time after we kill them, they forget what to call us why don't you help them remember clearly this time Ha...I am the eighth dragon you've been looking for this whole time Yaksha Huh?. total eight or nine?. huh?. Yaksha is bisexual?. So it's like Laurel and Hardy How about showing some respect to Mr. Laurel?. you can't just play with Hardy! Yeah! Scarlet! What did you do?. I owed...you in the...past life... You two fight over everything even over dying Every time you guys died and were reincarnated I sat and waited patiently here for you to show up figuring out a way to kill you it was the only thing that gave me pleasure for last eighty eight thousand and eight hundred eighty eight lives What are you laughing at?. Your life is boring as hell what are you laughing at?. What?. What do you mean what?. you'll have to wait for decades before you can kill us again and during those years What the hell you going to do, fool?. He's got company! His shadow What's the use of talking to a shadow?. What if it's a cloudy day?. Where are you Hardy?. Iike this?. If we're going to die, let's put up a fight Ok You think you can win?. Please be accurate! Please! how can you fight with me if you can't beat my shadow?. My mom's scarf! Bing! Got it! Miss Stop it! I surrender Huh?. feel something?. hurt?. Isn't it all very sad?. Haha! You've met me in so many past lives but I didn't know that it could be so painful to love you I see This is not fun at all I got you guys so easily each life is less interesting than the last Wait! Let me finish my last word Even though the seven of us couldn't defeat him in any of our past lives but we lived and died together in these eighty eight thousand and eight hundred and eighty eight lives wherever in heaven, hell or the mortal world We can still play music together ok?. Ok "This is true happiness"" Scarlet ""I LOVE YOU" Huh?. playing the friendship card?. You've never tried this before! Haha! This is the first time in my life giving a hand to others and it got broken and it's my right hand Thanks Ah! it's hurt, Miss daughter Ya! OK, got it I knew you've been secretly fond of me I could be son-in-law if I can't be godson Hey! I'm Wen from Foshan, it's very nice to meet you in this life See you next life ""38.6 degrees Centigrade"" Ok! See you next life It's not over yet Listen to me We still have an old man and a boy to play with Iet us see the boy kill the old man Where'd they go?. they can't have gone too far Let's get down! Come on! OK! everybody Group suicide was a great plan, let's not waste it Ok! Iet's roll - OK - Move It's heavily polluted here no wonder he has so much anger Hey! We're running out of time We have to get it done before we reincarnate Oh! Be quick Well, I wanted you to kill the boy for me You disobey me?. Iet me strangle you to death, you old fool Let me help you What did you do?. Hey?. What did you this time?. I have no idea I just feel that it's more comfortable to kiss him than strangle him don't you think so?. Yes...yes... Yes my ass Don't be afraid! Iet me do it Don't you come over! don't you come over! What now?. I don't know! I can't control myself! When a woman is in love she cares how much she can give instead of how much she can get It's fine that you couldn't do it this time But next time when you meet a girl you like please remember that a woman's heart should be cared for not deceived What the hell are you doing?. It seems she is not dead yet, and she's inside me What are you talking about?. I can't control myself That woman... Don't you listen to her! Don't you listen to her! Listen to me! Why?. Why do you care when you never listened to her in any past life?. Are you listening to me?. I'm so confused Don't panic! Don't panic! I'll get in there and kill her There was only me in his heart What are you doing sneaking around trying to group suicide?. Oh, just help him to find his conscience His conscience is fine as always Give me a chance Jade Emperor They died by my hand in every life but I never thought they would still return with kindness now I understand that forgiveness is key to releasing hatred please take my life in exchange for theirs What?. Have you thought it through?. Yes, I have coward! coward! I've hurt her in every on of the last eighty eight thousand and eight hundred eighty eight lives I hope it won't happen again next time around No...! I'm not letting you die for her! Before the concert starts, you are going to present with the sponsors on stage Here's the draft, please take a look to see if there's any changes?. Hi Thank you everyone, thank you Alan Don't mention it, it was our pleasure It couldn't have been done if you guys didn't help Bee Of course we support Bee and we also want to help our niece Niece?. who?. It's Sammi, it was her who put everything together You are Sammi?. Bee's daughter?. Yes! Why I have never seen you?. I was in Hong Kong contacting all the Wynners that's why we've never met I'm Charles Sammi The Eight Heavenly Dragons are immortals but not gods your abilities are beyond those of human beings but beneath those of the gods so you can't return to heaven until you finish your austerity observance Yaksha decided to practice from the beginning this time it means that the karma between you has run out his memories of you will cease to exist If you want to help him, you should keep the secret and secretly help him to become a good immortal again Boss, we're starting if I could choose I'd rather forget a love I shared than remember one that was forbidden
