 

                        Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! dark side's calling now, nothing is real she'll never know just how I feel from out of a shadow, she walks like a dream make me feel crazy, make me feel so mean nothin' gonna save me from a love that's blind slip to the dark side across that line on the dark side oh, yeah on the dark side oh, yeah dark side's calling now, nothing is real she'll never know just how I feel from out of a shadow, she walks like a dream make me feel crazy, make me feel so mean nothin' gonna save me from a love that's blind slip to the dark side across that line on the dark side oh, yeah on the dark side oh, yeah... In the summer of '63, on the dark side Was the number one song in the country. It's even bigger now. that's Joann Carlino. She was Eddies girl. sally plays the bass. Wendell on sax. Kenny on drums. guy on piano was frank ridgeway. He wrote all their lyrics. Called him the Wordman. on the dark side oh, yeah Wendell... that was august of 1963. Died of a heart attack. He was only 37. March 15, 1964. It was a little after 5 a. M. Eddie's car went off the Raritan bridge. Must've been a hell of an accident. Who says accident? You saying he was murdered? Could've been a suicide. All right, so what's our hook gonna be? What about the idea that Eddies still alive? You mean "Eddie lives"? It's possible. They never found his body. I get it. Eddie swam away from the car, Had Jim Morrison waiting for him on shore, And then Amelia Earhart flew them both to Paris Where they're all living together in sin. Look, there are a lot of holes in this story. Now, something was going on with that group, Something that nobody knows anything about. Get to the point, Maggie. Did you ever hear of a poet named Arthur Rimbaud? French lit. 105. It was required. Ok, kiddies, You want to sit back in your seats and listen? Sure. "A season in hell. "A spiritual and confessional autobiography. "Arthur Rimbaud was a genius. "His writings were a quest. "A search for perfection. "An attempt to find total freedom. "At the age of 19, "Arthur Rimbaud committed suicide, Not of the flesh, but of the mind and soul. " What's that supposed to mean? It means he never wrote another word And disappeared off the face of the earth. He was not seen nor heard from again For nearly 20 years, Until he reappeared in a hospital in Marseilles On his deathbed. Maggie, it's a terrific story. I just don't see What this has got to do with Eddie Wilson. You know where Eddie was coming from The night of the accident? He was coming from a recording studio Where he just finished taping an album. You know what the name of that album was? A season in hell. So what you're saying Is that Wilsons pulling a Rimbaud? I don't know, but if he is, We've got ourselves one hell of a story, Don't we, guys? You think you can get your hands On those tapes? I went to satin records yesterday. I figure that the master had to be sitting In their vault. I wondered why they never released this album. You know what I found out? The tapes are missing. Someone checked them out on march 16... The day after Eddie supposedly died. And that's going to be our hook. ...on the jersey side of the Holland tunnel, The jersey turnpike, and the... sidewalk surfers ride the streets in supervans fires light the faces of the gypsy caravans open up your door we'll let those lake pipes roar into the wild summer nights oh, baby, those wild summer nights summer nights wild summer nights oh, baby, run wild summer nights run wild summer nights back on the charts again, Eddie and the cruisers, doing wild summer nights From their hit album, tender years. And this is Scott muni at n. E.W. Hey, Mr. Ridgeway! Hey, nice catch. "... and so I dared to hope... "though changed, no doubt, from what I was "When first I came among these hills. "When like a roe, I bounded o'er the mountains "By the sides of the deep rivers and the lonely streams, "Wherever nature led. "More like a man "Flying from something that he dreads And one who sought the thing he loved. " So, what's wordsworth getting at? He's saying that places stay the same, But people change. Ok, do people change, or don't they? Now that's worth talking about. All right. Have a nice weekend. And remember, I don't want to see any of your faces For at least 48 hours. as I walk alone I wonder what went wrong with our love a love that was so strong and as I still walk on I think of the things we've done together while our hearts were young Im a-Walkin' in the rain tears are fallin' and I feel the pain wishin' you were here by me... The big time! to end this misery I wonder I wo-Wo-Wo-Wo wonder why... Joann! she ran away and I wonder where she will stay my little runaway my run, run, run, run, runaway Hi. Hi. Im a-Walkin' in the rain tears are fallin' and I feel the pain wishin' you were here by me to end this misery I wonder I wo-Wo-Wo-Wo wonder why why, why, why, why, why... Can I help you guys? I wonder Yeah. Tell tony Eddie and the cruisers are here. she got a love that'll get you down people let me put you wise she goes out with other guys I got the moral of the story from a guy who knows I fell in love but my love still grows, now ask any fool that she ever knew a-Keep away from a-Runaround sue keep away away from that girl, now you know what she'll do a-Runaround sue whoa-Oh-Oh-Oh-Oh-Oh whoa-Oh-Oh-Oh-Oh hey, hey keep away from that girl, now All right! Yeah! All right. Wendell, you're on the keyboards on this one. Hey, big bopper, where you going? You gotta listen to my new song. You're the one who knows what goes. Hey, sally, never bullshit a bullshitter. You make the music. I make the deals. Get some sleep. Let's get on with the music. 1, 2... 1, 2, 3, 4! Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes Betty Lou wah-Oo wah-Oo wah-Oo Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes well, she walked through a shoe store picked out a shoe tried on a 12, but that wouldn't do Betty Lou, Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes Betty Lou wah-Oo wah-Oo wah-Oo Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes Hold it! Hold it! Wait a minute! Wait a minute! What's the matter? What's the matter? Where you racing to? Where's the fire? No fire. That's the way the song was written. It goes that way... Upbeat. What's the problem? The problem is is Im just saying words. You know, you gotta give me a little room, So people know what Im singing about. You lose the beat, people miss a step. We want 'em to dance. Lose a beat, miss a step... what are you, a moron, Sal? You believe this guy? Look, Sal, I like your stuff, But it just ain't what I was looking for. You understand? Forget it. You had your mind made up Before you even started. So what am I knocking myself out for? Look, I don't want to argue with you, Sal. You want to get another opinion on the subject? No! Forget it. Joann, what do you think? What are you askin' her for? Why not ask her? She's got a brain. I don't know anything? She knows, huh? Everybody you bring in this band's an expert except sally. Sally's just a dumb guinea, right? You dumb guinea. Hey, kid, come here. Who, me? Yeah, you. Come here. Now, you heard what we're talking about. What do you think? Well, I think he's right. I think it needs a caesura. See? My way, with a caesarean. A what? Tell him. What's your name? Frank. Tell him, Frankie. A caesura? That's a timely pause, A kind of a strategic silence. That's exactly right. If you want, Ill give you an example. Ahem. Ok. "One evening "I took beauty in my arms, "And I thought her bitter, And I insulted her. " Sounds like shit, right? Ok, wait a minute. Now Ill do it with the caesura. "One evening I took beauty in my arms... "and I thought her bitter... and I insulted her. " Now, that's got class. Does that have class, sally? Right? Hey, kid, you can stay. Ahem. Excuse me. Oh. Can I help you? Maggie Foley. I work for media magazine. I'm doing a story on Eddie Wilson. I thought you might be of some help. Well... what do you want to know? Well, Id like you to tell me about the past. I want to know what it was like To be a cruiser. Miss, uh... Maggie. I'm sorry. It's nothing personal in this. I'd like to help you. I really would, but... frank, there are a lot of unanswered questions About that day. Yeah, well, I understand what you're up against, But that was then, and this is now. I don't care to be interviewed. Look, frank, I'm not here to make a carnival out of your life. Now, I have something very different in mind. I am going to do a tribute to a group of guys Who were ahead of their time. You don't understand. The night Eddie died, The cruisers died with him. Frank, what happened that last night At the recording studio, The night that Eddie died? There's no way on earth Id go into that with you. Frank, why not? Maybe... maybe because Eddies dead, And Im alive. He was my friend, And you, I just met. Hello. Wordman! Who is this? This is the master of voices, Maker of choices... Your old buddy. You don't remember. Doc? Hey there, Wordman, say there, Wordman, Whatever happened to you? What you been up to? It's been a long time, doc. It sure has, kid. So, uh, what's up? You need me, Wordman. You need me bad. Is that right? We got to talk. How soon before you get your ass over here? Well, where are you? Right back where we started, kid... Asbury park. All right, you near-Beer fans, Remember mock-Bird, ing-Bird, Charlie and Inez fox, summer '63? Well, James Taylor and Carly Simon Are betting you don't. My man, my man, the Wordman! Long time, kid. Doc, how you been? The hits just keep on coming. Hey, you haven't changed much. Still a kid. Don't bother returning the compliment. Give me that stuff, will you, frank? Sit down. Hey, man, this joint ain't as bad as it looks. I mean, the pay ain't bad. You can't beat the hours. Besides, there's a college nearby. They're telling me Im becoming quite a cult figure around here. Doc, that's great. So, did you ever write that book? No. I never got around to it. So, what did you ask me here for? What's so urgent? You talk to that chick from media magazine? Guess you know what's been happening With the cruisers lately. Something's busting, kid, and it's busting fast. The way I see it, Eddies my ticket out... and yours. Doc... we did one album, 12 cuts. You're making a big deal out of nothing. I'll tell you about nothing. Nothing's what we got on the reissue of the old album. After Eddie died, I sold the rights all back to Lew Eisen, that bastard. Remember him? There's nothing I can do about that now. But this movie thing, man... you heard about the movie deal, right? The Eddie Wilson story. The way I see it, they got to have a script, right? They got to have locations, period stuff, stuff like that. That's where we come in... Technical consultants. They got to come to us. I mean, who else they got? And there's more. There's got to be parts in there for both of us. I mean, not that we should necessarily play ourselves. Doc, it sounds like you can't miss. I wish you all the luck in the world. Hey, kid... I guess I lost my touch. I can't convince you, who can I convince? Listen, frank, give me a ride home. My car's kind of out of commission. Besides, there's something I wanna show you. Sure, doc. Any way you wanna play. I was thinking, frank. Hmm? I mean, it's just an idea. I know you're gonna hate it. What is it? I was thinking about bringing the group back together. "Eddie and the cruisers, featuring Sal Amato, Appearing nightly at 8:00 and 11:00." Dig this. I checked him out last week. He's got this Eddie Wilson look-Alike. No, he ain't half-Bad. He's starting to make a little noise, but you know sally. The kid's a nickel and dime operation. Now, here's my plan. I figure we get rid of the losers And bring on the cruisers. You, the clone, sally, Kenny, Some dude on sax, and the chick... Joann. Yeah, right, Joann. I hear she's back, you know? She was out in Vegas. Caesar's palace. Where is she now? Over around wildwood. I hear she's choreographing at one of the big hotels On the boardwalk. I get the group back together, right? Get a little seed money, Get some publicity, right clothes, Open up at the right joint at the right time, And, Frankie, we come back big. Eddie and the original cruisers. Hey, why not do a James dean? Hit the junkyards, Blowtorch Eddies car into little pieces For the tourist trade. Only do me a favor. Leave me out of it. I'm sorry, kid. It's ok. Forget it. Shit. They may look like shacks on the outside, But you'll be surprised at the interior. Maid's day off. This was waiting for me when I got home last night. Looks like we got the same decorator, doc. They got my place this morning. It's like the old joke. Hmm? We might be paranoid, But it don't mean they ain't after us. Who is they? Music lovers. Why? We must have something they want. What? Can't you figure it out? No. Well, try. What could we have that's worth stealing, My Robert hall suit? Your wilkinson blades? Oh, come on, doc. Give me a break. What are they after? The tapes. Season in hell. A touch of class for tony mart's. Thanks. What's this? Poetry? Yeah. Rimbaud. You know anything about him? Sure. Um... he was quite disreputable. Mean... perhaps even ruthless and perverse. "A tortured soul... " "But still... " One of the greatest poets that ever lived. Would you like it? No, thanks. I got to go. Here. Take it with you. A present. I'll just borrow it. Ok. See ya. Joann was telling me you write music. Thinks you might be good. I'll give you a try. What I want is songs that echo. The stuff we're doing now is like... somebody's bedsheets... Spread them out, soil them, Ship them out to laundry, you know? But our songs... I want to be able to... fold ourselves up in them forever. You understand? That's the most you'll ever get out of me, Wordman. Ever. Ladies and gentlemen... the holiday inn is proud to present A group that's been bringing us hits For nearly 18 years. How about a big hand for some jersey boys Who really made good... Eddie and the cruisers, Featuring Sal Amato! Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes Betty Lou wah-Ooh wah-Oo wah-Ooh Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes What do you want, pal? I'll have a pabst. she cracked up over the style and fit walkin' down the street with a brand-New kick Betty Lou, Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes Betty Lou wah-Ooh wah-Ooh wah-Ooh Betty Lou got a new pair of shoes she walked in the shoe store picked out a shoe Hi. Oh, hi. I have a table down front. Would you like to join me? No... if sally knew I was here, He's just crazy enough to call me up on stage. Didn't you tell him you were coming? I wasn't sure what his reaction would be. I interviewed him between shows. He said some very nice things about you. He told me that you were Some kind of genius with words, Regular whiz kid. Frank, why did you come here tonight? I just wanted to see how things turned out For an old friend of mine. Is that all? I guess I also wanted to see How things might've turned out for me. Can I buy you a drink after the show? Maybe. Ok. the dark side's calling now nothing is real she'll never know just how I feel from out of the shadows she walks like a dream make me feel so crazy, makes me feel so mean nothing's gonna save me from a love that's blind the dark side's calling now nothing is real she'll never know just how I feel from out of the shadows she walks like a dream makes me feel crazy makes me feel so mean nothing's gonna save me from a love that's blind slip to the dark side across that line on the dark side oh, yeah on the dark side oh, yeah Not bad. What? I said not bad. Not bad? Eddie, what's with you? The kid can't play. He can't sing, And he can't write. So what's not bad? He's got something we need. Like what? Words and music, doc. Words and music. All right. Now let's get on with the music. See what Im doing? Do it like Im doing. It's rock 'n' roll. Right? Do that. No, no. Like this. Like this. Relax, loosen up. Did he say not bad? Ha ha ha! all right? Come on. Oh, they're right. I can't do this. No, man. Now come on. Just concentrate. It's easy. It's like getting laid, Or riding a bike. Come on. See? Loosen up. Get your hands up there. That's it, come on. Go! Go, go! you got it, Frankie. Yeah. Yeah! You got it. Yeah! Yeah! Get down there. dark side's calling now nothing is real she'll never know just how I feel from out of the shadows she walks like a dream make me feel crazy...  You on vacation, or what? nothing's gonna save you from a love that's blind slip to the dark side across that line on the dark side oh, yeah on the dark side oh, yeah nothin's gonna save me from a love that's blind slip into the dark side across that line ooh, on the dark side oh, yeah on the dark side oooh, yeah That was the memory lane voice of Eddie Wilson, The original sound of the cruisers. I'd like to take you On another little journey now. How many of you remember that old feeling... Sand in your shoes, Ants in your pants, Secret weapon in your wallet? That's you, right? Yeah. How about the feeling of that magic, magic night? The first time. How many of you remember that? I want to see a show of hands. Come on. Ah. Slow dancing, submarine races... hickeys. How about those wild nights? You were cruising with your favorite girl. The top was down, and the music was blasting. Hmm? That was the inspiration behind Wild summer nights. 1, 2, 3, 4! wild summer nights oh, baby, those wild summer nights summer nights wild summer nights oh, baby, run wild summer nights strangers cruisin' down the south strip cool cats searchin' for some hot lips night shift, neon ribbons flash forever rebels lace midnight in black leather shipwrecked pirates claim their treasures in the sand sidewalk surfers ride the streets in super vans beach fires light the faces of the gypsy caravan open up your door we'll let those lake pipes roar into the wild summer nights oh, baby, those wild summer nights wild summer nights oh, baby, those wild summer nights oh, baby, run wild summer nights run wild summer nights All right. when the moon hung soft and low catchin' stardust in the night you held me closer and closer there was magic in the night a sweet love song, a melody that I still can recall two young hearts filled with dreams to walk away with it all whoa-Oh, tender years won't you wash away my tears?  how I wish you were near please don't go, tender years a summer love, a beach romance salty kisses in the sand two young hearts filled with fire lost in never-Never land whoa-Oh, tender years won't you wash away my tears?  how I wish you were near please don't go, tender years whoa-Oh, tender years won't you wash away my tears?  how I wish you were near please don't go, tender years All right! All right! Eddie Wilson is a part of yesterday, sure he is, But he's as much a part of this group today as I am. You know, we're still together, him and me. And never a day passes That I don't think he's around somewhere... Out in the street, around the corner, Not far away at all. forever they will haunt me but what can I do those oldies but goodies reminds me of you you you you you The cruisers with Sal Amato. Let's give 'em a big hand. Once more for this really great group. Ladies and gentlemen, here they come. Here they are. Take a bow, sally. Ok. Thank you very much. Don't go away. Stick around. There'll be dancing till dawn To the keyboard sounds of our very own Regina Lewis. Thank you. Son of a bitch. Son of a bitch. Look what comes walking through the door! Wordman himself! Just like Ive been telling everybody, When you're hot, you're hot. Where have you been hiding yourself, Wordman? Teaching high school in Vineland. I never left the garden state, Sal. No lie? No. Sit down. Sit down. I used to wonder about you. Yeah? Yeah. I figured maybe you moved to California, Were writin' for movies Under an assumed name, or somethin'. Want a beer? Hey, thanks. Mmm... Wordman? Hmm? I just got interviewed for television By media magazine. Yeah. They had a whole crew here. They had lights and cameras. Everything. That's great, Sal. What did you talk about? Me. Are you hungry? Want a slice? Nah. No, no, no, no. You know what she really wanted to talk about? Those old tapes... season in hell. She said something about 'em being missing. Wanted to know if I knew where they were. What'd you tell her? I told her I don't have a clue. For all I care, they could've gone down with Eddie. You understand? Sally, you were on those tapes, too. They find those tapes, what's in it for me? I just about broke my fingers trying to play that stuff. Well, they must be worth money. Somebody's willin' to pay for 'em. But we ain't gonna see a dime from that. They'll find a way to screw us. They always do. Guys like you and me, They strike oil under your garden, All you get is dead tomatoes. I get the picture. It's still Eddie, isn't it? They could care less about me. It's more Eddie they want. Ah, sally. Hey. You ever wonder what it might have been like If he was still around? I used to wonder. It ate me up. I figured Eddie was my one shot at the bigs. I thought we could go all the way together. After he died, I got crazy. Some nights it's like Eddies still alive... and I get mad at him all over again. I'm mad at him for living. And Im mad at him for dying... the dumb way that he did. Sure, it gripes me When I think about how big we could've been. the time is right you hold me tight... We signed a $50,000 contract To do another album. That was a lot of money in those days. They gave us a $10,000 advance, And the offers started pouring in. They all wanted the cruisers. We were on such a high. We thought we'd never come down. Anyway, one night doc was reading off The list of potential dates, And I heard him mention Benton college, My old school. Nobody wanted to go, and the money was short. Also, Eddie felt that it wasn't our kind of place, That we wouldn't fit in. But I wanted to go. Oh, god, how I wanted to go. do you believe this? oh, man. I didn't know we were going to summer camp. You know, there's 600 guys here That haven't seen a girl since new year's. They bring them by train, by car, by the busload. Cattle cars, they call 'em. Sounds like zoo parade. Moo! Whinny! round them up! Move them out! South Philly was never like this. come on, you guys. Get off my back. strike one! hello, girls. stop it, stop it. look at this. It's an ice cream convention, man. Oh, they're going to sacrifice a cricket. no. They're gonna sacrifice you. How does it feel to be home, Frankie? Look at this. What do we have here? A real group of pistoleros. Hey, Wordman. This shindig tonight... how are we supposed to dress? Hey, wait a minute. What's the big deal? We've played colleges before. Yeah, sure. We played St. Something Down in Delaware, Fairly ridiculous up in Madison, But we ain't never played No finishing school like this. This is a mistake. We don't belong here. These people are different. I'm telling ya, they're gonna eat us up. They're just a bunch of college kids, No better than you. Hey! I didn't say better. I said different. You ought to remember that. What do you think? What do I think? I'm scared to death. Aw, hell, Joann. Come on. When I graduated from high school, I asked my guidance counselor what he thought I should do. He talked about being a beautician, Or a typist, or a nurse. That was already reaching for the moon. The whole time, he was checking me out. "Here's a ripe one. "Doesn't matter what kind of job you get "Because in a year you'll be married and pregnant "With the first of six, "And they won't be college material Any more than you are, cookie. " Case closed. Hey, listen. These people, they're way behind you. I don't think they think so. Hey, ridgeway! Frank! What are you doing? Livingston, how are you? Ok. This is frank ridgeway, my old roommate. This is Lois Wilkes. Hi, Lois. Joann Carlino. How you doin'? Keith Livingston. Nice to meet you. So, what, are you up for the weekend? Yeah. Rites of spring? Yeah. Well, that's perfect. Know who's playing tonight at the dance? They've got the cruisers. You know, the mean-Assed black group out of Newark, The cruisers. Oh, yeah. I heard of them. You know, when that Lois girl Asked me where did I go to college, I didn't know what to say. You told her you work in the city. Fine. And whether we were pinned or lavaliered? Hey, look... you're good enough to be here. You mean Im good enough for you. That's it, isn't it? Sometimes I think you're too good. How do you know Im not? I didn't mean that. Eddie said "different. " Yeah. Thanks for the date. Are you being sarcastic? No. You're welcome, then. Let's go back. Showtime yet? I'll just change into my other stuff. No. It'll only take a minute. I said no. You stay like that. Hey, man. You got some fine college here. All the advantages. You got ivy walls, Lecture halls, Full-Dressed balls, And you got the cruisers for the nasty stuff. For the get-Down music and the hanging tough. Better grab a woman. Don't mention your name, Because after tonight, She'll never be the same. When lights go out, and the clock winds down, Better find me a woman to go downtown. No hand-Holdin' baby who'll nip and tuck. I want a girl up the street who knows how to... I need a woman's special touch I need a lover's soul trust I want you, baby, you know it's true there's just one thing I won't do for you you'll never see me get down on my, down on my knees ooh, baby, Im a live wire a loaded pistol, Im ready to fire you know I want you by my side but I ain't beggin', I got my pride you'll never see me get down on my, down on my knees all I need is to set my soul free all I want is you to walk the line with me oh, darlin', yeah you give me lovin', makes my blood run hot I want you, baby, Ill never stop ooh, baby, you're my one desire Im a man that you can't deny you'll never see me get down on my, down on my knees yeah get down on my, down on my knees yeah down on my, down on my knees Do you like rock 'n' roll? Do you need rock 'n' roll? All right. Cool out. Sit down. Sit down. Come on. We gotta cool out before we can get runnin'. I wanna thank you people for making the scene. The show's just startin' now. I'm gonna come clean. I'm gonna present the cruisers one by one. On drums, just going through a phase, Kenny Hopkins. On sax, the bruiser... Mr. Wendell newton. On bass, long, tall sally Amato. And last but not least, Your favorite and mine... Joann Carlino! Hey, Eddie, you forgot somebody! Who did I forget? The guy on the piano! Ridgeway! Oh! Oh, yeah. On piano... we got, uh... Toby Tyler. Stage name, show business nom de plume. He's that little boy who ran away from home And joined the circus, isn't he? He snuck into the tent without a ticket So he could see all the wild animals inside, The savage beasts, the clowns, the freaks. Let's hear it, everybody, For Toby Tyler! All right, here we go! Light up those lights! your mama said she don't like it she don't like that rock 'n' roll oh, mama, mama mama, you just don't know I don't wanna hang up my rock 'n' roll shoes well, I get that feelin' every time I hear them blues the music's got the beat that will keep you alive the kids are rock 'n' rollin' from 8 to 85 and I don't wanna hang up my rock 'n' roll shoes well, I get that feelin' every time I hear them blues The next day, I told him I was leaving, And Id take the bus back. What did he say? He said, "ok. Sure, go ahead. "I'll just call up the union And have them send someone else over. " Like so much busted plumbing. Then he asked me to take a walk with him. He didn't say anything for the longest time. Then he turned to me, and he said... "Wordman... "we need each other. Words and music. " Then he crossed his fingers Showing how they go together. "Remember... words and music. " So you stayed. Yeah. I stayed. But season in hell... frank, how much influence did Rimbaud have on Eddie? Looking for ghosts? Maybe. You don't really think Eddies still alive, do you? I guess not. But what about the coincidence Of season in hell? Frank, what happened to those tapes? Hey, look. It didn't work. The record company hated it. They never released the album. Frank, I want to get ahold of those tapes And play them on my show. Let's let them be heard. Let the people decide whether they're any good. I don't know where they are. Honest. I'd like to find them as much as you would. Frank... is that why you stopped writing? Because they told you you weren't any good? Words and music, remember? Without Eddie, There wasn't any more music. Good night, Maggie. Good night, frank. Im serious. Doc wants to get sally's band and us To go back on the circuit again. the guy's out of his head. It's them old songs, old memories. They'll make you crazy, man. Just a phase, huh, Kenny? Yeah, sure. We had some fun times for a while, huh? I liked being on top. What's not to like? You're out there in the back of the caddy, Balling some chick, you know. One of our tunes come on the radio... whoa! I mean, who was better than me, right? There was something special about that time, you know? I miss it. You don't fool with the memories, huh, Frankie? I'm not so sure I can stop. Ok. Ok, but if you're gonna do that, Then you gotta take a look At the whole story, man. I mean, there were bad times, too... The fights, the arguments, The hassles. I mean, things, Im sure, You've forgotten all about... Toby Tyler. Did he play hell with you that night? Yeah. Yeah, right. You remember Sal and doc At each other's throats? Eddie and Joann Not being able to talk to each other. Nobody talking to each other. Remember Wendell dying? Remember that? I remember. Yeah, right. Heart attack, right? Man, you still don't know what went down. What are you talking about? Where the hell have you been? Heart attack, my ass! What, you live in a cloud? It's time you grew up. Let's go. Wendell. Come on, Wendell, let's go. We've got to go, man. Wendell. Hey, Wendell. Hey. Stupid son of a bitch. Uh... the other day, I buried one of my best friends. He was the best sax player I ever heard. And they tell me I gotta come up here And entertain you people now. I don't think Ill be able to do that. aw! when the moon hung soft and low catching stardust in the light you held me closer and closer there was magic in the night whoa-Oh, tender years won't you wash away my tears how I wish you were near please don't go, tender years Hi. Hi. God, you look great. I just came from a rehearsal. Still, you look terrific. I'm so glad you called. I wanted to so many times, but... now, this revivial of our music... I couldn't help thinking about you, Remembering the good times we had. I just had to see you again, Joann. We had fun, didn't we, frank? Yeah. You know, Ive never been able to let go. To let you go. I'm glad you're here. Hey. You know, Ive seen all the guys. You did? Yeah. Kenny's in Atlantic city Dealing blackjack in one of the casinos. Really? Yeah. Doc's a Dj back in Asbury park. Did you see sally? Oh, yeah. Yeah. He's knocking them dead With the oldies but goodies. Can you believe he's still playing Betty Lou? Only now he's finally doing it his way. Without the caesura. Yeah. How do you feel, them playing our old songs On the radio again? I guess it's fun, but, you know, The strangest things have been happening lately. I keep getting these phone calls. I pick up the phone, And someone plays tender years. Then they hang up. A couple times a day. And last week, somebody broke into my house. They got my place, too. And doc's. What's going on? Who is it? It's got to be those old tapes. Season in hell. I see the writing on the wall ivory towers bound to fall voices whisper in the wind I can hear them callin' love is the fire burnin' and I wanna burn darkest hour before the dawn times we know will...  What the hell are you doin'? I've heard enough. Just relax. There's nothing can't be fixed. Am I right? This won't fix. This is a disaster. You wanna be a poet? Try Greenwich village. Lew, listen. Another couple of weeks. We can work... Doc, take 6 weeks. I still wouldn't know what to do with it. You want to know what you can do with it? I'll tell you what you can do with it, You son of a bitch! Hey, I put up 10 grand, And I expect something for my money. This is what Ive been waiting a year for... A bunch of jerk-Offs making weird sounds? You're not gonna see a red penny. Easy, Eddie. Now, hey, wait, come on, man. Hey, listen, Lew, He's under pressure since Wendell died. Let me talk to him. you ain't talkin' to nobody! Look, we'll work somethin' out. Bullshit! Doc, don't do me any favors. I don't need this. Lew! Lew! Lew! Shit! Are you crazy? We had the money in our hands, and you blew it. You blew it! Hey, come on! Eddie... you're wrong. You're wrong! Now listen to me. I love you. I've known you longer than anyone else. But you're wrong. They want on the dark side! What are we giving 'em, some damn opera? I don't know even know what you're after. I want something great, I want something that nobody's Ever done before. Why? We ain't great. We're just some guys from jersey. If we can't be great, then there's no sense In ever playing music again, Sal. I blame this on you. It was you! We were doing good till you came along, And you got us all screwed up! Eddie, wait! Eddie, the music's great. Those guys are wrong. It really is. Eddie, what is this place? I used to hang out here when I was a kid. There used to be this old guy Who owned the place. What a dreamer. He would sift through the garbage And put aside bits and pieces. Come on. I'll show you. Come on. He actually believed That you could build a castle Out of a bunch of junk. What a crock. Holy shit. What a phony. Here we are, guys. Right where we belong. You got your edsels... norges... Dumonts... and Eddie Wilson. Together at last, Creating our own incredible monument... to nothing. Here's to nothing, fellas! Here's to nothing! there were so many things I wanted to say to him, So many questions I wanted to ask. But Eddie and I, we had a deal. We never talked about the future. We thought the present was so fine. Why ruin it by planning ahead? But as Eddie drove off, I knew... I knew it then... there wasn't going to be any future. In the morning, They told me Eddie was gone. They hadn't found his body. That was always the hardest part to accept. I know you're gonna think Im crazy, But I have to tell you something. Last night there was a car Sitting in my driveway. A '57 Chevy. Just like Eddies... Joann, that car was destroyed in the accident, remember? I know, but whoever it was Must've seen me looking out the window. He blinked his headlights High, then low, then high again... just like Eddie. It can't be. It can't be him. Well, who then? Who? It's not Eddie. Whoever it is that's watching Is looking to cash in on those tapes, But it is not Eddie. Frank... I know where those tapes are. After the accident, I had to say good-Bye in my own way. I went to satin records, Got the tapes, And drove back to palace depression. Take me there. Watch your head. Are you there? Yeah. Hold my hand. Come on. there. give me a light. See it? I feel something. It's in a box. A wooden box. I got it. Let's go. Come on. There's gonna be a left soon. Just past the gas station. There's some of you, you know. Yeah, I see. That one was always my favorite. Hello. when the moon hung soft and low there was stardust in the night... Who is this? you held me closer and closer... Damn it, who is this? Oh, frank. Oh. No, don't. It's ok. It's ok. That's it! Huh? It's Eddie! He's coming over. That's our signal. It means get ready. I... I have to go. He'll be here any minute. I got to go. Oh, frank, Im sorry. I got to go. Eddie. It is you. Yes. Yes. Sure, I have them. Yes. I'll be waiting. Yes. Yes. Eddie. I'll be alone. Yes. Oh, hurry. Please, hurry. Frank? Frank! Hey, baby, what's the holdup? Eddie? Come on, let's get on with the music. Frank! Frank! What are you doing? Frank, don't! Don't! Son of a bitch! You... you! Ok. Ok. Ok, ok. why did you do this? Short cuts, kid. I never could do things the easy way. Oh, doc. Why this whole game? The car business? I figured... Joann had the tapes. I knew she wasn't gonna give them to me. Maybe you, Wordman. Maybe she'd give them to you. What would you do if you had the tapes, doc? Try me. Just try me. I'd have it made. For once in my life... Id bring home a winner. I'd like that. I once asked Eddie why he kept you around. You know what he said? He said, "doc's a dreamer. And the world needs dreamers. " He was the only real friend I ever had. Yeah. Here. Go on, kid. Your ticket to the bigs. Come on, take them. I'm gonna do this for all of us. I mean that. I'll make you proud of me. Listen, Im gonna make the sweetest deal You ever heard. They don't know it yet, But they're gonna be dealing with doc Robbins, The big bopper! And Im gonna be coming on strong, staying long. Talking loud and drawing a crowd. Hey, man... Eddie and the cruisers, coast to coast. I ain't just talking jersey! Go get 'em, doc! Let's go inside. dark side's calling now, nothing is real she'll never know just how I feel from out of the shadows she walks like a dream makes me feel crazy, makes me feel so mean well, nothing's gonna save me from a love that's blind slip to the dark side across that line on the dark side oh, yeah on the dark side oh, yeah... the innocence of the fifties was over, And so was rock 'n' roll as we knew it. We were entering a new age. An age of confusion, An age of passion, of commitment. Eddie Wilson saw it coming. Season in hell Is a total innovation for its time. It was a signal of greatness yet to come. Eddie Wilson was a step ahead of us, And I don't think we've caught up with him yet. Eddie's been dead for almost 18 years, But his music is as alive today As the day he recorded it. For me and for everyone who listens to music, Eddie Wilson lives... and always will. fire fire love is the fire burnin' and I wanna burn Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! Eddie! can you see the light? Can you hear the sound?  can you feel this whole world turning 'round?  can you see the light? Can you hear the sound?  can you feel this whole world turning 'round?  can you see the light? Can you hear the sound?  can you feel this whole world turning 'round?  can you see the light? Can you hear the sound?  can you feel this whole world turning 'round?  can you see the light? Can you hear the sound?  can you feel this whole world turning 'round?  can you see the light? Can you hear the sound?  can you feel this whole world turning 'round?  can you see the light? Can you hear the sound?  can you feel this whole world turning 'round?  can you see the light? Can you hear the sound?  can you feel this whole world turning 'round?  can you see the light? Can you hear the sound?  can you feel the... strangers cruisin' down the south strip cool cats searchin' for some hot lips night shift neon ribbons flash forever rebels lace midnight in black leather shipwrecked pirates claim their treasures in the sand sidewalk surfers ride the streets in super vans beach fires light the faces of the gypsy caravan open up your door we'll let those lake pipes roar into the wild summer nights oh, baby, those wild summer nights summer nights wild summer nights oh, baby, those wild summer nights oh, baby, run wild summer nights run wild summer nights when the moon hung soft and low catching stardust in the night you held me closer and closer there was magic in the night a sweet love song a melody that I still can recall two young hearts filled with dreams to walk away with it all whoa-Oh, tender years won't you wash away my tears how I wish you were near please don't go, tender years
