 

                        They call it coming out of a book, and youve got to do it at some point in your life, havent you? Youve got to just fuckin come out of a book, you know, surprise your neighbours! Hey! A fucking big book next door, yes Andy Warhol said, Youve always gotta come out of a book at some point, he said, and then, poof! And big hair Or he said something like that. So were here, yesThis is the video, a very, very special video a video album, this is what it is of all the incredibly funny things in my brain, I suppose, cause people think Im on drugs, and Im not, Im really quite, you knowjust a bit of coffee, and Im really When I take drugs, I start going, Oh, insurance! Ever thought of? And pensions! Very sensible! So dont take drugs, otherwise youll go like that! Just go Yeah! But thimbles is what I really wanted to talk about, because you dont really - well, they dont get enough press these days, do they? I dont think they ever did, because very rarely you see, Thimbles: Oh! Says Man You know what I mean Cause my Gran said, Put a thimble on your finger, and it helps you, in case you slip with a needle, the needle goes up, and into brain, and death and before thimbles were invented, it was Needle Death Tragic Whole Family! Family of Sewers Tragic! If Only Thimbles Were Invented, says psychic man with big hat and beard to match Thimbles Compulsory for Children in Many Buses So yes The best thing with thimbles is to put one... on each finger, and then you can do impressions of horses. Horses with one too many legs, I suppose Cause they do have a metallic sound, dont they, horseshoes? Well, horses have got hooves, theyve got this bit of semicircular metal... nailed to each and every foot! And thats just a con! For centuries, blacksmiths saying, Is that your horse? Better nail a bit of semicircular metal to each of his feet! Oh, no, thanks, its got hooves! Thanks very much. No, better nail a bit of semicircular metal on. Have you ever had a blowout on a horse doing 70? Yeah Steel radials, thats what you want, mate! Are those anti-lock hooves? Ooh, Im not sure It is. Perhaps its a big con, theyve done it very successfully for centuries, but they were just trying with all hoofed animals. You got any more in your farm? Cows! Bring them in, theyve got hooves! And pigs and sheep, hooves the lot of them! Ill put shoes And your ducks and geese, get the whole bloody farm in! And your next door neighbour. The whole farm for 50 quid Ducks going around, going clang, clang, clang Quack! Swimming out in the water They dont do the breast-stroke, do they, ducks? They just... Any duck doing that is really kind of crap. And its also lucky, horseshoes are lucky! And horses have four bits of lucky nailed to their feet. They should be the luckiest animals in the world! They should win all their horse races, shouldnt they? Its after 3:30, and today, every single horse was first equal One horse dropped a shoe, came in fourth And the duck was ninth. Five ran Its what they always say at the end, dont they? A bit of useless five run. Are there people at home, going, But how many run? Or is it the idea, Five run, one sauntered, really one drove a small car one windsurfed, one hang-glid. Yeah, you decline the verb to hang-glide, then I hang-glide, you hang-glide, he, she hang-glides, we hang-glid, you hang-glided, they hang-glidededed. Anyway, thats all rubbish! Sometimes, though, you want to buy a thimble, or a horseshoe, or a bit of fluff, or an elephant, and you go down your local supermarket. Dont laugh too much, please The local supermarket, you know; the hypermarket, theyre big, fuckoff, huge, big as a village these days, And everyones in there: trendy people, straight people, rich, poor; everyone in there, pushing trolleys, going, Do we want yoghurt? I dont know And you can push things around, you can fill up with stuff, and then you get bored of your shopping. Oh, forget that! I dont want it! You can just leave your trolley, kind of No, Im just Pick another one, Oh, Ive got this one! But trolleys, they never run straight, do they? Have you ever flown on a trolley? Never! Because theyve always got the wobbly wheel off to the right, hit someone in the stomach, and they drop all their shopping in, and then youve got their shopping And if you hit an old lady, you get hairnets and dog food! Thats all they buy. At a certain age, about 80, I think, they go, Fuck everything else! Hairnets and dog food, thats all I need now Cause youre on bonus time from then on, really, so you might as well get weird shit. Hairnets and dog food. Hairnets, of course, are pointless; weve all known this, and weve marveled at people putting them on, cause when you take them off in the morning, youve got criss-cross patterns on your hair. Why, old lady? Why the hairnet? Oh, the hair thieves! The hair thieves, they come in the night Steal your hair, they do! Sell us into slavery in Azerbaijan.  And dog food as well. There was a dog food a while back called Mr. Dog. It was a small can of dog food for small, yappy-type dogs. And there was a big advertising campaign, saying, Buy Mr. Dog, for small, yappy-type dogs and maybe, theyll shut the fuck up! So that was fine, and then there was a stroke your beard meeting back at Mr. Dogs headquarters. Well weve sold but two cans of Mr. Dog which some people do say, But two cans Lets change the name! So they changed the name, from Mr. Dog to Cesar. Now thats a bit of an image shift in my book of references. Mr. Dog small dog, yes, you can see the sort of linky there. Caesar Roman leader 2,000 years ago, small dog. Bit of a strangled route up to that one, isnt it? Left at the traffic lights to get there I think thats a 3:00 in the morning decision, that one. Its Caesar, well call it Caesar! Caesar! What about? Yeah, yeah, fucking Caesar! He was a Roman leader Yeah, small dogs are Roman leaders, arent they? All right, Caesar! But well drop the a out, right? Cause it was C-A-E-S-A-R, for some reason. I dont think Caesar was going 2,000 years ago, I have defeated Pompeii, Im first Emperor of Rome! I wear the laurel wreath, with the front bit bitten out In 2,000 years time, I shall be remembered as a can of small dog food for small, yappy-type dogs and I shall be played by James Mason in the film. Yes, I shall, I shall Thats what he used to do, didnt he, James Mason? Eh Heres Jimmy! No, he didnt, thats a lie. It would have freaked us out if he did! Ladies and gentlemen, James Mason! What are you doing, James? Sorry, forget all that bit; well cut that out. Now Oh, yes! And supermarkets, yes As soon as you go in, have you noticed? They do psychological tricks on us. As soon as you go in, you hit fresh fruit and veg. You noticed that? Every single time! You go to France, Germany, fresh fruit and veg, and its psychological, you go in, thinking, This is a fresh shop! Everything here is fresh! I will do well here It is, think about it! You never go in to the toilet paper section, with the loo brushes and the squeeze cause then you go, This is a poo shop! Everything here is made of poo! Im not shopping here, Im going to Azerbaijan! I knew I didnt need to mime any further, you got the drift Yeah, so and all these fruits have got vitamins - vitamin A, of course, which is good for vitamin B, which we all know is very good for vitamin C is good for scurvy, isnt it? Yes! Theres a lot of scurvy around these days People phone in, I cant come in to work, Ive got scurvy, yes Well, I live on a houseboat and Yeah, frothing at the mouth, yeah the old Captain Cook problem there Theyve got vitamin D, which again is good for Vitamin E, which is good for skin, and then thats it, no more vitamins. The whole vitamin-naming committee are going, Lets see, vitamin F. Suggestions? Oh, fuck it! Im off down the boozer Azerbaijan. And all these people made food, like Granny Smith. Granny Smith made apples. Who was this woman, Granny Smith? My name is Mrs. Smith, Ive made apples out of bread, a dripping and a bit of green paint, and corrugated iron. No, these are horrible apples, Mrs. Smith. Go away, Mrs. Smith! Go away until your daughter has a baby. Shag, daughter, shag! Its a marketing idea, shag for babies! My daughters had a baby, Im Granny Smith now! Come in, Granny Smith! You a wonderful idea, you! Come in with your shiny apples. Brought family member, Mr. Delicious. Hes got apples Gold Delicious. Come in, Gold. King Edward, abdicated the throne, took up potato-making, there we go Mrs. Simpson, jewellery And theres Hitler as well, they used to hang out together, and Jeff Bruckley, of the Bruckley family. Its all about threes apples are great, apples are user-friendly, just big, hearty - you grab em, you go... and then you start to eat them, and Always do the dog impression first, and when you get close to the pips in the middle, you go, Ew!... and you throw it away, in case you swallowed a pip and a tree comes out of your head. We know this to be true And oranges! Theres a big war, dont know if you know, but theres this sort of internal war going on between the big, old-fashioned oranges, big, fuckoff, kind of Stalinist, big, fuckoff kind of oranges, and the new baby Satsuma, Minneola, kumquat, MG Satsumari, kind of Big fat war on that, because to eat a Satsuma, its a piece of piss, you just go... And you break off these one by one, dont you? And youve got so much of it, and if theres people in the room, you go, Go on, go on! Its like a very cheap round, isnt it? Go on, Satsuma for everyone! And if youre the other person in the room, you go, No, no Well, all right, yeah Thank you very much. Yeah So Satsumas are great, eatings a piece of piss, but you cant do it with an orange. You go, You want a bit of orange? Ive got fucking ell! Cant fucking hell Cause inside an orange - its like the film Das Boot in there! With Jrgen Prochnov going, Dont let them get in to the orange! Its most important! Or the juice will get out, and itll not be good. Theyre breaking in with fingers, depth charges! Let the peel come off only in small chunks! Shit! Jesus Christ! Theyre breaking in! Push all the pips into bits they wouldnt expect, thatll do! 'Cause it is! Theres no chance of someone eating an orange, going, Hey! Youre very nice Theres not a chance of someone who speaks like that anyway So oranges can fuck off, thats what I say! And pears can fuck off too! Cause theyre gorgeous little beasts, but theyre ripe for half an hour and youre never there! Theyre like a rock, or theyre mush! In the supermarket, people are hammering in nails Were just putting these shelves up, mate, then you can have the pear. Really, cause you do do that squeezy-squeezy thing on fruit, where you go Oh..! Squeezy, oh Its a test- squeezy thing, that youve seen French chefs do on telly. Oh, squeezy, oh But I have no frame of reference, so Im going, Oh Is that good? Im squeezing it about this much is that a good squeezy? Cause it seems like such an expert thing! They seem to go This one! They dont even look at it, they just Sometimes they go Oh, shit! No, its got a hole in it, Im not really Or just put it on the end of a broom Yeah its the manager! So fuck pears Pears are like a rock, so you think, Ill take them home and theyll ripen up, and you put them in a bowl, and they sit there going, No! No! Dont ripen yet! Dont ripen yet! Wait till he goes out of the room! Ripen now! Now! Now! And you come back in, and you go, Ill just have one of these Hey, these pears are dead! These are dead pears, man. Hey, what happened guys? Theyre all going And then theres banana skins as well. Theres bananas and their skins; theres all this sort of slipping on a banana skin and hilarity thats been around for many years. Now I dont know about you, but Ive never actually, in my life, ever seen anyone actually slip on a banana skin in reality. Ive never seen documentary footage of anyone slipping on a banana skin; Ive heard the stories, oh, yes! People have told me stories The Nazis did propaganda So its all those fruits there, and theres South African fruit we can have now, without going, Oh, the guilt! And star fruit, which are from Mars! So its great, youve got all these fruits, and you get a selection, you take it home, you arrange it in a bowl and then you watch it rot! You never eat it, really Occasionally, you go up to it, and go "Ah I dont think I will. Ooh, a Mars bar, there we go! Oh, Im full-up now! And they all rot from the bottom up, you go Except for the oranges, that sit in the back and go, No! You chuck all the rest away, and the oranges are sitting there, going for months it sits there in a Stalinist kind of way. So, yeah And theres also labels in supermarkets; youve got labels on the food stuff now, so you can- it says Four grams of protein, you go, Ah! Is that good? Is that far too little protein? Is it youre gonna die of protein shortage, or youre gonna overdose on it? 0.02 milligrams of sodium. Sodium explodes in water. Do I need 0.02 milligrams of that? Calcium - can you overdose on calcium? Can you go Well, I think theres too much calcium in your diet. Yes, thats what I thought. Are you eating a lot of chalk salad? Yeah So you make your choices of stuff in the supermarket, and you go down to where the queues are, and theres 30, 40, maybe a million queues there! And you always choose one of those aisles - when youre walking down, its kind of enclosed in the aisle, isnt it? Theres all this stuff there, and suddenly... Its out, and theres all the queues, and you know youve got 30 seconds to choose your queue, and youre going Were all very good at queue strategy now, have you noticed? No one taught us this, we just go Were going, Okay, 4, 4 looks pretty good 7. No, no, quite a few people, all hand baskets. Hand baskets are good Itll move fast. 17 just opened! You take the French bread, you go on 17! Im on 4. Keep in touch, keep in touch. Whoever gets there first, well join and we get out, OK? Dropout on 7! Im on 7! Shit, theyre paying with Luncheon vouchers! Im back on 4! Ive lost 4! You bastard! I left my aura there Always a good one unless you get a ticket for parking. Your aura is parked there. Oh, sorry. Youre fine, usually, in the queue, until you see someone about three meters behind you pull up in a queue, and then theres a bit of a delay, and theyre almost paying! Theyre almost out! And youre going, Come on! Come on, theres a war on, you know? And the new queue, thats what Im always looking for, the new queue; that is the end of the rainbow, thats where all the gold in the world is stacked, the new queue! Cause you could be fifth, sixth in that sort of 15-minute queue, and New queue! Youre in there! And the fastest, the most agile, the keen minds are there, and youre looking in advance for potential new queues. People around the till, putting money in, and as soon as you see it going on the till But not too obvious, otherwise everyone else in the queue sees you so you just keep one eye on it, and try Look over there! Theres a badger with a gun! Can you see? Surely hes going to kill new queue! But then youre not sure - are they opening? Are they just mending the till? And you you dont want to Oh, youre not? Oh, I was there! was there! You can take all your clothes off and put them on a string, and then Oh, youre not? Okay. Depends on what youre wearing, of course. A lot of you applaud, going, Yeah! Oh, that wasnt that good, was it? But theyve the beeping machines these days! Theres a bar code on all the stuff, and theres a little sort of star-shaped thing, and they just show it to it. Like the machine is going, Yes, all right Yes, thats still fine. And it must get boring! All day and the excitement... that never happens... is when it goes Fucking make the noise! Its some thing! The machine is going, No, Im bored - Oh, go on! Make the noise! - No, I dont want to Ill read it at you. Thick one, thin one, thick one, thin one thick, thick, thin are you getting this? Thin Oh, forget it! Ill just type out... the handy 50-digit number, Ill be with you in a second. So much more efficient these days! And you realize two sea anemones have taken over your hands sometimes. Late night shopping in local petrol stations, thats a form of 20th. Century shopping that I dont think anyone would have thought it was gonna happen. And youre there, at 3:00AM, especially in inner cities, this is 3:00AM, youre at the petrol station, theres a guy behind bullet-proof glass, slumped over a desk, dead! Or asleep, youre not sure, you dont care; even if he is dead, youre going, Wake up! I want groceries And he wakes up, and you go, Oh, sorry, mate, sorry, I just want o, I dont have a car I dont have a car. I do not have a car. Theres a big communication problem, isnt there? Theyve built this bullet-proof glass, and its sound proof! Try to talk through the thing I dont want any Some brown bread, I just want some brown bread. Yeah, brown bread. Right over there, brown No, thats diesel oil Brown bread, brown Two words, brown bread. First word, sounds like brown. Brown! Brown bread! 3:00 in the morning, and you get into this, and theres a queue forming behind you No, its brown bread, brown  A queue of murderers! With different weapons! Someone on a camel about here people from Star Trek down here And youre going, Yeah, the brown bread! Get the brown bread, man! Just get it quickly! Youre trying to give real fuckoff vibes around here, so that no one hassles you. Yeah, bread for my bread gun! Give me the bread! What? Shredded wheat? Thats fine! Ill eat that shredded fuck it! Ill put marmalade on it, its fine. And a packet of Rizzlers, thanks. "Why do I want them?" "I Im a stamp collector, and Ive run out of stamps, so I thought... Id get those clippy, plain ones, you know? Where you can draw your own stamp in on it. Fucking give it to me! Then they do the dance of the tray Aah! My hand! Thank you. Can I have a bag? Then they put this very thin bag in, the thinnest bag in the world. So thin, youre surprised you get everything into it Then you go off, and the whole queue follows you. Follow him! He speaks in sentences. No, no, you must hassle him now. He has the groceries. Oh, groceries! Yeah, yeah Hello, were murderers. A Twix, please. And theyre behind bullet-proof glass there, because, you know, its late at night, people are hassling them, if they go in the shop, they try to nick stuff And I must admit, I got caught nicking stuff when I was 15, and I was nicking makeup, back in Boots in Bexhill-On-Sea. I couldve bought it, I couldve saved up and bought it, but I thought, if I bought it, someone might say, Hey, youre a boy buying makeup! You must be a trans-vestite! And then Id have to go, Oh, Sherlock Holmes! How did you get to the bottom of that one, you big, deer-stalker, weird, fucking hat person? Four dog ears! Why is it called a deer stalker? Anyone stalking a deer now, the deer would go Theres a guy out there with four dog ears, with two strings hanging off. Im a deer stalker! Thats a deer-stalker! Dont know why, just a stupid hat, I think. Anyway, so I didnt buy the makeup, I nicked it! And I had a loaf of brown bread, so I put it under this brown bread, and I run out of the shop and down Bexhill High Street, and they caught me! But I was 15, so they let me off with a warning, which was, This lipstick is not gonna work with this eye-shadow, no way! Thats light blue, thats a death colour! You want a bit of foundation in this, thats very cheap foundation. Oh Thats a warning! Oh, thank you, Chief Constable. Also, I got done for jumping a 20p tube fare! This is my whole crime sheet, right? Which is quite an interesting read 20p! This is not Don Corleone, this is Don Crap. I jumped a 20p underground tube fare, and I was waving a pass at the time, you know, it was drawn on a Rizzler or something; it was a Bishop of Durham pass. Im the Bishop of Durham Oh, bless you, my son. And the guy said, Youre not Bishop of Durham! He wears a bigger hat than that! So he got me. I got him! I got the 20p kid! Youve caused us 1.60 worth of trouble, you have, in your time. Ive got him and Ill be promoted in the underground system. Ill get my own darkness! Then an off-duty policeman came, and he had a pot plant and a camera, on his way home for a good night photographing pot plants, I suppose This is all bizarre, but true; this is what he had, and he said, Ive got him too! Oh, Ill get promoted King of Metropolitan Police! And I thought, Im going down for 20p! No, Im gonna run for it! Ill run for it like Mel Gibson in the film Gallipoli, and other people in running films. So I run, and I run, and I run, and I run, and after five inches, they caught me They called for backup, and now 20 policemen are coming down, thousands of pounds worth of police work Weve got the 20p kid! 20ps are safe from now on And three policemen pulled me for five minutes! I dont know if youve ever had this, they grab one leg each, and I dont know obviously, they were working together; they thought I was struggling like crazy, Id given up at this point. one over here was going, Dont struggle, there! Dont struggle! People over here going, Eh! Dont you fuckin struggle! So it was a continuous machine of them pulling against each other, had one hand free, I was going, Hi! How are you? Ill talk about this in many years And then they put me in Bower Street overnight, and that became assaulting a police officer! Surely it was stretching a pedestrian! It was! I got down for assault, and I was running away! Assault is motion towards, I feel it takes an accusative. Very rarely in war, they go, Assault that hill over there! Let me do a bit of stretching here I should have been done for deserting a police officer. Theres a shop in South London which was a very its still there, apparently. Its in Tooting High Street, and it sells two very disparate items. On one side of the shop they put them on different sides, its great! One side is guns, and knives, and harpoons and fucking - really mean fucking weapons. On the other side, theres banjos, and violins, and bassoons, And you know about it, dont you? Yeah! Its fucking there! And whats the guy doing? Oh, were way down in weaponry, but up on banjos this week Thats good, people are getting lighter these days, in tough times. They shift to music like crazy at the moment! Way down on bassoons! hat, is this mad guy going Someone browsing around An Uzi machine gun, slices a man in two, 200 rounds a minute, or a banjo! A ukulele, like George Foreman. You remember that famous fight, George Foreman against Muhammad Ali? That was very A dyslexic promoter put it on, and it was brilliant Im gonna kill him, Im gonna kill him Hey, turn that  Hey! Oh, its a big bugger! Who put me up for this gig? Fucking ell! The trainer comes up, Youre doing well, youre doing well! Hes fucking hitting me! ~ Neverthless Youre doing well, youre doing well! ~ My ukulele is smashed. Im going to that gun shop! Guns & Banjos interesting band. Now It was a very wide reactiish thing. Well cut this. No, theyre gonna leave it in! You noticed that when people say, Oh, well cut this, its always left in there? Anyway Oh, I forgot my rest of the show! How does it go? Oh, emergency joke: two men went into a pub and they totally redecorated it! It was brilliant! Its an old joke Oh, yeah, musical instruments! I played the clarinet, right? I wanted to play the piano, but somehow I got a clarinet. I dont know quite how that worked Five people can play the clarinet in the world, and they make quite a beautiful, wooden Its just a wooden noise, it floats Thats not the noise, is it? Its like a clarinet, but I played it like a foghorn being dragged through a place where foghorns shouldnt be dragged. It was just it was bad noise. And if youre an adult, and youre playing a musical instrument, youre probably making some of this sound, cause you want to play it, your heart is in it, youve gotta have feeling, you gotta go You cant paint a picture if you dont want to Oh its the Eiffel Tower! You know This is a splotch. Its the Eiffel Tower. Youve gotta be in there. Now, if youre a kid playing a musical instrument, theres probably a certain element of parental pressure thats going in there. Yes, little Johnnie, you should play the violin, because I never had the chance when I was a child. Well, youve got the chance now, why dont you learn it now? No No, I dont think I will. I have to watch telly and drive cars now, its the pressure of being an adult. But I dont wanna learn! I want to go and smash things with hammers! Yes, I know, but if you were musical, oh, the world would be wonderful, and I would hear the wonderful noise Oh, fucking ell! So the kid goes, All right, Ill learn the violin, but you wont like it! Ill make a bad noise! Practicing Oh, fucking ell! The violin like this, the cello is slightly bigger, with a spike on the bow that kills you, and the double bass you have to rest on a friend to play I played the clarinet. And if you play a musical instrument; if youre a kid and play a musical instrument, you want to play sexy tunes, dont you? I want to play sexy tunes! I want to play tunes so that other kids at school come up and say, Hey, hes playing sexy tunes! People who I fancy say, We must dance provocatively in front of him, like they do in films we dont believe. Playing the clarinet... We will shag him as soon as we know how. That was where you wanted to go, wasnt it? You wanted everyone to go, Oh, wow, what a hip fucking dancey tune But all the music lessons just make you learn dirge! I was learning from this book called A Tune A Day, and This tune is called Snug As A Bug In A Rug. So, is this a sexy tune, Mrs. Badcrumble? I just dont think, Mrs. Badcrumble, that this is really gonna be a sexy tune. No, its a totally sexy tune on the clarinet! I made love to this tune with my husband in 1481, Ill have you know You did? Its a very sexy tune? All right, Ill have a go. Here we go At what point did you orgasm during this song, Mrs. Badcrumble? All through it, it was multiple! They hadnt been invented in 1481, but I got there on a hang-glider. Youre fucking nuts! The clarinets got a wooden reed at the back, and you have to push it, you have to make its not an ambesure, which is something else, its a kind of vegetable that flute players have to deal with and if youre making a sound, you squeak. After a while, I was practicing and my Dad was going, Stop practicing! You sound crap! I have bought a hammer! You may borrow it if you wish! Oh, it was a dreadful, fucking noise! And the clarinets like that, but the oboe has two bits of wooden reed pushed together, you have to Its designed not to let any sound in! Its like trying to blow in a weasel! The tuba! Who chooses to play a tuba? Surely a tuba is a punishment thing, surely its community service. Youve been sentenced to three years on the tuba. Oh, God! Who wants to make Its got a huge horn, you can get a child in there! The trumpets okay, but it makes your cheeks go out to hamster-size; theres a thing called a triangle, its just a triangle, it goes ting! Forget it, just with your mouth, go ting! The percussionists Wheres your fucking triangle? Oh, grow up! They do that, people play these big cauldrons its like doing it too loud Yeah, true story So theres all these instruments, and I played third clarinet, right? In the school band. The first clarinets played the melody, thats okay, you know where youre going; second clarinets played harmonies that back up the melody and sort of link, okay; third clarinets played the notes that are left over! We were just going... Its boring! The only exciting way to do it is really blow it loud! The teacher is going, Piano! Piano! You go, Its not a fucking piano! Its a clarinet... you weird-talking person. And then it was These strange, fucking noises, and the teacher is going, Oh, this is a God-awful band! I know, Ill get the parents to listen to this. Then maybe theyll kill em! And a big sign went up  School Band Will Play Tunes! And no one from the local town came, no hip people said, Hey, were going down the school, theyre gonna play a gig Im gonna stage-dive on the bassoon player Just the parents came, and sat down, going Oh, theyre gonna kill us! Were crap! he teacher gets up, The school band will now murder O Come All Ye Faithful. The song has been arranged with no real care. Helmets will be worn during the production. Go! Weasel, weasel. Hamster... Parents are going, Oh my God!! We have spawned the devil! Lets go and find hammers for them. Poetry! Poetry is very similar to music, only less notes and more words. And there was a Scottish poet called Robbie Burns- Robbie Burns to Scottish people, Robbie Burns to English people, and Rabbi Burns to Jewish people who turn up at his door and say, What is the Hebrew translation? I dont know, Im a poet, I dont know this go away. Are you trick or treat? I need the translation And he wrote poetry, he wrote a big fucking book of poetry, but one of his most famous lines is The Best Laid Plans O' Mice and Men Aft Gang Aglay, meaning The best laid plans of mice and men often go wrong. And because its poetry, people go, Oh, I know what you mean there, Robbie, yes Fucking plans ganging aglay... by a fucking truckload And being a poet, he must have observed humanity, must have said, Men. Men make plans. These plans go wrong. Go wrong once, twice often! Often, a number of plans Ive seen go wrong Possible idea for a poem And then he must have turned his attention to the other... animal mentioned in that line of poetry. If you think back to it, The best laid plans of mice and men Exactly which mice plans was he really honing in here on? The best laid ones go aglay, some of the worse laid ones are okay? Some of them get through? He was fucking off this trolley! See, mice also make plans, unbeknownst to most people. They plan to get cheese! They run, they scamper Oh, ones fallen over! No cheese today Oh, plan two: theyve got three, another ones got a stick, hes gonna put the stick into the mousetrap No, hes broken the stick! What a jessie! Plan three Oh, theyve got a flip chart now! Very serious theres a lot of mise surrounding the meeting, and theyre having a discussion Oh, good plan this, probably! Their best laid plan, I believe I could just hear what theyre saying. One mouse is going,You arent supposed to blow the bloody doors off! Told you about that What are you doing, coming in here, and making such a fracas? Now tell me the plan.Well, well drive the Minis into the square No, piazza. Oh, its piazza, Charlie? And we load the cheese in the back of the Minis, and we drove it at you during a football match. Thats right. Wallop, wallop, wallop, into the big coach driven by William, rounding in the Alps, and were free. And youre sitting in the back, and youre not having a migraine, and youre gonna shut your face. All right, Charlie. Meanwhile, back in London, the Chief Mouse is talking to the prison governor- Somebody has broken into my toilet. Well, Im terribly sorry. Get on to Camp Freddy, I want Charlie Crocker given a good going-over. So if you havent seen The Italian Job this is all meaningless, by the way, but then, if you havent seen it, you probably havent lived Yes, yes And sayings as well! Sayings are very interesting... cause theyre based on truth, then they have got a bit of old wives tale on top, then a bit of a hazy farther, a bit of uncle banana... and then youve ice-cream on top, and its just rubbish! I mean, like He doesnt suffer fools gladly. We go... Who does suffer fools gladly?! How often you can go, Hello! Ive got a pig in me trousers! Come in! Come in, you fool! That pig sounds like a dog. No, its a pig; I just cant be bothered to do the impression. Can my friend come in? Hes got jam for brains Yes, come in, you fool! The other saying was what was the other saying? Oh, yes, Go and teach your grandmother to suck eggs. What on Earth is that one about? Youve got a lot of free-range eggs, All right, Gran, Im gonna teach you to suck eggs. Im not gonna suck eggs, Im not! You piss off, you young children! Theres a mouse here making a plan, you see? Planning to scale the Eiffel Tower on a bat Why are you Scottish, Gran? I dont know Ive been taken over by Mrs. Badcrumble. Oh, my hairnet! Its coming off The hair thieves are upon us! Now we do have haircuts, dont we? Humans have haircuts, and sheep have haircuts, and poodles, and theyre the only three animals in the entire world, in the universe, as we know, to have haircuts. This is true, you dont get ants going, You dont get lions going, Ill go and get that antelope Jesus Christ! Ill put it in bunches, right? The antelopes going, Theres a huge girl with big teeth coming after me! Run! Run! The last one was the butterfly Which is a pointless swimming stroke, isnt it? Remember when you had to stand back in the swimming bars, and some big, fucking kid came through doing the butterfly? You just wanted to hit him with a floater. Fuck off with your butterfly! Fucking show-off! We cant even do doggy-paddle yet! Bastard! Anyway, we do get haircuts, and sheep get haircuts. Some sheep must be going into that shearing shed, going, Hi, can I get a coffee? Thanks. Yeah, a little bit off the top, loose down the back, and sort of wedge-shaped, thats quite in at the moment. Thatd be great, thank you thank you Well, its not quite what I was after Do you have a hairnet? Ive done a bit of Latin in me time, but I can control it, you know. I never let it get out of hand, I just have a dealer and he sells me Latin transcripts, and you know, Okay so that late at night you just feel like translating Latin for a bit, upstairs, smoking in the coats room. I dont know what Im talking about now. No, I did, I did Latin, I learnt Amo, amas, amat Amo, amas, amatis, amant, and it comes in handy. Yes! Sometimes youre queuing at a petrol station at 3:00 A.M. in the morning, and theres a line of murderers behind you, and you turn around and go, Amo, amas, amat! Amo, amas, amatis, amant! and they go, Fuck! He knows Latin! He knows a dead language! Run! Head for the hills! Head for Azerbaijan! Run down the Fort Court! Yeah, I remember you did it as an option, yeah And the teachers with options were, Yeah, learn Latin! Youll get the whole underlying knowledge of all the European languages! Why dont we just learn the European languages, then? Thats a good point, yes Its very rare youre at Frankfurt airport and someones going, Ja mein Herr, was ist los? and youre going: Sprechen Sie Latin? Pugnato sum et kumquat and romanes avec gallum et pugnato fish.. Ja, ja, aber was ist los? I dont know, I dont know, what ist los? Do tell me So I dont think its very useful today, really, and they had language labs! Language labs came in when I was at school, and that was great; you get in that little cubicle, had a tape going around, the headphones on, and the tape would go, "O est la plume de ma tante? Monsieur, o est la plume de ma tante? And youd go, La plume de ma tante est prs de la chaise de ma tante as well you know And the tape would go: Oui! Oui, la plume de ma tante est prs de la chaise de ma tante." Youd go, How does this tape know what Im talking about? And the tape would continue, O est la plume de mon oncle? And youd go, La plume de mon oncle est bingy bongy boogy bongy And the tape would go, Non! Pas du tout! La plume de mon oncle nest pas bingy bongy boogy bongy  quest-ce que vous dtes? Vous tes un putain! Je ne suis pas un putain. Je navais pas le sexe pour largent  quest-ce que vous dtes, vous cassette? And the tape would go, Oh, oh pardon. Je suis dsol, vous avez raison. je suis seulement un pauvre cassette. 'Sous la chaise, je n'avais pas les pantalons' Oh, its an old song! Yeah I did an exchangeship with France; yeah, the teacher at my school said, Do you want one of ours? Hes already loaded into the tuba. And I went to a place called Chlons- Sur-Marne, its on the river Marne, otherwise itd be Chlons-Sur no, nothing. Its in the Champagne region of France, which is North North-East, and champagne is going on there all the time. They have loads of champagne, and they celebrate all the time. Youve crossed the road? Champagne! Youve walked out of a shop? Champagne! You can lean over a bit like this? Champagne! Big occasions You had a baby? Here's the beer. So its a bit of a functional French town, every countrys got a bit of oh! Emotionally linked with Felix, though And we were shown around places of interest... in Chlons-Sur-Marne; we were shown around the glue factory, you know. When youre a kid, you go, Oui, oui, le le usine de glue. Cest trs bien. 'Voici l'usine de glue.' 'Voici la porte de l'usine de glue. 'Merde.' So we went around, they showed us glue... one pot, they lifted the lid, there was just glue going around, 'Oui, c'est trs bien.' And we ended up in a boardroom, and a bloke with a flipchart was saying, Voici lusine de glue. Cest le flipchart et quest-ce que cest? Le fromage? Les souris? Le Job Italian! Quest-ce que Le Job Italian? Qui est Charlie Croker? Camp Freddy? Mr Bridger Sorry, just gave you the whole list there. The cast list. So he said, Oui, oui, cest lusine de glue. Ah ici, cest Ah, the glue making process, okay. Ici un cheval, pas de glue, un cheval, pas de glue, pas de cheval, beaucoup de glue! Oh, cest merde pour le cheval! Oui, cest merde And it was an exchange trip, so we had to be re-exchanged, you know, and this all took place in the cross-Channel ferry, like it does. And all my teachers went down, we all went down on to the car deck, and... my teachers switched on the lights of their Rover and the Chlons teachers switched on the lights of their Citren. All my teachers got out with cricket bats and tennis rackets And all the Chlons teachers got out with French sporting equipment a set of bulls. And my head teacher is going, Send the English kid over! So I was pushed off with a load of French bread Cest un cadeau, un cadeau! Oh, merci, merci And the French kid was coming over with a load of Brillo pads Oui, oui, cest un cadeau de les anglais. Cest le shredded wheat. Ils sont trs generous, nest-ce pas? Oui, oui, on peut le manger. Oui, un peu de lait, un peu de sucre Et on mange, mange, mange, mange, mange, mange, mange, mange, mange, et aprs, pas de dents! If you dont understand French, by the way, all of this is very funny, I assure it. But were Europeans, we can swing with it. I did German tapes as well! Big drop in your understanding. The tapes going round and saying, Wo ist das Kind, mein Herr? Wo ist das Kind? And Id go, Das Kind ist in dem Flughaben as well you know! And the tape would go, Ja, das Kind IST in dem Flughaben. Aber warum? Well, Im not really sure Perhaps he likes the airplanes. And then we did Latin tapes as well, we did bloody Latin tapes, and they were just lies. It was pure lies because no one knew what the bloody accent was. They were trying to get you to learn the Latin accent, and they had NO IDEA! Because everyone was dead, its a dead language; the Romans, for all they knew, could have said, Hello, were the Romans! Hello, were the Romans. Were the Romans. "Hello." Were the Romans, we want to come in your country and take all your things. They had no idea, so they lied, and they made up all this Roman accent, which was kind of floaty, it was Puella est in cana. And that was too floaty for me, because this is a very aggressive nation, very... I mean, they werent into democracy and diplomacy, cause they were Greek words, and theyd invaded them They went round, invading countries, with organized men with stabby swords, stab, stab, stab I just dont think they went into Gaul, going, Hello Are you the people of Gaul? Wonderful! Well, we are the Romans. Yes, we are. And... you must be Chief Vercingtorix, is that right? No, I recognize you from the Asterix books. Well, were the Romans, I am a legionary; this is our leader, Mr. Dog. Mr. Dog's going, Yes, I am. And a word with you, legionary, if I may Thinking of changing the name, I am Changing it from Mr. Dog to Cesar. Had a word with the marketing department the marketing department of Rome, and its Mr. Cesar Oh, Im getting off this see-saw! Its boring. Bring me my horse, thank you very much! There we go, thats much better Have we got steel radials on the back of this? Yeah Roman history was fascinating because... 2,000 years ago they murdered and killed a lot of people! But 2,000 years ago, forgive and forget, eh? Let bygones be beegones. Whatever a bygone is Thats another saying, isnt it? Let bygones be bygones. Whats a bygone? Well, its a gone Oh, its a thing thats gone by, isnt it? Forget it. That makes sense So some sayings are true! So what you do is you hit someone, Why the fuck did you do that for? Oh, its a bygone! Its already done, its been done No use crying over bygones. Look, the bygones are coming! Its the fucking invasion of the bygones! Thats quite good, isnt it? Invasion of the bygones! Theyre all going, Look, its no bother, really. Thats a very British invasion. Im terribly sorry, weve overstayed our welcome. We used to be imperialist bastards, but now were just coming quite politely. Hello Yes! Back in Roman times, when people died, they had professional mourners come in, which is a totally weird idea. My husband is dead Mr. Claudius is dead. Oh, God! Which god? Oh, Jove! By Jove, hes dead! Tragedy Not the other god that youre thinking about. Ill try this again Oh, my husband is dead! Fuck it! Forget the whole thing. Re-cut. No. My husband is dead, Mr. Claudius is dead And theres not enough grief! Theres not enough grief in this house to warrant his death, I wish to beef up the grief! Slave, get a message out to Mourners-R-Us, will you? Tell them I wish to beef up the grief! Yes, let bygones be bygones. Heres 10 denary for your trouble, and get them straight back here, slave. What do you think youre doing? And up will come a very smooth guy, Good afternoon, Im Mr. Marcellus. Im from Mourners-R-Us. Just a free sample there. Now Thats very impressive! Yes... I told you... We can do both hands, ambidextrous. Oh, Mr. Claudius is dead, what a tragedy! A great man - was he a great man? I hope he was, yeah A great big man, anyway. Well, we have several funerals on offer this week, we have a special on, the cheap one - we call it Oh, bum, hes dead! funeral. Its our bargain, 25 denary, and thats just Mr. Claudius out front, and just myself about 10 meters behind, just a little bit pissed off. Oh, bum! Thats the Oh, Bum! funeral, not much bother, shove him in the ground, no problem. For a full 50 denary, we got myself and Flavius here, at either side of the funeral cortge, slightly more geared up, slightly more, Oh! Tragedy! Tragedy! He was a great man We could have a CV at this point Oh, he made jam played the ukulele, all these things in the George Foreman quartet and well poke people with sticks to make them cry more. Go on, cry, you bastards! Thats our 50 denary. And for a full 100 denary, you get all four of us carry the deceased along, and then we gently lower him into the ground on straps and then well twang him into a tree! That end bit isnt really authentic, is it? But just to tail off the whole piece, so I started twanging him into trees! And it gets a big laugh, and then I carry on Thats comedy for you! But were kind of lugubrious about, you know, funerals and people dying, and... we always mourn the death throughout, when celebrating the life... is a different attitude. And I think, twang em into trees! Thats what I say. Wouldnt you rather die and be twang into a tree? The jury is out for that one, you know Just think about it, give a lot of fun to people Oh, it didnt! Bring it back, bring it back Come on! Duel funerals Funerals on bonfire night Its an option, we can go that way if we want to. So, yeah Also, back in Roman times, Pliny The Younger wrote letters. He was a letter-writer, its a great bloody profession, isnt it? Oh, Im gonna write some letters today... April 7th Hed just write postcards, ello. Bye! Cause people do write really crap postcards, you know. Im here. Youre not. Bye! Or you start getting interesting, just at the bottom of the postcard, and you start writing all along Anyway, I dont know that Pliny did postcards, but he wrote from Vesuvius; he was at Mt. Vesuvius when it erupted, on the West coast of Italy, back in A.D. which is a wary man. No, it was 80-79, right? So thats kind of the time period, and he was there. Dear Father, I am here at Vesuvius, it is erupting as I speak. Fucking ell!!! Get me out of here!! The tops come off the mountain! Theres stuff everywhere! Send ships and big ships. Send fucking dogs Get on to Mr. Dog, tell them to send people Apart from that everythings gorgeous. Got a great tan, even though we all have it cause were in Italy. Love and kisses, Pliny the Younger. P.S.: Nothing. Yeah And St. Paul, he wrote letters, didnt he? St. Pauls Letter to the Corinthians. Always writing to the Corinthians. St. Pauls letter to the Corinthians Chapter 1 Verses 1 to 53. Dear Corinthians, as you can tell from my preamble, its gonna be quite a long letter. Here we go: Dont do bad things, only do good things. Always treat your neighbour like someone who lives near to you. Never put a sock in a toaster. Never put jam on a magnet. Never throw your Granny in a bag. Never suck all the juice out of a vampire. Never lean over on Tuesday Lots of other things, but I gotta go and have a Mars bar now. Love, Paul (Saint). Is that how he wrote his name? Paul (Saint). B.A. honours. Yeah, so he wrote this All right, thats the end of the letter The Corinthians Corinth. They mustve been real fucked off over in Corinth, dont you think? The postman going, Come on, one of you Corinthians, gotta take this letter. Oh, fuck off! Thats from old mourner St. Paul, isnt it? No I dont want it, I dont want it! You gotta take it. Come on, I gotta have a signature for it. Oh, fuck off! It says the CorinthianS ,plural. Ask someone else. Oh, give it here. What does it say? Dont do this, dont do that Never put a sock in a toaster? Jam on a magnet Ooh, hes lost his brain, aint he? Whose idea was it to be a pen-pal with St. Paul anyway? That fucking backfired, didnt it? Hes supposed to stop doing it at about 15, hes been doing it for years Come on, Corinthians, come on, general meeting. Were gonna write a letter back to him, stop all this rubbish. The Corinthians Letter Back to St. Paul, Chapter 1- Verses 1 to a million. More letters to follow. Tuesday 28th... of something. Dear Paul (Saint, apparently), FUCK OFF! Just fu- who are you? Why do you keep sending these letters? You arrogant bastard, you send a letter to an entire city! What do you want us to do, put these up in a board or something? Just fuck off! Youre coming on like Alistair Cooke, for fucks sake! Never put a sock in a toaster, whats all that about? You daft git! Love and kisses, the Corinthians. Kiss, kiss Steve the Corinthian, Fred the Corinthian, George the Corinthian There we go St. Paul Outside Corinth And the Carthaginians as well! Oh, they gave the Romans hell! Because they attacked Rome, the Carthaginians did, over the Alps on elephants and the Romans were never expecting that. The Romans were there, going, What? The Carthaginians attacking? God! I knew it! What? Attacking over the Alps? Damn! I knew theyd do that! What? Theyre coming on elephants? Where did they get the elephants? There arent any elephants in Europe! This Ive gotta see Are you sure? You sure its just not a typo mistake? The Carthaginians are attacking, theyre coming over the Alps in their element? Happy, you know? Theyre coming on fucking elephants They werent gonna, you know, they were gonna come on skis, of course. That was the way in down the fucking Alps. But their leader, Hannibal, and his brothers, Hasdrubal, Haveaball and Haveabanana, whose real name was, whoa! Have a banana And Hannibal went to the shop, and said, Skis for all my men! Were gonna attack the Romans over the Alps. And the guy said, Sorry, I didnt catch that. Were gonna attack the Romans over the Alps, in fact. Oh, all right. Well, fresh out of skis at the moment. The last pair just went to someone. Oh thats a bummer. Weve got some elephants, though Are they good at skiing? Oh, tops! Top skiers there Cause elephants were much more lithe back in Roman times, much more like Austrian skiing instructors are today Off the tops of those roofs of chalets What about the people who lives in those wooden huts? Fuck off my roof! Stop skiing off my roof, you bastards! Bloody elephants! All my life living at Heathrow, coming out here fucking ell! Bit of peace of quiet and whoom! Fucking elephants on my roof! Sorry about that, Mrs. Badcrumble! Anyway So you think I should take up the clarinet, do you? Yes, I do, I think itd be very good. Mr. Cesar here has been learning the clarinet for some time now. Yes, I have, its a very good instrument Its very sexy. Im learning Snig as a Bug in a Rig. Isnt that Snug as a Bug in a Rug? Yes. Well, Ill go on, Mrs. Badcrumble. I mean, you know, Im just Why am I Australian, by the way? I dont know. My country hasnt even been invented yet except by the indigenous tribes who lives there Whoa, there we go! I dont know what all that bits about Sorry about living here in this hut Fuck off my roof! Im gonna put a huge hairnet up, thats what Ill do That will stop them from doing it. Elephants going, And youre gonna stay there! Can we have our ball back, please? So he did, and Hannibal said, Well, all right, you proved it with that small film there Youve let me into it with that small elephant ski Are you sure its a good idea? Oh, yes! If youve never seen an elephant ski, then youve never been on acid Too true, as the old film shows. Right! Elephants for all my men. What size do you take? Six and a half, thanks. All right, you guys better be good at skiing. Huge ski sticks. And the ski lifts back in those days were enormous! I dont know if youve seen The Carthaginians are sitting in those bucket seats, with two elephants hanging off their feet The Carthaginians are going, Oh, my thighs! The whole military thing is very organized; its a very tight regime. You need to have a military, I think, because its very hip to say, Oh, all military should disband! but you keep getting organized shitheads that wanna kill people come along, like Hitler. If its just a shithead, thats fine; but if its an organized shithead, people go And thats the problem. Every army has rules; there are no casual armies that go, Oh, ello, General! "Oh, ello, Corporal. Its all, Yes, Sir! No, Sir! Yes, Sir! And theres all these different salutes. Youve got the British one, the American one, the French one, and countries in Eastern Europe, new countries, going, Well, we cant use that one, and that ones been What about this one? Almost a surrender kind of thing Well, theres that one or this one or this one we quite like Go for that one. Afternoon, General. Afternoon, Corporal. Its not very efficient either, that What about that? Thats much more efficient, sure. Civilians, we have a hand-shaky kind of agreement- kind of greeting thing. And people sometimes say to you, Oh, come here! I want you to meet a whole bunch of people. Suddenly, youre meeting eight people all at once, and they all tell you their names. Hi, my name is Steve. Steve, hi. My name is Jennifer. Jennifer. Bernard At the end, you go, Good to meet you all. Did you have names? I didnt hear a thing! Theyre all over here, arent they? And some people do those squeezy handshakes; that crusher handshake, you know, the Small-Dick-Ive- Got-A-Big-Handshake kind of... The Compensation Handshake. A firm handshake is great, but that crusher one... where they start to rotate your knuckles, you know? Youre going, Hi, how are you? Nice to meet you And they go into this, and you dont react, you just go Jesus Christ! We should react because theyre gonna get away with this, they just keep doing this stupid crusher handshake; they think its very... Ooh-I-have-an-enormous-penis! handshake, but we know its a small dick handshake. And you should react; if someone starts crushing the life out of your hand, just go, AAAAAAAAH! Fucking hell! You bastard! Good Lord! Hope you die in a car crash! Either that, or the complete opposite, and just collapse on the floor. Oh, you killed him! You killed him dead, man! Now he suffers from hand-squeezy death. Yeah, you killed him Im gonna tell on you! The other type of handshake is that sort of sock in a cart... handshake you just receive, you know? Oh I dont know, 2 kilograms, 2.5 kilograms, what do you think? You should always have a fish up your sleeve for that one, someone gives you that kind of drop-in handshake, then you just slap in the fish Hey, your hands come off! Oh, its a fish Yes, a present from my country! Done in one! Done in one! Done in one!  Then its the cool handshake, the street handshake, which is there, and then there, there and there and sometimes and bits after it, you know? You cant ask how its done, you just have to know it, thats what cool is all about. You just know and you dont actually just know, cause no one knows, so you have to watch it And you go home and practice furiously on five bananas until the thumb comes off. Cool is a pursuit of youth, its a fashion link thing being cool. Its linked to the circle- youve got Looking Like a Dickhead over here, Average Looking, Kind of Cool, Cool, Hip and Groovy Looking Like a Dickhead! I have been known to cruise in that back area I can walk down the street and get these opposite reactions now. I can walk down, and people go, Makes you feel really good, but sick And yeah, so There was a look back in the 50s... that was a matchstick out of the corner of your mouth, in the sort of James Dean kind of era, and it was considered quite cool. Its quite timeless as well, it just works, I dont know quite why; you lean up against a wall, and you have it there, and you roll it around, and occasionally you pull it out and go, Hey, you, kids! You kids be cool What a wanker! Who is he? Hes eating a match! Yes, I am Its the urban equivalent of the country, kind of yokel character, with the ear of corn out of his mouth, going, Hey, you, kids! Never suck the juice out of a tractor. Whats that? The tractor going... All the juice sucked out of it. How do you mime a tractor thats had all the juice sucked out of it? Thats my one Anyway Just a thumbnail sketch. So Oh, yes! I just forgot what I was talking about. So one matchstick out of the corner of your mouth, mm-hmm-hmm, quite cool. Second matchstick out the other side of the mouth, and youre looking like a dickhead! Youre right A third one in the front, looks like your teeth are sliding out Eye patches have a similar number problem. One eye patch, looking quite cool! Two eye patches hello? Three eye patches- now whats going on here? Pirates and the kid at school with the lazy eye, they were the two groups that had eye patches; again, very disparate. I dont know how you do sub-sets with them, but anyway And the lazy-eye syndrome, you have one eager beaver eye, that goes, Oh, look at that! Oh! Oh! and the other eye is going, Hey, Im in bed! Im in bed! Chill out, man! Youre missing the best part of the day. Oh, fuck off! So you put the eye patch over your lazy eye, so it can have a snooze, yeah? Long John Silver had an eye patch, quite cool. Also had a parrot on his shoulder It was the wrong bird, he should have had a mina bird! Cause parrots, they suffer from the beautiful plumage, cause theyve got greens, and yellows and reds real vibrant colours that really kick out, and you go, Ooh, wow! but they look great and talk shite. Squawk! Squawk! Pieces of eight, ello! A bird that says pieces of eight is equivalent to having a bird on your shoulder, going, 4.53! 4.53! Shut up, bird, shut up. Dont say that! 4.53! Shut up! Stop talking prices! Yeah, stuff them! Mina birds are much better; theyve got slick black feathers, and they sit on your shoulder, and they say things like, Oh, look at that sunset! If you ever see them in a pet shop, they want to get out of the pet shop; they hate being cooped up in there, they say things cause theyre bored. People come up, and they say, Ooh! Nice shoes I like your haircut, you know? I think youre sexy! Thats a nice bird! Can I buy it? But be careful, when you take the mina birds home, they dont like it; they think theyre getting their freedom once theyve been bought, but you take them into the lounge and they get pissed off, they get sullen Youve got people around, and they go, Oh, they hate you! What was that, mina bird? You heard me They hate you! They put poison in your coffee. Theres a pig under the table with a gun. I control them through this cuttlefish here Cause birds fly and we have airplanes, thats the deal; but no ones put a flying bird, a bird that can fly, into an airplane. Itd be amazing, because it wouldnt be flying, but itd be flying! A mina bird in a 747 The birds outside These birds are flying very fast, of course! Shit! Oh, Im not flying, Im sitting! Sorry? White wine, please. Theyre hanging on to the side! I havent got fingers, could you cut this up, please? Thank you very much. We have a fascination with flying, hang-gliding is the closest weve got. Theres a cliff near where I used to go to school, in Beachy Head, and its a big, chocolate, 300-400 foot, maybe a mile high, who knows? We certainly dont, cause we have no idea. Well, were metric now, so 30 cubic litres high, all right? And the road goes very close, if you go to Beachy Head, and people get out of the cars and they just want to look over the cliff. We want to look into the jaws of death, we have that thing; and when you get close to the edge, your brain goes And if theres two of you there, you go Get out there! What is all that about? You cant chuck each other off! You know, whoever youre going out with Come on! And everyone does a lot of wait-on- the-back-foot type walking as well, in case theres a big crack, and everyone goes And you just go lift and stand back They old Playtex two-step lift and stand back. And its pointless, jumping- it would be interesting up to a point to jump off a cliff, up to Up to that point After that, Oh, no, no, no! At the bottom, on the jaggy rocks, and there, a lot of crabs and seaweed going, Ol! Si-or! All the time I was doing that, I was thinking of a Spanish word to say at the end of it came out a bit weird, didnt it? Should have been Seor! not Si-or! That just sounds like a brand of fucking cigarettes from the 40s or something. God! Weird analogy Anyway... Even now Oh, fuck it! And so and so what? Oh, yes, wizards! Now wizards well, a bit of a jump there, but they can fly, cant they?They can fucking fly! They can fucking do anything, because they have the big staff, the big, sort of Gandalf kind of like Ill turn you into a pig! kind of thing. And when shits happening, its great to be a wizard, Ill turn you into a pig! We cant do that, but the closest weve got to it, its the TV control, when youre in your flat, on your own, you can go, 2! Ill have a bit of 3, thank you. 2. 3. 2. 3. 1! In North America, theyre going, 78! 87! 54! Were going, 4! Volume, volume, volume, mute fast forward, rewind And then the pause button you press Pause, and when I press the pause on a video, I want it to pause But you press it, and everyone in the film goes Surely, that button should say La Cucaracha. Wed love a La Cucaracha button, youd go, La Cucaracha! Im gonna make a toffee A coffee, that is, not a toffee. Switch it off, Im gonna make a toffee, thats a fucking hour! The coffee is the better one, I dont know fuck it. Ah, yes But I talk about television, I know television, Im a child of the television age... all the gadgets as well; I like those, but if you lose the control, we just sit there, going, uhhh Switch the telly on. No, Ive lost the control! We cant even switch it on by hand, the television is smooth In the old days, youd say, Change the channel! No, you change it! Change the channel! Eventually, the mouse is going, Oh, its not in the plan I had! Ill change the channel, fucking and the button was really long in the 70s, or that turny one BBC1 BBC2 oh, its come off! And after a while, the batteries start to go. 2. 2. 2! 2! 2! And when this happens, you take the back off, you put your hand up against the batteries, and you roll them up and down Yeah! That gives you an extra two days on batteries! Two days before the long walk down to the petrol station to queue with the murderers La Cucaracha. Yeah Wizards never have that problem, do they, with their magic staff. I turn you into a pig. Into a pig! A pig! A pi Oh, Im a pig now! Pig! Frog! Pig! Frog! Pig! Bloody batteries! Pig! Frog! Louder Pig! Louder pig! Louder pig! Mute pig! La Cucaracha The Pig! Television- Im addicted to television, Im actually watching less of it now, cause at 4:00 in the morning, Im going, I must watch the Maybe its important Beavers do what? Oh, dams! They build dams! Okay. If I ever meet one, Ill say, Build a dam, beaver! But quiz shows are something Ive never really got into; quiz shows like Come On!, you know Well, officially, Im not into them, they come on, I go, God damn it! God, I dont like this Jesus! A quiz How would somebody quiz Venice! No, Vienna! Vienna! Damn! Fuck, I knew it was a V town! The big mainstream quiz games, like, you know, 8:00 oclock on some evening, anyone watches anything. Hey, its 8:00 oclock, its Who Gives a Shit? You dont even know what youre watching, and Im Charlie Smiles, and here it is, its Who Gives A Shit? Two teams of five! Steve, tell us a bit about yourself! Well, I Thats great, Steve! And something happened to you when you were 2. I was shot dead by a duck wearing Blakeys. Sounds good, Steve. This game is very, very simple and very similar to all the other games in the world. Youre gonna pick three things out of a hat, put them together into a small bag. If you choose the things off the conveyor belt, put your headphones on, go into the booth, listen to some music, come back out, act out a scene from Othello, make a pie out of pastry, act out another scene, sing a song, and then, if you do that, you win a sausage. Do you wanna do that? Sorry? Okay, you dont go home empty-handed, cause were gonna cut your hands off! Do you want to see what you would have won? Do you want to see what you would have won? You would have been president of the world! 3 billion people as your slaves! Instead, youre gonna spend your entire life living in a ditch with poo on your head! Oh, thank you very much. Ive invented my own quiz game, for late nights, sort of Channel 4, when everyones blasted out of their brains, and its called Whose Pig Is This? Right? Thats what its called, and its got a mainstream presenter, who just comes out And these pigs keep getting sent out, and he goes, Eh, whose pig is this? The audience is laughing, and he doesnt know! Whose pig is this? Theres a pig in the studio! Theres a pig here! Can you get this pig the fuck out of here? Sorry about that, theres a pig Everyone laughing, Right. Whose pig is this now? It goes on for about two hours, and 400 pigs are pushed on. Needs a bit of work, doesnt it? But its basically there, the pig motif But I am a gadget nut, Im a real- youve heard of techno-fear? Well, theres techno-fear and techno-joy, and techno-fear are people on computers, going, No I dont Itll wipe it No How... And techno-joy are people I know how to do this! Its Oh, Ive wiped it! Oh, it doesnt- hit it with a hammer!  Thats me, hit it with a Youre just getting something new, and you get this big tome to read through, and you go, Oh, its so powerful! Oh, fuck And then you just set fire to it all, and run around in your knickers for a bit But I am into gadgets; I was always fascinated by James Bonds gadgets, cause he had these brilliant little gadgets, but the guy who gave them to him, Q, he must have been some sort of psychic, cause they always gave him exactly what he would have want of, very lean, wasnt it? He used every single item, he never came back, going, Q, Ive got a lot of stuff I didnt use on that adventure. Went all the way out to fucking God knows where, and this watch that turned into a hamster, what was the point of that? These trousers, press a button, turn into jam. Why? The hat turned into a bicycle, that was very funny It was! Hed fall into the water, there were sharks there, he had a breathing apparatus; he could breathe up to four minutes. He never went, Shit! Its in the hotel! Ive got the trousers that turn into jam, though The sharks going, Oh, theres blood everywhere! Look, its blo- Its jam! Oh, Ive got water in me nose! Anyway Do they do that? Do they go You see a shark coming to the surface Oh, it went down the wrong way I swallowed some oxygen Anyway Yeah So he did, he had precisely- when James Bond got into the Aston Martin, with the ejector seat, the baddie sat in the fucking ejector seat! He never sat in the back James going, You couldnt sit in the front, could you? No, Mr. Bond, I will sit in the back. I will sit in the back seat. I have a gun on you, Im a Smores agent and you can go nowhere. You couldnt come and sit up here in the front, could you? Its a nice seat here I like the company. No, I will not, Mr. Bond. Ill sit in the back here. Where exactly are you from, by the way? Dont you take the piss out of me! I will come up in the front and talk to you Why dont you I am a Smores agent, I have a voice synthesizer in my throat. I can do any accent you can think of. Unfortunately, Ive lost the instructions, it seems, and my voice box is stuck on shop demonstration, which is a bit of a bummer Youre a fucking nutter you are! Still, hes in the ejector seat now, Ill press Oh, shit! Im not in the Aston Martin! Im in a fucking Mini! Nice car, but no fucking ejector seat. Even the windows are those half ones Bugger! He never did that, did he, James Bond? He never went That was more Muttley, wasnt it? My name is Bond, James Bond. That wouldnt be cool enough for him. You think youve got me, Blowfelt? Well, you havent! My name is not Blowfelt, I am a Smores agent, man. Right Oh, Ive got a breathing apparatus! I know what to do. What are you doing, Mr. Bond? I can breathe for four minutes with this, and you cant! I think I can Can you? Oh, bum! You dont have a shark, do you, by any chance? Cause they quite like jam, you know Yeah I watch a lot of educational stuff on telly as well, and I think its great, cause you can just watch it and then fuck off; you can go, Really? Oh, really? Oh, really? Thats a great way to be a student- if you could have had lessons when you were at school, going, Oh, really? Oh, thats great! No, I didnt know that Oh, thats the bell! Bye! Trouble is, the teachers would say, Now write that out four times, and then Im gonna test you tomorrow on stuff Ive not told you about. I did Physics, for some reason, I didnt want to do Physics at A-level, but I did it, and... I was quite interested in the space stuff, String Theory, Stephen Hawkings, Einsteins Theory of Relativity- didnt understand what the hell it was all about It was great, you come up with a theory that you only can test if you go into a black hole with a ruler. Oh, really? Oh, I got sucked in! There must be 1 or 2 people in blackholes, going, Hello? Have you got a ladder? Youd need quite big forearms to pull yourself out of a black hole Sorry, thats a density joke No, its a gravity joke, no density joke Fuck it! Anyway So Yeah, Einstein came up with the Theory of Relativity, E=mc2. Energy equals the mass, the weight, times the speed of light squared, and the annoying thing is its so bloody precise, its so- its just there! And he went, E=mc2. It works! Im off for a sandwich now! Im going to America to plug my head into the main Now Im going skiing with my elephant friends! Snowplough! Fuck off my roof! Stop skiing off my roof! Fucking nuclear physicists! Sorry about that, Mrs. Badcrumble! Anyway, tell us that joke again about the three banjo players Yeah So anyway, he did, he came up with E=mc2, and there mustve been some physicist at the time, going, E=mc2? I had F=mc2! Oh, damn! So close! F for fudge. Fudge equals the mass times the speed of light squared. But we used to do experiments, where you tested it. We decided to test the Theory of Relativity. Jeff got a torch and stood on this side of the room. Now Jeff, switch the torch on and shout go, and I will time how long it takes to see the light and the speed Hold on, if you say go, thats speed of sound, and I would hear that after Ive seen the light, so say go slightly earlier and you time how early youve Oh, its a million miles an hour! I said a million billion no one can tell! No one can run that fast! And mass can you weigh the torch for the mass, please? Can you weigh it in a vacuum? Can you weigh it near a vacuum, then? You can weigh it near a vacuum cleaner, thats great! 4.5 fluid ounces And that is the energy... in cats pi squared ironing board And so where are the batteries? Wallop, wallop, wallop Then you write it all in a project, and you put water on it, dry it off with a hairdryer and give it in. - Its kind of blurry Oh, it was the rain! Finally tonight, I want to talk about a guy called Pavlov, who was Eastern European, I think Russian, and did the famous experiment, Pavlovs Dog. You probably heard of, ring bells and dogs eating food, response times, Pavlovian kind of response, its all about ice-cream and And he wrote these experiments. Day One Pavlovs Dog  Rang bell, dog ate food, very excited Hes become Welsh! Very excited terribly excited here in... Russia. Day two  been well-accepted here in Russia changed my name from Evans to Pavlov. Im now called Gareth Pavlov and fitting in well. Day two rang bell, dog ate two loads of food, very excited. Day Three, right? Day Three rang three bells, dog ate a whole bunch of food... and my leg, too. Very excited, win Nobel Dog Prize for cats. So he did this, he won the prize Nobel, whatever he won, and Pavlovs dog, we all know that, but you never heard his cat results, did you? You probably thought he was finished! Pavlovs Cat Results Day One  rang bell cat fucked off. Damn Day Two rang bell, cat went and answered dog. Day Three rang bell, cat said hed eaten earlier. Day Four went to ring bell on day four, but cat had stolen batteries. Final day Day Five  went to ring bell with new batteries, but cat put his paw on bell, so it only made a thunk! noise. Then cat rang his own bell! I ate food Im just gonna finish up by talking about the beginning of time. Very quick piece, very quick! Beginning of time- the Big Bang, right? Everyone stood well back What? Oh, okay Well, how big? Very big. All right Stand back, Mrs. Badcrumble. Come on, Cesar; come on, Australian man Come on, Welsh Pavlov  Oh, thank you. Never go back to the universe once its been made, come on Suddenly, BOOM! They all went, Fucking ell! And it was made, the whole universe exploded out in perfect circular bits that became planets later, which was very lucky, and later on all the planets are gonna go all the way back to the middle and crash back in when the gravity gives out, and when it goes back in, I want to be on top of the world, holding on to big reins, going, Come on! Come on! Come on! Anyway But later on, the Earth cooled, and Mother Nature revealed itself to the world one day. She said, Creatures of the world! Gather round, I shall give you your methods of procreation. All the creatures going, Oh, cheers, Mother Nature! Ive been dying for a shag, me! All right, gather round Heres a big clipboard here, big flipchart! Now whats this? Ccheese Minis anyone knows what this is? Glue factory anyone? Glue factory? Here we go. Dogs! How you doing, dogs? Okay, now dogs we have got you down, dogs your method of procreation will be doggy fashion! How about that? Yeah, we invented it! I know you did! And its caught on big time! Okay, off you go Be careful with the air lock! Now, cats Cats, good to meet you. Now, weve got you down for doggy fashion! How about that? What about catty fashion? No, sorry, dogs got in there first; its a patent pending situation Anyway, youve got cat flaps, so what the fuck are you arguing about? Now Pavlov, what are you doing here? Well, Ive been trying to do things and banjo Ooh, Im hungry now! Next we have sheep! Good haircut, by the way Weve got you down for doggy fashion! If you get hot, just take your coats off, right? Okay You wearing Blakeys? Mouse, what are you doing here? Well, Ive got a space rocket out of jam It wont work, but its not my best laid plan. I could go aglay but Mrs. Badcrumble is coming, and Cesar, and the Australian guy And we could burn up on re-entry, or become a sort of thing. Well, think of a joke for the end of that line, anyway Off you go Now giraffes! Good to see you. Weve got you down for doggy fashion, but its whatever you can work out, basically. Hang off a lamppost, lean over a tree, you know just swing about a bit; I mean, sorry, we were gonna make you like a Spaniel kind of size, but someone brought me a coffee and vooom! when I was doing design work, and there you go Anyway, chin up! All right Human beings Well, doggy fashion, catty fashion, giraffe fashion, sheep fashion; whatever the hell you want, basically Hang upside down like a bat, play the banjo, do it on a golf course! As long as you get guilt in there somewhere, we really dont mind Now finally, salmon! Good Got a bit of a surprise for you, people What youre gonna do is to swim upstream against a... down-flowing river until you come to a huge waterfall and youre going to leap, and leap, and leap, and leap up this waterfall, and you swim along, and you leap, and leap, and leap, and leap; then you get along, and you lay eggs, and you fertilize the eggs, and then you drop down dead! Ha! Were quite happy with doggy fashion No You piss me off, you salmon! Youre too expensive in restaurants, thats your trouble And theres a moral to this story. Or at least there was supposed to be a moral, but because Im dyslexic, it is, in fact, a marble. Thank you, good night.
