 

                        Without co-operation, everyone loses We may fight to win, but we will always lose But if we fight together we will win together From a royal speech given by His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej HIS MAJESTY KING BHUMIBOL ADULYADEJ ROYAL SPEECH HOOBKRAPONG AGRICULTURAL CO-OPERATIVE SATURDAY, 27TH MAY, 1978 BASED ON THE BEST-SELLING NOVEL WINNER - JOHN F KENNEDY AWARD FOR LITERATURE, 1973 This is the story of an ethnic group that lived in 757 AD. The rulers of the country regarded them as mere uncivilized barbarians They were exploited and persecuted and driven from their homes, until their only choice was to flee the country. They sought a new homeland where they could live in peace and freedom. The people of Ler, Khanu, Yuro, Dtai, and Thanai were united in their quest for freedom Many died from disease or from the many perils they faced. But they met each challenge with determination and courage, and vowed to maintain their bond forever. ADAPTED BY NIRATTISAI KALJARUEK AND PINYO KRONGTHONG The problems began when the Qin Dynasty came to rule. The mighty Han army exercised its power ruthlessly. It conquered new territory and expanded into areas occupied by free ethnic tribes. The people of these areas were forced to take up arms to defend their land. It was the land where they were born and where their ancestors were buried. Gumpawa! Mother! Run away now! Or the Han will make you a slave. Mother! When the Han army had taken the land, it was stained with the blood and tears of its people. Tai child! Come with me! Burn it all! The Han army was enormous, and its military strength was unstoppable. The people of the Cheung Dao valley were either killed or forced to flee in different directions. THE EDGE OF THE EMPIRE FOR THE LAND - A FINAL STAND! 20 years later the children who had survive were now grown up. They lived in six separate regions. But they awaited the day when they could be reunited, a day when their nation could be reborn a day when they could be united in peace under the name Thai, a word meaning "free". They dreamed of a day when they could be free in their own land. And free from the oppression of the Han. Now, Ler City. Stop the carriage! Next up... Lamphun! From Ler City. Come on! Quickly! It's your turn. Come on! Quickly! It's your turn. Never mind that! Come on! Get them, Lamphun! Next up... Jotan! I see you allow them to fight with weapons. Don't you think that's unwise, Tiewliang? It can only encourage insubordination. These people come together from six different regions. They openly display their skills and weapons. It's surely better than letting them hide their skills and weapons from us. Right, Libong? Is there anyone else who wants to take on Lamphun from Ler City? Is there anyone? How about you Not me! It's much too scary! No way! If there are no more challengers, then you get the prize! Give it back! If you meant it, you have to fight my brother first! If you want the prize so badly... come and get it from me! My name is Libong. I'm Tiewliang's new military adviser. I am here under orders of Emperor Qin, ruler of this land. I want all you peasants to know who I am. Peasants, eh? I see we have a peasant here who thinks he's a fighter, right? Soldiers! Get him! Stop! Hurry up, Buakham. Do you want to play with Guchin? Let's go! Prepare the carriage. Are you ever going to stop making those swords? You've already got the sharpest swords around. I need them to be sharp, and I need to keep making them. I have to make many more. But why do you need so many? What about you? Why do you keep spinning thread from the Uethong flowers? Haven't you got enough clothes? It's not just me who needs clothes. You wear them too! You don't want the people to be cold. I don't want our people to be bullied by the Han. My swords. ...will one day taste their blood. Buakham, run! Let me go! You keep out of this! I won't let you treat a Thai woman like that! She's just a peasant! She's only here to serve the Han. I can do anything I want to her. You should know better. I do not allow disrespect for the Thai people. You not only acted offensively to a Thai woman, but you also tried to kill Fesian, who is a Han soldier. - But I... - No excuses! If you say you didn't attack Fesian, how did your sword end up in my hand? Give me back my sword! Who said you could get up? You have broken Tiewliang's rules. Tiewliang's rules! You can have a choice. Stay here and spend the next twelve months cleaning the city walls. ? Or take your sword and everything else and answer to your father back in Loyang City. Tiewliang tried to humiliate me, Father! What did I do that was so bad I should be sent home? I was just teasing a Thai girl. What's the big deal? I was just teasing a Thai girl. What's the big deal? Twenty years ago, we fought these savages at Lad Kwan field. Our soldiers who died were the sons and husbands of Han women. Our women suffered because of the barbarism of the Thai. Isn't it only right that their women should know what it's like to suffer too? Tell me, Father, what did I do that was so wrong? Get Litongjia! Lord Litongjia, Lord Liboon wants to see you right now! Tiewliang has ordered my son back to Loyang. He has ignored my demands time and time again. I ordered him to increase taxes to make the Thai people more productive. But look at this. That is his response. "I understand that your lordship has never visited the Thai region" "So you may be under the impression that the Thai climate is more fruitful than our own Han climate." "But, in fact, Thai and Han are under the same sky." "Our rainy seasons are the same." "Since the amount of rain cannot be increased, neither can the harvest." "The taxes are already paid for with much sweat." "Don't make them pay in tears as well." He's so sympathetic, it's almost as if his own mother was Thai. A hopeless leader! He thinks that the Thais are doing some kindness by giving us their land, when in fact the Han soldiers bought it with their own blood. We purchased it with blood, and we shall rule with blood Correct, my son. Any ruler who does not know how to use his sword doesn't deserve to be called a ruler. Emperor Qin has issued orders to remove Tiewliang from office and to return him to Loyang. He faces charges of corruption and embezzlement of Ler taxes. Silence! I said silence. Don't! I bear the gold seal of Emperor Qin and the jade seal of Lord Liboon. Why do you still not kneel? Soldiers! Take him away. Tiewliang... Tiewliang is our protector. Yes, Tiewliang is our protector. Quiet! Tiewliang shall protect you no longer. He will be sent to work on a farm. Or would you rather clean the city wall, Tiewliang? You will meet your new chief. His name is Litongjia. Welcome him! I was ordered by Emperor Qin to replace Tiewliang as head of Ler City. From now on, any laws made by Tiewliang are revoked any laws made by Tiewliang are revoked. And from now on, Thai taxes will be raised to three times the previous amount. There will also be an increase in taxes on horse-drawn carriages, on boats and on horses by 50 per cent. More. More. Great! I want more! If you don't keep quiet, I can raise taxes even higher. From now on, whenever Thai people meet me or my wife, Lady Huansi, they must get on their knees and put their foreheads to the ground three times. Thais are forbidden to have any relations with Han. Thais are forbidden to have any relations with Han You will not be friends. You will not be husbands. You will not be wives to any Han If anyone chooses to disobey my command, they will be punished in ways they could not even imagine they will be punished in way they could not even imagine. Will you make me some clothes with your own special threads? But Han cloth is so much finer. I can't see any difference between Thai and Han. We are all people, just the same. Your cloth will keep me just as warm. You probably don't know that the cloth I make is also used to wrap the dead. Command the army to search every Thai house. Confiscate all their weapons, even the kitchen knives. From now on, possession of any weapon is a crime punishable by death. What are you doing Give them back to me. They don't belong to you any more. From now on. Thais of Ler City are forbidden to have any weapon, even a kitchen knife. You'd better remember that, you little savage! Good! You won't be making any more swords, so you won't be needing a forge! Don't! What are you doing Libong? Isn't that enough? If you treat the Thais like this you will never earn their respect If you treat the Thais like this, you will never earn their respect! They're just savages! I can treat them however I want. If you wish to sympathize with them, I will have to report to Lord Litongjia that you have taken their side. What happened here? Where have all our swords gone? Where have you been? Don't you realise Thais and Han are enemies? Thai and Han are enemies. And Fesian and I are enemies. How can I not know that, Lamphun? The weapons that you surrendered to us will be returned to you. Your master has ordered them to be melted down to make a cauldron. It will be placed in the centre of the town. It will serve as a reminder to you. You can make a cauldron from all the weapons taken from Thai people. But there is one weapon that the Han can never claim and that the Thai will never give. What? Stop here. Courage. Courage! Courage! Soldier! Why don't you kneel to me? Make them kneel! Look! You've broken my things! I don't want to play any more. Your ladyship! Your ladyship! Your ladyship! Find them and kill them! Your ladyship! I will put a bounty on their heads. Those who killed Huansi must be caught. Anyone who can find them will get 100 gold pieces. If the Thai people act like wild animals, I will treat them like wild animals. You will be my wife's servants in hell! I will release one hundred arrows. If you don't want to die, try to avoid the arrows! I'm scared! Who did that? Show yourself! Soldiers protect Lord Litongjia! - My name is Gumpawa! I come from the Thanai mountains. We have many wild animals in the Thai mountains. But there is no animal as beastly as the one I'm looking at now. When the Han army has finished, the Thanai mountains will be dust! In all the time that I've spent in the Thanai mountains, they've never gone anywhere. It will take more than the Han to make me or the mountain disappear. Go! Why are you just standing there? I want his head! We must fight back. What are you talking about? I know we can beat them. You are better with a sword than any of them. Guchin has the strength of an elephant. The Thai are strong fighters. Why don't we unite and fight them? I want to fight them. - But we don't have any weapons. - Ler City doesn't have any weapons. But there are weapons in the other Thai settlements. Tonight take Guchin and go to Chiangsair. Their chief is a friend of our father. He's bound to help us. What about you? Open the door! I'll look after things here. Promise me you'll follow me there. Promise me! I promise. Search everywhere. Hurry. Go now Go! Go on! Spread out! Where's your brother? He's in hell He's in hell And you'll join him there soon. Is this the little savage who has been hiding the murderers who killed my wife Not only that, Uncle, She's been sleeping with a Han soldier. So this little hussy has a liking for more civilized flesh, does she Very well. I will give you a taste of happiness before you go to hell! Let me go! Order all Thais to assemble at the town centre. - Let me go! - Light a fire under the cauldron and fill it with water - Let me go! - I want her boyfriend to see this as well. I want him to see something he will never forget! - But. Sir... - Go! Get on with it! You savages had better listen. This slave didn't know her place. She dared to cavort with a Han way beyond her status. And she hid the murderers who killed my wife. Since she likes playing with fire now I'll show her the real thing! Don't! You know my little savage, I am not a cold-hearted man. If the heat of the water teaches you to accept your guilt, you may beg me for mercy. Just swear that you will never disobey my command again. Thai people, listen to what I say. This Han calls us savages. But it was our ancestors who created this city from a wilderness. The Hans created a nation by stealing the land from us. They made us their slaves. I ask you, which of us deserves to be called savages? Stop the fire. Don't, don't! I am about to be released from my suffering... ...from the prison they have made of our lives. From now on, the evil of these savages will never be able to touch me again. Buakham! Don't. No more. I want you all to remember, I may only be a woman, but I'm not afraid to die, if it will release me from this servitude. - More Heat! - Don't! I will happily die in the flames... ...if it reminds Thai people of what the word means, freedom! Buakham! Buakham! Listen, Litongjia, you evil bastard! I will pray that you die in agony. I pray to the guardian spirit of all Thai people to break your nick and arms May your soul descend to the deepest recesses of hell! But you will never find redemption! Fesian! The pain is being felt by all. Litongjia is creating misery for the Thai people in every region now. But what will you do, Gumpawa? The Thanai mountains are a long way from Ler City. We can't help everyone who is suffering. But Litongjia's tyranny is affecting Thai people everywhere. If we don't stand up and fight, the Han will take every last bit of land from us. First we should ask Boonpun, the chief of Chiangsaen, to call a meeting of al Thai tribes. I ask only that we do not submit to their rule. Then we will never be slaves. Lamphun! It's fruit. Just what I wanted to eat. What is it, Guchin? - Who's that? Stay where you are! - Guchin! Run! Come back here! Don't run! Stop! - Guchin, get up! - Where are you going? I'm not a fish, you know! Bunchawi! Lamphun! Bunchawi, Lamphun and Guchin are with Boonpum, right? Yes, hurry on inside. Father is waiting. Wait a second! Did you know that Buakham is dead? What? If you won't tell me what I need to know where I can find the one who killed my wife. ...I will kick your wives into the cauldron and boil them one by one in front of you and your children. But if you tell me. I will reward you Mum! Mum Mum, help Mum, help Give my son back! All right, I'll tell you. I'll tell you. Come and look at this! I bring a message from Lord Litongjia of Ler City. Where is your master, Boonpun, chief Chiangsair? I'm Boonpun But I am not their master It is they who are my master. What is it you have to say? Lord Litongjia is hunting two fugitives from Ler City Their names are Lamphun and Guchin They fled to Chiangsair some days ago. Don't pretend you don't know what I'm talking about. Or maybe as a servant to the Chiangsaen people, you're too blind to see what's really going on! But never mind. You have a good record of paying taxes for many years. Litongjia will give you seven days to catch these criminals and send them to Ler City. If you choose to ignore this demand, Litongjia will bring his army and find them himself. Then Chiangsaen will learn what it's like to have a real master! We are not criminals. Litongjia and his men are persecuting the Thai people. He threatens anyone who refuses to surrender to him Bunchawi... What do you think? You two are no criminals. You're our friends. Why would we give you up to the Han? If that's the way my daughter feels, then I will not give you to the Han. Even if I did send you, there's no guarantee that Chiangsaen would be out of trouble But if Boonpun refuses to obey this order won't it make criminals of all of us? You don't know what you're talking about! No matter what happened! I would never send Thai people to their death at the hands of the Han. Go! Go and put some proper clothes on! What do you mean by saying we should hand them over to the Han? Isn't it better that two men die than Chiangsair is destroyed If the day should come when the Han army destroys Chiangsair I would rather die than end up as a wife to a Han. But a little slut like you would probably like it Where are the two fugitives from Ler City? And who are you? I'm the daughter of Boonpun, chief of Chiangsair. These woman and musicians are my servants. They have come to entertain you. My father hasn't yet been able to catch the fugitives, so he wanted me to bring them to you, to make up for not being able to do what you asked. Why is it such an impossible request? I don't need any of this. All I want is the two fugitives My father also wanted me to tell you that he knows that this is not what you need But would you please accept this gift as a small token of the respect that we simple barbarians would like to pay you Simple barbarians! What if I want a different sort of entertainer to what your father had in mind? Tonight we'll show you what we can do. Maybe you'll see something you like Drop your weapons, if you don't want me to cut his throat! What are you waiting for? Do you want his soldiers to come and rescue him? It's not only you who wants him dead I want all the Han soldiers out of Ler City. And I demand weapons and horses for the Ler people. Just remember that the Han will never defeat the Thai, and the Thai will never again be slaves to the Han. The Thai were born to be slaves to the Han. Get it into your head that Thais were born to be Han slaves. Do you hear me? You were born to be our slaves. Litongjia, you bastard! You're just savages! Useless savages Tie him up, put him on a horse and send him back to Emperor Qin And give him a message. The Thais are going nowhere So don't mess with us again! Thai people will willingly give their lives to defend their land What about this loudmouth? We'll keep him as a hostage. That'll stop his father coming after us again. Bring him to me. Come here What's your problem you savage? You can't keep your mouth shut, can you? Do you realise that this savage can kill you any time he wanted? The Han empire is vast Its power spreads across seven different rivers. We rule over people of seven different languages. No word commands greater respect than the word "Han" If I was afraid of mere savages living in caves, I would not be worthy to be called Han I'd love to know if the pain of salt water on a wound is somehow better for a Han than for a mere savage Can it be? Is the blood that flows from your shoulder the same blood as mine What the hell are you talking about? No No The sign of the butterfly is the Ler emblem. All Thanai children are branded, It's not true! My father is from Ler. My mother is from Thanai, just like you The blood from your shoulder is the same blood as mine You are so proud to be Han What a shame! You're proud of something that doesn't exist. No Where is Libong? He's dead There is no Libong any more Father Father, what's wrong? Father That's strange. It's as if he's suffering from some kind of poison What Father Lumpao. Where is Lumpao What's that? I asked you, what is it Nothing What are you doing in my room Show it to me Give it to me Is this what you gave my father I asked you a question Are you accusing me Nothing we do can make a decent person out of you You little tramp Get out of this city And don't let me ever see you again Who do you think you are to try to throw me out I'm the chiefs daughter I can throw any one out I want Scheming women like you don't deserve to live in this city. Go Bunchawi, wait This herb isn't very strong It just makes you very sleepy Wouldn't you do better to go and take care of your father Thank you. Gumpawa But I think it's too late No, father Gumpawa has given you an antidote already You'll soon be better You're going to be fine We've been tricked - We fell for it - What That wasn't the same herb she gave him Lumpao, that bitch I should have killed her No my child Perhaps it was my fate. ...to be caught in Lumpao's trap ...to be caught in Lumpao's trap It's made me realise something What, sir Bunchawi you should marry Lamphun The Han will not give up They'll. They'll bring in their armies to destroy the Thai nation But what's that got to do with me marrying Lamphun The Han may defeat the Thai You must raise a future generation Don't let the Thai blood line vanish from the earth Father I see what you mean But I... - Father Si - Si - My lord Father, you can't die You can't die Wake up Wake up, Father, wake up You must wake up Wake up, Father! Please wake up! Come back to me Wake up, Father! Please wake up! I represent the emperor It would be a simple task for the Han forces to utterly destroy the Thais It would be a simple task for the Han forces to utterly destroy the Thais But there has to be a purpose behind such an action. It is not just a sport. It is my opinion that we should find alternative ways to quell the Thais a way that will avoid the loss of military lives What would you suggest Lord Soonpo Chiangsae has received an invitation to a meeting with Emperor Qin Chiangsae has received an invitation to a meeting with Emperor Qin I suspect all tribes got the same invitation. What will be your response? I suspect all tribes got the same invitation. What will be your response? I suspect all six tribes got the same invitation. What will be your response Khansa will you agree to meet Emperor Qin how could I dare refuse The Han believe that any ruler who visits Emperor Qin at his capital shows his weakness who visits Emperor Qin at his capital shows his weakness and accepts Han superiority If you go by yourselves you're taking a big risk And what would you do. Gumpawa Who is this barbarian who causes so much trouble His name is Gumpawa He's the one who humiliated me and your son, Libong And he still holds your son hostage My lord Do my ears deceive me You know that he may kill your son at any time Libong is not my son He was raised on Han rice so that he would grow strong and one day be a weapon against his own race Today I am afraid The Han army is large and powerful enough that we could push the savages back to the edge of the world So why then are you afraid I'm afraid that when the Thai hear the first footsteps of the Han they will all simply run away The Han army is ten times the size of ours What can we do, Gumpawa I am ready to take Liboon He is just like a big animal that makes a loud noise but has a very small brain. If we use the hostile territory and our wits as our weapons we can always beat those who are power-crazy and short-sighted What do you think, Lamphun A battle between Han and Thai is inevitable now The thai nation is like a wounded tiger Maybe it will die from its wounds But even that's better than being caged for the rest of its life If the many legions of the Han army reach the Lad Kwan plains the Thai nation will face disaster I shall send out swift horses to all six regions with a plan. They must split up and go in different directions destroying all food and water supplies they find The Han army will be weakened before it reaches the Jintai mountain pass Then I'll unite all our armies Dtai. Khanu. Ler. Chiangsae Yuro and the Thanai Together we will wipe out the Han army The Thai soldiers may be skilled at guerrilla tactics but soon they we will meet face to fad at the Lad Kwan plains Then they will be defeated Twenty years ago on the Lad Kwan plains the Thais died at the hands of the Han army Not a soul returned home even to bring news of the defeat to their families The grass on the Lad Kwan plains grew tall nourished by Thai blood After tomorrow, it shall grow high once again thanks once more to Thai blood Jun-sen, what news? General Liboon's army has already reached the Jintai mountain pass Good Let's prepare to welcome them Charge Lord Liboon, the Thai soldier have breached our defenses They are at the gates of the camp They have provoked me Han troops give me your attention You must kill every one of these savages Not one is to be left standing on Han land Our army has suffered enormous losses Damn it They fight like cowards There aren't any They have retreated Please escape, my lord Now you can take my place as general Who are you And why are you helping the Thais Siboon I have one last question for you What have Thai people ever done to you that makes you so keen to take our land away You don't have divine rights to this land It belongs to anyone who can take it The Han empire is expanding south The Thais are in the way If the Han want our land so badly we shouldn't disappoint them Let us give him our land, stone by stone Drop him So you still want to lead another attack on the Thais So you still want to lead another attack on the Thais Litongjia. I think you must have forgotten It was only four years ago 200000 Han soldiers went in Only 4.000 came back How could I forget The body of my brother, Liboon, still lies in Thai earth But, Soonpo the Thai people value their independence They come together when the situation demands it But soon they'll split up like before Liboon had the use very weapon and chariot in our arsenal Still he could not defeat them How can a one-armed man hope to succeed in beating them We couldn't beat the Thai with steel But gold You never gold But Emperor Qin ordered this especially for Khunsai in recognition of your special relationship Han carpet is wonderfully thick and soft It's like walking on a cloud in heaven No wonder, it is kept for only the feet of the most worthy 200-year-old brandy is reserved for only the greatest of warriors And these 300 pieces of gold And these 300 pieces of gold will assist you in your campaign to rule the Thai people The Thai nation Litongjia You should know that the Thai nation. This beautiful girl's name is Janghong She's the daughter of a noble Loyang family Emperor Qin sent her to bring you his birthday greetings I'll take my leave now. Khunsai I hope that when I return here it will be to celebrate your leadership of the Thai nation You've lost to me four times already You've lost to me four times already If you lose again it will be the fifth and final time You know you will lose your last piece of clothing And if I win Whatever it is you want you shall have Are you sure Checkmate Damn I want. ...Chiangsair City So you want me to represent Chiangsair in discussions with Khunsai about forming a union comprising all six Thai regions If you don't go then I must go to represent my father's wishes Very well I'll hurry there and hurry right back Drink You are very cautious. Lamphun You waited for me to dink first But sadly your caution is in vain Bunchawi Kungtoo Set it alight Bunchawi Dtai soldiers have surrounded Chiangsair City Let's get our things and escape No Even a dog doesn't desert its owner I look after this city How can I leave my people Send out the fastest horses Deliver a message to all Thai people Khunsai has turned against the Thai people Go quickly Bunchawi go Naree Naree - Let's go now - Take care of Bunchawi Lafa Lafa Go on Quickly Go. Bunchawi! Quickly Bunchawi watch out Junsen Junser Keep going! Keep going Lafa! Mum Mum Mum Mum Mum Mum Bunchawi, hurry! Go quick! Lakee Lamphun Lamphun Lamphun Lamphun Lamphun No No Lamphun Do you remember me How could I forget You're Lumpao the little Chiangsaen tramp who betrayed her own home You really love your home, don't you Well, look at it now Today, the land you love so much has been turned to ash The city is ours. The city is all mine Gumpawa Guchin Guchin Bunchawi Boonchawe The cities of Chiangsair and Dtai have been destroyed Many perished in the fire The leaders have been put to death This was all made possible by just 300 pieces of gold and a red carpet The Thais brought shame upon us four years ago As Han, we can never forget that the Thais are divided once again We should move our armies in to gain revenge And I would like to volunteer to lead the Han forces against the Thais Emperor Qin respects your abilities But Litongjia, since history began the Han nation has never been led into war by someone who is maimed the Han nation has never been led into war by someone who is maimed Wait until we have captured the Thai region Then you shall have any position you desire Then who does Lord Soonpo think should lead the Han against the Thai General Tiewliang was in charge of the Thai region, and he understands the people. I, Emperor Qin ruler over al Thai lands command you to bring me the tattoo from Gumpawa's breast I want it placed at my feet on Han earth Tomorrow we will march the Ler army to the Lad Kwan plains The night is bitterly cold You should get some rest. Gumpawa Let me stay and admire the scenery for a short while I shall see only blood and death Thai people say that . you fear no one I too have faith that you can be victorious Han soldiers are weak The Thai soldiers are strong but they will also die What is this grudge that the Han hold against us. Gumpawa that we must pay for it with our land Tiewliang used to be in charge her He knows us well That's what scares me Tiewliang once respected our people and our land Bunchawi you must lead the people out of the city But I Thai soldiers may sacrifice their lives at the Lad Kwan plains But I will never sacrifice the future of the Thai race You must raise a future generation Don't let the Thai blood line vanish from the earth. Gumpawa order your soldiers to retreat We will take care of the land and the people There is no need for more blood shed I cannot let you rule our land Go back to your army and prepare for battle This battle will be for our land a final stand Battle formation Battle formation Charge Charge! Retreat. Gumpawa - The Thai people will go nowhere - Enough. Gumpawa I said no Don't Gumpawa Gumpawa Loojor! Loojor 'Loojor! Loojor Gumpawa Protect Gumpawa Protect Gumpawa Loojor Gumpawa Gumpawa don't leave me like Lamphun did Don't go away Guchin Don't cry You've been stubborn ever since you were a child Gumpawa Don't you leave me as well It's me, Siboon, your brother. Siboon, my brother. Always remember Thai people must find freedom The Thai race must live on There is land in the south Keep going till you reach the sea The land is still unoccupied Take the survivor and flee there Gumpawa You may weep that the Thai nation could not unite But you must never give up Even though the journey will be hard For there you can build a future - Go - No I won't leave you. Gumpawa All of you! Go I shall stay I shall live on in spirit I will remind future generations that this was once our home But because we couldn't stick together, we had to flee the land. Gumpawa, brother. Gumpawa Gumpawa! Gumpawa Gumpawa Siboon. Guchin take Bunchawi away I won't go Go Siboon Go Take Bunchawi away Go I won't go Go Go now Take care of Bunchawi! Go You always were more fortunate than me. Gumpawa In life you followed your own heart's desire whereas I only follow the bidding of others Even in your last moments you met death on your own terms as a sacrifice for your people and for your land. Your reputation in life however great is no match for your greatness in death Siboon was right Mere weapons could never kill the Thai spirit Let me see the skin from the breast of the Thai warrior known as Gumpawa Keep going till you reach the sea There is land there still unoccupied Take the survivors and flee there Even though the journey will be hard There you can build a future Thai people must find freedom The Thai race must live on Do not be disheartened that the Thai nation could not unite I shall be here I shall live on in spirit I will remind future generations that this was once our home But because we couldn't stick together we had to flee the land THIS STORY IS A REMINDER TO US ALL OF THE IMPORTANCE OF HARMONY AND TOGETHERNESS DEDICATED TO THE THAI PEOPLE IN THE HOPE THAT ALL DIFFERENCES CAN BE RESOLVED THROUGH HARMONY
