 

                        Five thousand years ago, when Greece and Rome did not pass ... of distant dreams, a civilization conceived the impossible ... and built the unimaginable. For millennia, the Egyptians built in dimensions ... much larger than all the others. Enriched by his conquests and strengthened by their gods ... the indomitable pharaohs erected the first monolith stone of the ancient world. The tallest building. The oldest dam. The most impregnable fortress. The largest city. And the supreme monument the ego of a ruler. The message is clear: Do not mess with Egypt. The Egyptian engineers redefined the boundaries ... of architectural possibility. But his path to eternal glory was permeated with blood ... betrayal and disaster. Summer 3000 year. C. .. Rain clouds were forming above the Ethiopian ... 1.280km south of the Egyptian border. Before long, a drizzle became torrent ... streams and awakened dormant with a furious flurry ... red as blood, due to sludge darkened by the sun of East Africa. Downhill, these currents were joined to form the Blue Nile ... that sped before 1.360km colliding with his brother ... the White Nile in Sudan States, both advancing northward, Egypt inside, like the Nile ... a central river ascending civilization. If the flood did not occur that year, there would be famine. No one would eat. All Egyptians would be hungry. If the flood was very strong, could destroy everything. In late July, the Nile overflowed its banks ... and consumed the whole valley, leveling everything in its path. Over 960km south of Egypt ... to the Mediterranean Sea, villages were flooded ... and thousands were homeless. In Egypt, the flood is an annual event ... but the effects of the devastation could last a lifetime. Excess water caused disasters of unimaginable proportions. Fields were submerged and rotted. Children surely die ... there was no possibility feeding families ... and even, as we know by some literary texts ... the worst times of hunger Cannibalism was ... and other terrible disasters. While the flood swallowed every corner of Egypt ... his new capital, Memphis, remained dry ... thanks to the dam 16m that surrounded her. It was the first dam recorded by history. The force behind the dam and the city that protected ... Menes was the first pharaoh the first Egyptian dynasty. He was a warrior passionate about building ... and his army recently unify Upper and Lower Egypt ... into one great kingdom. The first king of Egypt was much more powerful than ... because previous leaders had all Egypt under control. The king was placed on earth by the gods ... to help maintain order ... and operation correct universe. And he gives the Egyptians not only this life ... but also the afterlife. In Memphis, Menes imposed his will on mother nature ... with the aid of an innovative building technology. Hello, I'm Peter Weller. The flood that describe happened several times . in 5000 years history of Egypt. There are few archaeological records the reign of Menes ... but we know that he gave very important steps ... prevention of major floods. His engineers built a set of barriers ... to protect Memphis floods. And this dam should be firm enough to change the course of the Nile ... and ensure the safety of Memphis. The idea that a civilization of 5000 years ago ... has achieved this effect is simply outstanding. Today, the dam built by Menes lost in the dust of ages ... but another old dam survives east of Memphis. Known as El Sadd Kafara and dated 2700 BC, this ruin ... gives us an idea of the techniques Egyptian construction of dams. Consisted of two massive walls stone with 11m height ... 5m unless the dam Menes. The width of each wall ... was 24m at the base and 12m at the top. Earth and boulders filled the space between them. 100 tons of stone and gravel were extracted ... and transported to build this dam ... and even more so that Menes built. Five thousand years ago, a project of such magnitude required work and effort incalculable. Today, if you say someone to carry ... a block of ten tons, this person ... will immediately hire a crane. 200 years ago, this was not necessary. Three thousand years ago, it was also not necessary. People did not think in machinery ... but in terms of skilled manpower. The dam Menes lasted millennia but second archaeological evidence ... Sadd El Kafara was monumental failure. There is a range of 35m at its center ... This suggests that broke under the water pressure should dam. May have occurred a flood in some crucial ... dam construction. The water entered ... and ruined absolutely everything. For the ancient Egyptian engineers ... pioneering projects never designed ... disasters were part the learning process. There was no precedent for the kind ... Construction they created. They knew they wanted represent the power of the pharaohs and ... to look at the world around, had only nature as a guide. It was necessary to use your imagination ... and use many natural materials. The mysterious pharaoh Menes was fundamental transition in Egypt ... a coalition of tribal farmers ... for a regional superpower. They say that his reign lasted 62 years. ended abruptly when it was ... injured by a hippo during a hunt. But the dam he built still standing ... long after the last pharaoh returned to the gods. She was the cornerstone the legacy builder of Egypt ... a feat that would inspire generations pharaohs to undertake ... works increasing and bolder. Egypt is on the way between Africa and the Middle East. It is the presence of this river, the Nile, making it the only country ... the Sahara desert a nature reserve with water. Since when humans began to walk upright ... there are hundreds of thousands of years, they were attracted here ... for the river. nitially, the nomadic tribes migrating from sub-Saharan Africa ... to the Middle East, following the course of the Nile. Later, with the emergence of agriculture ... in 9000 BC, the tribes ... settled permanently on its banks. When Menes finally united all under one flag ... more or less 3,000 B.C. was born the Egyptian Empire. Since then, several human dramas permeated the history of Egypt. But the Nile remains the only constant presence. And despite the occasional catastrophic floods ... he is the reason why the first empire of the world came here ... and not elsewhere. At the dawn of the third millennium BC, with the consolidation ... the Egyptian city-states By means of achievement ... the river that has long represented basic survival ... assumed a new role, The expansion engine ... territorial and economic unprecedented. A network of ports and channels was constructed to approximate ... distant regions and irrigate a desert landscape. Barges have become huge trucks of the time ... and channels formed equivalent an interstate highway system. The Egyptians did not need worry about roads and wheels ... because they had the Nile because the river runs from south to north ... and it was possible to use the wind to go from north to south. After the Egyptians made channels for walking ... in east-west directions and go elsewhere. They were great builders channels. And engineers built canals with miles long. And they were used to carry all ... want to be a large number of people ... they were grains, food or stones. Almost 2000 years before the Romans build the first huts ... the pharaohs were building on an unprecedented scale. And for the first time in history, technology revolutionizing ... not only the way people lived, but also as a die. Nowhere in the ingenuity of Ancient Egyptians was more apparent ... than their superb tombs. The concept of life after the death of Ancient Egypt ... is very different the Judeo-Christian concept. For example, it is much more palpable. The dead need us. Their survival is somehow important ... for everything to work properly. Tombs are stone houses, underground homes ... because you will live there after death. It is your home after death. Initially, the tombs of the Pharaohs ... were simple brick structures called "Mastabas." They consisted of two main elements. a superstructure rectangular surface ... that could be visited by priests and loved ones ... and a sub-chamber sealed and underground. These chambers housed the sarcophagus of King ... and all he could need in eternity. and all he Could need in eternity. They clearly believed who would live ... the underground parts of the tombs. As their graves became more sophisticated ... pharaohs began building separate altars ... so that the priests worship their spirits. It was the first step in the evolution the royal tombs ... mere mastabas the colossal complex that still ... dominate the Egyptian desert: The Pyramids. In total, the ancient Egyptians erected over a hundred. Eighty still standing and contain stone and mortar sufficient to ... build a wall of 3m high by 1.5 m thick ... New York to Los Angeles. The volume of rock that was brought from quarries all over Egypt ... placed, neat and positioned at the construction site ... and the whole organization was required for this ... is in my opinion, awesome for us. Today, the pyramids remain the biggest attraction of antiquity. But there were successes sudden. It took six Pharaohs four generations of builders ... and many engineering disasters to achieve such perfect proportions. The pyramid builders began their search ... the architectural perfection in a place called Saqqara. It was there, in the year of 2667 A.C. ... that Zoser, a pharaoh young entrepreneur ... first ordered superstructure Stone world. Your project tomb solidify the position of Egypt ... how civilization world's most advanced ... and raise his pioneering architect the status of a god. 2667 a. C... In Egypt a new king was crowned. Zoser was the second ruler the period of the Old Empire. Zoser earned reputation of wise and pious ruler. Two millennia after his death ... he remained a model to be imitated by the pharaohs. During his reign, was so popular ... which ceased to be a mere mortal in the minds of his subjects ... and became the first pharaoh to be worshiped as God. He was worshiped later the 19th Dynasty as ... "He who Opens the Stone" which is quite significant. They made a connection between Zoser and the discovery of the stone. One of the first acts of Zoser when he took power ... was ordering the construction his tomb complex ... last resting place that would have vital importance ... in their eternal destiny. It was a traditional concept, because the kings of Egypt built ... sumptuous tombs for centuries. But the result of this time would be revolutionary. In addition to its unprecedented scale, the tomb complex of Zoser ... would be different from their predecessors in something fundamental ... would not be built brick, but stone. Much of the rest of the world, as the Americas and Europe ... was not far from simply stacking stones. There was activity in Mesopotamia. There was no large-scale architecture, made with adobe bricks. But Egypt is a special case, it is simply unique ... the use of stone at that time. To extract the stone the grave of his dreams ... Zoser turned to his right arm. An architect of humble named Imhotep. Imhotep was not only the real architect ... was also treasurer High Priest and Grand Vizier ... equivalent position the Prime Minister. But it was his pioneering work the funerary complex of Zoser ... that gave him immortality. Even the Romans themselves, great engineers ... come to worship him as a god. But the architectural revolution Imhotep ... that would culminate in the building the first pyramid in the world ... did not begin with a sudden revelation. Initially, he intended only build the largest mastaba of Egypt. The first step of the process was to select a ... location for the pharaoh's tomb. Choosing a place for the tomb was a complicated matter. The sun rose in the east and went down in the west, died in the west. And if you're like the sun god, would be buried in the west. But the graves should be facing east ... facing the rising sun ... with the promise of rebirth and resurrection. Chose Zoser Saqqara, a national cemetery ... dating back to the time of King Menes. It is on the west side of the Nile ... adjacent to the Egyptian capital, Memphis. With the chosen location, the task Next was to gather hand labor. The portal of the pharaoh to the afterlife ... would have to be built with the sweat of his subjects. When we talk about slavery, normal ... is thinking about what happened with blacks in the past. It is clear that in Egypt there was this kind of slavery. But the idea that ordinary Egyptians ... went to work on the pyramid of Pharaoh ... imbued with a sense of love also is probably an exaggeration. The workers would be awarded with food ... beers, clothes and exemption from taxes. Were organized into divisions 20 men each. Altogether, these 500 divisions totaling 10,000 men ... were employed to build the funerary complex of Zoser. In addition, thousands women had the task of ... to maintain men clothed and fed. What is important the construction of the pyramids ... are not only engineering techniques, but administration. how to organize more than ten thousand workers? They lived in barracks, 55 workers each. they worked cutting the stones in the quarry ... then took a day off ... to hunt or fish in the Nile. With his team work to put ... Imhotep began construction of first stone structure in the world. But before building up, needed to build down. He began digging a vertical shaft 7m wide ... by 28m deep, to house the sarcophagus of the pharaoh. Then the workers of Imhotep dug a second well ... where would be taken the body of the pharaoh. Across the burial chamber had underground chambers ... which serve as royal palace in the afterlife. Approximately 304m south ... the second tomb complex was opened in bedrock. How many pharaohs before and after him ... Zoser had two tombs. Each serve a essential spiritual purpose. In the tomb of the north, his body mummified would be buried. In the south, their internal organs be preserved ... in canopic jars. During mummification was one of the important parts ... emptying the body cavity and take all the internal organs. If they were left there, the body rot and ... basically explode. Thus, the lungs and the liver ... the stomach and intestines were were then removed and dried ... the use of a combination salt and sodium bicarbonate. Then, after drying by, I do not know, a few weeks ... they were cleaned, greased, wrapped in bandages ... and placed into boxes. The mummified body Zoser is buried ... this labyrinth of tunnels under his Step Pyramid in Saqqara here. Nearly 7km secret passages here ... they are completely banned for tourists ... since it tends to collapse the ceiling, from time to time. At the time Moses left Egypt ... it was here over a thousand years. The purpose of the tunnels is still a mystery. Some may have served to confuse grave robbers. Others may have been own work of thieves. But since hardly anyone comes here ... nobody knows what we'll find turning a corner. As a secret passage or a staircase. It is very easy to get confused here. For example, if you arrive ... at an intersection and go right ... which should have gone to left, are lost. I'm getting very close to the room where Zoser was buried ... but rather there are several rooms ... which will serve as a kind of memorial palace. Here, these rooms are the luxuries Zoser that would ... in life after death, or the mummies of their relatives. It is remarkable that I has fallen this pyramid ... hundreds of meters and give face with this room perfect. Here are ... the bones of relatives Zoser ... as well. Engineers Zoser built dozens of rooms ... like this, for your palace mortuary. Down here, we find this ... a bandage mummy. Or pottery 5000 years. Or this wall ornate ... with this beautiful inlay seawater. Or these hieroglyphs so well preserved ... they seem carved yesterday. I'm sitting on the camera Zoser's main mortuary. Above me, there's a will, as you can see. The body was lowered and deposited here. This room is the center the funerary complex of Zoser. Before, it was sustained by these beams of Phoenicia ... what is now Lebanon, and should have 4600 years. Are as close as possible Zoser's tomb ... and some people say that precedes this area. Well here is the sarcophagus made of alabaster massive ... which is perhaps the sarcophagus a relative of Zoser. above is the Step Pyramid. Perhaps, the first construction stone on the planet. But that's only half the story, what we see on earth ... is only half because it is down here that is ... the real palace funeral Zoser. And sure enough was done to a pharaoh very powerful ... and working with the best engineers of Egypt. With the construction of the substructure the funerary complex of Zoser ... ongoing, Imhotep Minded superstructure above ... that would protect against the outside world. With limestone mountains and a extensive hand labor at their disposal ... Imhotep proceeded with fingers crossed ... towards an unknown frontier. 2659 a.c. Centuries before Stonehenge the Egyptians were building the first ... stone structure in the world. A colossal tomb complex for the pharaoh Zoser. Ahead project was Imhotep ... real architect of Zoser. On a hill of limestone near of Saqqara, thousands of workers ... inaugurated a new industry, "quarrying". They perfected the system cutting, extracting ... and transporting huge blocks construction. His first challenge was to carve the surface of the hill ... symmetrical slabs. The mining was done grinding the rock ... em sulcos com martelos de pedra. And it was only with the effort, digging ditches ... and stacking the blocks and then cutting them down ... to roll them out of the quarry. Once extracted, the stones were swept deserts tortuous ... the quarry to the construction site, using nothing but ropes ... sleds, muscles and sweat. Everything indicates that they knew the wheel. But for dragging heavy objects on the sand ... the wheel was not very appropriate. Sleds were much more appropriate ... and that was what they used. With the design of your tomb in safe hands ... Zoser turned his attention the strengthening of the empire. He was a pioneer in mining in the Sinai Peninsula ... fattening the coffers of the nation ... with regular supplies turquoise and copper. He also extended the southern border of Egypt to Aswan ... the first call cataract of the Nile ... would remain the limit Southern nation. After 10 years of reign Pharaoh still felt strong ... and sent the Egyptian tradition that works in his grave ... continue until his death. With the ground floor finished and plenty of time ... to build more and better Imhotep started ... a series of expansions to revolutionize architecture. About his mastaba, he added a second smaller ... a third of this then a fourth ... stacking them as layers of a wedding cake. E le, then wanted to make it even bigger ... extending the four layers to the west ... about them and adding two more. The tomb of Zoser assumed gradually a different format ... all that the Egyptians had seen. This new structure would be known as the Step Pyramid. It's almost like Imhotep worked ... in architectural form this simple structure ... whole evolution of the hills that existed ... before that big construction ... that set the standard for all the pyramids that came after. After nearly two decades of work ... the Step Pyramid of Zoser ... stayed with the height of 20 floors. Around her, a complex ... under construction establish a new standard for real burial mounds. To the north, a small palace was built. Adjacent to it, two houses ceremonial ... represented the high and lower Egypt. Surrounding the entire complex higher a football stadium ... a robust wall of limestone reached a height of three storeys. Today, as in priscas eras, the only way into the complex ... is through a gate torreante colonnades that contains ... the first forty stone columns already raised on the ground. Each of 10m and measuring its finish testifies ... amateurism engineering at the time of Imhotep. Fearing that its columns tombassem, architect ... each coupled to a wall to support them. They built this way because they knew it was possible ... erect a stone pillar sustain that. They were in a the steps of the architecture ... it was trial and error. Zoser died in the 2648 a.c ... His reign of 19 years was a time ... innovation edifying unprecedented. When word got out his death ... people from the cantons Egypt's most remote ... came mourn him. There was a grand procession who left the Valley ... with priests, professional mourners ... they were shouting, tearing their hair ... and crying the death of the king. Maybe a boy named Seneferu ... were present the last farewell of Zoser. Seneferu grow in the shade Step Pyramid of ... and one day rule Egypt. As pharaoh, would be obsessed with achieve perfection in engineering. But his relentless desire build a pyramid better ... Pharaonic cause disasters. 2613 a.c. ... 35 years after the death of Zoser ... a pharaoh called Seneferu ascended the throne ... and founded the 4th Dynasty of Egypt. He was the son of a pharaoh previous Huni ... but his mother was a queen secondary. Thus, to consolidate its claim to the throne ... Seneferu married his half-sister Hetepheres ... whose royal blood was purer. In the royalty of ancient Egypt ... these incestuous alliances were almost routine. Forget the "half-sister". Egyptian pharaohs often ... intermarried with blood sisters. And the reason for this dates back to Egyptian mythology. The gods were married. Iris and Osiris are brother and sister. To marry his own sister ... King behaves like a god. Craving divine status ... Seneferu sought to raise sympathy of his subjects. He drove to the peasants as "my friend" or "my brother." In order to transcend the shadow cast the opulent reign of Zoser ... Seneferu embarked in a relentless search ... the perfect engineering that would make him a legend. According to the Greeks, there were seven wonders in the ancient world ... the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, the Colossus of Rhodes ... the Temple of Diana at Ephesus, and the Pyramids of Egypt. But all these wonders ... only survived the pyramids time and man. It is the realm of Seneferu that provides the essential link ... between the step pyramid, innovative but primitive ... and the Great Pyramid of Cheops at Giza ... three generations later which is considered the pinnacle ... Construction of pyramids. Was Seneferu who corrected the flaws during a hard ... process of trial and error, and became the engineering of the pyramids ... in an art. Seneferu managed funds these projects ... defeating their neighbors. He sacked the Nubia, Libya, the Sinai Peninsula ... and among his subjects, received the title "Destroyer of Barbarians". It consolidated its reputation as one of ... the history of the greatest pharaohs Egito. The first challenge Seneferu appeared in Meidum ... cemetery south of Saqqara. Ali, the ruins of his pyramid collapsed ... today dominate the desert landscape. The pyramid is a Meidum puzzles. She collapsed? The stone was simply stolen? Remained unfinished? There are several questions. Meidum represents a decisive step the construction of the pyramids. The core consisted of the pyramid eight stone floors ... high at a sharp angle. Seneferu ordered the decks were filled ... up and down with stones. Then coated the frame with a layer of polished white limestone ... giving you the smooth sides he wanted. It's as if he did not want to use Seneferu the stairs: He wanted a lift. He had an abstract that drove ... straight to heaven, that is what makes the pyramid. It represents, concretely, the immaterial thing of all ... the rays of the sun light. Apparently, the new version Pyramid was a success ... but beneath his bright facade had a problem. If you look at a pyramid today, it seems to have stripes. These stripes represent smooth outer face ... of two pyramids of internal steps. They clearly do not have much friction, then to build something ... beside them, if it starts to slide, there is not much ... to hold in place. Today, 4600 years after the construction Pyramid Meidum ... are clearly visible the signs of their destruction. Only 3 of the original floor 8 remain intact ... and the shell added later ... lies on a huge lot at the base. Should be evidence of catastrophic collapse? I do not believe the theory that the pyramid collapsed Meidum ... is true, because we have evidence that in the New Kingdom ... there was a man who came visit the pyramid. He spoke of his glory. If she had fallen during the Old Kingdom ... he would not talk about her glory. But what did next seems Seneferu confirm the theory of collapse. In its second decade as pharaoh, he abandoned the pyramid Meidum ... and started another at Dahshur ... a desert region very close to Saqqara. Ali, his engineers began the construction of the first pyramid ... itself. But as the work progressed ... they turn on the brink of another disaster. When she was about halfway ... seems to have been some difficulty ... which generated some kind structural damage. In the inner apartments of the pyramid, no cracks ... cracks in structures. And one of the arguments is that ... the pyramid was built on shaky ground. as they climbed the pyramid ... the inner apartments began to show cracks ... and they had to reduce weight. Seneferu was determined not abandon his second pyramid ... despite its flaws. The builders rushed to shore structure problematic ... increasing its founding in more 15m on all sides. Then to build vertically did something even more drastic: Abruptly changed the angle inclination of 54 to 43 . Today, the building is awkward known as Pyramid Curve. The Pyramid Romboidal is one of my favorites. It shows the man ... trying to fix. Although Seneferu insisted on complete your Pyramid Curve ... archaeological evidence suggests ... the king was not satisfied. Another pyramid, only 1.5 km to the north. Registration nearby indicates that ... known as Red Pyramid, also belonged to Seneferu. After failing twice in its mission to build ... the first pyramid perfect story ... Seneferu risked all the remaining resources of Egypt: Hand labor, money, and the best engineers ... in a last attempt to glory. What we see at this time determination is a fantastic ... in creating the ideal shape of the pyramid. It must have been so great a will worth spending exorbitant ... emptying the state coffers ... and an enormous amount of workers, we imagine ... to extract stones and build these grand monuments. Build a third pyramid for the same pharaoh ... mean drain the resources of the nation ... but Seneferu, astute politician who was ... could sell their fish and finance his obsession edifying. Seneferu was a genius public relations. He was the first king to use his personal name ... and not a special name for the throne. He debased to win, so to speak. It has become more accessible ... to become larger, most famous and most divine. In order to avoid structural problems that had plagued earlier ... engineers of Seneferu chose ... an inclination angle more gradual the Red Pyramid ... and also strengthened its foundation ... using large blocks Best limestone. These new blocks were much larger in size. And builders were confident ... to move and position correctly huge blocks of stone ... weighing several tons, instead of small blocks ... which were used the Step Pyramid. To drag each stone to their final destination ... 20 men pulled on a sled wood on a ramp ... made of clay, stone and gravel. Water was poured in front of the sled to reduce friction. 4600 years later, there is no consensus ... regarding the configuration of the ramps. Three theories prevail: The 1st is a huge ramp and straight was erected on a side of the pyramid. The theory says that there were two systems of spiral ramps around her. And the 3rd theory advocates a combining the first two. Never find evidence these ramps around the pyramids. Everyone has a theory, but we can not be completely sure ... how they were real After all stones were stacked ... stone ridge and put on top ... a coating of fine white limestone overlaid abroad. The builders worked from top to bottom ... polishing the coating with copper chisels. The finish of the cover exterior of the pyramids ... must have been a labor highly specialized. Can you have a good idea what must have happened ... at Dahshur, the pyramid Romboidal. You can stand under and look straight up ... you can see it is still smooth. The covering is kept smooth so far. It's like looking at a glass surface. It took three attempts and many decades, but in the end ... the search for perfection Seneferu had huge success. Behind me is Red Pyramid, the first ... true pyramid ever built. Engineers Seneferu found not only ... the secret to building a monument smooth and symmetrical ... but also dominated the process of building ... open saloon inside. The chambers within the Red Pyramid ... can be accessed through an opening to 28m high at its northern side. At the end of a long corridor it falls back to the ground floor ... space opens in first three quarters ... built to house the remains of Seneferu and its immortal treasures. Build a camera huge, like this ... within the superstructure a pyramid ... was a unique challenge to an engineer old ... because of the pressure that was top of tons ... stones forcing down. And to distribute this pressure, builders Seneferu ... created an ingenious innovation: The vaulted ceiling. They made steps on the sides, about 10cm ... in each step, and then built a kind of ... form of an inverted pyramid the ceiling of the burial chamber. Then we come to a narrow point at the top ... that sustains easily. The innermost chamber in Red Pyramid is the burial chamber. whose roof rises to 15m. It was here in 50, which were discovered the bones of a middle-aged ... but there were no entries to identify it ... then we have no idea who it was. Some Egyptologists think were the bones of Seneferu own. Others say no, that the pharaoh was buried ... the Pyramid Romboidal, because she has ... a complex funerary more complete. In any case, we do not know what happened to Seneferu. It is a mystery that perhaps never be unraveled. The reign of three decades of Seneferu ended around 2589 a. C. .. But its monuments assured him immortality. Excavations at Dahshur revealed ... 2000 years after the death of Seneferu ... offerings of incense were still made in his memory. The son and successor of Seneferu, Cheops ... would build on the foundation left by his father ... and create a greater and more perfect pyramid ever built. The great pyramid of Giza. Each of the four sides of the Great Pyramid is almost perfectly symmetrical ... rising at an angle need 51. When Khufu raised his torreante monument ... the period of the Old Empire was at the height of his wealth and power. But in the space of four centuries, the great empire of the pyramids ... submerged in darkness. In XXII and XXI centuries. A.c. .. drought, famine and chaos consumed the country. Until a new strain pharaohs emerged from the South .. willing to restore the lost glory of Egypt. his relentless military campaigns would expand ... the borders of the empire more than ever, leaving behind ... a trail of blood, fear and impenetrable fortifications ... renew the stranglehold of Egypt and its absolute power. 1864 a.c. .. A warrior pharaoh spread terror by Nubia ... in a devastating campaign of conquest. It was the Egyptian period Empire of the Middle ... remembered by later generations ... as "The Golden Age" of Egypt. Pharaoh was Sesostris III ... and its purpose was threefold guard the southern border ... control the routes Nubia and commercial ... plunder the most gold Nubian that his troops could carry. Nubia, to begin with, was very important to the Egyptians ... because it was a source of gold. And gold was paramount importance to them. The path to the gold spent by a group of warriors Nubians ... known as quermanos. Sesostris had a great and well organized army ... but had quermanos a deadly weapon. The Nubians were known, even in the early Middle Ages ... for being excellent archers. The Arab invaders called them of "shooters pupils" ... they could set eyes Riders who attacked. The quermanos were a formidable obstacle ... but Sesostris, pensive figure, towering ... and commanding presence, was not an opponent whatsoever. In many cases, we can not say anything ... On the personality of a king, or about its nature. On the personality of a king, or about its nature. However, Sesostris is an exception, because we have it ... a series of portraits who survived ... and do not resemble anything that was produced for the previous kings. In the portraits, Sesostris appears sometimes ... arrogant, sad. He's thrilled, this is very, very human. The experience did something to him. It is a pharaoh that has personality ... has depth in his face ... he shows sadness, concern and age. His face reflects his concern for the people of Egypt. As quermanos discover, the love of his people by Pharaoh ... did not extend to his enemies. His army swept Nubia taking treasures and territories ... leaving a trail death and destruction. In a monument to the kingdom horror at its southern border ... Sesostris boasted of having burnt plantations of the enemy ... killed their men, enslaved their wives and children ... and poisoned their wells. It comes as a Roman general. He goes on to say: "He who protects my borders is my son. He descended from me. but that not protect my boundary ... than advocates this is not my son. He is not descended from me. " It is quite surprising and direct. As his army advancing southward Sesostris rose ... in the Nile Valley, a series of imposing fortresses ... would guard the border Nubia and exhibit the power ... Egyptians and superiority. This was built for more than 3700 years ago ... at a time when the architecture military was not known. Maybe just huts. In the army of antiquity, they lived in huts. But for the Egyptians, have thought it was very clever ... because they knew Nubia was very important. And they knew the danger that could come from there. The ruins of fortresses constructed by Sesostris ... stood still in the twentieth century ... stood still in the twentieth century ...... And still here. But there's just one little problem ... making visits a bit complicated ... they are all at the bottom This lake of crocodiles. This is Nassar an artificial lake formed ... the construction of the dam Aswan, in the 60s. He has more than 600km wide and 120m deep. And all traces fortresses of the Middle Kingdom ... are lost in its depths. One of the greatest strengths of Sesostris was built in Buhen ... mercantile center since the former empire. The fortress had Buhen extension two soccer fields and ... employed technology used by strongholds of the European Middle Ages. Had never been built nothing like the Fortress Buhen ... in the ancient Mediterranean world. One reason to be so important from the point of view of engineering ... is that it had layers of defense and positioning points ... for archers, where they could shoot arrows ... in all directions against an invading army. Even outside these walls there was a gap ... and after the pit wall. So any enemy army who tried to attack the fortress ... had to climb this wall, pass through the gap ... expose yourself to archers outer walls ... and there were still two walls fortified ... before reaching the interior the fortress. The fortress could Buhen accommodate thousand soldiers ... including captive Nubians required to serve for six years ... in Pharaoh's army. At the end of his reign, the network of forts Sesostris . stretched over 320km south of Aswan ... Sudan of today, and solidified Egyptian dominance in the region. Sesostris reigned for 39 years. For centuries after his death, in 1831 a. C. .. their garrisons protected the border Nubia. But they were not always composed of Egyptians. Over the next two centuries, his achievements were abandoned ... as the Middle Kingdom be dismantled. He became brittle, weakened. Kerma emerged as a power in Nubia and fortresses ... just passing for control of Kerma ... apparently with no sign of great conflict and destruction. While quermanos resurfaced in the south, the ... warrior tribe of the Middle East, known as the Hyksos ... conquered the north. The once glorious Egyptian Empire disintegrated. Egypt remained surrounded during the next 100 years. But in the sixteenth century BC, a new empire of native pharaohs ... would rise and reinstate the preeminence of Egypt. Among these monarchs, There was a queen opportunistic ... that exceed the barrier between sexes and obtain absolute power ... 14 centuries before Birth of Cleopatra. 1479 a.c. Death of the Pharaoh Thutmose II left a power vacuum in the royal palace. Your child with a woman from his harem was proclaimed king Thutmose III ... but he was a child and could not govern alone. Ento a rainha viva, Hatchepsut, decidiu preencher o vcuo de poder. She became co-regent of the boy, but reigned as pharaoh legitimate. Hatshepsut began to reach political power and increasing ... by the seventh year of the reign set of Hatshepsut and Thutmose III ... she began to call herself "king". Hatshepsut should not reign because in Ancient Egypt ... only men ruled. Women, no. For her sex did not constitute obstacle, she changed. Your body has acquired contours male ... and she wore as accessory Traditional Egyptian beard. Your body no longer possessed female characteristics. To be taken seriously as pharaoh, Hatshepsut knew ... I needed to build as a. Thus, to immortalize his reign, she ordered a huge ... mortuary temple on the bank west of Thebes, hometown ... and power base of the Pharaohs new empire. It would serve as an altar for her spirit after death ... and perpetuate their association with the gods. To build it, she enlisted his royal architect, Senemut. He was a commoner who had a relationship very special woman pharaoh. Many feel that the relationship between Hatshepsut and Senemut was ... more than professional. And it is true that ... well there are some obscene graffiti, with their names ... show the positions compromising ... and this feeds the rumor. independently loving your talent ... Senemut demonstrated be an excellent engineer. The Temple of Hatshepsut in Deir el-Bahari is a proof perennial ... of his genius and a testament his undying dedication. He did this with the feeling of love ... not as a service for the queen. No. He did it for his beloved, Hatshepsut. And for this reason, the temple is special. It is different from all other temples of Egypt. Today, the temple is surrounded by desert. But in ancient times, gardens and lakes made ??him ... one of the superb monuments in the world. It stands on three levels terraces built ... the slope of a limestone hill. The terraces are linked by a wide central staircase. The upper levels are suspended for long colonnaded porticoes. The inner walls of one of them ... there are reliefs depicting the divine origin of Hatshepsut. The mortuary temple Hatshepsut was ... in fact, a great propaganda vehicle. There is a scene showing the god Amon approaching their mother. Then there are a species of intimate moment ... after which is designed Hatshepsut with the help of various goddesses. And in the next scene, she appears being hailed ... with a great ovation various gods, and proclaimed ... Pharaoh by divine right. In Deir el-Bahari, the architect Senemut managed to create ... a temple unmatched for a pharaoh without equal. The project took 15 years to complete, during which the stepson ... Hatshepsut, Thutmose, the young pharaoh heir came of age. Soon he would claim his rightful throne. To stay in power, Hatshepsut launched an advertising campaign ... to remind his subjects that she was descended from a god. She designed a series sumptuous monuments ... to convey this message, obelisks propagandizing ... his bond with Amon-Ra. The format of the obelisk is quite simple. It is a high tower and solid four side ... with a pyramid-shaped tip, carved from a whole piece ... and decorated in relief. At first glance, an obelisk can not seem a great feat of engineering. But if you think about it, is one of buildings more artistic ... and impressive of all time. The history of obelisks began the former granite quarry in Aswan. The 184km south of Thebes. Was left where the majority ... the Egyptian obelisks, and where a still lies unfinished ... carved on three sides. With 42m tall and weighing over 1100 tons ... I stand on what should have been the largest obelisk in the world ... if it had been completed. It was abandoned when cracked. But, nowadays, this obelisk still gives us a good idea ... how they were carved. workers entalhavam granite ... Ball diabase, like this one. The diabase is harder than granite, so if you slam ... for a long time, will form chips. For carving an obelisk this size ... were the experts think required 130 men ... for an entire year. So, imagine yourself beating ... and hammering a stone for a year of your life ... and then see what you was working crack ... and you have to leave. Well, in one respect, they were lucky: They did not need transport. Once the needle is thought free from its bed of granite ... the next challenge was to carry it, often for hundreds of miles, to its final destination. To do this, engineers Egyptians resorted ... the old and trusted Nile and used the annual flood ... to their advantage. The problem of transporting blocks of stone statues ... and obelisks, it was moved a huge amount of water and ... the hulls of the boats touched the bottom Nile and sometimes washed up onto. So, it was better try to carry ... these huge pieces of stone during flood ... when the waters rose and left the bed of the Nile ... much deeper. After the obelisk was sent downstream, engineers ... faced its last and biggest obstacle: Lift it. How exactly ... they did it was a mystery, but there is a current theory ... about the process. First, builders settled a base granite ... strong enough to withstand the weight of the obelisk. Then surrounding this base a wall of bricks ... and this enclosure was filled with sand. On both sides of the wall towered brick ramps. Using ropes and sleds beneath the obelisk ... workers pulled the cart up a ramp, as they went down by another ... until it aprumasse in the sand. The sand was then removed gradually, with the obelisk ... held vertically to sit on its base. Unfortunately for Hatshepsut, his reign did not end smoothly. Around 1459 a. C, her beloved Architect Senemut ... disappeared without a trace. The following year, the Queen herself perished under mysterious circumstances. The most powerful woman in Egypt patroness of the most modern ... architectural feat of empire waned in history. Do not know much about how she died. His body was never found. We find the grave, but did not find the body. And this is another mystery we are investigating. 35 centuries later there are no clues. But there is a prime suspect, Hatshepsut's stepson ... Thutmose III. So long stifled by stepmother perhaps the rightful heir ... got rid of it. After he took over, the statues and monuments of Hatshepsut ... were destroyed and her name, erased from official records. Tuthmose shaft becoming a great conqueror ... extending the frontiers of the empire more than any other pharaoh ... from Syria to central Sudan. After Thutmose III ruled Egypt first of these territories. They were vassals of the Egyptian king. In this sense, he was a conqueror. 1200 years after the construction the first pyramid ... Egypt was the height of its power. But just when he seemed invincible emerged a pharaoh revolutionary ... to shake the foundations of the empire. His worship of a single god would generate the construction of a new capital ... designed to position itself as the center of the universe. Thebes, the 1352. A.c. ... The temple of Karnak epicenter of the Egyptian society ... was in great expectation. The beloved pharaoh Amenhotep III had died and his son ... Amenhotep IV was about to become ... the most powerful man on earth. The new Pharaoh did not take long to show signs that his reign would be quite different. The name Amenhotep means "Amun is satisfied". With the rise of the new empire and the prominence of Thebes ... as the main city of Egypt, Amon was elevated to king of the gods. The priests of Amun were concentrated here, in the temple of Karnak. These priests controlled one-third of wealth throughout Egypt. And when it comes to religion, which they were sent. But the new pharaoh, Amenhotep IV, had no intention ... to let someone else send in anything. Thus began the struggle classic between church and state. There were several gods associated Ammon and one was Ra ... spiritual strength invisible behind the sun. The shape and the rays of the sun, or what we can see ... was a God named Aton, Amenhotep and developed ... one entire religion around Aten, less than a god until then ... had secondary role. But thanks to the new Pharaoh ... he was elevated to a new status. On a trip north in the fifth year of his reign ... Amenhotep encountered an excerpt protected desert ... torreantes by limestone hills. Ali, Aton told him, saying that one where the creation began. deeply moved by this spiritual encounter ... Pharaoh changed his name to Akhenaten, which means the server Aton. He decided to abandon the capital Egypt, Thebes, modern Luxor ... and build a new city this virgin site, the 288km. Imagine if President U.S. closed the Capitol ... change everything to Texas and said ... "The new Capitol will be here." Imagine what would happen people in Washington. It was the same with people of Luxor ... suddenly, everyone loses their job, the center of power is shifted ... and they have to follow Akhenaton to a new place. The rebel pharaoh called their new city of Akhetaten ... meaning horizon of Aten. Is now known as Amarna ... and retains little of the enormous structures that made ??her ... the most thriving metropolis Egyptian for more than 3300 years. Akhenaten wanted your city built immediately ... to be able to move soon. His impatience stimulated its engineers ... to invent a new how to build fast. Their response was a technological innovation ... small blocks of limestone cut into standard size ... to be easily loaded and stacked. The blocks called "talatat" by archaeologists ... were precursors of the modern old Materials prefabricated building. The "talatat" were very useful because become very fast ... the construction of buildings. Were not needed ... those huge groups of workers pulling blocks. It is much easier have several people loading ... each block and using them as bricks. The city's project was equally innovative. Amarna covering 61.44 km , 12.8 km along the east bank of the Nile ... and 4.8 km inland. Its design was irradiated ... the royal tomb as sunlight emanating from the spirit of the king. A royal road ran parallel the river, connecting the city center ... the palaces and temples of Pharaoh. He went to a place untouched. A place completely clean ... and there established a city. That is why it is special. Akhetaten was perhaps the first planned city in the world ... and the most important. The new city of Akhenaton sprouted with unprecedented speed. Within two years of its founding was home to 20,000 people ... and had all the necessary facilities to meet a growing population. The city limits were demarcated by great monuments ... called boundary stelae. Several of these have survived ... and their applications transmit in a very accurate ... that land was consecrated to the god Aton. In Amarna, Pharaoh had created their own universe ... placing oneself and his family at the center of it. In all representations of Amarna all who are not part ... the royal family appear bent, always bowing ... Akhenaten and the royal family. He appears to have required ... people bowed in his presence in a way ... never seen between the earlier pharaohs. The Sun King had four major palaces in your city. Each serving a personal purpose and spiritual. The only surviving mode discernible is the palace of the north. Traces of stables and fabulous frescoed with wild birds ... found here, indicating this is the private retreat of the pharaoh. But there is also evidence a garden paradise ... and a throne room with colonnades where Akhenaten may have received ... important visits. Obsession by Pharaoh magnitudes stretched ... the sacred sites of Amarna. Three miles south of palace of the north lie the ruins ... a complex known how small temple of Aton. The word "small" is inappropriate. The complex covers almost 6.503m ... an area twice the White House. The entire temple was once surrounded by a brick wall. Inside were three courtyards, separated by Cyclopean walled gates ... called pylons. Religious belief of Egypt The pylons are associated ... the two mountains on the horizon. So when a god ... enters or leaves the temple by these pylons, it's like the sun ... was rising or setting in the mountains on the horizon. Within the first pylon of the temple, had a courtyard with rows of tables ... offerings and a ramp rising the high altar of bricks. Then there was another courtyard, which contained the home of the resident priest. In the third pylon, was the heart of the temple ... the holy of holies inhabited the spirit of Aton. Some archaeologists believe the small temple of Aton ... may serve as a sanctuary permanent spirit of Akhenaten. Increasingly turned for religion ... Pharaoh neglected government affairs. In the second decade of his reign, he began to lose control ... about the Egyptian empire. Everything indicates that Akhenaten began to take their religion ... increasingly serious and avoid the responsibilities as head of state. He did not know what was happening beyond the city's borders. The empire of Egypt began to sink because several other powerful people ... Near Eastern began to dominate territory. Many details about the last few years Akhenaten are unknown. But one thing is undeniable: His mysterious death in 1336 a.c. .. unleashed the vengeful fury the priests of Amon. Their statues were broken, buried and destroyed. Inside the tomb Meryre, high priest of Pharaoh ... the walls are covered with scenes life under the reign of Akhenaten. The most shocking of all is the King driving a chariot ... with his head and body deleted. Although it was too late to avenge him in life ... had time to destroy it after death. Destroy the statue of a dead person was a terrible act ... the imaginary Egyptian why kill the chance ... that person had returning to his eternal abode. So we know that was the thing more brutal than could be done ... someone after his death. After Akhenaten's enemies crippled her spirit ... his city was abandoned. A few years after the death of Pharaoh, Amarna seemed ... a ghost town of Western. The government soon passed to his son Akhenaten, Tutankhamun, 9 years. Eager to distance himself from his father, he returned the supreme power ... the god Amon, changed his name to Tutankhamun ... and brought the capital back to Thebes. Ali Pharaohs who succeeded would build the most sumptuous ... tombs of Egyptian history, filling them with treasures ... most precious ever assembled. These tombs are still nested silently ... among the hills of the cemetery world's most famous, the Valley of the Kings. 1280 a.c. ... When the sun rises, on the western border of Thebes ... begins another week in the service of Pharaoh for a team of workers ... who lived here, in the village of Dier el-Medina. Every morning, these workers kissed their wives and children ... and began a journey an hour walk to work ... across these mountains ... in a place that today known as the "Valley of the Kings'. Today, we associate the Valley of the Kings the Tutankhamun ... popularly known as King Tut, whose body was found ... intact in 1922. Mas, taking the gold and artifacts, the tomb of Tut is actually ... um minors and most simple of the whole valley. Construction of the tomb engrenou same So after 40 years of burial of Tut ... during the reign of Seti I. Quando Seti I came to the throne, in 1294 had inherited an empire fragile. In the six previous decades, Egypt faltered ... after the chaotic reign of Akhenaten. There was a real need for strengthen the Egyptian power ... in its traditional form and return to the heights that the Empire ... was known under Thutmose III. Seti I was a real challenge ... before him: His goal was recreate the empire again. Seti was an experienced soldier, who had served as ... supreme commander of Egypt. With discipline and determination that expected of a military veteran ... he would return order to the realm and absolute power of the pharaoh. His strategy was based two time-tested tactics ... conquest and construction. In the temple of Karnak Seti leave your brand when ordering ... the legendary hypostyle hall, one the wonders of ancient architecture. It is a forest with 134 torreantes columns ... some height a building of 7 floors. The columns are as wide which can only be embraced ... ten men holding hands. The ancient Egyptians were trying to create a large room. Unfortunately, they did not dominate building interior spaces. So, if you want a large room, had to fill her column. Hidden in a remote corner of Karnak there is a column unfinished ... that reveals how builders Seti ... created these gigantic pillars polished stone. First, the area around the base of the column was covered with mud and debris. Then circular slabs stone were dragged ... over a ramp clay and stacked. When they reached the ceiling level, began to take the rubbish ... and lined the surfaces the columns and walls. And then, when all the debris had been removed ... and the coating removed, had a column perfect. If the columns in the lobby Hypostyle cemented ... the legacy builder Seti, the carvings on the walls ... extol his tough guy image. Pharaoh was determined to claim lost territory ... during the Amarna. Launched a series of offensives Syria and Palestine ... where Phoenicians controlled ports and trade routes. The reliefs at Karnak Seti show capturing and killing ... prisoners of war during these campaigns. While the soldiers of the King terrorizing neighbors ... northeastern Egypt builders tomb ... preparing your home eternal in the Valley of the Kings. Ali worked with the works efficiency of an assembly line. First, a team of masons curdled the tomb of solid rock ... using simple copper chisels. They received oil lamps, and knew how long ... and lasted oil wick. So if they used the lamp ... was not known whether they were working ... the right amount of time. But if the fuse did not end ... I could see that they were misleading. Tugs came after of Bricklayers covering the rustic walls ... with a layer of plaster and lime to make them smooth. When the walls were ready, various artists came to ... draft to the artisans. the drafts were made ??in black ink. Then came the master correct in red ink. And in some places there are still patches. You can see where people were wrong. Drafts identify Pharaoh with the sun god Ra ... and depict his journey the underworld at night. In the burial chamber, behind the tomb, this trip would culminate ... with the rise of the king to the skies the following morning ... to start your journey the firmament. After these scenes were drafted ... the walls were delivered the sculptors ... that cinzelavam meticulously surface around each drawing ... to create three-dimensional reliefs. Some were specialized in hand, others only made ??faces. There were various types of workers, at different times ... in several parts of the walls. When the wall was already fully carved, painted them. As the work progressed inland mountain ... became clear that the tomb of Seti would be different from all the others. It began with a long corridor input, followed by two stairs ... before reaching a well designed capture floodwater and thieves. The grave robbing was a constant danger. And we know, from Documents from Deir el-Medina ... What is the city in which thieves lived ... that from time to time, people involved ... in thefts tombs were found and brought to trial. If the thieves were able to cross Well, find ... an elaborate ruse on the other hand, a false burial chamber. It was large enough for a tomb Pharaonic, but empty and unfinished ... conveying the message that no one was buried there. However, below ground, left chamber of the false ... lurked a secret staircase. It led to another long hallway leading to the true ... burial chamber. Seti I was buried here. The tomb of Seti was the most fantastic. Before, there was nothing like it ... and, although there are several other tombs beautiful ... in the Valley of the Kings, the Seti was the most beautifully decorated of all. Seti I, whose triumphs in building and war had restored ... the ancient glory of Egypt died unexpectedly in 1279 a. C. .. An examination of his mummy suggests he had less than 40 years. After the death of the king, the scepter passed to his son, Ramses II. Ramses would have more than a hundred children, survive the most legendary ... battle of ancient Egypt and cover every corner of the empire ... with colossal monuments to his own ego. His reign of 67 years mark the height of glory Egyptian ... and also lie the seeds of its bankruptcy. 1964 d.c. .. An international army engineers and archaeologists ... ran to save from annihilation one of the monuments ... most precious of Egypt. The place is Abu Simbel, in southern Egypt ... where colossal temples built during the reign of Ramses the Great ran the risk of submerging under the waters of Lake Nassar. The new lake was formed because of the construction ... Dam Assuam, 124km downstream. Contractors of five nations raced against the clock ... to deconstruct the temples and transport them, stone by stone ... to higher ground. First, the engineers cut temples blocks transportable ... and led them to a new location, 60m higher and 182m inland. Here, the blocks were mounted two artificial mountains ... reinforced cement. after four years of steady work ... and 3200 of existence, the temples Abu Simbel earned a new home. It was a miracle. A sign of cooperation. It was a work of genius, a combination engineering old ... with modern engineering. The temples at Abu Simbel Ramses II and his queen Nefertari ... were magnificent buildings, made the greatest pharaoh ... Egypt's history. They were carved .... directly on the slope of the gorge. Imagine Mount Rushmore ... with a huge church inside the mountain ... behind the heads of the presidents. Ramses ruled in the thirteenth century. C. At this point ... Egyptians were already cutting stones 1500 years ago ... and they've dominated the technique as a science. But if someone questioned as a science could become art ... this is the answer. This temple, actually ... is a monumental sculpture, that shows what is possible ... when art and engineering come together with a little ego. With his reign of nearly seven decades, Ramses II was the Pharaoh of Pharaohs. Since childhood, all hopes for his dynasty fell in it ... which was treated with reverence usually reserved for gods. Its status as golden boy Egypt made ??him ... the most eligible bachelor in the country. He had about 21 children, at age 21 ... and at least 17 ??wives. Throughout his life, he would have 110 kids ... and perhaps an equal number of daughters. Why so many children? Well, that's part of the manhood. The pharaoh was considered a bull, and the bull is a kind ... large symbol male virility. The blood of Ramses probably expanded to a percentage ... so incredible that, a thousand years later ... there were thousands of people ... which probably had the blood of Ramses the Great. Ramses distinguished himself not only in love, but also in the war. For centuries, Egypt had been involved in struggles for control ... ports and trade routes Middle East. Seti, the father of Rameses, had inroads there recently ... but the dominant tribe the region, the Hittites ... remained formidable an adversary. Like his father, Ramses wield weapons to expand the borders of Egypt. He would attack the Hittite kingdom, Syria, with 20,000 men ... greater strength Egyptian that history knows. They had, by this time, discovered the chariot, the double arrow ... several other weapons and instruments of war. Certainly, in the ancient world, they were among the greatest warriors. Although the forces of Pharaoh were formidable ... the Hittites were still more soldiers. Even fewer, Ramses fought to a bloody stalemate ... and returned home a hero. Bas-reliefs were carved to commemorate the bravery of the pharaoh ... walls numerous buildings ... including his great temple Abu Simbel. The construction of began around 1269 a.C. .. in the 10th year of the reign of Ramses. Their engineers used similar process ... the construction of graves in the Valley of the Kings. All colossal sculptures were carved ... by a set of people working together ... built all these pieces colossal. And we know ... by representations the tomb of Rekhmire ... showing the workshops of the temples, the sculptors worked ... with statues of proportions huge, three-dimensional ... appear and carving the face, shoulders, arms ... the body and legs. And all this huge community effort ... they created a work of art with perfect proportions. they created a work of art with perfect proportions.... are the largest and already carved in Egypt. Inside a complex Templar was cut ... within a colossal rock. Only the first lobby has more eight majestic statues of the pharaoh. Besides them, there are a number other quarters. In the second hall, a shrine and lower chambers that can ... have served as deposits for sacred offerings. Every facet of the temple was designed to send a clear message ... to all who entered. Ramses the Great was a god among men. Ramses II appears not only worshiping the gods ... but also worshiping deified his own image. So we Pharaoh Ramses II Ramses II worshiping God. And all this happened throughout his life. The heart of the temple is your sanctuary ... lying 60m inside the mountain. Inside are four statues the most powerful gods of Egypt: Ptah, the creator god, Amon, the supreme god ... Ramses the living god and Ra-Harakhty, the sun god. Twice a year, on February 22 and October ... the rays of the rising sun reach busts of three gods ... associated with it, Rameses, Amon-Ra and Harakhty. Some Egyptologists attribute significance of these dates ... as Pharaoh's birthday and his coronation. Others, attribute to mere chance. This is very normal. If you look in your home, anywhere ... the sun hits certain place twice a year. This is very natural. Beside the great temple is another, built ... in honor of the beloved Queen Ramses, Nefertari. Pharaoh could have any woman he wanted, but his heart belonged only to her. Nefertari is absolutely beautiful in their representations. She must have been really stunning and actually ... no inscriptions say she was a woman ... by whom the north wind blew. At the outside of the her temple, there are six statues. Four of Ramesses and two of Nefertari, each with a height of 10m. This is the oldest Egyptian temple in which the statues of Queen ... are as high as those of the King, which demonstrates the high prestige of it. As is deified Ramses in his temple ... Nefertari also is in your own temple. Nefertari, in fact, it was shown as the goddess Hathor. She became a deity, equal to her husband. During the reign of Ramses the Great The Abu-Simbel temples in ... rose like stately reminders for travelers from the north ... that a powerful empire amounted to just over the horizon. That empire built in nearly two millenniums ... would spend a thousand years following declining. In a few centuries after the death Ramses the Great in 1212 a.c. .. New Empire had fallen, victim of the same circumstances ... which had destroyed previous: Leaders increasingly weak ... and economic depression. Through the centuries, strong attacks of foreign conquerors ... Nubians, Libyans, Assyrians, Persians and by Alexander the Great and the Greeks ... took Egypt. Finally, the suicide of legendary Cleopatra VII ... Octavian and the legions of Rome invaded their land ... and that was the end of ancient Egypt. Through the centuries, the temples were buried by the sands of the desert ... lost in history as the civilization that built them. But in our time, they were reborn and again stand ... to proclaim power and ingenuity ... the first world empire. The Egyptians built foundations of engineering. It was they who invented engineering. Without the help of computers or cranes, Egyptian engineers have created ... monumental masterpieces. Witnesses not only ... sophisticated understanding of their of architectural principles ... but also their ability gather in large quantities ... of men and materials to execute it. The Egyptians built in much larger ... than all others for millennia. They must have had an immense confidence in themselves ... and capacity building. But the imposing structures left Egyptians are the result ... much more than granite, limestone and workers. They represent the unrivaled genius, technology unmatched ... and the beginning of the eternal struggle of mankind to build a bridge ... between the human and the divine.
