 

                        They're coming - Hello? - Hello Mr. Ambassador It's an honor to welcome you And a very happy birthday Thank you I've often said to my wife that I must show her Budapest as long as we are still alive and well He's been promising that for 50 years How nice that you've kept the name I knew Mr. Szabo well I'm afraid that was before my time I spent many hours in this restaurant as a young man Hopefully not waiting for the food... And here are your beef rolls Please play the song You know, the famous one It's just like it was Hans! - Doctor - Yes Make way That song, it's a curse! Although it was written for love For her, sixty years ago Thank you Every good restaurant needs a piano The "Gundel" has a Gypsy band American tourists think a Hungarian Restaurant must have Gypsy violins But if fiddling becomes more important than goulash, you start neglecting the kitchen The porkolt Gundel serves these days has the zoo elephants holding their trunks The carp in the aquarium would rather drown than smell it You should have stayed with your music So you could have saved on a pianist Shit! Hello? Andras Aradi... I'm here to audition You're an hour late We already have a pianist Let him audition, Laszlo Please, let him audition. For me Thanks - Can I get you anything else? - No... thanks very much Perhaps the gentleman at the piano could play "Komm Zigan" When I hear you play, I regret I stopped singing You used to sing? I actually trained But after two years, I realized I wasn't good enough for the concert hall I'm not good enough for the concert hall either But you play I'll play "Komm Zigan" whenever it's requested I'll get you coffee A piano should be nice and shiny But not a suit Sorry, it's the only one I have I could start saving for a new one I can't wait that long I'll buy you one If your music makes you rich, you can pay me back - Here - Thank you. Variation No. 1? Have you noticed? Our new pianist has fallen under your spell, too What do you mean, "too"? Who else has fallen for me? I can think of a few... Variation No. 2... One who's so enthralled... he'd like it best If you always bathed in his tub I like things just the way they are Come, scrub my back Is that my back? I can't help it, it's the soap... It's so slippery For the German. Table 7 You know what he calls our Magyar roulade? "Beef roll." Him again? You're a blessing for business He eats his 'beef roll' here every day because you bring them Then let him have them before they get cold Look, the new small format camera from Leica The newest innovation from Germany See, the film is only 35mm wide and fits in this little cartridge The most amazing thing is the split-image rangefinder Right now I see two of you, Miss llona Now the images are moving toward each other When there's only one image, you're in focus Good German craftsmanship Your beef roll is getting cold Angels don't get older, but they have birthdays all the same So they can sip champagne All the best to you on your birthday, my angel How beautiful! Because every day with you is like getting flowers To llona! To llona! To Miss llona! Thank you! I don't really have anything, just a little melody It's not quite finished yet, but it's just for you Hands off the piano! I only wanted to serenade Miss lloan, too Our customers can do as they like... except enter the kitchen, or touch the piano The melody is so touching Is it really your own? Yes You actually wrote it yourself? Yes, Mr. Szabo Then you must play it every evening No royalties! Miss llona, forgive me... Wieck. Hans-Eberhard Wieck This is my last night in Budapest I wouldn't ask, but for a strange coincidence Today is my birthday, too! Since fate binds us to each other I wonder if I might photograph you - Of coures - Here by the piano? Goodbye, Mr. Wieck, a safe journey home Goodbye - Which way are you headed? - To the Hotel Duna Then we'll keep you company a bit Mr. Aradi, your piece is wonderful Do you have a title for it? Yes, it's called "Gloomy Sunday" What do you think? A little melancholy, but pretty We should record it With the title gold on red on the label Miss llona, Would you be my wife? What, right now? Come with me to Berlin It's the most exciting place on Earth Germany has awoken And it's time you went off to sleep I've started my own company I'm going to export German craftsmanship all over the world I'll create the biggest import-export company in Germany... just for you I'm sorry I laughed Miss llona, I love you Please... marry me No I go this way... Good night! Good night, sleep well Good night. And thank you Good night He wrote you a lovely song I told you he'd fallen for you And I for him, a bit Don't worry about me I've always said everyone must be free to decide I'll just keep walking. That will make it easier for you to decide It's a strange song As if someone were saying something you don't want to hear But deep inside you know it's the truth I have to go now Herr wieck! Herr Wieck! Heartache is a terrible thing. I know You must try and think of the good things in life Our Magyar roulade, for instance! The beef roll you love so much! Do you want to know the recipe? You cut a nice tender fillet into thin slices then you melt butter in the pan Just as the butter starts to release its aroma, add a garlic clove But whole! So the butter gets just a mild touch of garlic Then add the fillets, and saute Do you remember the filling? Ham... Good Hungarian ham and cheese, sliced very thin And then, when you cut a slice from the roulade... Your tongue is tantalized by three separate tastes They are so different, and go so well together... that with the next bite, you'll be sure and have all three on the fork Ham and cheese. It was good Budapest-Berlin Express ready for departure form Track 1 That'll be the right one Laszlo... Don't say anything. Come on You, and your beef rolls have given me back my life I'll never forget it Saving someone else from drowning was the best thing that could have happened to me last night I'll get you back for that An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth A blind and toothless restaurateur would be pretty useless The same goes for import-exporters! You're right Survival of the fittest That's not what I meant. Darwin's animal theories don't have to apply to us Animals behave like animals, people behave like people Or at least, they should We'll meet again Don't tell llona I jumped into the Danube Sleep well? Good morning I borrowed some sugar - I thought you'd like some in your coffee - Yes The portfolio is from my conservatory professor It was a parting gift "It's a poor pupil who doesn't overtake his master" He was convinced that one day I would be a famous composer He was wrong You might still be, one day Play for me Only if you'll sing for me I only sing when I'm alone I'm not alone now Just look at this! Look how thick the peel is They'll cook up mealy, only good for mashing Well then, mush them! So, what's it going to be? I'm not paying 20 Filler a pound for mealy potatoes! Why don't you open up I'll be there in a minute You go ahead I want to be here if you're going to be talking about me We have to talk Why not? - It won't help - What would then? I don't know I've known llona for four years, and I'm slowly realizing... Everybody would like it all something for the body, something for the soul Something that fills you up, something that makes you hungry And llona takes just that A Laszlo, and an Andras I'd still rather have a part of llona than on llona at all What about the potatoes? They're from Vienna They came for a concert They were talking about making a record of the violin solo So? Ah! Vienna Bring them coffee and schnapps I'll do the rest When llona brings thoes gentlemen coffee, play your song Nice suit There you are - Your health, gentlemen - Cheers Budapest... That's Budapest... Would you care for anything else? Tell me... what is that music? Goes straight to the heart, doesn't it? Our house pianist composed it himself Really! Does the tune have a name? It's called "Gloomy Sunday" I take it you're closed on Sundays? No, we're never closed I'm Mr. Novak, director of the Lindstroem Record Company We'd be honored if you and the composer would join us later for a glass of champagne With pleasure The fact remains: The composer and the composition are unknown We'll have to give the radio directors something so the record gets played That could be interpreted as bribery It's only bribery if it's not enough One could slip something to someone at the radio station But it would have to be deducted from the composer's royalties Half of it Pardon? Half from him It's an investment, and investments should be split honestly Fair enough, that's do-able Royalties are 6%% % I'm sorry, I didn't quite hear you You said... 12%% %? Twelve percent!? Franz Lehar earns that much! But with an operetta, you have to pay singers, and the orchestra If one of those 70 people gets a toothache, you'd have to postpone the recording Enough already... eight Ten Nine And it has to say on the label that "Gloomy Sunday" originated here - That can be done - If it fits! Mr. Schwitz! So we're agreed Allow me to go get a very special bottle of champagne vintage 1928 Permission granted Mr. Torresz left his portfolio, with a note "The song was lovely Thanks very much, I must go now" Thanks are fine, paying is better He was acting so oddly this evening Excuse me, Mr. Szabo You're so worldly, I'm just a pianist... Don't say things like "just" A lot of artists have an impresario, who gets 10%% % for their trouble Would you be my manager, for 10%% %? Please Mr. Aradi, I can't charge a fee for helping a friend, now can I? Thank you, Mr. Szabo Thank you Good morning Were you out celebrating with the music publishers? Just a liqueur More than one, it looks like Are you here to pick us up? I wanted to ask you something You and llona The record will be made in Vienna Would you like to come along? You and llona? Vienna! Laszlo, let's go to Vienna! - That's impossible - Why? - We'd have to close the restaurant - Only for a day! You could do itjust once, Mr. Szabo Please... Let's go to Vienna The three of us, For me No, I won't close the restaurant Not even for a day There'd have to be a real reason If the great Flood were coming, maybe - That's Mr. Torresz! - He hanged himself The song was lovely Thanks very much, I must go now The radio! Our song is on the radio! Come listen. Please! That was "Gloomy Sunday". Written and performed by Andras Aradi The song got its start in 'Restaurant Szabo' in Budapest Did you hear that? Yes Thanks So strange! Nothing can stop it now My song is travelling the world And sending home royalties Yet I feel I can't let go of it yet As if it still has something to tell me: A message But on matter how hard I try, I don't understand it Don't try too hard, or you'll never get it What does that mean? It's like trying to sing a high "C" If you push too hard, you can't reach it I understand that about as well as I understand the song's message You don't want to understand But you said I shouldn't try to understand it Just give up. A musician's bailiwick is the heart, not the head I'll take emotions over business any time You Jews are always thinking about haggling True. The question remains whether others are too refined to haggle or simply too stupid Stop arguing! We're supposed to be celebrating Easy for you, you've got all you need You have two men, and each of us only half a woman Right Whose fault is it that we argue... And suffer! And suffer! It's about time that was said! Exactly What are they doing out so late? They should be in bed Hungary withdrew from the League of Nations today, for Hitler If that's a reason to celebrate, there's worse to come Them and their German masters They marched right into Austria Right into Vienna itself You were in Vienna, with llona for three whole days Yes You're fired Your songs are too sad for me anyway I'll hire a gypsy band, Aradi, if we're going to sleep together in one bed let's drop the "Mister" Laszlo! Andras Andras... Andras. You're re-hired The poor gypsies llona, we're very sorry No, it's my fault You're both unhappy And I am too I can't do this anymore We must split up Both of us. I mean... all of us No, no We're... we're not unhappy - Only sometimes - llona... We need you and you need us Both of us. Something for Miss llona - From abroa - For me? - Goodbye - Goodbye It's from Mr. Wieck He also sends regards to his dear friend Laszlo What eles does he have to say? "Forgive the delay with the photograph But it turned out beautifully When I look at it, I'm reminded of Budapest... ...and especially of you. Can you remember what I said to you?" What did he say? That's personal "I'm very busy. My company is expanding with the German Reich Germany is becoming 'Greater Germany' for we are a people without enough room of our own" Other people don't have room, but they don't start wars I think he means it in an economic sense Mr. Szabo, telephone I think he means just what he wrote Szabo here Yes, "Gloomy Sunday" was composed here It's played every evening At 8 o'clock? Our pleasure That was the boss's son from Mendel Industries He reserved a table for six people Mendel? Mendel! Steel and textiles They employ at least 30,000 people And they have three villas in Budapest alone So what about us, the three of us? I'll give you both another chance There are a lot more than six Dear Heaven. Pull up another table And we need more chairs Good evening, Mr. Mendel Mr. Szabo. My sister It's an honor to welcome you Please come in Would you write something, Professor Tajtelbaum? You'll be the first mathematician on our wall. I can praise the restaurant, but how could you put pork on the menu? No one's forcing you to eat it, Uncle. He's even open on the Sabbath. I never close, Prof. Tajtelbaum, not on the Sabbath or on Sundays, not on christmas or passover Can I get you anything else? Perhaps a kosher pear brandy? On the house, of course. Yes, thank you. Was everything satisfactory, Mr. Mendel? I must tell you how happy I am that my sister insisted we come here Your braised pike was sheer poetry Maybe even better than Gundel's My brother is right about the pike Don't be angry, Mr. Szabo, but the best thing this eveing was "Gloomy Sunday" It has the perfect balance of bitter and sweet - Does the song have Iyrics? - Not yet It doesn't need words, it already speaks to me Would he play it again? Who could refuse a request from such perfect lips? - Mr. Aradi? - Yes Excuse me for bothering you, You are the composer of "Gloomy Sunday"? Yes May we take your picture? Of course It's a very successful piece of music on the five suicides in Budapest in the last three days? All five had your song playing All young people from good families, with their future ahead of them Can you explain why, after hearing your song they didn't want to live anymore? Can you explain it? Say something! - What's wrong, llona? - What's keeping Audras? He'll get here But he's never late In the back on the left, please Maybe he's read about the suicides Five deaths, it will upset him But there are two sides to every coin What? The telephone rang all morning We've been fully booked since eleven What if he hurts himself? We must go look for him We can't... the wine delivery Is more important, of course! Where on the left? Llona! Llona! These are rare wines! Not even Gundel can boast this assortment! Wines like that don't come cheap Take your break later We'll take one later, too Andras! Andras! Do you know where Andras is? - I think at the bridge - Thanks llona! Did you find him? Llona! Are you going all the way to Vienna? Over there! - Cursed song! - Andras, no I'll never write music again Five people dead, and it's all my fault It would be better if I were gone Don't think like that You didn't ask them to do it You just made their farewell more pleasant But why do people want to die listening to my song? Maybe it has something to do with the message you talked about Have you figured out what the song is trying to say? No. You see, you still have something left to do in this world If anyone jumps, then all three of us It's still too cold What's that? It stops the heart But I don't need it anymore Still, it's safer with me We need to get going Our German brothers-in-arms continue their victorious advance into Western Europe Fuhrer and Chancellor of the Reich, Adolf Hitler has praised his troops And here's another man with reason to celebrate the composer of "Gloomy Sunday", a wildly successful recording But its magical tones have driven... ...157 people to suicide in the last The tune's gruesome march across Europe continues And the song has conquered the world New York's smart set has taken to driving their Studebakers... ...into the Hudson, with a portable phonograph on the front seat "Gloomy Sunday" may be bringing death to many But it's brought wealth to one its composer - Hans! - Laszlo Here in Budapest! It would be better if you called me 'Colonel' in public Pardon me? Colonel, sir Not when we're alone, of course Colonel is for the others I have been looking forward to your beef roll Nobody in Germany makes them like you Sit down. I'll put the order in I know on one is allowed in your sacred kitchen butjust once I must see how my beef roll is made I see the gigolo's still here Laszlo, what is it? Good evening, Miss llona Good evening, Mr. Wieck He's now called 'Colonel' You've changed, Colonel You haven't not a bit I've gotten married, by the way My wife, and my little daughter So sweet Both of them You don't seem to have supply problems - Are you in Budapest on business? - You could say so - Import-export? - I currently represent a some what larger organization Don't believe everything you hear about us. I'm with the 1st Cavalry We're horsemen, sports comrades, you know? Things look different when you're high in the saddle The roulade Welcome back to Budapest, Hans One advantage of the delays in achieving final victory What about candles? The candles have all been seized And what do the ones cost that were missed during the requisitioning? Double the price I'm going to get flowers. Hopefully they haven't all been requisitioned You're composing again What is that? The Iyrics for "Gloomy Sunday" Still searching for the message? "With a last breath I return to my home, safe in the land of the shadows I roam" Promise me that you won't do it Not so long as I have you I'll order for you, Lieutenant Colonel, sir Colonel We'll have two of the meat roll, and a bottle of good red After our meal, We'd like to hear the song, you know which one - Professor, you're leaving already? - Yes, good night Is this a Jewish restaruant? It's certainly a good one A death's-head on their caps, of all things With good reason It means they're open for business Well, every business has some good apples and some bad apples The death's-head becomes them both You should talk! You Christians with your cross: An execution instrument, and a gruesome one! Why are they whispering? That one's a Jew, I can smell it Forget the Final Solution tonight Tonight's about beef roll and nobody makes them like that man Thank you, no, I've had enough Good night Watch your step, Lieutenant Colonel... Now that's a song with heart and soul! Only the Germans have it, it comes from the north, not creeping in from the south We Germans can abandon ourselves to life, because we have heart and soul - The Jew pig attacked me - Get a grip on yourself! I'll make mincemeat out of the filthy Jew! I'll make mincemeat out of all Hungarian Jews With paprika sauce! Take the Lt. Col. To the hotel Taxi! I'm sorry, Laszlo Eichbaum's obsessed I'm really sorry - Thanks, Hans - Don't mention it Remember 'an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth' Shouldn't I come along? Hans, please, make sure llona gets home Let's go, drive! Thank you for helping Laszlo Of course That's what friends are for It's been a long time Since we walked along here together And, have you created Germany's largest import-export company? Not yet. You wouldn't listen back then I won't be able to do it until you've answered my prayers, you know that And your wife? I thought German honor meant being faithful So much for the deaths-heads But you saw, there are good and bad Maybe A drop of something medicinal would speed the healing Thank you for bringing me home Andras... ...she would have gone home with you today What I've told you is in strict confidence I'm doing it for Laszlo, and for you llona, I love my wife... I would never... you know with another woman But with you, It's not another woman It's an angel I'm not quite sure, but I don't think angels do things like that Are you sure? We heavenly ones tend to be rather conservative Is it very painful? Not enough to make us close the restaurant I heard the Germans want to kill all the Jews in Hungary I've heard something like that, too But I know it, Laszlo For a fact. Hans told me My father was Jewish, and my mother which makes me a Jew But who thinks about it? If my parents had been Iroquois, then I'd be an Iroquois And how do they plan to do it? There are over half a million of us in Hungary Our German brothers-in-arms will be thorough Their attitude is 'apres nous le deluge' Yes, and we know that, so we can say "Gentlemen, apres votre deluge, nous" For argument's sake, say I put the restaurant in your name You make me manager, and apply for a permit which says I'm part of the war effort. Hans will help I'll transfer everything to your name and then nobody coa take it And after they've all conquered themselves to death, we go to the notary and put it all back Exactly after the Flood... Apres le deluge, nous' Good afternoon My name is llona Varnai I have an appointment with Mr. Wieck The Colonel is in a meeting Please take a seat Excuse me, isn't this the Mendel villa? It's now the center for property assessment We provide whatever the Reich needs - Have you finished the last pages? - Yes Miss Varnai! So nice of you to come visit me Good afternoon I'll be with you right away The most important thing now is to get your relatives out of the camps That wouldn't be necessary if you hadn't taken us to camps Cigarette? By decree of the Reich, all Budapest Jews must be interned in labor camps But I can guarantee you and your family safe passage to a neutral country Your offer of 600,000 dollars in nothing The factories alone are worth at least 60 million I don't think that demand is in the best interests of your family I'm sorry, but I'll have call Lt. Col. Eichbaum and inform him... that we were unable to reach agreement. It's up to him from there Under these circumstances, Let's sign it then I'm sorry you had to wait A glass of champagne? No, I have a favor to ask Anything for you I Made a very lucrative deal today Would you get us a permit? Won't you call me Hans? Hans, could you get us a permit making Laszlo necessary to the war effort? And what do I get in return? Ajoke! Of course you'll have the permit Come in Colonel, your urgent letter to the Reichsfuhrer SS Yes? I typed it exactly as you wrote it Good If I may call your attention to the fact that the Duden dictionary says there is no hyphen in endorsement obligations - Frau Haberle... - Yes, Colonel, sir? It is I, and not Duden, who will decide how and what you write Heil Hitler, Lolonel Andras. What are you doing here? And what about you? You were inside for 57 minutes! I guess two men isn't enough for you Is one Aryan better than two Hungarians? Hans... Colonel, sir I must thank you for all you've done Yes, yes, enough of that We'd like the beef roll Our Magyar roulade, is an outstanding dish But perhaps you should try something else For example, Istvan has outdone himself with a superb Danbe catfish Very kind, but we'd like the beef roll Colonel, it pains me deeply I'm afraid roulade is unavailable today That's terrible - how will I look now? Then bring us the best you have But no fish At your service - And that's enough of "at your service"! - Not at your service, then - Hans is acting strangely today - Do you know who the other one is? I think it's Colonel Schnefke He does the same thing in Bohemia and Moravia that Hans does in Hungary They're colleagues, so to speak Eichbaum's only thinking about his Final Solution But why destroy what you can sell? He just doesn't understand So he can't find out about our little "transactions" He won't. He has his hands full trying to win his war We can make our preparations for the future undisturbed But we must be careful not to stray too far outside the law Of course. But the beauty and vibrancy of the law lies in its flexible boundaries To your health, Colonel Colonel, sir - That's quite a woman - She certainly is - We still have the transportation problem - I mightjust have an idea What's entering Germany in large quantity at the moment? Coffins! Our wives arrange good burial After all, dear cousin has given his life for Fatherland and Fuhrer May I get the gentlemen anything else? Szabo, you tell ajoke for a change Even a Jewish joke... we're very tolerant There was this commandant in a concentration camp, named Muller And he had a glass eye When the mood struck him, Commandant Muller would call over an inmate ...to prove to him the quality of German craftsmanship: If the prisoner could tell him which of his eyes was fake, he was spared If the prisoner guessed wrong, he'd be shot Jakob Korngold took a look at the commandant, and said 'Why, my Commandant, the left one is the glass eye 'How did you figure it out so quickly? ' Whereupon Jakob Korngold said 'You see, my Commandant, 'it's the one that favors me with a kindly look' Good joke, Szabo Very good joke And now, you, play the famous song for us! The song, please Didn't you hear me? What are you waiting for? Watch what happens now Play Gloomy Sunday, not long until evening... In dark shadows, my loneliness grieving Eyes closed, and before me you go, But you sleep, and I wait for morrow Play it for me I see figures, and send you this plea Tell the angels to leave room for me Gloomy Sunday So many Sundays, alone in the shadows, I will go now with night, wherever it goes Eyes glisten as candles burn bright Weep not, friends, my burden is light With a last breath I return to my home, safe in the land of the shadows I roam Gloomy Sunday He used my gun llona! That wasn't what I wanted I'm so sorry Is there anything I can do to help? Yes, Hans, there is Can you get me papers to leave Hungary? Of course But you don't have to leave I fear I do I'm finally coming to believe you Germans are in deadly earnest As long as I'm here, nothing will happen to you Don't worry But... we could save a few of your people My people? I mean Jews Of coures, getting them out will cost... jewelry, silver, gold Even currency But only Swiss francs and Dollars No genguis and No Reichsmarks to cover expenses I see We can keep people from going up a chimney Germans have such lovely expressions blitzkrieg, going up a chimney So vivid You picture someone being shoved in at the bottom and floating out at the top, with wings on their back Is that supposed to be funny? Angels coming out the chimney? What's happening here is hell! You're right. And the devils are increasig in number every day $1000 per person is the minimum that's really not much If a person is 27 when they leave the country, say, and lives to be 70 Then they've had 43 years, or 516 months more of life So it works out to less than $2 a month for their lives - What rent alone costs - We can forget it Then it won't cost your friends anything, except their lives Bring anyone who's interested to my villa But not berfore 6 p.m. And not more than three at one time Make sure they cover up the yellow star And you don't need to worry Your name is at the very top of a list of people who will not be subjected to special treatment unless I expressly approve it "Special treatment" another one of those words I think I just understood the message of "Gloomy Sunday" That Andras was always seeking? I think the song says every person has his dignity We get hurt. We get insulted And we can stand it as long as we can hang on to a last shred of dignity But if one bucket of shred of dignity perhaps it's better to depart this world To leave... but with dignity Who says you have to go? You can stay, and fight for happiness There are those who can Andras wasn't one of them Mrs. Tajtemlbaum I'm sorry, excuse me, Colonel Take them for a new start in Switzerland I'm so grateful to you Calm yourself. Perhaps you can return the favor someday I'd like to When times change, don't forget to mention who saved you I will. I won't forget Please forgive me, But I have an uncle, Professor Moishe Tajtelbaum. He was a member of the Jewish Council I'm sure he'd be just as grateful as I am Then send him to me He was rounded up yesterday I'll see what I can do Radio London, Radio London German troops In Poland are withdrawing along the Vistula The Red Army is advancing toward Hungary Mr. Szabo! A money order for you, Mr. Szabo, and for Miss llona Who would be sending us money? The Lindstroem Record Company There's also a letter Thank you Dear Miss Varnai, dear Mr. Szabo, Our dear Mr. Andras Aradi... ...left instructions that, after his death, royalties from "Gloomy Sunday"... ...be paid to you in equal shares Enclosed please find the current semi-annual statement, Yours sincerely I'm beginning to like it too much Laszlo! I want to take all my baths in your tub! I better check whether they've delivered the potatoes Where does Laszlo Szabo live? Third floor Where is Laszlo Szabo? He's not here I don't know where he is Open up! Laszlo Szabo? Wait! It's a mistake! I'm the owner here He's my manager Mr. Szabo has a special permit, he's needed Not anymore Go! Esteemed Lieutenant Colonel Eichbaum, dear comrade, I here by give approval for special treatment for the following persons Hochhauser, Aaron Jeinmann, Samuel Mosche, Rea Friedlander, David... Schweiger, Aviva and Kaplan, Simon Heil Hitler, Lolonel. Strike Kaplan, he paid Should I re-type it? Yes Then perhaps... if you don't mind... What? I'm supposed to type just what you wrote but a few things disagree with the rules in the Duden Duden, Duden, Duden Forget the Duden! It will be our downfall! Heil Hitler! Of course Wonderful Germany must finally be Duden-free Duden-free and "Juden"- free No rules, no Jews. No Jews! Hurry up Hans! Hans! Hans! They've taken Laszlo! Just now What's going on? - You have to help him! - Calm down I'll help, don't worry, I'll help him You must help him, for me Of course I'll help him Naturally I'll help. Anything for you It's alright - Lieutenant Colonel, Sir - Colonel - How are you? - Fine, thank you. Have a seat I don't want to keep you Has the Auschwitz transport left yet? No, they're loading right now I need a special dispensation Someone was put on the list by mistake Who is it? Heil Hitler Tajtelbaum Professor Tajtelbaum? Come with me, hurry I'm risking my life getting you out I'll take us to safety Dear llona, I now hear clearly what "Gloomy Sunday" is saying I won't wait for the last bucket of shit I will do as Andras did I never really learned to fight, and anyway, it's too late Don't be sad that it didn't turn out as we'd hoped Hang on now: 'apres le deluge, tu! ' Grass is growing over you already You can't imagine how very much I miss you I miss you both so much Laszlo is dead, just like you He doesn't even have a grave His friend Wieck sent him up the chimney He only saved those who could help him after the war He planned it well He's a businessman Damn him to hell! I have to go and set the tables I'm re-opening the restaurant today, so wish me luck Wish us luck 'Apres le deluge, nous' Hans-Eberhard Wieck is dead The corporate executive died this evening in Budapest of heart failure All Germany mourns the passing of a great man During the second world war, he saved more than 1000 Budapest Jews After the war, he built Germany's largest Import-export firm from scratch Gloomy Sunday was played that he liked song He wished to celebrate his 80th birthday here, scene of such fond memories All the best to you on your birthday, Mama
