 

                        ''Drama, lies, guns and hostages'' ''Fraud, treachery! Everywhere it's the same...'' ''cities, villages, all days, all nights'' ''Everyone is weary'' ''Dialogues, meetings... waste of time'' ''Growing population, everywhere'' ''Tears, embrace, love, bullets...'' ''corpses, mess, bloodbath'' ''Shrouds, burials, pyres, fire...'' ''all that remains is ash'' ''Death of husband, death of children...'' ''pall of gloom, bemoan forever'' ''Murder, rape, oppressing the innocents...'' ''torture, betrayal... dirt everywhere'' ''Streets, police, the system, hell...'' ''monopoly, whims and fancies'' ''Prison, fracas, bloody conspiracy...'' ''vengeance in the belly...'' ''accusation, bail, warrant, war'' ''Nightmares of life, a broken heart'' ''For days, weeks, months and years...'' ''a huge web of failure'' ''Blood is up, question God...'' ''why me?'' ''When blood flows in silence...'' ''the question arises... why?'' ''Lawyer, trial, dates, arguments...'' ''confusion, exaggeration, break free'' Shekhar Verma? What's up, Colonel? You took that flight lt's good to see you, Colonel Move, everyone Sit lt's been years. You still look the same, years after l met you last You haven't changed Drink? You really haven't changed, Colonel. - Didn't feel the need ln fact... you haven't changed either l didn't feel the need either Where were you? Wandering How is Khanna? Dead Where? - Punjab border And Pady... Parmanand? Kashmir. Machine gun Damn. God bless them. They were good men Yes, Colonel? - Sometimes l think... God will never forgive us for what we did l have stopped thinking about it That's right l guess l think you made a mistake by saving my life You'd rather have let me die Come on. l did the right thing To be honest, l did it for myself, not for you For the sake of friendship. Remember the first principle of friendship? Be true to it, or don't extend your hand Your words Baby, come on Why did you call me? What's the hurry, Colonel? We'll talk in the morning. Now tell me... These flat-nosed jerks! They start early dawn Welcome to Bangkok, Colonel Excuse me, l'll be right back Bro, no touching the girls No touching the girls You like to fight, eh? - Okay Outside l thought you'd kill them No, Colonel. l have stopped killing. l'm out of the business of killing What...? Bodyguard? Me ? Are you in your senses? l can't even take care of a corpse No big deal. All you got to do is... hold a gun and stay with that family Of late, it's fashion for the rich Yes, but Shekhar you know that l hate crowds Then be the silent type, Colonel. That's your style But one thing l trust What? You will certainly save a corpse. lt's under no danger Take it easy Have you been watching the news? lt's all going downhill What's going on in this city? lt all seems to be going out of control Labour problems, raw materials getting expensive... and reducing bank balances. We have to find another option What about the London deal? - The response is good We'll have to go to London soon Chang, where are your boys? Gentleman... Colonel Suryaveer Singh, the best Hello! How do you do? - Mr Ravi. His lawyer, Chang Have a chat lmpressive. Very impressive, Mr Singh Nepal, East Pakistan, Sri Lanka Great record. So why do you want to work for a paltry sum? l got a problem, sir. - What? l booze. - Even we do How much do you drink? - As much as my body takes Does it affect work? My hands tremble. Sometimes the body doesn't respond to the mind ln which case, if someone tries to kidnap me, what will you do? Either he dies or me. Nothing will happen to you l like that. This drinking problem... you don't need to tell my wife Thank you, sir Welcome, Mr Singh Nikasha My wife Meet Suryaveer Singh, our new bodyguard So glad to finally meet you. - How do you do, ma'am? Ravi spoke a lot about you. Besides, it's always heartening to see an lndian Would you like something? - Scotch double. Straight up Sure Among the two, who do l stay with? Didn't Ravi tell you? Oh my God! You're gonna be in for a big surprise Anamika Our life, our daughter... our most prized possession. Anamika Anamika, this is Mr Suryaveer Singh. Your new bodyguard Hello Surya Suryaveer Singh is a long name l will stick to Surya. ls that okay? l'm sorry, she can be quite a brat sometimes lf you don't mind... - No, no problem l'll go and get my stuff Thanks What? - Why didn't you tell me? What? What happened? - That l have to stay with a kid No need to get worked up Crowd and kids... you know how l feel. - Oh come on, Colonel How'd a kid harm you? Hardcore terrorists didn't scare you. You are afraid of a little kid? Relax lt's gonna be fine. l promise. - Yeah l love you This is your room, with detached bathroom This cabinet has all the things you need lf you need something, please tell me. - Thank you. You also have a music system and a TV You can watch Discovery and Cartoon Network. After work, that is l'm so sorry about that Please take some rest. Dinner is served at nine Thank you. - Say good night to Surya Good night, Surya. See you tomorrow Good night. - Good night So how was your first meeting with Surya? He's very boring and always tensed How come? - Can't you tell from his face... that he is sad, worried and tensed, Mummy? Mom, why is he sad? l don't know. But l'll ask him and tell you. Okay? You are too mature for your age Good night, Mom. - Good night Love you, Mom Good night, bear. Surya Bear Okay. l think you should step out Hello, Mrs Sharma. - Hello, Anamika Nice to see you back in school. - Thank you, Mrs Sharma Meet my bodyguard Mr Surya Hello sir, how are you? - How do you do, ma'am? Well Anamika, you'll get late for class Bodyguard? May l say something if you don't mind, sir? Sure. - l'm confident, you're honest at work But l pity you guys for the work you do l wish there was no need for such a job in this world l pity too. However, not everyone's destiny is the same ln these times, it's rather imperative for people like me to be born Excuse me Hi. What's up? - Hey, man lndian? Yo brother Yo brother... from different mother Over here, brother. You are lndian, right? What do l look like? - Looks hardly matter. l'm lndian too But do l look like one? Hang on You have no idea, after a long time l've met someone who understands Hindi Kripa Shankar is the name, sir. - Excuse me Wait You can call me Krispi. - Crisp? Was born in lndia, but exported to Bangkok in childhood You have no idea how happy l am to meet you Anyway, tell me if l can help you Help? - Right. There's nothing here... that l can't fetch you. You are from lndia, l must serve you Serve? - Yes, sir. Food, booze... heroin, opium... anything. Just about anything Here, you don't need a racket to play table tennis. Hope you follow? Any famous liquor, masseuse, girls... girls? Mind-blowing! Who do you want? American? Chinese? European? You won't get a paradise like this! Bangkok is sexy, sir Thank you. - Try my album, just once Home delivery... Thank you Good God! Where are you from, Surya? - lndia Come on ! l know you are from lndia. Do you think l'm stupid? lt's like Zhao saying he's from Thailand What's wrong with your hand? l was hurt when l was a kid. - Don't lie. That's not a minor bruise Surya, why are you always tensed and sad? Anamika, if you keep quiet, l'll be able to drive carefully Can't you chat and drive? Bosco, my ex-bodyguard, would talk to me while driving Just try once Just between you and me. Bosco was a great friend of mine Friends? Surya, l say, friends? Okay, l don't care But we'll certainly be friends... when you are in a good mood, and when that tensed face... Surya, learn to relax, man Now listen carefully. l'm your bodyguard, just bodyguard Not a friend to chat with you l'm paid only to protect you. You understand? No need to cry. - l'm not crying You are right, you are only my bodyguard. As of now, my chauffeur Now get in and drive You are only my bodyguard Now get in and drive Yes? May l come in? l wanted to talk to you Please. - No, l'm fine, thank you Actually... it's about Anamika Please go ahead. - What l'm trying to say is... please don't mind her words She is stubborn, pampered... our love has spoilt her But she's not in the wrong, it's our fault Our money, our success... has snatched her childhood away Ever since the rise in kidnappings, we've confined her to the four walls She has not one friend of her age As friends, she has her parents, servants, security guard... it's unfair l have noticed that she is trying to look for a friend in you And as her mother, l request you if you could... she is a child You know how they are...? - No, l don't know how they are l just don't know how they are Just one reason l came here for You needed a bodyguard and l'm good at that lf Anamika also needs a friend, then you need to look elsewhere l don't know how to make friends, nor do l intend to l'm sorry. - No. l'm sorry l was a fool to look for a friend in a bodyguard for my daughter But you know what? You are right You are just a bodyguard. And l have no doubt that... you will do your job perfectly Sorry for wasting your time. Good night, Mr Singh And have a fantastic evening God will never forgive us for what we did l can't even take care of a corpse You'd rather have let me die Come on Come on No Colonel, not now What's up, Colonel? Did l disturb you? Not quite Why does it happen that when we trust someone... he slips out of your hands like sand? Like... this bullet You forget, Colonel? lt's nothing new. lt always happens with us Some bullets took the swines, while some went wasted. Remember? Yes, l remember l believe, every bullet has a fate of its own When it finds its target, it takes off. Hope you understand? Maybe l'm always right, Colonel. l hope you are all right? l'm okay... l'm okay l'm sorry, l disturbed you Get some sleep, go to bed Hi Bebon. - Hi Zhao, mom and dad have gone out for dinner Help me out with these questions please What is the capital of USA? London Who is the Prime Minister of lndia? - lndia Shah Rukh Khan. - Yes! Thank you, Zhao. Good night Good evening and welcome to Crime Beat The police have arrested four men connected with car thefts Twenty-one cars have been recovered totalling an estimated 600,000 USD ln another news, a six-year old boy was kidnapped Son of a wealthy businessman, was returning home... when six gunmen burst onto the scene You swim well. - No good. l always come third We're going to London for a few days. l hope everything will be fine Don't worry, it's only a matter of a few days Thank you. - Have a good trip Papa! - Be a good girl And don't go anywhere without Surya l trust, you'll take good care of her. - l will. lt's my job Thank you Bye. - Bye baby ''For you, l breathe'' ''l love you'' ''For you...'' ''l'd even die'' Surya, l have to win. Coaching begins now? You are scared of gunshots, l noticed it the other day You dived late. - l'm scared of gunshots l don't know why. - Okay. Now you repeat after me l'm not scared of gunshots. - l'm not scared of gunshots Loud. - l'm not scared of gunshots Louder. - l'm not scared of gunshots Louder! - l'm not scared of gunshots! All right. Are you ready? - Ready! Oh my God! - What? Can you believe it? The king of Patiala had hundred wives Papa has only one. Why? Ancient times. Those times were different, not like the present Poor king Why? - Surya, imagine... the plight of my father, if he had hundred wives like mummy No, seriously. Multiply mummy by hundred Life would've been hell for everyone in the house You smiled When? - lt's the first time l saw you smile l didn't smile Really? So you don't know how to smile No, l don't Bet? l'll make you laugh Okay. - Let's see who smiles first You smiled! See, l won Good night, bear. Surya Bear ''For you, l breathe'' ''l love you'' ''For you...'' ''l'd even die'' How many times will you fall? - Sorry, sir You? - Yes... me l hope you don't have a gun. - What are you doing here? Home delivery. Stuff. - What stuff? Supplies. You can check, sir. This is my card Come home sometimes. Give me a chance to serve you, sir You will get anyone, by name... lncense, candles... Listen... - Yes sir? l want an air gun ''You are a celestial beauty...'' ''a marvel from the Maker'' ''There's no one quite like you...'' ''you have no idea'' No, l don't want. - lf you want to win the competition... you will have to eat vegetables. - Okay Do l stand a chance, Surya? Why not? Just remember one thing Winners do what losers don't. Focus Do you have a girlfriend? What? - Tell me. You have or not? Study History Exactly. Your history That is ancient history now Don't forget Winners do things that losers don't do. Focus And... - l'm not scared of gunshots Good girl. Go, get them C'mon, get them Good morning, sir. - Good morning, ma'am Glad to see you here. What are her chances? She's going to win. l wish her parents were here lt doesn't matter. She has with her the person she needs right now Today you are mother and father to her. She will certainly win Excuse me And the winner is Anamika Surya, we did it! l won We did it! l won That's my girl! - l won ! l'm so proud of you. - Surya trained me l knew you could do it. My daughter, after all Go and change, l'll be right there Thank you. You helped her... - You are welcome She's an amazing child Excuse me Gorgeous Hey kid? - Were you in the army with Surya? Was he very brave? - You really wanna know about Colonel So listen, sweetheart There cannot be a brave and honest army officer like him His stature, his discipline... he made us all men A great leader of men Once on a mission... We thought we had accomplished our mission But suddenly the enemy attacked ln trying to save my life, the colonel killed... two children, by mistake The enemy took advantage of the situation and took him hostage He was tortured for three days But the colonel... endured everything ln his shoes... l'd have died long ago You know, Anamika, you are a very lucky girl You have the colonel for a friend That's your colonel Didn't you go to save him? lf not for him, l wouldn't be here today He took two hits on his shoulders Still, he came just to rescue me He killed all five of them l'm indebted to him My life is meant for you, friend. - Thank you, Shekhar What's this? - To you, from your girlfriend He will protect you, the way you protect me Well deserved Surya, would it hurt if l cut off my finger? What? - l can't learn piano without a finger l want to swim. l don't want to learn piano Come on. You are much tougher than that But l don't want to learn piano Do you know how to belch? - What? Belch... burp. Do you know? Like this? - Louder Let me show you Surya, l'm talking about pianos, and you are giving me lessons in burping That's because... when you go to the piano class... burp loudly before the teacher. And do it often He'll throw you out in a few days time. That simple That's my girl Remember what l told you? - Yes Hello. - How long? One hour Anamika, please stop that He will protect you, the way you protect me That's the girl! - Anamika! Run lnspector, what can you tell us about the kidnapping? Well, this time it is Mr Ravi Rathore, the famous businessman from lndia... whose daughter has been kidnapped. - This is the fifth kidnapping... from an lndian family. What can you tell us about that? We're trying. The kidnappers are very smart But they will not get very far. We'll catch them soon. Excuse me Ravi, l know it's your daughter. We'll get Anamika back soon Everything will be all right, trust me Welcome back Welcome back. - Good morning, sir Bullet, from your shoulder Second, back Third, near the heart So what's the score, colonel? Anamika? Mr Ravi Rathore? - Over there, sir Mr Rathore... my friend l'm Harry, from the anti-kidnapping Branch Your daughter has been kidnapped... l can understand l have a daughter too. lf she gets a little out of sight... We can handle it, thank you. We don't need your help Here's a letter from the office of the District Attorney. You can read it You can even talk to him Mr Rathore, this is my case l'll bring your daughter back, but l need your help to nab the kidnapper Hello? D'you love your daughter? - Yes Yes, we love her very much. - That's what l thought Good. Everything will be fine then Now listen, and listen good What do you want? Just one million USD Do you think your little angel is worth a million? She is priceless. Anamika is priceless Lovely. That's what l wanted to know And yes, get this little thing clear ln this sacred relationship between you and me... the police has no room. Right? Else... else, it'll be a crowd. l hate crowds ls that loud and clear? - Yes, that's clear My brother Brother, l hope my million is ready? Yes, it's ready Delicious Now listen very carefully Your daughter is happy and healthy lf our plan succeeds... she will come back home smiling, in one piece However, if there is any deviation... l hope you understand, my brother? Yes, l get it. Don't worry, there won't be any problems Now that's my boy Listen to me carefully. The money should be divided... into two duffle bags. Half-million each Then get it to your Range Rover. Zhao will drive Tell him to drive with the bags straight to Democracy Circle He will drive around the circle two times Ravi, you will take your shirt off and wave... for me to identify you There's a phone booth on the left hand side The phone will ring... pick it up And follow the instructions There's a map in the booth. Read And go straight to the location. Got it? You will find a white car with an open boot Put the bags inside And return to your car Don't look behind Don't damn look back You are under arrest! Fire! No! No! l'm a professional! lf you keep your word, l'll keep mine l promise Stand by Hello? - Well Mr Rathore... don't you understand Hindi? Are you deaf? Or are you just playing dumb? l told you not to bring the cops l told you, l warned you, brother You killed my brother! You think l'm gonna ever forget that? Ever? Not again Forget your little angel Hello, sir? l'm Anamika's mother, sir lt wasn't our mistake, sir. We didn't call the police l swear by Anamika! Please give us another chance Please don't harm, Anamika Sorry, lady Sorry l should've dealt with you earlier Talk to your baby Talk to your baby. - Sir... hello? Hello, Mama? Mama, l'm scared Nothing will happen to you. Papa will fix things Now you can kiss your little angel goodbye l'm sorry. l'm sorry for your daughter l tried my best, but... l'm sorry, l... - You bastard! Get out! Get out of my house Get out of my house, all of you Just get out of my house What happened? Colonel... Anamika... What's wrong, Shekhar? The money didn't get to them. l don't know what went wrong The kidnapper's brother was killed. ln retaliation... they have killed Anamika, Colonel ''For you, l breathe'' ''l love you so dearly'' l'm so sorry ''l live for you...'' Sergeant Kelly. Bangkok police. - Shekhar here How's he doing? Not good l'm sorry for your loss. lt must be hard on you l know you're still not very well, but formalities have to be completed Was any of these men there at the time? No, none of them. - Do you recall anything else? No Keep it. lf you happen to recall anything more... you'll find my details in there. Call me anytime Thank you, sir l'll see them off, Colonel Excuse me, sir... excuse me! - Yes? l have something to ask you Please don't mind... but can the Colonel go back home? Are you going to charge him with something? ls he a suspect? Of course not. - Thank you What's going on, Colonel? Take me to the place where the shootout took place No way, Colonel. The state you're in right now... Shekhar... please? You're okay, sir? lt all happened because of me. - What? They knew that they could do this very easily Too slow, Shekhar. l was just too slow l'm getting rusty. How could l be so self-centered? That child gave me... a new lease of life. She taught me the way to live And what did l give her in return... death? l pushed her into the jaws of death l'd have asked you to leave me alone. l can be of no help to anyone l've killed her... pushed her into the jaws of death C'mon... what had to happen is over. No point holding yourself guilty You killed half a dozen of them just like that Anyone else in your shoes wouldn't have been able to do even that Will you take a friend's advise? Go back to lndia for a few days lf you stay here, you'll be haunted by her memories Only for a few days, Colonel Let things cool down, you can return then. l promise, Colonel... we'll hunt down each one responsible for this and kill them l'm going away to London for a few days too So what do you say, Colonel? Do l get you a ticket to lndia? Maybe you're right Thank you, Shekhar Colonel... it's time for my flight You're going to be okay, Colonel? - Yeah You're sure? - Yes Take care, Colonel. Good luck Sir, you are the last passenger. Please board the flight Okay, thank you. - Welcome, sir ''For you, l breathe...'' ''l love you so dearly'' ''My life is yours...'' ''l could lay down my life for you'' ''You mean the world to me...'' ''you mean my very desires to me...'' ''for you are the one my heart beats for...'' ''for you... for you'' ''Do not ever go away...'' ''do not ever be separated from me'' ''l will die...'' ''without you'' ''For you, l breathe...'' ''l love you so dearly'' ''My life is yours...'' ''l could lay down my life for you'' lt's not easy to forget her And why her...? What was her fault? She was so innocent... full of life... She mustn't even have understood what's happening to her Now that she's gone... it's as if everything's over l can't sleep all night Only nightmares How they must have tortured her l'm shattered, Surya. l can't be strong anymore l sometimes think of committing suicide l can't live without her l'll finish everybody No one will survive l'll finish all of them Promise me, you will do it l promise Who's that...? Who's run out of meeting-time already? Come tomorrow You, sir...? Didn't you go away to lndia? How did you get in here? - From outside l'll be staying here a few days. Where is your room? This one sir... l mean, you can rest here. l'll go to the kitchen Okay, come here. Sit down l want this man's file. The whole file Sir, don't you think it's God's look-out to punish those evil? You're right lt's God's look-out to punish those evil. However... it's my job to introduce them to God Sir... The name is Lee Kap. A scoundrel of the first order Mixed parentage. His mother's from Bangkok. His father's from Delhi His father's surname was Kapoor. His mother was probably Lee That explains his name. He collects extortion money for an underworld don Fights and brawls, that's his profession Thugs are usually addicted to liquor and women. But Lee has another habit He buys himself a shave at the Great Saloon every evening Great Saloon But still keep a close watch. - Yes, sir And Kelly, make sure no one gets a hint of our little arrangement Yes sir. - When do you think this will stop? Not until each and every one of those bastards is dead ACP Harry alias Harvinder Singh Very corrupt and dangerous man Born in lndia, brought up in Bangkok Joined the police force at the age of eighteen... and he rose in rank very rapidly Very, very dangerous. He is well connected Once we found a corpse and 200,000 dollars in the boot of his car He escaped because of his connections Can you believe it? He got away What else do you know about him? - At sharp ten... he leaves with his bodyguards Four flunkies follow them in a car, armed And? His convoy takes the same route everyday Halts at only one place They only stop at one place At this little turn, on the south side He has sandwich everyday He won't feel hungry from tomorrow Goodbye, Harry Yes sir? - l need your help Of course, colonel. Anytime What's this? Starting a war? You may think so Time up, sir By God, l'm dead scared Relax They are coming l'll be there Can you hear me? Can you hear me? Where are you? Look lt's the same flyover under which your deal was ruined Who are you? l won't spare you Count your days. You don't know me l know you too well. Now listen carefully See this? Know what it is? lt's a fuse. Smalltime terrorists use it to make bombs And this... it's a plastic vial Smalltime smugglers use it to smuggle goods They stuff this vial in through their backside... and smuggle drugs This vial l'm going to shove it inside your backside The only difference is... instead of drugs, it carries C4 plastic explosive. A bomb What enmity do you have with me, brother? See this? A timer. A stopwatch too lts receiver will be inside your backside Let me set the time Five minutes. - Daddy... what do you want? Say something l don't understand what you are saying What l'm saying? What l'm saying is that there is a bomb in your backside lf you don't talk in five minutes, it's going to blow your ass off! Don't move Else, all that you have down there will spread across the sky What had happened? What went wrong? Name your price l give you 15 seconds. - l didn't do anything l have all the time in the world, you got only 3 minutes Okay! l was there l just went to arrest the kidnapper But the guns went off l only stole the money l know nothing. - For just a million dollar... you killed an innocent girl. You just got two and half seconds There was only half million dollars Half...? Half a million? lt was one million ! Divided into two bags, half each Where's the rest? Where's the rest of the money? - Believe me... l found money in only one bag. The other bag was full of papers l swear by my daughter... - Where's the rest of the money? Speak Chang! Chang put the money in the car The swine! Ravi's lawyer! He stole half the money Ravi's lawyer, Chang. - Sir, please let me go For God's sake! l leave you to God. - You are leaving me alone, sir You are late. You wasted time. We call this... Festival of Lights ''CHANG'S HOUSE'' Mr Ravi Rathore. PERSONAL ACCOUN Hello, Ravi How are you? Surya? What brings you here? ls something wrong? What's the matter? - That's what l want to know Stay out! l want to ask Nikasha some questions lf you try to move, l'll kill you. Understand? Are you in your senses? He's Anamika's father, goddammit! Lower the gun. Please Surya Lower the gun My eyes are opened now. Sit Now tell me Are you in this? Or was it only Ravi's plan? Plan? What plan? What plan are you talking about? - Plan of kidnapping Anamika Of Anamika's death ! - Anamika's death? Shut up! Just shut up Shut up! The ransom money was stolen. How much? Only half million Only half a million dollars lt's a lie. - lt's true. l wish it were a lie Look Read it. See it with your own eyes And ask him where the half-million dollars came from in his account? Nikasha, please listen Surya, you know nothing You have no idea how hard it is to run a family To give them happiness everyday, is not that easy What'd you know? You live alone, you have no one But you have me... so why this? Tell me, it's not true Please Ravi Please baby, tell me it's not true Please Ravi, tell me. Tell me, it's not true Please Ravi! Tell me, it's not true l beg you, Ravi! Tell me it's not true l'll explain He plotted with his lawyer Chang to kidnap Anamika Anamika was insured The company paid the entire claim. He deposited half of it in his account But he forgot that... in the business of dishonesty, one always incurs losses The daughter paid with her life for her father's misdeed lt's not true. Nikasha, please listen to me. l had no choice The business your father left me was deep in debt. lt only got worse lt only got worse. Chang promised that Anamika will be back in two days The plan would work. l had no idea... Please forgive me Enough, Ravi. - Please forgive me l did this for you, l did this for Anamika, for our family You had made a promise to me. l hope you will keep it Where will l find Chang? - Sadhu Padep, Chong Colone Farm He has hired a bodyguard Every slug has its own fate This one didn't stand by me lt might help you Get back! Sit down Sit! Sit down ! Please! Please don't do anything Tell me. Who do you work for? l don't know anything Who is it? C'mon, quick! Tell me everything His name is Wong He is Chang's brother He plans and he operates. We do nothing Brother? Chang's brother? Call him Call him! Give it to me Whoever you are, listen very carefully Go on Your family is with me Want to talk to them? Hear your brother first Hear that? Not dead. Just hit in the leg lf you don't listen to me, l'll kill him Family is very important in life Right! l completely agree with you Chang is my brother. What price would you take for him? Present yourself. l'll release Chang before you l give you a better deal, Colonel Your family, in return for mine My family? l don't understand That girl. - Who? Anamika Baby Anamika Anamika is dead! She is dead l told you, l'm a businessman l have kept her alive... for this day l... l... how do l believe you? l want proof What proof? Proof? Ask her what she calls her teddy bear Hey little angel, what do you call your teddy bear? The name of the bear is Surya Bear Remember, l will give you her life... for your life... and the life of my brother See you at the docks Hello? - Nikasha? Surya here Anamika is alive. - What did you say? lt's true. Anamika is alive l don't have time to talk Get to the docks, quick. l'll tell you everything Okay. - And make it fast Surya here, Shekhar. Anamika is alive What...? You're sure about that? - Yes. She is alive Shekhar, l need your help You swore not to kill. l'm sorry, you will have to break it for your friend Anything for you, colonel. You know that Where do we meet? lt's going to be all right lt's going to be fine Okay l'm going there. Don't let him go till the girl is with me lf he tries something, shoot. - Okay,sir The moment Anamika comes to you... just get lost. - But you...? There's a bag in the boot with the money he stole Got it, sir Surya, l knew you'd come And why not, dear? l was late once. Never again ! l love you l love you, Surya uncle. l was so scared l thought l'd never meet Surya Bear again Don't say that. Your Surya Bear is here. Everything will be fine now Look... your mummy Go on, l'll be right there. - But where are you going? l got to finish something l left incomplete Please come soon. l love you, Surya uncle Out! Move Move! A coward born is a coward dead l always hated weak people Life's a bitch ! After him... only you have seen me, colonel l forgot. Someone else knows me Wanna meet him? Don't be amazed lf anyone knows you, it's me Only me Don't stare at me. l had given you a ticket to lndia and set you free Your obstinacy brought you back. As usual. You are incorrigible See what all l have to do now. - Why Shekhar? Why all this? Dough. For dough What did the army give you and me? l killed people whom l had nothing to do with But army orders, so it was just Was all that we did just, colonel? When we accomplished missions, they loaded us with medals When we failed, they court martialled us lf something rules in this world, it's money Money. - Why did you call me to Bangkok? Puppet Mere puppet l needed a puppet. None better than you What were you doing with your life anyway? So l thought, if not for yourself, your life would be of some use to me You owed your life to me anyway You were indebted to me Honestly, l never imagined you'd reach this far But a soldier found his way out finally However, the road ends here. You are at the dead end Any last wishes, colonel? - Why did you help me reach this far? Simple, Colonel The people you killed were dispensable. They had to die And as l told you, l've stopped killing l needed a shooter. l wouldn't have found a better one... free of cost at that Why did you come back? You think l like doing this? We've spent so much time together. You taught me so much But l can't help it, colonel. Business And business rules say, no mercy No matter if he's your best friend lt's just business, colonel. Just business Nothing personal Remember you asked me...? if God would forgive us for what we did No. Never So, see you in hell Kill him What have you done, colonel? There are still few things about me, that no one knows You were right l taught you so much Let's see if you remember everything You remember nothing. You forgot everything ''15 years later'' Fantastic, timing. Where's your bodyguard?
