 

                        India's biggest magician can you please come on stage to help me? Today my assisstant has not come sangeeta I'm not feeling well. Can you bring that coat I'm feeling cold since morning I think I'm having fever I was stuck in traffic can you help me in lifting my head? Thanks for putting my head on my body do you want me to show any magic trick? Tell me why you come late? Because of rain all roads are blocked you will not tell me, I have to teach you a lesson I'm not lying dont put fire fire has crossed red mark everything will be fine her whole face could have burned this is 3rd accident in a month why nobody can hear her voice? You also have seen her? Please dont copy bobo take her to room I have to ask you a personal question adoption board advised you that you both should married is there any problem between you? This lift is not working write since 25 years what happen? When I opened it... why you come here? Misha was 6 years old and I was 11 years old how she died? May be in an accident I only remember her face and voice I know that flat has so many bad memories of you what will be our future if you dont forget your past? That drum was closed how that lizard went inside? If I'm ok then why I come here? My students has gone far from me problem is related to my past and you are only witness of that where are you now? I'm in daddy's study room I'm reading a book which book? Where is your daddy? In his college lab it was written in book that devil's number is 666 it means direct way to go hell daddy told you not to go in this lift I want to be stay with you keep quiet and look at this I'm scared is this hell? Yes who lives here? Bad people of whole world? Every building has its own hell society's all bad people come here is there any good step mom? Life is fine? What you both were doing in that spoiled lift? Press all buttons together then bobo bring that life to hell where? Its below ground floor every building has its own hell I have a gift I dont know how to handle both of you I tell you what is in your heart be quick actually I was going down and you pressed button before me its a strange lift fom where you have come? From downstairs from under land for indians south africa is a hell bobo dont disturb them taxi stand is near to children's school I'm sure diana is a witch I'm angry on daddy I want to hit him very hard and throw her out of car I'm praying we will not meet her again daddy is not thinking good how it happened? Diana is ready to take care of both of you now I can also concentrate on my research its a church rule to wear cross it means you dont like diana aunty witch kills a children to make herself alive she has come to kill us until I'm here I will not let her do this lets inform daddy until he will not see from his eyes he will not believe we have to arrange proofs in the beginning she was coming for morning and evening so that their voice will not go outside everyday she try to win our heart devil is day king and witch is night queen witch is very beautiful good looking face with long hairs old people said a witch's powers are in her hairs and a devil's powers are in his neck witch do all her work from thats why she never stayed night time at house and I want to capture her after that night witch was alert there was cat and mouse fight started among us we have to find who is cat and who is mouse do good acting of keeping quiet when last I showed you treet your eyes moved sometimes he speaks like idiot who is lisa? I got a big clue next day I want to go back home fast I want to know more about lisa dutt from grand father she become lizard and attacked me witch lizard fell on his head, he is scared now you will become a big magician its good that lizard fell you killed 3rd floor grand father you have come from hell I will not say from where he found this book? He has bought this from old book shop I'm hipnotised, living in other world its a foolish book he has not forget his mother thats why he is making different stories not to accept you I know you will win his heart soon now daily they tell me it was my misunderstanding and diana attacked on me now I also have a doubt on me dad has given us his wedding surprise its diana's birthday that comes once in 4 years will you play hide and seek? You have to find us you both hide we are playing hide and seek, dont make noise can I go inside? Misha open the door misha open the door misha is inside he is right you belong to our world help me you have forgotten, I have come to remind you witch's life is in her hairs I will come back again do you believe in witches? My grand mother said witch is night's queen my grand father said if you sleep with her then you cannot sleep with anyone whatever I saw in hipnosised you were watching it with your 11 years old mind I told you, you are making stories not to accept her how diana gone from this world? Otherwise why you hide this from me? Why you did not tell me? You are misunderstanding me? You have become mad what are you doing this? Lets start a new life tell me a reason to marry you please dont do this again this is my 1st and last presentation in this I will make a living person into ghost who dare to come here? What is your name? What do you do? I love you I'm your biggest fan I need your help are you ready to become ghost? You cannot make me ghost. You can make me witch how you are feeling? I'm feeling good you want to become human being? You made a mistake you did not turn my feet I have come for you what you were doing at computer? I got an offer for flat I will come to flat directly how you come here? By lift? From where? I call her here she can play any musical instrument she is your big fan she wants to buy our flat you are a detective she knows how much you are attached to this house you can come here anytime are you ready to pay? Are you kidding? Market value is 2 crores i have searched on google she got life ban for a murder of a kid she teach in a school talk to me think about it india first time and she wants to buy a flat she is just a school teacher according to you she has alive again you mean all lisa dutt are witches why you went to that doctor? He has make you mad neither you will forget her nor we will be happy say sorry to her you have come to india 1st time, why? I did not know anything about you one day I saw you in my dream whatever I saw on youtube I was scared because of you my 4 years affair got break up you can buy flat sorry is not enough I thought you are saying for sorry one I do, other you do next week I have a party, will you come? Tamna got an accident she was standing in the balcony, ralling broke automatically I think someone wants to kill tamna someone pushed me lisa was behind me I think you were right and I was wrong according to it your all life is in danger until I reach hospital there must be a nurse in her room if she wake up tell her I will pick zuben it has one more day, in few minutes we will see lunar eclipse live it was a great thing for our seniors witch has to kill a child to make her keep alive you know its my birthday today I know you know everything come and give your last exam dont worry nobody will not know anything you fooled us that you love me I love you I love you zuben more I'm not killing him. Its a sacrifice we have to kill our loved ones you forget everything you have lost in this world I'm not like you you think by pressing lift keys and you will come here this is devil's temple. Nobody can come here lisa come to meet you it was not a co incidence she showed you lisa dreams for whole world lisa will be zuben's killer I have a power like you but I dont have heart like you it took me 20 years to alive again you can do anything you are very special you have come here it means you belong to us there a 2 types of ghosts in this world good ghosts and bad ghosts witch's powers are in her hair if a good person cut her hair then she can die you want to become ghost again ghost power is in his neck you ignored devil powers are you ok? Now you believed I live here? This is not canada, its india canada dont have lizards, india has lizards I drink one beer, I'm not drunk I dont remember anything we have good and bad person inside us it depends on us whom we believe why you ignored me? I thought you are witch
