 

                        HELL. - Goodbye Mama, I'm going. - Take care of yourself too. Peter. I love Peter. Do not worry, when have the dollars back to you. 20 YEARS LATER ... Take your bags and can continue to close. - Garcia. - Garcia. WELCOME TO STATES UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Take your bags and can continue, Welcome back to Mexico. Do not come back. Next! - Fernandez. - Fernandez. For my mother I'm Mexican BLESSED DEATH By destination am American, I'm the golden race, I'm Mexican American. I understand English, will also speak Castilian, I'm the golden race, I'm Mexican American. Hey spends the money. He spends the money. - Take, take. - God damn it. And the clock. ROUTE 2010. Zacatenas to Minnesota, Tijuna New York, Two countries are my land, defend with honor. two languages ??and two countries, Two cultures I have. I'm proud of my luck, For God so commands. Shit. CROSSING F.C. BEWARE THE TRAIN. Hi mom. How are you? Mama. I'm Benjamin. Have not you recognize me? Benjamin! Son of a bitch! Okay, thank you mother. What else was missing the Mexican food was his mother. I was sick of Hot Dogs and cheeseburgeres. Did not bring the crumbs or? 20 years on the other side and no dollar you sent. I've thought you were dead. You are right mother. But if you saw how bad it was. Have you heard from your father? Get out on the streets to see via the pass, but ... The U.S. is so great, Mom. Like father, like son. Hey, where is Peter? I will say it was working in San Miguel? No. His brother was killed like a dog! He went astray. And one day just taking shots. No, the mother killed? But ... tell me. Why not fucking warned!? Ah! Now follows that you interested in your little brother? But in 20 years you even sent a postcard. At least to know where you were! My brother! If you had fulfilled its promise, be with us today. My brother. SAINT MICHAEL ARCHANGEL. What happened girl? How so young, day our daily bread. Remember that we are at war, ok? In war? Oh my God. Look for these boys, young. Once they start, these idiots but will be so likewise that these two will end up Let Benja, the cops are coming. Hurry, let's go. Come on mama, let's go. We have nothing to do here. Tyre. GARCIA 3. Hello ma'am. - Yes, young man? - I wanted to ask you. Do not know what happened to a tire repair shop next door? - Ah, the Garcias. - Yes About eight years ago they moved for the new highway, I think at 18 km. Oh right next to a junkyard. And you know it yet and this Rogaciano Garcia? Not that I know. It is everything so different, is not it? Many questions, you are here? Owner does not recognize me? I'm Benjamin Garcia. Benny. I was a friend of his son, Bob. Must be why your his face looked familiar. And where is the Bob? I have just come across and would love to see him. My son buried it's been about six years. Ah, lady. Sorry, that God has in its Santa Gloria. Beto And do not want to know how killed my boy? It was his brother The Devil that killed him. My brother? So who will walk through here, walk very carefully, man. Thank you Owner warning, and ... and ... I will repeat Actually, I'm sorry. You should not feel more than I do. I'm sorry. Cochiloco, you do not know who is again in San Miguel. How can I help you? What is it, sir, how are you? Sorry, Mr., but ... "In english." What is happening Godfather to you. I no longer remember your Affiliate favorite? By the Santa eyes, an affiliate! First is that You a looks primed, "Immigrant" a bastard. Look who's talking, Godfather. Look huh!, Just because I am very happy to see you. If you did not blow the same when you were a kid, right? Let me get some brejas to celebrate. "CRISIS AND VIOLENCE Devastate the PARENTS " Not to be knowing and further the other side. I do not even have idea of ??what this country has become. It could be worse than Godfather when I left. Imagine that, crisis, unemployment, Violence, However, the year and is now were around 13,000 dead. Almost, almost like a Civil War, all against all. In the curse fell. Yeah, but tell you something. How are you treated the gringos? 20 years is a long time, is not it? If filled with the money? That ... Godfather, not tell you. Godfather, what you know my brother? I heard so many things ... The last that I heard, he left his mother's ranch. You no longer want to be poor. He came to San Miguel, joined with people ... very, very evil and heavy. Drug dealers, addicts, murderers. Everyone knew him as The Devil. - No kidding? - Yes And became a famous Fear gave that up. Until one day appeared dead. 60 shots hit him say 60 shots!? - And who killed him. - It could have been anyone. In this town will kill you, not more than by anything. Who could I tell you something. His brother lived with a when the woman killed. It's called Guadalupe Soliz And it works at the Salon Mexico. The fucking place dirty and bad reputation in the area Red San Miguel. A prostitute? SALON MEXICO. Hello, He came alone or with someone? I just want a "Beer" - Only one "beer"? - Oh, yes. Gloria! Do not play, bring Here for you a beer. Sit. Hello crazy. No one will invite me? On another day pussycat. But I would ask you which by chance you know the lady Guadalupe Soliz. Guadalupe? She is busy, but the call just now. What was a boy, what's the problem? Sit pretty. Sit down to drink something? I'm busy just now. But who expect I know better serve you. No, not the case. I am Benjamin Garcia. Benny'm Peter's brother. I do not know if he told you something from me. So you're the famous Benny. Only now I became aware of happened to my brother and ... I wonder if you you can tell me something. Already imagine how he fell you this news. I also would like to talk, but now I can not. You know, I'll give you my address. And one thing I do not usually do. If you want to ... What are you doing with my wife stupid. Rest assured my love, he is a relative. - I was going away is not it? - Yes Hey brother. Ai is the address. Take care of yourself. And oh man, that I help you? I'm looking for Mrs. Lupita, she lives here, no? It is not now Moreover Cum you need to know that do not receive customers at home. Relax boy, I'm not customer I'm Benjamin Garcia. - The brother of her. - Uncle Benny. U.S.? I am also Benjamin, I am your nephew! Enter Uncle, do not get there. It can take between. Do not want anything to drink? No boy, I better expect that his mother arrives. Sit there Uncle, do not be al standing, sit down. Listen only, It is true that got rich there "Gringolandia"? My father said that was filling with money. More or less. Better tell me about you. How was the relationship between you and your father? - Remember him? - How not. If my father was the most badass this damn town. They say it was the most fucked But with women even more weapons. And to say he killed more than 20 jerks. Well, better tell you. How old are you? I? 16 That this ... stop being a liar. Actually I'm 14, I I do not know if I see older. Oh 'yeah. " What year in school? Better not talk that uncle in I'm not really good for the school. Ever wonder what will be when you grow up? Of course, what else? a badass like my father. Hi mom. Have you seen who's here? Uncle Benny, the brother of my father. the United States. Yes we already know. Are you all right? Yes my namesake and I were talking a few things. Right. You did your job? Sure mom, Uncle Benny helped me to do, is not it, uncle? Oh boy, who believes his grandmother, eh? Walk goes to sleep it's late. We see his uncle, My hour has arrived. Soon we find ourselves. And drink some brejas. - Ok namesake, I'm staying here. - Ok then. How can my brother may have finished well that way. Oh, when I met her brother, he was an asshole done. But despite all always loved a lot. You know who killed him? No idea. His brother had many enemies. It could have been anyone. And as my nephew This absorbed. When Peter died, he was very small. But it made him the hero, In fact I am terrified who live here wants to follow in his footsteps. And you think that the What you do is a good example for my nephew? What are you talking about, idiot. Do not fret Lupita, but you think work bitch in a brothel can be good for a ... You know something Benjamin Garcia? You're worse than his brother, asshole. - Lupita ... It goes right where you came from, ie, the whorehouse! Vai Sorry Lupita I did not want ... Go to shoeing his mother, idiot! Damn "brother," looks just like you just ... man. Drug dealer, murderer Pimp, and killed worst a mongrel dog. What happened to you? Brother. But I swear the little virgin of Guadalupe. I'll ... I'll try help his wife that can lead to the front of your child. For some reason that things happen, brother. I swear that Deuzinho Holy is a witness This time it'll fail. And I end up going in very same hell if you do not. Hey affiliate. And Lupe? Remains that hot? What was the Godfather, is talking the widow of my brother. Oh, affiliate, a thing is one thing and another thing is another thing. Now that is true, she is hot. Ah, but as my brother and my nephew look. God forbid is equal to it. Large Benjamin Garcia Because you've got was crying, comrade. Look at the Fat Matta. How are you? How will my friend. I am no longer the Fat My friend Benny Matta Now I know the whole race The Cochiloco as How will Mr. Rogaciano. Cochiloco looks only the little man As for business, what works? Here as well pissed off, that returning to the city and do not compliment the fuck your best friend! Where have you seen such ingratitude! I swear I was gonna hello Gordo but I'm here with My Godfather ... I am no longer the Fat Matta, friend Benny. Now I'm The Cochiloco, clear? Okay, but if ... Benny fucking asshole. Like when we were kids, man. You're blood brothers, you can fill my bag well when you want, man. Here, these two are my colleagues The Huasteco Meritito of Tampico And this one is a fagot catchy as fuck is a doll. Yes, we've had a taste to know us. You see her here sons of bitches one, Let me be clear to you. This guy, seeing as they are, dwarf and primed, is a brother! If one of you put your hand, you will understand me! - How about that, it was clear!? - As water Cochiloco. Heck no, sorry By yesterday, my friend. It has been passed. And then, let's drink to celebrate? Why, Cochiloco, I'm working here with my Godfather. Do not even think about leaving him in the hand. He'll give you permission, is not Rogaciano will leave him in the suit? No. - Let's go. - Let me change clothes. Damn mobsters. There goes precious. Cochi Thank you! Me and Benny in known each other since kids is not the same guy? Ever since then he wanted to go the other hand "Imigrantinho". We made friendships that he advocated big guy an idiot, the "ears". What happened to this guy? What happens to everyone. Those who do not have to the other side as you, If they put in business and screwed. That "White Girl" and Jesus they have in their Santa Gloria. Listen Cochi, tell me the truth. What happened to my brother? I mean just to take the head and stop thinking about it His brother worked for the Reyes as all of us here. Was badass same. Fucker same. But one day we were working for the city and shot dead. Sons of bitches. If it's any consolation, The run with interests these fucking, is not it? Thanks, man. Hey, did not come to Benny feel sadness. We came to party, and as mentioned ... Let's drink, in memory of crazy devil of a fellow law. - Cheers! - A real badass. Gloria bring another bottle, You know what filly? Give me that I take. I have a son to care for. See Benny, I present Mrs. Lupita Soliz. - She was the wife of his brother ... - Yes, yes, since we met. Missy and I, is not it? What a pleasure to see him "Cowboy." Even more in good company. What caused her to so that the case? Listen, now returned, what will make money? I wanted to do an English language school but as I see how are things. I think I'll end up returning to the other side. Do not be stupid Benny. Go back along with the Yankees to end bringing you the toes, fuck. Look. This country has a lot opportunities to have money, buddy. Or not? Look at this, the Holy Patron of pure gold. And let me tell you, if you need you can serve it ... Not Cochi, thank you but ... Hello? Sir, what happened? In half an hour we are there. Let monkeys that Mr. Reyes comrades in need. Benny. - Anything to give me a cry, buddy. Ok Cochi. - Hey Cochi, Cochi! - Write down the account, Camilo. Still bored Lupita me? And there? You'll want something else or goes straight to deal with the lady? No, neither, thank you. If you will not eat or fuck. Go fuck your mother so expensive. Just right. "Cowboy". It is affiliated, this shit every day is worse. Here we do not stop flies. Remember that before you go "Gringolandia" Would put up a garage? Why not leave the Godfather business? Because this fucking country, does not want and yes you can. By a miracle I did not have Reyes to sell this bodywork. So who are these Reyes put them up and down? They're criminals farmers we all know as Reyes (Kings) in the north. The head is the old Joseph A son of a bitch, directing all the murky business area and all around, Trafficking, kidnappings, prostitution. Smuggling and how fucking dirty you can imagine. But Comrade, is protected, from far, far above. - And the other? - Brother, Mr. Pancho. The mere badass San Francisco. What is the problem between the two? The thing is rotten when Joseph decided his son Jesus, would be the successor. The other Reyes, Pancho was pissed off. And declared war on his brother. And since then, waging a war by region seems to have no end. Oh, this movie is good. What movie shit affiliate. This war has made the narco more dead than the revolution, You should not have offered gig Cochiloco this friend is not it? Godfather that this would be the last thing I would do. Look affiliate. All I have in this life. It is this bodywork is yours. But it will not make the burrada follow in the footsteps of his brother. What was Godfather? Trust me. But since they said we are partners, and ... There is a way of ... borrow some money? TAKE CARE OF U.S.! SANTA MARIA. What is it? Why is the honor? No, here only sister, wanted smoking the peace pipe. They are very beautiful, thank you. - Between. - Thank you. That was when we went to Oxaca He said that on vacation. Disappeared for 13 days and when he had appeared received a shot in the shoulder and bleeding from foot to head. Since we could not even visit the Cathedral. And you married? Offered at each instant, but whenever the time came, he arranged a pretext. After all I do not doubted that he loved me. He did have good taste. Stop playing, why I see myself all over. But the truth is that when it was brand new I think it came to stop all traffic. Ah, nothing to see beautiful, if you still stops anything. Calm "Cowboy." I'm even more confused. What confused or anything. The same feels from here there, sit back and forth. What is it boy? I know where you been? - For al. - For al ... Not been drinking again is not it? Only a "Caguama" mother. You go straight to the bed and tomorrow you do not wake up to school, you will see that! You have a good mother understood the hint. Oh let them to continue where they were. - We see Uncle Benny. - Yes Good fun with my mother. What a dumb kid. Just 14 years, imagine when grow. To me it makes me shiver, that looks like my brother. They talk just like it. In fact you also seems a lot. You know what I was thinking just now when you kiss me? Hey, you know Lupita? I think it'll go away. Because it's getting late and ... - No, no, no, no, will not go away "Cowboy." I know what I'm talking about. Come. This guy is lucky. Oh my love. - Oh, it was good. - Oh yeah? You will see my love. I'll start working And I will care for your child. Thank you my devil. How come my cat, as my Devil? Oh sorry, my mistake. And where did you sleep last, comrade? I went to visit my mother and ... got there late, and I was there along with it. I know ... your mother. Yes and no, your mother ... I no longer suck the finger affiliate ... I have three women gentlemen, Living in same house, not fight, nor argue, already know what it is, The three love them too Ai is looking for you, his mother ..., man. Why are the cream and the can, What was mama? Oh Benny, I am a major problem. Big problem? What happened to my baby? The fucking his nephew did a pentelhada and is being held. Like so detainee? No kidding ... And soon they need to be with you and I can not go. You can fix this for me? Of course, my love, do not worry. But I have no money. Here I 3.000 I went forth and more than the 5.000 Camilo gave me. I think that's enough. Yes, yes, do not worry, I I'll take care of my nephew. Thank you. Favorzo need that if you leave soon find ourselves at home. Bianca is the one that moves Speaking is very little good. Mari smelling green eyes His tail is pure will. Damn bitch. And I have a black veins but this makes me mad. With 8.000 pesos think that will not give Mr. Garcia. Do you know who tried to steal this offender of his nephew? At the very same Mayor, His nephew is a repeat offender no other remedy consign it to the correctional Amaya is not so? There is no way to say it best, boss. Commander, I know it's serious lack of the boy. But there would otherwise to solve this? See, Mr. Garcia, It'll remember how it works things in Mexico. And more or less as will leave the big problem? Because you and understanding you just to return to Mexico I'll leave ... - 50 short stories. - 50,000 pesos!? Where will I get that amount? Your boy is already booked. If you do not get this money until 12, I have to do. That was Benny, what's the urgency? Cochi Yes, I'm stuck and a big big problem ... need some money. Hey gang!, All for the slut that gave birth, walk. Come on! What kind of problem? Deleting someone? No, I would never do that Cochi. My nephew is in prison. And I needed 50.000 to help my ... My sister in law. Do not tell me who walks giving her a deal. Damn Benny. I had heard this bedtime to press, but the coined face ... Do not think badly Cochi, is to help my nephew. Oh yeah ... do not fucking like Now follows that you is the sister of charity man. She is very hot, man! Do not be silly Cochi. It is something urgent that money and ... And you said that if I needed to work ... What would count on you and ... See Benny. The life of "drug." In fact gives very good money. But it is not easy this bitching. Needs of many balls, buddy. I have thought well Cochi, and indeed there is no other ... are seen as things outside al. So you're right. I'll introduce you to the boss. But I warn you eh, a Once inside buddy, There is no turning back. It was clear!? Oh yes, I thank you very, Cochi. Look. For now stay informed Material This is the same ship to the gringos. - No I have not ... - Come on man! Ouch! Cochinho! The grass is very good. This is the real treasure Green Mother Nature! - And that his fucking al! - Oh yes. Bennny Hey, you do not know with they are getting into the face. RINCOZINHO SKY. REYES FAMILY OF FIVE. We came to see the Boss. Rest assured Benny. The boss will not eat it. Just listen, my mouth shut. - Ok? - Ok The boss is full of money. This is one of their properties. He made a fortune in business. Because yours is yours. - Roosters fighting and cattle. - Oh yeah? Imagine, all early morning wake up Milking cows and give feed their cocks. I'm guessing you do not know enjoy how lucky you are. Estufe breast ...! Thus seen more badass. Pass me wait. I'll look it up and remember, mouth shut! Mr. .. Benjamin Garcia to serve you. Come in. Sit down, is at home. Thank you. So, you who are Peter's brother? Yes sir. The famous Devil. A good element, but too crazy and impulsive. They told me you lived long time in the United States. "Oh yes sir." So you agree with me. I always say that the gringos fucked with this country. That the Yankees cursed children whores, robbed us all. Compliance with these assholes presidents of shit we had. The only thing is to know kneel and lick their feet to come to that later take the bottom of their tails. According to them this is capitalism. Not realized that people like me. We have the form of tools you! good and beautiful. Oh father. Increasingly you speaks like a politician. The gringos are our best customers. Lives bored talking about them. His great son of a bitch! Who do you think is who knows more than me, huh? Not back to me disrespecting you jerk! Go away, send it to your fucking mother. Damn kid. But I got the blame for consent to it too. But sometimes and passes the line ... One thing I want you to know. Those who work with me are as part of my family. But in this business, there are rules and principles. That must be followed. If you do not want to end shot in the head. Got it? Yes, yes, yes sir. A, honesty. Two, full honor. And three, silence. Absolute silence, open your mouth too. It is a good way to take a gateway to hell. - Is that clear? - Yes sir, yes. And another thing was forgetting has to keep enough discretion. and do not walk around assuming how these suckers. it is known that are miles away. Look. My sons will Jesus be your boss. It is my only son and love with all my soul. If there's thing with it responds with its life, it is clear!? Yes, yes, yes sir. I'll forward it, to equip. Ai soon you will pay me. Just be careful Garcia. Be careful, this business gives a lot of money. But there are many temptations. If you're smart, will careful not to indulge with one of these crap we sell. Already said the new Pope. "Put garbage in the body, is living in mortal sin. " - Of course!? - Yeah, yes sir, yes. - May God bless you. - Thank you Sir. And that does not assure I'm going to disappoint. You're an asshole, son of a bitch! Be aware that the next Since putting his hand over I cut my son's your balls asshole. And you know I'm not talking figuratively twat. Oh my queen, the boy I lacked with respect Reyes is not a liar, Come here my love, come on. That his father will apologize. Oh, you damned old twat it is better to apologize with my son it will not see me asshole. - Sorry my son. - Yes father. There you saw your father Bread is a God. See, this here queen. I want to introduce you to Benjamin. The brother of the devil, and will work with us. Oh, happy young man. - Excuse Bosses. - License. Oh, thank you my love, are beautiful, the dress. Where did you go to work? In a farmer to want to take care of cattle. The old man is a good person. I even said some money. Have you got a killer with the Cochiloco not it? You know what? Take your money. What do think of Garcia? End up like his brother? Do not confuse beautiful. One thing is something and another is something else. You saw that I walked looking for work. And here there is something else. And that gives me very afraid because it already took me one. No, I promise you that we will save some money. We pay the debts, and soon the three together we are going to the U.S.. You will see. But swear that will not end equal to his brother. For Virgemzinha of Guadalupe. Come my love. So, Benny. Welcome to the business, we make our first delivery. Be very smart, to learn face. Ok Cochi. Hello Mr. Neme. - Hello Cochi. - Why the long face? The week was so bad? I got my bag full of this business. Five nights unable to sleep and just took the cost, man. I'm thinking that the crisis is catching me up with straw. There claim Neme increasingly that step in your motelzinho What I see full of fiery, or that fucking ... With or without crisis people stop sending coals. And that? It's my partner, eh?, Benny. It will be up when you leave care vacation or retire, huh? And treat it. Benjamin Garcia, to serve you sir. What do you want Neme? 20 bundles, a quarter of marijuana ecstasy, a package of heroin, 12 stones And 200 goals that you know that are fashionable, is not it? Thankfully, the crisis You took the Neme. You do not want syringes, yohimbine, porn movies, I brought one of a Swedish with a donkey ... - God damn it. - You fuck. How much will it stay? Oh, man. You are there for their fucking. Right. Next week Mr. Neme, see if the lava. I'll save the water for gargle his comrade. The more or less worth all the briefcase, Cochi. Yes it costs some money, Benny. But that for the Boss is bananas. The real business is import and export in large scale. Rather that it gives a lot of money. The bad thing is that with this fucking crisis The power is greatly increased. Now any child Neighbor purchase a gun and starts fighting in the region. kill the chicken the golden eggs. Look Cochi. Quiet, calm down, I do not get cramped. Let me see, hide the briefcase false. I'ma rancher player and navigator, 'm going to have never again, left me with no money and without belt, Around the world you made me run. You likes dancing you dance to the beat you go to Laredo, wants more and more. As will Cochiloco, how's the gig? Okay Commander. And you? What are you doing with that damn Immigrant. He began working with the Lord Joseph and I am teaching the business. Explain to him and on the outside the maneuvers law even more the "how" ... Do not worry Captain, I'll let you know. Your damn right Nahuales, see you around. Ai Cochi ... What a shock I got this tyrant. This face womanizer a has fig. Hey Cochi, by chance Speeds not have some? Gotta stay awake Look there in the glove compartment a jar to the Commander Benny. Thank you guys, behave well. Even more you Immigrant. Damn Benny, you're more white as a dead man. Let's all drink to return to their color. What is not in Salon Mexico for that Lupita to see me come into trouble. I'll take a place category not that pissed pub where his wife works. That is not that expensive I'm short the dollar, Take a gift of Reyes. Yes, but this money is the Sir, is not it? Of course it is, do not be silly you think he will notice if ferramos a bit. And if he finds Cochi? This is also part of the business, not risk free skin. However, we do not have to leave to pick one and do not abuse it. That, thanks for the touch. COCK OF GOLD. And then like the site? Okay fuck. It is very good. And oh man, what think of the gig? Like everyone else, is concerned get the hang of. And as with Reyes? The boss has treated you well? Actually I thought it was more tyrant. but it seemed to be a good person. Good person shit. Mr. Joseph is the largest of the great son bitch who ever walked this land. So rather than something else. A mere mere killer. No, that St. Jude and Malverde the patron saint the store for many years. The day that the Lord Joseph make us miss, screwed everything. If the fall in business hands of the asshole J.R. In less than one month, the Panchos fuck all and get with the money. It is. We must be very careful these kids, be smart ok? If I find of these Panchitos a shot of meth eyebrows and ears. I told my Benny was pretty cool. - Health by Benny! - Cheers! And oh, let's do a welcome as it should, is not it? He will want a potrancona. Gata! come here ... Cochiloco, if my wife find out, cut my bag. Do not be a fag! Look at this cat, man! And treat it. I promise you my love it'll work. And I will care for your child. Put your clothes quickly if we're screwed. - Hurry up! - But Cochi still not finished. Pentelhadas later work bosses are waiting, fast. I'm coming my love. What was Cochi, what's the rush? Because the first is the basic escangalhado and down as well ... - The brunette was ... - Take this. Not Cochi, you know that kind of crap ... Come smell that shit! If J.R. and the Boss see us in this state they can in castrate. - Come on, go for it. - Let's see ... Yes? Calm J.R. Yes let's go there. Do not worry. Yes it is clear that he wants to live. Yes, we will be there before the two. Even more. Now it Cochi, what is it? I'm feeling like new shit. Then it was time for his baptism, Benny, get ready. Clean your nose face. What has been expensive, where is your brother? - First the money, is not it? - Cursed "sopro" shit. Sell ??your brother for 1000 pesos. It is not even there. I am poor, man. You no longer remember what it is. Also, my fucking brother never wanted to give me a hand. Ah! makes nonsense of "loose warm soup before I " Came a few hours, should be there. Better be there, if not hit with you. I swear it's there, inside. You and your mouse, And remember, we are the rule. Prepare your weapon, Benny. And take the tape. If someone running away, goal lead. Cucaracha! (Cheap) Cucaracha! Where did he go, girl? Do not be stupid and tell me where Cucaracha. Do not be stupid Cucaracha! is not going to kill out in three his entire family. A! - Two! - Calm down! - Cochi, I'm here. - Tie this idiot. No, no, no, please. for the old days, let me say goodbye my wife and my children, huh? Go, give you one minute from now. Bless me, Take care of my children. - Let's go, let's face! - No! See Cucaracha. You know who you screwed, But by our old friendship, I will give you chance to get revenge. The jerk that sold you. Thanks, Cochi. I always thought you was a man of law. There you go, no nonsense will pay double, man. Take care of him Benny. Panfilo! Panfilo! Panfilo! Panfilo Damn, we got together, together we're going, you idiot. Thank Cochi. Fuck you but ... Do not get me to the boss. if you want to fill my Lead with my brother, but not delivered to me those sons of bitches. Sorry Cucaracha I was ordained clearly to take you live, go! You expect one of those fuck Come on! Go on! Do you think they are what? Two hours waiting you like idiots. This talk later what matters first. What was Cucaracha, Many years worked for me without complaining. I always gave you good money. So why the feds went to see? Not? What you told them? See ... If you mean in detail what you "blew" to them It will save you, man. - I swear that nothing Sir. - Nothing. I hope this is right, if not beyond to fuck I'll fuck your kids, What do you think? For the little virgin Santa, I swear I did not say anything. If we know everything, you idiot! Okay, okay, Cucaracha I believe in you, I believe in you. Only in this business there are rules and principles that must be respected and fulfilled. You know what happens to the "sopres" is not it? Cochiloco, give me the knife. You take the head, hold on! No! No! Open, open! By now he has stolen. Go! And that to take the idiot that is stupid! - Come on my son. - Yes father. What was my love? What happened? Not tell you beautiful. Look at my hands? Certainly had to do something horrible is not it? No, I do not. The boss who was more crazy as a goat. And I swear that was the most horrible I have ever seen. I imagine, but the way the situation is you need to handle and have will still work. - We are not better than before? - It is. Actually I do not know I can be beautiful. See my king, we used the unfavorable circumstances, But there is always a limit in the life that are difficult to bear. I do not know. things that have no other way. - How will you. - How are you, Dona. You need to be discreet. I'll take one or two. I owe you is not it? sing to you this "run" the two men killed, Without having compassion basely tortured, Give me what you stole. Gimme! already dead in a car You stole it! passed over them. In the colony El Palmito the city was Culiancn, Francisco Lopez walked, Francisco Beltran also, they imagined that would kill them. Francisco Lopes had some bills late, had killed the direct who stole his beloved, assholes pissed A REMINDER REYES OF NORTH. But Francis Beltran was not guilty of anything. The next day the found at dawn, had the guts out and a dog ate them, Damn, Benny, I'm thinking you're a poet. few moments later the police arrived. I baptize you with the name of "Gringa" In the name of the Father, Son and the Holy Spirit With the band sinaloense were burying them, and two mezinhas cry without being able to console himself, worshiped by their children they are just now in heaven. What did he say? He said that leaves us all for $ 75.000. - Including grenades and bazooka. - Everything? Then, talk to let's go, go there. Let's take everything you. It is a pleasure to do business friends in your country. But if they want something, Here is my card. - Only connect. - Oh yes. Pleasure. SCHOOL HEROES BICENTENNIAL. Ladies and gentlemen, social justice It was, is and will be the eternal divide our Mexico. But today in celebration of bicentenary of independence. And the centennial of the revolution. That gave us homeland and pride. And thanks to the enormous generosity Mr. and Mrs. Mari Jose Reyes. What with the big heart and patriotism that God gave them. Donated this wonderful school for our city. The whole community St. Michael the Archangel But beyond all Mexican childhood. What is the future of our country will be eternally grateful. God Bless Messrs.. Reyes. What do you think of the new Heroes of the Fatherland, Cochi? And now to conclude This solemn act respectfully interpret Our National Anthem. Mexicanos, the cry of war aprestar steel bridle and and tremble in their centers the earth the roaring sound of the cannon. - How's Texan. - How will Cochi. How's life treating you. As the saying goes, I defend tooth and nail. - And you? - I am very well You are bringing me all merchandise or you want me to tell? What was Cochi, when was that screwed up? When you brought good merchandise. Let me see, let me prove it. Go on son. You are very good. - And the Opium? - Look my dear Cochi. I'll give you a good advice as a friend. Trust is good, but not to trust is better. You do not change over the years, Benny open the bag. It's okay, Take my little one, save money. Hey, get off the goods Dear Cochi. Just have to speak well Texan of their merchandise. Oh we are, so long, let my little one. Take a look at the quality the Texan sells us. What is this guy?, it's actually American? Born in Brownsville that his parents are from Reynosa The guy thinks gringo. however is more Mexican the nopales (cactus). - All that money was for him. - Yeah, caraio. The Texan is what is known in the middle like Coyote. He is buying months in the mountains peasants of their crops Poppy and coca and sells the boss 10 times its price. He thinks that the problems field would be solved Instead of taking the fucking intermediate assholes. What's wrong with this idiot now. - Good afternoon, "my friends" - What's wrong Mendoza? - For the road closed? - With the news that we had ... 3-18 in a KM-20 the highway is closed. Leave babaquises 3-18 Come on ... Let us pass we're in a hurry. In fact, I'm sorry Cochi. A truck turned and was ugly, will be closed for several hours. Why not take the Nopalera? (Cactus) Nopalera whore man who gave birth 're kidding me ... Sorry Cochi, Orders are orders. Watch Benny, are Panchos! cover-up! Follow that shit, do not let the bastard escape. Do not kill me, I will give you any thing to forgive me. Give me a chance, man. Damn Benny Nor would I do better, looks just like the left. I thought it was not balls for this gig. My respects, man! We must give thanks to God things have gone well. These goods had already committed to the gringos. Could not fail. Now it behaved males as well. Thank you Sir. If not for fucking my brother, jealous and sucker. But it is already moving line. I think if we do not intimidated his uncle Francisco the thing could get worse. Yes my son, so I'll send him the bodies of my nephews. To see if the sucker is tame. And now his bloody Pancha? Who's the bitch now asshole! Have J.R. leaves, Do not disturb her cousins, by memory his grandmother, respect the family. And you, that they may see I'm happy. Here you are. And do not be stupid, do not spend money in the first thing to see! No expensive, are not ostentatious Do not worry sir, and again thank you. Thank you Sir. Come my son, I will teach you to classify the goods. Benny And now what? - What was the mother? - Won the lottery? How are you? The promise is debt. Thinking of you, Look what I brought, I bought a TV to see novel. To forget this reality as precarious. You are so beautiful, thank you my son. Let me see here, Take it. Already following the same steps his brother, is not it? No, not that that mother would never ... With this appearance that has can not be anything else. But do not give me the same grief that he gave his brother, huh? - Do not worry mother. - Between my son. No mother, I have return to work. And this little clock there? It will give me a gift? Since no mother. Come on, take it. Okay, now back mother to visit you. Wait. I forgot one thing. Oh yeah! I am not blessed mother. What a blessing or screwing. The son of a neighbor brought across a "ualman" Could achieve a these for me, is not it? Sure mom, I'll bring with an MP3 and all these things. Legal, but is now curve for the blessing. Already we see the mother. For my mother I'm Mexican. By destination 'm American. I am the golden race. I'm Mexican American. What did you think? - Come on, rise up and prove it. - It's ours? Yes. - Hello my queen. - You are beautiful and my love. Walk stay beautiful let's celebrate. - You like son? - Yeah man. Let it's getting late. What are we doing here? I do not like this place. That this love, is a surprise. MUNICIPAL CEMETERY OLIVARES.  In memory of Pedro Garcia. The Devil. memories fondly his brother Benny His wife and Lupita his son Benjamin. Rest in peace. Now my love, but now gained the sky. There's a good thing. was a brave man indeed. Burlava to the police. At his behest cheated many people. How the devil they knew. Money, power and fame. Hey boy, good night. - Listen to Uncle Benny. - What is it? I just wanted to thank you for have you done with my mother. This guy was my brother. And do more. Listen to Uncle Benny could I ask a favor? Anything boy. When you kill me and if you stay alive could make a tomb with sound for me as my father? Stop talking nonsense guy. How come when you kill me? From my account, you will by better way of life. Whatever it takes. Until tomorrow my son. My love, I swear that this was a the best days of my life. - Oh yeah? - Ahem ... I still have more one to shoot. - Oh really? - See. Give this money to Mr. Camilo. And tomorrow you exit Salon Mexico, what do you think? My love is too much money. It is better to wait a little more? Not one bit my queen. Money will be what more will be left. Not thinking that my future wife stays that way. Where have you seen such barbarity. Oh godson, I'm afraid you My dream became reality. And I walked very critical. That's the least I can do for you Godfather. When you add more I'll put money there's a car wash hand, what do you think? It would be nice, hey, and his wife and his nephew as they are? Long time I do not see. Speaking of the Queen of Rome. What was beautiful? Do not cry my queen, stay there It will not make any crap, I'm going to fly there - What is Affiliate? Are you okay? - Pretty soon explain. Now, just missing the customers. And then when the Mr. Camilo arrived given the dollars and said he did not! That was not enough, missing interests. Which was also a their best bitches and would not let go with any pimp. Pimp? That's what he said? And not only that, then it was that pig in the ass If the girls were not there to hold me killed. Do not worry, beautiful, not worry, I'll talk to him. He saw that I've closed idiots! I'm going! You bastard, I fuck your mother, asshole. Son of a bitch! Let me go! Release! Son of a bitch, you asshole. Benny! I expect something better. - Oh damn! - You will learn to respect. Shut up idiot! You have to respect the ladies, buddy. Ready go. SALON MEXICO. Benny recalls that the news always say these dens a hazard? - Yes - Will they are right. - Oh! son of a bitch! - Get out! The time has come dear the soul to speak without lies - Good morning my love. - Good morning. - You do not know what happened. - What happened? Gloria came early and said that Panchos torched the Hall - Do not tell me? - I say. Mr. Camilo found it and charred and only recognized the gold tooth. These Panchos are idiots Not had time to talk with your boss my love. The Cochiloco is there, I to go trampar This work does not comply schedules, drug. - Thank you my love. - No problem. go see a virgin and then we marriage will be the first. Look at the little angel. Son of a bitch, now you will see Go! Cochi are friends. Friends or my balls not even speak, idiot! You go! I'll go fucking with this motherfucker. Let's go! I'll give you your Nopalera (Cactus) its shit. Contact Mendoza, as the Panchos gave our heads I swear that nothing Cochi. I swear on my mother's Santa. Do not be fool, or you tell me or I'll pluck face. In fact I did nothing Cochi. Have mercy on me. Remember my kids. And you remembered of my buddy? Do not be stupid Mendoza. If you speak the truth Cochi, maybe I can help you. Thank you. I know you have good feelings But tell Cochi they do not kill me. Which then respond he asked. 6.000 tales. That's all you paid the Panchos, man? It gives much more than in two months at the station. Benny 3.000 pesos per head. Fuck that thing down. Now yes, give an end to it. Let's see buddy. You know what happens with "Sopres"? Huh? Please, I beg Garcia, Please, I beg Garcia. I can not, Cochi. Damn Benny, you are being sucker on the bright side of the gig. No! Saw. You know what I realized Benny? As I said the master Jose Alfredo ... "Life is worth nothing" For the 3000 bloody fucking weights this fellow tells us almost for the Grim Reaper. Tell me the truth Cochi. Do not feel anything, to kill someone like that way? I mean, Not afraid to end up in hell? Hell fucking no, hell is here on Merit. Have not remember when we was a kid. The hunger that we had the cold, the misery in which we lived? Or like right now, which faces As we walk, thus killing Only because it has a decent way of living. I do tou think that this shit Life itself is damn hell. Yeah, you're right. What was Cochi, will not I leave at home? No, we're at my house so you know my wife. You know what? I am with the stomach Cochi rough, look upon my state. Therefore, it takes a breja, and know my wife. Come on. Come on family! All in single file, ok? Let's greet Uncle Benny. Come on. - Good evening. - Good evening. - Good evening. - Good evening. The youngest, Princess, The glutton, the mariachi. And the spoiled, my firstborn, the Cochiloquinho. Look. The future of all my future. Benny. Cochi Ah! Lady, very pleased. - Nice to meet you. - Walking. - To bed bunch. - Good evening. - Good evening. - Good evening. Even more younger. They are all beautiful. Let's have a drink. Come on. You're in your home Benny, what you want? Anything. Let me see. Health compadre. Cochi be seen to believe. One thing is one thing and anything else is Benny. What do you think? Who lived in a cave and ate human flesh? No, but ... see it ... Do not misunderstand me Cochi, but ... is like two people simultaneously. Well, if it is not in business of "Narco". How else I support my children? If I'm in is there is no other. There is something not explain. The boss is pissed off. Minimal cut his head is knowing ... Hey! their children's mother. Keep your knees the head and hands. Beware any trick. Now what's the problem with this idiot? He'll fuck in Cochi. As I was talking with Mr., Captain. The arrest of these dangerous drug traffickers. It is a sample that collaboration between the three levels of government. It's working very well. And the struggle that is undertaking The President of the Republic against organized crime. You are going the right way. And now yes, even though not enough, we gain. Here the commander Mancera head of our heroic A group of policemen. Give the details joinhas on these. Here my Captain, we first Eugenio Matta Cochiloco alias. It is considered the operator cartel and main distributor of drugs in the region. Once we have the Benjamin Garcia Best known as Benny. For many years was dedicated to import and export prohibited substances. It relates to a network trafficking of people in the U.S.. - Then we ... - Let me see ... Commander That both sustained these charges have because it seems that you have the more dangerous than experts and parents You know that Captain this type of offender. has many features, prominent lawyers That help them ... so ... - Yes, yes I understand. Could you give me permission to speak alone with inmates please. Yes, yes of course. Mancera. So young ... then mean that you are more dangerous that "El Chapo" and "Los Aretes" together. Look comrades. What interests me most The Reyes are to me. They say you four working for Mr. Joseph So now you I will not say anything. In any case I make you an offer. Do not laugh! You never know. For both Dodge Capi. Go right to the point, what you offer? We have an attractive program protected witnesses Copied from the American model that works very well. If you want to "sing" for whatever reason. Look for me. Offered his freedom and protection. In exchange for their testimony Reyes against. What do you think about it? Think about it, think that one never knows ... Life takes many turns, who knows best ... Someday I might need. Consider also that ... better a "Sopro" Thursday a corpse first. Excuse me. Damn federal. You two are nothing more than a pair of ungrateful. Have you forgotten who was you put in their place? Idiots. Even more you Felix What?, Already forgotten how put in its campaign to win the election? It would have been better if I even have I competed for Mayor. As advised my wife. In fact my love would better than this sucker. Please understand Mr. Joseph The Federal Government we have pressed this business with the combating organized crime. and ... not seen the amount commercials on TV? The Federal Government works for you, in the fight against crime organized, if not seem, we are winning. The nozzle Jesus calcd this seems a charlatan deformed. You are a true Sucker Felix that the Federal Government shit. This campaign is only to deceive the people. To justify what they they are stealing. And the federal agent who came Cara is the area of ??Mr. Joseph And from time to prime we still got not unaware is the same guy? There is no way to say it Mr. Joseph best And why not pick up my nephews or my fucking brother? Have learned that the next day tried to fuck our merchandise? But if screwed, because here my kids Are a cock and hairy. And they did pretty well, males as they are. - Not true comrades? - Yes sir! So motherfuckers, which of two twisted kidding? No, no, no, do not think Mr. Joseph it, please. And your kids are going actually measure. See, the other day sought by the agent Mendoza and since then it appears. Do not be a liar! Felix. Here my boys are unable to go to shit without my permission. Vai who were the Panchos. And neither you, nor do you something to get them. But Mr. Joseph, this once was the Federal Police the next will be the whole army. But it is not true that you are more than Felix suckers. How many times do I have to repeat We found a way with some of my colleagues and judges, and this will not be more than one "Kick ass to straighten." But listen right. If they do not want The blood flows the river. Treat my brother, if not, do not answer for my actions. It was clear!? I promise to Mr. I and my friend here we put hands to work. - It's not even Mancera? - Yes, yes sir Joseph So comrades, Who of you Mendoza performed without my permission? No, no. What is happening you look beautiful. Oh Benny, I am very worried about my son. I'll tell you a secret But be well caladinha. There is already a time ... I've been dipping into a little Sir's just some money. And I think that in a short time we enough to get us three together in the U.S.. What do you think? Hey Benny you need be careful that if you Reyes catch kill you. I'm no sucker baby, is well guardadinho. Oh love, that God hears you. Hopefully we can actually get out of here. Little brother ONLY YOU SEE WHO HAS THE BIGGEST PICA NO WIG, SHORT THIS ... Have you seen what is written here? Even idiots know how to read. This proves that lacked you have balls, right? Not withstood the pressure. And as it endured My son went to bring some Reynoza Yes comrades who have balls. Let's see how expensive you will stay. This is fucking war. I swear on my sacred Mama to I will kill my brother and all their offspring, Me there kinship. And take this shit here. Take, Delivered to $ 3.000 each of these fucking widow so that the buried. Now! Come on! Have you heard my father, bunch of idiots. What crap, take it hence. Have I got cat. Hello Benny, how was it? Well, my love, Boss has solved all ... And this guy my love, what happened? The damn kid readied again. Here's what he kept in bottom of his bed. I have a feeling that he got into something quite serious. Did not happen something with it? No, my love, if not we already know. Do not worry that I'll pick it up. He'll have to listen. Benny speaks, brought "goals"? What?, I look like a dealer or what man? Not that. Hey kid, you know some thing about my nephew? The boy goes missing since yesterday and the mother is very worried. Say what you know I give you 10 bucks. If they are "targets" may be over remembering something. If you are underage drug! I'm big boy. Take to remember, now "drop soup." The guy befriended the Panchos Francisco. The guy spends time assuming that after working with them Fill with money and women. Damn kid. Hey, will not tell I told him that. Do not worry kid. If you see him, tell him go flying home, did he? So Benny, you know it? if you want an assistant, I'll be at your service. What the fuck. SAN FRANCISCO . Here imp. In order to learn. His mother is looking for you like crazy and you waste time with ... - Come on, let's go. - Did not you see I'm busy? Going you will already reach you. Look here bitch, stop playing and if we do not take him by force. Let the devil in peace buddy. It will mess with the four? Stay calm face. My uncle is not a problem. That's right, saved by the bell, buddy. Let Benny. Your uncle give you your damn bottle imp. Damn offenders What was beautiful? Yes me already. Worry no more. Kiss Queen. Any idea who is getting expensive? Boy you are stupid or what? The feel badass impressing the dealer? You have to think that this is not a joke. Think of your father. Or me. I bet if you do not go fast it'll end up like your father. Or what? Want to follow the tradition of there is pure fool in the family? Listen up comrades With this rather my cousins ??will get screwed. From now on work in three groups. You Garcia, form a double with Sgt. Yes sir. You Huasteco, you work with the Sardo. Cochiloco, like the one more reliable for my father, work with me. The doll and this guy they call of Mariate will lend a hand. - Do you agree? - Yes sir. I J.R. with its license would not be I can and Doll could ... Stop bitching Huasteco. Already have an opportunity where again you to be together and her boyfriend. And then get making shit they do. But while doing my son is sending. - It was clear!? - Yes Boss. So fuck it all, do not pay so that they are here as idiots. Walk. - And then, as was his father? - So I like son. Behave like around a little man to be worthy heir to his father. That father. Oh if your grandmother alive would now be crying with joy. It is. Without a lot of freshness, The owner should any money for the Boss, The order of Jos is that we a sustinho to rectify. - Any questions? - Negative. Come on then. You can stay here, I alone take care of the order of the Master. - Okay? - Okay, okay. Ready. On to the next. - As fast? - Affirmative. Hey my Sergeant, if not indiscretion, as he did? Oh! Fuck!, Damn it! - Cigarette, My Sergeant. - Negative. And a "beer"? Back there is a "Cooler" and icy, do not feel like one? Nor. You're not here right not, "My Sergeant?" No. And if not indiscreet, Sergeant where's mine? Oaxaca. And he was in the army? Hey man, let's get ready, My name is Benito Juarez. I like what I call the "Benefactor of the Americas." And to make it more clear. I did not let the army to go making friends. And yes to a shitload of money for it. Yes? Ah! and not problems between us. You can go calling me or Mr. Sergeant, And do not fucking gringo, "My Sergeant" and all that shit. Clearly, boring? It's good, Sgt. What, Cochi? Already missing me? Where are you!? Hold on Cochi, I'm already going fast! Cochi! Cochi! Something happened man? What happened Cochi, how are you? The Panchos screwed in Benny. Fucked with everything. But how could they do Cochi this with you? What happened? The sons of bitches we got distracted. When I had the reaction even able with those there, but ... Francisco and those damned took children in the leather. Where is J.R.? J.R. and Doll are in there. Go take a look at them. BROTHER TURNS GIVES LIFE, LET'S GET YOU AND YOUR GROUP OF assholes, OS Panchos. Apparently the son of Boss liked the duiker. Look left to his nephew. Sergeant No way, we have to take it to Mr. Joseph Now we will see what is good. It is. I'll end up with all this garbage, I promise you my son. I will kill them like rats the children of Francis. Francis son of a bitch. Tell me, damn it!, what my son ... was doing, where they were!? We actually took Boss on the road. The Panchos were many. But I say with all my heart, J.R. defended himself valiantly. Who valiantly my balls asshole you do not think knew my son? If it was a weapon of God. I pity you if you are not telling the truth to me. - Huasteco. - Yes Boss. You have weapons and ammunition as sufficient to break a bitch that gave birth to my brother? Yes Sir, the bodega is full. For now they will get screwed. Mr. Joseph! I just find out, not imagine how much I regret. My most sincere Dona Mari condolences. - Dona Mari sorry. - Shut up your damn it! What a tragedy. My God. This is a day of mourning throughout San Miguel. Losing the lives of so a brilliant young man, With a promising political future. You also shut up you idiot! Yes, yes, forgive me. This will be a war comrades. If my brother thinks this is going to stop me. For now screwed, because I show who has the biggest yet. We must remain calm Mr. Joseph war is not suitable for anyone. I pledge before you and our Lord I and the commander let's take the blame so that justice is done and avenge the death of his son. And you you have to Mancera say about it? I warn you not to stop my nephews? - Investigations are ... - Idiot! You more than ... nobody is to blame for death my son. Had he done If my husband, nothing this would have happened. Dona Mari Sorry but can not blame it on me about everything. The problem that her husband has many enemies in the region. Thank you dear, You always read my thoughts. And you have Felix something to add? Then go to the bitch who bore him and look another police chief who has fucking balls. Yes sir. Excuse me gentlemen. And you! You face! You and I have a lot to talk, but in the meantime. Go to the whore who the bore and take this bunch of assholes that no good. - Get the fuck out! - Sir. Holy shit. Oh my old. What happened to Uncle Benny? Have you seen what they readied the their fellow man? Killed J.R. and Dolls. Now let's see if I obey. Benny you need to be careful. There have hope. Mr. Joseph swore would end the Panchos, and spoke quite serious. So, will stay inside. Until the dust down, and will get pretty ugly. And it will take a lot of blood, this one is pretty serious guy. The ways of the Lord we all know. They are inscrutable. But there are no certainties here on earth as in heaven we must comfort. Even in moments of more pain. Who would dare to deny a young man so kind. With a heart of gold as our dear Jesus If you find out how your namesake, the right of the father. The sky my children are not only for the Saints And yes for men as Our dear Jesus Reyes. Rest in peace, so be it. Revenge Lord. Revenge is the only one that I ask. I do not mean figuratively. As the lead bring those sons of bitches that took me. Who will take care of my children, compadre. Let's see how life treats my poor orphans. Do not think so Cochi. Nothing will happen. Do not play Benny misunderstanding you saw how the Boss I was looking. You know what hurts me this life? What I can not even know your affiliate. I'll just make a asks my friend. If Mr. Joseph will declare war on his brother. Who here is the most fucked on the subject of guns? Stop it man, with all the money that the Employer has can bring anyone you want. Until the very same Guanajuato. You'll never forgive myself. And you're right. Think positive friend. Your children need you. Cochi, Cochi. A robust face with hog's face told me you need to go flying for your home. - Hey! - Saw guy? No, no! No! Cochiloquito. No. Cochiloquito. ANYWAY, BY SON SON, TOOTH FOR TOOTH. Take care of my wife, will be great for it, Benny. I'll leave to your care. Yes Cochi. What are you doing? Benny Justice, only justice. Let me go with you. No, this fight is between the son of a bitch and I Jos. I told you, is not it? This fucking life is Benny very same hell. Sorry for the delay, but you know how the situation is. I had to do other six funerals. Better let us pray. Our Father who ... not worthless life. life is worth nothing. always starts crying. And so it ends up crying. So that in this world. life is worth nothing. Listen up comrades. After the disaster that occurred in the family, The only one who stayed and finished the group of rats they are my brother and their children. So I promised my son when he was in person. And I will carry it for him! And you damn Benny! Stop thinking about shit. Because your friend Cochiloco that also was like a son to me. This has been fucked by Panchos. It was clear? And now let you put this doleful face fucking. You do not feel anything. You are here only dirty money. If they knew what we would to take back our son. All my fucking fortune. But as this is not possible. I have an offer for you. I'll give you $ 100,000. For the head of each asshole who murdered my son. Do the math buddies. Each one may take more half a million dollars. One thing not in dreams you have seen. But one thing I will tell you I want the heads of these idiots. Further, not only the head of my nephews As the head of my brother. I also want to head of an asshole well you know very knowledgeable. The head of those who betrayed us. And by that, I'll give $ 200,000 more. But one thing warn you, Pity the fool who I want to do with face sucker and wants to betray me. Beware, because this time I will not kill a child. This time I will do chopped the whole family. Do you agree? Let my old lady. Young. When my old said that we want the heads of the killers my son. He said figuratively, really want their heads! SAN FRANCISCO . Hey gentlemen, do not get me wrong. But I saw that you are kind of assholes Okay, not gonna risk to do some shit. So I take care and Sardo Master of the Order. You will be limited to take us to the goal. say who we have to erase. Yes? indigenous language. Idiots. indigenous language. Assholes pissed. Here Sardo said he did not worry about the part of you. Here is Pancho Macana. It's a bald guy ... indigenous language. - Listen ... - It's a pretty tall. Hey! Damn. What's wrong with Benny these scoundrels. To me it seems that were trained by the CIA. - There are those here Sgt. - God damn it! Get out! Where do you think was going? To walk up. Go there. Come on. Come on. Are you sure you are all, man? Sergeant, who told you I know the Panchos well. I know them since Mr. Joseph worked with his brother. Lack even Mr. Francisco. Let's see your child's bitch, fuck you now. But before you go the beyond without suffering I'll give you three chances to get say who was the stool pigeon said that where clear the son of my boss. A. .. Go to the fucking bitch orphan. Sardo. Two. Go fuck your mother Three. Let's see Panchito With his brother I was a nice guy. And given three chances. But I will give to you only one chance. A. Who was the "sopro" motherfucker. Ah! is good! It was a guy from San Miguel. So I like, fluffy and cooperating. And as he was called? I swear, I swear I do not know man. Just know that the called The Imp of I swear I do not know more than that. indigenous language. indigenous language. Imp. So comrades, you are from San Miguel. And I do not know this Imp of such? No. To tell the truth I Nor Sergeant. But should not be so hard to find it. Let's fucking away with the father and suckers to finish Custom Boss. Sardo, pass me the machetes to proceed. Hey you! I know I told you do not intervene. But already undergoing cowards. Bring the bags here for placing the heads. platform. BOARD - SAN FRANCISCO. Wait here. His sons of bitches, who move will get screwed. Stop there asshole! Mr. Pancho Reyes. We brought some goodies by his brother. Sons of bitches! LEARN WHAT The RESPECT "REYES NORTH "CHILDREN OF A PICA AND PUTAS. The Imp. The Imp. Hey kid, saying what can go Cock told the Panchos. - Nothing. - To be stupid! Boy, you and only you who told Panchos where to find the J.R. Behave like a little man and tell me the fucking truth. You know how to call they do such a thing? Sopres, gossip, python, hard finger mouse, sapo! And if you do not know, this is the worst fucking thing in the world. Speak, what they gave in return? A gun, money, drugs, car!? Why did this kid. Because J.R. and son the bitch of Mr. Joseph They killed my father, so I did. Do not talk nonsense guy. Uncle Benny is not nonsense. I am telling the truth, see! Where did you get this? He gave me one of the guys worked with my father And because he gave me was there when they killed him. Do you believe this story? Benny, I do not know what to say. This necklace was what his brother loved most in life. But when killed no longer carried with it. I'm going out for a moment. I have to investigate the truth. And only one person can take my doubts. No, do not leave, do not will commit a folly. Prepare a bag to my nephew and do not open the door to anyone until I return. - Who the hell is? - Am I Huasteco, Benny. Open. What happened to Benny? What kind of fly bit him to come at this hour? Come in. Sit. What is it? - You offer a Tequila? - Do not Huasteco. I'm so because there is something that is just burning me up inside. What was Benny? Huasteco, I want tell me the truth Who the fuck killed my brother? Ah, the longer you Cochiloco said this, God rest his soul. Better not to dwell on walk this issue and go to sleep. Do not play dumb. Look what I found comrade. I warn that I will not quit to know the truth. Or I'll pluck. You choose. - Really want to know? - Up to the last detail guy. See Benny, His little brother from was low in nature A day passed seriously measure And Mr. Joseph and the J.R. not forgiven. You always knew it Not only knew but also were there when it happened. And how they killed my brother those sons of bitches? Stop putting shit on his head. What do you want know everything? This guy is my fight. Well, some pushing, I'll tell the whole truth. When his brother to the Reyes killed worse than a dog. Remember the Cucaracha, is not it? It was just like But his brother instead of his tongue. Mr. Joseph cut the bag. What my brother did for that kill it? The error was his brother Benny. It was not that fucked or more and less With Dona Mari. The very same wife of Sir. - Dona Mari? - Not only once, huh? Goddamn Devil. His brother was a figure. I do not think he had a wife who had not spent by his bed. Go to the son that The Imp does not go mad like him. How can you have spoken to my nephew comrade. The Imp is not so they call it? You were doing your game, is not it, comrade? Do not kill me man. I would not say anything. You is not equal to Reyes to kill me like a dog You're right Huasteco. I also can not take risks, face. What was babe, is everything okay? Sure? Nothing happened? Okay, I'm going there. You'll be right there, Huasteco? Take this money my son. After sending more, ok? Damn, crouching face. How is Benny, where are you? How's Amaya. or 3-18 has a? Let me pass. I am finding strange Benny, I have orders from the not to let your boss anyone out of San Miguel. Give me a chance. Benny you know things are bad. What is there? Who is it? Download I'm gonna frisk ... - You killed him Uncle Benny. - No child choose, hold. Hey, boy it's time son. Do not forget what I said. When you get to Nogales? Oh, not again ... I go to Rancho Grande and ask for Gordo Lopez and say that I was on your part. He will help me through the other side. Gone to the call number you gave me. That's right, it is not silly. No one seems to Garcia, son. Take good care of the money that Coyotes do not respect these Ready my son. You're a cool uncle. Sorry for the trouble the involved. You are also a pretty cool kid. But do not involve more problems, child walks. Take good care of my mother like me. Let me see a thing. Take this. Vai. Okay cat. Who will cry all, is a Garcia. Yes, yes I'm going to love there. What!? At what time were these idiots? Hey babe, get out of the house and San Miguel. Get help from my Godfather. Yes, yes, yes, anything you take the phone and call me. Yes. Yes my love. I love fucking. Fuck that. Damn. FEDERAL POLICE INTELLIGENCE. No, do not talk about rights. It is also a parent. Ok no Washington Bye bye. Now yes. As I can help you. Remember me Captain? Sure, Cochiloco you are not? No, this was my friend, may he rest in peace. They call me Benny. I'm Benny Garcia And how are things in San Miguel? Continue boiling? Each time it gets worse. So here I am. Remember the offer that we did not it? Of course. Benny brought something good? Nothing more than ... Life and miracles of Mr. Reyes. - Mr interested? - Ah, yes, yes, yes. Yes, absolutely yes. Of course. Have you seen that the policy Our President is to convert Mexico a parents' sopres " And I know reward you. Thank you Captain. Lopez, prepare the "cage we have a canary. " And so Captain In one night eight erase. In the few months worked with Mr. Joseph The guy must have deleted to about 40 people. - As we? - About two and a half hours. Give a check if all is well. Very good Benny, excellent. I liked having such a good memory. - Would you like another coffee? - No, no, I'm pretty nervous. Captain's okay, will continue No, it can already Reyes sink. For the rest of his days. Wait outside. So now I can leave Captain? No, let me make a call to my boss fill some paperwork and ready. Do not want to wait outside? There is a procedure routine. - In a Hurry? - Yes, yes indeed. Mr. Reyes? Good evening. Ramirez. Listen, I think I have something that may interest you. Do you know of such a Benjamin Garcia? Where is The Imp Face! Garcia. Garcia! Do not play dumb. Tell us where the boy and will save yourself all this suffering. Take him out, can not die here. The Lord wants Jose vivinho and wagging his tail. When the talk that deliver then step to deliver the tape. Yes Captain. It's a shame it was not a good "sopro"? Hey buddy. As you said it was his nephew? 200,000 dollars. Holy shit What I would all this money. Hey man, without indiscretion, as you will take with it? For I delivered to Mr. Joseph? Only 5.000 weight. 5.000 pesos ... bitch ... Your boss will take into about $ 50.000. Seriously dude? Do not be a blabbermouth, you is believing this partner? No, I do not know but ... Have you seen the dealer work to new heights. It's true. There's more: If you let me go, I give each $ 50,000 and a kilo of cocaine bribery. One guy. If the slutty or do some clowning fill you with lead. Chief ... Head right here. Right here. I will drop to take the money. Release. I did not say, that these partner traffickers are very eccentric? Yes. Look at that tomb It's my brother's head. Help watch over me. We made partner. I do not ferrem, we would be 50,000 and a kilo are economies all my life, sir. No way man, they say "Nobody knows who works." It has been screwed. Come partner. Holy shit mate, I think he died. And now? What the hell do we do? Buried and fall out, is not it? Holy shit, affiliate!? What happened? Have you speak, Godfather. Better to take me for my "house" Wait affiliate. Be careful. Lupita. Lupita! Lupita. No one is affiliated. Can you tell me what is happening? A moment Godfather. My beautiful. My beautiful. Ah! My love. Oh my God poor my queen is tired. My love. My love! - Take this - No. - Vai. - Thank you. Mama, I'm going. What will you do? When he comes back? Actually I think I do not we will see more. Take care of yourself too. - May God be with you. - Thank you It's crazy Benny. Really do not want do you follow? Thank you, Godfather. Oh you let my mother. Take care, godson. In the car is all I asked. Thank you, Godfather. Goodbye, Mom. One, two, three testing. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the ceremony Independence Day in which we celebrate Bicentennial heroic. And so special to preside event we welcome our Mayor Mr. Jose Reyes. What with other personalities Let us honor with their presence. High! Now! Delivery flag. Now! And now ladies and gentlemen our Mayor decide the "Cry of Independence" Mexicans and Mexican Viva the Bicentennial Independence Live Long live the heroes who gave us Homeland Live Viva Hidalgo Live - Viva Morelos ... - Live Viva San Miguel de Allende ... Live Live Corregedora Quertaro - Viva! - Viva Dona Josefa Ortiz Live - the poor Viva Mexico! - Live - Viva Mexico! - Live - Viva Mexico! - Live What do away from you?, gift of the soul. Without see you, hear you not, without talking to you, every moment try to remember you, Translation of the audio in Spanish Forton What do away from you?, gift of the soul. Without see you, hear you not, without talking to you, every moment try to you remember, even a our love impossible. Taking the essence of flowers, Taking the wind harmony. How deny that I love my life. How to delete my soul's passion. Perhaps the cruel fate condemns us, my baby to me forget I'm afraid, my heart I says he can not. I can not my sorrows hide. how to get the brightness of the stars, how to prevent run the gentle river, denying suffering my chest, How to delete my soul's passion. was a real man brave, Burlava to police, to betray his command a lot of people your business the required powerful and also very happy, as The Devil knew. Money, power and fame, are three things very aphrodisiac, without seeking women who are left solteirinhas, widows and married, to enjoy the life that is short, said the devil surrounded by ladies, for me poverty is history, I chopped the tip of the bullet.
