 

                        Contro 5! Over Do you copy? Are you s eeping or what? Yeah! Is this for rea? Where? On the road to de dunes. I'm going to check it out now Perfect. I'll better prepare a great we come party What am I doing? I'm not ready for this With my luck, I'I end up with a broken bone Ok, go away Oh! It's a Lynx! We have to take it to the she ter. Look! Isn't it the lynx from last week? - We, is it your turn or mine? - No idea, who's next, anyway? This one will become extinct for sure! - Fe ix? - Yes? Are we there yet? No, another 5 minutes or so. How can you stay so ca m? I can't stand being shut up in here This is the first time they've taken you to a she ter, huh? - Yes, and you? - We, I've been there 3 or 4 times but Felix... Uff I've lost count already. Yeah About forty times in a. What bad uck! If a the other lynxes are like you, soon there won't be any of you left. Beeetty, please. The anima shelter is like my home it's a very nice p ace. It's that your idea of a very nice place? Three weeks ago it didn't ook like a prison camp. Incredib y nice, this is going to be ike staying in a holiday resort in there with my ittle hoofies having a manicure ...or maybe I'll get... - Beety, p ease... ...or maybe I'll get... - Beety, p ease... Spend as much time as you can with your cubs... Enjoy life Well... whatever we have left... We don't know whether it wil be days or just hours... I thing we shou d keep a minute of silence for ourse ves - Hey! Where are you going? - Same all, same al - Just look at those crazy eyes - You are dead on... The loneliness of the visionary soul Oh We! They' regret it What happened here? Fe ix, old buddy!!! Gus! It's been a long time! What're you doing here? Fo ow me What's the big mistery? I thought I was here to get better but some very strange things are happening here I think it must have something to do with some secret government agency maybe unauthorized experiments WHAT! Quiet! But Gus, I was practica ly raised in she ters ike this one and they've always treated us well Yes, look... we're not in cages anymore. If my wings were a I right, I cou d fly right out of here. Don't you see? It's a trap so we' I let our guard down but something rea y serious is going to happen here Mark my words! The security measures are greater every day that's why we need the very best Yes, Sir, it's been difficu t, but we fina ly found him ...I'I put him on - Thank you - Yes? - Mr. Newmann, this is Noah. Yes, ho d on, please Now where's the darned hold button? B uetooth? No Text messages? No! Wait... There it is! I do ove simple yet effective devices Like this one Sorry, just a ittle matter I had to take care of I believe you have already been told the detai s of the job Do you accept? Sure, no one can say "no" to money like that I' be there tomorrow You're paranoid. Nothing's the matter Ye yeah, nothing's the matter We have to find out what's going on I've got a plan In every prison there's a b oke who can get anything In here it's Rupert Hi... You got what I asked you for? Here it is, a ockpick and a torch Ruppert, over here! Oh sorry, I've got dirt in my eyes It's not the dirt... You're a mo e and you're half-b ind Soon we'll p ace a big order with you for the great escape We, now that I'm going to be a father, I've got to work a ittle bit harder Let's find out what's going on here I' lead the way Some of us anima s are equipped for camouf age Sweet!! But you take a rag from there and fo ow me With that orange color of yours, we are going to be discovered in no time Oh yes... VERY discreet Oh no, his camouflage is out of sync! Who's out there? B oody camouf age I said... who's out there? - What's this! - Shut up! - Ok, If you say shut up, I shut up... - S H U T U P - - - - At least those plants broke your fal They were nettles I see you sti can't control your camouf age We, my shrink says is a I in my head but I bet you he just hates me ...this was the most recent theft of anima s to be reported And the lingering question is what's and who's behind the animal's kidnappings. What! Kidnapping of animals? What's going on? Let me see! The authorities are concerned because some of these creatures are in danger of extinction. And the kidnappings are sti happening Kidnapping of animals? The ast truck is arriving tomorrow I' breathe a lot easier when they're a here Those anima s shou d get what they deserve Spend their ives behind bars I told you! - Look! We're on TV! - Come! We have to warn the others Since special security measures have been taken no more anima s have disappeared I hate to have to keep them in those ittle cages and surrounded by fences but it's the only way to keep them safe Who is behind a this, and why? In spite of the surrounding secrecy regarding the operation It has being confirmed that the ast truck with the endangered species comes today at the security center in Doniana We come, Mr. Newmann. It's a privilege to persona y meet you in person Thanks Forgive me, you' feel more at home this way I think that... This one will be perfect for you - Impressive - Wou d you seat down? I wou d rather keep standing up OK, bringing all those anima s together in a sing e she ter shou d make things easier We have what you asked for a helicopter two trucks to gather the animals and your personal trailer After breaking into the animal she ter you will search the region for the rest of the species. We have also brought together a team of men to work under your orders. Do you have a ist of the anima s you want me to capture? Yes, a the information has been up oaded to the computer in your trailer Remember: I need a pair of each species and no anima must be hurt in any way Do you think you can do it? Mr. Noah, you offend me. In three weeks, you'll have al your little critters and I'll be far away from here spending your money to hunt animals for rea. Don't you think you are taking this too serious y? It's even worse than we thought we' I never leave this p ace They said we'll spend the rest of our lives behind bars! Gus, I think you're letting your imagination run away with you We, I heard it, too We have to be ready to escape We, when I'll work a litt e bit more Very good, but you'll have to change faster those ki er guards up in the towers wou d have shot you full of ho es already! Very funny A right, next Saucy swimsuit! Look! More animals are coming The poor foo s don't know what's in store for them What are the odds of the outside cable to come loose ...and touch the inside fence? - At least this time they are near by You again! I've got news for you, ittle buddy A gir lynx has arrived One of the few left. With a little luck if you ike each other, you could be a couple ...They got you a gir friend Don't be stupid How's she gonna be my gir friend if I don't even know her... Feisty, isn't she! We' cure you first and that way they can get to know each other Why are you so angry? Why? They capture me, they bring me here in a cage They have no reason to ock me up But it' I only be until your cured And not one second more! I don't want to end up like those ha ftamed anima s And you? What happened to you? Ahhh, I got in a fight with a bear, a really BIG ONE sometimes I can't control my wild instincts You sure you didn't electrocute yourse f on the fence? Your hair is standing on end you've got burn marks on your paws and, we, I saw you when I got here I didn't want you to think I was one of those tame cats Be careful, there are only a few of us left and there'I be even fewer if you keep having accidents ike that So have you two swapped te ephone numbers yet? Oh buddy, it's your turn, et's see what we can do with you Yes, sir? We, have the men present themselves here and then, what the heck... I'd like to do something about how this p ace is decorated. Right away, sir YES, SIR!! Wel, before studying the mission, you have to understand something You're under my orders and that means that you' do everything exactly as I tell you to No thinking for yourse ves... no a ternative p ans... and above a, DISCIPLINE One, Two Three... FREEZE - You lose, dummy! - What the he are you doing? Oh, sir, a o, sir Sir, we were late, sir Calm down... A right, et's review the plan. Tomorrow there can be no mistakes Is he for rea? Congratu ations, Daddy! We just heard the good news How many are there? Looks ike... Three? No, ook, there are four And they're very cute They suck! More victims to perish in this godforsaken p ace Perish? Oh... We shou d be happy for him instead of saying stuff like that It's so beautifu they have been born in a p ace ike this... Fe ix, we're going to throw pine cones at the e ectrified fence You wanna come? No, I to d Lynxette that I'd show her the shelter I' see you ater. When we get out, I' show you some places That wou d be great! Look! The tracking station Let me show you What's that? When they let us go, they put a brace et on us so they know where to find us if there's a prob em Watch this, it's fun What a curriculum! Yes but I app y Fe ix's aw "Smi e, tomorrow could be worse" I to d you. Isn't bad uck? The heating is on in this weather Your uck could be changing - I don't think so - You met me Would you accept a gift? That way I' a ways know where to find you In that case, I won't mind feeling like I'm being followed. I'm sorry I spoke to you the way I did the first day I wish we had met outside this p ace. We' be out soon as long as Gus is wrong and nothing happens... That's better A most like home, right, Nimrod? You're impatient, too, hey, buddy? Get the men together. Tonight we're going HUNTING Activate silent mode! Now turn out all ights Sorry! It's ok How groovy! Put me down! You have tobe nice to me! - Pure precission. Just on the nerve - Ready. Tower 1 all c ear. Tower 5 a clear Tower 3 a clear. West a arm deactivated. I knew I was going to have to keep an eye on those two. - I fee dizzy! - Come on Pure precision in it, right on the nerve! Guard post out of control, according to the prior instructions ...given during the training sessions You idiot! We're e ite soldiers talk in short, concise sentences. Oh, okay Guy groggy, fo lowing p an Much better Approaching computer Looking for the security contro panel in order to access... SHORT sentences! Mr Newmann, outer gate open, proceeding to open inner gate - Something is wrong! - One alarm is still connected We can't open the inner gate Let's see..."mega-ram" records... I've GOT IT, the map of the shelter ...see Oh look! Danger! We got to warn the others! We've detected land mines in the courtyard! Any movement cou d be fata Number 1, don't take another step Relax, I' guide you trough You've got one... RIGHT IN FRONT OF YOU! Okay, let's see One step backwards... another one... another one... Thank yo... - Oops! We've got a casua ty What in blazes is going on NOW?? The security measures are tougher than we thought. ...Shou d we continue with the operation? - Morons! On my signa, pick me up in the courtyard! ...et me deactivate one. Is such a hoot Hi, boss! We've deactivated a most a I of them I knew you two!! He pushed me! I can't believe it. Hey, boss, ook at us! Look what we're doing! Caution, boss, there are min... You idiots, I' take charge of entering the main b ock. Hey who are you? What's going on? A the personnel is out of action. Go get the anima s! Now hurry up, boys! The boss made me the master. Coodination is what matters. One, two, one, two... Oops. I gotta go. I want a the anima s out and oaded in the trucks in ten minutes I knew we'd end up loading boxes! The boss said we should secure each cage and tie them down twice I don't think any cages are gonna fall. I mean, that wou d be really un ucky ...the union ru es said something about unch break What's going on? Oh, no! Lynxette! I got to he p them! Thats a of them. Lets go! Linxette! Ok, I'm coming! I'm done here. Hey! You do something for a change! Get the rope! I'll take care of the whee s "Be a mask soldier!" Damn thing. "Live an adventure life, exotic ands..." Yeah right! But nothing about working! Careful! Three of you go to the helicopter. The rest back to the truck. And then they say they don't want me to become extinct! Come on... Fe ix... Faster! Beeetty, they're kidnapping us! You have to get over to the other truck and wake up a I the anima s you can Try with this keys! Sounds good to me! I accept the mission! Jeronimo! Come to mamma, ittle truckie walkie! Three... Two... One... Mr. Newmann, I think an anima has escaped What a disaster! Be prepared my friend, I think you have work to do! ...Turn on the head ights - Yes sir! I always wanted to do that! Yes, Her Majesty, the agent Gus... GUS! Wake up! I don't know where they're taking us. What? You see? You see? I told you! Astart, wake up! You've got to fly to the shelter and set off one of the a arms But my wing... I don't think I can fly that far Astarte, you've got to try You are the on y one fast enough to fly back to the she ter I'm eager to f y again, but I don't know if I'm fu y recovered and the she ter is far away! We... Technica y, you hawks reach 150 mi es per hour... Astarte... We need you to try The skies are waiting for you OK, I' do it You will? Yeah! I hope everything wi turn a right I've almost forgotten how much I ove to fly Lynxette, wake up! We're being kidnapped. ...what's going on? They're trying to kidnap us! But don't worry, I'm going to get you out of here I'm not worried What! Come here, my friend! Don't et her escape, Nimrod. She is a I yours Astart! Good job! Fe ix! It's Gus! You have to help him! He cou d be ki ed My tongue! My tongue! Open the cage and jump! Don't worry Gus, here I go! I'm s ipping Good bye crue world! Gus! Just what I needed. A kidney stone! I think... I... run over another anima... again Any mistakes and I rip your neck with my bare hands! Lynxette! Jump! No! I have to free the rest! Damn it! That female ynx is the top priority. Nooo!! Ey, Boss... l... think... - Never mind They were not keeping us prisoners They were protecting us! Thats why the towers and the fences... Yeah, tel that to "mister conspiracy" here, What a fuss he made! Well, if they were protecting us, they rea y made a pretty poor job. - What happened to Astart? - She won't be able to do acrobatics for a whi e ...but she will be a I right. She is a tough gal. So now what? You must go back to the she ter, Astart needs some care. I have to save the others What? Go back? That's not an option If we go back to the she ter we'I never get out of there! For a paranoiac green thing with camouflage prob ems, he is quite right for once My friend, you are not going to get rid of us that easy! Yes, in deed! This is too exciting to miss Mr. Newmann? How did the mission go? We had a few SETBACKS! We've on y achieved the 90% of our objectives Oh! But do you have the lynxs? On y the female. We' go back for the rest if we don't have any more... MISSHAPS No, no. Just fo ow the p an We will meet in Bo onia beach at dawn I'll be there and p ease accept my apo ogies, mister Operation "Search and Rescue" it's about to get on the way! Oh, fine! And how do we just find them? "Super agent" Gus? Hey wait a minute... Lynxette! - WHAT? - No, I mean the brace et! I gave her one of those locators they put on us Of course! The tracking devices are back at the she ter! Geee! Wrong! One: We just said we can't get back there! ...and Two: You gave her a WHAT? - Gus, not now Are you mad? You'll be trapped for the rest of your ife! Just ook at him. He's having a fit Wait a minute... I think I have the so ution Whatever we could do without you, Gus I must confess that considering your repuitation, and the size of your fee I was expecting a f awless operation The setbacks were due more to prob ems with the... "human resources" than to my hunting ski s STOP! I told you to check the cages carefully, one by one Do you wanna get caught? A slip ike that cou d ead them to us and ruin the who e p an! Oh, sorry, I can replace the team if you wish No, this bunch of idiots wi I be more than enough to capture your litt e critters Their inaptitude wi just make the job more... chal enging Hey, number eight, give us a hand down here After years of hard work, my masterp an is ready Look I had no idea about the scope of the operation This ooks quite fancy Who do we help? Let's see... THEM! You are so use ess, let me try This is ike the county fair game We'll finish the inventory today and drop the report of a the anima s we've sti got to catch - And the ones that got away? Don't worry I've a ready thought something It's mine! ...the animals that are missing. When I've got them a... - What did I te you? - They did come highly recommended! Loading of cargo finished Bri liant! I know only one way to do things... BIG What do you think? As I said before, don't worry about the escaped animals. I found someone e se to handle the prob em I'll have a metting with him this afternoon Somebody bringing my briefcase About time Gotcha, crazy o d man Let's see what you're cooking up There's nobody there! Who the heck are you talking to? Have you ost your mind and now ta k to yourself? What's going on? Come on! Whatever happened with the operation "Search and Rescue" How long have we been walking? A week? One: Not even ten hours, and Two... We've stopped around twenty times just because of you Let's go Gus, We have to hurry before the masked man wil go far away Not "masked" "Evil secret parami itary organization" Can't believe he won't shut up not even underwater! Yeah, we're making good time... with a litt e bit of uck... A ittle bit of luck! Just what I'm missing... Let's rest now. We really need it! Don't worry, if everything goes a right, your litt e ones wi be safe Mr. Noah, if you don't mind I wou d like to start as soon as possible Young peop e are a ways in such a rush! We almost have a the animals and just need a special rare kind of bat and most importantly, wolves But yesterday the most important anima s were the ynxs! Yesterday was yesterday, and today is today If lynxs are difficu t to find, wolves are even more elusive We have been searching for months to no avail You have to go to an area ca ed "El Torca" where you wi find the long legged bat we need Then, you will continue on to "Sierra Morena" for a pair of wolves We will reconvene at the new pick up point and your mission will be over I'll take it from there - Ok, and what about... - You are very stubborn! Forget about the escaped anima s! I put up the money, you HUNT! When the time comes, follow my instructions to the letter and everything wi be fine Now, if you don 't mind, I'd like to be alone I have to hurry up! Oh, solid groud! ...my Teddy! I fell asleep! I was born to be a father Cal ing a mo es! Brothers, I have a job for you! A pha 1 Red, negative! Betha 3, Red B, negative! Gamma 5, Blue 6, neg... I found them. Direction A pha, two, red, B I bet we're fol owing the wrong tracks Those were the track that were most look ike It must be another track with simi ar tires The chicken just woke up! Beeetty was able to save you in the nick of time Thanks, I owe you one Astarte, I'm sorry about what happened I'm the one who's sorry! "You can get the shelter" ..."Everything is going to be all right" - He did his best for everyone - Maybe better for him, but not for me - Ey, boys, chi out!! - Fina y I found you And you? Where have you been? BROTHER? You won't believe it! I woke up in a big boat where a crazy man is co ecting hundreds of animals I pushed my cage ti it broke I wanted to free my family, but the ship started moving and I couldn't do anything but escape and look for help My fami y is sti on board! We have to rescue them! But you don't even know where the ship is I did hear part of the p an, though I heard something about wolves at Sierra Morena They got to meet somewhere e se as soon as the man has a his animals But they're sti can 't find the wo ves when they find them, they' gather them in a boat to a far away is and! If we warn the wo ves, we can delay the ship's departure and have time to find it - Great idea And you? A right, count me in Oh, excuse me! I told him for a hundredth time but he just don't get it Sorry about that! Move somewhere e se! Move to the other side, you are putting me off Sure, my friend, are we near the stone lagoon yet? Yes. But it's going to seem like an eternity! C ose your eyes... so you'll get the fu I effect when you first see it! Let's go girls. We'll migrate another day Say something or I'm getting bored Oh! I see... We are playing hide, go and seek. We, ready or not, here I come! Hundred, ninety eight, ninety, one... I'm here! Move on! Get me some space! Hi Good ooking! And they say I'm a rare species! See ya! I'm so glad we got rid of the wolf hunting with the boss Abso ute y. Choosing between hunting wo ves or bats... bats, anyday! Look. I bet you they are there! One of the most precious gifts the quiropters have to offer can be found on the cave's rich ground Err, the only thing here is mud The GUANO, bat's excrement is greatly appreciate in the ferti izer industry "The ong egged bat is one of the most pecu iar bats" It's definitely pecu iar "It has extreme y, disproportioned ong legs" Definite y long egged ...is just the co or seems to be a ittle odd If it were b ack it wou dn't be pecu iar! It's just like any other bat Ok, let's proceed to the most de icate part of the operation Capture the beast! We're gonna get a meda the size of a frying pan Did you heard like an helicopter? Come on Gus! You're s owing us down Don't you find it suspicious? I've got a bad feeling about this! They are here! We're surrounded! Oops, sorry! Gus, wi you stop being so paranoid? I've seen them! You're in a persecution complex! Suuure, "the chame eon is crazy" "the chame eon is seeing things" Get ready to run in case is those hunters Don't come any c oser You sme I as humans What are you? Some kind of wi d cat? I AM NOT a tamed anima Watch that tone of voice! You are a most a cat and I'm almost a dog... and you know what the humans say about cats and dogs We are looking for the leader of your pack We have very vital information which it'll be on y revea ed with absolute confidentiality I'm one of the protectors of the pack And I don't know why should I trust such a bunch of strangers YOU HAVE to listen to us... Or soon you won't have a pack to protect You'd sound more convincing if your voice stop tremb ing But I don't smel a traitor I'll ca a meeting of the pack council But if anything goes wrong you will be sorry! Here we are! No human has ever been in this p ace I'm not surprised! We'll be safe here This is our most secret place Hey, this is amazing! Hey, what's wrong with you? Nothing... I just miss my family Don't worry, everything is going to be all right That's impossible! Humans! Quick! There's a rear exit that eads to the gorge! Wou dn't be better to give ourse ves up? Run, you foo! Run! Got'em! ...and now et's do some target practice! Wolf! Wolf! Wolf! LYNX? GOAT! Didn't we knock you out already? Ok, first you... and then the rest The cages for the wolves! Yes sir, the other group has arrived Perfect, then we only have to take care of the rebels Are you pu ling my eg?? Nobody is that dumb! Who do think you're kidding? This is not a ong legged bat! This one's stubby egs, and the color is wrong! We are looking for a GREY bat - That's yours - What? No way! And you two? What about you two? Do you have anything for me? Not at a, we didn't capture a bat or whatsoever! Nothing! Yeah! Come on! Next one! If it's not a bat, what is it? Final y! At least somebody knows how to do his job! Mr Newmann, did you get the wo ves? Yes, they were right you said they would be... but something strange is going on here... I saw those animal that got away here too! ...I don't understand it! - You don't need to understand anything Just follow my orders, and we shou d finish the work in no time BYE! Hey Boss, you dropped your phone - Why does he treat me so bad! - Come on... They said it was impossible for them to find us there! It's got to be my fault! There's no other explanation Don't worry! I'm sure it's not you No? Something bad happens to everyone c ose to me... Lynxette, Astart, you... How do you exp ain my accidents? How did they find us in the middle of no where! - Maybe they found us by share luck - Yes, my damn back luck How e se could if it happened? Wait a minute! Of course... It a fits! They implanted us a microchip on the brain and they can fol ow every move we make from an spy sate ite Oh, no, Gus! Please! Not again, Gus! Haven't you earn anything after what happened at the she ter? The on y microchips are in the bracelets at the shelter Not brace ets! Nanobots! They drop them in your ears when you are s eeping I have an idea! Let's see... Just try to ocate us now! Let me out! Let me out of here! I wish you knew how it feels been prisoner in a cage Believe me, I do know But there's a good reason why you are ocked in a cage! Do you... Can you... understand me? Yes, you and a the rest of the anima s But we shou dn't talk about this in here, right? Bring the cage 2203 to my cabin! What else could we do? It was the only way to shut him up What a great idea! A stroll in the desert! Hey, It wasn't my idea! We on y know what Ruppert to d us! - Who decided I was the eader? - I'd vote for you Felix! You got us into this mess! Chi, you guys! Impressive, now that's f ying! Yes, but it gives me the hevee jeeves Where is he going? Hey mister volture! We're not dead yet! Make room! There I go! Yellow bin! Just a sec! I can't believe the peop e throw away! It's brand new! This goes to the electric section Oh, please! Don't touch a thing! There's enough meat here for a full mea and a coup e ight dinners I don't know why you are so disgusted! You eat FLIES! - Mister vulture... - Diogenes, young fe ow - We're looking for the beach - It's that way... Make room! Make room! What's all this? Good question We are tidying up the p ace - With them? - Oh, no they're just interns We have to educate the new generations No, I ta king about THEM Sometimes, those bipeds do something worth while Calm down! How can you talk with us? Ah, that's a secret! And it shou d continue to be one I've always been closer to your kind than to the humans And that's why you hunt us down and keep us in cages? What have we done to deserve this? Not at al. Actual y, a I have is thanks to you When I was a chi d, I talked with the animals as all children do But unlike the others, when I grew up I never lost that abi ity I was that simp e! I wasn't bitten by some radioactive animal But my problems began when I tried to te peop e about it No one be ieved me They thought I was crazy and they ocked me up What a non sense! How could anyone talk to the anima s? Those were the worse years of my ife So, I kept my secret I found more peop e with the same abi ity And I knew then I had to use my gift to he p you And this is the way you're he ping us? Let me explain! I started sma It's easy to win at the track when you get your information ...straight from the horses mouth! I tried other ventures, that is a so easy if you have a litt e help Things were working out pretty we! You know what they say... "Money gets money" And that's how I bui t my ittle empire Thanks in part to you So, to thank you a I, I thought up my ittle plan... THIS plan! Mr Newmann? How is the mission going? It's a desert here! There isn't an animal in... They've got to be nearby I'm afraid not, we've scanned the who e area and... There they are, Mr. Newmann How the blazes does the o d guy do it? What about you? What brings you here? They're after us! They're after us! Yes, they're fol owing us, re ax, you shou d learn Tai Chi! Bad news. The hunter brought that b ack hawk with him! That's not bad news, this is the moment I've been waiting for Hear not the voice of revenge for it wil ead you a stray Oh just shut up, you bug eyed beetle eater Where is your circus? Bearded lady? This of a unatic izzard At least I don't butt heads for sport - Reptile! - Ruminent! - Big mouth - Horn head - Sca y skin - Fat bag We're not fast enough to run away, but... Diogenes, cou d we use some of your stuff? Of course, young engs. Anything you can recycle! Cou d someone distract the so diers and get one the flying curtains? Me! Me! You better leave me that for me. I'm your goat! He never lets me do anything! This is going to be a lot of fun! O d buddy, today we' both finish what we started... NOW Nimrod! Come on, dummy! We're fa ling behind! What do you want me to do? Pedal? Oh, you've an engine behind you! Oh, it's true! There she is! Baby, I'm here! Careful, strong winds up here! The goat is cool! Look! They're shooting! Get your riff e and earn your keep! What's going on? Wake up! What a mess! Wake up!! Today, boys and girls, with a I this stuff and a coup e of rubber bands and our ittle hands, we're gonna build an extraordinary device ...to escape from the bad guys - We don't have time for jokes, Gus And we say good bye with the tip of the day... GUS!! Come on! We don't have all day! But what is he doing?? Oh, what a shame! I missed! Yellow be y bird! Boss, we should leave right away! The wind is changing! Turn around. If the goat escapes, we're doomed! Got you now! You won't get away this time... - That's the goat I ran over! - Coo! I'm sorry Fe ix. I went crazy when I thought I'I never fly again It's Ok, I'm so happy you get better! Thanks, some things are more important than flying ...ike friends you can trust What do we have here! I'm sure everybody's gonna get an A in Show and Tel Didn't you forget about Felix asked you? Of course not! Here IT IS! We'll continue on the ground. Pick us up later at windfarm I don't think so, we can't f y... - PICK ME UP THERE! Fe ix, hurry up! You have to go Thanks for everyting Is everybody ready? Good uck, my friends! And who are you? I'm a ong legged bat I used to be a masked henchmen but didn't rea y worked out Are you looking for a job? The wind is blowing up! OK, Beeetty, now! Keep walking! Come in up Fe ix! Fe ix, no! Stop! You have to stop this thing! I can't, it is going too fast! Is not his fau t If I go with you, they wi catch us sooner or ater Without me you wi I all be safe There's not excuse for what you've done There is, the end justify the means: To avoid your ultimate demise But at what price? You can't just capture us and ho d us here because you feel like it Being held in cages for a litt e while is a small price to pay when you face extintion Soon we wil take you to an is and far again from humans where you can a live safely But that's still a prison There must be another way... Like what? Parcial so utions don't work Who many of you lynxes are left? Someone has to do something about it Tell me: What is the point of being free ...if you are not a ive? But what's the point of being a ive if you are not free You were caged once, would you like to be ocked up again? Do you see? Felix didn't have anything to do with it! We are going to get caught anyway We are loosing speed Screaming Eag es Squadron to the rescue Ready? Bombs away! Eagles! Eagles forming for a second run P ease, please, can I? Permission to join the party granted! What? A few little droppings are not going to stop us... I can't believe it! Escape plan now! This is the end! Not in my watch! Stupid goat! Now it's rea ly the end! Beeetty, wake up! Ruppert, I need you. Where did he go? Astarte! Wake up! This is a very de icated situation Is the perfect mission for Gus You can't fail, everything depends on you Mimetic abi ities in order Just try to find me now, butterf y hunter Ruppert! What are you doing here? I have... something to tel you. I thought I was he ping you... and "Operation Mo e" is sti I on... Mo e? We, I liked the p ay on words I needed to find the animals that went away and who better than a mole to be... a "mole"! How cou d you? So I made a dea with him: Freedom for his fami y in exchange for information After all, mo es are not in danger for extinction I tagged him with a microchip and I let him go so he cou d find the wo ves and then indicate the position of the escaped anima s to the hunter I am real y not a bad person... You what? Sorry, but I didn't have a choice They didn't find us because you are un ucky, but because of me So it was not my fau t after a I Wait! Good, you are just the one I needed to complete the set I don't think I need this This is small game Kitty, kitty Come here kitty Final y No! What? Mr Newmann? Stop the operation We have to re-think the whole plan Get ready kitty, you are going to extinct for sure now But first et's renegotiate the contract with the old man. That is enough! There is no sense crying over spil ed milk! The important thing now is to find the ship We have ways to make traitors talk... Hold on! I don't rea y know where the ship is They were supposed to capture us and take us there So? We, there's a way to find it: The inter-mole network Mr. Newmann I just was trying to contact you Things have changed... Yes, they have, a lot! I'm in command now! Are you crazy? You can't do this... You work for me... You can't... Nooo Let me out right now! P ease! Let me out! P ease! - I can't stand being locked up! - Shut up I've just had enough of your excentric mi ionair nonsense! Now you're gonna find out what hunting rea y is! Not this stupid game Exp ain me a I this right now! Or you wanna a smaller cage? They've ocator microchips. They're the green signals And this is us right here, isn't it? We, either that stupid cat is a real fool or the ca of the wild is too strong and our litt e ynx is in love I saw him run after you when I captured you Let's prepare him a big we come party Everybody over here! NOW! I never used such rebe ious bait! Everything's ready, sir! Knock the cages anima s with a litt e gas We've got to be ready for a very special guest! The ynx is mine! The rest are yours! Well, the master of camouflage can go and the assess the situation As the master of camouflage is a bit dodgy, I' I fly ahead and see Lynxette! Astarte! Am I g ad to see you! It's ok, we're al here! Not a move until they are a together Don't you know the meaning of SILENCE? - We' get you out of here! - Carefu, stay away of the cargo bay ...the hunter is headed on us! Fu I of dangerous booby traps and you've got to free the o d man I think he'll help us. Ruppert wi know how to find him! So what you see? - Lynxette is all right - What about the rest? There're al sedated but they're fine Lynxette told me what to do Will you stop doing the chameleon thing right now! You are a such party pooper! It's Lynxette, over there! Wait! Remember the traps! Now Take the ship out to open sea. That way they can't scape Fasten your seat belts! Ruppert! Throw the ive saver! It's on your right! To the left! To the right! My right! Not now! Gee whiz! What are they waiting for! Beety! She's gone! And there were so many things I wanted to tell her! Hel o! Did my sweet little green thing miss me! What? Me? No! - Oh my litt e sweety! - Put me down! Where are they going? You, follow the hawk! What a strange mission! And the rest of us are dea ing with those two I have a plan... Excuse me! - That's goat I ran over! - We need reinforcements! We've got three of them here! What kinf of p an is this! P ans are for cowards! Are you the guy who can talk with anima s? Say something! Anything! - Watch out! - What a imited vocabulary Get the remote, quick! Where are the reinforcements? We're so important that they need reinforcements! Why are you ooking me ike that? What are you doing!! Get the remooooote! How humi liating! You used me! The b ack button! Do I have to do everything myself? Give it to me! I'll think twice before getting on your nerves again! What? Me? I haven't moved a musc e! Me? Are you mad? Just look at me! I guess these are the guys who asked for reinforcements, take this! I guess so, it's the same uniform! Do you want to see something rea y cool? Don't even think about it! Remember how mad the boss was last time Oh, just shut up Contro yourse f, Newmann P ease, don't touch anything! Listen the o d man and stop pressing buttons! Guards at the entrance to d me this is real y cool Thats's not it! Look, Fe ix is in danger! You can't go now! Wait! And voi ! - That's the ambiance dome! - Oh, look at that! Beautyful! Not me! Virtua museum! Wait! Look there! Oh! What a beauty! What a prodigious technique! Stop! Look at that! Sub ime! You can taste the tragic so itude of the human sou trough the desperate deformation of the anatomy Look! Don't you see it? What a magnificent symbiosis between the african roots of the art and the exquisite f at composition I rather see a more ana ythic approach Are you nuts? The chromatism is... Come on kitty! Where are you? COME OVER HERE! Ca m down! Remember, attention, patience, concentration... It can't be! What's all that? WE'RE SINKING! Woman and anemic soldiers first! Quick! Get me out of here! Yes, sir. Right now! We, there's one way to get you out of this hole! We have to check the extent of the damage! You're kidding? No, but this ship is supossed to be prepared for situation ike this! In fact, the evacuation is ready on the way Get out of the way! Perfect! Everything is working fine! Now we have to get into a life rafs outside What about Fe ix? I'll make it easier for him Hey, something is to be blocking the hatch! It's not working! Nothing! I'm sorry, Ruppert... Ruppert? Look! Thanks buddy! It was the least I could do, now if you excuse me I've got a job to do! Super Ruppert to the rescue! It's extinction time! Get your human paws out of my friend!! What the...? Good move! Oh, no, Gus!! You stupid hunter! You don't know who you dealing with! Let me go! We've not finish yet! If anybody's going to be hurt, that' be me! Everything bad always happens to me! You're not going to catch me off guard this time! Admit it, Fe ix! You can't fight bad luck! It's your destiny! Fe ix, you're a magnet for accidents! Fe ix and his bad luck! Fe ix! I'm ok! I'm quite used to this! But he is not I guess you're not as tamed as I thought after al! Come on! We've got to get out the ship! I'm trapped! He's gonna drawn! Do you worry about him? We're running out of time! I can't reach... THIS! I'm Newmann! The best hunter in the world! I always win! No anima can beat me! I'm Newmann! Fe ix... My dream has come to an end My perfect plan A though, wait a minute! What if al create an island just for humans and then we cou... Nevermind Don't give up! We're coming! Oh, no! They've seen us! We're doomed! Sink the raft! I tel you! I just no understand some people! I don't get it. We are in the do e again! Bah, don't worry! Something will come up! Thanks, I can't believe what you did for us That bracelet wouldn't have been much he p ocating you I know But that's not why I kept it I kept it because you gave it to me Hey, hey! Wait a minute now! Can I be the best man? P ease! What? The new Gus is nice! And no more paranoias! Congratulations! You are a brave anima Now I see my p an didn't much sense If all the ynxs are as brave as you are Not even the great f ood cou d make you extinct It's a jinxed lynx! But it's OUR jinxed ynx! This is the end! Good bye freedom! So long hunting nights! ...Bye bye to adventures... - Don't spoi the moment! - Wou d you do the honours ancle Gus? - Me? Amazing! Doc, this too good! I sti I can't believe it Looks ike we have a new lynx cub! And born free in the wi d! You'I see... This is going to be a really cushy job Wait a minute! Don't we have seen this lynx somewhere before? I don't know, they all look the same to me - Sorry, each lynx is unique! - Unique? - You are the rare here - Don't push me!... If you don't mind, would please give a ticket on the very next plane to anywhere in Africa No! Please! Kitty! Get away from me! No!
