 

                        THE SECRET OF THEIR EYES June 21st, 1974... was the last day that Morales had breakfast with Liliana Colotto. And for the rest of his life he would remember every detail of that morning. They planned their first holiday, with some tea and lemon because of the cold, that he drunk with some sugar. he will always remember that real jam, that he would never taste again. the tiny flowers on her dress but mainly.. her smile. that smile just awaken mixed with that ray of sun in her cheek and that... im afraid - the gates of heaven must be open, because an angel... -Esposito.. -Bye, girl -How you say you are? -How are you, Doctor? -How are things, Chief? Is the Doctor in? -Go on, she's in there. -Thanks holy father, you look well sitting down there -Hee hee, what a mother fucker... -Less legs than a passport picture -The gates of heaven must be op... -Your highness... -What a surprise! -How are you? -Nothing. I just came by to talk a bit. Are you busy? -No, i was just looking over a speech, but i know it by heart. Coffee? -I was asking, because maybe in your priestly life, you decided to take care of yourself. -Mariano -Yes, Doctor? -Go to the coffee shop and bring us two coffees -but i must finish off the files -which files? Let me introduce you to Mr Benjamin Esposito, recently retired from the palace ...and an old friend. Mariano, the new boy of spring/summer not bad take this, bring some petite fur if you want, also a Tita -More milk than coffee for me, please -That's right, you have this little problem... ..you're old more milk than coffee for this gentleman who has this elderly problem wait..you wanted me to say something important? -No, well...think not -Leave it open, kid. Come, sit down so what do you know about writing books? -What? i spent all my life writing. I can show you all the files -Ah, the files and how many pages will you have in your new file? does it have a title? -a bit of help would be great what do you want me to do? to behave like someone retired? asking if you need help, a coffee? i want to write what's wrong on that? and i want to write about the Morales case I don't know why i was thinking about it we never talked about it... why didn't we? -With your handwriting this is going to be a great mess -ah, wait...look -anyway, we will not have problems at the pace I'm at... ...i couldnt finish the 5th line I'll end up spending all my money on paper -Come, come here, give me a hand -cant believe it -its really heavy -cant believe it, the old Olivetti -it was stocked with the case of heary dwarf -the "a" was fixed? -hah, how funny, with the "a" anybody can write take it, you two dinasours will come to an understanding -i think that now, i won't have any excuses. i will have to write but where can i start? -Start where you remember the best it was 20 years ago, what is it? what do you think most about? -guys, allow me to introduce you to your new boss... just come from Harvard Miss Irene Menendez Hasting -Hasting, it is Hasting, its scottish -i'm sorry -Hasting, new secretary of judge -subofficial first, Benjamin Esposito -in fact i went to Cornell, not Harvard -A pleasure, Pablo Sandoval official, but first, at your service -Che, whats up? are you here? -Yeah no, its that I can thin of many ways to start. But I'm not sure that they're connected with the story -then start with the beginning and don't fuck with it -blood bank, hello? -Mr Esposito they called from the 25th, they have a case -secretary 18th, it's their shift -but they say its rape-murder -secretary 18th! -good morning -good morning -miss secretary Did a saint die? -why? -well, because angels are wearing black -ah, no, its a trick we angels use to look 3 kilos slimmer bring the things on the Chavez case we have to start with them -of course -you are such a tender kid -why? -why? A chick comes and you already have a sentence for her? -thing is... I may look like a frog but I'm really a charming prince -Mr Esposito -What? -they say that Dr Romano said this case is for us -Dr Romano? Tell him that General Esposito is going to kick his ass -ok -where are you going, asshole? she comes, and i'm a blank -forme is easier, Benja i'm not in love -me either, jerk go on -what i say is, you took the files and put them right there not too complicated -Che, Romano, what did you say to 25th? its yours -we agreed to make on you one us, whats the deal? -a robbery, not a murderer, cheater one and one if its the same -what can i do? ask him to Dr Fortuna Lacalle -im asking for a solution not 2 problems -excuse me, my dear why a problem? -no, Dr. i meant, it would be childish to bother you with this its something we can solve by ourselves -by the agreement, the case is yours and hurry up with it.. ..or instead of a murder scene you'll find a funeral -how are you, Baez? -here i am and you -tired of being so happy -i can see the joy in your face -like a dog with two tails if there's one thing i love... it's that the asshole Doctor sends me to see a dead woman -watch out, there are thousands of assholes like the easy asshole, never bothers he knows he's an asshole never fuck with anyone -how are you inspector? -hah, talking about you -and we have the asshole that think he's a genius screwing it all the time and we must clean up their shit like that, i dont have one i have two: judge and colleague from the 18th i dont know if he's a jerk, a mother fucker... or a clever combination of the two this was his cause, thats why i ask you if you can, talk with the judge, explain to him that... -Liliana Colotto. 23 years old, teacher married since the beginning of the year to Ricardo Morales, from National Bank -the old woman says that she didn't see anyone. the two workers hadn't shown up for days -sure about that? -she said she hadn't seen them -im going to see the husband at work -im going with you -Ricardo Morales? -yes, that's me -Inspector Baez, federal police -somebody else had keys for your house? Have you seen any strangers around recently? A neighbour told us that you came home every midday. Isn't that far to go? sorry, i didnt understand -we had a habit, to watch The Three Stooges together at midday. She had so much fun...with them -well, you will have to come with us to the morgue. We'll try to make things fast -che, whats the problem with the "a"? please, take it away from here -but where do i leave it? -i dont know, but i cant even look at it -hey, Benja. tell me if you like it: by this i state that, I, the judge in criminalistic Dr Fortuna Lacalle, declare myself... ..completely insane and incapable of acting. -No, no, no. That's not the way. let's see no, no, its like this: because of articles number i state, big letters, that Raimundo Fortuna Lacalle, is a crazy man demented, in juridical meaning as a delusional-minded case therefore, unable to face acts of civil life -how are you Doctor? Do we have papers for today? -ah, yes, doctor, the case of Nicolosi its what we have -Not much, Dr just some citations to witnesses -yes, sorry, one last file -ok, thank you -how are you doctor? -how are you? -Benjamin -che, Benjamin. so you can see the good will of the 18th remember the other day you were a bit mad with us? here you are, case is solved. It was 2 workers who were in dept 3, and killed her they are already in jail in the 25th when the judge wants it, you can bring them -wait, wait, wait. which workers? -i tell you: Jacinto Caceres, from Bolivia, 35 Juan Robles, 34 at least, this one is from Argentina -you really amaze me, from now on i will give you all the difficult cases -please, doctor. i always say better to help than fight -Exposito, how are you? -Romano told you i was coming? -yes, i was sending a report to the judge I'll send you the prisioners tomorrow its them, they already confessed -open it, come on -i ll send them to the judge -come on, let me in -it must be authorized by Cicora -Listen jerk, Cicora is about to receive a citation in the ass you want one too? for me its the same, what do we do? you are Caceres? -no, im Robles he is Caceres easy.. -you are a one huge motherfucker -whats your problem, sicko? -you found two fools, two fools didnt you read the description? -what the fuck do i care? -they beat them according to your orders -you know where I'm going now? To chambers im going to make a complaint against you -you know where I'll put your complaint? -no, i will put it in your ass! -go, go and make it. All this trouble because of two little blacks -I'll black your eyes, you fucker! you will never come to this judge's house again -stop it, stop it -you dont know who are you fucking with you have no idea! -benjamin, benjamin -easy, easy. im going to chambers i'll be right back -i think it's ok I'll be right back did you see Sandoval? -he's gone where? -i think he left by Talcahuano street -attention a moment, please. The minister has just arrived. Benjamin Esposito, greetings -my god, how much is it? -you dont have to pay anything what i drink, i pay for.. you know it besides its early, what the hell then im going to pay ..so im taking the money no, im taking the money, im giving... everything is ok. so, here Mr Esposito is going to pay for a round -No no no -Dont touch me, dont... not here In here yo're not my boss dont embarrass me in front of my friends -i dont cover you again -yes, let me go -why do you keep on doing these stupid things? -yes, lets go, lets go. easy everything is okay we're leave im leaving -see you -bye, the coat. -here it is, here it is...lets go you are his wife, this is his house -i cant take this any longer... no -you should thank me for bringing him back at this hour -i dont know why he comes like that this is your fault -mine? -who is it? -Benjamin Esposito -Who? -from the judge's house, remember? -she was pretty, wasn't she? -very -i feel really sorry for those men yeah, they must be free by now they had to be checked by forensic doctors because of what i told you -no, no, carry on looking so you can get to know her better here you have more i spend all my time looking at her photos i know, im not facing the truth, but well it helps me to carry on living until we catch this guy that's when she became a teacher then she came from Chivilcoy to live here, in the house of her aunt, working in a school i met her in there, she came to pay her taxes at the National Bank i still can't believe how i dared to talk with such a beautiful woman tell me something, when this guy is caught how much time will he get in jail? -murder-rape gets life imprisonment what else can we do? we can't kill him in argentina -i don't agree with the death sentence -no, me either...i meant maybe it would be retribution for you -retribution? what? is he going to be raped and murdered like her? no, they would give him an injection and he would just fall asleep its not fair. can you imagine how much i'd desire an injection like that? those are from when she was 17 or 18 years old a day in the country side, in Chivilcoy, do you know Chivilcoy? -no -i do, i went with her, to meet her parents no, i want him to live for many years to come so he can live many years full of nothing what's up? mm...nothing she didnt have brothers, right? -no, why? -do you know who this guy is? he's in several pictures, looking at her i showed her this system because later in life, we forget names here it is... Gomez Isidoro Gomez -so? -i always thought this pictures thing was crazy -well, yes...but, i think it's because of the way he's looking i think its that. you see this guy watching this woman, with adoration the eyes, talk... talk bullshit, they'd better shut up sometimes it's better not to look -we never talked about again when did you come back from Jujuy? -in '85 -why now? -better than flower-arranging -why? -because i've been getting disctracted for 20 years cases, friends, parties a marriage, a few affairs i got distracted now im retired, i dont have anything to distract me the other day i was having my dinner and i saw myself, eating alone and i didnt like myself i know it doesnt happen to you im not asking you to understand me believe me, and trying.. ..to find the whys, the moments everything, everything lead me to Morales its like if my life, would... answer, answer -its okay. It's Alfonso, I'll call him back -its okay, answer -hello -hello, is this Isidoro Gomes's house? -yes -is he at home? -no, no, he doesnt live here anymore -no? -no, he moved. to Buenos Aires -ah, to Buenos Aires. -who is this? I'm calling on behalf of counsellor Mendez it's for a job Has it been a long time since he moved to Buenos Aires? -maybe a month.. month and a half do you know where i can find him? do you have an address? this job is important -i know he's working in a building, in construction he told me.. something like.. Montevideo street, in Lanus I'm not really sure but, what kind of job is it? its a job he will like because its for counsellor Mendez and... tell me somthing, was he friends with Liliana Colotto? ahh..Liliana Colotto she was his girlfriend, in the neigbourhood why? -because Liliana works for Counsellor Mendez it was her who recommended him for the job ah, it was her. he will be happy -really? you think he will remember her? -oh, yes. he liked her a lot but then later she left, for Buenos Aires I don't think they've seen each other since. hello... hello -if we find him, it's going to be a miracle, big asshole. -poor guy, i would like to see you in a similar situation -no, you big asshole. you should tell me and keep it quiet good morning, we are looking for Isidoro Gomez -whats up? may i know who are you? -Mike Hammer, asshole Did he come to work? -no he didn't come we have nothing to do with him -please, just give me his address -right away -we know that Gomez had a phone call last night he had paid the whole week but he left anyway i can search more, if you want -i saw the same pictures i should have found that out -there's no way, Esposito. that case has nothing, just smoke if you think im going to embarrass myself with my collegue from Chivilcoy to enter in the house of an old woman to search for some letters he might have written... and..papa..please, Esposito you are crazy -you know what, Doctor without this, we have nothing -look, you gave enough trouble with your charge on poor Romano he's now who knows where or maybe he is in Chivilcoy why dont you check, he could help you the truth is, i dont know what to do Morales gets worse and worse everyday the murderer knows we are after him i have a judge is a stupid irene..i want to kill her and the only guy i trust is a dumb drunk, an asshole i have something on my favour. small, but something today is 28th, it means that dumb drunk still hasn't got his salary the previous one..he drunk it so, when the barman asks him for money, the guy will face a dilemma If he says he doesn't have any money he goes to jail, he fights, a lot of problems his wife definitely throw him out or... ..he turns around, to his asshole boss that is me, and asks him to pay that's it. The boss is an asshole but not that much of an asshole he will pay. Again but he will ask a favour in return and the dumb drunk will not say no isnt it? i have to pee -hold it The old woman will be out in any moment - Too many inspectors movies. Napoleon Solo Perry Mason... that's your problem che, really, i have to pee ah, motherfucker! I could shit on you! -you fucking scared me, asshole -me, to you? what are you doing here? -i came to help -you should've stayed outside, in case the old woman comes back -she's not coming -how do you know? -she is in the shop. She'll be there a while, calm down did you find something? -letters but they dont have his address. There aren't any envelopes this is recent -so? -how, so? its new -the trash, maybe an envelope might still be there che, there's nothing here nothing, nothing? -nothing -did you look carefully? -want to see? want me to drive? I'm sure that little dog was rapid and you're going to die - i dont understand why you didn't stay outside. The old woman can't know -Benjamin, the moment we came she'd know, sooner or later -thats why we decided to not bring the letters with us you couldn't be so stupid as to have taken the letters, could you? and what if I did? -ay, motherfucker! what? what? if the old woman knows, she'll tell Gomez and we'll never find him. -i dont see it like that -what don't you see? you don't see a fucking thing -you'll see. When i start to study this, you'll see i'll find out everything.. when I'm alone tactical revolutionary command..? ...wrong number.. so? nothing? -dont know, maybe it's me It's as if this fucker knew that we'd read them. just names, nonsense things nothing concrete look, calm down, mum I'm more like Manfredini than Babastro in this way People from Chivilcoy? -give them to me.. Sperm Bank, hello? ...no we only provide... Esposito, Sandoval... Dr Fortuna wants to see you, please when i talk to you, you can hear me, right? -yes, doctor -then i must assume that if i say something and you do the opposite its not because you don't hear but you shit on the order i gave you Is that right, Esposito? -no, its not like that, Dr- and if my colleague from Chivilcoy calls me very angry, because two of my men broke into the house of a poor old woman that would mean he's full of shit -i dont know where your colleague could have come up with that idea -its the same as I said to him, Esposito but look, look my colleague tells me, the other day in the city of Chivilcoy in the streets Sabeiro and Esquiafino city of Chivilcoy, there was a black car parked Peugeot, Capital licence plate and he checked the identification of the car you will never guess who the owner was..tell me, who some Es.. the federal police gave him your work information judge calls me to clarify this point but the truth is i can't so it looks like im not a judge, but a big asshole i say: do "a" and in here you do "z" like this fucking machine... Dr, but.. i think that there's something strange about this -that's right, wait wait, dont go here comes the best part Later you can treat me like an asshole, but now, listen to me because what called the attention in town it wasnt two guys looking like they're from capital city, no or that one of them tied his shoes, no what was curious was that, one of them got inside a store greeted people very kindly bought a whisky bottle and went drinking it on the sidewalk need the description of the guy? We've got to deny it, Benjamin. it wasn't me i wasn't there, i don't know -don't talk to me, never again -but we must deny it -Doctor -get out of my sight, please -are you going to be against us, too? Irene, im talking with you... Irene -I dont know what is worse. the stupid thing you did, or the fact it was behind my back -i thought that you... -you think im useless here -i never said that -you dont have to, it's plain to see but you must know that I'm the boss and you're the employee talks about 5 jobs, one in construction, other selling vegetables Monte Grande, San justo Avellaneda Oleniak, Manfredini, Babastro and Sanchez just one woman, some Rosa i think it's an aunt nothing else, can't count more the rest is useless -please leave it open, its nothing private i was talking with Fortuna i explained to him that you are stupid i flashed him my most irresistible smile and i convinced him to forget everything i really appreciate it, doctor -i beg that from now on.. you don't do this kind of thing anymore you can go. -i have a doubt, if you'd allow me what is that irresistible smile? I don't think I know it Why would you? I only use it on my boyfriend. Just as it is should be -of course. okay, i don't want to bother you -bring me the case of Colotto and I'll close it the subject is closed Engagements. today kids make fun of engagements who gets engaged anymore? this kid, what was his name? -Godoy Larreta brought him. -it's true -but I'm so silly, i didn't date them when could it be? some months after Chivilcoy? -a week later. i remember perfectly a week after our fight, you came with that Alfonso from god knows where. ready to announce your engagement look here Sandoval, trying to not look drunk -Sandoval...poor -amazing, I see myself but I hardly recognise me, like it's someone else altogether -who were you? how were you? -I dont know, hard, conservative -serious -structured -inflexible -young..young, Benjamin I was young you were also young. Look, all your hair was black and here, looking from the sidelines with a butt face i was somebody else I'm sure the book'll be fine, but I don't want to get involved. you might be at the end of your life and want to look back but I can't i have to go to work everyday to deal with this It might not be the perfect justice, but its a justice of sorts at the end of day I must go back home to live with my husband with my kids, that I love my life was always about looking forward backwards is not my jurisdiction I declare my self unable what a case, it just doesn't want to die Morales -how are you? -how you doing? -I'm Esposito -sure, how are you? I'm okay, and you? -well, here I am want to sit down? how are things? -this month i come here Tuesdays and Thursdays -sorry? -to the station, Tuesdays and Thursdays Mondays and Fridays I go to Once and Sundays Constitucion anyway, i change it around every month he will come here some day I'm sure that if he lives in the region around the Capital, he'll be caught I guess that even after a year you haven't stopped working on him no, no, of course not you must think I'm stupid -no -dont pay attention, really, dont -no, please, it's not like that - the worst is that over time I'm starting to forget her i have to try hard to remember the whole day, night and day the day he killed her, she made tea with lemon for me she heard me coughing the whole night she said it would be good for me All these silly memories come back to me now then the doubts start i dont know if it was tea with lemon or tea with honey and I'm not sure if i have a real memory or the memory of a memory excuse me, i need to talk with you go ahead -thanks something happened yesterday i was thinking all night long, couldn't sleep i was thinking about you you know, when... when you see things from a new perspective when you see somebody, and that makes you see your own life in a different way -go on -yes and i said to myself i have to talk with Irene she could send me to hell sorry...she could get mad, but i must try -if you can wait, i'll close the door -sorry -Sandoval, I'm busy now, when I'm free... -but he called me -yes, I called him, to talk amongst the three of us yesterday i met with Morales at the Station. You know what he was doing? -My crystal ball is broken -this guy goes everyday to stations in the hope of finding the murderer, Dr every single day, he leaves the bank and goes to watch -you dont know the capacity of this man's love it moves me It's as if this woman's death froze him, in time, forever you must see those eyes they are in a state of pure love can you imagine what love like that must be like? without being diluted by everyday life -speak for yourself it hasn't happened to me -we think this guy deserves a chance, Dr -and what's my role in all this? - the case is closed. We should reopen it -you are proposing to me to destroy an official document, with my signature and the judge's on it. To make false declarations in order to make it look as if it is still open? -That's a brilliant idea. i hadn't thought of that. -Don't be an asshole everything okay, Doctor? -tell me, haven't you seen some letters over there? Sandoval? - I think he left for Talcahuano street So, now you don't only escape to drink, you also steal evidence. -Everything's clear now, Benjamin -if Irene wants to read the files.. -hands off, damn it are you crazy? Sit down do you know why we'll catch him, Benjamin? because we are two assholes look No, I've already read this to you -let's go -no, I haven't finished this train of thought i asked myself, how is it possible we can't find this guy? he always disappears. Where is he? then I start thinking about guys all guys, not just this one not specifically this one but... -all guys, yes -right..the general guy A guy can do anything to change, but there's one thing he can't change not him, you, me, anyone look at me. Am I a young guy? I have a good job, a woman who loves me and as you say, I keep on screwing up my life in places like this several times you've asked me: why are you here, Pablo? what are you doing? do you know why I'm here, Benjamin? because it's my passion I like coming here, geting drunk fight if someone fucks with me. I like it with you it's the same, Benjamin you can't get this Irene out of your head she really wants to get married. She's probably got more than 37 catalogues for weddings dresses in her desk she has an engagement with a huge party, but you... you are still waiting for the miracle, Benjamin why? come how are you, Notary? -how're you doing? this is my friend Esposito, Notary Andretta. A real notary, my advisor let's check the first letter of our friend Gomez, never mind the card "I swear, that with the rain I finished worse than Oleniak".. please Juan Carlos Oleniak, he began as a racing driver in 1960 in '61 he went to Argentinos Jrs, in '63 he came back to Racing in a classic with San Lorenzo, they sent him right into a pit, he was all wet something serious, we call him Plato, because he lives for the Academy "im going to bring you here, Mum. We'll be like Anido, but Anido with Mesias" .. Notary? Anido and Mesias. Racing champions from 1961 Blanco, Piani and Corbata, Pisutti...Mansilla, Sosa and Belen "stay calm, Mum, about this, I'm like Manfredini, not like Babastro" Pedro Valdemar Manfredini he was bought by Mendoza for 2 pesos he was an exceptional player for his times Babastro, striker. he played a few matches between '62 and '63 he never scored It says: "I dont want to end like Sanchez" what does it mean? no, he must be talking about the goalkeeper Atahulfo Sanchez eternal Number Two of Great Negri he played a few games between '57 and '61 Notary, what is the Racing Club for you? -it's a passion, my friend even when they haven't won in 9 years? -no, a passion is a passion -Can't you see, Benjamin? this guy can change everything: face, house, family... ..girlfriend, religion, God... but there s something he can't change he can't change his passion It's a beautiful night for playing football... Huracan host to Racing Club of Avellaneda... Racing is not doing well at the tournament... wants revenge against the "Balloons" of Patricios Park.... its the Academy, the Academy, the Academy... this is madness, crazy... -because you don't understand about football... you just must be patient, just that... -no way...I mean there are too many people, it's impossible -he is there, he is there -where? tell me where let's go -what's your problem? We've been here a month, 4 matches motherfuck.... Gomez! come here! you fag! hurry up, Benjamin i had him, he ran away! where is Baez? Baez! he came running. didn't you see him? -What's he look like? -What's he look like? Didn't you see the pictures? -yes, but what's he like? tall, short? -middle tall, thin...what are you doing? I don't know these things, Benjamin this asshole asks what's he like he should be up there, not us -he doesn't know him. We do -"damn animal!" motherfucker, son of the bitch, damn faggot!! get out! -fuck off, son of a bitch mother! -get out, asshole. the police is here -what police, fuck off -I'm sorry. how is it? -I'm waiting for Sandoval -what for? -I play the good guy..its a routine... -older than suckers. Can you question him without the judge? -of course. We must finish it all up before Fortune arrives. He would just screw everything up. are you trying to question a man without a lawyer or judge? Ordoez, have you seen Sandoval? -He left a moment ago -God damn it -listen, it would be not valid anyway what charges would you apply? -What? you think it's enough? -to stare at him in a picture? -that's why i want to work on him. To break him. -and if he's not the one? Don't look at me like that. If he's not the one? -How could he not be? Don't try and sell me on it, Doctor. Go find Sandoval -Should I go in a taxi? -yes, no.. he's must be in Robertino -no, dont go please. no -wait, wait -but what are you doing? -im sorry... it's him -how do you know? -don't know -see? -no, I dont know how, but I know -How? Gomez, Isidoro Nestor ID Number -10140925 -marital status -single -address -Mocoreta 2428, Isidro Casanova -what train do you take to get to capital city? ..what train brings you to the capital? -I dont use the train I come by bus 96 What's wrong? -Mo..co..re... this machine doesn't work the "a" is missing -wait, wait... tell me what's going on, please please, i beg you you are accused in the case of Liliana Colotto Morales on the date of june 21st, 1974 concretely, you are accused of the act. I will make the interrogation you will have a lawyer -Liliana Colotto, she's an acquaintance from Chivilcoy what happened? -tell me, Gomez. why you think you've been here for three days? -no idea, i went to see the Racing -yeah, I know when we wanted to catch you you ran away -what would you do? with 2 guys with mad faces... what happened with Liliana? -look, Gomez, dont play games you know as I do, that you raped and murdered that girl -what? are you serious? how could i do such a thing..to her? its been more than a year since I've last been to Chivilcoy, I can prove it. -i went to find you a week after the crime, but you fled, from home and work -from where?, I didn't leave anywhere. -Gomez, dont pretend to be stupid! from Piedras street. -that's a year ago. I left 'cause it was too expensive -and work? -i found a better job what's your relationship with Liliana? she's a girl i've known since childhood -they cant find Sandoval ..why dont you wait for the Dr? -ok, it could be, it could be look, Gomez. The case judge is about to arrive, we'll wait Im sorry to get into this officially..Doctor I know this is your case... but this boy couldn't have been the one -we can talk outside, ok? -wait, wait. its just a minute Have you looked at him closely? he couldn't've been let me see the autopsy this girl Colotto.. here it is look how she ended up im sorry, Gomez but its not likely, officially the amazon and the dwarf besides, she was beautiful i'm asking you to look at this face a beauty like this is not in everybody's league must be a very special man to have a woman like that -do you think so, doctor? i mean.. the door wasn't broken it means she knew the attacker -yes, but don't tell me that such a woman would remember this kid unless she was a prostitute with some, and he was paying -who is this person? -shut your ass no, the girl was decent -hmm, on this i agree with the kid for me, the guy from the bank was really cheated He must have had one of those convertible cars, so horns could be out what are you laughing about, stupid? the guy who already gave his witness statement that one... that it was a tall big-backed guy a man able to make a woman hot look at this thing surely when she saw you she thought this asshole again, with his stupid looks, saying "i love you", "i adore you" yes or no? take him out, please... leave... -i caught you, you son of the bitch you are all crazy listen Benjamin...the destruction of the right skull bone shows an attacker with great upper body strength look at this.. two strips of spaghetti. and so, the depth of injuries in the vagina allow us to know, this man was extremely well-hung of course, nothing like this insect, who must have tiny roasted peanuts for balls. here you are, pussy bitch do you like it? my love...don't try to catch this one here. you are too small. Not enough man for me not enough...bitch! you know how i fucked her? uh? you know how? don't touch her! -let him go you touch her, and I'll kill you I'll kill you you are Esposito? you are Esposito or you are not Esposito? -hello? -hello, it's me..did I wake you up? -no, I was working, writing a bit. Strange, you being awake at this hour -i was thinking -no way, really? -yes, silly, yes. its about the book when you finish it, i want to read it ah, of course, yes. i would love you to really you want to talk or something? -no, I'll drink my tea and got back to sleep this morning, the president of the nation Maria Estela Martinez Peron... -Irene, it was the dressmaker look, with the cape as we wanted -hello?... Morales... how are you? ..yes, i was watching, mute... ..what?... good morning, I'm Doctor Menendez Hasting from Judge number 42 we came to see Mr Romano, please -at this time he's in a meeting sir! sir! what are you doing in here? are you crazy? -no, you are crazy -Doctor -we must talk to you -boys, can you leave us, please? if you would've told me in advance i would have got some good coffee prepared Isidoro Gomez, rape followed by murder, imprisoned by the judge The service informs us now that he was set free by order of executive power we searched and here we are. something to say? -yes, of course. you must get out a bit more justice is an island in the world but this one... this is the world. and meanwhile you kill birds.. we are here, fighting in the middle of the jungle. Got it? Gomez, Gomez.. yes. He started with us while he was in jail he brought information by spying on young communists he did a great job, we start to like him, why? What's the problem? -do you understand what you're saying? he is a murderer, convicted and self-confessed -maybe, but he is also an intelligent, courageous person intelligent, capable of getting inside a house and doing what needs to be done With all the communists everywhere, i really don't care about his personal life if we only work with good people... He's a prisoner, processed by order of Dr Fortuna... -you think i dont know you released him just to screw with me? you think I'm an asshole? those are 2 questions wich one do you want me to answer first? is this true? -Doctor... lets see, please. Dont get involved in this. what do you want to do? Make some demand? Don't get offended but you're not capable of doing anything What you can do, is go back to your office stay quiet and learn the new Argentina is not taught at Harvard and you, why you did you come with the Doctor? You think she can protect you? Why dont you leave her alone. She has nothing to do with you she's a lawyer, you're a trade expert, she's young, you're old she's rich, you are poor she's Menendez Hasting, you're Esposito meaning nothing she's untouchable you are not let her go back to her world don't be a bad man now, if you have a problem with me come alone, and we'll fix it -let's go Irene there's one thing you do both have in common Neither of you can do a thing you told me life in prison -well, yes he should have got life in prison so what happened? -what can i say? these people stuff justice up their asses Where he is right now, we can't even get close to him -and if we could...what then? what would be achieved by shooting him four times? I'd go to jail for the rest of my life, and Gomez would be free of everything before he even hits the floor And I'd rot in prison, envying him. no, for me, life imprisonment would be fine. -truth is, i would like to help you but i don't know how -who knows..at some other time please, allow me to treat you -no, no -it's just a coffee i really want to thank you, Benjamin for everything you've done without you, I really wouldn't've got this far... i owe you one -Dr Esposito. they are looking for you, for the... -I'm not a doctor, how many times do I have to say it? If you call me Doctor in front of the judge I'll look like an idiot what happened with the file You finished it? -i'm doing it now. -no, you are not. you are here. you should be there... How long will it be before you talk to me? -i talk to you everyday I'm not untouchable, nor from another world -I wish you weren't, but that's the way it is. Irene, let's forget it -forget what? -you'll marry the engineer Zapiola Urtubey Martinez.... -you're not jealous, are you? -no, God be happy and live long -What's your beef? come on, spit it out. -Irene... please -what are you watching? leave -where shall we meet? -what for? -So you can air all your objections to my life, marriage, and everything else in bed we can share a coffee when we leave -time? -the immortals -the Richmond -I'm sorry, I can't think of anywhere more sophisticated -no, Benjamin, somewhere farther away. what are you doing there watching us? -sorry, you got a phone call from the Mala Yunta bar Pablo Sandoval... you big motherfucker! -wash your ass...fag! -no, no..Benjamin..i told them i didn't want them to call you -i told them..don't bother my friend this is between us -what kind of a man are you?? fucking drunk -it's a nazi, fascist..nazi -official, I'm from judge house 42 i'll take care of him -come, come -he should be in jail fuckers, you'll know what justice really means -coat, my coat -you have it on you -what time is your wife back at home? -at 8 -strange, she's not picking up -my mouth is...dry.. do you have something...for... -she's not answering, che leave that -she won't answer -why? -because the phone's not working -why not? leave that -i told you a thousand times, Benjamin i wanted to make a complaint and you sent me to hell -that was 6 months ago -the phone's not been working for a year fuckers never fixed it -what a mess, you can't stay here today leave that. don't touch it -if you ever call me, you would know that -stop touching, what are you looking for? -i wanted to make a complaint look at me.. you have a chick? -no, no..what chick -you have a chick and I'm leaving.. I dont want you to say: Sandoval screwed me god damn it, how many sofas do you have here? -come, stay calm, come -i fucking hit myself -that's why, relax here until you're sober -what time is it? -There's a clock in the bedroom -what bedroom? you are in my house -yes, we are cool we are cool -im going to your house to convince your wife not to kill you. Be right back -call her by phone -didn't you tell me its not working? -mine doesnt work but you can use yours you stay here, calm dont touch anything wait for me, I'll be right back -turn off the lights -yes -we are going to catch this motherfucker we were working the whole day -leave it, that's enough -give me the chance of explain -ok, but its the last one you get -truth is you could have also remembered -show a little pateience, he needs help -Does he? -i know, what i meant is if we help him, we help all of us -you dont want him to bother you -dont tell me that what's this? what happened? -wait, wait -what happened? -don't know -dont scare me -wait a bit what, what happened? this is crazy, crazy -crazy would be that i can find that one -you? you are going after him? -i told my father, he knows this guy works for Romano and Romano will not mess with me -but Jujuy? -my cousins are powerful there they won't not dare touch you there, don't worry -but what am I going to do in Jujuy? -the same you're doing here, signatures stamps, you have everything ready there -no, no Irene i can't, i can't i have my life here i have my dad, i have... i have everything -what are we going to do? here... we.. i mean, you and me we can't do anything it's a first draft I'll make more your house it's just as I imagined -really? Like how? -how do you think? just like just like I imagined -right. but I I thought your house would be different -you know my house? -no, different to this one, I mean -what are you afraid of Benjamin? There's a piece of paper here that says "i'm afraid". What are you afraid of? no, no, that was just an exercise I did to open my imagination. Don't pay any attention to it ok, so...tell me -well, it's a book, right? a book doesn't need to be true not even realistic -yes no, no..what's not realistic? -Benjamin, that part when...the guy goes to Jujuy The guy's crying is despair and she's running along the platform as if she's losing the love of her life touching their hands through the glass as if they were a single person she's crying, as if she knew she would be fated to suffer a fake love almost falling on the track, because she never dared to show her love -yes..it was like that, no? if it was.. why didn't you take me with you? silly And how does the story continue? -i dont know, if you want i can write that the guy... was counting guanacos in the desert for years when i came back, i found you were a prosecutor married, with two kids. Want me to write that? -yes, or that he came back married to a pretty Jujuy girl aristocratic -she was a wonderful girl it wasn't her fault if i wasnt able to love her -what a disgusting ending, this book -fucking ending i don't want to leave everything again How can I? how is it possible I don't do anything? I've been asking myself that for twenty-five years, and for twenty-five years I've thought- leave it, it was another life stop it, don't ask, don't think about it it wasn't other life it was this one it is this one now i want to understand how we do it, living an empty life? how do we live a life filled with nothing how do we it? -no, it's impossible a waste of time -you just do it -change of address? I've had the same adress since I danced Pata pata ...sorry Gomez Isidoro, Espora 691 Chivilcoy -just what i said. his mother's place -look, Sir. Registering a change of address is a requirement, whether you like it or not got it? -yes, now i do Morales Ricardo.. we have 4 you tell me -lets search by ID number what's yours? -3 million, you? -200 million, none of your business we have one 5 and other of 6 here, Morales Ricardo Agustin he changed his address in 1975 write it down.. pata pata who are you looking for? Morales how are you? remember me? Esposito, from the judge's house like 25 years ago what a surprise -yes, right? how are you? -how do you do? it's been so long what a big surprise -yes come, get it Can I get you a coffee? -coffee, of course. you don't drink mate here? -Here? I'm at the bank all day. -ah..you're still at the bank I'll take one coffee you came right away -well, yes i wanted to start over to leave everything in the past that's a good thing about the national bank... it has branches everywhere. there's always one that nobody wants so here i am I was even promoted, you know do you remember Liliana? -yes, of course and you, how are things with you? -me, here i am -i mean, alone? are you married? -no..not in fact i think that for me at this point life is over no..i tried, but you know... it's complicated i got married -no way yes, for a while but it didn't work don't know, maybe it was me it's complicated -it's complicated -look at all this work I can't believe it i want to be a great writer yes, but you must work more on it. It looks like a long memorandum it's crazy -it's because I always remembered it bad done. You really should forget it you came here because of Gomez, right? -why because of Gomez? If the guy was free, he could come after you no, im not afraid of Gomez -he might even be dead -yes, he might be they came for me, too -yes, i know -how do you know? -i have just read it, they found your friend Sandoval, poor sap. You remember him, don't you? -no, no -my workmate, from the judge's house they came for me, didn't find me. he got it. -Motherfuckers! Gomez was never found, right? -guess -these guys always get away you know, i want to ask you something cause, i don't know how how did you learn to live without her? -it's been 25 years, Esposito -i was sure you wouldnt be able to. -it's been 25 years, Esposito -with this guy free, how did you do it? -its been 25 years forget it if it wasn't for me, you wouldn't be here remember that? you owe me one -i don't know what you want, don't know what you're talking about -you say that you did nothing with this guy free? -right, i couldnt do anything -no? you spend a year searching for him and then you do nothing? -right, i was after him for a year, then they got him and set him free what can i do? -that's it? it's over? you spend the rest of your life with stamps? -look who's talking -you are better than me -what do you care? it's my life, not yours -no, Morales..it's my life...too your love for this woman i never saw the like from anyone anyone never -get out of my house now, please it's my life not yours excuse me i... it's an old man thing maybe it is it's just that i think about it all the time -Go home, if you want to think about it all the time Sandoval wasn't killed by Gomez so? -Gomez knew us both. If it was him he would've waited for me there's something...in my house there were a couple of pictures of me when they killed Pablo, Sandoval's pictures were upside down all the rest were in order they hadn't touched anything i thought.. i think Is this Esposito? Can't you hear, asshole? Are you Esposito? -what happened? -what are you doing? answer me what are you doing? where are you going? where are you going? -here -what are you going to do? -im going to put on some music -put on some music? listen are you Esposito or you are not Esposito? it's me i feel so embarrassed that i can't even go to cemetery with some flowers or maybe it wasn't like that maybe he went to sleep, and they killed him just like that, not knowing And the pictures fell on their own by chance, some movement don't know i think, and think, don't know what to think -choose well all what we have left is memories at least, let's have some nice ones -but there's something i will never forget last thing he told me the night they killed him dont worry, Benjamin. we'll catch this motherfucker and i will. if he's alive, i will wait come in, sit down dont search anymore i couldnt go to the ministry. i knew this guy was untouchable there but i also knew that, sooner or later he would come... for you i got rid of the body and its clear that nobody missed him too much Was it worth it? -I don't think about it anymore dont think about it anymore who cares? my wife is dead your friend is dead, Gomez is dead all of them are dead dont think about it anymore you will start with.. if i was..if i wasn't.. you will have a thousand pasts, and no future dont think about it anymore believe me you will only have memories i owed you one, right? now we are even dont think about it anymore i thought about it so many times what can I achieve by putting four shots into him? it's my life, not yours go to your house if you want to think about it we are going to catch him it's been 25 years asking myself about it it wasnt another life, it was this one a guy can do everything to change what can i achieve by putting four shots into him? but there's one thing he can't change not him, you, me, anybody, Benjamin how is it possible to live an empty life? how can carry on living a life filled with nothing? how can we do it? you know how I fucked her? -what retribution? it's as if that dead woman would froze him there, forever my woman is dead, your friend is dead Gomez is dead, they are all dead they'd just give him an injection and he would just fall sleep nobody, Benjamin no, i want him to live a long life so he will know that those years will be filled with nothing how did you manage to start over? -it's been 25 years please ask him, ask him at least talk to me please you said life in prison im afraid i love you Is the Doctor here? -yes, she's in the office you're still alive i have to talk with you do you want some coffee? -leave, kid It'll be complicated i don't care close the door
