 

                        tryllu - 25.000 Name of movie: Summer Things Silome, please go there alone I don't want to go there, because I have nothing put on this red suit, you wear it every time when you need This is what I dislike They don't want to see I wear green suit again listen to me, you know our circumstances what are you doing? Ventilate the window Room would be a little warmer after I done this, good for sale Stop frivoling house, you can not sell off Selling out it is because of there is the shadow of the failure here, I can feel it What's the matter with your hair? You sheared by yourself? See, there are so many indentations a little difficult to cut back side So stop it But we have to saving money We don't have another choice, we have no money I don't know what should I do I can't the gross wear the same clothes Especially standing in front of Elesabess I have told you I suffered the too many humiliating because of her life, do you understand? From now on, we must curtail expenses We should pay next year's tuition for Loyic do you know what I knew from Wealon in gymnasium They want to go to Tuhge spent a holiday, they will go to semester same as us They will set out with us When should we leave? Day after tomorrow I am very happy maybe we can go to Barli, but too costly for them once I see she dressed red suit, I want speak out faint, why she always wearied that suit? She has been wearing the same clothes in past 5 years Why Amylee didn't come? She is preparing stuffs for the trip I have told you She already 17 years old, it's very normal if she want go to the United States with companion she doesnt interest at traveling with parents By the way, there are nobody would be interested in Tuhgo I repeat, I do not wish go to those timelessness at all I should have enough rest in this year I really need a vacation Yes, I agree what kind of holidays? However, what you wanna do? Well, I still want a travel bag I discovered yesterday they are Not matched what? They are not match my notions which I bought in Paris My feeling, What's your opinion? I agree well, I should go to office now. See you later, honey My God, I can not bear anymore Can I complete the matters that office have? You are still here? I think you've leaved Still got something to do I will show you this tomorrow Go home, you looked very tired Where will you go during holiday? I want go to Danjike to accompany my parents, Sir My name is Belldon Good, Belldon Damn! You are crazy! He wants to choked us to death I am very careful Let's me look at this He is staring me very strangely Don't worry, however, father did not see Before that boring dinner, I have time to visit you What's the matter with your feet? How blamed the gas meter is! Very painful? That's ok hey, Are you joking? I almost bone fracture but you said that's ok? Come on, let's go to drink his collection so strange they are around living room Stop that, too dangerous Thank you Good evening, Amylee why you collecting gas meter? This is my favorite Do not throw it Good evening, ladies and gentlemen it is Juliet Juliet, does she eat the supper with us? I have told you do you want more? Thanks, I haven't finish You are late this is third time really? This is not my mistake Juliet together again, I still think them to come back from the concentration camp Get ready, let's begin Come why you want spend holiday with us? I feel very good Selome made this choice What? You chose the place right, it is incidental. You affected me to made this plan Come to taste this fishpaste, quite good This nothing important, hey, Loyic, are you full? You are more easy to serve than Amylee I just do not eat the disgusting prawn You ate before, when you are young, prawn is your favorite I changed now Who drink over these white wine? All right, I drink what you prepared for trip? I did not go to spend holiday this year, I have no time For the a week vacation wasted so many, unworthy all because of the Alice why you didn't come with her? Are you joking? Come with her? Nobody can bear her too exaggerate, I don't believe I hope Maria can come Hurry, Belldon it's definitely slow if you stay with him Amylee, do you spend this holiday alone? Yes She jilted her mama daddy She want go to Chicago with Nina I will worry exactly a week That is a good girl, never out of temper Do you go to Chicago? Wonderful good Yes, and also too dangerous when you will set out? Tomorrow What? You will leave here early than us We will leave here the day after tomorrow I will set out tomorrow, everything is done is there difference between tomorrow and the day after tomorrow? Whole day, and I do not know unexpectedly that I haven't readied so what? Not necessary to worry you are mocking me no well, let's eat something Belldon, have you ordered the flat let in the hotel yet? Yes, lm sorry to did not order whole floor for you let's talk seriously The living room of the suite we never used Add one more bed Why? Do you want to live separately? No, leave to Juliet, she did not spend holiday I don't want to with them, you know, lm not get used to take a holiday You are stupid They can't calculate the money of one more bed? Can't No, that is your holidays And, I want live in very luxurious hotel, meal fee also expensive That will account to the bill it's doesnt matter Do not baffle Juliet I won't I won't baffle her deal please go to get some breads Still have here it's for Alice That's right, we would like to stay with her she is difficult to invite are there any problems if her mother stay with us? Can you pass the meat to me? I have a good idea I agree, because I need have holiday it's non my business Kewon also made decision, there are two matters haven't done Calina is taken ill every two days, Sameier is a silly I'd better leave over I can't spend a holiday alone Juliet no need to sleeping in living room, she can rest on my bed I won't worry about the business of the office Belldon You did not go to spend a holiday? It's doesnt matter, you substituted me I feel Alisabess need rest I think it's not suitable time up to him I will send you go there by car, then return This not only a week Yes Good, come to a decision, I go to take the cream cheese No, it's should be bread will you happy without Belldon? As you known, he is a reparative person during vacation you can go there, we get crazy together, but he is pitiful Selome, hey Selome will we live in same floor? No, we are not in same hotel you don't want go to Cisminste. Very pitiful No what's the matter? These simpletons This is a surprised and pleased, it is really a surprised and pleased I have to let babysitter gone off work I come to accompany you No, you drunk too much This green suit always match you You are still young you always can not know how happy you are, good bye, dear Thank you, Aicsabass See you tomorrow, thank you again Make a phone call to me Leave, lets go Belldon, are you sure you don't want go to? Yes Good night why you don't stop? Why? Go to my home with me are you joking? Juliet are you laughing me? This is all the past matter Everything is all different Why? Too many reasons This is your decision You won't leave Alicsabass forever, will you? No I won't, I told you already, I think expressed myself clearly You take her to go to the bail, but I only can hide in the behind The affair passed by, you have found a nice man Had a child, does that man left you? You got me, then leaved A very important reason It's really a bad person, however you know that is not true I veritably need you, really!!! I am really over drunk I don't care, I'll send babysitter leave here, please come Do not talk silly, good evening lm confused what we are doing now I don't care that's okay The child is awaked, she is crying She will falling asleep, continue Continue Hello, mother? Is that you? No, I haven't leave Nina hasn't come yet, I am waiting for her no, I took everything what I want Toothbrush, passport, condom no, I did not joking, I swear I did not do that, I dislike it I want marry with you, kiss you You know what time is it now? Sorry look at your bag It broke again Do you have the cordage? Do you have whatever things can tie up it first class cabin please queuing there I didn't buy a the ticket of first class cabin Do you did not see the ticket price? We want to queuing in the behind I can't take a trip like this Enough, Amylee find a way quickly, otherwise I will leave Have bought the ticket You go to change That want to try one's luck, but so many people how can I do? Give you five minutes, I wait you here Yes, still have some the seats, do you want to change the tickets? No, just ask Sorry, first class cabin already full. Do you want to leave? I have to work you and Amylee don't go there, how about me? I need rest what kinds of rest? I still take this I want to have another cup of drink Are you so frightened? You are fear. Unbelievable No, I want to go to the bathroom Go ahead, after five minutes, open the door for what? Let me going in to please invite me go there are you agree with me? Good Did you been to Chicago? Yes, I have been there for a week have you been to Chicago? Never I know some divertive places, I can introduce to you if you want okay, thanks Sorry erotomania!!! Why you didn't come? Go to where? Sorry, I forgot ah, no can be Make a phone call to me, let's play together Thank you very much Damn it How can we do? Let's go to shopping, there are so many good shoppers here I have no money Kewon, quickly I had never be vexing like this, I think can't insist more than two weeks Still can not adapt, dear These simpletons talked with me like blockhead I want to hit persons since I entered penitentiary come on, we come here for relax, a little more relaxed This is also my holidays, I need relax I was to be workaholic in this year am I not? I did not say like this I don't want to be tended on elaborately It is either old man or fat patient here I must leave, I can't stay here 10 days anymore Go ahead, after you leave I will be relax You know this impossible, I love you This is not the love problem I only can do this should we go to enjoy Massage Let a man massage for you, I understand Do you come to see me? Mother me too, kiss you Hello, dear I arrived could you make her a little more peaceful? I can't hear anything The babysitter make her crying why not change a babysitter? Nobody would like to look after her Sorry, I went to upstairs just now Before you leaving can you go upstairs to drink with me? No, dear, I don't want to drive in the night All right bye, dear if you arrived, please make a phone call to me take care this car is uncomfortable What a mess! Thanks for they loaned care to us, ours still under fix That car just bought 6 months, why you want change to the engine? Because it's necessary did you book a abode from the native resident? No, what are you think about? Maybe we are apart from Tugo We arrived We are not live in the city center? Hello, it's me I am on the way, I'll arrive about 2 or 3 hours later me too, dear You see, everything is ok. This child looks good it's Temporarily Very strange, I come here with my family every year, for you... No, I don't know You see, this jumbled situation is made by Britisher He never treat me like this Who? Nothing I like here, thats great I never enjoy these the others consider lm garbage Come on, Juliet You are very charming, nobody can resist your fascination I think you made a unadvisable decision Why you called him Eric? Every body is calling mass gists name directly here he will take in another customer soon from now on, I will call you on the morning every day let's go we only have female mass gist please don't mention Eric anymore! Well, we arrived it's same as the photograph's scene This is unique place in the world Did you know here before? Come on~ Launch your blamed car try to find a hotel, otherwise I return to Paris wait, alighting to take a look Come, that's wonderful please come in, I guarantee you will like them Damn, seem to the not enough tightness Don't be unhappy, take a look Hey, my feet If there is a gun, I'll shoot you Loyic, let's go back right, right, we live in here very happy Excuse me, I can not hear clearly, Can I call your cell phone later No, we are going to shopping No, just a easy repair housework Tonight all right She thinks we can meet at 6:00, to attend a cocktail party A welcome cocktail party what should I wear? How about you? How can we go to meet them? You are still don't understand? I tell you, we have no money, even one coin how about the Car? I can try to sell it to pay travel fee we are penniless understand? Where are you come from? I have found this, very deluxe quickly, I prepared the gift My wife has registered in bathing beach, but she too tired now have you been to the bathing beach? Not yet They are always stay together, look like a faction My wife is there Sorry Who is that person? I do not know He is talking with you, you are definitely know who is him. Good evening, we have a appointment with a friend who is living here Welcome, my friend What's the matter with your feet? I trampled her feet What, what he said? Ah, lm very happy to see this skirt again and a old friend I am not clear, he says that he is working for travel agency how about your hotel? Hotel? Unbelievably Actually, that is not a hotel Selome got a good idea, he bought a house for us Wonderful!! In this world, the most beautiful and wonderful water is bath water After making love you are much more romantic No, don't do that again, what's this? A gift All right, stop this action, so vulgar enjoy your holidays where you found this? In the store room of shop No, I don't want Gegrey! I have to make a phone call to my mother no, I have to make a call now What time is it? Damn Hurry, she will be awake Hello, Amylee why you called me this time? Are you ok? Amylee, it is midnight now! Do not cry, Alice, I have no way We just flaked out, that is terrible little girl Do not cry I don't know what you are saying, please stop eat when you speaking how about your girl accompanier? Don't cry Alice I'll put down the phone, because I can not hear anything, I don't know can I resist... see you. Amylee please let her stop crying, she make me crazy try my best What voice is this? That child, she has slept. Amylee called me again at 3:00 how about her situation, is she okay? Very good, but I need rest, I looked decadent when you not here me too, also a little decadent however, don't worry, everything will be better call me if you need my help, I won't vexed Dear, Belldon, take care of yourself well okay, I will Calm down, and take a good rest, kiss you Kiss you it is Alicsabass, sorry I heard I have a little worry about Amylee She just 17 years old my age similar with hers you are different because you are a boy, boys always can get away from the trouble I go to ask what kinds of plan do them have I want follow you No, Ran Peair Please don't follow me, try to look after yourself I know I'll try my best I wanna learn how to protect myself I am very shy, independent is not easy for me especially when I don't know where should I go where you want to go? I was not stay here for a long time so that I also don't know this is first time I speaking since my wife dies Sorry no no, nothing We separated so many years, she had leaved however, you must keep on living lm sorry for disturbed you, please concentrate on your work Is the work interesting? You called Bolina? My name as same as godmother's What can I do for you, madam? I want a plan of tonight How are you, I am Markseem Hello, we have met yesterday Sorry Did you meet the trouble? What? Meet the trouble? You are too beautiful, so that I will have electric shock feeling when I meet you wonderful skin it's not similar with what you thought Come in What's the matter? What are you doing? I saw nothing here what he want to do? I am picking up that plan in front of his trousers? This is a seducer burned between us you are intrigue against each other? Please shut up! What's happened? Do you want massage for me? Is this your plan? Let me go, you make me painful I love you to crazy, lulu! I can do any frantic things If you leave me, I will die, why you did such the doggeries to me? I am very sorry Sorry where will you go? I want to go outside take a deep breath me too, lets go outside together No, I said I want to take a deep breath alone Very suffered? Too basked Did you draw the sun block? Yes I did I bet you used sleazy product come on~ lm not You did not sleep well? The little girl too noisy She always cries to shout loudly The pitiful little girl is not the adapt no I don't think so, we should take umbrella can we rent a umbrella? I think we can't wait a moment Excuse me, you know where can we rent this kind of umbrella? I don't know, sorry We took a child, but too hot I can loan my umbrella to you No no I will give you trouble if I take your umbrella I would like go to swimming now thank you, you are a nice person Thank you very much Let me take her Why? Only tonight, then you can take a good rest Good idea Really, we were saved Especially she will have a big room tonight Good, confirmed. Are you hearing?? You can go to my place tonight. You make me painful, what are you doing? Excuse me, my cramp Don't touch me, too aching We can not sleep well, if young girl live here please do not estimate the child like that only tonight They added one bed now, can I sleep here? Ask them Hearing me says, Loyic, I can't do this it is nonsense, Sorry Come on, cheers Go ahead, sweetie no place now wait Excuse me, can we sit this table with you? Sure please Thanks, you are great I invited you Dear, go to find a chair what would you like to order? I want a cup of champagne No there are four persons here we want the one bottle Ok But maybe Loyic do not drink, I do not know whether he will drink or not Hearing me says that he too is at spend a holiday, and already 16 years old A bottle of champagne, unless he does not want to drink let's drink some He has trait do you know what he told me? All in all, we have a very good villa Dom Mother, this hotel is splendid, I want to live with them interesting would you sleep on the bed of the living room? We exchanged the child, funny Good idea what's the plan of tonight? Nothing, I want to look after that little girl shall we go to the club? I have exhausted I am going to ask that waiter, maybe we can get some suggestions from him Good Evening where is recreational place? Dance? I think you can go to Acxinong, that is best Good Evening Loyic, Can you help us to fill in goblet? Where is your child? That is not my child That is my friend's, she is there I see would you go there with them? No, they dislike the club So, if you are alone, I can accompany you that's great, why not? Can we meet after dinner? Ok, it's my pleasure. See you later wait a moment, Did you order the dinner? There is a quite good fish restaurant locate side road I come with them All right, sorry to disturbed you She didn't sleep well last night, maybe she is going to sleep All right, settled like this I am going to buy the smoke, see you in hall ok I found a partner for tonight's party good evening good evening She hasn't wasted time how did she find?? There is a man accompanying with her, thats enough so comfortable good smell Good We are go upstairs to take the child, then call a taxi Loyic, let's take your stuffs together I want treat you. Thank you for your parasol don't so polite can you help me drink over this bottle of wine? All of them settled it's my pleasure, thanks one more cup please It is very lucky to see you again. Great The sunlight is very important to me where is your husband? Is there arrangement tonight? No, we prefer separated we always stay together before. This is first time I didn't with my husband during vacation. All because of his business but I need rest I have a little worry I also like this kind of freedom very much I have to go, because I must look after a little girl happy to meet you again. Bye bye Impossible what's happened? I can't find the check maybe I putted it in the villa Can I treat you? It's my pleasure I accept However it is what I owed you thank you, I gotta go okay, bye, thank you please come here as soon as possible bye-bye. See you tomorrow do you what I want? I think we'd better order one more bottle For celebrating the freedom Good idea Unimaginable, your mother has no money to spend again Not strange at all, you can thought go to check it out what's the matter? You see, this is the village, very bad However we still would be very happy You know why she act like this? Are all because of Maria I go out to take a look Helping Loyic tidies up his stuffs, in the upstairs. He stays at a hotel tonight stay with Alicsabass and her friends Hotel? Yes You know this child would how? Loyic beg me to let him leave here for one night this oppressive cabin is last property of him we can exchange position of girl and him This is impossible, no You feared, this is very normal thank you very much Sorry Nothing I forgot to take the tissue it's doesnt matter, I think they will be dry later I will compensate you no need, it is my mistake No, what flavor you want? I like very much Make person infatuating with there I just came yesterday, but have annoyed I was going to the surfing, my father has a ship I am live with father, and elder brother, mama and daddy divorced You? My mama daddy is a little crazy Do you like the embark? Yes, I like do you have time tomorrow? Yes, I am free tomorrow Kaloor, hurry, we are only waiting for you Roman, and my elder brother He is a ugly pig, and inexperienced! See you tomorrow Your hand is very beautiful Go to fetch the latest report I don't believe those hear says. It's definitely exist a lot of gossips about you, if you are working in this industry Four years, he always does consummate works Possibility he lacked money, I want to know did he play tricks Impossible This is latest, other still at calculate Thank you, Rona I hope I made mistake, but I still want to remind you You'd better leave, Samiair If one day I dismissed the Kewan you absolutely will not replace his place I hope there are no biases between us Certainly, bye do you remember the detail of date with your neighbor I forgot I want go to the restaurant tonight this is what you want oh, yes what's this? I think, it is gas meter, according to her explanation do you want to sightsee around here? Yes, thanks what's this? Do not open before 1st August When you see this letter, I am sorry for you But situation will be better, yours Silome Excuse me Not bad, but the room maintenance not so good Can you cut down the price again? The price is already very justice Tonight, can I treat you? All right? Good oops, I should coordinate that gas meters, what are they use for? As your wish. Pull over. What are you doing? I don't want alighting in front of hotel All right see you good evening, Did you see my wife lulu? No it is very tired whole day because hide-and-seek no good I think I go there to take a look See you At first, I like his occupational rexes, it is set my heart at rest he will call me anytime We are shopping together, he accompany me go to the hair saloon however, he is an ideal companion Gradually, I feel more and more vexed I feel that he is a self-contemptuous person maybe it is because of my situation is better than his what's your career? I opened a law office He is the part-time reporter of a news agency I feel the  My husband also envies my work Or who I stay with I can not bear he despised me maybe it's not truth I don't know Very strange, because I never thought others never, it's true how about your career? I... I busy with my business If we seek one more can you accept? All right even if he took the money, is this very serious? This is the social money, and also ours also my wages This is different If nobody tell you? You also do not know so don't be nervous unbelievable, what is his name? Kewan why Kewan did this? His salary is very high, living alone, and he has no friends Does he have the boyfriend? Negative, he is not that kind of person Which kind of persons? He is not that kind of person What mean, that kind of person? Gay? I dislike sure, me too Do you know, I like you very much suppose you are a girl, I am not vexed too Understand? Me too What is the meaning? You are over exaggerated, I am very glad to increase your salary to 15000 Did you hear of the business of the business office? About defalcation no, you can tell him when he backed You know, I almost don't know Kewan ok, Nina is waiting for me, we will visit an exhibition together see you Does he knew our business? No, he thinks lm stay with Nina What's matter? It doesnt matter, hurry, let's go to have dinner I want go to the club tonight Do not wear this, too dismayed what he said? He said you are defalcated move faster once I think I should go back, I will feel scared because there is a new beginning waiting for me stay here No, condition will worse and worse if I leaved over I have taken a rest for short while, if I disappeared whole night He will sleep soon are you joking? Well, I have to go Hoping my business don't be vexed you spent a nice night I will forget those things Peair, get up I love you so much You have told me I want to go to bed I would go to bed Swearing to me if you are not stay with other men I will believe I swear I should believe you, spent one night with a women not a man not that man the problem is, I am not believe again I really want to kill him, such a mongrel Damn, I forgot her Sorry, I didn't know you are here bastard, beast, release me quickly how can you made a shameless matter? Don't look at me don't think so much, lm sorry Forgive me I came here by coincidence the affair is urgent, so I forgot you You tied up a girl, then forgot her? Calm down, I am very sad I waited 8 hours it's hopeless to occupy me Because you are very beautiful I threw the work, Because you Do you want relax tonight? Don't you want stay here, do you? You are too despicable wait a moment I don't know who will know this matter? You don't know that I were bound here cleaner came here She tidied up the bed Putted two pieces of chocolates on the pillow lm sorry, I don't know what should I say, sorry I am very sorry May I introduce to you, this is Rick He took me to go to a divertive place Where do you want to go? Will you stay here? Hello wait me a minute wait, what you want to do? Okay, you can go there alone do you know the address? Do you have money? Have a good time! What do you want to do after all? Hello, let's drink Get away! What? Get away! Stop although I have good temper, if you entangle again, I will... why you treat me like this? Don't be so serious, bye Calm down, pal, go back pal, do you want to endured again? What? I said that do you want to endure again? Well, lets leave, everything will be better Taking out the money I only have a dollar, thats all All right, you are looked honest you wearied suit of Chicago Bulls In Chicago, everybody is the fan of the Chicago Bull Here, people loves basketball fan But I am not a Chicago person, simpleton! Yes, at least 500,000, but I suggest he accepts Don't be so serious, but they have no house In fine, we have to respect his opinion How are you? That's good Kiss you, bye, dear No, I miss you very much, but lm also not bad what the Marriage looks like? Maybe looks like this do you think will I interested in? I don't know I married Alicsabass, because the friends of mine all got married And I love her We had a child grow to a lady today, now she is stay at the United States to spends vacation in my notion, she is still a baby Time flies I am already old My wife is old too This is marriage I do not know whether you would be interested in or not I dislike you consider I am a simpleton You make me very vexed You think I am very pitiful, so that can humiliate as one's pleases without resist Do you think who you are? You are only an ugly and self-approbation person Now, you can look after yourself, I won't concerned anymore Go ahead that's wonderful We are so happy oh, what's happened? I don't know, I just arrived what's the matter with you? A guy robbed my money ok, let's go to eat, I found a good place to eat Amylee, Can you marry to me? What? I love you until crazy, I can accept everything, I want to marry you Do not mention this first I do not love you, I have never said I love you I have never love the anyone tidy up your stupid marriage and Love, I have not necessary to stay with you I only attend what lm interested in You are lying to me, you are exasperated me intentionally well, I will go to meet Rick because I like stay with him Amylee Kiss me what you want? I lost all money last night rascal Take this, go to have fun are you thirsty? I want a cup of champagne nothing can drink here There is a thin pancake store here before Do you want go? Want the white wine? Why not? I want to try See, have you play doll look this small person how stupid I am, why not thinking? No, it seems everything is okay look, it is dancing, jumping, jumping Kiss the person that you want kiss do you believe? The good luck will arrive when you had this child? Last night This is my friend Juliet's child look that beautiful ship Maybe Loyic is there, can you tell him we are here? Hello, Loyic He looks very happy Incapable guy How are you? Father, we should go back now he don't know how to voyage at all, look at me Excuse me, Sir are you ok? let's go to take a shower, then drink a bottle of milk How are you, dear? Did you see your father? Loyic no We went out to walk for a long time, you can return to hotel to sleeping again Really? Do you have money? I want to take a taxi get from my wallet Only have 40 francs? You can take away all of them So boring! Me too, I feel boring too The infant is crying Scared you? Don't cry, baby quiet~ what's your feeling about take ship? I vomited, hutted by tunny What are you talking about? Very wonderful hello how about take ship? Ask mother, I will go to hotel All right Dear, tomorrow we want to go picnic Do you want go to? If need do you pay? No, I do not want to go to, I still have the other matter want to do I do not like these activities lulu it's me, I will go to relax with Alicsabass I think it's better, dear bitch! Bitch! I bet she is going to find that son of bitch bitch! No, nobody inside The next door spreads to groan voice Damn it why you treat me like this, lulu? Idiot! Damn, I want to dead Damn Who is this? A sex maniac eavesdropped to fall down well, I have to leave, because I have to attend a banquet excuse me, Sir, this is for you what's this? What's the meaning? What's wrong? My dear wife consider I am a simpleton But this time, the fun ends what's this, what's the matter? Did you married? No. I didn't get married, I think it's for others I have known who you are, her secret has exposed it has to pay for expense, she is acting again I want to smash your mouth Mistake, this letter is not for this gentleman Impossible, that Sir speak just now very clear You cheated me I did not get married, I really don't know what's happened I don't believe I tell you that I did not get married You do not guess without reason I am similar with you All right, do not mention this Unless you are cheating me why you said this? I don't know You are acting as a married man All right We stop discuss about that, let's that letter go to hell Next okay? The fortuitous things of the this summer, I can not bear anymore I want to do another affair me too You will get, you will I guarantee you will get that's ok? Please do not open before 1st August 2001 what are you doing with that simpleton? Listen come on~~ are you ok? Don't stay here, please go to the hospital Show me How? Wait, let's go to another place maybe you don't know, how good the life is if you stay here How quite it is I like this scenery I forgot to tell you Belldon wants to looking for vendee to see your house Selome will make a phone call to him ok Are you unhappy? I have to go I can not wait until the weekend No, lulu, don't go, why you want to go? Ran peair, you are even worse I am living here very distress Someone give me some mints this morning I still turn head and see before receiving he whether to follow me or not Too absurd You can live in my room, no problem I think that we can not meet Juliet When she falling love, she will forget everything Why do we need the man? How heavy burden is I don't want to be the man I hope I also have that When they are doing that matter Yes, when they are seeking happy Really, it is different I also wish I can try male's sexual climax, once enough I hope I am female, only once weilo, look at there that is Silome Yes, what is he concentrate on? Do not know, we call him coming over No, I will satisfy if we can stay together. Right? We shouldn't leave him alone He likes This is not good, I call he come here But he likes that stop, stop, is there person coming no, he can't see anything No, you see My father what are you doing? Selome, what are you thinking about? Oh, you are here Come with us, we are eating as long as you stay together, that's ok really? Yes, thank you Do you know? Selome, we can't be always like this Maria's dead is not your mistake Even you always fail We still love you I know that life is not similar with our childhood But some lucky days didn't come I believe you, Selome I didn't spend holiday like this since 14 years old Father go to save him quickly, too dangerous why they said this? What's happened, Selome? Fortunately, he hasn't bone fracture Do you know? You are so lucky His ear entered some thing The doctor is already cleared for him it is necessary to take more rest Thanks, very late, you are waiting for a long time I gotta go, otherwise he will be tired Do I take you to go back? Alisabass? Ok, bye-bye How are you? Are you suffered? You do not want to kiss again? Or man left? Don't immure yourself, come over well, Peair, I can not bear Do you can not stand? Unimaginable My wife comes back from a man said she can not stand You are crazy, do you know who you are? I don't know any man Don't do again like this, beg you I love you, lulu I love you too I bet you ever kissed the man I guess you will tell me, you entered the dinner with your woman's companion totally Yes, I will stay with her tonight, only this you won't believe ok, you won't drive me believe after you massage in this morning... What man? I am sure you are scout on me, nothing happened, my friend lm not idiot, I was there, I heard everything Do not deny I did not deny That is his business, so what? Try to recall what you said? That is comes from the manner We are live in civilization's world You are very clear that is comes from the manner, you make me suffocating what's happened after all? Problem is you will be crazy That man is a rascal I want kill that man, I know what is his name I am incapable for this, ran Peair if I crazed, that because of you! Excuse me, I know that current time is still very early, but why don't know where should I go Take place what? It is really dream, he is crazy, he want to murder What? You know, The person who gave me sugar Ran Peair wants to kill him Calm down, lulu, he can't kill this person, don't worry Why does he want to kill that individual? Because that person gave me the sugar I don't know, he is a crazy lulu, come to take a seat I go to explain to him that we stay together in day He won't believe you Weilo he likes joking, he can do nothing. They are all at act in a play look at Selome I found Loyic When you read this letter, I already die for you I request your understanding Very sorry, but situation will be better, love you, Selome use for what? Who will jump down from barranca only for to be deaf-mute I don't know, indescribable~~ that because of... Maria? I don't know why that men more weak than us However, we can not stay here anymore We have to leave you can't leave me alone Very sorry, I can't stay with him in small villa I want to go back how about that child? She will stay with me, I won't discard her I do not want to disturb Juliet she is happy now Loyic Can stay here, he can also play for two more day Thanks Me too, the holidays finished, it is really a hell! How can I do, my colleague discarded me I didn't see Juliet wait, I have a good idea When the all of family backed, I want to make a party at home Can prolong the holidays like this Do not worry, lulu, everything will okay You want to kill me Someone knocks the door loudly what is the fucking place you?? I am her husband, surprise? Go to have a look He insists like this It is your husband that this man said But I have no the husband, I do not know who this is You know that I am not his husband If you are not her husband it is an another, not this do you want me to slap you? Listen to me, perhaps you look down upon me But before, he was kissing with my wife What wife? Oh, I understood, she has another husband I don't care how about whose sexual life Juliet! Please calm down don't bore others When you said I love you You said it's not for happy Do you really think so? Affirmative please say that again Certainly I love you, really What's the matter with you? They said that you are a simpleton, and you love him I am very angry I am going to call doctor I want to seek a store I want buy something for the child who will be born soon with their mother I hope that you can help me What? Nothing, continue Continue Amylee, can't if this continues, I am suffering that man attracts you But do you know who love you most. It's me I love you until crazy, I want to marry you I forgave you about and completely, I forgot everything not necessary to look for trouble I feel standing on the top of clouds careful, you haven't succeeded You are to be pregnant too quickly last time But this time different, I like this person once I see him, I will get a strongly feeling me too, once I see him forget it Keep saying All right, I say it to myself I don't know why, the air filled in ribaldry Sorry you will change your viewpoint, when you understand him you will feel You always say this No I thought only once I know that he apart from his wife Is he older than you? Why you asked this? Do not know, intuition You see The airplane pilot of the high in the clouds came How are you? This is Alicsabass It's pleasure to meet you let's go?? Bye Alicsabass, we are going to eat the supper together would you like stay with us No, I only want stay here We'd better move faster., reserving not insurance This restaurant is crowded Juliet, I still insists my first viewpoint Damn what's wrong? Will the Alicabass come here? No. She won't I forgot, she told me, maybe  All right, I understood listen to me, carloor No, I will go She may come up I knew, nothing important wait a moment No, thats ok it is really useless Hello Bitch, who will love you? Why you hit this man Because he make you vexing How about medicine? Do you want go to another place? Why? Are you shy? No, are you joking? Order the food so strange, I feel they do not changed really strange I am very cold, can we leave here? Thank you, Loyic Someone is crying You can go to sleep, Loyic nothing what's happened? I do not know Because arrived here go to Sleep, nothing important I am scared I don't know why you are a good man, Loyic there are no the other information, return to main menu Kewan, How are you! He went to Kugo He forgot to meet with the neighbor I have appointment with our customer Miss Larneer, did she back from Chicago? No How are you! Mr Waerga will accepted the help I started to worry about whether we can get back the money or not yes, we will Can you come to office with me? We should have same notion what you want to say? You can schedule with designer Tell him there are some problems, reduce 200 thousand I come here to force he agree That you have what kind of advantage? You are really a crafty man lm not, but I know what should I do He looks very tired, maybe it's caused by sea breeze May be I want to sleep alone tonight at the friend home I have get used in this week If you would like to Give you Can I discuss with you? No, no this time. The guests will arrive soon really?? Ok Are you a Leina? By the way, you are still didn't know each other This is the leina, this is my wife How do you do Alicabass Your eyes is very charming My husband did not let me know this what you want to say, come okay I have a very tough problem Do not be nervous, I won't sue you, just ask a problem did you forced a customer give you additional money during you working no, absolutely no why you got that notion? This is truth what you want to tell me? Can I have another cup of drink? Be careful You have drunk three glass beer enough? I want that get married with Alicabass This is impossible I love her, I am an earnest Sir Kewan stayed with her during her 2weeks vocation training that's not enough for marriage, this need two wish mutually I'm sure she would like to marry to me, she just spend a holiday now This is very normal, she is so young you mean she has been Danjike with you? No, tell you a truth, Nina is me well, I hope you are joking now you can return to wait Amylee until she backed then we discuss this topic again lm serious, Belldon you was right, you'd better call me Mr Larneer My friends How are you? How about your injury? Much better? Indeed, his ears exist some problems I hope he will recovered as soon as possible, life must be continue The plenty of things waiting for you How are you, little guy, you are so beautiful it is toot bad, we are going to buy new one tomorrow She is very lucky You shouldn't envy her You own what you should own, I tell you again yours bigger than hers All right, beverage is there, see you later Two cups You can chat any topic, this is my future neighbor You do not blame me, but this report is not good right, I am very clear We are strange with collecting gas meter Sir, what your occupation is? My Career is computer I am on vacation I wanna go to Travel Do the sports Can you use your hand do the sports? Crash in to shear the grass machine when I play golf show you the contract Sorry, leave first Sorry good evening, I know you are didn't know each other, but I hear of you So, people will always disturb you, same as the other doctors sure, but I am not vexed May I ask a problem I will go to eat, how about you? Okay You say Since a period of time, I am very fidgety I don't know this whether is the augury of the mental illness or not My wife's behavior becomes worse and worse lm worry about her I am worry about she will become to erotomania, or, Did she crazy? A normal woman want to own a lot of social interactions But will never be together in elevator person whom first time meet? Chat with her, maybe some business is more simple than what you thought I tried, but she refuse and resolute denial did you try to drink with her, then confabulate with her? She is there Am I go there? I ask her go to your place I don't understand, this have a little tough see you later are you okay? I am really happy You looked for person to substitute me I must see you what's wrong? Nothing, I just wish to see you would you like to have some drink? Do you really went to Chicago? If you go to check your bank withdraw deposit records, you won't ask this problem again Do you went to Danjike? No? Are you drunk? Where are you live in with a man? Why you asked me this? Yes father, more or less marriage problem? I don't want to say that Answer my problem Frankly speaking, he mentioned, but this man is a gentleman You are here, Amylee You have knew Kewan for 3 months, tell me I didn't say I will get marry with Kewan So how about Nina? I went to Chicago with her Amylee, enough! There is no Nina at all, Nina is me Nina! Come over! Amylee, enough Nina, let me introduce my father to you, this is my father's Kewan I will angry I want to get marry with Rick who you want marry to? With Rick, I've met him in Chicago On a plane No... Take a cotton Damn A cup of champagne Thanks Stop drinking, otherwise you will vomit Very sorry all of my mistakes it's doesn't matter how are you? Lm fine Is it hot? Yes Do you have cola? I want Do you miss me? There is cola there Thank you for you tell me I miss you very much Your partner Kewan is very good, is it? Very positive Kewan? Have a little too positive do you have opinion about him? What's your meaning? I am looking for this Do you want to drink? I want the cola how about you and your husband? Same as before I got an editor replies, I didn't know he is writing something all in all, that is not a cheerful business He broke all stuffs, only leave three dishes for me lulu, you can not living like this anymore He lost his mind... To this summer, he has became unreasonable I did not know will I have no happiness without him Our relation have worsened Are you feel Happy? I feel dull How? Very good Do you know? The person who want buy this building is a mental state doctor tell him something about Peair. I think even worse Should I give you 100,000 francs? Yes where to give me? I the all paid hour is an elephant to have the careful person to write so and personally of I will write personally as same as all of precise people when I pay I don't know what are you talking about Sorry I have something want to tell you, originally, I think I should keep secret, but now I have no choice what are you discovered? Nothing, everything is okay Tell me as you known, selling very quickly I have no time to check the other circumstance out For the franc, in the past, I tightened budget But when I know the circumstance of the sale, I have relaxed Currently, I rented a set the trip hangs the car Does the trip hang the car? I think that weilo will no live in the trip hangs the car She still doesn't know But, certainly, I want to ask in current situation can I park it in your garden? Sure, park on the path, do not hold up main road I'm afraid those Cigan people will not agree a little troublesome, I have to tell Alicabass But, if you met troublesome Yes, have too many problems to deal with, Belldon Are you hot? Have a little let's go to have something? Ok I will back soon Half an hour later, finish soon Do you come to find me? Thank you very much Thanks Can I kiss you? Can Are you a girl? No No longer be So sorry Excuse me, who bought Weilo's house? Yes, How are you Are you neighbor of him? No, just a friend Do you want to drink? No, Thanks. Me can't chat with you too long. You have the name card We can seek a quiet corner What? A beautiful woman wants to make love, this is very normal Nuts! Carloor I miss you, you also miss me follow me Sorry what's wrong? I sprinkled a glass wine? Of course not, Did you see Juliet? No, go away okay thanks You stay with that indecent man again? I didn't talk with him, I dislike him! I dislike them! How much totally? Botched you know how long you are humiliated me? Stop! This is what you want. Indeed, you are even worse than this I'm go to educate him Do not touch her! Get Away! I don't want to chat with you Get away! Release me, let me go Enough, Roman Are you painful? Show me Let I take a deep breach Damn Mark Loximu Im sorry, I have to  I gotta go will you leave? I have to return to office All right once I got free time, I make a phone call to you I have to leave I am sure I will miss you very much, Mark Ximu wait and see, will not be too long I have to go Juliet! What? Nothing we will meet again The mental patient here much more than my clinic I still can not do it, to she, it's really difficult to speak out do you hope me to tell her? I do not know maybe can You tell me her telephone number, I'll invite her to have dinner in this week How about you? Not bad My God, what are the simpleton's doing? Who are you, what are you doing? God, is this your car? I'm sorry, doctor I'm going to call police let's go, it is because of the small guy has tired To go to buy the thing, I still have to take a box You must leave, I am so sad We can't meet frequently each other Not sure Everything will be restart from a travel trailer We just spent our vacation in this trailer, but now we should living inside again. I am utterly vexed are you live in a trailer? We have nothing at all From now on we will acting as stroller If I can sell the body, I'll go, but now I have no cloth to hide my body Can you understand? Why you take a wine bottle? Actually I want make a light, but now, forget it all right, let's leave here Why you didn't tell me that I already reached this situation? Because very difficult, Alicabass Very difficult, thank you see you I just want to joking with my friend Come here, you are my wife Im no longer your wife, everything is over Come back immediately, lulu, We need confide with each other. She leaved, we get on the car quickly quickly! Lulu Enough lulu That boyfriend of the Juliet is quite good, he told me his telephone number Also told me it is really interesting Be careful, I feel strange when weilo stay with that little guy, That skirt she wear is belong to Maria I know it, this is dirty Damn, I still want take it back tomorrow I do not know to how to tell Markximu I have to prepare properly I really fear to miss again see ya, My honey you dismissed the Kewan Yes, in fact this is a crafty guy I guess you'll accompany Juliet to go back, am I right? No problem bye bye, Alicabass see you, My dear If tonight you come back late, I'll go to friend's house Thank you, leina Belldon If the Amylee leaves the house, I want live in her room If you would like to see you later dear Do you know, I need you, Alicabass Me too, I also need you bye Take care Are you sure you can drive? You did not over drunk? Yes, I have over drunk But I'm still clear No problem, and  Juliet lm Very happy you are living in happiness Because, you know, you are very important to me The life is really an oddness In fact, nobody can embrace me like this gentle and soft you are right, dear, this is very strange If you want to go there, you will feel sad But if your life is same as mine You will feel that the current life is more interesting well, get one the car The End
