 

                        The light is red It's blue Very good. Next, let's start our new test. You try your best to answer my questions. The Empire of Wolves I feel my heart is purified, and everything is right Very good. Now please tell me the capital cities of each country Spain? Madrid America? Washington Brazil? Rio de Janeiro. Oh, You are wrong with the last one. Now I'll show you some pictures of historical characters. You try your best to name them. Mao Zhedong Kennedy Sebastian Bach Napoleon Mona Lisa Lincoln Wait, who is the previous guy? Stop! Answer me. That's Lausanne, your husband. What should we do now? No idea. Still need new treatment? It's impossible. But Anna. I've had enough, nobody can stand anymore. Why does it look so intense from outside? Because our research will be taken over by the army. What research? The No. 1 5 medicine. It is very helpful for researches of brain diseases. It's incredible! Actually, this is not horrible, Anna. You should trust doctors, Anna. They are the top ones in Europe. But we are not the white mice for your experiments. If I tell this to my parents, Anna You will have no opportunities to get remedies. You are on their side, aren't you? Anna, we are all on your side to support you. What else will happen to me? I don't know, but the remedy is having some effects. I never tell anybody, but I'm feeling worse and worse. Definitely. I take back what I have said. Anna, I truly love you. I really don't want to see my wife become a stranger. You showed no concern when you saw my pictures earlier. That makes me feel I'm nothing to you. I'll pick you up at 7. I'm happy you are coming, but it's better your co-workers are not around. We go to the party together. Are you sure? Yes! I'm always afraid that they will bring more and more problems to us. Don't worry. This will be a very pleasant night. Hi, how have you been? Fine How is it going? Not good at all. Why? I lied. I'm afraid of telling the truth. How come? What do you want to hide? It happened about a month ago. One morning, Lausanne and l were both brushing our teeth He smiled to me But I felt so terrible I couldn't even recognize him. You must be exhausted. You should go on a vacation with Lausanne. The treatment is not finish yet. What's wrong? Look at that guy Let me take care of him. No, let me do it. Hello! What do you feel like? Two muffins. This one? Yes Who is that guy? Does he have anything to do with it? No, but I'm sure I know him. He is our Turkish fruit supplier And? So it's normal for you to think he looks familiar. I must be crazy. I remember you get a case about Turkish. Yes, they illegally immigrates They should be given living spaces and human rights. But they should first get resident permissions from immigration office. Aren't you tired of talking about work all the time? What do you think, Anna? Phillip, it's a way of relieving the pressure. I once read about Africans do like this at night. Anna, tell me about the hotel that you and Lausanne stayed in on your honeymoon, ok? La Paloma hotel, why? Because I plan go out for a vacation next weekend. I know this is not polite, we haven't known each other for long How did you and Lausanne meet? We went to the same college. Did I mention that you were the forward of the team back then? It must be very funny. Yes, it was... I think I forgot. Really? I've been telling you about it everyday for the entire month A month... Stress, the feeling of pressure The steak is so delicious. Anna, are you feeling alright? Anna! Sorry, excuse me for a while This is the third one we found of the same kind. I'll take the corpse to the forensic experts for examination. Hope it won't be what I expected. What do you think of it? We have no clue for investigation, from the Turkish store? Where do we look for the identity of the missing woman? I'm thinking of working together with Schiffer on this case. Do you know who is he? Schiffer, this is a fake name. Just like name a pig meow? He works for Turkey for 20 years, so we call him Schiffer. Turkish calls him lsselan. The certificate conferred by National Defense How do you feel? Much better I saw illusions earlier. It's all gone. I'm so sorry. I embarrassed you in front of your co-workers. It's nothing, Anna. Lausanne? Why we don't have kids? What did you say? We've been married for 8 years. Why we don't have any kids? Because your physical condition is poor. We agreed not to have kids before marriage. Is it true? Why? Do you want to ruin yourself because of kids? You cannot live a normal life without getting new treatment. Lausanne, give me a few days, okay? There must be some other solutions. What solution? I don't know either. Give me a few more days, please! OK, Anna. Want to give me a sneak attack from back? You stupid. I'm Elton, Police Station of the tenth district. What do you want? Take a look. What's it? The turkey woman's body, we found it in the canal. You just came for this? This is a series of crime, obviously. Look, this is the second one. And so was the third victim. Something to eat? What do you suggest? I once worked for Turk, it's nothing what I said. Their legs were broken, and with more than 70 wounds on the bodies. They were burned, and difficult to distinguish still leave it alone? My job is to make a record of whoever died I've wanted to learn something from you. You are my idol since Im 8 years old. You were a hero, Schiffer What' your name? You can't do it by yourself. I have to get a answer before next week. I have to write a report. Do you think you'll be a hero if you crack the case? No. Do you want to do it by yourself? I'm afraid you didn't consider how dangerous it is Meet me tomorrow morning! I come to meet you? It seems you didn't finish me record. They withdrew of my driving license You are too young, kid. I've got it for a long time at your age. It's you, not me. Don't treat me as a child Doctor, this is Schiffer We knew each other. The third victim is female, According to the tooth, the age is between 20 and 30. Red hair, stature and avoirdupois is close to the two others'. Is the wound on her head work one time? No. Skived by someone? She work in a spinnery What's the hell going on? I found 27 wounds, and one deeper than the other. must been abused for many hours how did you know? the wound is very deep, she must been struggled the result is the deep wound why did she do that? I think it is for some kind experiment how about the leg? other two have the same wound that is different, the leg was break by someone before they dead before they dead? break her legs, before kill them but the other two did not what about here? their ankle was been pulled, pulled out almost 1 0 inches the space in the middle can put in other staff this is pulls the foot technique what is that? this technique is form Turkey what about the face? clearly they did plastic surgery for her the nose become higher, and the lip become thinner there is metal under the skin to change the facial characteristic they must want change their identity for something they want to do I will get facial reablement picture tomorrow is this case relate to other abuse case? they are different, there is no sign of sexual assault even their finger nail has been replaced must use for some scientific research it is not a simple crime there must be someone behind all of this those technique is clearly from a criminal textbook clearly that's it? those only the part of information we know now thank you very much Eltor, this is the autopsy report thank you very much did you feel every thing is going so well watch out for Schiffer this is my problem! did you he was with the Turkey anti-government army? I know all of them! from the autopsy report, I think this thing is not that simple it may relate to some terrorist group I knew it! I will read the autopsy report carefully to find more evidence for Schiffer, evidence is useless he is working with devil what do you think I think those criminals want use them for some illegal activities maybe transport the drugs how do you explain the facial surgery? that can be many different possibility first, they may feel excite about doing this and? they want the victim become the person they want them to be I don't think they get any mental problem what about the third possibility? he is a artist he want express his feeling from victim's body and he want make all victim's face looks like the same that might be the reason ok, what do you think? it is yesarle group what? it is a Turkey organized crime group it is the main anti-government power everything is by the rule, and very organized all their name and native has been record if someone betray them, all their family member will be killed how could you so sure they did this? if those women enter the French illegally, this could be true if this woman do not complete the mission they will find someone to replace her there will be a fourth victim in this month must be the same kind case Lets go find Turkey mob boss Marijo I knew him I was next to him when his son was born that is great (Mathilde Ulanov Neurology Doctor) hello! Mathilde Ulano hello, Anna lvens please follow me! it is a masterpiece, isn't it yes, I was attract by it are we met before? only on the phone you said you feel all the people around looks fierce especially your husband did he ever done those professional surgeries? I can not tell, he never injury before he always bring me here, he think I have some mental problem is he tell you, you are frightens excessively? frighten? no if he did, I will remember it that isn't impossible, maybe you choose to not remember them why I can not recognize my husband is your life with your husband normal? yes, we have a normal life are you feel boring when you live with him? we are good in relationship How long have you two been married? Any children? well, that's the problem I can't bear child, Lausanne told me that but I can't remember anything I can't believe that sometime I ask myself, is he my husband or not? My husband is not as same as usual how did he change? In the fight, his face would turn into devil's then I take a closer look, he is back to normal again want a cigarette? thanks am I crazy? no, not at all you are seeking an explanation you just want to know what happened exactly human face can't change, can it? no, basically but, has your husband taken any plastic surgery while you don't know? don't look, go back to your seat! why do people want to change faces? because they want to change to who they want to be you said that I had been badly affrighted, maybe just in that period when will your therapy be over? about several weeks we need to have more deep conversation sure I will try to contact your husband excuse me what's going on? are you observing me slinkingly? what are you looking for? I am confused, I think you have changed changed? how? your face don't be stupid! take this, this will make you feel better I can't wait for your decision any longer Lets drive to the research centre tomorrow You have to take the therapy, Anna otherwise we can not live any more Iet the doctors help you you are insane! truly insane! you are totally insane! I watched the video of the devil you saw yesterday that's your husband Lausanne must be fun! Anna, we have to hurry up ok, in a minute Anna! Anna? Anna what the hell are you doing inside? how did the door get locked? the car is waiting! answer me! open the door now! what are you doing inside? Anna, are you crazy? you will drop dead! Anna! what are you doing over there? Anna, come back! you have to come back! calling: Anna lvens is escaping I repeat again, Anna is escaping, need backup over there! follow me, we'll catch her hurry up, don't let her escape take your aim! she ran away! she injured Rolin, we need more manpower we must get her soon, you understand? can I help you? excuse me it's your examination report you should be honest to doctors we will help you has your head suffered serious damage? car crash? wait! don't run! where do you go? don't be that serious they will be nervous eat your food! if you want to have chat-up with Turk you have to eat their food it's called "in Rome, do what Romans do" and haven't cut nail for years? almost, try anything to approach them what's this again? a small visiting gift Turks like this small gift, symbol of friendship they pay attention to proprieties? not at all, it's just our way how are you doing? guys I have a gift for your boss Long time no see, my brother you look great I miss you so much, my brother really when was the last time we met? I can't remember, seems to be long time ago this is lral, he is taking my position small gift, for your kindness it's for little Ali Schiffer, you are so kind for this policemen found 3 Turk women bodies in the canal badly abused, can't be identified brother, I really don't know what you are talking about I am asking your son Schiffer, watch your mouth you are not in the group now Mario, you forget my style? my friend, if I give the order you will disappear for ever no sense, no sound guard the door! Stop! don't let anyone in! freeze! nobody move! come here, follow me I've told you, you should have known my style freeze! don't move! I've told you, we didn't do it you sure? Schiffer, let him go don't move! tell them don't move! the information is at back, we go from back! what you just did! with this brutal way don't you know that all you've done is illegal? I only know ONE law my law how to do it doesn't matter to you but I feel I am working with a devil Mario commits all manners of crimes they kidnap girls force them to be prostitutes many children were sold by him in Turkey you feel sorry for him? come and take a look at this Look at this! they look like those dead people just like you always said: I have my reasons they want to change those girls face to the same I don't understand why they make plastic surgery for those girls we should have asked he wouldn't tell obviously, he wants to protect someone why? because, he is afraid, the man is more dangerous than he is you have to be careful at any information, kid you need me! nobody needs no help just don't call me kid, OK? makes me sick who is there? Anna what's going on? I am not crazy! he stole my memory he made plastic surgery for me! who is he? Lausanne! my husband Look at this! Look what his colleague has done to me come inside, Anna hurry up you think about it, we must find her as soon as possible you, you shall be responsible for rebuilding her character professor, what's your opinion yes, something happened lately some defects in the detail we are planning to rebuild her character system totally sounds pretty good you have 24 hours to find her or, you will die Anna, Anna you didn't tell anyone you came to my place last time, right? no, not to anyone Mathilde, what have they done to me? what should I do? I called one of my biology research friends he said that research was specialized in memory research and all for military use what kind of memory research do they do? confidential research what does my husband do at there? why is him? Lausanne is not my real husband? Anna, it's quite possible but, why me to answer the question we have to know who you are first but I can remember nothing there must be something that you can remember what? your belief I have a friend, forget anything while driving fast so you might disremember something due to exciting plastic surgery is for nobody can recognize you Mathilde, why do you help me? natural curious, maybe I may find out myself by blood test? body will renovate blood at each certain time so the medicine will work if you have virus inside your body hemoleukocyte will concentrate so some ailment is good for health here you are will you please make some urine sample? toilet is on your right you are not busy today? I am waiting for you we should go there again you look tired yes yeah, keep smiling don't be angry! we need think out a way but don't make a move right now cheer up! we are about to meet a real woman start work this early? can you give me some information? these women worked at my place but they ran away you? what about you? those men did, they kidnap my workers who? death angel they have finger men everywhere so it looks like you are not at our side then don't waste my time what is it here? what are we looking for exactly? they used to work here, must leave something here NO. 34? yes hello Stop! police office Schiffer! who are you whom you work for? Schiffer, easy, easy whom you work for? for nobody Iet him go then why did you run? say it, whom do you work for? for Assael, Assael Schiffer! easy Leave me alone, damned! get up are you out of your mind? what you know Iet me go, damned I think we'd better leave you here don't you hear what he said? they are wolves they use those women to make terrorism so they made plastic surgery Iet me go no violence, no clue Iet me go, ass hole what women? what kind of women? tell me! female soldiers in the group are raised since childhood loyal and devoted they are called "wolves" now they changed faces we have to find her, they all have symbol this gesticulation, is for wolf head I am very sorry I found nothing do you live close to the nuclear plant? no, why do you ask? I found your body was badly damaged by radiation and your body is just like a top athlete how did that happen? you are suffering from great pressure, and it's much more than normal people can stand also, stain on your nail is not usual maybe nicotine, I smoke a lot ok, don't smoke too much and it's not as far as I know, it's kind of acid Turk is more affected by this very rare only people born there have this Local call it red nail, a symbol of noble very interesting you were a Turk before the surgery Schiffer? how do you two get along? very well! I've not been back for a long time still drinking coffee? not any more you are in the small office too? it's bad this is the leader of their group is this the gesticulation? it's a ultra rightist group for years, they raise women as "wolves" do anything for them this is Hussein, he is in Istanbul his troop is everywhere crime and drugs dealer he hides the women and children in the mountain for criminous machine sick bastard! do you know this woman? I don't you feel tired? you'd better have a vacation good proposal, but I have to close the case first why do you care about those illegal stowaway so much? because, it's my job very beautiful woman your mother? what did she do? private detective not easy for a woman so you are a police for this? it's not my initial ideal I was only 7 when my mother was missing I wanted to be a policeman to find her I've searched every corner in France but found nothing it's too late now I won't find her ever but it's not too late for this woman we will find her you think you are God? no, just a job but you have to believe first cheer up, Schiffer he started at 1 55, stayed in Istanbul for 2 months an underling at the beginning, but fierce and cruel made many enemies and his enemies tried many ways to kill him once his trachea and lung were completely damaged but it did not kill him still obviously, soon he became the leader of the group Allah is with you, Hussein please forgive our visiting happy to see you back alive and I am happy that you make me live is this officer Altor? when will you stop killing people? it's not our country, what can I do? bullshit you know that, "wolves" are doing job in France why? we are looking for her my people are here, Schiffer and here is not Turkey really? tell me more who is the girl I am looking for? it's a long story Who sent her? how do I find her? she has your picture really? anything new? you sent people to kill me 3 times Schiffer, how can you just be this humor? your friend must be happy to know something what you saying? about me? she is a well-trained "wolf" with a great mission she wanted to work in my plant, hiding herself she is attempting...... they are wolves! It looks they are coming on you, what did you do? They are catching up with us, we'll talk later. But as they say, you should know that woman. How should I know who they're talking about, not my business! You know them well, how do I know if you're with them. I'll find myself, though I've never seen before. What are you doing? Just arrested Turkish terrorists. oh, I see. Come here, I know you! You're the police investigating the body in the river. I have to say your memory is good. I'm here because, three months ago Is there any record of Turkish female? Police officer, you've asked many times. Can I see your appointment record? Thank you very much. They're all Turkish names, might be faked names. Police officer, do you have any clues? What? About the series killer. What information do you know? Can you tell me who will do the operation? Can I have the attendants address? This is Dr. Ulanov. Is he here now? No, he should be at home at this moment. I've seen the woman you're looking for. What did you say? I'm here when she's doing the operations. What does she look like? Petite and dark, especially the eyes, I'll never forget. Did you remember what did she say? I'm not sure, her French is not fluent. Sounds like "wolf", "mission" And she went out every day, weired. What did she do then? Did nothing, next morning your colleague will take her back. Is it the police in foreign affairs? No, someone says it's the counter-terrorist. The color of the eyes is lighter. Nose ain't so wide. Up a little bit. A little over. en, more or less. Professor? --Yes? The CT leader wanna talk to you. Schand? I think you should come over. Why? How can we find her in 24 hrs. Lausanne is more reliable. Shit! Anna? Where have you been? Lausanne is looking for you. Anna is dead, she's never alive. What are you talking about? I found somebody, she can explain everything. Hello, I'm Mathilde Ulanov. I'm a psychiatrist. OK, but don't come here. I found they're researching some medicine that can instruct memory. No. 1 555 medicine? If the patients take this medicine, They won't know what is artificial, what is real experience. You artificial memories? Yes, it'll replace people's own memories. For what? It's Schand's idea. What idea? Philips Schand. A team leader in CT. He found me when he heard it. After the 9. 1 terrorist attack? A counter-terrorism plan is coming out. You should be honored. You're saving the world. Am I terrorist? No, you're randomly choosed. We need to regenerate the character, and see how it develops. What? What's artificial? Everything, from your husband to work. We did a thorough examination. And must stay with police life. I directed all these things, wonderful. After a month we'll succeed. You will accept the artificial memories. Who am I before? Who am I after? It's not my problem. Tell me, who am l? An illegal immigrant, from Turkish. No family, no lD, in a tough position. A perfect experimenter. But why my face changed? I wanna change everything, first is your look. Asshole! No, I'm helping you. I know an operation, I didn't tell them. Why are you doing this? But that needs more experiments, it takes some years. A life-time opportunity. You will be better. If you stay here, they'll come to you. No, change me back. What do you say? Recover my memories! You wanna go back to that research center? Everyone is waiting. You're illegal here, no one care if you're dead. I have no choice, I wanna be back. Be quick! Lie down! You'll feel uncomfortable at the beginning We will change your character. You might not be able to distinguish true of false. But your old memories will be back. If it goes wrong, you'll go insane. Ivens Who are you? Anna! I always treat you as my daughter! I always treat you as my daughter Anything special? Do you know who we are looking for? CT is controlling her. They have many people looking for her. What's the relationship between her and the Turkish females? The time she's lost was the time the other three failed. Why? I'm saying, do you know her? If she's there, I can recognize her. Maybe her face is changed. I'll go to the plastic surgeon to see if there's any record. Normally they'll keep it. Then how do you know this illegal immigrants? I don't know if she's illegal? She looks just like us. Speaking our language, living our way. She's not worse than you! Why do you say that? Because I like I've seen many police like you But none of them ends in good. What did you say? I'm back off, forget the case. Wait, I don't understand. Give up halfway, is this your character? I can't believe it. Don't trust anyone but yourself. I thought you have only one law --your own law. And I have only one life, I'm out. Anna? How do you feel? I hope I'm Anna lvens Come here! Everyone! Don't move! They are besieged. Hello, Anna. Don't be afraid, go home with me. Stop! Anna You almost kill him. Where's the key? What? What? She's gone under your sight? Any problems? Schand I'll be back. Schiffer, anything wrong? You don't wanna see me, do you? No, I have many things to do. Last October a female lost, a Turkish female You are looking for her from me? Not only one, Schand The police has found three bodies. Go to Wolf, maybe his guy did it. Who's this woman? It's simple, an illegal immigrant. Why looking for her? Why you wanna her get lost? She's our ideal choice of our plan. Plan? What plan? Military plans to control the terrorists by changing their memories. They send me to look for the right experimenter. Idiot! How can you risk lives for a plan? She's just a Turkish female, I changed her life. So she can live better in this world. It's not gonna work! Where's she? She's dying! Don't talk crap! You still have chance. Her memories are gone, she's out of mind. Old memories make her unable to face the truth. So you are anxious to go and clean the mess? What do you suggest to do? Let her go! -Why? That's my problem It's obvious I'm better than your guys. Where's her old clothes? Old clothes? In Church Karma. Go back and wait for the result. It's Wolf! Youre back again. Who are you? I'm Somer Gocole. I come to France for a terrorist mission. I have to give the receiver You did a plastic surgery? Why? I wanna be out, change myself. I need money for the run away. They have a tracer in my head. Then how do you lose your job later? I need the lD so I went to lris She's in charge of stowaway. But there're many men hidden. Where's the police? How do they find you? I don't remember. Do you remember the Turkish in my shop? You've said before, the fruit dealer? His name is Assael. He's a cold-blooded killer. He took me here! Hey, which one? Is this Dr. Godfried? Police, open the door please! You work day and night? Or you wanna a plastic surgery? Can the doctor recognize the patient? That's my job! It should be the woman in the picture. This is the look before. Tell me, what's her name? Where's she? Don't mind my business! Asshole! Hello? Police station. It's me, Eltor. Where are you? What are you doing? I need Schiffer the phone number now. OK, I'll call you back when I find it. What's your plan now? I'll come and get my things back. Just this? Don't ask more, Mathilde, bye. This is the best way to pay you back. You'll die if you go there alone. Why do you hope you're Anna? To change! Never thought we'll meet here, Somer. Are you coming to get the left wing's explosive? Slow down! Slowly, put it on the floor. Tell me what's your plan. You know you're here! Schiffer, stop. Schiffer! "First locate the position, then contact" Hello, operator. Can you help me look for the phone number? This is our internal police offices. Thank you very much. The documents came two days ago. Oliver Amiel takes charge of this case. Lieutenant Oliver Amiel Wait a minute, please! I wanna see Lieutenant Oliver Amiel. It's very urgent. I'm sorry, but it's impossible. Amiel! You lost yourself, you should go back! Pierre stop! We know? -You know Schiffer? What do you want? -What did you do to him? I don't know what are you talking about? Save it, he reports to you every night. Why you wanna meddle in this case? Schiffer's dead. I said it's not your business, understand? Go back to your 1 1th district, don't make trouble here. What are you saying? Let me go. Let's go Pierre. Damn kids! I'll be there soon, I'm on the road. You went to Lieutenant Amiel? Superior sent them. I can't get anything out. Assael What are you doing here? I'm here to find out the truth. Follow me Somer? I can recognize you with my own eyes. You're back! Because you're a wolf She's my wolf! How come are you here? Hussein? I wanna visit him. I wanna tell him turn into ashes. And you? What do you take for me? Your friend I thought you were dead. I didn't think you're coming here. What happened? It's her change, there's metal under the skin. Somer, you are responsible for your action. I listen everything to him! You stayed too long in the carry, didn't you forget? Your mission, your power, your dream. I don't wanna do anymore! You're the best of all, why you betray us? Where do you take her? Schiffer To meet Hussein -Which side are you at? You're cheating on me all the way. No, you come to me first. Thank you! Schiffer I can hardly recognize you. Your change is huge. Do you still remember this carpet? You grow up on it, with many other girl Loyal guy. I'm confused, what do you really want? I always treat you as my daughter. W ill forgive me? You're picked out from hundreds. I'll give whatever you want. But you train me as a machine! That will make you the strongest, the most aggressive one. That's not the life I want! You're not my boy anymore? How to use this? I've never used before We need backup! It's too soon. Be careful! Schiffer's still inside. OK, I see. He's dead. Schiffer is our guy. I'm not interested. Our fates are tied together. We die with Allah! No one can have you. You're beautiful, you're unique. Assael, stop. It's all over, Hussein's dead. She's still alive. Maybe you're right, it's not too later for her. Schiffer, I'm Jorgen It's me. How are you there? It's all over!
