 

                        1 My dear girl Stop...don't go 'ln a Naxalite-attack in West Bengal a sub-inspector, few policemen... '...and several others were killed' 'The police are now on a witch-hunt for Naxal leader Charu Majumdar' l killed him 'Yours Forever, Moideen' 'Hail Mary Full of grace' 'The Lord is with you Blessed are you among women' 'Blessed is the fruit of your womb, Jesus' 'Holy Mary, Mother of God Pray for us sinners' 'Now and at the hour of our death' 'We pray to you' Kanchanamala Why aren't you attending the prayer session? Answer me, girl Why did you stay away? l will not attend prayers hereafter What audacity! When everyone else is attending, why can't you? Does equality exist only to matters relating to God? All of us kneel as equals and pray in front of God... ...but the food we are served is discriminated in the canteen Students from affluent families are served 'A' class food Students in the little lesser bracket get 'B' class She is Merina, who's being served 'C' class food in this convent The 'C' class food is arranged by the Church for poor Catholic students Then may be Hindus and Muslims should convert to Christianity? Leela, put some sense into her She has a point, sister lt is difficult for us to sit together and eat food served differently When we get back after our December vacation... ...this issue must be solved Otherwise we will resort to other ways of insulting the Church Don't forget! After our vacation, we will deal with the rest of the issue Hope no one has a problem to starve tonight? We are prepared to do anything you suggest 'Lord Messiah of the King of miracles' 'Please turn the water in our stomach...' '...into 'roti' and chicken' Ramachandra? Come here - Where the hell were you? - l was inside Call the musicians Okay, father Festival arrangements are fantastic, Madhava Our Goddess should not lack in any way in being honored Kottatil festival is as good as Mukkam celebrating it We can't do a slipshod job Ramachandra, did you see my son anywhere? Where the hell is he? What are you doing here? l...that is, where is Ram'etan? l was looking for him He is at the temple The lamp from the store room must be placed on the verandah The workers won't do it properly, come with me Come, man Greetings - Hope l am not late - Not at all Come There is a divine strength l get from here every year Don't go around saying this in public Your people won't tolerate it even if you are Sultan! God blesses anyone who comes to Him with a good heart Gods are beyond caste and religion What is the use of material wealth, Madhava? A home should be filled with good children ln that respect you are blessed Look at your daughters standing like 6 shining stars Which one wants to be a doctor? The one over there Studying in Little Flower Convent A little mischievous But very studious We need a doctor in our own home town, don't we, Sahib? Sure, we do Madhava, your children will become doctors and lawyers Education is the best asset these days Why hasn't Moideen come? lf he was here, he would have clicked pictures of all this He knows l'd be here today lndia is not lndira That slogan represents autocracy ln spite of a quarter century since we got freedom... ...we are seeing only an increasing number of poverty stricken people ls this the free lndia we dreamed of? We socialists must serve people with slogans of democracy Of equality and brotherhood Our national architect Nehru was a true democrat But his daughter lndira? She was not lndian National Congress- Stop it, Manu Your father is a staunch Congressman and you are a stubborn Socialist And we are caught between the two My father burned clothes supporting the Freedom movement To him lndira Gandhi is almost like Gandhiji Wind up all this Your father will be back any moment Let him come, mother Our country will hereafter be ruled only by Socialist party, not the Congress Go now, mother Even God can't win an argument with you Coming back to our subject Our black flag demonstration tomorrow at Kozhikode... ...will be in protest against lndira's wrong policies The People's Socialist Party will keep its word at any cost Good Lord! Run! 'Tiger' has come Where the hell are you all running off to? Run...run What rubbish are you planning to put into effect? l have warned you many times Keep your Socialism and Communism outside our house Don't you understand? But l have not committed any crime betraying my country Of course it is This is betrayal Can your socialist wastrels come anywhere near a Congress man? Maybe not but they can take over Mukkam l must die for it to happen l am a Congressman from Abdul Rehman's times And it was Congress who made me Panchayat president of Mukkam lndian National Congress no longer exists lt is now lndira Gandhi Congress Congress (l) Stop it Are you teaching me politics? What are you doing? You keep quiet You are the one allowing these rebels to raise their heads Madhavan's daughter will become a doctor after 2 years And you? Shouting out slogans and living for the sake of some loafers Someone has to benefit from your well-loaded body lsn't that why we are planning a black flag protest tomorrow? Black flag demonstration? lt will affect me adversely lf you carry out this dirty deed- 'Brave Moideen' 'Pearl of Mukkam, Moideen' 'Our treasure Moideen' 'Lead on bravely' 'Millions will support you' 'The con men of Mukkam' He has been bruised black and blue 'Long live Moideen' The police broke his hand for protesting against lndira Gandhi So what? At least he showed spunk lf father is Sultan then son is Pasha! We need a smart youngster like him in Mukkam 'We shall retaliate' There will be retaliation for sure His is pitting his silly Socialism against lndiraji's charisma He has been beaten up badly He deserves more He must be beaten and thrown into the river This is what happens to people who dare oppose lndiraji 'Eye for eye Tooth for tooth' Enough! Stop it now Lower him gently All of you leave now Let him take rest Okay, see you Manu'ikkaka How dare lndiraji play against Moideen! Moideen, come Manu'ikkaka, take care Sit here Nice and easy lf Sultan sahib sees me here l'll be a corpse instead l am leaving How dare they- Wait...don't go Hey! Don't take it off Give it time to heal You weren't actually beaten up? Getting beaten is not the criteria You must know how to market it Now look who l am today lf l stood for election in Mukkam even l will get a few votes Who broke your hand? My hands? Who will dare to? Be it the police or army... ...if they punch you give it right back You don't have to worry at all All those holding posts high up there... ...have been fed by these hands We are all for Congress Till we breathe our last Gandhiji's path is our way of life Madhav'etta, you must find a way out We want to enact the drama 'You made me into a communist' Scared of the police, no one is giving us a place to erect the stage Long ago when A.K.Gopalan was in hiding at Mukkam... ...it was Unni'chetan and l who sheltered him l am not considering the political angle We are aware of that lsn't that why we came to you for help? - Rama? - Coming Our field at Areekode is lying idle after harvests, isn't it? Clear it up and level it They have to build a stage there next week You carry on Hey! You are at it early this morning Why don't you stay back one more day? Go tomorrow Nothing doing We'll meet next vacation See you, okay? Radha'edathi, we must go to the temple Hurry up Still at it? l'm going, okay? Kanchana? Why don't you- l know you want me to stay back lt's not happening See you, my dear Ma, not ready yet? Father is already yelling 'Koralappam' Almost done Give it to her l clean forgot lf l go back without your famous snack... ...Leela will kill me lt's become routine now Shall l go, mother? Ma, don't start now l postponed going back just because of these tears 10 day-vacation has become 11 l will be back soon Mother is always extra fond of Kanchana Don't make faces at me, okay? Stop your mischief-stint in college Everyone is anxious to see you become a doctor All that will happen, mother There goes father again l'll take leave, ma Shut up, crow Parukuttyamma, l am leaving, okay? - When are you back? - Next vacation Come here When will you come here next? Be quiet and show me your hand Open it and see lsn't it made of gold? lt's an old one And a little damaged You can repair it and use it Brother is calling me, see you Coming What were you doing? What if it rains and the place gets flooded? Get in quick Did you take an umbrella? Yes, l did lt was here, year before last Moideen, Nair and Bhasi put up a play l remember very well 'Kootukrishi' right? Exactly What happened, brother? Let me see What is it? This vehicle always has a problem lf l am absent today also l don't have to go at all lf you run for it you can catch the bus Okay, l am going My brother will deal with it l can carry your suitcase Get down Kunnamangalam to Kozhikode Get in quick Sit there No, it's okay lf you touch me you'll be regarded 'unclean' lf l don't, only then l will become 'unclean'! Go...get going Answer me l really don't know You received one such parcel previously in your name too A book letter without a sender's address Was that also without your knowledge? Yes, madam l don't know One can never win an argument with you lt was only because of Kanchanamala... ...we eat together now without discrimination True, we never used to get anything to eat Kanchana, why are you not eating? l don't feel too good l don't want to eat Carry on (re-arranging jumbled letters) 'M-O-l-D-E-' Theyyathin Kadavu Get down...get down Let's go 'The Good Lord showers His Grace' 'He said, it is not good for man to be alone' He proclaimed, 'l will make a helper who is just right for him' 'Listen! That is the voice of my dearest one' 'Across vales and hills he comes skipping towards me' 'My beloved is like a gazelle or a young stag...' '...gazing through the windows, peering through the lattice' 'He stands behind a wall 'He whispers to me' 'My darling, my beloved My beautiful one, arise' - How come you are here? - Football match lnside the church?! l got out of the house using that as excuse 'Flowers have started blossoming on earth' 'lt's time to begin a song' 'The doves have started cooing in our land' Outside... ...it's raining 'Flowers of grapes have started blooming' 'They sway spreading their scented fragrance' Shall we get drenched? ''Eyes spoke, in vocal silence'' ''My dear parakeet from a distance'' ''As lips expressed in a soft whisper what the heart ached to hear'' ''...when the pretty parakeet was near'' ''Upon the branches of the portia tree'' ''...a pair of birds roosted happily'' ''From the chariot-like rainbow in harmony'' ''...raindrops showered to keep company'' ''Rain added to their rhapsody'' ''Eyes spoke, in vocal silence'' ''My dearest parrot from a distance'' ''Along rippling streams murmuring'' ''And paths of fields flowering'' ''Along rippling streams murmuring And paths of fields flowering'' ''A secret whispered soft into wind's ears aloft'' ''Like a song composed from above'' ''The crashing crescendo of first love'' ''ln this shower upon yonder hills the clouds ran in dancing frills'' ''Searching for this river flowing like a vestal virgin glowing'' ''Like a lake soaked in moonlight'' ''And moon like a boat bobbing bright'' ''Eyes spoke, in vocal silence'' ''To my dear parakeet from a distance'' ''As lips expressed in a soft whisper what the heart ached to hear'' ''...when the pretty parakeet was near'' ''Upon the branches of the portia tree'' ''...a pair of birds roosted lovingly'' ''From the chariot-like rainbow in harmony'' ''...raindrops showered to keep company'' ''Rain added to the rhapsody'' There are so many items My employer's son Kottatil Sethu fell down while playing ball His shoulder is injured The doctor said so Now pack it up and give me quick l think it's a dislocation You've been repeating this for quite some time Move aside! l need some light lf you mix 'marvati' and 'marmani' oils in equal proportions and massage... ...the dislocation will disappear in a wink So you think! Stop grinning and get me the ayurvedic oil Now move aside Doctor What are you doing? Are you playing ball with his arm? lt will take some time Don't hurry me, please Why don't you admit you can't cure him? God! My arm Can l have some water? l'll get it The physician asked for some water Give it to me l'll get it Why didn't you come there? l didn't want to see l was quite scared hearing him scream in pain Appu, what is the doctor saying? The dislocation is quite severe He will be bedridden for at least 3 months He said it vehemently Didn't he, Kanchana? Dear God! Your uncle and father won't spare me now They keep accusing me of encouraging him to play football Where do we now go for further treatment? What are you looking for? Where is water stored? - Look, it's right there - Oh! l forgot! What's wrong with this girl? No need to take him anywhere He can be treated right here Our Dr Thottam is the best lsn't he, Kanchana? Come here, my girl Pinch out the leaves Ramachandran is running around with bank issues Sahadevan is looking after the theatre Everyone has 101 things to do Aunty, you needn't worry After all l am Sethu's closest cousin l'll look after him Even if it's difficult and how many ever months... ...l'll stay right here till he's better lt's my duty after all Stop killing him like this Take him somewhere else Doctor, come away Don't take unnecessary risk, Moideen lt's a dislocation of a vital part of the body Hey! No Don't Stop wriggling, Sethu This is not foot ball He'll foul up for sure! That's it Hey! Moideen lt is fixed now l told you, it was very simple But what to do if he resists?! What are you doing? Lie down lt's a serious condition Why don't you tell him? lt's nothing l am cured How did that happen? lt was just a dislocation One jerk and Moideen fixed it lt was quite painful Are you really okay? Mother, l'm alright now lt wasn't the doctor Moideen set it right Moideen? He's a smart fellow Let's leave Appu, come Sethu, see you at the ground Okay Go and keep it inside Please drink tea l cut the tree from my estate Sawed it in my own mill Got it made by carpenters in my own house This is a little extravagant You are only saying it as a formality When visiting you for the very first time... ...we have to follow certain conventions - What do you say? - Sure, we must We have heard a lot about Moideen Moideen is news in Kozhikode, Koyilandy, Arukutti and Mavoor Where is Moideen? He is not to be seen 'l feel you are pretending not to have seen me' 'Or this must be a ploy to make me confess first' 'Like the peacock feather we used to treasure as kids...' '...l want to express my love l cherished for so long Kanchana' '...that has been nestling in my heart for long, Kanchana' 'l like you so much, Kanchana' 'So very much' Won't the ground we stand upon open up and swallow us, Moideen? Will people allow this? Are you out to create problems in Mukkam? lf we follow this river we reach the Arabian Sea How many ever times the boat halts at the pier... ...lruvazhinji river will reach the Arabian sea lf lruvazhinji belongs to the sea... ...then Kanchana belongs to me, Moideen This is my word of honor A promise made is truth for keeps l know very well your word is as good as a promise Please come in l must tell you something Shouldn't we ask him before we decide? Ask him? l will decide He will do it You take care of the preparations for lunch My father built a house for me Today is the house-warming lt is father's scheme to control his wastrel son's wayward ways l must go there Otherwise he'll give me a piece of his mind l came only for 2 days l must go back tomorrow l'm leaving from my uncle's house You must write to me, okay? Not only write letters l'll come to Kozhikode To the gates of your college Or your hostel premises l can at least see you that way Manu'ikkaka Go, the ferry is here Kunji'ikka You have a passenger Kanchana? l had been to your house Only then l came to know you were at your uncle's place l have... ...something to tell you What is it, Appu'etta? Why should we wait till the month of Rajab? There are auspicious days before that also Where the hell were you? They have been waiting to meet you He is Soopi Haji from Poonoor Rice trader at Valyangadi Owns acres of paddy fields We from Mammaliparambu have ancestral rights at the royal palace Kerala is now under the rule of R.Shankar Didn't royal rule end long back, father? Soopi Haji has come with an alliance l have consented to you marrying their daughter To her elder sister Perfect date is the 20th ln the month of Shawwal The wedding will be held at Poonoor mosque Do you approve, mother? Your mother approves and your father is very happy We are waiting only for your acceptance Then you shouldn't delay My mother Pathumma can do with a helper lf Sahib weds another woman... ...whole of Mukkam can rejoice happily! Manu l don't understand What did you say? lf Haji insists our families must bond through marriage... ...he must get his eldest daughter married to you Because if at all there is a girl in my life... ...it will only be Kanchana lt's a word of honor l have given her, myself and to God Which Kanchana? Kanchanamala of Kottatil house You dirty rascal! Don't hit him l have been tolerating your atrocities all these years You want to ruin my friendship with my best friend.. ...with your blessed love affair? You, Unni Moideen Sahib Advocator of religious tolerance Why this double standard now? Has your 'browneye' prayer bump suddenly become a shade darker? You dare speak insolently to your own father? You'll get it from me Manu! - What are you doing? - Move away, woman Have you gone mad? He is your son Get out from here l don't have a son anymore You don't have any right over your inheritance Don't you dare come here Even to see my dead body l don't want the money you have stashed l have never desired the assets of this house But if l am alive, when you die... ...my shoulder also will carry your coffin Because l have called only you 'father' My son! Ask him to get lost That house belongs to you also You don't have to go anywhere else You can stay with us You are good at heart We know you won't do anything wrong Go and take rest now Manu'ikkaka How did you make her fall in love with you? ls she very beautiful? More beautiful than her face... ...is her heart, my dear Look here Are you very much in 'lub' with her? lt's not 'lub' Love Stop annoying me Off you go How will l go for my tailoring classes now? The teacher and students there are your ardent fans l have fooled them so many times saying l will recommend them l want a notebook to write a letter lt's over there Why do you have to scribble notes to and fro? Why don't you convert her? Uncle might then agree lf she converts l myself will kill her 'My dear Kanchana' 'l am trapped in an unexpected tempest' 'l have made up my mind to go ahead and get drenched' 'Father has thrown me out of the house' 'l am now staying at my uncle's house' 'Doors are being shut on our faces, Kanchana' 'But we will certainly open the doors that are shut' Come here - What's it, boy? - Come here - Where is Kanchana'edathi? - She has gone - Where to? - College What is it? Get lost, boy Who are you, boy? l am the son of Ramankutty who sells palmyra torches What's in your hand? Nothing Nothing? Give it here lt's nothing Continue reading the rest of it, girl 'Don't worry about anything' 'ln my mind l have already given the dowry' 'l don't care who objects l will be yours only' 'Our love must be carved on the doors of Heaven' 'lf you are beside me, that is more than enough' Read the last line, girl 'Forever yours, Moideen' ls all this true? ls there anything going on between the two of you? Yes, we like each other l'll punch you like we pound rotten areca nut You had better forget him My dear, think of this as just a lapse on your part Forget him No, mother l have promised him A promise made is truth for keeps Just selling coconut leaves from our estates is enough... ...for 4 future generations of Kottatil to live happily Now look what happened allowing her to study?! Look at her now Promised herself to some low bred fellow Enough...full stop to your education No, l want to study Give us your word you won't have anything to do with Moideen No, brother, we have decided Are you out to create trouble in this land? Do you want to create issues between Hindus and Muslims? How can there be an issue? When Shankar uncle married a Christian... ...it was father who sheltered him Father always said there's no caste or religion That only being human(e) mattered Father will agree l am very sure lnsolent girl! Sethu He has used strong black magic potion on her lf you allow her to go out it will be dangerous Not even her shadow should be seen outside Mother Kunji'ikka?! l want to go across Hurry please Manu'ikkaka Good Lord! l am Moideen of Mukkam Did you come here at midnight to give this gift? This is from my garden l just had a bite l heard you were kept locked up under heavy security l wanted to bring you out And here l am Let's go Where to? This bus does not have a name board for now Fuel filled to the brim This bus will go any place... ...where rules of temple and mosque don't apply No, Moideen lt may not matter to you But it will break the friendship between your father and mine Neither will we be at peace And society will blame us for isolating our families As a man l have earned a bad name... ...in this short span of life that l have led lf taking you away will add more lustre to my reputation ...then so be it Stop arguing and come out now What about my sisters? l must not be the reason for their lives to be ruined Our union must not be the cause for even a drop of blood being shed When everyone decides to accept us- When both of us are buried under the earth... ...we can go and graze sheep! Tossing and turning 6 feet deep love will not be good like it is now They stopped your studies because of me Come away to Kozhikode l'll stand guard at the college gate Let me see which member of your clan will take you away l can study from here Want to be stubborn? Yes, l am Are you regretting this? Did they hurt you? Did you suffer? No Alright l will wait until the day you decide to come away The day you agree l will be here once again Till then keep writing to me l will somehow send you a reply See you? Did anyone imagine she would behave like this? lt's not Kottatil alone Our entire clan feels let down What a disgrace! That too with a Muslim boy What are you doing out in that rain? Stop it, Appu Do you remember all that you studied? - l do - You? l remember - Where are you going? - To school No more school for you, get inside - We have Hindi exam today - Hindi...my foot! Hindi is our national language, uncle What?! Did you hear that? Politics at the drop of a hat! No wonder girls are going the wrong way lt's their father's school He will spoil these girls also Go inside Uncle, forget the fact my education was stopped Don't punish them They didn't do anything wrong Don't you open your mouth lf you mend your ways your sisters can go to school Otherwise their studies can go for a toss l don't think my love for Moideen is a crime l have made arrangements for the girls to study But she is quite stubborn We must get her married How can we arrange that all of a sudden? We must A family that matches our status will come here on Wednesday Ask your father to come here as soon as possible from Nilgiris 'Architects of this new generation will open out coffers of new inspiration' 'Single wick lamps held with affection come maidens, like poetry in motion' 'Single wick lamps held with affection come maidens, like poetry in motion' 'Hail those who awaken to fresh sounds all around new' How is this song, Moideen, for the party meeting this evening? Sure, it will rock Buy your provisions and wait l'll be back soon 'All of them who perspire Toiling in fields of green here' How is this? Wonderful 'All of them who perspire' 'Dear Manu' 'Once again l am under new shackles' 'They are planning to get me married' 'Uncle and brothers seem to have almost fixed it' 'Something must be done' 'lnstead of going to another prison...' '...isn't death a better option?' 'Those who made the handcuffs and built the prisons, let them tremble' 'Let us show our courage, insurge break the fortress walls to surge' 'Let this be a new dawn of crimson on the blue skies of a revolution' Bhasi! Even though you don't look it... ...you are brilliant! 'My dear Kanchanakutty' 'Hold on to your courage' 'We will break the walls of your fortress' 'l was expecting this for quite some time' 'According to my spies...' '...it's a family from Perumanna who will reach Kottatil on Wednesday' 'To 'see' you as a prospective bride' 'They are very affluent' 'Madathiparambil family' 'Their word is always final' 'Astrologer Marthandam has specified the time' 'Wednesday morning at 8:30' 'Look! They've arrived' 'He is Rarukutty of Madathiparambil' 'Your future father-in-law' 'Half the town of Perumanna is under his control' 'That handsome fellow is M.P Manoharan' 'Obviously his looks speak for the groom-status' 'He's a station master at Madras railway station' 'Unless he waves the green flag the train won't leave the station' 'His plan is to take you to Madras after marriage' Let's go in 'There's a knock at your door, right?' 'Go, open it' 'Go and open the door' What were you doing? They are here Get ready quickly 'Don't hesitate Accept it' 'You must dress well because that is tradition' Here 'Now close the door' 'Now l will tell you how to present yourself' lt's not easy to come away from the Nilgiris tile factory That's why her father is not here That's alright There's always a next time My dear Kanchana You are taking so long Come out Kanchana, open the door Open the door, my girl Have you gone mad? What is all this? l am Moideen's girl lf they are prepared to accept a second marriage, l'm ready Give it to me Move aside Dear Goddess! What is she up to? Who is this? l am Kanchanamala You are here to 'see' me as prospective bride, right? My son is not so desperate to marry a widow You were also a part of this charade? l swear upon Lord Muthappan l didn't know she was a widow What are you sitting and gaping there? Get up Rarutty Without knowing the facts- Explain this to him l don't want any explanations He won't look for an alliance anywhere near Mukkam You wicked girl! After putting us through this shame... ...you really think you have a future with him? Even if you die inside here... ...you won't get what you desire lf you dare disgrace our family... ...l will kill you Stop right there, woman Give it to me This is our 2nd glass of tea Will it come at least before the next tea? Will it come? Manu'ikkaka, are you having tea? No, it's poison Do you also want some? Moideen! l am from Kottaatil Only l will come hereafter Here is the credit book 'All these hurdles did not deter them' 'Despite the distance their love only grew stronger' 'When letters were intercepted they found new ways to communicate' Not enough sunlight Put it over there lf your uncle and brothers come to know, they will kill me But l'm fine with it l know how much you love each other My only regret To see a girl like you full of life to be shut inside here 'My dear Kanchanakutty' 'l have found a new method to solve our letter problem' 'When you hear the horn of my car you'll know' 'That way no one will be caught with it' 'Honk once l am at Mukkam' 'Horn twice, l may be at Kodiyathoor' 'Or Chennamangallur' '3 honks, l am going to Kozhikode' '4 honks, l am outside the district' '5-7 honks l am out of the state' 'May be even to Delhi' To Trivandrum Madras To Bombay - Where is he now? - At Kozhikode 'Respected citizens' 'ln the coming elections of ward 3 of Mukkam Panchayat...' '...as the candidate of People's Socialist party 'l am your favorite B.P.Moideen' 'Please cast your valuable votes in favor of the plough' 'This is a request A humble appeal' 'Today at 6:30 p.m the leader of the Youth wing...' '...of People's Socialist party and a fiery speaker' '...Sri V.R.Kurup will address you' Do participate and help us win Give me that Our candidate B.P.Moideen Our symbol is the plough Protesting against the barbarian dictatorship of communist rule Barbarian communist? l did not write that Don't fool around with my party l'll just dump you and go Go hang! You and your Communism l don't want your notes Protesting against the barbarian dictatorship of Communist rule Requesting you to bundle the shoddy Congress rule With new advances into the arena of democracy Long live Manu'ikkaka Apple of everyone's eye 'Sri V.R.Kurup of People's Socialist Party' 'To end Unni Moideen Sahib's rule of slavery and rescue Mukkam panchayat' To remove the cataract ridden senile old men from power 'Contesting for your benefits is candidate...B.P.Moideen' 'Cast your valuable votes' Why did you stop? Goodness! You and your Socialism Run Why did you stop, you rascal? What 'old man' am l? Move You think you can let your tongue run wild? What did l do that was so absurd? Didn't you- Didn't you detour road from the bus stand to the river front? Otherwise the Govt. would have acquired the land belonging to Thotungal Must the poor townsfolk make a detour of almost a kilometer now? l too have lent my shoulder to bring Mukkam up to this level Sometimes l'm forced to take such decisions How does it affect you? People supported me because of the good l did for this town l will continue to be the Sultan of Mukkam You can be Sultan or Satan! But it is natural in any democracy for new candidates to emerge And no Unni Moideen can stop that Are you teaching me democracy? You were the one who published news about trees being chopped down And put a spoke in my development plans Those trees were not planted by you, father When the hot sun beats down mercilessly... ...let those trees be a shady haven for the homeless here Don't try your tricks with me At any cost, l will get 100 odd trees and have them sawed in my mill And throw them into the river Want to see me do it? That desire will only be rotting in your mind What did you say? You will not touch a single tree There are other men here in Mukkam to prevent that Manu'ikkaka Long live Any tree that grows way above my head... ...l will chop it down like slicing the stem of colocasia Hail our leader B.P.Moideen! Hail our leader B.P.Moideen! 'With the plough as symbol...' '...l am contesting' 'Dear people of Mukkam...' Why is there a slump in the price of areca nut? - Too much rain - lt's really bad 'Listen to the People's Socialist party's favorite candidate V.R.Kurup...' '...deliver a fiery speech' Stop...stop Stop, l say 'Don't think anyone can keep a person locked up forever' 'lf you do, it is sheer foolishness' 'Our party believes in religious equality' 'Be it a Muslim or a Hindu' 'Love is the essence of all life in the universe' What is all this? 'lf anyone thinks by injuring his opponent in the playground...' '...he can destroy a whole party' '...he can think again!' You'll be beaten up Stop it, man Shut up 'We are prepared to die to emerge as winners' 'Congressmen who don't realize the value of love...' '...l have a question for you' 'ls it right to make women feel helpless and harass them?' 'ls it right to stop a girl's right to education?' Get inside, girl Get lost! Go and do your work 'Free lndia doesn't permit a person to write letters?' Switch that off Oh dear women- Switch it on, man Here, read this 'Oh dear woman! Gem of lndia, never cry' 'l am going to Delhi this evening' 'From there l travel straight back to Kozhikode' 'We are introducing for the 1st time a sports magazine in Kerala' 'Kerala's own magazine Sports Herald' - How's the name? - Too good Who asked you? 'l know you like it' 'Okay, let me stop now' 'Goodbye for now' Now go 'Protesting against the barbarian dictatorship of communist rule' 'Requesting you to bundle the shoddy Congress rule' Sethu What, brother? Look at this Moideen's Sports magazine was released by Mrs. lndira Gandhi The magazine 'Sports Herald' published by B.P.Moideen was... ...released by Prime Minister Mrs. lndira Gandhi at Kottayam Let me see He is a smart fellow He got the Prime minister to release his book He headed the black flag protest also When to protest... ...and when to publish magazines ...he times it well Go...go Nothing to fear - Go fast - l am scared Don't be lt's nothing Did you see that? Here, towel yourself dry Kottatil Sethu A promising footballer for lndia By B.P.Moideen One more promising player from Mukkam for the lndian team Kottatil Sethu, a 'centre forward' with his own merit is a footballer... ...who has attracted National attention Would lndira Gandhi have read it? Of course So wouldn't she have seen my photo also, Appu? Look, your picture also is here Let me see From Mukkam to Mohan Bagan Appu, 'defender' out of his own efforts qualified into Mohan Bagan's team These are just tricks up his sleeve But our photos published in a decent magazine from Kerala... ...is also our good fortune, right, Appu? All of you have fallen flat for his glib sweet-talk Not exactly fallen lsn't he the kind to show off his skill? lf people of Kottatil are good he won't hesitate to say so 'Let religions be destroyed and only love prevail among mankind' 'First drama of KKM Company' 'Light in search of a lamp' 'Tonight sharp 8:00 p.m in the grounds of Manjilidam' 'Come, watch and applaud' 'A drama written and directed by our own Manu'ikkaka' 'B.P.Moideen' 'Religion is not important, brethren' 'Love among human beings is vital' 'Our Manu'ikkaka has directed and written this love ballad' 'The light in search of a lamp' 'Come and see Don't forget' Come here On the vacant grounds of Manjilidath, at 8:00 p.m Brother You ask Etta? Ask Can we go and see the drama? l'll kill you and bury you Get out 'Dear lovers of fine arts' 'All of you gathered here to see KKM Company's maiden effort' 'Warm welcome' Manu'ikkaka - What is it, man? - ls this enough? This will do for the wig But reduce the size of your bust 'For the section of our society prioritizing caste and religion...' '...by forgetting humane sentiments, KKM Company proudly presents' 'The light in search of a lamp' 'Music is by Changampuzha Krishna Pillai' 'Directed and written by B.P.Moideen' Did you notice that board? Rubbish! KKM is Kottatil Kanchana Mala This drama is a tribute to their love You mean Kottatil Kanchana Moideen? Get lost! ''Dark night'' ''As the dark night unites in delight, into a sea of silvery moonlight'' ''As the velvety night links infinite, into an ocean of glazed moonlight'' ''Life of my life, my essence'' ''My sole soul mate, my essence'' ''Love of my life, my essence'' ''Praying l await your presence Thirsting for you in every sense'' ''As the ink-blue night merges in delight, into a sea of milky moonlight'' ''As the ebony-night submerges to ignite, into an ocean of shimmering moonlight'' ''ln my boudoir musical note lilting soft as fragrance wafting'' ''ln my chamber musical note lilting soft as scents wafting'' ''The breeze caressing me now, won't you go across to her also?'' ''Purpled night'' ''As the onyx-night swims in delight, into a sea of rippling moonlight'' ''l hopefully wait for my love Somehow tonight he will come'' ''l hopefully wait for my love Tonight at least he will come home'' ''Heartfelt thrill to the brim l make a bed of flowers for him'' ''As the jet black-night sinks in delight, into a sea of glittering moonlight'' ''As the dark night bathes infinite, into an ocean of shimmering moonlight'' ''Life of my life, my essence'' ''Praying l await your presence Thirsting for you in every sense'' ''As the licorice night rinses in delight, into a sea of glazed moonlight'' Love of my life Let us leave The time has come for this midnight flower to bloom What about our religion? What religion? Let us go live in a dream world where there is no religion or caste lsn't love the truest religion? Stop there A low caste marrying a girl from higher caste? l'll kill you Please don't, brother Don't do it Hey Goddess! l am hereby offering this sinner as my sacrifice to You Accept this offering You can shoot only if there is a bullet My beloved, come away Oh God! 'The light searches for a lamp' This whole play was a dig at you 'On behalf of KKM, l thank each and everyone...' '...who were present here to watch this drama tonight' You carry on, l need to go to Manassery 'My heartfelt thanks' Do you think he understood? Whether he did or not is besides the point The whole town understood this was a dig at Kottatil family - l'll take this route - See you tomorrow - Okay, see you - Do you want the torch? No, you carry on Bhasi as a woman was superb We have been playing ball since our childhood days Did you think l won't recognize you with that kerchief over your face, Sethu? Sethu'etta Don't This will only cause trouble Run l will consider this shot as just a lapse on your part, Sethu Let this remain with me for the time being Otherwise you might resort to more blunders l love her very much, Sethu As much as she loves me When she mentioned about the harsh problems she faced... ...do you know what l told her? Even if the whole world is against us... ...Sethu will understand But l was wrong l was... ...wrong about you 'Successful 2nd week Film 'Soul of Darkness'' 'At our Mukkam Theatre Shakti Watch your favorite stars' Are you going to Kottatil house? Yes, move aside '3 shows daily' 'An amazing story presented by the M T - P Bhaskaran combo' Turn around Mukkam junction Get down Let's go...go Uncle! Aren't you in Kottatil? Groom's party would have gone there by now Poonchola family won't be going there Why? They came up to this junction and went back What happened? 'With Best Wishes' Why are you burning up your life like a candle? Do you realize someone here is silently suffering for you? Your father At least for your father's sake you must forget him No, mother l cannot do that Only 1 person can exist in another's heart lf you marry a Muslim... ...your siblings will remain unmarried Do you want to lead your life gathering curses from every one? That's why l did not elope when he called me, mother Do you really think you have a future with him? Mother, if l ever have a future... ...it will only be with Moideen Let all of them get married and go away Let them get a life of their own One day l'll be the only one left behind l will go away with Moideen on that day l will l will go, mother For that, l am ready to wait any number of years Even if you don't bless me... ...don't stop me, mother My dear daughter ''l waited and waited there'' ''The river thinned at the pier'' ''Seasons and years swept by'' ''Like petals in summer wither, die'' ''Bangles slipped out of her hands'' ''Brimming with remembrance'' ''Like a shadow with broken wings'' ''A wicker of flame wavering in the winds'' ''Like a thread that has thinned'' ''Like laughter that never trilled'' ''l burn in your memories fierce stretching moments to years'' 'Since their letters never reached each other' 'They crafted a language which only they could decipher' ''Every rain laden cloud, like you, quietly l thought will shower upon me'' ''Rain abates and sun resumes Days fly past like withering blooms'' ''Moments of hide and seek, dear l wait as you appear and disappear'' ''l waited and waited lingeringly'' ''The river thinned at the quay'' ''Seasons and years swept by'' ''Like petals in summer wither and die'' ''Bangles slipped out of her hands'' ''O boatman, humming a song of the waves'' ''For your closeness my heart craves'' ''Will flowers unseen, unknown and misty bloom in a cactus grove for you and me?'' ''Like a wick ceasing Like the waves seeking'' ''Blinking and waiting impatiently for what seemed like eternity'' ''l wait...await endlessly'' ''The river thinned at the jetty'' ''Seasons and years swept by'' ''Like petals in summer fade and die'' ''Bangles slipped out of her hands'' Do l look different? And me? Not a chance! How did you come out? Savithri'edathi delivered her second baby l said l was going to see the baby Why are we waiting like this? l can't bear it too, Moideen Everyone has happily settled down in their lives Shouldn't we start a life of our own now? We must l want a life with you Don't cry You have cried for 10 long years l won't let you cry any more You remember all that l wrote to you? Tomorrow l will come to Kuttatil house - You must walk out - l will come Where will we go? l have not decided But...l don't want us to start our new life in Mukkam - Manu'ikkaka - Passenger is waiting The ferry is here...come lf you are late they will start suspecting ''This is my love, my heart This is my destiny'' ''This is the divine power This is my heart in pain...'' ''This is my love, my heart This is my destiny'' ''This is my heart in pain...'' ''Created just for me, oh woman One born on the soil of Mukkam'' ''You share my soul 50-50 You are the essence that fills me'' ''You are the light within me shining A pearl necklace shimmering'' ''The essence of love in me You are a splendor unseen'' ''You are the novel woman of my novel'' lt has been a decade now lsn't it time you stopped this nonsense? l have stopped, father Today it has ended Tomorrow l am asking her to come away with me l won't allow you if it's the last thing l do lf it is the last thing l ever do... ...l will marry only her And we will lead a life together too l married your mother, Pathumma After our families fixed the alliance But you, son of Satan... ...if you are bent on raising hell on this land by living with her ...you will be dead Even if l am killed... ...Kanchana is my girl forever Are you sure? As sure as you are my father l have given my word once for all You scoundrel! lf l let you remain alive 2 families will be destroyed You forced me to do this, my son Manu! My dear...wait Open the door, dear Please don't do anything foolhardy l've lived inside here like a corpse all these years What does it matter if l die? Go away from here Dear Manu l know l am still alive because you are there l am not prepared for anything else No, Manu You cannot die l won't allow any God to take you away from me l want my Manu l won't kill myself Waiting for you all these years will become meaningless then What l should experience in a lifetime... ...l have gone through in this room Yet l have never prayed to any God But today l am praying My dear Gods... ...give me back my Moideen Promise me You'll give him back l must see my Manu Didn't l tell you l can't allow you in there? We are trying our best to save your son's life This will be his life saver lt will work better than any of your medicines l'll just give it to him and l will come away Don't delay See who the donor is Okay, doctor Take me to the court and- Didn't l ask you to take a bail- l am the accused You must produce me in court No one will come to bail me out Unni Moideen? Give that over there Give me that form Sign here Go ahead Here Unni Now sign Where are you off to? Wherever l feel like The joy on your face when you ruin people whom you dislike...?! God will reward you accordingly! Stop blabbering and go inside That will be better for you l am getting to know what is better for me After chopping him up like meat you sit and enjoy a game alone, eh? You tried to kill him because you knew he was a better man, eh? Your power and position is more important to you Yes, woman Dignity and self respect are priority for a man Utter rubbish! A congress man who preached there was no caste and religion But when your own son wanted to marry Madhavan's daughter... ...you simply eliminated him l have more dignity and self respect than you So look, this is all l am taking with me And that too, to implore God to give you better sense Never come here again Get lost l don't even want to come into this Satan's house again You can live here all alone as the Sultan of Mukkam But one day God will reform you Even when he was on the verge of dying... ...he was clutching that fistful of sand l tried so much to prise it off his hand That is the sand of Kanchana's footprint How will he let go? Moideen, doctor has agreed for your discharge You can leave this afternoon l never thought you would recover so quickly lt wasn't the doctor or his medicines lt was her prayers day and night that retained your soul here You must give that soul back to her What are you waiting for now? Just go and bring her l also have a house of my own True This is the best time All her siblings are married Ramachandran is in Coimbatore Go and bring her Manu'ikkaka Mother, if l believe in you and bring her with me... ...you think we will end up starving? Be quiet! Go bring her Then you can joke Here, take it - ls someone to be hanged? - Didn't you hear? Naxalite Ajitha has been set free Sultan lf you tell the truth to the magistrate... ...we'll lose our case You did not stab him lf you can save the case by your gift of the gab, do it But l will not bow my head in front of that scoundrel Kannur jail is meant for red blooded men Known to people as Sultan of Mukkam... ...the accused here, Baliyambra Pottatu Unni Moideen Sahib That is, my client B.P.Moideen's father Haven't you tried many times to kill my client Moideen? Yes, you have Many times Once following a disagreement haven't you tried to shoot him? l am trying to establish the enmity the accused always had towards my client Tell me Did you not point a hunting gun and try to kill your son? l did point a gun But l did not shoot Didn't you challenge you would chop him... ...that too, in public at Mukkam junction? This has no relevance to this case Tell me, didn't you threaten in public you would kill him? Any respectable person holding a high position in society... ...if insulted publicly will definitely react lt was not a threat So you admit you were not on the best of terms with your son Wasn't it on July 12th, during heavy rains, you were stabbed? Yes You could have died, isn't it? lt was sheer luck l did not die The first stab itself and my intestines were injured lt was sheer luck this young man... ...was rescued from his own father's attack He was operated for 6 hours And had to stay in hospital for 1 month l am submitting medical records to the court for your kind perusal Whose knife is this? My father's This knife is always tucked in Unni Moideen Sahib's waist And he has a gun in his car Wasn't it with this knife the accused stabbed you? lt is true l was hurt But not... ...with a knife lt was Unni Moideen Sahib who stabbed you No one stabbed me Moideen, this is the court Think back properly and reply This knife was used by Sahib to stab you l tell you l wasn't stabbed Then how did you get hurt? lt was... lt was raining heavily on July 12th l got out of the river front and l was walking along the road l slipped in a pool of water and fell sideways l fell right on top of the stub of a tree lt was as sharp as a knife l tried to get up thrice But the 3rd time also, my hand slipped and l sank into unconsciousness When l became conscious l was lying in Beach hospital That was exactly what happened that day Forget it, father lt's alright Since prosecution could not prove the accused was guilty... ...court grants unconditional release to Unni Moideen Sahib Come We can sit inside Come back home and bring him also ''Sleep, my princess, sleep deep'' ''Sleep, my princess, sleep deep'' ''Sleep, l dedicate myself to you'' 'Unni Moideen Sahib' 'For the first time in his life faced defeat' 'ln the hands of his own son' 'Sahib who went to sleep that night...' '...did not wake up the next day' 'After his demise...' '...Moideen and his mother shifted back to their ancestral house' 'Days passed by' 'Moideen and Kanchana waited and waited' '2nd week of film 'Lisa' Running successfully' 'The story of revenge and betrayal-' Sethu uncle Will you take us for a movie? Go and play l have work to do Sethu'etta, why can't we watch a good film in our own theatre? The children will be scared lt's a horror film We are not scared of ghosts l have lots of work Brother, please My husband will come and we'll have to leave tomorrow Why don't you take them? Sethu, take them for the movie Okay then, get ready Kanchana aunty...'Lisa' Everyone is going for the movie 'Lisa' The kids want you also to go with them l'm not going anywhere They are here as our guests Don't stay back and spoil their joy Everyone is concerned only about their own happiness Sethu uncle promised to take us You also come For the sake of the child Go with them please lf you stay shut inside like this, your heart will wither Are you going? l am expecting a call from Coimbatore, l can't go Are you afraid to watch 'Lisa'? No...you? No, because l will be sitting next to you Sethu uncle Let's sit there 'Haven't we met before?' 'Of course not' 'Why do you say like this?' 'Let go of me' Are you Shaji the roadside Romeo? Manu'ikkaka! Move aside Who stopped the film? (Coded message) What language is this? 'My dear Kanchanakutty' 'l am here' 'With your theatre as witness...' '...l bestow on you a thousand kisses' 'l saw Sethu sitting there' 'This is the only way to make him budge from there' Where is Moideen? Kanchanakutty Manu! How did you come here? God! l can at least see you Are you alright? We can discuss all that later Sethu is somewhere around l will come with my car at 2:00 a.m to your house - You should come away - l will come How will l know you've come? l will blink the headlights twice And then to confirm, once more Sethu'etta is back l am going Don't forget 2:00 a.m My owner's son has passed away Kottatil Ramachandran is no more Wasn't he living in Coimbatore? Yes, he died there ''Created just for me, oh woman'' Sir...? He's gone! - What is it? - Ramachandran died in Coimbatore ''Created just for me, oh woman'' What happened to my son Ramachandran? Father Oh God! My son Father! ''You share my soul 50-50 You are the essence that fills me'' ''You are the light within me shining A pearl necklace shimmering'' 'Fate played the role of a villain once again...' '...in Moideen's and Kanchana's lives' 'Just when they decided to live together...' '...Kanchana's elder brother Ramachandran dies' 'His death was a big blow to the Kottatil homestead itself' What is your plan in life? ls it enough if you work day and night? By the time you realize your life has passed by... ...it will be too late What do you mean, brother-in-law? Get married Raise a family lt's quite late as it is Before that, Kanchana must settle down in life After that l'll decide what to do What can you do about Kanchana? l've never seen a more arrogant woman in this world After marrying your sister l've always been humiliated But now l have become thick skinned l'll tell you frankly Your father is old and feeble Everybody else has gone their own way You'll end up shouldering all the liabilities l am aware of all this But what can l do? l have loved her the most among all my sisters Every time she was reprimanded and beaten... ...l was in pain and bleeding inside l haven't slept peacefully all these years Whatever happens l'll wait until she's settled in life She is ready to elope with that Muslim boy Do you think any decent family will come forward with a proposal? Look out for a handicapped groom or a widower l have said whatever l wanted to say Now it's up to you l'm leaving See you, Latha Kanchana doesn't deserve any random stranger lf you don't have any objection l will marry her Why do we have to 'see' our own niece formally? Just sticking to tradition, that's all True l want to speak to Kanchana Frankly l never expected to see you like this Dressed up in all this finery Because usually you don't You come dressed like a widow to chase away prospective grooms Today l decided l'll come like this Time is like an exam, isn't it? True From childhood and all through my growing years... ...my thoughts were only of you l thought you had noticed No, Appu'etta l knew only the day you gave me that letter l have preserved from our school days a peacock feather you gave me Your photo and a notebook with your hand writing Maybe l was not capable of expressing my feelings By the time l got around to professing my love... ...Moideen was already deep rooted in your heart But l expected at least a reply for my letter l gave that letter to Moideen on that day itself Anyway past is past Being a bachelor all these years and waiting for you... ...was worth the while, right? My thoughts are full of another man For the past 10-20 years Still you are so keen on marrying me Do you like me so much, Appu'etta? l did not come here with any thoughts of sacrifice They will never let you marry Moideen To see you waste away your life like this... ...my conscience does not allow me, Kanchana l love you more than anything else in this world l know it, Appu'etta But l love my Moideen a thousand times more And Moideen loves me ten thousand times more lf you insist on this marriage... ...you'll tie the knot to my dead body Even if l have to go through hell for another 1000 years and die... ...l'll happily do so for Moideen All these years l have lived in this hell hole... ...thinking only of him and reading his letters Do you think you can tear our hearts apart? Tell me, can anybody in this world be able to? There cannot exist another woman like you in this world You are Moideen's wife One day the world will acknowledge your love l swear Forgive me For my covetousness... ...forgive me You? What's this? You are completely drenched l just felt like it lt's been quite some time since you walked in here - What happened? - Just like that 'Yours only, Kanchana' Moideen, come He is not crying Smart boy! Sit, let me take a picture Come, sit closer Wait One more Remove those black bangles l'll be upstairs Did Bhasi see you in this new disguise on this auspicious day? No lt was Appu'etta who informed me No one recognized me in worker's clothes Don't you have to go in person to get one's passport, Moideen? The rule says so But my friend Jamal works in the passport office He has managed to get it Your signature on the application is enough l can go get both our passports But after waiting for so many years... ...a pity we can't live in our own soil Not because it's impossible The doors of Balyambra house are open for you and me My mother is waiting to see me bring you holding your hand But that does not get us anywhere You also have your family and relatives lssues will arise when we live within their vicinity Maybe, there will be an uproar among our communities initially But all are human after all They tend to forget But so far away...? So what, my dear? Whether it is America or Mukkam ...you and l will always be together We'll apply for a visa the day we get our passports The day we get our visa we'll leave this place Our friend Eenashu is in New York He has arranged a job for me l have with me a fistful of sand from your foot print To take with me when l go Until you come... ...that will hold me in good stead ''The Lord is the light, lucent sunrise'' ''The Lord shows us the way, the path'' ''He is the ultimate ascetic, Pure and mystic'' ''He is the only actuality, The ultimate truth'' ''The Lord is the light, lucent sunrise'' ''The Lord shows us the way, the path'' ''He is the ultimate ascetic, Pure and mystic'' ''He is the only actuality, The ultimate truth'' Jamal? Mani'ikkaka Give me l have got it done without any problem Here it is Mukkam junction Get down Get in...get in To Kozhikode Go...go...go Right...right Get off quickly The ferry is due now Careful, doctor Come closer Manu'ikkaka, l see you got your passport - Yes - What next? l'll tell you when we meet at the club this evening Manu'ikkaka, there are too many people What to do? lf l wait any longer it may rain, get in Move aside Sit here What's in your pocket? Ayurvedic concoction for back-pain Teacher, did you know? Manu'ikkaka is going abroad ls that so, Manu'ikkaka? Son, back from school, eh? No, he is coming back from the market Strong winds...may be a heavy shower Sit...sit My dear, sit Hold tight Breeze is really strong Don't panic Just sit all of you Don't stand Don't shout and panic Just sit Go back to the banks Go to the river bank, man Just be quiet Don't open that umbrella lt will catch the wind Shut up Don't be scared Don't lean that side Hold here Don't be scared Hold tight Don't move Steer towards the bank Kunji'kka, move towards the bank Be calm...don't get flustered Please don't stand The boat will topple Doctor, sit down Boat will capsize Jump right there Look...jump in Come, Moideen Take them away Get them into the boat Hold him Moideen, come Climb in Just get them into the boat More people are down there Enough, come Hold it Don't wait for me Just rescue them l'll be alright My dear Moideen, enough Moideen! My Moideen alone is missing! 'Boat capsizes in Mukkam Moideen and 3 others die' 'His hazel eye was plucked by a fish' l want to go to my Manu Let me go Manu - What are you doing? - Leave me Don't do something danger- l want to go My dear 'The lruvazhinjipuzha disaster snatched Moideen from Kanchana forever' 'Kanchana waiting eagerly to unite with Moideen...' '...was told this earth shattering news of his demise' 'ln a world without Moideen...' '...not wanting to live' '...she attempted suicide' 'Wasn't it water from lruvazhinji river that Moideen last drank?' 'She too wished to drink the same water' 'Kanchana intended to end her life drinking that water' My dear Mother Were you intending to die for him? You must live for him, right? Come, we'll go to my house As my daughter-in-law Come Come ''Created just for me, oh woman One born on the soil of Mukkam'' ''You share my soul 50-50 You are the essence that fills me'' ''You are the light within me shining-'' Even though they could not live as husband and wife ...Kanchana lives as Moideen's unmarried widow even today With fond memories of Moideen ''The essence of love in me You are a splendor unseen'' ''You are the novel woman of my novel''
